

I can tell it blindfold. . .
a
. ¥
mm
‘.'SLir**'"
* '*W
V
V, !:
HK
Its equal to
a fine liqueur. ”
The outstanding qualities of White Horse are
everywhere recognised and approved. The tempting
aroma, the rare peat and heather flavor and the
softness given by age are the unmistakable signs of the
whisky that is acclaimed to be equal to a fine liqueur.
White Ho
The Bulletin
A Bill of Rights for Australians
VoL 55.—N0. 2838.
Wednesday, July 4, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


j'J’HE New Library Catalogue for 1934 is
now ready, and will be sent post free
o any address on application to —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
‘‘THE BLOCK,”
je Street, Sydney.
ħ
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S correspondence college,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Cut He ; rb and Mail • -
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING,
as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S B. 434
u/otM*tuAjZ
CuticuiA
• • • • • QJonp
t soap «ia
For the Daily Toilet
Used regularly, this pure,
fragrant, delicately medi-
cated soap keeps the skin
fresh, clear and glowing
with health.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney. N. S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
IS
The Gre§t Creating Force in Business.
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rateis on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office; 3 Temple Avenue.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, It
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address:' “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L, Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test TH
DOMINION” overshadowed its com°
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those [who keenly study
advertising values end stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
If any illustration in "THE
takes your fancy, write to the
who will quote you price for
BULLETIN-
MANAGER,
the original.
A VAX 3HI SQV3I
Ay
•‘■VV*V'E‘Vi'rfc <V<J.
J' rT —
It
-ffs
• -
■
'
- S’ •■• '
5
J®mPSIL
ti#
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade v area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says , “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so with
you ?”
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Expert Opinion
It would be absurd to expect the thou-
sands of novels, thrillers, biographies,
autobiographies, studies of countries
where dramatic things are- happening,
depression studies and similar fare for
entertainment-seekers to be works of
art. All the fair-minded reader demands
is truth. The three books reviewed
below are essentially ephemeral; they
will have been snowed under within 12
months, no doubt, by masses of other
books on similar topics. Yet they are
eminently worth reading now: the
authors are experts on their subjects.
Hollywood
In Falling Star (Bles; 7s. 6d.) Vicki
Baum examines the sexual psychoses
which bring misery to certain classes
of the newly-enriched, particularly
movie stars. They are like royal-
ties without the early training and dis-
cipline which preserve most modern
royalties from making conspicuous asses
of themselves. Oliver Dent, “the hand-
somest man in the world,” has had beau-
tiful girls at his feet almost from boy-
hood. So he is depraved at 25, and when
his “fatal woman” comes along she is
10 years older than he is, and propor-
tionately more sophisticated in sex mat-
ters. Oliver has reached a stage which
normal sensualists don’t attain till they
are old. He takes a masochistic pleasure
in Donka Morescu’s hideous stories of
her past, and urges her in exquisite
anguish to stop. However, she knows
better; the degradations she has suffered
constitute her chief appeal to him.
Other contemporary novelists, German
and French, have analysed Oliver’s
trouble, but Vicki Baum is the first who
has given it a Hollywood background.
Yet, clearly, a society full of purse-proud
illiterates who spend money like people
in the early stages of G.P.I. while their
contracts last, and starve when they end,
must be a more favorable breeding-
ground for aberrations than any other.
The background has been done with
such attention to detail that this some-
what flimsy story of a degenerate’s obses-
sion deserves to live as the record of an
epoch. They are all here —the hard-
faced film bosses; the lovely, stupid
flappers, doomed to gravitate to houses
of ill-fame ; the cynical ballyhoo mer-
chants ; the skilled technicians ; the occa-
sional scholar, like Erbacher, who has “a
chronically uneasy conscience,” since in
Hollywood culture has “sinister impli-
cations” and must be concealed.
Erbacher, Eisenlohr and other, magnates
are German, but it is interesting to notice
Vicki Baum’s scorn of the German
cinema. Not till her fellow-countrymen
reach the fantastic place of origin of this
strange art do they get rid of the naive
conventions which make German films
slow and dull.
The translation has been admirably
done by Ida Zeitlin.
West End Bohemians
Just As I Am, by Lesley Storm (Cas-
sell ; Angus and Robertson), is not
nearly so well written as “Falling Star,”
and the author is not the psychologist that
Vicki Baum is, but her book contains an
interesting picture of a misfit who is to
be found in most societies. When we first
meet Dulcie Drury-Fox she is 50, and
has been living' in the country with a
dull, rich husband for quarter of a cen-
tury. She takes her daughter to London.
If you can believe that anyone so des-
perately hungry for a sight and smell of
London as this former musical-comedy
favorite was could have been persuaded
to exile herself from her old haunts for
so many years, then the other events fol-
low more or less naturally. Immediately
Dulcie gets among her former friends
she reverts to type. Her infatuation for
the woman-hunting Jew theatrical-mag-
nate whose infidelities drove her into
marriage blazes up again. He recipro-
cates at first, but, as such men don’t
change, her dis-
cov e r y of 25
years before is
soon repeated.
The narrow-
mindedness of the
country squires
and their relations may be a little
overdone, but their intolerance is neces-
sary to justify the behavior of Dulcie
and of Jane, who takes after her. The
pictures of what are presumably the
Savoy grill-room and the Cafe de Paris
and of one of those little luxury-restau-
rants which spring up from time to time
in Jermyn-street and its environs are well
done, and there are some satisfying
studies of their frequenters. Jane throws
over the prig who was her first lover
and turns to a more tolerant character
—a natural Londoner like herself. The
story ends there, which is as well for
readers who like happy endings. No-
thing is surer than that the gay, pas-
sionate and irresponsible girl who is de-
scribed here will have a succession of
lovers.
Portrait of a Schoolmaster
Three Lives, by Stephen Foot (Heine-
mann ; 10s. 6d.), is the autobiography of
a right-thinking Englishman, and, as
such, It differs so widely from the other
studies of life that it might have been
written by an inhabitant of another
world. As a sensible man, the author
probably recognises that human conduct
is largely motivated by sex, but he com-
pletely ignores the distasteful question in
his book. In consequence, about two-
thirds of it, representing the chapters
which deal with his experiences in the
World War and as an employee of the
Shell Oil Company, conveys the flat im-
pression of a picnic at which the salt
has been forgotten.
He had been in his school cadet corps
early in the century, and was a Special
Reserve officer (R.E.), and he happened
to be in England on leave from Mexico in
the summer of 1914. He was in France
in time for the first gas attack at Ypres,
served with the 21st Division at the
Battle of the Somme in July, 1916, was
associated with the Tanks’ attack in Sep-
tember, and he was also with the Tanks
at Cambrai. At the end of T 7 he was
transferred to the War Office as G. 5.0.2
under the Director-General of the Tank
Corps.
After the war he made a curious
decision. Though one of his brothers
had been at Winchester he had
gone to a very minor public school
—Eastbourne College. He resigned
from the Shell Company and went
to Eastbourne as house tutor. This
is where his book begins to be not
merely interesting but absorbing. He
seems to be one of those rare beings a
born schoolmaster. Such men not only
love teaching for its own sake, but are
full of new ideas which they have the
capacity to impose on their colleagues.
England has always produced them
freely,, which may be why its best
schools, secondary as well as primary,
serve as models for the rest of the civi-
lised world, and are usually several
jumps ahead of any schools in the
Empire. To the materialist it is an
eternal mystery that a man of high in-
telligence should, for preference, devote
his life to drumming knowledge, morals
and manners into mostly dunderheaded
and recalcitrant youths. No social or
other prestige attaches to schoolmastering
in England, and the pay is small. The
value of this book is that it shows what
the profession means to the right man.
The vocation seems to be as insistent as
that which impels some Catholics to
join closed orders.
Red Page.
A Queensland Epic
The Endeavour Press offers in Brian
Penton’s stout volume Landtakers the
biggest seven-and-sixpence worth of
locally-produced fiction which the post-
war years have seen. Other Australian
writers have written longer /books, but
they have had to find publishers in
London.
Landtakers is, in the full sense of
the term, a work of imagination. It
purports to show how a young English-
man of good family, landing in Brisbane
(“Red Page” continued on page 5.)


Depend on Anthony Horderns' for “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”
‘'THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
*3^
y
mi
' -kv'
~^g3
?fr w / V
/ .. ’
' ,*
/ VV
£
\\
EXCEPTIONAL VALUES IN
SHOOTING REQUISITES
No wonder Anthony Horderns’ have earned the name of “The Sportsman’s Head-
quarters”! Here, shooters, golfers, tennis players, fishermen —all sportsmen, in fact —
receive expert advice in selecting their materials.
In our Gun Department, all firearms and ammunition are made by makers of world-
wide repute. We stock only goods that we can thoroughly recommend to give absolute
service.
Savage “Sporter” Model 238. —.25/20 Calibre Repeating Bolt Action Rifle. 2 sin. Round Barrel. Rear
Locking Lugs on Bolt into Receiver. Five-shot detachable Box-type Magazine. Weight, 61b., £7/7/-
Savage “Sporter” Model 23C.—.32/20 (.32 Winchester) Repeating Bolt Action Rifle. 2 5in. Round
Barrel. Rear locking lug on bolt into receiver. Five-shot detachable box-type magazine. Weight, 51b.
£7/7/-
\u
I. Hollis & Sons' 12G. Anson & Deeley Pattern
Hammerless D.B. Gun, Treble Bolted Action on the
Cross Bolt principle, Left Choke Bored, Automatic
Safety Bolt, Walnut Heart Stock, Half Pistol Grip,
Deeley-Edge Fore-end Fastener £l9/10/-
As above, 16G. and 20G £l9/10/-
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12G. Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun,
Treble Bolted Action on the Cross Bolt principle.
Steel Barrels, Left Choke Bore, good Steel Rebound-
ing Bar Locks, well grown Walnut Heart Stock, Half
Pistol Grip, Snap Fore-end Fastener. Engine-turned
Rib, proved for Nitro Powders £l3
As above, 1 6G., 30in. barrels £l3
RIFLE AND GUN
CARTRIDGES
.25/20 W.C.F ... 16/-’
•32 W.C.F 16/.
.25/20 .32 Savage, soft point,
smokeless, high power ....
.44 high velocity, soft point ....
22 Savage Hi. Power
250/2000 Hi. Power
303 Mark VI 12/6 per 100; 100/- per 1000
Eley s Smokeless Cartridges, 12, 16 and 20
gauge. Price, per 100 18/6
Peter’s high velocity 2|in. 12G. Price, 100, 28/-
Western Super x ! 2G. 2fin. Price, per 100, 35/-
SWs
£@9
12G. Belgian D.B. Breech-loading Gun, with Quad-
ruple Webley-Greener Bolt, Best Rebounding Bar
Action Locks, Best Quality Steel Barrels, Reinforced
Chamber, Choke, Matted Rib, Full Scroll Fence, Neat
English Engraving, Fine Walnut Stock, Checkered
Patent Fore-end, Nitro Proved £7/10/-
Values We Specially Recommend
W. W. Greener’s 12G. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
Pigeon Gun, 32in. Special Steel Barrels, Treble
Wedge, Fast Action, Independent Side Safety,
Full Choke in both Barrels, Chambered for
2fin. Cartridges, Engine-turned Rib, Walnut
Stock £27/10/-
I. Hollis & Sons’ 12G. Top Lever D.8.8.L. Gun,
Double Bolted Action, Steel Barrels, Left Choke
Bore, good Steel Rebounding Backwork Locks,
Walnut Heart Stock, Half Pistol Grip, extended
Rib Snap Fore-end Fastener, with Cross Bolt,
£lO/17/6.
■'H
W. Cashmore’s 12G. D.8.8.L. Hammerless
Pigeon Gun, Cross Bolt Action, automatic Safety
Bolt, English fine Steel Barrels, Choke Bored,
Flat File-cut Rib, Figured Walnut Stock, Pistol
Grip, Chambered for 2|in. Cartridges, good
finish, neatly engraved, specially proved for
Nitro -powders, weight about 71b £24
SgjMgßggf
Shot Gun Cleaning Rods and Implem
Necessary articles of every shooter’s ec
ment. 12, 16 and 20 gauge. Price, set,
GUN REPAIRS
In the Repairing of Guns as much skill is required
as in their manufacture. We have Expert Gun-
smiths constantly employed on Repairs, and every
appliance most suitable for the work. Customers
sending us Repairs may be quite certain they will
be done in a perfectly satisfactory manner. We
are always prepared to give an exact price, if
required, for any work before it is put in hand, but
it is necessary for us to have the Firearm (complete,
if possible) before we can quote.
h
Browning Trombone Repeat-
ing Rifle, .22 calibre (15
Short, or I 2 Long, or 1 1 Long
Rifle). Will shoot these different cartridges mixed.
22in. barrel. Exceptionally accurate. Weight, 51b.
Price 110/-
ĥ
Browning Auto-Loading Rifle,
solid breach, hammerless, will
fire Rimfire .22 calibre Long
Rifle Smokeless Cartridges. 20in. Round Barrel,
Weight, 4Jlb. Magazine holds 8 cartridges.
Price 97/6
As above, for .22 Short Magazine, holds 1 I cartridges,
97/6.
.22 Calibre Winchester Bolt Action Rifle, Model 60.
27in. tapered barrel. Price, each 45/-
.22 Calibre Savage Bolt Action Rifle, Model 3; with
24in. barrel. Price, each 42/6
.22 Calibre “Sure Shot” Rifle, 1 Bin. barrel .... 25/-
.22 Calibre “Sportsman” Rifle, 241 n. barrel .... 35/-
m ’ixm
Solid , Leather Gun Case, hand-sewn throughout.
Solid brass corners and locks ensure extra long wear.
30 or 32 inches.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each £5/17/6
Solid Leather Gun Case, 30in. or 32in., with sling.
Price, each 45/-
@ Guns and Ammunitions — Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401
Day and' Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


SEIF-POISONING
is primary cause of
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
NEURITIS
ZJ
SAYS Dr. D. Jacobsen - noted medical authority
It is definitely established that
modern foods do not stimulate the
bowel muscles to sufficient action.
Consequently, though your habits
be regular, particles of food-waste
are left in the folds and crevices of
the intestine. These fragments of
food-waste remain in the colon
day after day sometimes for
weeks or months—decaying and
breeding germs and poisons which
enter the blood-stream and pro-
duce the condition known as Self-
poisoning or “ Autoxima,” from
which nine out of ten suffer.
WHAT DOCTORS SAY
Medical opinion now regards Self-
poisoning as one of the principal
causes of ill-health. Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Headaches, In-
digestion, Constipation, Bladder
Ailments, Depression, Weakness,
Catarrh, Eczema, Skin Troubles
and a host of minor aches and
pains can now be traced to this in-
sidious enemy of health.
TRY THIS SIMPLE REMEDY
Do you want the vim and vigour
of youth, to have the health,
strength and energy you had ter
THE GREATEST BENEFIT
“I have used COLOSEPTIC regularly now
for the past six months for Stomach Troubles
with the greatest benefit. And I have also been
the means of many others trying it with equal
success. It is a wonderful remedy .”
Mr. H. D. A., Ravensbourne, Dunedin.
years ago ? Then get rid of Self-
poisoning. Drink Coloseptic in hot
water every morning. Coloseptic
is a tonic that cleanses the en-
crusted waste from the intestines
without griping or inconvenience.
It strengthens intestinal muscles
so that your bowels function nat-
urally and regularly. It tones up
the whole digestive tract. Colo-
septic cleans the blood-stream of
poisonous acids and wastes by
exerting a powerful action upon
the kidneys. It stimulates Nature’s
other great eliminatory organs
the pores of the skin and the re-
spiratory tract. Coloseptic gives
you the complete internal clean-
ness which is the first step to per-
fect health. It prevents germs and
toxins from generating and being
absorbed.
o
U
Self-poisoning is
caused by sluggish
action of the in-
testines.
COLOSEPTIC
combats Self-,
poisoning b y
keeping you in-
ternally clean.
DRINK COLOSEPTIC
REGULARLY
See how thousands gain strength,
energy, activity. The results of a
regular course of Coloseptic will
amaze you. Gone will be the head-
aches, stomach troubles, muscular
aches and pains, weakness and ex-
haustion.
No longer will you feel always
tired, worn out, nervy. Coloseptic
will make you feel years younger,
give you a new lease of life and a
keen appetite and interest in all
the pleasures of living.
TEST COLOSEPTIC FOR
YOURSELF
You should know how easy it is to
combat Self-poisoning and estab-
lish internal cleanness. You should
know what this will mean to you
in restored health, restful nights,
in a clear skin and shining eyes,
and in renewed energy and vigour.
Coloseptic, the scientific and suc-
cessful tonic is obtainable at all
chemists in regular, full-size jars,
sufficient for several weeks’ use.
Test Coloseptic for yourself. Fill
in and post coupon below with 17-
stamps or postal note for a special
10-Day Demonstration Jar and in-
teresting book, “Autoxima.”
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD.,
10 O’Connell St., Newtown, N.S.W.
Drink
COLOSEPTIC
for Internal Cleanness
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD., U
Laboratories,
10 O’Connell Street, Newtown, N.SAV.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/- (stamps or
postal note). Please send me one special demonstra-
tion jar and' booklet entitled “Autoxima.”
Name
Address


S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
in the early ’forties, established himself
on the land. Pioneers’ clubs won’t like
it. But then service clubs don’t like
the tru,th about war. A soldier who
serves for any length of time in the
trenches needn’t deteriorate, but he must
change. Derek Cabell, as an Australian
landtaker of 90 years ago, has to do
things which would have been unthink-
able in Dorsetshire —slaughter blacks, lift
horses, live in squalid filth. But he is
essentially the same man when his Armis-
tice arrives after 20 years’ active service
against nature and environment. The
only real differences are that he is harder
and that his social illusions have gone.
The appalling figure of the superin-
tendent, McGovern, dominates the story.
A Currency Lad, or native-born white,
he symbolises the life of the period. Look
at him:
His body soaked the air for a yard
around with a rank smell of sweat and
tobacco and rum.... There was a know-
ing twinkle in his eyes, which lurked in the
weed-fringed grottoes of his eye-sockets
like suspicious little animals. Even so, they
were the most prominent feature on that
face, barring a pair of thick lips and a set
of perfect teeth that Hashed out .of the
furze of golden beard whenever he smiled.
What kind of face it was there was nothing
to show, for the beard, tangled and matted,
filled with burrs and grass-seeds, stained
with tobacco and grease, covered every-
thing but the red tip of a flat nose....
For the rest he was not altogether un-
pleasant-looking, despite his bandy legs
which had grown round the belly of a
horse, and his wide shoulders which tipped
him over at every step, so that he seemed
to have a hard struggle to get straight
again Happy-go-lucky, lounging, care-
less —yet the most dangerous and aggres-
sive kind of man.
Cabell takes the convict Gursey inland,
seeking sheep country, finds it, and be-
gins his struggle with the shadow of Mc-
Govern, who has been left for dead,
hanging over him. You know that Mc-
Govern will appear again, and that there
can be no peace till he does, and is dis-
posed of. Meanwhile Cabell fights sav-
agely on against the forces which his
enemy personifies.
A feature of the book, apart from its
study of the slow transformation of
Cabell from a homesick limejuicer into
a bushman who never wants to leave
the bush again, is the imaginative power
and grim humor with which what may
be called the paranoiacs have been
handled. The system must have spawned
them, but here, for the first time in litera-
ture, we get their full-length pictures.
Take old Dan of the outstation.
“The noise here fair lifts the top off
your nut.” He made a discouraged ges-
ture towards the sky as a crow flew by.
“It ain’t only the birds, Sambo. It ain’t
only you rampaugin’ at the cows. It ain’t
only the cattle and the curlews and the
sound of hammerin’ day in, day out, down
at the homestead. It ain’t only the blasted
bleatin’ sheep, the cokatoos and Bill
a-talkin’ to hisself. It’s everything. Every-
thing!” He shook a fist at the trees.
“Hear them crackin’ and rustlin’, Sambo.
Hear the branches failin’ off. Hear the
wind in the grass. Hear the bunya nuts
droppin’, hear the bleedin’ bees. Hear....
oh, everything, Sambo, It’ll drive me off
the hooks if I don’t get a bit of peace
soon.”
There may be historical slips, but an
era is interpreted with knowledge and
without romanticism. This is the achieve-
ment which puts Landtakers ahead of all
previous Australian novels.
J.D.
A Staff Officer Goes to Gallipoli
Fusilier Bluff (Geoffrey Bles ; Bs. 6d.)
seems to be one of those works which
are born of an exclamation familiar to
travellers in strange places. “How inter-
esting ! You ought to write a book about
it.” The anonymous author, “an un-
professional soldier,” describes his ad-
ventures in “the Near East” in 1918-19.
He spent a few days at advanced Divi-
sional Headquarters in Macedonia. From
this vantage-point he saw “long strings of
ambulances” and heard “vague rumors
of battle” and “the grumble and rumble
of a more intense bombardment” and,
occasionally, depressing news of the
slaughter of the British army in the
shockingly organised battle of Doiran.
He experienced an enjoyable con-
tempt for all fighting soldiers, until he
achieved influenza and was given a
chance to exercise his superiority complex
on M.Os. and nurses. In the remainder
of the book, which is about a staff head-
quarters in Turkey, he is scornful of
people whose lack of classical education
and ignorance of the Crimean War pre-
vent them from going into ecstasies over
Haidar Pasha and the remains of Troy.
He visited Gallipoli, and is critical
about the “senile hesitations, the
jealousies and incompetence of those
who professed to control the fate of the
Allied Armies.” Only for General Bird-
wood is there a really good word. (“If
it hadn’t been for Birdwood,” said an
Australian, “the whole show would have
gone to pieces in the first few days. He
was a fighting soldiernot one of your
three-cheers-for-the-gallant-fellows brass-
hats.”) He failed to pick up the Austra-
lian language. One Digger said to him
of lan Hamilton: “He’s been vurry un-
fairly criticised” ; the same man referred
to the staff as “a lot of prize noodles!”
A little Australian officer comes to
dinner, bringing with him the official artist
—G. W. Lambert. He is a shaggy fellow
with a jutting yellow beard and ultra-
virile affectations —and also the rather silly
affectation of knowing nothing about Eng-
lish manners. An artist among soldiers
(even an artist in uniform) is an odd sight,
but Lambert’s manly bluster carries him
along quite easily.
Since Lambert was one of the best-
known figures in the artistic world of
London at the time, the author might
well have suspected his ostensible ignor-
ance of British culture. Lambert, in the
company of the innocent, didn’t always
live up to his Christian names, which
were “George Washington.”
M.E.
A Versatile Poet
Alex. Melrose’s Song and Slapstick
contains most of his best poems and
bush and sporting ballads, grave and
gay: the Hassell Press, Adelaide, has in-
corporated them in a 233-page volume,
and there is a dustjacket which hints at
the contents. The price isn’t mentioned.
Melrose is a phenomenon. His range is
enormous ; as a juggler with words he
has few superiors, and his ear for rhythm
and for the music of speech makes every-
thing he writes agreeable. Take the first
stanza of one of his least pretentious
efforts:
The dawn is on Port Lincoln in green and gold
array.
It lights the sheltering islands and glories beach
arid bay;
And fathom upon fathom deep
The empty waters wake from sleep
With : “Welcome, • wand’ring stranger! Now
what brings you this way?”
He is always as melodious as that in one
vein. In another he sings of the minor
tragedies of bush life which he knows
well. The vet. has been summoned from
town to save Old Prince, the victim of
well-meaning backblocks horse-copers
who have dosed him with gunpowder
worked in mutton fat, Epsom salts and
ginger wine, sour milk and brimstone
mixed in beer and other nostrums.
Old Prince ’ere gives a kinda sigh,
The vet. gets up an’ looks around.
I ask what next I orta try.
Says ’e, “A hole in sandy ground;
He’ll find at last a peaceful bed.
You’ve dosed ’im stiff —my fee’s two pound.
Your ’orse is dead.”
Lawyers will enjoy the section entitled
“My Learned Friends,” which deals in
the manner of A. P. Herbert with the
imbecilities of our courts. In fact, there
is something in this amusing book for
everybody, and though there is a good
deal of satire there isn’t a trace of malice.
Some of Melrose’s verses see the light
for the first time in this volume; the
others have appeared in The Bulletin
and in Adelaide papers.
H.S.
The Bright Young Things
I notice a complaint (R.P. 11/4/’34)
that the spirit of reform is wanting
among England’s younger novelists. It
seems to me to depend on what one
reads. Not many novelists are qualified,
as Galsworthy was, for instance, by legal
training, to suggest remedies for the
present social and economic mess. Nor
do many believe, human nature being
what it is, that religion or perfect
economy or even good intentions will be
of much use in solving our problems.
And not all the young writers are so
depressing as is suggested. Unrelieved
gloom is the note of many present-day
artists, but not of those who will last.
There are moderns who paint life, not in
black, but in black-and-white checks,
often tragic but often light, and on the
whole presenting a striking pattern—inti-
mate, homely and pre-eminently inter-
esting.
It seems necessary here to make a con-
fession. I hold no brief for women
writers as such, and incline to find them
either too feminine or too obviously try-
ing not to be. But here it is a group of
women I am talking of, and I think they
will be remembered longer, and am sure
they will have left a deeper mark on
1920-40, than most of the men whose
mere initials are now things to conjure
with. They are not reformers in the wide
social economic sense, and on much of
what they write their comment is merely
“Isn’t it interesting?” not “What shall
we do about it?” But in their check-
gingham way they do a lot' of cleaning
up. They include Beatrice Kean Sey-
mour, on the subject of spiritual wild
oats; E. M. Delafield, on that of family
cant; Kate O’Brien, on tradition;
Clemence Dane, on feminism; G. B.
Stern, on—but she is like Shakspeare, and,
aside from being always the whip of hum-
bug, takes all nature for her province
and prods gleefully at the oyster of all
foibles. I would not be understood to
imply that each of these writers has her
hobby-horse, and rides it continually.
They are all as various as life. But to
this extent have they the reformer’s spirit
—that each sees life as a shoe not made
to fit, and finding where it pinches tries to
do something about it. Sometimes there
is little to be done, and only a soothing
ointment can give relief, which is but
temporary. Sometimes there are things
to be done, and the housewife is vigorous
in her treatment.
But for all the check gingham, these
women are not for the vulgar. They will
never appeal to the crowd of quasi-
intellectuals who found Galsworthy a
benefactor because in him they could
satisfy their desire to be thought
“readers” along with their snobbish “love
of a lord” and their identification of their
own lives with those of people in
“society.” Nor will they appeal to in-
tellectuals of the sort whose second name
is misery. But all the plain sensible folk
in between must count for something, and
it is these who will show where the
reformer’s power lies —in thunderous
denunciation and brilliant suggestion, or
in check gingham.
EUNICE HANGER.
A Satchel of Books
A Short History of Ancient Egypt, by
Arthur Weigall (Chapman and Hall;
Bs. 6d.). The author, who was the Egyp-
tian Government’s Inspector-General of
Antiquities, died while this book was
going through the press. It is one of about
a score which he wrote on allied subjects.
The story begins at the beginning of
Egyptian history—which is to say at the
beginning of the history of civilisation—
and ends with the Arab invasion of the
seventh century which divided the nation
into Mohammedans and Copts (Chris-
tians). There are many illustrations and
a map.
The Thin Man, by Dashiell Hammett
(Barker; 7s. 6d.), is an American thriller
written in a style which many will find
intolerably hard to read.
Nora was eating a piece of cold duck
with one hand and working on a jig-saw
puzzle with the other when I got home.
“I thought you’d gone to live with her,”
she said. “You used to be a detective;
find me a brownish piece shaped something
like a snail with a long neck.”
“Piece of duck or puzzle? » Don’t let’s
go to the Edges’ to-night: they’re dull
folk.”
“All right, but they’ll be sore.”
“We wouldn’t be that lucky,” I com-
plained.
There are pages of such talk, and it’s
nearly all irrelevant. Another weakness
of the book as a crime yarn is the nar-
rator’s preoccupation with drink. There
are times when you can’t see the story
for the liquor.
Fred Berry’s Motor Manual (second
edition; New Century Press, 35.) is the
most up-to-date work of its kind, its
revision being completed this month.
In addition to the wealth of mechanical
explanations and practical advice to
owners and drivers that proved so useful
to readers of the first edition, The Bul-
letin’s Motor Editor summarises results
of road tests. The book is copiously
illustrated, and its literary style is terse
and clear. If the advice it gives on
driving and car maintenance were care-
fully followed, the automobile accident-
rate in Australia might be reduced by 75
per cent., while the national expenditure
on car repairs would be cut in half.
If you believe a man capable of living
as a friendly neighbor to the wife who
left him 16 years earlier, without recog-
nising her, then Georgette Heyer’s The
Unfinished Clue (Longmans; 7s. 6d.)
should satisfactorily fill a couple of
hours. Of course, there’s a murder. The
victim, a bullying ex-army man, though
perhaps not deserving of a knife in the
back, is just such a man as you can see
murdered without regrets. The suspects
—there are a half-dozen or so, including
his son, who imagines himself in love
with a French cabaret dancer, and a nice
young man in love with the army
man’s wife—are an interesting lot, and
the story is cleverly handled. There’s
a girl to interest the boy from the Yard,
and it all takes place at one of those
country-house parties which are known
for their surprises.
Death in the Quarry is G. D. H. and
M. Cole’s latest contribution to The Crime
Club series. The managing director of
a Gloucestershire manufacturing concern
pulls a switch, and a quarry mine which
no one thought was loaded is exploded.
The body of his enemy the works man-
ager is found under the rocks. It was
a Saturday afternoon, so the manager
shouldn’t have been near the place, and
to complicate matters he had written the
order for the charge to be laid. Some
80 pages later the m.d. suicides, and the
thoughts of Everard Blatchington (if you
read these things you’ve met him before)
turn to the quarry affair. Scotland Yard
comes in and takes another 150 pages
or so to find out it was “one of the
cleverest and most cunning murders that
has ever happened in England.”
Descartes: A n Examination of Some
Features of His Metaphysics and
Method, by W. A. Merrylees (Melb. Uni.
Press ; 12s. 6d.). Mr. Merrylees, who is
a lecturer in philosophy, here sets out at
length the grounds of his quarrel with
A. B. Gibson. The world of science has a
vast respect for Descartes the mathemati-
cian ; Christina, Queen of Sweden, lately
the subject of a Hollywood talkie,
esteemed the soldier-scientist’s letters on
love so highly that she invited him to
her Court to continue the discussion.
But in other departments of philosophy
he made a smaller impression. It was
generally assumed, until recently, that
Hobbes had said the last word of criti-
cism of the “Meditations,” but, as Mr.
Merrylees demonstrates to the extent of
325 pp., a more sympathetic attitude is
possible to a metaphysician with a wider,
because later, knowledge of the literature
of abstract philosophy. Descartes, who
preferred lying abed thinking to reading
—he invented the co-ordinates between
dozes —probably won’t trouble to read
this book, but that won’t prevent him
thanking Mr. Merrylees for it very pret-
tily when they meet in whatever heaven
is reserved for seekers after the Absolute.


FAMOUS
PORT
a
:
ms
¥■
■
$
**-‘1
WKKBBSMmmmi'-mm fit
*
bhhhmhPm
nf
■■ Wl '■ ■' - ’


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2838.
July 4, 1934*
ACCIDENTS DO HAPPEN.
"With Commonwealth elections nearly due, and other in two States to follow, politicians are nervously contenplating the Tasmanian figures, which
show that only 17 old members were returned."
“Don’t be so downhearted, gentlemen! One of you might turn out to be the man they couldn’t hang.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to
Country and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS : 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
A BILL OF RIGHTS FOR
AUSTRALIANS.
Australians are brought up with a low
opinion of Charles the First. Their his-
tory-books tell them that he was a bad
king, who levied a tax without the con-
sent of Parliament, and went down to
the Commons to arrest five noble mem-
bers, and was told that the Speaker had
“neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak
in this place but as the House is pleased
to direct me,” and left saying that “the
birds” had “flown.” Also, that he made
war on his people, and that the contest was
one between Light and Darkness (Mac-
aulay put it that way, though to a con-
temporary preacher it was a case of
“Scribes and Pharisees on the one side,
publicans and sinners on the other”), and
that Light got Darkness down and hacked
off his head. It is a tale which has
thrilled many generations of English-
speaking people, and no doubt it still
engenders gloomy suspicions of King
George in the minds of cads and prigs.
But in the light of modern research
and experience of government by paid
politicians and jacks-in-office, there is
something to be said for King Charles,
True, he levied ship-money by writ under
the Great Seal, but his father and the
Plantagenets had done it before him.
His object was to give his kingdom a
royal navy capable of coping with the
growing sea-power of France and Holland
and of protecting its coasts from Barbary
pirates, who even while the ship-money
controversy was raging sacked Balti-
more, in Ireland, and carried off many
of its inhabitants as slaves. Coast-
dwellers exposed to these raids, and fear-
ful of a French invasion, paid the tax
cheerfully; it was only when it was
demanded of wealthy far-away land-
owners with a Whiggish turn that resist-
ance was encountered.
We ourselves have tyrants who employ
the methods of Charles in causes far less
worthy. Some off them levy taxes alleg-
edly for the service of the Crown and
buy, votes with the money. The new
tyrants succeed where the old tyrants
failed. Nor are they ever in danger of
losing their heads or even their jobs—
those disguised as taxgatherers, anyway.
These new tyrants are to be found in all
self-governing countries, but they infest
Australia most of all. Our system, with
its seven Parliaments, Governments and
establishments and its ever-increasing
boards, trusts and commissions, spawns
them. Power entrusted to elected
representatives is (often because of
their ignorance or indolence) handed
over to non-elected persons, who exer-
cise it as arbitrarily as Charles did,
and with an arrogance of which
he was never accused. The Vic-
torian Attorney-General, speaking as an
advocate for Shell Oil, points out that
the Commonwealth Taxation Department
has been authorised to tax oil companies
on their receipts, and to fix the rate of
tax ; and in the exercise of these amazing
powers it has taxed Shell Oil 10, 16 and
20 per cent, in different years. This depart-
ment and the other six may also, without
reference to Parliament or to any Court,
impose fines on taxpayers or waive them
as they please. They may forbid people to
go on sea-journeys that take them beyond
the three-mile limit. They tell Parlia-
ment what taxation laws they require.
Parliament passes them blindly, gener-
ally in the last hours of a session, some-
times (as was said at the Taxpayers’ Con-
ference in Sydney) without even an ex-
position from the fool of a Minister into
whose hands the bill has been shoved.
These Taxation Departments are in
effect lawmakers, and they are in a posi-
tion to ruin taxpayers who resist them,
even where their laws are demonstrably
bad. There is no chance for an Aus-
tralian who would emulate John Hamp-
den unless he has great possessions. He
might not be committed to prison, but
he would probably end up in the Bank-
ruptcy Court.
A Sydney man who had paid four
taxes, two Commonwealth and two Vic-
torian, on income from Victoria refused
to pay a fifth levied in Sydney at the
rate of Is. in the £ on the gross income.
He wrote to the Treasurer, arguing that
it was against all the canons of just taxa-
tion to tax where no wealth had been
derived, no honest assessment could be
issued and no service could be rendered
by the Crown. The Treasurer expressed
his astonishment, assured the victim that
such exactions were never intended when
the Act was introduced by his Govern-
ment, and promised to see the Commis-
sioner about it. Apparently he never
did ; anyway, he did not write again.
After repeated threats, each accom-
panied by the intimation that the tax
had been increased 10 per cent, by a fine,
the department commenced proceedings.
Not in the District Court, though the
amount claimed was small, but in the
Supreme Court, where a jury could be
empanelled. Defendant was advised
that a jury trial would, if he lost, cost
him about four times the amount of
the claim. If .he won, since a constitu-
tional point was involved, he might be
taken to the Full Court on appeal, to
the High Court on appeal, and, if he was
still nominally the winner, to the Privy
Council. Though he actually received
only portion of the income sued for, the
rest going into bricks and mortar, he
cursed the tin gods and paid. His one
consolation is that he fought long enough
to prevent his money going to support
Mr. Lang’s endeavors to cheat the public
creditor and wreck the finances by defy-
ing the law written into the Constitution
by the electors.
This is only one example out of a
multitude. The people have many
masters, and their masters are so exact-
ing that their earnings are not their own,
and they have to spend no inconsiderable
part of their lives filling in forms. Who
their ultimate master is remains a mys-
tery, though the fiction is that it is the
King ; for thousands it may be some
understrapper in a taxation office.
Functionaries unknown to the people,
even by name, start up here, there
and everywhere, and tell them this
or that thing is forbidden. Working men
and women are forbidden to ride in the
motor-’buses which used to carry them,
swiftly and in comfort, to and from
their homes. Farmers are forbidden to
use motor-lorries to convey their pro-
duce to market and bring back house-
hold goods. If a worker’s wife pushing
a perambulator is drenched to the skin
in trudging from the slow and jerky
tram ; if a farmer loses his market be-
cause it takes a Government train days
to do what a motor-lorry can do in
hours, it cannot be helped. The interests
of Government railway and tramway
employees operating vehicles of the 1910
vintage are paramount. Motor-’buses
and -waggons are hateful objects any-
how, being modern and privately-owned.
A gentleman from the N.S.W. Rail-
way Department turned up at Kurrajong
the other day and threatened that “we”
would close the Richmond-Kurrajong
railway unless the fruit- and vegetable-
growers gave “us” a transport monopoly.
The same department recently issued
special gold passes to the 60-odd mem-
bers of the Legislative Council who
dropped out of that Chamber or were
voted out when it was made elective. An
undertaking had been given by a Cabinet
Minister that these persons should not
have passes, and the issue of passes has
not been sanctioned by Parliament, nor
has any money been voted for the 18-
carat-gold ornaments; but that does not
seem to matter. To the same category
of political and bureaucratic insolence
belongs the erection of part of the build-
ing in Wynyard-square which is to house
some of the Government railway officers
before Parliamentary approval had been
given or a penny had been voted.
“As Charles was leaving the Commons
angry murmurs of ‘Privilege’ were
heard,” the record says. It is hard for
an Australian used to the ways of his
seven Parliaments to conjure up this
scene or to imagine Australian poli-
ticians behaving as spiritedly in a like
emergency (though Menzies might); cer-
tainly they never stand up for people
plagued by the never-ending audacities
of so-called agents of the Crown. But
it will be admitted that they guard their
privileges, especially such as are out of
date ; indeed, they extend them.
It was announced that Government
motor-’buses were to be sent from Can-
berra to Goulburn for the convenience
of members travelling (free) from the
south, and that mere electors were
not to be allowed to ride in them. And
mere electors are not allowed to ride in
them even when ’buses leave Goulburn
empty, as was the case when the first
fleet departed from that town. Between
midnight and midday when the last ses-
sion was dying, Ministers and members
presented themselves with salary-increases
not provided for in the Budget, nor even
mentioned in the Budget speech. News-
paper writers criticised this proceeding in
good set terms, and Standing Orders
are to be “amended” to enable Parlia-
ment to “deal with” such critics. But
members of the public are not to be en-
abled to “deal with” political ruffians
who traduce them, as is done session
after session—particularly at Canberra
and in Macquarie-street, Sydney—and
whose foul libels are preserved in
“Hansard.” Protection for the sensitive
skins of the salary-grabber and the mud-
slinger ; none for the people!
In South Australia a “Liberal” party
fluked a majority of seats (not of votes)
because its opponents were divided and
the electoral boundaries were all in its
favor. Almost the first use it made of
its fluked majority was to extend the life
of Parliament from three years to five.
In Westralia a Labor party put one of
its members on a Government Lotteries
Commission, thus allowing him to draw
two salaries. When the Chief Justice
ruled that this was unconstitutional, it
brought in a bill amending the Constitu-
tion so that the member might continue to
hold an office of profit under the Crown.
Garibaldi said his forte was “action,
placed at the service of a great idea.”
Great ideas are rare, but the Taxpayers’
Conference brought forth one: “Why
not a Bill of Rights for Australians?”
a delegate said. A great idea, truly, and it
now awaits its Garibaldi, though cannon
and colored shirts are not required.
PACIFISM IN MARTIN.
A feature of the Martin by-election has
been the silence of both Labor candi-
dates regarding defence. Mr. McCall,
the U.A.P. man, has anyhow expressed
approval of the principle of a rearmed
Australia ; and the Government whose
cause he is advocating has at least
promised to do the right thing.
It is ominous that both Mr. McCallum
(Fed. Labor) and Mr. Hankin (Lang
Lab.) should be ex-Diggers. They know
by personal experience what causes
wars ; know that a national urge and not
a “bankers’ conspiracy” has been behind
every European upheaval of recent
times; that anti-war committees, Red
or White, can do nothing to stop wars ;
and that when war starts between any two
Powers, under modern conditions, every
civilised country is bound eventually to
be dragged in. They volunteered for
the last war not to save England but to
save Australia, recognising that a de-
fenceless Australia—meaning an Aus-
tralia facing a world in which Britain
had been beaten —was doomed.
The same conditions exist to-day, with
the difference that, whereas Australian
Labor in 1914 was national-minded and
realist, in 1934 it is internationalist and
visionary. An aspirant for a Labor nomi-
nation in N. S. Wales, whether Fed. Lab.
or Langite, has no chance if he dares to
recognise what the Laborites who made
the R.A.N. and the A.I.F. recognised:
that nationhood involves obligations, and
that the chief of them is the necessity of
keeping the nation safe from foreign
attack.
The strength of the feeling against
national defence amongst present-day
leaders of the party which gave Aus-
tralia its first effective defence force was
exemplified during The Bulletin’s
lengthy fight for a royal commission to
inquire into the Alan Casey scandal.
As the allegations against the depart-
ment and the department’s attempts to
answer them were presented week by
week one important paper after another
came in on The Bulletin’s side. But
not Mr. Lang’s paper. And Mr. Scullin,
though urged by Casey’s friends to ven-
tilate the matter at his Sydney Town
Hall meeting, refrained.
If there were any hope of world dis-
armament such indifference might not
matter ; but obviously there is none. The
French Note to Britain “dealt the Dis-
armament Conference a mortal blow,”
and “the British Cabinet has definitely
decided upon a policy of rearmament.”
Even if the League of Nations had shown
signs of being able to quench, or so much
as moderate, the war spirit in Europe—and
it never has —the three Pacific Powers,
Russia, Japan and the U.S.A., refuse to
recognise it. Britain has now fewer ships
in commission than the U.S.A., while the
Russian Army is larger and better
equipped, at least as regards aeroplanes,
than the British and Dominions armies
combined were at the end of 1918. Lon-
don “Daily Mail” published figures last
month showing the fighting ’planes of
the Powers:
Russia .. .. .. .. 8000
France .. .. .. .. 3000
U.S.A 2826
Japan .. .. .. .. 1939
Britain .. .. .. .. 1434
No wonder the Minister for Air has
told the Lords that his Government “has
decided that it can no longer delay to
provide adequate air defences.”
The British, who already pay just on
£2 ss. per head per annum in defence
taxation, must increase their air force
by at least 60 squadrons. In addition,
the R.N. has to go on keeping the trade
routes open. Australia is safe so long
as Britain is not successfully invaded and
the British Navy is able to keep the trade
routes open. It seems quite a good
reason to Laborites of the stamp of
Messrs. Scullin and Lang why Australians
should not spend more than 9s. 6d. per
head per ainnum on defence, and why
they should seize the chance to spend
less by Dutting a Labor Government
in power at Canberra. Actually it is one
of the most disreputable ramps that any
country with claims to decency and dig-
nity has perpetrated on another.
It is sad to see men with the records
of Messrs. McCallum and Hankin sup-
porting a policy which they would have
spurned in their soldiering days, and
which they probably despise in their
hearts now. And the policy isn’t even
good electioneering business. The only
time Labor ever did any real good for
itself in the Commonwealth sphere was
when it went to the country on a national
programme with effective defence as its
principal plank.
SHACKS FOR UNEMPLOYED.
When the present 15 N.S.W. State
Ministers were sworn in it was hoped
that their Government would be reason-
ably free from the mania for appointing
boards and trusts and commissions to
do what 13 of the 15 Ministers are hand-
somely paid to do ; but in this respect it
has proved as bad as the rest, if not
worse.
One of its queer notions was the setting
up of a second Public Works Depart-
ment with some high-sounding title to
spend £2,500,000, to be raised by a
special loan, on unemployed-relief works.
At the head it proposed to place an
engineer who has invented a very fine
tote. Though permission for the raising
of the £2,500,000 had been obtained
from the Loan Council, other State Gov-
ernments were rather nasty about it,
and the plan was criticised on other
grounds. It has been dropped—for the
present, at any rate.
Now a Homes for Unemployed Trust
is to be brought into existence, with a
Minister for chairman and eight benevo-
lent gentlemen to assist. The new body
is to have “a first contribution of
£200,000” from loans or taxes, and its
instructions are to build “cottages of
weatherboard or light material” and “to
arrange occupation on easy terms.” It
is pleaded as an excuse for setting
it up that “there are people liv-
ing in all kinds of humpies and shacks”
for lack of means to pay rent;
and this is only too true. But it is also
true that the Government already has a
house-building department, and that
Government and private landlords have
heaps of houses without tenants, and
that many Sydney municipalities won’t
have “cottages of weatherboard or light
material.”
The scheme is chiefly intended for
Sydney. Every member of the Trust
is to be a Sydney man.
It is a bad plan, however looked at. It
suggests dismally that the unemployed are
here to stay, and it can in no way help
them to help themselves. This could
be done undoubtedly if the Government
rescued the Small Holdings Act from the
pigeon-hole in which it has for some
queer reason been deposited, and sup-
ported it with “a first contribution of
£200,000,” instead of spending the money
—and heaps more —in seedy munici-
palities on superflous shacks.
The Small Holdings Act was passed
at the instance of shire councils,
composed for the most part of
farmers and graziers who conduct the
affairs of their districts very much
better, on the whole, than the affairs of
N. S. Wales have been conducted by
paid politicians. It brought hope to many
workless people who long to get away
from the overcrowded city to some
place in the country where life may offer
them something-more than a heartbreak-
ing search for work and a demoralising
existence on the dole. The shelving of
this potentially useful measure is one of
the minor mysteries of latter-day N.S.W.
politics.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another of Lang’s Dud's.
Though the Lang party pleads that it
is too poor to repay the coalminers the
£3OOO-odd they lent it to meet damages
and costs in a libel action resulting from
a Labor wrangle, it seems to have no end
of money for lawsuits designed to thwart
the will of the people. And it doesn’t
care a dump what it costs the country to
defend these cases.
By a majority of 40,000-odd, the
people of N. S. Wales declared that they
wanted a Second Chamber elected by
members of both Houses at a joint sit-
ting ; but the alleged “Trust-the-People”
party has done its utmost to prevent their
having it. With this end in view it took
costly legal proceedings before the refer-
endum, and it has taken them since.
As a last resort it sent A. B. Pidding-
ton to London to try to convince the
Privy Council that the House, now in full
working order, had been established in
breach of the Constitution and the royal
prerogative and God knows what else.
It was actually contended that the refer-
endum was invalid because the Govern-
ment had not furnished every voting elec-
tor with a copy of the Reform Act. The
gentleman who advanced this amazing
argument prefaced it with a lot of gen-
eral observations about the state of public
affairs. It was, he said, “a time of break-
ing nations, when representative govern-
ment throughout Europe was being re-
placed by brute domination, obtained
and retained by force.” One of the Law
Lords interrupted him at this stage; in
fact, the old gentleman was quite huffy
about it.
The appellant was T. P. Doyle, a
member of the nominee Chamber. The
Privy Council was against him on every
point, so the elected House stands. Many
N.S.W. people do not think much of it,
but they think less of the crowd that has
resorted to every dodge it could think of
in the effort to destroy it, and has put
them to great expense in defending its
rubbishy actions.
+ .
War and Pre-war Debts.
As an alternative to impossible payments
in gold, Uncle Sam hinted that he
wouldn’t object to taking goods—rubber
and tin especially—from the leading war
debtor on the other side of the herring
pond. The reply was a polite refusal,
pointed by a quotation of remarks made
by the head of the Dawes Commission
in 1924 —he was to become Vice-Presi-
dent of the U.S.A.:
In their financial effects deliveries in
kind are not really distinguishable from
cash payments.
The war-debts argument has been con-
ducted with great urbanity on both
sides. Britain professes that “it is sin-
cerely anxious to remove from the sphere
of controversy all or any matters which
might disturb the harmony of the rela-
tions between the two countries.” So its
Government hasn’t mentioned a little
matter referred to by Dickens in “Martin
Chuzzlewit.” The British investor has re-
peatedly mentioned it. He reckons
that in repudiated loans and unpaid
interest Americans owe him upwards of
£100,000,000.
There is a notion that these loans were
incurred by the rebel States during the
Civil War. Nothing of the kind. When
the Confederacy went down, its commit-
ments perished with it. None of the
money lent to it as a Government is
included in the £100,000,000 —in fact,
no attempt has ever been made to claim
it. The amounts actually claimed (with
interest added) were advanced to eight
States before and after the Civil War,
and were ostensibly borrowed for
developmental purposes.
Repudiation began with Mississippi in
1841. Here the cash had been borrowed
for financing a State bank. Not only
did this State repudiate, but it altered its
Constitution to prevent any future repay-
ment. Other repudiators of this period
were Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Mary-
land and Louisiana. After the Civil War
“secesh” States followed their example
—there was some excuse for them.
Barings in London issued most of the
loans in question. Before they tackled
the first they consulted Daniel Webster
as to the status of the lenders. In a
long opinion that great American jurist
laid it down that “the States cannot rid
themselves of their obligations save by
honest payment of their debts.”
The matter was revived by Monaco,
which commenced an action against the
U.S.A. Government to recover interest
and principal on Mississippi bonds —
part of the British issue to the defaulting
State. The Supreme Court, following its
own precedents, said it had nothing to do
with the debts of the States, and refused
permission to file a suit.
There is an association of bondholders
in Britain which periodically adds up the
money owing to it and makes futile
claims for repayment. Its bonds have
been carefully preserved. It is open to
Father Bull to buy them up cheap and
hand them over in part-payment of his
own obligations, with a reminder that
the U.S. Constitution gives the Federal
authority power to collect money owing
to it by the States. But it seems unlikely
that this expedient will be forced on him.
4
Rules of the Game.
Though the date of the Commonwealth
election has not been fixed, U.A.P. and
C.P. negotiators were busy at Canberra
last week. In any case, preparations are
going forward.
Commonwealth service salaries should
have dropped at the rate of £6 a year on
July 1, but because the service shared
in the sacrifices made in 1931 (large sec-
tions of it were compensated with the
five-day week) “the cost-of-living adjust-
ment has been suspended.” It is confi-
dently expected that another gift will be
announced in the Budget, and Senator
Dunn, whose time is running out, has
indicated that his party will press for
“full restoration of the financial-emer-
gency cuts.”
N.S.W. public servants are to recover
“one-fifth of the amounts by which their
salaries were reduced under the Pre-
miers’ plan.” A U.A.P. member protests
that this is not enough. Tas. public
servants were promised costly boons
before the State election, and, now that
the Speck is to get a share of the
£2,000,000 distributed from the Com-
monwealth surplus, they are sure to ask
for more.
Only in Victoria is there any pro-
nounced reluctance to silence the clamor
of a section, fully employed throughout
the slump, by mortgaging the future.
Argyle and Menzies have offered their
State employees nothing but sympathy.
Election agents and canvassers protest
bitterly that this is not playing the game
according to the rules.
♦
The Tourist Trade.
Until the depression struck Australia
the inhabitants were divided broadly into
two classes —those who went periodically
to Europe and those who never went
anywhere. The situation was compar-
able to that which existed in England a
century ago, when the idle rich made
the Grand Tour and the middle classes
and the poor never made any kind of
tour.
Australians have been marooned in the
past by geographical rather than by finan-
cial considerations. The snag which
faced the would-be traveller was the
necessity of leaving his business or pro-
fession for four months or more if he
went to the only parts of the world
which were organised for tourist travel.
In England the arrival of the railway
led to the development first of Cook’s
and then of Lunn’s tours. The more
the train supplanted the diligence on the
Continent, and the more hotels designed
for foreigners supplanted village inns, the
wider Cook and Lunn spread their nets,
till by the beginning of the century it
was almost as easy for a Londoner to
spend an annual fortnight in Paris, or
even in Berlin, as in Margate. With the
appearance of ’planes, fast cars, better
and better trains and more amply de-
veloped tourist resorts, the British habit
of visiting the Continent has become a
menace to local watering-places, and
efforts are now being made to persuade
Britons to “see Britain first.”
One of the few good turns the depres-
sion did Australia was to jolt it out of
its rut; transform it from a nation of
provincials into one with almost as many
tourists per head of the population as
the U.S.A. The movement began when
the P. and O. and Orient companies dis-
covered that many of their former pat-
rons had taken to working at home in-
stead of pleasure-seeking abroad. But
the travel-habit, once acquired, is hard
to shake off. The companies argued
that there was bound to be a market for
short trips, if only among the limited
section that in more prosperous times
made long trips. The response exceeded
their hopes.
During the past year Australians have
come to realise that there are tourist
resorts within easy reach of their prin-
cipal cities which offer wider changes
of scenery, climate and social customs
than any available to Londoners or New
Yorkers.
The Sydneyite, for example, can leave
a British community, and inside a
week find himself in a French one
in New Caledonia. In five days he can
reach M.L., where there are trout as big
as Scottish grilse and deer-stalking and
mountaineering such as few but the rich
can enjoy in the Old World. The Aus-
tralian tourist can go north-east to en-
chanting tropical islands, or north, by
way of the Barrier Reef, to Rabaul,
which has the makings of another Hono-
lulu.
This trade has come to stay. Its
national value is going to be immense
when foreigners, as well as our own
people, hear about it and start visiting the
islands and our tropical north with Aus-
tralian cities as bases. It can be a won-
derful profit-bringer. The French, until
recently, were taking close on
£100,000,000 p.a. from foreign tourists.
♦
Organising the Old Folk.
When wool was 9d. a pound and wheat
2s. a bushel and Australia seemed on
the point of going bung (deficits for
1931-32 were estimated at £39,000,000),
old-age and invalid pensions were re-
duced from £1 a week to 17s. 6d. Mr.
Scullin did it, but it suits the opponents
of Mr. Lyons to blame him for it; and
for 18 months or more efforts, blessed
by members of both Labor factions,
have been made to organise the pen-
sioners (there are 260,000 of them) to vote
against the Government that is “robbing”
them. Unfortunately difficulties have
arisen, in Victoria especially, and with
the object of smoothing them over mem-
bers of two associations of ancients were
summoned to attend a conference at
Melbourne Trades Hall.
It was hoped that the proceedings
would pass in an atmosphere of philo-
sophic calm and pleasant reminiscence,
even though the business was to establish
unity between the Vic. League of Old
Age and Invalid Pensioners and the Old
Age and Invalid Pensioners’ Association.
Good progress was reported, when an
octogenarian raised a question. Feathers
began to fly. Old gentlemen forgot that
quavering voices were supposed to be
appropriate to their advancing years and
poured forth floods of fiery oratory. The
discussion became so warm that the
chairman threatened to vacate the chair.
The argument was over the burning
question of whether the new body should
be known to fame as “The Old Age
and Invalid Pensioners’ Association of
Australia, Victorian Branch,” as “The
O.A. and I.P. Federal Association of
Australia,” or as “The O.A. and I.P.
Federation of Australia (Victorian
Branch).” An uneasy feeling exists at
Labor headquarters that the conference,
though conceived in a spirit of pure
altruism, will not really help “our party”
to get the block vote.
*
The New Tasmanian Ministry.
One published explanation of the Labor
victory in the Speck is that Tasmanians
consider it the Ireland of these parts
and are determined to follow an “our-
selves-alone” policy. This is apt to make
John Bull tremble, especially when the
old gentleman recalls certain truculent
references, in sincere flattery of Mr.
Lang,- to British bondholders, and con-
siders how the gifts at the disposal of
Caucus have been and are to be dis-
tributed.
Premier (without portfolio), Mr. A. G.
Ogilvie, K.C.
Treasurer, Mr. E. Dwyer-Gray.
Attorney-General and Minister for Forestry,
Mr. E. J. Ogilvie.
Chief Secretary and Minister for Agriculture,
Mr. T. D’Alton.
Minister for Lands, Works, Mines, etc., Mr.
T. H. Davies.
Hon. Minister, Mr. R. Cosgrove.
Hon. Minister, Dr. J. F. Gaha, M.'L.C.
Hon. Minister, Mr. J. McDonald, M.L.C.
Speaker, Mr. D. J. O’Keefe.
Chairman of Committees, Mr. P. Kelly.
Representatives on Public Works Committee,
Mr. C. Culley and Mr. J. McGrath.
Not an Englander among them. It
is announced, however, that if the
winners decide to carry Tasmania out
of the Commonwealth they will make it
“a Dominion of the British Empire.”
Father Bull should turn this over in his
mind before he starts shivering.
♦
“And How Does She Stand?”
Irish papers suggest that the Free State
has become a paradise for politicians.
Even an Australian. State Government
must look with envy on the passage of
69 Acts in 80 days. This the President
achieved last session while carrying on
private shindies with the Blue Shirts, the
Imperialists, the. Crown and a few
farmers’ organisations which object to
him depriving them of their one great
market.
The right to appeal to the King-in-
Council has been abolished, the Gover-
nor-General has gone back to his job as
a shopkeeper (the President does the gee-
geeing), and preparations are in full
swing for the day “when there will be
functioning here in this country a free
republic.”
The Senate refused to pass the second
reading of a bill authorising local com-
mandants of the Civic Guard to ban any
brand of shirt which does not appeal to
them. So it has become “a loathsome
institution,” “a museum of human orna-
ments,” and is to be abolished. Sixteen
articles of the Constitution are marked
for elimination and another 12 are to
be drastically amended. The Govern-
ment is to consist of King, Dail and
President “until the new Constitution of
the Republic is established.”
Meanwhile the annual value of cattle
exports has fallen from £14,000,000 to
£6,000,000 ; the valuable horse trade is
at a third of its 1930-31 value, and a
Herod has gone through the country re-
ducing the strength of herds by calf-
slaughter. A revenue of £35,000,000 a
year is being squeezed out of 3,000,000
people. Estimated expenditure has in-
creased 43 p.c. in a single year, and the
State capital indebtedness nearly 70 p.c.
since 1931-32. A £6,000,000 loan recently
floated was only half-subscribed. It all
explains why Mr. De Valera, musing
aloud, wondered “whether the country
would not be better off if our two parties
were put on a foreign island.”
Many Free Staters seem to think it
would. At the local-government elections
they returned no fewer than 339 Inde-
pendents, as against 626 De Valeraites,
178 Laborites (loosely allied with the
President’s party) and 515 followers of
General O’Duffy.
♦ •’
What, Another ?
From S. Folkard:
Your successful fight for a royal commis-
sion in the Alan Casey affair has led me to
hope that you may get justice done for J. M.
Folkard, my son.
He was admitted to the R.A.N. College at
Jervis Bay in June, 1930, and transferred to
Flinders Naval Depot with the college. He
completed his course last year and should have
joined the fleet at the beginning of this year.
Shortly before going on leave, he hurt his
back in an athletic competition. He was X-
rayed and told that nothing was wrong ; but
he spent his leave at home lying up. On his
return to the college I wrote to the com-
mandant. X-rayed again, he was pronounced
all right, but as a precaution he was to 'be
placed off athletics for three months. After
further examinations he was ordered to play
in a football match, which finally broke him
down.
He appealed to be taken to a. specialist, and
Dr. Gordon Shaw, of the Caulfield Repat.
Hospital, discovered with the naked eye that
he had “an extra-lumbar vertebra, which was
pressing the tissues between it and the pelvis.”
The bone was 6in. wide and l£in. deep.
A hurried board of survey was held. I
was instructed that the lad was to be in-
valided, but that if I chose to let him stay till
the end of the year his final examination pass
would entitle him to matriculate. I was
advised also that without an operation the boy
would never be much good, and that he
would be of no use to the RA.N. if it were
successful.
I put it to the Secretary of Defence that
a position should be found for my son.
Impossible! '
In college reports his conduct had been
described as “exceptional” “Very keen and
reliable, but inclined to take his job too
seriously.” The Admiral and commander both
said they would give him the “highest refer-
ences.” He returned home, practically a cripple,
and wrote for references which would assist
him in getting civil employment. He got none.
I next put the boy under the care of a
country practitioner, who tried unavailingly to
correct his trouble without resorting to sur-
gery. The patient was afterwards set in
plaster of Paris from armpits to knees.' Last
month for the first time the plaster was re-
moved, and on his 18th birthday, a few days
later, he sat up in bed for the first time in
three months. The operation will cost me
50 guineas, together with four months’ hos-
pital expenses, to pay which I shall have to
mortgage my life-insurance policy.
The University advises that it does not recog-
nise the passing-out examination for matri-
culation. The Commonwealth public service
refuses to allow the youth to sit for the
entrance examination there. His original refer-
ences have been destroyed in the department
and no others are forthcoming.
If my son had been in a State reformatory
for four years, and had been crippled through
no fault of his own, the authorities would
have given him kindlier treatment.
Mr. Folkard’s case against the depart-
ment differs from the Casey case, which
was based on sworn evidence given in
a court of law, in that it rests on his ex
parte statement. Yet it clearly calls for
an answer.
4 r
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-,
street, Sydney.]


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Old Hand”: Eugenia Stone (Lady
Doughty that was to be) was a handsome
and sprightly creature as I remember her.
She had a devastating effect on The Bul-
letin staff and contributors when she
descended on the office about 30 years
ago from Melbourne. Invitations to
lunch and dinner rained on her. She
accepted one from an eminent bearded
writer of the period, who said “We’ll
walk along George-street to Adams’s for
a midday chop.” But as they were set-
ting out a fit of nervousness and
some odd weakness of the facial
muscles froze him into silence. Eugenia
tripped along beside him, talking blithely ;
but, getting no answer to her remarks, she
desisted. The gentleman looked at the
lady to see what had stopped the flow of
chit-chat, and the lady looked at the
gentleman to discover what ailed him ;
and so it went on —neither speaking, and
each darting increasingly hostile glances
at the other —until they reached the Post
Office. Then with a great effort the dis-
tinguished writer got his vocal apparatus
working. “Dammit, woman,” he roared,
“what makes you so afraid of me?”
“Dad, is that one of those marriage ties mum talks about?”
“Brilliant Deeps”: Scorfield’s drawing
of the office boy ordering his broker to
buy him 25 shares at six weeks if he
could get them at thrippence ha’penny
(B. 27/6/’34) takes me back to Charters
Towers when I first knew it in 1892.
What seems a joke to-day was then cold
fact, and a Towers citizen or visitor of
any age over the perambulator stage
who did not hold scrip of some kind
was as hard to find as a just man in
Sodom and Gomorrah before the first
big bust-up in the Jordan yalley. Every
office boy was ready for a deal in shares
kept in the petty cashbox, and the bar-
maids of those days —when barmaids
were barmaids —were well worth culti-
vating for the sake of profitable tips on
such important matters as how the latest
hole being sunk in search of the Queen’s
Cross, the Day Dawn or the Brilliant
reefs was progressing and when they ex-
pected to “cut her.”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The South Australian,
for many years among Adelaide’s leading
hotels, is to be rebuilt, and everything
in it has been sold at an auction which
lasted over a week. Among the senti-
mental memories was a piano Melba
often played. Close to the railway
station and the Theatre Royal, the old
place has sheltered numerous visiting
theatricals—Bernhardt, Wilson Barrett,
the Broughs—as well as all sorts of
celebrities from Mark Twain to W. G.
Grace.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Cables have been fuss-
ing about an alleged new vogue in fiat-
brimmed straw hats, which have
so enchanted members of the
Australian Eleven that they
have ordered a full issue. The
lids are described as a “mingled
weave” of navy and white straw,
“most difficult to make and
highly expensive.” Up to the
days of the South African War
you could buy this type of hat,
in blue-, brown- or black-and-
white, at seven and six a time
in any Brisbane shop. Further-
more, as a boyhood acquaint-
ance of Harrovians, I can testify
that when the School donned
the amazing thing it calls a
straw hat, the Eleven walked in
isolated splendor with black-and-white
lids, while the plebs were roofed with
the white variety only.
* * * *
“Rokko”: Add Maoriland to the coun-
tries that have not hesitated to exploit
an error in the production of a stamp.
When the Dominion decided on its
scenic issues a stamp with a cut of
Lake Wakatipu on it was included. The
printers spelt it “Wakitipu,” and a
rush for copies began. The canny Gov-
ernment immediately ordered a second
issue with the misspelt name, which was
snapped up by collectors the world over.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A Melbourne dentist
had a feminine apprentice who had com-
pleted a brilliant course at the University.
She decided to set her shingle up in a
suburb, but told her mentor that she
didn’t believe she would ever have the
courage to extract a patient’s teeth, so
would he allow her to send all tooth-
pulling cases to him? He agreed, and for
a few months the patients came along.
Then they suddenly ceased. After a couple
of months the Collins-street forceps-
wielder rang up his fair colleague to
inquire if she were still practising. “Oh,
yes,” she said. “I pull ’em all out now
myself. One night a big burly mate off
a ship knocked me up and said he was
in terrible pain. It was too late to send
to you, and the tears in the poor man’s
eyes touched me. I told him to open
“Here, grandpa! Put your teeth in quick and bite him.”
his mouth, and within two shakes the
largest molar I have ever seen was in the
pail. I don’t know how I did it, but I
haven’t had the slightest trouble since.”
N= * * *
“Keg”: Incase “Stumer” (B. 20/6/’34)
contemplates trying to pass faked coins
on a Sydney trammie, he had better be
warned that we have not ceased to “eye ’
silver, though relying more on our
fingers. The tram conductor was looked
upon as legitimate prey for so long that
he has learned his lesson, and it will be
many years before the old hand will cease
to treat all silver coins as suspect. During
the boom period for private coiners, the
odds were certainly a lot less than 100 to
1 about the genuineness of florins, shil-
lings and sixpences. At one Sydney
depot alone as much as £4O in spurious
coins escaped the conductor and the
revenue clerk in a single month, but
failed to pass the bank.
* * * *
“Verey Light”: Mention of ortho-
paedist Robert Jones’s war work (R.P.
20/6/’34) reminds me of a time when he
was the means of shattering many a
soldier’s dream of a cushy base job. The
common or garden bunion, unless it was
in an aggravated form, was not con-
sidered a bar to fitness for active ser-
vice. During the 1916 winter, however,
many of these inflictions which had been
quite endurable in the supple footwear
of civil life became raging torments when
in contact with frost-stiffened cowhide. A
couple in my possesssion came under the
notice of Sydney surgeon Skipton Stacy,
O.C. 2nd A.C.C.S., who dexterously re-
moved them in a demonstration of
Jones’s technique. In less than a month
my feet had completely healed; and
presently troops whose bunions had got
them away from their units with a re-
commendation that they were unfit for
active service found themselves pulled
up at the first c.c.s. and put right in two
or three weeks.
* * * *
“Taffy”: “Lord Luvus” (B. 6/6/’34) is
a little late with his claim. In Hamburg,
1921, for 10 pfennigs inserted in the slot,
you could put on earphones and listen
to broadcasts from all the capital cities of
Europe. The machine was on the River-
bank Strasse. I was there and sampled it.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The exchange of cour-
tesies between Britain and Victoria
initiated by Russell Grimwade threatens
to be a long affair. The cottage alleged
to have been occupied by Captain Cook
is slowly being erected in the Fitzroy
Gardens, and the roof is now visible
above the protecting fence. To give the
memorial an additional air of verisimili-
tude the donor is furnishing it with
domestic equipment belonging to the
navigators times, with a few relics
thrown in. In the meantime citizens are
privileged to survey, where it has been
temporarily placed in St. Kilda-road, the
replica of the monument erected at Cape
Everard to commemorate Cook’s first
landfall in Australia. It is a plain
obelisk constructed of granite sawn out
of the cape with great difficulty by a
party from a lighthouse tender. Its final
destination is the plot of ground at Great
Ayrton, Yorkshire, from which the cot-
tage was torn, not without protest from
local patriots.
$ $ ❖
“X.S.”: Place this on the Golden Roll
of human sympathy! A 17-year-old
domestic was recently found guilty by
a Melbourne jury of having administered
poison with intent to injure by putting
the lethal chemical in her employer's tea.
She was remanded for a month in con-
ventual hands. The other day Judge
Wasley considered an offer from a
woman unrelated to the girl who had
watched the trial and was prepared to
employ her and pay her a wage. ’Sonah
gratefully agreed.
H* *s*
“Mako”: Coincidences? In a private
school in Perth, Scotland, James sat next
to an infant of his own age, Peter.
They met again 10 years later at a pre-
paratory school near Glasgow. They
parted, heard nothing of one another for
six years, and then had a head-on col-
lision rounding a corner of Edinburgh
Uni. Complete separation again for 20
years; then James, who had married a
M.L. girl in England, arrived with his
wife at Rotorua to visit her people. He
wanted some legal trifle fixed up and
inquired the name of a solicitor. When
Peter’s name was given him he rushed
round to verify his suspicion that they
had met before. They had. Continued
ill-health had sent Peter to M.L. ; there,
entirely recovered, he had married, and
was bringing up seven young Maori-
landers in the way they should go.
# * * *
“General Prac.”: From places as far
apart as North Sydney and the South
Pole come reports of carbon monoxide
poisoning, fatal in the first instance and
a very close go for Admiral Byrd in the
second. The local incident —a closed-
garage and running-engine tragedy —
might have been averted if garages were
provided with perforated doors or steel
grilles. It’s worth noting that motor-car
exhausts may give off other gaseous
products which, in confined spaces, are a
peril to life. No hermetically-sealed
sedan, ’bus or motor-boat is safe. Even
unignited petrol fumes, breathed in con-
sistently, can cause symptoms much like
those of an ordinary jag. I have known
workmen who would inhale the stuff
from handkerchiefs and even drink
small noggins of it. Carbon monoxide,
taken accidentally or otherwise, kills
about 5000 people per year in the U.S.A.
alone. Unlighted gas-jets, leaky pipes
and faulty bath-heaters or flues are
mostly responsible. There is one queer
feature about the stuff: it won’t kill in-
sects, provided they get ordinary
amounts of oxygen. Their blood, unlike
ours, will not combine with the gas.
AT HOLLYWOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Owing to protests from the churches, several
recent Hollywood films are being severely expur-
gated.”
They’ve held the mirror up to life
Too close for even Uncle Sam;
They’ve got, as one might say, the knife
Too near the knuckle of the ham.
No carping critics rose to damn
These risque films, as p’raps they should,
Only the churches made a slam
At Hollywood, at Hollywood.
The censor’s pen is poised to block
The somewhat piquant bedroom play
That holds a smack of Paul de Kock,
A glimmering of Rabelais;
Scenario writers needs must stay,
It’s positively understood,
Their, skittish hands, their fancies gay,
At Hollywood, at Hollywood.
No more in sunny Angel Town
The scenes they’ll sketch, the lines they'll
speak
That make a new-fledged curate lpown
Or bring a blush to girlhood’s cheek.
Henceforth they must be mild and meek,
Restrained and righteous and good,
With naught improper or oblique
At Hollywood, at Hollywood.
And so the world goes rolling on,
Howe’er it earns its livelihood;
The change men saw in days agone
At Nineveh and Babylon
Has overtaken Hollywood.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.E.”: An odd sequel to the Russian
revolution—l suppose one may call it
that—is the forming of Esthonian com-
munities in these parts. Naturally Syd-
ney has the largest, as was evidenced
one night last week, when a choir of 70
Esthonians, mostly girls (nice-looking
girls, too), sang in the Town Hall. Before
the war few Australians knew there were
such people as Esthonians and Letts on
the planet; yet I had a Lettish acquaint-
ance once. It was subsequent to the
Battle of Sidney-street, in which Win-
ston Churchill played so spectacular a
part. A tall Lett who looked like a
Scandinavian went to the Perth police
and said he knew what had happened to
“Peter the Painter.” That insufficiently-
washed terrorist had not been bulleted
by London bobbies or burnt to cinders
in his East End den ; he was alive and
kicking, and in Perth. Forthwith he took
them along to a compatriot with whom
he had quarrelled—over a girl, I sup-
pose—and “Peter” was run in. My old
rag made front-page stuff of it, and
“Peter,” who soon regained his liberty,
called to see me. He proved to be a
slim youth with a mild deprecatory smile
and gentle manners. Anything less like
the arch-villain of the Sidney-street
piece could scarcely be imagined. The
war drums throbbed, and my Baltic
acquaintance visited me again, this time
in A.I.F. uniform, in which he looked
decidedly uncomfortable. With a wry
grin he produced a vile specimen of the
army razor of the period, and I thought
of the havoc it would wreak on his deli-
cate skin. Long afterwards I met his
company commander. “Fellow
they called ‘Peter the Painter’?”
the captain said. “Yes, I remem-
ber him. Not a bad sort at all,
but too soft-hearted for soldier-
ing.”
“Why did Phyllis leave Freddie?”
“Wetl, his wife was carrying on with
another fellow, and the girl didn’t want to be involved in a scandal.”
“W.P.T.”: Wattle-bark strippers, like
banana-plantation workers (B. 6/6/’34),
get their hands badly stained, but few
bother to wear white gloves to a dance.
The girls, however, know when it is the
bark-stripping season, and they carry a
spare handkerchief for the man to hold
in the hand that rests on his partner’s
back. The men believe that the stain
leaves their hands when the bark refuses
to strip any longer, but they like to get
a job milking after a season’s bark-strip-
ping. There’s nothing like milking to
clean the hands.
“General Prac.”: He has owed me a
tenner for six years, and I loathe the
sight of him. But last night he bustled
into the surgery beaming. “I got good
news for you, doc.!” he began. “Sit
down, sit down,” I said, pushing forward
the best chair—not the one with the
shortened front legs. “Yairs —good news.
I was on’y two off the v/innin’ number
in larst week’s lottery. Next week I’m
takin’ a quarter-share in a ticket with the
old bloke next door. He won five quid
about three months ago.” These moments
of sudden exaltation do us no harm.
ij; i[i
“Oxmead”: Tariff is a dry subject.
I have known but one politician who
could lighten it up with a gleam of
humor, and that was George Reid. It
was on the occasion of his very first
speech in Perth, when, as Federal
Opposition leader, he
was attacking the
first Commonwealth
tariff as inequitable.
After contrasting
various light imposts
on what he described
as luxuries with
heavy ones on neces-
saries, George drew
attention to the most
crying grievance of
all. “Sixpence on a
bottle of medicine for
a sick child,” he de-
claimed in righteous
wrath, “but only two-
pence on a bottle of
scent which a girl
sprinkles over herself” —here the orator
paused a moment and finished in a lower
key, but no less impressively—“to make
a chap think it’s always like that.” George
got his laugh from a delighted audience ;
he could have got one, when he was
in his best vein, out of a disquisition
on bimetallism or the decimal system.
* -* $ *
“Corporal Wanst”: There is a Kip-
lingesque touch in the cabled yarn of
how three British soldiers in Hind who
had broken barracks fortified themselves
in a goods truck at a railway station
and took pot shots at coolies cleaning up
the deserted platforms. Quite in the Kip-
ling manner, a subaltern enters the
story; to him the insurgents sur-
rendered, although an armed guard sent
along to clink them had to take cover
from fire. What puzzled me was how
these mutineers managed to get hold of
weapons. Up to the outbreak of the
Great War all arm-racks in the barrack-
rooms were locked, and rifles could only
be removed under orders from a com-
petent authority. But a friend, just re-
tired from the service after some 30
years’ experience in India, assures me
that Mulvaney, Ortheris and Learoyd are
not allowed to take their walks abroad
in troublous centres nowadays without a
weapon which once only officers and
W.Os. were allowed to carry.
“Pelorus”: How is this for a building
record. In the district where I hang
out (Gosford, N.S.W.) I’ve just finished
a pseudo-South-American house; large
living-room, bedroom, kitchen, bathroom
and sleep-out, which cost me £3. Ten
shillings for two bags of cement, 455. for
roofing and ss. for nails. The walls are
built of reinforced pise, the clay being
from the premises; split and adzed
“Shut up, you mug: you’ve won the Guvverment lottery!”
timber, cut within a hundred yards of
the job, make the frames. The cement
was used to render the walls damp-proof.
There are double shutters instead of
glazed windows, and stone-flagged floors
take the place of Baltic pine. I am
planning an eight-roomer of more ela-
borate design. It may run away with two
or three pounds more.
* * * *
“Runa”: The retired proprietor of a
shooting-gallery at Auckland (M.L.) still
has a vivid recollection of Sara Bern-
hardt. During her visit there she noted
his gallery and dropped in with her
retinue. Sara was a crack shot. Bull’s-
eyes, dancing balls and running targets
were nothing to her: she hit them all
impartially. It was the custom of the
gallery-owner to return entrance fees and
present trophies for excellent shooting,
and he found Sara an expensive proposi-
tion. The only time the great actress
displayed any emotion was when an
almost-broke proprietor politely suggested
that she take her custom elsewhere.
■!’ -I'
“Strict Veg.”: The decorum
of a Toorakian reception to
Austral and Amadio was seri-
ously threatened recently when
a clergyman got up to explain
the non-attendance of his wife
—she had mislaid her false
teeth. This engaging frankness
was matched by the oldest in-
habitant of a Melbourne sub-
urb, billed to deliver an address
of welcome to the member. He
excused himself from speaking
by announcing that he had left
his artificial means of mastication at
home.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Morobe’s” theory (B.
6/6/’34) that our word “finalise” was
originally American, brought here by
King O’Malley, is quite plausible. But
sometimes the word that seems fresh is
merely a revival. I lately found, in an
English book of 1878, the confident
statement that a speaker must be a
countryman, and of Sussex or there-
abouts, because he used “the obsolete
old Saxon word forecast.”
“Mandavi”: Cabled that the tomb of
St. Francis Xavier at Goa, on the Mala-
bar coast of India, has been rifled. Goa
is an interesting place, being the last of
the once-extensive Portuguese posses-
sions in India, as well as the largest
Christian community there, two-thirds
of its population of a million being R.Cs.
St. Francis was the first and greatest of
the Christian missionaries to India. His
embalmed body lies under glass in the
cathedral. Though tomb and surround-
ings were robbed of valuable votive
offerings no attempt was made to
take the far more precious jewels which
are strewed over the withered corpse.
In the country behind Goa one can come
on queer evidences of how Christianity
and Brahmanism have compromised.
In many little village churches the image
of the Virgin may be seen above the
altar with six arms uplifted after the
manner of Kali, the mother (and
destroyer) of Brahmanism.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: The sequel to that
Boxing Day air raid recounted by “15th
’Ants” (B. 27/6/’34) was that several
R.A.F. officers were shortly afterwards on
the mat. When the German ’planes came
over, the news was ’phoned to R.A.F.H.Q ~
but they had either crashed or returned
over their own lines before the first of
our airmen appeared. A Sopwith Camel
came a nasty thud near Selva, and from
the wreckage crawled a profane figure,
blue with cold, clad in a flying coat and
boots and violet silk pyjamas. His lan-
guage nearly set alight the twisted mess
of fabric and wood. Christmas festi-
vities were in full swing at the aero-
dromes'; hence his annoyance. At the
inquiry it was found that other pilots
had been a bit under the weather—the
Chianti must have been circulating freely
—and H.Q. had nasty words to say.
* * * *
“Free Companion”: Australians are
to be found in almost every habitable
quarter of the globe. The latest news of
the Bolivia-Paraguay war over the posses-
session of the Gran Chaco oil areas
comes in a letter by a North Queens-
lander to a friend up that way. The
writer, Frank Jones, says that he and
another N.Q. lad named Simbree hold
commissions in the Bolivian machine-
gun corps, while Paraguay has a regi-
ment recruited from the descendants of
the Australians who went to found a
new Utopia there half a century ago.
It is commanded by Colonel Fred Smith,
a Victorian. The letter, incidentally,
helps to solve the puzzle of how these
dead-broke Spiggotty republics manage
to find the cash for the very up-to-date
armaments they are using. Oil interests
are playing the part of sugar-daddies
with an eye on special concessions when
the crowd they are backing get the best
of the scrap.
-I* *!» *!* <•
“Spokeshave”: I am interested in the
fate of Gaston Richard, who recently
shuffled off this mortal coil in Paris in
dramatic circumstances. For 30 years
Gaston earned his living by having him-
self stuffed into a cannon and then fired
across the stage into a net. Circus audi-
ences all over the world had been elevated
and instructed by this operator, who was
billed as the “human cannon-ball.” A
few years ago, however, Gaston decided
that the time had come to call it a day.
But, as with Melba and other great public
entertainers, he found the lure of the
footlights too strong, or perhaps he was
stirred by a genuine charitable urge to
assist the funds of a fete in aid of
crippled children. He emerged from his
retirement at 53 and, clad in full naval
uniform, allowed himself to be rammed
into the muzzle of a gun, as of yore. The
charge was touched off, but it was appar-
ently too weak, or possibly Gaston had
put on weight. Anyhow, he failed to
reach the net and broke his neck. It was,
at any rate, an end that many mummers,
now passing their declining years in the
melancholy environment of old people’s
homes, will envy in their hearts.
MASKS AND FACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fashions change, without a doubt!
Masks are in and faces out:
Cheeks that blossom like the rose,
Coral lips and snowy nose,
Rippling curls on every head
(Straight coiffures are simply dead),
Arching brows and Cupid’s bows —
How they do it goodness knows!
Fashions change, beyond a doubt,
Masks are in and faces out.
Fashions change, without a doubt,
Pants are in and skirts are out!
Ladies take to shorts and slacks,
Lots of vim, and lots of backs;
Strapping girls and maids petite,
Watch them tripping down the street!
Figures plump and sinuous,
Each may follow Fashion thus.
Quaint, the sights we see about,
Now pants are in and skirts are out.
N.S.W.
E. M. E.


Never let smoking give
you a sore throat
CRAVENA
in iti? new meUtuhe-pkovf
CELLOPHAN E.'PACK
20 for 1/6
- Vv
POLITICAL POINTS
After all their thunder, Lyons and
Page reached Canberra for the 13th Par-
liament’s last session in a mood for nego-
tiation. Both have been forced to recog-
nise that wrangling is a luxury they can
no longer afford. Without an agreement
neither of their parties can win the elec-
tion, and it is not going to be easy with
one. They have to reckon with the
hostility of sections which were not
organised against them three years ago,
and impulses which drove many thou-
sands of people to vote for them then
have lost much of their force.
As things are, Labor may lose the
House of Reps, election and win the
election for the Senate. That happened
in 1922, when Nats, and Cockies were
divided ; and with three Queensland seats
in the bag it will be possible this year
(it wasn’t in 1922) for Labor to become
dominant in the Senate. Memories of
1922 have impelled Pearce to take an
active part in the U.A.P.-C.P. manoeuvres
for an alliance. To encompass it, he is
prepared for almost any sacrifice except
the sacrifice of his job.
Lang measures have an odd knack of
hurting those they are designed to help.
Aiming at the British bondholder and
hitting the N.S.W. Savings Bank de-
positor was only one of his feats. His
“Sorry, brother! I thought it was a
waddy I threw.”
Landlord and Tenant law smote the
Sydney Trades Hall, which has many
impecunious unions for tenants, harder
than any capitalistic concern. Now the
Government lotteries he started have
snuffed out the Eight-hour “art-union.”
Bullets found billets in Germany at
the week-end, the new rulers of the coun-
try having fallen out. Goering’s account
is that “a clique tried to make a second
revolution and establish a laughable
Government.” General von Schleicher,
sometime Chancellor, his wife and a
number of Storm Troop leaders were
shot dead, and some of the defunct are
accused of unspeakable practices. Evi-
dently Hitler and Goering were not
amused.
Tas. Nats, are ruefully exchanging
experiences of the freak voting that put
them out. James, who was Lee’s Chief
Secretary, quotes a case in which a Bass
elector voted for eight Nats, in order of
preference and then the full Labor ticket.
He claims that this should be exhibit A.
Westralian Labor has very properly
refused to liberate Mollor, the son-killer,
whom a jury found not guilty on the
ground of insanity. Friends of Mollor
suggest that its hand could be forced by
legal action if his union—he is a ship’s
baker—financed it. The union could
surely find better uses for its money.
While Melbourne’s Tramway Board is
proposing to spend half a million on elec-
trification of cable lines, Bruxner, the
N.S.W. Minister of Transport, suggests
that his Government may not build many
more tramcars, since trolley ’buses pro-
mise to fulfil requirements. Granted that
Melbourne has wide, and Sydney narrow,
thoroughfares, not another penny should
be spent on conversion or extension of
fixed lines until the possibilities of motor-
and trolley-’buses have been fully
explored.
Says the “United Australia Review”:
It is hard to see any insuperable obstacle
to a complete union of the U.A.P. and
the C.P. It has been brought about in
Queensland.
Still, have results in Queensland been so
brilliant? When Nats, and Cockies
existed there they did not lose a Senate
seat and were never without a majority
of seats in the Reps. Since “complete
union” was arrived at three Senators and
three Ms.H.R. have been licked.
At U.A.P. headquarters in Bligh-street,
Sydney, there is an ever-open door for —
er —converts from Labor ; but the thing
has its disadvantages. Several times
lately Peter Loughlin, M.L.A., has voted
with his old associates against the
Stevens Government, and Murray,
M.L.C., has had the face to lead a revolt
against the bill abolishing the dosshouse
vote for the Sydney Council. Of course,
Loughlin doesn’t consider himself a con-
vert. . He figures the U.A.P. as wearing
the mantle of “the grand old Labor
party,” now deceased, and regards it as
his mission to see that there is no shed-
ding of the garment.
There is no joy in Bligh-street over the
news , that Menzies may stand for a seat
in the House of Reps. He said in Mel-
bourne recently that he would be
“ashamed to belong to a Government
which, whilst still a million short of
balancing, was prepared to buy election
support from those on the Government
pay-roll” ; and even while orators on the
Government pay-roll were thundering
against it in the Melbourne Town Hall
his Government was introducing a bill to
continue the financial-emergency cuts.
Sydney U.A.Ps. are all for “conciliation”
in these matters, and they fear that Men-
zies as a Commonwealth member would
be more of a liability than an asset.
Brisbane’s City Council listened in
dumb horror to Lud Mayor Jones’s
announcement that during his reign the
municipal cupboard will harbor nothing
stronger than tea. He added that aider-
men of both parties supported his de-
cision. Aldermen of both parties are
now trying to dispel, the gloomy sus-
picions of their fellows.
The special Commonwealth grant of
£2,000,000 was to be mainly for the bene-
fit of unemployed youths— at least Lyons
said as much—but unemployed youths
are unlikely to get much more than a
sniff of it. Before three days had elapsed
the Loan Council had “unanimously
approved of applying a substantial pro-
portion of the grant to reduction of
deficits.” And in three States at least
most of the balance will go to adult
voters who have been employed through-
out the depression—Government em-
ployees, in short.
Australia is getting heaps of unsoli-
cited advice from bishops. Some of the
episcopal gentlemen recommend it to
hand back what used to be German
New Guinea ; others insist that it should
do away with “capitalism” and substi-
tute something unspecified. The new
Anglican bishop of Goulburn led this
chorus until Arthur Rickard suggested
that he was indebted to “capitalism” for
comforts unknown in the pastoral calling
in primitive times, whereupon a great
silence descended on the bishop. As a
pendant to the controversy a person un-
known —obviously a believer in propa-
ganda by deed —broke into a bishop’s
house and got away with jewellery
valued at £lOO.
There is one returned soldier in the
Tas. Labor Cabinet, T. H. Davies, and
he has been given the hardest job—
Lands, Works, Mines and Hydro-elec-
tric. Plums were found for 11 of the 14
“Nothing on the plum-tree for you, eh?
Serves yer right for servin’ in a
capitalistic war!”
Labor Assemblymen, but not for Dwyer
—the one re-elected member to be so
treated. Dwyer is a V.C. It would be
desolating to learn that this was regarded
as a disqualification.
Oil companies are not popular, but at
the inquiry now dragging to a conclu-
sion the bottom has fallen out of the
most spectacular charges against them,
and on one material point they have
been shown to have a genuine grievance.
Their profits have been capriciously
taxed in the six States —and every inter-
state trader knows how maddening the
exactions of local taxgatherers can be—
and their receipts by the Commonwealth.
Menzies, K.C., putting the case for Shell:
The Federal Commissioner is empowered
to determine arbitrarily the figure at which '
companies should be taxed on total receipts.
Under that provision Shell has been taxed
10 p.c., 16 p.c. and 20 p.c. in different
years.
If there has been profiteering, this kind of
thing breeds it.
In the sordid competition in lotteries
each Government has its ups and downs.
Queensland had its slack time when
N.S.W. came into the business ; then Tas-
mania suffered; now it’s N.S.W.’s turn.
What is worse, direct gifts to N.S.W. hos-
pitals have, chiefly as a result of the lot-
teries, slumped from £316,400 in 1930 to
£192,900 in 1933. For those who must
have a flutter premium-bond issues would
be immeasurably better than lotteries,
and a small hospitals tax would yield a
steady income, which no lottery can be
depended upon to do.
The‘Vic. Cockies’ central council con-
tinues to infuse brightness into a dull
winter. After losing the Gunbower by-
election, expelling the party leader in
the Leg. Council and funking a fight
with the Assemblymen who welcomed
the Gunbower winner among them, it
assailed the “loyalty” of Wettenhall, the
man from Lowan. At least Hocking,
its president, did. Wettenhall replied
in a few deadly sentences that he had
served Lowan as a C.P. member for 14
years and rural interests for 30 years,
and that it amused him to have his
loyalty questioned “by a Johnny-come-
lately countryman who submitted him-
self for pre-selection as a Nationalist in
1929.”
Queensland is to have a by-election on
August 18 ; East Toowoomba will then
choose a successor to the late T. R.
Roberts. It has been a non-Labor seat
for years. In the last redistribution a
chunk of the Lockyer farming area was
included. Forgan Smith will be back in
time to do a bit of campaigning.
If Perkins has his way, the names of
•two Federal electorates will be changed ;
South Sydney will be known as Watson
and Oxley will become Griffith. And
the new metropolitan division in Vic-
toria is to be christened Deakin, instead
of Gardiner. In the communique from
Canberra Griffith is referred to as a
Queensland native. “Slippery Sam,” as
Queensland affectionately knew him in
his political days, was Welsh, like Hughes
and Lloyd George.
Very tardily Perth Trades Hall has
taken the Collier Government to task for
keeping Clydesdale, M.L.C., on the Lot-
teries Commission. It affects to have
just heard that. Clydesdale, who has
served John Wren well in the West, is
holding two jobs, contrary to “Labor
principles.” As the thing has been made
a constitutional issue and protests have
poured in from all quarters, this pretence
of being surprised has not impressed.
One more Sydney tram conductor —
the fifth this year—has lost his life in a
fall from, the deadly footboard, and the
union secretary hints that if cars with
footboards are not withdrawn his men
will no longer collect fares where traffic
is congested. Resentment is natural; but
it is queer that the threat should have
been reserved for the one Government
that has introduced corridor cars. The
footboard was just as deadly in Lang’s
time, and he had heaps more to spend
than Stevens has had, but he did
nothing.
“In the N.S.W. Leg. Council case the Privy
Council was against Piddington, K.C., on all
points.”
“No ill-feeling, m’lud, but wouldn’t you
like me to clinch my argument that
representative government is being
replaced by brute domination, ob-
tained and maintained by force?”
“No.”
Brisbane A.L.P. has taken up an atti-
tude familiar to Queenslanders when
Labor is in ; it has passed a resolution
demanding that the Department of
Labor and the City Council dismiss six
employees, asserted to be anti-Labor. The
only definite charge made was against
one man, a ganger. His offence is that
he asked for an independent audit of a
balance sheet.
[J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


JEWELLER
If this can
HAPPEN
ANOTHIS
AMD THIS -=-
Or this ?
Wwv not
this 7
Or this ?
Or this ?
Best be phiuosophic about it uke Sinks Steauinc;
wiy missus are yoUj uad ? best op luck,"
THESE TAKING WAYS.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office : Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Vic. Office: 300 Collins St.. Melbourne.
h
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children's
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
E. D. SMOUT, F.F.1.A.,
F.A.1.5., Gen. Sec.
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds £3,800,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £900,000
AREA PLANTED: 152,788 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Recovery:
Is It at a Standstill?
The Gold Boom.
Outlook for Tin.
N.Z. Perpetual Forests.
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
JULY ISSUE ON SALE SATURDAY
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Alan Currie, who will be Prince
Henry’s host at Ercildoune, Victoria’s
closest approach to an English country
house, decided, though he was heir to
great wealth at the time, to become an
engineer. He qualified at Melb. Uni-
versity and helped Forrest to put his
goldfields water scheme through. Also,
he once held down an engineering job
on the Melbourne Board of Works. He
collected an M.C. and a wound stripe
in the R.F.A. Racing is his chief pas-
time. He has been president of the
V.A.T.C. and he is vice-president of the
V.R.C.
Henry Rose, one of N. S. Wales
Labor’s old originals, has passed out at
74. In later years he looked like a con-
servative K.C. who had somehow wan-
dered into a Labor gathering, and his
austere manner and caustic wit helped
the illusion. He was an engineer, and
very proud that his grandfather and
father had helped to found the Austra-
lian branch of the A.S.E. Rose belonged
to the almost extinct band whose mem-
bers hold that union membership should
be confined to craftsmen. He strongly
opposed the admission of the Clerks’
Union to the Labor Council.
W.V. McCALL, the U.A.P. candidate for Martin
(N.S.W.).
“Jeames” discusses a duke:
The late Duke of Marlborough was an
earnest little man with haughty pallid features
and a trim figure who might have been com-
pletely ducal if he had had enough money to
keep up Blenheim Palace. As he hadn’t, he
married Consuelo Vanderbilt and brought half
a lifetime of trouble on himself. They were
divorced in 1920, 15 years after their wedding
in New York. Then, quite independently
of each other, they turned Catholics, and it
became necessary to get an annulment of their
marriage from Rome. They got it on the
ground that the marriage had never been valid:
the lady had been constrained against her will by
a strong-minded mother to wed the Duke, whom
she detested. The Duke served in the S’African
War and held some minor Parliamentary posi-
tions, but his life-work consisted in maintaining
and improving his historic home. His second wife
a Deacon, of Boston—brought another for-
tune into the family. An agreeable aspect of
his character, was his loyalty. For example,
though a furious Tory, he stuck to his cousin
Wmston Churchill, no matter what political
creed the latter happened to profess.
“Bucko”: Australia’s best buckjump
rider? Well, Jack Stanton, a 26-year-old
Tamworthite, has claims. He won the
Upper Hunter championship recently at
Scone against such experts as Cecil
Pearce, and Meekin and Yeoman, the
rodeo promoters, have booked him to
tour S. Africa as “Australia’s Premier
Rough Rider.”
“D.”: A local review of A. P. Her-
bert’s latest book berates him as “Yorick
grown serious.” Actually this tall, lanky,
sad-faced novelist is, and always has
been, one of the most serious men in
England. He is much better known to
England as a campaigner against “Dora,”
and departmental interferences generally,
than he is as a “Punch” writer. One of
his grievances is officialdom’s habit of
limiting the drinking opportunities of
the poor, and not interfering with those
of the rich. Hence the law-action which
he began last month against the con-
troller of the House of Commons re-
freshment-room. Some of his letters to
the London papers—and notably to the
Times” about the tyrannies of poli-
ticians have been classical examples of
grim invective. Would that we had a
Yorick of his sort in Australia!
W. V. McCall,
the U.A.P. fancy
for Martin
(N.S.W.), seen
herewith as Frith
sees him, is as tall
as his opponent in
the Lang Labor
corner ; and he can
give the Trades
Hall champion
about a stone in
weight and ten
years as regards
age. McCall is as
handsome as most
movie heroes, and
he is the possessor
of a winsome voice
and platform man-
ner ; so blame his
manager Joe
(“Tassie”) Lyons if
he gets licked in
this predominantly
feminist convinc-
ing-ground.
Bishop Barnes,
like his friend Dean
Inge, is a Little
Englander. Hence
his suggestion at
last month’s Peace
Congress that Bri-
tain should hand
back the German
colonies to Hitler.
He. is among the
few English
bishops to be ap-
pointed by a Labor
Government. He
was given the see
of Birmingham,
where he went to
school, during
Ramsay Mac-
Donald’s brief term as Prime Minister
in 1924.
Father V. de Francesco, S.J., who left
for Italy last month, arrived in Victoria
14 years ago and made personal contact
with every Italian in the State. In his
spare time, he compiled a guide and dic-
tionary for the use of immigrants which
has already run into 30,000 copies.
Senator Mat Reid, of Queensland, who
went into the Senate on the National
ticket in 1917 and has been there ever
since, is not going up for re-election
when his term expires. Reid is 79 and
thinks it a fair thing. He entered poli-
tics as a State Labor M.L.A. in 1893, and
stayed there until 1902. A Scot, he has
been 46 years in Australia.
Charles Herbert Hankin,
Lang Labor candidate for
Martin (N.S.W.), will be 36
on the day after the poll.
He enlisted in the A.I.F.
(Ist Battalion) at the age of
17, served for 2\ years and
was twice wounded. He is
over six feet tall, has a
figure of the wire-and-whip-
cord type, doesn’t smoke or
drink and is one of the
most effective speakers in
the movement. His great-
grandfather came to Syd-
ney in 1823 with the 3rd
Regiment, East Kent; (Buffs).
Hankin lives in the con-
stituency, is an accountant
and works for the Metrop.
Water Board. This is his
third shot at Parliament
and his second at Martin.
“P. Point”: So Clyde
Meynell has died in pov-
erty. He never could keep
money, and he was the last
to ask for help from those
who had sponged on him.
I last saw him in London
in 1926: six foot two of
well-bred suavity, but paler,
thinner and seedier than of
old. He had the ball at his
feet twice. First when as
Van Straubenzee—a mem-
ber of an influential Anglo-
Dutch family—he became a
doctor, and again when as
Meynell he joined Rupert
Clarke and his friend Gunn
in opposition to the J.C.W.
firm quarter of a century
ago. He was a born show-
man, and his company
came to Sydney Criterion
with some of the most in-
teresting plays and per-
formers (young Tom Walls
in “The Arcadians,” for
example) that Australia had seen for
decades. Meynell could have done well
for himself after the dissolution of
Clarke, Meynell and Gunn if he had
been a businessman. There was only
one genuine businessman in that con-
cern—Clarke. Poor Meynell ran true
to form to the last. They used to say at
the Green Room Club after his return
to doctoring that he didn’t charge three-
fourths of the few patients who came
to him.
From a former member:
The sale of Wigram House, which used to
be Sydney Athensum Club, brought back old
memories. Toby Barton and J. F. Archibald
used to haunt the little smoking room on the
right of the entrance. “Hop,” whose drawings
decorated the hall, would stride in looking like
a Spanish hidalgo in the presence of a bad
smell. (Incidentally, there might have been a
reason for “Hop’s” nauseated expression; the
Athenaeum, like old Paris House and the
Trocadero, housed regiments of cockroaches.)
Frank Fox was often there with J. C. Watson,
then Labor Prime Minister. They were re-
garded as disloyalists by right-thinking members
because they favored the establishment of the
R.A.N. (Fox was badly wounded in the war,
got a knighthood and lives in London; Watson
is president of the N.R.M.A.) James Edmond
was often to be found in the card-room losing
money imperturbably at poker. Bill Lyne and
George Reid, Ambrose Pratt and E. J. Brady,
Bob Lenehan (who nearly got shot with Harry
Morant in S. Africa and was barred from the
World War by Kitchener in consequence) and
“Jawbone” Nield, the finest figure of a soldier
who ever wore a self-designed uniform—all
formed part of the variegated Athenaeum crowd.
What may be called the lay members were
mostly auctioneers and accountants. They were
a dull lot, and, when practically all the members
who were not eligible for the Millions Club
died or resigned, the club and its cockroaches
quietly expired.
“Second Divvy”: The Consul for
Mexico in Sydney claimed last week that
the late General Zapata was “a great
agrarian leader and idealist.” It is inter-
esting as a sidelight on ethical values in
C. H. HANKIN, who is contesting Martin as a
Langite.
a revolutionary country. An American
acquaintance of mine knew Zapata when
he was operating with Villa at the end of
’l4. Both were merciless bandits. The
best those who were in the south after
the Battle of Palisada have to say for
Zapata is that he wasn’t as bad as Villa ;
but then Villa was by general consent a
master of villainy: a slayer of children
and a mutilator of prisoners, one whose
“lust for blood was only equalled by his
lust for women.” Carranza at this time
was murdering people in the north as
freely as his two enemies were in the
south, and he eventually managed to get
Zapata exterminated. Villa survived for
some years.
Major Oliver Stanley, who by becom-
ing Minister for Labor “enters,” to quote
the cables, “the inner circle of the Gov-
ernment at the age of 38,” is a potential
Prime Minister. A son of Lord Derby,
he got an M.C. in the R.F.A., and
was called to the Bar a year after the
Armistice. He belongs to what is known
as the Y.M.C.A. group of the Conser-
vative party, and came to the front as
soon as he entered the Commons just
10 years ago. He is a rare blend —an
orator and idealist with a sound business
head. Though extremely religious, he
isn’t intolerant. His speech on the
Sunday Performances Regulation Bill
did more than anything else to save Eng-
lish cinemas from being closed on the
Sabbath.


Mm
tm
y.yy/.
* J
&
SiS&Sw#
\G*
s*<s<
• ••' *
..
"Good Girl!
Keep smoking
Country Life"
"Rather —'their quality
is my safeguard/"
What is Viscacelle?
VISCACELLE is the new British wrapping
material. Transparent gleaming
beautiful — it is also the most efficient
climate-proof wrapping yet discovered.
Wrapped around your smart Country
Life tin, it guarantees that your cigarettes
will reach you properly matured and
factory-fresh.
In Tins: 14 - 1/-; 21 - 1/6; . . . Flat and Round
50’s . . . also 100 and 150 sizes.
ĥ
c ~7heJßetter Qigarotte
72488-6-^


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £22,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,000,000
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from ,5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably
only give as much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), if appointed as your Executor, Trustee or
Agent, will attend to the affairs of your Estate all the time
—your friend can probably only attend to part of them
for part of the time.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
<L
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
■, Dividends N
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19,719 189,544
1925.. 51,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
1926.. 50,453 10,500 19,200 1500 19,253 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
*Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Harpers, who occupy a unique position
in the difficult dry-goods field, had an
able politician for founder, and have
provided the country with two able
bankers: Robert Gibson and Alex. Bell,
both Scots. Robert Gibson (chairman of
Harpers from the beginning of 1925 till
his death early in 1934) did much for
Australia as chairman of the Common-
wealth Bank, whose policy of sound
finance he largely helped to shape. Now
Alex. Bell (managing director of Harpers
for over a decade) has joined the direc-
torate of the central bank, after doing
much good work on the dried fruits and
rice boards.
That the business, well spread through-
out Australia, is ably handled is plain
from the fact that it has come through
the last few years with visibly no more
than a quiver, while the ords. have had
a steady 8 p.c. since 1917, sweetened with
a 2 p.c. bonus in ’29 and ’3O ; and pros-
pects of a bit more than 8 p.c. later on
grow steadily more encouraging. When
prices were at their lowest or there-
abouts, the co. stocked up freely. So,
despite keen competition, which means
slender margins, last year’s net result was
£2199 better' After paying the pref. and
B share divs. (together £12,900), there was
enough to show 9.7 p.c. on the £240,000
of ord. capital as against 8.8, 11.1, 11.3,
15.2, 15.6 and. 15.5 p.c. back to 1928.
The next table shows how the finan-
cial structure has been strengthened:
1919. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £398,268 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Mortgages . . 35,733
Deposits . . 31,318
Overdraft . . 72,103
, Sundry creditors 94,014 41,778 41,573 47,297
Freeholds . . 135,682 145,665 146,731 146,188
Plant, etc. .. 81,769 48,926 44,800 42,251
Leaseholds .. 400
Stock . . 234,710 146,840 161,501 163,432
Sundry debtors 145,856 111,026 92,572 95,905
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 22,367 262,246 270,962 278,780
For more than a decade the co. has been
steadily building up its cash resources,
the declared aim being to provide for
extension of the undertaking when
opportunity offered. When the books
closed Government securities alone
figured at £177,099, and they are worth
more than that. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£490,820, or £60,820 more than paid
capital) was £7358. Stocks are reported
in first-class condition, and the co. con-
tinues to trade on the “shortest possible
terms.”
Over the last 12 months the ords. have
advanced from 395. to 435. in the market,
which has thus discounted the future.
The return at 435. is 3.7 p.c. on an 8
p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 325. return
4.3 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£4 Bs. sd. prefs. and 395. sd. ords.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends A
, p.c. To Re— Re—
Apr., Profit. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924 62,047 4325 10 p.c. = 40,423 17,299 189,381
1920 65,121 4325 10 ~ 40,423 20,373 209,754
19 26 Z 1 4325 10 » » 50,423 16,373 226,127
*927 Z 3 4325 10 >• >’ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
}029 77,120 4325 10 „ ~ 60,423 12,372 269,043
1930 65,111 4325 10 „,, 60,423 363 269,406
*931 39 > 172 4325 5J „ „ 34,743 103 269,509
1932 39,393 4325 5| „ „ 34,743 325 269,834
4933 29,204 6 „ „ 29,003 201 270,035
1934 29,214 61 „ „ 22,155 7,059 277,094
Few have been able to so satisfactorily
adjust their capital structure to altered
trading conditions. Turnover of this old-
established importer of paper and
printers’ requisites, etc., bounded along
during the boom, capital was more
than doubled by par issues, and the ords.
enjoyed a run of 10 p.c. divs., with wide
margins, to the close of accounts in
1930. Then the death of a number of
Sydney and country newspapers, the
shrinkage in the size of others, and
contraction in the demand for printers’
machinery and other requisites reduced
turnover and left the co. overcapitalised,
while exchange and taxation added to
the difficulties.
But little of the extra share and other
capital had been invested in fixed assets.
So, as debtors’ balances (they proved to
be worth their book value) were reduced,
liquids accumulated, the co. was able
to return its surplus capital, and at the
same time enhance prospects of satis-
factory divs. on the balance. In July,
1932, £207,355 —the whole of the pref.
(£150,000) and one-fifth of the ord. capi-
tal —was returned to shareholders, who
received a further £161,128 (6s. Bd. per
share) early in the last term, reducing
paid capital to £322,256. The scrip has
been consolidated into pound shares.
Still, the co. remains well ribbed finan-
cially :
„ 1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £690,740 £690,740 £483,384 £322,256
Liabilities .. 106,094 34,208 53,180 63,219
Freeholds . . 110,319 110,319 110,319 110,319
Stocks .. 216,163 145,692 125,418 136,488
Sundry debtors 456,252 351,499 279,310 277 939
Cash and in-
vestments .. 308,471 409,215 298,802 143,864
Allowing for the £161,128 of capital
returned last year, the improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£495,072)
was £5850. The growth of £11,070 in the
stocks item and of £10,039 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors suggests that
the trade outlook has improved.
There was little change in the declared
profit, which was a trifle over 9 p.c. on
capital as it now stands. The div. was
lifted from 6 p.c. for the first to 7| p.c.
for the last quarter, making 6| p.c. for
the year.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the
shares at 38s. 6d. as against 335. a year
ago. At the higher figure the return is
3.9 p.c. on a 7y p.c. div. basis, or 4.1 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. distribution. An 8 p.c.
div. would call for no more than 4.3
p.c. on capital and reserves combined.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Towards Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 19,455 15 p.c. = 13,500 5955 15,202
1926.. 17,708 12-J „ „ 11,250 6458 21,660
1927.. 14,768 12 \ ~ „ 11,250 3518 25,178
1928.. 16,624 12| „ „ 11,250 5374 30,552
1929.. 15,582 12| „ „ 13,656 1926 32,478
1930.. 12,027 8 „ „ 11,233 794 33,272
1931.. 10,677 6 „ „ 9,599 1078 34,350
Profit on sale of shares, £22,097.. 56,447
1932.. 7,987 5£ p.c. = 8,797 55,637
1933.. 8,093 5 „ „ 7,998 95 55,732
Unexplained addition to reserves, £2365.. 58,097
1934.. 10,790 6 p.c. = 9,598 1192 59,289
The recession in earnings, and therefore
in dividends, over the last decade reflects
the effects of (1) drought, (2) loss of the
Brisbane agency for the Orient line, and
(3) the big break in the markets. Mean-
while the board decided to go deeper
into the pastoral finance business —nearly
four-fifths of the £219,441 at which ad-
vances now appear was put out since the
close of accounts in 1927 —and more
share capital and outside money was got
in for the purpose, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
1927. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £90,000 £159,959 £159,959 £159,959
Liabilities .. 61,282 87,063 78,079 91,033
Properties . . 91,719 93,174 92,421 91,730
Plant, etc. .. 1,341 7,681 6,193 5,862
Advances . . 47,044 146,111 199,273 219,441
Shares in other
cos. . . 40,816 41,236 1.461 1,024
Cash, etc. . . 2,289 1,900 2,368 2,480
Last year an extra £20,168 was put out
on advance, and £12,954 was added to
the debt, of which £52,163 (up £4377) is
on overdraft. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£131,918,
including shares) was £6895. How
much, if any, of the advances is on
broad acres is not ascertainable from the
published figures; and much depends
upon that.
During the 12 months to the close of
last accounts the co. put an extra 2953
bales under the hammer, making 33,180
in all, and the Brisbane average for the
staple was 13.56 d. per pound, as against
7.89 d. for the preceding term. So,
although the cattle industry remains
more or less in the doldrums, notwith-
standing that prices were a bit better,
gross earnings (£49,741) sprang £5230.
Exes. (£38,951) took £2533 of the in-
crease. Including £2365 dropped from
somewhere into the contingency reserve
(£7000), the net result was 8.2 p.c. on
capital as against 5, 4.9, 6.6, 8.5, 14.2
and 18.4 p.c. back to 1928. A point was
added to the div., making it 6 p.c., and
the £3557 that remained lifted reserves
to £59,289 in excess of goodwill (£30,000).
For the current term the immediate
outlook is for a slightly heavier clip,
but prices show an uncomfortable ten-
dency to ease, due mainly to the attitude
of Germany and Italy.
At 255. 3d. the pound shares, covered
by 295. lid. in net tangibles, return 4.7
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Hume Pipe (Far East), Ltd.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
1924.. 9,595 124 p.e. = 5000 4595 13,614
1925.. 1,482 Nil 1482 12,132
1926.. 8,033 10 p.c. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927.. 7,800 8 „ „ 3200 4600 3,499
19?8.. 11,301 10 „ „ 4000 7301 3,802
1929.. 11,699 15 „ „ 6000 5699 9,501
1930.. 12,074 15 ~ ~ 6000 6074 15,575
1931.. 11,001 15 „ ~ 6000 5001 20,576
1932.. 1,679 10 „ „ 4000 18,255
1933.. 2,413 6 „ ~ 2400 13 18,268
Written off, £365 .. .. 17,903
1934.. 3,627 6 p.c. = 2700 927 18,830
Though it is the smallest unit of the
Hume organisation it has thus far been
the most successful. It put up a factory
at Singapore in 1922, and over the next
decade shareholders averaged 9.5 p.c.,
£19,168 of intangibles was rubbed out
of the accounts, and £18,830 of genuine
reserves had accumulated at the end of
March. The business, however, depends
mainly upon Government spending,
which was severely curtailed owing to
the contraction in public revenue, fol-
lowing the collapse of prices in the tin
and rubber markets. Hence the smaller
but satisfactory earnings for the last few
years.
Last year the name was changed from
Singapore Hume Pipe to the present title,
the co. having decided to put up a fac-
tory at Hong Kong, which was not com-
pleted until after the close of accounts.
Also, ss. per share (= £10,000) was
called, raising paid capital to £49,950 in
50,000 £1 shares. The money was used
to buy Hume Steel’s interest in a pipe-
making plant previously operated on
joint account. Sales fell away 20 p.c.;
yet net earnings were £1214 better at 8
p.c. on average capital as against 6, 4.2,
27.5, 30.1 and 29.2 p.c. back to 1929.
The extra profit apparently came from
the joint venture. The div. was kept at
6 p.c.
As for the current term, some small
orders have been received from Govern-
ment departments in Malaya ; much will
depend upon how the Hong Kong ven-
ture turns out. The market assesses the
risks by paying 15s. 9d. for the fully-
paid pound shares. The return at that
figure is 7.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 275. 6d., mostly
plant, etc., worth what it Can earn.
At the end of March freehold and
leasehold figured at £10,047; plant,
£48,338; stock, £10,746 ; debtors,
£10,507 ; cash, etc., £BOB7. The outside
debt totalled £13,374, leaving a more or
less liquid surplus of £15,966.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.e. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£■ £, £, £> &
1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11,284 21,325
1926.. 15,481 2700 8 ~ „ 10,918 1803 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ ~ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 44,, ~ 7,491 1358 2,694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350 Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1913 21,397
This is the co. which took over the
plumbers and builders’ hardware busi-
ness of F. Malley and Son in 1919. Dur-
ing the following decade shareholders
put up an extra £126,473, raising paid
capital to £196,437, of which £30,000
carries a cumulative 9 p.c., less the
statutory cut of 22\ p.c. since September,
1931. Also, after allowing for the pref.
div., profits had mounted to 14.4 p.c. on
ord. capital for the year ended April
30, 1929. Then slump gave the building
and ancillary trades such a jolt that the
co. traded at a loss for the three years to
the close of accounts in 1933, and pay-
ments to the prefs. had fallen £7780 ( =
ss. 2d. per share) behind when the books
last closed.
During the year the building trade re-
vived ; but competition was the keenest
yet experienced, which means that sell-
ing prices had to be further pared.
Gross earnings (£40,831) were £8320
better. Exes. (£38,918) were up £3291,
leaving £1913 of profit, or not quite
enough to cover a full year’s pref. re-
quirements. No divs. were paid, the
money being wanted to help finance the
brisker trading.
To carry an extra £7647 of debtors’
balances and add £5605 to the cash
holding, the amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by £9439:
1931. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £196,473 £196,473
Liabilities .. 17,714 14,445 23,833 33,274
Freeholds . . 55,632 55,673 55,859 55,997
Leaseholds . . 17,272 16,460 15,680 15,267
Plant, etc. . . 40,304 38,731 40,820 39,041
S’tock. . .. 54,772 49,850 50,960 51,116
Book debts . . 24,465 24,106 32,035 39,682
Cash, etc. .. 11,677 5,904 1,642 7,247
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£64,771) was £3967.
Stocks and debtors’ balances are said
to have been carefully valued; much
depends upon this, the efficiency of the
plant and the course of competition.
There has been no slackening in the
trade since the close of accounts, and
payments to the prefs. are expected to
begin presently. The market prices them
at 235. as against 15s. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 6 p.c. on
a 6.9 p.c. div. basis, plus arrears. The
more speculative ords. are priced at 12s.
The net tangible cover is £5 16s. Bd.
prefs. and 17s. sd. ords.
Australian Tobacco Plantations, Ltd.
Investors who look for satisfactory
returns from tobacco-growing in Vic.
won’t derive any encouragement from
this little co.’s figures. A bit over three
years ago it bought 305 acres —90 of them
were a full-bearing apple orchard —at
Pomonal for £12,105 (over £39 an acre),
including £5OOO (in paids) for the
vendor’s option. At the end of October
last it had issued 24,000 £1 shares (200
had been forfeited), paid to £17,352. The
amount coming to outsiders was £4584,
of which £2OOO was mortgage and £2043
overdraft. Land and buildings figured at
£11,579; plant, £1138; stocks and crop,
£1286 ; book debts, £1474. Intangibles


5271 Practical B usiness Ideas
in the Modern Business Course and Service.
HTHE thing which makes the Institute Course different from any other
is just this: You can dip into it at any point and find immediately a
practical method, plan or idea, worked out and proved by the biggest men
in business, which you can put to work at once. Often a single chapter
will pay a busy man ten times for his investment. Altogether there are
5,271 definite practical business ideas. For example, there ares
169 Ideas on finance
513 Ideas on accounting
174 Ideas on office methods
182 Ideas on credits and collections
647 Ideas on advertising and sales
278 Ideas on factory management
Send in this advertisement (or tell your secretary to), and we will immedi-
forward you a free copy of “What A Business Man Must Know
Today.” This will explain why over 300,000 business men keep thia
course on their bookshelves for reference purposes.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Executive Training in Business
A Division of Hemingway Sr Robertson
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l. 38 Barraok House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* =l= * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. DAVIES & COLLISON, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts;
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 ‘Martin Place, Sydney.— Aovt.
* * ' * ' *
FORESTRY AND TUNG PLANTATIONS, TIMBER
MILLING, Independent and experienced services,
examinations, reports and advice. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.Sc. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer. Charges
moderate. Confidential correspondence invited.
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
R The Metallurgical Works of
W * A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you write and post a sample of the
Ore or Concentrate which you have for
sale, it will be assayed for Gold content
free of cost, and price submitted.
OPPORTUNITY
Austral Diving and Pearling
Limited (in flotation)
offers at once an assured invest-
ment and a fascinating specula-
tion.
The Company will acquire from
Austral Submarine Investments,
Limited, an exclusive license for
Australia for the inventions
relating to Diving Suits, which
have been demonstrated success-
fully to 2 70 feet, as reported in
the press of Australia and,
indeed, of the world.
The prospectus fully details the
extraordinary profits assured by
the use of the invention in the
pearling industry alone, other
definite sources of revenue being
diving, salvage, use or hire of
suits, etc.
Apply for Prospectus unique in
opportunity and character from
Charles V. Witt & Uther,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
Kembla Building, Margaret St.,
Sydney.
Or at the Offices of Members of
the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Application will be made to have the Company
listed on the Sydney Stock Exchange.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company's
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
totalled £6509. The book value of the
net tangible cover was thus 12s. 6d. per
pound of paid capital.
Thus far the co. has been unable to
earn a profit, and it is difficult to catch
a ray of brightness in the outlook.
Owing to a late start and the smallness
of the area planted with tobacco, the net
trading loss for the first 16£ months was
£1579. Then the weather interfered and
the price dropped, and a loss of £1177
was recorded for the next year. During
the last term about 100 acres were sown.
Again the season was unfavorable, and
frost and blue mould worked further
havoc. Tobacco sales were nil, and the
board put the year’s loss at £2054, after
adding £lOlB net to the stocks item
(£1096). The correctness or otherwise of
the loss estimate will depend mainly upon
whether stocks and debtors’ balances turn
out to be worth their book value.
The British Australian Tobacco Co.
has agreed to buy the coming Australian
crop of bright leaf on the same basis
as last year. This plantation co.
proposes to work its property under the
share-farming system, and between 60
and 70 acres have been planted on this
basis, the idea being to prevent consump-
tion of capital by losses.
Treasury Bills
The time has come when the use of
Treasury bills for the purpose of financ-
ing Budget deficits should be discon-
tinued, says the board of the Com-
monwealth Bank, which is the statutory
custodian of the currency, and therefore
of the value of the people’s savings.
The announcement followed a request
made by the Loan Council that the bank
should discount a further £6,750,000 of
IOUs, so that the State Governments
might spend that much more than they
expected to extract from the people dur-
ing 1934-35. The amount was reduced to
£5,880,000, which the bank has agreed
to find, provided a similar amount of
these bills is funded during the year. The
reduction was made by deciding to toss
three-quarters of a £2,000,000 grant by
the Federal Government into the pool.
This and the fact that relief from interest
and exchange payments on State debts
alone will be about £1,600,000 during
1934-35, and that recovery in earnings
generally is expected to bump up tax
receipts, make the estimated reduction of
£2,060,000 on the 1933-34 deficit
(£7,940,000) look like a rake’s progress.
What saves the public credit from dam-
age is the sinking fund payments, which
will exceed £8,000,000, and the arrange-
ment for retiring Treasury bills —
£8,500,000 of them were funded by open-
market operations during 1933-34, thus
keeping the total around the fifty million
pound mark.
Though these Treasury bills have done
much to help Australia along the road
during the last few difficult years, they are
mortgages on the future capital resources
of the country. Unless their volume is
reduced to a point at which the market
can digest them under more active trad-
ing conditions than exist to-day, they will
land central bank, Governments and
country in trouble. The bills have been
popular with Governments, being the
equivalent of easy money, the trading
banks like them at the moment because
they afford an outlet for idle funds, and
the public has been sympathetic on
account of the employment and spend-
ing power provided.
It may be desirable to hasten slowly
with funding operations, yet one fact
stands out. Long-term interest rates are
very low. And they won’t be always
like that.
The gold yield continues to increase:
, March Quarter >,
1932. 1933. 1934.
Westralia .. 135,8200 z. 140,1430 z. 152,8040 z.
Queensland . . 2,6660 z. 13,1280 z. 24,6950 z.
Victoria .. 9,7350 z. 13,0870 z. 16,4390 z.
Westralia led the field with a growth of
12,6610 z., and the figures should get a
nice lift when some of the recent floats
come into production. Queensland,
whose chief contributors were Mt.
Morgan, Mt. Coolon and Golden Plateau,
came next with an increase of 11,5650 z.
The figures suggest that the Australian
output for 1934 will exceed 850,0000 z.,
worth over £7,000,000 with the metal at
its present price.
* * *
George Moore figures that Melawi
Gold Syndicate, in which Oriomo Ex-
plorations is interested, has 200,000,000
c.y. of three-grain dirt in its Alluvia area,
Dutch West Borneo. The gold is
84.6 p.c. pure, and costs, including
royalty, are put at 2}d. a yard; it’s a
slender margin, even with gold at its
present price. A further free option has
been obtained over this and the Sungei
Doeri area for 24 months from June 1
last. The price is £l4 an acre, or 30 p.c.
of the promoter’s gross profit on sale,
payable in cash or half cash and half
shares at Melawi’s option. To further
test the ground, Melawi and the Explora-
tions Co. are to put up £2500 each, and
the last-named will be entitled to 20 p.c.
of the promoter’s net profit in the event
of a sale.
?!'
Placer Development, which recently
bought a half interest in Pato Amalga-
mated, Colombia, S. America (Oroville
holds the other half), has now exercised
its option over about two million tons
of slime dumps in the Chiltern-Ruther-
glen district, Victoria. A £50,000 co., in
which Placer will have a 64 p.c. holding,
is to be formed to treat the slimes, which
consist of gold-bearing clay and decom-
posed rock from the. puddling machines
which previously worked the deep leads
in the district. It is proposed to erect
plant to treat 1000 tons a day. No hint
has been given of values expected.
* * * *
One of the features of the revival of
gold-mining in Australia has been the
reopening of the Victorian deep leads,
Oroville, Camp Bird and other overseas
cos. have become interested ; the reopen-
ing has been made possible by modern
pumping and freezing devices. Another
development has been the location of
deep leads by the gravimetric method
of geophysical prospecting in the Corowa
district (N.S.W.). Here two channels
have been located. The shallower one
is said to be an extension of the old
Corowa deep lead, worked 30 years ago
for a yield of about 15dwt. per fathom.
The other is thought to be a continuation
of the Chiltern Valley (Vic.) lead.
•!» "S’ 'i*
During the past fortnight there has
been an epidemic of company flotations
to resuscitate gold-mining properties in
Westralia. The public has swallowed
the lot and asked for more. The Golden
Mile Block 45, N.L. (400,000 shares of
45.), saw light in Melbourne to take over
the old Block 45 and other leases, near
Paringa’s property, on the Golden Mile ;
Concord, N.L., an Adelaide float, has
taken up acres near B.H.P.’s Han-
nan’s North Extended, Kalgoorlie ; New
Kalgurli, N.L., a Sydney enterprise,
with £40,000 of capital, has acquired
Hannan’s Central, including 300,000 tons
of slimes and sands, on the eastern side
of the Mile. The Mt. Martin Co. has
taken up a Hampton Plains property;
Burbanks, N.L., another Adelaide
youngster, has three leases at Burbanks,
south of Coolgardie, which produced
81oz. of dollied gold from 7|cwt. of
stone.
•S* v •{■
“Old Hand”: Before depleting its ore
reserves, Edna May (W.A.) paid big divs.,
but distributions of the Edna Central,
Edna Consolidated and Edna Deeps
were meagre. After Edna May pumps
ceased, the adjoining mines closed be-
cause the co. had lodged a claim against
them for part-cost of pumping. Modern
pumps will get the water out of Wes-
tonia, but it will be expensive. Also, the
country surrounding the leases is now
occupied by farmers, and arrangements
may have to be made with the cockies
before spilling 1000 gallons of water a
minute over the landscape. The pro-
moters of the new Amalgamated Co. un-
dertake to treat 160,000 tons of ore for
325. per ton. If this includes mining,
treatment, development and amortisa-
tion, they have set themselves an unusual
task. To prevent Edna May Deeps being
overwhelmed by the Edna May flood, a
big pillar of good grade ore was left at
the joint boundary, No. 6 level, of the
two properties. This will now be avail-
able for extraction, and there is a lot
of ore in the lower levels of the Central,
Consolidated and Deeps ; it is difficult
to estimate the quantity. The lodes are
contained in a belt of rock 400 ft. wide,
which geologist Blatchford calls the Edna
May Gneiss. There was only one Edna
May mine at Westonia, and nothing was
exposed in adjoining leases to encourage
the hope that there is another, notwith-
standing the enhanced price of gold.
* * * *
The London-controlled B.A.N.Z. Co.
has struck three lodes in its leases at
the northern end of the Golden Mile
(W.A.). Two were located in the eastern
crosscut at the 80ft. level of Borg’s shaft,
and the other, which assayed sdwt., was
picked up at 130 ft. on an eastern block,
near the Croesus Prop. The co. has
decided to take up the Mopoke (owned
by a Kalgoorlie co.) and Gimlet South
(worked by Wilson and party), at Ora
Banda (W.A.). Not long ago these shows
were inspected by J. Agnew for Gold-
fields Australian Development, which
failed to come to terms with the vendor.
* * * *
Lake View Investment Trust netted
£36,44.9 in its last term as against £42,892
for the previous one. Half a point was
knocked off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.,
and £32,063 was carried forward as against
£35,486 brought in. Investments—there
are 481—are now worth more than their
book value (£2,105,263). The co. was
formed years ago to cope with taxation
problems which beset the expiring Lake
View and Oroya Co., and for a time its
principal interests were in Westralia;
now they are nearly all elsewhere.
* * * *
Cash is rolling from London into
Westralia as a result of Claude de Ber-
nales’s flotations, and the banks are be-
ginning to look askance at new fixed
deposits. Among the floats referred to
are Anglo-Australian, North Kalgurli
United, Southern Cross Gold Develop-
ment and Commonwealth Mining and
Finance.
* * * *
London is paying attention to Rey-
nolds’s Find, one of the many places tried
and abandoned on the Yilgarn goldfield
(W.A.) in recent years. The enhanced
price of gold is expected to turn past
failures into future success. A number
of areas have been taken up, and capital
for their development is expected to
arrive shortly.
•S' 'l*
Ida H., near Laverton (W.A.), was
worked successfully by an English co.
until, at depth, the ore became too poor
to be profitable with gold at its statutory
price. Now that the yellow stuff is
worth double the show is to be resur-
rected.
Kingswood, Hack and Towie, who are
working the old Imperial at Widgie-
mooltha (W.A.), recently crushed 260-
odd tons for an average of about lOdwt.
The party has taken over £l5 a week
each from the show for the past 18
months, and Western Mining Corp. has
now cast its eyes on the property.
* * * *
Dr. Loftus Hills and Dr. MacLaren
are in argument over the calc-schists of
Kalgoorlie. According to Dr. MacLaren,
lodes in calc-schist are unproductive
compared with lodes in quartz-dolerite
greenstone ; according to Dr. Hills, there
is little to fear from calc-schist. Who-
ever’s right, Kalgoorlie mining men do
not like calc-schist. Concerning gold
deposition, Cousin Jack miners work to
the theory “Where ’tis, there ’tis.”
H* sk
Dr. Wade says that the Mt. Wynne
area is the key structure of the Freney
Co.’s Kimberley concessions. Here he
has located the existence of shaly beds
above the sandstones, as well as a great
variety of new fossils.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.E.H.: Not recommended Beejay: It
is a stock from which the return promises to
be small and fluctuating for some time....
W.H.L.: (1) They look very promising. (2)
Demand has pushed up the price, and there
is nothing in sight at the moment to suggest
that it will slacken. (3) At 50s. per unit the
stuff should be worth about £175 per ton, f.o.r.
nearest railway station 8.F.: Recovery
difficulties make the prospect very speculative.
....W.D.: A sound stock; h01d... .C.C.: No
present commercial demand in Australia, nor
is it in schedule of minerals for which prices
are quoted in Britain or U.S.A. Possible uses
are for insulating steam-pipes, refrigerators, etc.
Zeehanite: There is no such thing as “abso-
lute safety.” Pref. shares, returning between 4}
p.c. and 5 p.c., worth consideration are: Aus-
tralian Glass, Goodyear, City Electric,
Adelaide Electric... .F.F.: Dividends cannot be
legally paid out of capital. Unless there are
reserves to offset the p. and 1. debit, it will
have to be extinguished out of profits first.
.... Old Miner: The profit on sale should be
included as income in your income-tax return.
The rate of tax depends upon the amount of
income E.E.8.: (1) None has yet advanced
to the stage of an investment, but they are
all satisfactory specs. (2) Myer’s offers the
best prospects; the other one appears to be
fully priced at 445. 3d.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“F.P.I”
The initials stand for “Floating Plat-
form No. 1,” an aerodrome anchored in
the Atlantic. It is the invention of Droste
(Leslie Fenton). Before his plan secures
backing it is necessary for an aviator,
Ellison (Conrad Veidt), to stage a spec-
tacular mock-theft.
The airman is in love in a casual way
with a shareholder (Jill Esmond) in the
firm which builds the aerodrome. Sud-
denly, inexplicably, he turns his back, on
the lady and goes off on a non-stop
flight, crashes and is unheard of for
years. What more natural than that
Miss Esmond should transfer her atten-
tions to Droste?
The story moves to the elaborate arti-
ficial island where Droste lords it oyer
technicians and mechanics dressed like
sailors. Financial interests put a hire-
ling on it with evil intent. How he out-
wits and wounds Droste and gases every-
body else on “F.P.I” is told in a series
of exciting but incredible episodes.
Ellison dashes to the rescue, revives
the occupants of the island, leaves it in a
cracked-up machine and brings back
men and equipment to ensure its per-
manent safety.
The building of the island and the
glimpses given of the immense thing are
the most interesting features of the film.
You can see it at the Lyceum.
“The Night of the Party”
One of nine people at Sydney Lyceum
could have murdered the blackmailing
newspaper -magnate (Malcolm Keen)
who is killed at a party held in his
London home.
Of course his daughter (Jane Baxter)
and her lover (lan Hunter) may be re-
garded as improbabilities. A Scotland
Yard man (Leslie Banks) would have
been above suspicion if his daughter
(Viola Keats) hadn’t strong reasons to
wish the press baron dead.
A somewhat childish princess (Muriel
Aked), a doddering general (W. Grahame
Browne), an author’s wife (Jane Milli-
can), an eccentric author (Ernest
Thesiger) and a villainous-looking butler
(name not mentioned on the programme)
are all more or less suspect.
The solution of the mystery comes as
something of an anti-climax. Most of
the performers overdo the new English
habit of underplaying.
“This Man Is Mine”
A triangle film at the Plaza. Irene
Dunne and Ralph Bellamy have been
happily married for eight years when
Constance Cummings, a divorcee, whom
Bellamy loved in the long ago, returns.
Miss Dunne thinks it best to give them
the opportunity to pair off again. The
first round goes against her. Bellamy
declares his love for Miss Cummings, and
asks for a divorce. He is promised his
freedom in six months if he still wants it.
The other lady is winning hands down
when Miss Dunne awakens to the fact
that passivity is a poor weapon. She
dashes into the battle with colors flying,
and after a memorable tussle routs the
enemy.
There is a surprise climax, and the
dialogue is smart.
“Sing and Like It”
A skit on gangster sentimentalism.
Zasu Pitts is a bank employee who
indulges in amateur theatricals. Gang-
sters raid the bank while she is singing
a mother song at a rehearsal. Their
leader is so overcome that he decides to
make her a star. He does so by in-
timidating a producer and sundry critics.
Miss Pitts, after being kidnapped and
rekidnapped several times, is glad to
retire to a poultry-farm for life.
Apart from the heroine, who always
looks the most helpless, fluttering female
in the world, good work is done by
Edward Everett Horton and Ned Sparks.
“You’re Telling Me”
The work of W. C. Fields, at the
Prince Edward, indicates what art lost
when the silents went. Fields, who is a
subtler mime than Chaplin himself, gets
practically all his effects by dumb show.
He represents a futile village inventor ;
makes a characteristically unsuccessful
attempt to poison himself, and, as an
outcome, meets a princess who is on a
goodwill tour of the U.S.A. She helps
him to win fame and fortune. The
sequence in which, as a friend of the
princess, he is chosen to hit off from the
first tee at a new golf club gives him his
best chance to demonstrate the range of
emotion which may be expressed by
almost imperceptible gestures and
changes of facial expression. But he is
as good, if not quite so funny, all
through.
“Death Takes a Holiday”
A talkified version of the play. Some
aristocratic Italians, .about half of whom
have American voices, are enjoying
themselves at a gorgeous villa when
Death, as an amorphous shadow, appears
to the head of the family, Sir Guy Stand-
ing. Death has decided to try what life
is like for a few days, and he reappears
in the flesh as Fredric March. There
were tremendous possibilities in the idea :
an embodiment of Death should appeal
far more to the human imagination than
one of an essentially comic institution
like the Devil. However, neither the
dialoguist nor Mr. March has risen to
the occasion. Death, here, is just a self-
consciously handsome actor whose con-
ventional behavior and finely declaimed
bromides give no hint of a past which
epitomises the anguish of the world.
Sir Guy Standing gives a sound per-
formance, as usual, but the most inter-
esting character is Evelyn Venable as
“COLLITS’ INN,” AT SYDNEY NEW TIV.
Left to Right: Robert Chisholm as a gallant soldier; Gladys Moncrieff as
a gallant barmaid; Claude Flemming as a gallant bushranger.
the girl whom Death takes. She is that
rare phenomenon a screen ingenue whose
appearance and ways suggest serene inno-
cence. The settings, though, like Fredric
March, somewhat overdressed, are beauti-
ful, and the camera work and sound are
exceptionally good.
“Counsellor at Law”
John Barrymore is never off the screen
for more than a second or two in this
Sydney Capitol film. He’s a New York
lawyer, with modernistic offices in the
Empire State skyscraper; there are four
telephones, and clients crowd his ante-
room. Every member of his staff con-
tributes by-play; and there are multi-
farious callers, all sharply characterised.
We are shown half a day in the office.
Barrymore idolises his wife (Doris
Kenyon). When he is threatened with
ruin over an old error, she skips to
Europe with Melvyn Douglas. Barry-
more learns of her perfidy while rejoic-
ing at having averted the threat, and pre-
pares to cast himself out of a window.
A shriek from his faithful secretary (Bebe
Daniels) arrests him, and before he can
go on with his suicidal project the
biggest case of his career comes to him
and he plunges into it.
Rather trite material, but it is the in-
cidentals that provide Barrymore with the
opportunity for perhaps his best —cer-
tainly his most vigorous—screen per-
formance.
“Horse Play”
The project obviously was to enable
Slim Summerville to display his genius:
it fails by denying him a single lucid
moment. He is represented as a Mdn-
tana rancher who can’t walk a dozen
steps without tumbling over. Having
sold his ranch for a million dollars, he
goes to “London (England)” with Andy
Devine and a mare named Cynthia, in
pursuit of his sweetheart (Leila Hyams),
whose auntie is a duchess. The ranchers
and Cynthia put up at the Ritz, where
the quadruped is provided with a four-
poster bed. There they meet the duchess
(none other than cheery old May Beatty)
and get drunk with her. She invites them
to a thirteenth-century pageant at her
castle, and Slim gets bull-ants in his
armor. The cumulative effect was to
satisfy the writer that Summerville isn’t
a comedian at all; he’s just a tall, lean,
elderly man with a lugubrious face.
“The Blarney Stone”
This English film, at Sydney Mayfair,
was specially written for Tom Walls. His
gift of the gab saves him when Sinn
Feiners burn his house and are about to
take his life. Down and out on the
Thames Embankment, he preserves his
spirits, is befriended by a dissipated Eng-
lish peer (Robert Douglas), and charms
everybody, including his Lordship’s sister
(Anne Grey).
Follows an excursion into high
finance, a dastardly deed by the peer,
and gaol for the noble as well as elo-
quent Irishman. But all comes right in
the end, and the hero is able to have his
pick of the three ladies who love him.
If you can swallow the plot and the
spectacle of a middle-aged charmer win-
ning all the ladies you’ll enjoy the film.
It moves briskly, and the dialogue, most
of which was written by the Irish play-
wright Lennox Robinson, is exception-
ally good.
“The Man from Toronto”
A screen version of Douglas Murray’s
well-known play. It is remarkably well
done, and Jessie Mathews and lan
Hunter are in the cast.
“Journal of a Crime”
Ruth Chatterton goes to the theatre
during a rehearsal of her husband’s play
and shoots the star, his mistress. Nobody
sees her, and. a fellow who’d murdered
a bank clerk and is hiding behind the
scenes is arrested. The husband finds
her revolver and decides, instead of giv-
ing her away, to let her be tortured by
conscience. She stands it for six months
and breaks down just in time for the
happy ending.
None of the players convinces, least
of all Adolphe Menjou as the husband
who looks on while his wife is being
driven mad. It is to be seen in Sydney
suburbs.
Sundry Shows
The “Night of Russian Music” at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday, lasted
over three hours. The programme was
mainly familiar Tschaikowsky numbers
—“1812,” “Marche Slav” and the “Nut-
cracker” Suite by orchestra ; first move-
ment of the B Flat Minor Concerto, with
Alexander Sverjensky at the piano;
“Adieu, Forets,” sung by Molly de Gunst,
and the “Credo,” sung by a choir the
lady members of which wore Russian
national costume. Glinka, Rimsky-
Korsakov, Korniloff, Rachmaninoff,
Fatayeff and Borodin were represented by
short numbers, mostly vocal. Most satis-
factory item of the evening was the piano
concerto, played by Sverjensky with
great fire and feeling. The orchestra,
60 strong, was neither large enough nor
sufficiently well rehearsed to do justice
to “1812,” and there were ragged edges
in most of its other numbers, including
the concerto. The choir, conducted by
P. Golliff, covered itself with glory in
the “Credo,” and earned an encore.
Barend Harris exhibited a capital bass
voice in solo offerings, Miss de Gunst
was in her best form, and a tenor, Xenia
Chostiakoff, sang Korniloff s “My Love”
very prettily. Russian music is gloomy,
even in its most cheerful moods, and
three hours of it on end are about two
too many for the average Australian
music-lover.
* * *
Sydney demonstrated its cosmopolitan
side at the Town Hall last Wednesday
night with a concert under the auspices
of the Friendly Society of Nations, at
which a strong feature was the sweet
singing of Esthonian girls in national
costumes. There was a German male
choir, and the Swiss Choral Society
added to the evening’s harmony. Angela
Parcelles sang Grecian songs, and young
Australia was represented by an orches-
tra from the Cleveland-street kinder-
garten-—every performer under six! The
internationality of the affair was rounded
off with a Chinese play and Esthonian
and Scottish dances.
* * *
Eleven-year-old Jack Freeman, pupil
of Mr. de Cairos Rego, made his debut
as a solo pianist at Sydney Assembly
Hall. Besides works by Bach, Chopin
and Mozart, he played the final move-
ment of the “Moonlight” Sonata and,
accompanied by orchestra, Rubinstein’s
Concerto in E Minor. Liszt’s Hungarian
Rhapsody No. 15 and the best-known
“Liebestraum” were also items in a pro-
gramme that included five short pieces
of the performer’s own composition. The
lad played from memory and with plenty
of confidence, making a very good im-
pression.
%• , * *
The A.B.C.’s military band gave its
first Sydney performance under the
baton of Stephen Yorke at 2BL studio on
Friday night. Programme was made up
of light, tuneful music, and band items
were supplemented by the singing of
Edward McKinlay and Evelyn Hall,
both notable for clear enunciation.
Radio reception was all that could be
desired..
* * *
Augustus Neville continues to demon-
strate at Melbourne’s Central Hall that
the report of William Shakspeare’s death
was grossly exaggerated. The attendance
of schoolkids at the performances of
“The Merchant” exceeded 7900. The
laughter aroused by the artless humors
of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” was
as spontaneous and unfeigned as present
critic has heard for many years. Farceurs
have been adding business to the tragedy
of Pyramus and Thisbe for a couple of
hundred years, but Neville (as Bottom),
Fred MacDonald, William Lockhart,
Paul Hill, Lance Nicholls and Vincent
Scully have succeeded in adding a bit
more. Theseus, Duke of Athens, had
the services of Austen Milroy’s impres-
sive oratory. Phyllis Scully, an engag-
ing Puck, superintended the enchant-
ments in the Athenian wood, which was
haunted by gnomes and fairies from
May Down’s school of dancing and lit
by stars attached to dry batteries. There
will be matinee performances all this
week and until further orders from the
public and private schools.
* v- *
The little “intimate” Torch Theatre
of Adelaide has definitely put itself on
the map with its second show. Patricia
Hackett (of the old Perth family), pro-
moter and also producer, played the lead
in a George Preedy fantasy, a love-
passage in Italy (1750), which leaves the
visiting English youth (and even the
audience) in some doubt whether it has
really happened or is just an illusion of
moonlight and wine. Jack Moore did
good fantastic work as a pierrot, and
Mathews (in real life Miss Hackett’s
law-partner) was richly humorous as the
young nobleman’s bear-leader. The
other playlet was Fielding’s old “Virgin
Unmasked,” farce-comedy with songs,
in which Stella Sobels had all the work
as the 18th-century damsel of 16 whose
fortune is wooed by a lawyer, dancing-
master, apothecary, etc. Acting uni-
formly sound, and setting complete with
miniatures and spinet. The double bill
ran for a week.


The King of the Jungle was weary of
war,
And he swore that the Powers should
do battle no more;
He bade his Prime Minister, Pongo the
Sinister,
Divers grim measures for peace to
administer.
The Snake, with a hiss that was most
diplomatic,
Said “Splendid idea! Make the world''
democratic!
Of course, as for MY fangs, they’re
purely defensive" .
Said Pongo, “Try this, sir, it’s quite
inexpensive.”
/The beasts said: “A conference would have been
I charming,
I But Pongo’s behavior is truly DISARMING.”
\“What shall we do?” wailed the Elk and the Rhino. N
\ And the Elephant sadly replied: ,
\ “Blowed if I know.’^pTj^HV
The river was swollen with Crocodile’s tears;
Said he, “I’ve not been so insulted for years:
That impudent Pongo—no wonder I blubber—
Removed all my teeth and replaced them with rubber!”
The Skunk, as he slunk through the forest in shame,
Sobbed “Life’s lost its tang; it will ne’er be the same!*’
He passed with a scurry, a sneeze and a moan —
And a delicate fragrance of eau-de-Cologne!
“Where are the nips of yesterdee?”
The Gnats forlornly sing:
‘0 Wasp, where is thy victory?
O Skeeter, where thy sting?”
The fearsome Gorilla said nothing at all—
He was muzzled, strait-jacketed, chained to a ball:
But he thought to himself, “It’s an outrage.
this plan; *
An ape might as well be a miserable MAN!
The Tiger was truculent, growling like thunder,
But with lead anaesthetic they soon had him under.
And Pongo remarked, “There’s no need to be spiteful;
My painless extractions are really delightful.
Said the Mule, “It’s a scandal, a
crime, do you hear?
An innocent neutral attacked in
the rear!” ,
But Pongo replied, with a jocular t
slap, V
“You haven’t got any kick
coming, old chap.”
“There are numerous points to consider, you know,*
Said the Porcupine pompously: “First let us—OH!”
A snip of the shears, first here and then there,
And the spineless objector crept back to his lair.
The Bull on the pasture’s a pacifist now,
And grazes as calmly as any old cow,
And murmurs “Who is there that 1 want to war
with?”
But the real reason is—he has nothing to gore with!
It was always the boast of the Boa Constrictoi
“In all my engagements, I’m crushingly victor;
The fiercest of foes I can mangle and mince"
But he boasts now no more... for he’s done up in splints.
SYDNEY GORDON.
KING LEO SETS AN EXAMPLE.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pourri-Pourri”: The extraordinary
drought which has pervaded Europe
and played old Harry with cricket pitches
in England has brought the rainmakers
back. We hear of the peoples of Eastern
Europe returning to old pagan practices
to make rain—not that those particular
folk are far removed from pagans in
any case. And in England it has been
proposed to resort to the use of vortex
guns. I have a vivid recollection of an
experiment in this direction by the late
Clement Wragge, of Queensland. Clement
imported a couple of the funnel-shaped
"I didn’t object to the ‘filthy,’ Mrs. Tyke, but when she called me ‘mongrel’ it
got the blood of my Alsatian forefathers up.”
contraptions from the Tyrol, where
he said they were used for keep-
ing hail off the grape crops. He
tried one out in Brisbane Botanical
Gardens, and my dad, a western squat-
ter, who had a good deal of the Jurgen
complex about him, deputed me to see
how it worked. The thing burst, and,
though no one was injured, a lot of us
were badly frightened. Clement then
took it out to Charleville —or it might
have been Cunnamulla —and there again
something went wrong. After that most
of us were content to watch the
barometer and curse.
*
“Isharagi”: A Sydney daily laid it
down the other day that the two-pound
baby of a polar bear at Sydney’s Taronga
Park was smaller, in proportion to the
weight of its mother, than any other
animal. I want to nominate our own
koala for the record. With a mother
touching 6001 b. and an offspring weigh-
ing 21b., polar’s ratio is 300 to 1. A
141 b. koala’s child (before being trans-
ferred to the pouch) weighs seven grains
—ratio, 14,000 to 1. The koala’s propor-
tions, I believe, are approximated by all
marsupials.
“Dipsy”: These dog-barking, cow-
bellowing navigators (B. 20/6/’34) have
quite overlooked a method of determin-
ing one’s position which is still in use
among British fishermen on the Dogger
Bank. It is known as “smelling the lead,”
and is claimed as infallible when prac-
tised by experts. The lead is “armed”
with a dab of tallow in the hollow left
for the purpose at the bottom end. When
brought up some of the sea-bottom is
found adhering to the tallow. After a
sniff at this any old herring-fleet skipper
claims to be able to tell where he is to
within a few hundred yards. That is, of
course, in the waters on which he has
spent all his life.
* * *
“Mai”: “G.C.’s” bush signboard (B.
20/6/’34) reminds me of one I used to
know:
DO DROP INN.
No License —No Police —No Sunday Closing-
No Liability.
Bring your own pannican; we have the cask.
All welcome. Shinplasters taken.
The Government once had its suspicions
and sent a constable in disguise to inves-
tigate, more particularly the cask, to the
contents of which he applied the only in-
disputable test. When next evening he
woke up 20 miles away in somebody
else’s camel-dray, he decided that, if the
liquor was not soft enough to pass
muster, at least he himself was too soft
to risk telling the story against himself.
Mumm, however, was not the word —
neither was it Heidsieck.
* :!'• * $
“Kelly”: If “First Brigade” (B.
30/5/’34) isn’t telling a lie, that must
have been his crow-sheepskin aeroplane
which upset the weather in N.Q., and
which Inigo Jones took for a sunspot.
If he is only pulling the public’s leg, and
if he wants to catch crows by clutching,
this is the way to do it. Get one. Catch
him by any old means known to science
or in any other way. Put the fellow
back down on a fencing-post. Strap his
wings so his legs are above him. In
about two-twos, which is a very short
period of time, another crow will be
called to that captive’s help. The free
fellow will fly round, express surprise,
hover and call to all the crows in the
back country to come-and-have-a-look-at-
this-funny-thing. Then, when the others
begin to gather, and on the principle that
findings are keepings, the first bloke will
alight on top of the prisoner. That’s the
end of that section. The strapped cove
will grab and hold, and nothing short of
a knock on the head will induce him to
let go. “First Brigade” can then go up
and take the held bloke. He can strap
him to another post in an inverted posi-
tion. He can then catch two where only
one was available before, and, if he
keeps going, he can solve the riddle of
doubling the number on every square of
the chess-board.
“ ‘lt’s like the Government’s cheek,’ I says to ’er, ‘to send a trained nurse to
gimme advice about kids’ — me, that’s buried seven.”
“J.R.M.”: Here’s how to protect your
dog from that fiend the poisoner. Open
two or three small pieces of fresh meat
and insert as much cayenne into each as
can be placed on a threepenny-bit. Go
for a stroll without Towser and lay the
bait; then take him over this walk and
let him find the treasure. After about two
experiences a Borgia couldn’t poison him
with a dropped bait.
“Airline”: As I was pedalling through
Goondoobluie —one of the last of our
really big runs —a well-used track
led me off the main road. With
reckless abandon it crossed bore-
drains, followed fences, cut hap-
hazard across paddocks, and did
all those things a well-surveyed
road is not expected to do until,
almost seasick in my efforts to
arrive somewhere, I reached its
destination —a globular contriv-
ance loaded to the Plimsoll-line
with sheep-flies. The next day or
two I gained some idea of the im-
mensity of the western N. S.
Wales fly problem. At every vital
point the same sight met my eyes
—fly-traps clogged with their vic-
tims. A motor-truck and gang of
men are constantly employed on
the station in the treatment of
sheep that have been struck.
Further on I passed through a sta-
tion where a blackboy was em-
ployed collecting dead wool off
the carcasses of a thousand sheep
that had died in one paddock
through fly infestation. All along
the Queensland border it was, and
is, the same —one perpetual battle with
the fly.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Can any Aboliar tell
me where it was that the dog sat on the
tucker-box? Until the other day, when
I saw the mong sitting on a monument
five miles from Gundagai, I had always
thought that he performed the trick nine
miles on the Sydney side of the Murrum-
bidgee township. The dog isn’t a good
specimen, anyway, and if the tucker-box
truly represents the original the teamster
who carried it deserves all he got. The
wonder is how he ever got the lid open.
It seems to me to be hermetically sealed.
Either that or it was never meant to open
at all.
*,* * *
“Birkdale”: Considering that I made
no reference to them, 1 don’t see why 1
should be dragged into a par. assei ting
that the Torres Strait natives eat the flesh
of the giant clam (B. 20/6/ 34). I am
not going to dispute it. My experience
of these Papuans and their brethren on
the main island close by is that they will
eat anything in creation. 1 have seen
menus which included sharks, crocodiles,
turtles—including even the poisonous
hawksbill—frogs, snakes (except in the
case of some of the Gulf tribes), lizards
of all sizes, dogs, pigs and other small
deer too numerous to particularise. I
can recall one man who thought he knew
the Papuan well being flabbergasted on
his first visit to the Mambare district.
Mosquitoes were plentiful, and the
naked boys killed these and transferred
them to their mouths as fast as they lit
on them. The Papuan has a frugal mind,
and the Binandele and his wife are a
regular John Gilpin couple in this respect.
* :!: * *
“Cam Cove”: The other day I pulled
my car up alongside the Hay (N.S.W.)
Canal to dip out a billy of water for tea.
The man I saw up to his knees in mud
wasn’t getting water —he was catching
fish with his hands. The Irrigation Com-
mission had drained the canals for the
winter months, and one of the whalers
had left the ’Bidgee River for the easier
fishing in puddle-holes. The slippery flap-
per he had in his hands was a 31b.
Murray cod. From this canal, as well as
from the many others on the irrigation
area, townies and sundowners were liv-
ing on fish in between bouts of corned
beef and chops.
* sfc ❖ ❖
“Bluey”: Comfort in the tropics? Was
surprised to hear a commotion in front
of my host’s bungalow on the north
coast of New Guinea, but on going out
found it to be another old pal of mine,
who, having heard of my visit, promptly
decided to pop along and renew the
acquaintance. He arrived stretched at
full length on a folding camp-stretcher
carried shoulder-high by four of his stal-
wart native servants, followed closely by
two others of the same ilk, one carrying
a bottle of Dewar’s, the other a glass and
a bottle of water.
“Nalla”: “Marko” says (B. 30/5/’54)
an eagle won’t swoop on a snake ; I don’t
agree. At Moggill Creek, Brisbane, saw
a large white-bellied sea eagle swoop
down on a big tiger-snake. Missing, he
rose a few feet, then settled on the ground
a few feet away. Joe Blake rose on his
tail, and hostilities soon commenced.
Sparring in and out, the eagle had the
snake so worried that after five minutes
it sank swiftly to the ground and tried
to wriggle off. The eagle grabbed it
in his talons. Rising slowly, he carried
the wriggler to a near-by tree, where he
bashed its head in with his beak. Drop-
ping the captive, he dived like a plummet
and caught it before it reached the river.
With a harsh cry, he again rose and car-
ried it to his nest, where a tribe of young-
sters were sitting gazing with wide-
opened mouths.
THE SALTBUSH MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Australian Stock Exchanges are witnessing an
almost unprecedented boom in gold stocks.”
Beware the thimblerigger glib
Who bids you find the pea!
Beware the unc., with cash ad lib,
Who comes from far Fiji!
Beware the card-sharp sleek, and shun
The wheedling racecourse tug!
In short, fight shy of anyone
Who aims to bite your lug.
Beware of tongues that plead and coax,
No matter what their lines;
And, most of all, beware of blokes
Who peddle saltbush mines!
Of course, it’s clearly understood,
As we in youth were taught,
That in the sea are fish as good
As ever yet were caught.
And somewhere, undeniably,
Within this land’s expanse,
Another Golden Mile may lie —
Or five or six, perchance.
But what is surer, I’ll be bound,
Wherever may be signs
Of gold, are waiting to be found
A thousand saltbush mines.
You may, if Fortune’s kind to you,
My son, a lottery win;
Or mark the brief at pak-a-pu
That drags the boodle in.
You may into the oyster-quid
As quickly poke your knife
As Wallingford in fiction did,
Or Kreuger did in life.
To affluence you yet may float
(Who knows?) on wools or wines,
But, son, your chance is darn remote
Through shares in saltbush mines.
For me, no more I follow Hope
When Prudence calls a halt,
Or take the boasted expert’s dope
Without a pinch of salt.
With those who make the search their biz,
I’m perfectly acquaint
That gold is always where it is
And never where it ain’t.
So, ’mid my series of “bewares”
The topmost place inclines
Towards the birds who’d sell you shares
In good old saltbush mines.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Herpeton”: Two snakes which had
gone under a store in a town on the
Tweed River —a notoriously thirsty part
of N.S.W.—were “enticed” out again by
an impromptu band playing on hair-
combs covered with paper. The wretched
reptiles emerged in hot haste and were
promptly slain. This newspaper story is
taken as evidence of the truth of that
hoary fiction that the serpent is highly
susceptible to music. All the snakes are
without external ears, and are unable,
therefore, to hear noises as humans hear
them. There is an internal organ re-
sembling an ear, but this has been proved
to be sensitive only to earth vibrations.
That is why the average snake, if he
doesn’t sight you, gets quickly away if
he feels your tread approaching him. To
a crawler always prone every slight move-
ment is transmitted. It is only in the
case of sluggish snakes and those con-
fident in the deadliness of their own
poison that the warning to clear the way
is not acted upon. What brought the
Tweed River snakes out to death was not
the discordant “music” but the capering
of the impromptu band about their hiding
place. Poor devils! Knowing the heavy-
footedness of cow-country inhabitants, I
realise why the serpents preferred a
sudden death.
“V. Ralia”: The snake ploughed up by
“Tom Willie” (B. 13/6/’34) was almost
certain to be a lizard or blind worm. But
“And what speed was he doing when he overtook you?”
“I can’t exactly say, but he must have been doing sixty when I passed him
on the last hill.”
some snakes do dig holes. The death-
adder has been observed assuming the
shape of a brace and bit, poising itself
erect upon the hard point of its tail and
spinning at about 1000 r.p.m. The other
known species are the puff-adders. They,
stand on their heads and puff, and while
they hold themselves very straight they
soon disappear through a jet of dust.
They live in South Africa, and the Boers
use them for sinking post-holes.
“Sailor”: “C. Coral’s” par. (B.
13/6/’34) reminds me of a mad stunt
we tried near Melville Island (N.T.).
Kawakama, a Japanese diver, had a
patent helmet made for him in Sydney
from three thicknesses of muntz sheet-
ing-metal. It was an amateurish-looking
job and rang like an empty kerosene-tin,
but my heroic little Jap cobber was keen
to try it out. We picked on a 40-fathom
bank near the Passage, and I had first
try. At 20 fathoms I got the wind up
and funked it. The beat of the air-pump
sounded like a half-empty biscuit-tin
with palsy, and the valve worked like a
day-old Jap toy. Kawakama, being a
regular stoic, went down next, and be-
sides touching the mud at 43 fathoms he
did diving tricks for close on 20 minutes.
When he came up and shed his rattletrap
headgear we found that half the rivets
were popping out of their holes.
* * * *
“Raja” : “Granite” recommends silver
as a test of the edibility of fish (B.
23/5/’34). I can remember my mother
taking off four silver bangles she always
wore to place in the stewpan containing
mushrooms. One small toadstool that
sneaked into the pan blackened the
bangles.
“Bramble Cay”: Vic. natural-
ists have been arguing back and
forth about the great clouds of
wandering butterflies seen in the
State at the end of summer. I’ve
never come upon a satisfactory
explanation of these queer
migrations such as attaches to
the migratory flights of birds.
Years ago, on the B.N.G. Gov-
ernment yacht Merrie England,
in the western end of the Gulf
of Papua, I saw myriads of
white butterflies carried by a
light n.-w. wind, and the ship
steamed through them for an
hour. They seemed to have
come from somewhere near the
Fly estuary, and if they kept on
their course long enough would
have passed the s.-e. of Rossel Island,
beyond which is a long stretch of com-
paratively open water reaching to the
New Hebrides.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: Illicit love affairs
have played a big part in the distribu-
tion of New Guinea scenery and pro-
ducts. The case of Keaura (Cupola) and
Taurama (Pyramid Point) is illustrative.
Nowadays the former is near Maelatchie
Point and the latter about eight miles
east of Port Moresby. Long ago, how-
ever, the two lived together, Keaura being
a boarder of Taurama and wife. One
night Taurama, returning unexpectedly
early from chairmanning a meeting of
hills, found Keaura making love to Mrs.
Taurama, and booted him out. Keaura
fled west, but out of spite took
with him all the cocoanuts, sago, betel-
nut, pepper, taitu (sweet yam), yams,
wallabies and timber for canoes, leaving
Taurama only arm-shells, wild yams and
bananas. In his flight Keaura distributed
his booty to Kabodi (Redscar Bay),
Noara (Cape Suckling), Lolo (Hall
Sourfd) and Kevori (Cape Possession),
all enemies of Taurama. The upshot
was that to avoid starvation Taurama
had to humble himself to them and trade
his arm-shells, etc., for tucker, and has
so traded ever since. Keaura finally
settled on his present site, retaining from
his swag sufficient stock to make the dis-
trict prosperous. It shows how Luv can
alter things.
Gripes, it’s just as well mum doesn’t know where we were last
night, dad.”
“Too right it is. Where were we?”
“Valerin”: Between Albury and Wan-
garatta (Vic.) I came across a fairly large
level paddock dotted indiscriminately
with 3ft. posts. Inquired, and was told
the paddock belonged to an old farmer
who erected the posts to prevent aero-
planes landing. Wonder which he finds
the greater nuisance—posts or ’planes.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
farmer decided to take advantage of a
bright moonlight night to do some
ploughing. The first night he noticed a
fox following him and eating the mice
that the plough turned over. He went
home for a rifle and shot the fox. The
following night he shot two more. With
the pelts worth about ten shillings each,
it was profitable ploughing.
“Rikki”: One of those well-meaning
people of whom Gehenna is so full that
their feet are sticking out of the windows
has been asking a Melbourne paper if
there are any mongooses in Australia,
and, if not, why not, since
they would keep down
snakes. The mongoose is one
plague that Australia has
escaped. As a killer of
ground-dwelling birds, he
makes the fox look like an
amateur. Many years ago
the little beast was intro-
duced to some of the West
Indian islands, with the idea
that he would do double
duty by extirpating cane-eat-
ing rats as well as snakes.
After settling down to his
new environment, the mon-
goose abandoned the snakes
and rats for certain ground-
nesting birds, which have
now vanished from the
natural-history map alto-
gether. When these were
finished up, the mongoose
went on giving the rats and
snakes a miss and took to
robbing poultry-roosts, until
it was impossible to rear a
chicken in the islands, and
even the niggers had to live
on bananas. Queensland had
a happy escape. When the
rat plague began to develop
in the canefields many years ago some
inspired idiot imported a batch of mon-
gooses from India to deal with them.
These failed to get a foothold and were
heard of no more after their liberation.
* K= * *
“Raeakiaki”: Add to the list of Maori-
land’s nocturnal prowlers—it includes
the kiwi and the tuatara —the katipo, that
much abused creature who ranks as the
sole venomous inhabitant of the Shivery
Isles. He snoozes the day away among
the roots of seashore shrubs or snuggled
beneath driftwood or other refuse, but at
dusk sets out to peregrinate the beaches
until just before dawn. Never found
more than a few hundred yards inland,
he’s not really vicious. I gathered
katipo by the dozen on the sand-
hills at the entrance of the Wanganui,
and except for a few crotchety old
females I failed to strike a warrior,
At a touch with stick or> finger
he’d roll his jet-black, satin-like body,
with its curious orange-scarlet stripe
down the centre, into a tiny round ball,
and, throwing himself on his back, would
play ’possum. When, as a last resort, he
uses his fangs, he’s got the very devil of
a nip, although it’s rarely fatal.
“Pandanus”: Rain fell all day long
as we floundered through mud and water
near the deserted Munburra diggings on
the old Starcke goldfield (N.Q.). We
decided to camp before dusk, and so
unloaded the packs and hobbled the
horses and pitched the tent. We then
prepared to sleep, but found it impossible
on account of an army of mosquitoes.
Can any Aboliar suggest where they
came from? Are mossies capable of
flying through dense tropical rain?
“Top-rail”: “Maluka” (B. 13/6/’34).
when droving rams for Avon Downs,
would probably have camped near Cab-
bage-tree Creek, which lies almost mid-
way between the Cloncurry River and
the Borah Creek diggings on the Leich-
hardt. There are some mysterious old
Chinese workings there which were
abandoned before the Leichhardt gold-
fields were discovered —mysterious be-
cause Chinks were banned on all the
Cloncurry district goldfields. An old
.abo. once told me that when he was a
boy a dozen Chinese arrived there with
a mob of sheep and settled. Some of the
sheep strayed, others got bogged, but the
abos., who had never seen woollies
before, were afraid of them, and shifted
camp. Maybe the wether that Maluka
turned into mutton was one of the last
survivors of this mob. But I am hanged
if I can solve the mystery of the native
wells. Who can?
* * * *
“Ragus”: Innisfail (N.Q.) can boast of
innumerable European earwigs, but so
far I haven’t had the pleasure of meet-
ing any of “Culpa’s” (B. 6/6/’34) dinkum
Aussies with nippers fore and aft. In
our sugar-mill laboratory these fear-
some-looking little insects make nuis-
ances of themselves by crawling into
every pipette they can find, and, having
no reverse gear and no room to turn
round, staying there until they are either
shaken out or go into chemical solution.
Unless the burette of sulphuric acid is
kept covered, the corrosive chemical is
quickly stained a deep reddish-brown by
dissolved earwigs, and if “Culpa” was
responsible for importing the little
nuisances into our fair land, he is prac-
tically a wanted man in the north. One
of our most objectionable pests is the
“lavender bug,” a little black beetle
which, if squashed, gives off an appalling
stench. Newchums crush them once, or
perhaps twice, but quickly learn to handle
them as they would a priceless fabric.
A LITTLE THING LIKE THAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I had a boss in Gippsland once; his block was
rough and times were thin,
But, wet or fine, he slogged away and took his
troubles with a grin.
He’d always say when things went wrong,
whate’er it was that he was at,
“Well, Bill, we can’t be worried by a blessed
little thing like that.”
Suppose supplies were running low —for he was
cook and got the tea —
When I came hungry from the shed he’d grin
a bit and say to me:
“There isn’t much to eat to-night; we’re down
to eggs and bread-and-fat;
But, still, we can’t be worried by a blessed
little thing like that.”
We got back home one summer day to find
the block swept black and bare;
I could have wept, I know I swore —and I
was only working there.
He stared awhile, then tossed his head, and
swore across that reeking flat,
“I’m damned if I’ll be beaten by a scurvy
little thing like that.”
I met him with a wife last week, as stylish
as a girl could be,
And he seemed pleased, but it was clear his
missus didn’t take to me.
“Another time,” he said. I grinned, and
whispered as I raised my hat,
"To think that you’d be worried by a pretty
little thing like that.”
VrCTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


jKf&alteuL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
ms
LYS
£
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
<%>
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants , Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
AT THE SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW.
The increase in numbers and general
quality of the entries reflected the optim-
ism engendered by the past wool-selling
season. There were several new classes
this year, the most noteworthy in the
merino section, resulting in the superfine
types (74’s and better) being judged apart
from the fine wools. A wise innovation,
which should be adhered to.
The merinos were a splendid lot. Suc-
cesses gained by several of the younger
studs were fully deserved, and indicate
that the future of merino-stud breeding
is in capable hands.
One point that seems in danger of
being overdone is the breeding, coddling
and preparation of sheep for show pur-
poses alone. It is a practice which is
not in the best interests of sheep-breed-
ing. Sheep thus got ready necessarily
show to better advantage than those
raised under natural conditions, but, gen-
erally speaking, the man who is going to
buy and use the rams or their progeny
is less likely to be disappointed with the
results from the latter class.
As the shop window of the sheep-
breeding industry, especially of the
smaller and newer studs, the Show fulfils
its purpose. The absence of entries from
well-known studs may be attributed to
reliance on their reputations and on the
advertisement of sales rather than on
ribbons.
The section for small graziers deserves
greater encouragement and support.
Some of the sheep exhibited were well
up to standard, but a comparison with
entries from the parent studs illustrated
slight weaknesses in conformation, in
lack of density and unevenness of cover-
ing, and also pointed out the way to
rectify them.
With respect to British Longwools,
there was a good showing of Border
Leicesters and Romney Marsh. Lin-
colns were conspicuous by their absence.
Of the Downs breeds, Southdowns and
Dorset Horns were represented in unpre-
cedented numbers and quality, which
testifies to their established popularity
among fat-lamb breeders. No Ryelands
have hitherto been exhibited in Sydney,
but this breed, which is rapidly gaining
in favor for fat-lamb-raising, promises to
be a strong section in future shows.
Corriedales were widely represented.
The enthusiasm of breeders is note-
worthy and a healthy sign of progress.
Variation in type is still pronounced, in
some cases especially so. The latitude
which includes types almost akin to
Romneys and, on the other end of the
scale, sheep which are practically come-
backs should be tightened up.
Polwarths made their first appearance
in Sydney and created a great deal of
interest among sheepmen. The breed is
a true comeback, evolved by mating
merino rams with quarter-bred Lincoln
merino ewes. The typical fleece averages
58’s quality, and its adherents claim for
the Polwarth the distinction of being the
ideal dual-purpose sheep. The lambs,
however, are not early-maturers, nor can
they claim the shapeliness of Downs-
cross lambs, but they have the advantage
of carrying over and making good, profit-
able wethers. The wool is shafty and
attractive. But great care will have to
be observed in mating, as, in spite of the
claim that the type is fixed, there is risk
of unevenness developing in the fleece
with haphazard breeding.
The Polwarth should do well in dis-
tricts which favor the Corriedale; in
fact, the difference in appearance and
covering between the strong type of Pol-
warth and the finer range of Corriedales
is practically nil. The sheep exhibited in
Sydney prove definitely, however, that,
without care and co-operation between
breeders, there is danger of two distinct
types being evolved. The Riverina Pol-
warth is big-framed, with a bulky, “tippy”
fleece; the Victorian type is smaller,
finer- and shorter-woolled—practically a
merino in appearance —and very light in
the bone.
SHEARING-SHED LAYOUT.
“Murrawong”: I agree with “Dead
Finish’s” layout (B. 20/6/’34), except on
one point. An L shed, which he suggests,
is one of the hardest types to work. The
best system for the woolman is to run
the board across the shed to form one
side of the wool-room. The wool-tables
can then be arranged to be equidistant
from all shearers. I know one L shed
with a narrow board on which it takes
one man all his time to pick up for three
shearers. In the wool-room-board type,
a boy can easily pick up for five. The
latter type is also safer, the board is
easier to keep clean, and there is no need
to let the shorn sheep cross the fleece
as they sometimes must in an L shed.
In addition, the classer has the shearers
and shedhands under his eye all the
time.
An L shed may have low chutes with
the “shorn” pens all visible from the
board. The other type needs at least
4ft. clearance between floor and ground
level; but, anyway, most sheds are built
high to shed sheep.
The wool-room-board system provides
covered pens for the shorn sheep, and,
as the pens are usually continued beyond
the shed, they have sunshine.
I favor plenty of skylights where the
sun will not strike directly on wool-
tables or classer’s table. Direct light can
be shut out with whitewash painted in-
side the skylights.
The light from low side windows when
the sun is low is disconcerting. Anyone
about to build a new shed should get
an experienced classer, a shearer and a
presser to have a look at the plans. I
know one otherwise perfect shed marred
by the fact that all the chutes are built
for left-handed shearers.
HAND-FEEDING SHEEP.
“Lion”: Winter dry-period feeding
is best started before the feed in the
paddock has given out completely, and
before the stock themselves have got too
poor. It is a losing game to allow the
wool to get tender. A little extra money
or time soent on the sheep more than
repays itself.
Every good stockman should know
exactly when a paddock is cutting out.
No advice can help him.
Here are some proved tips on how to
make a little feed go a long way:
Keep a good salt lick up to the sheep
all the time —it aids digestion and stops
impaction, which often kills sheep when
on foods with too much fibre content.
Feed on lucerne hay if possible—it
has a high value for stock. Hay is
better than ensilage. If compelled to
feed on scrub be sure to give a concen-
trate food as well with as much protein
in as possible—sheep nuts, wheat and oats
are all good. The best way to feed
wheat, which can be dangerous if sheep
get too much, is to bore several holes in
the bottom of the cart or sulky and drive
over the paddock, letting the grain fall
en route.
The sheep have to collect it slowly.
About a bag to 300 sheep per day,
with plenty of scrub, should keep them
in fair condition, especially if the pad-
dock can provide pickings. Hence the
value of starting before all the grass has
gone.
When feeding hay drive round in a
big circle, as this prevents the strong
sheep from following the waggon and
getting all the best of the feed first
Change the sheep around often.
Change helps in general health of the
sheep farm more than many think. Also,
keep the weakest sheep on the best feed.
These are the main points, but the
golden rule is: Start before the sheep
have got weak, and before the paddocks
have cut out completely.
MAIDEN EWES.
“A.H.S.”: “Jumbuck” (B. 23 /5 / ’34)
says “Tipster” won’t find many graziers
to agree with his advice to join maiden
ewes separately. I have done it for four
years with good results.
“Egad” (B. 16/5/ ’34) is, wrong, too,
when he says “Never join young rams
with maiden ewes.” Young rams in good
condition are better workers than old
rams. During the past four years I have
twice joined 3 p.c. of 2T rams with
maiden ewes and marked 85 p.c. of
lambs —the same percentage as from the
older ewes.
CRUTCHING VERSUS JETTING.
“Sheepo”: As “Crutchem” (B. 6/6/’34)
says, there’s a lot of argument as to
method. I fail to see why. I have seen
strong advocates of jetting turn round
and have their sheep crutched when flies
were bad, even though the same sheep
had been jetted a few weeks previously.
If jetting gives the immunity claimed
for it, why didn’t they jet again?
Seasonal conditions determine when to
crutch, but in normal years the system
that gave me the best results was to
crutch twice a year all ewes except
weaners. The combs run over the wool
with the latter, and they can only be
clutched once. 1 crutched first as close
to lambing as was safe, and then again
during the early summer. 11 flies hap-
pened along earlier than usual or if a
wave came within a few months after
the first crutch ing, the ewes would be
treated.
What militates against effective results
is the haphazard manner in which some
crutching is carried out. The mere
“dagging” of ewes is waste of time. The
wool must be shorn away from above the
tail, well into the crutch and down to
the hocks on the insides and outsides of
the legs. There should always be a
reliable dip solution on hand for treating
cuts. Otherwise a fly attraction remains.
Crutching may cost more than jetting,
but there’s no danger of crutched sheep
dying from arsenical poisoning. There’s
always this risk when an arsenical solu-
tion is used for jetting.
DIPPING FOR FLY.
“W.D.Mc.”: “Maggoty” in “Still More
Blowflies” (B. 23/5/34) and “Crutchem”
and “8.H.H.” (B. 6/6/34) write about
remedies, but no one mentions effective
dipping, which is so far the only real
preventive that I know of. Trapping
flies is a waste of time and money. In
this Vic. district, which is bad for
fly (they will blow the blankets on the
clothesline), you can go out 40 miles
into the bush, with no human habitation
within that distance, put a piece of meat
on a log and in five minutes there will
be thousands of blowflies on it. How
are you going to trap them? I have
not had one strike this summer. The
flock was dipped six weeks off shears
in a full-strength powder arsenic dip. 1
have seen two flocks with only the wire
fence between them —one, dipped in a
liquid dip, with a 30 p.c. strike, and the
other, put through arsenic powder dip,
absolutely free.
If sheepowners will only instal “walk-
in” dips and dip their sheep properly we
shall hear less of fly troubles.
THOSE BALE WEIGHTS.
“Sheepo”: “Valerin” (B. 30/5/34)
misses my point. No woolbuyer is likely
to overestimate the yield of a lightweight
bale. Light pressing of fleece wool does
not benefit the grower, but there is such
a thing as the happy medium.
Apart from the saving in the value of
packs, growers lose through having to
pay more than they should in charges, for
which buyers must allow when valuing.
It is almost impossible to gel good
weights of light-conditioned fleece wools
into a bale, but, with the whole of the
Commonwealth’s sheep cutting on an
average 91b. wool per head, there is no
reason why the average weights of the
bales of last season (3061 b.) should not
be increased to at least 3401 b. without
any deleterious effect. Saving at either
end means lower cost of production.
IS SAFFRON A PEST?
“Valerin”: In good times I waged war
on saffron thistles, and adjoining holders
commended or condemned this practice
according to whether their land was clean
or infested. Depresh forced me to
abandon the work, and I’m just begin-
ning to realise I have wasted a lot of
hard cash. Recent experience raises the
doubt whether this thistle is really
noxious. When it is young stock eat it,
and when the seed falls they thrive on it.
In the winter it shelters and encourages
a growth of grass which is not noticeable
on clean land. A Gundagai (N.S.W.)
grazier put a number of fattening wethers
on to lucerne and the others on to a
saffron-infested paddock. The latter were
ready for market a fortnight sooner and
realised a better price than the lucerne-
fed. Other sheepmen have had similar
experiences.
This year I noted that ’hoppers did not
invade saffron country to anything the
same extent as open pasture.
In N.S.W. western areas graziers are
beginning to discover that saffron is a
splendid preventive of wind erosion,
which, in drought-time, means a heavy
loss of soil. Even in gully erosion a
thick growth of saffron helps to silt up
the smaller channels.
THE INCREASING BURR PEST.
“Jumbuck”: Both Noogoora and gal-
vanised burrs are causing Queensland
woolgrowers heavy losses, and the pests
are spreading to districts once free.
Floods and birds undoubtedly transfer
the seed, but an increasing menace is
travelling sheep.
The Act needs altering. Sheep travel-
ling from infested country should be
either kept off country that is clean, or
stock inspectors should do as one did at
Winton (W.Q.) a couple of years ago.
(Continued on page 24.)


IMPLEMENTS
for Farms Pastures Orchards and Vineyards
Sunshine Farm Machinery has earned a reputation for efficiency, reliability and long service. Ask the
local agent, or write direct for a general catalogue and price list. Agencies throughout Australia.
SUNBLADE
Pasture Harrows
Don’t waste superphosphate pasture
harrowing removes it from the foliage,
prevents stock from licking it up, works
it into the soil, and allows rain to wash
it through the loosened surface to the
roots. Three sizes, cutting 4ft., 6ft.
and Bft. wide.
THE SUNFLOW
Lime and Fertilizer Dropper.
m
Two
Sizes.
Bft. 3in.
and
4ft. Bin.
Illustrating
4ft. Bin. Size.
SUNSHINE No. 5 2-KNIFE CHAFFCUTTER
ħ
WITH SUNDIAL
2-H.P. ENGINE
An outfit that never fails to
please. Cutter has 8-2-in. mouth
and cuts chaff fin., Jin. or fin.
Capacity is 10 cwt. per hour,
but larger quantities can be put through by heavier feeding. Sundial
2-h.p. engine drives it easily, and is an ideal engine for farm, dairy and
industrial work up to 2 horsepower.
A favorite for top-dressing. Drops lime or
fertilizer evenly in both light and heavy dress-
ings. Low slung hopper gives a short fall
for the fertilizer—no undesirable dispersion.
Easy to fill, and a durable lid keeps the
contents dry. Quantities being sown can
be varied instantly or stopped altogether—
no waste while going from one place to
another. Two sizes: (1) Sowing Width, Bft.
3in.; hopper capacity, 3 sacks. (2) Sowing
Width, 4ft. Bin.; hopper capacity, 2 sacks.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine, Victoria.
N.S.W. Branch: 27-39 Broadway, Sydney.
PTY.
LTD.
Write for a copy of
the book, “Pasture
Development in Aus-
tralia,” by J. Leith
Gillespie, B.Agric.Sc.
It will be sent to you
free.
SUNSHINE
Diamond Harrows
Used on thousands of farms throughout
Australia because they are strong,
durable and efficient. Sizes, 1 to 10
sections, covering 3 to 33 feet.
SUNPEARL
Disc Harrow
h
Strong, well-balanced, and light in
draught, for orchard work, row crops,
and light field work. Reversible for
in-throw or out-throw, and has levers
to alter cut to any workable langle.
Discs in two gangs, extensible for any
gap up to two feet. Sizes, 8, 10 and
RHEUMATISM, JOINT PAINS
Stabbing Pains in the Back, Lumbago
Be warned of serious
KIDNEY TROUBLE
Down-dragging weakness, awful
backache, an agony to stoop or
get straight again, sharp, shooting
pains through the muscles —hour
after hour of pain—no wonder
these dreadful symptoms of kid-
ney trouble line your face and
make you feel and look too-old,
worn-out and without energy for
anything.
Weak kidneys—yes, that is what makes
your life a misery, although, perhaps, you
do not know it, and only a remedy that acts
directly through the kidneys can help you.
RELIEF IN 24 HOURS
Most confidently we suggest that if rheu-
matism, backache, or kidney weakness
makes your life a misery, you cannot do
better than to start at once with the tried
and trusted remedy —De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills.
In 24 hours from the very first dose you
will see that this remedy does act directly
on the kidneys—the seat of your trouble.
Years younger, pain-free, brighter and
happier than ever —that is how you will
feel after taking De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. The testimony of thousands
who have tried and tested this famous
remedy tells you so.
But prove this for yourself by getting a
supply and taking this remedy regularly for
a few days.
WHEN ALL ELSE FAILS
THIS WILL HELP YOU
Do not put off until to-morrow the health
you can have to-day. Tried and trusted so
many years, a safe, sure, family remedy,
De Witt’s Pills will not fail you.
Go to your chemist now. Ask him about
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. He
can tell you they have been combined es-
pecially for the purpose of driving from the
body pain-giving poisons, and to build up
vigour and vitality. Buy a 3/6, or more
economical 6/6, size box of “ De Witt’s”
to-day. Definitely refuse any substitute,
for we can honestly assure you that there
is nothing “just as good” for kidney
troubles as
N
m
KIDHEY TROUBLE
THE CAUSE
De WITT'S PILLS
THE REMEDY
Mr. Chas. Hayward, of 15, Lombard Street,
Glebe Point, Sydney, New South Wales, writes :
“A few years ago I suffered severely with
rheumatism and kidney trouble. A frien
advised me to try De Witt’s Kidney an
Bladder Pills, and I am very thankful to say
that after taking only three bottles of is
wonderful remedy I found complete relief.
De Witt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills


The Authoritative
Australian Dog Book.
“BARKERS AND BITERS”
by
ROBERT KALESKI.
At all good bookshops or direct
from The Bulletin.
3/6 (postage 3d. extra).
I
s
■
K-&
sl; r
Made easy-fitting for
golf wear!
And made extra-strong, too. . .
with a rugged, all-weather sole
that will carry you in comfort
over the roughest going. This
Abbey Brogue is a handsome
shoe. . . flexible and beautifully
finished. It has the distinctive
Abbey upper, shaped to the in-
step arch.
Three widths per size.
Ensuring exact fit. . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size and ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
WRITE FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY. BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 392.
44 Master ”
Home Lighting
Plants 32 VOLTS.
Capacity; 20 lights.
Price ,£75, With Batteries.
F. 0.8. Melbourne. No Sales Tax.
2i h.p. Water-Cooled Motor, 600 Watt
Generator, Direct Coupled, Power Drive
off End of Generator. Self-starting.
CATALOGUES ON REQUEST.
Motor Spares Pty. Ltd.
547 Elizabeth Street, Melb. C.l
FARMERS...
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
■ Horticulture. Veterinary
■ Notes Etc .... All in ..
|THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 6-
The BRUCE EASY, PROVEN,
CERTAIN PILE REMEDY
Painless, stainless, odourless, antiseptic.
For external use.
Bead what an Eminent Chemist reports.
The Laboratory, 22 Napoleon St., Sydney.
March 14, 1933.
The formula of your pile remedy submitted
to me could have no effect other than bene-
ficial. I gave your sample to a client who
had suffered many years, and before he had
used half the bottle he reported himself cured.
GROVE JOHNSON, F.C.S. (Load.),
“Honours” City and Guilds of London Inst.,
Analytical and Consulting Chemist.
Testimonials posted free.
Price 5/- per bottle.
Post free, 6/9, securely packed in plain card-
board box.
Obtainable from
Robert Bruce, Boom 7, 15 Hunter St., Sydney.
Also at
14 Upper Bayvievv St., McMahon’s Pt., N. Syd.
ANOTHER BIG
AND BRIGHT
PAPER
is The PERTH
WESTRALIA’S
LARGEST
NEWSPAPER
UNEQUALLED
ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Melbourne Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins St.
Educational.
TAMWORTH
CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GIRLS’ SCHOOL
Complete Course from Kindergarten to Leaving
Certificate.
Write to Miss A. M. Parr, 8.A., Principal.
On the very top of the glorious
BLUE MOUNTAINS, N.S.W.
“OSBORNE” LADIES’ COLLEGE,
Paradise Hill, Blackheath.
Fine mansion amidst lovely scenery. Efficient
teaching staff. Pupils prepared for Honours,
Leaving Certificate Examination. Solely a
resident school of fifty pupils. Sport includes
golf, tennis, etc. Religion Undenominational.
For Prospectus, apply Lady Principal.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SCHOOL FOR BOYS.
This School was founded by the Right Rev.
Horace H. Dixon, M.A. (Cantab.), Bishop
Coadjutor of the Diocese of Brisbane. The
present Headmaster is Mr. B. G. Lawrance, M.A.
(Cantab.). Full particulars regarding the course
provided at the Senior School and at the Junior
School, also illustrated Prospectus, will be for-
warded on application to: THE BURSAR.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL, SOUTHPORT,
QUEENSLAND.
ST. HILDA S SCHOOL, SOUTHPORT.
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
Education is provided at St. Hilda’s from sub-
primary to Matriculation standard. Prospectus
and full particulars will be gladly supplied upon
application to the PRINCIPAL: WINIFRED
L. FITTOCK, B.A. Third term for both
schools commences 24th July.
ANNESLEY, BOWRAL
Chairman of Council: Rev. L. E. Bennett,
M.A., B.D.
DAY AND BOARDING SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
FROM K.G. TO L.C.
A modern, well-equipped school in surround-
ings of exceptional healthfulness and charm,
2210 feet above sea level. Fees moderate.
Telephone: Prospectus from Headmistress,
Bowral 194. MISS A. WHEEN, 31. A., Dip. Ed.
“SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on—but the
fundamental basis of all safe
driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
• in Good Condition.
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life, specify
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING when
re-lining is necessary.
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
when he held a mob infested with Noo-
goora seeds until they had been plucked
of the scourges.
Burr destruction would be of greater
benefit to the country than all the dirt-
shifting jobs. It’s time the Government
realised that stock routes and Crown
lands are the burr nurseries.
QUEENSLAND BEEF PRICES.
“Duke of Derrimut”: Like many
another grazier, I am not happy about
the prices obtained for beef since the
establishment of the Brisbane Abattoir
saleyards. I think we had a better spin
under the old methods. Here is the aver-
age price of prime bullock beef at New-
market saleyards from January, 1923, to
November 19, 1931, the date on which
selling at Newmarket ceased:
Year. Average per 1001 b.
1923 23/-
1924 25/-
1925 26/-
1926 27/-
1927 29/-
1928 32/-
1929 35/-
1930 33/-
1931 (to November 19) ... 25/-
Average price for the nine years = 28/-
per 1001 b.
Cohipare these averages with those at
the Abattoir saleyards from November
23, 1931, to May 12 last:
Year. Average per 1001 b.
1931 (from November 23).. 23/-
1932 20/-
1933 21/-
1934 (to May 12) 20/-
Average price for the 2\ years = 21/- per
1001 b.
I attribute the fall to absence of com
petition. At Newmarket 40 or more
butchers bid for supplies. At the Abat-
toirs six is a good muster.
CALF-FEEDING BAILS.
“Jay Gee”: Besides having a set of
bails for the milkers, we have a miniature
set for feeding calves. By removing the
middle rails from two nine-feet sections
of post-and-rail fence, we fitted each
section with three small bails about as
many feet apart, nailing three-by-one
hardwood slats between each.
The poddies were a bit timid at first,
but soon acquired the bailing habit. The
advantages of feeding in this manner are
that buckets are not kicked about and
damaged, and each calf gets his or her
intended share. Most important of all,
heifer calves so educated take much
more kindly to the senior bails during
breaking-in operations a couple of years
later.
FISTULOUS WITHERS.
“The Breaker”: “Agamemnon” (B.
30/5/’34) is right about the danger of
suppurating fistulous withers. Any horse
suffering is, unless isolated, just as great
a menace to other horses as is a “scabby”
sheep amongst a clean flock.
With correct and careful treatment by
one who understands the complaint, a
fistula can be cured, but it’s a long,
painstaking business.
Although cases are rare, unbroken
horses have developed fistulous withers
—obviously, it seems to me, through
swallowing the germs given off from
another infected horse.
Disease in Stock Acts need tightening
up. If the destruction of horses suffer-
ing from fistulous withers is not insisted
upon, owners should be compelled to
keep them isolated. As “Agamemnon”
says, the disease is on the increase, and
crude methods of treatment only spread
it
BURNING OFF TIMBER.
“Spring”: How many of us bitterly
regret having been so zealous in clean-
ing up our paddocks!
Paddocks full of fallen timber have to
be picked up and burnt off ; but, to get
best results, do the job as follows: —.
Leave all sound logs possible across
the slopes of hills ; the steeper the hill
the more should be left. These will
prevent heavy rains from washing the soil
away. It will catch up behind the logs,
and in three years you will be astonished
at what they have saved. Steep hillsides
that have been cleaned bare of timber
depreciate in carrying capacity and value
each year.
Leave all the small stuff on the ground.
This soon rots away, and leaves much
valuable humus.
Leave plenty of sound logs about the
paddocks. In cold weather ewes and
lambs use them for shelter against wind
and rain. Lambs can get under the roots
and so escape the attentions of Mr.
Crow and co.
If the paddock has rabbits, don’t burn
the hollow logs until you have dug the
burrows out. In each hollow log will be
found one or more rabbits, which are
easily got on a wire or chopped out.
Logs make excellent traps, and save the
pack a great deal of leg work. This is
the greatest aid I know in getting the
“last” rabbit. They always make for
the nearest log when chased.
RINGING IN HASTE.
“F.L.8.”: Don’t be too free with the
axe when ringing green timber.
Leave all good straight timber of value
—there is never half enough on most pro-
perties for ultimate requirements. It is
only in the after years when we need
fencing materials that we realise how
valuable it is.
I could name dozens of properties
where the owners have rung in haste and
repented at leisure. They have gone miles
perhaps for what at one time was on
their own places.
If clearing for the plough, leave all
good splitting trees, whether dead or
alive, within reason. It is far easier to
plough around them than to go miles for
building materials.
Leave belts of timber between your
property and the prevailing winds. Wind-
breaks and shelter are needed for both
stock and crops. A tree is a windbreak
along the ground for three times its own
height, so think of the fallow that it
saves from being blown away. Wind is
responsible for a great deal of the soil
erosion that is worrying the farmer
to-day.
Green trees in swampy country should
never be rung, as they assist in keeping
the ground sweet and help to dry up the
swamp.
Stringybark and box can be very useful
in a drought as roughage when feeding
a concentrate protein food to the sheep.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“A.M.S.” : If falling trees singlehanded
with a crosscut-saw is tiresome and it is
difficult to keep the saw at the right
angle, sharpen a foot length of fin. steel
rod at one end and thread it through a
wooden roller, shrinking a nut over the
rod 3in. from the pointed end, and
another on the blunt end. Drive the
point of roller into the tree. The saw
rests on the roller.
“Grey Box”: A piece of sheepskin
makes the best binding for a rubbing
trace. Peg a shorn first pelt out, and
when required cut a strip wide enough
to go around the chain ; soak in water
for an hour, bind on with twine, and you
have a de luxe job.
“Wrash”: Never twitch a tie-rope hold-
ing a load or bundle as you would a
chain. It destroys the fibre and eventu-
ally frays the rope in twain. Use two
twitch-sticks. Bringing a double of the
rope around the first, pass the second
through the loop and, using it like a
capstan-bar, wind the rope round the
first stick till taut. Then fasten the second
stick to the rope with a line or wire.
“The Breaker”: If the prad’s teeth are
all right and it starts to lose condition for
no apparent reason, give it twice daily a
dipper of bran in which has been mixed
a couple of dessertspoonfuls of sulphur.
If on hard feed, add the sulphur every
meal.
“Milton”: Save your horse’s back
from galling with a horsehair saddlecloth
made from the trimmings of tail and
mane. Soak the hair in water and tease
it out on to a bag, roughly forming the
shape of a saddle. Place boards on top
and allow it to dry. Make a large
crochet-needle from a wooden meat-
skewer. Jab this through the hair all over,
drawing back hair in the needle-notch
each time. Turn in the outspreading hairs
and draw it through to bind the edges.
Use between the saddle and a Kersey
saddlecloth.
“Wandi”: Farmers and graziers should
discourage the slaughter of quail. The
birds are ground foragers which destroy
countless seeds of noxious weeds, besides
many insect pests, including the cotton-
ball weevil. Farms are favorite haunts
of the stubble quail, and they would be
much more numerous, and pests propor-
tionately less, if they were left alone.
When encouraged, they become very
tame.
“Rich. J.”: Paddocks infested with
skeleton weed Chondrilla juncea—
should be heavily stocked, and when the
growth of the feed has been reduced a
thick pasture mixture should be sown
with a large proportion of subterranean
clover. Once a heavy pasture sward has
been established, constant heavy grazing
should reduce the menace to normal
proportions.


COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
ĥ
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
CONTRACT BRIDGE—BY Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
"The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman):
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
SMOKE-OH!
“All that he could find of the stolen bridle
was the bit.” — “Herald.”
Still, he got a bit of his own back.
* *'
“The fisherman who made the record catch
gave half the credit to the boys who baited
his hooks.” — “Telegraph."
They also serve who only stand and
bait.
“Each of the six burglars in the gang was
exceptionally fat.” — “Sun.”
As thick as thieves.
v- *
“Raspberry and cream butter sponge. Light
and leathery.”— Wellington ( ML .) “Evening
Post.”
Like mother used to make.
* *
“Edmund Lowe strides about in a solar
toupe.”— “S. M. Herald” on “Bombay Mail.”
A good old-fashioned wig would have
been more suited to the climate.
“Get anything from that joint?”
“No. A lawyer lives there.”
“Lawyer! Gosh, did y’ lose anything?”
“A man has offered a prize to the inventor
of a buttonless shirt.” — “Telegraph.”
There will be great rivalry among
laundry-owners.
THE VICTIM.
The bleary-eyed individual on the tram
seat was growling, “It’s no good, this
late business. When they keep a chap
up till nine o’clock it’s bad enough, but
three and four in the morning is no
joke at all. It ought to be stopped. A
bloke never gets any sleep.”
The sympathetic old lady agreed with
him. “That’s scandalous,” she said.
“Poor man, have they, been making you
work back very much?”
Bleary-eyes stared. “Work back?” he
queried. “Who said anything about
that? I’ve been up listening to the Test.”
M. D. S.
LEAVES FROM THE PAST.
Vll.— Abos. and Their Habits.
Many people are not aware that the
abos. were in Australia before the white
men came, although a glance at any
photograph of the landing of Captain
Cook will prove this.
Captain Cook’s unpublished journal
records his reception by King Billy.
That potentate presented the great navi-
gator with a pair of goannas. Cook
retaliated with some disused Gorgonzola
cheese, and the heir-apparent, Nulla
Nulla, gave a demonstration of throwing
boomerangs. These, he explained, were
usually thrown at members of rival
tribes. The boomerangs always came
back. The persons hit seldom did.
Cook also records the intricate system
of currency used at the time, thus:
12 woodgrubs *= 1 goanna; 6 goannas =
1 ’possum or 2 lubras; 3 ’possums and 1
kangaroo-rat = 1 wallaby; 20 wallabies
= plurry lot.
With the introduction of money, this
system fell into disuse. This was a pity,
as it was very useful for keeping the
lubras in their proper place. So long
as a gin knew her exact value, viz.,
three medium-sized goannas or one small
’possum, she stayed put, but when her
position was no longer clearly defined
she got above
herself, and Jacky
had to work for
his living. This
led to the decay
of the race.
Although most
abos. speak Eng-
-lis h, the wild
tribes along the
East - West rail-
way still cling to
their own lingo.
It is the simplest
language in the
world, being con-
fined to two sen-
tences, “Gib bit
’bacca” and
“Tchillum you
takem foter.”
Abos. make
fair cricketers,
and their keen
senses of touch
and smell lead
them to excel at
blind-man’s buff ;
but they are not
much good at
contract bridge,
being unused to
conventions.
Nowadays their
main occupations
are selling fac-
tory-made boom-
erangs to gullible tourists, posing for shirt
advertisements and passing innocent re-
marks suitable for Minns’s cartoons.
Bibliography: “Ten Knights in a Wurley”;
“The Comeback”; “The Dark Shadow”;
“Mine Tinkit” (collected speeches); “Gin and
Two.”
Jasby.
* *
AROUND THAT CORNER.
“A definite improvement can be seen every-
where.” — News item.
Business is certainly getting back to
normal. People are actually looking at
their bills when the postman delivers
them, and the other day I noticed a land-
lord leave a tenant’s house with a smile
of anticipation on his face. Apparently
he had received a promise to pay some-
thing soon. A friend of mine told me
that he actually saw a couple of five-
pound notes the other day. Of course,
even these signs may not mean that the
depression is over, but yesterday I got
definite proof of the return to prosperity.
I saw a barrowman serving 12 bananas
to the dozen.
W. P. T.
CONDOLENCES FOR JULY
BRIDEGROOMS.
It is most unfortunate you weren’t
married in June, but still it won’t make
much difference in the long run. Any-
how, it has given your friends a chance
to hang off for the winter sales, and.
although the presents won’t
be any better for this, the
fact that they’ve got them
more cheaply will mean
that their grudge against
you won’t be so great.
As a matter of fact, it is
extremely unwise for a man
to marry in any month that
hasn’t an “r” in it, and pro-
bably you should have
waited until September. It
all depends on your bride,
because, strangely enough,
it is unlucky for a woman
to marry in any month
that has an “r” in it. Careful
study of divorce statistics
will show that almost every
unhappy marriage can be
traced to one or other of
these causes.
If you doubt whether you
are marrying the right girl,
dismiss such thoughts im-
mediately. Go right ahead.
It won’t make any differ-
enc e. Whichever you
choose you’re bound to be
sorry, and, after all, if after
marrying Kate you are able
to spend the rest of your
life telling yourself that
you should have married
Mabel—well, that is some
consolation. In any case,
Mabel’s husband is pro-
bably saying the same
thing about Kate.
The main thing to remember is not to
worry. Keep your spirits up and don’t
let them see that they’ve got you down.
You’ve allowed yourself to be tricked
into this business, and you’ll have to
make the best of it.
The old adage “Marry in July, repent
in August” applies only to those who
marry during the last week in luly.
Those who marry sooner repent in July.
Uco.
THOSE WERE THE DAYS.
“Showing a fine sense of anticipation, Grim-
mett had his hands outstretched waiting for
the catch off his own bowling actually before
Leyland had shaped for the strike.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
This performance, good as it may
appear in the light of the present medi-
ocre standard of cricket, is positively
anaemic beside the wiliness of past giants
of the game.
The wizard Trickem was perhaps the
daddy of them all. How often have
we seen him at the crease, pretending to
converse with the umpire while the bats-
man was viewing the placing of the field,
and then, suddenly taking the ball from
where it was concealed in his flowing
Dundreary, have the off-stump uprooted
before even the semblance of a stroke
was attempted.
It was during a match against Lord
Noodlenut’s XI in ’BB that the under-
arm expert Tossemup, who was a former
billiards and sprint champion, achieved
undying fame. His favorite device was
to pack nine fieldsmen on the off side
and toss a very high one up over the leg
stump. The check side he put on made
the ball “float” for about half a minute,
by which time he would be waiting on
the leg boundary for the inevitable catch,
when the batsman skied the ball to what
he thought was an unprotected field.
Australia unfortunately lost the ser-
vices of this genius. One day during a
Test match he tore out to the boundary
and was standing there waiting for the
“sitter” when a crash of timber pro-
claimed that the ball had struck the
wicket. Bitterly disappointed at the
failure of his scheme, he gave up the
game. s. W . K .
* #
“By helping your fellowman you place him
eternally in your debt.” — “S. M. Herald,”
Exactly. That’s the objection to lend-
ing money.
“John, you have grown! Last time I saw you you
were no bigger than me.”
“Inviting others to drink with him, he an-
nounced that he intended to spend his last
pound on drinks.” — “Sun.”
He shouted for all he was worth.
IMPUNITY OF IMPUDENCE.
Gus is the most successfully insolent
fellow I have ever met. An insignificant
shrimp of a man physically, you might
express astonishment that his head re-
mains intact upon his shoulders—you
might innocently ask why someone had
not punched it off long ago. Like a man
protected by a special dispensation of
Fate, Gus goes his grossly rude way
cheekily supporting the theory that man-
ners are superfluous, particularly road
manners. He drives a ten-ton truck.
P. O. M. C.
RELEASE.
The Mallee farmer was deep in his
farm accounts when the warmonger
arrived. He was trying to calculate how
much he would still owe the country after
the bank, the super, company, the imple-
ment firm and the storekeeper had fought
over the proceeds of his 3|-bushel crop.
The warmonger spoke of the dangers of
an empty Australia; told how Japan,
Russia, Germany, France and U.S.A.
were all arming feverishly.
The farmer showed little interest. The
visitor became angry.
“You’re a pacifist,” he challenged.
“You believe in the League of Nations,
disarmament and all that rot about the
brotherhood of man. But tell me. What
would you do if a Japanese johnny came
up to you, punched you on the nose and
said, ‘Clear out. I want your farm’?
What would you do?”
The farmer glanced at his calculations.
“What would I do? I’ll tell you what I’d
do. I’d run like hell before he changed
his mind.”
Rock-an-oar.
SATISFIED.
Although she works in a factory,
My dainty darling, Pearl,
A gem of purest ray is she;
And so, to a lovelorn chap like me,
She’s a satis-factory girl.
T. W. N.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned Digger, living in bush, wants to
borrow textbook on short-story writing.—2l66.
Man (34), ex-R.N., exp. bushman, prospec-
tor, crocodile and buffalo hunter, wants em-
ployment of any sort. —2179.
Qualified male nurse (35), exp. with mental
cases and as nurse-valet, wants employment.
Will travel anywhere.—2l72.
Young man (28), N.S.W., 10 years’ exp. sheep
station, holder of second-grade commercial wire-
less-operator’s certificate, knowledge of book-
keeping, wants position Cenlralia or else-
where, any capacity.—2ls9.
.Man, N.S.W., would like to get in touch
with sandalwood-getters’ party.—2l39.
M.L. chemist (25), single, wants position in
Australian city pharmacy, or would act as dis-
penser-chauffeur to doctor. —2239.
Words of poem which begins “There is an
old adage, which may or may not be true,
which says love is blind.”—2246.
To buy or borrow copy of St. Yve’s “Mission
des Juifs.”—2243.
To buy “The Inlander,” Vol 111, Nos. 2 and
4; Vol. V, No. 1; Vol. VI, No. 1 ; new series
numbers 2 to 18. —2242.
To buy books or papers printed by George
or Robert Howe (Sydney), or by Andrew Bent
(Hobart), Broinowski’s “Birds of Australia”
and Bigge’s Reports, 1822-23. —2232.
To buy books dealing with breeding and
ailments of dogs, particularly Scottish and
Sealyham terriers.—2l96.
To buy “The Illustrated Australian Medical
Journal,” by P. E. Muskett.—2l46.
To buy “National Geographic Magazine,”
any numbers.—2l3s.
Words of poem “The Stockman’s Dream.”
—2193.
Words of Brunton Stephens’s “Chinee Cook”
verses.—2l9l.
Words of poem “Flying Kate.” —2130.
Words of songs “No One Like Mother to
Me” and “My Darling.”—2l36.
Words of old comic song entitled “Shirts.”
—2230.
To buy book dealing with the handling and
breaking of horses for station purposes.—
2222.
To buy “Engineering Construction in Steel
and Timber,” by Warren, “Surveying and
Levelling,” by Parkes, and “Sanitary Engineer-
ing,” by Woods. —2225.
Information Sought.
Does the description of the Test matches
broadcast by Sydney radio stations come direct
from England ? —2041.
No; it is announced from Sydney studios.
Cablegrams are sent from England at the end
of every over, and the announcer constructs
his. story on the information contained in them.
This is done in conjunction with studio effects,
gramophone records being used to produce the
applause when a ball is sent to the boundary
or a wicket falls.
(1) Some details concerning Queen Christina
of Sweden ? (2) Is the talkie “Queen Chris-
tina,” recently shown in Australia, historically'
correct ? —2095.
(1) She succeeded her father, Gustavus Adol-
phus, in 1632, being then six; assumed control
of affairs of State at JB, and concluded very
advantageous peace treaties with Denmark
and Germany. She was crowned at the age
of 23, and abdicated five years later, despairing
of reconciling the nobles and the rest of the
population. She was a student of philosophy,
and . attracted to her Court Descartes and
Grotius. (2) The love affair with the Spanish
Ambassador is more a matter of Court scandal
than historical record, and the enthronement of
the young Queen at the age of six anticipates
events by 17 years. Otherwise the romance
sticks fairly close to facts.
(1) Can< you tell me anything about the
author of “Little Women,” now being screened
in Australia, with a list of her books ? (2) Is
there a good biography available ? —2143.
(1) She was Louisa May Alcott, born in
Pennsylvania, U.S.A., 1832; died 1888. Her
principal works are “Little Women,” its sequel,
“Good Wives,” and “Little Men.” Before
this she wrote “Hospital Sketches,” “Aunt
Jo’s Scrapbag” and “Jo’s Boys and How
They Turned Out.” (2) “Louisa May Alcott,”
by Ednah D. Cheney.
(1) Name of the theme song in the talkie
“Little Women” ? (2) Story of “Invitation to
the Waltz,” by Weber ? —2047.
(1) “None But a Lonely Heart.” (2) The
opening phrases represent a gallant of the
Georgian period proposing a waltz to his lady
love and their exchange of courtesies. After
the last strains of the dance there is an echo
of the opening phrases, representing the gentle-
man conducting the lady back to her place.
I understand that a table is prepared by the
Federated Taxpayers’ Assocs. of Australia
showing the amount of taxation a head paid
in various countries of the world and in the
Austialian States. If so, what are the figures
for 1933 ?— 2147.
United Kingdom, £l4 10s. 6d.; France, £8
18s. 6d.; Germany (Federal only), £5 3s. lid.;
Italy, no figures for 1933, but £4 12s. in 1932;
U.S.A. (Federal only), £3 16s. Australian
States (including Federal taxation averaging
£8 10s. 9d.): N.S.W., £l5 10s. Id.; Vic., £l3
2s. 3d.; Queensland, £l4 11s. 3d.; S. Aus.,
£l3 ss. Id.; W. Aus., £l2 2s. 9d.; Tas., £l2
18s. 9d.; Australia (Federal and States), £l4
4s. 3d.
What is the taxation under the W.A. Divi-
dend Duties Act, 1902 ?—2151.
Companies are taxable on profits earned at
Is. 3d. in the £l, plus 15 p.c. super tax,
except life-assurance cos., which are taxed
only on income from interest and invest-
ments, and are not subject to the super tax,
and insurance cos. other than life, which pay
2 p.c. of the gross premium income, less re-
insurance, plus 15 p.c. super tax. Pastoral
cos. are allowed a deduction for losses of
stock through drought incurred during two
years prior to year of assessment. Dividends
received from a local co. are exempt in the
hands of the receiving co. A mining co.
other than a coal-mining co. is not taxable
until its profits exceed capital paid up in cash
since June 30, 1924.
What is the difference between the terms
“Indian officer" and “British officer in India” ?
—2030.
The Army in India is composed of (a)
British Army in India (regular British troops
on foreign service) and ( b ) Indian Army troops.
Latter comprise native ranks and n.c.os., with
native officers and British officers. The
native officers wear service uniforms and badges
of rank resembling those of British officers,
but their headdress is invariably the turban.
They have no parallel rank in the British
Army, actually coming between the rank of
sgt.-major and the holder of a commission, and
the senior Indian officer ranks below the junior
British officer of a regiment. The white officer
holds the King’s commission, while the native
holds the Viceroy’s commission. Until after
the Great War no native could hold the King’s
commission, although in one or two rare in-
stances this rule was waived. Latterly, a policy
of Indianising the army has been adopted. A
percentage of King’s commissions is annually
granted to selected native candidates, and, in
addition, several units have been totally Indian-
ised, the British personnel being withdrawn.
Who was Baron Munchhausen ? When was
his book first published ? Were any illustrated
editions published ? —1999.
He was Baron Karl Friedrich Hieronymus
Munchhausen (1720-97). He served in the
Russian army against the Turks, and on his
retiring to his estate of Bodenwerder amused
and astounded his friends and relations by
extraordinary tales of his adventures during the
war. A man named Rudolph Erich Raspe col-
lected these tales and, . adding many incidents
from other sources, published a book in 1785
called “Baron Miinchhausen’s Narrative of His
Marvellous Travels and Campaigns in Russia.”
It was published anonymously with a preface
by Burger, who was at first believed to be
the author; a second edition was printed in
1786, and two other editions rapidly followed.
The narrative in illustrated form ran serially
in an English magazine. Cruikshank and Gus-
tave Dore, among others, made illustrations.
Duties of the Lord High Chancellor of
Great Britain ? —2026.
He is the highest judicial officer of the
Crown and the first lay person after the royal
family, ranking between the Archbishops of
Canterbury and York. He is created by the
mere delivery of the Great Seal into his cus-
tody, and is nominally the appointee of the
Crown, though in modern usage he holds
office with the Government of the day. He
is ex officio a Privy Councillor and Speaker of
the House of Lords, and issues writs for the
assembling of Parliaments. He appoints all
Judges of both Superior and County Courts,
as well as all Justices of the Peace, and pre-
sides over the Court of Chancery and the
Supreme Court of Judicature. He possesses a
special jurisdiction over matters relating to
charities and trusts, is visitor of Royal founda-
tions, patron of Crown livings, and guardian
(through the Master in Lunacy) of infants,
idiots and lunatics. The style has been
accorded him of “Keeper of the King’s Con-
science.” Till the time of James I. this post
did not carry with it a hereditary peerage,
but such is invariably now conferred if not
already possessed.
(1) Words of. “The Pledge to the Flag,”
taught in many of the American schools and
repeated by the pupils daily ? (2) Who wrote
the words ? —2047.
(1)’It reads: “I pledge allegiance to my flag,
and the republic for which it stands, one nation,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.”
(2) Francis Bellamy, a member of the staff
of the “Youth's Companion” of Boston.
What is the gyro turn indicator in an aero-
plane used for, and how does it operate ?
2137.
It enables the pilot to keep his machine level
when flying straight and to bank at the cor-
rect angle when turning. It consists of an
air-driven gyroscope, which reacts only to
motion about a vertical axis, and is unaffected
by rolling or pitching.
If I let my (N.S.W.) cottage and pay a higher
rent elsewhere, must I pay income tax on the
rent I receive ? If so, can I claim anything in
the way of deductions other than rates and
repairs ? —1945.
The rent of cottage must be returned as
property income, and expenses incurred in the
production of assessable income may be
claimed, such as rates, repairs, interest (if any),
but not the rent of the second house.
(1) When was the Standing Public Works
Committee formed in S.A.? (2) Present mem-
bers ? (3) Salary paid to chairman and other
members in addition to their Parliamentary
salaries ? (4) What travelling expenses are
allowed per day when the committee is sitting ?
(5) Are members elected at each session of
Parliament or for the term of the Govern-
ment ? —1940.
(1) Dec. 21, 1927. (2) A. J. Blackwell, M.P.
(chairman); F. J. Condon, M.L.C.; G. F.
Jenkins, M.P.; W. Morrow, M.L.C.; R. S.
Richards, M.P.; E. Anthony, M.P.; and P. T.
Hegarton, M.P. (3) Chairman, £320; members,
£212 10s. p.a. (4) Within the State, 15s. per
day; outside the State, £1 10s. (5) Subject
to certain provisos, members of the commit-
tee are appointed to hold office for five years,
but any member is eligible for reappointment
on the expiry of his term.
(1) How is the personnel of the Royal Aus-
tralian Artillery chosen ? (2) Are there anv
vacancies at Queenscliff ? (3) Where can I get
further information ? —1947.
(1) Recruits must be between 18 and 30 and
single. There is a strict medical and dental
examination. (2) No. (3) Base Commandant,
3rd District Base, Victoria Barracks, Mel-
bourne.
(1) Do the prevalence of red hair and ruddy
complexions among the Irish and Scottish
Celts point to an admixture of Scandinavian
blood, seeing that they are rare among the Welsh
and Cornish Celts ? (2) Gardiner’s “History
of England” states that the Anglo-Saxons
killed or drove into Wales and Cornwall the
Celtic inhabitants of England. Buckle, dealing
with the same period, says that the Anglo-
Saxon invaders made serfs of the men and
spared the women and children. Which is
correct ? —1964.
(1) According to Tacitus, the earliest writer
to describe the people of Scotland, the “red
hair and big limbs” of the natives pointed
to a German origin. This does not rule out a
Scandinavian admixture, as the Teutonic con-
querors of Britain came from the borderlands
of Germany and Scandinavia. Ireland was fre-
quently invaded by Norwegians in the ninth
century. The invaders settled only in the sea-
ports, but they intermarried extensively with
the earlier inhabitants. (2) There is not neces-
sarily a contradiction. Those who did not
escape were enslaved.
(1) Biographical details concerning poet Mat-
hilde Blind, author of “The Ascent of Man” ?
(2) What did she write, and are her works
obtainable in Australia ? (3) What is her status
as a poet? —2lo3.
(1) She was born at Mannheim in 1841, and
educated in England. She was an ardent advo-
cate of women’s rights and a member of the
Pre-Raphaelite circle. She died in 1896. (2)
Most important works are “The Prophecy of
St. Oran,” “The Heather on Fire,”
“Chaunts of Life,” “The Ascent of Man”
and a translation of Marie Bashkirtseff’s
autobiography. May be obtainable second-
hand. (3) Her poems were very popular in
their day, but are out of fashion now.
(1) What steps were taken to send back to
England from Australia in the early days those
convicts whose sentences had expired ? (2)
Was any provision made to bring convicts’
families to Australia ? —2145.
(1) No provision was made for the repatria-
tion of convicts when their sentences expired;
those who did return to Great Britain either
paid their way or worked their passage, or,
in the case of some women, returned as com-
panions or wives of members of the ship’s
crew. (2) No provision was at first made to
enable a convict’s wife and family to follow
him to the colony; but in 1812 the committee
on transportation recommended further facili-
ties, and Bathurst informed Macquarie that
provision would be made for women recom-
mended as industrious and of good character
to join their husbands. An experimental group
of 10 women was sent out at public expense.
The Governor was also instructed to receive
applications from convicts or emancipists who
were in a position to support a family, and a
number of lists were forwarded to England;
but the authorities were disinclined to incur
the risk of having to maintain these persons
in the colony, and the practice does not seem
to have developed to any great extent.
(1) How are small air-guns operated, and
what is their range ? (2) Has compressed ait-
been used as a driving force in heavy artillery ?
—2157.
(1) The air is compressed in the barrel by
means of a spring, the trigger operates the valve,
and the bullet is thereupon propelled by the
elasticity of the compressed air. Most such
guns are capable of carrying a small bullet
for a distance of about 60 to 80 yards. (2)
In 1888 Capt. Zalinski, of the U.S. Artillery,
introduced an effective pneumatic gun from
which shells charged with dynamite were pro-
pelled by air at 10001 b. pressure, a store of
which is carried in reservoirs attached to the
gun. With a 10001 b. shell the gun has a
range of 2400 yards, and can be trained with
great accuracy. Harbor defences of New York
and San Francisco include some of these guns,
their great advantage being that the shells can
be timed to explode under water. An attempt
was made to use them on a gunboat in the
Spanish-American War, but without much
success.
In an English novel I came across a refer-
ence to the “Luck of Edenhall.” To what was
the author referring? —2l3B.
The “Luck of Edenhall” is a glass beaker
in the possession of Sir Nigel Musgrave. It is
enclosed in a leather case bearing the mono-
gram I H S, suggesting that it had been used
for sacramental purposes. The legend is that
fairies were surprised one evening in the man-
sion grounds, and the cup was taken from
them, upon which one of them gave forth
the words:
If this glass do break or fall,
Farewell to the luck of Edenhall.
It has not been broken, as Uhland represents
in the German ballad “Das Gluck von Eden-
hall,” which was translated into English by
Longfellow. Eden Hall was the seat of the
Musgrave family for over 460 years, but has
since passed into other hands.
Reason why a wash-house floor becomes
affected with dry rot? —2ol6.
Dry rot flourishes in sappy timber in a
moist, close atmosphere, and a wash-house is
a prolific breeding-ground for the fungus un-
less precautions are taken. The best cure is
plenty of ventilation; there should be a good
draught under the floor. The rot can be
arrested by admitting air and dressing the
timber with kerosene or plenty of salt, if the
affected parts can be sprinkled.
I am thinking of making a lilac garden near
Bowral (N.S.W.). (1) What varieties should
I plant ? (2) Is there a market for flowers ?
(3) Any hints as to time of planting, pruning,
etc. ? —2178.
(1) Abel Carriere (double dark blue), Chinen-
sis (deep lilac), Jan van Tol (single white),
Madame Abel Chatenay (double white), Monge
(single violet red), President Loubet (double
deep-red buds opening to reddish mauve). (2)
There should be a good demand from Sydney
florists if you can supply first-quality blooms.
(3) Planting-time is between May and July
when the foliage has fallen. Pruning should
also be done at this time of the year; only
remove cross-growing limbs which will let in
the sun to strengthen the plants. Lilacs must
be sheltered from strong winds, which impair
the quality of the blooms.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of South Australian abo. word,
“Tandanya”?—22o2.
Brief Answers.
S.M.: “Illuminating Engineer” (monthly,
9d.), 32 Victoria-street, London, S.W.I
J.R.: Finns belong to the Ural-Altaic race,
originally inhabitants of parts of Asia
N.F.G.: W. R. Colbourne, secretary of the Fed-
eral A.L.P. in N.S.W., states that contracts
entered into by the private insurance cos. now
operating will be fully protected and honored
in the national insurance policy of the Federal
A.L.P W.T.: Tripe must be cleaned before
it is cooked —thoroughly scraped and washed
repeatedly in clean cold water, finally in salted
water.’ It is then put to steep overnight in
water containing borax, and rinsed thoroughly
before use. A stiff brush is helpful in the
first stages of cleaning... .T.M.W.: Years
of birth are: Phar Lap 1926, Night-
march 1925, Peter Pan 1930, Rogilla 1927,
Chatham 1928 and Broad Arrow 1927
W.H.G.W.: Cannot trace an artist named
F. L. Montague... .D.L.M.M.: Write to
N.S.W. Goat Farming Co., Yennora, via Fair-
field, N.S.W E.H.: No record of a Captain
Hitchins arriving in the 1830’s, and no record
of any ship bringing convicts direct from Eng-
land to Port Macquarie, which ceased to be used
as a penal settlement for specially refractory
prisoners in the early ’thirties N.H.: The
N. National Art Gallery paid £4OO for
“Marguerite,” by Alan Beeton; £391 for
“Reverie,” by Augustus John; and £l5O for
the etching “Beggars at the Door of a House,”
by Rembrandt 8.J.: At June 1, 1933, there
were in N. S. Wales 1251 full-bloods and
8437 half-caste aboriginals. Amount expended
on care and protection of them for the year
ending June, 1933, was £57,271 M.H.:
Gordon Coutts was a Glasgow boy who
studied in London and Paris and came
to Australia at 19. For a time he
taught painting at the Royal Art Society’s
classes in Sydney. He entered for one of
the Victorian travelling scholarships and came
second. He is not represented in the N.S.W.
National Gallery, and most of his works were
sold abroad. Melbourne National Gallery
might be able to identify the portrait....
H.F.L.H.: Write Civil Aviation Branch, De-
fence Dept., Melbourne... .0.W.H.: Pro-
vided the output delivered by the 240-volt
dynamo is not allowed to exceed 12 h.p., i.e.,
240 volts at 37 amperes (8.9 kw.), it could be
driven by a 20-h.p. motor... . W.E.A.: Write
Dymock’s, 424 George-street, Sydney... .J.T.T.:
A player drawing from the faced cards may
knock as soon as he has drawn. He cannot
draw after knocking.... Clubman: Playing out
of turn is a foul. The player (1) cannot score,
(2) loses his turn, (3) loses the right to leave
a snooker, (4) forfeits any points he may have
scored B.B.: Write N.S.W. Aero Club,
Barrack-street, Sydney T. 8.: If. the pension
of the person referred to is not subject to the
provisions of the Federal Financial Emergency
Act , No. 10 of 1931, N.S.W. wages tax or
special income tax must be paid at ordinary
rates, flf the pension is subject to the Act a
special scale of rates applies.... R.W.: Write
John Lysaght, Ltd., 33 Macquarie-place,
Sydney, for pamphlet “The Construction of
Galvanised Iron Tanks” P.G.U.: St. James
Theatre, Sydney, was opened on March 26,
1926, with “No, No, Nanette.” Harry Hall
was the producer V.E.M.: Information is
obtainable from the Prime Minister’s Dept.,
Canberra, F.C.T H.T.M.: (1) and (2) No
record of apology or refusal to make one
O. : Under present arrangements Australia
and England visit each other alternately, play-
ing Test and other matches., The winning or
losing of the Test rubber has no bearing on
the visits... .S.A.H.: (1) Write Hon. Sec.,
Avicultural Section, Royal Zoological Soc. of
N.S.W., 28 Martin-prace, Sydney... .J.M.:
Queensland Aero Club, 95 Eagle-street, Bris-
bane. .. tC.G.: A barrel of plaster of Paris
weighs about 2|cwt.... H.J.: Literature
posted. Cannot , discuss merits of trade lines.
... .J-.L.M:: A~ manufacturer is not required
to effect registration where the total sale value
of goods manufactured by him does not ex-
ceed £6O per annum ... .M.R.The Carpenters’
(N.S.W.) award provides for a 44-hour week
throughout the State. Wage is 2s. 6d. per
hour, £5 10s. per week. Overtime rates
are time and a half for the first four
hours and double time thereafter, with the
exceptions provided for in the “country work”
clause. To claim full award rates the em-
ployee must be 21 or over... .N.J.H.: Sydney
to Melbourne, single, £2 155.; return, £5 ss.
Sydney to Brisbane, single, £3; return, £5 15s.
Second saloon all instances... .W.E.S.: Frank
Clune, hon. sec., Fellowship of Australian
Writers, Marengo, Prince's-avenue, Vaucluse.
J.G.C.: Cannot advise. You should
make inquiries on the spot... .N.A.E.: Plays
which secured a run of 1000 continuous per-
formances and upwards on the London stage
are: “Chu Chin Chow” (2238), “Charley’s
Aunt” (1466), “The Beggar’s Opera” (1463),
“Our Boys” (1362), “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” (1352), “The Farmer’s Wife” (1329), “A
Little Bit of Fluff” (1241), “A Chinese Honey-
moon” (1075) and “Romance” (1049) 0.L.:
Yes, Tom Walls owned and trained the horse
April the Fifth, winner of the 1932 Epsom
Derby... .J.M.C.: The Phyllis (2246 tons),
four-masted iron barque, owned in U.S.A.,
was sold to be broken up in London in 1925.
She was built at Glasgow in 1886, named Aus-
tralia, and for many years traded from Eng-
land to Australia. She was then sold to Peru-
vians, who renamed her Eliza Lihn, was again
sold and again named Australia, and again
sold about 1916 to Americans, who renamed
her Phyllis... .TJ.D.: See J. F. Bruce’s “The
Art of Blamire Young” J.H.: (1) Practi-
cally impossible for the amateur; unless the
paper is of very good quality it will not stand
any treatment. You might try a weak solu-
tion of oxalic acid in water, applied with a
fine brush and blotted as soon as the ink
begins to dissolve. Frequent applications are
necessary, quickly blotted. The print should
be cleaned with fresh water, applied and
blotted in the same manner. (2) There is no
method except a muzzle... .J.S.F.: Scrub with
warm water containing plenty of borax, and
rinse well. Fine cleaning powders, like Boh
Ami, are useful, and lemon juice and salt
will work wonders with a stiff brush....
F.A.C.: Practically no market; but try Tost
and Rohu, 78 Hunter-street, Sydney....
E.C.D.N.: Ordinary coaltar may be used.
Apply a first coating of very hot tar thinly
to penetrate the material; when dry give an-
other coating of cooler, thicker tar. If neces-
sary,- a third coat may be given. Sand is not
necessary on roofs (Many others mailed.)


“It keeps you in good spirits.”
■
m
vm.
"Eef it's whusky ye're
wantin', ca' f'r McNish"
An unvarying purity, and a truly
mellow pre-war flavour. Those are
the things that you look for in a
whisky, and those are the things
that have made McNish a source of
comfort and inspiration to men
who appreciate a fine spirit.
Through seventy years, the fragrant
quality and the mellow flavour of
McNish’s Special Scotch Whisky
have remained the same.
Call for McNish—the whisky you
ask for again.
51.34
M*N
SPECIAISCOTCH
WHISKY
Agents for Australia:
THE COMMONWEALTH
WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD.,
89 Phillip Street :: Sydney
And at Melbourne
»«Uv
*llllllll
Science Throws New Light
on Tooth Decay
Pain is nature's warning that teeth are
diseased. The cause of pain is usually
decay , and an important cause of
decay is the invisible film on
teeth that science' calls “ Bac-
terial Plaque
Contrast the at-
titude of savage
at the left who
files his teeth
with that of the
modern young
woman who
keeps her teeth
white and beau-
tiful through
daily use of
Pepsodent.
ENAMEL
DENTINE
FILM
PULP
GUM
m
m
m
PC
rAVfi.
CEMENTUM
P—:
/OSSEOUS
TISSUE/M
JAW
ERVE
/refill 1 II
?ARTERY
3@-
VEIN
Pr
Modern children may well be
expected to have far better
teeth than their ancestors
■THE actual cause
l of the aching
tooth is now be-
lieved to be due to
gases, formed inside
the tooth during the
process of decay,
that may or may
not be visible to the
dentist from the
outside. These gases
expand and press
on the sensitive
nerves of the teeth.
Dental science
answers the ques-
tion of what leads
to toothache by
saying that food
particles have been
permitted to re-
main between the
teeth and under the gums, to decay.
Germs, or bacteria, formed in and by
this decaying food, make acids which
attack the cement-like structure of the
teeth and dissolve out the material
between the enamel rods.
The germs that cause the decay-pro-
ducing acids have a friend in the film-
coat, or mucin-plaque, which forms on
teeth. This film glues the bacteria to
the teeth, providing a sort of warm
shelter for them and even supplies them
with food to thrive on.
Removal of film has therefore become
an important problem for dental science.
One of the most notable discoveries in this
field was made recently in the laboratories
of the Pepsodent Company when a new
and revolutionary cleansing material was
developed. The cleansing and polishing
material is the part of any toothpaste that
does the work. Herein lies the difference
Cross-section of a tooth showing the
intricate structure beneath enamel.
between the best toothpaste and
inferior brands. Most cleansing
materials are either so hard and
abrasive that they scratch the
tooth enamel or else they are so soft
that they fail to remove film and
stains. To develop a material
that would outrank others both in
effectiveness and in safety required
several years. The ablest scientific
minds in the country were consulted
repeatedly.
This new discovery is contained in
Pepsodent Toothpaste exclusively. Be-
cause it is twice as soft as the material
most commonly used, Pepsodent is
looked upon as the modern standard of
safety. At the same time this new
material stands unique in its power to
cleanse and polish teeth. To-day Pepso-
dent is known as the special “film-
removing” toothpaste in 67 countries.
Write for a free 10-day tube to The
Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box
488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Pepsodent
The Special Film - removing Tooth Paste.
Made in Australia £lB
USE PEPSODENT TWICE A DAY—SEE YOUR DENTIST TWICE A YEAR
THE PALETTE
George Whinnen’s recent show at S.A.
Society of Arts marks him as a definitely
arrived painter, who can hold his own
in any company. Also he declines to get
into a groove. Landscape and fruit-and-
flower pieces are alike good. His por-
traits have already a local demand, and
a last-century picnic group shows a feel-
ing-out in the matter of figure-composi-
tion, that test of fuller knowledge. Water-
colors and etchings make up a remark-
able collection.
Will Ashton’s oils at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, are mostly concerned
with the coastal scenery of N. S. Wales,
They state their subjects directly and
clearly, and in such instances as “Shel-
tered Harbor,” “Silver Morning,” “The
Sawmill” and “The Cliff, Forster,” the
statement is effective and striking. In
“A Spring Landscape” there is a touch
of geniality, even of poetry, that is lack-
m the other canvases. In all save
this the light is cold and the subject is
accorded slvere justice rather than affec-
News has come concerning the visit
of Melbourne Art Director Bernard Hall
to Europe to acquire fresh treasures for
the national collection. The visit was
projected because of criticisms of the
selections of Randall Davies. It is now
reported that Hall has obtained an option
over Alma Tadema’s “An Audience at
Agrippa’s” and “Ave, Ctesar! 10, Satur-
nalia.” The last-named caused a sensa-
tion. at the Academy of 1880, one critic
stating that it was “exquisitely grim.”
Hall has been a lifelong Tademist, and
has consistently taught that master’s con-
ventions to students.
Australian churchmen take very little
interest in religious art, and the purchase
by an anonymous donor for £BOO of
Rupert Bunny’s picture “Abraham Sac-
rificing Isaac” for Wesley Church, Mel-
bourne, probably establishes a local
record. . Bunny painted the picture in
Paris. There is another painting accu-
mulating dust in Melbourne that ought
to interest ecclesiastical authorities. It
is a copy of Murillo’s picture of the
Annunciation, wrongly catalogued in
the Louvre as “The Immaculate Con-
ception.” It was painted by Justus Jor-
gensen during his European sojourn, and
a Spanish cardinal who happened to
visit the Louvre when the Victorian artist
had completed the job said it was the
finest copy he had seen —there are hun-
dreds scattered about Europe.
A show by Bernice Edwell, William
Rowell, M. Glover Fleay, Harold Parker
and E. R. Jones at Melbourne Athenaeum
contained no surprises. A praiseworthy
desire to make their landscapes glow
with light has led the exhibitors to con-
centrate their attention on the treble end
of the color keyboard. Generally, the
effect is the reverse of that intended, for
without darkness light would have no
significance. The most notable of the
quintet is Harold Parker, who, in six
canvases, abandons sculpture for the
manipulation of pigment. Hailed by local
critics as a modernist, he struck the
present critic as a disciple of John Sell
Cotman, of the Norwich school, who
flourished over 100 years ago and who is
well represented at the Vic. National
Gallery.
An impressive array of aboriginal por-
traits at the Meldrum Galleries, Mel-
bourne, advertises Percy Leason’s zeal in
what amounts to a job of national signi-
ficance. He has been engaged for some
months past on the task of catching the
lineaments of the Victorian blacks be-
fore they fade from the scene. There
are about 40 full-bloods left, and Leason
has still 10 to paint. Some 35 live at
Lake Tyers, one at Dimboola and two
are at Pentridge. Few painters could
have combined ethnological exactitude
with artistic qualities so successfully. The
impression one gets is that these rem-
nants of Victoria’s original proprietors
are neither degenerate nor depraved, nor
even black. Most of them are honey-
colored. One or two of the younger
sitters look out of their frames with an
air *of melancholy ; they are sufferers
from t.b. None of the others looks
depressed, and one old fellow with a
white beard would have filled Fenimore
Cooper with delight.
South Australian etcher John C. Good-
child breaks new ground in his show of
water-colors at the Sedon, Melbourne.
His faults and virtues as a colorist are
the same as his faults and virtues as an
etcher. He has an astute eye for the
picturesque incident—black swans draw-
ing Euclidean diagrams on a lake, foam-
fringed ripples making tapestries on
quiet bays, and so forth. When these
events intrigue his mind he draws rather
than paints, and his color is a tint super-
imposed upon much clever draughts-
manship. He is at his best when he is not
concerned with such accidents and gets
interested in the tonal schemes that Nature
presents on a lavish scale. Of such are
“The Camp,” a nicely handled argu-
ment in light and shade, “Morning
Mists” and “Snow at Greenford,"
which is as pretty a thing as he has done.
The job he set himself in “Sunset,
Victor Harbor,” is better done by the
camera.
The Australian Art Society’s eighth
annual show at the Education Depart-
ment’s gallery, Sydney, seemed brighter
and better than its predecessors, though
its scope was about the same as usual. The
crop of rural landscapes is leavened by
the development of a much greater de-
gree of individuality by William Oates,
whose twelve canvases are all interest-
ing, and who, in such pictures as “The
Avenue,” “The Breezy Uplands” and
“Jacarandas,” presents lighting effects
which are not only beautiful but true.
Rhys Williams is at his best in the pic-
turing of Middle Harbor scenes, which
he does very decoratively. Quinton
Tidswell is another who has delved suc-
cessfully in the mine of scenic beauty
that fringes Sydney Harbor. R. Broad-
ley in “Nocturne” tackles Sydney at
night with success, and B. Richards makes
“Fort Denison from the Gardens” a very
effective composition. The society’s hon.
sec., W. M. Whitney, a prolific exhibitor
of water-colors, is at his best in “Morn-
ing Light, Austinmer.” In portraiture the
most satisfactory offering was J. Child’s
self-portrait. Garret Kingsley’s “Young
Slave Girl” is hard, and his other nude,
“Captive Andromache,” presents a lady
with a most uninteresting spine. Best of
the still-lifes was H. C. Hadley’s flower-
piece “Blue and Gold.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
K.L.: Overflooded with sentimentality
C.C.: It lacks freshness... .J.R.C.: There’s
hardly enough of her....N.C.: Found it as
stodgy as a cold doughboy. And what do
you mean by “gaunt gum senators” —sentinels?
M.R.: Your suggestions for a brighter
Sydney should be sent to the Railways Com-
missioner. .. .Hombre: Can’t find it a home.
C.M.S.: The domesticated goat comes
skipping back... .P.N.: Not far 0ff....
C.M.K.: Conversation stilted. Missing wills
are taboo in any case Albatross: Can't
quite decide whether your Australian sailors
talk Cockney or Bowery. Not a bad yarn
for all that J.K.: “The soul of the
tree shook with the living anger of hope-
less rage.” Any tree that acts like that de-
serves all it gets.... J.M.K.: These ideal
characters with money to burn don’t seem to
fit in with mortgaged farms Dugray: Came
close C.S.: Disorderly lines, resembling a
load of firewood cut into different lengths
W.J.: Your rhymes are rather forced, and your
verses lack swing... .M.P.: They don’t rise out
of tinkling mediocrity... .G.P.L.: A bit too close
to “La Belle Dame Sans Merci” F.R.M.:
Feeble jokes served up in limping doggerel
A.R.: If that’s the best your pen can do, grip
some homelier implement... .J.M.G.: Edifying
but uninspiring M.M.: You’ll have to get out
of those well-worn ruts before you can expect
compliments H.P.: Your tribute to the
poinsettia, whatever its botanical merits, can’t
be called tuneful C.E.D.: Emphatically
they don’t suit our “good old paper”
R.C.: Quite well rhymed, but the picture isn’t
arresting P.: There’s a certain classical
finish about it, but it’s outside our beat
Merlyn: Sapless stuff. The distinction between
poetry and verse needn’t worry you G.G.G.:
Bare commonplaces need more dressing up.
K.B.: There’s not enough of it to make a
song... .S.C.: Good idea, faulty execution.
L.A.S.: The only thing questioned was
the inference that railway construction is still
going briskly 0n....C.K.: You’re miles behind
the times J.E.C.: Harsh, creaky and belated.
O.L.: Oh, Lord! G.1.L.: It seems
rather futile.- The woman isn’t a convincing
character... .E.S.: Too long, and far from
the type L.M.K.: Not suitable S.H.:
Oates would surely have looked once or twice
at the job H.H.: “I thought that to leave
him in such a state would surely cause his
soul to leave his body that night:” Do you
really talk like that? T.G.: Which side is
it on, anyway? M.J.M.: We don’t like
ghostly guardians of “forgotten kingdoms of
the dead” J.W.H.: Sad and dreary....
Z.C.M.S.: Came very close H.G.B. (Birm-
ingham) : Not in our line... .C.R.8.: The one
humorous idea isn’t sufficiently supported....
P.McL.: Sometimes authors die from causes
other than starvation... .G.S.C.: Not a bad
twist, but it doesn’t hold the interest through-
out J.M.M.: Too slight Ham: We like
our vengeance straight, not “twisted”
M.T.: Purely English. Write something equally
amusing and satirical on an Australian sub-
ject F.D.: “Revolt” is too determinedly
facetious G.M.8.: Well done, but the sub-
ject is so hackneyed... .S.S.: The ending
almost carries it off, but not quite P.M.:
No use for matter already published else-
where J.D.G.R.: Not of general interest.
....76: Condemned J.D.M.: Not quite
good enough W.T.S.: What a pity he didn’t
find out his number before leaving hospital!
The other yarn labors painfully to the oldest-
known motor joke R. 0.: Not our type.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.W.: You’re two years behind time with
that cartoon M.R.G.: Decorative, but no
character about the figures and no humor in the
jokes A.M.L.: Twist the idea into some-
thing snappier and have another shot at the
drawing G. 8.: It must have cost you a
lot of effort —all wasted... .J.F.: We had to
call for a magnifying-glass to discover what
it was about... .M.C.D.: You’re too rough
and impatient‘to become an artist W.J.L.:
Don’t like the sketch, and the farmers talk
like American gangsters A.E.K.: Even your
age is a poor excuse for such work P.W.:
A correct little thing, but it hasn’t enough life
in it S.H.: Sketches need a lot of finishing
touches, and the gag needs burying C.C.:
Considering that his wife has just bashed him
with the leg of a chair, he looks re-
markably cheerful 8.C.: That jest about
Jacky and the Plum razor was debarred years
ago... .J.N.: Despite a long and careful search
we couldn’t find an ounce of merit M.D.G.:
You might have made a drawing out of that
if you had taken pains C.8.J.K.: Spoiled
by a misguided attempt to be considerably more
advanced than you are L.R.: Your drawings
are primitive; your jokes are dreary H. 0.:
The small boy is an eyesore; his parents more
terrible eyesores... .J.T.A.: Found “room” for
it —in the basket.


X
dbo**
STORE I
r
y
Sts \
SI
A
A
A
6,000°
/NFERNO TO ASSURE
OF DEPENDABILITY
THROUGH THE BLINDING BRILLIANCE AND
THE INTENSE HEAT OF THE ‘'BURNING-PROCESS''
TRAINED EYES CHECH THE YVELD/NG- OF THE
PLATES TO THE BINDING POSTS OE YOUR BATTERY.
NO IMPERFECT "BURNING* WEAKENS WILLARD
CONSTRUCTION. YOU KNOW WHAT YOU’RE t
GETTING WHEN YOU BUY YY/LLARD f
There is a popular belief that
THE STORAGE BATTERY LITERALLY
''STORES UP" ELECTRICITY DURING
THE CHARGING PROCESS.THIS IS NOT
TRUE. ELECTRICITY INASTORAGE
BATTERY IS THE RESULT OF AN
ELECTRO-CHEMICAL CHANGE WITH-
IN THE BATTERY. THEREFORE THE
PERFORMANCE OF A BATTERY IS
DEPENDENT ENTIRELY ON THE
PURITY OF THE MATERIALS USED.
H//LLARD BATTERIES ARE MADE
FROM THE FINEST RAW MATERIALS
OBTAINABLE. A//LLARD KNOWLEDGE,
SKILL AND WORKMANSHIP IS THE
RESULT OF / YEARS OF EXPERIENCE.
MIL ARDS RIGID INSPECTION EN-
SURES ONLY PERFECT BATTERIES
LEAVING THE FACTORY.
Constant,active, dependable
SERVICE—in ANY EMERGENCY—
THAT'S WHAT COUNTS, AND /
W/LLARD GIVES IT /
STATE DISTR ! BUTORS
MOTOR SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.,
BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE
BROOKLANDS ACCESSORIES PTY LTD. MELBOURNE
ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., PERTH
WESTCOTT HAZ.ELL & CO. LTD., SYDNEY and NEWCASTLE
WAYMOUTH SERVICE CO, ADELAIDE
ROBT NETTLE FOLD PTY LTD, TASMANIA
The Steering Column.
PONTIAC STRAIGHT EIGHT PUT THROUGH
ITS PACES.
COMFORTABLE RIDING AND SNAPPY PERFORMANCE.
By FRED BERRY.
The 1 934 Pontiac tested by “The Bulletin” brings a roomy
car with a long wheel-base well within the means of a modest
purse.
Mechanically the car is in accord with modern engineering
practice, incorporating a number of new and desirable features.
Simplicity and accessibility appear to be the keynote of design.
Body lines are designed upon aero-dynamic principles
without going to extremes, and healthful no-draft ventilation,
built into the four side windows of closed models, permits each
passenger to select the amount of ventilation he desires without
disturbing or inconveniencing others.
Straight Eight Pontiac Sedan tested this week, showing neat and efficient
streamlined profile of the 1934 series.
Internal appointments are tasteful and
include leather upholstery.
Adjustable driver’s seat, disappearing
arm rest in rear compartment, two ad-
justable sun visors and twin windscreen-
wipers are provided, while the neat and
compact instrument panel is immediately
in front of the steering-wheel.
A standard stock model without any
preliminary tuning was driven over the
test course by Keith Dalziel, of Larke,
Neave and Carter, Ltd., the mileage
already covered, as shown on the speed-
ometer, being 1483.
With driver and observer ready for the
journey the weighbridge docket showed
364 cwt., evidence of robust construction
throughout, and promising roadworthi-
ness at all speeds and
over every class of
road.
Setting out through
busy city traffic the
Straight Eight engine
gave one the impres-
sion of enormous re-
serve of power. Run-
ning was smooth and
vibrationless, while
steering was particu-
larly handy for a car
with such a long
wheel-base.
Leaving Parramatta and passing along
the open country road the speedometer
needle was kept around the 45-mark with
barely a touch of the throttle, indicat-
ing the possibility of high average speeds
coupled with reasonable fuel con-
sumption.
Approaching Windsor the car was
slowed down to 15 m.p.h. on entering
the coasting section, and a distance of
690 yards was covered in neutral before
coming to a standstill, an indication of
freedom of all wheel bearings.
The Pontiac was then timed over a
measured mile on full throttle. At the
first attempt, the pilot did not “wind
up” the motor in sufficient time, the
result being that the speedometer showed
10 m.p.h. faster over the finishing line
than at the beginning. A second attempt
was made—a handicap so far as fuel
consumption was concerned, but per-
haps justified by the improvement in
speed, the distance being clocked in 48
4-ssec., giving an average speed of 73.6
m.p.h. Over this section conversation
could be maintained in a normal manner
and the car showed no inclination to
sway or wander.
Leaving Richmond, a deviation was
made from the main highway, and pass-
ing through Grose Vale several miles
of typical country clay road had to be
negotiated before reaching the foot of
Kurrajong mountain. Over this section
the Pontiac showed no appreciable re-
duction in speed.
Two miles from the summit of Kurra-
jong—the severest test hill in the dis-
trict —a halt was made in order to time
the speed climb from a standing start.
The speedometer rapidly approached the
40-mark in middle gear, and, while the
numerous acute bends forced violent
application of the brakes, the pilot
handled the car splendidly. Over the
final quarter-mile of extremely rough
cobbles the independent front wheel sus-
pension provided extraordinary riding
comfort and positive steering in spite of
Exclusive Pontiac feature —the octane
tuner incorporated with the distri-
butor head.
the high speed. The full distance was
clocked in 3min. 36sec. —a splendid
effort.
Returning down the hill a test of the
emergency hand brake equipment was
made with satisfactory results, and be-
fore entering Richmond the cross coun-
try route via Castlereagh to Richmond
was taken.
On this section the most critical test
was that of running against the watch
for 350 yards, first in top gear as slowly
as possible, followed immediately by a
like distance on full throttle. The Pon-
tiac came through with flying colors. On
the slow-running section the time was
3min. 50sec., an average speed of 3.1
m.p.h., while as soon as the throttle was
Cross-section of independent sus-
pension unit on Pontiac, showing
robust coil springs and provision for
tension adjustment.
opened fully the outfit showed splendid
acceleration. It crossed the finishing
line with the speedometer registering 55
m.p.h. in 19 2-ssec., showing splendid
traffic qualities. The average on full
throttle was 36.4 m.p.h.
Next, the time taken to reach 50 m.p.h.
through all gears from a standing start
was observed, the necessary corrections
of speedometer readings having been
(Continued on page 30.)
USEFUL DATA ON PONTIAC STRAIGHT EIGHT
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 13 2-5 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 2-5 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 4-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 23 feet.
Maximum speed, 73.6 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 17.3 m.p.g.


gllilOA^l
%
7^
w*2
v
uW\
y
3
ga
U
l
k
X
\
The Most Completely Equipped Car
yet to come out of England
THE Standard Twenty—the lowest priced De Luxe Saloon
■*" ever offered to Australia by an English factory . . . De
Luxe in every way —in appearance, in appointments, in
comfort—and with a road-speed of 70 miles per hour.
Look at the features it offers you, as listed below. These are
up-to-the-minute advancements, without which no car is truly
modern —improvements you would expect to find only in
much higher priced makes. They’re yours in this English
Standard Twenty, for £435. Never before have you seen
such motor car value, a fact you will realise once you see
and drive this surprising Standard Twenty.
SYNCHRO-MESH GEARS in 2nd, 3rd, and TOP;
Silent, lightning, foolproof changes to 2nd, 3rd and
top without using the clutch.
CONTROLLED FREE-WHEELING: Petrol con-
sumption reduced. A new and thrilling motoring
experience.
BUOYANT POWER: New and scientific resilient
engine mounting banishes vibration. You cannot
believe that an exceptionally efficient and power-
ful engine has leapt into life beneath the bonnet
before you.
STARTIX AUTOMATIC RESTARTING: It is
impossible to stall a Standard Twenty. While the
ignition is switched on starting is automatic and
immediate.
w
JL)e iwce.
tW}
con.
jot
f 435
RE-DESIGNED BENDIX BRAKES: Light in action,
progressively powerful, skid-free, "Millenite" cast
brake-drums.
SILENT-BLOC SPRINGING: The wider longer
springs are fitted with Silent-blocks, removing the
need for lubrication of spring shackles. Hydraulic
shock absorbers fitted all round.
ROOMIER AND MORE BEAUTIFUL BODY:
The four-door six-window body is larger than ever
and more luxurious comfortably seats five adult
passengers. Harmonising upholstery. Adjustable
front seat. Built-in rear window ventilation without
draughts.
AND MANY OTHER NEW FEATURES TO
SUIT AUSTRALIAN ROAD CONDITIONS.
X-BRACED FRAME: New underslung X-type frame gives greater
torsional rigidity, road stability, and low centre of gravity.
The Twenty is one of the four models available in the 1934 line of English
Standards all obtainable in open and closed styles. See this range of fine
cars and you’ll find the model you want at the price you want to pay.
Uk* SudiA S TAN I) AH I) TWENTY
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Talbot & Standard Motors Pty. Ltd.
568-574 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne.
Anglo-Austral Motors Pty. Ltd.
85-95 Boundary Street
Brisbane.
Harden and Johnston Limited
117-131 Flinders Street
Sydney.
Dominion Motors Ltd.
81 Frankl in Street
Adelaide.
Mortlock Bros. Ltd.
1016 Hay Street
Perth.
Co-operative Motors Ltd
131 Collins Street
Hobart.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: ROBERT F. LEE, 58-60 MARGARET ST.. SYDNEY.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO.,LTD. COVENTRY. ENGLAND.
933gbS
52a
6^


Readers are reminded that the
services of Fred Berry are now at
their disposal should they require
information or advice upon any
motoring subject.
Inquiries should be set out as
briefly and concisely as possible.
A reply will be forthcoming immedi-
ately.
"ALEMITE”
never just grease
these parts
6
m
♦JU-
A
LEMITE
-yvotCj'uzcLAje.l
©
Marks the important
lubrication centres of
modern motor vehicles.
Alemite high pressure lubrica-
tion and lubricants developed
for individual requirements
give assurance of protection
and efficiency impossible by
haphazard "greasing” methods
Some types of this essen-
tial duty unit need a fluid,
others a fibrous lubricant.
on
Alemite Service provides the one best suited to increase resist-
ance to wear and thus prolongs useful life of universal joints.
Alemite Corporation
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT • • • Chicago
Full particulars from MR, KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—s-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE MOTOR
made by testing against standard instru-
ments on the Heenan and Froude
machine. Time was 13 2-ssec.
A final time trial of acceleration from
10 to 30 m.p.h., first in top and again
in middle gear, showed 7 2-ssec. and 4
4-ssec. respectively, a pick-up aided, no
doubt, by the efficient assistance of one
of the Pontiac’s exclusive fitments, the
octane tuner.
During the return journey to Sydney
along the Western-road, steering lock
was measured, right and left both being
40 feet.
At the conclusion of the test, fuel con-
sumed for the distance of 117 miles was
carefully measured and 6 gal. 6 pints
were required to replenish the tank,
showing an average petrol consumption
of 17.3 m.p.g. A good result for a heavy
car, particularly as two attempts had
been made on the flying mile. The aver-
age speed, inclusive of all tests, worked
out at 35.5 m.p.h.
The Pontiac is solidly and faithfully
built. Engine has eight L-head cylinders
in line, and shows an extremely clean ex-
terior. The “ecometric” cylinder head
with new combustion chamber design
allows a compression ratio of 6.2 to 1 to
be used with standard fuels without fear
of pre-ignition or detonation.
R.A.C. rating is 32.6 h.p., but at 3800
r.p.m. actual b.h.p. is 84. Cylinders are
chrome nickel cast iron, cast integral
with upper half of crankcase, while
special provision is made in coring the
casting to maintain the exhaust valves at
even temperatures.
Power plant is suspended in the chassis
on three steel-reinforced rubber mount-
ings: two opposite front-end plate and
one under rear of transmission. Con-
struction and disposition of these engine
mountings dampen vibration and
torque reaction while affording excellent
stability.
Pistons are chrome nickel alloy type,
tin-plated to ensure a minimum “run-
ning-in” time, while prolonging the life
of the unit. Four
piston rings are
used, three above
and one below the
gudgeon pin.
One - piece ex-
haust and inlet
valves, operated by
cylindrical cast-
iron tappets, are
of large diameter,
and are offset five
degrees from verti-
cal in order to pro-
vide a more sym-
metrical combus-
tion chamber.
Timing gear is
silent chain drive,
lubricated under
pressure from
front cam - shaft
bearing.
Fuel is drawn
from a 15-gallon
tank mounted at
rear by a new type
mechanical fuel
pump, fitted with
filter and settling
bowl to a Carter
triple-venturi type
down - draft car-
burettor.
Econo m iser,
pneumatic accel-
erator pump and
quick - starting
choke valve are
incorporated, and
a combination air-
cleaner, intake
silencer and flame
arrester of gener-
ous dimensions are
attached to the air
intake.
Intake manifold is fitted with ther-
mostat-controlling exhaust-heated hot
spot, ensuring speedy warming-up in cold
weather.
Coil and battery type ignition is used,
a novel feature being the octane tuner
attached to the distributor, allowing the
driver to instantly “tune” the motor to
varying grades of fuel in order to secure
greatest economy.
Transmission is through single-plate
dry clutch, lOin. diameter, to three-speed
and reverse gearbox, with central ball
contact. Top and second gears are syn-
chronised type, permitting silent changes
at any engine speeds.
Final drive is through open propeller
shaft to banjo type rear axle housing—
rear axle three-quarter floating.
Chassis, of double-drop type, is of
pressed steel with several sturdy cross
members.
Suspension is particularly interesting in
that “knee action” independent front-
wheel suspension is used on front, and
ride stabilisers are attached to rear shock-
absorbers as auxiliaries to conventional
springs.
Independent front-wheel suspension of
Dubonnet type allows each wheel to
accommodate itself to road inequalities
without disturbing chassis equilibrium.
These independent springing units are
rigidly bolted to the frame, and, as shown
in the accompanying diagram, each
watertight steel housing contains a soft
coil spring. These springs are made equal
in tension to those of conventional type
at rear, to preserve equilibrium. The
complete assembly operates in a bath of
oil, ensuring long life of moving units.
Bendix two-shoe type brakes are fitted
to all wheels, operated mechanically,
MOTOR IMPRESSIONS.
The skid.
while hand brake for parking and emer-
gency use is connected to service equip-
ment.
Steering is on the worm and roller
principle, with simple wheel adjustment,
ratio being 16 to 1.
Generally, impressions gained during
the test were that the Pontiac Straight
Eight would provide motorists with the
triple benefits of snappy performance,
excellent riding qualities and low price.
Gear changes can be made silently
without preliminary experience due to
the new type gearbox, while steering is
finger-light and positive in action.
Knee-action independent front-wheel
suspension has fully justified its adop-
tion, despite unconventional design, as
without doubt the principle improves
roadworthiness and makes steering more
certain at speed.
Internal fittings are neatly designed and
of good quality.
Motor Oddities.
When motorists foregather the topics of conversation seldom
centre in technical or abstract features, but rather in persona
experiences or achievements.
Arguments wax hot where petrol consumption or speeds over
specified routes are concerned, and the cost of maintenance and the
present mechanical condition of cars after years of use are matters
of extreme interest. Huge annual mileages, old driving licenses, and
perhaps low car numbers support claims to experience, while many
drivers, with characteristic Australian ingenuity, have made interest-
ing emergency repairs.
Who holds No. 1 license or drives No. 1 car in each State, and
who drove the first car?
Who has driven more than 500,000 miles, and which driver
covers the greatest distance each year?
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not been
confined to racing drivers, while outback the bush mechanic,
hundreds of miles from repair shops, has worked miracles in order
to get the car home.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and recount
their experiences.
The New Citroen.
The Citroen Co. in France has sprung
the greatest surprise in Continental
motoring. The new Cit. will be equipped
with front-wheel drive, and will have
an entirely new type of independent
front-wheel suspension, which, coupled
with air wheels, will make the car a
splendid performer on country roads.
All-steel bodies will be standard equip-
ment, and the gear-lever, usually cen-
trally-controlled, will project horizontally
from the instrument panel. The brake
lever is also of unconventional pattern.
What the Horsepower Tax
Means to Australia.
English motorists have been bucked up
recently by an announcement that 25 p.c.
is to be taken from the horsepower tax
on automobiles. For years this ridicu-
lous impost of £1 per horsepower has
been inflicted on English owners on a
formula that has forced manufacturers
to build small-bore, long-stroke motors
in order to reduce the taxation paid by
buyers.
High revs, and fussy engines demand-
ing a change of gear on every decent
hill have, as a consequence, been typical
of the English breed of cars, and over-
seas markets, whose buyers above all
desired a good top-gear performance,
suffered accordingly.
The reduction in horsepower tax,
therefore, has a greater significance to
Australian motorists than would first
appear, for now the high-revving engine
need no longer be built and the American
type of flexible motor will almost cer-
tainly be adopted.
This should mean that next year every
worth-while British concern will be
marketing a true Dominions type for the
first time in history.
Eyston, seven years the holder of the
light-car hour record, blue riband of the
1500-c.c. class, doffs his lid to a success-
ful rival. Royal Automobile Club
(London) has now confirmed Horton’s
magnificent hour effort at the wheel of
an M.G. Magnette, the venue being
Brooklands. Distance covered was 117
miles 56 yards (117.03 m.p.h.), an aston-
ishing performance for such a tiny
engine.
The Trouble Lamp.
W.L. (Lane Cove, Sydney): Flickering lights
may be due to many defects. If only one light
flickers look for faulty connection, frayed in-
sulation on lead-in wire or dislodged filament
in globe. If all lights flicker, test connections,
and look for broken wires behind switchboard
and instrument panel; examine earth leads, fuses
and battery connections J.N. (Lismore):
Oversize rings are a doubtful remedy. Cylinder
bores wear oval owing to side thrust of pistons,
and new rings cannot accommodate themselves.
If wear is slight have cylinders honed before
fitting new rings, or leave the job alone until
you can afford a reline or rebore W.C.P.
(Geurie): You can cure the trouble in the
S. carburettor by dismantling jet assembly
and fitting two new cork washers at the base.
Check up method by instruction b00k....
W.B.N. (Gorah): To fit oversize rings in your
1918 car would only be wasting money. It is
cheapest in the long run to have cylinders re-
bored. Any rings of correct diameter will
suit J.F.H. (Five Dock, Sydney): Running
water through the radiator of a new car when
running in is only a waste of time. Keep engine
temperature around 160 deg. F. and be careful
not to open throttle too wide during the first
1000 miles J.B.M. (Rose Bay, Sydney):
Certainly each new model is improved,
and novel features are being introduced regu-
larly. No matter what car you buy there will
be something more modern in process of time,
so why wait? Cannot hold out hopes ol
further price reductions... .A.B. (Bellevue Hill,
Sydney): Your fears of receiving a poorly-
assembled new car for cash are groundless.
Each distributor guarantees service, usually
for 90 days, and gives warranty against de-
fective material. It is to their advantage to see
you are satisfied no matter how you pay....
T. (Chippendale, Sydney): If lights dim and
finally go out on pressing starter pedal gears
between flywheel and starter motor are either
seized up or broken. Have defective part re-
placed at once to avoid serious trouble
W.K. (Tumut): Take out grub screws to lubri-
cate universal joint. Odd tyres on pairs of
wheels are not economical and impose undue
stresses on transmission. It would be cheap
to buy another 36 x 600 and be safe for an-
other season.


RADIO DEALERS, SERVICEMEN
The Slade-Paton A.C.-D.C. Analyser
A complete and compact multi instrument in one* indispensable
for rapid faultfinding or general radio construction and repairs.
1
Equipped with Bakelite d’Arsonval
Meter (1000 olmis per volt) having knife
pointer and Mirror dial, with individual
scales for ohms, A.C. and output volts;
also D.C. volts, milliamps. Utilises
heavy D.S.C. Eureka Bridge Calibrated
Multipliers. Laboratory Accuracy on
the many ranges assured.
FEATURES : Push button operation
for quickness and simplicity. Universal
socket and metal shielded grid lead on
cord reducing capacity effects to mini-
mum (essential in R.E. testing). Point
to point resistance measurements.
Moulded panel with raised lettering, etc.
Complete in Black Leatherette ease, Model B (as illustrated),
£l2/11/6. Plus tax. Model A, £l5/15/-, plus tax.
Make
The Slade-Paton Valve Tester
a Feature of Valve Testing in Your District.
h
Tests to a degree' American,
English and Continental type
Valves DIRECT on the colored
dial as
GOOD POOR BAD
Features: Direct Reading. Mutual
Conductance Test. Line regulation
with meter check. Simplifies sales.
Note: Over one million Valves are
sold annually in Australia.
Price, A.C. Type (as illustrated),
£9/17/6, plus tax. D.C. type, Price on application.
Sold on Seven-day Money Back Guarantee. Easy payments over N.S. IV
Obtainable from leading Wholesalers or
Slade-Paton Radio & Test Eauipment Manufacturers
RANG STRKKT, CROYDON, SYDNEY. ’Phone: UJ4576, UA1960.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
RADIO NEWS.
FITTING AN EXTRA SPEAKER.
By DON B.KNOCK.
There are many broadcast listeners
and experimenters who would like an
F IG1.
extra speaker, one that may be attached
to the radio at will for use in some other
part of the house or taken from room to
room or into the garden or tennis court.
This may be done simply and quickly
without interfering with the wiring or
removing the chassis from the cabinet.
Some receivers employ a single output
valve ; others push-pull with two valves.
A slight difference in procedure is re-
quired in each case. In the first, all that
is necessary is to connect one side of a
fixed condenser of 2 mfd. to the plate
of the valve, the other side to one of the
speaker terminals and the other speaker
terminal to earth, as shown in Fig. 1.
FIG.2
Where push-pull is employed for the
output, two condensers are required of
2 mfd. each. A lead is taken from one
side of each of the condensers and con-
nected, one to each plate of the two out-
put valves. The speaker terminals are
then connected, one to each of the two
remaining lugs of the condenser, as
shown in Fig. 2.
The earth connection in Fig. 1 may
be made to the earth terminal of the
receiver. For the plate connections
in both cases, bend a loop in a
piece of stiff wire about l|in. to 2in.
long, a little smaller in diameter than
the plate-pin of the valve. Force loop
over the pin and down to its base. A
small piece of rubber or spaghetti sleev-
ing is then slipped over the wire, and the
whole bent over the edge of the valve
base, as shown in Fig. 3. The plate to
SOLDER HERE
RUBBER SLEEVE
WINRE LOOOP
FIG.3
condenser lead can then be soldered to
the top of this wire and the valve re-
inserted.
It is important to make sure that the
condensers will stand the voltage strain
to be applied to them.
The condenser or condensers and
speaker terminals can be mounted on a
piece of scrap bakelite or wood and fixed
inside the cabinet in a convenient posi-
tion.
The types of speakers which may be
used in this hookup are the permagnetic,
dynamic with separately excited field
coil, and the magnetic.
ANODE-E.
TROUBLE-SHOOTING RECEIVERS.
Locating trouble in an electric receiver
is a very different business from, that of
testing a battery set. All battery installa-
tions are practically the same in that
the A, B, and C batteries are so placed
that individual voltages easily may be
identified and measured; the circuits are
simple and generally have little effect
upon each other, as far as voltages are
concerned. If the voltages are not cor-
rect, it is merely a matter of replacing
batteries.
With a battery set an aerial having a
minimum length of 80ft. overall is
usually required. The electric receiver
is more sensitive, and should have a
maximum length of 75ft. ; but, if any-
where near a broadcasting station, this
should be decreased to a maximum of
50ft. to 60ft.
Earth Connections.
Although the electric set often will
operate satisfactorily with the earth con-
nection removed, it is particularly im-
portant to the battery receiver. This
does not mean that a good earth is not
necessary to an electric installation ; the
power lines often will serve satisfactorily.
When plugging into the power socket
with the earth connected a very hot
spark sometimes will be noticed. This
is because the earth terminal of the set
is connected to one side of the power
line through a capacity and the other
side of the power line is earthed, caus-
ing a difference of potential equal to the
line voltage between the earth terminal
and the earth. This can be corrected
simply by reversing the plug, thus con-
necting the earth terminal of the receiver
power-supply cord to the earthed side
of the power line with no difference of
potential between them. This same
remedy will often decrease the noise
picked up by the set from the power
line, one of the most common sources
of trouble in the electric sets.
It is important that the earth and aerial
connections are not reversed, although
with the battery set, as a rule, this does
not matter, because there is no other
earth on the receiver. In the electric
receiver, however, the line itself is earthed,
so that very poor, if any, results may be
expected with aerial and earth connec-
tions reversed.
Valves and Voltages.
A high percentage of trouble in electric
receivers is caused by a defective valve,
and practical experience has shown that
the majority of valve troubles occur within
a month of the original installation. This
is due to the fact that a defective valve
almost always will develop its trouble
after a few hours of operation. If the
valve is in perfect condition when in-
stalled it probably will give several
months’ satisfactory service.
After working efficiently for some time
sets, however, develop one or more of
the many kinds of trouble to which a
receiver or power supply is subject.
Often the most glaring defect is the
easiest to correct, while some seemingly
trivial complaint may be found almost
impossible to overcome. A serviceman
may work for' years with electric re-
ceivers and still find new diseases they
are heir to.
To check a receiver properly one
should be able to take simultaneous read-
ings of filament voltage, plate voltage
and plate current; be able to check the
effects of the grid on the plate current,
and the approximate grid voltage. Test
sets capable of showing these values
simultaneously are available.
Trouble-tracing.
Cases where the receiver stops func-
tioning altogether may be due to one
or more defective valves or an open
reproducer cord or winding. If there
is no filament voltage on one or more
valves, this is usually due to a broken
or unsoldered connection in the filament
circuit or a loose contact in the socket.
If these are all satisfactory, it may be a
defective transformer, which will have to
be replaced or rewound.
If there is no plate voltage on all the
valves, the trouble must be in the main
plate supply ; the rectifier valve may be
defective. If the valve is all right, dis-
connect the power pack; and, if the
trouble is in the receiver itself, the
various plate voltages will check cor-
rectly. Next check the voltage directly
between the filament and plate prongs
of the rectifier to determine whether the
transformer is in order.
Possibly the
trouble is in the
filter either an
open choke or a
short-circuited con-
denser. Unsolder
the connections to
the filter condenser
block, and, if volt-
age is obtained,
this is defective
and must be re-
newed ; if not, the
choke must be
tested and renewed
if defective.
No plate voltage
on one or more
valves usually can
be traced to a de-
fective power-pack
resistance, which
can be tested by
checking the voltage across the indi-
vidual resistances. The trouble may
be in the receiver itself, and this can be
located by tracing the circuit from the
plate of the defective valve to the con-
nection leading from the power pack.
No grid voltage on one of the valves
generally is found to be caused by an
open transformer secondary or a broken
connection in the set. If these are in
order the trouble is in the grid-biasing
resistance.
Noisy reception is a common complaint
and sometimes one of the most difficult
to diagnose. But there are two distinct
varieties of noise—noise due to trouble
in the installation and noise picked up
from outside sources.
Noise due to trouble in the receiver
may be due to a poor connection in the
aerial, or perhaps to the aerial swinging
against another conductor. A defective
valve may be located by lightly tapping
each valve in turn —it may be a broken
connection or intermittent short-circuit,
which immediately will be indicated by
additional noise when the valve is set
in vibration.
An intermittent opening in the wiring
may be located by tapping different parts
until the broken connection is found.
Often it is under a connecting screw or
nut on a terminal strip or individual piece
of apparatus. But intermittent trouble in
the power-pack, such as condensers
breaking down, etc., is more difficult to
diagnose. If it is tolerably certain that
the trouble is not in the set itself and
everything else has checked up satis-
factorily, the cover of the power-pack
will have to be removed.
Disconnect the filter condensers one
at a time until the noise disappears, when
the defective condenser must be replaced.
If these condensers are built in a block
it will be necessary to replace the entire
block.
Noises picked up from external sources
are not so difficult to diagnose; but
whether they can be corrected or not is
another question. First there is static
and next disturbances from electrical
apparatus —static is unavoidable.
Outside pick-up from electrical
apparatus reaches the set in three ways
—through the aerial system, by means of
the power lines and through the earth
connection. Interference picked up by
the aerial system sometimes may be de-
creased by shortening the aerial or
changing its direction. If disconnecting
the aerial from the set eliminates the
noise, the pick-up is almost certainly
through the aerial; if it does not elimi-
nate the noise, it is coming in over the
power lines. A direct earth connection
instead of a water-pipe will often cure
noise.
This disturbance may be caused by
sparking brushes on a motor, sign-
flashers, electric cars, leaking trans-
formers, leakage on high-tension power
lines, relays in electric refrigerators.
Radio-inductive interference is often caused by conduction
through the water mains, as illustrated. For this reason, an
external direct earth connection is preferable to the water pipe
small electrical appliances, sparking
switches —the causes are many, in one
case it was found that a reading-lamp did
all the mischief, while in another it was
an electric motor at a near-by service
station. If the neighbors are experienc-
ing similar trouble, it may be advisable
to approach the power company to assist
in removing the cause.
D. N. LINNETT.
(Radio News continued on next page.)


mi
t
An ALL-WAVE
Receiver to bring
Country Listeners
ENGLAND/
AMERICA/
JAPAN/
LISTENING-IN to foreign lands, to
programmes from 12,000 miles
away—that’s radio’s newest
thrill—a thrill which country listeners
can now enjoy. Stromberg-Carlson
announce a BATTERY-OPERATED
All-Wave Receiver—Model 604 !
\
When atmospheric conditions are right,
this set will bring you programmes
from the other side of the world as
c’early, as easily and on the very same
dial as local and Interstate Australian
stations.
Listen-in to England DIRECT for your
Test Cricket News. Hear the lunch-
time resumes by England’s greatest
cricket authorities. Enjoy programmes
from every corner of the globe.
Visit your Stromberg-Carlson dealer
to-day and hear this amazing new set
for yourself.
ĥ
Embodying many modern advance-
ments, this Stromberg-Carlson Model
604 offers improved reception on stan-
dard wave-lengths, too. Its new 6-valve
Superheterodyne circuit gives you longer
range, greater volume, perfect daylight
reception and easier tuning. An im-
portant feature is its low A and B
battery drain. New type valves give its
6-valve circuit 8-valve G /I 7/fi
capabilities. Price .... * * L I \>
Sfromberg-Carlson
Authorised Dealers and Distributors
Throughout the Commonwealth.
City Short-wave Explorations.
Conditions at present are excellent dur-
ing the middle of the day. I write of
Sydney, but the observation applies to
all our capitals, though there may be
slight differences in the quality of the
reception.
On a recent Sunday, from 1.30 to 3
p.m., the best station was FYA, Paris,
on 25.63 metres, from which recep-
tion was perfect. This station de-
livered a signal at full speaker strength,
with tone and quality almost equal to
any of the local broadcasters. Almost as
good as Paris were the Empire stations
GSB, on 31.55 metres, and GSD, on 25.53
metres, at 2.30, although they were both
subject to a certain amount of surging
and fading.
The German station DJD, on 25.51
metres, could also be heard just below
FYA, at 1.30, giving an address in Eng-
lish. This station was not nearly as
powerful as the other two, although
almost every word could be followed.
Three American stations were also
heard—W8XK, Pittsburg, on 25.25
metres; W2XAF. Schenectady, on 31.48
metres, and W1XAZ, Springfield, on
31.35 metres. All rather weak.
During the evenings short-wave recep-
tion is very unsatisfactory at present. The
only stations heard loud enough for
entertainment are those in Asiatic parts.
Of these, the best is RV15, Khabarovsk,
Siberia, on 70.2 metres, which can be
heard every evening at splendid strength.
The programmes given through this
station show improvement, and are well
worth listening to.
On 49 metres two Javanese stations can
be heard at good strength, but, although
I have listened to them for hours on end,
What the average Australian amateur radio station looks like. With a
small amount of apparatus experimenters in Australia communicate with
fellow-enthusiasts in all parts of the world. The station pictured here is
that of VK4JB, Albion, Queensland.
their call-signs have not been identified,
the language being unknown to me. The
popular Japanese station JIAA, on 30
metres, has now disappeared, but another
(probably the same station with altered
wave-length) can be heard at about 28.2
metres. One night it was heard call-
ing America, and the announcer gave
the call-sign as JBN. This station has
been well received lately in the evenings.
WIXAZ, on 31.35 metres, can still be
heard from 9.30 onwards, giving the
early-morning session. This station has
weakened recently and can only be
understood with difficulty. Another
station heard every evening, but hardlv
worth listening to, is PMY, Ban-
deong, Java, on 58.3 metres.
American amateurs have been
heard on the 20- and 80-metre
bands. The best time to listen for
the Americans on the 20-metre band
is from 2 to 5 in the afternoons, and
on the 80-metre band from about 10
to 12 in the evenings.
On the evening of June 19 a long con-
versation was followed between ZL1CD,
Auckland, M.L., and W7BUF, W7CNQ
and another W7 not fully identified. The
signals from ZL1GD and W7BUF were
both very strong, while the other W7’s
were only just audible.
H. M. S.
BEST BETS FOR THE WEEK.
Midday: FYA, Paris, 25.63 metres.
Afternoon: GSB, on 31.55, and GSD,
on 25.53 metres.
Evening: RV15, Khabarovsk, on 70.2
metres.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Observations lately have disclosed con-
ditions not so favorable as early last
month, signal strength in the early morn-
ings showing a falling off.
In the evenings, when static is con-
siderably less, RV15 on 70 metres pro-
vides good entertainment, between the
speeches. This station transmits very
good music.
From 11 p.m. onwards a Dutch sta-
tion around 69 metres comes in very
well, rising to good speaker strength
about midnight. The two Dutch stations
in the 49-metre band have been fair.
No opportunity of trying the 8.8. C.
afternon sessions was available until
Sunday, June 17, when signals had fallen
off. As expected, direct reception of the
cricket comments during the early part
of the game was hopeless, but at 3 a.m.
it could be copied on GSE, using ’phones
and careful tuning.
The amateur 20-metre band has again
been alive with Americans. During the
early afternoon several have been work-
ing with Maoriland, which seems to be
a listeners’ paradise. The M.L. amateurs
often announce good conditions on the
80-metre band when static renders listen-
ing uncomfortable here. One also hears
them working stations quite inaudible
in N. S. Wales.
The 80-metre amateur band holds the
most interest for the early evenings at
present. A few Americans have been
heard, at weak strength.
The “skip” is now quite different from
formerly. Last year the 7’s (Tasmania)
were numerous, and came in well, but
this winter they are rarely heard, and
the s’s (South Australia) are much
stronger. There is always something of
interest on this band. 2HC’s Sunday ses-
sion has been missed since he has been
ill, but he is now on the air again.
NIGHTOWL.
The “Gets It.”
C. J. Czisz, Macksville, N.S.W. North
Coast, is an enthusiastic user of a “Wide-
World Two” receiver. He considers that
a better title would have been “Gets It,”
for his gets everything under the Heavi-
side Layer. Afternoon listening reveals a
number of American west coast amateurs
using telephony (20 metres) with volume
equal to most local stations. The
output from this receiver is fed to the
“Class-B” public-address system (B.
27/6/’34), and the smooth French of
the FYA announcer and the polished
tones that characterise 8.8. C. stations are
familiar sounds around town.
Historic Short-wave Receiver.
Of much interest is this old short-wave
superheterodyne, which the owner, W. J.
Zech, of amateur station VK2WZ, claims
will hold its own to-day with many more
up-io-oate examples. It has a history,
having been built in the early days of
radio by C. D. Maclurcan, who used
it for the reception in Australia of
the first amateur signals from England.
Its age is doubtful, for the famous
amateur himself cannot recall its birth-
day.
Importance of Layout.
“Dear Radio Editor—l have made a
short-wave receiver, and it won’t oscil-
late below about 30 metres”....
Such letters have been a regular part of
the question-box mail since short-wave
broadcasting commenced. It might be
due to any one of many things.
First of all in importance is the way in
which the set is planned and wired up.
When placing components on a chassis
a little forethought will show just how
such parts as coils, transformers, valve
sockets and R.F. chokes should be
mounted to ensure short and direct wir-
ing to the grid and plate circuits of the
detector valve.
The grid condenser and leak should be
arranged right at the valve socket ter-
minal. If the valve is S.G. with control
grid on top, then mount the grid con-
denser on a stand-off insulator so that
there is no unnecessary length of wire
between tuned circuit and valve. Con-
nect the plate lead as directly as possible
to the plate (feedback) coil and, particu-
larly where a metal chassis is used, keep
the coils away from the metal. Plug-in
coils should be mounted at least ljin.
above the metal surface.
Auto-bias for Battery Sets.
In dealing with many kinds of battery
sets, the writer is often asked how to pro-
vide for grid-biasing audio valves without
using batteries. The method is simple.
Auto-bias works on the principle, for
example, that a current of eight milli-
amperes passing through a resistance of
1000 ohms will give a voltage drop of
eight. The term “negative bias” means
that the grid circuit of a valve is con-
nected to some negative point in relation
to the valve filament, the potential re-
quired depending upon the valve charac-
teristic, the plate voltage and the use to
which the valve is put.
In the system illustrated by diagram
a voltage will be developed across resist-
ance AB, depending upon the total plate
current and the amount of resistance. If
the grid of the power valve is connected
to B, the valve will be biased by the
voltage drop across AB.
Thus, if the total milliamperes taken
by the receiver is 20, and 20 volts nega-
tive is required for the grid of the power
valve, the value of AB will be 1000
ohms. As this resistance is passing the
plate current of all the valves, decoup-
ling must be used in the grid circuit, and
is done by R 1 and Cl. R 1 may be
100,000 ohms and Cl not less than one
mfd. Provision for the biasing of the
first audio stage is made by tapping AB
for the required voltage, and the inclu-
sion of similar decoupling by R 2 and
C 2. Auto-biasing may be used thus for
any receiver, provided that alteration of
the resistor value AB is effected if neces-
sary.
What’s What in Radio.
Radio receivers operated by gas is the
suggestion of a correspondent in a
British gas journal. The
idea is workable for the
heating of special valve
cathodes by jets, for an
early type of experimental
valve obtained cathode
emission thus. The main
objection would be that of
inconvenience and the
possibility of leaking pipe
connections.
s|c j): *
Listeners to a western
U.S.A. station heard con-
fused noises in the middle
of a programme. The noises were
attributed to static, but the other
side of the microphone could have
told a different story. A madman
was at large in the studio, wield-
ing a piece of cutlery, and the noises
emanated from this source, plus the hur-
ried exit of some of the staff and the
efforts of the remainder to grab- the
demented gentleman , without being
carved.
* * * *
For six weeks 8.8. C. broadcast the
time from the clock situated in the south-
west tower of St. Paul’s Cathedral. Big
Tom, London City’s bell, took over the


The New “EFCO” Aerotype Broadcast Dial
ħ
Advertisement of the Efco Mfg.
Co., Ltd., Arncliffe, N.S.W.
“The Dial People.”
SPECIFICATION
Ratio, 8-1.
Dial pointer accurately synchronised
with movement of condenser plates
and cannot possibly get out of adjust-
ment. Escutcheon finished in bakelite.
Obtainable in various shades. Size of
Escutcheon, 4-J inches.
PRICE 15 - EACH
Distributors: —
N.S.W.
Fox & MacGillycuddy, Ltd.
O. H. O’Brien, Ltd.
A. G. Davis & Co.
Bloch & Gerber, Ltd.
VIC.
O. H. O’Brien, Ltd.
S. AUS.
Newton Maclaren, Ltd.
A. G. Healing:, Ltd.
Q’LAND.
Hills & Co.
W.A.
W. A. Carlyle & Co.
\
5
million aerials
lead down to
Mullard Valves
5 miliic
aeria
can't fc
wrong
nd
Milliard
Write for booklet on Battery Valves to: —
The Milliard Radio Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
:*** >
\
There are big opportunities in
Aviation for trained men. A
career of bigger pay and greater
possibilities than the average.
The Australia-England service
begins at the end of the year.
Before long Airlines will be
operating to New Zealand,
Canada and the East. Just
think. Look ahead. You can
easily realise the big demand
there will be for pilots and
ground engineers.
Train now with the Australian Aviation
Schools. Study our comprehensive theoretical
course, which teaches you aerodynamics, air-
craft rigging, aircraft engineering and air
pilotage. Your practical course will be
arranged with Kingsford Smith Air Services,
Ltd. Sir Charles Kingsford Smith himself
will take a large number of students.
You can get full details of our course
free and without obligation .
B - 4/,/84
.WIVIIOX SCHOOLS
WEMBLEY HOUSE, RAILWAY SQ„ SYDNEY
duties usually performed by Big Ben.
It was only right that the latter should
be given a rest, as it has been cracked for
over half a century.
* * * H=
According to the “Wireless and
Gramophone Trader” (England), a mil-
lion British radio sets, valued at
£4,000,000, were sold in 1933. Radio
licenses have reached six and a quarter
millions.
* * * *
Another short-wave station is to be
added to the increasing list for listeners
with short-wave and all-wave receivers.
This is located in the Italian colony of
Tripoli, and will use wave-lengths be-
tween 15 and 80 metres, with 2 kilowatts
in the aerial.
* * *
There are still many readers of radio
publications who appear to have no in-
terest in short waves, despite the im-
provements in both transmitters and
receivers. Foreign reception can be quite
thrilling, and at times far-distant stations
may be received with unbelievable
volume. Short-wave reception is .yet a
long way from perfection, but is steadily
advancing. It seems, therefore, advisable
for the newcomer who can afford it to
invest in a reliable all-wave receiver.
After all, it requires but a twist of the
wrist to switch back to the normal broad-
cast range if short-wave searching tem-
porarily reaps a poor harvest.
:p :1c * *
Transmitting radio amateurs in Eng-
land are about to organise a campaign
against pirates. For some time trans-
mitting piracy has been accepted as an
inevitable evil in most countries, but
now the British P.O. has intimated that,
in view of the illicit transmissions taking
place, reconsideration may have to be
given to the question of granting facili-
ties for transmitting experiments. Ama-
teur clubs are widely experienced ,in
locating hidden transmitters on field-day
occasions ; therefore, the problem should
present little difficulty.
* * * *
Receivers advertised as bargains by
retailers with whom radio is a sideline
may turn out nothing of the kind. An
elaborate cabinet can cover up a hor-
rible mess inside. It is not suggested that
radio should not be reasonably inexpen-
sive, but it can be too cheap, and nasty
into the bargain. The moral is to buy
from a source where radio is more than
an afterthought in business, and to buy
with the name of a reputable manufac-
turer on the chassis. By so doing one
buys service as well, in case of technical
trouble later.
sjj -I- H* *!*
Occasionally the planet Mars becomes
a subject of discussion as a possible
target for radio signals from Mother
Earth. Nobody denies the possibility
that ultra-short-wave signals might cause
an impulse in the detector of Martian
receivers, if any. But the red planet is
allegedly much older than our own. If
intelligent life in a form akin to ours
exists, radio science would be in a much
more advanced degree than on earth.
Why then a complete absence of Mar-
tian impulses in our ultra-wave receivers?
We should at least credit possible ad-
vanced life on other planets with a desire
to communicate with us in some way.
It may have been tried ages ago by some
method of communication yet unknown
on earth. Radio may be sadly a back
number. On the other hand, life may
exist on other planets in some incompre-
hensible form.
* * * :!-■
Recently in England, the Post Office
authorities unearthed two unlicensed
amateur broadcasting stations. Reporters
got busy, and sections of the press turned
the culprits into heroes. The genuine
amateur transmitter licensed under
British regulations obtains his license by
serious application to the study of radio
technique. To praise piracy is a slur on
the membership of the Radio Society of
Great Britain, an organisation which has
played a great part in amateur radio
history.
* * * *
In America the growing popularity of
car radio sets has been followed by ex-
tensive business in equipment for water
craft. The problems of motor-boat radio
installations follow closely those already
solved in motor-cars. Members of yacht
and motor-boat clubs are equipping their
craft in increasing numbers.
si: * * *
At the end of 1933 the estimated
number of listeners in Europe, including
Soviet Russia, was 84,000,000. Denmark
has the highest percentage of licenses to
population, and Great Britain leads with
the highest number of licenses, 5,973,759.
* * :]= *
In a paper read before the wireless sec-
tion of the Institute of Electrical Engi-
neers, P. P. Eckersley introduced his sub-
ject as “Audio-frequency Wire Broadcast-
ing.” This deals with the utilising of
house electrical-supply circuits for a pro-
posed scheme of “wired wireless” pre-
viously referred to as “Radio Re-diffu-
sion.”
:k *
Radiotelephony will be fitted on board
the Endeavour, with which T. O. M.
Sopwith is challenging for the America’s
Cup. During the voyage across the
Atlantic similar equipment will be in-
stalled on a motor-yacht to accompany
the Endeavour. The apparatus will be
made by Marconis.
* * * *
Photo.-cell manufacturers have scope
for innumerable applications of the
“electric eye.” Smash-and-grab raiders
can be frustrated by a device which,
when a hand, or even any small object,
interrupts a zigzag light beam, drops
steel shutters over valuables, or removes
them automatically into steel-protected
recesses. G.E.C. (England) is pioneering
such applications.
H= * #
Soviet Russia is making another
attempt on the stratosphere record, but
this time the balloon will be a robot,
carrying no passengers. Recording in-
struments will be started in action by
radio control from earth. It is hoped
thus to reach a record height without
endangering life.
H* $
The Empire transmitters at Daventry
(England) will soon be connected to the
new aerial systems, supported by 300-
feet masts in place of the smaller masts
now in use. Improved reception in Aus-
tralia is hoped for.
s|i ijs ij;
The American super-power station
WLW at Cincinnati uses 500 kilowatts
of power. Nevertheless the Federal
Radio Commission has granted a further
increase in power rating. Super-selective
receivers will be necessary anywhere near
the station.
In France from October 1 all electrical
apparatus sold must be labelled to indi-
cate whether or not the equipment is
interference-free. In this new law it is
laid down that interference is “liable”
when it reaches intensity equal to a field
strength of one millivolt per metre, and
that the duration must be not less than
three seconds.
* * * *
The P.M.G.’s Department has put up
the price of the annual list of Australian
broadcasting and experimental stations
to 2s. 6d. Applications for renewal com-
mencing July 1, 1934, should therefore be
accompanied by this amount.
* =i= $
An article in “R 9” (U.S.A.), a wholly
amateur publication, discusses the ques-
tion of adequate frequency bands for
amateur transmission. It prophesies that
at the International Convention in Cairo
in 1937 amateurs will press for wider
bands. Should the claims be unsuccess-
ful, “the rapid increase in the number
of amateurs will make the present bands
almost impossible for 100 per cent, com-
munication.”
* * * *
An unusual application of a micro-
phone and speech amplifier is recorded
in “Electronics” (U.S.A.). A victim of
the fear of being buried alive has made
advance arrangements with the under-
taker and cemetery. A sensitive micro-
phone will be installed in the coffin and
connected with loudspeakers in the ceme-
tery caretaker’s dwelling. The circuit is
to be kept continuously energised for at
least a year after interment, and is to
be regularly tested by sounding a small
gong in the coffin. The line between the
site of the grave and the loudspeakers is
already installed.
* * * *
Chicago Police Department is using a
magnetic exploring device for “frisk-
ing” suspects for concealed weapons.
Valve amplifiers operate an alarm when
the device passes in proximity to a metal
object of even small size, and the posi-
tion of the object on the person is thus
localised.
* * sl: =1:
A novel electronic organ is being
developed in America for station WCAU
by Ivan Ereemeff, a Russian inventor.
With this organ the station expects to
transmit organ music of hitherto un-
known qualities.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Can a screened crystal receiver be used
as a monitor if placed near the set? (2) Cir-
cuit of a one-valve short-wave adaptor for use
with a five-valve reflex superheterodyne ? —32.
(1) Question obscure. To monitor what? If
a telephony transmitter, yes. (2) The circuit
illustrated is of a single-valve type, using a
Fig 1 — Diagram showing the necessary
alterations for converting a short-wave
adaptor to A C mains working
56 or 227 valve. The E 415 may be used
alternatively. This is not an adaptor of the
plug-in kind, but an autodyne frequency
changer. It connects to the aerial terminal of
the B.C. receiver. Any standard short-wave
coils may be used.
Where can I purchase an all-wave battery-
operated receiver with not more than five or
six valves ? —22.
Such receivers are just coming on the
market. Watch advertising section on this
page for announcements. A home-constructed
battery, all-wave receiver, the “Wide-World
Three,” was described in B. 20/6/’34.
What is the formula for determining the
frequency of a station working on a stated
wave-length ? —23.
The frequency in kc. of a station can be
obtained by dividing the wave-length in metres
into 300,000; and, vice versa, the wave-length
can be determined by dividing the frequency in
kilocycles into this figure.
Is it possible to determine the amount of
charge in an accumulator from the color of the
plates ? —24.
To a certain extent the color of the plates
is a useful guide. If the battery is fully
charged the positive plates should he a deep
chocolate color, and the negatives a slate grey.
As the battery becomes discharged the posi-
tive plates gradually change to a lighter color.
It is safest, however, to take the specific
gravity of the acid with a hydrometer. The
gravity when fully charged should be in
accordance with the value advised for the cells.
May a speaker of other than a dynamic type
be used with a receiver using a 47 valve ? 1
have a very good type of magnetic speaker
I would like to use. —25.
Yes, it is practical to use a magnetic speaker
with any of the standard power valves which
are usually fed into dynamic speakers. A
special output transformer is all that is neces-
sary, the primary being in the plate circuit
of the valve, and the secondary connected to
the magnetic speaker. Primary and secondary
must be matched to valve and speaker.
1 have seen references to “Telefunken”
modulation. What are the essentials of this
system, and is it used in Australia ? —26.
This is a form of grid modulation and, as
the name implies, was developed by the Telc-
funken Co. (Germany). A valve modulator
is used in the grid circuit of a radio-frequency
amplifier (transmitter) and the grid current is
blocked and forced to flow through the modu-
lator. The modulator is really nothing more
than a variable resistance, with the value of
resistance governed by the bias voltage on
the grid of the valve. Many amateur tele-
phony stations use this system successfully,
and 2CH (Sydney) is so equipped.
Five years ago I built a Marco Four re-
ceiver, which has given satisfaction until
recently. The valves (£/Zl99’s) are worn out
and must be replaced. All components are
good. What type of valves should I now use ?
—2B.
You can use 230-type valves or any of the
general-purpose kind in the two-volt range.
Philips A 209 or Milliard PM2DX would be
suitable. No alterations to the receiver should
be needed.
7 have a semi-electric three-valve Reinartz
circuit, audio transformer coupled. What tuning
coil should l use ? —29.
You can obtain coils suitable for any re-
ceiver from coil manufacturers. Try R.C.S.
Radio, 12 City-road, Sydney.
Where is the “earth” connection in an aero-
plane carrying radio equipment ? —3O.
The “earth” connection is not known as
such, but is there in the form of a balancing
capacity. This may be the bonded framework
in the case of an all-metal construction, or a
di-pole aerial may be used. The latter is
a combination of aerial and counterpoise. It
is not essential to have a direct earth connec-
tion for radio communication.
Could the attached circuit diagram and com-
ponents be used as an eliminator ? Only 30
miltiamperes are required. Also, what is the
maximum current that may be taken safely
front the rectifier filament winding of a trans-
former as used in the Philips 3002 eliminator ?
If less than two amps., can I use a separate
step-down transformer for rectifier filaments ?
—3l.
Your intended rectifier and filter system is
practicable and should deliver up to 45 or 50
milliamperes at 200 volts. The rectifier fila-
ment winding of the eliminator mentioned
will only deliver 1.25 amperes at the most.
There is no reason why a separate filament
transformer should not be used.
7 constructed the preselector unit (“A.R.N.”
24/11 / ’33), with dire results: My set is of un-
known make using a 224 grid-leak detector,
171/4 amplifier. Results: Without preselector,
ISM, 2CH, 2UE, 2BL, 2FC; with preselector,
2SM, 2CH and 2BL faintly. What’s wrong ?
—33.
Probably there is a short in the aerial cir-
cuit. The coil LI is wound over the “top” end
of L 2 with empire cloth between. A little
experimentation with the number of turns and
coupling of LI may help. Also, the position of
the taps on L 2 should be varied. This unit
has been used with a set similar to yours with
excellent results, and the set has not yet been
found that it does not improve.
7 have built up the Quality Superhet
(“A.R.N.” 11/5/’34), and would like to fit
a tone control. How is this done ? The set
has an excellent tone, but there is a slight
hum which does not decrease after the valves
are warmed up. —34.
A series of fixed condensers from .00005 to
.1 mfd. switched across from grid to grid
of the push-pull valves will take care of tone
control. A leaky electrolytic condenser may be
responsible for the hum.


Announcement
UNBREAKABLE.
WATER-PROOF.
DUST-PROOE.
ANGUS & COOTE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
The “Indestructible” Watch
which is
ACCIDENT-PROOF, WATER-PROOF, KNOCK-PROOF, SHOCK-PROOF, DAMP-PROOF, DUST-PROOF.
FOR SPORTS WEAR
IT IS SPLENDID!
YOU CAN PLAY IN
IT—WHATEVER
YOUR GAME.
V
7*
0
FOR THE TROPICS
IT IS IDEAL!
NO MOISTURE
WHATEVER CAN
ENTER IT.
NON-MAGNETIC.
PRICES
LADY’S Wrist Watch, with clear
black hands and figures (very smart),
and silver-mounted black moire band,
Same Wrist Watch and Band, with
luminous hands and figures which can
be read in the dark .
£5/12/6
£6/2/6
GENTLEMAN’S Wrist Watch, with
clear black hands and figures, and
stylish suede leather buckled strap. . .
Same Wrist Watch on Strap, with
luminous hands and figures to tell the
time in the dark
£4/17/6
£5/10/-
JOLT-PKOOF.
Chromium Wrist Bands, as shown, for either Ladies’ or Gentlemen’s Wrist Watches, instead of Strap or Ribbon Band, 7/6 extra,
The “Indestructible” Watch is immune from magnetism. So you can wear it, without fear or fuss, near electrical
machinery. It will stand the hard knocks and jolts inseparable from sports wear—without getting out of order
or putting you to expense for replacing broken internal parts. The glass is unbreakable. The crown is sealed. Damp
and dust simply cannot get in. The high-grade timekeeping mechanism is completely protected.
Both Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Cases have the Modern Chrome Finish, with Rustless, Acid-
proof backs. Perspiration cannot disfigure them. A2O Years’ Warranty comes with each watch.
CALL AND SEE THE “INDESTRUCTIBLE” WATCH—IT IS INDESTRUCTIBLE. IF YOU CANNOT CALL, WRITE AND ASK ANY
QUESTIONS YOU WISH—AND MENTION “THE BULLETIN.” THE “INDESTRUCTIBLE” WATCH IS OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
SHOCK-PROOF.
ANGUS & COOTE
500 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
BRIDGE
WITHOUT
SIGHS.
BY H. L. TONKIN.
RESPONSES.
No end of trouble in bridge is caused
by arriving at the wrong declaration,
provided neither of the partners is hav-
f ..... „ , .
mg a little punt on his own.
Even with a fairly strong hand wrong
responses are made, and when it comes
to an average or weak holding the posi-
tion is often pathetic. I propose to
grade possible answers to a partners
opening bid of one in ascending order of
strength.
In all cases the opponent on the right
has passed. The most informative
answer one can make is the pass. If the
hand holds less than one ace and one
queen or the equivalent—say, two kings
and a knave—the best bid is to pass,
except in cases where it has also a bare
raise of partner’s suit in playing tricks.
To try to reply with the negative one n.t.
on one ace or on two queens and a ten
can only lead to disaster.
The safe minimum for the Culbertson
. . . .
negative n t is an ace and queen, or the
honor-trick equivalents and for partner-
ship purposes this should be adhered to.
It merely means that you are keeping the
bidding open. That disposes of the two
weakest replies one can make, the pass
and the negative n.t.
A little stronger is the single raise on
your partner’s bid. The hand may not
be much better than one honor trick,
but has 3 to 41 playing tricks. This
serves only the same purpose of keeping
the bidding alive. Remember that when
this raise to two is made over an inter-
vening bid it must be honest. It guaran-
tees 4 to 41 playing tricks in the suit bid.
Many players are spurred on by any
opposition overcall, and will strain to
find a raise on a hand which they would
blithely pass up otherwise-.
Getting along to the stronger responses,
the next is an overcall in another suit,
such as one spade—two diamonds. This
should mean to your partner that you
ha . ve H-3 I ho , nor tricks and a biddable
s K ult - It is the lowest ranking of what may
be called the constructive responses. It
offers definite hdp towards a game if the
or igi na i bidder has any more to say, and
may be made on a hand as weak as
QJ? 10> x lus an ace or K q.
Now we h the reall strong
answers indica P t f n that is i n sig ht
xhese are the two n t and the raise from
one t Q three in partner’s bid. They sug-
gest that, if the first bidder has any slight
additional values at all, a game may be
made. If the opener has bid on a bare
minimum he should pass even such a
strong invitation; penalties are suffered
and useful part scores missed through
trying for games which are not there,
Trust your partner; if he has said two
n -V be nasnt got three n.t.; if he has
ra J sed to three he doesn t hold a four
iaise.
Stronger replies than these are the
direct game bids, three n.t. and raises
to fou / or five on ’ partDer . B suit bid . They
sugges , no further bidding unless the de-
clarer has a rem arkable hand.
The best response of all, and the most
useful bid in contract, is the forcing take-
out. It is made on a minimum of 31
honor tricks (except freak distributions)
and not only guarantees game but sug-
gests a slam.
There can be no mistake about this
bid. It is an overcall in another suit, and
partner bids one trick more than neces-
sary when he makes it. For example,
one club—two diamonds should never
be missed on account of its important
inferences. If the first bidder has opened
on a minimum of 21 honor tricks he
lets his partner know that by answering
two no trumps. Even if the take-out suit
seems to fit his hand he should reply
with two n.t. first, and show the fit in the
suit later. This avoids bidding of impos-
sible slams. If the opening bidder has
more than a minimum, he may show a
second suit. Or he may give a raise in
the take-out suit, but only one raise,
even though able to give more, provided
the contract is still short of game.
This is in direct contradiction of the
procedure when answering an ordinary
non-forcing bid. Then you are com-
pelled to bid the full value of your hand
in raises. The reason why you don’t do
it when answering a forcing take-out is
that you may shut valuable information
as to the composition of your partner’s
hand. You can always give him the
extra raise or raises later.
There is one exception to the rule of
giving all your raises at once when reply-
ing to an ordinary opening bid. If your
partner has opened with one club or
one diamond, and your hand may pos-
sibly contain raises to four clubs or four
diamonds, don’t go above three. Give
him the chance to bid three n.t. Among
good players, if the reply to one club is
four clubs, it means that the responding
hand is definitely unsuited to any n.t.
contract, but may provide a game in the
minor suit. Keep this in mind, and
don’t shut out winning n.t. contracts
while striving for impossible 11-trick
games in minor suits’.
Consider these replies to an original
one-bid.
Your partner has opened with one
club. Your hand is S —A, x, x ; H —x, x ;
D—Q, 10, x, x, x ; C —lo, x, x.
One n.t. is the correct answer. It is
not good enough for even one diamond.
If your holding should be
4— K, J, x
V— x * X
♦ —Q, J, 9, x, x
4—lo, x, X
although it does not look much better,
the bid is one diamond, as there are \\
honor tricks and you should let your
partner know it.
Now for the raise in the suit bid.
4— K, 10, x
V-x, x
4 — A, x, x, x
4—lo, x, x, X
There is just one raise, about 3| p.t.
for an opening club bid, but only over a
pass by your right-hand opponent. The
hand also contains a raise for a spade
bid, under the same conditions. If there
were half an additional playing trick
you would still raise to two, but you
would do it over an opposition bid.
The two n.t. response is not favored
by good players, if it can be avoided,
but there are certain hands which admit
of practically no other bid. It is given
on 2\ honor tricks and a “flat” hand—
that is, a hand of even distribution, which,
notwithstanding its honor strength, con-
tains comparatively few playing tricks
for partner’s bid. Such a holding as
4~~K, J, x
V—Q, J, x
4 —K, 10, x, x
4 —K, x, x
The hand contains no biddable suit,
and is much too good for a one n.t.
response. If it contained the ace instead
of the queen of hearts, the best bid would
be three n.t. The raise to game is one
often missed. Inexperienced players seem
unwilling to advance a one-heart bid to
four-all in one breath. If your hand
contains 6-6 i playing tricks and no forc-
ing take-out, there is no excuse for fright.
Against a bad distribution you may go
down one trick, but to balance that you
have the value of a game or game and
rubber. Supposing your partner has said
one heart and you hold
4—Q> io, x
V—Q, J, X, X
4 —A, K, x, x, x
*- x
your best bid is four hearts. Even with
a minimum opening, game should be
there, and a two-diamond reply may
allow him to drop the bidding if he has
no extra values.
The forcing two-bid forms the basis of
most slam bids and a number of game
bids. For example:
—A, K, x, x
V-x
♦—A, Q, x
4—Q, 10, x, x, x
Your partner has opened with one
club. There is a game in sight and a
probable slam. The slam, at the worst,
should only depend on one finesse in the
clubs or diamonds. Your correct re-
sponse, however, is not five clubs but
two spades. If partner can bid hearts
or diamonds a grand slam is on.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The V.R.C. Grand National meetings
open on Saturday. The first leg of
the great jumping double seems to rest
between Baanya (list. 21b.) and Pris-
matic (lOst. 21b.), but calculations based
on public form are often upset in this
class of event. Prismatic landed the
V.A.T.C. Toolambool Hurdle on June
23 by four lengths. Baanya captured the
Port Phillip Hurdle at Williamstown by
a similar margin and with even greater
ease.
It was the first public effort of Baanya
over hurdles for nearly 12 months, and
punters displayed no desire to back him
off the card. The Tasmanian champion
went out at 7 to 2 —half a point shorter
than Ortalan, victorious in the Jumpers’
Flat at Mentone three days before.
Except for one blunder early in the race,
Baanya jumped perfectly. In the Rich-
mond Handicap on the previous Satur-
day his saddle had shifted. The same
thing happened at Williamstown, and
Hynes, unable to restrain Baanya, had
to let him rush to the front. However,
the saddle worked back into position.
The accident that befel Pactolus in the
Williamstown Steeplechase may prevent
L. K. S. Mackinnon’s prad running in
Bert Take a look, at me^ert,"
Giefjt : " vs/hv ? N '“
Bert /'The latest thing in plus-fours,
GERT .‘‘Ntou FLATTER VOUR.SELF''
the G.N. Steeple. Pactolus jumped like
a stag until he stifled the second-last
fence, staggered and surrendered control
to Precocious. Game to the core, the
son of Rossendale put forth renewed
efforts and beat Whurlic by two lengths
for second ; but he could make no im-
pression on Precocious, who scored by
half a dozen lengths and had a lot in
hand. The exhibition given by Preco-
cious shows that E. Y. Sheil’s candidate
is back to the form that enabled him to
win the cross-country classic in 1932.
Precocious then was raced by Sheil’s
daughter, but after her marriage to F. H.
Dexter, a Melbourne sporting scribe, the
horse was returned to Sheil. Great horse
though he be, Redditch can hardly be
expected to give Precocious nearly 2st.
in weight over the National course of
three miles and a furlong.
Royal Visitor, a wonderfully safe con-
veyance in Maoriland, sustained in the
Williamstown Steeplechase his second
fall since reaching Melbourne. Even if
he recovers from a bruised hip, Royal
Visitor will have to be discarded at Flem-
ington.
W. Hawthorne nearly pulled off a
coup with Lancet in the Maiden Hurdle.
This Greyspear gelding, a 33-to-l chance,
came home at express speed to finish
only half a head behind El Damaroyal.
The success of Hunting Morn in a divi-
sion of the Juvenile Handicap gave to
most bookmakers a “skinner.” One Pad-
dock fielder laid £5O to 10s. three times
and £lOO to £1 against the Dark Fox colt.
Hunting Morn was bred in N.S.W. by
Hugh Denison and realised 120 guineas
as a yearling. His dam, Dewdrop, is
by The Welkin from Carissimma (imp.),
by Carbine, and is thus a sister to Car-
welkin, a noted sire of ponies. Star of
Erin (by Great Star) was exceedingly
lucky to defeat Daughter of the Wind
in the other division of the young-
sters’ race. The Windbag filly got into
all sorts of trouble, yet was flying at the
finish and lost by a mere head.
Baanya is owned by J. T. Sullivan,
who has a fleet of cars running between
Launceston and Hobart. The nag is by
Salatis, a sprinter (he won a Caulfield
Futurity Stakes), but there need be no
concern about Baanya seeing out three
miles after his successes over middle
distances on the flat and the ease with
which he covered two miles over hurdles
with list. 121 b. on Saturday. Nyerimi-
lang is a very fit horse and a true stayer.
No journey is too long for Sub Rosa
and Star God, but Wayback lost caste
by his. failure at Williamstown, and may
be going off in condition. Silvion has
lots of grit and is improving rapidly.
Oldhome would have finished nearer
than third in the Port Phillip Hurdle if
he had not hung out so persistently that
McMenamin had difficulty in keeping
him on the course. Mount Dangar, the
A.J.C. Hurdle hero, did not adapt him-
self to the left-handed direction of gal-
loping and was last in Baanya’s race.
This Page’s tip for the G.N. Hurdle is
Baanya 1, Prismatic 2, Sub Rosa 3.
* * * *
The A.J.C. takes a benevolent interest
in apprentice jockeys. It has arranged
lectures for their benefit, and they ride
track trials and are instructed in stable
management. Unfortunately the major-
ity get little experience in actual races.
Britt, Lightfoot, Pratt, Carter, Parsons
and Mortimer of course do ; but few
of the others (there are upwards of 100
on the list) are ever called upon. An
occasional race for apprentices who have
not ridden five winners would be useful
to the lads, and might help to avert
accidents.
At Moorefield a little-known appren-
tice was on the favorite, Cool Spell, in
the Moorefield Handicap. A difficult
horse to handle, Cool Spell took charge
of his pilot and would have ended in
Botany Bay but for the outer rail at the
bottom of the straight. Cool Spell lost
so much ground that he was soon beaten.
On the other hand, young Murphy, who
is apprenticed to Tom McGrath, handled
Sunstone (6 to 1) in a most capable
manner, and narrowly beat Measure and
Tortoni. Trained by Jack Phoenix for
his son Logan, Sunstone is a three-year-
old gelding by imported Royal Sun, once
trained by Peter Keith. Sunstone is in
the Epsom and Metropolitan with 7st.
71b. and 7st. 51b. respectively.
Ascot trainer B. Cowell has had a fine
run of successes with Kala Moti and
Hathalie. Recently he acquired Booth’s
cast-off Caravel Boy and took him to
Kembla Grange, where he failed. But
with Darby Munro in the saddle Caravel
Boy (20 to 1) won the Flying Welter all
the way from Wexford and Atlantis.
Headmaster, ridden by Pike, was a hot
favorite; he stood flat-footed, and de-
cided to go when the field had slipped
away nearly a furlong.
Strange that the Dominion gelding
Tavern Knight is not in the Epsom. Start-
ing at threes, after fours had been laid,
the chestnut son of Gay Shield, trained
by the ex-M.L. jockey L. Manson, made
hacks of the opposition in the Rockdale
Mile; Spear Belle and Prowler were
placed. Tavern Knight had won at Vic-
toria Park, and he looks like recording
the hat trick before the handicappers get
his measure.
Durga and Rustler, winners of the divi-
sions of the Maiden Nursery, are bred to
gallop. Durga is a sister to Kuvera and
Shakuni; Rustler is a brother to Whit-
tingham. Both met weak opposition.
The three divisions of the Kogarah
Stakes found backers well on the mark.
In the first heat Causina, a stable-mate
of Treasury, scored, at sixes, from Cis-
tura and Lefaire ; in the second division
Paneerai (9 to 2) got up in time to beat
Wondrous in the last stride—her third
success in her last four starts. Parcourir,
a sister to Credence and Greenhorn, took
the third heat at fives.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Haban Singh is the new star in the
wrestling firmament. He has become a
greater attraction than Lurich, and at
Leichhardt on Saturday was a mile ahead
of that showman on points, though he
didn’t get the decision. With an over-
arm throw (called an “Indian Whip”) and
a body press, he pinned the Russian in
the fourth. Apparently in intense pain,
the Russ recovered miraculously, but
time and again Singh squeezed out of
his body-scissors hold, only to be downed
with a forward slam in the sixth. An
extra round was ordered; the Indian
had all the better of it, but there was
no fall. Draw.
Woodfull’s Men
Australia’s ffeturn match with Surrey —
the only double of its kind on the pro-
gramme —was, as far as Surrey’s first
knock went, an interesting instance of
the uncertainty of cricket. In the first
match the county closed with 7 down
for 475. This time the team was out for
175, the Oval wicket being as good on
the second occasion as on the first. Big
scorers in the first match came a thud
this time. Instead of 219, Sandham took
one only. But Gregory, 116 in the first
game, reached 48, a feat worth the Eng-
lish selectors’ attention. McCabe (4-24),
Grimmett (4-64) and Ebeling (2-54)
divided the wickets.
At stumps on Saturday Australia had
lost Brown (34), Darling (20) and Brad-
man (27) for 136. Ponsford and Bar-
nett were the not-outs, the former with
49 and the ’keeper yet to score. Fender,
Allom and Holmes took a wicket each.
* * i): *
The English selectors have picked a
13 for the Old Trafford Test which sug-
gests they are getting as windy as they
were in 1930. Geary, Bowes and Fames
have been dropped; Allen, Macaulay,
Clark, Keeton and Hopwood are new
choices. The side is evidently a gamble
on weather conditions. If it looks
fine, fast bowlers Clark and Allen
will be the leading juveniles. Otherwise,
Macaulay, a two-break right-hander, ex-
cellent on a sticky wicket, will support
Verity. Keeton is in the front rank of
professional batsmen. Hopwood is a
first-class all-rounder, bowling left-hand
slow-medium. He is a stiff proposition
with ball and bat on his home ground
and is evidently a “horse for the course ’
pick.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The crash of the Aus-
tralian Eleven in the second Test should
wake up even those gate-hungry officials
who insist on the covering of the wicket.
It is years since Australia has developed
a sticky-wicket batsman of the type of
Percy McDonnell, Worrall or Harry
Graham, who could and did knock up
three-figure scores on the worst of
pitches and against masters in the art of
bowling on them. We shall never breed
that type of batsman again till the wicket-
covering practice is abandoned. Since
money talks as loudly in modern cricket
as it does in the leg-show theatrical busi-
ness, that day is not likely to dawn for
many a year.
* * *
“Ratty Mick”: One interesting side-
light on the Test-match frenzy comes
from Lismore, on the N.S.W. North
Coast. The council’s electrical engineer
has reported that during the Test matches
the town system carried loads up to 150
kilowatts from 10.30 in the evening until
three the next morning. During the first
match 2000 extra units of current were
sold, and the rate will probably increase
out of sight if the series draws to a close
finish, to the great profit of Lismore
Council.
{Continued on page 36.)
Footbrawl
A packed “house,” including State
Gov. Huntingfield, greeted Fitzroy and
South Melbourne teams at Albert Park.
Faster to the ball and making position
better, Fitzroy kept close to the
heavier Southerners. Replacing Bunton
—dislocated shoulder—at half-time with
the weightier Sharpe, Fitzroy got a few
points to the good, but the Red-and-
Whites lasted longer; they pulled the
game from the fire in the last quarter, to
win 97-88. Robertson, Kelleher and Bis-
sett for South, and Smallhorn, Cordner
and Cameron for ’Roy, came most under
notice. At Victoria Park Collingwood’s
systematic play gave it a 9-point win
over the faster and better-marking St.
Kilda, Gordon Coventry booting 8 goals.
’Wood 84, St. Kilda 75. Richmond had
a job to get ahead of Footscray, the
patched-up Tricolors losing only in the
last quarter; Tigers 64, ’Scray 48. Those
old opponents Carlton and Melbourne
had a friendly bout, Carlton putting it
all over the Red-legs by 134 to 85. Gee-
long found Hawthorn a gift—ll 9 to 78.
Essendon made a sorry exhibition of
North Melbourne by piling up 190 to 93.
* * * *
The final match of the season between
the N.S.W. and Queensland Rugby
Unions at Sydney C. G. ended in a draw,
8-8 —a converted try and a penalty goal
in each case. They had each won a
match in Brisbane. The Union had vile
luck with wind and rain, which not only
made fast, open football impossible, but
spoiled what would have been a big
attendance.
There can be little doubt about the
visitors’ superiority both forward and
back, with one exception, Ross. N.S.W.
scored first when Kellaher gathered from
a cross-kick by Towers, and Ross con-
verted. Ross later added a penalty, and
at half-time scores were 8-3, Doneley
notching a p.g. not long before the
interval. For the most of the first half
Queensland lived in enemy territory, bul
spoilt its advantage by trying dry-
weather tactics.
The second spell was another story.
The visitors kept the ball on the ground
and launched attack after attack on the
N.S.W. line. From one of these rushes to
the line Ritter scored, and Doneley added
the extras. With one or two breaks the
rest of the game was an unceasing for-
ward attack by Queensland which only
Ross, always at his best in desperate
defence, could stall off. The rest of the
N.S.W. side hoofed into touch at every
opportunity and seemed glad to get rid
of the ball.
N.S.W. was beaten in all forward
departments but the line-out. Behind
the scrum Bennett and Lewis —a coming
Australian stand-off —badly outpointed
Malcolm and Biilmann, both too slow
for the job. McLean played finely on
one Queensland wing and mastered
Kellaher ; he was all but over on three or
four occasions. White did some good
work for N.S.W. opposite Cook.
Ma will have to think again when
picking her team to meet the All-Blacks
on August 4.
* * * *
Western Suburbs is still unbeaten in
the Rugby League premiership competi-
tion in Sydney. Results of Saturday’s
matches: Western Suburbs 6, S. Sydney
0 ; Eastern Suburbs 14, St. George 12 ;
Balmain 33, Uni. 13; Newtown 10,
North Sydney 8.
{Continued on page 36.)


0 Golfers ! If your feet slip, your shot
is spoiled. These shoes are specially de-
signed for extra GROUND' GRIF
note the placing of the Boomerangs on the
soles and heels. It is almost impossible to
slip. All leading stores sell ‘ NIBLICK”
Golf Shoes.
3
K
Carubo
Golf Shoe
Woodfull’s Men
Realising, perhaps, that the home side
at Lord’s consisted only of Englishmen,
with never an Australian, a Scot or an
Indian to help, a Latin named Jupiter
Pluvius came to the rescue during the
Sunday spell and won the day for Eng-
land. To abandon metaphor, it rained
hard during the interval and well into
Monday. Going out to bat again with
192 on and only two wickets down, Mc-
Cabe and Brown found themselves on
a soaked wicket which had been drying
for some hours with Verity, probably the
best left-hander playing, stacked up
against them. Brown added a couple to
his score and went at 105. McCabe put
on 10 and called it a day with 34. Once
more Chipperfield proved the man for
the occasion. Batting as the wicket de-
manded, he reached 37 n. 0., helped by a
plucky stand of 23 by Oldfield. The last
men battled desperately to make the few
runs needed to save the follow-on. They
were seven short when the last wicket
fell, and that meant the difference be-
tween losing and, at worst, drawing the
match. Verity’s figures were 7 for 61.
Worse was to come. The pitch was
dryer and more dangerous with every
minute, and the Australians, with the ex-
ception of Woodfull, who played a fine
defensive innings for 43, did not linger
on the damp turf. McCabe (19), Brad-
man (13), Darling (10) and Chipperfield
(14) all topped double figures, and on
appearances were darned lucky to do so.
The second try ended at 118, and Eng-
land won by an innings and 38 —her first
victory at Lord’s since 1896. Verity this
time had 8 for 43 —15 for 104. Verity’s
fellow-countyman Wilfrid Rhodes, like
him a medium left-hander, is the only
man to equal his performance. Rhodes
took 15 for 124 at Melbourne in 1903-04.
“Ifs” are as invidious as comparisons,
but “if” Australia had scratched up those
seven runs and saved going in again
O’Reilly would have had a wicket made
to order for him, and anything might
have happened.
* * * *
Following the Test, the Australians
had an easy win from Somerset by an
innings and 77 runs. Somerset batted
first on a drying pitch and gave O’Reilly
a chance to show what he might have
done at Lord’s. He took 9 for 38 in
Somerset’s first innings of 116, but was
not bowled much in the second, which
totalled the same. F. Lee, who carried
his bat for 59 in Somerset’s first knock,
was the only man to face the N. S.
Welshman with any confidence, while in
the second our old friend White (29) and
Wellard (26) made most of the runs.
Fleetwood-Smith, who took 0-33 in the
first innings, bagged 6 for 56 in the
second,. Ebeling taking four for the
match.
The Australian innings of 309 was
patchy. Woodfull, rather less stodgy
than usual, was run out at 84. Pons-
ford and Bradman got 17 each and
Darling 79. Barnett again gave a brisk
display for 51, with O’Reilly (22 n. 0.)
and Ebeling (21) also doing their bit.
Wellard, a fast professional bowler, put
up a fine performance in taking 6 for
111 on what had become an easy wicket.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: That reference to the
overbearing ways of W. G. Grace in the
days of his glory reminds me of another
yam about him. In his Indian summer,
the year when he made a wonderful re-
turn to his old form after most folk con-
sidered he was finished, he was playing
against Essex. Kortright, an amateur
whom the old hands of the ’nineties rate
as the fastest bowler England has seen,
was bowling. Grace played a half-volley
which the bowler caught. “Out,” said
the professional umpire. “Nonsense,”
said the Old Man, patting the pitch, “it
was a bumper” ; and he went on batting.
Next over Kortright skittled off and
middle. There was no arguing about that,
and “W.G.” started to walk off. “Hey,”
called out Kortright, “don’t go yet,
doctor; there’s still a stump standing.”
Grace reported the bowler to the Essex
committee for what he said was the
greatest insult he had ever had to endure,
but nothing happened.
H= * * *
“Auspices”: To me the most interest-
ing aspect of the Test match at Lord’s
is the judgment of wise men on the
condition of the wicket. One coterie,
headed by Jardine, avers that the thing was
easy. On the other side, such autho-
rities as Stanley Jackson and Hobbs say
it was a gluepot on which no side in
the world could have made a decent score
against the bowling which it suited so
well. An old Latin proverb says that
when augurs meet they smile. I can
imagine that when a gang of these cricket
pontiffs get together the cachinnatory
chorus would drown a community song
of all the laughing jackasses in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: It seems to me that the
more exalted the cricket critic the nearer
he approaches to the weathercock on
top of the church spire. In his twaddle
about the Lord’s Test, the “Manchester
Guardian’s” soothsayer, Neville Cardus,
says that Bowes and Fames are “only
second-class fast bowlers” and must be
hurled out of the English team for Old
Trafford. He adds that England only
needs one fast bowler, in view of the fact
that at Lord’s neither Bowes nor Fames
troubled the Australian batsmen, this
disproving the theory that Australian
batsmen do not like fast bowling. One
wonders at the critic’s capacity for swal-
lowing his own words. After the Notts
Test, in which Fames bowled very finely,
the Manchester man discovered in him
the fast bowler of a century, Also, he
clamored for the inclusion of Bowes, and
remarked that fast bowling was the
stuff to give the Australian troops.
* sk ifc *
“Broughton”: The third Test, starting
at Manchester this week-end, will be the
132nd of the series, each side having
pouched 52 and the balance being drawn.
The first Manchester was played
“Wot, me go orf? Didn't y’ 'ear ’im gimme th’ raspberry?”
in 1884, and since then the Australians
have been regular visitors to Old Traf-
ford. Of the 13 Tests played on the
Lancashire ground eight have been drawn,
England has won three and Australia the
other two. The last recorded decision
was in 1905, when England won. Since
then a run of draws has followed. Man-
chester has a bad reputation, from a
cricketer’s point of view, for wet weather,
and this explains the amount of “no
decision” meetings there.
Footbrawl
“Cash Amateur”: The solidarity spirit
has made its appearance in Westralian
football. Some weeks ago The Bulletin
chronicled the unsuccessful efforts of a
St. Kilda emissary to release a West-
ralian player from the fell clutches of
the Westralian League in order that he
might play with the Melbourne club.
The lad is a member of the Fremantle
Lumpers’ Union, and recently a deputa-
tion from these influential members of
society put the hard word on the West-
ralian League to release their comrade
from his chains. The League declined
emphatically, and is now probably one
with the crows in the matter of color.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: One handicap of Aus-
tralian Rules football is the continued
refusal of the heads to alter the rules and
give the field umpire authority to send
some stoushing blackguard off the field.
The Rugby and Soccer codes give
the central authority this power. All
the A.R. men can do is to report
the basher to a central committee. There
he is usually supported by influential offi-
cials of his / club and a horde of wit-
nesses prepared to swear through a stack
of Bibles that the umpire was a liar, and
the usual result is an acquittal. It is
pleasant to note, however, that a gentle-
man charged with deliberately kicking
another in one of the recent League
matches has been put on the peg for six
weeks. It is quite an advance in football
ethics for Melbourne.
* * * *
“Player”: That curse of all field
sports, the man or team that delays a
start of the proceedings by failing to
turn up on the scheduled time, finds no
sympathy in the Victorian Mallee. The
football rules there say that if both
teams are not on the ground ready to
play at 3.30 p.m. the umpire must bounce
the ball and let the battle —if any—rage.
The other day Torrita was on the
field but Tutye hadn’t turned up.
The ball was bounced, and for the first
quarter Torrita had an open go, but
contented itself with one goal. Then
Tutye turned up, but Torrita, helped by
its first quarter’s start, won the match.
* * * *
“Rover”: After all, N.S.W. Australian
Rulers will not see a Victorian side in
action at Sydney this year, as was hoped.
Victoria refused some time ago to send
even a third 18 to help along the game,
so the Ma Staters tried some of the clubs.
Negative replies came last week from
Geelong, Hawthorn and Collingwood.
Yet the Victorian League and Associa-
tion continue to wonder why the Aus-
tralian game doesn’t flourish outside the
States where it established itself un-
opposed many years ago.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Doyen of the Queensland
Rugby Union team which was in Syd-
ney at the week-end was Tom Welsby,
president of the Q.R.U. and a half-back
of the first Queensland team which
clashed with N.S.W. in 1882 at Sydney.
Not many of these stalwarts are alive
to-day. That year N.S.W. won both
matches, but got its issue in Brisbane
in the first match next year. The home
side was licked in the return, but this
was generally ascribed to the celebrations
over the first win.
The Nineteenth Hole
For the first time since 1923, when
Havers won, the British open golf cham-
pionship has been kept at home. The
winner was professional Harry Cotton,
who played wonderful golf throughout
the qualifying and championship rounds
to finish with a card of 283, which
equals Sarazen’s record for the event.
Australian Joe Kirkwood was prominent
to the end of the third round, but faded
out, failing to finish in the first 15. Shute,
the holder of the title, was eleventh.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The N.S.W. country
golf championship for the girlies, which
began as far back as 1906, has grown
out of recognition since those days. That
year there were 14 starters, and Miss
Nellie Meares, now Mrs. Griffin, won,
the affair being all over in a day. This
time the entry was so big that it took a
week to reach the final.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. amateur
golf championship has drawn a big and
formidable field this year, though the
Victorians have been hanging back, most
of the players being Ma Staters, with a
sprinkling of Queenslanders. The first
and second rounds will be played off on
Saturday and the others on Monday,
Tuesday and Thursday, with Saturday
July 14, set down for the final. The first
four rounds will be over 18 holes ; the
fifth, sixth and final over 36. Titleholder
is H. W. Hattersley.
* , * * *
“Divot Digger”: You can always
look to these associate members for
something new. On Bathurst golf links
the other day one of them hoisted what
must be nearly a world’s golf record by
holing out in one on two consecutive
greens, the 13th and 14th. Apart from
that, the most interesting part of the
business to the dispassionate male ob-
server is who suffers the time-honored
penalty in such a case. If the lady had
been a femme couverte her husband
would, of course, have had to meet the
liability incurred. As she is a femme sole,
the matter resolves itself into a nice
point of law. As an infant, her next
friend, parent or guardian would have
to set ’em up. If the lady is over 21.
what happens is her business.
* * * *
“Oakleigh”: Now that Queensland
and N.S.W. have completed their annual
associate golf championships, the Vic-
torian lasses are making ready for theirs.
The show starts on the Commonwealth
links on July 9 and continues to the 13th.
One interesting aspect of the affair is
that, in addition to the official champion-
ship and several handicaps, there is a
championship for “veterans.” Age is a
question on which lovely woman is
notoriously reticent, and it seems to the
writer that something special in the way
of medals should be presented to those
gallant enough to face the ordeal.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The first crash for Aus-
tralia in the All-England championships
came in the opening round of the singles
when McGrath went down to Yankee
Wood 10-8, 6-4, 6-4. The lad had bad
luck in striking this formidable player
first up. Wood won the Wimbledon
singles in 1931, when he had a walkover
from his compatriot, Shields. Crawford
and Tilden rate him the best amateur in
the States, though his official ranking is
sixth.
* * * *
“Birkdale”: In his recently-published
memoirs, Perry blames the refusal of
most of the English public schools to
admit tennis as a regular game, in addi-
tion to long-established cricket and foot-
ball, as the reason for England’s long wait
on the doorstep of the Davis Cup. It is
an old story, but English tennis was never
higher than in the days of the Renshaws
and the Dohertys, who picked up their
game on their own without any special
school coaching. Parke, who won the
1912 D.C. from Australia, was suckled
on Rugby football, and got what tennis
he could in between football and cricket
at Dublin University. The refusal of
the English G.P.S. to make tennis an offi-
cial sport is easily understood. Cricket,
football, rowing and athletics take up
enough school time as it is without cut-
ting working hours further by adopting
still another game.
* . * * #
“Centre Court”: July 31 will be a
red-letter day in Davis Cup history if
the proposed changes in present methods
of running the show are consented to.
One, sponsored by some of the smaller
Continental nations, is that the excellent
idea of the qualifying round to cut out
the absolute rubbish, which has been
tried for the first time, be abolished and
a return made to the old wearisome
method of all and sundry stacking up
against each other which so prolonged
the agony. Neither America nor Britain
will support this, and the same can be
said for Australia. One change on which
all parties seem to be unanimous is
that the tourney be held every two years
instead of annually. As things are, what
with the D.C., international champion-
ships, etc., etc., the amateurs of the game
have a hard time trying to squeeze in
a little job of work now and then.
* * * t-
“Marching Orders”: The tempera-
mental tennis player continues to be a
dashed nuisance. In the London Queen’s
Club tourney, Lott and Stoeffen, of
America, both abused umpires because
the decisions did not fit in with their
ideas. In one instance the umpire walked
off the court, and the match had to be
finished under the eye of the club pro-
fessional. If the aggrieved ump.
hopped on to the court and given the
objecting individual a ringabeller on the
nose the world not sodden with big-
tennis dope would have applauded.
Tennis umpires should be empowered
as football referees are, to send these
flash young cubs off the courts if they
transgress the laws of sportsmanship.
o Continued on page 38.)


He said to me —I only remember
two dates in history.
A
<sf~'
9
y.'.
■zm
3
c
a
S
1.
S)
/
£
V
I said to him —Yes, I know,
William the Conqueror 1066,
JOHNNIE WALKER
... 1820 ...!
In the snug-fitting concave hip-flask or the old familiar square bottle—Quarts and Pints.
BORN 1820... 5T1LL GOING STRONG...!
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON, KILMARNOCK.


h
THE
“BUNDY”
STOCK
SADDLE
£ll
With Leathers,
Girth and good
N.P. Irons.
Rail freight paid
for cash in N.S.W.
We can thoroughly recommend this
saddle for station use. It has pigskin seat,
s|-in. firm capped pads and oiled kip flaps.
Write for Saddlery Catalog No. 338—96
pages of horsey things.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
‘395 GEOKtiK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 996 of 1934.
BETWEEN THELMA ELIZABETH RAGEN
Petitioner
And HERBERT RAGEN Respondent.
TO HERBERT RAGEN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THELMA
ELIZABETH RAGEN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the eleventh
day of September One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-four and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
Dated this fifteenth day of June, a.d. 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON, Solicitor, New-
castle. By his Agent, JOHN CORCORAN,
Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
TO SUSAN JANE STRAUSS (FORMERLY
SUSAN JANE KENDLE, KENDALL OR
KENDELL), SISTER OF ELLEN BALM-
FORTH AND TRYPHENA FINCH,
WHO DIED IN NEW ZEALAND ON
THE Ist JANUARY, 1932, AND 25th
NOVEMBER, 1919, RESPECTIVELY:
TO HER CHILDREN AND ALL PER-
SONS CLAIMING BY, THROUGH OR
UNDER HER OR THEM.
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
15th day of August, 1934, your claims to share
in the estates of the abovenamed Ellen Balm-
forth and Tryphena Finch, failing which such
estates will be distributed disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington this 26th day of May,
1934.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 684 of 1934.
BETWEEN JOYCE GRIFFITS McKINNON
Petitioner
And ALEXANDER McKINNON Respon-
dent.
To ALEXANDER McKINNON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JOYCE
GRIFFITS McKINNON has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
seventh day of September One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of June, a.d.,
1934. , T .
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
H E. McINTOSH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
A 6! PER CENT
INVESTMENT
We are authorised to offer a limited number of shares in
a successful and well-established manufacturing and
trading undertaking, in respect of which application is to
be made for listing on the Stock Exchanges of Sydney
and Melbourne.
It owns two modern factories in Melbourne, and, in
addition to supplying leading retailers in the principal
cities and in New Zealand, it operates 21 of its own shops
in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. This Company is
acknowledged by the trade as the leader in its particular
line.
THE DIVIDEND (YEAR ENDS JUNE 30th) IN 1932
WAS 7| PER CENT. ; IN 1933 THE DIVIDEND WAS
9 PER CENT., AND THIS YEAR A DIVIDEND "»F
15 PER CENT. MINIMUM IS GUARANTEED, WHICH
SHOWS A RETURN AT THE PRICE OFFERED
EQUIVALENT TO 6f PER CENT.
A complete investigation of the assets, trading, etc., has
been made, and full details, together with certified Balance
Sheets, are available for inspection at this Office.
Inquiries should be made to
NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENT TRUST, LTD.,
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephones: 82430, 82470.
FOR SALE
ENGLISH
PEDIGREE
GREAT DANE PUPPIES
i i
Ml
■ lifl
SIRE —“Samson of Ou’borough”
(Imp.)
DAM —“Reverie of Trothy”
(Imp)
Both sire and dam have won first prizes in
England and New Zealand.
Report of Judge (Mr. D. D. Wilson)
at Wellington Kennel Club’s Annual
Show.
(Extract from “N.Z. Referee,”
September 21, 1933.)
“GREAT DANE: The only
entry. ‘Reverie of Trothy’
limp.) is a very good speci-
men, and is certainly the best
I have seen either in Australia
or New Zealand. Has a very
pleasing head and particularly
good neck placement, and
is very sound throughout
Properly mated, she should
produce some really good
specimens of the breed. 1 ’
Read what a Writer in the
Wei 1-k n o w n English
Journal, “Our Dogs,” says
of “Samson.”
“1 have msi neard that New Zealand has claimed a very fine dog in Samson of
Ouborough. ‘Samson’ is an imposing dog, and, as he possesses the blood line of
the Rolf and Ruffier of Ouborough strain, should do the breed a power of ooor
in New Zealand, where, I believe, the climate is as suitable to our breed as England.
COPIES OP FILL PEDIGREE, ALSO PHOTOGRAPHS OF PARENTS, MAY
BE INSPECTED AT THE SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE OFFICES OF THIS
PAPER.
PRICE 25 GUINEAS CASH
/AT KENNELS,\
\ NEW ZEALAND./
Write in first instance to:—
“GREAT DANE”
Care W. B. FITCHETT, LTD.
Advertising Agents, G.P.O. Box 617, Wellington, New Zealand.
Miscellaneous
“Crosse”: Lacrosse, which for some
years made great headway in Australia,
seems to be falling on evil days. The
N.S.W. association was to be the host
for an All-States tourney in 1935, but
has confessed that times are too rocky
for it to tackle the job. The Austra-
lian controllers of lacrosse have now
asked Queensland to take on the festival,
and failing consent they will put the
show off until 1936 at Adelaide, where
the game flourishes more strongly than
in any of the other Australian centres.
Years ago the visit of a Canadian team
gave lacrosse a great impetus throughout
Australia. The Canucks want to send
another side, but only Victoria and South
Australia voted in favor of the proposal,
though the visit may come off if the
funds come on.
* * * *
“Black Doctor”: Victoria is fortunate
in having an enthusiastic Flyfishers’ Asso-
ciation which goes to a lot of time and
trouble to give those interested a chance
to learn gratis the art —not very difficult —
of casting a fly. It holds regular demon-
strations on Albert Park lake, and those
who have no fly rods or casts are sup-
plied. One of the saddest sights writer
has seen for years was a photo, in a
Melbourne weekly of some water or
other on the opening day of the trout-
fishing season. Squatted all along the
bank were dozens of people of both
sexes, with all sorts of nondescript rods
and tackle, dangling their worm-baited
lines in the water like a lot of Darling
“whalers” waiting for a catfish to bite.
This form of fish murder has no attrac-
tion to justify it, whereas fishing with a
fly, wet or dry, is one of the most fasci-
nating of sports in itself, apart from the
actual catching of fish.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Joe Davis, billiards
champion of England,, hopped off the boat
at Fremantle last week and had some-
thing to say about the way the people
running the centenary tourney had been
keeping him in the dark as to details. He
didn’t know when or where it was to be
played, and had not the slightest idea of
the programme. The show seems to have
been devised in the most haphazard
fashion. Davis says he wants to play
Horace Lindrum for the snooker title.
* =1: * *
“Whizz”: When the Melbourne cen-
tenary crowd announced that Malcolm
Campbell would be one of its guests
at the end of the year, motorists
scoffed. They were right, for Mal-
colm has said “no can do,” since
he is going to Yankeeland to try
to hit up a speed of five miles to the
minute —his life’s ambition. He and the
remade Bluebird are due in the U.S.A.
in a few weeks, and the attempt will be
made on the dry lakebed of Salduro in
Utah.
* * * *
“Splashboard”: The people in charge
of 18-footer sailing in N.S.W. object to
the smaller-dimensioned skiff types of
18’s introduced by Queensland, and have
passed a new set of rules for next season
which will make the building of the
cheaper and handier model impossible,
in N.S.W. at least. These rules retain
all the features of the wide-beamed
“milk-dish,” and must carry crews of
at least 10 men, whereas the skiff types
can get along handily with eight. There
are not many boats of the skiff type in
Sydney, but Queensland has them in
plenty. If Ma is going to bar these boats
from the inter-State races it will mean
the end of a series going back some 40
years.
* * * *
“Gate”: In Australia we are apt to
growl at those in charge of our big
cricket and football grounds for not mak-
ing them even bigger. England seems, to
be in even a worse case. Commenting
on the fact that some 30,000 people were
turned away from the gates at Lord’s on
the second day of the Test, a London
critic points out that Wimbledon had
to return £15,000 to unsuccessful appli-
cants for tickets. The Rugby Union
h.q. ground at Twickenham, a dashed
inconvenient place to reach compared
with Lord’s, holds 80,000 with a squeeze.
All room was sold out days before the
meeting of Scotland and England for the
Calcutta Cup, and this could have been
sold three times over before the match
started. At Wembley, where the final
for the B.A. Cup is played, there is room
for 95,000. Applicants for tickets —ad-
vance booking, with no applications at
the gates—totalled 370,000 when Man-
chester City downed Portsmouth.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The Centenary Thousand
race round Victoria which has been
organised by Dunlop-Perdriau is making
cyclists in and out of Australia sit up and
take notice. Maoriland is to hold a test to
select its team of six, the run being the
478 miles from Christchurch to Dunedin,
N.S.W. is trying out her men with a
two-day run of 360 miles from Bathurst
through Mudgee to Sydney. The field
will be kept down to 30. All the other
States are preparing to pick their repre-
sentative half dozen by similar trials,
and the final k* should be a hot muster.
“Bertha Biffit”: Try to dodge it as
they may, Australian males will have to
face the visit of an English team of
cricket flappers next season—one writes
“flappers” advisedly, since cricket, and
especially wicket-keeping, does not en-
hance the feminine form which is de-
veloping the middle-aged spread. The
team will play in Perth, arriving in Mel-
bourne on November 26. South Aus-
tralia has been cut out because the cats
there wouldn’t affiliate with the Austra-
lian body. Two-day matches will be
played against Vic., Ma and Queensland,
There will t> e J-hree Tests, at Brisbane,
Sydney and Melbourne, all three-day
games, beginning December 28, January
10 and January 18 respectively. (oun-
try matches may also be played,
* * * *
“Shell”: In spite of Bobby Pearce’s
j- e f usa i to make a'sculling attraction for
' Melbourne centenary spree, on the
American enga ge m ents pre-
vent him, a Sydney crowd which has
been aftei the c ampion or some tme
h as cabled him or terms to ce en is
tkle on P arrarr | a t ta in ne y . es
b wee k- Bargaining on a previous
occasion, Robert is said to nave as e
£l4OO for himself, wile and child,
should not be forgotten, too, that a sum
of £2OO is owing to the Olympic Counci
under a written agreement, and it me
champion lands again on his native snoic
he will certainly be received by a depu-
tation from the council with the bill.


For Business
h
and Pleasure
Leipzig Autumn Fair, the world’s most popular and largest
market, offers unexcelled opportunities for profitable buying.
General Samples Fair, Building, Household and Industrial
Equipment Fair.
COMMENCES AUGUST 26, 1934.
Pul] information available of Commissioner Lars G. Brundalil 1“>1 Pitt Street Sydney •
C. N. Keppel, Box 1658. G.P.0., Melbourne; O. K. Ditter, Box’ 10, G.P.0., Adelaide; or
H. C. Ittershagen, West Subiaco, Perth.
BUY WISELY FOR FUTURE SELLING
LEIPZIG AUTUMN FAIR
Germany is Beautiful in August
WHEN PROVIDING FOR YOUR DEPENDANTS
be sure you are in a sound, bonus-paying office.
Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance
Co., Ltd.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; P. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agenci cs Throughout the States.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Siamese Market
“Skiamket” (Langsuan, S. Siam):
Many of us in the Siamese bush depend
on tinned foods, especially meats, sup-
plied from the big stores in Bangkok.
My May order was commented on by the
Chinese grocer in his copious fashion:
We regret having to send you English
and Danish meats always, as they are so
dear, but we have since a long time been
trying to make connections with Australia,
but we find it very Mrd owing to so many
troubling regulations, but soon we hope to
overcome these and supply our customers
with what they want to best advantage.
Presumably this merchant’s difficulties
arise in Australia. It appeared recently
in an Australian daily that as soon as
Asia became “meat-minded” Austra-
lia would have a wonderful market.
The “wonderful market” is here already.
All that is necessary is to exploit it in
a businesslike way, and not to be con-
tent with a take-it-or-leave-it style.
Your Chinese storekeeper is one of
the sharpest fellows in the world where
a deal is concerned, and if Australia
cannot get his trade when he is
eager the fault is not with him. The
Siamese tical approximates Is. lid.
sterling, equivalent to 2s. 4fd. Austra-
lian, which speaks for itself. Australia
has its opportunity now to get in and get
set. Foreign competitors concentrate on
putting up the article desired in its most
alluring form. In most instances appear-
ances sell the goods. If quality and value
are as represented, and the price competi-
tive, a permanent and ever-increasing
market is assured.
Butter
Australian butter-producers face a
mixed outlook. In N. S. Wales exports
from July 1, 1933, to June 9, 1934, were
about 6500 tons up on the figure for the
previous period (18,894 tons). Victorian
exports dropped 8600 tons. Queensland
took the lead with a jump of 9000 tons
(to 42,255).
Altogether Australia exported 105,702
tons, an improvement of 6137, heavy
shipments being made in May and
June. For the 10 months to the end
of April quantities dispatched over the
two comparative periods were about
equal, but 1934 values were down
£970,000 Australian. At this point in the
fiscal year butter had accounted for
£7,807,146 (Aust.) of our exports.
Though the Victorian industry has
been hit as far as export quantities and
values are concerned, prices for locally-
consumed butter are stronger. Aided
by the new Dairy Produce Equalisation
Scheme, which has superseded the
Paterson plan, there has been a good
recovery in local prices. Though the
overseas market is at about 725. (ster-
ling) a cwt., the Sydney price is 140 s.
in local currency. On May 16 the index
was 142, as against 113 in February, and
120 in May, 1933.
On June 22 it was estimated that there
were 1,272,000 boxes cold-stored in
London, nearly 250,000 boxes greater
than in the previous year. The improve-
ment in prices was checked following
this disclosure, and the market fell 2s. a
cwt.
Partly owing to the closing of some
Continental markets, record quantities
of butter are being rushed to London
from Baltic countries. Consumption in
England has kept up remarkably, but
not sufficiently to keep pace with the
recent huge arrivals. Should the drought
break in England, the local dairy-farmer
will come into the picture strongly again,
too.
A Regular Mouthful
According to a newspaper par. dated
June 23, E. S. and R. C. Moulton,
Ltd., subject of a number of Bulletin
articles, has become or is in process of
becoming Australian Industries Invest-
ments, Ltd.
The paragraph mentioned no reason
for changing the now-familiar name.
Nor was the investing public informed
whether E. S. Moulton and R. C. Moul-
ton go over with the new name or stay
behind with the old.
Those who have tried to keep
track of the doings of Moulton com-
panies and have not become bushed or
dizzy tracing out the interlocking share-
holdings of associated concerns —in Sep-
tember, 1933, in its “Wild Cat” columns,
The Bulletin endeavored to show the
position as revealed by the Registrar-
General’s records —will probably find the
new name more of a mouthful when dis-
cussing their troubles with their friends.
Series “A” debenture-holders in the
National Tobacco Corp. of Australia, for
instance ; they recently received a notice
from Aust. Trustees and Execs., Ltd.,
stating that the Tobacco Corp. had failed
to pay debenture interest due on Dec. 1
last. F. C. Maxwell and R. C. Moulton
have been appointed joint receivers and
managers. In September last E. S. and
R. C. Moulton, Ltd., informed The Bul-
letin that it had bought and paid
for in full, at par, 15,000 £1 shares in the
corporation.
Sydney Metropolitan Licensing Court
last week granted a renewal of the license
of the Cafe Franqais in George-street.
OSWALD P RYOR
“A trifle tight, sir?”
“ ’Oo is?”
The old premises were resumed by the
Railway Commissioners, and the police
objected to the renewal on the ground
that the present temporary structure did
not contain four bedrooms. When the
Railway Department completes the Wyn-
yard Station entrance to the first-floor
level of George-street, the Cafe licensee,
backed by a strong syndicate, intends
to erect a £600,000 hotel above the sta-
tion. It seems a particularly handy site.
* * * *
Building expenditure in Sydney metro-
politan area and certain shires during
the 12 months to June 30 amounted to
£3,112,278, more than double the previ-
ous year’s total. It is the best figure for
three years, and shows the first upward
tendency since depression struck towards
the end of 1929:
Buildings. Value.
1929 .. .. 11,316 .. .. £17,556,257
1930 .. .. 8,423 .. .. 13,485,644
1931 .. .. 3,096 .. .. 4,117,799
1932 .. .. 1,278 .. .. 1,708,020
1933 .. .. 1,530 .. .. 1,416,829
1934 .. .. 2,637 .. .. 3,112,278
The average value of each new building
in Woollahra and Waverley (where flat
life is popular) was £1604 and £1426
respectively. Manly came next with
£1374. Kuring-gai showed an average of
£1165, and headed the list as far as
number of new cottages was concerned.
The Mosmanite thinks £926 a fair figure
for a home. At Ryde, where nature
doesn’t help so much in the beauty
scheme, £984 seems to be necessary.
Randwick pays £948, Willoughby £BO2,
Canterbury £566 and Botany £367, while
out at Canley Vale £175 strikes the
happy medium.
* * * X
United Felt Hats Pty., of Abbotsford
(Melb.), which amalgamated a dozen
hat factories and paid £447,956 for good-
will, is writing 15s. in the £1 off its
£773,450 of issued capital. In the Vic.
Practice Court the other day it was said
that £580,087 of capital had been lost or
was unrepresented by assets. Manufac-
ture is now centralised in one of the
dozen factories, and much of the original
machinery has been scrapped.
* * * *
New York “Literary Digest,” which
often does such things, has conducted a
poll amongst its readers on Roosevelt’s
policy—or policies. Result, 727,700 for,
442,127 against. But, taking businessmen
alone, in 10 States there was a clear
majority against the New Deal.
“F.Y.7”: A sign of returning confi-
dence in the pastoral industry was the
price paid for special stud rams at Syd-
ney’s Sheep Show; two merinos brought
1200gns. and 1650gns. respectively. The
first, from Haddon Rig, was bought by
the owners of Minnie Downs on the
Barcoo. The other chap was a product of
the Uardry stud, and on his looks was dirt
cheap. Not only the merinos, but British
and intermediates brought outstanding
prices. A Corriedale ram from T. B.
Macfarlane’s stud brought 200gns.—a
record for this Australasian breed.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The latest deal in Melbourne
real estate gives the T. and G. an impres-
sive frontage. The society now owns all
the west side of Russell-street from
Collins-street to Flinders-lane —318 ft.
lOin.
•k »! ;
Shipbuilding figures the world over
show improvement, so international car-
riage of goods must be looking up. At
March 31 in Great Britain there was an
increase of 150,000 in the tonnage on the
stocks compared with the previous quar-
ter, the figure (481,440 tons) being nearly
double that of March, 1933. The giant
Cunarder, on which work recommenced
in April, is expected to take the water
about October.
* * * X
“F.S.”: Despite prognostications to
the contrary, the Java Showboat of a
year ago has produced results. The ship
in question was the Nieuw Holland, and
on her latest trip she went to Adelaide
expecting 700 tons and was obliged to
lift 1700. There was a reunion of the
business tourists on board the craft in
Melbourne, and one of those present was
Dr. W. M. Mansvelt, director in charge
of the Central Bureau of Statistics,
Batavia. The doctor is the fulfilment
of the Dutch Government’s pledge to
send a representative to consolidate the
new situation.
$ 4 * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne Centenary Council
has lodged policies for £40,000 with the
insurance companies. Risks covered in-
clude acts of God, such as plagues, earth-
quakes or war, which might cast a damper
on the spirit of the .times ; also the death
of any member of the royal family. These
policies are concerned only with the
council’s own activities ; private persons
are paying premiums on over £250,000
worth of insurances against individual
losses.
* X * X
“A.N.S.”: Shortly many graziers will
have to decide whether, in making up
Commonwealth income-tax returns, they
will include or omit natural increase in
livestock owned by them. At first it
appears to be unimportant. But the legis-
lation provides that, if the rate of tax
(not the total) imposed on the grazier is
more than that imposed on a company
—and this is often the case —the grazier
can claim a rebate on the ground that
he has retained taxable income in his
business. This is because many of the
lambs born will never leave the property.
On the other hand, if he elects to omit
the natural increase, he cannot claim
under this section, because the income
retained is not taxable income. The
taxpayer has only one opportunity to
make this election, his decision being
irrevocable.
“Sailor”: I was advised by N.S.W.
Crown Lands Dept, to look at Crown
land in the Mangrove Mountain dis-
trict, described as 120 acres, well
timbered, with a frontage to a big
creek. After a solid day’s bushwhacking
I found the block. The creek was down
some hundred feet or so in a rocky
gorge ; timber might have been good for
boat-knees, and someone with a strain of
Swiss alpine goat in him might have
made a mean living out of the crevices
between the 119 acres of rock. The
department would save itself many a
burning left ear if the simple procedure
of referring to the surveyor’s report was
practised.


RU/SE to this land of INCREASE
To the Seasoned Captains of Commerce
GREETING—
Proudly your ships have weathered storms of depression, ploughed
through the doldrums and withstood typhoon fluctuations until
to-day your look-out reports an horizon of safety and promise. What
about refitting?
From keel to masthead your merchandise should be spick and span, that
it may sail through competition to the harbour of supremacy. Tinker,
tailor, soldier or sailor, you need that objective of "more sales per hour"
in positive knots . . . nothing can chart your course more surely
than efficient individual advertising.
O'Brien Publicity Company offers pilotage to this zone of promise. Let
the searchlight of your experience rest its full beam on the possibilities.
You know your product ... we know advertising. Let us frame a
commonsense proposal, free and non-obligatory; then take us as pilot
and watch the signal "Full Steam Ahead."
1
O'BRIEN HOUSE,
Young Street,
SYDNEY,
and
TEMPLE COURT,
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Gilruth on the N.T.
Dr. J. A. Gilruth, a former Adminis-
trator and a veterinary surgeon and stock
expert of note, has written a report on
the Northern Territory which shatters
the theory that it is an agricultural para-
dise. Briefly, he says that there is enough
land available in other parts of Australia
to supply all agricultural needs for years,
while much of the N.T. is infertile and
swarming with pests. Tropical and sub-
tropical crops could be produced, but
at a cost which rules them out of com-
petition with those grown in other tropi-
cal countries by cheap colored labor.
It is only as a pastoral country, and
a cattle one at that, that the doctor con-
siders the N.T. has a future, and even
then it is far from being the best in the
world. Further, there are only a few
areas in Northern Australia where beef
cattle can be satisfactorily topped up for
marketing.
The doctor admits that the coming of
the motor vehicle has done much to make
the country more accessible. He has
overlooked the question of completing
the North-South railway. That at least
would relieve the stagnation which is at
present the curse of the Territory.
“Jackaburra”: If “Bingo” is, as Judge
Brennan asserts, a flutter on the gee-
gees (B. 20/6/’34), the Rockhampton
variety is different from that played in
Brisbane. There it is a slightly revised
version of our old A.I.F. cobber housey-
housey. Can it be that the Judge
is again misinformed on a subject some-
what outside his judicial sphere? He
attributed Herbert Spencer’s “proficiency
at billiards-misspent youth” classic to
Mark Twain, so he might have confused
the terms “horsey” and “housey.”
* * * *
“Bingle”: While controversy rages
about the Cairns-Cooktown telephone
line, the following comes from Dr. Fen-
ton, who with another medico crashed
on a “flying” visit to a N.T. patient:
But for the inexplicable action of the
postal authorities in closing the Victoria
Inland Mission wireless set to telegraph
traffic the week before we crashed, there
could have been no anxiety for our safety,
nor necessity for a search.
Let me see, what was the amount of
Parkhill’s surplus?
* * * *
“Hard Held”: I don’t hold with
“Kaloa” (B. 6/6/’34) that the crew of
the poaching sampan may be naval
officers in disguise. The need for that is
long since past. Twenty years back,
when I was with the Wyben Pearling
Co. at Thursday Island, the skippers of
Jap luggers often showed me their charts
of the Barrier Reef. Our Admiralty
charts were blank spaces dotted here
and there with a probable sounding.
Forty years ago I saw rotting hulks of
luggers lying in the Endeavour River,
at Cooktown. Those hulks were, at the
very least, 20 years of age. A little
simple arithmetic will show that at least
60 years back the Japs were working
the Reef, and unless they were fools,
which few people will admit, also they
were charting it.
* * * *
“Ela”:. People who have been rush-
ing these picnic steamer trips to the
South Sea Islands return as disillusioned
as veterans who have put in most of their
lives there. One crowd tipped back into
Sydney recently complained that the
Papuan, once the least sophisticated of
savages, has become a grasping profiteer.
A few months ago a native of Port
Moresby consenting to be photographed
by visiting flappers demanded 3d. only.
Now he wants ss. As a matter of fact,
as that great anthropologist-missionary
the late J. H. Holmes has noted, the
Papuan has “an intense business in-
stinct.” Having had years of experience
of Brown Brother in that country, tame,
medium and quite wild, I regard him as
able to give points in a bargain to a
Sydney Jew second-hand clothing dealer.
Further, he has furnished evidence of
many other characteristics which mark
him out at some future date as an ideal
taxation official or even as a Randwick
bookmaker.
* * * *
“Duffer”: The Canoona (Q.) rush (B.
27/6/’34) was responsible for one of the
few ugly incidents in the story of Queens-
land gold-mining. The two prospectors
who got into a rich gutter came back to
Rockhampton with a story that it was
another Ballarat. A stampede followed,
but not 5 p.c. of the crowd got a color.
The disappointed ones held a meeting
and discussed the hanging of the pros-
pectors, who slipped off to “Rocky” and
thence south. Rockhampton was full
of indignant, dead-broke miners for
some time after that, though other gold
finds north and south relieved the con-
gestion.
% He Hj H*
“Papaki”: Sorry I have trodden on
the toes of “Sailor” (B. 27/6/’34) in my
comment on the way to deal with primi-
tive races over whom one is supposed
to exercise authority. Unlike “Sailor,”
I was never “crooned to sleep” by a
lubra, but I knew the Australian abo.
before civilisation, with its diseases and
drugs, got too firm a grip of him. His
women and children taught me to swim
and gave me tips in bush lore that even
in old age I have not forgotten. Since
those days I have had to deal with
Busutos, Zulus, Bechuanas and Mata-
“But do you think you and the widow you are marrying are well matched?”
"My oath, missus! We’ve six kids each.”
beles; with Egyptians, Arabs, north-
western Indians and a dozen Papuan
races. I may have expressed myself
clumsily in the par. to which “Sailor"’
takes exception. Yet I think that my
contention that the iron hand, gloved or
not, but well known to be ready for use,
is essential if one is to get satisfactory
results from what, in spite of “Sailor,”
I continue to describe as primitive folk.
* * * *
“J.H.”: In his reference to the num-
ber of foreigners employed in the N.Q.
sugar industry “II Vecchio” (B. 20/6/’34)
uses the invidious term “British prefer-
ence.” In many sugar-mill areas the
ratio agreed on is 75 p.c. British, 25 p.c.
foreign. On a population basis this
would appear to be fairly equitable;
previously the percentage of foreigners
was much larger. To call this “British
preference” is absurd, and tends to foster
suspicion and antagonism on both sides.
That the majority of the workers are
agreeable to foreigners having a fair
share of the work has been demonstrated
at Tully—the largest mill centre in Aus-
tralia—a mass meeting unanimously de-
ciding not to exclude the 48 foreign cut-
ters employed in previous seasons.
* * *
“Lizard Passage” : That query as to
how cocoanuts arrived on the Barrier
Reef islands (B. 27/6/’34) is worth fol-
lowing up. As far as the purely Papuan
islands at the northern end of the Bar-
rier go, the explanation is simple enough..
The cocoanut is a mighty navigator,
given favoring winds and tides. Long;
ago, the south-east trades and the China
Strait currents brought cocoanuts to
these northern islands from the Louis-
ades. A bit further south there is an-
other story to tell. Winds and currents
bring no flotsam to the Barrier islands
south of Cairns. The cocoanut south of
that line was certainly introduced by
man. Even if a favorable set could have
fetched the nuts from the New Hebrides
or New Caledonia, the infertile wall of
the Great Barrier itself would have
fenced them off from reaching the islands
inside it.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Lena Hammond has had to postpone her
students’ and choir recital till September. Show
cards had been printed, advertising paid for
and a second piano hired for rehearsals; then
a chill caught her, and the doctor interposed
a veto.
Alan Reeve, an imperial budding on his chin,
gave a lecture on caricature to the Royal
Queensland Art Society on June 29. Alan’s
sketches of Brisbane celebrities, including Blair,
C.J., Mrs. A. E. Moore, Winifred Ponder and
the Governor, have delighted everybody who
has seen them.
Another engagement in the family of the
Condamine Plains Blighs: Evelyn Bligh has
accepted the diamond symbol from Frank
Thomas, son of the H. G. Thomas pair, of
Clayfield.
The Toe H ball brought forth a radiant
bevy of debs. One is a daughter of architect
Lange Powell and niece of Mrs. Firmin Mc-
Kinnon ; another is the chick of managing-
editor Foster, of the “Courier-Mail”; a third
is Betty Besley. Three married sisters came
along to give Betty a start —Mrs. Mervyn
Bunting, Mrs. W. P. Rowland and Mrs. Clem
Harland, who is over from Fiji on a holiday.
Ina and Dorothy Jones, daughters of Bris-
bane’s Lud Mayor, were in the big party, which
was, under the care of the Mervyn Buntings
and Shand Findlays.
At the Leonita .Tennis Club’s dance at the
Belle Vue Hotel Julie Witham acted as hostess,
and recent debs, were among the attractions.
Mesdames Leo Witham and A. Phipps and Miss
Molly Ford did the receiving, and there were
cards for those whose footwork is not so
good as of yore.
Brisbane women are getting excited over a
competition for the best home-made frock.
Lady Mayoress Jones will do the judging, with
the assistance of picturesque Gwen Watson
and Mollie Brenan. A display of frocks and
amateur theatricals will mark the final evening,
when prizes will be awarded.
Matron Chatfield, of the Diamantina Hos-
pital, who has resigned, was presented with a
wallet of notes at a gathering arranged by
the professional staff and representatives from
the Home Secretary’s department. The Helen
Huxham Hall w'as the setting, and poinsettia
and wattle-blossom lent color.
The Creche and Kindergarten Association
and the Missions for Seamen will benefit from
a ball to be given aboard the Naldera on July
30. Mrs. A. E. Moore is president of the
committee, and Kitty Hillcoat, who has assisted
in organising more successful dances and other
functions than most people, is hon. secretary.
Another semi-nautical show is on tap also;
on July 13 a bridge and musical afternoon
will be held on the Manunda in aid of the
Limbless Soldiers. Lady Mayoress Jones is
president of the committee; Mesdames Forgan
Smith, E. M. Ralph and R. P. Yates are vice-
presidents.
Phyllis Atlee Hunt and Lionel Johnson
scampered from party to party for the fortnight
prior to their wedding. Bridge parties, teas,
recipe evenings and what not testified to the
popularity of the bride. Her trousseau was a
miracle of dainty stitchery, most of the gar-
ments being hand-sewn.
Friends of Miss Magor, who is to marry
Elliot Pearce (S.A.) early this month, have
also been handing round the teacups. The
recipe tea is the latest idea, and it is a good
one. A nicely-bound book is provided; in
this each guest writes a recipe. Miss 1934
must be waking up to the necessity of feeding
the brute.
Neaera Sampson, only daughter of our city
organist, is engaged to Charles Bassett, who
hails from Melbourne. Neaera has inherited
the charm of the Taylor girls, daughters of
the well-known medico,
of whom her mother was
one.
Colleen and Goldie
Gray, granddaughters of
the late J. G. Appel,
M.L.A. for many years,
will be among the south-
ern visitors arriving in
Brisbane at the end of
July for Show Week.
They will stay with their
grandmother at Clayfield.
Mary Baillie passed
through Brisbane on her
way to Darwin by boat;
she intends to travel back
to Melbourne by car.
There will be a party of
seven, and a camp cook
is being taken along.
Norman Brookes, his
wife and daughters Elaine
and Hersey looked in on
Brisbane en route to
Eastern Asia. The Mel-
bourne visitors had a
busy day with Brisbane
friends, who farewelled
them at the wharf when
the Taiping drew out,
having left enough vege-
table matter to stock
several florists’ shops.
Elaine and . Hersey gave
a luncheon-party at
Lennon’s, and pa and rna staged a group
afternoon-tea.
For the Victorian tourist bowlers all the
bowling clubs are putting on, among othei
things, decorations of wattle and poinsettie
by way of showing the superiority of the
Queensland winter to any other brand procur-
able in Australia. The visitors are enjoying
themselves, and so they should be, for the
weather has been kind —crisp golden days, with
a snap in them.
At the end of July Lorna White leaves for
Africa in the Themistocles to wed David Oates.
She has been tea’d and farewelled exten-
sively, a notable affair staged in her honor
being a linen tea hostessed by Mesdames F.
Tritton and H. Pole before Mrs. Tritton left
for the North.
The second annual Advertising and Arts Ball
drew a big crowd to the Trocadero. Sketches
and cartoons brightened the alcoves, and there
was picturesque stunt advertising. What
amounted almost to a vaudeville programme
was staged between dances, Yvonne Lochner
and her ballet of eight girls being the star
turn of the show; and there was a midnight
newspaper. All the funds go to the Institute
of Advertising, which supervised the arrange-
ments and manned the committee. Some strik-
ing frocks were noticed. The train is appar-
ently to be a feature of this season’s dances.
Victoria Park is anxious that its professional,
A. E. Gazzard, should visit Sydney to compete
in the national golf championship in October,
so the social committee is arranging a series
of affairs to raise funds. At the third dance
the clubhouse was bright with colored electric-
light bulbs and Chinese lanterns; the useful
gum-tip also did its share of the decorating.
Mrs. Stanhope Hobday, who was Fay
Hingston, sister of Arthur Hingston, who
went off to London in his twenties and joined
the staff of a London newspaper, has a won-
derful collection of her brother’s works. She
also treasures black-and-white drawings done
by her great-uncle, George Lambart, art-master
at York, about 100 years ago. Art-lovers in
Brisbane are trying to persuade the Hobdays
to stage a family art show, in which the work
of Lambart, Hingston, Stanhope himself and
Stanhope’s late father, J. E. Hobday, might be
exhibited.
The Y.A.L. is arranging for a schoolboys’
camp in Brisbane during Show Week.
The Downs is thrilled at the news that Vic-
toria’s new Governor intends to revisit Queens-
land at an early date, to gaze on his boyhood’s
home at Lowood. It firmly believes that his
Ex. means to buy back the property and
settle down in Queensland at the end of his
term.
Ever since the war finished the Fathers’
Association has done all in its power to alleviate
distress among unemployed returned soldiers
and their dependants. No public appeals have
been made for funds,' but the “Dads”—par-
ticularly Dad Richardson, who goes. to the
office every day in every week —have paddled
their own canoe, and have done remarkable
work. Now unless help is forthcoming, they
will have to shut up shop. That would be a
thousand pities, and heads are being put
together to plan out some way of raising the
wind.
Henry G. Lamond: A Service De-
partment inquirer (B. 23/5/’34) had
evidently been reading a story I wrote
about a wreck on Long Island, Whit-
sunday Passage (N.Q.). The remains of
the wreck lie there, right enough, on
the n.-w. of Long and facing Chute. It
is, from memory, a vessel of about 90ft.,
with a beam of about 15ft. All you
can see above the surface now is the
outline, shown by oysters growing on
the rotting timber. Odd pieces of iron
lie scattered about, and on the hills,
straight in from the wreck, round cannon
balls have been picked up. They would
go to prove, as I wrote in my story,
that sailors who had come in to beach
their ship for repairs had put a price
on their lives before the blacks got them.
Apart from that wreck, which is un-
covered at low tides, there is an old light-
house supply steamer which disappeared
at the north end of Long. Nothing was
ever seen of it, though I have heard it
said that on a perfectly calm day its
outlines can be traced below. At the
southern end of Long, just reachable at
very low tides, there is another wooden
vessel loaded with coal; and there may
be others. Anyway, there are animals
of the variety that leaves the sinker.


YOUR HAIR IS ALWAYS
UNDER CRITICAL NOTICE
IN social or commercial life your
hair, if neglected, will tell the tale
of advancing years, yet how glorious
your hair can be by using DR.
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN, which restores the natural
colour and lustre, and gives that
youthful freshness so much admired.
Apply ALLEN’S STAIN yourself
—the treatment is simple, rapid and
unfailing. The directions tell you
what to do. No expensive equip-
ment is required, and there can be
no moments of doubt —you obtain
the happiest results every time.
In brown or black shades.
4/- per bottle at all Chemists.
Z&cUl&ris CMCXICAN)
tlkUfWjt S’tairt,
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff,
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
Is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Bunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Manager: E. HYNDMAN.
Latest American Aid (or the
DEAF
SUPER-EAR
NO BATTERIES
NO CORDS
NO NOISE
WORN WITH RIGHT
HEAD BAND.
Absolutely new
Acoustical Principle.
ima j. a
;
Write for Particulars. 7 Days’ Trial.
E, ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers & Opticians,
42 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
m
EVERY COUCH
IS A CALL FOR
ĥ
ħ
COUCH CURE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Despife the rain hundreds went out to
see the polo matches on Saturday.
Mostly the women, tweed-coated and fur-
collared, sat in cars, their escorts emerg-
ing between chukkas to wipe the rain off
the windshields. The more enthusiastic
(and these not all flappers by any means)
wrapped themselves around in rugs—•
plaid, fur or lambs’ wool —and barracked
from the seats near the fence. The after-
noon was cold, but the onlookers did
what they could to cheer things along
by applauding and tooting their car
sirens when a goal was won.
It teemed when the cups were being
presented by Acting-Governor Street,
and those who by strength of muscle
managed to get in the front row got a
good view:—also the drips from the um-
brellas of the back row of spectators
down their spines. Goulburn won the
Dudley Cup—-it’s so large and the A.-G.’s
lady so small that when she lifted it to
take a draught of the bubbling water
she was completely lost to view. There
were cheers for the winners and cheers
for the losers. And nobody minded the
weather much ; the taxi-drivers not at all.
They did a thriving trade before and
after the game.
In the evening everyone went out
again, this time to dance. At Romano’s,
which was crowded, Mrs. W. H. Mackay’s
frock of black, patterned in red and
green, swished the longest train in the
room. Mrs. Venour Nathan’s white
crepes were classic in their simplicity.
At the Australia, the Ashton boys were
the king-pins. At both places polo
choruses enlivened the hours. The Blax-
land Galleries housed the Associate
Golfers’ Ball, to which came dancers
from as far afield as Wallacia. Hon. sec.
Mrs. Gladys Hungerford opened this
flutter by driving off the “largest golf
ball in the world.” She holed out in
one, for, as the ball hit the ceiling, it
opened and disgorged hundreds of lucky-
numbered small golf balls on the
dancers below. Proceeds were ear-
marked for the Royal Hospital for
Women.
High above all the polo-week festivi-
ties shone the Extra Chukka Ball at
David Jones’s. Players and enthusiastic
barrackers rolled up in force. The Fruit-
ful Fields pageant was much applauded.
Wool was in the running, but Coal got the
prize. Joan Osborne Wilkinson was queen
of the former, and had her attendant
maidens tethered to her by ropes of
wool. All had their shoulders caped and
their heads haloed in white carded wool.
The girls in the Gold set were glitter-
some from head to foot, fingernails in-
cluded. Some nice youngsters from
Doone were picturesque as dairymaids
in bouffant blue frocks and flower-
trimmed hats. Wheat, Flowers, Wine all
gave color to the night. The Silver set
made you think of moonlight on the
harbor. Fruit wore peasant costumes,
reds, blues and greens, and gracefully
balanced baskets brimming over with
oranges and grapes on one hand. There
was nothing flaming about the young
things that formed the Coal set, except
the tongues of fire (red cellophane) that
spurted from their headdress and the
shoulders of dresses as sombre as the
mineral represented.
Marie Irvine, Mary Doberer and many
other members of the committee aired
the spreading skirts they had worn at
the Governor’s Ball. Mrs. Jimmy Ash-
ton was in lavender and old lace. The
one deb., Catherine Cavanagh, sweet in
white lace, had an Alice-in-Wonderland
band of garden white hyacinths in her
hair. She made her curtsy to Acting-
Governor Street and his wife, who added
as her quota to the evening’s gaiety a
gown of turquoise-blue embossed velvet.
After the Garvan Cup finals on Fri-
day Nan Garvan and sister Mrs. A. E.
Mills coo-eed the polo teams and their
friends, town and country, to the Royal
Golf Club. This was an outsize party
and soon it overflowed from the drawing-
room into the reception-room. Here a
huge fire gladdened the eye, and savories
and cocktails the inner man. The Gar-
van Cup, presented by Nan and Mrs.
Mills in memory of their brother, knight
J. J. Garvan, stood on a table banked
with sweet-peas, and placed high on the
walls were baskets spilling over with
arum-lilies and golden Iceland poppies.
Nan slung two silver foxes of high
degree around the shoulders of her black
Angora frock ; Mrs. Mills wore her mul-
berry velvets sleeveless. The polo
choruses were sung with equal gusto by
the victorious Tingaroos and the beaten
Wirragullas.
This is a pencil drawing of Mrs. Vin-
cent John Flynn, who before her mar-
riage was Jean Marie Adams, of Strath-
field. The newly-weds left by the
Nieuw Holland last Monday for an ex-
tended honeymoon.
The Movie Ball ran its glad course at
the Palais Royal this year. There were
1300 dancers, and, as there were induce-
ments to come in character, there were
dozens of Greta Garbos, Joan Craw-
fords, Katherine Hepburns and Ann
Hardings. Tiny Bee Lacey, as Mae West,
carried away the prize for the best
movie-star impersonation. She isn’t as
high as the table, and to see her in her
backless dress and her big velvet hat, non-
chalantly carrying an outsize in cigarette-
holders, was too ridiculous for words.
The pageant was very Hollywoodish in
its lavishness. There was a Henry VIII.
set, with outrider Esme Foley on a milk-
white horse. Snowflake wore rubber
shoes so he wouldn’t slip on the floor, and
Harry Tudor, seated on a red and gold
throne, was surrounded by six merry-
looking wives, chatting very amiably to-
gether. There was an elephant in the
“Chu Chin Chow” set that looked big
enough to carry Oscar Asche. A Cleo-
patra set was drawn by slaves in vividly-
striped headdresses and loincloths.
Knight Victor Wilson, president of the
ball committee, was ill, so daughters Joy
and Audrey entertained for him, both in
velvet —the former in parchment, the
latter in marine blue. Organising sec.
Herman Flynn’s wife wore amethystine
taffetas brightened with diamente at the
neckline, and Mrs. Dan Carroll’s fair
head was attractive over the Medici
collar of her parchment velvet coat. The
47 Club (the movie ad. men) arranged
the ball, proceeds going to the Moving
Picture Benevolent Fund.
The nicest thing about the polo on Tues-
day of last week was the party at No. 11
Onslow-avenue. Here all the porches
wore their red-and-blue blinds down to
hide a harbor ruffled by the bitter west-
erly. Upstairs and downstairs fires glowed
under red camellias on the mantel-
pieces. There was a marquee all tied
about with the teams’ colors. You drank
tea from daffodil-yellow teacups, and
helped yourself to sandwiches and hot
savories from dishes on green check
tablecloths.
The Lieut.-Governor’s wife had her
tea poured from a gorgeous Georgian
silver teapot on a special porch set
about with jonquils and violets. In
the dining-room the polished table
wore lace mats, and nasturtiums floated
in an amber wishing-bowl. There
were 55 hostesses and 500 guests to
sing the choruses. Men in polo kit
danced with girls in tweed coats and fur
coats. One girl had red gloves ; another
discarded her muff when she took on a
partner. Many
sported polka-
spotted scarves,
white on navy or
brown being
favorites. All hats
were similar,
tamlike affairs
with a quill stuck
casually at the
angle that suited
the wearer. The
party was to end
at seven, but the
moon was well
over the harbor
before the traffic
sop was able to
call it a day.
“A Night of
Russian Music”
drew hundreds to
the Town Hall
on Saturday. The
girl programme-
sellers and mem-
bers of the choir
all wore their
national costume,
reds, greens and
blues making a
vivid patch of
color on the plat-
form as the
singers stood in
front of the
sombre-clad Don
Cossacks to chant
under director
Golliff. Among the girls wearing the high,
bejewelled headdress of their country was
the niece of Liberts-Rebane (Chalia-
pin’s soprano in his 1931 London
season). She gives promise of being as
great a beauty as her aunt. Margaret
Chalmers played the accompaniments,
her graceful black satins wearing frills
over the shoulders and a cluster of bril-
liants at the waist. Molly de Gunst
trailed black velvets, and in between
songs wrapped herself in a black cape
bespattered with gold sequins. Arch-
bishop Mowll and his wife were in the
audience, and Archimandrite Mefodius
held quite a levee in the interval. The
Russian Church in Sydney benefits.
From Barala comes Jack Freeman, 11-
year-old boy pianist and composer,
whose recital last week caused more than
a ripple in Sydney’s musical circles.
Three years ago his playing attracted
Mrs. Cullen ; she trained him for a year,
and then handed him over to Rex de
Cairos Rego to finish. He played, in
addition to various classics, five of his
own compositions, of which “The
Storm” was the most captivating. Jack
is a merry-eyed youngster, totally un-
spoilt. He loves reading and is keen on
astronomy.
For weeks past Violet Roche, who
sailed on Saturday in the Mooltan, has
been eating the chop and drinking the
cocktail of farewell. One of the bright-
est of these parties was given by her
sister women writers on Wednesday.
After president Isabel Gullett had voiced
the good wishes of the company, modest
Violet made a neat little speech of thanks.
More and more American and English
writers are discovering Australia. Now
we have Laurence Meynell arriving in
the Narkunda. He is a member of the
well-known literary family and a close
kinsman of the Alice Meynell who was
such a good friend to Francis Thomp-
son. He is a writer of thrillers, and will
find that his books are well known here,
but not so well known as his wife. He
married Shirley Darbyshire, an old Red-
lands girl (her novel “Something
Human” was one of last year’s best-
sellers). Her father is Taylor Darby-
shire, at one time connected with the
Firm, but for many years now high
serang of the Australian Press Associa-
tion in London. While in Sydney Mr.
Meynell hopes to broadcast talks on
things literary.
As this Letter goes to press the “White
Horse Inn” co. is on its way to bring
joy into the lives of the youngsters at
the Bidura Homes. Sidney Burchall
arranged the programme, which is full of
plums in the way of magic tricks,
choruses and bright music. Strella
Wilson is in the party, and so are the
Tyrolese dancers. Minister for Educa-
tion Drummond and Child Welfare
Director Ross Thomas will beam on the
proceedings, and the little orphan girls
won’t be left out, though the show takes
place in the boys’ domicile.
Passengers in the Nieuw Holland are
Dr. H. A. Fulton Rofe, of Stanmore, and
his Maoriland bride. She was Roma
Broadway, and their marriage took place
at Christchurch, the bride’s home town.
The 2nd Division officers’ ball will be
held at David Jones’s ballroom on
Wednesday, August 1, and not at Pad-
dington Town Hall, as at first intended.
Muriel Edsall played Elsa Corry’s
accompaniments for Elsa’s concert at the
Town Hall. Now Elsa is going to sing
at Muriel’s recital, which is to happen
at the Con. to-morrow.
On Friday the Old Newingtonians will
dance at the Blaxland Galleries, and on
July 16, at the same place, St. Aloysius’s
Old Boys and their best girls will make
merry.
“Take It or Leave It,” a comedy in
three acts, will be produced by the
author, Musette Morell, at the Savoy to-
morrow. The play, described as a satire
on these mad, bad times, offers an
earnest and also witty solution to all our
problems. Alice Bolger and Colin Jones
are the leads.
Sydney’s latest card game is called,
for reasons not very obvious, “State
Lottery.” Four, five, six or even more
players may participate. Each is dealt
six or seven cards, the remainder of the
pack being placed in the centre of the
table. Player to left of dealer lays down
a card of any suit. Next player must
cover it with one of the same suit. If
she cannot do that she may cover it with
a card of the same denomination —seven,
queen or so forth —in which case the
new suit must be followed by the next
player. If she cannot follow she
must draw from the pack, retaining all
cards drawn, till she is able to do so.
A player lucky enough to have a jack
in her hand may play it at any time and
nominate any suit she chooses for the
next player to follow. The round ends
when a player gets rid of all cards.
The others count up the spots on the
cards left in their hands, reckoning ten
for each ace, king or queen, and 20
for each jack, and these are recorded.
Game ends when a score of 100 or 200,
as may be agreed upon, is reached by
any player. The lowest scorer wins.
There is more in the game than appears
at first sight, though, of course, it is
mainly a matter of luck.


Melbourne
Chatter
The Stawell lady’s flat, with its exten-
sive view of rain-washed Treasury Gar-
dens, was the meeting-place of a commit-
tee which has been formed to run the
Mooltan ball. The hostess, who was
unanimously elected president, wore
amber earrings with her navy suit, and
had lit a crackling fire and filled her vases
with myrtle. The ball will not take place
until October 22, but the committee,
whose members are experienced in such
functions, believes in getting in early with
its money-raiser for the Melbourne
Hospital and the Mission to Seamen.
C. R. Duncan represented Macdonald,
Hamilton and Co., and padre Oliver had
some bright suggestions to make on
behalf of the mission. Mrs. Duncan, with
a buccaneer fling to her emerald cape,
sat with Mrs. Helme Pott. Vice-Admiral
Hyde’s lady, whose silver fox swung
above perfectly tailored black with a hair
stripe of white, became an office-bearer.
Mrs. J. C. Purves, wearing her favor-
ite violets, was elected treasurer.
The Robinson lady, who had been pre-
vailed upon to join the decorations com-
mittee, switched with alacrity to the
“cigarettes and favors” when that branch
was formed. Betty Bellair, Roma Smith
and Sheila Morell are a triumvirate of
ticket secs.
The Old Grammarians decided to
adopt a distinctive brand for their com-
mittee at the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
School dance, the mark of officialdom
being a fetter of flowers encircling each
member’s wrist. In the foyer of No. 9
stood the president, Mrs. A. S. Morton,
her right hand outstretched in welcome,
her left submerged among carnations
and roses. The principal, Miss Gilman
Jones, wearing blue georgette, was pre-
sented with a bouquet of sweet-peas and
rosebuds, with here and there a “pansy
for thoughts.” Both ticket secs, were in
velvet, Joan Neudendorf pinning snow-
drops to her deep-blue gown, and Joyce
Wilson-Smith sporting a perfumed spray
of deep-red blossoms on her black cape-
let. Miss A. M. McKay wore black lace
under a brief velvet coat. Other dancers
who chose the layer of extra warmth
given by featherweight velvet were Mrs.
J. C. Cuming, whose black robe pursued
her with a train; Peggy Broadhead,
whose moon-blue showed a Tudor influ-
ence upon its corsage, and Joyce Shan-
non, in a black dress which she had
coaxed into a monk’s-cowl neckline.
One wing of the Wattle was reserved
behind screens and pussy-willow for an
afternoon-tea party given by Mrs. C. H.
Jess. Gold lamps twinkled on each arm
of the T-shaped table strewn with gold
mats and marigolds, and a shoulder posy
was pinned to each guest’s place-card.
The hostess wore a dress of wine-red
wool rep which depended for ornamen-
tation upon black-and-white buttons ham-
mered into the shape of long parchment
scrolls. One guest of honor was Mrs.
S. J. Anderson, who is off to Perth to
pack and say farewell to her many
friends, for she has decided to live per-
manently in Melbourne. The other was
Mrs. Jimmy Woods, who wished her hus-
band the best of luck through telephone
to Sydney. He’s an entrant in the centen-
ary air race, and is now on the Monterey,
bound for the U.S. and England.
Pilot Woods has been flying for 19
years, and has been with Westralian
Airways since the co.’s inauguration.
Mrs. Woods, who will live in Melbourne
until her husband’s return per ’plane, has
no qualms about living in lonely places.
Before her marriage her home was in Port
Hedland, and since she has spent several
months at the hostel at Forrest. She, too,
has a pilot’s license.
Mrs. Anderson is the mother of Keith
Anderson, who lost his life in the Kooka-
burra when bound for Kimberley to join
in the search for Kingsford Smith.
“I feel that all we women should be
back in our scarlet-and-grey uniforms,”
said Jane Bell, making a speech at a
party in her honor at the Wentworth.
The rally recalled the early war years,
for Miss Bell left. on the hospital ship
Kyarra on December 5, 1914. Men and
women associated with the party were
all “Kyarraites” or else had worked with
Miss Bell when she was matron of No. 1
A.G.H. in Egypt. Knight Henry Mauds-
ley ; knight Henry Newland, of Adelaide ;
Claude Morlet, of Perth ; Mrs. H. Fox-
ton, of Queensland, and Miss Kidd Hart,
matron of Randwick Military Hospital,
Sydney, were a few absentee Kyarraites
who sent telegrams. Dr. Zwar, in pro-
posing Miss Bell’s health, commended
her courage in doing whatever she
thought was right —one must be fearless
to have filled for so many years the job
of matron in a big hospital like the Mel-
bourne. She has just retired from her
strenuous job.
The hostesses of the late-afternoon
party were Miss E. A. Conyers, Mrs. R.
W. Chambers (Sister Maud Baker), Mrs.
S. Lipsett (Sister Watt), Mrs. Hume
Turnbull (Sister Marjorie Yuille), Mrs.
B. T. Zwar (Sister Essie Craig) and
Misses Grace Douglas, Jean Simpson,
Hilda Samsing and Ida O’Dwyer. The
married ladies brought their medico
husbands.
The Wentworth was also chosen by the
Melbourne Hospital officials and com-
mittee for their party in honor of Miss
Bell. J. A. Levey had ready a silver
tea service and a wish that every brew
that is poured from it may conjure up a
thought of the recipient’s old friends. A
certificate of life governorship went
with it.
The nurses said farewell to their ex-
chief in the lounge in their own quarters,
the night staff setting the ball rolling
with a presentation bouquet from the
hands of youthful junior Nurse Love.
There were a travelling clock and a wallet
of notes for the guest of honor, and the
evening was kept merry with music and
brain-tickling competitions. Miss Grey
was chief hostess, and those who finished
up the party were not those who started
it, for the night staff went on duty, hav-
ing formed a guard of honor in their
uniforms, and the day staff arrived ready
for relaxation after one of their usual
busy days.
If you have a few left-over skeins of
white or pale-blue wool and a few
minutes to spare now and again, you
can turn these oddments into a pleasant
surprise for the Berry-street Foundling
Home. For the captivating youngsters
wear pale-blue jumpers and cream wool-
lies, including booties and little mitts. In
fine weather the babies spend their days
under the pepper-trees. When it rains
they play in pens in a cheerful, well-
ventilated room warmed by log fires.
Most of them appear to be White Aus-
tralians, like Madeleine, who hasn’t yet
learned to crawl. She was found wrapped
in a newspaper in an Elsternwick park.
Her neighbor is a hefty lad whose howls
attracted his rescuer to a culvert in Carl-
ton, and on the other side is a mite who
was found sound asleep on the doorstep
one cold wet morning. But there’s a
variegated sprinkling too —a little Greek,
a Maori and a black-headed, sloe-eyed
son of the Orient whose mother declares
him to be all white and true British,
though she worked in a Chinese laundry.
Adjoining is Tandarra, an infant
health and mothercraft training school,
where trainees get experience with babies
who need special diet. Each babe has
his own locker, and his menu for the
day is hung up in the kitchen. Even
on the frostiest night the hardy ones
sleep outside. The “prems” have a
special room to which nobody is ad-
mitted but the nurses, the reason being
that the little b. bundles (who can yell
remarkably hard) need all the oxygen
they can get.
Behold Jill, only daughter of the late
T. J. Ryan, one-time Premier of Queens-
land, and Mrs. Ryan, of Melbourne. Jill,
who is tall and slim and not yet out of
her teens, has just announced her en-
gagement to Raymond Lambert. This
clever young pianist, Belgian by birth
and parentage, is the only son of violinist
Edouard Lambert, and is at present with
Austral and Amadio. Miss Ryan and
her mother are both musical, and seldom
miss a Town Hall concert. Wedding
bells will ring at the end of the year.
An Athol Shmith camera made the por-
trait.
The Ormond Professor and Mrs.
Heinze held a reception in the Melba
Hall in honor of Jascha, Adolf and Tossy
Spivakovsky and Edmund Kurtz. Of
the guests of honor all but Adolf (who
is petrified of his English) made speeches,
Jascha impressing upon his listeners the
correct pronunciation of the family
name. His feelings have been wounded
by the jumbled interpretation that has
issued from the lips of civic fathers in
various capitals. Mrs. Heinze kept a
short white fur coat over her diaphanous
black net gown. Green satin offset Mrs.
Jascha’s fair hair, and Mrs. Adolf’s
pansy-blue crepe satin had a slit back.
Introducing his wife to many acquaint-
ances was Dr. W. G. Price of the beatific
moustache. Sutton Crow was there, also
tall Prof. Laby, Edward Hallenstein, Dr.
and Mrs. Shannon, Dr. Jona and the
T. J. Noskes. Dr. J. A. Bisset brought
his wife, wearing green and a sweetpea
posy, and her sister, Mrs. Florence Ellis.
Helen Speedie’s Titian locks were vivid
above black velvet, and Mrs. Lindsay
Biggins was noticeable for the reinforced
shoulders in a white velvet coat that
descended to her toes.
This is a Jack Cato picture of Mrs.
T. J. Hudson, who was given many fare-
well parties before she waved good-bye
to her husband and elder son Philip from
the Mooltan. The traveller will arrive in
London in time to welcome her younger
son Clive back from the Mediterranean.
Clive is a midshipman in the Navy, and
he and his mother hope to see a good
deal of one another in London during
the next 18 months.
At the King’s on Saturday night the
audience did its best with coronets,
jewelled earrings and orchids to make
up for being wrapped to the ears in
cloaks. But on the stage “Madame Pom-
padour” provided the maximum amount
of glitter. Sylvia Welling’s panniered and
bustled lilac taffeta trimmed with prune
velvet ribbons accompanied, somewhat
unexpectedly, the halo-plait style of pre-
sent-day hairdressing. Her Titian locks
peeped out from under an Egyptian
headdress, part of the ravishing gold
pyjama costume in which Pompadour
calls herself “Potiphar’s wife.” Miss
Welling wears a white wig with a lovely
pale blue brocade shot with silver lilies
and with her black riding costume. This
latter includes a feathered hat and a
short velvet coat heavily encrusted with
silver, which expands into extravagant
hips over a voluminous skirt. Thus may
have been garbed the equestrian ladies
of Louis XV.’s court, but there was not
a hunting girl in the audience who envied
them their magnificence. Cecil Kella-
way’s grandeur was a coat of pink bro-
cade with apple-green braid and epaul-
ettes ; John Dudley’s a moss-green velvet
coat and Leslie Holland’s a wide-
brimmed crested hat and long black silk
legs.
Louise Lovely, who never misses a
first night, wore her tawny purple lace
under a cloak of ribbed beige velvet
which reached her ankles. Mrs. Fred
Thiel’s gown was of a deep sapphire
velvet, and she wore a diadem in her
hair. Mrs. Phil Finkelstein was wrapped
in plum velvet, and Peggy had a short
fur coat. Mrs. Tweddle’s mulberry lace
dress was next to daughter Betty’s red
satin. Mrs. Arthur Boyes kept herself
snug among summer ermine, and Betty
Tait wore a halo of twisted gold. The
most elaborate toilette in the theatre was
all white. The dress swept into a train,
and its wearer dangled long earrings and
hid her fingers in a white fur muff, to
which she had pinned a spray of pansies.
Mrs. Dudley Trenchard, with niece
Lula Collins under her wing, returned
from abroad in the Chitral. Mrs.
Trenchard visited the Channel Isles, for
her sister, Mrs. B. Finch, lives in Jersey.
Miss Collins has had a final rub put on
her education in England and France.
Tassie’s social whirl:
Knight Eccles Snowden has gone out sud-
denly in London. Merchant, Digger, M.H.A.,
Minister, Mayor of Hobart and Agent-General,
he led a full life.
St. Patrick’s College Ball took place in Albert
Hall, Launceston. There was a golden tone in
decorations and lighting. His Ex. and Lady
Clark were present, and Archbishop Hayden
went up from Hobart.
Clemes College’s old scholars’ reunion began
with a dinner at Heathorn’s, which was fol-
lowed by a dance in the college memorial hall.
Dinner-tables were decorated with the school
colors, chocolate, green and gold. The official
bunch included the Head and Mrs. Clemes,
A. O. Burrows (president of the Old Boys’
Assoc.) and Mrs. Burrows, Dr. and Mrs. A. N.
Lewis, Miss M. Weaver (president of the Old
Girls’ Assoc.), R. Chancellor, K. Nicholson, G.
C. Millar, Clyde Smith and H. Griffiths, the
last three representing Friends School, Hut-
chins’s and St. Virgil’s respectively.
The military commandant’s better-half, Mrs.
J. L. Whitham, was hostess of a party at the
Queen Mary Club. The Gov.’s lady, in dark
blue with toning coat and small blue hat, was
among the guests. Mrs. Whitham was in dark-
wine color, with one of the new two-decker
skirts. Bridge and goodies served at a holly-
and-bull decorated dining-table passed the after-
noon.
Biddy Wishart-Smith’s wedding to C. Ades
Page at St. David’s Cathedral was one of the
prettiest of the season. The bride’s dress of
cream windswept satin had a long train of
Spanish lace, and the full tulle veil fell from
a chaplet of orange-blossom. Sister Jean
Wishart-Smith and the bridegroom’s sister
Clarice ’maided in russet panne velvet with
little coronets of gold tissue. A reception
followed at the Continental.
The Midland Hunt Club held a meet after
(he Campbell Town Show, the run being
through Ashby, Bloomfield and Fosterville, all
good hunting country. The broad flat roads
were thronged with cars. The Arthur Bennetts
provided the stirrup-cup at the start, and the
Alfred Bennetts entertained a big crowd at tea
at Ashby at the finish.
Perth’s parties:
Two race meetings, a rodeo, several dances
and a series of cocktail parties attracted a
horde of visitors to the York week-end. The
golf club ball opened proceedings, with the
Town Hall canopied with streamers, ’neath
which a dozen debs, trekked along a carpet
to make their bow to Lieut.-Governor Mitchell.
Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Monger (her silver spark-
ling black silk nets smacked of Paris) presided
over the doings. The Mitchell lady’s satins
shone luminously green; Nancy Parker wisped
monkey fur on her prawn-pink marocains;
Portia Parker’s diminutive charms were con-
cealed with snowy crepes, and Betty Spark was
crushed into floral georgettes.
Mt. Bakewell kept the wind from blowing
too chillsomely over the racecourse, where the
happy crowd gathered in full force.; Mrs.
Keneally’s pinky toque emerged from brown-
furred black cloth; medico Ward’s lady
set off her tabac suit with a wide hat
banded with multicolored feathers; Jean
Loton’s coat of many squirrels hid azure-blue
crepes.
The cocktails which followed encouraged 90
p.c. of the dancers to attend the Carnival Ball
in fancy rigs. Brigadier Martyn topped his
plus-fours with a tiny Pankhurst hat; Dorothy
Howe’s pyjamas were richly brown and gold;
Betty Blackman tucked a check blouse into
Lido-blue slacks; Phyl Brazier’s crinolines were
fichued and frilled with lace.
Frills, frills and yet more frills frothed and
bubbled around Beth Curlewis as she • paced
the aisle of St. Patrick’s, West Perth, fco meet
Jimmy Tunchon. Hand-worked old Brussels
net kept the blonde curls from escapihg, and
continued its misty way to the edge of the
gossamer train. Jean Curlewis and Laurel
Newman billowed in the bride’s wake, their
Patou-pink tulles semi-trained and winged, with
waistlines swathed and bowed in velvet. Sheaves
of gladioli balanced their wide-brimmed tulle
hats. Rejoicings were at Pierre’s.
Lift-boys, attendants and orchestra were all
garbed in flying kit for the Aero Club’s dance.
Through ' the Embassy alcoves flew model
’planes in suspended mass formation, and the
ballets all struck an aeronautical note. Presi-
dent Dimmit’s lady propelled orchid Honiton
lace; secretary Nell Manford was a bonnie
lass in tartan taffetas and field flowers; Nancy
McCulloch’s oyster lace revealed all the pearli-
ness of her back; Edith Tonkin, Mrs. Francis
Brennan and Marion Pad bury chose shades of
red.
Musical circles are busy farewelling a
number of their bright lights. Harry Vowels,
with wife and family, has packed his trunks
to live permanently in England; contralto Ethel
Ewins is going to the Cold Country to study
awhile, and Flora Bunning is going to warm
her key-tapping fingers in Ceylon.
Adelaide’s midwinter shivoos.:
At Tattersall’s meeting all-black ensembles, so
much in evidence lately gave place to greys and
colors. Mrs. H. Allan Morris (wife of the club’s
chairman), who entertained with her husband
at afternoon-tea, wore a squirrel-fur coat over
a pale-grey woollen sports suit, and her smart
hat was a grey felt. Premier Butler’s wife
chose a grey tweed suit and black velvet hat.
The acting-Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) sported
a chutney-green crepe tunic toilette with touches
of black, and a small green and black hat.
The women’s committee for the Boy Scouts’
welcome ball to our new vicc-regals, Sir
Winston Dugan and his lady, met at Shell
House. The dance will be held at the Palais
Royal on August 2.
Mary Randell celebrated her birthday with
a cocktail party to over a hundred guests at
the home of her parents, Dr. and Mrs. A. S.
Randell, North Adelaide. The young hostess
wore black sand crepe, with a yoke of white.
Her mother chose black ring velvet cut on
princess lines, and Elizabeth Randell provided
a dash of color in a frock of red kemp with
a red-and-white scarf.
Nearly 400 attended the dance in Norwood
Town Hall in aid of Mothers and Babies’
Health Association. Wanda Edwards judged
the dancing competition, the winners of which
were the Stanley Murray’s deb. daughter Joan
and Peter Wills. Then three pretty girls, Peggy
Woolnough, Anne Cundell and Suzanne Goss,
made their debut and were presented to Douglas
Mawson’s lady.
Members of the 401 Voluntary Aid Detach-
ment with the commandant (Miss D. Elms)
gave a dance in the Liberal Hall. The Army
was represented by Colonel S. R. Burston. Miss
Elms was smartly gowned in black ring velvet
relieved with green. The detachment banner
was featured among the poinsettias that
decorated the hall.
Captain Nelson Clover, son-in-law of Sidney
Kidman and his lady, is coming to Australia
with knight Archibald and Lady Weigall as
private secretary, leaving England early in
September.


TWO “BULLETIN” WOMEN.
The late MRS. WILLIAM MACLEOD,
who was “Akenehi” of THE BULLETIN.
When the century was an infant, James Edmond edited
“The Bulletin,” S. H. Prior conducted the Wild Cat
Column,” Conor O’Brien wrote the “Woman’s Letter and
Eugenia Stone the “Melbourne Chatter.”
Prior, of course, did heaps of work apart from the “Wild
Cat”—he was that kind of journalist. Edmond retired from
the editorship in 1915, without ceasing to be “The Bulletin’s”
principal writer, and Prior succeeded him. The ladies had
in the meantime given up regular journalism. Miss O’Brien
had become the wife of William Macleod, “The Bulletin’s’’
first manager and its managing director afterwards; Miss Stone
had gone to England, where she married Sir George Doughty,
M.P. for Great Grimsby.
These four remarkable people, so closely associated in life,
were fated to be not long divided in death. Edmond died
in March, and Prior in June, last year; Mrs. Macleod in
March, and Lady Doughty in June, this year.
Miss O’Brien was in charge of the “Letter” for 10 years,
1901-1911. “Melbourne Chatter” was not established until
September 14, 1905. Miss Stone (“Tryphena”) was the first
Chatterer, but was no newcomer to the paper; she had for some
years sent the Melbourne notes forming part of the “Letter.”
She did the “Chatter” until March 7, 1907.
Naturally, paragraphs constituted the bulk of the ladies’
contributions to “The Bulletin”; but now and then
“Akenehi” penned a cheerful short story and “Tryphena” wrote
graceful light verse. As a tribute to the memory of two
charming and accomplished women, specimens of their work
are reprinted on this page.
The late LADY DOUGHTY.
Formerly “Tryphena” of THE BULLETIN.
THE SOUL THAT BOLTED.
By “Akenehi.”
DIRECTLY I awoke I knew I was in
a state of soular bankruptcy.
The maid came in with my tea,
and, as I seemed to be still asleep, she
left the tray on a little table by my bed-
side. I sat up and deliberately upset the
table, breaking all the china and drench-
ing the rugs with tea and milk.
The maid ran back. I let her think il
was an accident, and it made me feel
good to see how distressed she was. She
wears glasses, and when she knelt to
clear up the debris she put them aside.
I threw them into the garden amongst
the dense nasturtiums.
The girl’s frantic hunt in my bedroom
for her glasses was most entertaining.
When I opened my window to throw
out the glasses a small August wind
from the east rushed in.
“I met your soul!” said the wind in
little puffs. “It was going east through
the bush. Hadn’t you better get your-
self locked up till It comes back?”
“Perhaps It won’t come back,” I
answered. “I know I wouldn’t if I had
Its billet. What is It like?”
“Rather funny-looking, but very cheer-
ful. Big eyes; corners of Its mouth
smile up to the corners of Its eyes.”
“Nice hands and feet?”
“None at all; but a pair of rudimen-
tary wings like those of a duckling. When
It stopped to rest It sat down on the
back of Its neck.”
“I don’t think I’ll go after It,” I said.
“It doesn’t sound attractive. I’ll take
my chance of getting a better one.”
“I’ve been blowing since Time began,”
remonstrated the warm easterly, “and I
never before met a soul out on the jag
without Its body. You’ll be in gaol
before the week’s out. You may be
hanged before the year’s out —if you
don’t get It back.”
“You are talking just what you
are, and that’s wind. Quite one
person in a thousand doesn’t get gaoled
or suspended”
The wind began to scream something
about my case being an exception, and
asked me to note “the change in my-
self.” It told me where my soul could
be found —in a place full of trees and
glad grass and moss where I had camped
last spring.
I determined to follow my soul, but
meantime I was glad to be nasty to any-
thing—even to the wind. “You keep
outside my room,” I said. “Why do
you load yourself up with wattle-bloom
and gum and daffodil scents? You smell
so disagreeably. The best winds don’t
do it.” Then I slammed down the
window.
During the train journey to Waringay
in pursuit of my soul I enjoyed myself
thoroughly. I contrived to throw a half-
blind old lady’s handbag and purse out
of the window. “A perfect stranger”
asked me to tell her when we came to
Gordona, as she was short-sighted and
the guard didn’t speak distinctly. We
were just approaching Gordona, but
I told her it was three stations off. We
got into conversation, and she told me
with whom she was going to stay. I had
never heard of the lady, but I informed
the perfect stranger that her hostess had
just finished a term of imprisonment for
shoplifting.
At Waringay, where I left the train,
I reported the guard to the station-
master for insulting behavior, and gave
as mine the name and address of the
daughter of one of the Railway Com-
missioners. I never saw anything of its
kind more comic than the guard’s ex-
pression of face. A doctor acquaintance
of mine overtook me on the road and
offered to drive me a mile or so. He
was going my way. I accepted cheer-
fully, but first went into a telephone
bureau arid rang up his jealous wife:
“Is that Mrs. Sawbones?”
“Yes!”
“Do you know a Miss MacQuacker?”
The name was that of a girl of whom she
was causelessly and furiously jealous. A
voice like nitric acid replied: “I know
of her.”
“If you will go to the rise at the back
of your house you will see your husband
driving into the bush track with a lady
dressed in a long brown coat, a brown
boa and a motoring veil. She is Miss
MacQuacker.”
I could hardly climb into the buggy
for laughter.
The doctor mentioned that he had
been out since five that morning, attend-
ing a medical friend, Dr. Cascara, who
was very ill of pneumonia.
“Dr. Cascara!” I echoed lazily. “A
very careless talker, isn’t he?”
“I have no reason to think so. Why?”
“Oh, nothing—only the other evening,
at the Winterview Smiths’, the talk turned
on doctors, and he said that Dr. Bitter-
aloes was practising on a forged
diploma.”
The doctor dropped the reins, and the
horse bolted for a space.
“Dr. Bitteraloes is my brother-in-law,”
remarked my neighbor, after a signifi-
cant pause.
Of course I had known that.
We parted on the verge of the forest
track. Part of my way lay through a
plantation of baby fruit-trees. I pulled
up a few hundreds and dropped among
them the doctor’s handkerchief, which
I had stolen. His name was on it.
My soul was lying on a patch of moss,
with Its wings under Its head, when It
saw me. It half flew, half scrambled, up
on to the limb of a gum high above my
head, and hung there smiling down at
me.
I threw sticks at It, but all fell short.
I got a long branch and tried to brush
It down, but It only moved higher up,
still smiling with comical curiosity.
“Why did you leave?” I asked des-
perately when my last missile fell back
on my ear. “Wasn’t I a good employer?”
“I don’t remember any former em-
ployers,” It replied, “and I’m still fond of
you. But I’m tired. I want, a day out
every ten years. You are always prying
on me, and trying to get me under the
lens —‘intellectual lens,’ you’d call it.
Ugh!”
Still smiling, It dropped forward and
hung head downwards, looking at me
interestedly.
“You may have a day out every
month,” I said ; “but is this the way you
spend it—up a tree?”
“There you are again, prying on me!
Asking me how I’ll spend my day of
freedom! ”
I sat down at the base of the tree and
began to cry. Presently It came and
squatted on my shoulder, looking round
about with infantile curiosity and cheer-
fulness.
I spent the afternoon with my soul.
Towards sunset It said: “I’ll stay on
your shoulder and you may carry me
home.”
It was quite heavy, but I was afraid
to complain. For obvious reasons, I did
not make for Waringay station. My soul
declined to get back to wherever in me
It lived. It said Its day was not up.
So, when close to the station, I took It
off my shoulder, wrapped It out of sight
in my motor veil, and boarded the
train.
The guard said: “Animals not allowed
in passenger compartments, lady. You’ve
time to get a dog-box, and, if that’s a
’possum”
“This is not a ’possum,” I interrupted
angrily. He continued to look suspici-
ously at the wriggling bundle, and in a
growing fright I bluffed:
“Perhaps now you’ll tell me babies
are not allowed in passenger compart-
ments.” At the instant my soul stuck
Its smiling head and one stubbly wing
out and looked inquisitively at the guard.
He fell backwards between the couplings
of the carriages, but as the train was
not moving no harm resulted.
I fled from the train to the cabstand,
covering up my burden as I ran. It was
squirming restlessly. I told a man on the
rank to drive me to Mosman. He looked
interestedly at my bundle and asked:
“Would that like to run behind a piece,
lady?”
I told him that That certainly would
not, and he became apologetic.
The soul was sitting on my knee dur-
ing the drive, and we were nearing our
journey’s end when the cabman looked
down through the roof window. It
looked up at him.
I don’t clearly recollect what fol-
lowed. A rearing horse, a wrecked cab,
a scared man. I and It came out of
the crash unhurt, and I was leading It
down our road in the twilight, one end
of my long boa tied round Its neck, when
a policeman stopped us.
“Is that dog registered, madam?” he
asked.
“That is not a dog,” I said with some
annoyance. He looked closer.
“Wha-what is it, then?”
“It’s a soul! ”
I’m quite sure he would have arrested >
me for “language” if It had not saved
me by disappearing. It went back to
wherever It lived in me.
(N.B. —One day in ten years is suffi-
cient for your soul to go on the jag.)
VERSES BY “TRYPHENA."
The Five Express!
No matter how the markets go,
Or how quotations are,
What troubles through the day I know,
When things are all ajar—
I catch the “five express” (heigh-ho!)
And hunt for Someone’s car.
And seeing just that fluffy head,
The half-averted glance,
The ripple of a smile, and red
The cheek at my advance,
I enter with a careless tread
And scarce a, look askance.
With much pretence, perched vis-a-vis
In our respective nooks,
We start to read, till furtively
First one then t’other looks;
And then we thrill, and guiltily
Fall blindways to our books.
And oh! it is a poor Express
When Someone’s not aboard;
I growl, and there’s no blessedness
On earth, and all’s discord;
The day’s dull grind and cares oppress,
And work earns no reward.
This mighty fuss because a maid
Has nut-brown locks wind-blown,
A furtive eye of violet shade
(A shade I’ve never known),
A piquant face, and smile afraid
To circulate alone.
All life at present concentrates
In that old snorting train,
Where Someone sits and meditates,
Or tries to read in vain,
Or looks as if we’re not true mates
And strangers must remain.
And no one knows, and no one cares,
So let our folly be;
It’s heaven just to be two fares
In silent sympathy—
Just one of sev’ral spoony pairs
In corners vis-a-vis.
(B. 3/11/1904.)
Men.
The dears are versed in certain rules
That treat of Woman,
That classify the rogues and fools
And angels human.
They wot not of the craft and art
Beneath her smiling,
In part she is a dupe—in part
A cheat beguiling.
They take the play of mouth and eyes
For soul expression,
And scent no trickery or lies
In love’s confession.
They look—yet see upon her face
No mask dissembling,
But caught by some entrapping grace
Start all a-trembling.
“You love me, dear!” they whisper oft—
The woman nestles —
They dream not that on her lips soft
The old lie wrestles.
“It is so good for you and I
To be together”—
They say—she ducks and prods his eye
With her toque feather.
“How long have you loved only me?”
They question, sighing—
“ For ages,” trills she in a key
Of practised lying.
“I am so blest,” in rapture they
Repeat, adoring;
She smiles content, but, lackaday!
She finds it boring.
And sometimes, when suspicions rise,
Their voices tremble;
But oh! reproof creeps to her eyes,
Her tears assemble.
Repentant and ashamed they seek
Her pardon, kneeling;
And she, with false averted cheek,
Forgives with feeling.
When they would ask with jealous rage
About “the others,”
She cries the old cry of the stage —
They are but brothers.
And so she gulls them all save one,
Her soul he harries;
He is a rude and scoffing Hun, 7
And him she marries.
(B. 28/2/1907.)


k
Extra Superfine Grey Calfskin
LEATHER COATS
<4
&
r
With an exceptionally
high-grade soft finish.
Same as exported to
U.S.A. and have never
before been offered
in Australia. Cannot
soil. Will wear for
years and still retain
its New and Smart
Appearance. Lined with
Silk to tone, which
makes it an extra light
Featherweight and At-
tractive Garment. Ob-
tainable also lined with
Ipswich Woollen
Check Velour.
One Price Only
Men’s - - £6/15/-
POSTAGE FREE
Special Attention given to Mail Orders.
Men —When ordering, please state your Height and
Chest measurement, also Underarm Sleeve
measurement.
Ladies —Please give Bust and Hip measurement and
Length of Coat required.
LEATHER
COATS
Direct from Sydney’s Leading Leather Coat
Manufacturers at Wholesale Prices.
ONLY GENUINE HIDES USED.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS.
Warm Waterproof Lasting
LADIES’ FASHIONABLE
LEATHER COATS
Made from special ladies’ weight
Genuine Hide. Shades of Mid Brown,
New Season’s Tan, Wine, Red, Light
Bottle, Green, Navy, etc. Guaranteed
fast colors.
AH
GUINEAS
MEN’S QUALITY HIDE COATS
Finest workmanship and finish throughout.
Smart, warm and waterproof. Mid Brown or
Nigger Brown Shades.
A Specialj
Guaranteed 5 Years,
79 6
SPECIALLY SELECTED SUPER HIGH GRADE, 99/6
Wmm
lii
GUT
100 Days’
Guarantee
ss&s&*
mimm
mmm
GUT ■
100 Days
Guarantee
Tennis Racquets
Under Fixed COMBINE Prices.
ALEXANDERS, SPALDINGS,
SLAZENGERS.
Cressy Wizard Cressy Perfect
Cavalier Master Model
Top Flite (Reg.) Kro Flite (Reg.)
Strung with Ist Quality Gut—Klipspringer,
Edwards, Bentleys, or Panther No. 1. 100
Days’ Guarantee on Gut, 30
Days’ Guarantee on Frame.
Fixed Selling Price, 75/-
OUR PRICE
55/-
THE LATEST FLAT-TOP RACQUET.—A
New and improved Model, particularly strong
and well balanced, the “SILVER KNIGHT” is
procurable with latest diamond or ordinary
stringing. Highest grade Gut used. 100
DAYS’ GUARANTEE, 60 DAYS’
GUARANTEE ON FRAME.
Usually 70/-. OUR PRICE
49/6
The HEDLEY WIZARD FLAT-TOP
RACQUET, 3-ply Ash Frame, 1 lamination,
overlay shoulder, strung with High-grade Gut.
100 DAYS’ GUARANTEE, 60 DAYS’
GUARANTEE ON FRAME.
Usually 62/6.
OUR PRICE
37/6
The “VULCAN.” This is something Special
in an Oval Frame Racquet. It has 3 lamina-
tions instead of 2, and is a perfect Racquet,
strung with High-grade Gut.
Usually 72/6.
OUR PRICE
52/6
100 Days’ Guarantee on Gut.
60 DAYS ON FRAME.
Tennis Requisites of Every Description.
If not convenient to Call, MAIL your Order
direct. Postage Free,
GOLDMAN St Co. Ltd.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST LEATHER WEAR SPECIALISTS,
429 GEORGE STREET
(Queen Victoria Building), Comer Market Street, Sydney.


• Pair of tan Oxfords over
4 years old. Apart from wear-
ing creases, the uppers are as
sound as the day they were bought
—thanks to regular cleaning with
Kiwi. Owner, V. f., St. Kilda.
h
ĥ
ħ
• Kiwi makes a good shoe last,
• and gives a good shine to boot
BLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
H7OIM
Jfi
" V
Ij]
•imp "f J
sff
— ~
Wt
I =
W
CH
(Li*-*
fo'fid
i»c
t f
" *
IJ4®
"f\
Sergeant
Murphy,
The FIRST DEPOSITOR IN'
THE FIRST BANK
ON April 8, 1817, when the Bank of New
South Wales opened for business, the first
customer was Sergeant Jeremiah Murphy, of the
46th Regiment of Foot. He deposited £5O. He
was followed by Mr. John Harris, of Ultimo,
Sydney, and Mr. William Redfem, of Sydney,
one of the first Directors of the Bank.
By January, 1818, deposits had increased to
£1,859 and the Bank had advanced £1,381 on
mortgages to its customers.
To-day deposits held by the Bank of New South
Wales total over £86,000,000, whilst advances to
customers are over £65,000,000.
Thus, the individual depositor plays a vital part
in the financing of the country's production and
trade. As deposits increase the Bank is enabled
to extend still further its financial assistance to
industry.
Bank of New South Wales
p7C
The Last Passing By.
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
THE humid summer dawn came
slowly. Long before the faint glim-
mer of the false dawn fled the earth
woke, filling with movements of languid
restlessness. Yet, beyond the occasional
distressed bleat of a sheep, there was
no sound. Even the trees were still.
In that dim silence there was no peace.
The hot, breathless night had brought
no respite between burning day and
burning day. Once, in the drooping wil-
lows above the river, a bird twittered —
a sudden, frightened note, rising shrilly
and ceasing with a terrifying abruptness
that seemed to arrest, for an awed in-
stant, the sense of disquiet that heralded
the dawn.
The sun came up, seeming to bring
with it a searing smell of smoke, and the
day was there, breathless under a haze of
heat that searched relentlessly for the
moisture that its predecessors had long
since drained away.
In the barren fields the sense of move-
ment died.
In odd corners the sheep and lambs
managed to secure an unsatisfying nibble,
but for the cattle and horses there was
nothing.
For a time they wandered restlessly,
mpving round and round the fields, keep-
ing, for the most part, to the fences,
where the turf was worn to dusty path-
ways. Then, dumbly enduring, they
sought what shade there was and stood
with dreadful immobility, waiting for
death.
The sun swung up the sky, glaring re-
lentlessly through a haze of heat that
quivered over all the earth, so that the
clumps of flax along the river, where
they were fenced off from the starved
cattle, lost their glassy sheen, and seemed
to wither.
Then the flies came, venomous and
insatiable, swarming in dense, disgust-
ing clouds about the unhappy beasts,
driving them half frantic, until at last,
exhausted beyond caring, they submitted
to the dreadful torment and were gradu-
ally numbed into acquiescence.
In the paddock where Pearl Queen,
the old brood mare, suckled her latest
foal, the yearling Foxtrot went suddenly
mad, flinging up his lovely little head
and racing away over the hard-baked
turf. The beat of his unshod hoofs
merged into a continuous roll, like the
roll of muted funeral drums.
Blind with torment, he crashed head-
long through the fence, struggled up and,
gashed and bloody, ran on again until
he crashed through another fence sur-
rounding a deep bog hole. There he lay,
with nothing above the clinging mire but
his head, whereon the flies settled.
In the middle of the morning a hag-
gard man came out into the field where
Pearl Queen, heedless of the swarm that
was draining her own blood, attempted
to nose the flies from her foal’s thin
flanks. He stood beside her, rubbing her
worn, wise face and staring about him
with eyes that seemed unable to take in
the sense of what they saw ; but, when
the foal pushed up to its mother’s flank,
nosed her teats and turned away
without attempting to suck, his mind
leaped to understanding.
Silently he moved away, going across
the field to the broken fence and then
on to where the trapped yearling was
dying terribly. Grim-lipped, he fought
his way through the clinging, foetid
horror of the bog and ended its
sufferings.
When he came back to Pearl Queen,
the smell of his deed was still on him.
She backed away from him, snort-
ing feebly. But his hands on her
quieted her nameless fear, and she
suffered herself to be led across to the
house and waited, with her dumb endur-
ance, in the yard while her owner
ordained her destiny.
On the morrow a stranger came and
took her away.
As he stroked her head, the man who
owned her explained with heavy sorrow:
“Mason has been pestering me for
her foal. He’s going to send her north
for me —and bottle-rear the foal”
Frantic with grief, but obedient to
i man’s mastery, Pearl Queen took the
blistering high road ; and the last thing
she heard before the hushed purling
of the river covered it was the thin,
sweet calling of her little one.
By train and by coastal boat she went
north and ever north to where the
drought was not and the pasture was
lush and green; but, though they fed
her liberally on the way, she would not
eat. She turned for ever backward, call-
ing and calling for the foal she had been
unable to suckle.
The last part of her journey was by
train through steep hill country, and
the line wound through precipitous
gorges, overhanging many a goaded,
snarling hill stream.
In her limited quarters Pearl Queen
fretted, eating her heart out. The air
She breathed was heavy, nauseating with
the smell of the sheep which travelled,
close-packed, in the trucks ahead of her
and behind her. Thin, starved sheep,
patient and puzzled, as she was patient
and puzzled ; going, as she was going,
to a land of plenty, but not caring, as
she cared, for the little things and the
land they left behind ; not suffering, as
she suffered, from that old-time agony
of heart which is at once the penalty
and glory of motherhood.
In the other section of the box was
a thoroughbred stallion, not starved and
bereft, as she was starved and bereft,
but full of meat and pride and travelling
north to fulfil his destiny on a northern
stud farm. All the time they were
travelling he screamed his defiance and
disdain—his disgust at the filthy smell
of the penned and sweating sheep.
Confined in her box, Pearl Queen
saw nothing of the country through
which they passed. Mingling with the
smell of the sheep and the stormy defi-
ance of her box mate, there penetrated
sometimes to her the pungent smell of
growing things, the sound of waters
rushing far below them as they roared
across the high iron-trestled bridges.
But since she had been taken from her
foal, time for the old mare had ceased
to be, scent and sound had become
meaningless to her while her captivity
lasted.
Suddenly that captivity was over.
As the long stock train wound its slow,
devious way round a steep precipice that
overhung a mountain stream, the earth
woke from its long sleeping, shaking
itself. The train shook with it —crashed
from the hillside far to the valley below.
Out of the dreadful debris Pearl Queen
emerged shocked and terrified, but un-
hurt. From the wreckage beside her the
stallion leaped, screaming with anger and
dismay, bloody from a deep wound in
his shoulder, but free from mortal hurt.
But the box behind them, which had
contained two proud Clydesdales, was
no more than a bloody shambles. One
of them was dead. The other, wounded
to the death, pinned irrevocably to the
still rocking earth, added the horror of
his screaming to the dreadful scene.
Far and near, up and down the train,
the air was filled with the hot scent of
blood, with the terrified bleating of
trapped sheep ; and from the battered
trucks those not incapacitated began to
emerge, so that in a short space the valley
was filled with them, running blindly one
after the other down the steep declivity
into the little leaping, snarling stream.
As the mare paused uncertainly, dazed
with fear, a new scent mingled with the
scent of blood; old, hated scent of
smoke, of burning wood and flesh....
Beside her the brown stallion reared,
pivoting and striking the air with his
forehoofs, nipped at her flank and
plunged away down the hill, surging
through the thin line of stampeding
sheep, and drowning their terrified bleat-
ing under a fanfare of snorts and. screams
of terror and defiance.
Scarcely knowing what she did, Pearl
Queen followed him. As she went the
earth rocked under her feet —shook
again, flinging rock and debris from the
unstable cliff above them.
Swerving from a huge rock that
crashed into his path, the brown stal-
lion leaped down towards the boiling
stream that raged and shouted at the
rocks that blocked its course, at the
drowned bodies of the terrified sheep
that had fallen in and been trampled
there by their panic-stricken fellows.
From the horrible causeway the stal-
lion plunged, curveting and snorting, to
ford the stream below, plunging crazily
from the smell of it, the red tinge of it,
washed down from the sorrowful bridge
that spanned its once icy clarity.
Hot on his heels, crowding close to
him for protection from terrors named
and unnamed, Pearl Queen followed.
On the far side the hill was steep but
not precipitous, and the stallion led on
up it, weaving his way across the face
of it; and every step of the way was
marked with the blood that flowed from
(i Continued on next page.)


AND
TO ENGLAND
Fortnightly
Two charming routes at your choice —
go by Auckland (N.Z.), Suva and Hono-
lulu to Vancouver, or by Wellington
(N.Z.), Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco thence to England across
Canada or U.S.A. by luxury trains and
modern liners.
Tickets are interchangeable on both
routes, thus giving opportunity for a mag-
nificent round trip. Stopovers arranged
for any port of call.
Passengers travelling to England by these
or any other routes may book their return
passage —via Canada or U.S.A., the South
Sea Islands and New Zealand— before
leaving Australia.
Moderate fares, comfortable ships, modern
accommodation, faultless service.
Let us quote you the most
economical rates for your trip.
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
296 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
%v
M/V^>
MS " !
O/v
?to
to
e/7
Use
II _ .1!
•Si
i
s
1
F «..j
(l w
i
(D c Gtlltun’s
ScotsGJhisky
I
JtcfjUKM;.
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, More & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros, and Co. -
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
Plum Razor Guard
km
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARL>, easily adjusted, fits Sin., Jin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
PLUM RAZOR
Selected Steel, Black Handle
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle
Superfine Steel. Ivory Handle
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged
provided free with each razor.)
12/6
15/6
21/-
ease
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case —
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and }in.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
his shoulder. Half-way up the hill he
began to falter ; his snorts of bewildered
fear and anger changed to little whinny-
ings of distress. Presently he stopped,
with his proud head drooped to his
knees, and Pearl Queen ranged along-
side him, pressing close to him, trembling
and exhausted with her fear that was
not of the dreadful holocaust behind,
but of the earth that rocked and trembled
beneath her shapely hoofs.
In the valley terror grew on terror ;
for now the wrecked train was burning
merrily, shooting thin tongues of flame
high into the still, hot air. The bleating
of the stricken sheep merged into a con-
tinuous runnel of sound, shot through
by the agonised screaming of the
wounded Clydesdale. In and about the
stream below and straggling up the hill-
side, the sheep that had escaped from
the trucks still blundered aimlessly.
Those that were able were toiling dog-
gedly up towards the spot where Pearl
Queen stood pressed forlornly against the
stricken stallion, who, with a little, heart-
broken sigh, sagged over suddenly and
rolled away down the hill, limp and
grotesque, and more terrifying even than
the blazing shambles below.
Pearl Queen plunged on again, up and
up and away. The earth ceased to
rock and shook itself again, so that the
whole precipitous hillside where the
twisted railway ran leaped out and down
into the valley, filling it from end to
end. Three horses and ten thousand
sheep, the train’s crew, the singing fire,
and the little snarling stream were buried
there.
All that night the earth rocked and
shook, and all that night Pearl Queen
travelled south, driven on and ever on
by the twin urges of her fear of that
which lay behind and her desire for
that which lay before. The agony of her
bereavement, which transcended all in-
stincts of fear, all the weakness of
hunger and exhaustion, called her home.
Dawn found her on a high hill above
a mighty river that swung in sullen,
turgid waves out to the restless sea.
It stayed her for a while, so that at
last she paused and fell to grazing on
the trembling hilltop.
Sometimes, when the earth heaved and
rolled, or swung and jerked until the
sullen waters leaped, she plunged this
way and that, crazy with fear ; but ever
the fear decreased, and presently, her
belly full for the first time in many
moons, she moved off down the hill and
came to the water’s edge.
Sullen waters, hungry and desirous!
She snorted a little as they took her.
A mile below where she had entered
she staggered ashore, battered and spent
but victorious ; but it was not until night
that she moved on again. Then she
found that she was in a large field, and
it was nearly morning before she dis-
covered a spot where the earthquakes
had laid the fence flat.
Snorting fearfully, she jumped the
fallen obstacles and turned south again ;
crossed two more fields, jumping the
tangled wire of fences flattened on the
steep hillsides ; fought her way through
the tangle of a bush-grown valley, and
came suddenly out on a white ribbon of
road that ran up and away under the
moon.
Sometimes it was lost under huge land-
slides. Sometimes it was blocked by
fallen bridges and viaducts ; but, though
at times she had to make long detours,
always she found her way back to it and
followed it.
Once or twice during the daytime she
met people, afoot or in cars, but they
gave her little heed.
For them the sweet, green world was
suddenly a nightmare place, filled with
hideous dreams of death and destruction;
and the sight of the skeleton horse, trot-
ting purposefully along the shattered
highway, was but of a piece with all the
other unbelievable happenings that had
passed before their terror-dazed eyes.
At times she paused to rest and graze,
but as her fear of the present passed so
memory was reawakened, and the
mother-heart of her was torn with long-
ing for her foal; so she rested little and
ate little.
Seven days and nights passed, and still
the old mare travelled south through the
stricken country, undeterred by its con-
tinuous shaking, by its vast upheavals
and the dreadful things she heard and
saw.
Once she passed through a stricken
(own that smouldered under the laughing
light of the silver moon. A town of
darkness and dreadful silence that was
broken at times by more dreadful sound.
Here and there, by the light of dim lan-
terns, men worked in dazed silence
among the ruins, searching for the dying
and the dead. Sometimes, after a pro-
longed shake, there would be the sudden
rush of panic-stricken departure—open-
ing and slamming of doors, scurry of
footsteps, the roar of a motor engine,
the clashing of gears. A laden car
rushing away to the safety of the south.
Another home abandoned, with windows
left wide and swinging, unlatched doors.
Picking her way among the debris, she
passed many still groups of humans,
standing talking in low tones; and, though
they looked after her curiously, none
made any movement to stay her progress.
Once clear of the fallen buildings, she
broke into a trot again, her hoofs beating
a sharp rhythm.
It was not until many days later she
reached her own country. Here the earth
tremors had not been so severe, but, even
so, the people went about their business
with a dazed, strained look; and the
country was overrun with blank-faced
refugees. Every house was full of them,
and the people were too occupied with
the emergencies of the times to pay much
attention to the worn old horse, jog-
jogging purposefully along the roads.
After the ’quakes there had been rain,
but the country was still barren, and as
the days passed Pearl Queen grew
weaker and weaker.
There came a time when even her in-
domitable will could no longer drive her
weary limbs, and she was forced to stay
beside the tiny trickle of a stream, where
starved sheep crept down to drink and
glazed-eyed cattle staggered and died,
fouling the little waters.
Daily men came down, dragging the
carcasses away, and piling them with
burning brush ; and a child came with
them who climbed into the weeping-
willow trees, tossed small sprigs of
withered leaves down to the dying mare
and sang above the ashes of a tragedy
that was too vast for its golden youth.
“They say,” said one, piling brush on
the great funeral pyre, “that there’ll be
no more big shakes. The birds are going
back north.”
He called to the child in the tree.
“Break down a whole lot, son. Maybe
it will keep the breath in the old mare’s
body—until she reaches journey’s end.”
He knelt, putting a match to the brush
and muttering: “Though what’s the life
of an old screw —when there’s nothing
but death?”
Yet, when he came next day, he
brought her a precious bundle of
withered hay.
That night she went on again, stum-
bling as she walked; but the moon had
told her that home \Yas not far to seek.
The road wound up, away from the tiny
stream, to a cross-roads on the rounded
top of a rise. Snorting a little, Pearl
Queen took the right road, which
branched away from the hills and out
over the moonlit reach of the plains.
All through the night she kept on,
maintaining a dogged jogtrot. By the
dawn she was back in her own country
—the country she had known all her life
and loved to the death.
Whinnying with every step, she stag-
gered on. The hot dawn broke, ragged
and flaming, shot with icy breaths of
wind from the ranges, where storms
swirled blackly out of nothing, and died
to nothing under the fierce rays of the
risen sun.
Presently she came to the river, which
still purled lazily between the hot stones ;
but the stream was slowly swelling from
the far-away storms, and the close-
cropped grass that edged the distant
banks was tinged with faintest green.
Over the river, hidden in a long plan-
tation, was home —the home she had
sought so long, down so bitter a track ;
the home where she had been reft from
her last f0a1... .
Over the bridge and to the closed gate,
against which she pressed, calling shrilly.
From one of the sheds her owner
came, walking slowly, staring with un-
believing eyes. Tossing her fine old
head, she greeted him.
He reached her—touched her.
Moving slowly still, he opened the
gate.
With strength born of her undying
mother-love, she galloped past him,
towards the yard where she had last
seen her foal.
It was empty.
She leaned over the side of it, whinny-
ing and calling, pawing the turf with
the frenzy of her anxiety and longing.
Very slowly the man who owned her
followed her, stood watching with his
dazed and cheated eyes.
“Life,” he said at last. “We perform
undreamed-of prodigies of labor, suffer
undreamed sorrow ; and the end is—
nothing.
She swung to the sound of his voice,
nosing him and asking with dumb faith
for her own.
He ran his hand down her bony neck
and stared into the distance with eyes
that neither asked nor hoped.
“Don’t turn to me,” he said, as
though she could understand. “I am
not God! You’ve come back from the
dead—to the dead.”


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
011 your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
B
A
ft
m
Mr"
ir
(ilik
..i a
Ml Mil !i
A Safeguard for Travellers
The safety and security of a Letter of Credit which enables the traveller
to draw on his account in any part of the world is only one of the many
services and advantages which The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
offers. The Bank also establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable.
It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or by telegraph. It transacts
all classes of general Banking and Exchange business. The Manager of any
Branch will gladly explain these facilities to intending travellers and place
at their disposal the information on current conditions of Exchange, etc.
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank,
Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
Cable Address: “Thermoslat,” Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
CM
A. —The Larynx or Organ of Voice.
B. —The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung.
D. The lobe of one of the Lungs.
They PROTECT the throat
against germ infection
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
Any remedy to have retained its popularity and
continuously increased its sale over a period of
40 years must have real merit.
For over 40 years Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
have maintained their reputation as a Germicide
and Antiseptic for the throat, chest and lungs of
the highest medicinal value.
Endorsed by the medical profession.
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6d. tin
16 tin
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE,
The SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS
The only
Evening Paper
in the North
of Tasmania.
The S.E. Express gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Mid-
lands, and the North-West Coast of
T asmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal, it
is the Sunday Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN THE S.E. EXPRESS FOR WEEK-END READING.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Ralph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “The Examiner” (daily) and “Weekly Courier”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Mice and Men.
BY ARTHUR W. UPFIELD.
HAD you known Niagara Spence, Bill
Townley and The Coffin Maker
you would be mourning the
murder of Romance committed by the
motor-car in the great outback. When
the coaches of Cobb and Co. were with-
drawn from the tracks and the poetry-
reciting, leg-pulling drivers were replaced
by fag-chewing machine-drivers, the hin-
terland of Australia changed almost over-
night to something not unlike a city’s
outer suburb.
Not only was Romance foully mur-
dered. The old hands faded away like
old soldiers, and their places were taken
by young mechanically-minded men who
boundary-ride in motor-cars without
mudguards, and muster horses and cattle
on motor-bicycles. You will now find
the real old-time bushmen camped in
petrol-tin humpies on the banks of the
inland rivers ; and the modern sheepman
rides to his city home every week-end on
the top of a roaring exhaust.
All that now is left us is the power to
resurrect Romance and to recall to the
present the shades of those wonderful
fellows who created it in the first place ;
for the great outback known to Lawson
has gone from us for ever, suffocated by
petrol fumes.
With Townley and Spence I was sink-
ing a well on station property bordering
the 1300-mile-long Rabbit-proof Fence
No. 1 in Westralia. The Coffin Maker
was riding that section of fence which
passed close to the job, a section of 163
miles, with the town of Burracoppin on
the south end and the Government
Camel Station marking the north end.
Son and grandson of an undertaker, he
had deserted the family calling, but could
not throw off its influence. He carried
the atmosphere of the churchyard with
him, and at all times his aspect was
funereal.
Niagara Spence was old in all bar
muscles and voice. He was white-haired,
blue-eyed, pink-complexioned, and four-
teen stone in weight. When he conversed
one could hear him distinctly at a dis-
tance of 100 yards ; when he raised his
voice at the bottom of a sixty-foot well
the sides threatened to cave in. An
airman a thousand feet up could have
heard him.
As for Bill Townley, he was nothing
much to write home about. After the
holiday he took subsequent to selling
his share in Townley’s Reward for £7OOO,
he seemed never to be of this world. He
had no opinions about anything. To
everything said by his friend of many
years, Niagara Spence, he would reply
without enthusiasm, “Too right.”
On December 10 The Coffin Maker
arrived at the camp with his covered
two-wheel cart drawn by two camels in
tandem harness. Then on his way north,
he was to reach the Camel Station the
following day, stay there for four days
—one day for each Sunday he had spent
on the track —and return on December
16 on his way south to Burracoppin.
Having worked all this out with the
aid of stones, Niagara Spence suggested
that, if The Coffin Maker would be so
obliging, we could leave with him on his
southward trip and reach Burracoppin
in time to be properly drunk on Christ-
mas Day.
“Too right,” agreed Townley in a
manner which was not exclamatory.
The Coffin Maker looked gloomily into
the fire, sadly cut tobacco chips from
his plug without once looking at it, and
after a period of inward calculation gave
his verdict.
“Well, I leaves ’ere on the sixteenth.
I gets to the 144-mile the next day ; the
126-mile the day after that; the 96-
mile on the nineteenth ; the 69-mile on
the twentieth ; the next day, the 46-mile ;
the day after that, the 27-mile ; the 9-
mile on the twenty-third, and we goes
in on Christmas Eve.”
“That ain’t no good! We’ll want a
day to get heated up properly,” objected
Niagara Spence, as though The Coffin
Maker had offered insult somewhere
among his careful calculations.
“Too right,” agreed Townley.
With unrelieved gloom, The Coffin
Maker indulged in further thought.
Then, still without hope, he said:
“If you blokes could be ready on the
track with the billy boiled when I come
along on the sixteenth, I’d get away from
the Camel Station early, and we could
make the 144-mile that night instead of
me campin’ ’ere. Then we could hit
Burracoppin the day before Christmas
Eve.”
That night the conversation was kept
to the one subject—alcoholic refresh-
ment as represented by pubs and shanties,
cheques and chequemen, the best bed-
room for the spender and the wood-
heap for the stiff. This subject, with
its sub-points, enabled Bill Townley to
open out and describe how he spent his
£7OOO in eighteen months on whisky and
“a widder woman.”
And throughout the evening The Coffin
Maker sat on his tucker-box, smoking
and gazing at the heart of the fire, as
though the world were lost and damn
well lost.
He was well on time when we saw
his camels and cart coming down the
breakaway at the 154-mile post on the
sixteenth, and when he reached us, wait-
ing beside the road with the tea made
and lunch ready and the swags rolled, it
was not much after twelve o’clock.
“I put in two flash, ’uns,” he explained
when the leader was dancing on electri-
fied feet, and the shafter was formed
into the letter S so that he might look
back at the cart and at us.
I assisted The Coffin Maker to rope
the leader by the neck to a stout mulga,
and to short-hobble them both, and
whilst we ate the shafter pulled the
wheel-locked cart forward and threat-
ened to spear the leader with the point
of one of the shafts. The leader twisted
herself round the tree like a grape-vine.
Without the slightest doubt they were,
indeed, flash ’uns.
Even the casual Coffin Maker thought
it wise not to lounge at the dinner camp
for a smoke, but to get away along the
track before either camel lost its reason
altogether. Having packed the tucker-
box and the swags into the cart, and
having instructed Townley and Niagara
to climb up and take their seats, we un-
hobbled the mokes, disentangled the
leader from the tree, straightened up the
team and let them go.
The Coffin Maker had locked the
wheels, but this was as nothing, for with
mighty plunges the camels got into a
gallop in three yards. I grabbed at the
tailboard as the vehicle passed me, and
The Coffin Maker then climbed up the
one back step into the cart and took the
long reins attached to the leader’s halter
from the calloused hands of old Town-
ley. The speed being greater than a
man could run, I, too, climbed up on the
back step, resting there with my right
foot on it and with my left ready to move
the brake-handle. Before me, through
the tall cart-hood, rose and fell the swell
of galloping camels’ humps.
“This’ll do us,” remarked Niagara
Spence, quite pleased that we were doing
about 15 miles an hour despite the locked
wheels.
“Too right!” agreed Townley with re-
markable fervor.
“Pull ’em up! ” I urged. “If you don’t,
they’ll blow out.”
“Pull ’em up, be cursed! Sool ’em
up, you mean. We’ll get to Burracoppin
to-morrer at this rate,” remarked
Niagara.
“It’ll take the sting out of ’em, any-
’ow,” predicted The Coffin Maker, as
though he referred to the weather re-
ports. “Ease orf that brake, ’Ampshire.”
When I made a further plea for sanity,
I was roundly cursed, so I eased off the
brake and the wheels began to revolve.
The speed then rose to about 25 miles
an hour, and the endless fence posts
flashed by.
Three miles were covered thus, the
shafter skilfully keeping the cart-wheels
from striking the fence on the one side
and the mulga trunks on the other. I
blessed Irish, the man who so originally
had broken him in.
Bill Townley was loading his pipe and
settling down for an afternoon’s gallop,
and I could see Niagara licking his upper
lip as though there clung to it the foam
of beer, when the shafter abruptly fal-
tered. As though it spoke to the leader,
the leader pulled up to a walk.
Then they stopped, fell on their knees
and relaxed.
As I had predicted, the camels had
“blown out.” And no method conceived
by man could make camels in that con-
dition get up before they chose to do so.
Those two camels did not get up for
two nights and two days. For the latter
part of one day and throughout the
whole of the second day we sat with our
backs against the fence looking at them.
We arrived at Burracoppin just in time
to celebrate New Year’s Day.


NOW ON SALE
■ I
X*yL,
wm
m
a
“Growing up,” the author says, when intro-
ducing his leading character, “in a period when
Australians had begun to feel in themselves
the germ of a new people and to fumble for
words to express themselves, I often wondered
what roots that new psyche was coming from.
Then it struck me that the answer was some-
where in the life of this old man and his
generation. If I could piece together the picture
of that epoch as I had inherited it from him—,
the" savage deeds, the crude life, the hatred
between men and men and men and country,
the homesickness, the loneliness, the despair
of inescapable exile in the bush; the strange
forms of madness and cruelty; the brooding,
inturned characters; and, joined with this, an
almost fanatic idealism which repudiated the
past and the tyranny of the past and looked
to the future in a new country for a new
heaven and earth, a new justice; on the one
hand the social outcasts, men broken by de-
gradation and suffering, on the other the adven-
turers; blackest pessimism balancing the most
radiant optimism —if I could only see all this,
then I would understand.”
IVu
<Ha.
BRIAN PENTON’S
LAHDTAKERS
This Year’s Most Powerful and Compelling
AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
Brian Penton, one of Australia’s best-
known feature-writers and a journalist of
international repute, has written something
entirely new in Australian literature—
something different. In “Landtakers,” the
author sets himself the big theme of
tracing up from its roots that hitherto
elusive thing, the Australian national
character.
“Landtakers” grips the imagination from
the very first page. Its literary quality is
maintained throughout—beautiful prose
is characteristic of the book, no matter
what scene or mood is being portrayed.
In fierce or violent action and in gentle
passages the language is always appro-
priate and never ceases to reflect true
literary craftsmanship.
This brilliant novel deals with the tyranny
of the past and the hope of the future.
It takes a man whose character is sensi-
tive to environment, an Englishman who
hates this new country, and who fights
irritably against its gradual possessing
hold. Here is Australian tradition in the
making, a graphic description of what the
country had the power to do to those
from whom we have sprung. “Land-
takers” is the outstanding novel of the
year—it will be talked about, written
about and _ argued about. Lodge your
order now with your nearest bookseller,
and thus be sure of owning a first
edition copy.
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian Penton. A novel of 500 pages, on sale
now at all booksellers. Price 7/6 (postage 6d. extra), or direct
from the Publishers,
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Call.
BY WILL LAWSON.
THE recruiting schooner Waterhen lay
in a bay of one of the smaller islands
of the Solomons.
The blue softness of the short twilight
was merging into the deeper blue of the
tropical night. A native tom-tom throbbed
in the village across the glassy bosom
of the bay. Overhead a belated horn-
bill whirred in heavy flight on its way
to its roosting-place in the jungle, which
loomed as a black mass rising from sea-
level to the dim hillcrests.
There were other recruiting schooners
as well as trading vessels at anchor
there. Their lights, though not far
distant, twinkled like dull stars through
the misty, tropic rain. One of these ships
was an American four-masted schooner.
Her tall spars seemed doubly tall in the
gathering dusk.
From her decks came the rasping notes
of a mouth-organ, played by a sailor
homesick for the lights of San Francisco.
The sound was harsh in contrast with
the soft, sweet, native music made by
the blowing of reeds, which came from
a native boat.
Williamson, the owner of the Water-
hen, sat on deck smoking and dreaming.
His life in the islands had given him
much to dream of, for he was no longer
young. Few knew the South Seas better
than he. He had spent a lifetime trading,
recruiting, loving, hating, fighting and
drinking among these places of unearthly
beauty and unbridled passions. As he
dreamed there, the night came down,
blue and warm and soft with gentle rain.
He was startled by the sound of a
voice—a white man’s voice. It came, it
seemed, from the water alongside, below
the schooner’s rail, a little distance for-
ward of where he sat.
Williamson had heard no boat or
canoe, no thud of rowlock or splash of
paddle. He wondered if the voice was
one out of his dreams or conjured up by
his imagination. It came again, this time
from the deck, near the break of the
poop.
“Say, boy, is the Old Man on board?”
A Kanaka, Williamson’s special boy
Tomas, awoke from his sleep on deck,
rose and stared over the rail. He could
see no boat, but a strange man had come
out of the sea. The native was too scared
to speak.
Williamson poked his head through
the low awnings which sheltered the deck
where he had been sitting. He saw the
dim shape of a youth who stood in
dripping trousers and singlet.
“Who are you?” he asked sharply.
The stranger was unperturbed. “Say,
mister, are you the skipper?” he said.
“I am. Skipper and engineer and
mate and cook. But who are you, and
where do you spring from?”
“I’m sorry, skipper. Sorry to come on
board like this and disturb you. I’m off
the Mary May, the American schooner
over there. I’ve had a row with her
master and I’ve cleared out.”
“Did you swim here?”
“Why, yes. It was the only way to get
here. He refused to pay me off, so I
took a chance with the sharks. I’m not
sailing with him again.”
“You’re a lucky lad to be here at all.”
“I wanted to sail with you. I want
to stay in the islands. And I heard your
was down with blackwater fever,
and I figured you would be wanting a
man.”
Williamson rose and turned up the
light in the lamp that swung over the
deck. He had a way of looking at you
which made you think he was probing
right into your soul.
Yes, this stranger was only a boy,
Williamson told himself. Eighteen, he
might be—certainly not more than
twenty. He had a pleasant face —a little
weak, but he was hardly old enough
for life to have really tried or shaped
him.
Williamson lifted the lid of the old
trade chest on the deck and handed out
a pair of pants and a shirt.
“Climb into these,” he said, “or you’ll
be getting the shivers and a dose of
fever.”
The stranger thanked him and obeyed.
Williamson pointed to a deckchair.
“Sit down and tell me all about it,” he
said. “But, before you begin, I’ll bet
you’ve been reading about Bully Hayes.
You’ve a romantic turn of mind, and
ypu expect to meet with a thousand
things which will never happen to you.
You want to come with me as mate.
Well, I’ll take you. It’s hardly fair to
the master of the Mary May, but I was
young myself once and understand.
When do they sail?”
“At daybreak, or just before.”
“They’ll be searching the island for
you.” The old man chuckled to himself.
To get a new mate like this, straight from
the blue, as it were, was too good to be
true. But he had some compunction,
too. “Now,” he addressed the lad in
softer tones, “what about you going back
on board and home to California?”
The boy shook his head.
“It’s a hard life on a smelly recruiting
schooner. You’ll sleep under an awning
only a few feet above your head, too
low to stand up. By day you’ll have to
lie under it waiting for the recruits to
arrive, with the sun beating down on it
till the place is like hell. Or you’ll be
washed out of your bunk by a tropic
downpour.”
“No matter,” the boy said firmly, “I’m
coming with you.”
“And there’s always the chance of a
barbed arrow in your ribs, or a toma-
hawk in your head, or a Snider bullet
tearing a hole in you. None of these
things is pleasant; neither are malaria and
dysentery. Worse still is the monotony.
That’s what breaks and kills a man. And
the fcay will be just half of what you are
getting now in your nice ’Frisco ship,
and the food not half as good.”
“Mister, I want to see these islands
and know these people. Malaita
seems to call me as if it were my own
land.”
“Strange! ”
“Yes; the longing to live here has
become desperate. And the natives
seem more friendly to me than to
the other men of our ship—even to
the captain, who knows these islands
well. They never come on board with-
out bringing me a present. They talk
to me and hang about me when I’m
ashore ; and it’s not as if I give them
presents. They j-ust seem real friendly,
that’s all.”
“You’ll soon get cured of your senti-
mental longings!”
Williamson stepped into his boat and
called the crew to take him ashore.; “I’m
coming back in an hour. Just going up
to settle at the hotel, and we’ll get away
as soon as I’m back.” He waved to the
lad as he spoke his final word.
The American lad sat on the deck and
watched the boat disappear into the dark-
ness. Could he trust the trader? He
shrugged his shoulders.
Williamson walked up the golden
smoothness of the beach into the hotel.
Three men stood at the bar, strangers
all. But one, a tall man, stepped towards
him and said:
“Say, stranger, you didn’t happen to
meet one of my crew, a youngster of
nineteen? I’m anxious about him. Knew
his father in the ’eighties, and 1 want to
look after him. But, excuse me, what’ll
you drink?”
“You’ll be the master of the Mary
May?” Williamson said.
“Yes, sir. And I knew this boy’s father
when we sailed the South Pacific in the
Maid of Tanna. There were some of
the durndest scoundrels around these
islands then. I wouldn’t like the boy to
get wrapped up with any crowd like that,
with all due respect to you. I have
reasons why this runaway should not get
away among the natives. Good reasons ;
and the Mary May don’t leave till I’ve
found him. And when I do, for the
sake of my friendship with his father,
I’ll tan his hide.”
Williamson was a man of quick deci-
sions and keen observation. For a
moment his promise to the'boy rose in
his mind. He hated to go back on his
word, but he saw that the best thing
for the lad was to return to America.
The schooner’s captain seemed a good
sort in his way.
“Captain,” he said, “is this boy of
yours about five feet six, square-shoul-
dered and narrow-waisted? A straight
lad with brown eyes and soft speech, fair
hair and complexion?”
“I guess that’s so,” the other broke
in. “Where is he?”
“How’" did he come to be on your
ship? Have you noticed the peculiar
shape of his nostrils? His mother was
a Polynesian. He is on my schooner
now, wondering what’s got him, and if
he stays there he will be in the bush in
a month with only a loincloth on.”
“Mister,” the American declared,
“you’re a wonder. No other man in ten
thousand would have spotted it. Yes, the
(Continueon next page.)


r li
l
m
H
i
■
n
■
:
H I
■
mm.
* hB I H|
■
wmmm
;
BLUE NORTH
ff
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
This strongly-written first-novel holds
the color and romantic appeal of
fortune-seeking on the West Aus-
tralian pearling grounds in the days
when that glamorous life made it's
irresistible appeal to the adventurous
of all kinds and classes. “Hand-
some” John Fordyce, throwing off
the petty ties binding him to his
society-obsessed lady and the social
life of the South, adventures into the
“blue North” in search of complete
freedom among men. He finds it
there, but only through the agency
of Woman—a wanton his handsome
figure attracts at one of the pearling
outposts, and who, when he breaks
from their one-night liaison, takes a
fiercely-jealous revenge on a pretty
little waif of the outpost, with unex-
pected results for herself, for the
waif, and for the man she sought to
hurt. A feature of the novel is the
realistic presentation of the pearling
life, spiced with adventure, rich
finds and sometimes violent action.
A very colorful picture of pearling
up and down the blue waters of the
Nor’-West.
At all good bookshops, or direct from the publishers,
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS, 252 George St., Sydney.
PRICE 6/- (postage 3d.)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the . only paper
bought voluntarily by people of -Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.'
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks,-Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
JUk
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery”
2 52 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
boy has a touch of the tarbrush. He
doesn’t know himself. We took him to
the States when he was four; a little,
potbellied youngster.”
The piano in the sitting-room struck
up a jangling tune, and the other two
men went out of the bar. Then William-
son strode up to the captain and said:
“Buckland!”
The captain drew back, an expression
of fear on his face. The trader smiled
his grim smile.
“It’s twenty years, Buckland, since you
stole that boy’s mother from my recruit-
ing schooner. Her husband tried to
knife me because he thought I had sold
her. Yes, there were some of the durnd-
est scoundrels God ever put breath into
sailing these seas in those days, and you
were one of them. You didn’t remember
me —Williamson the blackbirder?”
“Williamson? Yes, I recall you now.
His mother? If she hadn’t died I would
have married her.”
There was a sneer on Williamson’s lips,
but he said: “If you’ll promise to cut
out the tanning I’ll hand the boy over,
though I’m breaking my word in doing
it.”
Relief showed in the American’s eyes.
He put out his hand.
But before Williamson could answer
the greeting, Tomas dashed into the bar.
“Come quick! Bad man from river
he come too much.”
Williamson jumped to the doorway
and dashed down to his boat. Buckland
was close at his heels. Together the two
men sprang into the boat and told* the
boys to push off. On the way to the
schooner Williamson spoke.
“If they’ve touched one of my boys
I’ll blow their village to glory.”
But Buckland said nothing. A fear
gripped him. His lips were dry.
The boat swept alongside. The men
jumped on board the schooner.
On the deck lay the white-clad figure
of Buckland’s son, as though his head
hung over the side. But his head was
gone.
“Bad man, he come,” Tomas quav-
ered again, his eyes rolling. . “He take
head, just one, then go away quick.” r•’
Payment in Kind.
BY H:M.
HEARTENED by recent develop-
ments regarding international
debts, I approached my grocer.
He stared at me and the bundle I threw
on the counter.
“What’s this?” he demanded.
“Manuscript,” I returned. “Payment
of your account.”
GubSins shook his head violently.
“That’s no good to me,” he said hotly.
“I want my money.”
“Your attitude is absurd,” I said. “My
debt to you was created by goods ; I
claim the right to repay in goods, and
my goods, are manuscripts. As Britain
puts it to America”
i I did not finish ; there was no chance
in face of the torrent of wrath that
poured from Gubbins. The last I heard
of him was some remarks about a
summons.
The butcher was even more unreason-
able when I offered two poems and some
humorous paragraphs in settlement of
his account. When he brandished
the meat-chopper I hurriedly left the
shop, leaving the manuscripts on the
counter. I’m still waiting for his
receipt.
When the wife handed the landlord
some topical verse and an article on
the Douglas Credit System he was so
upset that we had to send for the
ambulance. The greengrocer was not so
bad ; I adroitly caught the tomatoes he
hurled at me. They were quite good
tomatoes. ‘ "
I made representations to my other
creditors over the telephone. Doughboy
the baker has been threatened with the
disconnection of his telephone if he ever
uses such language over it again.
Payment in goods may be all right as
between nations, but between private in-
dividuals it doesn’t seem to work. Per-
haps the public needs to be educated up
to it.
A Date.
This day, if calendars tell true
And keep the promises they make,
Once more my dear-heart shall pursue
Roads of the sea for my sole sake.
White-crested rollers, post before —
Dashing outriders —and be proud....
And ever let point towards my shore
One low horizon-pressing cloud.
A day; a night; night leads day on;
They gossip and saunter, linger past;
Yet shall each loiterer get gone
And time grow trivial at last.
Steady, resistless, the huge blade
Parts left and right the sea’s dark line,
And still swings forward ungainsaid,
Bringing her arms to gladden mine.
O deeps below, know whom you bear:
Calm all your host with that sure word;
Then shall sky-fretting waves turn fair
And sheer in heaven sail one smooth bird.
FIJI.
ROBERY D. FITZGERALD.
The Miracle.
Sullen was the sea and grey
As alone, and out of touch
With the world and all it held,
On a beach I mused to-day,
Thinking nothing .mattered much.
Somehow from the face of things
Youth and loveliness seemed gone,
Lightless was the land, and lo!
On a seabird’s slanted wings
Ne’er a gleam of silver shone.
As I watched a waste weed-tress
In the surf-swirl toss and spin—
Hither borne and thither borne —
Chanting of Time’s weariness,
Sullen wave and wave rolled in.
Far-off smoke in wreaths and bands
Drifted o’er a ship that hied
North' to port, while at my feet
Lay a curve of sodden sands,
Late forsaken by the tide.
Then it happened suddenly—
Oft such miracles befall—
That the mood of Nature changed;
Fell a light upon .the sea,
Poured a glory over all.
By -that-radiance thrilled and spelled—
Once again" with life iff touch,
Joy in tune—it seemed to me
That the world and all it held
Mattered much....and more than much.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Black Camel.
At the gate of a ruined city in the Arabian
desert, there is a kneeling camel, carved from black
rock.”
There is a city buried in the sand
Where kneels for ever at the broken gate
A camel, shaped of black and glistering stone;
•And the small desert hawks dip here and wheel
About the thirsty mouths of empty wells,
And wall-less are the ancient khans; the palms
No more than sun-dried husks; and yet, before
The memory of forgotten city streets,
This camel waits, with ever-lifted head.
A bag of pearls; a bale of merchandise;
Jars of thick honey, and peeled willow wands;
The silks of Shemakin... .but nothing stirs
Except a scuttling lizard in the rocks.
No merchant comes with lade for the bazaars,
And when the muffling sandstorm blinds the
world,
Or the great lovely stars look sadly down,
Here where the Arab kings came with their
spoil
Of sheep, and milk-white horses hung with
gold.
The great black camel kneels before a gate
From which Hope has for ever ridden away.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Heart of the World.
I feel now like some mariner who lies
X9,°., * f° r sleep upon his narrow bed,
While overhead
The stars are crackling in the glimmering skies,
And, underneath, the sea is ebony fired with
green.
While so he lies, so utterly serene,
He hears the engines beat,
Thud and repeat
In perfect rhythm, in lovely shuddering time;
Their steady rhyme
Seems far below him, far away
In some vast chasm a great machine
Throbbing and throbbing, far away.-
And so upon your warm white breast I lie
In utter peace, in rich abandonment.
O heart content!
There is no terror in the sputtering sky,
Nor in the oily bay that’s stabbed with green.
Now, while I lie, your heart beats quick and
keen;
I hear it darkly pound,
Thud and -resound
In perfect rhythm, in lovely shuddering time;
Its steady rhyme
Seems far below me,-far away
£i z zy space... .a great machine
Throbbing and throbbing, far away.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


DOT NATURE
For Constipation Leads
To Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
Constipation also makes you look and feel
dull, bad-tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a proved
remedy for regulating the Bowels and re-
storing the system to proper working order,
in a thorough, yet gentle manner.
A course will convince.
h
4ft
*
ĥ
PILLS
Mirpil
The Ideal
Skin Balm
Mirpil is a scientifically prepared
soothing and cooling lotion to correct
chafed skin, sunburn, windburn, sore and
tired feet. Will keep the skin soft and
I smooth. Dries in a few minutes without
: leaving any greasy after-effect.
Hands Constantly Wet. —The soreness
and redness caused through having the
hands frequently wet can be avoided by
regular applications of Mirpil.
Rough Hands. —Other types of work in
the home, garden, factory, or elsewhere
roughen the hands. A few applications
of Mirpil in quick succession will restore
the natural smoothness.
To Mothers. —Constant washing of
baby and the little one’s clothes chaps
the hands. Remember, broken skin pro-
vides easy access for germs, whereas it is
important hands should be kept healthy.
Regular applications of Mirpil are recom-
mended.
Chafed Skins and Chilblains are soothed
1 by Mirpil.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply Mirpil to
soles of sore and tired feet.
Windburn and Sunburn. —One or more
liberal applications of Mirpil will bring
relief in cases of Windburn and Sunburn.
The ravages of the sun will also be modi-
fied if Mirpil is applied generously before
exposing oneself to its rays.
ħ
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night will
keep mosquitoes away. It soothes mos-
quito and sandfly bites.
After Shaving. —A small quantity of
Mirpil rubbed on the face after shaving
will be found soothing.
Powder Base. —Always rub Mirpil into
the skin until dry. The cleansing and
cooling actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder pro-
vides.
HAND HAVOC
Caused by Hot and Cold Water.
MRS. E. C. McFARLANE, 35 Don Street,
Invercargill, N.Z., writes: —
“These are just a few lines to express my
satisfaction with the use >•' your Mirpil Skin
Balm. In my daily duties / have to have my
hands in hot and hard cold water every day,
and I often suffer from Sunburn and Dry Skin.
I have used several bottles of Mirpil and find
it soothing and healing, and I am sure it has
improved my skin and whitened it. During
the summer season at the seaside, or after
picnics, there is nothing better to use as an
emollient.”
On sale at Chemists, leading Stores
and Hairdressers. If unobtainable locally,
will be forwarded, post paid, upon receipt
of price, 2/6 per bottle, by the W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. ;-or 8 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, N.Z.
A New Novel by the Author of “Pageant”
“THE WORLD IS YOURS”
By G. B. LANCASTER
G. B. Lancaster chose the modern Yukon as the setting for this graphic
story. In a succession of brilliantly descriptive pages, this romantic outpost
of Empire is presented with all its haunting glamor. The riddle of human
relationships is personified in Tamsin MacDonald and Kirk Regard. The
tragic love story of these two young people is unfolded in a well-
sustained atmosphere of suspense, leading to a strongly presented climax.
“The World Is Yours,” by G. B. Lancaster, now on sale at all bookstalls and
newsagents. Published by The Endeavour Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book Price 6/6 (Postage 4d.)
ei'
*
\P
cjCt
-op- v\P f/V 1 e
$& G c
&\5 e^'a' 0 ® <v ' ?,o °^ i '#'
V
o?
wl
V*
I>*
o ®
e
„ & 6 V
...
• <,<
■4s
*%*%>*%


h
CITY MUTUAL
• *({««> MW*
—. PERTH :
MB*
52-Se
S 3
tv
SSggc
■> v -
f
3r5
•v”
Ksa.
■ / > i '
QITX?
: wm
<VSfc,
CITY MffnWLUFE
SUACEUfMsr
BRISBANE
v\
crrvnuTMiim
CRtMFBU-ST J
Aor.iAioe ■ 1
CITYMIfTIUIL
MIWTW.G-
NWTU&
CITYMUTmLurk
4M couinj jr
w. neujqapME >
CITY MUTUAL UH
. WTTUUCN ST -
MUNUiYDN :-T
SlplliilSSSli
“s““«tete^'>*«w^yv {«»>^*EgnS£32
nc?r Jk
Hti&\£SZSSSiSr iS
•<?s
,r^r>
&V"
1 1
sS»v*t iv* *
f.V *
/■
~“- ...
A
USTRALIANS are generally long lived.
The City Mutual Life Society devotes its
attention solely to protecting Australians.
It has no Office outside the Commonwealth
of Australia.
It pays its policy-holders better and bigger
bonuses than can be secured from any other Life
Assurance Society or Company in the World.
Bonuses (which are payable annually) were
declared on the following scale on all policies in force
at the 31st December, 1933: —
Under 5 years in force
5 to 9 years in force
10 to 14 years in force
15 to 19 years in force
20 to 24 years in force
25 to 29 years in force
30 to 34 years in force
35 to 39 years in force
40 years and over ....
Endowment Whole Life
Assurance Policies. Policies.
£2O 0 0 £2B 15 0
21 5 0 30 0 0
22 10 0 31 5 0
23 15 0 32 10 0
25 0 0 33 15 0
27 10 0 35 0 0
30 0 0 36 5 0
32 10 0 38 15 0
35 0 0 42 10 0
Intending Assurers are advised that the Big Bonuses of the
City Mutual Life have not come as a "Flash in the Pan, but have
been paid by this Society for many years.
W. BENNETT, Managing Director.
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1879
