

J-).
ft
a I
••H • •
rov
w
■
S
STQTEfXPRpSS
F 6838 C-1-4
m
CORK
Tl PPED
AND
PLAIN
9 for 6° 18 for I* 27forl'e
fg
The Bulletin
Jtu
VoL 55.—N0. 2813.
Wednesday, January 10, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OUR0 UR New Library Catalogue is now
1 ready, and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
"storu Writing
J W* VI at HOPIE
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name ..
My Addrest .... ;
&B. 333
must receive a daily
systematic treatment
iiv. order to preserve
its soft texture.
(uticura
have been depended orv,
in, countless cases to
preserve a clear
lovely complexion/.
So/c/ by your Gtemist.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854,
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When , you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment, and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs, and development of Victoria. Its
present, powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
' homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
"The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Come West!
The Best Country
in the World to-day
A Prosperous IMaiket
for Enterprising
Manufacturers..
The Golden West and a
Golden Investment
THE PERTH
UNEQUALLED RESULTS
FOR ADVERTISERS
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins Street
ƒg
*s&n£ SidxieJ, Sttupe
S'S&teesn ?urte4 r /*?'***
vfrusrt? J 3 *
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
*
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Jekyll and Hyde
Jardine was no doubt sincere when
he quoted sentimentally at a dinner given
in honor of his team during the last Aus-
tralian tour: —•
Soberly watching the beautiful game,
Orderly, decent, calm and serene.
Many English cricketers —and particu-
larly English amateurs —have two per-
sonalities which they put on and off as
the occasion demands. One is in tune
with the environment in which they
learnt cricket, and is assumed in what
are known as Friendlies.
An eleven from the Hall, say, is play-
ing the Umshires, who are stationed
near by. The squire’s son, who has just
got his blue at Oxford, is captain of the
Hall side. A still June day. An emerald
field, fringed with elms like giant cab-
bages; lazy sounds and the perfume of
mown grass ; a brimming river drifting
past lush banks to the little old stone
bridge near the village. A few locals
as onlookers. The stage is set for peace
and goodwill.
Here comes the Colonel with the limp
he got in the war. “Bowl him easy ones
on the off till he gets his eye in,” warns
the captain. The Colonel executes a
masterly cut, and, to everybody’s relief,
is doing fairly well when the captain’s
young brother forgets that he isn’t bowl-
ing for his school at Lord’s, and lashes
in a straight one.
Cricket is indeed “calm and serene”
under such conditions.
Change the scene to Old Trafford on
a Bank Holiday. A chill nor’-easter
blowing across a grim arena entirely
surrounded by partisans. Yorkshire in,
and the squire’s son already mentioned
captaining Lancashire. “Over!” The
captain scowls at his bowler as they
change positions: “Dammit, Bumper,
keep on the body, man. This isn’t a
child’s game.” Bumper resumes. One
leg-trapper to another: “What the devil’s
up with Bumper? He hasn’t hit anyone
for overs.” Barracker: “Boomper, tha
gra-at big loomp o’ meat, tha’s
nowther use nor orniment. T’ aambu-
laance ’as fair goan t’ sleep waitin’ for
tha.”
A more beautiful game than the other,
technically speaking, but not nearly so
orderly and decent.
“Gentlemanly” Cricket
A. E. R. Gilligan, author of Sussex
Cricket (Chapman and Hall; 65.), is the
complete country-house cricketer. It was
his only weakness as an international.
Duleepsinhji, who succeeded him as cap-
tain of Sussex, writes in a foreword: f ‘T
can say without hesitation that, although
I have played and watched cricket in
many parts of the world, I have never
enjoyed it more than as it is played
happily and fairly upon Sussex soil.”
Anyone who has followed English cricket
during the past 20 years will realise that
this is no empty compliment. Nearly
all the county’s star performers have
been without reproach as well as without
fear. Maurice Tate, who, up to the end
of 1932, had the marvellous average of
15.15 for 1761 wickets, bears the repu-
tation of never having played a sharp,
much less a dirty, trick. Sussex ama-
teurs have been true amateurs. Ranji
(an even greater artist than Trumpet),
Duleep, the two Gilligans—such men
played cricket everywhere purely as a
game. They helped to make Sussex
cricket a synonym for friendliness, and
the relations between Sussex amateurs
and professionals have always been re-
markably happy in consequence. Charac-
teristically the author quotes a refer-
ence to the professionals made by the
club president, Sir William Campion, in
a recent speech at Brighton: “We value
very highly the way in which they play
the game like gentlemen.”
Cricket has been played regularly in
Sussex for over two centuries, and a
county XI won two matches out of three
against England in 1827. Three Lilly-
whites—grandfather, father and son—
once represented Sussex in the same
match. The
county holds
other interesting
records, including
that of having had
W. L. Murdoch,
of Australia, in
its XI. Though it has had individual per-
formers of great brilliance, and also some
splendid all-round sides, it has never won
a county championship. From which
cynics may deduce that teams in which
all, amateurs and professionals alike,
“play the game like gentlemen” labor
under something of a handicap.
The Rigor of the Game
L. N. Constantine, author of Cricket
and I (Philip Allan ; 7s. 6d.), is a realist.
He loves cricket, and is proud of the fact
that he lives on it, but he scorns cricket
cant. English professionals have barely
emerged from the status of domestic ser-
vants ; there seems to be more indepen-
dence in the West Indies. In this book
Constantine states facts about the
methods of fast bowlers in important
matches which few English professionals
and no English amateurs would own up
to. Intimidation not only went on in
Australia last year, it has always gone
on. He was first told to “shorten the
ball” by his captain, Major Harrigan,
in 1924.
I did so. The batsmen became unsettled....
Since then I have had some experience in
bowling fast, and in playing fast bowling, and
I have come to the conclusion that the basis
of a fast bowler’s attack is his ability to make
the ball bounce —and keep the batsman think-
ing of it.
At Nottingham in 1928 Scott (West
Indies) faced Larwood. His partner
Francis had just had one that “pitched
short and nearly took his nose away.”
The first ball which Scott had from Lar-
wood was a terrific flier. Scott flinched. The
next ball was a rooting yorker. Scott, intimi-
dated, was bowled. I use the word “intimi-
dated” purposely, for that is what it amounts to.
Constantine doesn’t blame Larwood for
bowling at the man ; in fact, he goes on
to explain how the West Indies avoided
defeat in a Test in 1930 by doing so.
He had six men on the leg side, and was
bowling wide of the batsman to leg. This
didn’t suit Sandham, who wanted runs.
He stood so far from the leg-stump that I
could see a foot’s difference between his bat
and his leg wicket. That was, of course, in-
viting me to bowl straight. Instead I bowled
the ball where I had been bowling it before.
He got hit and fell Owing to these tactics
we saved the match.
A newspaper controversy followed as in
Australia last year, and the M.C.C. cap-
tain made a speech at a dinner in which
he complained that “Constantine’s bowl-
ing was not cricket.” A few weeks before
Voce had knocked out a West Indian
(one Inniss) on similar lines, but this was
ignored as irrelevant. The M.C.C. theory
is that cricket, as played by-representa-
tives of the club, is a “beautiful game,
orderly, decent” and the rest, and no
one will ever persuade an M.C.C. official
to make public confession to the con-
trary. If our Board of Control had
appreciated this well-known truth a year
ago it would have saved a lot of cable
money and avoided making itself ridi-
culous.
Constantine is either a first-class writer
or he has got a first-class man to ghost
for him. Some of his word-pictures are
exquisite. Of Duleep, for example:
“And he cut the fast bowlers through the
slips as daintily as a young lady.” Squire
himself doesn’t often do as well as that.
RED PAGE.
Gay Philosophies
In the dreary sea of Centralian
romance and badly-painted urban sex
which seems to have formed much of the
corpus of Australian literature in 1933,
books like Gay Philosophies, by Spartacus
Smith (Angus and Robertson ; 65.), stand
out as bright lights in a mangrove swamp.
Spartacus contributed many of his philo-
sophies to the Sydney “Mail,” and they
are as fresh on a second reading as they
were at the first.
Spartacus is a cosmopolitan. You soon
realise that he has seen the world, and
that he weighs himself and his country
and humanity in a fair balance and with-
out malice and gives them all the bene-
fit of the doubt. He writes about any-
thing and everything with equal charm—
his car, girls and vanity boxes; fishing ;
{Red. Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —“The Wisdom of Anthony Horderns’.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Super Savings for Men at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
m
/
REDUCED TO CLEAR!
14/6 Men’s Fur Felt Hats at
Now is the time to order a new Felt Hat you don’t
see them at this price very often. Only 360, in Light
Grey, Steel, Slate and Fawn. Made with the popular
plain edge brim and finished serviceable linings and trim-
mings. Price, each 14/6
Anthony Horderns* Sale Price 11/6
He
17/6 Silk-lined Felt Hats at
They are well made and sure to give serviceable wear.
Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats, in the smart snap-brim shape
and finished silk linings and best-quality trimmings. 250,
in Pearl Grey, Steel, Slate and Fawn. Price 17/6
Anthony Horderns' Sale Price 14/6
146
25/- Super Quality Felt Hats
A Hat that bears the stamp of excellence! Fur Felt and
finished silk linings. Smart snap-brim style available in
the most wanted tonings. Genuinely reduced for thrifty
shoppers. Price, each 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each 18/6
18e
300 Men’s 17/6 Coat Sweaters
m*
12'6
When these Coat Sweaters were
marked at 17/6 they were fast
sellers. However, as the stock is
limited to 300, we are offering them
at a greatly reduced price. Pull-
overs are also included. All-Wool
in a medium weight. Fawn, Blue
and Marl tonings. Sizes, 34in. to
40in. chest. Price 17/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 12/6
Begins to-morrow
January 11th.
Anthony Horderns’
Genuine Half-yearly
Sale begins to-morrow.
It presents an oppor-
tunity for the thousands
of keen shoppers who
eagerly await the news
of “The People’s Sale”
to do all their shopping
and benefit consider-
ably by the great and
genuine reductions
offering in every
department. Anthony Horderns’ Genuine Sale is
known and trusted throughout Australia, because
not only is the quality of that same standard which
has made “The Senior Store” famous throughout
the land, but there is the added advantage, too, that
all these money-saving opportunities are to be found
under the one roof. Remember, absolutely genuine
reductions from genuine prices prevail during
this sale.
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
Something for Everybody
at Genuine Sale Prices...
0
■&
6/11 Soft All-Wool Underwear at
Men’s Natural All Wool Underwear. A reliable make,
with a soft, fine finish. Summer weight. Shirts have short
sleeves; underpants or trunk drawers. Sizes, 34in. to 44in.
chest or waist. Price, per garment 6/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 4/9
419
“JUMBUK” Wool & Cotton Underwear
"Jumbuk” Wool and Cotton Underwear. Heavy winter weight. Natural shade.
Shirts have short sleeves; Underpants to ankle. An excellent opportunity to
8/6 Wool and
Cotton U’wear
Men’s Natural Wool
and Cotton Under-
wear. A medium
weight. Shirts or
Pants. Strong and
5e
durable for present
wear. Sizes range from 34in. to
44in. chest or waist. Price, per
garment 8/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 5/6
3/6 Athletic
Undershirts at
Cream All Wool
Athletic Under-
shirts for men!
Soft finish and art.
silk bound round
neck and armholes.
26
Sizes range from 34in. to 44in.
chest. Price, each 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price, each 2/6
3/6 Open Mesh
Underwear at
Here is an
opportunity for
men to save con-
sid era b 1 y on
summer wear!
2ii
White Cotton
Open-mesh Underwear. Soft
cellular elastic knit. Shirts have
short sleeves; also trunk drawers.
Sizes, 34in. to 44in. chest or
waist. Price, per garment, 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special
Price, each 2/11
m
mm
Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


&A LINE
(HINA JAPAN
JAPAN —attractive at all times—is delightful in early
Spring, with the coming of the blossoms. The bracing
air and exhilarating clear freshness ensure an invigorating;
health-giving holiday.
The E. & A. Line route, which includes calls at Rabaul, Manila,
Hongkong, Shanghai and five ports in Japan, is varied and interesting.
The Round Trip gives the best value of any tourist trip to-day. The
Australian £ is worth 25/- in Japan.
m
m
m
:
m
w
WjpjMJx NAGOYA
SSjgSjg) OSAKA
MOjl
SHANGHAI
m
m
sim.
■mm*
ONG KONG
I? MANILA
m
'■■.'mm
RABAUL
■ •>.*v \ ••. /
TOWNSVILLE
aw!
• ?*•'
•••
'i /
/
BRISBANE
m
YDNEY
MELBOURNE
i HOBART
\
S ’ t
/
a
m
m
N&J
**» *»
tl *
Alw P
mm*
S.S. NANKIN
leaves Sydney Feb. 10
S.S. NELLORE
leaves Sydney Mar. 14
S.S. TAN DA
leaves Sydney April 14
S.S. NANKIN
leaves Sydney May 12
Agents
in all States
and
New Zealand.
Round Trip
Steamer Fares
Sydney to Yokohama
£9O
\
First
Second ..£56 /- |5
Free of Exchange


LET YOUR BODY
BREATHE
IN
MM IX
“Yout skin was given you for
a purpose ... it controls the
heat of the body ... if air cir-
culates over it, the whole
body benefits thereby.”
—Broadcast by an eminent
physician.
-Wear Aertex Athletic Vests
and Trunks for buoyant
health! The Vests are also
available in half sleeve styles.
V
D.—Aertex Combinations, in half
sleeve or sleeveless cool,
loose-fitting, light, soft and
comfortable to wear.
Obtainable ftom
ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MEN’S
STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Wholesale only from
The Cellular Clothing Co. Ltd.
313-315 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
YOUR.
HEALTH
nude culture; dogs, his bird garden:
marriage and the Garden of Eden. But
it isn’t just bread-and-butter writing.
Every sentence is backed by sound ob-
servation, and even when he expresses a
dislike he is usually moved to say to
himself:
“Well, perhaps I was a bit hard on
that chap,” and he softens the blow with
a kindly phrase or two.
One of his best essays is on the Aus-
tralian language. This is a sample of
business English as spoken in Pitt-street-
atte-Sydney:
Bosker, wasn’t it? I could have carried
through on my own, but they were getting
my goat. They were kidding that the wow-
sers would come in and whoop against it to
beat hell. I said “Good enough! That’ll be
bonze, and no kid.” Well, of course, I went
right off the deep end. Tom gave them one,
too, off his own bat. I wouldn’t have done it
for five quid, only the way they came at me
was a fair cow, and there was nothing for it
but to put the kibosh 0n.... Too right;
there wasn’t....
Who wouldn’t recognise his native coun-
try in those few words?
The outlook of the Gay Philosopher
is, of course, old-fashioned. He still be-
lieves that human life moves round in
circles, though he admits that modern
parents need accelerators to keep up with
their children. He believes that nudism
represents just “a monotony of skin and
hair” and that a woman who cannot
decorate herself is a lost soul. You can
see that speed leaves him cynically cold
and that he admires modernism only for
its brazen cheek. His book has something
of the air of a secluded, rambling North
Shore Sydney garden whose owner
thoroughly enjoys himself with a spade
and doesn’t care a tinker’s damn what the
neighbors think. A wholesome, friendly
book with a clear, charming style.
EL V.
Maitland Breaks His Silence
A criticism of my book, “Savages and
Sinners,” under the heading “A Satchel
of Books” (R.P. 13/12/’33), concluded:
“Somebody should send a copy to
Canberra to show how effective its
censorship is.” Now I do not intend to
apologise to the reviewer—who would
appear to be hidebound by convention,
or, since one cannot associate the mighty
Bulletin with wowserism, blinded by pre-
judice—for “Savages and Sinners.” But
I feel that, in fairness to myself, I should
offer an explanation of the circumstances
which inspired it.
At seven years of age, I was sent out
with a North Sea fishing fleet. No school-
ing ; no home life; kicks and curses,
mouldy bread and fish. At ten, I shipped
aboard the Norwegian ship Apollo, and
celebrated my eleventh birthday in Val-
paraiso, where the seamen made me
drunk.
After some years in sailing ships, I
deserted the Russian ship Thomasina in
Pouembout, New Caledonia, and began
to make sails for a half-caste named
Dremounte. I was, for a while, in charge
of different vessels owned by him, until,
hearing of the profits to be made recruit-
ing native labor in the Archipelago, I
stole one and sailed for New Guinea.
My teachers were changed. From foul-
mouthed lawless seamen, I went to
equally foul and even more brutal Ger-
man traders. These men took what they
wanted, whether it happened to be
money, goods or women. Can you
wonder that I, an ignorant youth, fol-
lowed their example? I robbed, brawled
with poaching Japanese, stole their car-
goes. I worked underwater, fishing for
black-lip and trochus with only treach-
erous natives for tenders.
The Great Brawl came along, and,
though I haven’t attempted to trade on
the fact like some writers, I had a bit
of it.
Suppose your critic had had to face
a similar environment. Or suppose that
Australia was suddenly stripped of its
laws, and that its inhabitants were as sud-
denly bereft of their thin, very thin,
veneer of civilisation. Would your critic
have a more creditable record to show
than mine?
I respectfully invite an answer through
your Red Page.
John Maitland.
It seems a lot of fuss to make about a note of
about five lines. The author was accused of
nothing worse than shamelessness, and, on
the showing of this little autobiography, he is
shameless.
As for the critic, there is no saying how he
might have reacted to experiences such as Mr.
Maitland describes, but he likes to think that
he would have been more reticent about them.
RED PAGE.
A Human Purist
I happened to be in the cable room of
an evening newspaper when the an-
nouncement of H. W. Fowler’s death
came in. The cable editor glanced at it,
got down “Who’s Who,” stuck the cable
between its pages, passed it to his assis-
tant, and said: “Here! Old Fowler’s
dead. You should be glad to write the
obituary of a man who poured so much
scorn on the working journalist!”
The view is held in many newspaper
offices that “A Dictionary of Modern Eng-
lish Usage,” with its fastidious flair for the
verbal nuance, cannot fairly be set up as
a guide to the reporters of a big daily,
where speed and accuracy of fact, rather
than of phrase, are the first considerations
—where one cannot sit with the pen
poised searching for the just word while
the sub-editor is bawling for copy. Many
journalists, indeed, assert that, such is the
killing pace of newspaper production,
the stereotyped phrase is as necessary to
them as shorthand ; which, in effect, it is.
That view is defensible. Fowler’s
counsel, in many cases a counsel of per-
fection, is a guide to the leisured and
deliberate literary style rather than to the
language of the market place, which is
essentially the language of the newspaper.
Fowler, for example, forbids the use of
such words as complete (for finish), con-
ceal (for hide), peruse (for read), obtain
(for get).
But when the journalist’s case against
the virtuosity of Fowler has been stated,
the fact emerges that that scholar has
some pertinent things to say against the
slipshod, the pretentious, the banal and the
pedantic in spoken rather than in written
speech—exhortations addressed to people
who are not pressed for time as the jour-
nalistic worker is.
Fowler was a wag. There are still
pedantic old women of both genders,
even in Australia, who affect to squirm
over the split infinitive. Hear Fowler:
The English-speaking world may be divided
into (1) those who neither know nor care
what a split infinitive is; (2) those who do not
know, but care very much; (3) those who know
and condemn; (4) those who know and
approve; and (5) those who know and distin-
guish. (1) Those who neither know nor care are
the vast majority, and are a happy folk, to be
envied by most of the minority classes; “to
really understand” comes readier to their lips
and pens than “really to understand”; they see
no reason why they should not say it (small
blame to them, seeing that reasons are not their
critics’ strong point), and they do say it, to the
discomfort of some among us, but not to their
own. (2) To the second class, those who do not
know but do care, who would as soon be
caught putting their knives in their mouths as
splitting an infinitive but have hazy notions
as to what constitutes that deplorable breach
of etiquette, this article is chiefly addressed.
The humbug is thus exposed:
Surprise a person of the class that is sup-
posed to keep servants cleaning his own boots,
and either he will go on with the job while he
talks to you, as if it were the most natural
thing in the world, or else he will explain that
the bootboy or scullery-maid is ill and
give you to understand that he is, despite ap-
pearances, superior to boot-cleaning. If he
takes the second course, you conclude that he
is not superior to it; if the first, that perhaps
he is. So it is with the various apologies to
which recourse is had by writers who wish
to safeguard their dignity and yet be vivacious,
to combine comfort with elegance, to touch
pitch and not be defiled.... “A grievance once
redressed ceases to be an electoral asset (if
we may use a piece of terminology which we
confess we dislike).”
He scorned the slipshod as much as he
did the pretentious.
There are thousands to whose minds the cat
cannot effect an entrance unaccompanied by
“harmless necessary”; nay, in the absence of
the cat, “harmless” still brings “necessary” in
its train King David must surely writhe
as often as he hears it told in Sheol what is
the latest insignificance that may not be told
in Gath And the witty gentleman who
equipped coincidence with his long arm has
doubtless suffered even in this life at seeing
that arm so mercilessly overworked.
Those who think themselves free from
the grosser errors of diction will find, on
dipping into this book, that they are un-
conscious offenders daily. If we took
Fowler’s directions seriously in all their
prohibitive detail, we should be driven
into a painful self-consciousness. As it is
unlikely that even Fowler himself fol-
lowed his own counsel very closely in
daily conversation or expected his friends
to do so, he probably overstated the
puristic case in the hope that his readers
would be sufficiently impressed to acquire
at least a bias against the slipshod and
the pretentious. If they took his advice
in toto they would probably end by writ-
ing nothing and speaking the irreducible
minimum.
But let those who dismiss Fowler as a
finicking purist remember that he wrote,
beside his dictionaries, such things as “If
Wishes Were Horses” and “Rhymes of
Darby to Joan,” that his recreations were
mountaineering, football, running and
skating, and that he fought as a private
in the B.E.F.
Hector Dinning.
Game Shots, Safe and Otherwise
In a review (R.P. 15/11/’33) of Col.
Carey’s “My Gun and I,” mention was
made of the late Marquis of Ripon’s
feats with the shotgun. One, that of
having three driven pheasants dead in
the air at the same time, was
dealt with in the “Field” some years
ago. The conclusion arrived at was
that the Marquis could only bring it
off under exceptionally favorable cir-
cumstances ; e.g., when the first bird was
unusually high. The necessity of chang-
ing guns for the third shot was the prin-
cipal difficulty, but, of course, he changed
with marvellous celerity, as the reviewer
remarked. His greatest feat, according
to the “Field,” was the shooting of 28
driven pheasants in one minute.
Mr. Atwood Clarke is said to have
commented on the comparative lack of
safety amongst ordinary game shots. This
is sadly applicable to many Australians,
despite Red Page’s view to the contrary.
Often we read of some unfortunate who
received a charge of shot in the body that
would have gone skywards or into the
ground if the gun of the person respon-
sible had been held at a proper angle. It
might be a deterrent if in every magisterial
inquiry into such cases the person whose
weapon did the damage was called on to
explain why he had neglected to observe
the regulation precautions. Also it might
be worth while for, say, the Education
Departments to formulate a comprehen-
sive code of rules covering the subject
of safety in the field and elsewhere and
have it exhibited on the walls of school-
rooms. It is a subject in which we Aus-
tralians take far too little interest.
J. BRENAN.
A Satchel of Books
Harris the Hare and His Own True
Love and More Adventures of the Odd
Little Girl, by Dorothy Burroughes (The
Bodley Head ; Is. 6d. each), are humorous
stories for children. Any youngster old
enough to appreciate “Alice” will revel in
them. The illustrations by the author are
as quaint as the text.
Bunyips and Billabongs, by Charles
Fenner, D.Sc. (Angus and Robertson;.
65.), is for the most part a collection of
notes and essays on Australian bush life
that have appeared in the “Australa-
sian.” There is something of interest to
everyone, and the writer —he’s lecturer
in geography at Adelaide Uni. and pre-
sident of the S.A. Field Naturalists’
Association —deals with each, whether
it’s bunyips or billabongs or the abo-
riginal’s dog, in the same entertaining
and instructive manner.
Indian File, by E. P. White (Allen and
Unwin; 3s. 6d.). Jokes —and good ones
for the most part —at the expense of
those who uphold the white man’s burden
in India. The Arampur State Railway
pays its salaries on original lines.
The engineers earn their living by em-
ploying only a fourth of the coolies whose
names are entered on the pay-roll. The store-
< keepers, by arrangement with the contractors,
enter rather more ballast and supplies than
they actually receive. Everybody is provided for
except the general manager, who gets only what
presents he can prevail upon his subordinates
to offer on festival days.
The Europeans are fond of polo but
hard up, so their ponies go down on the
State estimates as the Arampur Cavalry.
These rollicking gibes at the I.C.S.
appeared originally in “Punch.”
Shake Hands with the Devil, by Rear-
den Conner (Dent; 7s. 6d.). A gruesome
picture of Ireland when the R.I.C. and
the Black-and-Tans on one side and the
I.R.A. on the other were vying with one
another in outrages and reprisals. “It
does for the Irish troubles of that period,”
says a London reviewer, “what ‘All Quiet
on the Western Front’ did for the Great
War,” and the comparison is perhaps
justified, for it is almost as rich in beast-
liness and obscenities, quite wanton ob-
scenities some of them. Yet there is no
doubt of its power and graphic quality,
and it rings true enough. The balance is
probably held pretty fairly between the
two sets of combatants, though the
methods and the leading figures on the
I.R.A. side are a trifle the more revolt-
ing. A book that nobody who reads it
is ever likely to forget.
To Make My Bread, by Grace
Lumpkin (Gollancz ; Rawson’s, Melb.;
Bs. 6d. net). This is a distinct improve-
ment on the average proletarian novel.
It traces the development of a village in
a Southern American State, where the
fundamentalists rage and the nigger
quivers for his skin, into a manufacturing
town where Northern industrials set up
weaving mills and stock them with poor
whites. Come steady improvement in
the machinery, the displacement of hands,
strikes, violent suppression, the forma-
tion of unions, their capture by the em-
ployers and the growth of a revolution-
ary Left —in short, the history of the
machine age running through its whole
gamut in the lifetimes of two genera-
tions. The book stands out for its faith-
ful portrayal of a host of humble
characters.
Budgerigars in Bush and Aviary, by
Neville W. Cayley (Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.). In this fascinating book
the famous painter of Australian birds
tells all that is known of one of the love-
liest little parrots in the world. He
begins with a discussion of the species
in general, then deals with budgerigars in
bush and aviary, and winds up with
chapters on housing, feeding and breed-
ing. There are many full-page illustra-
tions in color by the author, some photo-
graphs and photographs of illustrations
by other hands, and a foreword by Pro-
fessor Dakin the zoologist.
In September, 1878, Benjamin Danks
left Sydney with his wife as Methodist
missionary to the natives of New
Britain. In August, 1886, his wife being
seriously ill, they returned to Australia.
The story of those eight years among
savages is told in his autobiography,
which was found after his death and pub-
lished under the title In Wild New Britain
(Angus and Robertson; 65,). The book
is interesting chiefly as an account of the
natives and their mode of living in those
early days. Mr. Danks gives this descrip-
tion of the first he met:
They were perfectly nude. Their hair was
one tangled, dirty mop, covered with grease
and filth. Their faces were streaked with
lime and various pigments. Straight down
the centre of the chest and abdomen was a
streak of white which made their nakedness
more apparent. To touch their bodies was
to dirty one’s hand. Their facial expression
was that of savage cunning.
There are many excellent photographs.


f
ƒ
rrw^.
8* SEI»PEtT & SONS fcfMSf
SOUTH AUSTWU*'
m
gf
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD*


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2813.
January 10, 1934.
LOOKS ARE EVERYTHING.
“How’s things going with you, Leo? I’m feeling mighty spry.”
“Pretty well, thanks, Bir do’freedom, speaking for self and family; but you don’t look it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
. South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westraua: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4. ’Phone
Central 5170.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
ROBERT GIBSON.
Australia owes much to the men who
have been summoned to shape the
destinies of the. Commonwealth Bank,
and have thus profoundly influenced its
own. The bank was only two years old
when Denison Miller had to grapple with
the problems of war finance. A trained
banker who enjoyed the goodwill of the
trading banks (he had been recommended
to Andrew Fisher by Russell French, of
the Wales), and with a nimble mind, fer-
tile of expedients, he proved equal to
the emergency. He handled the war
loans admirably, and his services during
that period should never be forgotten.
He had an able assistant in James Kell,
who was destined to succeed him as
governor.
In later years Miller was not so suc-
cessful. He became too autocratic in
his decisions and too indulgent in his
talk when paper-money projectors called
to see him. If he did not encourage he
did not apply the brake to the reckless
post-war expenditure of Governments
and municipalities. At his instance, the
bank meddled in the war-service-homes
business, with unlucky results. He was
spared the mortification of seeing his
powers curtailed, but his autocracy was
doomed years before his death in 1923.
The Bruce-Page Government placed the
bank under the control of a board, with
J. J. Garvan as chairman and Robert
Gibson as one of the members. On
Garvan’s death in 1926, Gibson suc-
ceeded him.
Outside the Victorian circles in which
he moved, Gibson was then only a name
to the people of his adopted country. A
Falkirk Scot, he was the son of an iron-
founder, and was trained in the business
himself, at the Scottish works and in the
London office, before coming to Aus-
tralia at 27 to start for himself. Making
Melbourne his headquarters, he pros-
pered from the beginning. He founded
two manufacturing companies ; became
a director of insurance and trustee cos. ;
served on the Coal Board during the
war and on the Repatriation Commis-
sion after it; was president of the Vic.
Chamber of Manufactures and of ihe
Associated Chambers. The Common-
wealth Government asked him to go on
the board of C.O.R. ; the Vic. Govern-
ment chose him to help Monash on the
State Electricity Commission. He never
had a strike in his own factories, and as
conciliator he helped to settle many
strikes.
The depression was to make Gibson
a national figure. The hour brought
forth the man. He was no genius, but
he had a business head, an even temper
and character —that supreme gift which
makes a Lincoln great without greatness
of intellect, and without which the
talents of so many clever men are
wasted. It is doubtful whether Deni-
son Miller could have averted the crisis
to which Australia was drifting in 1931 ;
but Gibson averted it. He withstood
Theodore and forced the hand of Scullin ;
prepared the way for the Premiers’ Plan
and policed it.
This methodical and firm-willed Scot
had to contend with politicians who
saw in the national emergency a heaven-
sent opportunity to seize control of bank-
ing and credit. There were those who
demanded that the bank should buy up
the wheat at four shillings a bushel and
pay in inconvertible paper ; those who
wanted to send all the gold in its vaults
abroad to repay part of the short-
term debt and facilitate their plans for
making the note issue wholly fiduciary;
those who preached default to Austra-
lian bondholders and overseas creditors
alike. Without ever exceeding the powers
entrusted to his board by Parliament, he
stood up against them and worsted them
all. No man did more during that period
to keep our name good, to save us from
bankruptcy and a trade boycott and to
place us in a position to profit by loan
conversion at lower rates of interest;
and he did it by sheer force of character
and commonsense. Similarly, no man did
more to rescue the thrifty people of N.
S. Wales from the plight to which they
were reduced by a defaulting Premier.
Lang closed his Savings Bank ; Gibson
reopened it. He stopped a run on the
Commonwealth Savings Bank withal.
Gibson never sought the limelight but
he was thrust into it on a memorable
occasion. On May 6, 1931, he was called
to the bar of the Senate to give the
members of that House —some of them
cranks and most of the rest confused —
his views on Theodore’s Commonwealth
Bank Bill and questions arising out of
that measure, on which the Government
had not consulted the bank. He was nearly
67 ; he had never been a member of a
deliberative assembly ; he was unused to
facing a critical audience ; but he beat
the politicians at their own game. Plied
with question from all sides, he answered
them all patiently, fully, and at times
wittily—to such purpose that the bill was
dead before he left the Chamber. “It
was the finest performance I ever saw in
Parliament,” says Henry Gullett, who
was a gallery reporter and a London cor-
respondent before he turned politician.
Certain of the wise old man’s utterances
may be quoted:
A gold reserve, besides having a definite
value, has a psychological value. The feeling
that there is something tangible behind the
promise to pay creates confidence in the minds
of those who handle the notes.
So far as our internal transactions are con-
cerned, it would be possible to conduct busi-
ness based solely on confidence. Confidence,
.however, is a very subtle thing, and it is easily
destroyed. We have evidence lately of what
can happen even when the resources of the
State were supposed to back public confidence.
The Bank Board has endeavored to discharge
its obligations without fear or favor of any
Government and without regard to any poli-
tical party I prefer not to find myself in the
position of its even being suggested that I am
attempting to dictate to any Government of
any country.
The issue of notes in Australia is partially
a fiduciary issue and partly an issue backed by
gold. [lt is now partly backed by sterling securi-
ties.] All central banks of important coun-
tries which are engaged in international trade
are either on a purely gold basis or are on
a partly gold or partly fiduciary basis. I am
utterly against an unsupported system. I con-
sider that a serious departure from it must in
the end militate against the interests of Aus-
tralia.
If the decision were left to me I would rather
default to my own people than to people over-
seas, but the default wherever made would be
very serious to the people of this country.
A note issue is the thermometer which indi-
cates the temperature of the amount of infla-
tion. The process of inflation begins by banks
making available credit which is not based
upon any tangible or real asset that can be
converted into terms of money. The danger
lies in the gradual depression of the ability of
credit to buy. The value of that credit soon
begins to fall, and as it falls it will buy less
in the form of commodities.
The Governments of Australia have no finan-'
cial obligations to the Bank of England. The
Bank of England does not advance money
to Governments. But I am perfectly certain that
the Bank of England would at any time do
anything that lay in its power, and that came
within its proper functions as a bank, to
help Australia. On no occasion has the Bank
of England attempted to direct the policy of
the Commonwealth Bank. The Commonwealth
Bank would not accept such dictation.
I do not wish to direct the policy of the
Government. The Government or Parliament
must, in the last resort, accept full responsi-
bility for arranging such matters. The bank
is only the medium through which they may
be done.
Robert Gibson died last week, work-
ing for the Commonwealth to the last.
Australia should raise a monument to
him and engrave some of those sentences
on it for the guidance of future bank
boards and Governments.
“HONORS.”
There may be an economic depression in
the British Empire. In Australia there
is no depression in “honors.” The New
Year list included 31 names —a third of
the number of Australians and Maori-
landers “honored” during the first 90
years of Australasian settlement.
As usual, there are slabs of the Com-
monwealth where—for the time being, at
least —they don’t believe in “honoring”
anybody or where nobody was discov-
ered worthy of “honor.” Even King
Buck-Eye, who seems, on the evidence of
the “S. M. Herald’s” rather bewildered
young aviator, to have been doing great
things for his country, has received no
I.S.M. McPhee, no doubt after scratch-
ing the fertile soil of Tasmania
thoroughly, could not find a citizen on
whom to hang a gee-gaw. Neither could
Lyons. Queensland, as a State, prefers
to do without any more knights or com-
panions, and the Commonwealth, for its
part, has recommended no Queensland
appointments. There will be a Federal
election in 1934, and it would not do to
flout Queensland sentiment or to offend
anybody by discrimination.
A glance at the published list must
mystify the reader and upset his stand-
ards. If Vice-Admiral Hyde wants to
be a K.C.8., Australians are sporting
enough to say “Good luck to him!” The
same with “Bawra” Higgins and his
G. F. D. McMaster, too, has
done well for Australia. He has helped
to improve the stock of the country
while encouraging good husbandry and
foresight in pastoral management. Dal-
keith, his property near Cassilis (N.S.W.),
is no mere rich man’s unearned inherit-
ance. It is the work of his own hands,
and he has shown there that, with cour-
age, drought provision, good stock and
technical engineering knowledge, coun-
try life can be made a scientific profes-
sion, as secure as any well-managed
bank. He is a model employer and a
generous public giver.
The knighting of Captain Dyett has
been described as a compliment to the
returned soldiers. The R.S.L. president
had a C.M.G. conferred on him in 1927,
so promotion—if it is promotion—was
perhaps due ; but the “honoring” of both
president and secretary of a single body
is unprecedented. It smacks of pre-elec-
tion tactics. And the sense of values which
puts the chairman of the blundering
Board of Cricket Control on the same
level with Daisy Bates, who has
devoted her life to salvaging a suffering
remnant of the aborigines, and with
H. W. Champion, who for more than 30
years has been an able Papuan adminis-
trator, is hard to understand. Perhaps
the Government feels that as a C.B.E. the
chairman of the Board of Cricket Con-
trol will be able to cope with Lord Hail-
sham, chairman of the M.C.C., a task in
which he singularly failed last season.
An 0.8. E. has been conferred on
Donald Mackay. Not at the instance of
the Commonwealth, whose territories he
has explored and mapped, often at the
risk of his life, and to whom he has pre-
sented his maps, but at that of N. S.
Wales, though he is not even a resident.
But the Commonwealth got an 0.8. E.
for the Prime Minister’s publicity man
and other decorations for members of
his personal staff. At the end of the
war, when a C.M.G. was given to a
public servant for four years’ work as
Prime Minister’s secretary and secretary
to the Australian delegation at the Peace
Conference, it was regarded as a radical
departure from precedent. Not so to-day.
Within the past two years the Prime
Minister’s messenger, typiste, chauffeur
and Parliament House servant have been
presented with ribbons. All estimable
officials, no doubt, but hundreds of citi-
zens who have improved our stock and
farming methods, developed our manu-
factures, made our art famous, pioneered
the backblocks and improved our scien-
tific and medical services are worthier of
national acknowledgment.
Dominion after Dominion has rebelled
against the “honors” system. Canada for
13 years would have none of it; and a
first-class political row has broken out
because the Bennett Government has re-
vived the business, in spite of a resolu-
tion of Parliament. South Africa forced
the retreat of one nominee for a peer-
age. Our Labor party refuses to recom-
mend “honors” other than Privy Coun-
cillorships. The Australian public reads
New Year and Birthday lists in a cynical
spirit, sometimes with bitter remarks
about logrolling and subscriptions to
party funds. We have pony-racing
knights and moving-picture knights ; one
of the latter was fined for dodging pay-
ment of taxes to the King who, on the
recommendation of his easy-going ad-
visers, had admitted the gentleman to
the order.
These decorations should either be
wiped out for Australian purposes or
put on a plane where they will be beyond
suspicion and out of the reach of con-
tempt. Preferably, they should be wiped
out. The best test of the value of
“honors” is that most Prime Ministers
would run a hundred miles sooner than
accept one.
AUSTRALIAN HORSEMEN.
“We have the finest horsemen in the world.”
— N.S.W. Deputy-Premier Bruxner at the
Lansdowne Bridge celebrations.
Australian politicians have been mak-
ing this boast for so long that thousands
who don’t know the facts have hypno-
tised themselves into believing there is
something in it. There might have been
half a century ago. Horses were more
plentiful then, relatively to population ;
more interest was taken in them and in
horsemanship ; steeplechases were com-
moner (particularly in N. S. Wales, where
the game is now practically dead):
fences were bigger and stilfer —in short,
Australians had more and better chances
of learning to ride. Nowadays most Aus-
tralians never see a horse except in a cart
or at a racecourse or an agricultural
show; and at least 75 per cent, of them,
never get on one, and wouldn’t know
what to do if they did.
There are broadly two kinds of horse-
manship: the military kind (the basis of
which is ability to get a horse safely and
expeditiously over a country) and rough-
riding. In England and Ireland, on the
European Continent and in the closely
settled parts of the U.S.A., hunters, hacks,
general-utility horses and remounts are
always broken, and often made, before
they leave their breeders for dealers,
private owners or army depots. Never
having been allowed to run wild, they
don’t become buckjumpers. In conse-
quence those regions don’t produce
buckjump riders of the Skuthorpe type.
But they do produce consummate
horsemen of the other type. Horseman-
ship “tests” are held regularly at the
great tournaments in London, Paris and
New York. The Bradmans of the saddle
—most of them soldiers —flock to these
competitions from nations which regard
riding as much more important than foot-
ball, tennis or billiards. There, too, are
staged the great cross-country meetings
—not merely at Aintree, Auteuil,
and Leopardstown, but in hundreds of
less famous centres —where, during more
than six months in every year, the flower
of the world’s military and civilian riders
are encouraged to learn their trade.
No native-trained Australian horseman
has figured prominently in a Grand
National in France or England, or at
Islington or the New York Horse Show,
or eyen at Richmond. Americans,
Italians, Austrians, Roumanians, Ger-
mans, Frenchmen and Indians, not .to
mention thousands of English and Irish
riders, professional and amateur, mili-
tary and civilian, have. There is a reason
why, in riding, Australians haven’t gone
after the laurels which they have secured
in so many other branches of sport; they
have no horsemen with a hope against
the world’s best in this field. And no
wonder. Military tournaments worthy
of the name are unknown here. A typical
modern Australian steeplechase course—
none of the fences over five feet high and
all much the same —is child’s play, from
the rider’s standpoint, compared with a
minor English, Irish or French course,
with its water-jumps, fences with ditches
and rails on the take-off side, banks,
ditches on the landing side, and so on.
No art is needed to negotiate our show
fences, either.
At the leading Australian racecourses
and showgrounds the same little bands
of professionals appear year after year,
and monopolise the best mounts. Yet
professional riding is deteriorating—the
chairman of the V.R.C. and other Mel-
bourne and Sydney authorities deplored
the quality of our flat-race riding only
last month —and there is practically no
amateur riding.
Remains rough-riding. Our best may
be better than the best in this class pro-
duced by South America, Mexico,
Canada, western U.S.A., South Africa,
Arabia and Russia ; but how do we know?
Until we can pit one of our topnotchers
against overseas rivals, as Lindrum, say,
has been pitted against the cracks in his
line, all this talk about our horsemen
being the world’s best is just wind. One
of its humiliating results was seen in
England during the war, when members
of the A.I.F. on leave had mounts forced
on them by well-meaning hosts who had
heard of the nation’s prowess in the
saddle. Australians in England, Ireland
and Europe are still being offered mounts,
and at least 90 per cent, of them are
still failing to live up to Australian boasts
about Australian horsemanship.
Let our politicians drop bragging
about our capacity to do something that
the vast majority of us know no more
about at present than the inhabitants of
Timbuctoo know about ice-skating, and
concentrate on giving us a chance to
learn to ride. Cross-country events for
amateurs at city, country and picnic race-
meetings and hunting events for amateurs
at all subsidised A., H. and P. shows
might do something to break up the
jockeys’ rings which help to keep 99 per
cent, of Australian men in the grand-
stands when any competitive riding is
being done. It would probably help if
the fences were made bigger and more
diversified. Above all, we should get
back to military training, which is the
chief inspiration of horsemanship every-
where ; and the Light Horse and tech-
nical units should be given every chance
to use high-class remounts.
Until some such changes are instituted
the less we say about our horsemanship
the fewer excuses we will give the world
to laugh at us.
SECOND DIVVY.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Word for Sauchiehall.
The impression of the average Australian
who has not been there is that Glasgow
is a fog-bound city, full of Clydeside Bol-
sheviks and pipers, which fathers all
the Scottish jokes that are not good
enough to be foisted on Aberdeen. Those
Australians who do know it, unfor-
tunately, are mostly Government pub-
licity men, and to them it is mainly popu-
lated by a jovial person in spectacles
whose name is Harold Ford.
Every now and then this vigorous
young man, who draws a large salary
as commercial manager of the Clyde
Trust, which controls the port, raises his
voice and shouts:
Six million people are fed through the Port
of Glasgow. Why aren’t we getting more
Australian produce to sell to them?
Once, believing that his voice was not
loud enough at a distance, he came to
Australia to ask the question; and, though
the secretary of one Chamber of Com-
merce sent a message by the office boy
that he was very busy that morning, but
would the gentleman call again?—almost
unbelievable, but true—his trip paid for
itself; both Australia and Glasgow
profited.
It is since then that the propaganda
men have learnt to know Ford and Glas-
gow, which every now and then gets hold
of a flurried Australian politician or
Agent-General and shouts in his ear its
demands for more Australian butter, eggs
and fruit, so that they have to rush round
and force samples on the shops, and send
frantic cables to Australian newspapers
telling the Commonwealth that, thanks to
Australia House efforts, Sauchiehall is
knee-deep in Australian exports. A week
later, Glasgow is shouting again.
The shouting is beginning to get re-
sults at last. Linton, the Victorian A.-G.,
met Ford during his visit to Australia in
1929 and has renewed the acquaintance,
and some species of co-operation has
grown up between Victoria and the Clyde
Trust. As a result of the movement
which Ford started in 1926 and which he
has fostered and developed in the face of
the slights of Australian officials, the
Lord Provost of Glasgow was able to say
at a function the other day:
Whereas four years ago not a case of Aus-
tralian fruit was shipped to Glasgow, the past
year saw 12 shipments totalling 250,000 cases.
....Great progress has been made in Scotland
in the development of trade with Maoriland in
meat, butter and cheese, but Australia is lag-
ging far behind, due to the fact that it con-
tinues to visualise London as the only market-
ing centre in Britain Surely the most
practical way to sell Australian products to
Scotland is to see that Australian products can
be found all over the Northern Kingdom, in
fresh condition for the housewives to buy.
Glasgow “Herald,” commenting on this,
said:
The absence for considerable periods of Aus-
tralian products suggests a gap in the market-
ing arrangements of that country which ought
to be filled without delay.
Ford and his organisation are as good
as an Australian marketing body in the
heart of one of the best and most alert
of British markets. There should be
complete liaison between the Common-
wealth Commerce Department and the
Clyde Trust, and an end to the existing
haughty aloofness which seems to be dic-
tated by fear that full co-operation with
Glasgow and other ports which are
anxious to develop Australian trade may
rob officials of their thunder and their
jobs.
♦
Proposal for a Revue.
Granny has her stunt:
Material and characters are now available for
the great Australian revue, which should be
written for the Melbourne centenary. The
Emden bell is back in Sydney.
. “ s - M. Herald” (dear old lady!) recovered
it, and has trumpeted the fact in the largest
headings she has used since the war. She
places the theft among the world’s greatest,
ranking with that of “La Gioconda,” and,
therefore, made sure that her precautions were
adequate and theatrical. She had heard that
the bell was in “certain park lands on the
outskirts of Melbourne.” There are police in
Melbourne, but policemen are so matter-of-
fact! So a trusty expedition left Sydney
by car at 6.30 a.m. on Boxing Day, and . after
33 desperate hours on the road arrived at
4 p.m. next day. It could have gone by the
express at 7.25 p.m. on Boxing Day and have
been there before noon next day; but presum-
ably romance doesn’t leave with the 7.25.
Arrived in Melbourne, the party “purchased
tools and, loaded with the tools and their
faithful camera, “motored 30 miles along the
Geelong road.” It was decided not to start
digging before 3 a.m. . “A long, tedious, nerve-
racking wait ensued, extending over seven
hours. Sleep was out of the question.” And,
of course, being “Herald” men on duty, they
could not go into Geelong and sample the
famous bitter or play threepenny, poker, as
lesser men would have done. They just sat
down by the road and shivered. A car stopped
and asked whether the party was in trouble.
Ihe tension increased. At 1.30 a.m. “a sugges-
tion was unanimously adopted that the task
°* Ihe bell should be attempted.”
the car slowly moved on. But more tribula-
tions had to be faced. An optimist who was
trying to commit suicide had to be rescued.
Perhaps the strained, pale faces of the northern
journalists frightened him. Anyway he was
rescued, which' caused delay, so that
the moon was sinking behind the horizon when
four dark shadows moved across the park,
the photographer clutching his flashlight and
one of Granny’s most literary young men lead-
ing his retinue with shovels and blankets in
which to wrap the treasure-trove. Follow a
hundred words of thrills: “feelings unforget-
table trees like grim sentinels.... twigs
breaking underfoot... .nervously began to dig
... .pick”—which a flashlight picture shows to
have been a mattock—“plunged into softer
earth congratulations .... interruption by
party of merrymakers.” And at dawn the
party was on its way to Sydney. What a sub-
ject for a new Verdi!
They did not stop till they reached Sale,
exhausted after their terrific non-stop drive of
134 miles. Then to strike 50 strokes of triumph
on the bell, and on again in a wild drive ot
“300 miles from Bairnsdale to Wollongong non-
stop.” A desperate feat, and, the “Herald”
having made a great deal more fuss about it
than the men of the Sydney made about the
destruction of the Emden, all the heroes no
doubt will be paraded at Canberra to receive
the thanks of their country and assurance of
a lavish share of the next batch of “honors.”
The bell has since been returned to the War
Museum. It weighs only a hundredweight, and
stern measures were doubtless taken to see
that nobody pinched it from the editor’s pocket.
. ♦
Idle Men and Idle Money.
Depositors’ money being pressed on
Australian banks at the moment is actu-
ally embarrassing them. Loans, internal
and external, are being oversubscribed at
rates of interest that make boom-time
politicians weep. Yet unemployment is
still acute. It is a tragic anomaly that
these idle men and the idle money are
not working together so that both the
worker and the investor may benefit.
Why aren't they both at work? Is it
that the banks are lacking in the
vision necessary to direct their funds into
the financing of new and necessary indus-
tries? Is there already overproduc-
tion? Or is it that all types of investors
are still suffering from shock, and that
few are prepared to take the plunge into
the establishment of new industries?
Many investors, large and small, are
undoubtedly still nervous of their savings.
Some of the smaller variety—the variety
that financed. new manufacturing enter-
prises in the past —will not look at shares,
so bitter was their experience when Stock
Exchange securities collapsed during
Lang’s term of office.
Of course, in addition to the benefits
which loosening of the investors’ purse- •
strings might be expected to give, other
things are necessary to a complete re-
covery. Labor-saving machinery has not
—as the technocrats of the U.S.A. would
have us believe—been the prime cause of
the depression ; but such machinery, used
solely to dispense with labor and operated
to benefit nobody but the. owner, has been
a contributory cause. The fruits must be
shared rationally by the owner, the
worker and the consumer, otherwise we
will always have excessive profits, chaotic
distribution of purchasing-power and
disastrous slumps. The manufacturer will
have to interest himself in creating con-
sumption as well as production.
There, indeed, seems to lie the crux
of our present problem. To the manu-
facturer and producer the unemployed do
not represent a “demand” for more than
the barest essentials of life. Before they
can represent a demand for anything
else they have to be given the where-
withal to purchase. The investor has to
start the ball rolling ; individually or col-
lectively, through the Government or
through the banks. He will have to take
a risk for the first year or two. And
in cases where a property or a business
is mortgaged beyond current values, the
mortgagee will be wise to compromise.
In 90 p.c. of cases nobody knows how to
run a business better than the owner. In
thousands of instances the owner is being
disheartened and stupefied by a night-
mare of debts.
4 :
“A Reputable Paper.”
From C. W. C. Marr, Minister for Health
and Repatriation:
My attention has been drawn to your article
appearing in the issue of December 13 rela-
tive to the Territories of New Guinea and
Papua. Allowing for the general latitude per-
mitted these days, is it too much to ask that
a reputable paper such as The Bulletin should
establish some facts before putting opinions
into press? The whole of the article tends
to convey an impression totally at variance
with the actual position; and, personally, I
wish to strongly protest against the use of
my name as in the second paragraph. No
such suggestion has ever been made, and I
have not the slightest intention of taking any
position such as is mentioned.
Such articles, coming from a paper which
boasts the heading “The National Australian
Newspaper,” can only result in a loss of the
national prestige, the support of which should
be the aim of all Australian journals.
There were really a good many facts
in the article objected to ; chapter and
verse were given for some. Still The
Bulletin is glad to learn that there is no
truth in the report that Mr. Marr may be
appointed Governor of the Territories,
and is sorry if it hurt his feelings by men-
tioning it. It is handsome of him to
testify that The Bulletin is “a reput-
able paper” ; it assuages the anguish felt
in this office since “Hansard” reported
that his colleague, Mr. Parkhill, did not
regard us as “reputable.”
»
The Minority Movement.
The election by the northern (N.S.W.)
branch of the Miners’ Federation of a
president who openly declares himself to
be a member of the Minority Movement
is a distinct drift towards militancy at a
moment when Lang and Garden are try-
ing to persuade the country that they
have become moderates.
The Minority Movement was formed
for the purpose of brigading the workers
in key industries —transport and fuel, par-
ticularly—into a nucleus which can con-
trol any country through militant stop-
work tactics. The foundation of its “Red
Leader” was hailed with cables from all
over the world—notably from Losovsky,
secretary of the Red International, and
from the officials of the Pan-Pacific
Union. The movement was one of those
which the N. S. Wales A.L.P. forbade
unionists to join after the Crimes Act was
passed in January, 1932.
This Minority Movement is a mani-
festation of the One Big Union idea in
its international sense. Its declared slogan
consists of Lenin’s words: “Every mine,
every factory, every shop a fortress of
revolution.” It has a large Australian
membership, 90 per cent, of which would
not stick to it in a real crisis, and would
not even belong to it if its objects were
fully understood. For the whole of its
militancy, the Stevens and Lyons Gov-
ernments have a panacea if they will only
apply it —the filling of stomachs with
good food.
The capture by the M.M. of the
Miners’ Federation has its humorous
aspect. The miners, for all practical
purposes, own the journal of those ster-
ling moderates Messrs. Lang and Garden
—the “Labor Daily,” on which Mr. Lang,
prospective leader of the gentle Federal
N. S. Wales Labor party, who says he
is no Communist, holds a mortgage or
did hold a mortgage of nearly £14,000.
Mr. Lang’s organisation is supposedly
now closed to the president of a body
which largely controls the “Labor Daily.”
His reaction to this funny position
would be worth hearing.
*
Chains Not Slavery.
From “El V.,” who knows his North:
The continual meddling of amateurs has irri-
tated the Minister for the Interior into making
another statement about native policy. It is,
as usual, specious and based on ignorance.
For instance, he has decided that chains shall
no longer be worn in outlying stations, because,
apparently they are cruel: “Some more humani-
tarian method of preventing escapes must be
adopted.”
Chains are not cruel to the Australian native
so long as they are the regulation chains, which
are light, do not chafe and do not unduly
impede movement. The natives themselves,
except the wily camp and missionary native,
do not complain about them. They are apt,
indeed, to resent arrest without subsequent
chaining as an indignity. If more humanitarian
methods involve confinement, then the Min-
ister is sentencing some perfectly good niggers
to death. And if he intends that constables
shall bring unchained natives for trial several
hundred miles, he is an optimist. The m.c.
starting with even a couple of loose murderers
from a point where niggers wear no clothes at
all except a tassel would have as much chance
of getting his game to Darwin as he would
of delivering a couple of pounds of greased
lightning. Moreover, in places like Boorooloola,
where the local m.c. sometimes has on his
hands a couple of dozen light-hearted mis-
creants whose crimes Tange from cattle-spear-
ing to hanging matters, to do away with chains
in all circumstances is to endanger the life of
authority. Nobody likes the idea of chains,
but chains enable a constable to handle
prisoners without undue violence in case of
trouble. The only safe alternative is the gun,
and nobody wants that.
Perkins further says that 60,000 square miles
of country, “which, it might be argued, com-
prises the best land in the Territory and has
the best water supplies,” is native reserve. This
is sheer humbug. It is the worst land in the
Territory, the most rain-drenched, pest-ridden,
mosquito-infested in Australia outside Cape
York. Any Minister who talks that sort of
nonsense has not read the reports of his own
policemen who were stationed for a time in
the region of Caledon Bay not long ago. It
is country which has beaten back white men
for a century. Moreover, it is not true to say
that white persons may not enter these re-
serves without Government permission. A
dozen cases could be cited where they have
walked all over it. The number of whites and
Japanese who have been murdered on the
Arnhem coast tells the tale.
All this statement and the press publicity of
young, reporters who have never seen a wild
black, and whose legs stretch an inch every
time they write a word about the native ques-
tion, does no good. What is needed is
a little action by an experienced man.
F C. Urquhart, for instance, who once
was the hamstrung Administrator of the
Territory, and before that Commissioner
of Police in Queensland, still lives. He
knows the northern natives as no other man
alive-—he commanded the best detachments of
Black Police in the North in years gone by
and has a profound knowledge of Binghi’s
customs —and would devise a native policy in
ten minutes if they would let him. The native
policy of Queensland for 40 years has been
entirely free from the scandal which besets the
business in the Territory, and Bleakley, the Pro-
tector there, might well be given control over
the Territory as well. There are still as many
wild ac^s Cape York as in Arnhem Land.
Who ever hears of them in Sydney or Canberra?
Native crime, as The Bulletin suggested,
should be dealt with under a District Officer,
a la the Mandated Territory.
+
Maori and Pakeha.
“Avon” : Not since the last of the
Maori wars has there been such a strain
on the relations between Maori and
pakeha as has been felt in recent weeks.
The trouble arose out of the Auditor-
General’s comments on irregularities in
the expenditure of the Native Depart-
ment.
In the past the Audit Department
had no occasion to review that ad-
ministration, as the Native Department
spent no public money; but now it
administers a grant for relief of unem-
ployment. Apirana Ngata, Native Minis-
ter, as everybody admits, administered
the fund honestly and (from a Maori
standpoint) very wisely, but when regu-
lations hampered his ideas of justice and
expediency he disregarded regulations.
He explained this to the Committee of
Public Accounts, and later to Parliament.
Parliament said, in effect, that it had
full confidence in the Minister, representa-
tives of all parties speaking in the friend-
liest possible way. It seems just as well
they did. At the close of the debate
Ngata told the House, “speaking as a
Maori and not as a Minister,” that, if
there had been any departure from the
attitude of goodwill which the Maori
was accustomed to expect, “a lot of
queer things would have happened in the
next few months.” He had received
many messages from his people showing
that they were beginning to feel resent-
ment against the pakeha.
4
In a Sydney Tree.
“Roti”: A couple of days stretched out
on two chairs beside a second-storey
window have led me to reflect what a
conceited lot we are in thinking that we
are the world. The branches of a large
tree are just beyond my window. It used
to look a very ordinary tree to me, but
I have changed my mind. It has all the
features of the human world and most of
its personalities.
Its morning opens with Captain Adkins
and his band, who play the day in dis-
cordantly. Then Jack Lang arrives. He
is a large, dusky starling slightly dis-
colored through his habit of sleeping in
somebody else’s chimney, and he does
an early round of the taxation depart-
ments —I mean the spiders’ webs —and
cleans them up before anybody else is on
the spot. When “Tubby” Stevens and
Spooner come—two small, sedate, brown
fellows —there is, of course, the deuce
to pay. They spend the morning re-
garding the empty treasury and issuing
manifestoes, while occasionally Jack
returns from his chimney bringing Jock
—or is it Johanna? —Garden with him.
He flutters round the treetop, shouting
fit to bust. Every now and then Stevens
and Spooner say a nasty word to him and
he flies away.
There is, of course, a Lord Mayor on
the spot —self-elected. He sits on a high
branch and looks busy, moving only with
the shadow. I notice, through the field-
glasses, that most of the time he appears
to have one eye shut, but it doesn’t
prevent him seeing a fat caterpillar.
Occasionally, a sparrows’ council meeting
is held round him, a turbulent affair. He
doesn’t seem to care. He evidently holds
the balance of power.
The birds, like the politicians, talk most
of the time. When they get hungry they
swoop on the farmers. These are the ants
who are to be seen through the lenses toil-
ing and moiling and tugging. When they
are robbed they turn sadly round and
begin all over again. The capitalists, too,
the soft, vulnerable caterpillars and grubs,
suffer severely, but a few of them gain
immunity by their ability to camouflage
their possibilities. They can change
color —just as the human moneybag can
make a noise like a bankrupt, and tuck
reserves into safe hiding. But I think that
of the lot I admire the spiders most.
Placidly, they spin and spin and reap
their harvest, and the intelligence of them
is uncanny. If ever humanity has a suc-
cessor in possession of the earth it will
be the arachne —he is so full of purpose.
One thing appeared at first to be lack-
ing in my tree —a really good journalist.
But he was there. He appears each even-
ing and laughs at it all, but healthily and
without malice. Before his laughter the
Stevenses and the Langs go home to bed
bubbling with indignation. I have named
him James Edmond.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS."
“Here, this gains four hours a day. You must have put quicksand in it.”
“Veritas”: Candidates at a girls’ col-
lege exam, in Perth were asked to
give the diminutives of “mare,” “hen,”
“swan” and “Girl Guide.” One ten-year-
old, sorely troubled over the last word,
finally disposed of the question with
“Girl Guides are not old enough to,have
any diminutives.”
“S.T.S.”: South Aus. has had to give
up looking for citizens who landed with
Hindmarsh from H.M.S. Buffalo on Dec.
28, 1836. But it retains its reverence for
the pioneers, and at the annual cele-
brations at Glenelg much was made of
two veterans—representing each sex, and
each aged 95 —who arrived prior to 1840.
J. G. Moseley, native-born in 1845, re-
sponded for the 400 “old colonists” (up to
1855) who attended the lunch.
-* * * *
“Choom”: Every now and then some-
one arises and says wouldn’t it be beauti-
ful if we could do away with the awful
hotel bar and drink light
wines and beers in the open
air, listening to good music,
like the Continentals do?
Folk who talk like that
don’t realise that the cranks
who have written our licens-
ing legislation would allow
such things only over a pile
of dead bodies. The other
day I was in a Sydney pub.
My request for half a pint
with a dash o’ bitter was
drowned by a radio loud-
speaker reciting the progress
of a race meeting, so I got
lemonade in my beer, which
I detest. However, a little
later the tumult and the
shouting died and the
strains of a violin playing
Schumann’s “Traumerei”
were heard. I liked it; the
other blokes in the bar liked
it; the barmaid liked it
(it’s easy to tell), but after listening a few
seconds she tiptoed over and shut off the
switch. “Whaffor?” says I. “The law,”
says she. “Music is disorderly. Once I
got fined sixteen bob and the boss got
fined one pound fourteen because a chap
sang in here. He sang nicely, too. There
mustn’t be any music in a bar.” “Music
is disorderly”! Was there ever a more
brutal edict or one more offensive to
democracy?
* * *
“Rustchuck”: Roumania, where a
Prime Minister was shot down the other
day and a king’s love affairs and domes-
tic entanglements provide the European
press with a steady source of copy, seems
about as turbulent as any part of the
Balkans just now. Yet the fact remains
that Roumania isn’t a Balkan Statej and
dislikes being classed as one. It has been
described as “a Latin island in a Slav
sea,” and there is a lot in the national
names and manners and customs to sup-
port the description. It took no part in
the operations of the Balkan League when
Turkey was walloped in 1912-13, content-
ing itself with collaring a bit of territory
from its nearest neighbor when the Allies
began to fight among themselves. The
Roumanian, racially, is markedly different
from the nations surrounding him, even
if he has suffered somewhat from his
environment. At least he was different
until the Great War (in whiqh he found
himself on the wrong side early in the
piece and the right side at the finish) gave
him a vast increase of territory and popu-
lation, more than doubling both. Since
then he has doubtless become lqss of a
Latin and more of a Slav-cwra-Magyar.
* * * *
“Vestitus”: “Lives the man,” asked
Carlyle, “who can figure a naked Duke of
Windlestraw addressing a naked House of
“It’s two hours since we went to bed, and I don’t believe you’ve listened to a word
I’ve said.”
Lords?” —and the spectacle of a shirt-
sleeved peer addressing coatless noble-
men would be nearly as inconceivable in
England. But in Perth the other day,
during a heatwave, a Minister of the
Crown made history of a sort by address-
ing himself to his Parliamentary duties
minus his coat and waistcoat, and other
legislators followed the lead. Perspiring
members of the press gallery thereupon
sent a note to the Speaker, who had
already discarded his official trappings,
asking where they came in, and were
accommodatingly assured that they had
his Honor’s permission to “go as far as
they desired in regard to dress.” The
news of the innovation spread to the
Council, but that body lacked anyone
with the pioneering spirit; the President,
appealed to for permission to shed super-
fluous clobber, showed himself a stickler
for convention. He was merely the
servant of the House, he explained, and
unless directed otherwise must follow
immemorial precedent. Query: If men
can make laws in their shirt-sleeves, why
shouldn’t they administer them, when the
emergency arises, in the same attire? But
as long as Judges cling to their wigs, even
in the dog-days, there seems litle hope of
a rational dress movement in the courts.
H". * * *
“Mr. Chucks”: One Doctor Abbot, of
the Smithsonian Institute, announces that
the weather, everywhere on earth, substan-
tially repeats itself every 23 years. It
recalls the case of the carpenter’s mate
in one of Marryat’s books who firmly
believed that every happening under the
sun repeated itself at an interval of 5347
years. Ordered to fish a sprung foretop-
sail yard, he said to the first lieutenant
as he climbed slowly into the shrouds,
“Isn’t it strange to think that 5347 years
ago, sir, you were giving me the same
order?” Said the First Luff, “Yes, and
if you don’t get about the job a bit
quicker you’ll find that 5347 yefrrs-a&o you
were triced up at the weather gratings
for a dozen.”
* * * *
“Soso”: “Sixenate” errs (B. 27/12/’33)
in stating that a Sydney Court dismissed
an action for arrears of maintenance. The
Court has no such power ; the most it
can do, if satisfied that the husband can-
not comply with an order of maintenance,
is to refuse to enforce it, but that does
not free defendant from the liability. The
case may be restored at any time, at the
instance of the complainant, and the hus-
band will risk gaol if he cannot prove
that through no Tault 'of his own he is
unable to pay something on account.
* ¥ * *
“Ginger Mick”: The swastika may
have been originally a pagan symbol—
I have read somewhere that it was used
on Genghis Khan’s standards —but there
is plenty of evidence that the early-day
Christians utilised it, too. In the Aus-
tralian War Museum you may see the
“Shellal Mosaic,” the border of which
consists of swastikas. This mosaic came
from a Turkish trench at Shellal on the
Wadi Ghuzze, southern Palestine. Accord-
ing to padre Maitland Woods, it was the
floor of one of the earliest Christian
churches in Palestine.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: It was a recognised
obligation on the part of any other troops
to pick up for a Highlander, if he hap-
pened to drop it, his cane ; his lack of
underclothing (B. 27/12/’33) was liable
to make the act of stooping embarrassing.
But the kilted Scottish Rifles, which was
the most popular regiment in N.S.W. in
the old volunteer days, needed no such
assistance from trousered cobbers. There
was a row on one occasion when some
new arrivals in Australia joined the
regiment, and turned up on a ceremonial
parade (with a gusty southerly blowing)
with nothing beneath their kilts. In the
subsequent uproar the newcomers main-
tained that they were the only members
of the regiment who were in step with
Highland traditions, but later they yielded
to pressure. The Scottish Rifles in any
case were rather a joke. Members had
to have Scotch ancestry of some sort;
but that did not prevent a man who was
mainly Chinese from marching with the
kilt on. And the regiment teemed with
Murphys and O’Briens.
*
“Ace”: Watching the international
tennis players dancing about on the vel-
vety green turf at Milton (Q.), my
memory went back to the days when the
place was a swamp and a dumping-
ground for all sorts of rubbish. Years
ago the work of converting it into tennis
courts was taken in hand, but on one
particular patch turf obstinately refused
to grow. After some years someone took
a pick to investigate the subsoil. The very
first stroke penetrated the top of a large
tank, covered by about an inch of soil.
H 1 H*
“Cato”: In days when literary censor-
ship gets so much abuse I suppose any-
one who mildly ventures to say we could
do with more of it risks being torn to
death by vociferous champions of liberty.
Yet some recent books I have read are
enough, not to injure the morals, but to
turn the stomach. The flood of filth
began with “All Quiet on the Western
Front,” but at least “All Quiet” had this
much of justification, that any means of
picturing war and its incidentals in their
naked loathsomeness is commendable, and
that the more repulsive the picture the
better work it does. Some recent books
haven’t that much excuse. “Shake
Hands with the Devil” is a rather graphic
account of the civil war —it wasn’t much
less—in Ireland in 1919-20. The struggle
between the Black and Tans and
the I.R.A. was full of horror and atroci-
ties and outrages, but the difference
between this and “All Quiet” is that
many of the obscenities are not connected
with the fighting at all—they are as irre-
levant as they are gross. And a worse
example of what perhaps is only a pass-
ing phase may be found in “A Glaston-
bury Romance,” which has been praised
by a lady for its glamor and color. There
are passages and remarks in this glamor-
ous book of the sort a larrikin might
pencil on the wall of a public latrine. If
the public taste is really altering in the
direction of such muck as this, there
should be money in a good English trans-
lation of Emile Zola’s works —after all,
there wasn’t much in the way of beastli-
ness, unredeemed by wit, that Zola didn’t
get into print
THE EMDEN’S BELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In deep reflection
And retrospection
I often think of
That Emden bell.
What dire affliction,
Transcending fiction,
Were it blest with diction,
Its tongue could tell.
A right-down wonder,
’Bove ground and under,
This war-time plunder,
You must agree.
For fame undoubted
It has them outed,
Those bells of Mahony’s
On the River Lee.
From sea to dry land,
In your and my land,
On Garden Island
’Twas proudly set.
Aye, there they shrined it
And woke to find it
One misty morning
Had done a get.
To the Dom. ’twas hurried,
And sleuths were worried,
Till they found it buried
Beneath a tree,
Where it couldn’t tinkle
The cops a wrinkle,
Like the bells of Shandon
On the River Lee.
In the War Museum
With glad Te Deum
’Twas placed, in safety,
One thought, to rest.
But what use to chain it?
(And how explain it?)
When once again it
Became non est.
By plots that gravelled,
Through wiles unravelled,
Once more it travelled
By land or sea,
With less to cling by
Than bells they ring by
The pleasant waters
Of the River Lee.
O bell twice shaken
And twice retaken,
Will they save your bacon
Where next you’re stowed,
Now the “S. M. Herald”
Its dig. has perilled
To tote you back from
The Geelong road?
With all the hell of
A time you tell of
You’re earned a spell of
Plain R.I.P.
What yarns you could spill ’em
To shock and thrill ’em,
Those bells of Mahony’s
By the River Lee!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jack High”: The budding Eve! I
had to lean over the counter to take
the jug and the sixpence from her small
hand. “I want /zvepenn’orth of cream,
please,” she said with emphasis. “We
find,” she added with the precision of a
careful housewife, “that s/xpenn’orth
is more’n we can manage.” “Indeed,”
I said with equal gravity, and handed
back a penny change and a jug contain-
ing a good sixpennyworth. She held the
jug up appraisingly ; then, swiftly shed-
ding her dignity, she handed back the
penny. “An ice-block, please,” she said
briskly—“strawb’y and cream.”
* * * *
“Sartor”: It isn’t only Australian
boardinghouse-keepers and credulous
publicans whose acquaintance with the
British peerage is hazy. Sydney “Sun”
gave front-page prominence to a
New York competition for the grading of
the world’s ten best-dressed men. The
modern Beau Brummel whose name led*
all the rest, it transpired, was the Duke
of Westmorland, and some of the Duke’s
rather peevish remarks at having the
unsought honor thrust upon him were
duly recorded. The judges alleged to be
responsible for the momentous award
were “a committee of Hollywood and
London tailors” —which seems impro-
bable. Hollywood snips perhaps could
hardly be expected to know that there is
no such person as the Duke of Westmor-
"Did you give Dolly that copy of ‘What Every Girl Should Know’?”
Yes; and she’s writing a letter to the author suggesting a new chapter and a
couple of dozen corrections.”
land, but London ones would. The West-
morland title is no more than an earldom.
* * * *
“Mells”: New Year’s Day set the “S.
M. Herald” musing editorially on the
contrast between the present rushing age
and the days when news travelled in
more leisurely fashion. An illustration
from one of Joseph Conrad’s books was
employed to drive home the point. When
the famous novelist was on an English
wool clipper at this same period of the
year—“lB days out from Sydney in
1879” —a Yankee whaler was encoun-
tered which signalled: “Alaska —two
years out from New York—all well.”
Presently the two boats were alongside
one another exchanging seasonable greet-
ings, and from the wool clipper to the
whaler there also went a seasonable pre-
sent in the shape of
A wooden keg containing figs and other
provisions, together with a bundle of Sydney
“Heralds,” “Telegraphs” and “Bulletins,” with
news of all the world.
Conrad, or somebody, must have been
anticipatory, with regard to the Bulle-
tins anyhow, for the paper didn’t come
to light until 1880.
* * * *
“Dixie”: As a variant from current
(and out-of-date) magazines, a Brisbane
dentist uses as a waiting-room what must
be one of the finest private miniature
museums in Australia. Exhibits include
a miniature house and garden constructed
of mother-of-pearl shell; the preserved
head and neck of an eighteenth-century
hunting dog, with the collar bearing a
brass plate carrying the name and address
of its noble owner ; centuries-old news-
papers (one of them containing the
casualty list after Waterloo); swords,
battle-axes and a splendid collection of
native weapons from all over the world.
It takes quite a while to “do” the entire
collection, which serves its purpose
admirably.
* * * *
“Wing Commander”: Perhaps the most
important step yet taken towards the com-
plete Indianisation of the Indian Army
is the formation of tfie first brigade of
field artillery, manned and —presumably
—officered by Indian natives. In the days
of John Company the field artillery was
Indian as far as n.c.os. and the lower
rankings were concerned, but was offi-
cered by Britons —Roberts began his
career as a subaltern of Bengal artillery.
After the Mutiny, the Sirkar kept the
guns strictly in its own hands. There
were exceptions in the case of the moun-
tain batteries —members of the Anzac
Mounted Division will remember the
Indians with their tiny screw guns who
figured in the Sinai fighting.
* * * *
“MacWhirter”: The tendency in edu-
cation to-day, they tell me* is to wrap
the pills of learning in sugar and to
make a game of the business of pedagogy.
It must be a lot easier for the pupils and
the teachers, if they can maintain a
spirit of gaiety, than the methods the
folk who were educated 40 years ago
were up against, but I wonder how it
chimes with that granite-rock determina-
tion to teach which was a feature of the
Scottish dominies of my acquaintance. I
struck it not only in the dame’s school,
and in places where they teach Latin and
Greek, but in the founts of higher arts,
My tutor in boxing, a Macdonald, at
1®“*°?“ in e / ei ? te ™ L used to put on
hls faded P rofessional breeks and give
every one of us lads the father and the
mother of a hiding. He employed, as he
explained, every feint, slather and wallop
he had ever tried to teach us, and when
we left his tutelage he would say to each
and every one of us: “Weel, Mr. [what-
ever it was], ye may not be a verra guid
fechter, but, ma certes, ye canna say that
ye dinna ken what’s implied by the term
‘the noble airt o’ self-defence.’ ” Again,
when I studied harmony and counter-
point (theoretical) and pianoforte (prac-
tical) I fell into the clutches of another
Scottish zealot. When he got fed up
“My boy has always moved in the best of circles.”
“As you’ve never gone straight either, you should suit each other”
with the class he used to say: “Example
is better than precept, an’ onyway pre-
cept is wasted on you. I shall now play
to you the forty-eight preludes and fugues
of the immortal Bach, or till my strength
gies oot.” He usually got nearly to the
end of the first book ; once he did the lot.
When I left his academy he said to me:
“Guid-bye an’ guid luck. If ye’ve learnt
naught else ye hae a noddin’ acquaint-
ance wi’ the rudiments of music.”
* * :$c
“Walton”: All nations have their pet
delicacies for certain seasons ; the Ger-
mans, according fo a cable, celebrated
the New Year by ’consuming ten million
doughnuts and nearly
three million carp,
along with an unspeci-
fied quantity of
punch. The dough-
nuts and the punch
may be all right, but
the Teutonic pen-
chant for carp has
always puzzled me,
my own recollection
of the fish in England
being that it makes
the very poorest eat-
ing, being inspid and
full of small bones,
like chub, tench,
roach, dace and all
the other so-called
coarse fish of British
rivers. On looking
up authorities, how-
ever, I find that the
carp was esteemed a
luxury in England up
to three or four cen-
turies ago. The
monks, particularly,
devoted much atten-
tion to its culture, but
when the heavy hand
of Henry VIII. fell
upon the monasteries
the carp ponds were
abandoned, and the
fish, reverting to a
feral state, deterior-
ated lamentably.
Pond culture for carp
and other fish (Teich-
wirthschaft) survived in Europe to some
purpose, and last century the United
States began to make a success of it —
China has always specialised in this sort
of farming. But to-day not a single well-
conducted carp pond exists in England,
where there were once tens of thousands.
Meanwhile the German domesticated
fish has a world-wide reputation.
* * * *
“Sanger”: A Westralian publication
recalls that Tommy Walker, who rose to
be Attorney-General and finally Speaker
of the Assembly, was exploited by an
enterprising entrepreneur in the U.S.A.
when he was a lad of 14. The future
politician was billed as “The Boy Pro-
digy” and was guaranteed to answer at a
moment’s notice questions on all sorts of
intricate subjects, the impression being
encouraged that he received assistance
from spiritual agencies. Forty years
later an opponent got hold of the story
and gave it to a newspaper, in which th?
yarn was garbled and distorted cruelly.
The Attorney-General, it was repre-
sented, had been employed by Barnum as
“The Lightning Boy Calculator” or “The
Lancashire Nonpareil.” The editor then
went on to draw a highly-colored pic-
ture of Tommy in a cage at the “Great-
est Show on Earth,” sharing public
interest as an exhibit with “The Skeleton
Dude” and “The Wild Man from
Borneo.” Tommy immediately stigma-
tised the story as a vile and malevolent
invention, but it was some years before
he heard the last of “that job you had
with Barnum.”
* * * *
‘Marsh”: According to “L. 1.8.” (B.
20/12/’33), Bir-el-Abd and other places
in the Sinai the graves of the Turks who
had died from cholera were placarded by
signs in both German and English, as a
warning to the pursuing Light Horse. I
never located any of these “sporting ges-
tures” ; on the other hand, at a few wells
we found concrete evidence that cholera
germs had been emptied into the shallow
depths. None of us contracted cholera ;
our efficient camel transport provided us
with germ-free water supplies.
* * * *
“Willum John”: Whenever I see a
drawing by Oswald Pryor depicting one
of the old-time Methody chapels and
some of the Cousin Jacks who used to
worship therein, I am reminded of a local
preacher who lived in one of the many
little mining villages just outside of Ben-
digo in my young days. In this same
place was a miner who would sober up
once a year and “get saved” —for about
ten days. The good old local preacher
was much worried over the ultimate and
eternal fate of this hard-doer. He finally
gave it as his considered opinion that
“the only way to get that there Willum
Treboose to Heaven is to convert un
and shoot un while he’s hot.”
* * * *
“Wandana”: A new form of diving-
bell for salvaging wrecked ships is being
experimented with in U.S. waters. It is
described as a pear-shaped apparatus
accommodating one man, with portholes
at the top ; two arms attached to the sides
are equipped with jointed elbows, and the
wrists have interchangeable fingers.
About 25 to 30 years ago experiments
were made in Torres Strait with a diving-
bell inside of which a man sat operating
two arms with flexible fingers. The
device was intended for collecting pearl-
shell from the ocean bottom, as a sub-
stitute for the dress-driver, but it wasn’t
a success. Various other inventions in
diving apparatus have been tried ; one
which gives promise is a new type
of suit employing a highly-compressed
air mixture. If this is successful it may
mean big things for the pearling industry.
A WANDERER RETURNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Paris dress-designers have decided that women’s
waists, measurable in inches, will reappear this
year, displacing the semi-masculine, square-shouldered
silhouette.”
Are you list’ning, sisters, your frames who drape
With the latest goods from the modistes’
shrines?
You must bid farewell to the boyish shape
And the pseudo-masculine designs.
Prepare again for the hour-glass lines
That your mums and your grannies found so
dear
In the days when they were the clinging vines.
It’s back to the waists of yesteryear!
You have squared your shoulders with tricky
cape,
You have hid your curves till you looked like
pines;
Harlequin’s figure you sought to ape
Who were tenfold fairer with Columbine’s.
Now the mode decays and the craze declines;
The pendulum swings, the weathercocks veer;
The knell is rung of these monkey-shines—
It s back to the waists of yesteryear!
There’s work ahead for the telltale tape
That woman’s girth to the inch defines,
For Fashion’s fiat there’s none escape,
From the seventeens to the fifty-nines.
And a word from Paris, this bard opines,
Is a ukase stern and an order clear.
In vain are protests and useless whines —
It’s back to the waists of yesteryear!
What matter the unclad, gleaming spines,
The slacks so chic or the shorts so queer ">
There’ll be less for the ambient arm that
twines
When we’re back to the waists of yesteryear!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


VA
A World of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
“CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH H— SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 100% VIRGINIA
/'MCR
C/iCuMb 'CC
to
Sore, UvujoJA
POLITICAL POINTS
When things are bad Australia always
turns to gold-mining for help, and gold-
mining never fails it. In 1929 production
was 427,000 fine ounces, valued at
£1,814,457. Last year it was 805,000 fine
ounces, valued at £6,151,000. And it will
go still higher this year.
Sydney wool sales show a further 5
p.c. rise to about 19d. With the wheat
and butter slumps in progress, Australia
will depend more than ever on wool this
year, but the industry is still too heavily
burdened to be able to take proper advan-
tage of a situation otherwise favorable.
It would be different if the Lyons Gov-
ernment abolished its land ta£ and its
special 6 p.c. tax on property income.
Stevens has given T. J. Hartigan, whom
he placed at the head of the Railway
Department, a rise of £1250 p.a. to £5OOO,
less financial-emergency cut. The rail-
ways have made a less calamitous show-
ing since Hartigan took charge ; but they
are still losing money hand over fist. And
it is no time to be handing out rewards
in which the rank and file do not share.
When the Commonwealth Bank chair-
man was breathing his last, the Governor-
General congratulated the country on “its
firm and definite stand on bedrock prin-
ciples of business morality, its refusal to
capitulate either to adversity or expedi-
ency,” and mentioned among the fruits
of this policy the conversion loans.
The total annual savings of interest resulting
from those conversions aggregate £1,523,000,
and the saving in exchange £381,000.
It was mainly Gibson s work, and no
banker could have a finer epitaph.
C. H. Reading, who worked with
Robert Gibson on the Commonwealth
Bank board for six years, moves into the
vacancy at the head of the mahogany.
He is managing director of British Aus-
tralasian Tobacco, and was in the Union
Bank for six years. A Sydney newspaper
wanted Massy Greene. Not a bad poli-
tician as politicians go, but to appoint a
politician would have been a crime.
The Moore Government struck saints’
days (there were four) off the public-
holiday list in Queensland. It was
thought that Labor would restore them
to the calendar, but it has proved unex-
pectedly obstinate. The latest to stop a
negative was the St. Patrick’s Day com-
mittee, Labor Minister Hynes rubbing it
in by remarking that the cost of such
holidays was too big a burden on
industry.
Vic. Premier Argyll complains that in
the recent conversion of London loans
“precedence was given to another State.
Victoria still has between 14 and 15 mil-
lion pounds yet to convert. It is the only
State which has not had its full quota con-
verted.
It seems to have a grievance there ; but
Argyll is wrong in asserting that Vic-
toria has been the most provident of the
States. That distinction clearly belongs
to Tasmania. During the 19 years
1914-33, Vic.’s public debt increased from
£66,130,000 to £169,238,000 ; the Speck’s,
from £12,265,000 to £22,598,000.
In some respects Butler is the luckiest
of Premiers, although South Aus. is far
from being a lucky State. Because its
opponents were hopelessly divided, But-
ler’s party routed them at the general
election, and because the electoral dis-
tribution was all in its favor, it won 29
seats in a House of 46. The death of
Dr. Basedow enabled it to gain another
in Barossa, and it is highly improbable
that it will be defeated for the vacancy
in Alexandra caused by the death of
Laffer. Making the most of its good
fortune, the Butler party extended the
term of Parliament from three to five
years ; but the people may have some-
thing to say about that before the end of
the third year.
President Roosevelt has a low opinion
of the peacemakers whom he saw at Ver-
sailles in 1919. He calls them “so-called
statesmen,” and protests that the nations
they represent “handicapped the League
of Nations from infancy by seeking their
own profit and their own safety first.”
Still they did join the League, which is
more than the U.S.A. did, nor will the
U.S.A. join it under Roosevelt’s direc-
tion —he says so himself. In this atti-
tude it is seeking its own profit and its
own safety. It is not to be blamed for
that, but its President need not be so
dashed self-righteous.
The very able Grenfell Price has re-
turned to Adelaide Uni. with a poor
opinion of N.1.R.A., and with the con-
“In his message to Congress President Roosevelt made a bitter attack on Wall-street.
Then he announced his intention of borrowing ten thousand million dollars to finance ms
New Deal.”
“Take that an’ that, goldarn you! And now you go and cahf up ten thousand
million dahlars.”
viction that the Federal system in Roose-
velt’s country has “failed to protect the
weaker States as completely as in Aus-
tralia.”
In our case the most satisfactory course would
be for the Senators from the weaker States to
combine, regardless of party ties, and make the
Senate a States House, which the founders in-
tended it to be.
Wouldn’t it be better still for South Aus.,
Westralia and Tas. to throw their weight
behind the New State movements in N. S.
Wales and Queensland? The New Staters
are their natural allies.
John Bull wound up 1933 with 567,000
fewer unemployed than in December,
1932, and with an improvement of
£106,500,000 in Government finance,
comparing eight months of 1933 with the
corresponding period of 1932. The econo-
mic shindy with De Valera has made no
perceptible difference to J.B. — there has
been a loss of revenue but a gain in agri-
culture —but for the year to October 31
the Free State’s external trade declined
£33,000,000. De Valera takes comfort in
the thought that he has abolished the oath
of allegiance, but farmers who are not
fanatics would rather the oath and a
wide-open British market than no oath
and no market.
One result of Roosevelt’s national-
recovery measures is that bimetallism has
raised its head again. Australia is
interested, for the last free-silver move-
ment, which ended in the defeat of
Bryan for the Presidency in 1896, was
aimed not only at securing free coinage
in the U.S.A. but “at forcing the world
to adopt bimetallism.” One drawback
is that silver has a way of returning to
the Treasury. In the ’seventies and
’eighties, when the U.S.A. Government had
to buy not less than two million dollars’
worth of silver bullion per month and
coin it (the law was passed over the
President’s veto), 343,638,000 standard
dollars were coined in 11 years, and at
the end of the eleventh year not one-
fifth was in circulation. The rest had
drifted back in payment of dues and
taxes.
Stevens’s Government blundered badly
when it decided to let the Water and
Sewerage Board have the use of 2\ mil-
lions for loan works, mostly in munici-
palities where many, if not most, of the
ratepayers can’t pay their rates, much
less find money for sewerage connec-
tions. The board has a bad name for
bungled works and finance and extor-
tionate rating—so bad that the Govern-
ment had already resolved to reconsti-
tute it. Dunningham, the Minister of
Labor, now complains that tenders it
has accepted for the £2,500,000 job “dis-
close an increase in price of up to 100
p.c. on previous prices.” The Government
would have done a great deal better to
reserve the £2,500,000 for small hold-
ings, on the basis of the scheme recom-
mended to it by the shire councils, which
it welcomed and then pigeonholed.
Keen interest is being taken in the
coming Greater Brisbane elections, which
must be held by the last Saturday in
April. Everyone agrees that the polls
will afford an expression of opinion on
the performances of the Forgan Smith
Government, which has altered the ward
boundaries so as to conform with those
of the metropolitan electorates, most of
which are Labor strongholds. Labor has
already begun on the pre-selection work
and the other parties are getting ready.
Last time there were three anti-Labor
sections. This time solidarity will be the
watchword, though there will be an In-
dependent or two.
The municipal elections for the
Greater Brisbane Council will be marked
by a return to the original system of
letting the voters in mass elect the Lord
Mayor. When the Act was amended by
the Moore Government it was foolishly
resolved to return to the method of elect-
ting his Rabbitskins by the aldermen.
The result was the time-dishonored ex-
hibition which Sydney recently watched
with disgust in its own City Council.
Since the U.S.A. recognised them the
Red Russians have grown cocky. Lit-
vinoff has warned Japan that it “ ‘must’
cease its violent activities regarding the
Chinese Eastern Railway and restore our
violated rights” ; “must” also “show its
peaceful intentions by signing a non-
aggression pact.” The gentleman also
warns Hitler that “the Soviet will fight
if any attempt is made to realise Nazi
dreams of colonising the Ukraine.” Mr.
Litvinoff is of opinion that he and his
friends have “astonished the world by our
past calm.” What really astonishes the
world is their infernal cheek. From 1919
they tried to stir up civil war in the
“capitalist” countries, even to the extent
of inciting colored men to rise against
whites. Of course, this was cheaper and
safer than taking on the warlike peoples
with arms in their hands.
Vic. Taxpayers’ Association has been
pegging away at the Commonwealth
Government in the hope of inducing it to
stop taxing overseas income of persons
resident in Australia. It has succeeded
in getting an admission that the Com-
monwealth Government “recognises the
existence of objections,” but seemingly
the Government (or the Taxation De-
partment) dismisses all but legal ones,
for the letter goes on to imply that if
the Courts are against it the extortion
can be validated by “adopting h section
of the Statute of Westminster.” In
effect, morality does not enter into the
argument. Neither does the considera-
tion that such an extension of “legalism”
tends to prevent people coming to Aus-
tralia and spending their money here,
and drives others away.
Robert Gibson had a dry wit. On the
occasion of his only appearance in Par-
liament, the prize bore of the Senate put
a series of conundrums to him in the
form of a question. “Don’t you
the question should be divided?” the
President suggested. “Divided and sub-
divided,” said the bank chairman crisply.
Presently the prize bore shouted that it
was “a frame-up” and was ordered out.
It was mentioned that the Prime Minis-
ter had published the substance of con-
versations he had had with the bank
chairman. Whereupon Gibson:
A statement as to conversations is not evi-
dence. If the P.M. had said that Robert
Gibson said so-and-so, that would not be evi-
dence. Similarly, if R.G. had said that the
P.M. had said so-and-so, that would not be
evidence. My inclination is to try to hold
myself in the correct position.
Veterans of 1901 agreed that no man
called to the bar of the Commonwealth
Parliament ever made a greater impres-
sion than Gibson made that day.


After the Kiama Ghost
Attempt to F\nc an Umoerwor'-C 1 Queen
Search Partv for Mom-provinciw-
A.ustraua»n Artist.
Expedition TO OISCOVSR M r i LVOnSS
Successor.
PROVISION t=OR, the COMING* JOURNALISTIC Ve=AR, .
WHY STOP AT THE EMDEN BELL?


\>
V.'
I
MtL
m
'p
W
/fsl
&
i 5
;l
m
\
SK?:
K
I've heard all that before
b11 \...1m back on
SHELL
Cffie Qualify fpirif of Australia .. and of the World\
PERSONAL
ITEMS
C. H. Reading, the new chairman of
the Commonwealth Bank board, belongs
to a Warwickshire family, but was born
at Sydney and educated at Sydney Gram-
mar School, of which he has been a
trustee for ten years. He is managing
director of the British Australasian
Tobacco Co. Reading joined the bank
board in 1927 and has been a strong
supporter of the Gibson policy. He is 60
years of age, but doesn’t look it. The
success of the B.A.T. is a good earnest
of his business and financial ability.
Brisbane gets a bishop from an un-
usual source in J. C. W. Wand, Dean
of Oriel since 1925. Oriel is one of the
quieter, less ambitious colleges of Oxford
—a secluded old place tucked well away
from the roar of High and the bustle of
Carfax, but associated all the same with
some great colonisers and missionaries.
It was to Oriel that Cecil Rhodes re-
turned from Africa to matriculate ; there
the idea of the Rhodes scholarships was
born. The Archbishop-designate is an
authority on the lives of some of the
Apostles.
Had an 80th birthday in Adelaide, C.
A. Motteram, chairman of directors of
the biscuit-making co. of that name. He
had the unusual training for it of serving
his articles in the law-office of his father,
J. P. Motteram, in Melbourne.
Walter Cambridge, pioneer organiser
for the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’
Assoc, and one of the Ma State’s most
persistent fighters for the man on the
land, was born at Grenfell a little over
half a century back. The printing trade
was his first love, but he soon left that
WALTER CAMBRIDGE, secretary of
the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ Assoc.
for the editorial side of the business, and
at 23 became editor of the “Year Book
of Australia.” Tie’s been with the F. and
S. for 18 years, the last ten as secretary.
He represented all sections of the primary
industries at the 1929 inquiry into the
rural basic wage, and did it well. Cam-
bridge is a member of the Farmers Relief
Board and the Farrar Trust.
Melbourne produces male musical stars
about as frequently as political crises.
The latest is John Dudley, the 23-year-
old youth whose tenor has been drawing
the crowds to the King’s lately. Dudley
started his career in oratorio and on the
concert platform, for which the Taits
paired him with the pianist prodigy Philip
Hargreave. Then he replaced Frank
Tarrant in “The Quaker Girl” at the
JOHN DUDLEY, Melbourne’s latest
tenor.
Royal, Melbourne. He journeyed with
the co. to Sydney, where he appeared in
the same production, pleasing his em-
ployers so much that they rushed him
back to Melbourne and gave him five
days to prepare himself for the melan-
choly role of Prince Karl in “The
Student Prince” revival. He attracted
the attention of Apollo Granforte during
the last Williamsonian opera season.
“W.E.D.”: In The Bulletin (13 /12/’33)
is a reference to the power of heredity
as exemplified in “the astonishing Dorsch
family in 5.A.,” of which eight children
have won outstanding scholastic successes.
I believe that their amazing record is due
equally to their highly gifted mother
(nee Heyne). In the late ’eighties I
passed the Adelaide Uni. junior and
senior exams, at the same time as Agnes
Heyne, and the ease with which she out-
distanced every other candidate on every
subject was paralysing.
Vernon Smith, who succeeds O. W.
Darch as g.m. of the Shell Co., has seen
a great deal more of the world than
most men. Born in England, he . was
educated in Paris and at Cambridge,
where he held an open exhibition at St.
John’s and took his B.A. with first-class
honors. From Cambridge he went into
the Duke of Wellington’s Regiment at
the outbreak of war, transferring two
years later to the Indian Army. Hfe
served as a captain in Mespot. and in
the third Afghanistan War, coming out
of the first with a mention in dispatches
and from the second with the Kaisar-i-
Hind medal with clasp. He has repre-
sented Shell at Singapore, Ipoh, Kuala
Lumpur, Singapore again and Mel-
bourne ; he was assistant g.m. for three
years.
There are some men who are born to
happiness. William H. Woodin, late Sec-
retary of the U.S.A.’s Treasury, is one of
them. He’s just been poured out of
Franklin Roosevelt’s Cabinet. Every
photograph of him in an official capacity
exhibits a man plunged in gloom. But
he had his magic moment even when
immersed in the cares of office. This
was when the Philadelphia Symphony
Orchestra (America’s opposite number to
Henry Woods’s) performed Woodin s
symphonic suite “The Covered Wagon.”
Zimbalist was the solo violinist; Stokow-
ski conducted ; Deems Taylor, doyen of
N’Yark musical critics, attended and gave
the work his blessing. A photographic
group of the quartette, flash-snapped just
after the performance, shows Woodin
looking like a soul just welcomed into
Paradise. Like his predecessor as Treas-
urer, Andy Mellon, Woodin rolls in
wealth. But on the occasion when the
photograph was taken he was in a world
(even in America the leading musicians
and the leading critics are honest) where
ten billion dollars wouldn’t have weighed
a feather.
The war gave his big chance to Col.
Alfred Hudson, just dead in Adelaide at
71. “Ordnance” was his strong point in
the military forces of S.A., and he was
mainly responsible for equipping all
troops —having experience dating back to
the Boer trouble. He was so good at it
that he was transferred to take charge in
Sydney.
It was given out recently that Tas.
Premier McPhee would resign early this
year, but it is now doubtful whether he
will; anyway, the faithful are urging
him not to. McPhee is a Yan Yean (Vic.)
product, and has remained a water addict
to this day. In Parliament since 1919, his
first taste of office came three years later,
when for ten months he was Chief Sec.
in the Hayes Cabinet. He resigned with
the friendly concurrence of his col-
leagues ; the story went that a rival agent
for typewriting machines, taking advan-
tage of Mac’s occupancy of an office of
profit under the Crown, was scooping the
pool in sales of typewriters to Govern-
ment departments, and this was more than
the thrifty McPhee could stand. Though
the only pre-depression Premier still on
the job, he has never found official life
attractive.
J. N. Greenwood is perhaps the most
eminent metallurgist in his line in Aus-
tralia. He is a Manchester University
man who got his M.Sc. after a brilliant
honors course with a thesis on copper-
aluminium alloys. He became a D.Sc. of
the University in 1922. During the
critical period of the war from 1916 to
1919 he was chief research assistant to
Armstrong Whitworths, and then became
head of the research department of the
J. N. GREENWOOD, Professor of
Metallurgy at Melbourne University.
great Sam Fox firm. He was Mel-
bourne’s Professor of Metallurgy in 1924.
He has published a number of learned
treatises on metallurgy and pyrometry,
and in his lighter moments, when there is
no aluminium about to play with, he in-
dulges in a peculiarly Australian hobby
—bush clearing. Recently he visited the
U.S.S.R., and his remarks on his return
generated a temperature at Melbourne
University which must have reminded
their maker of the interior of a gun-steel
furnace.
A. C. (“Lum”) Rymill, who was re-
cently elected to the Adelaide City Coun-
cil, is only 26. He is a son of A. G.
Rvmill, and is a solicitor, educated at
St Peter’s and Adelaide Uni. Last year
he kept up the Rymill reputation for
A. C. RYMILL, youngest member of the
Adelaide City Council.
eminence in sport by retaining the Griffith
Cup and the Australian speedboat cham-
pionship for his family, which has held it
for some years. He is a cousin of Jack
Rymill, formerly a well-known inter-State
bat, and of W. S. Rymill, the golfer.
Charles E. Eccles, Kalgoorlie’s inde-
fatigable Town Clerk, found time for a
holiday trip to Sydney and the Blue
Mountains this year. He gives an in-
spiriting account of things in the West-
ralian goldfields capital; there has been
nothing in the nature of a boom Kal-
goorlie retains bitter memories of Bull-
finch and Hampton Plains —but the record
of the last three years has been one of
reviving prosperity and steady progress.
Even the builder has been kept busy, and
the new houses are of a much better class
than the old ones, while shops untenanted
for years have taken a new lease of
activity. Charley Eccles is only the
third Town Clerk Kalgoorlie has had—
the municipality is but 38 years old—and
he has held office for 24 of them. He
succeeded young to the job and looks
like being a stayer.
Dr. Arthur Barton Pilgrim Amies, the
new professor of dental science at Melb.
University, is a bare 31, but he has fewer
letters in his name than in the titles he can
tack after it. He graduated in his home
town in 1924, and has since studied in
dental schools in Britain, Europe and
the United States.
The business community of Sydney
will miss W. E. Forsyth, who retires from
the N. S. Wales Stamp Commissioner-
ship on reaching the age limit. He is,
of course, of Scots origin, as any Stamp
Commissioner should be, but he had the
faculty of taking money from the com-
mercial world with an air that made it
almost a pleasure to be separated
from it. His last years in office
were strenuous. Unemployment taxes
trebled the departmental income and the
depression brought his anxious clients
round his ears in a cloud. But W.E.
was rarely perturbed by the deluge of
request and plea which fell upon him.
He began his career 41 years ago as a
Water Police Court clerk, but in 1903,
after roving round various departments,
he came into the Stamp Commissioner’s
office, and there he stayed. He is a
keen cricket lover and founded the
Petersham club as well as the local base-
ball club. He was an original member
of the N.S.W. Public Service Association.


■ ' .si 1
mm
HH
m
u
n .
jHF*~
■■V' ■ .-W.
: 1
IP
V
SI
R
g®3
hh
'
HH|i ■ ■ 1
|§®|S
§gg| r<t< , - ; I
!*» i t;v> ,-, v
II -—MH.————
,- dgg
.: 'aigßlMlplip
mmlllwi
m
a
it
K
E
jHHMMI
am
I
:
■fl
i
mam
.. :•
■
IB
Hi
■
■
HP!
I ■
.
H
Hi
fll»igll»g
-jHr H
HMHHHHHHi
RRRRMHBRHi
H
■
I
I
W//m ■
m
mm
m
H I' ' " ■ ' ' ■ ' ' '. j
RRHRRRRRR '
; ? ;: =-
z.r If. > .f> ■ ; ‘.. : -■ ■■'; ;: ■:'; :
I
JS&* *
WWM
mf mb.
: :;tvy
mm A
mmwJßn
m
■
ii
Illi
■
*
w*
o
■a
o
>:^3
H
■
;
I
IPf^i
MUIIS
ISSgIS!
■
' :
'r'"
STARS and
METEORS
IV/TETEORS flash across the skies, dazzling
in their momentary brilliance, before
dissolving in the gaseous heat of their own
velocity.
However brilliant Meteors may be they are
useless for guidance the ship that comes
home, lays its course by the known Stars, the
permanent beacons to security and success.
Looking back over the past twenty years
and more, many meteoric business concerns
of various kinds come to mind, which in
their brief career have but served to add to
the lustre of those that have
prevailed.
For over twenty years the unfailing
guidance of the O’Brien Publicity
Company has helped to bring home
many business ships to their har-
bours of good Fortune and
Prosperity.
The steady growth of this firm,
from small beginnings, is in itself
its best recommendation to those
who wish to place their advertising
welfare in the hands of competent,
experienced people.
The 0 Brien Riblicity Co.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co.
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct. Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1923.. 21.318 11 p.c. = 9,180 7,500 4638 52,125
Transferred to capital, £11,923 .. 40,202
1924.. 18,693 10 p.c. = 9,538 .5,000 4155 44,357
1925.. 15,358 10 „ „ 9,538 5,250 570 44,927
1926.. 20,065 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 5527 50,454
1927.. 22,533 22i „ ~21,461 5,000 46,526
1928.. 22,963 10 „ „ 9,538 11,000 2425 48,951
Profit on sale of assets, £875 .. 49,826
1929.. 15,990 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 1452 51,278
1930.. 16,172 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1634 52,912
1931.. 16,415 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 1877 54,789
1932.. 16,825 10 .. ~ 9,538 5.000 2287 57,076
1933.. 17,305 19.3„ „ 18,470 5,000 50,901
Founded in 1871 by A. J. Burns, a
grand-nephew of Bobbie Burns, the busi-
ness became a public co. two years later.
Its first chairman was John Roberts, who
still sits at the head of the board table.
The co. celebrates the unique event of its
own diamond jubilee and that of its
chairman as such by handing share-
holders a cash bonus of 7s. 6d. per share
in addition to the usual 10 p.c. div., mak-
ing the average over the last 60 years
8.5 p.c.—only once, in 1876, have share-
holders been passed by.
While technical efficiency has enabled
the co. to fight both prejudice and com-
petition (its products have gained
awards in Britain, Vienna, U.S.A.,
Canada and Australia as well as Maori-
land), liberal allowances for depreciation,
etc., have allowed it to keep plant abreast
of modern developments and its finances
snug:—
1914. 1927. 1932. 19.33.
Liabilities.. .. £12,719 £13,751 £17,241 £18,681
Premises, plant, etc. 66,391 42,807 37,315 35,129
Stocks .. .. 44,407 44,999 32,402 31,756
Book debts, etc... 10,705 28,155 20,779 18,219
Cash & investments 70,491 99,753 109,497
Last year £2186 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets, leav-
ing the figure at little more than
half what it was in 1914, notwithstanding
substantial additions meanwhile. Stocks,
too, appear to be conservatively valued
(they are at their lowest figure for over
20 years), debtors’ balances are moderate,
and the amount of cash and Government
securities (up £9744) is substantial. In-
cluding stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus was £5098 stronger than at the
previous balance at £140,791, equal to
295. 6d. per pound of paid capital.
The slip of £1579 in last year’s gross
earnings, and £4Bl besides, was offset by
savings in exes. (£24,045). After visibly
striking off the usual £5OOO for deprecia-
tion (shown as written off in the table),
enough remained to show 12.5 p.c. on
capital as against 12.4, 11.9, 11.7, 11.5
and 18.8 p.c. back to 1928.
On the market £8 10s. is offered for
the £5 shares paid to £4 as against £7
a year ago. The return at £8 10s. is
4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is £6 2s. Bd. per share in net tan-
gibles.
Australasian Catholic Assurance (Sydney)
Ex-
June, Income. Claims, penses. Surplus. Funds.*
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. Assurance funds, £13,138
Less Goodwill, 2,500 .. 10,638
1926.. 50,253 1524 28,963 19,766 30,404
1927.. 64,430 1739 33,764 28,927 59,331
1928.. 84,900 3333 42,308 39,259 98,590
1929.. 114,290 4582 56,959 52,749 151,339
1930.. 140,411 6179 60,200 74,032 225,371
Added establishment account, £522.. 224,849
1931.. 152,956 9867 60,373 82,716 307,565
Accumulated pref. divs. (7 p.c.) and
5 p.c. on ords. paid, £4695 .. 302,870
1932.. 152,153 21,357 56,424 73,384 t 376,254
1933.. 163,842 29,637 59,005 74,212 f 450,466
*Net funds apart from capital,
f After paying 7 p.c. on prefs. and ords.
Here is an example of what can be done
by a well-managed young life office. It
started off in 1921 with a capital of
£14,512. Last balance-day the assurance
funds totalled £450,466, and, after reduc-
ing the basis of anticipated interest return
from 4 p.c. to p.c., the actuary recom-
mended O.D. bonuses of £2 ss. p.c. on
whole-of-life policies and £1 10s. p.c. on
endowment assurances. Industrial whole-
of-life policy-holders benefited at the rate
of £1 ss. p.c. Shareholders received an
all-round 7 p.c., and there was £11,613
left to steady future bonuses after
actuarial reserves had been strengthened
by £11,312.
At June 30, £327,395 of the business
in force was in the Ordinary and
£1,929,807 (85 p.c.) in the Industrial de-
partment. The year’s net premiums
(£142,286, up £10,370) were gathered at
a cost of 38.2 p.c., excluding taxation
—a reduction of nearly 2 p.c. com-
pared with the previous term. This
movement is encouraging; also, the
net interest return was satisfactory at
£3 18s. p.c. on total funds, including capi-
tal (it dropped from £4 10s. p.c. in the
previous year owing to interest-reduction
and other causes), showing a margin of
Bs. p.c. over the rate now assumed.
With a favorable mortality experience
and less worry attached to investments,
the outlook for the co.’s policy-holders
continues to look bright.
Chief source of profit has been interest
from . first-mortgage investments ; these
represented 58.7 p.c. of the assets at June
30, as against 82.1 p.c. three years ago:
1927. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Capital .. .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* . . 672 4,935 3,344 4,260
Mortgages . . 43,138 207,775 246,903 276,571
Govt, securities .. 25,758 26,716 118,925 123,864
Cash, etc. . . 1,320 1,327 4,180 11,407
Debtors .. . . 466 1,788 953 1,291
Doans on policies 154 3,251 13,065 17,948
Equipment . . . 2,727 4,696 4,897 4,605
Shares in other cos. 1,050 1,682 3,000 3,250
Freeholds . . 3,273 32,008
*Other than under policies.
The funds turned in £21,422 gross (up
£1185) last year ; taxes took £4764. Gov-
ernment stocks, bought mostly below par,
accounted for 26.3 p.c. of the assets as
against 30.1 p.c. in 1932. Freeholds
(£32,008) are largely rent-producing flats,
and show good returns, the chairman
says. The favorable rate of interest
netted, despite difficult conditions in the
real-estate market, suggests that the co.’s
investments are a well-selected lot.
In 1932 shareholders unanimously
agreed to reduce their share in the profits
from 20 p.c. to 10 p.c. ; policy-holders
are now entitled to 90 p.c. That, of
course, should mean better bonuses. The
management deserves congratulation on
the figures to date.
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 102,858 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 „ „ 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation . . 27,861 291,357
1926. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation .. 30,431 258,301
1927.. 45,881 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation . . 10,632 236.990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. = 22,500 10;951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1930.. 28,939 2$ „ „ 18,750 10,374 216,405
1931.. 1,201 Nil 11,601 206,005
Loss.
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Profit.
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
Two-fifths of the £750,000 of capital is
bonus scrip, handed out in the recon-
struction of 1919. Presently the more
general use of reinforced concrete and
steel and competition from imported
timbers brought years of sorrow to the
industry. Then, weakened by the pro-
longed struggle, slump sent many timber
traders to the wall, and the market be-
came flooded with liquidation stocks,
making it impossible for the survivors
to earn satisfactory returns on the capi-
tal invested, notwithstanding that the said
capital was often assisted by substantial
reserves. Since the close of accounts in
1925 shareholders in this Kauri co. have
averaged only a share over 3 p.c., and
reserves have had to be raided for no
less than £143,227 to pay the meagre dis-
tributions and cover trading and other
losses. All this is not very encouraging
for forestry bondholders who look for
rich returns from the timber trade.
Last year the tide turned. Gross earn-
ings (£57,022) were £34,484 better, thanks
to increased activity in the building
trade. Exes. (£34,749) were pulled back
£2367, and, after allowing for deprecia-
tion (shown as written off in the table),
there was enough to show 1.3 p.c. on
capital as against losses of £25,950 and
£10,400 in ’32 and ’3l respectively.
Finances are snug, so shareholders were
handed 2 p.c., though reserves had to be
tapped for £4064 to do it. Obviously
trade needs to revive a lot yet before
satisfactory divs. can be expected.
At the moment the co. has more money
than it can find employment for in the
business:
1922. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 161,178 13,275 27,705 12,431
Freeholds .. 155,646 98,891 85,966 81,041
Leaseholds .. 133,409 57,795 47,300 41,311
Plant, etc. .. 162,605 169,196 142,857 132,036
Stocks, etc... 412,997 226,303 138,255 141,191
Book debts .. 116,718 74,218 77,233 67,640
Shares .. 93,166 148,471 148,428 148,717
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc... 94,072 223,549 317,716 341,478
Including stocks but not shareholdings,
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£537,878) was £32,379.
At the end of Oct. outside liabilities were
more than five times covered by debtors’
balances alone. Cash and investments
(up £23,762) were equal to 11s. 4d. per
share. How much of the £341,478 will
be required for trading purposes in the
future, the board itself cannot say defi-
nitely at the moment. Should it not all
be wanted, then a part return of capital
would make it easier to pay better divs.
on the remaining capital. The whole
question, however, is one of expediency,
and the board ought to be the best judge
in the matter.
At 16s. 3d. the 255. paid shares return
3 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis, or 5.3 p.c.
on a 3| p.c. distribution. The net tan-
gible cover is 30s. lOd. per share.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
1923.. 23,068 8 p.c.= 17,231 5,837 62,989
1924.. 31,455 10 „ ~ 25.483 5,972 68,961
1925.. 38,342 9 ~ ~ 25,607 12.735 81,696
1926.. 36,230 9 „ , 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927.. 44,950 10 „ „ 33,492 11,458 102,384
1928.. 48,214 10 „ „ 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929.. 47,720 10 ~ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10 ~ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931.. 35,383 7„ „ 28,000 1 . „ e „
Contingency reserve, £3OOO j 140,d0j
Q’land Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 .. 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c.= 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933.. 35,890 4„ „ 27.042 ) , B , R 197 897
Contingency reserve, £3OOO } ' ’° 4B 137,8-7
Two years ago there were three building
and deposit banks in Brisbane. Follow-
ing depositors’ nervousness, the Perma-
nent absorbed the Queensland Deposit
Bank and later took over a large part
of the assets and liabilities of the sus-
pended Federal. The Permanent’s capi-
tal has thus grown from £400,000 in
1931 to £682,000 at last balance.
But profit-earning is harder. Apart
from the reduction in the margin of in-
terest earnings and difficulty in putting
funds out profitably, taxation, particu-
larly on property income, has been a
crushing burden. Last term interest and
other earnings amounted to £129,004 (up
£24,690); operating exes, ran off with
£2760 more at £68,384, and, after trans-
ferring £24,730 to taxation reserve (mak-
ing it £30,000), net profit (£35,890)
showed an improvement of £5807. It
was equal to 5.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 5.4, 8.8 and 12.4 p.c. in the three
preceding years. A 4 p.c. div. was paid,
and £3OOO carried to contingency reserve,
leaving £5848 to swell the general lay-by.
During the four years to 1930 the co.
paid a steady 10 p.c.
Though last year’s provision for taxa-
tion seems to be in excess of actual re-
quirements, it is a wise precaution. Rates
and taxes during the term absorbed
9s. 2.4 d. of each £1 of the co.’s net
income. But the Federal property impost
has been reduced from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c.,
and this should save the co. about £3500
a year on present figures.
Liquids, upon which the co. earns low
interest, are piling up: —-
1919. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £101,433 £400,000 £675,569 £682,600
Deposits, etc. 272,139 910,935 1,380,587 1,476,540
Premises .. 10,741 26,500 77,500 63,440
Advances, etc. 335,277 1,092,323 1,726,246 1,761,101
Public securities
and cash.. 65,750 354,467 407,450 506,015
Depositors could see over £33 of every
£lOO coming to them in cash (£475,836)
and Government stock (£30,179) at
balance-day. The co. was then holding
only 365. sd. of the public’s money for
every £1 of its own funds. Though an
extra £95,953 came in on deposit last
term, only £34,855 of it had been em-
ployed up to August 31. All this makes
for strength, but a low rate of profit is
likely until the property market livens.
Still, something better than 4 p.c. is a
possibility in the near future.
Visible net tangibles amount to 235. 9d.
per share. At 21s. the return is 3.8 p.c.
on last year’s div. basis, or 4.7 p.c. if
5 p.c. were handed out.
Producers’ Co-op. Distributing Society
„ Net To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 22,920 7 p.c. = 13,300 9,620 7,000
Reserves.
1927.. 23,643 7 „,, 13,881 9,763 2,762
1928.. 15,434 7 „ „ 14,164 1,270 4,032
1929.. 26,093 7 „ „ 15,475 10,618 14,650
Added goodwill, £15,350 ) . _ OO
1930.. 2,432 Nil 2,432 j 1,732
Loss.
1931.. 718 Nil 1,014
Profit.
1932.. 7,116 2* p.c. = 5,200 1,916 2,930
Added goodwill, £650 .. .. 2,280
1933.. 12,571 3 p.c. = 6,120 6,451 8,731
This co., formed in 1925, is an amal-
gamation of the Coastal Farmers’ Society,
one of the pioneers of co-operative mar-
keting in N. S. Wales, and the Berrima
Co., an old competitor. Suppliers bene-
fited immediately from lower handling
costs, though they have probably gained
most through establishment in London of
twQ co-operative selling houses, Overseas
Farmers’ Co-op. Federations, Ltd., and
Empire Dairies, Ltd., through which
farmers who sell on a co-operative basis
both here and in Maoriland are able to
control the marketing of their export
surplus.
The co.’s turnover has fluctuated
according to seasons and prices, and com-
mission earnings, etc., have behaved
accordingly, as the following table
shows:
, —Exes. p.c. of—,,
Commis- Corn-
Turnover. sion, etc. Exes. Turnover, mission.
£ £ £
1926. .5,031,249 206,145 183,225 £3/12/10 88.8 p.c.
1927. .4,636,943 206.991 183,358 £3/19/1 88.5 „
1928. .4,750,000 201,692 186,258 £3/18/5 92.3 „
1929. .4,996,990 213,875 187,782 £3/15/2 87.8 „
1930. .4,825,978 198,339 195,907 £4/1/2 98.7 „
1931. .3,973,050 173,006 173,724 £4/7/- 100.1 „
1932. .3,886,358 174,464 167,348 £4/6/- 95.9 „
1933. .3,801,385 171,194 158,623 £4/3/5 92.6 „
Last year the co. handled a lot more
butter, cheese and fruit at £8725 less cost.
So, despite a shrinkage of £84,973 in turn-
over, due to a further fall in prices, which
was accompanied by a contraction of
£3270 in commissions, etc., the net
result was £5455 better at 6.1 p.c. on
capital as against 4.3 p.c. and a loss for
the two preceding years. That is dis-
regarding an unexplained addition of
£650 to goodwill (£14,650), not treated as
an asset herein. Half a point was added
to the div., making it 3 p.c., the average
since the merger being approximately
4.2 p.c.
To carry an extra £22,620 of book debts
and clip £19,955 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £19,955, and reduced
stocks by £12,399:
1927. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £198,311 £208,294 £207,995 £203,992
Overdraft . . 75,733 42,821 12,428 32,383
Other liabilities 258,261 152,984 176,140 162,478
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 68,366 60,387 58,511 58,731
Plant.. .. 33,180 29,680 26,086 24,648
Shares other cos. 26,970 26,543 26,685 26,690
Stocks . . 68,506 49,885 69,324 56,985
Book debts . . 134,682 228,501 211,888 234,508
Cash .. .. 19,304 10,132 12,212 12,156
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£108,788, including
stocks) was £3932. When the books
closed the amount coming to consignors
(£74,630) was equal to little more than
a week’s supplies, which is as it
should be.
As for the current term, Australian
butter was fetching only 675. in London
last week-end as against 90s. a year ago ;
over the same period the Sydney
price has dropped from 1235. to 117 s. As
from Dec. 18 exports have been restricted
by 20 p.c. What effect this will ulti-
mately have upon the future of butter
prices will depend largely upon the course
of demand in Britain.
Broomfields, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 3,740 2$ p.c. = 3,165 575 277
Loss. Deficit.
1924.. 4,859 Nil 4,r>82
Assets written down, £38,340 .. 42,922
1925.. 266 Nil 266 42,656
Capital written down, £42,656..
Reserves.
1926.. 15,894 3 p.c. = 2,544 13,350 13.350
1927.. 3,900 4 „ „ 3,399 501 13.851
1928.. 2,409 3 „ „ 2,551 13,709
1929.. 2,024 3 „ „ 2,553 13,180
Loss.
1930.. 454 Nil 12,726
To bad debts reserve, £2726 .'. 10,000
1931.. 5,322 Nil —4,67 S
1932.. 1,703 Nil 2,975
1933.. 2,975 Nil
That table tells of the trials and tribula-
tions of the ship-chandlery and hardware
trade. The co. took over John Broom-
field’s business in 1917, and things looked
good enough to scatter £31,500 of bonus
scrip three years later. Since then the
story has been one of contracting turn-
over and receding values, and, of course,
trouble with stocks and debtors’ balances.
To make book values more truly repre-
sent the real state of affairs, two cuts of
ss. per share each were made in capital.
Nevertheless, for the nine years to the
close of accounts in 1929, shareholders
averaged only 2\ p.c.; they have gone
hungry since, and losses left the cupboard
visibly bare when the books last closed.
Gross earnings, which were £39,428 in
1927, were £18,851 last year, when the
slip was £2545. Exes. (£21,825, including
£287 reserved for depreciation and £669
for bad debts). were £429 heavier, leav-
ing the loss £1272 greater than the pre-
vious year’s at £2975. Stocks, down
£3032, were the trouble ; turnover im-
proved. Still, slow-moving lines are poor
profit-earners, especially when competi-
tion is keen and trading conditions are
dull.
Balance-sheet movements suggest that
trade was a bit better:
1922. 1928. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £169,230 £85,037 £85,152 £85,154
Mortgages . . —• 25,000 25,000 25,000
Sundry creditors 60,373 33,140 12,226 14,341
Premises and
plant . . 54,079 44,361 43,547 43,520
Stocks . . 89,580 78,140 59,929 56,897
Book debts . . 42,872 36,833 21,697 23,849
Cash . . . . 118 248 180 230
Including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£41,635) slipped £2945 over the
twelvemonth.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at ss. 6d. as against 3s. 6d. a year
ago.
West Australian Finance, Ltd.
Towards
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £13,413.. .. 13,413
1927.. 2,152 74 p.c. = 1947 205 13,208
Added preliminary exes., £1736 . . 14,944
1928.. 5,018 74 p.c. = 50C.1 15,007
1929.. 8,704 8| „ „ 6546 2158 12,849
1930.. 7,674 64 „ „ 4687 2987 9,862
Loss.
1931.. 13,522 Nil 23,384
1932.. 7,987 Nil 31,371
Capital written off, £30,000 .. 1,371
' Capital returned, £7500.
Profit.
1933.. 1,650 3 p.c. = 1125 425 846
This little concern, which set up in
Perth in 1926 to discount paper in the
motor and farm-implement trades, soon
got its toes trodden upon. It put out
150,000 £1 shares called to 10s. at a cost
of £15,149 —brokerage, etc., is invariably
heavy where shares are not paid up in
full. Then, tempted by marginal gains
on the use of borrowed funds, the co.
went to its bankers, and shareholders
averaged 7.7 p.c. in hastily distributed
divs. for the four years to the close of
accounts in 1930. With the change in


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign, patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants* Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.-— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.— Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. Advt.
He * * *
ASSAYS.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Special facilities for handling large batches ox
samples expeditiously under highly qualified jassayer.
* * * *
THE ROAD TO NET PROFIT. The path to more
net profit lies in the proper functioning of finance,
production and merchandising. Our staff of sales
consultants, engineers and cost analysts is equipped
to investigate and reorganise these fundamentals of
business. Consultation incurs no obligation. B. V.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne,
0.1.— Advt.
TESTING of GOLD ORES
If you have a Refractory Gold Ore problem,
write us particulars and send sample for
examination. . ~ .. . ,
We advise regarding most suitable method or
treatment, type and cost of correct Plant,
including Plow Sheet.
A. VICTOR LEGO O & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
**A sure friend in uncertain times ”
M
y.^M
m
■ ■
On making old age
COMFORTABLE
SOME widows have to go out working to keep body
and soul together. Other widows are happy in the
possession of incomes large enough to keep them
in comfort and contentment.
What is the difference Y Generally it is a matter of
Life Assurance. Some husbands become members of
the A.M.P. and assure their lives. Other husbands
neglect to take this step.
For hundreds of thousands of widows membership of
their husbands in the A.M.P. has meant comfort in
their old age. Every young wife in the land should
see that her husband becomes a member of the A.M.P.
so that both of them may have comfort and security
and peace throughout their lives.
“Investing in Happiness,” a new book recently issued
by the Society, shows how easy it is to make old age
comfortable through the A.M.P. Send for a copy. It
is free to all. Better still, ask the nearest A.M.P. repre-
sentative to call and explain how the Society, “one of
the greatest financial institutions in the world,” with
£90,000,000 of assets, helps its members.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
AMP
'a sure friend
in uncertain times’
SOCIETY
conditions, mortgages on future incorftes
proved to be dubious assets; creditors
began to ask for their money, as
they mostly do in hard times ; bad debts
became more numerous, and moratorium
and interest-reduction legislation added
to the difficulties.
Thus much of what the board had pre-
viously called profit turned out to be
losses, which raised the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles to £31,371
(= 4s. lOd. per share) at Sept. 30, 1932.
Of this £30,000 has been rubbed out by
striking 4s. per share off capital, and
another shilling (£7500) was returned in
cash, leaving paid capital at £37,500 in
fully-paid ss. shares.
Last year a profit of £1650 was
claimed, and shareholders got 3 p.c.,
equal to \\ p.c. on the amount of capital
they originally put up. Earning capacity
looks like remaining moderate, and every-
thing depends upon the soundness or
otherwise of debtors’ balances:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. £74,928 £75,000 £75,000 £37,500
Liabilities .. 49,659 2,627 142 12
Advances, book
debts, etc. . . 116,504 50,402 35,595 30,698
Sundry assets .. 267 3,846 5,938 7,097
The book value of net tangibles is 4s.
lid. per share, which the market prices
at Is. lOd.
Bulolo Gold Dredging
At the beginning of 1930 this co.
bought the Bulolo area, New Guinea,
containing 40,000,000 c.y. (average bore
value 50 gold cents), from Placer
Development for 605,000 Canadian
dollars (cash) plus 224,000 fully-paid $5
shares. Two years later it also bought
from Placer the adjoining Bulowat-Burn-
side area, containing about 60,000,000
c.y., of which five-sixths was bored to
average around 30 gold cents, and the
balance a bit less than that. Including
at least 150,000 paids, the price (in scrip)
was fixed at 42 p.c. of the working
profit of the area, based on results of the
first two years’ operations. Owing to
recent fluctuations in the price of gold
and in exchanges, and to the uncertainty
of the future in this respect, it is now
proposed to enter into a new agreement,
which will “allow the original intentions
of the contracting cos. to be carried into
effect with more safety to both sides.”
Details of the proposal have not yet been
announced.
The co. is registered in Vancouver,
and its 765,000 five-dollar shares
(= $3,825,000) are well scattered through-
out the world. For the 12 months to
May 31 last, two dredges (the second
started in Oct., 1932) treated 4,551,000
c.y. for 98,4430 z. of bullion, containing
65,3550 z. of gold and 32,2870 z. of
silver, together worth $1,696,393. After
reserving $135,000 for amortisation,
and adding $108,658 brought forward,
the p. and 1. credit yvas $1,308,659, out
of which shareholders got 60 cents a
share, their first div.
At the end of May last, the co. figured
that there was about 100,000,000 c.y. still
available in the Bulolo-Bulowat areas.
After deducting contemplated capital ex-
penditure and gold royalty, the estimated
working profit was put at $23,250,000
(gold), equal to £6,748,908 sterling, with
gold at £6 per ounce London, or
£8,436,135 in Australian currency, with
the metal fetching £7 10s. an ounce
locally.
For the five months to the end of Oct.,
1933, the daily average of No. 1 dredge
was 7126 c.y., worth 40.8 gold cents a
yard ; No. 2, 8595 c.y., worth 29 gold
cents a yard. Recent clean-ups from No.
1 averaged over 50 gold cents a yard,
which suggests that values are improving
upstream. No. 3, the first of the Bulowat
machines, commenced early in Nov., and
is still digging outside the pay area. It is
fitted with jigs and other gold-saving de-
vices. No. 4, now being erected, should
set in before the middle of this year.
Thus far the three dredges are each
handling a bigger yardage than originally
figured upon, to the benefit of costs. Out-
lay in connection with the Bulowat area
has been provided for from dredging
profits.
On the Sydney market the fully-paid
five-dollar shares fetch £5 9s. as against
£4 six months ago.
Though final figures are not yet avail-
able, Queensland’s gold recoveries for
1933 will be around 85,000 fine ounces
compared with 23,263 fine ounces for
1932, thanks to the high price of the
metal (now £7 15s. Bd. a fine ounce in
Australian notes). About 75 p.c. of the
increase is due to extra production at
Mt. Coolon and Mt. Morgan. On all
the other fields the outturn remained
meagre. Provided the price holds, pros-
pects of a further increase in production
during 1934 are bright enough. Mt.
Coolon and Mt. Morgan can be expected
to maintain their quotas, and at least two
other fields, Cracow and North Arm, are
likely to substantially increase their out-
puts. The big new milling plant at
Golden Plateau, Cracow, may, on con-
servative estimates of ore reserves and
values, displace Mt. Coolon before the
end of the year as the premier individual
mine. At the same centre, reorganisation
of the Golden Mile mill promises a con-
siderable production from low-grade ores.
At North Arm the inflated reputation
built upon the £70,000 option duly burst,
and a wise amalgamation of different
groups, since followed by a reasonable
scheme of development, appears to be the
precursor of moderate but steady pro-
duction during 1934. Much has been
heard of the impending revival of the
famous old Gympie field. It produced
approximately 2000 oz. during 1933. This
came principally from cyaniding the low-
value dumps of the Scottish-Gympie,
made possible because the price exceeded
£7 10s. an ounce.
* * * *
Many mining propositions have given
their sponsors indigestion, but few have
provided their own antidote. Bismuth
Products, Ltd., promises to be an excep-
tion. Elliott Bros, and O. T. Lempriere
and Co. are behind the co., which has
been formed to work a magnetite body,
carrying one-half per cent, bismuth and
a pennyweight or so of gold, at Big-
genden, Bundaberg (Q.). On the board
are Victor Elliott, Rex Cullen-Ward,
Oscar Lempriere and Arthur Reid. Man-
agement will be in the hands of L. Venn-
Brown.
* * * *
The buoyant tin market has enabled
the old Eleanor mines at Silver Valley,
near Herberton (N.Q.), to be reopened.
In the last few months 100 tons of 3 p.c.
ore has been taken out as a working test.
The lode is well defined and averages
about 3ft. in thickness. Indications are
that there is a considerable body of low-
grade ore, which is on the dirty side, that
will pay while tin concentrates hover
around £l7O per ton.
sj; sfc
Yilgarn, oldest of Westralia’s eastern
fields, is coming into the picture again.
Over 70 head of stamps are operating at
various centres. Western Mining Corp. has
a reservation of 10,880 acres near Southern
Cross, and another of 250 square miles
around Mt. Jackson, where several more
or less weakly-financed Adelaide cos.
have been nosing around for some time.
Some of these are also fossicking in other
parts of Yilgarn. One, recently formed
in Melbourne to work the old Banker
mine, is whooping about prospects which
an experienced man on the spot reckons
don’t exist. Yilgarn’s largest producers in
the past were the Bullfinch and Fraser’s.
The remains of the former are now in
possession of a number of parties, and
those of the latter are being offered in
London.
* * * *
The old Associated at Kalgoorlie
struggles on. With gold at its present
price operations are profitable, though
it is often difficult to get the ton-
nage. General-manager McAulay recently
said “We can see our way six months
ahead,” and he recommended spending
£lOOO a month on development. That ex-
penditure has been sanctioned, and,
according to chairman F. H. Hamilton,
so long as the mine is working at a profit
exploratory work will be continued in
the hope of striking payable ore and
prolonging the life of the mine. Finances
are comfortable.
* * * *
At the end of this month North Kal-
gurli will put 1500 tons through the
Boulder Perseverance mill in addition to
the 2000-odd tons usually sent each
month to South Kalgurli Consolidated. A
five-ton Diesel truck is on its way from
England to cart ore from the North to
the Boulder Perseverance mill, where a
new unit is being added to the bromo-
cyanide plant. Cartage is expected to
cost sd. per ton. The North is also re-
conditioning the Kalgurli shaft to the
1350 ft. level.
* * * *
The North Granites Co. has turned
down the offer of an option over the
New Slug Hill and Vettersburg leases,
Bardoc, a few miles north of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). Geologist M. V. Weatherall re-
cently inspected the properties on the
co.’s behalf.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Does Coolum Beach (N.Q.) contain rutile,
ilmenite and gold? (2) Uses of rutile and
ilmenite, and value of each ? (3) Is a plant
to be erected at Coolum Beach in the near
future? (4) Extent of beach, and how to
obtain a mining area there ? —9445.
(1) Rutile and ilmenite are present; no record
of gold content. (2) Rutile is used for the
production of alloys, pigments and enamels.
Ilmenite is the source of titanium in special
steels. Rutile is quoted in London at about
£45 per ton, and ilmenite at £2 10s. to £3
per ton. (3) Cannot say. (4) Length about
eight miles; quantities not determined. Apply
to the nearest warden.
I hold a Crown lease in N. S. Wales. (1)
Can miners enter and dig without permission
from the warden? (2) Can they build a per-
manent camp on the lease ? (3) Must they fill
in the holes ?—-9419. . ,
(1) and (2) Yes, provided they hold a miner’s
right. (3) Where a mine is abandoned or the
working thereof discontinued, the owner of it
“shall cause the top of every shaft and every
side entrance from the surface to be securely
protected for the purpose of preventing acci-
dents.” For further particulars see Mines In-
spection Act, Sec. 45.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.P.: A.M.P., National Mutual, Temperance
and General, City. Mutual and Colonial Mutual.
The Mutual Life and Citizens is a proprietary
concern whose results are excellent... .D.C.R.:
Doubtful. Poor recoveries and high costs are
the trouble. Much will depend upon success
or otherwise of Nicholl process and the new
tube mill C.J.McP.: At present price A.P.A.
looks like showing small returns for some years,
with promise of something worth while later
on. Newcastle and Hunter River Steam and
Walkerville Co-op. Brewing, S. Aus., are worth
consideration J.H.C.: Walkerville Co-op.
Brewing, Morris Hedstrom and Arthur Cocks
ords. are worth consideration.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“Bureau of Missing Persons,” at Sydney
Capitol, is exhibited on a film If miles in
length, and it stays on the screen for an
hour and a half, providing good enter-
tainment all the time. It is a series of
short stories, based, like the ambulance
stuff that has lately been pouring out of
Hollywood, on technical atmosphere. But
it breaks into a little-known field of
police work with a disdain for the cheaper
forms of drama, a relish for essential
Americanisms and a genius for casting
that would win plaudits from the shade of
O. Henry. Possibly the whole business
is as far from facts as Peter Pan, but it
doesn’t sound a single false note to the
outsider.
Lewis Stone, the chief of the bureau,
moves through the story as smoothly
as a pebble falling to the bottom
of a brook. Pat O’Brien, as the hard-
boiled thief-catcher transferred to a
more diplomatic sort of business, main-
tains his magnificent self-assurance to the
end, though he takes several jolts to the
jaw. The various other officials of the
department observe the complete air of
detachment notable about officials who
deal with other people’s troubles until
they get troubles of their own. A whole
three-volume diary of a modern Pepys
domiciled in New York couldn’t better
capture the flavor of modern American
city life.
“Pilgrimage” is melodrama condi-
mented with American war memories.
There’s an Arkansas mother, a widow,
who, sooner than lose her son to the girl
he wants to marry (an eyebrow-plucked,
heavily hand-painted actress of the Die-
trich school presented as a simple village
maiden), has him drafted. He is sent
overseas so suddenly that he hasn’t time
to marry the girl. He gets killed, and
the girl and his illegitimate son have a
hard time in the old village. Then his
mother goes to France as a “gold-star
mother” ; meets a lad who suffers from
a mother with the CEdipus (or mother-
in-law) complex ; rescues him, and returns
as reformed as Scrooge on the morning
of Christmas Day. Shallow, insincere
stuff, but Henrietta Crosman, as the
mother, comes to life as soon as she
deserts tragedy and begins to be a large-
hearted citizeness of Arkansas among the
effete and foolish people of Paris.
* * *
This week’s productions at the Regent
are old-fashioned stage melodramas with
some of the latest Hollywood fixings.
“Disgraced” would have had some such
title as “No Mother to Guide Her” in
the Victorian era. Helen Twelvetrees, a
mannequin, and her widowed policeman-
father live together happily till the
wealthy seducer appears. William Harri-
gan, who plays the father on appro-
priately sombre lines, shoots the seducer,
and Miss Twelvetrees is arrested on sus-
picion of having done the good deed.
The thing is given a new twist by the re-
fusal of the authorities to believe
William when he says that he did it.
Miss Twelvetrees supplies an interest-
ing satire on feminine fashions for 1934 ;
future generations will probably find her
much funnier in this picture than we
find the Victorians. Her abundant hair
is so fair as to be almost white, and her
tiny features are almost entirely expres-
sionless. The combination makes the
headgear she affects —tiny pill-boxes with
irrelevant decorations, inadequate scraps
of material slapped on her fluffy curls
at strange angles—look all the more fan-
tastic. She gets effects which are weirdly
reminiscent of those that Italians used
to achieve with their monkeys in the
days of barrel-organing.
The plot of “Day of Reckoning” is
the one about the good, kind, uxorious
father and husband who is put in gaol
by the villain because the villain wants
to wreak his loathly will on the virtuous
husband’s wife. Richard Dix is the hus-
band who keeps his looks and condition
through all his tribulations, and Madge
Evans is the pretty little half-wit wife
who doesn’t realise what Conway Tearle
is up to till it is too late. Stuart Erwin
(milkman) and Una Merkel (faithful ser-
vant) attend to the comic relief.
Most of it is as sentimental as a
modernistic ballad, and as remote from
life as a modernistic painting—in which
respects, of course, it resembles stage
melodrama. The significant difference, as
in “Disgraced” is that it is propaganda
for murder. On the stage the villain was
usually marched off; in films he is as
often bumped off —by a virtuous police-
man.
* * *
Of interest to musical folk is a glimpse
of Captain H. E. Adkins at a band re-
hearsal, screened by Cinesound. The
Englishman, after Peter Dawson the best
musical showman seen on the Australian
stage, favors the dynamic jschool of con-
ducting. He crouches, he pounces, he
whirls suddenly, he gives himself up to
terpsichorean extravagances to emphasise
a rhythm, and then, all of a sudden, he
throws down his baton and addresses his
band with the mien, if not the language,
of the typical sar’n’-major. His face
expresses rage and withering contempt;
his voice is low and charged with con-
centrated venom. A second later his
baton is swinging again, his expression
beatific, his eyes almost closed with
ecstasy. A euphonium comes in late on
a beat, and he leans back and appears
to swoon with pain. But the bandsmen
like him.
Sundry Shows
In “Gay Divorce,” at Melb. King’s,
Mona Potts turns up at a seaside hotel
to keep an appointment with a profes-
sional co-respondent (Gus Bluett). On
the way down she commits the error of
confusing Billy Milton, a writer of popu-
lar potboilers, with the professional
SYDNEY FLICKS.
“Song of Songs,” at the Prince Edward. (7) Alison Skipworth; (2) Statue made
by (5) Brian Aherne with Marlene Dietrich as model. No evidence as to
authenticity.
gentleman. Her silly-ass lawyer (Frank
Leighton) fails to clarify the situation, and
the pro. is confronted with non-union
competition in the lady’s bedroom. “Gay
Divorce” is as hard, bright and angular
as the modern steel furniture ; its gaiety
glows less than it'glitters and its music is
as negligible a quantity as shillings in a
Government deficit, but nothing in the
light histrionic line available in Mel-
bourne at the moment is as good as
Bluett’s presentment of the professional
co-re., nor anything so funny as his tele-
phonic conversation with his Italian
spouse from the bedroom of respondent.
This is the highlight of the piece, much
of the rest being shrouded in dulness
and suffused with inanity. The humor
division suffers most from arterio-
sclerosis, where sundry apparently aver-
age males get strangely excited over the
spectacle of girls in backless bathing cos-
tumes. In Melbourne the only sort of
emotion such sights evoke is that which
arises in the angry breasts of bayside
councillors and beach inspectors, but it
may be different in England. Among
others briefed in “Gay Divorce” are Reg
Wykeham, Madge Aubrey, Leo Franklyn,
all good of their kind*. Miss Potts stepped
into Iris Kirkwhite’s shoes on the open-
ing night at short notice and filled them
admirably. As a singer Billy Milton,
the new leading man, is a very good
elocutionist.
“The Spice of Life,” the new revue at
Melb. Tiv., is mainly unremarkable for
the appearance of Fred Miller, noted
English comedian, and Millie Deane, the
Lady with the Laughing Legs. The
apparition of this pair proves that dis-
tance lends enchantment to the view of
theatrical entrepreneurs. The rest of the
show is f.a.q. vaudevile, plus Girvan
Dundas, billed as the hottest gal in town.
It took 300 years of Puritanism, 34 years
of the Commonwealth book censorship
and a decade of Creswell O’Reilly to pro-
duce a taste for Girvan.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has de-
cided its £2O long-play competition. The
judges, Talbot Smith, Thomas Nave and
Ethelwyn Robin, waded through 64
entries and reported that the standard
was mainly high. Prize-winner was C. H.
Hague, a retired Adelaide banker. His
comedy-with-dramatic-undercurrent will
be the Repertory’s first production next
season. Next choice was a powerful
Anglo-Asiatic drama by Mrs. C. V.
Matthews, of Union Bank, Perth, and the
third a “period” study (Whistler, Du
Maurier and Wilde) by Musette Morrell,
of Sydney.
There is a modicum of consolation
for Poverty Pointers in the announce-
ment that, as Melb. Royal comes down,
the neighboring Temperance Hall in
Russell-street is to be turned into a first-
class theatre. The old place was built
92 years ago as a counter-offensive
against the music-halls and their mam-
stay the liquor bar. It is the property of
the Melbourne Total Abstinence Society,
many of whose members in 1842 believed
the theatre to be the doorway to the
infernal regions. For the last few years
it has provided Saturday-night vaude-
ville ; the Chinese make their dramatic
noises in the place and Communists re-
turned from Russia use it as a platform,
Speaker Blackburn, Ralph Gibson and
Scott Bennett recently debated the
Oxford resolution there with three young
Nationalists. As a legitimate theatre it
will be less entertaining.
* * *
“Craiser”: It is alarming to read in
the cables that there is a hoodoo on
J.C.W. s latest London purchase. The
Dubarry, the leading lady having fainted
once another principal having been
killed and her understudy subsequently
dying, all during the twelvemonth’s cur-
rency of the romantic musical play. It
only requires some mishap to occur dur-
ing the sojourn in Australia for a first-
class situation to occur. Histrions are
by nature a superstitious lot, their call-
ing being more precarious than that of
a Mallee farmer and subject to what
look like acts of God but are more often
the consequence of ordinary human bad
judgment. There were so many inex-
plicable incidents ascribed to the green
curtain at the Comedy that at least one
visiting actor refused to open there.
Others who have succumbed to per-
suasion and suffered from bad houses
have said to the Firm, “I told you so.”
At the Tiv. a few years ago sie man-
agement put two cypresses in tubs in
the d.c. foyer with the best intentions.
The result was a deputation of trembling
actors begging for the fatal emblems to
be removed. The request was refused,
the show opened, and the management
thought it had triumphed ; but an inspec-
tion of the foyer later revealed that the
trees had disappeared.
* v *
“Cauboy”: The influence of the
movies is manifest in the plans for the
new His Majesty’s in Melbourne. The
old playhouse had accommodation for
2324; the new will have “room” for
1700 —a distinction with a difference —
although the auditorium will be the same
size. It may show horribly low aesthetic
taste, but there is no question that the
pleasure-loving multitude prefer a bad
film to a good stage play, if for the latter
they have to sit bolt upright on a hard
seat as if they were driving a Ford and
for the former they can sink into an
Oriental divan fitted with pneumatic
cushions and other luxuries.
* * *
“Lond”: London is astonished at the
decorous musical-comedy version of
“Nymph Errant.” The play at the
Adelphi not only omits —of necessity,
perhaps—the nudist-colony part, but
actually assumes that the heroine’s year
about Europe with a variety of lovers
leaves her as at the beginning. Opinions
differ strongly whether the Stage is re-
forming or whether a big chance of
appealing to the well-dined Stalls has
been simply chucked away.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The late Royal in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, was built by John Black
and opened with “The School for
Scandal” on July 16, 1855. The next
year George Coppin took over the man-
agement. Sixteen years later the build-
ing suffered the same fate as His
Majesty’s—it was burnt to the ground.
Coppin then rebuilt it and obtained a
99-years’ lease of the site. It saw some
weird shows. For instance, it was at
the Royal that Bland Holt staged a rep-
lica of the Cup in which the horses gal-
loped in full view of the audience on a
revolving platform. The favorite fell
down, but continued to stay in front until
frenzied stagehands scraped him off.
Those who think there was never a
Great Period in the Australian drama
have forgotten that in 1906 “Thunder-
bolt” was staged with a ballet of lubras,
apparently dressed by missionaries. Of
late years one of the theatre’s most
gratifying assets was a cat which en-
livened many a dull show by strolling on.
The Palette
P. Stanhope Hobday’s show of mono-
types in Brisbane recalled the early efforts
of Harry Fullwood and later R. J. Ran-
dall in this sphere. Randall sold the only
example he showed (“An Idyll”) to the
Sydney National Gallery, but no effort
comparable with Hobday’s was made to
exploit the method, and this Brisbane show
was the first one-man exhibition of mono-
types of any importance held in Aus-
tralia. There were 53 pictures, including
half a dozen designs that showed the deco-
rative possibilities of the art. Monotypes
are painted with oils (and in reverse) on
a copper plate and then printed quickly
on paper like an etching, a difference of
some importance being that only, one
print can be made.
Adelaide Art Gallery has bought a por-
trait study by Nora Heysen, who won
the Melrose prize with a self-portrait
lately. The new work is of the modern
school which throws back to the Italian
primitives: a tall girl standing against a
distant landscape, the figure brilliant and
challenging, but hard. It is a big change
from the young painter’s well-nigh per-
fect vegetables and flowers.
“F.S.”: Melbourne Shiplovers’ Society
has reopened an old controversy by re-
questing the Public Library to attach a
statement to Norman Lindsay’s model of
Cook’s Endeavour that the model is not
correct and explaining where it deviates
from the original. It bases its ob-
jections on an article in an English maga-
zine which said that it was not Cook’s
craft at all, though undoubtedly a ship of
the same period. According to etcher
Shirlow, Lindsay based his work on a
description in Banks’s diary which con-
tradicted the popular idea. The trustees
decided to put the matter before the
artist.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
-X-
-c® <•
°
*° X
X <A-
oX°
*>'
Jfy
,v
<?
& ,«
V s
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
A
DB
I! O T l|
IN QUEEN ST BRISBANE |
01 OR
liiTl
ď
WHITE
ETON
JACKET
(RfcADY TO WE.AR.I
SMOKE-OH!
“Theft wave in Sydney.”
Not a permanent wave we trust.
“A charge of fragrancy preferred against
Reginald in the Adelaide Police Court was
withdrawn by the police.” —Adelaide “News.”
Evidently Reginald didn’t hum.
HIS LAST (AND FIRST) SHOUT.
Brakes screeched; women screamed.
Too late. M'cFrougal failed to dodge the
brewer’s lorry.
“The drinks are on me,” he shouted
as the waggon went over him.
P. O. M. C.
* *
AMBITION REALISED.
“Hexcitement! ” cried the old lady of
Hunter-street. “I should say so hin-
deed! Lawkey me! Saved the country,
I ’ave! Solved the greates’ robb’ry since
that gal Mona Liza was abducted by
furriners in Rome, or one uv them
’eathen spots.
“Well, dearie, I’ve got me hambition
at larst. I can die ’appy now. It’s
me first ‘scoop’ since I told about the
Corn Laws bein’ repeeled in ’3B, an’ it’s
the first time I’ve hever been hable to
tork about meself in scare type with
screamer ’eadlines! ”
S. W. K.
“W-w-what’s the meaning of the notches?”
“Many marriages go wrong because the wife
is continually running home to her mother.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Poor Henpeck agrees. The snag is,
he says, that they don’t stay there.
* *
“The banks, which were closed at noon on
Saturday, reopened at 10 a.m. on the following
Tuesday.”
Mr. Lang is said to have complained
that this bank-closing business should
be left to someone who knows how to
make a job of it.
HOW JONESY MODERNISKI
PEINTRE BECAME.
By a Modernistic Writer.
Up Moderniski! Hooray Moderniski!
Barrick forrit, I does. Boomsh and
Boosht it, I does! Hooraysh! Hoor-
oosh!
This the way of it was:
Ulysses Jones, mon brer-in-lor; stony-
broke old Noosince Ulysses ; Woist-on-
urth daubeur Jones; pauver vieux
lennus-a-quid Jonesy, one p.m. dis-
glimped Modernistic Art; yea Modern-
istic Art the kunning kow disglimped
one p.m.
Changer his stile did Jonesy, turned
Moderniski peintre did Woist-on-urth
daubeur Ulysses, und holday an Exhibit
of Orful Woiks, of which der “S. M.
Herald” wrote nex jour:
Mr. Jones’s new manner... .Lovely....
Exquisite.... Divine Bloomsbury technique.
His study of a girl, leaning against nothing,
with green hair, gamboge face and pink eyes,
conservatively reflects contemporary English
tendencies in painting.... Such delicious work
must bring a longing for wider horizons in
Bing Crosbyism and in Gertrude Steinism, no
less than in High Pictorial Art, to the bosoms
of the provincials who read the “S. M. Herald.”
Maddened by Provincialism sneer;
leg-pulled, koddid, and generally bemused
and bedevilled, the “S. M. Herald’s”
affiointesque reeders —maninjindirecks,
profitteurse, welthsquats et al. —began
getting rid of their stodge by R.As. ; their
stodge by R.As. et A.R.As., they began
garbidging pronto, et started to purchaser
orful woiks by pauver vieux Woist-on-
urth daubeur Jones.
Jonesy (thankewings!) is now solvent.
No more borrerings from me or the wife.
No more ritz, no more judgmint sum-
monses. Long may the old frord away
mit it get!
A trenchant article attacking the Syd-
ney Gallery Trustees for provincialism
in not buying Jonesy’s gems have I rote ;
and get the
thing on the
leader-page of
t h e “S. M.
Herald” I will
before I have
fini, even if I
have to de-
grader my lit-
tery Art by
turning it into
plein Anglais.
J.
* *
DEED OF
DARKNESS.
Three a.m.
“G o t c h e r
gats, buddies?”
“Oke.”
“See any bulls
as we came
thru the burg?”
“Nary a bull.”
A gibbous moon peered through the
flying scud. Like grim sentinels of doom
gaunt trees stood black against the sky-
line. It was lightning ominously away
to the east. The aged leader’s bonnet
quivered with nervousness. “It’s the
hoosegow for the bunch if we’re copped.
Get to it.”
In a moment shovels, spades, pickaxes
and dynamite were busy on the sacred
soil of the gracious old people’s park.
Soon a mighty hole yawned. The pro-
perty of Demos was being wantonly
ruined ; an offence was being committed
which in other circumstances would have
made a first-class theme for a right-
thinking leader.
Much these miscreants, whose eye-
shades, horn-rimmed spectacles and
inky forefingers bespoke their ghastly
calling, cared! Loot they were after ;
loot they meant to have.
Ping!
“Got her, mum.”
The workers straightened their aching
backs and rested.
“This yours?”
A tall-browed malefactor, whose pallid
countenance suggested that much mid-
night electric light had been burnt in its
vicinity, handed a fellow conspirator a
book. Its lurid title was “Journalistic
Ethics.”
Another
underworld out-
rage? Not at
all. Merely a
“S. M. Herald”
Emd e n bell-
snatching party
at work “in cer-
tain park-lands
on the outskirts
of Melbourne.”
D.
* *
WHAT A
TRAGEDY IS
LIFE!
Had I chosen
politics, pony-
racing or tip-
slinging as a
pro f e ssion, I
might have
achieved respect
among my
fellows, authority in my home. Unfor-
tunately, I became a contortionist, and
now my wife twists me round her little
finger!
P. C.
H-
“The nerves convey sensations to the brain
at the speed of 93ft. per second.” — “Sun.”
It takes longer with most politicians,
owing to the difficulty of finding the
brain.
THE “BONEHEAD’S” NEW
COMPETITION.
The “Bonehead” has pleasure in an-
nouncing its mammoth Anti-Smile Com-
petition. Competitors may enter in one
or all classes. Prizes have, been raised
by public subscription.
Now, then, you wowsers!
Class 1. —2/6 to every person who
refrains from smiling while collecting his
or her savings at the end of a bridge
party.'
Class 2.—2/6 to the road-hog who
doesn’t smile as he passes a 1920 model
Ford in his Sparkwell Super-Fifteen.
Class 3. —2/6 to the caddie who keeps
a straight face when his employer clean
misses the ball.
Class 4. —2/6 to anyone with a sense
of humor who doesn’t yell with amuse-
ment when J. T. Lang talks of his high
political ideals.
Photos, showing the absence of smiles
must be posted to the “Bonehead.” Faces
not to be longer than 18 inches. The
makers of Fixit Backache Cure have
bought the right to use the winning
photos, for “before taking” advts.
M. D. S.
UNFAIR EXCHANGE.
They think that I am lucky when
I earn some money with my pen;
They little know it all must go
To pay for what I wrote to Flo!
N.
¥ *
“Charged with breaking and entering, accused
said he could not remember why he had acted
as he did.” — “Herald.”
He evidently didn’t know what he was
letting himself in for.
* *
“Archbishop holds up intruder with revolver.”
The intruder would have been even
more scared if the prelate had brought
along one of his canons.
* *
“A large band of tourists will spend the first
weeks of the new year on the Great Barrier
Reef.” *
And a still larger band will spend it
on the rocks.
“Here and there men could be seen digging
up the soil. Gold-seekers, evidently.” — “Sun.’
Or, again, golfers.
* *
ESSENTIALS.
“First-class batting is far from being the
sole qualification of a Test cricketer.” — “Sun.”
Obviously. He should also be able
to write at least two books per year.
Apart from writing books and contribut-
ing to newspapers, he should possess a
“Should I move to a wanner climate?”
“Don’t be silly I That’s just what I’m trying to save you from."
good broadcasting voice (used by cour-
tesy of the sports store that employs
him); and he must photograph well for
talkie shorts. Finally, and at any cost,
he must be able to keep a straight face
when somebody calls him an amateur.
S. E.
PLASTIC SURGERY.
“It costs very little to have the form of the
nose altered.” —Beauty specialist.
Recipe: Take one large navvy with
corns. Tread on corn and truculently
demand an apology. Your nose will
immediately assume a new shape.
P. C.
“Have you a dog?”
“No. If there’s any rough stuff about
this joint, I do me own barkin’.”
THE WOWSER.
Girls don’t care,
However one preaches,
What they wear
On Sydney beaches.
I utter sighs
When one of them passes
And coyer my eyes —
With opera-glasses.
P. C.
UNEASY TERMS.
As I go plodding through this vale
Of debt, for that blithe day I pine
When l triumphantly shall hail
My friends with “This old car is
mine !”
P. O. M. C.
MATTER OF TRADITION.
“A newspaper correspondent suggests that
the Broadcasting Corporation should decree
that ‘Australia’ should be pronounced ‘Oss-
tralia,’ not ‘Orestralia,’ which is a vexing word.”
—London cable.
Let English speakers call it what they like.
Oss — or OREStralia — it’s all one to :nc;
Even if someone at a London mike
Talks of Ows tralia, I won’t disagree.
All I insist on is an Aussie claim
Which to forego true loyalty forbids —
The ancient right to mispronounce the
name
AusrTßYlia, as we learned to do as kids.
10-2-4.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Eureka”: The hay had been cut and
stacked, and after toiling hard Satur-
day morning the hands expected a
spell that afternoon and Sunday; but
Dad showed no signs of ceasing work.
“Do we have to yacker this afternoon?”
asked one of the hands. “Yairs, and
darned hard, too,” Dad told him,
“because the hay has to be in the shed
before Sunday.” “Why all the hurry?”
the new hand asked. “It hasn’t rained for
a month.” “I know that,” Dad replied,
“but I’m takin’ no risks. They’re prayin’
fer rain to-morrow.”
* * * *
“Jerry”: A pal of mine who works for
a gunsmith had the closest flirtation with
sudden death I ever heard about. Some-
one had brought in a revolver for repairs
to the hammer. A fellow-employee came
in, lifted the revolver, pointed it at my
friend’s head in play and pulled the
trigger. My cobber’s head was sideways
on. The bullet knocked out several of
his front teeth, and the victim screwed
up his mouth and spat teeth and bullet
on to the floor.
* * * *
“Yamagi”: Fleas? N. S. Wales isn’t
in it compared with the West. My first
experience of the peculiarities of the
W.A. wheat belt was when I entered a
super.-cwm-men’s shed from which was
coming a weird rustling noise. I pulled
the bag door back and saw ’em. Fleas!
“Wot’d ’appen if England demanded all the ’undreds of millions Orstralia
owes ’er?”
“ We’d ’ave to put our ’ands in our pockets and pay up.”
The noise came from millions hopping
on to papers strewn on the table and
floor. I was covered in a split second.
The dam was the only cure. I found
afterwards that they came in epidemics
throughout the cocky areas. No place is
immune, but in time they vanish.
* * * *
“Val”: A carpenter I know was rated
the biggest liar in the shop because he
declared he could smell a snake 50 yards
off. But he wasn’t a liar. One hot day
we were out together on a hot road when
Chips suddenly threw up his head, sniffed
and said “There’s a snake about.” Sure
enough, as we rounded a rocky bend we
disturbed a black snake sunning him-
self. An acute sense of taste and smell
go together and may be hereditary. One
night I sat down to dinner with Chips’s
family. The eldest girl turned up her nose
and pushed the roast lamb away. “Tastes
of wheat,” she said. The old man said
“Hot,” but I could see by his face that
he didn’t mean it. Afterwards the
mother said to me, “That girl’s uncanny,
like her father. I carried that joint home
in a shopping case with a parcel of wheat
for the chickens.”
* * * *
“Vil N.”: At the head of the creek we
came upon the hatter. He paused in
chipping a stone slab to peer at us from
under rampant white eyebrows, and
asked eagerly: “Any o’ youse read this?”
He pointed to an inscription he had cut.
“It looks like Latin,” said my cobber
doubtfully. I made a note of it:
Hie jacet
G. STULKIUS
Bornius 1857 or 1859 (cantius remembrus )
Diedius 19
En duringus iss toneus soonit iate
carvedmena meus sowenia monlybo
neus menameus sha llliv ethes ameus
itsri tiusin latin.
“It’s Greek to me!” I said. “What the
hell do they learn yez at school nowa-
days?” demanded the wild-eyed oldster.
Suddenly flashed through my mind the
way Phil May used to Latinise English.
So, disregarding the “iuses” and the
strange groupings I translated the mean-
ing. “You’re a scholard!” shouted the
old chap gleefully. Then with the blaze
of complete success firing his eyes, he
added: “I’ve got to die sometime, I
know. But stone and Latin can’t ever
die. And my name, George Stulk, won’t
die ever now ; I’ve writ me epitaph in
Latin —self-taught, too—so’s the schol-
ards will be able to read it ever after! ”
# * * *
“Maurice”: My mother once attempted
to assassinate a cherry-tree. It stood on
our lawn and had been planted by my
father, who lavished upon it paternal
affection; but it was an eyesore “to my
mother, who delared it spoiled the whole
garden. Knowing my father would never
consent to its removal, she pondered
means of killing it without being detected,
and finally decided to use boiling water.
Accordingly when my father was away
she would get a kettle and, tiptoeing out
to the tree with a guilty look, would pour
the scalding contents upon its roots. At
first the tree showed no change under
this treatment. But after a time my
father noticed something. “By George,”
he said, “my cherry-tree seems unusually
fine and hearty!” And this was a fact.
The more boiling water my mother
poured on the roots, the better the tree
thrived. Finally, in despair, she gave up
ideas of vegetable murder. A nursery-
man to whom she confided this strange
story long afterwards laughed when he
heard it. He said the treatment merely
killed off the worms and insects infest-
ing the tree’s roots.
* * * *
if
was playin’ full-back for the Faugh-a-Bal-
laghs agin the Fire Brigade, an’ a big
cow elbowed me in the mouth. ’E knocks
two front teeth clean out. I can’t afford
“I dunno how you came to fall for that half-wit.”
"Oh, he’s so athletic —he caught me on the hop!”
goin’ ter th’ dentist fer a false set, so I
ups with ’em orf th’ ground, jams ’em
back inter me gum an’ clamps me jaws
tergither. An’ if yer look, yer’ll see ’em
still there. An’ that remines me uv Larry
Thomas, down Berriwillock way. Larry’s
cuttin’ chaff one day an’ gits a little finger
taken orf. Larry grabs th’ finger, puts
it back in place and ties it up before it
’as time ter git cold. In erbout a month
it’s as right as ever it were, only that
Larry in th’ ’eat uv th’ moment puts the
finger on back ter front, an’ there’s ’is
nail growin’ inside ’is ’and. But there
ain’t no ’arm in that: Larry c’n scratch
’is back better’n ’e ever could before.”
* * * *
“The Q.D.”: Joe was thirsting on the
verandah of the hamlet’s only pub when
he saw a little girl pick up a pound
note from the gutter. Joe gaped for one
stricken moment, then_ trotted to the
police station and reported that he had
lost a quid. He went back to the pub
and waited. Some hours later it was
bruited abroad that So-and-so’s kid had
found a note. Joe trotted back to the
police station. The rest was easy, and
in ten minutes Joe was entering into the
liquid reward due to a man who could
think quickly and knew the ways of
small towns.
* * * *
“Spare Sawbones”: “Bob Sawyer” (B.
20/12/’33), laughing at the idea that a
bullet could drift down into the human
appendix, admits ignorance, and that was
wise. The appendix (which can hardly be
called a “tiny pocket”) normally admits
a No. 8 catheter, which is one-fifth of an
inch in diameter. It will accept suffi-
cient barium from an opaque meal to
allow its clear demonstration by the X-
ray screen, which is not an instrument of
precision. Furthermore, there is on
record a preserved appendix with a bullet
in situ. As to gallstones, in the human
single stones of golf-ball size are not un-
common ; instances have been recorded
of their measuring sin. in length. Bladder
stones are normally even bigger if left
to thrive, as they might well be in the land
of the crocodiles. Tuberculous glands,
old hydatids and tumors are often petri-
fied within the body. As to these crocodile
stones, there is a possibility that they are
clayballs. Over indulgence in mineral
medicaments sometimes results in the for-
mation of stones in the bowel; kaolin
or china clay is the worst offender, and
a croc, must swallow tons of that.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: Quandongs aren’t
mentioned very often nowadays, but in
earlier times they played a big part in the
personal adornment of the outback man
and woman. The girls wore them strung
on silver wire as necklets and muff-chains,
and some of the wealthier and swankier
folk had them joined with gold links and
inlaid with filigree. At least one maiden
demanded and got from her swain a
quandong engagement ring. The men
wore the nuts (plain or carved—and
many bushmen had skill in carving) stuck
on a gold stem as tiepins, hollowed in
the centre as tie-keepers, or joined as cuff
links. The pins were in such common
use in the ’eighties tha! bush bard
penned a ditty with the rtarai [\ You
always know a bushman by his fly-
dong pin” ; it was very popular at bush
concerts.
“Yarraman”: Answering “Newsouth’s'’
query (B. 27/12/’33) as to whether deaf-
adders infest yarran scrub, they don t
specially favor it, but they do love dense
prickly-pear, often found where yarran
abounds. Queensland pear country from
Dulacca on the western line to Ingle-
wood on the Dirranbandi line, and hun-
dreds of square miles along the Moonie
River, is just one adder after another.
Where there are great stretches of yarran
country free from pear, as on holdings
around Muckadilla, there is never a sign
of the venomous crawler.
* * * *
“Bay Webb”: Sea serpents I have
never seen, but I believe in the kraken.
Shipmates of my boyhood told of a ship
crossing the Atlantic the crew of which
one dark night heard marrow-chilling
shrieks which came from some 20 or
30 feet above the ocean surface. Whilst
the men shrank back in horror, the cries
were doubled by another voice. Eventu-
ally a binnacle-lamp was brought from its
socket. Its light revealed three giant
snakes which were roaming the decks,
and the men realised that an octopus had
attacked the ship. The carpenter’s axe
upon one of the terrible arms quickly
caused the monster to retreat, but a subse-
quent muster of the watches showed that
two of the crew were missing. The com-
pany with which I served my indentures
had 40 ships engaged in the East India
trade. The rule of the line was “stop for
nothing but human life.” In the 30 years’
history of the fleet there was only one
occasion when a ship diverged from her
course otherwise than to pick up a
drowning man. That was when an octo-
pus was discovered basking right across
the track of a ship in which I was a
cadet. We gave the terror a full mile of
sea room. The distance between the
splash at the end of one arm to the
splash at the end of an opposite arm
appeared to be fully a third of the length
of our ship— : 24oft. Our master, who
had navigated blue waters for 30 years,
said “that devil would snap the men off
the decks.” In the logbook of a French
ship, most of the crew attach signatures
to an entry which reports their witness-
ing an octopus slowly capsizing a deeply-
laden schooner of 400 tons. Other sea-
men have testified to watching an octopus
tackling a full-grown whale of the largest
species. The whale was dragged out of
sight under the water.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: No folk have been hit
harder during the past few years than
N.Q. camel-owners. Their desert-ships
that a few years ago were worth £4O per
head are barely worth that amount a
dozen these days. The slump in copper
values ended a lucrative business for the
’Ghans out Cloncurry way, and motor-
lorries settled the camels as wool-
carriers, the former getting a clip to
railhead in a fraction of the time taken
by the camel strings. Meanwhile the
’Ghans live on the dole and their camels
roam at will, tormenting station-owners
through their habit of breaking fences
and trespassing in the paddocks. Brumby
camels will soon be in evidence to add to
the other pests associated with grazing
outback.
THE SILVER LINING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The afternoon is dark and drear,
The rain is drumming loud,
But not a whit perturbed are we
Who with appreciation see
The lining to the cloud.
This once, at least, our Sunday clothes
Are left upon their hooks.
Mum, with an old shawl round her head,
Is snug upon the spare-room bed;
The girls are deep in books.
The boys can wear their oldest togs
And potter where they will,
Or lounge about in happy ease
And in the kitchen have their teas
With neither fuss nor frill.
Dad’s subtle sense of savoir faire
Checks much that he could say.
But, looking outdoors with a grin,
He chuckles: “Cripes, it’s settled in—
No visitors to-day ! ”
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


“8.C.M.”: That a sprinter can do a
shade better than ten yards a second is
attested by the records. But what is the
human limit? I have a bit of second-
hand evidence to offer. Many years ago
a man known as Harry the Swede and
a mate he called “Yorge” were camped
together cutting sleepers on the old
Kempsey-road, North Coast (N.S.W.).
They quarrelled while preparing their
evening meal. The matter might easily
have been adjusted had not some evil
genius prompted Harry to make a remark
reflecting on Yorge’s ancestry. Yorge
threw a squaring axe at him with almost
tragic consequences. Harry was still ex-
cited while telling us about it next day.
“My vordt,” he said, “oii’y I go so fast
as two kangaloo dog, he goot my hett off.
Vor vifty yauts I veel der edge of der
axe on my neck, but he neffer goot me,
vor I go yust so fast as der axe, an’ I keep
on running till der axe fall down.”
* * * *
“P.J.8.”: A tiny pellucid egg swims
in the ocean. A wriggling creature
emerges, swimming quickly by the lash-
“How far can one see from the top of the poppet-head, my man ?”
“ ’Bout a hundred million miles.”
“You’re exaggerating!”
“Well, maister, you can see the sun, an’ ’e’s purty near that far off.”
ing of its muscular tail. It has a rodlike
backbone of cartilage, a nervous centre
a id an eye complete with retina, pigment
aid lens. After a time it sinks, and ad-
heres to a rock by means of fleshy tabs at
its front end. Gradually a thick cloak of
semi-transparent substance (identical
with cellulose) envelops the body, and
the tail is absorbed. Gills and internal
organs remain intact, but the gelatinous
backbone vanishes, and the nervous sys-
tern is reduced to a simple sensory gan-
glion. At the tail-end is an opening to
admit food and water to oxygenate the
blood-stream, while a side aperture
serves as an outlet for waste material.
Such is the life story of a simple tunicate,
Probably you have seen them in rock
pools at low tide and call them “sea-
squirts” or “sea-cows ” But here's the
mystery. It starts life on a nigh level
and goes backwards until in its mature
£ orm j t j s little better than a worm.
* * * *
.
“Tane”: The ingenuity of the Maori
as a faker of “whakapapas,” or genealo-
gical trees, is well known and reckoned
with by those whose business brings them
within the precincts of the Native Land
c ourts Q f Maoriland. Frequently the
faked whakapapa is based upon the fact
that some generations back two natives
with different sets of collaterals had the
same name an( j it i s sought to confound
the one with the other. As the Maori's
imagination is not hoppled by the dread
of a perjury charge, the Judge must
beware. Comparatively few M.L. lawyers
will touch native cases. There’s a reason.
A venerable K.C. tells how, in the long
a go, he had as a client Otene, who engaged
the barrister to establish his claim to his
patrimony. Otene told a plausible story
and the lawyer advanced him a tenner.
At the hearing the first witness for the
ot h e r s id e was Otene’s allegedly-dead
P a P a - How man V m . ore P akeha gents.
one Otene took down isn’t known. They
don’t usually talk about such experiences,
But it is known that 20 years later Otene
sharpened the wits of a young solicitor
when he offered to sell to that solicitor s
client for £2OO his partitioned interest
in a small block of native land. No such
sale is valid until confirmed by a Native
Land Board, nor can there be any execu-
tion or process for recovery of debt. But
the young man of law didn t know that,
and when the transfer was signed and de-
hvered he paid the £2OO to Otene, who
quickly spent it. The board took two
seconds to riC3.ve out tne application tor
confirmation. Otene couldn’t be touched
the lawyer had to return the £2OO to
his client.
*** . *
Jerry : An unlucky chap is Percy
Fotey? & South Grafton (N.S.W.) man.
Te n years ago he fell and fractured his
spine, and has since been confined to an
invalid chair, being paralysed from the
hips down. Often at night his legs caused
him considerable inconvenience, and to
relieve himself from pain he was in the
habit of seizing the toe of his right foot
in his left hand and the heel in his right
hand and giving it a hearty twist.
Wrenching very violently on one occasion
Foley heard a loud snap—he had frac-
tured his leg just above the knee.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Prof. W. M. Wheeler, of
Harvard, in a new book states that,
“besides the poisonous snakes, the bull-
dog ants are really the only formidable
animals in the Australian bush.” Pos-
sibly he hasn’t met sandflies and mos-
quitoes, and he seems to have overlooked
our venomous spiders. Also he says noth-
ing of crocodiles, buffaloes, wild pigs,
emus and cassowaries, but it may be he
deems these to be timid and harmless.
* 4= * *
“C. Coral”: According to an English
magazine, the world’s largest sharks are
the baskers, caught off the west coast of
Ireland. If they are bigger than those
found in Torres Strait waters they must
displace a bit of water. A shark seen
in the vicinity of Murray Island some
time back was longer than the fishing
cutter which came across it—must have
“Was the people you worked with decent to you w’en you told ’em you were goin’
to git married?”
“Yes. Said the job’d be there for me if ever the wife left me.”
been 40ft. Other big fish are seen along
the Barrier, and make a lugger look quite
insignificant when they range alongside.
The native boys don’t go in for hooking
these outsize specimens, but they say that
they are not to be feared as much as
the tiger shark and other man-eating
varieties of smaller build.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: A long way in a long
time was the motto of P. M. Durack, who
recently died at Arrino (W.A.). Wit-
ness his great droving trip of 2500 miles
to the Kimberleys. With his brothers
he started from Mount Mario, on the
Barcoo, in July, 1883, with 2000
shorthorn heifers and 200 calves, and
travelled by way of Winton, Clon-
curry, Burketown, the Elsey and Victoria
Downs to the Ord River, which was
reached in Sept., 1885. Much of the
route was over trackless and unknown
country, and nearly a year was lost by
delays through droughts and floods —six
months on the Georgina waiting for rain,
three months farther on, and six weeks on
the Roper owing to too much rain.
From the Victoria River one of the
brothers went to Darwin, wliere he
chartered a steamer to take provisions to
Cambridge Gulf. At the Gulf he was
perched alone on a hill for five weeks,
waiting for the overlanders to come. The
Duracks were the pioneers of the Kim-
berleys, in which they always had great
faith as pastoral country.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: The frilled lizard, native to
Australia, has a trick of running more or
less erect on its hind legs, a survival of
the habit of some of the great reptiles of
the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods,
notably the dinosaurs. Flying reptiles
navigated the air some 50 million years
before birds appeared ; the pteranodon
had a wing-span of 25ft., twice that of an
albatross, though its body probably
weighed about the same. Like the alba-
tross no doubt it glided over the ocean,
diving for fish. In course of time the
reptilian fliers developed, like birds, a
toothless, horny beak as well as tubular
bones, but acquired no warm covering.
Their bodies and leathery wings remained
bare, and when the warm Cretaceous
period ended this nudity led to their
downfall and gave the advantage to the
feathered birds. The interest that scient-
ists show in our species of monotremes
the platypus and echidna —is due to the
fact that they form the only known links
between the reptiles and the mammals.
They are cold-blooded and lay eggs like
reptiles, but they suckle their young like
mammals and the platypus has lost the
horny reptilian covering.
“C.P.C.”: What’s the largest giant
clam ( Tridacna gigas) of the Great Bar-
rier Reef known to a member of the
Council? At the Cathedral of St. Sulpice,
in Paris, there’s a pair used as holy-
water basins that weigh 5501 b. and mea-
sure 4ft. 6in. long by 2ft. 6in. wide. As
a rule the mollusc runs to about 3001 b.,
and when it is wide open the water-color-
ist has to work fast and ransack his paint-
box to match the splash of vivid tints in
the flesh of the huge mantle. Captain
Cook, when on the Barrier in the En-
deavour, tried the shellfish for food more
t h an once, and Flinders mentions in his
j ourna } t h a t on the Torres Strait islands
saw na^ves using the shells as tanks
f or f re sh water. There’s a garden on the
North Shore, Sydney, where twelve of
these monster shells, each pair going
about 2001 b., have been used in the
formation of a rose garden,
“Lugger’s Mate”: Let me nail the oft-
repeated lie that the giant clam of the
B air i er Reef traps human beings. From
m y own experience in eight years, and
f rom t h a t G f dozens of other luggermen,
I can say that the gian, clam doesn't hurry
about closing even when it is prodded
yicrously. I have placed my hand right
‘"side it, and a favorite native method of
killing the clam is to thrust a spear into
the contents of the open shell and jab
it ten or a dozen times. That couldn’t
be done if the big mollusc were as quick
to seize opportunities as it is reported to
be. if y OU don’t believe me, search for
j ust one au thenticated case where a man
j ias been trapped by a clam,
* * * *
T
‘Bogaduck : Very few people have
actually witnessed the mating of a queen
bee ; even the men who keep bees for a
living may see it only once or twice in
a lifetime. Yesterday I went for a stroll
to see how the blossoms upon which my
bees are working had stood the rains
which had drenched my South Aus. dis-
rj j n a little glade I saw a
c j OU( j of insects hovering. They were
drones, moving about a virgin queen
which was circling some six feet above
the ground. Time and time agam a drone
would try to catch her, but the lady was
coy, and dodged them all. Finally one
took her fancy ; she let him come near
and, after circling around the queen so
swiftly that the eye could scarcely fol-
low him, he met her and the pair
dropped to the ground. A buzz and a
twist freed the queen from her consort’s
embrace. She flew back to the hive from
w bi c b she had emerged ; I watched her
then i oo ]^ a t the ground. The drone
f . feebly moving legs ; and even as
. y . . 6 ®
1 looked the closin g scene n
nature s little dramas was enacted. An
ant came along, touched the dead drone
with her antennae, seized him by a leg,
and dragged his carcass away
THE FUNNY BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Funny bloke? Well, that’s as may be —can’t
say that I see it, though.
Still, 1 grant you that old Jimmy’s not an
easy man to know.
Yes, he takes a bit of sampling. After that I
think you’ll find
That there’s nothing wrong with Jimmy —but
you’ve got to know him, mind.
And so that’s the way he struck you? Well,
I’m not surprised at that.
There’s not many, meeting Jimmy, who can
guess what he is at.
Jimmy’s deep; he isn’t what a man could call
a surface show;
For there’s not much on his surface, but there’s
plenty down below.
Long before you know old Jimmy—if, of
course, you ever do—
You can bet your bottom dollar Jimmy’s got
the strength of you;
You may try a bit of kidding, just the same
as many more,
But you won’t show Jimmy any point he hasn’t
seen before.
Lots of chaps make fun of Jimmy, but he sees
through all their schemes;
Taking rises out of him is not so easy as it
seems.
Jimmy’s slow and he’s old-fashioned, measured
by the modern trend,
But I’ve always noticed that he gets there
somehow in the end.
Funny bloke? Well, I must grant you that
you may be partly right,
For old Jimmy sticks to some things that are
.slipping out of sight.
Some of his ideas are just a little out of date
to-day,
For he looks for help to no one, and he always
pays his way.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


ď
Foundation Garments Sacrificed
o.
S—*
S?
*V\
FASTENING
CORSELETTE
This modern Corse-
lette for slender
figures is a Step-
in Model with
zi p p fastening
down sides. De-
signed in peach
Broche. Firmly
boned and has '
Swami Silk uplift
bust section. Sizes
32 to 36 inches.
Usually 18/6. Sale
Price IS/6
Inner Belt Corselette, . lightly
boned, made in pink fancy
material, cut fairly low at back
and suitable for slender figures.
Bust measurements 34 to 40 ins.
Usually 7/11. Sale Price, 5/11
Model Corselette in pink
Broche. Lightly boned, with
elastic sections over hips. Ideal
model for short, slender figures.
Sizes 32, 34, 36 inches. Usually
14/6. Sale Price 12/9
Model Corselette in peach cot-
ton Broche, firmly boned, uplift
bust line and low-cut back.
Bust measurement 32 to 38
inches'. Usually priced at 12/6.
Sale Price 9/6
m
l:
o
f
tm
i)
ll\\\
16
I i
W'-'w' -
Ladderproof Art. Silk
Vests with opera top or
round necks. May be had
in shades of pink, sky,
Nile, apricot and black.
Sizes S.W., W. and O.S.
Usually 2/11. Sale, 2/6
Ladderproof Art. Silk
Bloomers to match above
Vests. Sizes S.W., W. and
O.S. Usually at 2/11 pair.
Sale Price, pair .... 2/6
X.0.5.,' in apricot, pink,
white and sky. Usually
3/6. Sale Price .... 2/11
Cotton Vests, ideal for
summer wear. Avail-
able in white only, with
lace straps.
Sizes Usl. Sale
W. ..... 1/6 'l/4-i
O.S. .... 1/9 1/6
X. .. 1/11 1/9
Wonderful value at this
price! Natural Fuji Silk
Slips, neatly finished
with edging of lace.
Obtainable in sizes S.W.
and W. Usually at
5/11.
Price
Sale
4/1!
L
UtelllM
EA
L_
r
\
w
The well-known “Hanro” brand of light-weight
Silk and Wool Vests. May be had with lace or
tubing straps, as illustrated above.
Small women’s size only. Usually at
2/6 each. Sale Price, each
V 9
©
%
*s*
v
m
m
m
«JUs
1
>-'.■‘.7
m
K:.*.YA?a&«&£«?
mmm
:;j:^; : ;}..■: ■
■
■s*
Pi
iSSSfiS
-
mi
I mmi
m
l iffi
: : - V
IS®
.... N>
-
N >
ml
ix
n
5*
1ty 2 d.
MANCHESTER offers
for the housewife
Now is your opportunity to purchase
Bath or Surf Towels. Obtainable in
four different patterns in stripe or
multi-color effects. Usually 1/11 and
2/3 each. Sale Price, each ...
6 for
1/7*
. 9/6
The cheapest ever in Quality Pillow
Slips, fold-in style, full size. Usually
1/3 each. Sale Price, each ll*d.
12 if or 10/9
7^
£
Japanese Crepe Bedspreads in delight-
fully brilliant effects. Will give long
seryice. Size for single bed. Usually
7/6 each. Sale Price, each 5/11
Pull double bed size. Usually 11/9 ea.
Salo Price, each 8/11


MAIL ORDERS CARRIAGE PAID
d/oar money refunded if not satisfied
Brothers
m
Jcrf
m
m
I
f
SS
m
■wv-
Broadway Ties-Mostly Half Price
aw
SWo
vyAa
h
6
Sfii
i
A bargain!
Pure Fur
iF e l i s
Men’s Pure Fur Felt
Hats, featuring the
new dressy snap brim
shape. In .light, mid.
or dark greys, slate
or fawns. These hats
are without equal.
Usually 18/6 each.
Sale, each .. 10/11
f
Wonderful value in Men’s Golf Shirts with two
dressy collars to match; made from smart new
English Poplin Shirtings, featuring new striped
patterns in "pleasing color. Cut on full tailored
lines. Usually J B/11. Sale . Price, each .. 5/11
I
o
iH
lo ■
■■nn
f
.
w
411
E
I. & R. Morley’s
Summer-weight All
wool Undershirts anti
ankle-length Under-
pants of firm weave
and extra soft finish.
Guaranteed unshrink-
able. Purchase now
at this low price.
Sizes from 34 to 44
inches. Usually up
to 9/11 each. Sale
Price, eaeh .. 4/11
Stock up now with these dressy Broadway Ties. 250 dozen
Ties in the very newest patterns—overchecks and striped
effects. These Ties will cause a sensation, and have always
sold at 4/6 and 5/6 each. Now all going at, each 2/6
Pyjamas
at Half!!
Sydney’s" biggest Pyjama
special! Men’s sturdy
quality woven striped
Zephyr Pyjama Suits. In a
wide' choice of smart
striped designs. A full
roomy cut, and by far the
best value obtainable in
Sydney. Sizes S.M., M. and
O.S. Usually 7/11 each.
Sale Price, each .. 3/11
'V'V'v
V 9
Tmm
Hose
Half
Pri c e
Wonderful sale offer of
Men’s reliable Wool and
Silk Half Hose. The best
value and the smartest
range of patterns in
Sydney. Come early for
this special. Usually at
3/6 pr. Sale Price, 1/9
£4 / 15 / - SUITS
Tailored to Measure
d
Here’s an opportunity to buy a quality Suit at
a very moderate price. The materials are a
high-grade Worsted, and only English trim-
mings and watershrunk inter-linings are em-
bodied in the Suit, which means that the coat
will retain its shape for the life of the Suit.
You may choose from fancy greys, fawns,
striped effects, fancy blue and Indigo Serges.
LAY-BY SERVICE AVAILABLE.
We will clean and press suits for 5'6
55 / - SAC SUITS
47'6
Yes, you can buy a good quality Worsted Sac
Suit at this price. Tailored, ready for service
in the latest two-button model with double-
breasted lapels. Choose from greys and fancy
blues.
Suits
You’ll need to be early for this bargain. Thorn-
proof Tweed Sport Suits, finished with half belt
at back and wide fitting trousers. Available in
wanted shades of grey and fawns. Sizes 4 to 6
only.
Men's Clothing Ist Floor
EVERYTHING THROUGHOUT THE STORE REDUCED (a few proprietary lines excepted).


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Maoriland’s Major Kerr-Smiley was
not at Moorefield to receive the Gold
Cup won for him by Persian in the race
of that name, but trainer Jamieson took
charge of the bauble for him, and
was all smiles when it was handed
over. Favored with the rails position,
Persian (5 to 2) led throughout, and,
though Cercello and Milantheon made
fine efforts to draw level with him in the
straight, Persian had a lot in hand. He
was one of the early fancies for the Vil-
liers, but Jamieson relied on Closing
Time. Persian is by Legionnaire or Spel-
thorne from Pura, a mare with Carbine
blood in her veins.
Bombus surprised everyone when he
took the Juvenile in really good style from
Bon Nuit and the favorite, Tip Toe. It
was his first run; he went out at 20 to
1, but returned £26 10s. on the 10s.
tote—three divs. Bombus was bred by
the Payten brothers, and is a good type
of colt by imported Baralong from Native
Bee, by Tressady from Linbee, by Lin-
acre.
Some Boy is in the Challenge Stakes
with 7st. 61b., and after his victory in the
Flying Handicap, where he proved too
speedy for Vista and Questionnaire, the
Bathurst-owned gelding may have to be
considered. He was backed from tens to
Bert: "You dropped vour h^noker-
CHIEP, ''
Qert : " DID * ■*• '■
Bbrt: "you did''
GERT ' ’well, \P * DROP IT PLEASE
DO KIT you BOTHER ,"
sixes, despite the fact that he had not
raced for months, but his condition was
excellent, and he went round Vista and
Questionnaire as if they were anchored
at the top of the straight. Persian’s
stable-mate Dole was the medium of a
plunge. He dropped out at the three
furlongs and finished second-last.
Amateur rider A. Campbell was not
seen to advantage on Tatyoon at Rose-
hill when the gelding was narrowly beaten
by Happyendo. He made no mistake in
the Moorefield Corinthian Plate, as Tat-
yoon (6 to 4) led all the way and won
in a walk from Captain Rado and Pris-
matic. The last-named opened favorite,
but found the pace too hot. Tatyoon
was bred by Booth, and carries the colors
of Mrs. Booth and Miss Dot Booth, who
received a canteen of cutlery, besides the
prize.
Dango, by Dane’s Voe, who died early
in his stud career, got. away with the
Moorefield Handicap, at eights, from
Wicklow and Abbot’s Lad. Dango did
his early racing on the unregistered
tracks, and stood down for 12 months to
cross over to the A.J.C. courses. His
trainer, Jim O’Connor, has a useful team
in work at Ascot.
A.J.C. committeeman A. W. Thomp-
son and C. V. Oatley were fairly san-
guine that their filly Veilantif would win
the first division of the Three- and Four-
year-old. Le Touquet was always favor-
ite, but Veilantif had him beaten at the
turn. Fleet caused a thrill when she
dashed up on the outside, to be beaten a
long head, with High Degree, who eased
considerably m the betting, a close third.
Veilantif has now won four races. She
is in the Challenge with 7st. Bred by T.
C. Trautwein, and raced by Randwick
trainer Fred Cush, High Sun (3 to 1)
romped home in the second division
from Dameminster and an outsider, Wise
Clare, who was second-last half a mile
from home.
For Warwick Farm:
Sefton Handicap: Bill Wedgewood •
next, Persian.
Farm Novice: Diamond ; next, Broad
Arrow.
Warwick Handicap: Stonebrook ; next
Cynical.
Berala Handicap: Chemosh; next,
Nardale.
* * * *
G. J. C. Dyett, sec. of the Vic. Trotting
and Racing Association, was on the job
at Ascot last Saturday. He was called
into the press-room and congratulated by
the sporting journalists on his knighthood.
It had rained throughout the afternoon,
and most of those present bore a be-
draggled appearance ; but the little cere-
mony passed off pleasantly. This is the
third successive fixture at Ascot which
has been marred by rain.
By staging one £5OO race at each of its
week-end reunions, Ascot sets an example
to down-the-line courses in Melbourne.
At Mentone on December 30 no event
was worth more than £2OO. Harry Gavin,
owned and trained by F. W. Hoysted,
was made favorite for the Ascot Five’
Hundred. This son of Eurythmic has
done Hoysted good service in sprint con-
tests, but has lost some of his ability to
begin swiftly. He was fairly well placed
at five furlongs; he then galloped on
the heels of another horse, almost
fell, and came home at the tail of the
field. Backed from tens down to eights,
Gold Bag led all the way, scoring by
half a length from Karomin and Star-
dom, who dead-heated. Gold Bag is by
Windbag from Mystic Light, by White
Star from a half-sister to Solution.
Sire honors at the Ascot meeting were
shared by Windbag and The Night Patrol.
Windbag’s other winner was Brief Bag,
in the second division of the Encourage
Handicap. Though Brief Bag was a red-
hot favorite he had to be ridden right out
to overtake Moasan and score by half a
length. He belongs to J. Hurley, a pad-
dock bookmaker. His dam, Brief, was
bred by J. E. Brien, and is by Beragoon
from imported Golden Fly. Victories of
The Night Patrol descendants were easily
achieved. Par Cost obtained a walk-in
start for the second division of the Trial
Handicap and never gave the opposition
a chance. Neither did Day Patrol in
the first division of the Encourage Handi-
cap. Roan in color, Day Patrol is out
of imported Hispania, who was a bay.
Skidmore was much in evidence. He
finished second in the pony race, made a
dead-heat (on Vedas) for first in the suc-
ceeding event, won on Brief Bag, was
third on Gracenda and second on Flower
of Egypt. The horsemanship displayed
on Vedas and Brief Bag was fine. Each
of these horses looked to have a forlorn
chance at the half-distance, but Skid-
more’s vigor and determination enabled
Vedas to get on terms with Miss Adder
as they flashed past the post; in similar
fashion he persuaded Brief Bag to wear
down Moasan. The triumph of Game
Chick in the Juvenile Handicap gave
Whittier a good stud advertisement. This
youngster should prove a clinking sprinter
next season. Perpetua, a daughter of
Heroic, ran right away from her Welter
Handicap rivals, winning by seven lengths
from the favorite, Boundless.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wally Hancock and Alby Roberts, both
welterweights, furnished a fierce fight at
North Sydney. Roberts apparently had
victory in his grasp in the seventh, but
Hancock kept going and got the decision.
Before entering the ring at Leichhardt
on Saturday Joe Gotch gave it out that
he knew too much to be back-slammed
by Jack Clark. Back-slammed, however,
he was in the third round, and it was his
finish for the night. In the previous
round he had brought blood with solid
right swings, and pinned his man with a
combination body-scissors and press.
Ins and Outs
At Sydney Cricket Ground during the
week-end South Australia and N.S.W.
began their second Sheffield match of the
season. For practical purposes, the
South Australian representation was con-
fined to Nitschke. It is true that ten of
his fellow-countrymen accompanied him,
but, with the honorable exception' of
Wall, their part in the game consisted in
a stroll out to the wicket and a scamper
back again. When the last South Aus-
tralian wicket fell on Friday for 246,
Nitschke had made 130 of them without
losing his wicket, though he gave one
chance at 123. He hit with tremendous
power on the drive, and his stroking all
round was a treat to witness. Wall, going
in last when the score was 192, helped the
left-hander to raise 54 more runs. Of
the N.S.W. bowlers, Chilvers, with 3 for
67, gave the batsmen most trouble.
O’Reilly (3-59) was not at his best. For
a few overs Theak got up a fair amount
of pace, taking 2 for 52, while he should
have caught Nitschke off his own bowling.
Brown and Fingleton opened well for
the home side and had 33 up without loss
at stumps. Fingleton went early next
morning, but Brown (43) and Bill (41)
took the edge off the bowling for Kippax.
The latter played classic cricket for his
79 n. 0., when rain stopped play on Satur-
day afternoon; 3 for 187.
On Monday, Kippax ran his score to
128 before Ryan caught him off Tobin.
Rowe went early for 14 and Chipperfield
(12) stayed for a bit. After that it was
a washout, and Kippax got himself out
trying to force the pace. Howell (in hos-
pital with a cracked knee) did not bat,
and the last four batsmen tacked on less
than 10 runs among them. On a lifeless
wicket, Wall took 4 for 71 and Grimmett
3 for 75.
South Australia’s second try saw 5
down for 101 at tea. Ryan (34) and
Waite (20) were the not-outs. Richard-
son’s 24 was the only other score of note.
* * * *
The cricket surprise of the week was
the request of Woodfull that Hornibrook
be included in the Queensland team to
play South Australia in Brisbane, with a
view to giving the Australian selectors a
glimpse of his form. Hornibrook has
played little big cricket since returning
from the English tour, on which he bagged
103 wickets in all matches for an average
of 18.57, only Grimmett heading him in
the bowling averages. In the Tests he
took 13 wickets for 36.46, his star turn
being the 7 for 92 in the fifth Test which
won the rubber for Australia.
* * * *
Arrangements have been made for a
consolation trip to Maoriland for the
Australian cricketers left on the beach
when the Eleven sails for England. The
team will be picked immediately after
the big side, which should be made public
on January 31 ; it will leave for M.L. on
February 15 and return on April 4. There
will be 12 players and a manager. M.L.
pays 10s. a day and first-class travelling
and housing expenses.
* % jfg
ITdter Pilch”: It would do no harm
n the cricket authorities of the various
States held a course of instruction in the
laws for the benefit of people who write
about the game. A typical bloomer which
points the moral was seen when Ponsford
was described as out “broke wicket.”
There is no such way of getting out in the
game. What Ponsford did was to step on
his wicket when playing back. Law 25 says
he was out “hit wicket,” and I can’t see
why even a Sydney expert should be per-
mitted to improve on that. Some time
ago the same people invented a way of
getting out they labelled “h.o.w.” —pre-
sumably “hit on wicket” —and this they
used when a batsman turned a ball into
his wicket. Law 21 says that the striker
is out “if the wicket be bowled down,
even if the ball first touch the batsman’s
bat or person: ‘Bowled.’ ”
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Lonergan’s twin cen-
turies for South Australia against Victoria
make him the thirteenth batsman to turn
the trick in the Sheffield series. Arm-
strong, Onyons, Ponsford and Ransford
have done it for Victoria; Bradman,
Kippax, Jackson, Jim Mackay, McCabe
and Noble for N.S.W. ; O’Connor for
Queensland ; and Richardson for South
Australia. Few Of the chroniclers of
this match, by the way, have noticed that
the two highest scorers, Bromley and
Lonergan, are Westralians.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia struck a
new note in Australian cricket recently
when the first inter-State match between
teams made up of ex-members of the
A.I.F. was staged in Adelaide between
Victoria and S.A. The home side won
easily, scoring 170 and 1 for 51 to Vic-
toria’s 65 and 155. Loveridge, a former
Sheffield player, bowled finely for the
Wheatfielders.
o Continued on page 30.)
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The most inter-
esting aspect of the tennis Test results —
as far as I am concerned —is the utter
ffabbergastation of orthodoxy as exempli-
fied in the triumphs of young McGrath.
Ever since he obtruded on the world of
big tennis with his double-fisted back-
hand all the holy imams of the game
agreed that it was quite good as a spec-
tacular splash, but would never lead to
greatness. The youth has entirely dis-
regarded the prophets. Perry is rated by
his countrymen—ignoring Wimbledon
and Paris —as the world’s champion.
What is to be said, then, of the N.S.W.
youngster who has downed him twice?
* * * *
“Rushy”: The Australian tennis cham-
pionships which start with the fight for
the junior titles on January 16 will see
most of the Australian stars in action
in addition to the Englishmen. The
junior titles for boys and girls are both
held by N.S.W. Crawford is the singles
champion and Americans Vines and
Gledhill hold the doubles title. Others
are Crawford and Mrs. Crawford (mixed
doubles), Joan Hartigan (women’s
singles) and Mesdames Molesworth and
Westmacott (women’s doubles). All ex-
cept the American pair will be defending
their titles.
* * * *
“Nark”: The popular impression that
the next Davis Cup will be a walk-over
for the Australian team is not shared by
Harley Mathews, a selector for both the
Test and Davis Cup committees. He
considers the Japanese are improving as
rapidly as the Australians, while they are
a better-balanced side. The Americans
also would be a very tough lot, in spite
of Vines’s secession to the professionals.
Perry’s successes against Crawford had
given the Englishmen great heart, and
this would be reflected in their game on
their home courts should the two teams
clash in the challenge round.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Yet another agony is to
be added to the Melbourne centenary
celebrations. Tennis-girls are demanding
that a. team of British women be invited
to visit Vic. They are right in saying that
Britain owes us a visit, seeing that we
have sent two teams overseas without a
return. But why insist on Britain? A
team of French girls would be as wel-
come, and, failing them, what about
the Japanese? They tell me the mousmees
oyer there have long ago chucked away
the kimono and taken to the game as
kindly as their menfolk have done.
(Continued on next page.)


Whenever You Visit Melbourne —
whether on holiday or on business—added pleasure
will be yours if you stay at “Scott’s
The Most Central and Leading Residential Hotel
There’s no other hotel so conveniently situated or more
modernly equipped and conducted and at “Scott s you
will always feel at home
Telegrams:
“Scottsotel /*
Melbourne.
df
Reasonable
Tariff....
Room only—
Breakfast,
Luncheon,
Dinner
a la Carte—
or Inclusive
Accommodation.
Collins Street,
Melbourne.
FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won t provi e
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one wee ®
salary will provide education for your children, heavy me ica
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficieTxt
savings service all the time.
(flommoinTOtltb Savfnasßanlt of Hustralto
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
fns and Outs
With a creditable score of 372, Queens-
land faced the N.S.W. first innings in
Sydney with some confidence. Fingleton
(42) and Brown (50) made a good start,
and then Bradman fell upon the bowling
and murdered it. Kippax abetted him,
and when the cyclone had passed Brad-
man had made 253 and Kippax 125.
Chipperfield (84) also assaulted the tired
bowlers, and Ma closed with 6 for 614 ;
Oxenham, 3 for 116. Chilvers and the in-
feriority complex soon settled Queens-
land’s hopes between them, the side going
for 158. Chilvers took 6 for 62.
In Melbourne, Victoria proved too
strong for South Australia, winning bv
5 wickets. South Australia lost when it
could do no better than 198 in its second
innings, though Lonergan cheered up his
comrades with another century, making
his double for the game. 115 and 100.
Fleetwood-Smith again came off with 4
for 47. Rigg with 50 was the chief con-
tributor to the 145 Victoria required to
win. Grimmett took 4 for 52.
The result of these games sees Victoria
a long way ahead of N.S.W. on the Shield
table, 19 points to Ma’s 11. Provided
Ma beats South Australia and Victoria
outright she can yet win.
* * * *
“Senex”: A feature of that Victorian
veterans’ turnout (B. 3/1 / ’34) was
a competition that used to begin or end
up many a big match in the old days,
when throwing the ball properly was
considered as important a part of a
cricketer’s stock-in-trade as ability to
pick it up well. Youngsters then
used to be coached in long-distance and
directional throwing, and in school sports,
both in this country and England, throw-
ing the cricket ball was always a popular
item on the programme. Nowadays a
fieldsman has to learn the art himself,
and, if he is practising, is probably told
off by his skipper for chancing his arm.
It is pleasant to read that Westralian
Bromley warmed the cockles of the
veterans’ hearts by a 125-yard throw. He
’might have had competition from some
of the N.S.W. team, but their skipper
kept these gentlemen in the cotton wool
that seems to be the permanent clothing
of some of them nowadays.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Like the Board of Con-
trol, Marylebone is showing a regrettable
tendency to tinker with the laws of
cricket. It is said to be gravely consider-
ing an alteration to the l.b.w. law to pro-
vide that a batsman playing an off-break
with his pads may be given out if the
ump. considers the ball would have hit
the wicket. To be logical, if the off-
break bowler is to be benefited the leg-
break expert, usually a left-hander,
should also be given a chance ; to make
a distinction between the two is sheer
folly. In any case such a rule would
only increase the heavy load of respon-
sibility already on the umpire’s shoulders.
Leg before decisions as the law defines
them now are not received with smiling
thanks by any type of batsman. Under
the proposed alteration they would pro-
bably lead to assault and battery.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Grimmett contributed
several paragraphs to cricket history in
the Victorian-South Australian match in
Melbourne, chief of them being that the
first of his four wickets in Victoria’s
second innings made him the first
bowler to take 100 wickets against each
of the other Sheffield Shield States. Not
only that, but he did the trick in three
consecutive matches, those against
N.S.W. and Queensland in Adelaide and
that in Melbourne.
* sp * #
“Tamar”: If C. L. Badcock were a
N.S.W., Victorian or South Australian
batsman, he might engage the attention
of the Australian selectors. As a Tas-
manian, he ranks with Queenslanders as
quite impossible in a cricket sense. Only
20 years old, he yet holds most of the
batting records for his State, including
two centuries in one match. Against
Victoria the other day, he banged up
274, the highest by a Tassie in an inter-
state or international match, and the
only double century scored in these
games for the State. Dear old Doug
Jardine has the best for visitors to Laun-
ceston with 214.
Racquet and Bawl '
The third tennis Test between Aus-
tralia and England ended disappointingly
in that England, after a start that sug-
gested the side was going to live up to
its overseas reputation, went down
tamely in the closing stages. The second
day saw the visitors, who had begun the
play level-pegging with Australia at two
rubbers each, lose all four matches. The
Australian success in the doubles when
Turnbull and McGrath downed Hughes
and Wilde, after the home players had
won all three singles, left Australia with
only one match to win to take the Test
and the rubber. Turnbull settled that
next day by polishing off Wilde, and,
though Perry proved too good for Quist,
the latter, with Hopman, won from
“Why didn’t you introduce me?”
“I’d forgotten his name.”
“But you called him darling.”
“You make me tired — didn’t I tell you I’d forgotten his name!”
Hughes and Wilde, while Turnbull and
McGrath upset the betting by downing
Perry and Lee two sets to one. The
grand total was: Australia, 9 rubbers,
23 sets, 164 games ; England, 3 rubbers,
8 sets, 114 games.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Looking over the per-
formances of the English team in the
tennis Tests to date one is forced to the
conclusion that the side is not nearly so
consistent as that led by Gregory in this
country a few years ago, though it has
been much better advertised. It is cer-
tainly not to be compared with the French
team of 1928. Yet, save for Austin, the
English critics assured all and sundry
that it was England’s best when it left
there. On performances to date, neither
Hughes nor Lee can be rated as equal to
our first-class players. Perry has a good
deal of the curate’s egg about him. and
a very temperamental egg at that. Wilde
is a passenger.
“Kooyong”: In spite of Australian suc-
cesses Hughes, who leads the Englishmen,
has no doubt about the Old Dart’s ability
to hang on to the Davis Cup next year.
Hughes considers that the visitors are
undergoing a reaction from their efforts
last year; he dwells on the fact that, though
England lost all three Tests in South
Africa earlier in the year, it made no
mistake when the Davis Cup chance came
along. He strikes a jarring note when he
says the English defenders next year will
be carefully trained by play against “the
best professionals and other good men
available,” whereas the Australians, if
they survive the racket of the early
rounds, will have little time for concen-
trated preparation. The special training
of amateurs by professionals for events
of this kind used to be foreign to British
sporting ideals —it certainly is in Aus-
tralia, even in these days of gate-money
amateurism.
* * * *
“Garden Reach”: The Westralian
tennis players, after going down early in
the All India championships at Calcutta,
failed in the Test by five matches to one.
Stephen was the only Australian winner.
The opposition was composed of
Indian and British players, two of the
latter, Brooke and Michelmore, downing
the crack Westralian pair, Davis and
Stephen, in two straight sets. The invi-
tation to visit India was sent direct by
the Indian officials to the Westralians. As
they were keen on the trip, the Aus-
tralian authorities gave permission, but
only with the proviso that the side should
not be known as an Australian one. The
Indian tennis people are said to have
been disappointed with the calibre of the
visitors. The fault is their own for going
to the Westralian tennis authorities in-
stead of to the Australian h.q.
“Cottesloe”: With some of the cracks
away in India, Westralia decided the
State tennis championships at Perth last
week. M. Carpenter won the singles and
the doubles with W. Kennedy. He also
annexed the mixed doubles in partner-
ship with Miss Herbert, who won the
women’s singles, in addition to taking the
doubles with Miss O’Mahoney.
**. * *
“Top Spin”: It is good news to hear
that young McGrath has decided to give
tennis a miss until the Australian cham-
pionships in Sydney. In spite of his tre-
mendous tussles in the Tests, tennis
officials were after him to appear in
minor tournaments almost before he
walked off the courts in Melbourne, but
wiser counsels have prevailed.
* * * *
“Huon”: The English tennis players,
completed their exhibition games in
Tassie this week and left for Sydney,
via Melbourne, to take part in the Aus-
tralian championships, which kick off
on January 18. The championships will
give the Englishmen every chance of re-
covering the prestige lost in the Tests.
They will be five-set affairs, which the
visitors declare they desire above all else.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McHaggis”: January 1 ushered in
the revised rules of golf. In future all
golfers cursing their way round the
Empire on which the sun of St. Andrews
never sets will be required to observe
them. Important to remember is that
grass in a bunker is not now part of the
hazard unless so defined by local rules.
If there is a special bunker you funk, sur-
reptitiously plant some grass seeds in it
and all may be well. Loose impediments,
cause of countless heartburnings, may
now be removed, whatever their distance
from the ball, unless they are touching
a hazard. A hazard is defined as any
bunker, water (save casual water), ditch,
sand, road, sand blown on the grass or
sprinkled thereon, bare patches, scrapes,
tracks and paths. Snow and ice are not
hazards.
* * * *
“Calamity Jane”: The N.S.W.L.G.U.
is to hold its annual meeting in February,
and a lot of us girls are sharpening our
finger-nails in anticipation. There has
been trouble in the past because club
committees have clashed with their com-
petition dates. Almost invariably each
has refused to give way to the other cats,
and this time the L.G.U. desires that
matters shall be cut and dried before the
meeting to enable the official programme
to have a chance. The show is to be
held at Bowral this year, and the four-
somes will be played at Moss Vale pro-
bably. Though a long one, this is only a
nine-hole course, and writer can foresee
some rough stuff if the foursomes entry
is a big one—as it invariably is.
* * * *
“Tabby”: This is the time of the year
when the associate golfers blossom into
competitions. One looming in the near
distance is the Blue Mountain G.A.
annual championship, which will be held
at Wentworth Falls on January 30 and
31. Only members of the association
can figure in the championship, but there
will be handicap events open to anyone
who can dig Is. 6d. out of her handbag.
There will also be the Mrs. Walter
Rumble Cup, to be played for over 18
holes stroke, the winner taking a minia-
ture of the pot.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The South Australian
cricket team now touring the eastern
States carries a bigger percentage of
golfers than most combinations of the
kind. Vic. Richardson is a keen addict,
but, though a mighty hitter, his short
game has any amount of room for im-
provement. Lee and Tobin have good
performances in the State championships
and other big title events. Tobin, indeed,
is ranked among South Australia’s best
players in the younger division
(Continued on next page.)


Found Vour F amity's
War tunc NOW !
STABLISH that safest, surest kind of fortune, and one that
never stints. Found it on the solid rock of life assurance.
There is no substitute for life assurance. Only through life
assurance can you get immediate and complete protection to the
full amount of your policy. And because the P. & C., through
its co-operative principles, provides the utmost in return and
benefits, increasing thousands of thinking people are taking
advantage of the remarkable P. & C. opportunity. The wide range
of P. & C. policies is designed to take care of your every need.
Let us advise YOU; no obligation whatever would be incurred.
Write now while you are thinking about it.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director
H. FELL.
Hon.
Chairiftart of Directors:
A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
2
AT THE HEART
W
LONDON
OF
nHI;
oteJ
555
CIIAM
PARK LANE HOTEL, PICCADILLY, W.l.
(’Grams: Keighbrace, Audley, London.)
Equidistant from Lord’s and Kennington Oval
Cricket Grounds on direct route." and close
to Theatre-land and the finest shopping centres.
400 modern bedrooms, each with
telephone and fully-equipped private
bathroom. 40 suites.
SINGLE from 14/6. DOUBLE from
25/-. SUITES from 42/-.
Garage for 200 cars. Sandler’s Orchestra.
Illustrated topical tariff from “The Bulletin.
PARK LANE HOTEL
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE n _ .
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. W* D > “**■ ’
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manaoer —M. G. HAYMEN. „ . _ « g .
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, .
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also, re PL es ®,^ t th « s
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the vvoria.
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking, pub —L
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: Australia’s first dyed-in-
the-wool motor-car was given a road trial
last week with a run from Sydney to Mel-
bourne. The spin was under the eye of
Kingsford Smith, and, though no records
were attempted, the car did everything
asked of it on a consumption mileage of
over 30 to the gallon. It is unique in
that it has no chassis ; the body is built
up of laminated wood on the lines of
aeroplane wings, the engine and other
machinery being attached by special
mountings. This is claimed to give the
car extreme strength and resiliency. The
four-cylinder engine is also locally made,
and so is every part save a few minor
accessories. The car has been under-
going tests for some months, and com-
mercial production is to begin shortly.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Light Car
Club’s 100-mile spin on the Phillip
Island circuit last week drew a huge
crowd. The track was very dusty and
the racing was often obscured by the
flying clouds. Nevertheless, speeds of
more than 100 m.p.h. were hit up on
some of the straight runs, while the aver-
age was a high one. J. W. Williamson,
the winner, started off the limit mark of
17min. and did the run in 91min. 26sec.
in his Riley car. J. O. McCutcheon,
who was second, drove a Bugatti off the
6min. mark and scored fastest time with
80min. 27sec. There were one or two
bumps owing to the dust, but no one
VICTORIAN RACING IDENTITIES.
A. V. HISKENS,
Secretary of the V.A.T.C.
J. F. NAGLE,
Secretary of the Williamstown R.C.
B. L. (“Prince”) BAILLIEU,
of the V.R.C. committee.
C. B. KELLOW,
of Heroic and Hall Mark fame.
BEN CHAFFEY,
Chairman of the V.A.T.C „
was hurt. Williamson’s car is one of the
lot that went overland from Melbourne
in 1930 to take part in the Monte Carlo
rally.
* * * *
“Wanigela”: I’m glad to note that J.
C. Watson, president of N.R.M.A., has
been holding forth on the ways of the
youth who works the petrol pumps. He
quotes one gentleman who stood by the
tank lighting his pipe while the juice was
flowing in, though the car was full of pas-
sengers, including some children. Every
motorist will agree that the cigarette-
chewing yahoo who is so often en-
countered handling the bowsers ought to
be cut out. Writer can memorise
a long list of petrol launches, and at
least one Government yacht, which went
heavenward in one part or other of the
Western Pacific and always for the same
reason —the casual attendant, in this in-
stance often a darky, who smoked or
lit cigarettes while filling the petrol-tank.
* * * *
“Jay”: “Whizz” (B. 11/10/’33) makes
a mistake common to other contributors
on motoring when he describes John
Cobb, owner of the record-breaking
Napier-Railton car, as an “Australian.”
Cobb has assured me he is English.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Ossie Nicholson got off
his bike at Mordialloc (Vic.) cycling
meeting the other night to receive a civic
reception for having ridden 43,997 miles
in 1933, doing at least 100 miles per
day. He averaged 120 as a matter of
fact, in spite of three spills and ’flu, and
lost only 81b. in weight. His ride was
7990 miles better than the previous
record by Humbles, of England.
“Roller”: Pushbiker Nicholson, fresh
from establishing a new world’s record
for a year’s riding, longed for the day
when it would be over and he would be
able to shun the sight of a bike for a long
time. The quacks have now told him
that if he doesn’t want to get tied up in
his own muscle he must keep on riding
for some time, gradually diminishing the
mileage. That over, Nicholson will tackle
a vaudeville engagement prior to going
into training for the centenary road races.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The official list of Aus-
tralian athletic records for 1933 shows
N.S.W. holding 9i of the 25 listed, with
Victoria a close second with 9. Queens-
land has Maoriland 2, U.S.A. 1 and
Tas. 1. The All Black figures are for the
161 b. hammer and javelin, standing from
1926, when M.L. last took part in the
Australasian meeting. The American
record is for the 161 b. shot putt,
made by H. Rothert in Sydney two
years ago. Carlton’s 9 3-ssec. for the
100 is still the best, as is his 21 3-ssec.
for the 220, though this is shared with
Queenslander Grehan, now a profes-
sional. Queensland also holds the 100-
metre record with 10 4-ssec. Worth
noting that the short races up to the half-
mile are monopolised by N.S.W. and Q.,
Victoria scoring heavily, in the endurance
events from the half-mile to three miles.
Tasmania’s solitary laurel is the mile in
4min. 17sec. by Barwick. Considering
that all these performances have been
done on grass tracks they compare more
than favorably with overseas records.
* * * *
“Spike”: It is getting time to look out
for possibilities for the Australian team
at the Empire Games, which begin at
London in August. Metcalfe, of Sydney
University, picks himself, for, in addition
to bettering the Olympic high-jump
record, he is probably our most versatile
athlete. He takes himself seriously, how-
ever, and has already decided to give the
Australian championships a bye because
they clash with examinations. He will
have to choose between the Games and
further exams, later, and, like a wise lad,
will probably let the Games go. A cer-
tainty, and a good one too, is the Vic-
torian sprinter Horsfall, Victorian cham-
pion at 100 and 220, and definitely the
best sprinter in sight. He goes up to
Cambridge shortly, and will, of course,
be claimed for the Australian team.
# * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum blew
back from his triumphs abroad a very
fed-up young man. Though he won the
British championship and brought back
the B.A. Cup, which has never before
left British shores, Walter says the
monotony of continual playing got on his
nerves, and he is echoed by McConachy,
who returned with him. There seem to be
no new champions in sight overseas, say
the pair, and the British public is showing
signs of tiring of the same old performers,
however good they are. Probably the
two will play in the Melbourne centenary
tournament, to which Englishmen Davis,
Newman and Smith have also been
invited
i * * *
“Blade Sight”: One result of the adop-
tion of the military short rifle for target
shooting by Britain and Australia —
some of the Dominions have not yet
come over, though they will have to use
it at Bisley—is the triumph of the Aus-
tralian-manufactured heavy barrel. The
light barrel of the British arm has a tre-
mendous “whip,” and this disturbs its
alignment in its wooden bedding; it
has to be “packed” to maintain the
necessary rigidity. This means in a long
shoot at targets that anyone with aspira-
tions to get to the front must have
several rifles—a pretty expensive matter.
With the much heavier Australian barrel
there is none of that trouble, and it is
adopfed the standardly the British
NR A
* * * *
“Town Mug”: Many people, in
common with the writer, have always
been under the impression that Broken
Hill was so waterless that even the frogs
out that way didn’t know how to swim.
That this is incorrect is seen in the state-
ment of the N.S.W. swimming panjan-
drums that the B.H. swimming club is to
be disqualified for ignoring instructions
from the parent body in Sydney. It
appears that this club is one of the larg-
est affiliated with the N.S.W. centre, with
about 300 members, and actually ranks
with Manly in the matter of membership.
Disqualification will mean being cut off
from all the blessings of amateurism,
including the Empire and Olympic
Games. I doubt, however, if the Bar-
rier is worrying.
* * * *
“Splash”: Clare Dennis, the Olympic
breaststroke championette, hoisted new
Australian figures for 100 metres where
the flappers are concerned at Mittagong
(N.S.W.) the other day. The time was
lmin. 27 3-ssec., and, as State swimming
officials were in charge and the Acces-
sary conditions were complied with, it is
expected the record will be accepted. The
world’s record is lmin. 26sec. by E.
Jacobsen at Stockholm two years ago.
* * * *
“Shoot”: Something new in inter-State
sporting visits begins on January 21, when
a N.S.W. surf life-saving team will jour-
ney to Westralia to tackle the Gropers.
The team will take part in all carnivals
and will start for home again on February
6. It is likely that a demonstration will
be given in Adelaide on the way back.
The cost of sending the team will be
about £l5O on a strictly amateur basis,
and W.A. is throwing in £5O.
* * * *
“Crown Green”: Bowls seems to be
growing in popularity every year in
Britain, especially in the south of Eng-
land, where the amateur variety of the
game finds most favor. There were
18,000 entries for the English champion-
ships which opened in May. The titles
were decided before the end of August,
which meant that out of the 18,000 only
seven remained —the winner in the
singles, the pairs champions and the
rink quartette. Wales won the inter-
national tourney, England running
second.
* * * * *
“Port Melbourne”: The V.F.L. has
rather gingerly decided to sign an agree-
ment with its loathed elder, the Asso-
ciation, for three years, the object being
their mutual protection. One important
item of the proposed protocol is that each
side will cease from bribing each other’s
players to desert. Another, and even
more important, is one by which both
parties agree to do all in their power
to preserve the control of the playing
grounds which at present they virtually
possess. The inroads of the Rugby
Union are largely responsible for this. At
the League meeting one individual re-
marked in a trembling voice that he had
the dinkum oil that “a certain code of
football” had offered £5OO a season rent
for one of the best Association grounds,
much more than the Association club
was paying. The R.U., by the way, is
always referred to by the V.F. heads
nowadays as “a certain code” —to
breathe the name itself is flat blasphemy.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: London “Sporting
Life” shows a refreshing regard for facts
in an article summing up the sporting
year when it says that the puerile body-
line barge has demonstrated with clarity
“how mischievous international sport may
prove in the relationships of friendly
peoples.” Writer has been preaching on
that text for years. The whole story of
the Olympiads since their revival has been
one of recriminations and bad feeling,
leading even to free fights, as at Los
Angeles. Long before the bodyline
trouble, ill-feeling was continually crop-
ping up between Australian cricket teams
in England and the locals. A notable
instance was the storm of abuse levelled
at Gregory and McDonald for their
“intimidatory” bowling in 1921. The
same story is true all along the line
international sport furnishes a good
deal more ill-feeling than mutual friend-
liness.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 20,
Royal Melbourne Reviewed.
Forty-two years ago Messrs. Bruce and
Knox—the latter a Victorian M.L.A. of
those long-ago days—conspired with the
intention of forming a golf club. The
coteries they surreptitiously gathered to-
gether—the man who openly played golf
in Melbourne in the early ’nineties in-
curred risks—took up a pitch at
Caulfield. Among those implicated were
M. G. and W. H. Anderson, T. Brent-
nail, Alastair Clark, Murray Jones, Bill
McMurtrie, Dr. Mitchell, F. A. Moule,
W. Oliver, J. O’Neill, H. Playfair, C. S.
Price and E. S. Watson.
In time the atmosphere of Caulfield got
on members’ nerves. So much so that
when a chance came to transfer to the
less material surroundings of Sandring-
ham it was welcomed. That was in
1901, and on the new course the club
developed to such an extent that it
achieved the plaster of “Royal,” and
for 25 years was the only champion-
ship course in Victoria.
In 1931 a transfer was made to a big
area at Cheltenham. This course is pro-
nounced Australia’s best—that is, if you
are a golfer, and not just a player of
golf—but the claim is disputed by about
57 other clubs. The last open champion-
ship of Australia was played over what
R.M. calls the west course ; for R.M. has
the only duplicate 18-hole course in Aus-
tralia. The east course is 6473 yards the
west 6390 yards. Both are magnificently
turfed through the fairways and the
no t \ • y ’ dna me
greens are as near perfection as may be.
Membership is about 1400—secretary
Benson Lewis is never sure, though he
em ev^ r y day—and 550 are
associates. Yet R.M. has a secret sorrow.
its clubhouse at present does not measure
up to its other standards. A lordly
pleasure house is now in course of erec-
tion which is to remedy this state of
affairs.
Among the members are the Baillieu
brethren, who stand so high in the finan-
cial world. No. 1 in the drawing is M.H.,
better known as Jack ; M.L. is tabbed No.
8. Both are fine players with handicaps of
9 and 2 respectively. There are four
doctors on the tapestry. One of them, H.
F. Maudsley, is numbered 3, and is a 13-
handicap man. A Collins-street special-
ist, he is a devoted golfer and always
m a hurry, though Frith seems to have
missed this part of his make-up. Knight
R- Stawell (No. 5) has a 16 handicap and
is keen to reduce it, for he is an assiduous
early-morning attendant. Dr. W. B. Vance
(No. 6) is Health Officer at St. Kilda, and
a fair middle-mark golfer. Dr. Shaw,
tagged 19, makes up the zEsculapian
quartette.
L. W. Elliott, whose genial presence
adorns second place, is one of R.M.’s
most capable performers, as his place on
the 4 mark indicates. He is a soda-
water maker and, like most men of ex-
pansive figures, is never ruffled. The
pessimist who is numbered 4 is W. A.
Gibson, one of the highlights of Golds-
trough, Mort. W.A.G. is fond of
ll e 8 } llar pa ? t 2? S ’ t S^ P i! ? nd . we
r° d ° ne Turnbull, w Eo is a
manag l r the H 1??? Bank H '
and now an authority on golf history and
assorted anecdotes. H. Latreille, who
pre cedes Turnbull, is another Golds-
brough, Mort man, and a very popular
member.
Among the club officials J. A. Mc-
Leod, who carries the 11 saddlecloth, of
course takes first rank as president. He
was captain from 1910 to 1913, and
from 1917 to 1929, and has been presi-
dent since 1931. He is a keen racing
™ has acquired additional merit
m goif as the father of Mona McLeod,
probably the best associate player Aus-
tralia has yet seen. On the No. 20
stand is N. E. Lockhart, captain and
leader of the A team since 1930. A
scratch player, he is a greatly-liked
skipper. The list of the big guns would
be incomplete without reference to Ivo
Whitton, whom Frith has ticked off as
No. 12. A member of the council, he
sports a plus 3 handicap. There isn’t
space to chronicle the number of Aus-
tralian and State championships Whitton
has annexed. Easily the best amateur
Australia has produced to date.
Looking round for further champions,
the eye falls on A. E. Deravin, whose
contemplative visage appears on the 9
stance. He is an official in Repat.,
and is famed as the club’s champion
snake-killer. He can play golf, also, or
the handicapper wouldn’t have put him
on 6. Following on is W. C. Harris. He
is a big man in the Commonwealth Bank,
SSf - 3 ha t ndicap emphasises
the fact that he is just an enthusiast.
There is only one lawyer on Frith s
canvas. Labelled 7 is G. A. W. Stewart,
of Malleson, Stewart, Stawell and Nan-
kivell. He is a keen golfer at week-
ends, and seems quite resigned to his
handicap or 22.
s' E. Bailey is No. 13. As a golfer
he is a keen and regular bridge enthu-
siast, and is a part-owner of Shadow
King. Fourteenth, benign, beneficent,
is H. J. Bell, of Bells the wheat merchants,
His handicap is 7 and he is always a
tough proposition in competitions,
Another member equally well endowed
with the capacity for keeping his brain
cool in summer is L. M. MacPherson.
He is a member of the pennant team and
JjtSTS "o.
[5 ; o£ p com . se , Ra ip h Barton. His
elo nt dial speaks for itself .
The determined-looking phiz, over 21
marks Max Stewart, the Canadian Consul,
The panama king following is W. R.
Butler, an architect and one of the ,sar-
torial authorities of R.M. Butler and
Martin is his firm and 17 his handicap.
E. Fitzgerald is the stout lad who brings
up the tail of the procession.
“Molly”: Every now and then a sug-
gestion is made that either the N.S.W.
golf heads or one of the clubs should
hold a competition for left-hand players.
There are plenty of these in N.S.W. and,
indeed, throughout Australia, though in
Britain the “lefty” is rare a difference
a i so to be seen on the cricket field. Very
few , women play the wrong way round,
Perhaps the best-known m Australia is
Miss Ebert, a N.S.W. golferette who has
figured prominently in many big com-
petitions.
« Ha^iltoir . Brisbane golfers have re-
cently been in the throe | of a contro _
verS y as to whether records made in the
summer season should be recognised or
not The objectors contend that the
SU mmer heat reduces most fairways to
t he consistency of concrete and shaves
down the grass to billiard-cloth smooth-
ness. This means that an ordinary drive
achieves tremendous length and many
holes are shortened from 10 to 25 p.c.
The other side reckons that even more
skill is required to control the ball on
a fiery course than on one softened and
slowed down by winter conditions. Both
parties are still hard at it.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
tw
94
m
n **r
lliui !;s
n *5
'!!*
if
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
Hotel Grand Central, Ltd.,
151 Clarence Street
( Looking down Barrack St. and Martin Place )
Just about one minute from the
G.P.O. and about the same distance
from the big underground Wynyard
Square Railway Station. The Hotel
will be found most comfortable in all
detail for tourists and their families
and friends to lunch and dine. Lux-
urious Lounges and Dining Room.
The management assures you of
every comfort and service. Where
you pay for your room only: Single
Rooms from 4/6; Double Rooms
from 9/- per night. All Meals a la
carte. Garage adjacent. Complete
Sample Rooms available.
Centrally Situated and
in the Heart of the
City.
d
What Will 1934 Bring?
Outlook for Gold
Future of the Market
The Film War
Credit Delusions
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments. THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
JANUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
FUNCTIONS OF FALLOW.
“P.J.8.”: “Yeoman” (B. 13/12/’33)
has missed the mark in his comments.
There is no attempt in any of Dr.
Richardson’s lectures to substitute amm.
sulph. for fallow. He has simply de-
duced that the traditional function of
fallow—conservation of moisture —is less
important than its function of accumu-
lating nitrogen. The criticism re rainfall
is obvious, but superficial. There are pro-
bably a greater accumulation of nitrogen
and a lesser conservation of moisture in
the dry zones than in the 23-inch rainfall
zone. The factor dominating the use of
artificial nitrogen is the yield per acre.
It might pay to use it in the 23-inch belt,
where yields are heavy; but it would be
impossible to pay 12s. 6d. a hundred-
weight for amm. sulph. in the 12-inch
belt, where yields average 11 bushels
or less.
The substitution of artificial nitrogen
for that put in by fallowing is an eco-
nomic impossibility with wheat at pre-
sent prices.
However, it is a general practice in
many districts to sow oats on wheat
stubble to keep down take-all. Barley
is often grown on stubble ; and, in cases
where something has happened to pre-
vent fallow being prepared, wheat is
often sown on stubble, too. Again, on
the Murrumbidgee, wheat is grown on
the rice stubble.
In all these cases, a hundredweight or
two of amm. sulph. might be very ad-
vantageous.
The Waite Institute and various
farmers in N.S.W. and Vic. are at pre-
sent performing work of untold value
with soil augers and ovens, sampling
soils and calculating soil-moisture losses,
etc. The supposed facts handed down
by tradition are being tested out. It will
not be many years before the reactions
of the various soils to different cultural
methods will be tabulated and scientific
facts will replace hearsay.
In the Wimmera and Mallee (Vic.), at
Griffith and elsewhere (N.S.W.), and
under the Waite Institute (S.A.) soils are
being continually studied. It is a
thorough attack on our special problems,
typically Australian in its organised effi-
ciency, and also typically Australian be-
cause it is being done without any bally-
hoo. Yet this work is tied up with simi-
lar intensive studies at Rothamsted
(Eng.), stations in U.S.A. and even Soviet
Russia.
CLIP INSPECTION.
“Murrawong”: “Albarmount’s” sug-
gestion (B. 20/12/’33) is good, but it
would be far more effective if the grower
were on the spot; practical expositions of
mistakes teach better than books. The
chief difficulty in operating an inspection
scheme is to create an effective body to
deal with and usefully criticise the get-up
of small clips for the growers’ informa-
tion. It is unlikely that the Graziers’
Association or kindred bodies would
undertake it, as most of the small clips
are outside their membership. There
would also be obstacles in the way of
tech, instructors doing the job. A staff
could not be kept on the offchance of a
cocky wanting his clip commented on, so
the only alternative would be legislation
making the inspection of all clips com-
pulsory.
The first step should be a solid ground-
ing in the distinction between good, well-
grown wool and wasty, doggy stuff,
the objective being to cast all mongrels
and improve the culled-over balance.
Evenness of type is even more essential
in the small clip than to large-holding
outputs. It simplifies classing and offers
the only chance of getting into the big lots.
Not long ago I was in a depot shed
when a young cocky arrived with his
mob —not quite 300 ewes —and asked the
classer to get him a five-bale line of
fleece. When we realised he wasn’t jok-
ing we went out to the yard and went
through his mob. They were a credit to
him in every way, and although the bales
were light he got his five-bale line.
It is very hard for any small grower
to cater for every demand of a market
that is as changeable in fashion as
millinery.
Last season, among the specialty wools,
short superfine types brought the fancy
prices, beating a warp type which to-day
is worth up to 6d. per pound more. The
small grazier is limited by his district and
the season, and his only sane course is to
grow the type of wool that suits his dis-
trict best. Sometimes buyers ignore
superfine wools when the demand is
all for broad, shafty types, and vice
versa, but the one type for which there
has always been a good market is the
well-grown 64’s, or medium wool. The
sheep that grows it best has a big frame
and a sound constitution, and a deep-
grown, dense fleece can be packed on
to it.
The good all-rounder pays. Even to-day
the man who is getting a fancy price for
his superfine wools is little, if at all, better
off than the owner of medium-quality
heavy cutters. For the small man the
rule should be: Stop worrying about the
buyers’ fancies. Know good wool and
grow more of it. It’s how much your
sheep return you per head that counts.
RED POLLS.
“Debenham”: Though not as widely-
advertised as some other breeds, Red
Polls have been finding increasing favor
of late years among Australian cattlemen.
One of their champions is the N.Z. and
A. Land Co., which maintains studs at
Bundure (N.S.W.) and Marathon station
near Hughenden in N.Q. The firm has
decided to put the compact and hardy
Red Polls on every cattle property it
runs in this country, and particularly the
Queensland Gulf country and n.-w. Aus-
tralia. Bulls from the studs have been
dispatched or shortly will be to these
properties. The change will mean the
wiping-off the slate of many pure-bred
herds of other breeds already on these
runs, but the co. is satisfied it will be
worth while.
Red Polls have proved wonderfully
hardy and good doers under the most
unlikely conditions. One of the objec-
tions voiced against them when they
first made their appearance on W.Q.
runs was that their lack of horns would
be a heavy handicap in bad seasons when
horned breeds could help themselves by
breaking down edible scrub. The wise-
acres were long ago confounded by the
fact that the poleys were quite as capable
in this direction as their horned com-
panions, while in seasons when the larger
and more rangy breeds went dog-poor
they kept their condition surprisingly.
One result of the introduction of the
Red Poll to Queensland is that the kill-
ing stock is in great demand by the meat
cos. The carcass is stocky and compact,
offering the small cuts which overseas
and home markets now insist upon. An-
other great advantage is that the torn
hides and bruised carcasses which are un-
avoidable with shipments of horned cattle
to the works are never found among the
poley consignments. The carcass skins
clean and sweet to the eye, a feature
which, with the evenness of type and the
fine quality for which the breed is noted,
makes the Red Poll ideal for the export
market.
AUSTRALIA LOSES A RECORD.
“Casein”: In the welter of the body-
line controversy no one seems to have
noticed that Australia has lost a world’s
championship worth a good deal more
than any fictitious cricket ashes. When
the Canadian Jersey Brampton Basilua
ended her labors for the 365 days of last
year the score-sheet showed 1312.81 b. of
butter-fat. This beats by 531 b. the figures
put up in 1926 by Australian Wagga
Gladys. There may be some consolation
in the fact that both ladies are related
—as is, indeed, the case with all of the
pure Jersey strains. The new champion’s
milk output for the test period was
19,0121 b. and the average test was 6.9.
Wagga Gladys had a larger milk output
—2o,B3slb.—but her test average was
lower than her rival’s.
Brampton Basilua’s menu may be
worth noting. She ate about 241 b. of
grain mixture daily, with 81b. of beet
pulp soaked for noon and night feeds,
and a handful of oilcake meal and salt
added. During the winter she ate about
401 b. of roots and 121 b. of hay daily,
being fed four times a day, two of dry
and two of mash. She was the first of
the byre to be milked in the morning and
the last at night.
The grain mixture fed the champion
was an elaborate one, and costly into the
bargain, though costs are never taken into
account in these record-breaking stunts.
The formula was: Bran, 1001 b.; rolled
oats, 2001 b.; ground oats, 2001 b.; gluten-
corn, 1001 b.; oilcake meal, 501 b.; soya-
bean meal, 501 b. Roughage was Timothy,
lucerne and clover hay, and the roots fed
were mangolds. Has anyone particulars
of the bill of fare presented to Wagga
Gladys? It is good betting that it was
nothing like as elaborate as the foregoing.
THE FARM WASH-UP.
“The Lad”: The dairy wash-up is a
twice-a-day job which calls for just as
sound an equipment and method as any
other farm operation—a good set of
brushes, ample water supply, boiling and
cold, a tub and plenty of elbow grease.
Don’t use rags; they are useless
and do not get into the corners. Fre-
quently they become so filthy and foul
as to be a hotbed of germs.
First rinse in cold water everything
that comes into contact with the milk ;
then scrub thoroughly in warm disinfec-
tant water. Lastly scald in boiling water.
This is best done in a copper whilst you
wash the dairy shed. The disinfectant
should not have a strong odor, which
would taint the milk or cream. Avoid
phenols and carbolics. The best is
common soap. Never dissolve this in
the boiling water, for small particles flake
off and taint the cream.
Never use sandsoap or a metal polish
on tinware, for it removes the coating
of tin from the steel of which the ware
is made.
Leaving the separator overnight with-
out washing is dirty and dangerous.
Many run it through water when the
separating is finished, but this is worse
than leaving it unrinsed, since the slime
and dirt which remain in the bowl steep
in water all night and breed germs, which
contaminate the next milk handled.
Sunshine is the best germicide pro-
curable, so place the tinware where the
sun shines directly on it.
THE PIG FOR EXPORT.
“Hatter”: There is no question about
the right boar to use: all Europe accepts
the predominance of the Large White as
the sire of the best commercial stock, as
“El Verdugo” recommends (B. 20/10/’33).
But it must be pure-bred and of the right
type —long, lean and round, with straight
lines top and bottom (“like a drain-pipe”),
light shoulders, smooth and compact,
with short legs.
Breed of the sow is less important
than other factors for selection; Berk-
shires, Middle Whites and Large Blacks
will all do. These crosses are equally
suited to dressing for pork or holding
for bacon according to the fluctuations of
the market. Porkers (or “porkets”) of
60-641 b. usually make the highest prices
per pound at Smithfield.
Regarding bacon, there are two princi-
pal types of English factory business —the
Wiltshire side trade and the Midland
trade. For the former pigs should weigh
130-1701 b. deadweight; there is a price
deduction on excess weights. For the
Midland trade curers will accept pigs
ranging from 150-2101 b. and back fat up
to 2j inches is allowed. It must be
realised that the trade is governed by
exact specifications, and whoever does
not comply with these is merely disre-
garded. Pigs from a first-cross usually
are hardier and mature quicker than those
from a pure-bred strain.
Queensland has in operation a scheme
for subsidising approved boars owned by
farmers interested in improving their pigs
and setting up a pork-export standard.
Thus far subsidies are restricted to the
Large and Middle White breeds, and
only boars over six months old are
eligible. Boars purchased under the
scheme are entitled to 20 per cent, freight
rebate on the State railways.
Farmers may pick their own and apply
for the subsidy, or may ask the Agricul-
tural Department to select and deliver
them ; in the second case applicants must
get an idea of the price and pay in
advance. Farmers buying their own
boars must get the necessary certificates
of freedom from disease from their dis-
trict stock or dairy inspectors. The Gov-
ernment-bought pigs are guaranteed
O.K. on delivery.
To encourage Westralian breeders to
produce pigs suitable for export, prizes
are given through Perpetual Executors —
£5O for porkers and the same for
baconers: first, £3O ; second, £2O. All
pigs entered for competition must be bred
by and grown on the property of the
exhibitor. They may be of any breed or
cross.
No restriction is made regarding weight.
Each entry must consists of “not less
than five nor more than eight pigs. No
exhibit of less than five sound pigs will be
judged.” All pigs must be forwarded to
the W.A. Meat Export Works, Fremantle,
not earlier than August 7 nor later than
September 27. They will be killed and
dressed at the works prior to judging.
SYDNEY’S MILK SUPPLY.
“Devon”: One reason why milk is not
consumed freely in the Sydney metro-
politan area as compared with London
is that much of the milk on sale is not
up to the London standard. Yet there
is no reason why milk equal to
London “Certified” should not be freely
on offer. The foundation work should
have been done years ago by the Dairy
Department. This concern has never im-
proved methods of production; its prin-
cipal job seems to be to smell around
butter factories. What little progress we
have made has been due to the efforts
of factory managers and a few up-to-date
farmers.
The dairy business cannot be reformed
from the top. It has to begin with
•Strawberry. My solution is a very much
reformed Dairy Department, abolition of
the Milk Board and the establishment
of a Milk Committee for price-fixing
purposes only. The consumer, who is
50 per cent, of the contract, should have
adequate representation. The politicians
seem to have overlooked this fact. They
pose as representatives of consumers, but
really only represent themselves, which
is not saying much.
{Land Page continued on page 31.)


“TRITON”
Vertical Plunger Pump
This pump has been
specially built for ser
vices where only a small
unit is needed.
Arranged for lin. suction
and delivery pipes.
Normal speed approx.
300 r.p.m., and at this
speed capacity is 6
gallons per minute. Pump
can be operated slower
or slightly faster if re-
quired—capacity varying
accordingly. Can be sup-
plied for belt, chain or
gear drive.
Requires little attention,
practically noiseless.
Normal power required |
to drive, up to \ h.p.
Piping and Fit-
tings Supplied at
Lowest Current
Rates.
Large
Pump
Catalogue
Free on
Request.
A NEAT, COMPACT PUMP
Overall Height, 19£ inches.
c
Proprietary Limited
Hydraulic
RAMS
Permit Continuous
Automatic Pumping.
Our “Reliance” Rams are
self-acting Pumps which use
the momentum of a slight
fall of water to an elevated
position. Cost nothing to
run. Once started need no
further attention.
Obtainable in various sizes
and capacities.
Prices and full particulars on
request.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
554-566 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
Mrs Can’t: 1 seem to put on
fat every day ’
Mrs Can : ‘ That’s because you
put off taking Eno every day ’
Are you afraid to weigh yourself because you know
you’re “gaining”? Then do as sensible Mrs. Can
does—take Eno every morning. Gently, naturally,
Eno, by washing away all those unhealthy poisons
that encourage fat, keeps you fit and young.
Beware of sensational slimming methods. They
do no permanent good, and often do much
permanent harm. Eno contains nothing to injure.
There is no sugar in it to hamper its good work.
Take Eno directly you get up each day and
become a slender, elegant Mrs. Can.
Sold in two sizes: LARGE, contains 8 ozs.; MEDIUM, contains 4 ozs.
Eno, being in fine powder form and highly concentrated, goes much
farther and is thus better value than coarse granular substitutes.
Comparison proves this—insist on Eno.
■ Au3o
ď
cfsihe -words <Sno and "'tfruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales exigents: c (s>he SBritisb < 3 f . SRitchie Go. d£td., Sydney, C 7-, .S.HsD.
%oie<wi
m
This .remarkable pump works
on a quadruple compression
principle. The main barrel,
being double-acting, draws in
air both at the up and down
stroke, thereby rendering the
total capacity almost double
that of the large barrel.
Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER AND
BROTHER, LTD.,
F.yre Works, Sheffield, England.
1
with the
"RENRUT"
QUADRUPLE
TYRE PUMP
Thoroughly reliable and built
to give years of service, the
"Renrut Quadruple” makes
pumping so easy. With it a
child can inflate a tyre with-
out fatigue.
PRICE - - -
/*A I
Ov/-
(With gauge, 5/- extra.)
British Manufacture.
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
386 Post Office Place,
Melbourne.
i n
Red
Spot
• ,»-V
mW'.
1 ,
i
mi
I
. ' * •? ’ -v
■
* J J 1
*S
1' !!KS £
lip
/
I
■■■
m S 3
V **
m 'iMmSm l
!■
m
: ;
As a basis, everything throughout the
Store (except a few proprietary lines
and £3/3/- Tailoring) has
been reduced at least . .
10
o/
/ o
(All Sale Prices quoted here are net.)
Many lines, in perfect con-
dition, mark you! are clear-
ioS:; HALF PRICE
f/■ /» A
39
... Sale Price for
£5 15 - to £6 6 - Suits
to Measure
uow is this for a Bargain!
Materials include All-wool
Worsteds in the latest effects
in fancy stripes and mixtures,
featuring new Blues, Fawns
and Browns, Light, Mid and
the fashionable Black and
White Greys, also pure Indigo
Dye Serges. To your measures
for £4/3/9
Desk “R,” Murdoch’s, l,td.,
Box 3875 TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—Kindly forward me immedi-
ately, and without obligation, range of
Suiting Patterns, priced at £3/3/-, £3/5/3,
£3/15/0, £4/3/0. £4/7/0. £4/10/-, £5/13/6
and £6/5/6. (Please cross out prices not
required.)
Do you require Serges ?
At wliat price?
Name
Address
Big Bargains from the Sale
Sale Price.
19/6 Men’s “Alpine” Shape Panama Hats 14/9
16/6 to 21/- Men’s High-grade Poplin Golf Shirts. . 8/11
22/6 Men’s Black, Tan or Nut Brown Shoes 19/9
4/6 Men’s Fancy Cashmere or Art. Silk Socks .... 2/9
Thousands of Others!
Write for FREE Bargain Book /
We pay
freight
Ail
Kindly write
to Desk “R”
Park and George Streets, Sydney.


City Convenience for Country Business or Home
Here’s Automatic Refrigeration
for Butcher or Homestead
with an “OM NI STAT”-controlled
Cheap-running Petrol Engine
r
ur \
y
\T n
=sr~~—-
K\'
*****
a
B
The convenience, comfort and economy of
automatic electric refrigeration can be yours
even if you have no electric current supply, or
have a lighting plant already fully loaded. For
the past two summers OMNI ST AT-contr oiled
refrigerating plants driven by water-cooled
petrol engines have been giving trouble-free
service in N.S.W. and Queensland. The engine
is started automatically whenever the tempera-
ture in the cool-room rises above a predeter-
mined safe-point and is stopped again when
the temperature has been sufficiently reduced.
'Note the large hanging space, also separate
door for foodstuffs.
Ask one
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Or direct from
of these distributors about an “OMNISTAT”-controlled plant.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON, LTD., HENRY BERRY & CO. PTY., LTD.,
102-104 Melbourne Street, Brisbane. 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Here’s Fully Automatic Electric Light and Power
at hitherto unbelievably low cost,
with a
“NEVERTIRE”
Full-Automatic
Lighting Plant
A “NEVERTIRE” gives you electric light and power at the
touch of a switch without the expense of large-capacity batteries
and without the high cost of running an engine for only one
light—as in most full-automatic plants. Refrigerator, iron, etc.,
make no drain on battery—thus life of latter is not shortened.
In 600-watt and i-k.w. sizes; also Duplex type (two i-k.w. sets
in parallel) for larger loads.
NEVERTIRt
run
AUTOfIATIC
liomTimC 1
plant
■ ..
t
B-Hf
mm
> -
Push-button Starting—
Automatic Stopping
Lots of Convenience with a
“NEVERTIRE”
Semi-Automatic
If your need is for a small, efficient and thoroughly
reliable electric lighting plant to handle an installation
of, say, ten or fifteen lights, there is a “NEVERTIRE”
Junior Semi-automatic Electric Lighting Plant to suit
you, at prices from complete.
This Plant has been especially designed so that it requires
an absolute minimum of attention, and with ordinary
care it will give a lifetime of satisfactory service.
Full particulars from-
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD., 10-14 Young Street, Sydney


1
■ ■ §
i
The finest calf
Pliant and glossy .... in dark tan
of a beautiful shade.... the
upper of this Abbey Shoe is made
of the best calf obtainable. And
its tough sole is built in even
thickness from toe to heel. That
provides a better foundation for
the shoe.... makes it longer-
lasting. The upper, too, is
shaped in the natural arch design.
POSTAL ORDERS: Narrow,
medium and wide fittings are
available in all full and half-sizes.
Specify width and order, also, a
supply of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
DARK TAN CALF, 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 367
*:•
■
H
m
m I
I HI Klßil Mill II
*
■
%
&
f
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH/’
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
VISIT THE
AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
. Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street (near Bridge Street).
Recent additions include works by Maud Sher-
wood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel Carrick Fox,
and other prominent Australian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE,
“The Barrier Miner,”
Broken Hill.
Published since 1888 and circulating
throughout Broken Hill, the West Darling
pastoral country and many of the north-
ern parts of South Australia, “The Barrier
Miner” offers an unequalled service for
readers and advertisers.
Representatives: F. 1,. Wilson, 30 Car-
rington Street, Sydney; H. J. C. Boyd,
McEwan House, Fittle Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; News, litd.j Adelaide.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
■Jtf
Dependable /
W»»8S
■Craig & Aitken
■Wholesale
J si)dneij N.5.W.
Legal Notice.
NOTICE to CLAUDE ALEXANDER
COOPER (alias John Eyles) formerly of
Gretna in Tasmania and his issue.
PURSUANT to an Order of a Judge of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania in Equity dated
the Sixth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-three and made in the
matter of the Will of WILLIAM COOPER
late of Gretna in Tasmania Retired Farmer de-
ceased whereby an enquiry was directed as to
whether Claude Alexander Cooper a son of
John James Cooper late of Gretna in Tas-
mania Farmer is living or dead and if dead
when he died and who is his legal representa-
tive and whether the said Claude Alexander
Cooper was ever married and if so when and
to whom and whether there were any children
of the marriage living at the time of the death
of the said William Cooper and if so whether
any of such children have attained the age of
Twenty-one years NOTICE is hereby given
that all persons claiming under the said en-
quiry are required on or before the expiration
of two calendar months from the Twenty-
eighth day of December One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-three to send by post pre-
paid to the Registrar of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart their full
Christian and Surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order. A
claimant not residing in the State of Tasmania
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in the State of
Tasmania to whom notices required by the
Rules of Court or directed by the Judge can
be sent Any claimant not so doing shall not
be entitled to receive any further notice.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of Decem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
three.
H. M. BRETTINGHAM MOORE,
Clerk of the Court.
SIMMONS, WOLFHAGEN, SIMMONS
AND WALCH, of 86 Collins Street, Hobart,
in Tasmania, Solicitors to National Executors
and Trustees Company of Tasmania, Limited,
the Trustee of the Will of William Cooper,
deceased.
b.v.d,/
Otv
YOU CAN’T BEAT B. V. 0.
FOR WEAR!
For long and distinguished
service B. V. D. takes all the
honors! Divide its price-tag
by the number of wearings it
gives you—and you’ve got the
lowest-priced underwear that
ever adorned a manly frame!
B. V. D. lasts longer and
wears better than any so-called
“bargain” that ever slit its
seams!
Buy B. V. D. to-day and
begin enjoying life and saving
money at the same time. Al-
ways insist on the famous red
B. V. D. label!
Now made in Australia for
THE B. V. D. CO. INC., NEW
YORK
/A
s /
j
V
MADE FOR THE f
[sT RETAILTRADE [
BVD.
With a reformed Dairy Department
we might find out why the N.S.W. cow
only produces 1651 b. of commercial
butter per annum, compared with Danish
production of 3201 b. per cow. Danish
production in 1893 was 1741 b. per cow.
N. S. Wales is 41 years behind the times in
production methods, in spite of the fact
that we are working under better natural
conditions. This appears to be man’s
fault and not the cow’s.
BREEDING BLOODSTOCK.
“W.D.Mc.”: I was greatly interested in
“Breeding Cracks Again” (B. 15/11 /’33).
It suggested that hardy annual “Are the
horses or the courses faster now than
40 years ago?” To my mind last year’s
Melbourne Cup race supplies the answer.
Flemington to-day, with its scientific sys-
tem of draining and grading, underground
and overground, and its motor-rolled
turf, must be one of the fastest courses
in the world. As was only fitting, the
race went to the best youngster of the
year, carrying 7st. 81b. He won, all out,
by a bare half-head from a gelding ris-
ing nine years and carrying Bst. 91b. who
has never been anything but second-rate.
On a beautiful day, with no wind worth
mentioning, it took them 3min. 27isec.
to cover the two miles.
In 1890, with the course at least five
seconds slower than it is now, Carbine
carried lOst. 51b. and won easily from the
largest and best field that ever competed
for the Cup in 3min. 28jsec. Highborn,
second to Carbine, bore only 6st. 101 b.
Afterwards he carried off the Sydney
Cup with 9st.-odd, and then was sent to
India, where he won Viceroy’s Cups.
How many years is it since an Australian
horse was first in the Viceroy’s Cup?
Compare Crusoe’s G.N. Hurdle meeting
40 years ago with Cockcrow’s three years
ago. In Crusoe’s year the course was
under water for a week, and even then
was a morass. In Cockcrow’s year the
course was very heavy, but, owing to
improved drainage, not nearly so bad as
in Crusoe’s race ; and yet Crusoe took
only a few seconds longer than Cock-
crow. No ; the horses of 40 years ago
were just as fast as they are to-day, and
better stayers. We see a thousand or more
yearlings marketed each year. How many
really good ones are bought out of those
huge mobs? Not a score. I don’t actually
know what becomes of the hundreds of
squibs and weeds that never see a course,
let alone win a race, but I can guess.
The decadence of the Australian race-
horse can be attributed to three or four
causes. One is breeding from unsound
third-rate English sires of faulty confor-
mation. Then we have indiscriminate
breeding from all sorts of rubbishy fillies.
How often is it said of some squib that
has broken down, “Oh, she will make a
good brood mare; look how well she is
bred! ” The truth in most cases is that
she is only fit for the bonemill. But, to
my mind, the greatest cause of deteriora-
tion is what I call the “pig-pen” system of
breeding and feeding.
The horse in his native state is a
nomad. He loves to roam over wide
spaces. On big stations horses move
from one favorite feeding-ground to
another, and, in doing so, get that exercise
necessary to develop bone and muscle so
essential in the make-up of a horse.
Your modern breeder to-day buys a pro-
perty more or less suitable for the job and
then sets to work to “improve” it by sub-
dividing it into small paddocks of a few
acres in extent. He erects boxes and
feeders where he can stuff his foals with
all sorts of rich fattening foods to fit
them for the sale ring. The foals under
this system grow fast and fatten like pigs,
and at the same time do not get the exer-
cise which they should get. If they go
for a gallop they are up against a fence
in a few strides, and run the risk of get-
ting injured.
If I were going to breed horses I would
secure an ample area in Riverina, where
there is some of the best horse country
in the world. No small pig-pens, but
plenty of room for them to gallop till
they are tired. By all means feed them
in a time of shortage, but if you don’t
overstock there will always be plenty of
grass and herbage to grow them well and
not make them overfat. Removal of fat
explains why so many break down when
put into work.
Another reason why so many failures
are bred is that a breeder with his own
stallion is tempted to put all his mares
to him, whether suitable or not. One of
the most successful breeders in the world
attributed his success to the fact that he
never kept a stallion. He made a per-
sonal inspection of each stallion before
he decided what mares should be sent
to them. If the stallion has a fault and
the mare has a similar conformation, it
is 10 to 1 on that the progeny will accen-
tuate the defect and be a misfit.
“They run in all shapes,” it is said.
Only a half-truth; the good-looker of
true conformation is nearly always a good
one. After 40 years amongst horses as
owner and breeder I can count all the
good ugly ones on one hand.
If breeders will only give their foals
room to grow and develop under natural
conditions (not fed up like prize pigs)
they will soon be “breeding cracks again”
—not one or two, but scores of them.
They will reap the immediate benefit, and
Australia will recover a useful export
trade.
MITCHELL GRASS IN S.A.
Apropos of recent references to
Mitchell grass on the M.O.L. pages, its
benefits are not confined to Queensland.
Visiting Mutooroo run in the northern
S.A. pastoral district, the agricultural
editor of the Adelaide “Advertiser”
found it was growing famously there.
About 10 years ago, he was told, the
manager noticed that plants were grow-
ing on one part of the station. With the
idea of securing seed, an acre or two was
fenced off, and when the plants matured
they were cut and the seed threshed out.
Says the “Advertiser” man:
We motored through the paddocks where this
grass was growing, and from the distance they
resembled fields of lucerne. The plants were
found to be from six inches to a foot high,
and in habit something like Phalaris tuberosa.
The crown in some cases was six inches across,
from which there was a dense growth of dark
green-foliage. “It would be a fine thing,” the
manager said, “if I could get it established all
over the station; it is a splendid horse and
cattle feed, and when young the sheep are very
fond of it.”
In spite of bad seasons, Mutooroo now
has thousands of acres of Mitchell grass,
and its experience suggests that the grass
would thrive in other parts of South Aus.
and in Westralia.
“A.J.8.”: The chain system of slaugh-*
tering may be preferred to the solo
system for the following reasons:
More men may be employed—Bo is very
likely the maximum output per man possible.
More livers and sweetbreads are saved in
one month than in a season by the solo method.
One of the main essentials of a well-dressed
carcass is leaving the thin lining mem-
brane on the inside and outside of the fore-
legs intact—“leaving the stockings on.” When
a properly-tjeated carcass sets, the legs look
white and pleasing.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
How to get rid of grasshoppers which are
attacking bananas ? —9574.
Spray affected leaves with solution of lib.
arsenate of lead powder to 30gal. of water.
How to eradicate couch grass in a banana
plantation otherwise than by digging it out by
the roots ? —9567.
The only sound way is by digging out the
roots —when the soil is moist enough to work
easily for preference. Weedicides, as a rule,
contain strong poisons which will kill other
growth as well as ruin the soil.
In what circumstances is a N.S.W. farmer
eligible for child endowment, how much is
paid, how is it paid, and to whom should appli-
cation be made ? —9482.
Endowment is payable when the family in-
come for 52 weeks immediately prior to date
of claim is less than the basic wage, plus £l3
for each child under the age of 14 except one.
Maximum amount payable is ss. per week for
each child under 14 except one. Payment is
made fortnightly by cheque. Apply to Family
Endowment Department, Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney.
(1) Names of books dealing with Q’land flora ?
(2) Where can specimens of plants be sent by
mail fpr identification ? —9548.
(1) F. M. Bailey’s “Flora of Queensland”
and W. R. Guilfoyle’s “Australian Plants Suit-
able for Gardens, Parks and Reserves.” (2)
Government Botanist, Department of Agricul-
ture, Brisbane. T '
I am living in Rochester {Vic.), which is
higher than Melbourne. How should a baro-
meter there be set as compared with Gaunt’s ?
—9533.
About one-tenth of an inch allowance per
100 ft. should be added for the greater height-
in this case the district is 280 ft. to 300 ft.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“L. R. Russ”: For scrub-tick bites (B.
27/12/’33) try the method adopted on the
Queensland North Coast. Kill the tick
by putting a spot of kerosene on it, and
then give the hound a good dose of
baking soda. Ticks are never pulled out
up there.
“The Lad”: This is the waterproofing
method in Fiji, where we have real rain :
Mix well a quart of boiled linseed oil
with a pint of terebene. Brush the mix-
ture carefully over every part of the tent,
and allow it to dry in the sun. This may
take two or three days, according to the
weather. During the drying period take
the tent under cover each day at sun-
down. Storm coats may be treated in the
same way.
“Eureka”: Corncobs may be put to
good use even after the corn has been
taken off them. Push the end of the file
into a strong cob and you have a fine file-
handle. In case of emergency they make
good currycombs. Convert bulk lots into
charcoal as follows: Dig a small pit in
dry ground, say, 4ft. square and a simi-
lar depth. Pile the cobs into this and set
them alight. When they are glowing
red put a sheet of iron over the pit and
cover with earth. Leave for two days,
when you will have a fine pit of good
clean charcoal for the pigs. It keeps
them healthy and aids digestion.


The Road to Comfort
=S3S~*
Ilf i
: ■■ ■:
m
ns
i
■ ’ MjB ,
*
,
K 8
THE STAR INN, ALFRISTON, SUSSEX.
illustration shows a Pilgrims’ Inn five centuries old in a
village in the South Downs. Such beauty spots are best
reached by car, and visitors to the Home Country should tour
with a list of Trust Houses. Over 200 Hotels and Inns carry
the Trust House sign, and offer WELCOME AND COMPLETE
COMFORT at a moderate tariff. Every detail is studied so
that the traveller leaves with lasting happy memories.
Full information may be obtained from
AUSTRALIAN AND OVERSEAS TRAVEL SERVICE PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE 334 Collins Street (F 3752)
SYDNEY- - - 135 Pitt Street (BW6880)
TRUST HOUSES LTD . ALL OVER BRITAIN
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1877 of 1933.
BETWEEN KATHERINE MAUD KELLY
Petitioner and ARTHUR KELLY Re-
spondent.
TO ARTHUR KELLY late of Mungindi.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHERINE
MAUD KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have deserted her and left her continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Third day of April 1934 and in the event of
your not so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of January, a.d.
1934.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
WALTER B. DONNELLY, Petitioner’s
Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
£
lO *>?
ym
Spuijiijw
8
***-■•■,
«VS?
mx«
Vh
hr
x. m
N
%
y,x/
A marvellous Cruise
on the Luxury Liner
"MARIPOSA,” Sailing from
Melbourne, Feb. 3; Sydney, Feb. 7
An unusual opportunity to visit NEW ZEALAND, FIJI,
SAMOA, HAWAII en route, and then all of CALIFORNIA’S
WONDERLAND to explore for 10 days LOS ANGELES,
HOLLYWOOD and the Movies, LAKE TAHOE and the Winter
Sports, CATALINA, SAN BERNARDINO, MONTEREY,
YOSEMITE clothed in snowy splendour, SAN FRANCISCO
and the GOLDEN GATE, MT. TAMALPIAS, THE MISSIONS,
snow-capped peaks, oil wells in the ocean, are only a few of
the high spots.
Cheap Dollars Make This An Outstanding Travel Bargain
For full details call, ’phone or write
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
'TTlaiion-Jltv!,
12 'Bridge Street, Sydney . Bhone 87981-3
Agents: DALGETY & CO. LTD.
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
IM-27A
7*°"i 5,0 . ,<t £«
f^ C rta«- E7 t °!
&££«- t7A
i Cab'° Mo E ,char
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Spasebo”: A few years ago when I was
living near the Madeleine in Paris, a
circus camel was killed. A butcher
promptly bought the carcass and offered
the flesh for sale. As soon as the good
news was bruited abroad housewives in
the neighborhood hurried to the shop
and bought pieces to see what could be
made of them. If the Australian cook,
professional and domestic, were not so
conservative, it would probably be found
that there are all sorts of potential edibles
unexploited in this country.
* * *
“Justinian”: The purchase of that
fourth-century MS. of the Bible for the
British Museum has some amazing
features about it. That a relic of such
value should have been preserved for
centuries in an obscure monastery,
where there were only monks to see it,
is sufficiently extraordinary. Its value
is variously placed at anything between
the £lOO,OOO paid for it to a million
and a half; actually, of course, it is
beyond value: nobody but a wealthy
Government or an affluent American col-
lector could buy it. Finally the fact that
Britain should pay Russia £lOO,OOO for
anything when Russia’s war-time debt of
a hundred millions (or whatever it is)
to Britain has long since been practically
repudiated is a commentary on the
world’s financial topsy-turvydom.
* * * *
“Risk”: Insurance companies are pro-
verbially a fair mark for the crook, but
one Detenyl, of Budapest, seems to have
done an extra good job. He had insured
his life for £5OOO against death from
“natural causes” and £lO,OOO for “other
than natural causes.” Stuck for £2OOO he
ashed the co. for this sum as surrender
value on the second policy, threatening
suicide if it didn’t part up. His request
was refused. A few days later Detenyl
killed a friend and was presently hanged
for murder. Execution not being a
natural cause of death, his heirs collected
£lO,OOO under the second policy. The
next shock to the co. came with the dis-
covery that the murdered man had been
insured by Detenyl for £20,000 for
“death not due to natural causes,” and
again it had to pay up.
• * * * *
“Cauboy”: Touching that par. about
the deceased Grand Lama (B. 3/l/’34),
it was China which forced on the
Tibetans a spiritual instead of a temporal
government. It placed the government
in the ostensible hands of a reincarnation
of the Buddha, usually a child of two or
three years, while a regent actually ruled
under Celestial auspices. One of the
human josses caused so much trouble
that, when he died in 1877, the Chinese
Emperor formally informed him through
the usual astral channels that he was for-
bidden for ever the privilege of appearing
again on earth in human form. He
obeyed this injunction, and is now pre-
sumably wandering about the ether look-
ing regretfully at the mundane tart-shop,
much like an Australian Parliamentarian
who has lost his seat. The main industry
of Tibet is spinning prayer-wheels. There
is one priest-lama to every six pew-
renters. The population of three millions
is so sunk in appalling poverty that
brothers usually club together and share
the one wife, though a few rich men in-
dulge in polygamy.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Guichard, the oldest
cellarman in Paris, deplores the ousting
of wine by cocktails. He says that three
cocktails before wine and you might as
well drink water. There are more tastes
than that for wine which are going into
the discard in this merry age of speed and
synthetic pleasure. Rushing about the
countryside in fast motor-cars spoils the
taste for scenery. Hopping from one
country to another in aeroplanes spoils
the taste for travel and discovery. The
tabloid newspaper spoils the taste for
literature. The nervous huddle of inci-
dent which makes up the average movie
spoils the capacity for sitting out a solid
drama. The ability to switch from one
form of entertainment to another per
radio incapacitates the ear from dwelling
on any piece of music longer than a ditty.
And so the process goes on.
* * * *
“M.D.”: A recent paragraph about a
French cuirassier’s breastplate in the
possession of Dr. Watson, of Canberra,
believed to have been worn by Napoleon
in Egypt, set me thinking. A friend of
mine who was in Cairo in 1915 sent me
a cuirassier’s brass breast- and back-
plate, with a helmet and a couple of
cavalry sabres. They were obviously
French, and I naturally set them down as
relics from Napoleonic times. Some
years later Dr. Will, who was A.D.M.S.
with the M.L. forces in Cairo, saw them
in my hall and convinced me of my mis-
take. It seems that when Cairo was first
occupied all the arms of the natives
were called in and stored in the armory
preparatory to being dumped into the
sea. The officers of the army of occupa-
tion were allowed to purchase a few as
curios and mementoes, and he was one
who availed himself of the privilege.
He recognised my breastplate and told
me that it was one of a set which had
been presented by the French Govern-
ment to the Khedive for the use of his
personal bodyguard in the forties of last
century. Probably the Canberra one
came from the same set.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: Once more it is
evident that the attempt of the North of
England professional Rugby League to
introduce its code to that part of Eng-
land outside Lancashire and Yorkshire
and to France has proved a dismal
failure. There were 8000 people in the
tremendous Wembley stadium —it seats
100,000 —to see the Kangaroos play
“Wales.” In Paris, the League propa-
ganda to which the Sydney press gives
so much space vaguely asserted that the
attendance was “estimated” at 10,000.
Writer has had some experience of
League football management and can
aver that, if the heads don’t know exactly
a few minutes after the gates close what
the attendance is and what the takings
are, recriminations are extremely likely,
* * * *
“Spike”: The Yankees have a curious
practice of taking a newspaper vote each
year to determine the best sports per-
formance in the States, just as they
annually elect an international American
football team, though there are no inter-
national matches. For 1933 the choice
has fallen on Maorilander Lovelock for
his world-record mile run at Princeton
last summer. Lovelock scored 48 votes
to 45 for Carl Hubbell, a baseball pitcher
with N.Y. Giants.
*' * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Australians, pro-
verbially a brutal and quarrelsome race,
asserted some time ago that Jardine was
a tactless person who should never have
i i i t • r t-i
been sent abroad as skipper of an Eng-
fish cricket team. This drew on them
the attacks of British newspapers, which
pointed out how such a thing was impos-
sihlo and that Australians were nut-
smle, ana that Australians were out
siders and squealers anyway. It must be
disturbing to these people to find that the
pious Hindu has taken up the same atti-
tndp towards Fndand’s nride who is a
tude towards England s pride, who is a
Scotsman born in Bombay. The cables
tell us that Jardine is as unpopular with
the cricket public of Hind as with that of
Australia, and for the same reason. It
is evident that everybody is out of step
but England.
“Truthful James”: Mr. Nye, whose
prospective loss to Australia as a bowler
has been lamented (B. 27/12/ 33) ana
who is expected to prove a bright, parti-
cular. star with Sussex has joined the
elaborate indoor cricket school recently
opened by Alan Fairfax at Thames
House, London. The Australian Eleven
man is said to be drawing rattling good
business during the winter months, many
0 f the leading amateurs and professionals
within coo-ee of London keeping their
e ye in there during the winter,


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Q.A.T.B.
“Vic”: The adventure of the Queens-
land Ambulance men in Tallebudgera
Creek, where a child was born in their
flooded van, shows that the resourceful-
ness of this grand corps still lives. When
I knew the brigade first it was housed
in Wharf-street in Brisbane, with outlying
centres in a few big towns. Its chief
equipment consisted of hand-stretchers
with a low tilt and a van with a white
pony. It was nothing in those days for
a couple of men with a two-wheeled
stretcher to plod a hundred miles or so
night and day with a sick or injured man.
Once, as a young reporter, I walked
18 miles with two of them from some-
where in the Enoggera Ranges. They had
a badly injured man who screamed inces-
santly in the van. Sometimes we had to
lift the stretcher over little streams which
were up to our knees. I kept ahead feel-
ing out the track, and the sight of those
two patient figures plodding along with
what appeared, in the dusk, to
be a white coffin between
them, while every few minutes
those agonising shrieks flat-
tened themselves against the
hillsides, was a thing to remem-
ber. Now and then the bearers
would stop and soothe the
patient. We arrived at the
hospital at 3 a.m.
That sort of thing was all in
the game with the Q.A.T.B. If
the lady who provided us with
a new citizen feels that she had
a rough time in the creek, she
should remember with grati-
tude that if her adventure had
happened 20 years or so ago
there probably would have
been no van to shelter her.
Some memorial should be
established to the old horse
ambulance—a scholarship for
bearers’ sons or something of
the sort would be appropriate
—and the old equipment
should be in the Brisbane
Museum to remind modern
citizens how well off they are.
The Peak-year Plan
“Dow”: If the peak-year
plan were conformed to it
would be good for the sugar
industry as a whole, and for
suppliers of cane in particular.
The latter seemingly do not
realise what production above
the peak-year quota is costing
them. This season, Tully and
South Johnstone mills between
them produced about 20,000
tons of sugar above their peak,
with a consequent reduction in
the price of their cane of 6s. and Bs.
per ton.
South Johnstone has 9000 tons surplus,
which goes on the world markets at less
than one-fourth of the cost of production.
Fifty-seven per cent, of the assigned area
produced the peak-year quota. But many
suppliers harvest 75 p.c.; others down to
55 p.c. The reduction in price operates
over the whole crop on a tonnage basis.
Farmers who have kept their harvestable
area within bounds, and have not contri-
buted one ton to the surplus, are penal-
ised the same as the ones who did pro-
duce the surplus. A manifest injustice.
As an example, consider the case of
two farmers having identical net areas
of, say, 45-60 acres. Suppose their
average tonnage to be 25 to the acre.
Then the price of cane will be 30s. a
ton or, if peak-year quota were not ex-
ceeded, 365.:—•
Gross Assignment.
No. 1, 60 acres—
-75 p.c. = 45 acres at 25 tons = 1125 tons.
No. 2, 60 acres—
-57 p.c. = 34.2 acres at 25 tons = 855 tons.
No. 1, 1125 tons at 30s. = .. £1687 10 0
Less cost of harvesting, etc., at 10s. 562 10 0
Ne t £1125 0 0
No. 2, 855 tons at 365. = .. £1539 0 0
Less cost of harvesting at 10s. .. 427 10 0
Net £llll 10 0
So that No, 1 would receive £l3 10s.,
just Is. a ton, to cover his total costs
of producing 270 tons.
Sandalwood
“Cutter”: Rather belatedly, the
Queensland Government has tumbled to
the fact that its still-valuable sandalwood
industry is in some danger of being
washed out by the operations of illicit
cutters. Some years ago the Govern-
ment reserved to itself all sandalwood on
Crown lands. Later the Forestry Depart-
ment offered the cutting rights on these
lands for sale, and they were bought by
the Queensland Sandalwood Syndicate.
All cutters and carters had to have a
certificate that they were employed by
this syndicate ; people cutting and mar-
keting sandalwood without these briefs
were threatened with fine and chokey.
Inspector Twine, of the Forestry De-
partment, who has completed a tour of
the sandalwood country in the central and
n.-w. districts, reports that for a long
time there has been “an open go” on
private property as well as on Crown
lands. Private owners also have done a
lot of harm by felling the valuable trees
for feeding stock, instead of lopping.
Minister for Lands Pease is talking
of tightening up the legislation. Not only
is the cutting of trees of all ages diminish-
ing future supplies, but even small ship-
ments by unlicensed cutters have a ten-
dency to upset the price levels which the
sandalwood marketing organisation, to
HUSBAND: “Good God! Those cakes are burning!”
BRIDE: “Can’t help it; they have another ten minutes to go
by the recipe.”
which Queensland, South Australia and
Westralia are parties, was formed to
stabilise.
Lately the Forgan Smith Government
decided to make a market for the power-
alcohol distilled from sugarcane waste.
Under an enactment passed during the
session it is compulsory for all petrol
distributors to buy power-alcohol from
the Government in proportion to the
quantity of petrol dealt in, the p.-a. to be
mixed with the petrol in the proportion
of 2.1 gallons to the 100. Vacuum Oil
has issued a High Court writ asking for
an order restraining the Government
from enforcing the provisions of the Act,
and for a declaration that cer-
tain sections are ultra vires the Parlia-
ment of Queensland and amount to re-
striction of inter-State trade and com-
merce.
* * * *
“Badluck”: Dalby, a fair-sized pas-
toral town in Central Queensland, claims
to be the first place in the State to have a
woman J.P. sit on the Bench. During the
holidays there was a scarcity of male
Js.P. and the local sergeant asked the
lady to act. Her first case was a drunk
who was more embarrassed than the
magistrate when she read the charge out
to him. The victim of Bacchus pleaded
guilty and was discharged.
* * * *
“L. R. Russ”: Apparently “Pioneer”
(B. 27/12/’33) is thrilled with the prospect
of Mackay having a million-pound
harbor. It will be another million thrown
away. In the days when steamers had it
all their own way on the coast there may
have been some justification for it, but
since the railway was built to Cairns the
various harbor boards have found it
very hard to carry on, and have even
complained to the Government that the
preferential rates on the railway were
crippling them. The failure of the
deepwater port at Urangan to bring
back the shipping trade to Maryborough
should be lesson enough for any Gov-
ernment.
*
“Gnoolooma”: There has been such
an outbreak of sheep-stealing in the
Mungindi district —which practically
straddles the N.S.W.-Queensland border
—that pastoralists are organising to stop
it. In the old days, to get away with
a mob of sheep on the hoof was a
slow and risky business, even in sparsely
settled country, since the tracks of a mob
could not be covered. The same disad-
vantages prevented the use of slow-
travelling waggons, apart from the fact
that then a waggonload of sheep would
have attracted the attention of everyone
using the track. To-day, when the motor-
lorry is used for the transport of
sheep and even larger stock, the sight of
one spinning along packed with jum-
bucks invites no particular attention, and
in a few hours stolen property may
be a hundred miles or more away from
the place where it was lifted —over a
fortnight’s journey with the old-time
droving methods.
* * * *
“N’lmporte”: A Brisbane suburbanite
improved on the age-old “Cave Canem! ”
tag by displaying a “Beware of the Bull-
dog!” notice. Now an enterprising neigh-
bor has gone one better. The placard
on his side-gate enjoins possible intruders
to “Beware of the Alsatian.”
* * * *
“D.W.J.”: In the North the new Gov-
ernor of Victoria will meet some men
who knew his father. A. W. Wilson is
one. Both belonged to the committee of
the first Charters Towers Show. The
father, W. A. Vanneck, fourth Lord Hunt-
ingfield, figured for a few years as a
squatter on Fanning River, to which he
brought cattle from his properties in the
Lockyer. Nearly 40 years ago there were
three Vanneck brothers in Queensland.
One of them was an accountant in a
Brisbane bank. He had a great fancy
for a game of billiards with the writer,
as there were not many other players
that he could beat. But he was very
popular, and nobody could be more free
from snobbery. His only daughter, Cora,
died a couple of years ago in England
and left a lot of money to Brisbane
institutions.
* * * *
“Jacob”: That eminent pastoral
authority Sydney “Labor Daily” an-
nounces that the Queensland Govern-
ment, “with the object of exporting
500,000 lambs yearly,” has decided “to
import the English type of lamb to be
used for experimental purposes.” Just
how it is to be worked is not explained.
Possibly the Government has some idea
of parading the cultured English product
through the ewe paddocks so as to give
mothers-to-be a notion of what they are
expected to live up to.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
Dr. Jim Ryan, who has just completed his
medical course at the Sydney Uni., has been
appointed to the Mater Hospital staff here. He
is one of the brainy members of a well-known
Queensland family. A brother holds down
the job of Registrar of the Supreme Court
in Rockhampton, and sister Mary, who has
B.A. after her name, is in the Education Dept.
Mrs. Hill-Smith, of Eden Downs station,
Longreach, is holidaying in Brisbane. She was
Alice Hawthorn, daughter of A.G.C., and a
few years ago was one of Brisbane’s prettiest
girls. The Central Queensland climate has
been unable to ruin her complexion.
Aboard the Nieuw Zeeland was Dr. A.
Porter, with his wife. The lady is here to
visit Daphne Mayo, Queensland’s brilliant
sculptress, who is her cousin. H. M. Bate-
man, the black-and-white artist, is Mrs. Porter’s
brother, so that she is well up in affairs of
the art world. The Porters will spend a fort-
night in Brisbane.
Since the Brisbane-Toowoomba road received
the attention of the Main Roads Board, Downs
residents think nothing of running down to
the capital or to one of the beaches. It is
quite usual to collide in the waves with
people one expects to be on farms in the wheat
belt or chasing Strawberry to the bails. Dis-
tance means nothing to them, and they cheer-
fully motor 125 to 150 miles, get thoroughly
blistered by the sun and then take the road
home, all on the same day.
Helen Hargreave, of the Universal library,
Melbourne, has been holidaying in Brisbane,
but by the time this sees print will be back
again among her books. Janet Fisher, who is
a well-known figure in the Melbourne musical
world—she secretaries for the Malvern Sym-
phony Orchestra in her spare time —was with
Miss Hargreave, and made several friends
among the musicians of Brisbane during her
stay.
Mrs. Willie Collins, who recently returned
from England, which she visited with son John
and his recent bride, is at Lennon’s. She has
with her as her guest Mrs. Stuart Leishman,
of Sydney, who in the gay ’nineties was one
of Brisbane’s most noted beauties—Gertie
Blakeney.
Mrs. H. W. Tilling and son Basil are pas-
sengers by the Ormonde, which arrives in Bris-
bane from London about the middle of the
month. They are bound for Rockhampton, to
spend a holiday with Grandma Harris. Dr.
Tilling, who is stationed at Nairobi, is coming
over early in May for a few weeks before his
family return to East Africa.
Athol, Desmond and Leo, the three hand-
some sons of the late Justice Tom McCawley,
have inherited much of their father’s brains.
Athol, who is associate to Justice Webb, is
to sit for his final this year, after which he
will be a full-blown solicitor. Desmond is
Justice Douglas’s associate at Townsville. Leo,
who is a 8.A., is in the Agricultural Bank, but
he, too, is going in for the law. Paul, the
youngest, only nine, also shows signs of having
inherited the family looks and brains.
The mosquitoes seem to have been irritating
Cupid, for he has been very busy with his
little bow and arrows of late. Les Deshon,
of Mitchell, will meet Florence Isley, daughter
of the A. F. Isleys, of Brisbane, at the altar
in February. The bridegroom’s family is one
of the best-known in the Mitchell district, and
his mother was one of the West’s most popular
and kindly hostesses.
Alma Leeper, a member of the legal clan
of that name, of Warwick, has just been
appointed matron-in-charge of the hookworm
clinic at Cairns. Until recently she was matron
of the Cloncurry District Hospital. The lady
is Titian-haired, musical and attractive.
Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson, mother of Charles
Thompson, secretary of the Warwick Cale-
donian Society, . has seen 93 years pass, and
for 61 of them has been a regular attendant
at the Caledonian sports at Warwick. The
old lady is hale and hearty, and quite likely
to see the century out. Two other regular
attendants at the Warwick Caledonian sports
are Monsignor Potter, who has an unbroken
record for 41 years, and Littleton Groom, who
has only missed twice in 33 years.
Moyra Joy Joyce, fourth daughter of Edgar
Joyce, of the Overflow, was married on Wed-
nesday to Rupert Brazabon, second son of
the late R. L. Brabazon, of Gleneagle. St.
Thomas’s Church of England, Beaudesert, saw
the wedding. The bride wore white elephant
crepe and a priceless Limerick veil, an heir-
loom lent by Mrs. Willie Persse. Ismay
Joyce, a cousin, and two sisters, Molly and
Shevauneen, ’maided. Robin Walker was best
man, and Harry Delpratt and Charles Brabazon
were groomsmen. The Joyce and Brabazon
families are included in the list of Queensland’s
premier squatting families.
Visiting Brisbane at present are two of yes-
terday’s prettiest girls, now promoted to the
ranks of the younger-matron class. One is
Mrs. Hunter Bowman, who comes from the
south side of the border. She was Jean Trotter,
daughter of the W. J. Trotters. Mrs. Trotter
and her sister Mrs. Moon were leading host-
esses in Brisbane a few years ago, and carried
on the tradition of hospitality which belonged
to the McLellan clan, of which they were
daughters. The other visiting lady is Mrs. N.
Quilty, of Normanton. She does most of her
travelling by air, and has had a bird’s-eye view
of most of Queensland. '
Mrs.- Bird wood Mant, who died the other
day, was one of Brisbane’s handsomest and
most aristocratic old ladies. Her first husband
was Ernest White, a well-known pastoralist.
After his death she married Birdwood Mant,
a cousin of General Birdwood. She was a
daughter of that Barker who was one of the
first men to take up large tracts of country in
Queensland. Adhering always to the fashions
of a bygone period, and with her luxuriant
silver hair dressed in the mode of Queen Alex-
andra, she kept, until within a few months of
her death, a salon in which were to be met
all the best of that older generation which is
so rapidly fading away.


Our Service Department
This page is ’ set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. , .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young school-teacher, Q., male, seeks posi-
tion in another sphere, especially as travelling
secretary.—9633.
Present whereabouts of the siren that blew,
“start” and “knock off” at Dorman Long’s
works on Sydney Harbor Bridge.—9sBs.
Whereabouts of John Mahoney, motor
mechanic, last heard of at Tamworth, N.S.W.
Sister in Canada inquiring.—9649.
Whereabouts of Jack Johnson, late of Strat-
ford, M.L.—9650.
Words of verse “The Stockyard Liar.”—•
9641.
Information Sought.
In a tennis match a player’s racquet slips
out of his hand but meets the ball and returns
it over the net. Is it a good return ? —9595.
Yes, provided his racquet does not hit the
net or go into his opponent’s court. There is
nothing in the rules which requires a player
to hold the racquet in his hand whilst making
his shot.
(1) What causes baldness ?' (2) What checks
it ? —9664.
(1) Most theories centre in the notion that
hair is a sort of plant and that its failure
to grow is due to malnutrition of the scalp,
which may be hereditary, due to senility or
general ill-health, or ascribable to the use of
tight-fitting .hats. (2) Treatment depends on
cause. There’s no cure for the failure of the
scalp to nourish hair-roots. Massage, electrical
stimulation, salt water, precipitated sulphur and
‘ ointment of mercury are means which have
been used to check baldness not due to com-
plete failure of the scalp-soil.
List of Kingsford Smith’s more important
air flights since 1928, with distances, flying times
and dates of each trip ? —9630.
1928: May 31-June 9, San Francisco to Bris-
bane, about 7306 miles; flying time, 83 hours.
August 12, Melbourne to Perth, about 2090
miles, in 23i hours (a record). September 10,
Sydney to Christchurch, via Wellington (M.L.),
about 1600 miles, in 14 hours 12 minutes.
October 8, Blenheim (M.L.) to Richmond
(N.S.W.), about 1440 miles, in 23 hours. 1929:
June 25-July 10, Derby to London in 12 days 14
hours (a record). 1930: June 24-July 4, Ire-
land to Newfoundland, thence to New York
and San Francisco, about 6700 miles. October
9-October 19, England to Australia, 9 days 22f
hours. 1931: Sept. 24-Oct. 7, Australia to
England (solo) in 14 days. 1931-32: January
7-January 19, England to Darwin, 11 days
16 hours. 1933: .January 11, from Gerringong
beach (N.S.W.) to New Plymouth (M.L.) in
14 hours. March 26, Ninety-mile Beach
(M.L.) to Mascot (Sydney) in 13 hours. October
4-October 11, England to Australia (solo), 7
days 4| hours.
Has any Dutch co. conducted an experi-
mental air-mail flight between Australia and
the N.E.I. ? If so, when, and what was the
result of the flight ? —9644.
A flight between Batavia and Australia was
made by the Dutch co. K.N.I.L.M. in 1931.
After the arrival of the regular Amsterdam-
Batavia air-mail machine at Batavia, the Aus-
tralian mail was flown to Wyndham, arriving
there on May 14. The Dutch machine (a
three-engined Fokker F. VII, piloted by Cap-
tain M. P. Pattist) thence continued its journey
across Australia to Brisbane, Sydney and Mel-
bourne. The return flight followed the same
route, a departure being made from Wynd-
ham on May 26. The weight of mails carried
was 2691 b. on the inward and 1281 b. on the
outward journey.
What is the family unit upon which the State
basic wages are determined ?— 9638.
Queensland and S.A., man, wife and three
children; W.A., man, wife and two children;
N.S.W., man, wife and one child. In N-S.W.
the position is affected by child-endowment
legislation.
What protection does the N.S.W. Landlords
and Tenants Act afford a tenant threatened with
eviction ? The tenant is not unemployed, but
is suffering hardship in other directions. There
has been a suggestion that the tenant is knock-
ing the place about. Would that affect the
issue ''—96o3.
The right to eject tenants from dwellings
leased at rents not exceeding £3 a week is sub-
ject to orders of a competent Court. The Court
may postpone eviction (period of postponement
limited to four months) if the occupiers are in
impoverished circumstances owing to inability
to obtain employment, and postponement may
be made subject to a condition that the occu-
pier pay to the owner such sum in such instal-
ments and at such times as the Court orders.
An order for postponement may not be granted
if it would cause the owner to suffer undue
hardship, nor if the occupier or other person
residing in the dwelling has been guilty of
acts of waste, depreciating its value.
(1) What is the maximum weekly payment
under N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act to
a worker totally incapacitated ? (2) Is he en-
titled to payments for wife and children ? (3)
Is an unmarried worker entitled to payment
for adult female dependants and young brothers
and sisters whom he formerly supported ?
9629.
(1) Two-thirds of the average weekly earn-
ings up to £3 a week. Where weekly earnings
of an adult worker are less than £3 he may
be paid 100 p.c. up to £2 per week, and a
minor earning less than 455. a week may receive
as compensation 100 p.c. of his earnings up to
30s. a week. (2) A worker is entitled to £1
a week in respect of his wife and Bs. 6d, per
week in respect of each child and stepchild
under 14 years totally or mainly dependent
upon his earnings. (3) He or she may receive £1
a week in respect of one female dependant who
is an adult and is caring for a child of the
worker under 14 years, or is a member of his
family over 14 years. Where no compensation
is payable in respect of children, a worker
may receive Bs. 6d. a week in respect of each
dependent brother and sister under 14 years.
The total weekly payments to the worker and
his dependants may not exceed his average
weekly earnings or £5, whichever is the smaller
amount, and the total liability of the employer
in respect of weekly payments may not exceed
£lOOO.
(1) Receipts and expenditure of the N.S.W.
unemployment-relief fund for the year 1932-33?
—9612.
Receipts: Deductions from earnings,
£3,718,960; assessments on incomes, £2,983,479;
repayment of advances (principal and interest),
£17,917; other receipts, £16,567) total,
£6,736,923. Expenditure: Food relief,
£3,510,194; cash payments, £63,296; grants and
loans, £276,139; administrative expenses,
£145,733; total, £3,995,362. In addition
£2,358,848 was expended from loan moneys on
works for the relief of unemployment. As
from July 1, 1932, the unemployment-relief
fund was merged into the consolidated revenue
fund, and the moneys became subject to Par-
liamentary appropriation.
When the Q’land Forest Service investigated
the manufacture oj pipes, how many species
of timber were tested? How many test pipes
were distributed ? What species were found
satisfactory ? Prices of pipes for sale ? —9596.
Three hundred pipes, made from 27 selected
species of timber, were distributed with a
request for a report after six months’ smoking.
Four species proved satisfactory—tulip plum-
wood, satinay, brigalow and ringed gidya in
that order of preference. Pipes made from
plumwOod, satinay and brigalow are on sale
at 4s. 6d., straight stem; 55., bent stem.
I hold a master mariner’s ticket, and am
proficient in navigation by sea. (1) Would this
be of assistance in learning aerial navigation ?
(2) What book or books could I get to study
this subject ? —9483.
(1) Yes. (2) A.P. 1234, “Manual of Air Pilot-
age,” A.P. 1456, “Manual of Air Navigation,”
and “Air Navigation,” by P. V. H. Weems.
A friend in the bush has promised to send
me a frilled lizard. Can you tell me some-
thing about this reptile ? What is the purpose
of the frill, and does it make a good pet ?
9599. ~ ,
It is found in the north from Queensland to
Westralia, and is regarded as one of
the world’s most interesting reptiles. It may
attain nearly three feet in length. When this
lizard is at rest the frill lies round the neck
like a badly-folded umbrella, but when alert,
and at bay, the reptile opens its mouth widely,
and at the same time spreads its frill to the
utmost extent —9in. in large specimens—effect-
ing a surprising transformation. This frill
does not completely encircle the neck, and is
evidently a “scare organ,” serving the same
purpose as erection of fur in a cat.
Most frilled lizards are pale brown;
some have dark markings with red, yellow and
blue touches. This lizard can run on its hind
legs for a considerable distance. In captivity
it will feed on grasshoppers and other insects,
and it makes an attractive and harmless pet.
How to distinguish an Australian crow from
an Australian raven ? —9584.
The crow (C. cecilce ) has black body-feathers,
snow-white at the base, and hazel eyes. The
raven (C. coronoides) has body-feathers black
throughout or dusky at the base, eyes white in
the adult, though hazel in the young, and
some of the throat feathers elongate and
pointed.
(1) Are “condition powders” beneficial to
racehorses when (a) in good condition and (b)
when off condition ? (2) In what respect ? (3)
Do they tend to stop sweating by making horses
hard 3—9539.
(1) Sometimes; (a) unnecessary; ( b ) yes. (2)
As a tonic; but a small teaspoonful of sacchar-
ated carbonate of iron (ferri. carb. sac Ch.)
is most effective, given in a handful of mash
and mixed with the right feed for a week. (3)
An aid to condition, which generally means
less sweating. Nevertheless, free-sweating is
positivelv necessary in hot climates. Experts
buy for'lndia only racehorses that are proved
“free-sweaters.”
What causes flatfoot ? What workers are
especially affected ? Is it painful ? —9635.
It is caused generally by long periods of
standing, and is known in all occupations that
involve standing. The tendency to flatfoot is
increased by any constitutional weakness, by
lack of proper food, and by general debility.
It is especially liable to occur after Potts’s frac-
ture of the ankle. In its earlier stages the
condition is accompanied by pain along the
upper and outer part of the foot.
(1) What is the technical basis' of jazz music ?
(2) Can it be said that it is merely trick music ?
(3) What is the future of jazz ? (4) Can you
tell me something about George Gershwin ?
9618.
(1) Its essential characteristics are the exten-
sive use of syncopation—the delayed or mis-
placed accent which is to be found in most
negro music. (2) A good many tricks of tech-
nique are employed in the performance of
jazz, but syncopation is a perfectly legitimate
device, used by classical masters. (3) Can’t
say. Its popularity seems to be waning. (4) He
is an American Jew, in his 36th year, who
studied the piano under Hambitzer and har-
mony under Kilenyi and Goldmark. He has com-
posed the scores of numerous musical comedies.
“The Rhapsody in Blue” and “A Second Rhap-
sody” for pianoforte are his most famous com-
positions.
(1) Is the tone of a small grand pianp superior
to that of a large upright ? The strings of
the upright are much longer and should give
more volume. (2) What advantages are there
in the grand key-action as compared with the
best uprigtit actions ? (3) Is the grand soft-
pedal mechanism, which involves moving the
hammers sideways so that they hit only two
strings of a three-wire note and one of a two-
wire note sound ? It can’t affect the one-wire
bass notes:— 26l9.
(1) It should be superior, and in compari-
sons between grands and uprights by the same
maker it invariably is, no matter how small
the grand or how large the upright. Explana-
tion is that the horizontal method of construc-
tion is acoustically much more efficient than
the vertical. (2) It is mechanically superior,
admitting of more rapid repetition. The damper
action is also more exact. (3) In the modern
Broadwood grand and some others the soft
pedal merely shifts the hammers a little nearer
the strings by tilting the keyboard, which en-
sures evenness of the effect over all the strings.
The disparities of the old method, however,
are more fancied than real, as the player used
to it unconsciously allows for the slight varia-
tions.
I am told that there is a species somewhat
similar to the “Portuguese man-of-war,’ or
bluebottle, known as the “By-the-wind Sailer,’’
which is sometimes washed ashore on our ocean
beaches after heavy weather. How can it be
identified ? —9631.
It is of a deep indigo color, and is often
found in swarms sailing along in the breeze,
especially in warm latitudes. In this species
a vertical ridge (the sail) is placed diagonally
across the upper surface of an oblong disc;
attached to the lower surface of the latter is
a central feeding polyp, surrounded by smaller
polyps, generative buds and a marginal fringe
of tentacles. Scientific name is Velella.
Cl) To what genus do the flowers known as
Christmas bells belong ? (2) How many species
are there, and in what districts are they found ?
—9579.
(1) Blandfordia. (2) B. nobilis, a species with
rigid, narrow leaves and flowers of a wax-like
texture, shading from reddish-brown or orange
to yellow, is usually found in swampy sand-
stone country, and is confined to N.S.W. B.
grandiflora, ‘also limited to N.S.W., has larger
flowers of a deeper red than B. nobilis, and
grows in peaty pockets on the craggy escarp-
ment of the Blue Mountains, overhanging Leura
and Wentworth Falls. B. flammea, with large
pale flame-colored flowers, extends from north-
ern N.S.W. to Queensland. B. marginata, the
handsomest of all, is limited to Tasmania, and
grows at altitudes up to 4000 feet.
What is the reason for the variation in the
spelling of the Christian names of Governor
King, his son (the explorer) and his grandson ?
—9592. '
Captain Philip Gidley King, R.N. (1758-
1808), Governor of N.S.W. from September,
1800, to Aug., 1806, and his grandson Philip
Gidley King (1817-1904), both spelt their first
Christian name with one “1.” Governor King’s
son, Phillip Parker King (1791-1856), the ex-
plorer, was christened “Phillip” because of his
father’s great admiration for the Governor of
that name.
When and where was the first Australian
repertory theatre established, and who was its
founder ? —9588.
In Adelaide in 1908 by Bryceson Treharne.
Called the Adelaide Literary Theatre, it grew
out of a class formed for the study of dramatic
literature in 1907. Name was changed to
Adelaide Repertory Theatre in 1913.
Explanation of the appearance of the Leonid
meteors ? —9138.
Surrounding the sun in an enormous belt
which includes the orbit of the earth are
innumerable small bodies. These are clustered
most thickly at a point entered by the earth
in the middle of November each year. As the
fragments enter the earth’s atmosphere they
become incandescent through air friction, caus-
ing the phenomenon known as shooting stars
(in mid-November, Leonid meteors). Usually
they are consumed before they can reach the
earth’s surface. The meteors make their appear-
ance most thickly near the constellation Leo,
and are usually visible only in the Northern
Hemisphere.
What are the Magellanic clouds ? —9322.
Two oval cloudlike patches of nebulous light
near the South Pole of the heavens, named by
the navigator Andrea Corsali after Magellan.
The major is in the constellation Dorado, and
the minor is situated in a blank space between
Hydrus and Toucan. The greater number of
the variable stars of the heavens is found in
these clouds. The greater nebula covers an
area of about 42 square degrees, and the lesser
about 10 square degrees.
What are the climatic conditions of Japan ?
—< 3473. . . ,
Japan extends over many degrees of lati-
tude, and there is a great variety of climate and
temperature. The central part of the country,
covering Honshu, Shikoku and Kyushu, lies
within the temperate zone, and has an average
temperature ranging from 43.36 deg. F. at the
southern end to 38.32 deg. F. at the northern
extremity. Japan has a relatively higher humid-
ity and a heavier rainfall than is found over
continental areas. The rainfall is greater, as
a rule, in the south-western parts of the country
than in the north-eastern, and in the summer
there is a larger rainfall on the Pacific sea-
board than on the Japan Sea side of the coun-
try, the reverse being the case in winter. The
rainy season ( tsuyu or bai-u), which is wel-
comed by the farmers as a fitting time for rice-
planting, sets in about the middle of June and
lasts three or four weeks. Northern Japan is
covered with snow for two or three months in
the winter, the fall being heavier on the west
coast than on the east. In the southern parts
of the country, however, snowstorms are a
rarity, and when snow falls it seldom lies on
the ground for more than a day or two.
How much does it cost the Vic. Govt, for
the maintenance of neglected and reformatory
children, and how many are under Govt, super-
vision ? —9522.
Expenditure in 1931 amounted to £391,474,
of which £5634 was for reformatory-school
children and £16,124 for administration.
Parents contributed £8044 for maintenance, and
£462 was received from other sources, making
the net expenditure £382,968. The number of
neglected children under supervision at the end
of 1931 was 6554, and of reformatory wards
255. ■
Distinctions between the following words:
flurried, flustered and fluttered ?— 9508.
A person is flurried who, with several things
to attend to, lets each interfere with the others;
a person is flustered in whom different im-
pulses or emotions contend for expression; a
person is fluttered who, being of a timid or
apprehensive disposition, is confronted with a
sudden emergency.
How to put a polish on motor-car leather
upholstery? —-9251.
Use two parts of raw linseed oil and one of
turpentine.
Brief Answers.
H.S.: As the two years have now elapsed
you can sue, or make periodical demands for
payment to keep the debt alive and avoid the
Statute of Limitations. Your 10 p.c. interest
has been cut down to 1\ p.c. by the Interest
Reduction Act, 1931... .H.8.W.: N.S.W. fish
consumption in 1932 was: Fresh and smoked,
9.81 b. per head; preserved, 3.21 b. per head....
G.R.: Apparently the nest is that of a white-
winged chough, but your description of the
base is puzzling. If you forward a description
of the bird a more definite answer can be
given 8.C.: There is no truth in the state-
ment. The splitting of the tongue does not
aid speech in birds in any way, and it is a
cruel practice... .M.W.: Write Timber Mer-
chants’ Association, 51 William-street, Mel-
bourne (Vic.)... .V.W.L.: The board is
within its rights. The reduction made in this
year’s rates does not necessarily apply to the
rates of the previous year or years.. .-T.P.8.:
Write Burns, Philp and Co., 7 Bridge-street,
Sydney 0.D.W.: The “Advertiser” and
the “News” publish reports daily... .E.V.H.:
No mining engineering classes at Sydney Tech.
Coll. There is a coal-mining engineering course
at Newcastle Tech. Coll., and a metalliferous
mining course at Broken Hill Tech. Coll. Syd-
ney Tech. Coll, provides a correspondence
course in station book-keeping. For particu-
lars, write to College, Ultimo S.M.: “He
Who Gets Slapped” was written by Leonid
Andreyev... .H.S.F.: She was born in London.
Her age is her own affair... .N.0.M.: “Radio
Record” (weekly) and “N.Z. Radio Times”
(monthly), both Wakefield-street, Wellington
(M.L.) T.T.: Yarrahapinni is a N.S.W.
aboriginal word meaning “native bear rolling
down a hi 11”... .H.S.A.: Malden Island has
an area of 35 sq. m., and is owned by Great
Britain and administered through the High
Commissioner for the Western Pacific. It is
situated in 4deg. south latitude and 155 deg.
west longitude... .T.M.: Federal Pastoral
Shearing Co., 245 George-street; Graziers’ Co-
op. Shearing Co., 23 Macquarie-place; Merriwa
Contract Co., 255 a George-street, and R. A.
Rooney and Co., 8 Spring-street —all Sydney.
. ...A.E.: Gamboge is a resinous gum pro-
cured from trees of a species found in Siam,
Ceylon and other tropical places. It is used
medicinally as an ingredient of a purgative,
but never alone. It is also the source of a
pigment S.V.: H. Rider Haggard died in
a London nursing home, May 14, 1925....
J.C.: The play was an adaptation from the
French comedy “Prenez Garde a la Peinture,”
by Rene Fauchois... .M. 0.: Write N.S.W.
Government Statistician, Young-street, Sydney.
N.S.: “The Travels of Marco Polo,” edited
by Manuel Komroff (ss. 3d., postage 4d.),
obtainable from Dymock’s, Sydney E.T.M.:
The N.Z. Shipping Co.’s Kaipara (7392 tons)
was sunk by the German cruiser Kaiser Wil-
helm der Grosse, near the Canary Islands,
while bound from M.L. to England with frozen
meat, on August 16, 1914. No lives were lost.
T.H.J.: The heaviest member of the Forth
Bridge in Scotland has an area in section of
800 sq. in.; of the Hell Gate Bridge at New
York, 1392 sq. in.; of the Quebec Bridge, 1941
sq. in., and of the Sydney Harbor Bridge,
2450 sq. in A.M.: F. V. Roffey flew from
New Caledonia to Marlborough (Q.) on Nov.
21, 1931, in a D.H. 60 machine in 10 hours.
. ...N.F.: The 1914 Melbourne Cup was won
by Kingsburgh (6st. 121 b.), with Sir Alwynton
(Bst. 51b.) second, and Moonbria (7st. 41b.)
third. Winner’s time, 3min. 26sec A.S.G.:
Not unless you have sold the copyright to
journals. Ask them for permission to republish.
... .H.A.: Depends on practice of parties. If a
full-dress fashionable affair, tails and a white
tie; if not so formal, dinner jacket and black
tie. If the ladies are wearing afternoon dress
and hats, wear a lounge suit, preferably light
grey K.0.R.: You don’t state whether the
widow has children under 14 to support, an
essential point in the circumstances... .S.H.D.:
They have power of access to lay mains. The
owner has right to compensation, but must
prove damage except where properties are
back to back, when damage applies to build-
ings only. Claims must be presented to sewage
authority A.F.W.: It was not published in
The Bulletin W.S.: Bad teeth are only
one of the many causes alleged for rheumatoid
arthritis, as are also infected tonsils, etc. All
doctors should be capable of inspecting a
patient for these troubles. The matter of
rheumatoid arthritis is not fully understood as
yet C.V.R.: Starch, 20 parts; sugar, 10
parts; zinc chloride, 1 part; water, 100 parts.
Mix the ingredients, and stir until perfectly
smooth, then heat gradually until the liquid
thickens. An ordinary boiled flour paste con-
taining a little alum would probably be as effec-
tive. The fabric cannot escape damage if the
cardboard is a coarse, brown one A.A.:
Employment agency in N.S.W. must be licensed
by the Dept, of Labor 0.J.D.: Wipe the
coat over with a rag wrung out frequently in
very hot water, then wipe .over with methylated
spirit. When dry, rub over with a cloth
sprinkled with a little fuller’s earth or talcum
powder, and keep on a coat-hanger in an airy
place J.W.H.: Eczema is a wide term which
embraces all sorts of skin troubles, from “trau-
matic dermatitis” to infective skin conditions.
Diagnosis is impossible without inspection
A.N.: “Gourmand” ranges in sense from greedy
feeder to lover and judge of good fare; “gour-
met” from judge of wine to connoisseur of
delicacies. The first usually implies some con-
tempt, the other not C. 8.: Residences in
New Guinea are usually built of sawn timber,
except those of new settlers —they live for a few
years in dwellings made of native bush material
with roofs thatched with palm fronds. These
homes are cool and healthy, but have certain
disadvantages... .S.F.: In 1852 the Govern-
ments of N.S.W. and Vic. granted to
Mrs. Petrie, daughter of Matthew Flin-
ders, a pension of £2OO p.a., and paid
it for 40 years H.N.J.: (1) Helen
Hayes is an American, born at Washington on
Oct 10, 1902. (2) She commenced her film
career in 1931 T.D.: Presume you mean
John Payne Collier (1787-1883). He forged
marginal corrections in the Egerton folio ot
Shakspeare before 1841, and in the Perkins
folio before 1852, and brought out editions of
Shakspeare based on these forgeries R.W.:
A jolly-boat is a small clinker-built boat, not
so large as a cutter. It is usually hoisted at
the stern of a vessel. It has a bluff bow and
wide transom, and is about 4ft. in beam and
12ft. in length....S.W.: The “Brenan nugget
was found in Meroo Creek, Turon River
(N.S.W.), embedded in clay. It measured 21in.
in circumference and weighed (gross) 3640 z.
lldwt. It was sold in Sydney in 1851 tor
£1156 (Many others mailed.)


i
KM*
Lx*
IMH
r>*
mm
SOUTH SEA
HO LI DAYS
What a difference between just
an ordinary holiday and a cruise
to the Solomon Islands. About
four weeks of novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a
sea voyage under the best con-
ditions. Numerous ports
coral lagoons—colourful native
life —wonderful scenes. There
are no hotel expenses on the trip
and the fares from Australia
are free of exchange.
Next Sailing from Sydney, 20th Jan.,
by the new motor vecsel “MALAITA.”
At your request toe shall I
be pleased to forward I
illustrated folder No. 22 I
Bums,
& CO, LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . . . TELEPHONE
3790 I
lillilill
%
33/15-5
FOR 1934
Enjoy real motoring satisfac-
tion in 1934 and get this “POWER
of difference” into your car.
Fit Leggetts Dynamic Spark
Plugs. The low cost of a set
is a worth-while investment
bringing you easier starting—
sweeter running-
more miles per
gallon—indeed, a
“POWER of differ-
ence.”
Your local garage-
man can supply.
Dynamic
SPARK
PLUGS
uJ
Q
&
M
w
cunard Line
FRANCONIA
World Cruise
The super Cruising Steamer “Fran-
conia” —specially equipped for World
Cruising—a palace of rest and recrea-
tion —the final word in sea-going luxury,
Will Sail from Sydney
on 4th March, 1934,
visiting Papua, Dutch East Indies,
Java, Federated Malay States, Colombo,
India, Kenya Colony, East and South
Africa, Madagascar, Monte Video and
liio de Janeiro (Brazil), New York,
England. Passengers may book in Aus-
tralia for any of the above ports (ex-
cluding Dutch East Indies) or for the
remainder of the cruise.
Excellent Accommodation available for
Australian Passengers.
C. & D. Line, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., 34 Queen St., Melb.;
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Cunard
NEW ZEALAND CRUISES
f
nis
Specially arranged for
those who desire an
ideal Sea Holiday with
the social gaiety of life
aboard a big modern
liner. See New Zealand
at its best in the com-
fort of a C.A. and
Union Royal Mail
liner.
MARLBOROUGH SOUNDS
The “MARAMA” leaves Sydney on
Jan. 25 for Queen Charlotte and
Pelorus Sounds via Wellington, re-
turning to Sydney Feb. 6.
Inclusive Fares from £l9
MILFORD SOUNDS
The luxury liner R.M.S. “MONO-
WAT ’ leaves Sydney Mar. 2 for
Milford and George Sounds via Wel-
lington, returning to Sydney Mar. 12.
Inclusive Fares from £24
Delightful meals—cosy berths—wide decks
—faultless service—every detail arranged
to give you a happy care - free holiday.
Booking Plans, Literature and Full
Details from
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
296 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ANd UniOH LINEt
The Other Fellow’s Mind.
West o’ Darling
The small landholder out there is in
a very unenviable position. About 12
months ago a swarm of officials and poli-
ticians paid us a visit, and we were given
to understand that sufficient land would
be taken from big holdings to make the
small man’s property up to an area which
would safely carry 4000 sheep. Greatly
cheered, the cocky refrained from selling
any stock. The promises have not been
fulfilled ; drought descended on us in-
stead. — One of the Flock.
The Double-tax Swindle
Thank you for bringing under public
notice the position of victims. The
unfairness of taxing in N. S. Wales in-
come from other States which is taxed
there and by the Commonwealth is ad-
mitted privately by the officials who col-
lect taxes. They admit also that the thing
has driven people out of N. S. Wales to
live in States which do not practise the
swindle. This is small consolation to
those people who have to pay, but I hope
the very injustice of the Act and the pub-
licity you have given will be instrumental
in getting us a fair deal.—P. P. (N.S.W.).
Parkhill’s Department
Here is my experience of the Post
Office. I registered a letter to the Com-
missioner of Taxation, Warwick Build-
ings, Hamilton-street, Sydney. It could
not have been delivered, for I have re-
ceived a notification that, if I do not
supply information asked for in 14 days,
legal proceedings will be taken. I posted a
letter addressed to 192 Park-street, Park-
ville, Melbourne, not knowing that the
east side of Park-street was in West
Brunswick. In a month’s time I got that
letter back from the dead-letter office
bearing the legend “Name not known.”
Added were the words “This letter was
left at 191 Park-street by person not
known.” Everyone but the Post Office
would have known that 192 was opposite.
Through non-delivery of that letter I
was put to the expense of going to Mel-
bourne. Next I posted a letter to an
address in Surrey Hills, Melbourne ; it
contained a ten-shilling note. It is a
month since I sent it and the letter has
not been delivered, nor have I received
a reply to a missive inquiring about it.
And all in eight months. —R. McK.
(N.S.W.).
“Share the Work”
When the depression set in the old-
fashioned but honest way of placing
everyone on short time in proportion to
the reduced national income should have
been applied. It would not have been
at all difficult to carry out and it would
not be difficult now. Those in continuous
work complain of having to keep the un-
employed. Well, divide the work up and
let everyone keep himself. Roosevelt is
trying to solve the problem with short
hours and a slightly lowered wage. Aus-
tralia’s first step, as a preliminary to a
final solution, should be short hours and
payment in proportion until all are em-
ployed.—J. V. R. (S.A.).
For the Centre Party
The Centre Party’s slogan is not “Down
with Stevens and Lyons” (B. 20/12/’33),
but “Justice, Sincerity, Efficiency.”
Democracy has proved hopelessly incom-
petent, supine and fatuous, and it is col-
lapsing round the world. People arriv-
ing at a certain age are granted the fran-
chise irrespective of their capacity to use
it intelligently ; given the rights of society
without accepting its responsibilities. The
party machine has developed out of the
regimented vote, and we get the spoils
system on top of that. The Government
becomes an auction of authority and
usually panders for votes. As a result of
one of the most expensive education sys-
tems in the world N. S. Wales got the
Lang Government; and this gang is still
supported by about half the N. S. Wales
voting population. The Centre party
advocates two main principles only of
Fascism —vocational representation, in-
stead of our present regional one, and
service instead of self. It believes with
Mussolini that “the affairs of the State
must be directed, not by those who seek
to flatter the hopes of the individual, but
by those who have the highest faith in the
State, and who will lead it to its greatest
expression of strength.” We believe that
Labor and Capital should be united in
corporate bodies, which would end the
artificially-stimulated antagonism between
them ; and our candidates must not accept
payment for Parliamentary service. We
are fortunate in having the only real
leader this generation in Australia has
produced—Colonel Eric Campbell.—
J.B. (N.S.W.).
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R B.: Mediocre P.E.S.: Even a poetical
haberdasher couldn’t afford such rhymes as
“pyjamas-harm is” and “corsets-perforce it’s.”
J.L.: Poor doggerel. And Australia may
have something to learn about organising bands.
....J.0.: Can’t see a gleam of promise in
them.... Web: It might amuse a picnic party.
. ...P.O’S.: Appreciate the good wishes, but
“Life’s Looking Glass” needs a fresh coat of
quicksilver at the back L.A.: Feeble to
debility D.S.McG.: Space only for the last
verse in the cocky’s chapter of woes:
You write a letter to the bank,
The income-tax people as well;
You tell them to-day you’re walking off
And they can. go to Hell.
.... G.J.: It’s rather too extravagant and
labored for our taste; try it on the girl
V.G.W.: No new thoughts in it, and no
happily-phrased old ones A.G.: Opens pro-
misingly :
They say that Lyons and his lizards keep
The courts where Scullin gloried—then sank deep.
After that you trail away into the common-
place R.P.: Weak verse-endings are your
Achilles’ heel L.W.C.: The satire is too
obtrusive... .W.C.N.: Brevity is all right for
epigrams, but yours aren’t epigrams Mulga
M. : Not at all bad stuff of its kind, but it’s
not our kind G.D.: Might do for a barber’s
ad The Merry Minstrel: Your songs aren’t
“dull company” by any means. Put a little
more tinkle into them and you’ll get past the
gate R.G.: Not interested in ram’s court-
ship U.J.G.: Good descriptions but in-
adequate p10t... .F.S.: Remains a mystery to
us J.8.C.: Not a bad tale, but too close
to a recent one in London “Mercury”....
G. : Only fair, and there was no
English Communist party at that stage....
H. : Almost every ’bus of that kind in
Australia has been described long before now.
. ...M.C.R.: Reads like a cross between an
indifferent hymn and a nursery rhyme....
Bellerive: Short and to the point:
GREYHOUNDS.
The sportsmen’s pride
Are speedful greyhounds,
The popular dogs of
The coursing grounds.
The sharpest and best
To pursue the hare,
They need special attention,
Diet and care.
. ...T.L.: Crudely done, though the striking
finish nearly carried it through W.E.W.:
Clever, but too riotously fantastic A.R.G.:
War story much too long; the plot of the other
is too thin....J.F.8.: Painter story is very
unreal and unpleasant; the other has an old
plot. Avoid flamboyancy J.C.H.: Coin-
cidence at the end is unconvincing C. 8.:
Too baldly t01d... .F.D.: You haven’t the gift
of irony. .. .W.T.: The incident which supplies
the title is a tiny plum in a huge mass of
dough... .R.W.8.: Good idea poorly worked
out... .W.E.8.: Confused and dreary....
N. : Superfluous cargo.... J.P.: Overlong
and too sentimental R.P.: Ginger goes
back... .M.D.: A worked-out vein... .M.P.:
It makes dismal reading... .V.J.L.: Needs a
stronger ending S.R.T.: No 0.C.: Many
others have told the same white lie in fiction.
... .C.A.: Not enough humor in it G.H.F.:
Might suit an English magazine... .J.T.:
Amateurish; and please don’t write on both
sides of the paper R.E.W.: The average
schoolboy could do better H.F.C.: Earns
no cheque.... A.G.D.: Unreal R.8.Q.:
Our verdict was less favorable than the doctor’s.
. ...J.F.T.: It hasn’t been improved
J.H.W.: Anti-climax doesn’t fit in....G.D.:
Give us stories with an Australian setting....
J.C.S.: Rambles on confusedly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.L.C.H.: A weak pun and a scratchy draw-
ing... .R.L.8.: The bankrupt pawnbroker is
no credit to you... .E.C.G.: They still resemble
fashion-plates, and jest is not funny L.D.:
Promising 8.F.: Chestnuts, vilely illus-
trated G.S.H.: Some are horrible; others
not so bad T.E.L.: Souter did it better a
few weeks ago L.S.: Nothing humorous in
the whole pile P.D.: Found its way to the
office morgue... .R.M.W.: It wouldn’t repro-
duce successfully S.E.F.: Dad and Dave are
not idiots M.H.: Papuan wheeze wouldn’t
be understood... .8.D.5.: Cultivate a lighter
touch... .W.C.: They are all disjointed, and it
looks as if a land mine had exploded in the
suburban street J.J.: Some artistic merit,
but an entire lack of humor A.E.J.:
Fathoms below publication level... .S.T.W.:
Snake in bed looks like the curate’s
razor-strop... .D.J.: Glad you told us it was
a C0W....G.R.: Choose more interesting sub-
jects C.H.M.: Don’t want ’em “dashed
off” P.J.: It has been going the rounds
ever since the first Israelite set up in the old-
clo’ trade;.. .V,Q.: Can’t say whether they
are better than the batch you sent three
years ago, but they won’t do F.W.:
Shows some natural talent but very little train-
ing S.J.S.: Loathe jokes about pimples
N.C.: If you’re as youthful as you say, there
is a glimmer of hope for you W. 8.:
You might have commenced 1934 with some
fresh jokes L.M.: Cease firing in sketches
done in faint pencil H.R.T.: The printing
on the signpost is fair... .H.H.: Hopeless in
about a dozen different ways A.8.D.: Pic-
ture of crooked Chinaman throwing crockery
at Salvation Army officer resolutely declined.
S.N.: It made us want to take it outside
and dynamite it G.R.S.: You had a pass-
able gag to illustrate, but fell down on the
j0b....A.Y.: The father of all parson-and-
boy-fishing-on-Sunday jokes W.P.D.: Treat-
ment too loose and careless 8.5.8.: Draw-
ing depicting drunk draped over a silent cop
contemplated more in sorrow than in anger.
W.C.M.: You have a niggling and scratchy
style K. 8.: Merely a tenth-rater J.G.:
The fly-in-the-beer joke was never one of our
favorites J.D.: All five too yoqng and
green A.F.: Two vgry ordinary-looking
people making drearily commonplace remarks.


LD
Wolaroi College
Orange
Day and Boarding
School for Boys.
Preparatory to Leaving Certificate
Standard, SPECIAL AGRICUL-
TURAL COURSE, Commercial
Subjects, Woolclassing.
Excellent climate, 3000 feet above sea
level. Grounds, 50 acres.
Prospectus, etc., from—
STANLEY G. BROWN, M.A., B.Sc.,
Principal.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Silver Threads
They tell the tale of advancing years
and rob you of the youthful appear-
ance that care and attention to the
skin and figure have preserved. Let
Dr. Allen’s Stain help you. By
following the simple directions, you
can, in the privacy of your own home,
restore the natural shade of your hair
in a way that will defy detection.
Thousands of women are using Dr.
Allen’s Stain in brown or black
shade, the most effective reviver for
grey hair it is possible to use.
All chemists, 4/- per bottle
D ? ALLEN'S .M x n
VAUm-ST/UN
Visit ...
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George St. (near Bridge St.).
Recent additions include works by Maud
Sherwood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel
Carrick Fox, and other prominent Aus-
tralian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE.
mi ■
ďf
Conducted by WIN. rOWI.ES.
J Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
9“®. week or more. Complete board from 10/6
aay, 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
° r conferences, clubs, etc. Please write
the Manager for quotations and detailed tariff
card.
d
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The old woman who lived in a shoe
would have been hard put to it to bed
and board such a brood as padre Stanley
Drummond and his wife brought down
to camp at Manly. The youngsters—
-138 of them—have been gathered from
the Far West of N.S.W. Two travelled
over 300 miles before they reached the
train at Bourke. Another small neighbor
was to have come, but the Paroo, where
he and his mates generally swim, was in
flood, so his visit will have to wait till
another year.
The young campers are in the Manly
public school. They sleep indoors, but
their dining-room is a long tent, open at
the sides. When the padre blows the
whistle, they line up, and it would
make a dyspeptic die of envy to see the
relish with which they tackle the
tucker. “Four vegetables and fruit
every dinner-time, and salad every tea-
time,” said one helper proudly ; and then
told of the small boy from the back o’
Bourke who wanted to know who put the
vitamins in their food. They want to
kimw so many things, these young
visitors: How long is the giraffe’s neck?
How do they get the “lines” and tigers to
go into the Zoo? How did the trees get
all over the country? What makes the
mountains blue in the distance? There’s
a question box at the camp, and every
night it contains a small mountain of
puzzlers. But even in the shining brand-
new environment old influences persist.
Last Thursday, for instance, one small
boy, playing in the sand, modelled,
perfect to every detail, a sheep-race.
The Christmas tree, the whole 138 are
of agreement, was the best treat of all.
Some of them had never seen one before.
One evening, as night was closing in,
one of the spreading trees in the play-
ground burst into a hundred and more
twinkling globes of light. The branches
glittered with toys of brilliant hue ; here
were betinselled crackers and caps of
funny shapes in every color. Even the
ones who had to have adenoids and
tonsils attended to next day forgot every-
thing in the joy of that bit of fairyland.
What did they care that their tree was
nearly a fortnight late in blooming?
Little Miss Sarah Hynes, who is
bubbling over with erudition and public
spirit, has been handed an M.8.E., and
Stanley Bruce found time to send her a
cable of congratulation. Other telegrams
reached her from the Governor-General,
Priminster Lyons and Justice George
Rich. Mrs. Matt Sawyer, a splendid
worker for the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, is almost snowed under with con-
gratulations on her 0.8. E.
Betty Armstrong, daughter of Dr.
George Armstrong, of Woollahra, sends
a letter from Milan which should interest
students of opera in Australia. Betty,
who was a pupil of Mrs. Goossens at the
Sydney Con., made her first appearance
with the Gonsalez opera company; then
she played the part of Isabeau in “The
Vagabond King.” Three years ago the
plucky girl went to Italy and, after six
months, made her debut as Musetta in a
small town outside Milan. Since then she
has sung in the leading opera houses,
including the Adriano of Rome, the
Puccini in Milan and the Regio of Parma,
and here she sang the first Valkyrie in
the Wagnerian production directed by
Wolf from the State Opera House in
Berlin. The Sydney girl has all the light
lyric soprano parts in her repertoire and
has sung most of them; she has been
Musetta 40 times. Her stage name is
Margherita Stralia.
Joyce Cooper has been the reason for
Sydney’s swimming girls emerging in rai-
ment as gay and colorful as any outfit
worn by the exotic tropic fish flittering
behind the walls of their glass flats at
Taronga. Joyce, who lives at Kingston-
on-Thames, about ten miles out of Lon-
don, is a regular river gipsy. She is tall,
fair, untalkative about her achievements,
and with a passion for pastel effects in
her frocking. She wore a sea-green silk
frock and matching cap when she spoke
to business girls lunching at Farmer’s a
day or so after her arrival. Her lace frock
for the reception given by the Women’s
Amateur Swimming Association was of a
pale delphinium blue. This party was
a swagger affair at the Carlton. A group
of swimming girls, some of whom will
compete against her, handed the visitor
fragrant posies.
Sir Hugh Poynter, his wife and step-
daughters Jocelyn and Shirley are back
in Sydney after going to London and
seeing the King and Rudyard Kipling.
Kipling and Stanley Baldwin are cousins
of Sir Hugh, and attending the opening of
Parliament on Mr. Baldwin’s invitation
meant seats in the Royal Gallery, where,
at close range, the Crown jewels and those
of duchesses and other titled ladies of
the peerage were found to be a very
glittering array, indeed. A visit to the
Killings’ Sussex home and a dinner in
their honor, hostessed by Susan Duchess
of Somerset, once painted by Sir Edward
Poynter, are among the family’s treasured
memories.
If shorts looked as well on every
woman as they did on the girls who wore
them at the country tennis tourney there
would be no argument against them on
the aesthetic side. They’re not afraid
of the sun, these lithe, vital girls from
Barraba, Goulburn, Dubbo, Broken Hill,
Muswellbrook and a dozen other places
in the north, the south and the west;
many of their white frocks were cut
away in V and harness effects across
shoulders smoothly tanned. Muff Wilson,
a champion from Barraba, who played
at Wimbledon and in the recent French
championships, was a much-pointed-out
one. But not all the peaches and cream
can be handed to the girl players; the
men who helped to keep the 30 courts in
action during the week were a leanly
alert, crisply brown lot, almost too dash-
ing to unleash all at once on this shy
and demure city.
Mrs. F. R. Jordan, wife of the State’s
new C.J., needs no introduction to Syd-
ney. She plays golf and tennis at Rose
Bay, she is known to the French and
Italian circles through her interest in
languages, and she is an old Ravens-
wood College girl. At present the C.J.
and his wife are busy planning a new
home which they are having built at
Vaucluse, and Mrs. Jordan is keeping a
firm grip on the details.
Ruby McDonald, a Sydney musician
with pluck and enterprise, has been busy
since Christmas getting together a choir
which will present choral works under
her own conductorship. Miss McDonald,
who returned to Sydney about a year
ago, spent 11 years in America, where she
was widely known as a musical coach and
a violinist. Her present aim is to
assemble a choir of 300 voices to give
a performance of “Stabat Mater” in the
Town Hall at Easter. Ruby is no novice
at this work.
Mayor Parker had an attractive guest
for his first civic reception. English
swimming .champion Joyce Cooper came
along to the staid old rooms looking as
cool as a peach. She wore the palest of
pink Shantung silk, the short, loose
sleeves edged with pale blue. This was
topped with a summery hat, so light-
weight that you half expected it to go
sailing out over the city when she went
out on the upstairs porch to be photo-
graphed with her host. However, it never
moved by a hairbreadth. With Miss
Cooper came her mother, and forming a
hollow square in the Mayoral fastness
were members of the executive of the
N.S.W. Women’s Amateur Swimming
Association, including Mrs. W. Chambers,
Miss Beatrice Wenban, chairwoman Mrs.
F. Buckle and registrar Mrs. M. Farrell.
After half an hour of tea, biscuits and
conversation the attractive girl torpedo
was free to tear asunder the waters of
Bondi or Coogee baths, whichever made
the stronger appeal.
Henceforth every girl who enters the
public service will do so with the pleasant
prospect of being able, by constancy to
duty, to make her way into the honors
list. This is what happened to Marjory
Grosvenor, who woke up on New
Year’s Day to find herself an M.B.E.
Marjory has typed the official confidences
of our last three Prime Ministers. When
not recording the Lyons roar Marjory
types for the Federal Cabinet. In her off
hours she swims or plays tennis.
A glass dress is worn by one of the
mannequins in the fashion pictures that
precede the Song of Songs” at the Prince
Edward ; but a girl who returned from
Europe last week is the proud possessor
of a snugly-fitting cap (a mixture of elf
and forage) with a very upstanding
feather at its right side. This is no
feather at all, but is cunningly contrived
of wood and metal, so goodness only
knows what our clothes are going to be
made of in the next year or two. As
long as they don’t revive hair shirts, we’ll
probably put up with anything that’s
branded fashionable. “Hanging sleeves,”
a sort of modern version of the 1830 off-
the-shoulder puffs, adorn the newest
evening frocks. Shoulder straps of velvet
or diamente are added, and at first sight
might suggest that the wearer’s brassiere
straps are getting an airing. Net and
tulle and lace will billow and froth
ballroom of 1934; cascades
of flounces will form trains on the thistle-
down gowns, while satin frocks will run
to draped backs and taffetas reappear
swaggering with bustle loops. Many of
the frocks are backless save for braces
that come over the shoulders from the
front, cross and fasten just above the
waist at the back. One lad reports seeing
a frock with its backless V continuing
quite an inch below the waistline. But
that was at a very bright night club.
After gallons of rain on Saturday, a
night of thunder and lightning, the Chil-
dren of Mary got a fine Sunday Tor their
garden party at St. Patrick’s College. A
sky as blue as their own cloaks tented the
day, and, as this was the first time the
Manly pile had been thrown open for
inspection, thousands seized the chance
of visiting the fine ecclesiastical library,
together with the collection compiled by
that great booklover Cardinal Moran.
The party opened the appeal for the Car-
dinal Cerretti Memorial Chapel, to which
cause Papal countess Eileen Freehill has
already given £lO,OOO. Still, as the build-
ings determined on will cost £30,000,
quite a few pennies are still needed. Arch-
bishop Kelly held friendly court, and
one of the most-greeted figures of the
afternoon was Monsignor Heydon, who
was a professor at the college in its be-
ginnings ’way back in 1889.
Australian mothers and grandmothers
who as bright young things sighed and
thrilled over the romance in Miss Brad-
don s novels are not likely to see the
house in which the prolific authoress
wrote unless they hurry. Lichfield House,
in Sheen-road, Richmond, believed to
have been designed by Wren, is doomed
to demolition, and in its place will arise
a building of shops and flats. W B
Maxwell, who is a son of one of the best
sellers of the ’seventies and ’eighties,
wrote severai of his early books in Lich-
field House.
Sydney still remembers the lovely
Dons Zinkiesen, who paid us a short visit
some years ago. She is an outstanding
argument that matrimony and a career
can go hand in hand. Doris, besides
being an artist whose work is to be seen
in every academy and who sculps and
draws, has for some time designed ail
the costumes and sets for the Cochrane
productions. It was she who was re-
sponsible for the enormous job in
Nymph Errant,” Cochrane’s latest suc-
Burke > whom we all loved
in Wildflower,” has a child in this show.)
n addition, Doris finds time for mother-
hood (she has three children) and for
running one of the best-kept homes in
London.
Once the holidays are over the stern
work of the 1934 City of Sydney Eistedd-
fod will commence. This will be held in
August, and the events will extend over a
fortnight. Organising secretary D. G
Macdougall considers that the extra time
will lessen the strain both for competitors
and judges. The 1933 Eisteddfod was
crowded into one week, and it must have
been a hectic whirl for those in control.
Mrs. Lusk (“Elizabeth Milton”), sister
of Rosemary Rees, the actress and
\ ’ u aS i u ¥ died in Hawkes Bay
(M.L.). Her father, W. L. Rees, a Gis-
borne solicitor, was co-writer with his
daughter Lily Rees of the “Life of Sir
George Grey.” Mrs. Lusk’s fifth book
reached London for publication just
before her fatal operation.
The scene was acted in pantomime, but
the moral was quite telling. It was two
o clock in the morning, and the
ball was emptying itself into the lifts
around whose doors tired but triumphant
young mothers and aunties clutched bal-
K On , S -7; hich tdey were taking home to
tne kiddies. A young man, carrying in
his left hand some balloons and in his
right a lighted cigarette, stepped softly
up to one lady, pushed the cigarette
against and destroyed one of her
iridescent bubbles. But Nemesis was
upon his track. From his left a girl
stepped swiftly up to him and pushed
her cigarette against his blobs of color.
Never was there a most astonished and
chagrined practical joker.
The paper was a science one, the ques-
tion something to do with the color
question. One blonde attacked it man-
fully : The serious problem is the mar-
nage of white and black people. The
half-children don’t know who their
parents are, and often go silly.”


Melbourne
Chatter
A cold wind at Flemington brought out
furs like the pelt upon Mrs. Brendon
O’Sullivan’s black coat. It must have
given an inferiority complex to many
animal oddments which kept warm a
square inch or two of their owners while
the rest went colder by contrast. There
was an ermine wrap, all its little tails
bobbing merrily, but its bodies showing
the toll of the years, and a few of the
new crossed foxes ; fashion decrees that
the pure-bred pelt shall have a rival. Elaine
Pearce was one of the young and fresh
in gentian-blue. Black tailored suits were
chosen by Mrs. A. V. Kewney. and Mrs.
Westhoven. Mrs. Oswald Benjamin’s
smoke-grey knobbly cloth showed a
snugly-fitting raglan shoulder. The Hen-
nessy lady made one of her few appear-
ances on the course; she was with a
tailored Mrs. Lane. Mrs. J. S. Bloomfield
chose a seasonable shepherd’s plaid, Mrs.
Richard Turnbull was in navy and Meta
Power slipped into autumn in flecked
browns. Mrs. Hubert Black’s coat with
its organ-pipe armholes was among the
smartest.
The Western District gathered round
Terang to do some racing and feasting
in honor of the new year. The lawns
looked as if they have had quite enough
to drink this summer; flowerbeds un-
folded a gypsy shawl of red, blue and
purple and the vista lying beyond the
stand came in for all the admiration it
deserves. From Camperdown came Mrs.
J. Thornton in bluey tweeds, Mrs. E.
Thornley and Vera, Mrs. N. Cole, Mrs.
A. G. Manifold, in a black velvet jockey
cap, and Mrs. Leland Green with spring
flowers around her hat. Mrs. Carlyle
Smyth was there, up from Melbourne on
a visit to her sister. From Colac came
Mrs. Felix Hills, from Langiwilli Mrs.
E. D. Mackinnon and from Hamilton
Mrs. R. Twoomey, in penny-spots and
a white beret.
Armed with cushions of various sizes,
shapes and cplors tennis enthusiasts
mounted the arena at Kooyong for the
third Test. Some women brought sun-
shades and a few brought thermos flasks,
but for the most part a tennis crowd
takes its nourishment in tent or club-
house. Here tea was a matter of for-
bearance. Viv McGrath, who had a
table of guests, waited uncomplaining for
20 minutes before he penetrated the
kitchen and dug up a scurrying waitress.
Unfortunately Harry Hopman’s shorts
have not shrunk since he was here a few
weeks ago; they still hang like stove-
pipes right to his kneebones. Adrian
Quist’s pass muster with a smarter
length and a browner calf. Perry, who
was in and out of his white calico hat,
did some kittenish antics over the table
and net. Clearing the way for his
family into the seats with backs and
armrests came Norman Brookes with a
resplendent buttonhole of what looked
like a convolvulus and a full-blown rose.
Dr. Charles Littlejohn, Ben Dunlop,
Edmund Jowett, representing the preced-
ing century, and actor Frank Leighton
were part of the plentiful sprinkling of
men. With her white windswept crepe
Mrs. A. E. Boyes wore an interesting hat.
An all-white panama brim surrounded
a crochet crown of the old-fashioned
doyley pattern; its success depended
upon its wearer’s chic and the color of
her hair. Gone were the schoolgirl plaits
of pretty Mary Watson in her pinky-
white voile. Among country visitors
were Mrs. F. E. Whitehead, of Urana,
and sons Norman and Paul. Kathleen
Woodward, in simple green linen and a
coat of suntan, watched every stroke
with interest.
Possibly the huge success of No. 1
Squadron’s first cocktail party in the
Laverton mess was due to the jolly way
the lads swooped upon new arrivals.
Before guests had time to down their
storm-weather gear they were plied with
cocktails, foaming tankards, gaspers and
invitations to dance. The billiard-table
flashed a welcome with all its twiddly
savories surrounding a bowl of red-hot
pokers, grown within coo-ee of the
bubbling fountain—bubbling even though
the lawn around it was a squelchy
morass from the teeming rain.
There was a treasure hunt, a petrifying
experience for Laverton’s hares and bun-
nies, for one of the clues was planted
out on the drome. The last clue was
had in the kitchen, whence arose the
aroma of bacon and the sizzling of 12
dozen eggs. Hungry hunters saw how
the Air Force can adapt itself to domes-
tic jobs, Flying Officers Robinson and
Curnow being particularly deft with
frying-pan and soup-cauldron. For this
course there arrived the Harding couple
and the ice-blue ’maids and groomsmen
from the Douglas-Sevior nuptials. (The
’groom, who had a look at the South
Pole with Douglas Mawson, is stationed
at Point Cook.)
The C.O. and Mrs. Lukis —a popular
couple without whom no Air Force party
is complete—were there. Long sleeves
and little shoulder flaps were attached to
Mrs. Lukis’s black chiffons. Mrs. Harri-
son, in ivory blistered crepe and a com-
plete family-tree of ermine in her wrap,
came with her Wing-Commander. Mrs.
Charlesworth was in jade, Mrs. Fred
Thomas chose flame and young Mrs.
Simms, had traceries upon her citron-
tinted marocain. Dawn was breaking as
the last of the revellers got off to bed.
There are some sturdy feminine ex-
plorers in Victoria. During a week
around New Year eight young women led
by Miss Paterson travelled from Water-
ford to Mt. Wellington and back, 120
miles. One girl tramped the whole way,
the others taking turns upon two horses.
In their train were a guide and three
packhorses, for the party had little luck
with a gun and mountain air develops
large appetites. Campfires were lit above
gorgeous views, and each member of the
expedition slept in a bag, cocoon-fashion.
The descent from Snowy Plains to Won-
nangatta station was full of traps for
ankles and hoofs.
The star turn of the Learn-to-Swim
campaign was a display of diving from
the top of Prince’s Bridge. Australian
girl champion Lesley Thompson is a
sturdy lass of barely five feet. Without a
flicker of concern she did her backward
dives and “one-and-a-halfs,” swarmed up
the fire-brigade ladder and, in black
bathers, white cap and drips of yellow
Yarra mud, trotted along the densely
populated footpath to the diving board
45ft. above the water. Another girl
acrobat was Irene Donnett, and there
were several men. A temporary bridge
wobbled across the river to a barge from
which Geoff Vockler, Beryl George and
other swimmers dived into the pea-soup
stream to demonstrate various strokes.
The sales are on. On opening morn-
ings the experienced bargain-hunter is up
at the crack of dawn. She does not mind
glueing her nose to glass doors ; neither is
she averse to a sprint towards the spoil
she located during her prowl round on
the previous day. It is sufficient reward
to have her prize clutched firmly while
the less fleet of foot swoop upon the site
it has just occupied. Your expert never
hangs her spoil lightly over her arm, for
there are pirates abroad.
Mrs. Cyril Monk, shown smiling in
this Broothorn picture, has reason to be
proud of the success of “Collits’ Inn” on
the revolving stage of the Princess.
With her inspiration of a musical
romance woven round the Collits family
and the building of the first Blue Moun-
tains road, Mrs. Monk visited her neigh-
bor, T. Stuart Gurr. He developed the
plot, writing the “book” and additional
lyrics. To Mrs. Monk goes the credit
of most of the music, and from her,
through old Rosie, the last of the Illa-
warra tribe, came the notion of an abo.
ballet, such a success in the hands of
Harry Jacobs and Jennie Brenan. Mrs.
Monk publishes her songs as Varney
Monk. Her husband is Cyril Monk, of
Sydney Con.
Off the Monterey stepped Mary Baillie,
to be met by her mother and sister.
This clever young pianist has been study-
ing in Germany. In her opinion London
has most to offer a musician, especially
since the exodus of Jews from Germany.
Miss Baillie has used half of her round-
the-world ticket. In passing through the
U.S.A. she had a peep at a Hollywood
studio, luncheon with a “star” and a
drive among the mansions where highly-
paid Beauty luxuriates.
Off to the Cold Country this week are
the Felix Lloyd couple, the Miller lady
and her son, Mrs. George Blackwood
and Mary Russell. Mrs. Phil Finkel-
stein and Peggy have returned with glow-
ing accounts of their Honolulu holiday.
There is a nest of Sydney Con. people
in Melbourne at present. Frank Hut-
chens is here; also Mr. and Mrs. de
Cairos Rego, Ramsey Pennicuick, Alfred
Hill, the Lindley Evans couple and Cyril
Monk.
It’s to be war upon ’possums. The
greedy little marsupials aren’t satisfied
with nice new leaves and the bits of
fruit and cake from the hands of Fitzroy
Gardens habitues which they reach for
every night. They have scoffed up baby
seedlings and made the discovery that
paper and ink isn’t bad as a change of
diet; for they ran amok among the
records. The Zoo has no vacancies in its
’possum cage, and there is talk of an open
season, traps and a lethal chamber.
The Women Citizens are condoling
with one another upon the resignation
of their president, Mrs. Britomarte James.
In her capacity of J.P. Mrs. Britomarte
James sits one morning each week on the
Bench of the South Melbourne police
court. She is one of the committee of
the E.-S.U. and is president of the Wattle
League. During the war Mrs. Britomarte
James commanded a unit of women in
France.
Imbued with courage was Frances
Taylor, who died in Melbourne recently.
Without a complaint she suffered her long
illness, always cheerful and sympathetic
towards others. It was her wish to be
buried in the old cemetery close to her
week-end cottage at Kangaroo Ground,
and to the memorial service in Sleight’s
Chapel came devoted friends, acquaint-
ances who appreciated Miss Taylor as a
woman and a public spirit, home-lovers
who listened-in to her “Morning-tea
Hour” broadcasts, and men who recog-
nised a possessor of ability and sound
business principles. Miss Taylor, who
was founder and managing editor of the
“Woman’s World,” had a thorough
understanding of every section of her
paper. She loved a garden and all
growing things, studied photography and
turned out excellent photographic blocks,
had a flair for getting ads. for her paper,
was a good journalist, and possessed a
well-balanced financial head.
Plans are thickening for the centenary.
Great pageantry is planned for the en-
vironment of Alexander-avenue. A team
of abos. will be rehearsed in how to look
fierce and posed with spears and boom-
erangs on the banks of the Yarra, up
which yellow stream Captain Cook will
pilot the Endeavour. We shall become
learned in the history of the State from
watching tableaux, fireworks will crackle
and there’s to be a battle of flowers. The
musical branch of the centenary council
is encouraging choirs, massed bands, con-
certs and opera, and twenty-five guineas
is waiting for the winner of the song
competition. There will be sport, too ;
£3OOO worth of prize money should lure
some crack golfers, and the steamship
cos. are doing their bit with cheaper
fares.
For autumn we will wear the Tyrolean
hat. It has a bit of brim and a go-up
crown with a dint here and there, and it
adds inches to the wearer’s height. Other
models which the shops will display when
they have unloaded their Christmas goods
have folds and flaps in odd arrangement.
One creation is shaped like an anemone,
the mouth of the beast being on the top
of its crown, its tentacles just long enough
to tickle the noses of men in the street.
Some shapes are double-decker. Others
are trimmed with a bow, one end of
which shoots upwards towards the skies
while the other blots out a complete half
of the wearer’s visage and its pointed tip
loses itself in her fur collar. With these
you may wear your orphan earrings,
long stowed away in forgotten trinket
boxes.
Perth greets 1934:
The W. H. Vincents put on a masquerade
for 100 guests as a dual farewell to 1933
and to daughter Helen, who leaves by the
Strathaird to continue musical studies in Eng-
land. Minnewarra’s chatelaine flung a fur-
edged scarf over black georgette; the depart-
ing one’s long, lithe lines were girt with Roman-
cut blue and silver, and sister Lesley turned
fawn linen into an enviable Rosalind suit.
Eila was refreshingly naive as Maid Marian.
Mt. Yokine Golf Club canopied its supper-
room with red, white and gold streamers, gave
distinctive floral color schemes to all its recep-
tion-rooms, and danced the old year out on its
rainbow-lit verandahs. Mrs. W. S. Evans’s
dawn-pink georgettes filled the committee’s
chair; secretary Miss Ledger buzzed about in
furred geranium marocain.
Frills and furbelows came into their own
on Cup Day and swished musically, under
huge pancake hats or tiny bits of straw perched
precariously on the forehead. Freda Weir’s
near-crinoline white organza, witft its green
flecks and hooped ruchings, boasted a 12in.
radius of airy headcovering; Linley Wilson’s
bare shoulders peeped from black-and-white
organdie, black-sashed with lacquer satin. The
pearls cascading over Mrs. Geoffrey Drake-
Brockman’s beige lace caught the color of the
projecting pink rose in her hat; Dorothy
Mosey’s oatmeal georgette was inlet and frill-
sleeved with filet, and Mrs. Jimmy Withnell’s
black satins had as accompaniment a feather
boa and dashes of white.
There were, more pretty-pretties on the final
day. Mrs. G. B. Brown’s speckled mushroom
crepes flowed lengthily as to sleeve, and had
bows dotted hither and thither; daughter
Mamie’s double-tiered lacy frills hung on soft
whjte muslin; Mrs. Walter Dwyer’s navy-and-
whites gleamed with steel accoutrements; Mrs.
John Walsh swung an ice-blue cape, hand-
embroidered to match her rose-splashed silks;
Mrs. Henry Cooke topped brown-and-pink
figured mariette with a crown of crushed leaves
and a brim of chocolate racello, and Mrs. Louis
Smith had inlets of lace on sheathlike Patou-
pink sand crepe.
Glittering goldfish flipped a passage between
pastel water-lilies in the shining pool which
held pride of place in the lounge of Karring-
yup Club for its New Year dance, and banks
of hydrangeas kept the unwary from falling
therein. President J. P. Dwyer and his lady
bowed welcomes ’neath swaying Chinese lan-
terns and golden wistaria surrounding the dance
floor. In the supper marquee throng were
debutante Mary Burt’s slenderising gardenia
satins, Mollie Learmonth’s silver-embossed ice-
blue satins and the intriguing bunchy rosette
on Mrs. Dan Quinlan’s summer-sky crinkly
chiffons.
The altar of St. Mary’s was mantled in
summer blooms to grace the nuptials of Jean
Hadley and Bill MclCendrick. Magnolia satins
were welded into a couple of yards of train,
gossamer lace, pouched from shoulder to elbow,
clung tightly to the bride’s forearm and a
Parisian cap of orange-blossom held airy tulle
over her face. Pat Lang and Doreen Ranford
held goldly-pink roses to balance the back
drapings of their sunset flat crepes, and wound
a string of the buds around their heads. King’s
Park pavilion saw elbows bent and toes tapped
and a raspberry-clad Mrs. Hadley standing
beside Mrs. McKendrick’s delustred black
satins.
Bee Bostock’s new third-finger adornment tra-
velled to Pingelly in Reg Cusack’s vest pocket.
Its circular complement joins it early in the
year.
Adelaide’s doings:
There was a record crowd at Morphettville
and it was so cool that lightweight coats were
worn. Chairman Whitmore Carr was host at an
overflowing tea-party in the committee-room.
Among the guests was the Governor, who was
accompanied by Mrs. F. Payne and Rosemary
Fleischmann. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs, acting-hostess
for Mr. Carr, wore a small black hat with her
black-and-white patterned crepe de Chine.
Miss Fleischmann’s white linen suit was worn
with a wide-brimmed white straw hat. The
Premier’s wife looked charming in a pale-
grey figured crepe frock and a large grey
straw hat. Mrs. Fred Tennant chose white
marocain, and her hat was of black lace.
Fifty Y.A.L. girls from Westralia were given
a New Year’s party at the Grosvenor, North-
terrace. Canberra and Sydney are next in
their itinerary.
Society is out of town. Douglas Mawson
and his lady, with their family, are on a
camping tour of the south-east; Mrs. George
Brookman and her youngsters have hired a
launch to enjoy swimming and fishing on the
Coorong, and Mr. and Mrs. Laurie Cunning-
ham, with a couple of friends, have left for
Melbourne in a caravan. Victor Harbor is
crowded with campers.
The Moulden lady, that inveterate traveller,
is leaving for England in the Orama. She
will be accompanied as far as Colombo by
Mrs. Owen Moulden, and will break her jour-
ney at Cairo to spend a fortnight with her
son, Lieut. John Hackett, of the Bth Royal
Hussars. Later she will visit her daughter,
Mrs. A. Wallis Kendall, in London.
Hobart’s holiday junketings:
His Ex. and Lady Clark went to the New
Norfolk regatta. Weather was ideal, and a
big crowd went up from town.
The Strathaird, Oronsay and Wanganella
made things lively during their stay at Hobart.
Knight John Evans gave an at-home on board
the Wanganella, Capt. Bates helping to receive
the guests.
Old scholars of the original St. David’s Night
School, former pupils of that veteran social
worker Miss S. N. Clarke, gathered for a
Christmas reunion. Most of them are fathers
of families and some are grandfathers, but Miss
Clarke remembered them all. The school was
founded by Gertrude Bromby, daughter of
Bishop Bromby, in the early ’eighties. Miss
Clarke took it over and ran it with great suc-
cess for many years.
Mrs. Nares was hostess of a late-afternoon
party at the Queen Mary Club in honor of
Mrs. James Murray, lately returned from Lon-
don. Among the guests was Mrs. Cairns Officer,
on a visit from the mainland.
The Charlie Wolfhagens issued invitations to
a dance at Mrs. E. J. Wolfhagen’s house, Man-
ning-avenue, which was lent for the occasion.
Mostly young folk footed it in the three largest
rooms, which had been cleared of everything
but floral decorations.
Phyllis, younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A.
J. Cox, Hobart, exchanged vows with Kenneth
Nicolson, of Geelong, at the Memorial Church.
The bride’s frock was of ice-blue flat crepe,
worn with a little hat, and she carried a sheaf
of delphiniums. Her sister Joy ’maided in
pink crinkle crepe, with a big picture hat.


Two Pictures.
BY M.G.S.
I WAS taken over a great factory in
Melbourne dedicated to the manu-
facture of the useful lucifer. Hun-
dreds of girls, all neatly and similarly
dressed, were standing amidst machinery
of amazing complexity. With nothing
more than a utilitarian aim, the engineers
had produced a design of moving belts,
revolving drums, rocking and rolling
trays that made the compositions of
modernist artists look like kindergarten
exercises.
Here was a peeling machine making
80,000 splints out of logs of Queensland
pine with an accuracy in the proportion
of three thousand to two. Here was
a box-making department of 35
machines, each turning out 80 boxes per
minute, which a belt, fed by a number
of tributary belts, carried to their destina-
tion on other floors, defying the laws of
gravity. When they had received their
contents the boxes were picked up in
batches of a dozen and folded into
wrappers; the wrappers were given a
wipe of paste, labelled and stamped and
passed on to another endless belt.
Here was a safety-match machine,
1000 links, 1000 holes, dipping its pro-
ducts exactly one-eighth of an inch into
a paraffin bath.
Seventy-two miles of taper was being
out of bales of cotton and turned
into* wax matches, whose heads were
being dipped into vats of various colors:
pink for Newcastle, which doesn’t like
blue or brown, blue for Sydney, which
has a prejudice against brown and pink,
brown for Bananaland. With the vir-
tuosity of a Szigeti, the fingers of the
girls were moving to and fro in this maze
of machinery, executing a series of move-
ments with the monotonous regularity
and a good deal of the speed of the
machines themselves.
I looked at the faces of some of them.
They were as expressionless and imper-
sonal as the machines. But, no doubt,
the minds behind them were thinking of
Marlene Dietrich or the boy friend.
There were a dining-room waiting to
provide them with free meals; two
tennis courts, a bowling green, a nine-
hole midget golf course, a basketball
ground, two concrete pitches, ping-pong,
a gramophone and a loudspeaker, a pavi-
lion with hot and cold showers ; circlos
and deck quoits on the roof. There was
also a first-aid hospital with trained nurses
in attendance, which more than earned
the cost of upkeep by saving broken
time.
The manager implied that it was with
regret that the firm was obliged to
suspend its beneficent care of its em-
"This is the second time this week I’ve caught you shaving. Who’s the woman?”
ployees when they plunged through the
factory gates into the life outside them,
That, I thought, was as well organised
as the life inside the factory. Cinema
proprietors gave them a weekly change
of American and English pictures. The
Railway Commissioners organised their
Sundays and they hiked in companies of
3000 over the countryside with nurses,
ambulances, doctors and even spiritual
advisers in attendance. There was com-
munity singing, too, and the radio, a
public utility carefully supervised by a
beneficent Government.
The manager was a keen man, quite
young, proud of his job and with a deep
sense of responsibility. There was a note
of solicitude in his voice when he spoke
of it. I asked him if the girls didn’t get
tired of the monotony of their work and
desire a change, and he said they had the
option of shifting to other machines if
they wanted to ; but they seldom availed
themselves of it.
My mind drifted off to recollections of
an excursion I had once taken in Java.
A Dutch engineer had invited me to
accompany him on a ride up into the
mountains. He was interested in a
scheme for harnessing a river and ob-
taining the electric power to supply a
chain of sugar and rice factories. There
were some Hindu ruins in the vicinity,
he had heard, at a place called Madjan
Puteh, and we might have a look at
them in passing. I was interested in the
ancient archaeology of the island. There
was a lovely fragment of the dancing
Siva, slim-waisted and showing the
Greek influence, in the Residency
gardens that had whetted my curiosity.
We rode along the main road past a
large village with a sugar fabrik, a white-
washed European settlement and a
squalid-looking native quarter. Here we
branched off and struck upwards towards
the mountains. We reached a small vil-
lage and were told that the ruins were
over there to the left, only a couple of
miles away.
We followed a path for half an hour,
but found nothing but a peasant working
in a field.; He took off his enormous cir-
cular hat, leant on his hoe and pointed
to the right; a mile it was in that direc-
tion. So we proceeded, that phantom vil-
lage sometimes approaching within half
a mile and anon whisking into illimitable
distance. Sometimes it disappeared alto-
gether, a bullock-driver . answering our
inquiries with an emphatic “Buitan
entan” —“There isn’t any.”
We found it at last, by pure good for-
tune. It had two names it seemed, one
in High Javanese and another in the local
dialect; hence the confusion of direc-
tions. •: :
Madjan Puteh .'or: Meru was a very
picturesque kampong. It may. have been
fancy, but it appeared to me.to have an
archaic look about it. There was more
arrangement than usual about its houses
and streets; a grove of waringins sur-
rounding it looked 'as hoary as Stone-*
henge, and the tumbledown bridge con-
necting the two parts of the village, which
was spread over the summits of two small
hills, was as ancient a ruin as we could
have imagined. But it was only fancy,
because the village had probably been
built, burned down and rebuilt a hun-
dred times since the Hindus departed 700
years ago.
Down by the river, whose tumbling
yellow rush the engineer wanted to con-
vert into electrical current, was a row of
huge earthenware pots stained through
and through with the deep blue of the
indigo dye used for coloring sarongs ;
further up the bank were three great
“I wouldn’t trust that boy you go with
very much.”
“I don’t, mumsie. I only give him thirty
days’ credit.”
vats full'of a scummy fluid ; a long line
of batik cloths in various stages of manu-
facture, covered with leaping deer or
conventionalised birds and flowers, hung
drying in the sun; women were working
fresh designs on to the waxed cloth from
memory and the ground all round was
deeply stained with the blue dye as if it
had been the scene of sarong-manufac-
ture for centuries.
Men and boys were engaged in mak-
ing bedek, the plaited bamboo, obtained
from the jungle, which forms the walls
of their houses, the mattresses for their
beds, their fences, their bridges and most
of their domestic utensils. The older
women were preparing the evening meal:
crushing the bunches of rice in long
wooden troughs with astonishingly lusty
strokes of a wooden pounder; then sift-
ing it into bamboo-woven trays. A
youngster drove a wild-looking pair of
water buffaloes down the main street.
From one of the basketwork dwellings
came the muffled clank of the gambang
and the sounds of theatrical rehearsal.
Statuesque groups of men, with the easy
pose and dignified, leisurely bearing of
the Javanese, were standing talking.
The village headman was holding
court on the verandah of his dwelling;
which was a beautiful little basket of a
house with walls of ornamental open-
work like that of a cane chair and a red-
tiled roof possessing the six slopes which
are only permissible to persons of rank.
Here he sat at a table piled with impor-
tant-looking documents, with his clients
squatting around him. Opposite his
house was an elevated enclosed platform
like a pigeon loft, from which came the
low droning voice of a guru reciting
verses from the Koran, his even progress
interrupted every now and then by the
shouted treble of a score of young voices
repeating after him the words of the
Prophet.
v On a natural shelf of rock above
the river, overhung by the broad classic
leaves of teak trees, a hadji was
performing his devotions, bending back
and gazing with straining eyes to Heaven,
falling forward and tearing at the ground
with nervous fingers, pressing his fore-
head and his breast with the extrava-
gant gestures demanded by Mohamme-
dan ritual.
And all these things: the hadji seen at
his devotions, the women at their batik-
painting, the men at their bamboo-plait-
ing, the preparation of the evening meal,
the village government in course of ad-
ministration, all the simple arts and
crafts and industries of that secluded
community caught in the middle of their
action, seemed to have no place in time.
A strange unreal glow lay upon it all,
watery light from a single ray of the sun
hanging low down under the eaves of a
thunderstorm.
Under that light, I thought, everything
seemed to be illusion, this whole scene a
picture thrown across the centuries and
imposed upon the consciousness by the
materialising power of that anciently in-
habited locality, “a spectral snare pre-
pared for us by myriads of generations of
dead.” I thought of the defunct busi-
nesses that had swarmed in that place, the
interests, individual and collective, that
surrounded every foot of land, the goings
and comings. Surely the very soil and
the jungle trees must have become per-
meated with the influence of all that
vanished activity, have received by super-
imposed images some power outside that
of vegetable growth, perhaps the power
to revive this ghostly beauty out of the
past.
We pulled up and interrogated the
nearest group about the ruins.
The women left their sarong-making
and their rice-crushing, the men their
bamboo-weaving ; the court was dismissed
and the hadji hurried through his last
exercises and joined the crowd; stray
mongrels and podgy, naked children
squatted at gaze. Yes, this was the vil-
lage of Madjan Puteh. The ruins? They
pointed downwards.
We noticed that underfoot the ground
was paved, an outcrop of brick showing
above the surface of the path as if it
ran over the walls of a buried building.
It was built, they said, by spirits, non-
Mohammedan spirits. The headman
laughed to show that he was an educated
man and did not share his fellow-vil-
lagers’ superstitions. He took us on to
his verandah and showed us, propped
against the wall, fragments of bas-relief,
exquisitely carved, in which women were
pounding rice, men driving water buf-
faloes and girls painting sarongs 700
years ago, just as they did at present.
Big drops of rain began to fall; the
strange watery light faded from the
house-roofs; it grew dark. We rode off
to look for a likely place to dam the
river, the statuesque groups watching us
silently out of sight before resuming their
activities.
The manager of the match factory re-
called my mind to Melbourne. He was
showing me the plans of a machine that
could turn out 850,000 matches in a single
cycle of operations. I looked out of the
wide window of his office at the huge
raw-red factory building. The girls were
trooping out. A shift was over.


The Man Who Smiled.
BY E. MARY GURNEY.
QUEEN’S PRIDE, the little pedigree
Holstein heifer, wandered restlessly
up and down the paddock adjoin-
ing the milking-sheds. She had only just
been brought in from the Hundred Acre
paddock, where she had lived since she
had been weaned.
Through the fence, across a field of
red clover, she could see a group of
polled cows, whose sleek black hides
were only one degree darker than the
poplar plantation beyond. It was in full
leaf, motionless and stately against the
sombre grey sky. Many miles beyond it,
across plains that were streaked and
shadowed with trees —willow and pine,
poplar and wattle —electric-blue storms
raced from peak to peak of the ranges,
that, even yet, were capped with snow.
Between the storms, white clouds, edged
with grey, billowed softly. The foothills,
shot with sudden streaks of light, were
vividly green.
All day long the air had been filled
with the incessant bellowing of the polled
cows, whose calves had just been weaned
and drafted away from them. The
sound of their raucous grief echoed
among the spires of the poplars, not un-
pleasantly through the day-time, but
eerie now that night was upon the earth.
The last light hung for a moment, a
silver, luminous curtain, between the
glamor of the day and the unearthly
beauty of the night; then darkness came.
Along the ranges, from storm to storm,
little flickers of lightning ran and leaped,
and, far away, like the lost mutter of old
guns, the thunder whispered. Beside it
there was no sound anywhere on earth
but the harsh calling of the black cows.
Presently, from the hidden hills where
the lightning flickered, a wet wind lifted,
cool and pungent, and wild with the
mystery of bush and growing things ; and
on its breast was borne to the little Hol-
stein heifer the tiny echo of a voice she
knew —the puzzled, questing call of the
one among the half-dozen of her com-
panions who had been her special mate.
Queen’s Pride trotted up to the fence
and pushed her head between the top
wires, snorting and rattling her horns
against them.
It occurred to her, dimly, that between
her and her heart’s desire were only these
shining strands. Of a truth, five fences
stood between her and the Hundred Acres,
but of that she was unaware.
Grumbling to herself, she strove against
the fence, flinging her weight against it
and cutting her forelegs badly; but the
pain only angered her the more, so that
in the end she wrenched her head out
from between the wires and reared up
against them. Weakened by her furious
onslaught the top wire parted, singing,
and Queen’s Pride, snorting triumphantly,
dragged her hindquarters over. The
second strand, of barbed wire, tore her
udder cruelly, but she scarcely noticed it.
Mooing eagerly, she set off at a lumber-
ing run through the night.
The sun was yet to rise when Hector
Fenn crossed to the stable and took a
halter out to the pasture adjoining the
milking-sheds to catch the black mare.
The cloudless eastern sky was a vast
sheet of pale, shining gold, and, in the
west, studded with tiny flecks of tene-
brous cloud, the ranges, too, were hyaline
with the coming light. The air was
clear and soft, yet sharp, and earthy with
the night’s fierce rains.
Solitary in the paddock that, last night,
she had shared with the Holstein heifer,
Shona, the black mare, watched her
master approach. Once she flung her
head up, ears a-twitch, nostrils blown
wide, as though she were half-minded to
run from him, but experience had taught
her that his hands, when she stood for
him, were never other than kind.
The sun came up over hills gilt-edged.
Hector Fenn walked on towards the
mare, leaving a path of emerald, bereft
of the sun jewels, in the lush clean grass.
His shadow stretched out behind him,
attenuated and wavering, and mingling
with the shadows of the sparkling trees.
A few yards from the mare he stopped
and looked round the paddock, search-
ing for the missing heifer. Assured of
her disappearance, he moved on again.
Reaching the mare, he spoke to her
gently as she took the bit and ran his
hand down her neck that was nervously
arched before he fastened the throat latch.
With the rein in the crook of his arm
he moved on to inspect the far fence.
In the paddock by the poplar plan-
tation the cows still bellowed fretfully,
and among them Queen’s Pride, sore and
sorry from her night’s adventures,
[wandered forlornly.
Three fences she had crashed over
during the night, and still was separated
from her companions who grazed in the
Hundred Acres ; nor, though she called
with wearying insistence, did they, if they
heard, trouble to answer.
Through the golden morning the man
and the mare returned to the stable—
came presently, through a gate, into the
field over which Queen’s Pride had trotted
so eagerly the previous night.
As the man mounted, the mare tensed
and gathered herself nervously—leaped
as he touched the saddle, not viciously,
but helplessly, as though her nerves were
already frayed with the fear that he
would ask too much of her.
“Saucy this morning, eh? We’ll take
the tickle out of your toes,” he told her,
and sent her across the paddock at a hand
gallop.
They came to a gateway, mud-churned
on either side of it, and Fenn pulled up
suddenly, checking the mare more with
his knees than his hands. She flung
her head up and plunged awkwardly,
fearing his next move.
And she had cause.
She had never been shown a gate before.
Certainly not five solid bars, with a nasty
take-off in mud and stones, and a nastier
landing. But horse and gate, take-off
and landing, were all one to Hector Fenn.
Head up, ears pricked, nostrils wide,
she rushed at the gate, lost her nerve at
the last moment and swerved, spewing
the mud over her head and spattering his
face.
“No good, Shona. You’re going to
do it.”
He took her back, caressing her sweat-
damp neck. She plunged a little, fighting
for her head, but his hands were iron.
She ran this time with her ears laid to
her neck and her eyeballs starting from
their sockets, reared up and struck the
gate hard with her forelegs and chest.
“You’ve hurt yourself!” said Hector
Fenn between smiling lips. She limped
slightly, reaching fretfully for the bit.
The foam from her mouth flew back and
flecked his shirt front. Her coat was
dark with nervous sweat.
The man ran his hand down her
heaving flank. “You can do it quite
easily, you know; and, sooner or later,
you will. Better make it sooner.”
Down the road that ran at right angles
to the gate a shabby two-seater car came
noisily, and drew up just beyond the gate.
A girl in a white frock and a worn
leather coat got out and stood on the
running-board, at which she tapped im-
patiently with her foot. The opposite side
of the road was flanked with willows and
the flaming gold of Sussex broom. Above
and far beyond it the crests of the ranges
were visible. Down the bank behind the
willows, a silver streak over grey stones,
the river laughed and gurgled.
The mare made suddenly for the gate
and cleared it in a wild bound that left
nothing to chance. She landed in the
mud, stumbled to her knees, recovered
and plunged on for some yards before he
pulled her into a walk.
His expression unchanged, Hector
Fenn dismounted, stooping to run his
hand down her leg, which was already
filling above the knee.
Then he hitched her to the fence,
climbed over and went towards the car.
On the running-board the girl waited.
She was slight and small, and too color-
less for beauty, but she bore herself gal-
lantly with eyes that laughed above some
gnawing, never-resting fear.
As he approached, he removed his hat
and stood bareheaded, looking up at her.
Unsmilingly she looked down into his
smiling face.
“You’re abroad early,” he suggested.
“And you,” she retorted dryly, “ride
early on the heels of death! ”
“Oh, death!” He dismissed it scorn-
fully, and she stooped and edged herself
in through the narrow door, under the
steering-wheel. He moved forward to
stand with his arms resting on the door
and his toe on the running-board.
“Myfanwy, when will you marry me?”
She shrugged her shoulders ever so
slightly.
“Sometimes,” he said carelessly, “I
almost believe you dislike me!”
“No ; I don’t dislike you, Hector. One
needs more substantial grounds for
marrying a person than merely not dis-
liking him.”
He nodded, turning to look at the
mare.
“That is so ; but why not be reason-
able —like the mare?”
“Reasonable?”
“She knew she would have to do it
sooner or later,” He turned back to her.
“I’m going to marry you, Myfanwy.” The
lightness was gone from his tone.
“I think not, Mr. Fenn! There’s some-
thing about you that frightens me.”
“You’ll never have to fear me,
Myfanwy. I’ll be good to you, God
knows! But in marriage, as in all things,
the strong must rule the weak.”
“And the woman, in your judgment,
must always be the weaker?”
“Not at all; but homes are happier
where the man is the stronger.”
“Dad worships mother!”
“Granted. But does she make him
happy? Adoration is a mistake. It lays
one open so to hurt. You adore your
father. He adores your mother ; and she
adores me. I do not adore you. I love
you—and I’m going to marry you.”
Over by the poplar plantation the cows
milled and bellowed fretfully, filling the
lovely morning with their heavy lamenta-
tions. The girl spoke slowly, and so low
that the man more guessed than heard
what she said.
“That’s a lie, Hector Fenn, about my
mother! And I’ll never marry you!”
Her hand went towards the starter and
the car stuttered into noisy life ; but when
she looked up again he was holding a
little slip of paper out to her.
“I have several of these,” he said.
“Either you or your mother can retrieve
them.”
Long after he had gone, sending the
young mare flying over the fences, she
sat staring at the slip of paper in her
hand. It was an lOU bearing her
mother’s signature.
Perhaps if Queen’s Pride had known
what manner of man rode on her heels
that morning she would have submitted
meekly and gone wheresoever he willed ;
but as yet she was ignorant of the fact
that he regarded himself in much the same
light as destiny, and dodged him deter-
minedly. Even when he uncoiled the
stcckwhip he carried and flicked her pain-
fully on flank and thigh she kept on
doggedly, twisting in and out among the
polled cows, who, avoiding the horseman,
buffeted at the stranger within their field.
As the pursuit continued they passed
from sullen indifference to open hostility,
redoubling their bellowing and tossing
their heads and pawing furiously at the
turf; took to racing alongside the heifer
and the horse, so that on more than one
occasion the man was forced to leave the
heifer and drive them back.
Possibly if the mare had not lamed her-
self at the gate the chase would have
ended swiftly; but, though she stood up
to it gallantly, she became less and less
able to turn short on the near foreleg.
At length she was no longer able to put
it to the ground.
Fenn pulled her up and dismounted.
The heifer, lathered with sweat, trotted
off and disappeared down a slope a few
yards from the creek.
Fenn stood looking at the mare’s leg,
full now from elbow to knee, from knee
to fetlock. He cursed himself silently for
letting his obstinacy override his judg-
ment.
He stroked her face ruefully, apologis-
ing in words, as a man who loves a beast
will. Then he turned to look at the slope
down which the heifer had vanished.
He left the horse and started towards
the slope. The cows fell in behind him,
shaking their heads and snuffling. Their
big stupid eyes were wide and wild and
red with angry curiosity. Once or twice
they crowded so close that Fenn turned
and flicked their faces with the whip.
But they came back.
Just below the top of the slope Queen’s
Pride lay, caught prematurely in the
agony of her labor.
It was a hard birth, and Fenn threw
off his jacket and helped her with all
the skill at his command. The cows
milled about them in an unbroken circle
that drew in closer and closer.
It was a full hour before the calf, a
lusty bull, was delivered. By then the
cows were no longer milling, but stand-
ing motionless and tense. Not once did
Fenn notice them. He was absorbed
utterly by his task.
Freed from its mother’s womb, the calf
stood straightway on its legs and bawled
with senseless elation; and the cows,
shivering with excitement, threw up their
heads and began to rumble in their
throats.
Fenn, still absorbed, finished his work
on the mother and stood up smiling.
“You’re through it well —and no credit
to yourself, you obstinate little beast! ”
As he turned towards the creek to
wash his hands a cloud passed over the
sun.
The cows gave before him reluctantly,
not breaking away, but backing step for
step with him, down to the creek and
over it, watching with lowered heads as
he stooped to rinse his hands and arms.
Standing to wipe himself on his hand-
kerchief he looked round with amused
wonder at the circle of intent, wicked
faces that penned him, now, in a space
no more than six feet in diameter. Those
on the inner edge of the circle stood
braced back against the increasing pres-
sure from those behind ; but, while they
were wild, they were also unafraid. And
the beasts on the outside were crazy with
an angry curiosity that the insistent Mail-
ing of the calf was doing nothing to
abate, so that they fought each other
determinedly for a position on the inner
edge of the circle. They milled and
snuffled and bellowed occasionally, but,
for the most part, they were ominously
silent.
Over their restless bodies between
great heads impatiently upflung he caught
a glimpse of Queen’s Pride, who had
struggled to her feet and was nosing her
offspring.
Fenn’s face twisted into a wry grin
and he shook the handkerchief contemp-
tuously into the nearest faces, which
receded infinitesimally. Then, still non-
chalant, he stepped forward, but behind
his unperturbed air he was cursing him-
self for the second time that morning
that he had been fool enough to lay aside
his whip.
Slowly, foot by foot, the cows gave
back ; gave sullenly and unwillingly, with
lowered heads and angry snorts, nor did
they attempt to break away. The water
plashed musically as those behind him
advanced.
And then the outer edge of the circle,
intent only on the man, was forced back
into Queen’s Pride —over her calf, which
bawled frantically as it was trampled
underfoot. Queen’s Pride bellowed, and
the cows, themselves so recently bereft,
were transformed from beasts merely sul-
lenly curious, whose wavering wills a
man’s will could dominate, into wild
mothers, primevally reckless in the
defence of their young.
All around him they broke into hideous
bawling, and the circle began to close in
with appalling swiftness. Over the sea of
heaving backs, blue-sheened under the
morning sun, Hector Fenn glimpsed for
a moment the wide, wide world that
waited, quivering under the urge of
spring.
The wicked heads, from whose mouths
saliva drooled, from whose silly, red-
rimmed eyes the sun struck splendid
gleams, were now so close that, by reach-
ing out a hand, he could have touched
them.
He knew no fear, but only a slight
annoyance, because against their colossal
folly his will was unavailing.
As the circle closed, he threw up his
arms and laughed back fearlessly into the
face of the laughing sun.
The Mystics.
The gods have paven a road with emerald,
The gods have laid us a turkis floor,
And set an arch of the colors of splendor
’Twixt diamond ice-peaks, tapering, slender,
Where the star-seas break on a mortal shore.
At the edge of the plain we stood in wonder,
Our spears well tipped with a foeman’s bone;
Where the endless green met the blue of
thunder,
There were the seeds of the miracles sown!
The huts behind us held flesh and honey,
The man-reared wolf and the man-tamed
wife;
The hair of our wind-browned whelps blew
sunny,
And the blood-smeared fetish-pole hallowed
life.
But what is a hearth and the talk of neighbors
When green arid blue of the gods is spread,
And the unseen cloud-builder deftly labors,
And brave winds over spring violets tread?
The birds are singing of rainbow treasure,
Cauldron of gold where its arch meets earth;
Why should we stay for the hearth-meal’s
pleasure
Who would share All-Father’s feasting-mirth?
We’ll wade through the western sunset-river,
We’ll grasp the moon of the eastern plain
Just as she rises; and Death will shiver
And whine doglike on our tracks in vain.
Lo! thus was the first sea-strand beholden,
A bitter marvel of death and life.
We sat us down in no god-hut golden,
But found the way to a larger strife.
And then —ah, then, see the sanguine crosses
That blazon the bosom-curve of sails!
West they plunge with the tall sea-horses,
Follow a flare that flushes and pales.
Our prows may grate on a quay supernal,
God’s footstool blind us with crystal light;
A coast of peril with new flowers vernal
Broke on our scurvy-stricken sight.
Now we have fashioned us tireless pinions,
The last Valhalla of snow is known;
We poise at the verge of our wide dominions,
Yonder are seeds of miracles sown!
Who shall first kiss the brow of Diana?
Who shall o’ermaster the might of Mars?
What deathless deserts whitened with manna
Wait our feet when we’ve conquered the
stars?
The gods have paven a road with emerald,
The gods have laid us a turkis floor,
And set an arch of the colors of splendor
’Twixt diamond ice-peaks, tapering, slender,
Where the light-waves break on a mortal
shore.
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


ď
• C.L.W., of Brighton, has had
these shoes—a pair of heavy tan
Oxfords —for some four years.
They have had regular use and
regular cleaning with KIWI,
• They’re well worn but they’ve
• worn well . . . thanks to Kiwi
KIWI.
The Quality Boot Polish |
BLACK
POLISH
TAN
POLISH
PAID IN FULL!
tmmzM
Wmim
ms%mm
■ t
siS&sSS
I
1
: \yy .. v
m
&
%
m
m
ajQ9i
mm
l&etfir
wm
: ."v
To save teeth you
must fight film
\I7'HAT is this film that robs us of 01
’ ~ tppfh ? A slinnerv. stickv coatii
our
teeth ? A slippery, sticky coating
formed by the mucin in saliva. It stains
teeth yellow. It catches bits of food
which soon decay. Yes, but that’s not
all! Film contains millions of tiny germs.
Some are rod-shaped, grouped in
clusters. These are decay germs. As
they live they give off enzymes that
produce lactic acid. This lactic acid
dissolves tooth enamel just as other
acids eat holes in cloth. Other germs
are linked with “trench mouth”—still
others with pyorrhea.
“ What must I do to fight film ?”
To fight film use Pepsodent instead of
ordinary tooth pastes. Why ? Because
a tooth paste is only as good as its
polishing material—not one bit better.
The new polishing material in Pepso-
dent is one of the great discoveries of
the day. Its power to remove every
trace of film stain is revolutionary ! Its
notable distinction of being twice as
soft as polishing materials in common
use has gained wide recognition. Re-
member, the one safe way to fight film
is to use the special film-removing tooth
paste—Pepsodent—twice every day
and to see your dentist at least twice
a year.
See how rapidly film
forms on teeth
f
These teeth were
absolutely free of
film at 8 a.m.
At noon —the film
detector* solution
was applied and
this is how they
looked.
At 8 p.m. —the film
detector* shows
still heavier de-
posits of film.
Two-thirds of the
tooth’s surface is
covered.
At 10 p.m. —these
same teeth were
brushed with
Pepsodent. Note
how thoroughly
film has been re-
moved.
*A harmless fluid,
used by dentists,
which stains film so
that the naked eye
can see it.
Pepsodent
1 MADE IN AUSTRALIA
—is the special film-removing tooth paste
M9B2M
Johnny Was Dead.
BY P. L. W.
MARY THIRLOW awoke with a pain
in her head. The room was in
darkness; only a square of grey
showed where the window was. What
had happened? And then she remem-
bered.
Johnny was dead. They had brought
him home from Leery’s yesterday after-
noon, just before milking-time—a still
white form. Johnny was dead; kicked
by a horse ; kicked in the chest just above
the heart. Ted Leery had carried him in,
tear-stains on his fat, white face.
“Dreadful thing, Mrs. Thirlow. Banby
kicked him. He was trying to mount her.
She galloped off and there was Johnny” ;
and Ted blubbered.
Ted was fond of Johnny; had always
been good to him. How her head ached!
The funeral would be this afternoon ; and
Johnny was out there on the sitting-room
table, waiting to be put under the earth ;
Johnny with the freckles and laughing
brown eyes ; always grinning about some-
thing, but always ready to help. He had
laughed his impudent laugh when she had
clouted him with the dishcloth yesterday
morning.
“Aw, missed, didn’t you?” he said ; but
he had gone to do her bidding all the
same, quite cheerfully. She felt a tighten-
ing at her throat. Her eyes were hot
and dry. The patch of grey on the
window was lightening.
She could just distinguish the rail at
the end of the bed, and the dark mass
that was her husband’s clothes, piled over
one end. A child at the other end of the
room turned in its sleep, and the wire
mattress beneath it creaked loudly.
Johnny was dead. He would never sleep
in this room again.
Beside her rose and fell the heavy
breathing of her husband. She could just
make out the dark silhouette pf his
features ; and then her eyes caught' the
hillock of bedclothes that were supported
by his stomach. With a sudden impatient
jerk she shook him.
“Wake up, it’s getting late, and the
funeral’s to-day.”
He turned heavily, and with sleepy
good humor put out a clumsy hand to
caress her cheek. She jerked away, and
it fell on her shoulder.
“Get up,” she said harshly. “Johnny’s
dead. The funeral’s to-day.”
“All right, old girl. Don’t fret; I’m
getting up.”
He pulled himself on to the end of the
bed, fumbled for his trousers. As he
pulled them on, he said “That horse
ought to be shot.”
He bent down for his boots, and as
he tugged at them he murmured: “Poor
Johnny! Poor little kid!”
The woman in the bed lay stiff, watch-
ing his movements with strained eyes.
“Poor Johnny,” she murmured after
him, and her lips had a bitter twist. A
lot his father cared! He’d have forgotten
Johnny within a week. The only time he
would remember was when he was drunk
and maudlin.
She could hear her husband calling the
cows and putting them into the yard.
Flo and Ollie were up, and were moving
about in the kitchen. The room was full
of grey light now. She dragged herself
wearily from the bed, and pulled her
clothes from the chair near by. Untidy
things they were, with ragged lace and
that musty smell of clothes that have been
worn too long. Her body felt warm and
sticky. There was no refreshment in the
musty garments. She paused, pulling up
a stocking.
Eight extra cows to milk! She would
have to do three of them. Ollie was
slow. Johnny had been so quick!
She heard the clang of pails and
finished her dressing hastily. Outside the
mist hung low in the valley. Over on
Leery’s hill the dim light of a lantern
flickered in the morning greyness. The
Leerys were up and about.
She went through the garden gate
towards the cowyard. The mud was thick
and sticky. Daisy was in her bail
patiently waiting; she turned a pensive
head as Mary appeared. Ollie was
already at work. The quirt, quirt of the
milk beat rhythmically into her bucket.
Mary Thirlow slowly pushed up her
box and squatted beside Daisy. She
pulled at the teats and pressed her head
against the belly; soon the rich white
liquid was beating into her pail to the
mechanical tugging of her hands. How
tired her head was! She pressed it harder
against the sleek hide and felt the pulse
of life beneath it.
Johnny was dead. A tear trickled
through her hot eyelids and fell into the
milk. She must not be foolish; it was
no good making a fuss. Daisy turned
an indifferent head and looked at her
inquiringly. The milk came reluctantly.
Of course, she must take Pansy now. She
moved her box back, released the leg-
rope, and said softly, “Back, Daisy,
back.”
The animal moved quietly backwards
into the yard. Pansy was waiting to take
her place. So it went on —milking for
an hour. When she had finished daylight
had come. She gathered her tins and
carried them across the dairy. The
separator was set in readiness for use.
Ollie had left her milk there and had
gone in to prepare breakfast. From the
house came her clear, young voice talk-
ing to the younger children. They
sounded so cheerful. Had they forgotten
already that Johnny was dead?
Bob had left by now for the township
to make arrangements for the funeral.
There would be no one to help this
morning. Johnny would shout questions
above the whirr of the separator; was
always asking questions, and puzzling
ones, too. He was a shrewd kid. Now
there would be no more questions from
Johnny.
She poured the milk into the bowl and
released the tap, and with both hands
grasped the handle. It jarred stubbornly,
but soon she had the rhythm; her body
moved forward and her arms went up
and down as the handle made its rotation.
“Johnny is dead, Johnny is dead,” sang
the machine. The kerosene-tin beneath
was filling with the separated milk for
the calves. Johnny always fed the calves.
She must do that now. Up and down
swayed her bent body, up and down.
Separating over, she took up the tin
of milk and went to the yard where the
calves were. The sun was high above
the trees. The paddock gleamed green
and silver. Over the door of the dairy
the wistaria drooped in mauve loveliness.
The freshness of spring was everywhere ;
but Mary Thirlow had no thoughts of
spring.
At the damp grey bars she called to
the calves. They came eagerly to nose
into her tins. She pushed her hands
down for the youngest to suck at her
fingers. The rough tongue tugging hun-
grily caused her a sharp, sudden pain in
her heart. She withdrew her hand
brusquely. Once Johnny had pulled at
her breast. How proud she had been of
that little brown-eyed son of hers! Ollie,
Flo, baby Jean —not one had meant as
much as he ; not even Ollie, who was her
first.
She turned with her pail back to the
house, through the white paling gate that
Johnny had painted only a week ago.
The garden was full of perfume. Purple
stocks, violets, pansies, lavender, carna-
tions and lupins all bloomed in profusion.
The black earth path was damp and
muddy. Johnny had been going to dig
a drain for her. With vehement repul-
sion she stamped upon a worm that
wriggled its pink way across the path.
In the kitchen Ollie stood over the fire
stirring the children’s porridge. Flo and
baby Jean ate silently, but both had an
air of self-importance. They were re-
membering the child that lay so still on
the sitting-room table. They did not
quite understand it all, but to-day they
were going to Johnny’s funeral. Their
mother poured black tea into her cup.
Her mouth was dry and parched. Her
head ached dully. Suddenly Flo spoke.
“Shall I wear my new dress to the
funeral?”
Mary Thirlow looked at the pale, some-
what vacant, face of her second daughter
almost with hatred in her eyes.
“No, you won’t. You vain little
faggot! You won’t be going to the
funeral. You are to stay at Leery’s.”
Her voice rose in anger and strangled
itself in her throat. The two younger
children stared at her in surprise and fear.
Baby Jean began to whimper. Ollie spoke
quietly.
“Take baby outside, Flo”; and she
poured more black tea into her mother’s
cup.
Mary Thirlow gulped down the hot
drink. It burned her throat. She pushed
aside her plate and rose to clear
away. The soiled tea-stained cloth she
shook outside, scattering crumbs upon the
purple stocks at the verandah’s edge with
unseeing eyes. Into the tin dish she piled
the coarse, chipped china, and poured hot
water over it from the black iron kettle.
No one to wipe up this morning!
Johnny always wiped up before he left
for school.
From the bedroom came the swish of
Ollie’s broom. Ollie was a good girl, but
she was not like Johnny. And Johnny
was dead. The white enamel dish on
the safe was filled with oranges. She had
meant to make them ready for jam last
(Continued on next page.)


THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; arid at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
NORFOLK 3T.
STRAND
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
in the centre of London, close to all Theatres. Cable: “Howdotel,” London.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
By Far the Largest
Circulation in Queensland.
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt St. ’Phone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Newspaper House, Collins
St. ’Phone F 3906.
■AUDIT*
•BUREAU OP-
.CIRCULATIONS
An Investment in a Product for which there is an assured
World Market with no chance of overproduction for genera-
tions! The opportunity is yours. You can participate in the
lucrative profits of a Tung Oil plantation by investing in
7 p.c. “Tungland** Security Certificates, issued by
Empire Tung Oil Products, Ltd.
The uses of and market for Tung Oil are
very wide. Read this extract from the
“Journal of Chemical Education,” January,
1930, issued by the Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, Baltimore, U.S.A.:—
“Your telephone wire is insulated with a
Tung-oil compound. Your electric-fan motor
is insulated with a Tung-oil compound, as are
the cables and dynamos. One electric concern
in this country uses a million and a half
pounds of the oil a year. I am told that the
little tubes used for cosmetics, toothpaste, and
the like require for the making of the coating
on them over 250,000 gallons per year. Place
your foot on the brake of your automobile;
the brake-band is held together with Tung Oil.
Walk across a beautiful varnished floor; the
varnish is made from Tung Oil.
“You have noticed some advertisements
which claim that a varnished floor is not in-
jured by pouring boiling water on it. Tung Oil
is the ingredient of the varnish that makes
this possible. The outer varnishing on ships
and boats of all kinds is spar varnish, which
can be made according to the specifications of
the Navy with Tung Oil only. The same is
true of the deck paints. Walk into the kitchen;
the finish on the linoleum, if it is the beautiful
finish that is prevalent to-day, is produced with
Tung Oil.
“Tung Oil is used for waterproofing cloth for
the higher grade of oilcloth. The Chinese
waterproof their paper umbrellas with it. It
is used for waterproofing masonry, and often
leather. It is used in the manufacture of soap,
and sometimes is even burned in lamps. From
the husks and residue of the burned oil the
Chinese make indelible or India ink.”
The following letter was written in July,
1933, to a leading N.Z. resident by the
late managing director of the largest paint
and varnish manufacturing company in
Great Britain:—
“The company of which I was managing
director for many years, whose name appears
at the head of this letter, used very large
quantities of Tung Oil. While not the first,
I was amongst the first to use the oil commer-
cially more than a quarter of a century ago
in the Old Country, and so can speak from
first-hand knowledge of its utility and value.
Like others in the paint and varnish trade, we
discovered that it possessed qualities found in
no other material. It enabled us to do many
things hitherto impossible, and rendered many
paint- and varnish-making jobs much easier,
while, above all, it greatly improved the water-
and weather-resisting properties and lengthened
the life of the paint or varnish made with it.
“1 do not think that investors need have
any apprehension as to the future of Tung Oil,
as there is a big and growing market for the
oil all over the world, not merely in the paint
and varnish industry, but in many others as
well.
“If paint and varnish manufacturers can
obtain Tung Oil at reasonable prices, they
will give it preference over Linseed Oil for
many processes. Of that there is not the
slightest doubt, and I am sure that the propa-
gation of Tung Oil in New Zealand is an
industry deserving the hearty support of all.
It will provide a new source of revenue from
overseas, with all the world as a market.”
The trees from which the oil is obtained commence bearing nuts in the fourth year,
from which period expert opinion is that oil production will result in half-yearly
dividends commencing at 11%, and rapidly rising to 25% p.a. In the meantime,
whilst the trees are growing, the company pays 7% interest on each complete £3O
received. Any number of certificates of £3O each can be purchased on easy terms.
Each £3O purchases the freehold of one half acre planted with 45 Tung-oil Trees
and maintained until maturity by the company.
“Tungland” Security Certificates are the best means of investing in the Tung Oil
industry, and are issued by
EMPIRE TUNG OIL PRODUCTS, LTD.,
14 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY (’Phone: BW1165).
CHANCERY HOUSE, BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE (’Phone: M 4269).
STEAMSHIP BUILDINGS, CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE (’Phone: Central 727).
night; but that night they had brought
Johnny home.
A ghastly kaleidoscope of the previous
evening passed before her. Ted Leery
and his lifeless burden; the drop of her
heart when she saw him; Mrs. Leery,
talking and weeping; Bob, pale beneath
his brick-red; the doctor, businesslike
and kind. Then at last the quiet house,
and Johnny beneath the white sheet on
the sitting-room table ; Johnny white and
limp and dead.
“Mother, here comes Mrs. Lambert.
She has some flowers,” called Ollie.
She went into the bedroom and combed
back the drab hair that hung about her
ears, tucked in her blouse, tied an apron
over the dirty skirt.
Mrs. Lambert was knocking at the
front door. She opened it. For imper-
ceptible moments they stood facing one
another: Mary Thirlow in her untidy
poverty and Lilian Lambert dressed with
a quiet opulence; Mary, with her limp,
colorless hair, tired face and tired eyes;
Lilian, soft, plump, scented, gloved and
smartly tailored. The brightness of her
eyes was heightened by a discreet touch
of rouge upon the cheeks. In her arms
was a great sheath of watsonias and
lilies.
“My dear Mrs. Thirlow, I’m so sorry to
hear about your little boy. It is terrible
to think of him taken so young! But
we can only bow to God’s will.” She
hurried over the words and held out
the flowers almost awkwardly. Really it
was difficult to know what to say to this
hard-faced, untidy woman who stood
looking from her to the flowers in that
queer way.
“We heard about it and came over to
help. Ja” she had almost
said “Jack,” but she remembered in time
to whom she was speaking. “Mr. Lam-
bert and I will be only too pleased to
do anything we can to help. We are
going in to town this morning. Perhaps
we can do some shopping for you or see
some people.”
“Would you like to see him?” Mary
Thirlow said, and led the way into the
small, ugly sitting-room.
With a gesture almost proud she pulled
back the sheet from the dead boy, and
gently laid the flowers beside him. He
was the only lovely thing in that room.
No more work for him; no weariness
ever for him ; just quiet and peace!
Mrs. Lambert was talking in her full
voice.
“How sad and natural he looks. Oh,
the poor child! You will miss him so.”
Mary Thirlow looked from the visitor
to the child, and then through the door
across the paddocks to where the sleek
cows glistened in the sunlight. Johnny
was dead, but days and days of toil
stretched before her.
“And he was my best milker, too,” she
said slowly.
* * * *
Lilian Lambert returned to her car
slightly flushed and not exactly comfort-
able in spirit.
“Oh, Jack! Those dreadful people.
That untidy woman —so unfeeling. Do
you know what she said about her little
boy? ‘He was my best milker, too.’ ”
The Limejuicer’s Comeback.
BY CAPTAIN JACK HAMILTON.
DOWN in the Roaring Forties the
barque Ravencore, of Glasgow,
revelled in the riot of her run.
Fully extended, she raced over the miles.
The western wind, piping merrily, made
, . , V ®. ,
pleasant harmony to practised ears with
the swirl of the high following sea, as the
steady, sustained creak of the block
sheaves denoted that everything was tak-
ing its proper strain; all shipshape and
Bristol fashion.
Less than a point on the port bow a
sa«. «hich had shown up on the horizon
a mere speck, assumed larger proportions.
The stern-chaser was rapidly overhauling
the vessel ahead.
Clad in oilskins, sou’-westers and long
sea-boots, two figures inured to a ship
cavorting in a breeze paced to and fro
on the poop, taking little heed of
+ , . ’ , ~
the scant protection the weather-cloth
afforded. As they walked between the
intervals when the motion of the ship
made them pause to retain their balance
and foothold, they were imbued with a
feeling of the craft carrying everything
before her ; with a sensation of exhilara-
tion akin to that of a fast gallop on a
good horse.
From the main deck as the watch
swigged on the braces with a luff-tackle
came the sounds of an old-time chantey,
the melody of which was not drowned
altogether, although the singers had to
duck below the bulwarks ever and anon
to escape the violence of the heavy seas
that kept cascading over the rail.
Haul on the bowline, the Easting-downer’s
a-rolling. „
au on the bowline the bowline .... Haul .
That they had the heart to sing was
something to marvel at. A short time
before they had been roused out of bunks
in which they had slept as they stood —
oilskins, sea-boots and all and awoke
from their achmg slumbers to find the
biscuit barge afloat m the fo’c’sle in a
mmiature sea, guggling between their
well-lashed sea-chests with every roll,
And throughout the night all hands had
been on deck most of the time.
Occasionally taking his eye off the work
going on along the wave-washed deck,
the man on the poop cast his gaze astern
at the sea rearing to a mountainous alti-
tude, more out of anxiety for his pro-
menading partner than his own safety.
Such confidence had he in his ship that
he could only contemplate the gigantic
waves breaking about the counter as an
added impetus to speed her on her course,
Captain John Macmillan had seen her
pooping them green before.... once. He
was an apprentice first-voyager then, and
the vessel had been overladen. Now, with
the ship in perfect trim, it was vastly
different. She was lifting to it like a
bird. Her buoyancy made itself felt in
er every movement.
It could not be denied, however, that
she was carrying a lot of canvas, consider-
ing the force of the wind and the tern-
pestuousness of the sea. The royals were
still on her. But she was well rigged and
well c / ved f or aloft and below - And a
re^° r was * n P ros P ec^
slgb J s wor^ed out his young
wife, the mate, second mate and himself
had placed the barque 357 mi]es from a
set position abeam of Cape Otway, for
which she was heading, with the wind
southing slightly to her advantage on the
nineteenth day from the Cape of Good
°^ e '
previous day s run had eclipsed
Vd ° S't
almost imperceptible increase in the
velocity of the westerly, keen on getting
the best out of the hooker, Captain Mac-
millan had deviated from his usually
ca V l f l °H s sa l bn 2 t acdc f'. let her fly
the followin J g noon<
„,,,, . x . .
He had reasonable cause for taking a
risk . Xhe Raven Core was the last lime-
j u i cer a fl oa t. S he had only been saved
the ignominy of being “sold foreign”
through the action of a philanthropist of
mea ns, who bought her at the eleventh
hour by cable, partly to keep the Red
Duster flying on a windjammer and partly
to provide an avenue for Australian sea-
faring youth to be trained in sail, as he
had been himself,
Captain Macmillan was not optimistic
enough to ponder the possibility of de-
feating the day’s runs of more than 460
miles, covered in the previous century by-
the Lightning, Red Jacket, James Baines,
Flying Cloud and others of their era with
as fine lines as a racing yacht. But he
figured that a passage of twenty days
from the Cape to Melbourne would sur-
pass a fi modern records with which he
was acquainted, and earn a reputation
for the new Australian training-ship
which would soon be the talk of every
sailor town in the world,
Under conditions which gave every pro-
mise of holding he ought to make the
Otway at the time planned. With any-
thing like a breeze at all she could do
the remaining few miles “on her head” ;
w ith the wind southing steady and strong
she would be able to sail right up to the
anchorage off Gellibrand Lightship at
Williamstown, where he had joined the
Ravencore as a greenhorn. It was a
triumph he had often dreamed of.
He smiled to himself now as he thought
0 f it.
“Her forefoot’s lifting to the sheet’s
] on g drift now, lass, if ever it was. The
good old girl seems to realise what an
escape she had from being handed over
to those rascally Arabs who wanted to
buy her for a hulk. Fancy a record
being broken by a windbag these days!
I reckon a few engineers will be looking
down their noses when we get in”
a sea more vicious than the rest came
aboard,
“Up with her, bully boys, up with her! ”
fi e sa id to the men at the wheel, as he
( Continued on next page.)


d
THE MOUNTAINS
AND FORESTS ARE
CALLING YOU !
Come! Leave the heat of summer behind you.
Three days from Sydney and you are in won-
derful Maoriland—home of high mountains and
immemorial forests. Come where the air is like
champagne and care is a stranger. Laze by the
shore of beautiful lakes, or be soothed to deep
sleep each night with the song of rushing
streams and waterfalls* Go North to where the
giant game fish leaps in high ecstasy or bathe in
the warm and health-giving waters of geyserland.
Balmy days give place to nights of stars. Down therein
the moonlight a stag is browsing in a forest clearing ;
giant rainbow trout leap in quiet pools. The aromatic
smoke of a wood fire mingles with the fragrance of your
goodnight pipe.
i
,SB»V
N.Z. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Corner Martin Place
and Pitt Street, Sydney, and
Box 2136, Collins House, 360
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated
leaflets and full details of a
holiday in New Zealand.
Name .
Address
B
,4 f
NEW
ZEALAND
SCENIC PLAYGROUND OF THE PACIFIC
ď
The Razor that Really Shaves
Black Vulcanite Handle .... 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle ..15/6; with guard, 19/-
Beal Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets, (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
Ali post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
Public Notice.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act 1909-1927 has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance com-
pany not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1933.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1934; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for
every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
22nd November, 1933.
Public Notice.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1933, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927 applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.’
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1934;
subject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales,
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
22nd November, 1933.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSORANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
V*
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural.
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 92nd year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full injormation, copies,
advertising rates “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
w. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins- Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the Man
on the Land” pages of ‘‘The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington
rushed to give them a hand. “Ah—that’s
it. She’s right. Ye’re doing fine —fine.”
His wife reminded him that he had
vowed to make the attempt if he ever
got the chance.*
“Well, lass, I knew the rigging could
stand it, just as I knew her stout hull
could stand the battering of the seas. I
saw most of that gear aloft there rigged
by real limejuice sailormen. Two of
them are aboard her now, Sails and the
Bos’n ; and I took an insignificant part in
the job myself. Aye, in Antofagasta,
when they sent the masts and yards up
from Valparaiso after we were dis-
masted in the Pacific. You could not get
away with this without good gear aloft
and below, a staunch ship, careful steer-
ing and a constant eye on her.”
“But you are confident,” she put in
loyally.
“Aye, aye, lass maybe I’m con-
fident, but what I’ve got to guard against
is becoming over-confident. Ships have
had the sticks taken out of them through
over-confidence as well as lack of it.”
The arrival on the poop of the ancient
sailmaker and the husky long-service
boatswain created a diversion.
“D’ye know her, sir?” queried Sails.
The delight he was feeling exuded itself
all over his weather-beaten countenance,
while the boatswain looked on half-
inquiringly and half in admiration of his
old shipmate.
Captain Macmillan and his wife halted
abruptly. They had not fully perceived
how rapidly they were overhauling the
ship ahead. Her hull was now showing
up above the sea’s rim. The skipper
picked up the telescope from the chart-
room and ran his eye over the craft
becoming wider to port.
“Surely you can’t make a ship out as
far off as that, Sails?” said Mrs. Mac-
millan.
The sailmaker and boatswain smiled,
waiting for the skipper’s verdict.
“Something about her seems familiar,
Sails; but for the life of me I cannot
make out just what it is,” he ventured at
length.
“Have another peep at her gaff, sir,”
returned the ancient mariner, now enjoy-
ing his better knowledge to the full.
“There’s only one hooker was ever afloat
with a gaff slung as high as that.”
“Well, out with it!”
“She’s the Mosscraig, sir, or my father
was a Dutchman. Shall I call the mate
to have a look at the packet he served
his time in—the greatest windjammer, he
swears, that ever left the stocks?”
“Aye, maybe it would be as well to let
him see her. Seeing’s believing.”
“Ye can lay to that, sir,” came back
the sailmaker jubilantly, his experienced
eye still on the vessel. “Seeing’s believing.
And she’s down to topsails and allying
the Finn flag, while we’re sporting royals
and the good old Red Duster.
Blanketing the other ship, the Raven-
core passed her as if she had been at
anchor. Ere she was quite abeam the
maintopgallant sail of the Mosscraig had
been loosed to set for a better showing
in face of the opposition. But the canvas
was old, the gear rotten and neglected.
Hardly was it spread to the wind before
it blew out of the boltropes in one piece
to leeward, leaving in its place a large
aperture bordered by jagged remains
looking like a big framed canvas from
which the picture had been ripped.
Signals exchanged were brief. She was
139 days out from Norway to Melbourne
and 42 from abreast of the Cape of
Good Hope. Soon she faded to a speck,
and then into nothingness astern.
The sun went down and the moon,
nearly at the full, beamed forth into a
clear, cold, cloudless night. Except for
the composure of her skipper at his stance
near the wheel, the Ravencore had the
appearance of a phantom ship ; her crew,
with the moonbeams playing on their
sea-sprayed oilskins, resembled ghosts.
The sough of the wind in the rigging
became more and more doleful as it grew
louder and louder. But it did not deter
the fine-lined packet from extending her-
self in a supreme effort to make the best
of the gifts God, her makers and seaman-
ship had bestowed upon her. Nor did it
quell the ardor of her John Chanteyman.
From somewhere amid the smother of
sea on the deck his solo and the chorus
in unison drifted aft.
Oh, a limejuice ship coming up the river,
Blow, boys, blow.
With ’gall’ntss’ls set and roy’ls a-quiver,
Blow, boys, bully boys, blow.”
Astern the long white boiling lane in
the wake rose, and fell, threatening every
few minutes to tumble clean over the
poop and engulf everybody and every-
thing as the crests of the foaming green-
backs rose higher and higher with the
indrease of wind. Some of them piled
aboard in the waist and temporarily
enveloped the hands working there. But
time and again they rose smiling and
picked up their song where the elements
had drowned it. It was all part of their
job. Captain John Macmillan had not
scoured port and picked a crew of dyed-
in-the-wool windbag limejuice sailors for
nothing.
One of them, on the mizzen royal yard
with the boatswain, struggled against odds
to reeve fresh rovings where the extra
strain and chafing had worn the double
lashings on the jackstay to a frazzle.
In the more furious squalls the yard
quivered with vicious jerks; but the
danger of it snapping or throwing them
off it did not prevent them from accom-
plishing their task, nor blind them to the
beauty of the craft below them plough-
ing her way through the maelstrom of
sea. They felt a glow all over as the
shapely model rose to each mountainous
wave and defiantly shook herself free as
she raced along with a yacht-like heel-
over. The glint of the moon on the
waters, on the clean-cut, wave-washed
deck and on the white sails above it, all
made for beauty and power.
And aft near the wheel the skipper,
giving an occasional word of advice, com-
mand or encouragement to the helmsman
and lee-wheel. Small he looked from
that dizzy height, keeping his constant
vigil. One little slip of the rudder at this
critical juncture meant all the difference
between success and disaster. The reliev-
ing tackles in the wheel-house groaned
under the pressure. But they were stout
and staunch, like every other rope in the
ship. No need to worry over them!
Soon after breakfast the skipper called
the two most able helmsmen in the ship
to the wheel. There was no half-way
house now. He had carried on too long
to take in sail. What was set had to see
it through, blow itself to ribbons or take
the sticks out of her if it did not run her
under.
Having succeeded so far without
mishap, and the canvas and spars still
intact, he was going to give the good ship
every opportunity of getting away with
it. A double-altitude observation had in-
formed them that their goal was well
within reach.
The mate stood by the lee binnacle
ready to execute any command at a
moment’s notice with the sailmaker,
boatswain and several of the leading
hands handy. His regret at the downfall
of his old ship was lost in the thrill of
this splendid performance. All night he
had been on deck thus with most of
the crew in case of accident.
Albatrosses, “mollies” and gulls dis-
ported themselves as if they were glad of
the company of the bird-like creature
swishing through the sea like one in-
spired, and propelled by nothing but
God’s own wind.
Spindrift from the seas wafted in
through the open doorway of the chart-
room to leeward, from where the
skipper’s wife —long since forbidden the
deck—watched eagerly the ship’s progress.
At noon with the wind abating a little,
but still firm and holding from the south-
west, the second mate stood by the stan-
dard compass carefully taking cross bear-
ings of the land. As eight bells struck he
made a sign which caused Captain Mac-
millan to shake hands.with the mate and
petty officers and thank the assembled
crew jovially, but none the less sincerely.
The sailmaker called for three cheers,
and the resultant chorus triumphed over
the lusty wind.
“Three cheers for the Ravencore!”
Their strong unison drowned the sound
of everything else.
“And three for Captain Macmillan!”
“Thank you, men!”
“And one for the lady who brought
the last limejuicer all her luck!”
Another exultant shout, with every eye
upon her, and the wheel was relieved.
Cape Otway was abeam!
Blue.
Blue of the morning, blue
Thoughts of the dawning day,
Stir with your ghostly hand
The multicolored tray
Of every sleeping land.
Blue wine of wanderlust;
Blue, heady wine of thought;
The morning fades to noon
And I have nothing bought,
And evening cometh soon.
Blue winds of summer, wait:
The stalls of life will close,
And I have nothing bought;
And night’s blue shadow grows
With red and gold enwrought.
Blue hour of happiness;
Warm-breasted hour of love;
Could I but stay your flight,
O sapphire-winged dove,
Then could I flee from night.
Yet have I nothing bought,
But .wherefore should I sigh?
For when my bowl brims o’er
The blue will scattered lie
Upon night’s silver floor.
MAORILAND.
CHRISTINE COMBER.


m.
US
m
A
GREAT NEW
BOOK, that will
on
your entire
e .... and
it’s FREEH
ANY
jgw.
r
“What does life hold for ME? Where am I heading?
Where will my present job end?’’. . . .How often you
ask yourself these questions. . . .Condemned, apparently,
to a lifetime’s dull routine —always in a corner —when,
all the time, you KNOW instinctively that success could
be yours —if only you had the chance!.... Yet, how
can you obtain it? How can you get your chance? Is
there a way?. . . .YES! a way exists. And this great
book can tell you why—and where. It points the way
so plainly that mistake is impossible.
Great
was written for you—-for peopie who refuse to be satis-
fied with mediocrity—who demand their chance....
For such was the “Guide” written. It is not a small
book. On the other hand, it is a very large book. Yet,
it is entirely free.... Provided you are in earnest about
your future, we will gladly send you a copy. YOU
are the one for whom it was written. . . Will you accept
it? It will change your entire outlook.
Write tor it TO-DAY!
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy-Secretarial Specialist Coaches,
38 BARRACK HOUSE, BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, C.l.
OFFICES IN ALL STATES AND NEWCASTLE.
f
CUT OUT AND MAIL NOW
“THE DOUGHMAN”
By Robert Desmond Tate.
The Literary Sensation of the Year.
This is the Author’s brilliant first novel; it is the first of its kind among our
novelists. It translates, in terms of the sharpest realism, an aspect of life in the raw
—in the sweat and steam, the stealth and sinister dealings that may form the
atmosphere of industrial workers. It shows the reaction of a girl of clean character
and a man who, in other circumstances, might have been an inspiration to men.
The Press Gave Unstinted Praise to ‘‘The Doughman.”
“SYDNEY MORNING HERALD": “the most strikingly original Australian
novel to appear for a long time. Mr. Tate writes with vitality and conviction....
his relentless realism shocks the more fastidious readers. The descriptive work
is uncommonly good.”
“THE BULLETIN”: “the novel is a bold, dramatic conception, working up to
a spectacular climax....a novel with the stuff of life in it.”
“THE TELEGRAPH” (Sydney):... .“the most distinctive piece of writing
evolved in Australia for many a long day....it contains one of the most magnificent
portraits of a nagging wife....l don’t, remember anything so good in any book
....such a book as this would be a sure Book-of-tlie-Montli in England.
“THE DOUGHMAN,”
By Robert Desmond Tate.
An Endeavour Press Publication 6/- net (Postage 3d.)
Obtainable from All Booksellers and Newsagents, or Direct from All “Bulletin” Offices.
VV'-
e ' 3 ’
•9
**
«F*
,<> v
>% a ' -.<*r <> e "\~-
w
o^
.«r
G°
A' 6
of
A)
r
#
css
*V* 4 *
<^o^'
«£>


from
of the
Of
m
&
BASH
A FF!N
PAN
PURE
©lt
since 1861
Atlantic consists only of “heart oils” from
100% Paraffin Base Crude. It shows no evapor-
ation loss under severe test at 760° F. —-
twice the temperature reached by the
parts of your engine which require
lubrication^
PURE PARAFFIN BASE MOTOR OIL
PRODUCT OF ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LTD.
'
Use also
UNION
WHITE
ELA S H
dfd
