

Aii Australia appreciates these
magnificently made Marcovitch Cigarettes
Mm
f
V'
%
WSk
u
m
1
m
It’s a very fine
cigarette
Jiite
Virginia
Twist a Black 8c White between your fingertips. How
firm and evenly filled it is! That’s one reason for the
wonderful success of these century-famed cigarettes.
Every Black & White is perfectly made. Fragrant, mellow
Virginia tobaccos, smoke coolly, evenly, pleasantly.
And you’ll always enjoy the utmost freshness, fragrance
and flavour from Black 8c Whites because their special
inner wrapping of tissue and foil, and their outer
jacket of exclusive, moisture-proof "Insulane”
guarantee full protection. Try them .... today.
Blac
9 far B°
\Bfar\’-
CORK TIPS OR
PLAIN
MADE BY THE
MARCOVITCH
" PRIVATE PROCESS"
The Bulletin
How the Sordid Election Went
Vol. 55.—N0. 2849.
Wednesday, September 19, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TTiE New Library Catalogue for 1934 is
* now ready, and will be sent post free
o any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,’’
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
«
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Out Here and Mail
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System, of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. f
My Name
My Address
S.B. 234
<
Cuticura Soap
iJesf /or Baby’s Daily Bath
Made of the purest ingredi
ents and containing soothing
and healing properties, it pro
tects baby’s tender skin and
keeps it clear and healthy, free
from rashes and irritations.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE ACE ”
Established. 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt , depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest -possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to tlieir
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lfd. per copy at all newsagents- and
bookstalls, or 12/ ~ per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation tHat
h«q real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, pot
by contests, insurance schemes, or hegn pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy n.»
morning daily, so valuable is it for tne
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Ok Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” llldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagii Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Clx ltlcrcury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
t 3 ths first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street. Sydney.
•Phone: 11W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
o=»
)<r.
7\
fi>
The Sunday Mail
Brisbane
Should be Included in Every National
Advertising Campaign
As a newspaper “The Sunday Mail” speaks for itself, and the average net
circulation for April (42,696), May (44,006) and June (46,300) bears testimony
to the ever-widening circle of readers of Queensland’s great Sunday news-
paper-magazine and to the ready appreciation with which it is received
wherever it goes.
The consistently increasing popularity of “The Sunday Mail” renders
necessary its inclusion in every national advertising campaign planned for
the Queensland market. Used in conjunction with “The Courier Mail,
Queensland’s greatest daily, it gives a combination unequalled in coverage
and lowness of cost. Further particulars gladly supplied on request.
THE SUNDAY MAIL
BRISBANE’S GREAT SUNDAY NEWSPAPER-MAGAZINE.
Sydney Representative:
R. JACKSON, 74 Pitt Street.
London Representative:
A. J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Melbourne Representative:
R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Black Magic
As a result, according to some, of
“modernism” in religion, and, according
to others, of “the new morality,” there
is a kind of demonistic renaissance in
Europe. There have been fiendish
stances in Paris and Berlin and attempts
to raise the Devil on the Brocken. The
dark rites seem to have been uniformly
fruitless ; either, as on the Brocken, the
damned made no appearance, or the re-
sults were as pointless as those achieved
by spiritualistic mediums.
Yet there are many who assert that
lost souls can function on earth. Alma
M. Karlin, who has written The Death-
Thorn (Allen and Unwin ; Bs. 6d.) is one.
She doesn’t believe that evil or other
spirits can be conjured up in sophisti-
cated cities like Paris.
The performance of any sort of magic
calls for a close union with Nature, and
in this respect we Europeans have long
been inferior to the natives of the tropics.
It is a well-known fact that in Peru all
those persons who wish to work magic
will first put oil their shoes and their hats,
and even their European clothes.
Her book may usefully be read as a
prelude to E. F. Benson’s Raven’s Brood
(Barker ; 7s. 6d.), which deals with black
magic in Cornwall 60 years ago. The
Death-Thorn has been translated from
the third German edition by Bernard
Miall with exceptional sympathy and
ability.
“Believe It or Not” ——
Miss Karlin, after a repressed child-
hood and a poverty-stricken and
wretched girlhood, managed to scrape to-
gether enough to travel. She visited
“Australia, with its waterless deserts and
its indescribably fascinating flora and
fauna, consisting almost wholly of sur-
viving vestiges of a primeval world.” But
it was Peru that appealed most to her
sad and mystical spirit. She stayed for
two years in one of the few remaining
homes of black magic.
The death-thorn bears the face of a
demon modelled in clay. Miss Karlin
came by one, but it was not meant for
her; it duly reached the Indian for
whom it was intended, and he died.
Two old women told her of the spell
they had cast on a rich man who had
ruined their sister. The procedure was
much the same as that of the vengeful
witches of the Dark Ages, only, instead
of making their image of wax, they
used ground maizemeal and llama-fat.
The figure was named, pierced with
thorns in vital parts, dipped in the blood
of a relation and buried.
“What happened?”
“Nothing in particular. In the city a
man who had once been an abogado lay
sick and broken of a raging fever; -tor-
mented all night by chills and rigors so
that his teeth chattered until they broke.”
The doomed man’s mother begged for
mercy. The sisters led her to a hut and
pointed silently to a small skeleton on a
plank—the remains of her son’s victim.
Much death- or punitive-magic may
be explained by the obvious fact that in
primitive communities those who know
something of poisons have advantages
over their enemies. It caused witches
and warlocks to be burned and poisoners
to be boiled in oil in large numbers until
toxicology became an exact science. But
love-philtres, which have figured promi-
nently in witchcraft since Biblical times,
are not so easily explained. Miss Karlin
was given one by a Peruvian wizard. She
didn’t want a lover, but the charm was
embarrassingly effective in getting her
one. She let a drop fall on a cushion
against which one of her “few acquaint-
ances, a very nice and reliable Ameri-
can,” was leaning. Within two days he had
become so impassioned that she decided
to end an awkward situation by throw-
ing the charm into the sea. She was also
fold of charms against love —methods by
which the most importunate admirer may
be rendered indif-
ferent—but ■ here
sorcery appears
to be superfluous.
That is, if there is
any truth in the
advertisements of
a well-known brand of soap.
After making due allowances for auto-
suggestion and hypnosis, Miss Karlin
concludes:
It is possible that we white people, who
set the utmost value on the intellect, on
the winning of knowledge and on the
greatest possible development of our in-
tellectual faculties, are losing certain powers
which the primitive peoples have retained.
A Cornish Witch
Though witchcraft is the dominating
theme of Raven’s Brood , the memorable
features are the people and the plot. It
is a great story ; perhaps the best that
Mr. Benson has told. As practisers of
magic the nineteenth-century farm-folk
of the country round St. Columb’s ful-
filled at least one of the requirements
specified by Miss Karlin: they were
primitives.
Old John Pentreath has long since lost
interest in his appalling wife when the
story begins. Young women, drink and
the Bible are his preoccupations. He
fears his wife and sometimes doubts if
his church-goings and Bible-readings are
as efficacious as her sinister pieties.
Well he knew, and his wife knew better,
that there were other powers ready to
befriend a man. That was beyond ques-
tion; he had seen their work too often to
have any doubt on that subject. *
Only when drunk does he dare to attack
her. At prayers after supper he con-
ducts boozy commination services
directed at the members of his house-
hold who have annoyed him.
“Lord God of Abraham,” he cried, “look
upon us poor sinners assembled here to
bow before Thy just wrath and indigna-
tion at our wickedness. There are those
of us who would fain turn their backs on
Thee, and call on the Powers of Darkness
to befriend them, whereby they damn their
souls and will suffer the eternal torments
Thou hast ordained for them.”
Nancy, his widowed daughter-in-law, in-
spires him with a blend of hatred and
desire.
The tipsy voice went on.
“Lord, there are those among us whose
hearts are set on their lusts and passions,
light women and harlots, who, like Jezebel
of old, paint their faces and tire their
hair, and entice the sons of men to serve
their wantonness. Consume their beauty,
O Lord, make their eyes to be dim”
He is a noisome old ruffian, but he be-
comes pitiable as his misfortunes pile up.
With the death of his wife, his suffer-
ings and terrors increase. He has done
all he can to placate her spirit—given her
an expensive funeral, forbidden the
undertaker to put a cross on the coffin—
but he knows in his heart that she will
return to pay him out. He is haunted
to death. Whether the destroying agent
which drove him into the flames was
Molly, reincarnated as a great brown
owl, or his drink- and superstition-crazed
mind is not clearly stated.
There are two love stories, both charm-
ng. Nell and Dennis, old John’s grand-
son, are glorious young pagans who
mate naturally and unashamedly. Nancy
and her painter belong to a ■ different
world; they are Londoners with the
artificial values, moral and social, of
their kind. Nancy—kind, vain, vulgar,
wanton —is perhaps the most interesting
of the characters. The Pentreaths are
illiterate, cruel and violent peasants, but
how well-bred they seem vis-a-vis this
good-natured Cockney!
The Cornish folk call spades spades
with the directness of characters in a
Restoration play, but right-thinking
readers won’t be offended. The expres-
sions are not dragged in, as in so many
society novels; they form part and
parcel of the people who use them.
Red Page.
A True Cricketer
It is a relief to those who regard cricket
as a game rather than a commercial
enterprise to turn from Test to real
cricket literature. An Unconventional
Cricketer, by Albert Kinross (Harold
Shaylor ; 9s. 6d.), will appeal to them.
Editor, war-correspondent, art and
dramatic critic, and author of a dozen
{“Red. Page” continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Foundation of Confidence
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
Get Out-of-Doors this Summer and Keep Cooil
a
f
□
Wwttliir;
NVVVU / *** WWUII
5^
‘A" /
U
■"'''" u ,>wii
*3
X
J * i
Sydney's Leading Tent Value in a 12ft. x 12ft.
"MARQUEE'' AUTO TENT
Waterproof Khaki or Green British Proofed Roof, with Boz. White
Duck Walls. This Tent, as illustrated, is the most popular one -for the
week-ender or the constant tourist. Workmanship and finish unsur-
sdf
passed. Complete with ropes, Bft. centre pole, 8 side poles 6ft.
(telescopic), 16 small and 12 large galvanised teht pegs; also tent and pole bags.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft. Anthony Horderns’ Price £7/19/6
Size 15 xl5 ft. Anthony Horderns’ Price £lO/5/-
MARQUEE TENT WITH KHAKI BIRKMYRE CLOTH ROOF
A very roomy Tent which enables one to walk around in comfort.
There is a calico division which provides two distinct rooms. The
roof is of waterproof Birkmyre. Complete with ropes attached, Bft.
centre pole, 8 6ft. telescopic poles and 16 small and 12 large
£B-15-0
galvanised tent pegs. Also tent and pole bags.
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with Boz. White Duck Walls. Anthony Horderns’ Price £B/15/-
Size 13ft. x 13ft., with Boz. White Duck Walls. Anthony Horderns’ Price . £9/9/-
Size, 13ft. x 15ft., with Boz. White Duck Walls. Anthony Horderns’ Price £lO/2/6
Size 15ft. x 15ft., with Boz. White Duck Walls. Anthony Horderns’Price £lO/17/6
CALICO CAR COVERS
These covers afford protection against dust, sun and weather. No car is complete without one.
Can be used to cover the car in the garage and as a lean-to when outing. Sizes to fit any make
of car.
Sizes, feet 12x1512x1815x1815x20 15x24 18x20
Quality JX, Prices 16/11 19/9 24/- 27/- 32/6 32/6
Quality AX, Prices 26/6 31/- 38/- 43/- 51/- 51/-
Quality DX, Prices 35/6 42/- 52/- 57/6 69/- 69/-
We can recommend Quality AX Tent Calico Cover to the travelling motorist who cannot garage
his car. This cloth, although not waterproof, is practically rainproof. It is used by many owners
as a temporary garage.
“THE QUICK CAMPER”
A Motor Lean-to Tent erected in a few minutes. Height, 6ft. 6in.; walls
sloping to 3ft. 6in.; size of room, 9ft. x 9ft. 6ft. flap goes over hood only
and fastens to car with ropes. Calico curtain between car and tent. Includes
ropes, pegs, two collapsible poles 6ft. 6in., two poles 3ft. 6in. Strong Calico.
44'6
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 44/6
Boz. Duck. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 59/6
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED TENT CATALOGUE NOW.
© Tents —Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
CAMP
ACCESSORIES
from
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
A camp is incomplete without one
of these! Iron Tinned Fry Pans.
Collapsible handles.
Inches, 8 9 10 II 12
Each.. 2/- 2/3 2/6 2/9 2/11
FIREPLACES
Morrisfield Collapsible Camp Fire-
places, designed for easy handling
and-endurance.
Price, each 5/-
Tripods. Price, each . . 9d.
&
TTrZ
m
GRID IRONS
Wire Grid Irons, an important com-
ponent of the camp kitchen.
Sizes, in Bx 7 10x8 12x9
Price, ea 1/- 1/- 1/3
Heavy. Size, in. 12x9
Price, each 2/3
BUTTER COOLERS
mini •
The “Willow” Butter
Coolers that keep
the butter or other
dainties so fresh,
firm and cold in the
hottest weather. A
boon to campers—
no camp should be
without one.
Price, each. . 2/9
§ Household Ironmongery—Ground
Floor, Pitt Street. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.
FOLDING CAMP CHAIRS
sdf
sdfas
Folding Camp Chairs. These are
light, strong and comfortable. Iron
frame painted black. Height to seat,
17 inches. Size of seat, 13 x 12
inches. Height of back from seat,
15 inches. Price, each 8/-
• Furniture —Third Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: (V 12401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


7 • ;\v
''••'ft:
\ jyylfc,. t*
%SQT
• JP%*
MW
mm
i
m.
mm
m. y~
*<T*'**;»>
‘sB^
<3B
sfee-n y**',- 2
Sv «
Jftii
Successful industrial enterprise is based on scientific methods
—especially so in a highly technical industry like wireless.
The science of wireless is not stationary—it is ever changing.
New trends, new applications'develop from day to day. The
idea of to-day, crystallised, developed and tested, is often the
practice of a few months hence.
Confident in the ability of Australians and in the future of the
industry, A.W.A. has established the finest equipped wireless
testing and research laboratory in Australia, staffed with
highly qualified and experienced research engineers.
In 1934, as in 1913, A.W.A. is in the forefront of wireless
progress. To-day, however, the field of development is far
more extensive; 21 years ago most of the subjects were un-
known. Intensive research is being carried out in telephone
and telegraph communications, broadcasting, facsimile trans-
missions, micro-ray and television.
dfasdf
A.W.A. is thus ensuring that not only will Australia continue to
enjoy the advantages of modern wireless, but that every de-
velopment of the science will be made available to it.
Research Is one of the many
Wireless Services rendered Australia by
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS tA / SI A) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA’S NATI ON A L WIRELESS ORGANISATION


Indigestion
Sufferers
*
m
m
Here is
New Hope
Indigestion seems to start so simply.
Just a little fulness after meals, perhaps
a little wind rising from the stomach
and a sense of drowsiness and perhaps
slight headaches.
But as the machinery of digestion
breaks down we quickly see the result.
Pain after meals, awful griping, dis-
tressing fulness, sour wind, sallow
spotted complexion, biliousness, bad
taste in the mouth. The acid griping
pains get worse as your indigestion is
neglected and soon you become to
dread gastritis or ulceration of the
stomach. Be warned.
A NEW-PRINCIPLE REMEDY
GIVES QUICK RELIEF
We do most seriously urge those
with even slight symptoms of indiges-
tion to start at once with De Witt’s
Antacid Powder.
Even in the short time it has been
available for the public, the testimony
to this remedy comes from people who,
in many cases, have tried everything to
end their indigestion misery without
success.
Read these few extracts from a host
of letters and you will realise indiges-
tion, no matter how serious, can be
overcome.
Duodenal Ulcers.
I had been undergoing: a treatment for
duodenal ulcers, but without much relief.
The pain kept on coming- back. DeWitt’s
Antacid Powder suited me from the first
dose—l wouldn’t be without it.—No. 81.
Acute Indigestion.
After trying- everything for acute indi-
gestion—without Dene St—l got com-
plete relief—thanks to DeWitt’s Antacid
Powder. It is wonderful.— N 0.25.
Dyspepsia Relieved.
Your Powder acted like a charm on my
nervous dyspepsia. Doctor says he is
astonished at my improvement.—No.74.
De Witt’s Antacid Powder is confi-
dently recommended in all cases of
INDIGESTION
PALPITATION
FLATULENCE
GASTRITIS
SOUR ACID STOMACH
SPOTTY COMPLEXION
ULCERATED STOMACH
BOWEL WEAKNESS
We do repeat emphatically that you
cannot afford to neglect indigestion.
It may cause you awful agonies day
and night and wreck your health.
DeWitt’s Antacid Powder, we know,
can and will help you. Get a supply to-
day. Take it regularly for a few days
and clear away from the system the
cause of all your trouble.
Dewitts
ANTACID POWDER
For INDIGESTION. Price 2/6
Sold in handsome canisters con-
taining average month’s supply. Be
sure you get the genuine remedy,
prepared by the well-known house
“ De Witt’s,” which has supplied medi-
cinal remedies to the public for 50 years.
novels, Albert Kinross was born at Hamp-
stead in 1870. His father, formerly owner
of a store in St. Thomas (Danish West
Indies), had set up as a West India mer-
chant in London a few years previously.
His mother came from Faaborg, in
Funen, one of the Danish islands in the
Baltic, and was the fourth of seven girls,
of whom six, though they hadn’t a shil-
ling between them, married well.
Albert’s unorthodox views on most ques-
tions seem to have descended from his
grandsire, who had devoted what time
he could spare from fighting the Prus-
sians to running most of the business
enterprises of his town.
His father’s office was not the place
for Albert Kinross, and the incident
which led to the parting of the ways
concerned a golden-brown lady from St.
Thomas who fainted in the office. Hav-
ing read somewhere that the correct pro-
cedure in such a case was to undo the
lady’s dress, he did so while the two
office-boys retired modestly to their
quarters. He was proceeding according
to plan when the lady revived with a
shriek and excitedly explained that the
remedy she needed was a stiff glass of
brandy, which Albert duly supplied.
Throughout life Kinross played cricket
—real cricket: high-grade club cricket
at Cambridge and in London, and later
at Hythe, one of Kent’s many beautiful
grounds. When increasing age and avoir-
dupois took toll, village cricket claimed
him, to- his great content. Whatever
cricket he played was a sheer joy. All
his life he soaked in an atmosphere of
pure sport.
It was at Hythe that he first met Percy
Chapman, who was working at the
Hythe Brewery whilst qualifying for
Kent, and it is a proof of his sound
judgment that at this stage of Chapman’s
career he picked him out as a future
English captain. “You could almost hear
Chapman thinking as he played.”
Many famous cricketers trod the
sward of Hythe, and the groundsman
Nunds was a character. He dearly loved
lords, and never forgot that they were
lords. Some loved it, others didn’t. For
example, Lord Sondes, who said “Look
here, Nunds, not so much of your
bloody ‘my lord’; once a day is quite
enough.”
Edmund Candler, the war-corre-
spondent—a lifelong friend of Kinross
—describes him as “an exuberant, over-
grown boy, with a bray of a laugh and
a habit of,using the language of an Eliza-
bethan bargee.”
Kinross disliked Test cricket, in fact,
any cricket that placed a premium on
the result, and not the game. Had he
lived to witness the incidents of the last
two years his Elizabethan comments
would certainly have been worth hear-
ing.
It was a tragedy that he died before
completing his reminiscences. Cricket
to-day is sick —Test cricket, at any rate.
Unless we can inoculate it, with a
measure of the spirit of sportsmanship
that breathes through the pages of An
Unconventional Cricketer, we shall be
called upon to pay a heavy bill for medi-
cal resuscitation.
GEORGE GARNSEY.
Art and Pornography
I was brought up among the men and
women who were the active elements of
the Irish Literary Renaissance, and I
thought recently that I would like to find
out how the legacy they left to the
present generation—a legacy of Irish love-
liness —has been dealt with by their suc-
cessors. I chose Liam O’Flaherty, know-
ing nothing of him beyond his name, and
I read first “The Puritan” and then
“Skerrett.-”
Alas for the memory of Yeats, Russell,
George Moore and Synge! I found that
where there had been so much beauty
O’Flaherty could find only muck. He
has gone out of his way to paint his
fellow-countrymen and women in the
lowest and most degraded colors. In his
two books I found but one praiseworthy
character, a police commissioner, and
he seems to have been brought in to
make the others look fouler by contrast.
“The Puritan” deals with a young and
morbid journalist who, having been a
member of an anti-vice society, has
acquired, in a brain naturally fruitful for
the growth of such ideas, the conviction
that immorality and sin must be stamped
out by killing out of hand all those who
stray from the path of rectitude. He
murders a prostitute, goes half-mad and
completes the process in Tyrone-street
amid settings so frightful that the effect
is sickening. Doubtless such things as
the author describes could be found in
any city if one cared to dredge deep
enough, but no Irishman will thank
O’Flaherty for having placed them in
Dublin.
“Skerrett” doesn’t even seem to be
about men and women ; the people are
brute beasts gifted with semi-human
brains and actuated in various instances
by various motives —cupidity, brutality,
cunning, stupidity and so forth. Even
at that the author seems unable to make
them beastly enough, and so has to put
into that part of the tale which is not in
dialogue form even more revolting
phrases and references than are to be
found in “The Puritan.” The result is
an insult not only to Erin and the Irish,
but to readers who believe that this earth
still contains some beauty and purity,
and that Ireland has her fair share of it.
I am aware that “filth for filth’s sake”
is the slogan of a school which has a
vogue in many English-speaking coun-
tries. The school has one justification
anyhow; filth sells if the police give it a
chance. But the further claim is made
that filth is good art in itself; that the
old-fashioned writers who shunned it
were ipso facto bad artists. This is
where I join issue. The Irish Literary
Revival put the Irish writer of the time
at the apex of literary achievement.
Even the realist George Moore treated
his subjects delicately, even beautifully.
Writers such as O’Flaherty—and we have
them, of course, in every country nowa-
days—treat their subjects obscenely;
they are life’s distorting-mirrors. If this
is art then practically all the most
sublime poets and story-tellers of past
ages were impostors.
C. H. ROLLESTON.
The Shavian Prefaces
Prefaces, by Bernard Shaw (Constable;
Rawson’s, Melbourne; 18s. 6d.). The
amount of wisdom in this 800-page book
is colossal; the author touches on almost
every subject in human experience. Two
generations of human beings have read
his prefaces with avidity. No writer who
ever lived has had such an enormous
audience except the unknown authors of
the Pentateuch. No prophet has had
such a charming capacity for winning his
way into people’s heads, if not into their
hearts. No preacher of uncompromising
truths has ever been permitted such free-
dom of utterance. Shaw’s diatribe
against the belligerents, published at the
outbreak of the Great War, would have
earned a less eminent soapboxer a view
of the inside of a prison cell.
The other week in Melbourne they
revived “Man and Superman.” Hun-
dreds of citizens put on pearls and
boiled shirts, and went to laugh and ap-
plaud. The critics of the dailies went
along, too. Were they touched to the
quick, humiliated and reformed? Not
in the least. They said, in effect, that
the old boy was out of date ; in other
words, that the problems he dealt with
had long ago been solved, though it is
obvious that those problems are as far
away from solution as they were when
Shaw first began to write.
It has always been so. Lao-tze
offered the world sufficient wisdom
to make a millennium and a Utopia
200 years ago. So did Socrates,
Shakspeare, Sir Thomas More, Dickens,
Samuel Butler —the list could be extended
indefinitely. At one time it was believed
that it was only necessary to make the
wisdom of these sages available to all
and the miracle would be wrought. The
invention of printing was expected to do
the trick. It has only assisted the spread
of ignorance and prejudice as regards
about 75 p.c. of readers. The remaining
25 p.c., however, should find Prefaces a
help as well as a joy.
F. S.
A Satchel of Books
The Endeavour Press is testing the
possibilities of tanned Australian sheep-
skins for bookbinding. A special auto-
graphed numbered edition of Brian
Penton’s “Landtakers” has been pro-
duced in this form, and specimens can
be seen at Dymock’s, David Jones’s,
Moore’s and Preece’s, Sydney. The
edition is confined to 23 copies, all first
impressions, at two guineas each.
The Home for September has some
first-class stuff by Blamire Young and
Hector Bolitho, and an immense wad of
London gossip by Tommy Cochran. A
feature that greatly interested the writer
was “John Knatchbull,” who is the Pic-
turesque Rascal of the month. In addi-
tion to a fairly full account of his
appalling career, there are Sydney pic-
tures of him (1) standing his trial, (2)
being hanged.
Silence of a Purple Shirt, by R. C.
Woodthorpe (Nicholson and Watson;
7s. 6d.), is a thriller about English Fas-
cism. The corpse was a Purpleshirt in
life, and a comrade is suspected of the
murder. Without giving the secret away
it may be said that, after H.M. the King,
the Archbishop of Canterbury and one
or two more, the criminal was about the
unlikeliest man in the Kingdom. There
is some amusing satire on Fascist
mumbo-jumboism, and the hotel from
which the novelist Nicholas Slade con-
ducts his investigations is interesting.
The People of a House, by W. B. Max-
well (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). The highly-
dramatic love story of Gilbert and
Marian, whom Fate separated but
brought together again. Mr. Maxwell
has an odd trick of dotting every “i”
and crossing every “t.”
Since Gilbert could bring no money into
the concern, his stake or share must neces-
sarily be small to begin with, but in ex-
panding business it should increase enor-
mously, and meanwhile his emoluments
would at least be larger than the amount
he was receiving as salary.
A modern might have told this tale in
half as many words, but there are
readers who like prolixity. They form
a large proportion of Mr. Maxwell’s
public, and they stick to him because, in
addition to long books, he always gives
them good plots.
The Manchurian Arena (Angus and
Robertson; 3s. 6d.) is by F. M. Cutlack,
author of “The Australian Flying Corps”
in the “Official History of Australia in
the War,” and representative of the Aus-
tralian Press Association on the tour of
Manchukuo in June last. Mr. Cutlack
had previously toured China and Japan
with the Federal Government’s Eastern
Mission. The Manchurian Arena is a
judicial summing-up of the situation in
what used to be Manchuria, but Japan’s
case is emphasised.
There is not an Englishman or an
American resident in Manchuria to-day
who will not admit that he would prefer
to see the Japanese in control there rather
than the Russian Soviet. There is not an
English or an American resident in Shang-
hai who will not admit that the Japanese
action there in 1932, whatever may be said
about it in the Olympian atmosphere of
Western foreign offices, has had a most
salutary effect upon the general anti-forelgn
behavior of the Nanking Government.
Mr. Cutlack would like to see the League
of Nations recognise Manchu independ-
ence, and he believes that Australia
should urge the League to do so.
Pelican Walking, by G. B. Stern
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.). Thirteen short
stories, all of which are good, though
none is as good as might be expected.
This critic got his widest grin from “Out-
line of an Actor,” but all the lady’s social
satire is effective as usual. Several of
the stories — e.g., “Black Cat for Luck”
—are no more than deft essays in maga-
zine sentiment.
Broken Record (Boriswood; 7s. 6d.)
is a book of reminiscences by Roy Camp-
bell, the South African poet who wrote
“Wayzgoose” and “The Georgiad.” The
author has spent most of his time in
recent years in Provence, variously en-
gaged in bullfighting, jousting, dog-steal-
ing and able-seamaning. He loves horses,
outdoor exercise, beauty, action and writ-
ing about himself, and he despises dogs,
Peter Pans and nearly all English men of
letters. Above all, he detests modernism,
which to him means “Charlie Chaplin
and his disastrous shuffling pedestrian
civilisation.” An amusing customer in
his vituperative way, but it’s hard to
say how much of his book is Campbell
and how much is pose.
■ In Sweet Enemy (Cassell; 7s 6d.)
Claude Schuster has painted with a sure
hand the hysterical days of the Terror,
the forlorn rising in La Vendee and
England’s misguided attempt at stabi-
lising affairs in France by backing the
hopeless expedition of emigres which
ended so disastrously at Quiberon. The
lives of John Grendon and Diane,
Marquise de Chasseforet, weave their
separate destinies through the mingled
squalor and gallantry of the day. We
see Robespierre, Barras, Fouche, and
Danton is presented in a new light—
an almost agreeable light.
Two seven-and-sixpenny novels from
Collins, Even Such Is Time, by Doreen
Wallace, and Mary Westmacott’s Un-
finished Portrait, reflect different views
of life. Miss Wallace sees this mortal
vale as a somewhat dull procession of
years
that takes in trust
Our youth, our joys, our all we have,
And pays us but with earth and dust.
Benedick chooses to become a small-
town vet. rather than stagnate as the
heir to his stepfather’s estate. He mar-
ries, and for two years struggles against
poverty and disappointments. Then, just
as things are brightening, his wife dies.
There are no highlights and almost no
plot. Celia, of Unfinished Portrait, also
encounters drab frustration. The first
years of her marriage are ideally happy,
and then she finds that her husband has
grown tired of her. She is an entirely
natural person; it might be the portrait
of hundreds of other women in similar
circumstances. The book creates an illu-
sion of life, and here Even Such Is Time,
in spite of its rigid adherence to every-
day probabilities, fails. -


Agents


The Bulletin
Vol. 55.—N0. 2849.
September 19, 1934.
AT THE HEN CONVENTION.
“Russia has been invited to join the League of Nations with a permanent seat on the Council.”
“It's all right, girls—I’ve become respectable.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place. Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
> Street. Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.:
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to
Country and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route.” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE SORDID ELECTIONS.
Although the counting of votes will
drag on for another week or two, the
results of the Commonwealth elections
are sufficiently clear. No single party
will have a majority in the House in
which Ministries are made and unmade.
Failing a national Government, which
seems out of the question—although there
is one in South Africa, where old racial
animosities have had to be overcome —the
U.A.P. will have to rule by the grace or
with the co-operation of the Country
party. It was evident to most people
long before September 15 that this would
be the case, but it did not prevent the par-
ties which will have to share the respon-
sibility of governing Australia from jaw-
ing at one another, nor did it stop their
campaign directors and newspapers from
indulging in preposterous anticipations of
victory. Of course, equally ridiculous
forecasts were issued by the Labor fac-
tions ; that sort of thing has come to be
regarded as part of a sordid game.
The people will look back on the elec-
tions with no pleasure. The campaign
began on a low plane and ended on a
lower one. Except in rare cases like that
of Menzies, the pretence of argument was
soon abandoned by common consent;
instead of appealing to the brains of the
electors, all the parties appealed to their
prejudices and their pockets. The tech-
nique varied according to particular
tastes and fancies, but, generally speaking,
each crowd sought to frighten the elec-
tors with pictures of what its opponents
would do to them and to allure them
with pictures of what it would do for
them. Work for the unemployed was
promised by all; reduction of debts by
all ; higher prices for farm produce by
all ; they differed only in methods.
It was anticipated that Lang-Labor
would take the lead in this ignoble com-
petition, and that Scullin-Labor would
follow not far behind ; but no one sup-
posed that the U.A.P. would join in as
it did. The last week of the campaign
found the Prime Minister making this un-
abashed bid for farming support:
We intend to borrow large sums—
£lo,ooo,ooo, £15,000,000, possibly more—
to relieve the primary industries of the
burden of debt which they are carrying.
When we see how much money we can
obtain, we intend to consult the industries
themselves as to the best way of using it.
At another stage of his pilgrimage he
unctuously reproved the Agrarians:
The Country party, which is frankly sec-
tional in its outlook, seeks to provide all
sorts of gifts to primary producers, but . its
policy is strangely silent on the manner in
which these gifts are to be paid.
“We have short memories for
past troubles,” said T. Barr Smith, of
Adelaide; “the financial difficulties of
three years ago are forgotten already. We
are again borrowing millions and increas-
ing the future interest bill accordingly
when we ought to be taking advantage
of the low rate of interest to redeem
loans floated in the past.” Butler, his
State Premier, has spoken in the same
honest strain, and, referring particularly
to loan-works outlined by the Stevens
Government, has declared that they won’t
return p.c. Yet here is the head of
the Australian Government proposing to
borrow as much as the market will
yield to finance an entirely new and ob-
viously hazardous development of State
paternalism, a thing loaded with dyna-
mite, and asking the beneficiaries to let
him know how they would like the goods
delivered —of course, they were first to
say it with votes. He reserved this state-
ment of his “policy” for Gosford in the
N.S.W. electorate of Robertson, where a
tame supporter —Gardner —was strug-
gling. In industrial electorates, where he
found many unemployed, he undertook
to borrow huge amounts of “real”
money to provide jobs, accompanying the
promise with nauseating mush about the
U.A.P. being the Grand Old Labor Party
all over again—spiritually reborn, and
with a full supply of the brains which
the G.CLL.P. shot out of its head.
By an unhappy coincidence, the
“Argus” followed its report of the out-
rageous Gosford speech with one of R.
G. Menzies urging the Young National-
ists of Hobart to come out strong against
“mercenary” politics. Doubtless in ignor-
ance of the exhibition that his leader had
made of himself and his Government,
Mr. Menzies, who is expected to become
Attorney-General, said to his youthful
friends:
There is no greater object of ridicule or
contempt than the man who puts himself
forward as an advocate of some immediate
project which will appeal to sufficient
electors to give him three years of leisure
to enable him to forget the last lot of
promises, and to manufacture the next lot.
Agreed ; and it doesn’t only apply to the
Langs and Scullins. It is equally true, as
Mr. Menzies put it, that “the British
system of government will not persist if
politicians descend to obtaining votes by
barter.” In countries bred up to it, Par-
liamentary government is the best system
yet devised for plain men and women
who want to live free and full lives and
object to being oppressed by dictators or
ordered about by doctrinaires and
bureaucrats. But if too much is heaped
on it and expected of it, it will break
down. With seven Parliaments, seven
lots of wage-fixing tribunals, seven Gov-
ernment railway systems, overlapping
departments and a vast army of
officials operating a bastard system of
government by regulation—many of
them chase the taxpayer for taxes on tax-
money he has already paid—it is plainly
overloaded in Australia, and every costly
vote-catching expedient extending the
power of the State over the individual
adds to the strain, while exposing Parlia-
ment to the contempt of the unthinking
if the expedient fails—as they all do.
But on one point Mr. Menzies is
wrong. “One of the gravest reflections
on our people,” he said, “is that we are
so obviously prepared to put up our votes
for sale.” This may be true of individuals
and sections, but it is not true of the
people as a whole. The people have
higher standards than the politicians.
Greater political wisdom, too, when a
clear national issue is presented to them ;
it was they who wrote the financial agree-
ment into the Constitution (thereby sav-
ing the Commonwealth in a grave emer-
gency) and ended the crazy competition
in State loans. Again and again they
have cast out parties which sought to
win them with appeals to self-interest
and craven fears. N. S. Wales, for in-
stance, rejected the first Government that
promised it family endowment; but
every other State can furnish examples
of the kind. In the Commonwealth
itself the party with which Mr. Lyons
was so long associated won its greatest
victory when it stood for national de-
fence and the creation of the Common-
wealth Bank, and suffered its worst lick-
ing when it got cold feet during the war.
It was run out of office when it “offered
the women a fiver for their votes.”
All the parties complained of poor
attendances at their election meetings.
This does not suggest that the people
took their votes into the market and were
thrilled at the prospect of selling them to
the highest bidder. Very probably they
would have gone to the .meetings in
greater numbers had any party touched
their imaginations with a national pro-
gramme involving sacrifices such as
Labor put before them in 1910 ; but no
party did.
“EXONERATED.”
For nearly a month newspapers through-
out Australia have been publishing in-
spired items about the Alan Casey inquiry
headed “Naval Board Exonerated.” The
Bulletin had an opportunity for the first
time last week to examine the Commis-
sioner’s report. The report admits that
the Naval Board treated Alan Casey as
The Bulletin said it had treated him.
The alleged exoneration rests on the
theory that the Naval Board acted
“within the law.”
There were two main issues: (1) Was
Casey invalided in accordance with the
regulations? (2) Should he have been
compensated?
Casey was medically examined after
his breakdown as follows:
On August 22, 1933, by Dr. Collins, a
Macquarie-street specialist in psychiatry,
who is habitually employed in R.A.N. cases.
He reported: “I could find no physical
abnormality, nor any evidence of serious
mental disease.”
On August 29, 1933, by a Naval Medical
Board. It recommended that “this officer
should not be discharged as permanently
unfit.”
On September 30, 1933, by Dr. Collins.
“I would recommend that he be allowed
to return to duty.”
On October 5, 1933, by a Naval Medical
Board, which recommended that he should
be given ‘‘three months’ shore service and
a resurvey.”
Eighteen days later the Naval Board,
consisting of the First and Second Naval
Members and the Finance Member (none
of whom, admittedly, knows anything
of medicine), met and invalided. Casey.
It had previously conferred with the
Director of Naval Medical Services, who
had not even seen the officer.
The regulations, as The Bulletin has
pointed out more than once, know only
one way in which a member of the
R.A.N. can be invalided: on the recom-
mendation of a Naval Medical Board.
Without this safeguard appalling injus-
tices might be committed. A Naval
Board composed of men who were not
doctors and who were prepared to act
on the advice of a doctor who hadn't
seen the patient might invalid a per-
fectly fit officer or rating.
The Commissioner's exoneration of
the Naval Board on this issue was in the
following terms:
I am of opinion that Licut.-Commandcr
Casey was regularly invalided. By the
Naval Forces Regulations (Stat. Rules,
1926, No. 196) the Naval Board is “charged
with the control and administration of all
matters relating to the Naval Forces upon
the policy directed by the Minister,” and
it has “executive command of the Naval
Forces.”
In short, like the British Parliament,
the Naval Board is competent to do any-
thing but “make a man a woman or a
woman a man” where the R.A.N. is con-
cerned. In the same way as it over-
ruled two findings by its own psychiat-
rist, and two by its own Medical Board
in a medical case, so it could overrule
naval architects over the construction of
a warship, or it could convict a man who
had been acquitted by a court-martial;
which is absurd. Naval Boards were not
intended by the Act to be omnipotent,
for the good reason that they cannot be
omniscient. They are bound, or they
should be, by the advice of their experts.
The Commissioner regrets in his re-
port that the Naval Board did not
have Casey resurveyed in accord-
ance with the recommendation of
the Medical Board of October 5, 1933.
All well-wishers of the Naval Board will
feel similar regrets. A resurvey, in the
light of new facts about Casey’s health
which were disclosed while the Commis-
sion was sitting, might have caused the
Medical Board to invalid the officer, and
so have enabled the Naval Board to
retire (not invalid) him in accordance
with the regulations.
As regards issue (2), except by using
its alleged powers as a body entitled to
defy the regulations because it is in
“executive command of the Naval
Forces,” the Naval Board had no autho-
rity to compensate. No Medical Board
had invalided Casey, and under the
regulations no R.A.N. member can be
compensated till a Medical Board has
invalided him. Anyhow, says the Com-
missioner, by Article 88 a member of
the R.A.N. can only claim compensa-
tion for “disease contracted on, and at-
tributable to, service.” Casey’s break-
down had nothing to do with his service.
Yet in refusing Casey’s request for a re-
survey, as recommended by the Medical
Board, the Second Naval Member wrote
as follows on February 5, 1934:
The Director of Naval Medical Services
is of opinion that you are physically fit
for [civilian] occupations, as the conditions
peculiar to the Naval service which ad-
versely affected you will not be present
therein.
The conditions were the strain of over-
work. If Casey had gone slow he need
never have suffered from neuroses. Like
every other Jervis Bay product, he was
A 1 mentally, morally and physically
when he joined.
The danger of the finding in his
case is clear. It amounts to a warn-
ing. “If a job has to be done on a nasty
night,” it says inferentially, “dodge it.
You might get pneumonia and die, or
the pneumonia might develop into t.b.
In either event the disease would not be
attributable to service, and you, or yours,
would not be entitled to compensation.”
If this is the law with regard to dis-
ease acquired on service, and if the Naval
Board possesses the Hitleresque powers
attributed to it by Justice Napier, then
the sooner the law is amended and the
board is shorn of its excessive powers
the better for the R.A.N. It should be
one of the first reforms of the new Par-
liament.
“WORST IN THE WORLD.”
I spent last Friday night in the streets
of ruined Sydney. I know it is ruined,
because I have been listening to party
speakers and radio plays. Plays in which
ruined employers tell the story of how
their banks foreclosed on them to ruined
employees whom the banks have evicted.
The first thing which struck me about
the wrecked city was its dangers. The
footpaths were so full of ruined workers
that I had to take to the road among
the cars. Outside the picture-shows the
ruined workers gathered in long queues,
each unit of which clutched two shillings
with a starved air of eagerness. The
trams were so crowded that even a fly
could not crawl into them, and the
cheaper shops were a seething mass.
I toured over 20 capitals during the
height of the pre-depression boom. Out-
side Bond-street and Piccadilly and the
fashionable Kurfurstendammer Platz, I
could not show you a crowd which con-
trives to starve in such raiment as the
victims of the Australian banks. You
look in vain in Sydney for bedraggled
rows of rag-hucksters in back streets,
patronised by equally ragged women and
gaunt and dirty men. Bright faces, silk
stockings, tailor-made suits and parcels;
and round the lottery offices oppressed
shopgirls, each with her ss. 3d.
In the restaurants there is more misery.
I suffered some of it myself. In the first
place I entered 1 dived for the one vacant
seat at a table occupied by the barber
from next door, two shopgirls off duty,
the little miss who serves in the milk-bar
opposite and a large importer. There is
no democracy in Australia —any politi-
cian will tell you so. Between the tables
was a whirl of waitresses who seemed to
take no interest in us. They couldn't,
poor things! They were busy serving
ruined toilers at other tables with roast
pork and peas; but after about five
minutes one of them came to tell me that
roast chicken, roast beef and crumbed
cutlets were off —“the place’s eaten out.”
I tried another food-dispensary. This
looked like the dispatch department of
a big store. The floor was covered with
parcels ; the tables were mountains high
with them ; the chairs were piled with
mothers —large, well-upholstered mothers,
marcelled mothers, mothers in silk stock-
ings. Father also was present. To a
man he wore a neat suit and had an
overcoat and a reasonably waterproof
pair of boots, and there wasn’t one among
him without a tie. Above the sound of
a hundred sturdy diners eating pie and
mash rose the sound of a wireless.
In almost every European capital in
a place of this type there would be no
parcels, and the diet would be sausage,
dry bread and weak beer. Ties would
be at a premium. It some countries
the smell of garlic would not. It took
me ten minutes to get a pie—half the
city seemed to want one.
Only in Balmain and Newtown and
Botany could I find misery on the Euro-
pean scale, and that was the misery of
words. At many a street corner in the
drizzle the whining accents of the Beas-
ley and Scullin protagonists rose. I
heard Mr. Garden speak. Job was a
circumstance beside him. I could not
help wondering whether he ever remem-
bered his native Scottish fishing village
with its wretched granite "boxes of houses.
At Mr. Beasley’s meeting I chummed
up with the unemployed—three of them.
I offered them tobacco, but they had it.
They also had reasonably warm clothes.
One of them said life on the dole was
a fair cow; but it transpired that he
had seen a picture-show that week and
that his family of four lived in three
rooms —at present on the bounty of the
landlord. I wondered how he would get
on in a London slum tenement, where six
or seven persons cook, eat and sleep in
single, smoke-filled rooms up several
flights of stairs ; or what sort of a Canton
River sampan yun he would be.
More pictures rose in my mind.
Ispahan, and a man who drives a
hairless, green-powdered, blindfold horse
in the darkness of a henna mill —round
and round, year in, year out —for eight-
pence a day. An old woman who
sits for ever on the damp ground thread-
ing fishes’ eyes for laborers’ food on a
string. Bursts of applause for Mr.
Beasley interrupted my thought—Mr.
Beasley had said fervently that only
socialisation of banking would save un-
employed Australians, who were now re-
duced to a harrowing plight—“the worst
in the world.”
Scene after scene flashed on the screen
of my memory. A back street in Bolton.
Fort Wayne, where black women near
their time were making petrol-pumps for
two or three shillings a day. French
Flanders in winter: drab, gnarled fisher-
women tramping to Dunkirk market
with deep, dank baskets of fish. Dung-
gatherers at the gates of Shiraz. A Ser-
bian village, with the black flag of death
in every second window.
It is not good for a man to be on the
dole, in Australia or anywhere else ; but
politicians who assert that the condition
of the Australian on the dole is “the
worst in the world” ought to be made
to take a course in world conditions.
EL VERDUGO.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Thank You, John Thomas!
Mr. Lang has won another election for his
opponents. He can be so thoroughly de-
pended upon to put them in that nowa-
days they require little in the way of
policy, organisation or propaganda. They
may even indulge in the luxury of quar-
relling among themselves. It is sufficient
that they are against Lang.
No party or combination of parties
can rule Australia unless it carries N. S.
Wales. By smashing a great bank and
arrogantly demanding the power to
smash other great banks, Mr. Lang made
victory in N. S. Wales impossible for
either wing of the Labor party or for
both wings. In the contest of Labor
factions his mob gained at the expense
of the other, as was perhaps to be ex-
pected ; but in the struggle with the
other side both fared almost as badly as
in 1931.
The Federal U.A.P. in N. S. Wales is
so ill-furnished with political brains that
Mr. Archdale Parkhill leads it, and has
Mr. Marr and Mr. Perkins with him in
the Ministry. The majorities gained by
these politicians and others as ordinary
are amazing. It is perhaps understand-
able that Mr. Hughes should have
polled 3 to 1 in North Sydney,
for he has always had a personal
following, but to 1 in War-
ringah, nearly 3 to 1, in Parramatta,
2j to 1 in Wentworth, 2 to 1 in Parkes
and 10,000 majorities in Watson (at the
expense of Mr. Lang’s Attorney-General)
and in Eden-Monaro! It would have been
impossible without Mr. Lang, and that
gentleman can also be thanked for send-
ing Mr. Lane back to Canberra as mem-
ber for Barton, an electorate that ought
to be a gift for a Labor party that isn’t
cracked, and for making two weak
U.A.P. men and a Cocky certainties for
the Senate.
Mr. Lang’s influence also made itself
felt in Victoria, especially as the hapless
Mr. Scullin had timidly followed him in
demanding political control of banking.
Because it had allowed redistribution to
be dished, the U.A.P. fought the election
in Victoria on unfavorable boundaries,
U.A.P. Henty having almost as many
electors as the two Labor strongholds of
Melbourne and Melbourne Ports. New
boundaries might possibly have saved
Mr. Fenton in Maribyrnong ; as it was,
his seat and Batman were lost to Scullin-
Labor. Almost everywhere else the
U.A.P. and U.C.P. seats were held by
substantial majorities, though a U.A.P.
man may go in for Corangamite, which
Mr. Gibson (C.P.) abandoned ; and the
three Senate seats will be won. With
Mr. Menzies in for Kooyong, Victoria
will send a strong team to Canberra,
strong in ability as well as numbers.
In the other mainland States the re-
sults were much as expected. Relatively
to the number of seats, Scullin-Labor
made its best showing in Queensland,
where, thanks largely to the influence of
the Forgan Smith Government, its five
members increased their majorities and
the three Senate seats may be gained ;
but it flopped horribly in South Aus.,
where the Liberal and Country Leaguers,
who are loosely allied with the U.A.P.,
will evidently win five of the six seats
in the House and the Senate three. West-
ralia turned down Scullin-Labor hard,
and the secessionists still harder. In the
Speck, the bubble of the Prime Minister’s
power over the electors was pricked.
A day or two before the election Mr.
Stewart, the Minister of Commerce, who
had been campaigning beyond Bass Strait
for his chief, returned to Sydney with
the report that it was “entirely fantastic”
to suppose that the Prime Minister had
“lost his influence in Tasmania.”
Mr. Lyons could win any seat in Tas-
mania, regardless of his party affiliations.
One seat only was in doubt—Franklin,
where the presence of the C.P. candidate
was merely aiding Mr. Blacklow’s Labor
opponents.
Sunday brought the shattering news
that Mr. Guy, Mr. Lyons’s hon. Minister
and confidential friend, was well behind
the Labor total in Bass, and Mr. Hutchin
in Denison, while only C.P. prefer-
ences could save Mr. Blacklow in Frank-
lin. Mr. Stewart made a great success
of a motor-’bus business, but as a poli-
tician he “talks like poor Poll.”
• &
“Mr. Lyons Will Go On Alone.”
Five Labor members were concerned
in the first secession from the Scullin
Government and party. Apparently
only Mr. Lyons and Mr. Price are left.
Mr. Fenton had as much to do with
confounding the tricks of the inflation-
ist section as Mr. Lyons, and risked
more, since he was not presented with a
safe seat. Considering the fate that
has befallen this doughty veteran, Mr.
Lyons must be accounted a singularly
lucky man.
When the Sunday figures showed that
Lyons men were behind in three of
the five Tasmanian electorates, the news-
paperman who was the Prime Minister’s
secretary and is still his close associate
came out with the announcement that
“Mr. Lyons will choose to go on alone.”
Australia will not “choose” to let Mr.
Lyons “go on alone.” It has had enough
of his absurd quarrel with Dr. Page. It
has refused the U.A.P. an absolute
majority; the natural inference is that
it wants a Government composed of the
best men in both parties, speaking with
one voice on the question of restriction
of exports and dividing the responsi-
bility for reduction of debts if it is to be
saddled with any such scheme.
Australia will demand a reconstruction
of the weak Ministry, with Mr. Pater-
son in the Cabinet if Dr. Page won’t join,
with Mr. Hawker back in it and with
Mr. Menzies second among the U.A.P.
Ministers.
♦
Russia in the League.
Japan and Germany having given notice
of intention to quit the League of
Nations, one of the gaps has been filled
by the admission of Russia, with a per-
manent seat on the Council. It is diffi-
cult to see what advantage the other
members of the League can gain from
association with the Red Republic, but
no doubt the rulers of that concern ex-
pect to derive benefits from partnership
with the “capitalist” nations.
The finances of the new member, as
exhibited in the 1934 U.S.S.R. Budget,
are an interesting study. Reckoning the
rouble at 7.4 to the pound sterling, the
total income from “Resources of Social-
ised Economy” is estimated at
£6,600,000,000 ; five-eighths comes from
“turnover tax.” An item of £300,000,000
goes in as “deductions from profits,”
though it was supposed that “produc-
tion for profit” had been abolished in
the “Workers’ Republic.” From “State
8 p.c. internal loans” £55,000,000 was
raised. Taxation includes “tax on hous-
ing and cultural work,” “passenger in-
surance,” “agricultural tax on peasants
and collective farmers.” That yielded
£75,000,000.
On the expenditure side, the biggest item
is £360,000,000 p.a. for “national defence.”
This will come as a shock to Australian
agitators who profess to believe that the
proposed purchase of a cruiser and a
few shore guns and ’planes proves that
the Lyons Government is bent on con-
scription and war.
Loan services cost a couple of hun-
dred millions a year. All Russian loans
prior to January, 1918, were cancelled by
decree. In 16 years the “ Workers’ Re-
public” has accumulated £1,340,000,000,
plus a few odd tens of millions owing to
Uncle Sam. Even when it is remem-
bered that a great deal of U.S.S.R. spend-
ing is concerned with State enterprises,
the magnitude of its taxation and bor-
rowing is apt to make capitalist nations
gasp.
Perhaps the outcast member of the
human family had to be admitted to the
League, but he adds nothing to its repu-
tation —strengthens it neither morally nor
financially.
♦
How Governments Treat Diggers.
“Second Divvy” says it’s typical:
William Graham Macdonald is a returned
soldier who, as a lieutenant in the 30th Bat-
talion, lost a leg at Passchendaele after three
years’ service. Profession: Accountant (mem-
ber of Commonwealth Institute of Accountants
and English Chartered Institute of Secretaries),
with special experience in trustee and pastoral
accounting and knowledge of securities, obtained
in the Bank of N. S. Wales. His testimonials,
as regards character and abilities, are of the
highest, and he has a wife and three children
to support.
At the end of last year he was offered a
job on the staff of the N. S. Wales Rural
Bank by the director (himself a badly-wounded
ex-soldier), accepted it (thereby losing the
chance of another job), and was transferred,
on loan, to the Farmers’ Rural Board. His
chief duty here was the settlement of securi-
ties, their relation to farmers’ encumbered
assets and their order of priority.
The work of the department was badly in
arrears and several Ms.L.A. were getting restive.
In a subsequent official complaint, Mr. Mac-
donald described the position: “No effective
machinery existed for the performance of the
work. No one knew what work was in hand.
It was impossible for weeks to obtain Depart-
mental Searches, the first logical means of
check.” He built up a trained staff and a
piece of machinery that functioned. Over a
period of 10 months before his arrival 145
cases had been received from supervisors; 50
had been completed, and 95 were still in hand.
When he handed over to his successor after
seven months’ work:
1069 cases had been received; 844 had been
completed, and 225 were in hand. Of the 225
cases 75 had been completed as to examination
and were in the hands of the Valuation Section;
and 127 were in my hands for examination.
The remaining 24 (with three exceptions) were
removal cases on which action was not proceed-
ing.
So pleased was the director in April, 1934,
that he sent for Mr. Macdonald and informed
him of “an entirely unsolicited increment in
salary.” To quote from a circular letter sent
to members of Parliament: —•
Several weeks thereafter, I was sent for by
the deputy-divector, who stated that I had
committed the “unpardonable sin.” I had
usurped the powers and prerogatives of my senior
officers. It would kill me; he had seen better
men killed by the same thing....On that occa-
sion he withdrew my standing as an executive
officer.
The end came in July.
I was again sent for by the deputy-director.
An interview took place at 5 p.m. I was
informed that the deputy-director was under-
taking a complete reorganisation of my branch
and that in the reshuffle my position would
become redundant.
An astonishing feature of the business is that
less than three hours before he was sacked he
had had a memo, from the deputy-director.
Please arrange for all litters from your
branch to come through the accountant for
signature—to me whilst the accountant is away.
Obviously on the facts, which are on record,
this returned soldier has been abominably
treated. If it had happened in 1918 all Aus-
tralia would have risen in protest. No poli-
tician would have dared to ignore the case
for several years after 1918. Now nobody in
authority is interested. Deputy-Premier BrUX-
ner, speaking as a soldier, advised Mr. Mac-
donald to subside. Premier Stevens didn’t even
answer his letter.
*
Driving Men to Communism.
During the year to September 7 Sydney
had 125 wet days. In the six months
ended Aug. 31 a little more than every
second day was wet. Through all the
downpour, the tram conductors of the
overgrown city stood on their filthy and
slippery footboards collecting fares from
a damp aggregation of humanity. Muffled
in oilskins, with water pouring down their
necks, they looked wretched to a man.
In five years, according to union
officials, there have been 5000 accidents
to drivers, 11 of which have been fatal.
Out of about 8000 employees in the de-
partment, 2453 were examined by the
medical officer in 1932, and in 1933 the
number had risen to 2984. Since 1925
economy has resulted in a speeding up of
an average of eight minutes for a one-
day trip. This adds over 1200 more
miles per annum to the distance traversed
by each traffic employee. With such
weather as this year’s, is it any wonder
that the tubercular rate for Sydney tram
conductors is 2.8 p.c., against .14 p.c. for
the whole of the Sydney citizens?
The conductors are not the only people
who suffer. In the overhead lines de-
partment, according to the union, 50
out of 400 employees were injured last
year—one of them fatally. During the
last quarter of 1932, 370 days were lost
in the branch through sickness and 205
through injury. This year a couple of
men have been killed.
The conditions, combined with a 26
p.c. reduction of staff in seven years and
a wage reduction of nearly 25 p.c. since
1930, are not conducive to contentment.
If the Government feels shocked when it
hears that both the Communist party and
the Minority Movement (which is con-
testing every vital seat at the union elec-
tions in a few weeks’ time) are making
headway among the tramwaymen, it can
only reflect that it is partly its own fault
and that of previous Governments.
Any private transport company which
attempted to impose on its employees the
conditions under which tramwaymen
work would be haled before the
Courts —the Transport Department re-
cently interdicted the use of a luggage-
carrier which had gone round the world
without protest from other countries be-
cause it was regarded as dangerous in
traffic. The trams with footboards are
a continuous risk to the men who work
on them.
♦
Settling Binghi’s Case.
Professor A. P. Elkin, an anthropolo-
gist, is the latest in the field with measures
designed to save the aborigines. He says
they have declined by 240,000 since the
white occupation. This is pure guess-
work ; until 1891 there were no figures
on which even a rough estimate of the
abo. population of the continent could
be based, though there were enumera-
tions in settled areas as far back as 1826.
Even then there were only 3000 blacks
in the occupied portion of N. S. Wales,
which included Moreton Bay.
By 1861 Victoria recorded 2384 in con-
tact with settlement. In 1891 the number
for the whole of Victoria was only 317.
Tasmania then was already completely
denuded of natives —the last Tasmanian
died in 1876. N. S. Wales’s black popu-
lation has dwindled from 5097 in 1891
to about 1000. Victoria, on the last
native census, has under 50. In Queens-
land, Westralia, S.A. and the Terri-
tory the race is going the way of all
flesh.
The only remnants likely to survive in-
tact are those in the districts of the North
where white settlement has scarcely pene-
trated. Professor Elkin wishes to bring
these to civilisation via 'a “transition
period” under white-man supervision.
The tribes he would take under control
have managed to survive through the
ages, often under conditions which would
kill the hardiest professor in a week.
They have a science of bushcraft more
exact than anthropology, a detailed social
code and an education system which are
thorough and logical to their surround-
ings. Pristine black manners, too, have
a polish of their own.
The remnant of the native races in
direct contact with the white races is
beyond saving, however well intentioned
its mentors. The intact tribes can save
themselves if left alone. They now
occupy only the poor leavings of country
which whites rarely enter. These dis-
tricts should be made over to them, and
any white invader with either an im-
proving or a predatory look in his eye
should be left to the Old Men to deal
with. In those circumstances, anthro-
pologists will be received as visitors with
courtesy, but those who attempt to in-
terfere with tribal customs or religion
or general native social habits will be
severely discouraged.
♦
Case of the Morro Castle.
“Cosmos”: The wreck of the Morro
Castle sheets home for the benefit of
Americans some lessons which were
learned on the Sydney-Tilbury run 30
years ago. Notably: “Keep the pas-
sengers in hand and don’t let them frater-
nise with the ship’s officers.” The China
went ashore at Bab-el-Mandeb after just
such a binge as is reported to have
occurred on the Morro Castle. From
that day to this no P. and O. officer has
appeared at a passengers’ party. P. and
O. officers aren’t even allowed to dance
with passengers.
The danger of some American luxury
ships is that they often carry passengers
who can make or break the officers. This
leads to slackness in fire- and boat-drill.
The discipline of a war-time troopship
may be unattainable, but by all accounts
the disorderliness of the Morro Castle
passengers matched that of a Red Sea
tramp carrying Mecca pilgrims to Jiddah.
“Matthias”: Two officers of the Presi-
dent Cleveland are reported to have told
a Marine Inquiry Board that “they did
not wish to serve any longer with Cap-
tain Carey, because he delayed in send-
ing lifeboats to the Morro Castle.” A
fine gesture. But what would Captain
Carey’s owners have done if he had sac-
rificed their property and the lives of
their employees in such a desperate ven-
ture? He would probably have got the
sack for his chivalry under the merchant-
service rule that a master, guilty or inno-
cent, is punished if anything serious hap-
pens to his ship.
On these occasions I never forget the
deplorable example set some years ago
by a chief officer whose ship grounded
while he was on duty. Unobtrusively
launching a small sailing-boat which he
owned, he went ashore and stayed there.
He was done for professionally. Why
worry further? Unsailorlike, dastardly,
anything you please—but how logical!
•
In the Near North.
“Feng-Shui”: I am not in agreement
with the writer who infers (B. 5/9/’34)
that the rumored renewal of the Anglo-
Japanese alliance will be a fresh bulwark
of peace in the Near North. The first
alliance led to the Russo-Japanese war ;
renewal might lead to another.
On the analogy of previous history,
what will occur is this: Japan will push
further ahead in Manchuria and become
more active in Mongolia. This will
bring greater friction with the Soviet,
which has been entrenching itself in
Mongolia for years. Japan will also
become more vigorous in China, perhaps
renewing the claims she made on that
dishevelled nation in the 21 Demands
delivered during the World War. These
were tantamount to a request to the
Celestial Government to hand over its
sovereignty. If this gesture is repeated,
the Chinese Government is bound to
refuse, and Japan will feel obliged to
occupy as much of the country as she
can reach. This will bring her into con-
flict with all the great Western Powers,
especially America. That the United
States would sign a non-aggression pact
in such circumstances is a pious hope.
Japan is devoting far more energy to
strengthening her military position than
to bringing the blessings of her rule to
the heathen under her control. British
observers in Malay complain that the
amazing increase in her fishing fleet is
part of the military plan. And Japan-
ese goods are driving British goods out
of the market as far west as the Medi-
terranean. I cannot see any particularly
peaceful features about a situation like
this.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Shiggs”: A Ma State inspector ex-
amining a class recently spoke of the
benefits to be derived from a diet of
milk. After the lecture, he tested the
“Your supper, sir. Shall I serve it on the Brussels, the Persian or the bear-
skin rug?"
attentiveness of the class by asking what
milk was the best for babies. “Mother’s
milk,” replied one small girl. The in-
spector agreed, but asked for reasons,
“It’s full of nutriment,” said one bright
boy. “It has all the vitamins,” said a
girl. There was a long pause. “Any
more reasons?” asked the inspector.
“Please, sir, because the cats can’t get
at it,” piped up the smallest kiddie in
the class. The inspector passed on to
arithmetic.
“Gilbert de Sleuth”: A strange will
case has been settled out of court. Tes-
tator had a business in one capital city
and a branch in another State; regu-
larly once a fortnight he caught the ex-
press and went to visit the branch tor
three or four days. After his death it was
found that he had divided his estate
between the elderly wife and grown-up
family in one city and the young wile
with a couple of infants in the other.
An agreement on a two-thirds, one-third
basis was arrived at.
“Vieux Marcheur”: “Pineneedle” (B.
12/9/’34) displays the ignorance which
attends on an innocent mind when he
says he saw the cancan danced in Cairo
during the war by ladies clad in nothing
much that mattered. What “P.” saw was
one of the many variations of the danse
du ventre, exploited throughout North
Africa by the Ouled Nails ; these have
no connection with the cancan, which
was danced only in Paris for many years
by fully-clothed European girls. 1 have
heard of only one instance in which the
true cancan was seen in Cairo. That
was when Ismail Pasha sportingly im-
ported the entire troupe from the Moulin
Rouge to entertain the guests he had in-
vited to the official opening of the Suez
Canal in 1869.
:|c ■:? ❖ *
“Rokko”: The Bright Young Thing
had rushed into an engagement which
her parents strongly opposed, so they
decided to take her to England. As dad
had cut off supplies she had no option
but to make the trip, though she went
with resentment and dark plotting in her
heart. Arrived in London, her sire, ruth-
less no longer, deposited a substantial
sum to her credit in a bank. After 10
days she drew the lot, flew to France,
boarded a boat and wirelessed her actions
to the old folks, who decided to let her
go her own way. Back in Sydney, she
quarrelled violently with the youth, and,
having sent an SOS to dad for more
funds, set off for London. She became
engaged to a fellow-passenger, and ar-
rived with a demand for the cash for a
trousseau. Dad, by now exhausted,
handed it and her over joyfully.
s *- * *
“Pawang”: Fashions in woman’s dress
are as nothing to medical fashions. A
few years ago doctors were telling us
that if we didn’t get into the sun half
of us would die of rickets and other
vitamin-deficiency diseases ; and possibly
if the propaganda had gone on much
longer they would have had all our
clothes off. Now the pendulum is swing-
ing in the other direction. Dr. Watson
Smith, president of the 8.M.A., going
farther than even “Gen. Prac.” (B.
5/9/’34), has issued a warning against
excessive exposure to light-rays, which,
he said, results in degeneration of the
skin, such as is to be seen in sailors. He
paints the typical picture of a sunbak-
ing addict as a person in whom ears,
lower half of the face and backs of the
hands degenerate into a thin, atrophied
and pigmented integument which is apt
to grow warts in great quantities ; and
the warts are liable to develop into
malignant growths. It would be inter-
esting to know whether this kind of com-
plexion is more common in Sydney than
in Melbourne.
“Keg.”: If 1 were “General Prac.”
(B. 5/9/’34) 1 would have my few bob
“Lazy old beast, why aren't you up getting breakfast?”
on the phthisical fair boy. The late
Dr. Creswell Howie did a good deal of
health-research work for my Sydney
union. After examining close on 2000
tram-drivers and -conductors he found,
among other things, that 2.8 p.c. had
t.b.—a rate 200 times greater than the
general rate for Sydney. His summing
up was that only 9 p.c. of tramway em-
ployees could be classed as fit men.
Cancer of the skin may be a good tote
bet, but, if a winner is wanted, be on
the footboard.
% * * #
“General Prac.”: Into my Out-Patients
came a lusty lad with cherry-colored
lumps on his limbs and a strange indif-
ference to hot water and pinpricks.
After half an hour’s testing, I asked
“Where do you come from, son?”
“From Groote Eylandt,” he said. “Any
leprosy there?” “Stacks of it, specially
amongst the wild blacks. I think the
Malays bring it over to Australia in
their proas ; and we can’t get any treat-
ment up there. But I’ll be all right down
here in the south, won’t I?” Well, yes,
he ought to be. Gone are the days when
Louis the Fair ordered all the lepers in
France to be burnt alive, when Europe
held 19,000 lazar-houses, and when the
track from Palestine to London during
the Crusades was loud with the rattles
and the bell-ringings of the afflicted. We
know now that hydnocarpus and, to a
lesser extent, chaulmoogra oil will benefit
and cure the leper.
•f® H» H* *s*
“W.L.”: Pleasure cruises from Aus-
tralian ports are nothing new. An ocean
cruise from Sydney—the first—was run
in 1889 by the E. and A. line. The
steamer engaged was the Menmuir, a fast
craft of 1980 tons, and considered a
wonder at the time —she carried the
almost-unheard-of pressure of 1801 b. of
steam. A folder issued to prospective
passengers included information about
the places to be visited: the Northern
Territory, Java, Singapore, Hong Kong,
Japan and the Philippines. Captain
P. T. Helms was in command, and
over 50 passengers made the trip. A
year later Cook’s ran a similar cruise.
If the weather was fine tourists were
landed on islands in Torres Strait to
enjoy shooting, fishing and surfing. Once
the tour director was nearly left behind.
He had waded across to another island
at low tide without telling anyone ; when
a boat came for him he was up to his
neck in the sea, on his way back, a gun
in one hand and some wild pigeons in
the other.
* * * *
“Chidley’s Aunt”: Bathing costumes
(B. 12/9/’34), you say? I could tell the
aldermen of Cronulla (N.S.W.) a thing
or two. On the Black Sea you take your
girl to the beach, step a few yards away
from her, remove your clothing and
stand aloof for five minutes trying to
look like the statue of Apollo while she
gets rid of hers. With averted eyes, you
both make for the sea, and are soon
splashing each other in icy water at
a range of about three feet. Re-
turning to the beach, with averted eyes,
you resume your separate garments.
I have seen a gentleman in New Guinea,
without a stitch on save for a cowrie-
shell hung in a position which made it
more like an advertisement than a cover-
ing, land outside a church arid stand in
full view of the congregation while he
robed himself in gorgeous raiment before
entering the sacred edifice. I have seen
a maiden ( coram most of her family)
disrobe on a Persian rooftop, where she
was visible to every stork for miles
around, preparatory to swaddling herself
from the forelock downwards in gar-
ments which made her look like a black
bundle of hay. What are Cronulla’s
aldermen to me?
“C.J.8.”: Finger-prints (B. 5/9/’34) re-
main intact not only when the external
skin becomes flattened and smooth, but
even when actual wear takes place. In
central New England (N.S.W.), maize is
pulled and husked in the one operation,
the husk being left on the stalk. In
damp weather there is no work harder
on the hands ; moisture keeps the pores
raised and induces greater abrasion. I
have seen fingers—my own included —
worn almost raw, but the finger-prints
were still easily discernible.
* * * 4
“D.” on changing beliefs:
In Sydney the other day a distressingly logi-
cal member of one of the Trinitarian Churches
insisted on putting a question to two candidates
for ordination which, if the answer had been
“Yes,” would have meant that they believed in
the Trinity as unequivocally as he did. Neither
of the candidates could answer “Yes,” and the
inquisitor was berated by some of his col-
leagues as an ecclesiastical bodyliner ; it was
said that he should have given the young men
“notice” of such a question! It is a sad age
for the zealot, especially as all over the
world belief in one form of supernaturalism
is yielding to belief in another form
of the same thing. Europe used to be dotted
with “Holy Wells”; now the pilgrim is con-
fronted by “Wishing Wells.” He drops in a
coin (subsequently pocketed by the owner of
the well) and is permitted to wish. The “Wish-
ing Well” industry is spreading in Australia.
The type of country pub that has a golf links
or even a clock course usually runs also to a
wishing well. It strikes me as a shabby sub-
stitute for the old faith; just as Mr. Whiddon
and “Lucky Fred” are shabby substitutes for
patron saints.
THE GHOST TRAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ghost Train passed with a reek of steel
And rumble of wheels unseen,
To make the points and the frog-plates squeal
As her flanges cut between;
Yet never a sight had we of her
When down the line she rocked,
By the level bridge and the cypress grove . . .
The ghost of the train Jack Peters drove
The night that the points were blocked.
We’d had a message from Narrowirc,
“Be ready for 62!”
A special for Sydney with wheels afire;
“Give Peters the road right through! ”
Dawson, who drove on the west-bound goods,
Knew naught of the special’s speed;
So at dead of night his heavy train
Was flogging the miles for Barleymain,
Where nobody gave her heed.
Jack Peters was sprinting across the plain;
His keen eyes searched the night;
But he wasn’t stopping at Barleymain—
Just flipping past in his flight.
Nobody guessed that the west-bound goods
Was scheduled to pass him here:
Someone had blundered; none of us knew,
Till Dawson’s loud bell-whistle blew,
Boastful and long and clear.
There was running of men to the siding then
To turn the long goods in;
A lamp was waved to her enginemen,
And we heard her drivers spin,
As we struggled to get the lever up;
But the points were seldom used.
They were choked with gravel and sand and
stones:
We fought with the rubbish, ’mid oaths and
groans,
Till muscles and hands were bruised.
There were no signals at Barleymain
And the special was coming fast;
I ran with a lamp to stop the train,
But heard no answering blast.
1 saw Jack Peters, and as she passed
I threw my lamp at him;
But they weren’t looking to stop just there . . .
I saw her tail-lights’ angry glare,
Like blood on the night’s dark rim.
The switches cry to a ghostly wheel
Whose flanges grind between;
And the Ghost Train glides with a reek of
steel,
As the night-wind goes, unseen.
And men’s hushed voices tell again
Of the crash and the awful cries
When the engines met by the cypress grove:
’Tis the ghost of the train Jack Peters drove
When we fought with Fate in vain.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Becks”: A Bulletin yarn of a tram
that took the wrong turning at Crow’s
Nest corner, North Sydney, had a parallel
last week in Melbourne. A temporary
dislocation of traffic on St. Kilda-road,
following on an accident, found a Toorak
tram diverted on to the South Melbourne
route. The passengers indicated loudly
that they didn’t want to go to South
Melbourne. The conductor restored
peace by promising to get them to
Toorak somehow, but a conference with
the driver revealed that neither had ever
been in that district before. Things
looked black. The conflicting advice
of the passengers was not of much assis-
tance, so they decided to go by dead
reckoning. The result was a tribute to
their navigating skill; with good luck,
fair winds and a couple of left-hand
turns they got back to St. Kilda-road with
all hands safe and happy.
* * =i= *
“X.S.”: The case of the wife-slayer who,
after being let out of a Victorian mental
home, married again and then wiped out
the family, himself included, has been
followed by the suicide of an ex-inmate
of Mont Park (Vic.). His wife stated in
evidence that her husband had- told her
he was “afraid of the traffic in the city.”
It turned out that he had been released
from Mont Park on several occasions,
and that he had been employed as a
driver by the Tramways Board.
“J. 8.”: The announce-
ment that Shaw is writing
a book about Maoriland
prompts me to express the
hope that he will get his
geographical facts more
accurate than Conan
Doyle did. The author of
“S. Holmes” told me when
in Sydney that a London
publisher had sent him a
woodcut and offered him
a lump sum if he would
write a story round it.
Doyle set the scene of the
story in M.L.—a farm,
about 90 miles from the
town of Nelson ; but, on
the author’s bearings, it
turned out that the home-
stead was 20 miles out in
the Pacific. Judging from
what he said when he was
there, Shaw’s verdict on
Maoriland should be
favorable ; but you never
know him. He had kind
words for U.S.A. on his
last visit there, but when
he reached London he
wrote “An asylum for the
sane in America would be
empty.”
“Lord Luvus”: Almost everything that
has been done for Melbourne by the
Centenary Council has aroused furious
hatred from sections of the community,
and the new poles in Collins, Bourke and
Swanston streets for stringing lights and
flags on are no exception. The council
calls them Venetian poles, but citizens
prefer “lolly-sticks.” Actually, they are
bird-baths in inverted pagoda fashion,
but this possible use has been destroyed
by punching holes in the bases of each
reservoir. They are brightly colored,
however, and viewed in mass give an air
of gaiety to Melbourne’s somewhat
gloomy thoroughfares; at night they will
be lighted from within, and the effect, it
is said, will be charming. Toyland would
be a good name for the city while they
are in evidence. In the meantime, the
city fathers have been terrified out of
their soulcases by the threats of a motor-
ist who ran into one. He said that if he
had injured himself or his car he would
have proceeded against them for erect-
ing an obstruction to traffic 2\ feet from
the footpath. The city papas hurriedly
consulted their legal advisers and learnt
there is some ground for perturbation.
One Bumble remarked that he felt that
citizens, even if a technical breach had
been committed, would recognise that it
was done in accordance with the besi
ethics; but 1 have never met a Mel-
“It heats me what your family wants a frigidaire for with you around!"
bourne motorist yet who took ethical
principles into consideration when sur-
veying a battered radiator.
•I* tj;
“Craiser”: After much bickering, Mel-
bourne is to have her centenary tower
in Sloss-street, South Melbourne. One
of the arguments which moved the
authorities was that the steel skeleton
will cost £56,000, of which £25,000 will
be distributed in wages. The founda-
tions will go down 75ft. into 8000 tons
of concrete, and there will be foyers,
tearooms, cabarets, dance floors and roof
gardens at various parts of the pagoda,
a 2{- million c.p. searchlight up at the
“For heaven’s sake, Mary, switch it on to something else! You know I can’t
stand grand opera."
top to frighten shipping, and giant tele-
scopes for sightseers, 800 of whom will
be able to experience the delights of
vertigo simultaneously. The chief objec-
tion to the thing is that it will be wholly
lacking in beauty, the design being
commonplace and recalling one of H. G.
Wells’s Martian tripods ; and it will be
so prominent that it will dwarf every-
thing else, the War Memorial included.
It will come to represent Melbourne as
the Sydney Bridge represents Sydney;
but as a suicide convenience it will have
points over that edifice. Melbourne’s
civic pride demanded that it should be
higher, and 10ft. higher it is to be.
* * * *
From “Second Shover”:
The Duke will be confronted in Sydney by
a menace which didn’t afflict his father, and
which may get him down if he doesn’t show
considerable firmness. Thirty-odd years ago
the Government House set was small and homo-
geneous. Its members didn’t need to fight over
visiting notabilities; they met them as a matter
of course. To-day approximately 17 social
sets go to Government House. There are
U.A.P. sets, sporting sets, retail-trade sets,
yachting sets, country sets, inter-State sets, and
so on. The members of two or three of thesfe
sets despise and detest most of the others, and
those discriminated against, though anxious
to be friends, are ever ready to fight
for their alleged rights. A “right” which is
being claimed with furious insistence in several
moneyed quarters is that of booking the Duke
in advance as a dancing-partner. It was tried
with the Prince when the social world wasn’t
nearly as big and belligerent as it is now, but
what the Prince wanted to do he did. At a
Queen’s Club party he blew in, discovered
that few of those present were under 50, and
went straight back to the Renown with a
chosen party of contemporaries. The Duke
will have to act with equal decisiveness if he
doesn’t want to have flat-faced flappers wished
on him at official parties by square-jawed
fathers who have broken into the Sydney social
world by way of politics.
❖ £ * t\i
“Kunjie”: The Bulletin has often
commented on Sydney’s efforts to
diminish shark tragedies, which average
about two per year, by comparison with
its indifference to motor-vehicle deaths,
which average, for the city and suburbs,
between three and four per week.
Even stranger is its determination
to stop people from hurling them-
selves over the Bridge and the Gap,
side by side with its indifference to the
high involuntary death-rate among rock-
hoppers. The Bridge has been wired at
great public expense, and the Salvation
Army talks of putting up a notice at the
Gap, imploring the desperate to give life
another trial. Nobody attempts to save
the rock-hopper from himself, though
more lives are lost at this pastime year
by year than at any other, bar motoring.
*'* * *
Gilbert Mant (Canada): “S.T.S.” (B.
23/5/’34) was right when he conjectured
that the distinction of having coined the
word “finalise” belongs to Australia.
Once when I was scribbling cables for
Mr. Reuter in London I used the word,
and was congratulated on the invention
of a useful addition to the language.
Nobody in the office had ever heard the
term before, but thought it was effective
and self-explanatory.
“Der Jong”: Jt has been
claimed on Sydney’s behalf
that the N.S.W. Volunteers,
founded in 1854 and now
merged in the Ist-19th militia
battalion, was the first volun-
teer regiment formed in the
Empire. Nothing of the sort;
the Kaffir wars in Cape
Colony and Natal led to the
enlisting of volunteer forces
as early as 1833 ; one of them
exists to-day as the kilted Duke of
Edinburgh’s. As a matter of fact, the
Cape Mounted Rifles, formed in 1810,
were the earliest of the “Colonial”
military forces. Now merged with
the South African Constabulary, they
were hand-picked men and had a world-
wide reputation long before the Cana-
dian N.W.M.P. arrived.
:|c * * *
“General Prac.”: I’m always amazed,
considering the power of heaven’s artil-
lery, that so few people are killed by
lightning. Such events are uncommon
enough in Australia to get half a column
in any paper, and in England the death-
roll is never more than 40 or so a year.
The reason is, probably, that the human
body, if dry, is a poor conductor. Nerves,
of course, carry the current as well as
any metal does, so that lightning, when
it slays, kills by nervous shock. But
muscle and other tissues are bad con-
ductors—three million times weaker than
mercury, 15 million times weaker than
copper. A thorough wetting alters
things ; water improves conductivity, and
most people who die from lightning have
first been caught in some shower, later
to shelter under a dripping tree. Then
anything may happen ; clothes may be
torn off and scattered yards around,
coins and watches fused into mere
chunks of metal, bones broken, the skin
covered with weird, branching burns, and
the victim hurled through the air. No
wonder .the Romans let the lightning-
struck lie where they died, and fenced
the place about as a warning against
incurring the wrath of Jupiter.
* * * -r-
-“C.B.”: Musical critics are not always
taken in (B. 12/9/’34). Years ago
a young man with long hair and
a French name was billed as a
world-famous pianist and let loose at
the Melbourne Garrick —then the Play-
house. The critics, with few exceptions,
summed his performance up not on the
propaganda but on the playing. One re-
marked that the only notes that were
not wrongly played were the ones that
were omitted. After two concerts the
alleged celebrity vanished from the scene.
* * * *
“Jeames" is revolted:
A melancholy fact, from a loyalist’s stand-
point, is that nearly all Australia’s most sordid
intrigues revolve round knighthoods. Our
knighthood currency has been grossly inflated
since the war by Governments anxious to buy
or pay for support. It has only been saved
from ruinous devaluation by the occasional
bestowal of a K.C.M.G. on a Judge or a
national hero like Kingsford Smith, and by the
fact that several A.I.F. generals are knights. The
internecine struggle now proceeding in Sydney
City Council is essentially a row over a
knighthood. Whoever happens to be wearing
the rabbitskin at the place where some of the
most degrading scenes in the public life of
the Commonwealth are habitually staged will
become a knight after the Duke’s visit, as of
right. Alderman Parker was smart enough
at the last mayoral election to mobilise the
Labor vote to the undoing of members of his
own party;- they had decided on a different
Mayor and can't forgive or forget. It is a
solemn thought for Empire-builders that George
V has nothing whatever to do with bestowing
knighthoods in Australia. Some knighthoods
<to to underground engineers who know how
to diddle their competitors. Anyone desirous
or knowing how awful the position is in this
regard iias only to take a list of knighted
Australians and compare those on it with a
list of eminent Australians who haven’t gained
knighthoods or any other Imperial decorations.
CANINE CANTOS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dogs there be of every kind,
From faithful dogs that lead the blind
To savage ones that bite ’em;
Dogs that bark from morn till night,
And dogs that growl, and dogs that fight
When impish boys excite ’em —
A thing for which they’re much to blame
(But you and I have done the same).
Dogs there be of every sort,
From those whose one idea of sport
Is chasing hares or rabbits
To those of gentler turn of mind,
With recreations more refined
And far more cultured habits.
(As keeping cats .off cherished plants,
Or begging cake from maiden aunts.)
Dogs there be of every breed,
From those conducted on a lead
To those that run at random.
Dogs kept chained up out of reach,
And dogs that frolicked on the beach
Before the councils banned ’em.
(The reason for the ban is clear
And need not be enlarged on here.)
Women’s tastes in dogs are strange,
Incomprehensible, and change
With every passing fashion.
To-day an Airedale claims their care;
Anon, a greyhound, lean and spare,
Excites their tender passion,
And, like as not, to-morrow week
They’ll leave him for a Pom. or Peke.
And this capricious twist of theirs
Is witnessed in the heart affairs
They handle with such cunning;
The dogs of war at times will lead,
Then seadogs of the bulldog breed
Awhile take up the running:
Yet, no—whate’er the land or clime,
Ihe gay dog thrills ’em every time.
N.S.W.
UCO.


k
Quality should be your
first consideration
CRAVENA
in the neu> rruHAtuhe-pb&cf
1
A
CELLOPHANES PACK
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
POLITICAL POINTS
The last House of Reps, began with
37 U.A.Ps., 16 Agrarians, 14 Scullin-
Labs., live Lang-Labs. and three Inde-
pendents (one, Groom, turned U.A.P.).
In the next, with Angas gone, there will
probably be 34 U.A.Ps., 14 Agrarians,
18 Scullin-Labs. and eight Lang-Labs.
Five Liberal and Country Leaguers from
South Aus. are counted as U.A.P.,
though Page claims one —A. G. Cameron
(Barker). Preferences may increase or
reduce these totals, but in no circum-
stances can the U.A.P. or the Labor
factions get a majority of seats.
Of the 36 Senators, 21 are U.A.P.,
five C.P., eight Scullin-Labor and two
Lang-Labor. Senators elected in 1928,
as well as those of the 1931 vintage, are
entitled to carry on till June 30, 1935.
After that the U.A.P. will have 20 to 24
Senators, the C.P. six and Scullin-Labor
six to ten. Spoilt ballot-papers and cross-
voting may affect the position; but a
U.A.P. majority is certain.
Obviously Labor will never win a
Commonwealth election with Scullin,
Lang or Beasley as leader, nor can it
succeed on the issue of the banks. It is
sanest and strongest in Queensland, and,
as in its great days, it will have to go
to that State for leadership. Fisher was
the name then; now it is Forgan Smith.
The secesh petitions are to be carried
to London in “jarrah caskets adorned
with silver plates.” Presumably the
funeral arrangements will be conducted
by Colebatch, the Agent-General, and
McCallum Smith, M.L.A., will make an
admirable mute.
The Westralian secessionists put up
one Hartrey for the Perth seat and two
of McCallum Smith’s men (he owns the
“Sunday Times”) for the Senate. Hartrey
failed badly, but not so badly as the
candidates for the Senate —they may lose
their deposits.
Because an Agrarian was first on the
Senate list, Sydney U.A.P. bosses threw
away the advantage of the A.C.D. ticket —
Abbott, Courtenay, Dein—advising their
supporters to vote backwards. In a close
election this pettiness would have been
costly. In Westralia, though John-
ston was the only elected Senator stand-
ing, the C.P. agreed that No. 1 votes
should go to Collett (Nat.), No. 2 to
Johnston and No. 3 to the second Nat.,
MacDonald.
One of the 175 candidates for the
House of Reps, acted as his own press
agent—M. A. Smedley, the Scullin-Labor
nominee in Wakefield. Smedley conducts
the S.A. page for the “Worker,” arid
in his last pre-election contribution he
wrote interestingly about his travels in
the electorate (“about 5000 miles”), the
odd absence of U.A.P. literature and the
“complete lack of personalities—the best
manner of conducting a campaign.” He
wound up by saying he thought he had
“an excellent chance.” Hawker beat him
by nearly 4 to 1.
Rounding the Leeuwin H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia smashed a seaplane—the eyes of
a ship in modern gunnery and scouting,
without which she is only 50 p.c. effi-
cient. There is no workshop nearer than
Melbourne which can recondition the
machine. Any enemy tackling the Aus-
tralia off W.A. within the next few weeks
would have to be asked to give her a
handicap.
The brightest speeches of the cam-
paign, in which there were little elo-
quence and less wit, were delivered by
Menzies, who won Kooyong hands
down. He will go into the Ministry as
Attorney-General, and will be a tower of
strength to it in debate. Scullin-Labor will
also gain a ready, speaker if Curtin sur-
vives the second count —Curtin could
always fill the House when he was there.
But he wouldn’t have beaten Watson, and
he may not beat Mrs. Cardell-Oliver,
who, eleventh-hour candidate as she was,
did wonderfully well.
It was here suggested last week that
a number of Douglas Credit candidates
would poll, pictty well, and, much to the
astonishment of esteemed contempora-
ries, they did. In several electorates,
notably Barton, Denison and Fremantle,
their preferences will give the victory to
one or other of the older parties. The
head of the Douglas organisation in
W.A. (North, M.L.A.), is a Nat., but
many ex-Labor men have joined it, in
Fremantle especially. So Curtin may
get the bulk of the-Douglasite No. 2’s,
but his position is not comfortable.
Idiotic things were done on both sides
during the late orgy of promises and re-
crimination. Lang’s appeal for Scullin-
Labor preferences coincided with the
“Come away, Beasley! They remind me too much of Saturday!”
publication of “Why I Fight!” and the
“Labor Year-Book,” in each of which
Scullin-Labor was referred to in con-
temptuous terms. And Lyons and co.
awarded a Vic. B-station license to the
U.A.P. when it was known that the re-
turned soldiers were after it.
The “Age’s” championship of Senator
Bob Elliott and the “Argus’s” repudiation
of that doughty Imperial Freetrader gave
Victorians many a good laugh. In one
issue before hostilities ceased the high-
tariff journal contrived to boom Beaver-
brook’s protege, “warmly commend” his
opponent Leckie (a Protectionist manu-
facturer) “as a Senate candidate” and
print an assertion that Leckie’s son-in-
law Menzies (a Protectionist since boy-
hood) had “descended from his pedestal
to the gutter.” The low-tariff journal,
for its part, republished a return showing
that Elliott had “voted against reduction
of duty 10 times.”
The British Government is experi-
menting, with good results so far, with
an interdict on unnecessary street noises
at night so that people may get some
sleep. The innovation might be copied
in Australia with greater advantage than
has attended the imitation of other Eng-
lish notions —daylight saving, for in-
stance —but it is unlikely to be adopted
in Sydney. The noisiest things in Sydney,
as well as the greatest obstructions to
traffic, are the Government trams.
Poor old Cusack, fighting a forlorn
hope for Scullin-Labor in Riverina, men-
tioned with melancholy pride that he
had been thrice chucked out of the
charmed circle —“once by sliding panel-
lists and twice by tin-hareites.” Elec-
tors have chucked him out on several
other occasions, and now they have done
it again ; but the quenchless enthusiast
saved his deposit.
Electioneering at Penrith for Lawson,
and entertained by the Mayor, Stevens
magnanimously declared that “the credit
of Australia” was attributable, “not to
the political strength of any party, but
to the ethical qualities of citizenship
and real public service.” And thereupon,
The Premier promised the Mayor that
consideration would be given immediately
after the elections to the granting of
£15,000 for a Penrith drainage scheme.
He had no doubt that if application were
made to the Minister the money would be
obtained.
The Stevens Government will be elec-
tioneering on its own account before
long.
Overriding judgments of all the West-
ralian Supreme Court Justices, the High
Court has ordered the repayment to
Clydesdale, M.L.C., of the £2OO penalty
imposed on him for having voted as a
member while holding an office of profit
under the Crown —chairmanship of the
Government Lotteries Commission. The
Labor Government relieved Comrade
Clydesdale of all liability under a bill
amending the Constitution, but the State
C.J. and Full Court held that the statu-
tory penalty incurred nevertheless stood.
So Clydesdale wins and Labor loses —for
it is a very shabby chapter in the history
of Labor politics.
Driven to consider the exposed posi-
tion of its islands in a distracted world,
the Maoriland Government is increasing
the national defences in a small way—
setting up anti-aircraft guns, adding to
the air force and putting another £50,000
on the naval vote. Training of officers at
the Australian military college is also
to be resumed. The usual rumpus was
made by Labor members when these
mild provisions for possible trouble were
announced. Cobbe, the Minister of De-
fence, turned on one ass with the crush-
ing rejoinder that “the last and lowest
phase in the life of a man comes when
he is unable or unwilling to defend his
womankind and his home.”
With Germany and Japan out of the
League of Nations, Russia has been in-
vited to join and promised a permanent
seat on the Council. Objectors were
secretly persuaded not to press their ob-
jections, and when the Reds cavilled at
the terms of the invitation De Valera was
moved to declare in the League Assembly
that “the question of Russia’s admission
should be discussed in public instead of
in hotel bedrooms,” and that there should
be no “special privileges.”
Russia should guarantee universal reli-
gious liberty, and extend to all the rest of
the world the rights it has granted to
American citizens.
For once the whole British Empire is
with De Valera.
Wool prices remain low. The average
at Sydney sales last week was under 9|d.
a pound—or £l2 10s. a bale—compared
with 10.05 d. the week before. Quality
was slightly poorer. It now looks as if
the market has settled down, and the
best that can be expected is a small rise
in higher-count wools. On the present
basis, we shall be lucky if we get more
than £35,000,000 Australian for the clip
(worth £56,000,000 last year), a circum-
stance which politicians should contem-
plate before they begin making good
fellows of themselves.
This is a lawless country. A Sydney
bank exhibits a notice:
Customers are warned against leaving
money on the counter unattended.
There are some countries —one in par-
ticular which the movies hold up to us
as a model —where it isn’t safe to leave
an affluent customer unattended, much
less his money.
After four months’ negotiations between
the B.M.A. and the representatives of the
Lord Mayor’s Fund, Vic. hospitals are at
length to be put on a working financial
basis, provided the public approves. The
scheme, which rejoices in the title of the
Hospitals Savings Association of Vic-
toria for Contributions Towards Hospi-
tal and Medical Expenses, includes pro-
visions obliging all persons likely to ask
for treatment to subscribe while sound
in body. The association hopes for
50,000 contributors. There are to be no
profits.
[Responsibility for Commonwealth-election
matter in this issue is shared by J. E. Webb,
J. B. Dailey and M. H. Ellis, of 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


O
A C\XV ALOBRMAM <Cv.NI As DIRECTOR.
op THE PIRNA THAT EXCAVATED THE STATES
Largest drain,! claim at least one waltz.
*=ER My GAL Ca«=»T!HG SN
A Younger Set
Leader mwces
her aio.
explain that Patricia is a
H'OLK.IKt<g*T©N“CRETIKJ OP WOOGiLY-feoOGLY STATION
My it Will Supfice
u , /
ITS UNBELIEVABLE.
WHAT ON EARTH CAN HE
SEE IN “THE CREATURE?"
hirm Adolphus All the supper oamcss for. our Nqrn\a
or not another psumy to the Party funds vn
ON THE GOVERNMENT HOUSE FRONT.
"Parents are already battling to have their daughters chosen as dancing-partners for the Duke.”


THE BEST THING
SHELL HAS DONE
n
:
■
THE ONLY STRAIGHT, CRYSTAL-CLEAR.
SUPER PETROL ON THE MARKET
SHELL
UP TO 6900 MORE 1 FIRING CHARGES PER GALLON, AND EVERY PARTICLE FUEL
asdf
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A lottery—they still call them “art
unions” over there —has raised the cash
to enable two M.L. airmen to start in
the centenary race. One, Sq.-Leader M.
C. McGregor, gets many mentions in
“Warbirds” as “Mac.” The other, Sq.-
Leader J. D. Hewett, also earned a big
reputation in France. Admirers swear
he can bring a ’plane down in his Auck-
land backyard at night with the aid of
a pocket torch.
Lord Barnby, the latest to visit Man-
churia to see what the Japanese are
making of it, has a twofold association
with Australia. As C.O. a Notts brigade
he served on Gallipoli, and he was later
appointed Wool Controller. Francis
Willey and Co., wool merchants, of Brad-
ford, is the family firm. He isn’t going
to Manchuria solely as a wool merchant,
but in the interests of British-Japanese
trade in general.
Holger Rosenberg, of the Copenhagen
“Family Journal,” struck Sydney in the
course of one of his round-the-world
trips last week. He has been to most
places since he started as a travelling
correspondent nearly 40 years ago, but
this is his first visit to Australia. He
thinks Japan is the best-governed coun-
try in the world—though it isn’t the kind
of Government he would like to live
under.
Geelong is to have a bishop all to
itself. He is Archdeacon J. J. Booth,
of Dandenong (Vic.), who organised the
Home Mission fund. Archbishop Head
needs a coadjutor-bishop, and the posi-
tion will not have a territorial signifi-
cance. The new bishop was born in
England, but was educated at Ridley,
Melbourne, and the University. He was
an A.I.F. chaplain, and before he went
to the University had an unusual job for
a future preacher of the gospel of the
Prince of Peace. He was employed at
the ammunition works at Footscray.
Bob Sunter, of the Manunda, who died
suddenly at Cairns on Saturday, had
been associated with the Adelaide Steam-
ship Co. for nearly 36 years. During
the war he commanded the hospital ship
Wandilla. For the last 4\ years he had
commanded the Manunda, and he was to
have gone to England in November to
bring out the new Manoora. A keen
student of the history of the Australian
coastline, his broadcast talks from the
bridge delighted thousands. There was
hardly a cape or bay between Cairns
and Fremantle concerning which he
could not give accurate particulars or tell
some interesting anecdote.
Note from the Bush:
For 50 years George Smith has turned up
at the Bundemar shearing shed, between Collie
and Trangie (N.S.W.), and always there has
been a pen for him. Time was when George
could send down his couple of hundred each
day, and in spite of the speed the manner in
which the job was done usually earned com-
mendation. Smith became highly proficient
with the machines. The other day Bundemar
cut out. To commemorate the veteran’s
honorable career the boss of the station, E. I.
Body, presented him with a cake surmounted
by a big “woolly” and a pair of model blades.
Further, when the cheques were being handed
out, Body lined the boys up, described some
of the performances of Smith and passed over
a cheque for £50 —£1 for every year of service.
Grong Grong has just lost in J. White
a veteran of four wars. He first smelt
powder in Africa in 1876 ; he fought in
both Boer Wars, and at the beginning of
the World War he joined the 7th Light
Horse. He was then 62. However, he
got the authorities to believe he was
eligible, and actually rose to be an n.c.o.
before they dropped to the truth.
Young Anthony Luchetti, the Langife
candidate for Macquarie, had to face the
charge of not being an Australian. Actu-
ally, he was born in the constituency (at
Lithgow), and his father was also born
there 70 years ago. Luchetti’s grand-
father was an Italian, and his mother was
Irish. Her forebears include that Cap-
tain Bradley after whom Bradley’s Head
was named. Another, Police Magistrate
McManus, officiated around Penrith
more than a century ago.
Last Wednesday The Bulletin pub-
lished a drawing by Finey of a hat the
wearer of which was alleged to be the
Dutch Consul. The Dutch Consul rang
up to say that he had never owned such
a hat; that it was the property of the
Swedish Consul. The Swedish Consul
admitted that hats of the kind were pro-
duced in his country, but denied that the
person shown beneath the one in ques-
tion was himself. There was a sugges-
tion that Finey had confused one of the
M. LE DARDEL (Swedish. Consul): “But it has your name.”
PAUL STAAL (Dutch Consul ): “Ah! But it has your hat.”
Nordic Consuls with the Tibetan Con-
sul ; and the resemblance of the hat to
a style affected by the Consul for Nova
Zembla was under discussion when Frith
offered to draw both Dutch and Swedish
Consuls without hats and let Bulletin
readers decide between them. The Con-
suls are here shown repudiating the
Finey hat.
On to-day week at Sydney Town Hall
J. W. Whittle, V.C., D.C.M., will be
handed a certificate from the Royal Life
Saving Society for rescuing a drowning
boy from a pond. The after-effects kept
the rescuer in bed for a couple of weeks.
Whittle was no chicken when he joined
up with the 12th Battalion ; he had
already seen active service in S’Africa.
He won his V.C, at Lagnicourt in the
spring of T 8 after much front-line ser-
vice of a consistently gallant nature.
He works for an insurance company
now.
J. C. Bancks, who wrote the libretto
of “Blue Mountain Melody,” began his
career as a contributing Bulletin artist.
It was the invention of Ginger Meggs
that first put him among the big money-
makers of Bohemia. He has always been
keen on the theatre, and in London a
few years ago he persuaded a music-
hall manager to put him, his pencil and
a blackboard on a West End bill. His
turn wasn’t exactly a riot, but it gave
him experience. He married into the
Tait family a few years ago, and if “Blue
Mountain Melody” doesn’t flop (and
there are no present indications that it will)
he may be able to kill or retire Ginger
Meggs, who is getting on in years, and
become official librettist to the Firm.
From “Jeames”:
Marconi is the latest celebrity to turn down
an invitation to the Melbourne centenary. Of
the 40 originally suggested and of the 10 who
were asked only three—-Lords Milne and
Baden-Powell and the Poet Laureate—-now
propose to come. The average Melbournite
was more interested in Malcolm Campbell
than any of them, but he renigged a couple
of months ago. Major-General Freyberg,
V.C., would have been even more acceptable,
but nobody seems to have thought of him.
In addition to getting most of the worth-
while decorations (including two bars to his
D. 5.0.) Freyberg has the distinction of being
the first war-time officer to become a peace-
time general—militia generals, of course, ex-
cepted. The speeches will be confined to
Masefield and Lord Milne. Baden-Powell
has announced that he is too old for parties.
He will spend his fortnight at the Frankston
Scout jamboree.
The late Lord Devonport will be re-
membered by thousands of Diggers and
other Australians as the war-time Food
Controller. He began life as Hudson
Kearley, a grocer in a small way, and he
made such a sensational success of his
business that it was sold for £4,000,000
seven years ago. As Food Controller he
was famous for the ruthlessness of his
methods and the impartiality of his
department’s prosecutions. The late
Marie Corelli was one of its many cele-
brated victims. He got his viscounty in
1917.
The death of Dr. McAdam, the Sydney
bridge expert, was shocking by reason of
its very inconsequence. If he hadn’t
come out of the R.A.C.A. at the precise
moment he did; if some fool hadn’t
monkeyed with the gears of a car; if he
had looked round; if there had been
someone about to warn him—the possi-
bilities are innumerable. As it was, a
runaway car hit him, and he was dead
inside half an hour. A fine sportsman
in his early forties, he will be remembered
by frequenters of the Leichhardt stadium
as that institution’s honorary m.o. He
did well at Sydney University and had
made his mark in his profession, but
bridge was his chief interest. He had a
great card brain and a perfect bridge
temperament. Londoners who had played
with him and with some of England’s
best thought he was the equal of any-
body now playing at the Portland or
White’s.
“Jeames”: According to a cable “Lord
Sempill, the well-known airman, has en-
tered the Catholic Church.” In doing
so he reverts to the faith of the first
baron, who was killed at Flodden. For
over a century after the Reformation
the Sempills had Catholic leanings, and
the fourth baron was sent as Ambassa-
dor to Spain on that account. For two
centuries, however, the family has been
staunchly Protestant, and an uncle of
its present head is Bishop of Brechin.
Lord Sempill married the only daughter
of Sir John Lavery, R.A., who is a
Catholic, and the children belong to their
mother’s religion. They are girls, but the
Sempill barony descends to a daughter
in default of a male heir.
Neil Richmond Rose, of Wynnum
(Q.), has established a record, albeit a
post-mortem one. He was the first to
pass through Brisbane’s new crema-
torium. A prominent Mason and bowler,
he came from Glasgow, and was noted
for his charitable activities.
G. G. Bond, Queensland’s weather
prophet, will retire next month after 26
years’ service. Meteorological work has
advanced and science has provided many
new facilities since Bond started under
Wragge in 1892. He means to go in for
farming on the Darling Downs, and with
his special advantages he ought to make
a fortune.
From Adelaide:
Arthur Rymill, who at 66 has died as sud-
denly in his office as his brother Frank died
at the wheel of his car, was one of that lead-
ing S.A. family’s second generation, who added
sporting qualities to the financial and pastoral
ability of the first. (A member of the third
generation is now leading a Polar expedition.)
Arthur was chairman of the Canowie Co. and
of Bennett and Fisher (both pastoral), and a
director of, amongst others, the Bank of Adel-
aide, the Executor Trustee Co. and General
Motors-Holdens. Fie was a pioneer cyclist
and motorist, then Commodore of S.A. Yacht
Squadron, and latterly had been famous as
owner of the Tortoise hydroplane which for
some years kept the Australian championship
in S.A. The only son is a member of Adel-
aide City Council.
“Second Divvy”: It will seem pre-
posterous to Australians who have fol-
lowed his military career that Sir Hore-
Ruthven, the next N. S. Wales Governor,
should only be a brigadier-general. There
are major-generals who haven’t heard a
shot fired in anger for generations. Hore-
Ruthven has been fighting gallantly since
1898, when as a Highland Light Infantry
subaltern in command of a camel corps
detachment he won a V.C. at Gedaref.
He served on Gallipoli and in France,
got a D.S.O. and bar for work in the
field amongst other decorations, and was
severely wounded. He was in command
of a Guards brigade five years ago when
he went to S. Aus. as Governor. He is
a typical Guardee in appearance —tall,
erect, smart as paint and superbly built
and tailored —and he has the complete
absence of social side that you find in
men whose families have been important
for centuries. He was Military Secre-
tary to Lord Dudley 25 years ago.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Hollywood Party”
In order to appreciate this extrava-
ganza at the St. James to the full it is
necessary to be an admirer of the art
of Jimmy Durante. The comedian, who
depends for his laughs on the shape of
his nose and the epileptic volubility of
his speech, is in evidence nearly all the
time, and he is often dull. But several
of the episodes at his dream-party are
delightful. Notably one in which Lupe
Velez and Laurel and Hardy participate.
Their low-comedy act celebrated its cen-
tenary generations ago, but they handle
it with a restraint that makes it seem
novel. Another feature is “Hot Choc’-
late Soldiers,” a beautiful Mickey Mouse
symphony.
“Manhattan Melodrama”
The manufacturer of this one seems to
have said to himself: “I will try an ex-
periment with the half-wits who take
film emotionalism seriously. 1 will make
one of my heroes a more sickening prig
than Sandford, Merton and their in-
structor combined, and the other a
desperado more preposterous than Cap-
tain Macheath. If the critics accept
them as human beings, and if crowds pay
to see them, it will prove what 1 have
always suspected.”
Clark Gable commits cold-blooded
murders with the efficiency and ease of
manner which he brings to every other
activity in life. William Powell, his boy-
hood’s friend, is a District Attorney
who makes righteousness seem idiotic.
One of Powell’s many witless actions
consists in marrying his friend’s ex-mis-
tress (Myrna Loy) shortly before stand-
ing for Governor in a State which de-
mands that its Governors’ wives shall
be like the wife of Caesar. Gable mur-
ders a man who has threatened to ex-
pose the lady’s past, and Powell has to
prosecute his saviour as District Attor-
ney, and confirm the death-sentence as
Governor. There have been flash mur-
derers, but there never was one like
Gable ; there couldn’t be. His thug is
a burlesque of a gaol idol. Powell’s
Governor also looks like a burlesque- —
a wicked satire on an incorruptible
U.S.A. official. Myrna Loy’s function
is that of a Greek Chorus ; she explains
for the benefit of the audience. Leo
Carrillo is a curiously pervasive priest
who consoles the boys when they lose
their parents ; consoles Miss Loy in her
moments of anguish ; and is at hand, as
gaol chaplain, looking hardly a day
older than when we saw him first, to
accompany Gable to the electric-chair.
“The Bowery”
Wallace Beery has a passion for suc-
coring waifs and distressed females. The
action develops when Jacky Cooper re-
sents the advent of Fay Wray. She is
attracted by George Raft. As an indi-
cation of how violence has captured the
imagination of the American public, the
competition between the two he-men
takes the form of fire-prevention. Each
owns his own fire brigade, and when a
fire breaks out the rival bands fight each
other for the right to rescue a tenement-
houseful of Chinamen. At Hoyt’s De
Luxe, Melbourne.
“Advice to the Lovelorn”
The one about the journalist (Lee
Tracy) who gets into a jamb by issuing
advice to lovers per medium of a heart-
throbs column. Worse consequences
arise through Tracy printing laudatory
references to the medicinal productions
of a chain of cheap drug stores run by
a gangster. When his dear old mother
has a heart attack, Tracy goes out and
purchases five grains of caffein for her.
It turns out that the drug is 100 p.c.
underproof, so that Tracy becomes an
indirect murderer. Sally Blane forgives
him, however, when it turns out that he
did it all because he wanted to buy her
a bigger and better engagement ring.
Also at Hoyt’s.
“Love Birds”
At the Civic. Zazu Pitts is a prim
schoolmistress, Slim Summerville a
muddle-headed poultryman who invades
her classroom in pursuit of fugitive
chickens. It causes her dismissal. Job-
less, she invests her life savings in a
Californian ranch on the strength of a
go-getter’s prospectus. When she reaches
the place she discovers that it is little
more than a sand and cactus holding.
Slim has also been sold the ranch by
the go-getter. t In the row that follows
Slim has a gold tooth knocked out. A
prospector picks it up and, believing
there is gold on the property, pegs out a
claim. A gold rush sets in, and the go-
getter buys back his land at a large profit
to his victims.
“King for a Night”
A masterpiece of naudlinity, also at
the Civic. Chester Morris tires of life
as the son of a small-town parson, and
goes to New York determined to be-
come a middleweight boxing champ.
TALKIES AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
Top, Myrna Loy and William Powell in “Manhattan Melodrama”; bottom,
Laurel and Hardy and Jimmy Durante in “Hollywood Party.”
Failing, he goes home and gets mixed
up with a theatrical wench. She takes
a fancy to his sister (Helen Twelvetrees),
who has been going round with a garage
proprietor, and introduces her to a fight
promoter. The fight promoter promises
to make Chester a champion if Miss
Twelvetrees will become his mistress.
She agrees, and Chester is within reach
of the middleweight title when he learns
that his sweetheart is no better than she
should be. In the ensuing row she tells
him about his sister. Simultaneously
Miss Twelvetrees shoots her betrayer.
Despite the fact that the young woman
has a sound defence Chester shoulders
the blame and goes to the chair forti-
fied by the knowledge that his arrest
was delayed until he won the middle-
weight championship.
“We’re Rich Again”
A family of America’s new-poor in
the days of the stock-market collapse
builds its hopes of financial salvation on
the marriage of a pretty daughter (Joan
Marsh) to a millionaire. All that is
needed is to fence off duns and process-
servers till the marriage takes place in
two days’ time. Descends upon the
house a swarm of unwanted visitors —a
man with a summons, a polo-playing
grandma (Edna May Oliver) attended by
several teams of players, a swimming
champion (Buster Crabbe) brought home
by the younger daughter, and, last and
worst, a niece from the country (Marion
Nixon) who is a sort of up-to-date
Becky Sharp. The niece borrows and
wears all her cousin’s trousseau frocks,
monopolises the attentions of the mil-
lionaire, eggs the younger daughter on to
elope with the swimmer, lures the father
of the family into a disastrous specula-
tion, drags in an ex-wife who reckons
she was improperly divorced to upset
the wedding, and finally captures the
millionaire for herself. She talks inces-
santly and so rapidly that most of her
chatter is lost. It all turns out to be for
the best for the family at the fade-out.
Interest is kept taut, and such of the
dialogue as can be deciphered is amusing.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Charlie Chan’s Courage”
“The Chinese Parrot,” by E. D. Big-
gers, talkified. Warner Oland manages to
impart some degree of naturalness to the
Chinese detective. Drue Leyton and
Donald Woods supply the love interest.
Plot includes a supposed murder and a
real one ; impersonation of a millionaire
by a crook ; a plot to steal pearls; a
kidnapping and a parrot that converses
volubly in both American and Chinese.
“Thirty-day Princess”
Another variant on the “Cinderella”
theme. Sylvia Sidney is the double of
a princess who has agreed for 50 mil-
lion dollars to tour the U.S.A. and say
she likes it. When the princess gets ill
Miss Sidney, a small-part actress, im-
personates her, and wins the love of
Cary Grant. There are some amusing
complications. One arises when the
actress is missed and Miss Sidney has to
stop being a disdainful, exquisitely-
dressed royalty and rush away to ex-
hibit herself as a gum-chewing little vul-
garian. She registers girlish charm
according to a formula which consists
chiefly of practically shutting her rather
small eyes and smiling so as to show
most of her unimpeachable teeth. Cary
Grant is a manly Prince Charming, and
Edward Arnold is the suave, portly Ruri-
tanian statesman who gives the Ameri-
can girl her chance —the equivalent of
the Fairy Godmother. It’s at the Prince
Edward.
“Murder at the Vanities”
Also at the Prince Edward, and also
a chestnut. Present critic wouldn’t care
to say how long it is since he first sat
through a backstager in which the
characters had to act their joyous parts
with terror gnawing at their vitals. Jack
Oakie is the harassed manager; the
part is right into his hands. Gertrude
Michael is responsible for the murder ;
she looks it. Victor McLaglen is the de-
tective who treats corpses like dead
dogs, and behaves in general like a
yahoo. Through it all Carl Brisson
croons winsomely and exploits his
dimple. His talking voice isn’t good,
and like most Teuton beauty-men he is
self-conscious. Other attractions are
Duke Ellington’s Band and hordes of
pretty girls who gyrate nakedly in
elaborate ballets. The familiar show
has been done on an even more lavish
scale than its predecessors.
Walt Disney has put the koala into a
Silly Symphony. Disney first became
interested in Australia and its animals
through his friend Snowy Baker, and
Arthur O’Connor, American rep. of the
National Travel Association, clinched it
by sending him photos, of our gum-
addict.
Sundry Shows.
It was very nearly Sunday when the
“Blue Mountain Melody” audience at
Sydney Royal turned its thoughts to
home, and as everybody seemed very
much surprised at the lateness of the
hour there can be no doubt that the
Zwar-Bancks musicomedy was found in-
teresting. The setting is Sydney—the
first scene, in the Blue Mountains, seems
to have been thrown in because it makes
a gorgeous scene and supports the title.
Next comes Palm Beach, as gay as life,
with Barrenjoey lighthouse and all, and
for the rest the night life of Darlinghurst
and Rose Bay is drawn upon. Mr.
Bancks’s recollections of King’s Cross
lead him to impute dives to the vicinity
—they vanished many years ago—and he
has peopled the locality with imitation
Yankee gangsters, of whom there really
are a few, though they’re not typical.
The plot is clear and connected, and
forms a far stouter string for pearls of
songandance than is usual in imported
productions. Some of the patter strays
outside the pale, but most of it is bright,
and if it is complained that it follows
American models closely the librettist
may retort that that’s where Sydney gets
its slang from nowadays. Charles Zwar’s
music maintains throughout qualities of
tunefulness and attractive rhythm.
There’s nothing that sticks in the mem-
ory after a first hearing, but it is admir-
ably suited to the voices that have to
cope with it.
The Firm has done its best to give the
piece a fair chance. Cast includes Cyril
Ritchard (who proves himself on this
occasion a very sound and capable actor
as well as a talented dancer), Madge
Elliott, Leo Franklyn, Frank Leighton,
Don Nicol, Athol Tier, Agnes Doyle and
Marie Le Varre, all of whom have op-
portunities to shine and make good use
of them.
Ballets are beautifully staged, and two
of them —a boxing fantasia and a
(Continued on page 38.)


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Zinc Corporation
, Dividends s To He- Ro-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1927. . 259,278 40 40 = 228,905 80,873 252,223
1928.. 255,534 40 40 = 228,905 26,029 278,857
1929.. 246,050 37* 35 = 200,433 39,017 318,474
Exchange reserve, £20,000.. .. 338,474
1930.. 68,381 23 J 7*= 82,844 324,011
1931.. 108,441 22* 5 = 71,609 30,832 360,843
Equalisation reserve, £17,000 .. 377.843
1932.. 94,838 22* 6 = 71.609 23,229 401,072
Contingencies reserve, £6250 .. 407,322
1933.. 120,225 26* 124= 105,315 14,910 422,232
The spring in the figures is due mainly
to the sale of an extra 16,219 tons of
lead, making 48,901 tons in all, leaving
the co. with 40,426 tons on hand when
the books closed. The average London
price of lead was 4s. Bd. lighter, but
this was partly offset by the rise in the
price of silver and spelter:
Silver
Lead. (fine). Spelter.
Average four years,
Dec., 1929 . . £24 19 7 28.58 d. £2B 3 11
12 mths., Dec., ’3O 18 1 5 19.06 d. 16 16 9
12 mths., Dec., ’3l 13 0 7 15.75 d. 12 8 11
12 mths., Dec., ’32 12 0 9 19.24 d. 13 13 10
12 mths., Dec., ’33 11 16 1 19.57(1. 15 14 11
Other factors which helped to swell the
pool Were larger production, better
recoveries at lower cost and lighter smelt-
ing charges at Port Pirie, where the new
method of refining lead bullion has at-
tracted a lot of attention overseas. The
zinc concentrates are sold under contract
to Electrolytic Zinc and Imperial Smelt-
ing Corp.
The improvement in the gross value
of metai production (£746,809) was
£19,995. Exes. (£682,990, including
royalty and development charges) were
£6412 lighter, making the balance on
mine account £26,407 better at £63,819.
The £917,967 invested in associated cos.
(£509,180), subsidiaries (£52,082) and
other securities (£356,705) turned in
£69,402, equal to 7.5 p.c. on their book
value. After deducting a proportionate
amount of exes., the net return from
investments was £56,406, down £lO2O.
The net return from all sources was thus
£120,225 (up £25,387), equal to Is. 7d.
for each pref. and ord. share, after
allowing for the fixed pref. div. of 20
p.c. (£49,138). In addition, the prefs.
participated with the ords. to the extent
of another Is. 3d. per share, and £14,910
was visibly ploughed in, lifting reserves
to £422,232.
Here is the financial position in tab-
loid form:
Assets other than 1930. 1932. 1933.
mine and plant £1,397,116 £1,077,025 £1,167,111
Liabilities . . 696,780 313,168 382,968
Net assets .. £700,336 £763,857 £784,143
The mine and plant figure at £244,057,
up £12,109.
The extraction of crudes and costs
compare as follows:
1927. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Crudes raised,
tons . . 261,760 237,041 350,284 363,680
Working costs,
per ton .. 35/1 29/8 24/7 22/10
Development costs,
per ton . . 2/6 1/10 —/5 —/II
Last year’s ore contained a trifle less lead
(15.1 p.c.) and a bit more silver (3.80 z.)
and zinc (10 p.c.). The further reduc-
tion of Is. 9d. a ton in working costs
made the cut 6s. lOd. since 1930, due
largely to increased tonnage, wage adjust-
ments and other savings in overhead.
Another encouraging feature is the
improvement in treatment and recovery
figures: —•
1927. 1932 1933.
Crudes treated, tons.. 263,202 350,100 363,540
Lead concentrates, tons 57,466 69,355 70,026
Assay—Lead, p.c... 64.6 73.7 74.2
Silver, 0z... 13.5 15.9 17.9
Recoveries —
Lead, p.c. . . 92.7 94.9 94.5
Silver, p.c. .. 87.0 89.7 90.8
Zinc concentrates, tons 48,586 51,168 54,915
Assay—zinc, p.c. .. 47.9 52.9 52.9
Recoveries —zinc, p.c. 80.3 80.0 80.2
It all means lower costs, and is a fine
tribute to the metallurgical staff.
Ore reserves are unchanged at
2,800,000 tons in the main lode and
249,000 tons in the zinc lode, and there
is a lot of stone not yet measured up.
The London spot quote for lead is now
little more than £lO a ton. Still, the
price of the scrip has strengthened on
account of the co.’s interest in the Gold
Exploration and Finance Co. of Aus.,
Ltd., recently formed in London with a
nominal capital of £2,000,000, and in
which Imperial Smelting Corp. and other
large concerns are interested. At £5 15s.
the fully-paid £1 prefs. return 4.5 p.c.
on the basis of last year’s distribution.
On the same basis the 10s. ords. at 365. 9d.
return 3.4 p.c. The prefs. are entitled
to a cumulative 20 p.c. and to participate
with the ords. in any distribution the
latter may receive on a share basis. In
the event of a wind-up they enjoy
priority as to capital, and, after payment
of £1 per ord. share, rank equally with
the ords. on a share for share basis.
Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Co.
Broking and Trading Departments.
Bonuses
to To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 44,353 8 p.c. = 21,316 14,490 8,547 14,006
Forfeited shares, £B2 .. .. .. 14,088
Added goodwill, £lOOO .. .. 13,088
1928.. 56,621 8 p.c. = 24,754 15,905 15,902 29,050
Forfeited shares, £B3 .. . . .. 29,133
1929.. 46,968 8 p.c. = 29,017 13,074 4,877 34,010
Drop in forfeited shares reserve, £17.. 33,993
June t’’ rom Insurance Dept., £2300 .. 36,293
1930*. . 9,261 Nil Nil 9.261 45,564
From Insurance Dept., £2981 .. 48,535
1931.. 25,343 5 p.c. = 18,922 4,362 2,059 50,594
From Insurance Dept., £2607 .. 53,201
1932.. 31,289 5 p.c. = 18,985 7,008 5,£96 58,497
From Insurance Dept., £2798 .. 61,296
1933.. 29,864 5 p.e. = 19,001 7,248 3,000 64,355
From Insurance Dept., £2977 . . 67,882
1934.. 38,385 5 p.c. = 19,153 12,240 6,992 74,324
This 17-year-old co-operative concern is
one of the largest handlers of wool,
wheat, livestock, skins and produce in
N. S. Wales, and it accepts agricultural
insurance risks, etc., as well. Its quick
development has been due largely to the
purchase of John Bridge and Co.’s
N.S.W. business (the price was £210,847,
including £24,100 for goodwill), the
assistance of well-established farmers’
organisations, and the help of its bankers.
According to the figures, and considering
the extent to which it has borrowed to
lend, the co. has come through the last
few difficult years surprisingly well. After
one interruption, in 1930, dividends to
shareholders and bonuses to clients have
been steady on a reduced but satisfactory
scale. This and the absence of special
provision for bad debts, etc., suggest
that much of the lending has been against
the security of - current production, and
that the board doesn’t consider that it
has overextended credit in other direc-
tions, despite the plight of the wheat-
grower. The position of shareholders and
others largely depends upon how things
pan out in this respect.
When the books last closed there was
235. 3d. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound of tangible
assets belonging to shareholders:
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Capital . . £378,091 £379,712 £380,921 £383,056
Mortgages .. 135,000 125,000 124,285 118,824
Overdraft .. 185,721 172,256 106,009 220,860
Creditors, etc. 506,923* 153,808 200,685 280,801
Freeholds, etc. 467,396 460,203 467,584 472,825
Debtors . . 791,732 476,446 466,860 653,868
Stocks . . 23,903 6,646 7,453 11,598
Cash, etc. . . 36,140 36,854 33,428 42,888
To carry an extra £187,008 of advances,
add £18,841 to the book value of other
assets and snip £5461 off mortgages, the
board went to its bankers for an extra
£114,851, and leant upon sundry credi-
tors for a further £80,116. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£87,864) was £11,102. The book value
of fixed assets alone was only £59,211
short of capital and reserves combined.
It was the rise in the price of wool
and the record number of livestock
handled that gave last year’s earnings a
lift:
Wool, Wheat,
Bales.* Sheep. Cattle. Bushels.
1928.. 130,742 533,195 32,967 1,465,000
1929.. 157,224- 430,976 26,600 3,335,000
1930.. 160,142 593,455 27,880 3.179,000
1931.. 145,685 432,028 17,307 16,349,911
1932.. 171,396 883,261 119,870 3.274 758
(. j
1933.. 178,756 1,024,171 4.500.000
1934.. 171,421 t 1,835,349 3,000,000
*Sold. (Receipts.
More station produce was handled, too.
The drop in the wheat figures was due
to a lighter harvest. Gross earnings
(£206,771) were £8042 better, and exes.
(£168,186) were got back £979, despite
an extra £1250 set aside for taxation
(£9500). The net result (£38,385, up
£9021) was £6992 more than the 5 p.c.
div. and rebates of 20 p.c. of the wool
and 10 p.c. of the livestock and produce
selling charges called for.
Though the price of wool has dropped,
neither the div. nor percentage of rebate
may be interfered with during the cur-
rent term. The clip promises to be
heavier, wheat prices a bit better and
the tax bill a little lighter.
Insurance Department.
The insurance section continues to be
profitable:
Other
Pre- In- To Re- Re-
Aoril miums, come. Losses. Exes. serves, serves.
* 1 £, £ £ £* £ £
1927 30,337 3682 17,288 11,482 5,249 34,408
1998.. 28.149 1758 7,296 11,468 11,143 45,551
1929.-46,598 22,109 16,603 7,886 53,437
To General Dept., £2300 .. • • 51,137
1930’. .50,626 2301 23,179 18,804 10,944 62,081
To General Dept., £2981 .. .. 59,100
1931.. 36.458 2981 19,351 15,231 4,857 63,957
To General Dept., £2607 . . - • 61,350
1932.. 34.325 2607 18,335 14,557 4,040 65,390
To’ General Dept., £2798 .. •• 62,592
1933. 2798 17,258 15,956 9,168 1 1,760
To General Dept., £2977 . . • • 68,(83
1934. 3017 21,947 13,263 5,8/3 74,606
The underwriting surplus (£2856) fell
away 3514, due mainly to a heavier crop
of claims, following hail damage.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
36,076
1926.. 31,251 8 p.c. = 21,810 9,441 45,517
1927.. 42,678 8 „ „ 29,212 13,466 58,983
1928.. 48,741 10 „ „ 37,396 1 „ 45 69 328
Provident fund, £lOOO ) 10,340
Perkins’s business absorbed; added
reserves, £20,000 •• •• 89,328
1929.. 80,293 10 p.c. = 59,934 ) ,g g 59 a0 8,187*
Provident fund, £l5OO J ’
1930.. 69,834 10 p.c. = 62,341 ) * g 93 H4,180*
Provident fund, £l5OO ) ’
1931.. 59,007 8 p.c. = 49 958 ) g 049 12 2,229*
Provident fund, £lOOO j
Intangibles disclosed, £32,100 .. 90,129
1932.. 62,242 8 p.c. = 50,000 ) 1Q 242 100,371
Provident fund, £2OOO J ’
1933.. 71,575 8 p.c. = 50,000 ), R H 8 946
Provident fund. £3OOO )
1934.. 69,255 8 p.c. = 50,000 ),„ --- 135701
Provident fund. £2500 5 16,7 ’
•Subject to an unspecified amount of intangibles.
This co. and the Queensland Brewery
share all but a fraction of the trade in
the northern State. There is no price-
cutting ; competition largely takes the
form of buying up hotel properties, thus
widening and anchoring turnover, which
is also affected by the size of pay-rolls
and the state of trade generally.
During the last term, there was a
further decrease in unemployment, and
more hotels were bought. Including
£3OOO struck off the book value of intan-
gibles (now £26,100), and after setting
aside an extra £5OOO for taxation
(£25,000), declared net earnings were
£2320 lighter at 11 p.c. on capital as
against 11.4, 9.9, 9.4, 11.1 and 13.4 p.c.
back to 1929.
Now consider these figures:
1927. 1929. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £372,694 £622,425 £625,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 69,361 116,386 110,695 164,199
Brewery, plant,
etc •• 159,029 310,370 1 317 ggB 324,071
Warehouse .. 23.580 32,188 j ’
Hotels .. 151,095 268,474 444,268 511,783
Stocks . . 06,516 108,257 65,244 65,756
Debtors . . 107,269 148,903 64,744 62,954
Cash, etc. . . 8,429 11,363 16,946 13,151
Over the last five years £243,309 net has
been added to the book value of hotel
properties; £67,515 of it was in respect
of the last term, when £53,504 was added
to the debt—£l3B,7o9 of the £164,199 is
secured. When the books closed, liabili-
ties (they include an unspecified provi-
sion for contingencies) exceeded more or
less liquids (£141,861, including stocks)
by £22,338, a swing of £58,577 over the
twelvemonth, due to the outlay on hotels.
Until 1929 it was the Castlemaine
Brewery, Quinlan, Gray and Co., which
jettisoned half its capital in 1902. In-
cluding £62,500 of bonus scrip, capital
grew from £78,669 in 1919 to £372,694
eight years later. Then Perkins’s Too-
woomba brewery, part of its Brisbane
plant and the trade of some 70 hotels
were bought for £lOO,OOO in scrip, and
the name was changed to its present title.
The scrip was issued at a premium of
£20,000 (=2s. 6d. per share), which was
added to re'serves. Later, shareholders
welcomed the opportunity to put up the
money (£90,000) to buy some of the hotel
freeholds. Because of all this and the
management’s tight hold upon exes., the
co. has been able to exhibit very encour-
aging performances, despite slump and
the inroads of excise and other taxes
upon earnings.
It all gives the 8 p.c. div. a comfort-
able look, and enhances prospects. At
235. 9d., as against 20s. a year ago, the
fully-paid 12s. 6d. shares return 4.2 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
visibly 15s. 2d. in net tangibles.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 60,682 10 p.c. = 40,000 20,682 132,220
Loss.
1925.. 61.948 5 „ „ 20,000 50,272
Profit.
1926.. 38,448 7 „ „ 28,000 10,448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,853
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
. Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
1930.. 164,575 Nil 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,813
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
The co. operates largely on its own
account in the wool and furred-skin
trades, and its scrip is one of the most
speculative industrials on the market.
For the Most part, it buys in Australia
and sells overseas ; meanwhile price fluc-
tuations are always liable to play havoc
with earnings, as happened in 1921 and
1925, and again in 1929, 1930 and 1931.
Following the headlong descent of prices,
a loss of £164,575 showed up in 1930,
leaving £180,138 of the capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles—goodwill figured at
£130,000. To clean the slate 9s. per share
(£180,000) was struck off capital, reduc-
ing it to £220,000 in fully-paid 11s.
shares. But supplies still pressed heavily
upon prices, and a further loss of £19,705
was recorded in 1931. This was wiped
out by the profits of the two succeeding
years, leaving the road clear for the
resumption of divs.
During the last term the co. enjoyed
a rising market; the value of Australian
wool and skin-and-hide exports nearly
doubled. Declared net earnings sprang
£14,772, reaching 17.8 p.c. on capital as
against 11.1 p.c. for the preceding 12
months, and the five-year drought was
broken by the distribution of Is. per
share ( = 9.1 p.c.). The £19,276 that re-
mained lifted the lay-by to £25,384.
The financial position improved:
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Liabilities .. 297,637 117,713 145,977 134,092
Fixed assets.. 190,493 180,054 181,923 176,004
Stocks .. 253,293 89,876 113,443 156,002
Book debts . . 73,102 48,701 75,939 66,431
Cash . . . . 610 686 780 1,040
Including the allowance for depreciation,
etc., the year’s net earnings and a reduc-
tion of £9508 in debtors’ balances en-
abled the board to snip £11,885 off the
debt and carry an extra £42,559 of stocks,
which are the most vulnerable point of
the business. The more or less liquid
surplus (£89,381) was £45,196 better;
payment of the div. will reduce the figure
by £20,000.
As for the current term, both wool and
skin prices have eased ; much, therefore,
depends upon the figure at which stocks
appear. Also, quotas and other trade
restrictions have raised difficult problems
connected with the marketing of pro-
ducts in which the co. deals.
At 12s. (9s. 6d. a year ago) the scrip
returns 8.3 p.c. on a 9.1 p.c. div. basis.
The book value of the cover is 12s. 3d.
in net tangibles.
F. T. Wimble and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends ,
\ct Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 13,456 1067 8 p.c. = 7255 6184 39’080
1925.. 13,879 3978 8 „ ~ 7294 2607 42,187
1926.. 14,061 4000 8 ~ ~7334 2727 44,914
1927.. 15,170 4000 8 „ „ 7376 3794 48,708
1928.. 14,415 4000 8 ~ ~7423 2992 51,700
1929.. 14,590 4000 8 ~ ~74 67 3123 54,823
1930.. 14,409 4000 8 „ ~ 7526 2883 57,706
1931.. 4,473 4000 Nil 473 58,179
(6.6 p.c.)
1932.. 9,602 3325 6.2 p.c.=5878 399 58,578
(6.2 p.c.)
1933.. 10,800 3100 6.2„ ~5878 1822 60,400
1934.. 11,920 3100 6.2„ ~ 5878 2942 63,342
This is the co. which supplies The
Bulletin with Australian-made printers’
ink, and has done so for over half a
century. The foundations of the busi-
ness, which now includes all kinds of
printers’ requisites, were laid by F. T.
Wimble as far back as 1867. Branches
have been established in every State, and
a subsidiary has operated in Maoriland
with favorable results since 1928. The
94,800 £1 ords. are held mainly by
Wimbles and their friends. Public
interest is confined to £50,000 of well-
protected pref. money, carrying 8 p.c.
cumulative, reduced to 6.2 p.c. by the
statutory cut; it was put up in 1924 to
finance further expansion of the busi-
ness.
For the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1930 aggregate net earnings
approximately four times covered the
pref. divs., after deducting which enough
remaind to show an average of 11.6 p.c.
on ord. capital. Then slump, primage,
exchange, the debts question and the
demise of a number of city and country
newspapers brought gross eaTnings down
from £74,764 in 1930 to £54,787 in 1931,
when little more was netted than the
pref. div. called for. There has since
been a heartening growth in the figures,
due to recovery in turnover and the
management’s tight hold upon exes.,
while stocks and debtors’ balances have
been worked down without visible
mishap.
During the last term the spring in
gross earnings (£68,855) was £5848. Exes.
(£56,935) took £4728 of the increase,
leaving the net result £ll2O better at
8.2 p.c. on total capital. Under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act the prefs.
are entitled to advance with the ords.
up to 8 p.c., their original contract
rate; prospects of both receiving a bit
more than 6.2 p.c. are thus encouraging.
At 265. 4d. the prefs. return 4.7 p.c. on
the basis of last year’s distribution, or
6.1. p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is £4 3s. 3d.
Though the exact liquid position is
obscured by deduction of an unspecified
mortgage from the book value of free-
holds, etc., finances are obviously com-
fortable :
1929. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Capital ' . . £143,340 £144,800 £144,800 £144,800
Sundry creditors,
etc. . . 55,548 26,627* 20,988* 24,812
Freeholds, etc. 74,459 66,170* 66,170* 61,269"
Plant, etc... 24,964 21,788 20,692 19,67 a
Shares in
other cos. 25,093 25,090 25,109 25,099
Stock . . 80,600 67,083 62,717 59,901
Debtors .. 62.562 46,926 43,942 50,626
Cash .. 14,374 2f0,485 29,312
*After deducting mortgages.
To carry an extra £6684 of debtors
balances and add £8827 to the cash hold-
ing, stocks were reduced by £2816 and
£3824 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors and “other accounts.
The more or less liquid surplus (£115,02/.
including stocks but not shares) improved
£BB7l.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18)


[M]elsquraie Centenars Council, has made a Public appeal 7o citizens to take. The members oe
The G/^emadier, Goarps Bamd /mto Theiil homes as guests •
V//LUAS
AREaj't REAIIW
(5/J/LT FOR
S/s ~ Footers
PLUS PoSPiES
(T
W/LL EE
A JOB> To
keep tl/e ,
Slaves /M
\Wism vo4j'o Take
A PATTER.N from
THIS FOR. AAV ~/
bed son "
[H/JT TMIMK
OF THE
MAMIFOLD —^
USES
* OF
TMB>^
BLIS3 y/
man Be. his PR.&SEMC& OM P-ENT PANS.
3w S’/MCE EACH PAMPSMAM
CLEAMS HiS OWm EQ/J/Pme/V
POSSIELM THE HOUSEHOLD
S/Lv/ER_ vM/LL. GET A GO
MOW AMP ~TUEM
ANY ROOM FOR A GUARDEE?


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals.—Anvr.
* * * *
N.Z. and AUST. FORESTRY VENTURES, Timber,
Tung Plantation Operations. Independent appraisals,
reports and technical advice for investors, bondholders
and operators. Charges moderate. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.S'c. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer, Union Build-
ing, 8 Bond Street. Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants' Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, S'vdney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
aM.fi
"A sure friend in uncertain times."
miihHl
4k
x
&Lji fittnttli * 1
m
DO YOU SEEK SAFE
INVESTMENT?
The A.M.P. Single Premium Policy
Provides Absolute Safety
YOU may have a sum of money, large or small, waiting
investment. You may be wondering where to find abso-
lutely safe investment for it. Here is a suggestion.
There is not in all the world an investment safer than an A.M.P.
policy, and the A.M.P. Single Premium policy fills the need of
the man who has money that he wants to invest for the benefit
of his family after he has gone.
Take the member of the Society who, aged 35, in 1909
invested £333 in a Single Premium policy for £7OO. If he were
to die to-morrow his trustees would find that that £333 had
increased to £l,lBB.
When a man puts his money into land or shares, it may, or
may not, increase. Tragic has been the experience of many
men in recent years; they have seen such assets sadly depleted.
When a man puts his money into A.M.P. assurance it always
increases, for he calls to his aid the law that governs the
accumulation of money and the aggregation of wealth: the Law
of Compound Interest.
The money you invest in an A.M.P. policy is backed by
£93,000,000 of assets spread over Australia and New Zealand.
The safety of your investment is absolute. The certainty of its
steady increase is absolute, also.
Ask that an experienced counsellor be sent to give you full
particulars. If you live far from an A.M.P. office, particulars
will be sent by mail.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN,
Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Placer Development is offering those
on the register 20,500 new five-dollar
shares at 50 dollars (Canadian) each, one
for five. The co., which recently became
interested in two dredging propositions
(Pato Consolidated and Asnazu) in
Colombia, S. America, has thrown off
a subsidiary (Rutherglen Gold Dumps)
to treat 2,000,000 tons of slum dumps
in the Rutherglen district, Vic. In con-
junction with Consolidated Goldfields of
S. Africa it has also taken an option
over Pani Ilota mines, a big low-grade
alluvial proposition on the island of
Celebes. Its holding in Bulolo Gold
Dredging is 300,000 five-dollar shares,
of which 150,000 paids were recently
received in payment for the Bulowat-
Burnside areas.
* * * *
Misima Island, Papua, where New
Misima has been the only show of
much importance, is livening up. Oro-
ville has taken an option over N.M.G.M.
for £75,000, and is to start proving
reserves. Cuthbert’s show is paying
steady monthly dividends of Is. 6d., and,
as the mine is equipped with a 10-head
battery and old-style decantation plant,
an up-to-date outfit would make a
difference. It has worked for many
years now, with no signs of peter-
ing out. Several other propositions
are being opened up, but, though
there are plenty of possibilities about the
island at present, anything outside the
parent mine is in the speculative stage.
The main Misima lode, though proved
to exist outside N.M.G.M.’s ground, re-
quires much opening-up for testing.
Overburden, tropical scrub, rain, etc.,
make the development of the cap of a
reef a costly job—rather surprising to
those used to prospecting under Aus-
tralian conditions. Average rainfall on
Misima is over 12ft. per annum.
* * * *
The show on Sudest Island that Frank
Gardiner and J. K. Charleston dropped a
lot of cash on in the ’9o’s has been taken
up by Arbouin and Bunting, and is to
be given another go. Gardiner and
Charleston equipped with a 10-head bat-
tery from the Big Hill, Sunny Corner
(N.S.W.), but under the weird system of
management the mine was subjected to
it turned out disastrously.' Present
owners also hold a dredging proposition
on the island. Apparently a line of auri-
ferous country runs through Woodlark,
Misima and Sudest islands, from north
to south. Woodlark G.M. and Kula-
madau turned out a good deal of gold,
though they failed to pay divs.
* * * #
The New Queen Cross, Charters
Towers (N.Q.), is on the stocks in Syd-
ney with a nominal capital of £30,000 in
ss. shares, of which 72,000 are offered,.
The promoter, George Wilkie-King, takes
12,000 paids and £lOOO cash, and an-
other 12,000 paids and £3OOO cash go to
the vendor in terms of the option. The
other 24,000 shares are under offer to
P. L. Wentworth —for 12 months, at par
—for promotion. Mine, which has been
unwatered, is equipped with a winding
engine, boiler, etc.; new rails have been
laid to the bottom of the sink on the
underlie, 800 ft. down, and an air com-
pressor has been bought. The new capi-
tal is wanted to finance development and
the erection of a battery, etc. After
7689 tons of stone, averaging 16dwt., had
been extracted, the mine closed down in
1918. Unwatering has disclosed narrow
but rich makes of new stone on Nos. 3
and 6 levels, and it is figured that there
is 10,000 tons, averaging half an ounce
or more, i - eady in the stopes. In addi-
tion there is between 60,000 tons and
70,000 tons of stuff, bulking 4dwt., in
the mullock dumps. The co. should be
able to give a good account of itself
before long.
* * Si* *
Burma-Malay Tin has exercised its
option over the Briseis Tin mines, Derby
(Tas.), and a co. is to be formed to work
the property. To the end of 1924 the
Briseis paid £502,500 in divs. The work-
ings were the most extensive of their
kind in Australia. The end came in
1929, when floods burst the Cascade dam
and destroyed the workings, with heavy
loss of life. The London co. failed to
reconstruct, and a Launceston syndicate
bought the show for a trifle. The terms
to Burma-Malay are a one-fifth interest
in the operating co., which is to have a
nominal capital of not less than £150,000
and a working capital of about £75,000.
* * * *
J. C. Heevy has exercised his option
over the old Tasmania Co’s, workings at
Beaconsfield (Tas.), and is on the hunt
for capital in London to work the pro-
perty. Satisfactory arrangements for
hydro-electric power are said to have
been made with the Speck’s Government.
* * * *
According to the London “Financial
Times,” the board of Gold Exploration
is a constellation of financial and min-
ing stars, and its technical advisers are
as strong a team as could be selected
anywhere in the world. The groups in-
terested include New Consolidated Gold-
fields, Union Corp., Imperial Smelting
Corp., Central Mining Corp. and the
Broken Hill cos. Among the personnel
are Professor Donald McLaughlin, of
Harvard University, who is in control of
the geological work of the great Home-
stake mine, South Dakota; Thorold
Farrar Field, a director of Roan Ante-
lope, who has made himself famous in
both the U.S.A. and Rhodesia; Dr.
Hugh McKinstry, an American whose
work is known and appreciated every-
where ; and Drs. Stone and Connolly,
who are among the brightest of the
younger school of practising geologists.
* * * *
C. E. Prior’s appointment as manag-
ing director of Wiluna Gold Mines sur-
prised most mining men in the West.
Hitherto jobs like that have been given
to members of London boards; Gold-
thorpe Hay, chartered accountant and
managing director of Lake View and
Star, is a case in point. Prior, who has
been boss at Wiluna for several years,
has been a great asset to the co. His
new job may include overseering other
enterprises in which the controllers of
Wiluna are interested.
* * * *
F. H. Hamilton, formerly chairman of
Wiluna, and now head of H. E. Prop.,
Ltd., another London concern interested
in Westralian gold, says that the co.’s
interests there are at present confined to
holdings in Wiluna, Associated and
Goldfields Aust. Development. Wiluna
is the second-biggest gold producer
in Australia, and may be the larg-
est div. payer before long. Associated
had been acquired by Lake View
on terms satisfactory to all concerned,
and Goldfields Aust. Development,
with which New Consolidated Gold-
fields is closely associated, is said to be
doing well.
* * * *
Norseman (W.A.) has started to grow
again. Norseman Gold Mines, con-
trolled by an Adelaide co., is producing
£13,000 worth of bullion a month, and
recently started to pay divs. The Phoenix
is being prepared by its option holder,
Western Mining Corp., for early flota-
tion, and there are prospects of several
other old goldmines, including the Lady
Mary, being placed on the market before
long. Lady Mary yielded approximately
22,0000 z. in the past.
* * * *
Lancefield expects to have the water,
now lowered to 960 ft. level, out of its
mine at Beria (W.A.) by the end of this
month, and erection of its 10,000-ton-a-
-month plant, scheduled for completion
by the end of the year, is well in hand.
At June 30 the co. owed £2536, and had
nearly £lOO,OOO in the till.
* * * *
The Champagne Syndicate, Melbourne,
which holds several leases adjoining the
Lake View and Star, at the southern end
of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
has taken an option over the Hannan’s
Hill Amalgamated, east of the township.
The leases include Paddy Hannan’s ori-
ginal reward claim. During the past few
months Hannan’s Hill Co. has been
sampling and unwatering the property.
* * * *
Coolgardie (W.A.) is still being pros-
pected for rich patches. One was met
with the other day in a locality where
many gold-seekers have drawn blanks
during the past 40 years ; the yield was
2670 z. from about sicwt. of rock. Pre-
vious owners of the claim missed this
wealth by a few feet.
* * * *
H. J. Pearce, of Mt. Vernon, near
Wiluna (W.A.), has floated his two
Waratah leases into a no-liability co. with
a capital of £25,000 in ss. shares. The
lode is calcite schist, 3ft. wide, and
easily mined. Over 1100 tons have been
treated for an average of 25dwt. A
three-head battery and cyaniding plant
are to be erected.
* * * *
Edna May (W.A.) Amalgamated has
exercised the option granted by Edna
May Group over a 48-acre gold-mining
lease at Westonia (W.A.). The considera-
tion is 173,500 fully-paids of 4s. each.
Amalgamated, which is unwatering the
mine, will carry out a vigorous develop-
ment policy and erect a new power and
treatment plant.
* * * *
Capricorn G.M. Co. has taken an
option over the Mountain View, Cue
(W.A.), owned by the Chesson brothers,
of Day Dawn. The option price is
£lO,OOO, of which £lOOO has been paid.
The area consists of 12 acres near the
centre of the Great Fingall reserve, held
by Western Mining Corp.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.McI.: (1) The reason for the alteration
is that the articles were badly drawn in the
first place. (2) Where shares are paid to
varying amounts, declaration of a dividend on
the face value of scrip means that holders of
the fully-paids make a present of part of the
profits to the contribs., who receive payment
on their unpaid as well as the paid-up capi-
tal...-A.M.W.: Hold for a while. Govern-
ment'expenditure on public works and adjust-
ment of capital (10s. per share is to be struck
off ords.; pref. capital remains unaltered, but
div. has been reduced from 10 p.c. to 5 p.c.)
have enhanced dividend prospects, especially
for prefs Novice: (1) The no-liability
principle is confined to mining cos. It means
that you need not pay calls if you don’t
want to; you may surrender the scrip, and
thus avoid any further liability in respect
thereof. (2) No. (3) Proving of quantity,
value and nature of ore available. (4) The
value of a property cannot be judged by
assays from picked samples or from the ex-
hibition of rich specimens, both of which are
really concentrates masquerading as 0re....
W.D.: It is a speculation in which overcapi-
talisation is one of the biggest dangers. See
B. 23/5/’34 or “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” June,
1934 C.8.C.: The proposition looks all
right from the company’s point of view, but
there doesn’t appear to be much in it for
the grower J.8.C.: Golden Plateau at 365.
may be worth a flutter Shares: (1) The out-
look for shareholders is much brighter than
for bondholders. (2) Write A. D. Lindsay,
443 Little Collins-street, Melbourne J.J.:
(1) Hold. (2) Only ore from development ;
cannot say when mill will be ready. (3)
Looks very promising... .J.H.8.: (3), (2) and
(1) Fair prospects in that order. (4) A gamble
(6) and (5) Look like satisfactory investments.
... .R.G.McF.: No record P.G.L.: If
safety of capital is important, keep out
A.M.H.: (1) It looks like a sho.w with fair
prospects, but little has been done to prove
the extent and value of the deposit. (2) No.


S
M
>
-A
>v'
r
°\4L E> &V
/
«*
*
i*
<S>
raw*
•y.-':<-:-x*>/
::%ssi>';V i •.»'»& Hijivn i i;>j w?»y
lltllll A"
x-.s-.
WSSiSS*
A #
, V KSJ& 1Q.- 9A
50S
2Q
<3
£
■
llffi
mmm
>'.'V
WlM.Wi
If
■ :
w>
a*S£
0 e „3uaA*»
\
The delightful Ivory-and-Scarlet tin
may have been the attraction . . . the
first time.
But Society would want more than a
beautiful tin —the second time, third
time . . and ultimately.
And ultimately has it. . . Moderns have
turned to Ardath De-Luxe. They have
found the contents in tune with the tin
. . . a luxurious, cool-smoking, perfectly
filled cigarette, that because of its
traditional and special English blend
is kind to Society’s throat, soothing to
Society’s nerves.
KIND TO YOUR THROAT
SOOTHING TO YOUR NERVES'
OATH
CORK TIPPED
DE-LUXE
7632 - K -4.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Elaps”: A sad story of love’s young
dream cut off at the meter, so to speak,
comes from Queensland. A woman—the
more reason she should have felt
that spring was in the air—espied two
large snakes “standing on their tails and
fighting fiercely.” The lady promptly
slew one with a stick, ignorant of the.
fact that they were lovers making ad-
vances to each other after the fashion
of all snakes. The other slipped out of
sight. When the sportswoman returned
with a gun she found another snake had
joined the one that had slipped away
and the pair were whispering soft no-
things. She didn’t know this, of course,
and promptly killed both out of hand.
* * * *
“Nagob”: For hereditary employment
I nominate a family of three in the
middle-west of N.S.W.—a father and
two sons. Dad has been employed on
the station for 52 years, and is still draw-
ing his pay. The sons have each worked
there for 24 years. Talking to the
younger of these recently, I asked him
what he intended to do with his boy,
aged about 10. Came the reply, “Oh, he
intends to get a job here, too.”
* * * *
“Rua”: Ngauruhoe, for many years
the only active volcano in M.L., has had
part of its limelight stolen by the
adjacent Ruapehu, quiescent for nearly
40 years. From the hot lake near the
summit, Ruapehu sent a 700-foot shot,
consisting of mud, steam and water,
into the blue. In 1895 the same
lake erupted to a height of 6000 feet, the
first recorded eruption after the big Tara-
wera upheaval in the ’eighties, when all
the vents in the thermal regions worked
spectacularly.
* * * *
“Red Bill”: That category (B.
5/9/’34) of the many virtues of the Aus-
tralian waterhen —which, by the way, is
to be found in most other countries
writer has seen —does not include his
miraculous toughness. I doubt if any-
one ever shot one of these birds for
food twice. Boiling, baking, roasting,
and braying in a mortar only leave
him sardonically indifferent to any-
thing that fate may offer. Also, he has
a layer of fat under the skin which rivals
oil from a motor sump for fragrance
and flavor. Even hungry dogs decline
to eat him, and it is probably the brute’s
own consciousness of his immunity from
murder by hungry humans which makes
him so infernally perky.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Guano”: “Cam Cove” (B. 22/8/’34)
asks whether jackasses laugh after being
transported to a foreign clime. In my ex-
perience their exile doesn’t affect their
sense of humor. A pair was taken to
Nauru and liberated. Now the Aus-
tralians resident there are often enter-
tained in the early morning with
a chorus of ribald laughter, given by
Mr. and Mrs. Jack and their progeny
from among the leaves of a tall cocoanut
palm. Possibly the birds mistake the
Nauruan native for their own familiar
Binghi and decide that “All’s well.” A
pair of maggies accompanied the Jacks,
but unfortunately only one survived.
Judging by his incessant chatter, neither
exile nor bereavement has dampened his
spirits.
* * » *
“S.H.”: The sorrowing expression on
his face touched my heart. I bought
him a drink. “Where you camped,
mate?” he asked. 1 explained that I was
one of the fortunates still in a house.
He heaved a sigh. “I had a house once.
A wife, too, but I spoiled her. Then
I turned on her, an’ she turned
“Hey, Joe, come on down an’ play puddin'!”
on me an’ put me out in the wet.
It was like this, mister —sure, I will;
beer again, cobber. One night she
was curled up before the fire readin’, an’
I was doin’ the washin’ up ; she asked
me t’ bring in some dry wood out of
the shed. Out I goes in the teemin’
rain. No sooner was I back than
she wants the clothes in off the line.
Well, the washin’-up water was gettin’
cold, but I brought the clothes in. Then,
blimey, she wanted somethin’ else out-
side. Back I goes. Then I’m just finish-
in’ the washin’ up an’ she looks up an’
says, ‘Dear, you are wet. But you can’t
get any wetter, so do go out and see if
the fowlhouse door is closed.’ I chucks
the washin’-up water all over her.
‘Now,’ I says, ‘you’re wet, too. Go out
yerself.’ Thanks, mister. Same again.”
* * * sjc
“U. Ralia”: “Diamond” (B. 5/9/’34)
grossly exaggerates the spare-tyre value
of rattlesnakes. But his par. reminds
me of a trip I had west of Bedurie (Q.),
when the petrol ran short about 100 miles
from the nearest depot. My mate, a
resident of the district, knew his snakes,
and there were plenty to choose from.
While he went selecting them I stripped
the wheels of the tyres and tubes. Then
the fattest wrigglers were tied on, head
to tail, in place of the rubber. They
remained placid until all was set and
the horn was blown. The unaccustomed
noise caused them all to leap forward,
and the car moved along. They wore
out pretty quick, but we had no trouble
getting more for renewals, and, with
experience, we found we could do easily
10 miles to the snake —not bad going,
considering. We didn’t need a rattle ;
the make of car in use provided that.
* * * *
“Mako”: The strange-looking ribbon-
fish is an occasional visitor to M.L.
waters, but one recently cast ashore at
The Glen, near Nelson, washed out all
previous records. It measured 19ft. in
length.
* * * *
“Drawback”: Let me enter the argu-
ment about eagles taking other birds on
the wing (B. 27/7/’34). In 1912, near
the southern boundary of Wilcherry
station, Eyre Peninsula (S.A.), I saw two
crows harrying an eagle, probably chas-
ing it from their nest. One of the
cawers dropped out of the chase ; the
other was suddenly dived upon by the
eagle. They descended together, spirally,
with all four wings extended. I drove
across, and about a mile away on the
plain found the crow with its head almost
severed from its body. The eagle was
standing near by.
* ❖ ❖
“Thule”: Last saw “Razors” (B.
5/9/’34) when camped with sheep at the
Neimur Bridge, a dozen miles or so on
the Barham side of Moulamein, in the
spring of ’26. “Mick O’Mulga’s” old
cobber seemed to be carrying the burden
of his years then, and I fear that only his
shade tramps down the ’Bidgee now.
* * * *
“Rindy”: My dog had a nasty habit
of licking hands. Was told this was a
sign of want of salt. “Give him salt,”
they said. Good for a while, but later he
got finicky with his food, so, following
up the clue, I gave him pepper. This
gingered him up a bit, but after he
acquired a liking for mustard he became
difficult to please. To-day it requires the
spices of the Indies to tempt him to his
well-balanced and carefully-selected meal.
Otherwise he sulkily disregards the spread
and disinters a decaying bone.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: “Solomon’s Mate” (B.
22/8/’34) touches a raw spot when he
mentions green ants. Buffalo-shooting
beyond the Howard (N.T.) years ago a
newchum wounded his buff, and just
beat it to a tree, dropping his rifle as he
swung into the lowest branch. The en-
raged and disappointed bull did its
best to uproot tree and all, and showed
no inclination to depart. Two hours
later the rest of the party came upon
the scene, and a bullet cleared the way
for a naked and badly-scared lad to
descend. The tree was alive with green
ants ; he had been bitten in a thousand
places and thrown off his clothes to deal
more effectively with the attacks. I was
the newchum.
* * * *
“Kea”: An example of the extraordi-
nary rapidity with which shellfish will
grow upon the hull of an out-of-work
vessel was shown when s.s. Omana,
a trader belonging to R. S. Lamb, of
Sydney, which had been lying in Welling-
ton Harbor for three years, went int<
dock for an overhaul. From her huli
were scraped over 100 tons of mussels.
* * * *
“Phalanger”: ’Possums have been raid-
ing Fitzroy Gardens in Melbourne and
eating the flowers, so a permit to
trap the little nuisances has been
issued. Curious what attraction
flowers have as food to many ani-
mals. Rats, for instance, cannot re-
sist carnation blooms. One of Syd-
ney’s leading florists told me that he
lost hundreds of blooms in a night.
With 30 different varieties of flowers
available, the carnation was invariably
picked out, the seeds in the capsule being
eaten, the petals left to strew the floor.
* :!: * *
“Mac Binghi”: Any Aboliar acquainted
with the night habits of white cockatoos?
In N.S.W. wheat country and on the coast
near the corn crops, I have watched
flocks of these cunning birds go to roost
on the branches of the tallest dead tree
and stay there until it was too dark for
me to watch longer. Then I have gone
out quietly in the moonlight to the exact
tree and “mooned” every branch without
finding a solitary bird. What’s their
game?
“Quarien”: Wonder what
breed that parrot was which got
disgusted because it couldn’t
plane with fixed wings like the
seagulls (B. 12/9/’34)? Most
parrots and cockies are excel-
lent planers, even the swift-
flying small breeds like the Blue
Mountains. The white cocky is
a first-rate glider, but I’d give
the palm to the rose-breasted galah. To
see vast flocks engaged in air manoeuvres,
wheeling, rising and falling without a
flip of the wing, is a sight not to be for-
gotten, especially if, as usually happens,
the exercises take place in the late after-
noon when the light makes the best of
the color scheme.
* * * *
“Selma”: A party of youngsters
dropped a porcupine into a clear pool;
the argument was whether it could swim.
The spiny one made no effort to strike
out, but sank slowly. The kids were
more perturbed than the echidna; on
reaching the bottom he leisurely strolled
along under water, up the other side of
the depression, emerging quite undis-
turbed.
* * * *
“Ringer”: I’ll tell “C.F.A.” (B.
8/8 / ’34) the means of communication by
which bullocks rush if he’ll tell me why
they rush, and, if that’s too easy, why
certain classes rush in certain areas. Let’s
take the old Pollygammon yards, on
Warenda station (W.Q.), when that place
was a cattle station. It had one of the
finest large herds in Australia, well
worked, open country, and everything
conducive to quiet cattle. A man could
put cows, mixed cattle, old bullocks,
almost anything at all on Pollygammon
and go away sure they’d be there in the
morning. But if he put weaner bullocks
on the place there’d be nothing in the
morning but a crippled body or two and
some splintered rails. Why do Rocklands
(Barkly Tableland) bullocks go away
from home as quiet as little lambs? Why
do they keep up that degree of humility
till they reach the Austral Downs boun-
dary? Why do they rush from there to
Gidya Creek—a distance of 50 miles—
and then again settle down into a degree
of placid docility? Why are they the
only cattle which rush over that area?
Over a span of years there never was a
full mob from Enniskillen (C.Q.) de-
livered at Charleville. There’s more than
coincidence in all that. 11l have my
answer ready for “C.F.A.” when he has
enlightened me on my little lot.
THE BUSHMAN BUYS AN AXE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met him in a hardware store —h# came to
buy an axe, .
And well I knew that process would the shop-
man’s patience tax;
For Bill and Jim will take advice when buy-
ing boots or clothes,
But there arc points about an axe no city
shopman knows:
It must have “balance,” edge and “fall,” be
thin of blade and keen,
But tempered well for hard grey-box, as well
as timbers green.
Mayhap this tall and sun-tanned man from
Gippsland hillsides came,
Where axewor-k plays a major part, and men
must know' the game;
For strength and skill and nerves of steel are
needed day by day
By those who on the springboard stand, while
forest monarchs sway.
My thoughts were straying back again to hills
that once I knew,
And on their rugged slopes I stood, where
giant blackbutts grew.
Once more I heard the axes ring, I saw the
bright steel flash;
There came again the creak and groan of some
great mountain-ash
That, stricken, tottered on its stump ere
thund’rously to earth
It crashed, to wake the sleeping bush and still
the birdland mirth.
I heard the maul on wedges thud,
the crosscut biting deep,
While bullock teams were winding
slow around the hillside steep.
There, axe a-shouldcr, once I strode
where youth and strength held
sway,
For tasks were lighter then than
now; the hardest work seemed
play.
In envy of that bushman tall, I
walked the busy street,
Still musing on the timbered slopes
where trees and skyline meet;
For bush-bred folk will ever dream
of hills and winding tracks,
As I was dreaming there that day the
bushman bought an axe.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


“Nakhoda”: The cool scientific eye of
a Melbourne physicist, Professor Laby,
was recently cast on the alleged miracle
of fire-walking, which is a perennial
attraction at Suva. He refused to accept
the assertion that the magicians could
walk over red-hot stones unless their
soles were made of asbestos. Investiga-
tion removed this possibility from the
problem, so the professor concentrated
on the boulders. He found there was a
great mystery about them and that the
walkers brought them from a distant
part of the island. They turned out to
be mud stones containing a great deal
of water. When these were heated, as
they undoubtedly were by the logs be-
neath them, the effect was to dry the out-
side and crack them, leaving much of the
water in the interior. Such an arrange-
ment, the professor concluded, might
raise the temperature to that of boiling
water, and by careful stepping the
operators could stay on them for half a
minute without serious injury. Such
dodges have been practised by the witch-
doctors of all countries from time im-
memorial.
* * * *
“Wandana”: The balloon-fish (B.
1 /8 / ’34) is found round the Torres Strait
islands; saw one once which killed a
shark. Whether the shark attempted to
swallow the fish, or whether the blower
simply hooked itself on to the big fel-
low’s lip, I can’t say ; but the dead shark
was found floating with the expanded
“puffball” attached to the mouth in such
a way as to produce suffocation.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: If you can believe the
experts, there is nothing to fear from the
“ Gripes, ’e’s the prettiest fighter I ever seen!”
bite of a snake inflicted during whip-
cracking practice (B. 22/8/’34). A snake
must have a purchase before it can in-
ject sufficient poison to solidify human
blood. A snake swimming in water, for
instance, can bite —and will bite a swim-
mer, if given a chance—but it can’t do
more than frighten him. It has no pur-
chase and, therefore, cannot inject the
spurt of poison necessary to kill. When
in the air it is the same way, unless the
“whip-cracker” holds the snake around
the middle—which, I presume, he
wouldn’t do in his right sehses. A snake
can’t get a purchase from his tail, or any
part further back than the middle.
* * * *
“U.M.”: When a thrasher hurls itself
at a whale from a 15-foot leap it knocks
blazes out of the big fellow, and makes
him belch. The thrasher aims at pre-
venting the whale rising to take in fresh
air, and during the onslaught the huge
cavity of the mouth becomes full of
water. A sledge-hammer buffet about
the ribs and below, the belt brings
about a forcible exit of gas and
wind, which meets the barrier of water
in the whale’s mouth ; hence the rumble
and bellow, the roof of the mouth acting
as a sounding-board, as in singing.
* * * *
“Silentio”: A city couple boarding at
our farm donned a hiking kit for a ramble.
They didn’t get past the shed paddock,
where they stopped to admire a couple
of broods of goslings. After the gander
and two geese had attended to them, their
legs were swathed in bandages for weeks.
Apart from hefty pecks geese give a
severe brushing with their wings; an
irate gander is something like a cross
between a cranky billygoat and a savage
ram.
* * * *
“Worro”: It is a mistaken kindness
to pull a partly-swallowed snake from a
bird’s throat. A man driving near Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) saw three young jacks
each trying to swallow wrigglers about
18in. long, and one fowl appeared to be
in difficulties. He pulled the snake out
of its mouth. Next day he found the
bird dead. Pulled the wrong way, the
scales must have injured it internally.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: “Wok’s” yarn (B.
29/8/’34) reminds me of a magpie hous-
ing a cat. A loud commotion started in
the bush about 300 yards from the house
at Willowvale farm, Braemar (N.S.W.).
Shortly afterwards a cloud of dust
appeared on the road and came towards
the house at high speed. In and out of
the dust-cloud maggie darted up and down
using language that was beyond interpre-
tation. Out of the dust issued the house-
hold cat, with maggie’s beak snapping
like breaking sticks all over him. Into
the kitchen came the cat, knocking every
speed record into a cocked hat; and
there the one-sided contest was con-
tinued. Tom had lost eight of his lives
when the missus arrived with the broom.
Out maggie went backwards through the
door, arguing every inch of the ground.
He was beaten into a peach-tree, and
what he said about the missus and the
cat for a full hour before returning to
the disturbed nest left nothing to be
desired —if one is fond of that kind of
slander.
* * * *
“Bam”: Add this to the poultry oddi-
ties. A man in the Mt. Gambier (S.A.)
district had a hen which, when hatched,
was, to all appearances, a white Leg-
horn chicken. After the first moulting
the white feathers gave way to red ones;
the bird could easily have passed as a
Rhode Island Red. At the next moult
the hen turned into a white Leghorn
once more. She was not the same color
for two consecutive years.
* * *
“Heil”: Our magpie is addicted to
tormenting a pointer, which accepts the
attentions with lofty indifference. She
"Aren’t you planting any potatoes this season, Hori?"
“Py korry, yes—soon as the old woman’s back gets better."
plucks at the floppy ears and loose lips
as he lounges in the sun, and sometimes
the dog strolls around with the bird
hanging suspended by her claw from his
lip and squawking defiance. Right
through the piece the pointer disdains to
notice the bird’s presence.
* * # / *
“Felis”: It is in weariness—and for the
last time—that I return to the subject
of a genuine member of the genus Felidce
existing in this country which is in-
digenous to it. “Tom Willie” says (B.
12/9/’34) that he has captured speci-
mens and is sure they are true cats. How
he has convinced himself that they are
indigenes, where no traces of
the true cats have been found
in Australia’s vast fossil de-
posits and where aboriginal lore,
full of vivid descriptions and
legends of all other Australian
animals and birds, contains no
reference to them, is his busi-
ness. I repeat my offer to eat
raw any genuine indigenous cat
—so stamped by competent
authority discovered by
“T.W.” or the many others who
have persisted in regarding as
native to the soil the huge de-
scendants of tame cats gone
wild. I also inform “T.W.” that
if he can bring such a genuine
specimen to civilisation wealth
and honors manifold will be
showered on him. He will com-
mand his own price from
Regent’s Park or the Bronx,
while Royal Societies innumer-
able will make his name famous,
starting with the R.Z.S., of course. One
drawback will be that the R.G.S. will
make him a Fellow, but few escape that.
* * * *
“Dead Finish”: An old chap living
alone in .a Queensland boundary-rider’s
hut shot a kangaroo about sundown one
evening. Seemingly the shot didn’t crack
any bones; anyway, the ’roo left hur-
riedly. Next morning as the old chap
was turning out of bunk he felt some-
thing soft underfoot, and there was the
’roo, stiff and stark. It had come home
to die. Now the ancient is wondering
what it all means, and has the breeze
up properly.
* * * *
“Wodao”: What’s the best country to
camp in during the thunderstorm season?
Pitching a tent against a sugar-gum is
said by some bushmen to be court-
ing death. Another tree generally be-
lieved by bush people to attract light-
ning is the bottle-tree that grows prolifi-
cally along the Dividing Range in
Queensland. And one never sees the
blacks camping in ironstone country.
2fc jf;
“K’ong”: Always thought it as im-
possible to get juice from a nutmeg as
to be bitten by a snake in midwinter,
but a recent experience caused me to
revise judgment. Picnicking with a
friend in the Dandenong Ranges (Vic.),
I accidentally lit the fire over a snake-
hole. The billy was almost boiling when
an infuriated wriggler shot from the
embers and buried its fangs in my boot.
Luckily, the upper was thick.
# $ * *
“Eureka”: Unusual accidents? On
the far South Coast of N.S.W., near Bur-
ragate, a cricket match was being played
when one of the fieldsmen put his foot
in a rabbit burrow when chasing a ball
and sprained his ankle. Later in the day
a fast bowler was just about to deliver
a ball when a black snake scurried across
the pitch. The ball hit it fair on the
back and stopped its progress. The bats-
men finished the job v/ith their bats.
H-- * * *
“Skepsel”: That reference to the
aasvogel, or South African vulture (B.
22/8 / ’34), moves me seriously to offer
my opinion that the fowl could help
Australia towards solving the blowfly
problem. One of the chief troubles fac-
ing the sheepbreeder is getting rid of
the carrion in which the flies breed —
dead stock, marsupials left by shooters
and rabbit corpses. Only a portion can
be poisoned, and the poison destroys as
many valuable native birds as blowflies.
We have no expert scavengers. The crow
does his bit, but leaves much of a carcass.
S’Africa has the hyena and the aasvogel.
The first is out of the question in this
country, of course. Introduction of the
other to parts like the west of Queens-
land and N.S.W. and North Westralia
would soon make an end of “casual”
carrion, to use a golfing term. Dur-
ing the Boer War many thousands of
horses died or were killed. Writer rode
from Bloemfontein to Thabanchu soon
after Broadwood’s column had been
wiped out by De Wet. There were hun-
dreds of cavalry and gun horses on a
small plain where the British column had
been trapped ; these were already half
eaten, with the gorged birds still stand-
ing by. Coming back a waek later the
plain was white with bones. Once the
breeding carrion is eliminated it seems
to me that the supply of new flies and
maggots from struck sheep could soon be
mastered. The aasvogel has never been
known to attack anything living. It is
exclusively a carrion eater, and the pol-
ishing off' of a large sheep would be a
mere day’s work for one of the breed.
THE MUSTERERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The magpies sang their morning song,
The dew-drenched bracken shone,
As o’er the bridge and up the track
The musterers rode on.
Free-reined they rode, and on their brows
Fresh blew the dewy wind;
Their packhorse trotted on before,
Their cattle-dogs behind.
Wild hops at foot, and wattle-gold
About them gleamed and glowed,
As light of heart and swift of hoof
Along the track they rode.
Upon the ridge beyond the bridge
They turned and waved good-bye—
Waved whip and hand in blithe farewell,
And coo-eed clear and high.
Three musterers with whip and spur,
They took the mountain track;
Three musterers they rode away,
But never three came back.
Though many a year has turned since then
The bracken’s green to brown,
There hangs a saddle on its peg,
And none will take it down.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


TTw'^xxlleiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. ’You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
€
i.
*■
*»**
it.
.*■ -
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
Found Your family's
fortune NOVY!
ESTABLISH that safest, surest kind of fortune, and one that
never stints. Found it on the solid rock of life assurance.
There is no substitute for life assurance. Only through life
assurance can you get immediate and complete protection to the
full amount of your policy. And because the P. & C., through
its co-operative principles, provides the utmost in return and
benefits, increasing thousands of thinking people are taking
advantage of the remarkable P. & C. opportunity. The wide range
of P. & C. policies is designed to take care of your every need.
Let us advise YOU; no obligation whatever would be incurred.
Write now ivhile you are thinking about it.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZEN'S
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Directors :
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
COUNTING SHEEP.
“Tally”: After fixing the counting-
gate to his satisfaction, the counter needs
to pay attention to the wind, the sun, the
shadows and, if on a claypan, reflection.
The universal advice is to count slowly
—slowly and surely. I say there’s no-
thing leads to more incorrect counts
•than tardy running. Count in comfort
—the size of the gate is the key to that.
A man should be able to let 20 sheep
run past him and run up ’em again to
the mouth of the gale with case. The
position of the tally-keeper needs atten-
tion. The best rule I ever knew was
that the tally-keeper stood exactly oppo-
site to the counter. He copied the
counter’s actions and shifted his position
as the counter did. In that way the
counter could, to a certain extent, control
the running of the flock.
The best counter ever I stood beside
was the late Dacre Beattie, then of
Nuken, outside Winton, W.Q. He never
had his name engraved on pickle-bottles
or jam-tins, but he could catch every
sheep and call his tally to a nose just
as that head peeped through the gate.
1 thought I was fast, and 1 had records
to prove it. Beattie could run right
away from me. As for correctness, a
man could bet on Beattie’s count and
set his watch by his figures. The big-
gest count of which I ever heard of was
done by Henry G. Lamond, overseer of
Warbreccan during ’O7. That was a run
without a break of 47,500-odd. That
was done after rain and with a green
background of grass, without a strain on
the eye and everything in order. And
I have known the same fellow break
down on a paltry 5000 on a claypan in
the middle of the day.
“Sheepo”: “Dead Finish” (B. 22/8/’34)
gives good advice, but there should be
no doubt “whether the counter feels con-
fident with sheep coming at him or going
away.” Without eyes in the backs of
our heads, we can’t see what is happen-
ing behind. I was counting out once,
the jumbucks going away from me, when
a mob crowded past. The gate had been
knocked down. “Why didn’t you yell
out?” I roared to my dark tallyman.
“You suppose to be countum, not me,”
drawled the boy; “you count more
better suppose you look.” “Dead Finish”
won’t see expert counters take the count
with their backs turned to the gate.
DIP, JET AND CRUTCH.
“G.F.D.”: To combat flies properly
one needs to dip, jet and crutch.
The man who thinks he can get
through the year without crutching is
a super-optimist.
My plan, proved by 16 years of ex-
perience, is as follows: Dip with six
to eight weeks’ wool and crutch with
seven to eight months’ wool. If the
season is dry and you use a good
arsenical-powder dip you’ll probably get
through all right, but jetting should be
used to carry the sheep on to crutching
or shearing time when the fly gets bad.
I’ve seen people crutching six weeks
before shearing to get rid of the fly, and
also with only four months’ wool—
thereby necessitating another crutching
at about eight or nine months. If they
had jetted they would have saved that
extra trouble and expense, and the sheep
would not be knocked about half as
much.
Of course, when flies get really bad
all the crutching and jetting in the world
won’t hold them.
As to “Sheepo’s” statement that “not
one per cent of the graziers in Q land
has a dip,” 1 can think, offhand, of over
forty sheep properties in the Goondi-
windi-Talwood district, and every pro-
perty either has a dip or access to one.
BLOWFLY-TRAP BAITS.
“Jass”: Whatever may be the merits
of trapping flies, there is no question
about the advantages of treating trap
baits with sodium sulphide.
In C.S.I.R. 25-day tests in Westralia,
ten traps baited with treated baits caught
171,000 flies, whilst a similar number set
with untreated baits caught only 51,000.
The treated traps caught a slightly
higher percentage of primary flies than
the untreated ones, and remained attrac-
tive to the fly much longer than the un-
treated.
TENDING FLOCK RAMS.
“Dead Finish”: A little attention to
flock rams through the year will pay at
lambing-time.
Sires should be in strong condition be-
fore joining, and, if possible, put on
green picking for a week or two before
mating. (This also applies to ewes.)
Should natural feed be sparse, a little
artificial feeding is worth while.
It is necessary to dress rams’ heads
frequently. There are excellent pro-
prietary lines. Fighting causes great
damage and paves the way for the fly.
Around the horns, close into the head, is
a favorite repository for maggots. Dam-
aged horns should be sawn off.
When cutting hooves, keep to the
natural shape. Long, horny toes are a
trial to travelling sheep.
A mistake which is too common is
shearing rams only at the general shear-
ing—once a year. This is asking a lot
of them. The time for shearing should
be determined wholly by its effect on
their usefulness and length of service.
Twice a year, according to seasons and
mating time, is best. A good type of
ram will grow a payable fleece in six
months. I have just shorn some rams (in
W.Q.) with barely seven months’ wool
on, and the cut was 111 b. per head, aver-
aging 31.7 bales per 1000. Apart from
paying their expenses, these rams will be
in great heart when joined shortly. Ex-
pecting rams to work while carrying a
heavy coat is asking too much. The
result is a mob of rams under a tree
telling stories, instead of getting on with
the job.
A paddock with a waterhole where
sheep usually camp during the noontide
heat is ideal for a successful joining.
This answers as well as yarding,
without the risk of getting a dusty clip.
Bore-drain country is bad, as the ewes
get too big a spread on, and rams are
knocked up travelling.
The time to join must be decided by
the seasons and locality. Try to arrange
your lambing when the feed is sweet and
plentiful. This must be kept in mind
also for weaning time.
It pays always to keep the best suit-
able type of ram. A nondescript costs
just as much to run per annum, and
the evil he does will continue for
generations.
SHED STAFFS.
“Richmond”: “Murrawong’s” recipe
for a shearing shed (B. 15/8 / ’34) has the
ring of practical experience about it,
but I cannot see eye to eye with him
regarding the number of rouseabouts.
No set proportion of shed-hands to
shearers is practicable. It depends on
the type of sheep to be shorn and the
shearers. Hard-cutting sheep and
medium-paced shearers will require fewer
“rousies” than if the opposite were the
case. A clip averaging 20 bales per
1000 needs fewer men to handle than
one going 30 bales. Similarly, a slow
team of shearers can be accommodated
by a smaller woolroom staff than a fast
team.
A picker-up who cannot keep the wool
away from five shearers is not worth
tuckering. It is only at the beginning of
the run that all the barbers “let go”
together. After that, they get into their
stride, and someone goes to the lead.
Allowing the five to come off together,
a boy who knows his work will draw
the wool away and sweep up the locks
before running the fleeces to the wool-
tables. He has three to four minutes
to shift his fleeces before the next one
comes off.
With wool-rollers, piece-pickers and
pressers the same applies. The fleeces
from heavy-woolled sheep, especially if
good cutting, require more men to handle
at the woolroom end than light fleeces.
It is safe practice, when engaging
rousies, to load up for an average shed
for a start, and add more as required.
Once signed on, it is a touchy business
to dispense with a superfluous man.
WOOL AND MANY THINGS.
“Valerin”: To my mind, the discus-
sions on wool and its preparation appear
to miss fundamentals. There are two
main factors in producing wool types —
climate and pasturage. Obviously in the
hot and dusty western areas of N.S.W.,
with their abundance of natural herb-
age, it is not possible to grow profitably
the fine wool of cooler areas. I do not
say it is impossible to grow fine wool
in the west, because I have seen samples
off Yancannia station that would spin to
over 100 count.
Having determined the suitable type
of wool for your particular region, stick
to it. Chopping and changing end in
the production of nondescript wool.
Next, study the spinning factor. Aim
at “quality,” evenness and regularity in
the fleece, length and strength. Never
try to get bulkiness by introducing
broad-woolled and breechy rams —they
are far too common. Character and'
quality in strong wools are just as essen-
tial as in any other type.
With the introduction of contract
shearing, the get-up of clips has deteri-
orated. The contractor’s aim is to get
through his job as quickly as he can and
at the minimum of expense. Conse-
quently shearing-boards which should be
kept clean sometimes are ankle-deep in
pieces, dags, fribs, shankings, etc.,
which work their way into the higher
grades. The skirting and piece-picking
are often slummed, and the presser
bundles the fleeces in anyhow without
the slightest regard to evenness in bale
weights. It is “not his job" to worry
about the inclusion of objectionable
hemp fibres and other foreign matter.
TRAPPING AGAIN.
“A.G.T.”: There are times when the
trapper does help.
My neighbor had a trapper on an
unnetted property; abandoned for a
period, while the crop was growing.
Trapper caught 4000 rabbits, and crop
loss was small.
Whether they were bucks or does, no-
body could convince that farmer that
he would be better off with the 4000
rabbits on the place.
Our N.S.W. Vermin Department says
trapping is bad and will lead to in-
creases ; our local board, for a time
divided on the merits of trapping, has
decided that any method that kills
rabbits is good, whether they are bucks
or does.
SAVE THE BEST.
“W.D.Mc.”: Now that horse prices
are booming, horse-breeding farmers need
to be warned not to keep any foal for
a stallion unless he is exceptionally good
in conformation and fashionably bred.
Even the medium-quality sire may prove
an expensive luxury unless he is broken
to work and earns his living out of the
breeding season.
Most breeders are blind to faults in
their pet colts, and it is very few that
are faultless or near it. In 35 years’
breeding I saved only two colts, although
I raised many fine geldings. I always
argued that if I could see a fault the
other fellow could see it too.
If you are lucky enough to breed a
really good one don’t kill him with kind-
ness and rich food. Give him a yard
(the bigger the better), securely fenced
and with shade and shelter, where he
will have plenty of room to exercise and
develop good hard bone and muscle.
One of the best yards I ever knew
was built of barbed-wire, but I never
saw a colt hurt in it. It was about an
acre in extent, and the fence Was 6ft.
high, the lowest wire 3ft. 6in. from the
ground, and the top one so close that
he could not put nose through and
cut himself. Outside and 20ft. back
from the fence was an ordinary wire-
fence which served to keep other stock
away, and in between was planted a
breakwind of sugar-gums and wattles.
In one corner a box was built so that
he could be fed from the outside when
his regular attendant was away.
His owner made a competence out of
one stallion that he bred, and his progeny
were always in demand.
THE VALUE OF ENSILAGE.
“Sorghum”: Apropos “X.T.’s” re-
marks (B. 5/9/’34). The basic principle
in making ensilage is to cut the fodder
at the right time so that chemical action
or oxidation will develop a sufficient tem-
perature to kill the harmful bacteria.
If the material is cut too early or too
late, the vital energy of the plant cells
is reduced, thus producing an inferior
product.
Harmful moulds can be avoided if
the material is so closely packed that
free oxygen is excluded. Careless pack-
ing will show itself in mould streaks
through the mass.
Oats, wheat and maize should be cut
when the grain is still milky, and peas
and other legumes just after the pods
are developed and while the crop is still
fresh and young.
A good plan is to sprinkle common
salt as each layer is pressed down. Pres-
sure should be at the rate of about 3001 b.
to the square yard. “X.T.” advises
lucerne, but lucerne on its own produces
an offensive smell due to nitrogenous de-
composition. If pitting lucerne is neces-
sary, it should be mixed with a cereal
(Continued on page 24.)


HI
- :■
.
n
Hi
m
■
Wm
■ :
*s
V
wm
M
T
m
lii
■
"What I You haveiit tried Old Court
m
else for the last ten years
• • •
The easily handled
knurled stopper of
the new Old Court
bottle.
Thousands of men of mature
experience recognise the virtues
of Old Court Whisky. They have
seen this fine Australian spirit
enter the Australian market, and
by its ever-improving quality—
its purity, mellowness and excep-
tional maturity capture a
public preference which has
made it the Nation’s favourite.
dDOIIMT
THE WORLD'S PUREST & THE NATION'S FAVOURITE
%
a
a
s
1
A
8*
cm
im
fEDERAL DfSmLERISS H?
W **,» 8 V>S N $ • - < • ' **


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Every iking a Sheepman Ought to Know.
SPEND LESS ... wear
Abbey hand-sewn
shoes!
Abbey Hand-made Shoes are
shoes that save in the long run.
They outlast at least two ordi-
nary pairs. They fit with
utmost ease and smoothness.
No tightness or strain ... no
breaking-in needed. The supple
upper preserves its shape and
good appearance.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length, and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF .. 70/-
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 402.
A NEW...
K 3
1
a
FORD
V-8 TRUCK
with
FULL-FLOATING
REAR AXLE and
NEW 80 h.p. SPECIAL
V-8 TRUCK ENGINE
A super truck—built for hard
work. Other features include:
Dual down-draft carburettor
and dual intake manifolds...
Tungsten exhaust valve seat in-
serts ... Lead-bronze “floating”
bearings ... Truck-type clutch
and 4 - speed transmission ...
New truck-type cylinder heads
... Straddle mounted pinion.
AT HEAVILY
REDUCED PRICES
SEE YOUR NEAREST
FORD DEALER
N.T. 2i
For the Man on the Land.
Grazier.
Sheep and Cattle Dips
Branding Fluid
Blowfly Oil
Fluke Drench
Mineral Rations
Wheatgrower.
Copper Carbonate
Copper Sulphate
Pickling Machines
asdf
Best By Test.
Dairyman.
Dairy Vigoreen
Pig VIGOREEN
(Mineral Rations)
WEED KILLERS & WOOD PRESERVATIVE
Manufactured by Victor Lesso & Farmers, Ud.,
222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Interesting Literature Posted Free on Request.
Orchardist.
Arsenate of Lead
Oil Sprays
Bordeaux
Nicotine Sulphate
Ovicidal Wash
Lime Sulphur Wash
PURPOSEFUL SAVING
Regular saving is as much a matter of habit as anything else.
The habit has to be cultivated, but, once established, it
becomes as positively mechanical as any of your ordinary
recurring actions.
The aim of a Commonwealth Savings Account is twofold.
Firstly, it is intended to lead you to provide, in the easiest and
least burdensome way, for an intended purchase or financial
security at a future time. Secondly, it is believed that sheer
self-respect will impel a Savings Account owner to carry out
his wise and cautious plan, to form, in fact, a thrifty habit,
to his own advantage.
Commonwealth Savings Bank service is available throughout
Australia.
Cbmionwcaltl) Savinoslank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
sdf
/>D.
B^^each
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
crop. The experienced farmer, however,
realises that lucerne is more valuable for
hay.
Once the pit is finished, an occasional
fumigation with carbon bisulph. will
keep the ensilage free from weevils.
MAIZE FOR FODDER.
“Amber”: Contrary to “Minthall’s”
statement (B. 29/8/’34) that white maize
makes the best green fodder or silage,
the most popular maize varieties for
green fodder or silage in northern
N.S.W. are yellow grains—Fitzroy and
Learning.
The color of the grain does not influ-
ence nutritive quality. All maize is
suitable for grain, green fodder and
silage.
The sowing of a dual-purpose maize
crop to be thinned out for fodder was
a regular practice of old-time growers,
particularly on the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.).
It was known as “desuckering,” as only
the branched stalks or suckers were sup-
posed to be cut for green feed. Actu-
ally, it was impossible to distinguish
suckers from single-stalked plants. The
theory was that by reducing the plant
to one stalk all food from the roots
would go to produce a large cob. But
loss of leaves and stems meant that the
plant’s factories for starch and sugar were
reduced.
The Agricultural Department carried
out experiments which proved that no
increase in grain yields was obtained by
thinning out and that the green fodder
obtained was not equal to production
cost.
Thus it is advisable to sow the maize
crop for the purpose for which it is
required—grain or green fodder, but
not for both. If the grain crop has to
be cut for green fodder, take it out in
a block. Don’t waste time thinning out
rows.
The amount of seed per acre for
grain can generally be taken at 101 b.
Most varieties have much smaller grain
than Large Red Hogan, and even this
only sows per acre. For green
feed in rows, 121 b. to 151 b. of seed per
acre is all that is needed. Sowing broad-
cast calls for 281 b. to 301 b., but is not
advisable, as a thick crop of maize goes
down very easily in windy or wet
weather.
PLANTING PINEAPPLES.
“Cockyson”: In Queensland the next
month or two is the time to plant pine-
apples. Always do it on new ground.
Volcanic scrub land is best. The younger
the plant at planting, the better will be the
first fruit; but, if others are not avail-
able, plants forward enough to fruit at.
the next season may safely be put in.
In this case, the first pineapple produced
will be dwarfed, and probably unsale-
able, though as good to eat as the next;
but the several suckers that will come
away as the original plant dies off will
the following season produce sound
fruit.
Some growers favor putting in gill
sprouts ; but the plant does not matter
so much provided it is young and
healthy. The crown produces fine fruit
after about 18 months.
The position of a plantation has a lot
to do with fruit quality. Where there
is a clay subsoil a level site is not to
be desired. The pineapple needs
thorough drainage ; otherwise the fruit
is watery and sugarless. The best loca-
tion is on a hilltop, with the ground slop-
ing away from at least two sides of the
plantation.
Fairly sandy soils, or soils which
appear to consist of nothing else than
small stones, produce the best pines. Stiff
clayey soils, however fertile, never pro-
duce a good fruit, though such soils may
grow a large pine. - Stable and cowyard
are the best manures for fertilising. Some
growers like planting two or three rows
together, with the rows about 18in. apart
and the plants spaced from 18in. to 2ft.
in the rows. At least 6ft. is usually left
between each set of double or triple
rows.
If preferred, the plants may be set out
in single rows, with the main rows 6ft.
apart.
Individual pineapple plants fruit but
once; but even before the original plant
commences to die down suckers are
thrown out from the leaf bases just
above the ground. These grow rapidly,
and on fruiting, if not before, they in
turn throw out suckers, with the result
that in a few years a pineapple planta-
tion becomes a dense cluster of plants,
unless the spacing at the time of plant-
ing has been very wide or thinning out
has regularly been practised.
To thin out, all the equipment needed
is a long stick with a forked end. With
it the young suckers, which come away
easily, are poked off. Thinning out
should not be done in warm rainy
weather, otherwise the removed shoots
are apt to take root.
Pines are very susceptible to frost.
SHARPENING HANDSAWS.
“Bert the Carpenter”: The best saw
for general use i$ a “skewback” with
seven teeth to the inch. The sharpening
outfit consists of a saw-set and flat
and slim taper handsaw files. You also
need two strips of wood as long as the
saw and 3in. deep. Put one of these
strips on either side of the saw and
clamp in a vyce, teeth upward and with
an inch of the blade projecting above
the wood strips. Run the flat file length-
wise squarely on top of the teeth from
heel to point the full length of the saw
until all the teeth-points have been
levelled down.
Set the saw with the saw-set. All
amateurs put too much set on saws;
give as little as possible. Now file the
teeth, doing each alternate one along
each side of the blade. File the backs
of the teeth which point away from you
to make a sharp point on the outside
of the top ; leave the front of the teeth
alone. File until the bright spot on top
of the tooth is nearly gone when doing
the first side. If the file is laid squarely
down in the gullet between the teeth, as
it should be, the spot will be taken off
when doing the other side. If your saw
tends to run to one side put it back in
the vyce and give one light stroke of the
file on the back of each tooth on the
high side. You can easily tell which
side is at fault by sighting down the teeth
as if down a rifle barrel; if the saw is
correctly sharpened you will find that
you are looking down a very shallow V,
with both sides the same height.
Faults to avoid are too much hook
forward on the teeth and points which
are too acutely sharp. It’s a good plan to
clamp a few inches of hoop-iron in the
vyce and practise saw-sharpening on the
edge after filing teeth in it. You will
get the right point on the teeth if you
put the file at right angles to the saw
blade and quite horizontal, then lower
the tang end a tiny bit and let the point
of the file turn a trifle towards the saw
handle. #
When using the saw don’t force it —
little more than its own weight will make
it cut best. Use long sweeping strokes
and cut slowly. Don’t put all your
fingers through the grip ; let your first
finger stick straight out on one side
and your thumb on the other, pinching
them together lightly. And keep the saw
oiled.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Louden”: A sledge-hammer is better
than a maul, but be sure to get a black-
smith to temper the heads of your
wedges and to take the temper out of
the hammer. This prevents the wedges
from “mushrooming.”
“Pineneedle”: A simple way to pre-
vent calves sucking their mothers is to
get the D-shaped handle from the top
of a petrol-tin and attach a rectangular
piece of tin with a projecting edge in
the middle rolled to form a hinge over
the D. Sharpen the points of the D to
pierce the poddy’s nose and the job is
done. The hinge will allow the calf
to eat grass or drink from a bucket,
but when the nose is turned upwards to
suck the tin gets in the Way.
“Wrash”: Sorrel is evidence of soil
poverty. To destroy the weed and im-
prove the ground fork over the infertile
areas to expose the sorrel roots. Then
apply a heavy dressing of quicklime.
“Witch”: A better way to keep a
cow’s tail out of the way while she is
being milked is to use a common spring
clothes-peg. Bore a hole through one
of the ends, put a strong cord or soft
wire through, tie to rail or to a hook or
nail at convenient space and clip the peg
on to the hair of the tail. When the cow
is let out there is no need to unclip the
tail —it pulls out easily.
“Bill R.”: Before screwing down the
roofing iron under the rims of the ridge-
capping or valley pinch a curl in the
edges of the iron sheets with the heel
of the snips. Drifting rain then will
not find a way over the rim and cause
a leakage.


'o'- 6
*> v
S' ~o
1 a o'
4? vd&sJ?'
*
o<?
&
<?
/ ,
oV q'
JV
_e -v«
5*
\v e»
A' eV
•V _ b \ V*
A b
O &•
•I>°
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
SMOKE-OH!
“He was a natural spoon player.”
—Golf journal.
Born with a steel-shafted spoon in his
hand.
“ ‘Bleeders,’ says a medical writer, ‘often
fail to survive the first few years of life.’ ”
The survivors, of course, are destined
for the Taxation Department.
“He intended to ask her father for her hand.
Herbert wondered, as he entered the house,
what would be the outcome.”— Sydney paper.
Probably Herbert.
* *
“Many women are inclined to take a broken
engagement to heart.” — Woman’s paper.
More, however, take it to court.
* *
“A woman writer says that when a woman
is 50 she becomes old.”
Yes ; but how old is she before she
becomes 50?
* *
“He always took liquor on his solo flights.”
—“Age.”
It’s called “drinking with the flies.”
* *
“A deputation, representing the citrus-growers
and explorers of N.S.W.’’.... — “Telegraph.”
It is to be hoped that the interests of
the banana-growers and navigators of
Queensland will not be ignored.
“It’s not so bad here during the week, but you’ll find it
rather dull on Sat’d’y afternoons.”
“New Melbourne trams are to be known
as the W 5 type.”
And cable trams are C 3.
# H-
“Though he said he had finished drinking, he
paid the refreshment bill for several of his
friends. ’ ’ —‘ ‘ Tele graph. ’ ’
All over bar shouting.
* *
Many motor accidents are caused
through sharp elbow-bends in the road ;
others are caused by elbow-bends at the
roadside.
* *
There is no truth in the statement
that the mean temperature for Sydney
is computed at the Caledonian Club.
* *
SPRING MEETING PROSPECTS.
Despite the fact that Ikey Mcßagg is
a noted roarer, he is sure to land the big
money once again. He is a safe bet in
any field. Some of the lesser-known
members of this stable may run well after
a favorite or two wins, in which case
they may be worth following.
The urgers will again be successful,
and it will be advisable to keep an eye
on the pickpockets. They are usually
very quick off the mark, and may even
lift one of the cups.
Others who are likely to do well are
the bar-lessees, the caterers, the Trans-
port Board and the tote, but the punters
cannot be recommended. They appear to
be outclassed.
S. Esq.
“Drinking water should be boiled until
baby is one year old in Sydney.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
The idea, of course, is to teach baby
patience.
“FIT FOR A KING.”
“Billy tea will be served at an alfresco lun-
cheon to be provided for the Duke in the
East Gippsland forest, near Cann River.”
No pains are being spared to make
the experience as realistic as possible to
enable the Duke to enjoy a real Aus-
tralian bush banquet. The “billy,” of
course, will be purposely forgotten, and
the Duke’s aide will have to borrow
one from the nearest farmhouse. Mean-
time the King’s son will assist in search-
ing for fuel and in lighting the fire. In
both these occupations it is anticipated
that a delightful spirit of camaraderie
will pervade the party. A spiky and
"Orright, I move-a on; but da Princessa Marina hear of dis!”
thorny district has been chosen. When
the billy arrives it will be filled at the
cree&. A local farmer has volunteered
to drown three sheep or one bul-
lock in the stream a week before the
picnic. If the billy-lid is not lost in
the creek it will be quietly removed so
that the tea will have the proper flavor
of gum-leaf smoke.
The larger Cann River ants are among
the most spiteful in Australia, and will
certainly liven up the proceedings, while
the smaller species (Formis übiquitous)
has the most anty flavor that ever in-
sinuated itself inside a sandwich.
All things considered, the Duke will
have a wonderful time at this alfresco
luncheon, as he will doubtless enter
wholeheartedly into the fun of the thing,
his motto in matters of this kind being
“the aller the frescer.”
i Uco.
* *
THESE CLEVER PEOPLE.
“A Melbourne hostess has found something
new in the way of savory presentation by
arranging an enormous cauliflower on a small
table and garnishing it with the small, colorful
morsels. With the centre taken out there is
ample room in the raw vegetable for savories,
which are also placed on the outspread leaves.”
—Daily paper.
Sydney hostesses might try the follow-
ing:—
Get a cabbage —a very large cab-
bage—and cut out the centre. Place this
decentralised cabbage on a large plate.
Arrange your savories—and unsavories—
in the cut-out, built up to resemble the
Harbor Bridge. When complete take a
carrot. Cut out the centre and join the
f wo ends with glue. Repeat cutting as
before, and glueing, until no carrot is
left. This leaves you, of course, with
the carrot top. You can place this on
the mantelpiece— to resemble the Outer
Domain as seen from the Harbor
Bridge (this is called landscape savoring),
Then cut away the leaves of the cabbage,
which are strewn round the plate. The
result is savory sans cabbage.
Evening Gnus.
* *
SPRING FASHION NOTES,
With knitted neckwear coming again
into vogue, the latest utility tie, which
can also be worn by the wife as a bath-
ing-suit, should prove very popular dur-
ing the coming season.
Men who wish to look like real gar-
deners as they potter about on the Sab-
bath, and who haven’t old clothes disre-
putable enough for the purpose, will be
interested in the new, cleverly designed
pants-singlet combination. Though per-
fectly sound in manufacture, there are
reproduced to the very life the patches
on the seat and knees ; the polychromatic
stripes all over the pants suggestive of
the wiped hands after painting ; the mud
caked on the turn-ups; the singlet
stained and torn. There is even a bat-
tered hat to complete the ensemble for
those who are not baldheaded.
An innovation for dance wear which
should have a special appeal to young
bloods under 25 and over 65 is the
alteration of the knife-edge crease from
the front and back to the sides of the
trousers of dinner suits. It is designed
to meet the needs of those who sit out
a lot. One leading tailor states that the
new crease will remain immaculate even
on a knee-pressure of 13 stone.
A new, collapsible stiff collar will be
indispensable to sufferers from hay fever.
Immediately on sneezing the collar auto-
matically collapses, thus saving the ears
from constant laceration.
Imitation beer-froth shirts have made
their appearance, and should be a boon
to the five-to-sixer who wishes to sink
four pints in the time allotted without
bearing the evidence home with him.
No longer need he be agonisingly careful
not to spill a drop on his shirt as he up-
ends the schooner amid the jostling, five-
deep herd. The stain will now defy the
most eagle-eyed female, whilst by a
special process the hop odor is absorbed,
and will entirely disappear within 20
seconds.
Keo.
* *
“Though he wanted peace, he was pestered
with information about sport.” — “Telegraph."
He’ll probably shave himself in future.
EXPOSURE.
He A '.°f^ a V 0"/ “ f re distressed
A metal ph!e hunf'on his chest;
Then round a near-by corner tripped
A maiden fair to see,
And like a child a zephyr skipped
Behind her playfully.
~, , ,
That breeze caressed the maidens dress
With momentary puff;
And by the knaves quick glance I guess
His game was Blind Mans Bluff !
P. O. M. C.
PEEPS AT THE PROFESSIONS.
IV —THE DOCTOR.
See the Doctor, tall arid solemn,
Curing ev’ry ache and pain :
Fractures of the spinal column,
Water on the brain,
Broken hearts and leaky lungs,
Halitosis, furry tongues,
Nerves and things related thereto —
All the ills the flesh is heir to.
Yet, though offered wealth untold,
He can’t cure a common cold.
It is a mistake to think that doctors
intentionally kill their patients. True,
more people die whilst undergoing medi-
cal treatment than from all other causes
combined, but this is just a coincidence.
If doctors were to suspend all treatment
for a year or so the position would pro-
bably be reversed. We should not allow
such a foul, libel to attach to a profes-
sion which serves us faithfully from pre-
natal to post-mortem days.
A doctor’s life is seldom happy. He
lives in an atmosphere of gloom, ill-
health, drugs, pills, operations, telephone
calls and bad debts ; he has an unreason-
able aversion to apples, and any Tom,
Dick and Harry has the right to call him
“Doc.”
It is hard to imagine anything worse
than to be called out of a warm, bed on
a cold, wet night on a life-and-death
matter only to find that the patient is
a small boy suffering well-deserved pains
through overeating. To the doctor,
however, there is one thing worse, and
that is the realisation that with all his
skill he will be unable to avert or cure
the cold caught on the way.
Medical etiquette is governed by the
B.M.A. This body decides such ques-
tions as the number of complaints any
particular medicine may be prescribed
for ; the number of stitches to be allowed
for in an ordinary 10-guinea operation
(extras to be pro rata ); who is to get
the fee when it can’t be proved which
doctor saw the patient first; and whether
a doctor should
tell, and, if so, how
much?
In Australia the
science of surgery
is not very highly
developed. If you
go into a hospital
to have your ap-
pendix out you
have it out, and
the matter usually
ends there. If the
doctor is particu-
larly enterprising
he may remove a
few gall-stones or
whip out your ton-
sils, but as a rule
he is content to
wait until you ask.
In America
things are more
advanced, and once
the patient is under
the anaesthetic al-
most anything may
happen. Often a
man goes into a
hospital to have an ingrowing toenail
attended to, and comes out months later
with nothing intact save his conviction
that America won the war, and even that
is sometimes badly shaken.
JASBY.
MODERN ART.
All forms of art are mysterious things,
So human reason, bewildered, affirms.
When you think you have grasped it the
notion takes wings.
But the artists take pity on ignorant
worms
By explaining mysterious products in
strings
Of utterly incomprehensible terms.
BILL O’C.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
• Rooms, 6/- anti 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m,), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M46OL
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W, H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
Y ith offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart fbr the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. Ail you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentlewoman, active, wants woman partner,
with some means, to share comfortable water-
front cottage; private wharf; baths; motor-
launch kept. (To E. Leach, c/o this office.)
Man (34) wants position in country general
store, anywhere. Refs. —3327.
Maorilander (23), Massey Ag. Coll, certifi-
cate, exp. dairy-farming, wants job on pro-
gressive Australian dairy farm. Refs.—33s3.
Young lady (Q.) seeks position as governess,
lady-help, companion-help, or care of elderly
invalid. Could assist with secretarial work
or sewing.—3363.
Young man (N.S.W.), exp. as teacher and
salesman, seeks position as subsidised teacher
or tutor. —3404.
Engineer (28), Vic., college education, exp.
of Islands and'tropics, wants work anywhere.
—3424.
To buy “Australian Horses from Park to
Paddock,” by McGillivray.—3324.
To buy “Sun” Nature Books, Nos. 1 and 2,
double published price.—3366.
To exchange Barrier Reef shells for books
and magazines.—3359.
Words of poem beginning “Alas that youth’s
sweet manuscript should c105e!”—3332.
Words of E. J. Brady’s poem “What the
Bottle Said.”—33sB.
Words of poem “Stockwhip Bend.” —3322.
Words of the poem which contains the fol-
lowing verse:
And when the last great Scorer comes
To write against your, name,
lie’ll ask not if you’ve won or lost
But how you’ve played the game.
—3370.
Words of poem containing the lines:
old sat Freedom on the heights,
The thunder breaking at her feet.
—3417.
Information Sought,
(1) If 10 horses start in a race, in how many
different ways can they be placed in passing
the post—first, second and third ? (2) How is
it calculated ? —3344.
(1) 720. (2) First factor is the number of
horses. Multiply this by itself minus one, and
then by itself minus two—in this case 10 x 9
x 8. Jf the number of ways in which first
four could be placed was wanted, the sum
would be 10 x 9, x 8 x 7; for first five,
10x9x8x7x6, and so on.
(1) Do film companies employ full-time
scenario writers ? (2) Jf so, are they paid
by results, or are they on a fixed salary ? (3)
What fee would be paid for a scenario by an
author not employed or connected with any
film company (a) in America, (b) in Britain,
(c) in Australia? —33o3.
(1) Yes. (2) Fixed salary or fixed amount.
(3) All depends on the studio. ( a ) Depends
upon the writer; usual minimum, 1000 dol-
lars. Well-known writers with original stories,
such as Wodehouse, Lonsdale, etc., have re-
ceived up to 100,000 dollars, (b) From £250
upwards, but the limit is nothing like American
top figures, (c) Practically no market, scen-
arists being engaged on weekly salaries to
adapt for screen stories already selected by the
producers, or paid at the rate of 100 guineas
a scenario.
(1) Is the League of Nations in debt ? What
is the approximate annual cost of the League,
and what is Australia’s share ? (2) How often
does Australia pay her share ?— 2489.
(1) The League is not in debt, but certain
members are behind with payments. The average
cost of maintaining the services of all sections
of the League, including the World Court
of Justice and International Labor Office, is
about £1,000,000 (gold) p.a. Australia’s share
is about £36,000 (gold) p.a. (2) Quarterly.
(1) When and where was Sir J. J. Thomson
born ? (2) Where educated ? (3) In what way
did he become famous as a scientist? —3l3o.
(1) On December 18, 1856, near Manchester,
England. (2) At Owens College, Manchester,
and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he took
his degree as second wrangler. He was second
Smith’s Prizeman, and in 1880 was elected
a Fellow of Trinity, became a lecturer there in
1883, and in 1884 Cavandish Professor of
Experimental Physics. (3) He carried out a
series of researches which have revolutionsed
ideas of electricity and matter. He discovered
the electron, and formulated the theory of the
nature of electric inertia from which an estimate
of the size of the electron was later made.
He wrote many books on electrical subjects.
iat WOS Tumers “ Liber Studiorum” ?
Turner started to compile a book of engrav-
ings from his pictures, which he published at a
subscription price of £l7 10s. The venture was
very unsuccessful. Only 70 plates were pub-
lished. With Turner’s rise to fame the book
gradually rose in value, so that before he died
the price reached 30 guineas, and in 1914 a
single copy brought £3OOO. .
(1) How is the Saar Basin governed? (2)
Area? (3) Population? (4) Religions of the
population? (5) Principal towns .?—33B3.
(1) According to Paragraph 49 of the Treaty
of Versailles, the Saar Basin was placed under
the control of the League of Nations. Next
year the inhabitants will decide, by plebiscite,
what nationality they desire. Meanwhile the
district is governed by a commission of five
nominated by the League; one is French and
one a resident of the Saar. There is also a
Landesrat of 30 members, which co-operates
with the Government in an advisory capacity.
(2) 737 square miles. (3) 770,030. (4) In 1927
there were in the area 558,857 Catholics, 201,354
Protestants, 4038 Jews and 5781 others. (5)
Saarbriickcn, Neunkirchen, Dudweiler, Sulzbach
and St. Ingbert.
(1) A King Edward coin shows the right
profile of his Majesty. Queen Victoria and
King George show the left. Reason, if any ?
(2) The King’s South African Medal shows a
left profile. Why does this differ from the
coin ? —3290.
(1) The custom of turning the King's por-
trait on the coins the contrary way to that of
his predecessor began in the reign of Charles
11., and has continued to present time. Some
historians state that Charles 11. caused his
bust to face the right because he desired to
“turn his back on Cromwell,” and custom
continued the practice. (Cromwell’s head
appeared facing the left.) (2) In the case of
medals there is no rule.
My friend, a tenor singer, is untrained. How
much could training add to his range ? Could
he sing an octave above his present top limit ?
(2) Can a good teacher gain an accurate idea of
the future capabilities of a voice on first hear-
ing it ? —3302.
(1) Assuming the tenor’s present top note to
be A, it would be absurd to expect to acquire
through study another octave above. Another
two notes would enable him to sing almost any
song or aria. No tenor is expected to sing
above top C. (2) There are so many factors
besides voice required to become a successful
singer that it would scarcely be possible' at
one audition for a teacher to know whether a
singer would be successful.
(1) Is “daylight saving” practised in Eng-
land ? What will be the difference between
English time and Australian eastern standard
time on October 20 next? —3425.
(1) Yes. The Act, made permanent in 1925,
stipulates that the legal time for general pur-
poses in Great Britain should be one hour
in advance of Greenwich mean time from
the morning of the day following the third
Saturday in April, or, if that day is Easter
Day, the day following the second Saturday.
This arrangement ends at two o’clock G.M.T.
in the morning of the day following the first
Saturday in October. (2) Eastern Australian
time will be 10 hours ahead of Greenwich.
(1) Can electric-light globes be colored for
decorative purposes ? (2) Can the paint be
removed after use ? (3) Suitable paint, cost
and where obtainable ? (4) How to apply and
remove ? —3291.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. (3) Blue, amber, green
and red stain can be obtained from A.G.E.1.,
95 Clarence-street, Sydney, at 7s. 6d. a pint.
This firm will also stain lamp globes in any
of the above colors at 3d. each. (4) The
globe is first heated by lighting it, and while
still alight it is dipped in the stain, any sur-
plus liquid accumulating under the globe being
removed with blotting-paper. The stain may
be cleaned off with methylated spirits.
1 have in my possession six well-preserved
legible letters, four to six pages in length, of
Charles Dickens, written in 1840 and 1841
to a young man seeking advice as to his
chances of becoming a poet. Where can I sell
them, and how much would I get ? —3294.
Try Maggs Bros., London. It is unlikely,
however, that the letters were written by
Dickens, whose scrawl was far from legible.
In 1840-41 he was an editor, and not likely
to have had time to write long letters to a
would-be poet. Possibly the letters were dic-
tated and merely signed by Dickens, in which
case they are of very little value. But if they
are genuine autograph letters you might expect
£lO for the lot.
(1) How much acetylene gas will lib. of
carbide generate ? (2) To what pressure may
this gas be compressed before spontaneous
combustion takes place ? (3) Quantity of water
required to completely combine with 1 lb. of
carbide ? —3313.
(1) Approximately 6 cub. ft. (2) At 22
atmospheres, at Odeg. F. pure acetylene is con-
densed into a colorless mobile liquid lighter
than water. The liquid readily explodes when
subjected to a shock. (3) About ,561 b. of
water in the case of the pure chemical.
(1) Is it necessary to fit a flywheel to a
belt-driven circular wood-saw ? (2) If so,
should the flywheel be fitted on the engine-
shaft or on the saw-shaft ? (3) What is the
average speed of a circular wood-saw ? (4)
How to reduce this speed ? —3375.
(1) and (2) It should not be necessary, but
if a flywheel is fitted it should be located on
the engine-shaft. (3) A 2ft. diameter saw,
1000 r.p.m. or a little over, is suitable. (4)
Fit a larger pulley on the saw spindle.
(1) The stops on my camera are marked
/8, fll, f 16, f 22, /32. What does this mean ?
(2) Assuming 1-20 th sec. to be the correct ex-
posure at fl 6, what would tie the corresponding
exposures at fll and /8 ? ~(3} What is'the
effect of varying the stops? —3333.
(1) It means that the diameter of the stop in
question is 1-B'th, 1-11th, 1-16th,’ etc., the focal
length of the lens. (2) As the diameter of the
stop is increased (that is, each time the stop
number is lowered), the exposure is halved, and
each time the stop number is raised the ex-
posure is doubled, so your exposure would
be l-40th at fll and l-80th at fB. Use fast
exposures and large stops (small f numbers) for
rapidly moving objects, and small stops (high
f numbers) for sharp definition, especially when
the subject includes objects at varying distances
from the camera. The smaller the stop the
better is the definition of objects near the
camera.
(1) What photographic printing process gives
the most permanent results ? (2) Are gaslight
and daylight paper prints permanent? —334l.
(1) Platinotype, with carbon process and
sepia-toned bromide prints coming next in
order. (2) Some gaslight papers are apt to lose
their original color after a period of time and
turn a brownish-grey, but the results are more
permanent when sepia-toned. P.0.P., especi-
ally the self-toning varieties, may also eventually
change color. P.O.P. gold-toned, using a sepa-
rate toning and fixing bath, are more per-
manent than are the self-toning varieties.
(1) Distance of the moon from the earth ?
(2) Time taken to complete one revolution
round the earth ? (3) Duration of a lunation ?
(4) Is the moon responsible for any noticeable
climatic changes on the earth ? —3030.
(1) Distance varies from 252,972 miles at
apogee to 221,614 miles at perigee. (2) 27.32
days. (3) 29.53 days; longer than the revolu-
tion because the sun advances during the 27.32
clays and the moon requires two more days to
overtake it. (1) Recorded observations extending
over more than a century have failed to show
changes that could be attributed to the influence
of the moon.
Biographical details concerning Constable
John Howe, of Windsor ( N.S.W.), who, prior
to Oxley, discovered, without knowing it, the
Upper Hunter River? —3274.
Accompanied by his wife and their two
children, he arrived as a passenger in the con-
vict ship Coromandel on June 13, 1802. He
settled on a grant of 100 acres -at Lower Wil-
berforce, about eight miles from Windsor.
His wife died in 1808. On December 29, 1810,
he was appointed auctioneer at Windsor. On
May 18, 1811, he married at Parramatta Jane
Kennedy, of Parramatta, by whom he had four
sons and five daughters. On October 24,
1819, he left Windsor on exploration survey
to the Hunter River, which he reached on
November 5. At the time he was chief con-
stable at Windsor. In 1833 he was an auc-
tioneer and Coroner at Windsor. Other refer-
ences will be found in the “Maitland Men
cury,” Nov. 9, 1927, Nichols’s “Historical
Notes on the Hawkesbury” and “Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society’s Journal,” No. 14,
1928.
What was the sumptuary law ? —3002.
A law made by Edward 111. in 1364 which
forbade persons whose income did not exceed
400 marks yearly to wear garments embroidered
with jewellery, while all persons below the rank
of knighthood or of less income than £2OO a
year were prohibited from wearing embroidered
garments of any sort. This law fell into disuse
during the next reign, that of Richard 11., but
it was revived in certain forms by Henry VIII.
Date of the Bayeilx tapestry, who made it,
what does it represent, and why has it his-
torical importance ? —3157.
It represents the Norman conquest of Eng-
land, and is believed to be late-eleventh-century
work, though some experts argue in favor of
a date from 50 to 200 years later. The theory
is put forward that it was worked under the
supervision of Matilda, wife of William the
Conqueror. The subject matter pictured in
the tapestry suggests that it was made by
Normans. The work is done on a band of
linen 230 ft. 9in. long, 19}in. deep, in wool of
eight different shades. There are 79 scenes
in a continuous succession interpreted by in-
scriptions in Latin, and supplementary' scenes
and figures appear in a narrow border above
and below. Its historical value rests in the
light it throws on the customs, industries,
weapons, armor, civil and ecclesiastical costume
and furniture of the period.
What were the beginnings of the Repertory
Theatre movement in England? —332B.
They go back to 1889, when Ibsen’s “A Doll’s
House” wa<t first played by Charles Charring-
ton and his wife. “Ghosts” and “Hedda
Gabler” were first produced in London in
1891. This Ibsen influence started the Inde-
pendent Theatre of London the same year,
under the direction of J. T. Grein, with a
revival of “Ghosts” and first performances in
England of Zola’s “Therese Raquin” and
(1892) Bernard Shaw’s “Widower’s Houses.”
Shaw’s plays suggested the foundation of the
Stage Society (offspring of the Independent
Theatre) in 1899, and of the Court Theatre,
under the Vedrenne-Granville Barker manage-
ment (1904-07). The Abbey Theatre, of Dub-
lin, was created (1903) by the Irish Literary
Movement, sponsored by W. B. Yeats, Lady
Gregory and other leading writers, with the
brothers Fay on the acting and producing sides.
Miss Hornimann later gave financial .assist-
ance, and she, on her own account, began the
Manchester Repertory Theatre in 1907. There-
after, many Repertory Theatres sprang up all
over England, including the Liverpool Reper-
tory Theatre (which gave Basil Dean to the
Playbox Theatre, London); the Birmingham
Repertory Theatre, under the management of
millionaire Sir Barry Jackson; and the Lyric
Theatre, Hammersmith, directed by Sir Nigel
Playfair, who died the other day. Charles
Frohman’s repertory season at the Duke of
York’s Theatre, London (1910), was strictly
not in line with the repertory idea.
I am constantly reading two extreme opinions
about Kean the actor. Why is this ? —3340.
Because there were two actors of that name —
Edmund Kean (1787-1833), who was, after
Garrick, the tragic genius of the English stage,
and Charles Kean (1811-1868), son of Edmund,
who initiated the gorgeous settings for the
Shakspearean stage that culminated in Irving’s
revivals. He was not to be compared as a
tragic actor with his father.
Details about Hugh Lofting, the author of
the Dolittle series of children’s books ? —3092.
Fie is an Englishman, originally a civil engi-
neer, living in New York, and was wounded
and twice decorated in the Great War. He
was in the habit of telling his children a bed-
time “serial” about a Doctor Dolittle who
knew the animal language. A publisher friend
of Lofting’s wife heard one of the instalments,
and asked Hugh to write the book. It won
the Newberry Prize for the year’s most im-
portant contribution to child literature. A
brother, Hilary Lofting, is a Bulletin contri-
butor.
Brief Answers.
M.S.: The suspension bridge which spans
Long Bay near Northbridge, Sydney, was
erected in 1892 by private enterprise... .E.8.Q.:
Nicholls’s “Concise Guide for Second Mates”
(315.), Norrie’s “Nautical Tables” (395. 2d.),
“Nautical Almanac Abridged,” 1929 (3s. 10d.),
Nicholls’s “Seamanship and Nautical Know-
ledge” (245.)... .R.M.: Temperature is neces-
sary to the equation Val.: Date being un-
known, it’s a matter of searching old news-
paper files. Sydney Public Library could put
you on the track G.P.: The system is de-
scribed in “Woman’s Mirror” (8 /9/ ’3l), and
a plan and further details are given in the
issue of 8/12/’3l; 4d. each posted from this
office... .E.F.: Brush the coat well, and clean
it with a soft cloth wrung out of warm suds.
When quite dry, lay out on a table, and clean
with a good nigger-brown shoe polish; rub the
polish in sparingly with a small brush, leave
to dry, then polish with a soft shoe brush,
and finish with a silk duster... .N.S.M.C.:
Very limited, but if your work is good you
should be able to get orders by inserting an
advertisement in the “Woman’s Mirror”....
J.A.S.: 13 years 10 months... .5.V.0.G.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Department for pamph-
let, “Eradication of St. John’s Wort”... .A.M.:
Operation by a vet. is necessary... .A. A.M.:
Hand machinery for milling rice unknown here.
In the early days Chinese immigrants used a
large stone pestle, but that is a slow process.
C.S.: The Queensland State Income Tax
Act was introduced in 1902, the Federal In-
come Tax Act in 1914 G.D.: You have
to get lease forms, one for lessor, one for
lessee and one copy to .be left with ruling
racing body. That covers everything P.L.:
The fastest time for six furlongs at Rosebery,
Sydney, is lmin. 14sec., held by Lady Wolaroi.
The H-mile record is held by Stonebrook,
2min. B|sec. The Masquerader and Nightly
are trained by Fred Jones.... .J.H.: A. H.
Carter, Hassall-street, Parramatta, N.S.W., and
G. Atkins, Copeland-street, Liverpool, N.S.W.
T.H.H.: “Practical Engraving on Metal,”
(2s. 3d.), obtainable from Dymock’s Book
Arcade, Sydney C.P.G.: Various brands of
violin strings are in favor, according to indi-
vidual taste. Kreisler uses Pirastro, obtainable
A. E. Smith’s, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney, 9s. 3d. a
set R.S.E.: George Edwards (Harold
Parkes) is 51... .R.M.S.: The larger public
hospitals provide for plastic surgery as re-
quired. For particulars, either rewrite address
given, or communicate with the Medical Super-
intendent, Perth General Hospital... .C.H.:
Communicate with the Paymaster-General,
Whitehall, S.W.I, London... .F.S.: Afraid not,
but your co-executor may have a copy to
which he would give you access... .5.1.: (1)
Possible but inadvisable; ketch outfit is quite
inadequate. (2) Union Co. boats from Sydney
call at Tahiti (Papeete). (3) Yes. Some know-
ledge of deep-sea navigation essential. (4) No
record in Navigation Dept. (5) No. (6)
Infantile paralysis persists from the initial lesion
and its effect; results depend upon treatment
in ' the early stages. The lapse of years has
left a permanent deformity. (7) Not trans-
mitted to child... .J.M.: Write Mr. Baseck,
Pbst Office Chambers, Haymarket, Sydney....
J.R.: Write to the Registrar of Wills, General
Register House, Edinburgh, giving full particu-
lars, date of death, etc. A certified official
copy may be obtained on payment of stamp
duties and copying fees, the latter depending
on length. Exchange would have to be allowed
f0r.... W.R.M.: Try R. G. Dun and Co., 181
Clarence-street, Sydney... .M.T.G.: Wash well
after liming, and then expose in a closed
chamber to the fumes of burning sulphur....
A.M.H.: Candidates for enrolment at the Aus-
tralian Forestry School for the diploma course
must possess a uni. degree or a certificate
that they have completed the special two years’
preliminary course in science at a university.
Communicate with the Forestry Commission
of N.S.W. on the other points... .J.C.8.: (1)
Cannot trace four-handed German whist. (2)
The two-handed game is the standard. Rules
are in “Hoyle’s Games Modernised,” any book-
seller... ..1.D.C.: In Tests, 15; in other
matches, 17 wickets... .W.A.W.: Write Edgar
V. Hudson, 47 Charlotte-street, Brisbane....
M.D.: The procedure is for those concerned to
insert their names and addresses in the visitors’
book at the Government House lodge M.V.:
Lord Kitchener was the son of Lieut.-Col.
H. H. Kitchener, and was born at Bally Long-
ford, County Kerry, Ireland, on June 24, 1850.
On June 5, 1916, he sailed from Scapa Flow
in H.M.S. Hampshire on a military mission to
Russia. The cruiser struck a mine off the
Orkneys, and Kitchener and most of his staff
were drowned C.C.: Write to the paper
in which you saw the ad H.C.M.K.: (1)
and (2) Wages are recoverable upon com-
plaint to any justice of the peace.
A Court may make an order for the payment
of the amount due, also any damages and
costs incurred. (3) and (4) He should, ordi-
narily, take proceedings within six months
from the date when the wages became due.
The letters would be useful as evidence of
indebtedness... .M.H.: N 0... .E.D.W.: (1) and
(2) Taking Parliamentary procedure (N.S.W.)
as a precedent, where the ruling of the Speaker
is dissented from by motion he does not neces-
sarily vacate the Chair, though he may do so
if he regards it as a vote of censure or want
of confidence... .M.R.: Wages paid appear to
come within the scope of “actual costs of
cultivation”... .P.H.: A fresh agreement
appears to be required N.L.M.: Yes, where
the rental is at the rate of £5O p.a., 2s. 6d.;
where it exceeds that amount, for each £lOO
p.a. or part, 5s E.W.P.: An ad. in a Bris-
bane paper might put you in touch with someone
prepared to take up the work N.L.8.: Try
J. H. Smyth, 121 a Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
G.W.: All these are in Brisbane: Pater-
son, Laing and Bruce, 286 Elizabeth-street;
Robert Reid and Co., Edward-street; Makower,
Mcßeath and Co., C.T.A. Buildings, Elizabeth-
street; Macarthur Pty., 90-96 Edward-street;
Marks and Saulwick, Edward-street; and
Hagon, Blackburn and Co., 153 Elizabeth-
street... .C.A. A.: N0....G.F.: The “South
African Woman’s Weekly,” Durban, Natal
(Many others mailed.)


a
o
o
—of the world's
best short stories
sm
%
HI
i Wm-mM*
imgrg&mii
>:
Spill
&
mS2
1
'
am
'^'6 : >
mmm
:S- :
m
MZ
RS3
Size of each volume
8 ins.xs| ins.xlfins.
THE MASTERPIECE LIBRARY
Early Stories .. . Italian ... French ... Belgian .. . English
Scottish ... Irish.... Overseas ... Russian ... American
German ... Spanish ... Portuguese ... Scandinavian
Dutch ... IVar Stories ... etc.
'dlehetL Ctmfialial
(heated Book
O Ba/ujain
flOlOO'“£550
\U[ibia/uj o§ 10 Double Hold.
Romance of all
Nations
Delve with these books into the story
wonderlands of Africa, Asia, and Europe.
Journey on into the glowing romance of
Arabia, the glamour of Persia, the mystery
and strangeness of China and the Far East.
Savour the gaieties of France, the passionate
southern romances of Italy, Spain and
Portugal, the drama of Russia, the humour
and thrill of America, the clean-cut ad-
venture in the pages of England, Scotland,
and Ireland.
Some of the Authors
Giovanni Boccaccio
Sir Thomas Malory
Herodotus
Matteo Bandello
Ortensio Lando
Enrico Lando
Salvatore Farina
Anatole France
Pierre Loti
Jules Lemaitre
Guy de Maupassant
Marcel Prevost
Maurice Maeterlinck
Charles Reade
Anthony Trollope
Wilkie Collins
Mark Rutherford
William Morris
Morley Roberts
John Ruskin
Thomas Hardy
Sir A. Conan-Doyle
H. G. Wells
John Galsworthy
W. W. Jacobs
Sax Rohmer
John Masefield
Edwin Pugh
Tobias Smollett
Sir Walter Scott
“ Christopher
North ”
R. L. Stevenson
Tao Chien
Oliver Goldsmith
Oscar Wilde
Count Leo N. Tol-
stoy
Ivan S. Turgeniev
Maxim Gorky
Anton P. Chekhov
Washington Irving
Nathaniel Haw-
thorne
Edgar Allan Poe
Mark Twain
Brothers Grimm
J. C. F. von Schiller
Theodor W. Storm
Juan Manuel
Carmen de Burgos
Vincente Blasco
Ibanez
Hans Christian An-
derson
Edgar Wallace
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch
Robert Hichens
Israel Zangwill
Anthony Hope
Laurence Housman
Eden Phillpotts
THERE’S unlimited entertainment in these brilliant stories. Selected
by an international committee of British and American authors and
critics, they include not only the best English works. . . but
the best published in all languages. 600 famous writers are represented.
Careful translations preserve all the vivid, native qualities of the foreign
works. Haunting sadness of Pierre Loti .. . stark realism of Ibanez
and Dostoyevsky .. . wit of Maupassant and Boccaccio .. . heroic war
tragedies of Barbusse ... all can be enjoyed in English. That is just to
mention a few of the better known features. You will find, as well,
many hitherto unavailable works... such as the picturesque Chinese
tales of Tao Chien.
The English section brings you the very cream of British and American
literature ... an all-embracing range, from the gay humour of O. Henry
and W. W. Jacobs, to the thrillers of Edgar Wallace and Jack London,
the prophetic and imaginative novels of H. G. Wells, and the classics
of Galsworthy and Masefield. In the last volume are collected the best
war stories, British, American, French and Italian.
LESS THAN 4d. PER DAY
The full series of 10 double volumes, each in a beautiful “de luxe ” binding of dark
blue Rexine, is yours for 5/- down and I I monthly payments which amount to less
than 4d. per day. There’s a frontispiece in every book, and the total number of
pages is nearly 8,000. The type is very clear and easily readable ... the books of a
size most convenient to hold. In England, this presentation series is valued at
£lO/10/-. We offer it for £5/5/- cash, £5/15/- by easy monthly payments.
Alongside are mentioned some of the greatest authors who figure in these volumes.
Study this list. .. then fill-in and send the form below for immediate delivery of the
full I 0 volumes.
Deiur&ied to ipont koine Kf- ,
Ifot a jji/vit ptufment ofj 9
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the “ MASTERPIECE LIBRARY OF SHORT STORIES,” 10 volumes,
instalment of 5/- and agree to make I I further monthly payments of 10/-.
The price for cash within 30 days is £5/5/-.
NAME ....* . . OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
I enclose the first
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Freight is extra, but in no case will it'exceed 3/6.
Bulletin 19/9/ ’34.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.U.S.: Not up to the mark... .F. 8.:
Pretty ingenious parody, but not suitable....
J.H.: “Guilty” is too improbable... .Reo:
Try one of the dailies... .D.R.: Not interested
in the insect vendetta S.E.P.: Idea good,
but yarn long-drawn-out K.M.: Neither
gets a place 1.V.: Your chef is interesting,
but he doesn’t make a story... .L.G.: A
mournful sketch with little in it....W.J.G.:
Not sufficiently interesting... .J.A.R.: Bowd-
lerised version of a smokeroom yarn....
T.C.A.: Doesn’t get there....R. MacN.: Have
had enough ’busmen’s holidays... .0.R.:
Egbert’s tour was five times too long
J.M. and A.E.Y.: “The Dark Horse” is
galumphing back. He couldn’t stay the dis-
tance M.L.: “Serenade” not up to stan-
dard C.E.: Your suspicions are confirmed.
It didn’t survive J.N.: Melodramatic
M.H.: Incident very slight, and witticisms
didn’t improve it U.M.R.: Story of new-
chum lost in scrub who finds his own camp
and steals his own pack is too far-fetched.
... J.W.: Bees don’t hiss; they z00m....
W.A.: Any street musigian would laugh at it.
F.PJ.: “I wonder if this will ever get
into print?” Not in these columns; best of
luck all the same... .G.H.: It is sentimental,
despite your efforts not to make it 50....
A.D.C.: A slightly new twist to an oldish
story... .Gregory H.: Rather neat, but not for
us. Send it to the Board of Works....!.
Igoe: Concluding couplet’of “The Shearer”:
Now the shearing is over, the sheep are all shorn,
The shearers return home, all haggard and worn.
But surely it isn’t as bad as that? J.H.
(Tas.): Back goes your
... .little thing
Founded on quite a trivial incident,
But not devoid of humor in a way.
Try themes that are not so trivial. You have
the knack K.A.8.: The answer is still in
the negative J.L.C.: It misses, but there
are good lines Rural B.: Sentiments, ex-
cellent; verse, execrable... .A.J.: The unlikely
provision in the will spoilt it E.V.8.: Rum-
running doesn’t seem natural in M.L D.P.:
It nearly got there... .J.L.: That type of article
has only a limited appeal S.C.: Yam hasn’t
sufficient literary merit to carry it off
L. Your treble-crossing detective story
is too complicated to be convincing... ,C.M.:
No space for mere description... .L.H. and
D. : Not enough in it K.8.R.: It was
more accurate than most teacup visions....
E. : Neither shows promise A.D.: Get-
ting closer Mark Hantony: “Comic letters”
are a long way behind the times... .A.Z.:
What is it all about? E.D.: Very near....
M. (U.S.A.): Not the type we want
1.M.R.: Not far away... .Gemini: Slipshod
lines won’t do. “Lashing the puddles into
petty seas” is neat, but what a fall to
And Nature smiles and all’s peaceful again!
. Ac ,
M.deV.G.. As you s g,
It was Spring when we met,
And Spring when we parted.
Still there’s a hint of something better in
“Values” J.W.8.: “Young Spring leaps on
old Winter’s traces.... Why do the tears on
my eyelids smart?.... This is my mistress,
this—the hidden she.” All just echoes. Why
don’t you fellows write of the life you see
about you?
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.D.E.: Person with legs like old motor
tyres and odd partner sent back across the
Tasman K.H.: You’re climbing to publi-
cation-level H.0.A.: Good ideas; get more
clearness into your drawings... .J.8.G.N0
need to mention you’d never had lessons
E- d - : Election cartoon arrived too late....
R-J-F.: Untidy cross-hatching and lopsided
figures... .P.T.J.: Well, at least you’re help-
in S makers of ink and paper... .5.8.: We
laughed at it ourselves—years ag0....P.H.:
Keep oft Cousin Jacks; they’re reserved lor
Oswald Pryor... .E.D.: Wash drawing is a
muddy specimen M.V.: Caricatures of the
Australian cricketers! So you’ve finished your
wintei sleep? ... .P. 8.. Daik threat to send
one a week until you re lucky noted
H.A.S.: Jest belongs to the nursery, drawing
to t he SC rapheap F.W.: Please explain car-
toon in which a bear is embracing an Oriental
gentleman while an eagle is moulting in back-
ground W.H.S.: They must be original
R.C.: Rejected because of outsize lady and
fellow with hump.


USEFUL DATA ON VAUXHALL
BIG SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 18 3-5 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in
10 1-5 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third in
7 1-5 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in
5 2-5 sec.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 24ft.
Maximum speed', 68 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 20.9 m.p.g.
•* £
/
above
&
'■ >:
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a lie. It gives immediate,
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet, in//; BRITISH
Price IU'O MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre W'orks, Sheffield, England.
KISMET mim
Representative:
John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
“SILVER
EDGE”
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the
uncanny feeling of pressing
your brake pedal and nothing
happens? Do not wait for
this experience to be yours,
but have your brakes watched
and adjusted at definite
periods in the same way as
you attend to the oiling of
your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RAYBESTOS
BRAKE LININGS and so ensure reliability, uni-
form wear and safety.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd London, England
Factory Rep.: John Arnold ■, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
The Steering Column.
FIRST TESTS OF THE NEW BIG SIX
VAUXHALL.
SOLIDLY CONSTRUCTED, ROADWORTHY, COMFORTABLE
AND ROOMY.
BY FRED BERRY.
A USTRALIAN motorists, particularly those of the last genera-
tion, associate the name Vauxhall with speed. But a
stiff price and the fact that the speed models were designed
primarily for sportsmen limited sales, and when the English
co. was taken over by General Motors the policy was altered'
to meet a wider demand. The plan was to incorporate as many
as possible of the original Vauxhall features with modern ideas
of service and comfort, and to use specialised tools and
machinery in the fabrication.
This policy has succeeded. Each succeeding model has
been a little better than its predecessor, and during the last year
more Vauxhalls have been delivered than in any five previous
years.
Early this year the 14/40 model gained
immediate popularity, and its big newly-
arrived brother, the 27/64 Six, tested
recently over The Bulletin course, bids
fair to get an equally cordial reception.
In appearance the new Big Six is a
larger-scale replica of the 14/40, retain-
ing the characteristic Vauxhall fluted
radiator and bonnet, with faired mud-
guards and effective streamlining in the
closed bodywork. Mechanically a num-
Tested over THE BULLETIN. course, the 27-h.p. Big Six Vauxhall sedan.
ber of new features are introduced to
simplify service and operation.
The six-cyl. overhead-valve type engine,
mounted in chassis at front and rear on
live rubber blocks, is rated at 26.3 h.p.,
having a bore of 3.312 in. and stroke of
3.75 in. Compression ratio is 5.6 to 1,
and maximum power, 64 b.h.p., is de-
veloped at the comparatively low-engine
speed of 2800 r.p.m. Detachable cylinder
heads of the non-detonating type are
fitted so that standard fuels may be used
without knocking. The crankshaft is
precisely balanced, runs in four large
bearings and is fitted with a torsional
vibration damper at the forward end.
Full-pressure automatic force feed sup-
plies oil to camshaft, crankshaft and big-
end bearings, with an additional lead to
the overhead valve gear. Sump oil is puri-
fied by crankcase ventilation and a car-
tridge-type oil filter.
The petrol tank, mounted at rear, has
a capacity of 12 gallons, and is filled
through a large diameter pipe equipped
with a spring-loaded, self-closing cap.
Fuel is delivered to the carburettor at
constant pressure by an A.C. mechanical
pump, the filter used being of the easily
detachable glass-bowl settling type. The
latest Zenith down-draught carburettor is
fitted, with interconnected choke and
throttle control and incorporated accel-
erator pump. The choke is automatically
controlled by engine suction, rendering
starting easy and preventing flooding of
the induction system. The air intake is
fitted with a combined cleaner, silencer
and flame arrester. Ignition is by coil
and battery, with full automatic advance
and retard, vacuum-controlled. Attached
to the distributor head in an accessible
position is a vernier adjustment (octane
selector), so that spark advance can be
set to exactly suit the particular fuel in
use.
Three charging rates for the Lucas
generator are available, controlled by a
switch on the instrument panel. Special
“pedomic” operation is fitted to the
starter motor, so that starting up merely
requires turning the ignition switch and
pressing the accelerator pedal.
Transmission is through a single plate
“dry” disc clutch to the four-speed and
reverse central-change gearbox. Synchro-
mesh easy-change mechanism is fitted to
top and third gears, while helical-cut
silent pinions are fitted to third speed.
The final drive is through an open pro-
peller shaft, with Hardy-Spicer universal
joints fore and aft. The rear axle is
semi-floating and drive spiral bevel, with
rubber insulating pads between axle and
springs. Final transmission has housing
of banjo type.
Forward end of Vauxhall engine, showing
novel type of fan drive and water im-
pellor and excellent provision for cooling.
Note push-rod operated valves and spark
plugs fully waterproofed.
The chassis is of
conventional construc-
tion, cross-braced at
six points to ensure
rigidity. Wheelbase is
lllin. and track 4ft.
Bin. Jacking up the
car is simplified by
the use of extension
pads on the front
springs and exten-
sions of the rear
spring shackles.
Lubrication of
shackles, steering
joints, steering box
and all chassis details
is entirely automatic,
operated by engine
suction through a
central lubricator unit mounted under
the engine bonnet. Braking equip-
ment is semi-servo mechanical type
on all four wheels, drum diameter
being 12|in. Steering gear is of the
Maries Weller cam-and-lever type, with
a turning circle of 38ft. Mounted in the
centre of the steering wheel is a traffic '
direction indicator control. The indi-
cators fit in recesses at the rear of the
front doors, and movement of the con-
trol throws out the desired indicator, a
trip mechanism in the steering column
automatically returning the lever and
signal to normal when steering wheel is
straightened out.
Bodywork is well finished and roomy,
front seats being adjustable, while sun
visors and duplex windshield wipers are
fitted to all closed models.
Front and rear side windows are fitted
with fully adjustable no-draught ventila-
tion, and the neatly-arranged dashboard
is equipped with an eight-day clock and
all necessary instruments.
The four-door sedan driven over The
Bulletin test course had not been on the
road for a sufficient period to show its
true form, the speedometer reading stand-
ing at 1411 miles. As a consequence the
motor was still quite stiff, and generally
the whole car would have been better for
a further 1000 miles of hard running.
On the weighbridge the Vauxhall, filled
with petrol and including driver and
two passengers, turned the scale at,
36|cwt., indicating that generous safety,;
margins had been provided throughout
construction. With Gilbert Henderson,
of Boyded, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors, at,
the wheel, excellent time was made
through city traffic to Parramatta, and,
on the open country roads a steady speed-
of 40 m.p.h. was maintained. Approach-;
ing Windsor a test of coasting was con-,
ducted, commencing in neutral at 15p
m.p.h. and rolling 635 yards before com-
ing to a standstill, this moderate result
being due to the nearside rear brake
binding to such a degree that the brake-
drum was quite hot. It was unfortunate
that the brakes had not been adjusted
before beginning the test, as much ben-
zine was wasted on the 35-mile run to
the coasting section; but, as brake-adjust-
ment is so easy on the Vauxhall, one
minute sufficed to correct the error, and
the car then showed something nearer
its true form by covering the flying mile
in a test of maximum speed in 53
seconds, averaging 68 m.p.h. Here the
machine ran silently, while steering and
road-holding were excellent.
Up to this point the road surface had
been in good order, but approaching
Kurrajong on the Grose Vale by-pass
road the recent heavy rains provided
typical outback conditions, the going
being extremely treacherous. Despite
these difficulties, the Vauxhall ploughed
through in a very safe and businesslike
fashion, without skidding and with sur-
prising lack of wheelspin.
Next test was the standing-start climb
of Kurrajong Mountain, and, although
a faster time
could have been
recorded with
more frequent
use of second
gear, the pilot,
with commend-
able regard for
a new and stiff
motor, elected
to make a
steady climb in
third gear
t h r o u g hout.
clocking 4min.
33sec. for the
2 1-5 miles.
Out standing
features of the
hillclimb were
Master cylinder of
automatic chassis
lubricator fitted to
Vauxhall Big Six.
excellent road-holding and the ease
with which the generous steering-lock
permitted negotiation of even the most
acute hairpin bends.


1
m
m
pi
in
m
%
m
-
.
Hi
m
isx
w
? K s-
UM>
See It—Drive It
this Big Six Vauxhall . .
and you'll want
THERE’S more than clean-cut beauty and deep,
relaxing comfort to be proud of in the new
Vauxhall Big Six. Gliding over hill and dale in the
sunshine, or slipping silently through the night,
the surging, responsive power of that 27 h.p. engine
will rejoice your heart.
And there’s a host of other outstanding reasons
why Vauxhall Big Six is a far better car to own.
Chief among them is the entirely automatic chassis
lubrication—not a knob to push or lever to pull,
engine suction does the job while you drive . . .
Then comes Vacuum Control Ignition with the
unique Vernier Adjustment that can be varied to
get maximum work and economy from any grade of
fuel—from the cheapest spirit up to the new Ethyl
compounds . . . Pedomatic Starting, eliminating
starter pedal . . . Easy jacking system . . . Traffic
Direction Indicators . . . Reversing Light.
But see all the Big Six's refinements for yourself
. . . from No-draught Ventilation to four forward
speed Synchro-mesh. Go over every inch of this
great car with the nearest Vauxhall dealer. Then
drive it . . . not around the block but for worth-
while miles. The further you go . . . the more
you’ll want to own a Big Six Vauxhall.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Priced, plus Sales Tax, from
• 999
£389
J\s jtXTJjltsll
sdf
as feiglanir
•
The companion
car to this 27 h.p.
VaUxhall is the
famous Vauxhall
14 h.p. Light Six,
priced from £275,
plus Sales Tax.
VAUXHALL BIG SIX
Roadster .... Tourer .... Coupe .... Saloon
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall Dealer
E: 1512 M
THE STEERING COLUMN
Returning down the mountain the effi-
ciency of the emergency braking equip-
ment was tested with reassuring results,
and on the homeward journey the cross-
country route, via Castlereagh to Pen-
rith, was taken.
Here further performance tests were
conducted, first and probably the most
critical of the series being that of travel-
ling in top gear as slowly as possible for
a distance of 350 yards, followed imme-
diately by a similar distance as fast as
possible, still keeping in top gear. This
test affords a criterion of top-gear flexi-
bility and handiness in traffic, and
although the Vauxhall, by reason of the
idling-jet setting being too fast, did not
do justice to itself on the slow-running
section, taking 2min. 30sec. at an average
of 4.8 m.p.h. for the distance, the
accelerated section was clocked in 19
4-ssec., crossing the finishing-line at 50
m.p.h. and averaging 35.9 m.p.h.
From a standing start through all gears
a speed of 50 m.p.h. was attained in
18 3-ssec., whilst in top, third and second
from 10 to 30 m.p.h. was clocked in
Distributor unit for metering exact re-
quirements of oil to brake and steering
mechanism.
10 1-5, 7 1-5 and 5 2-5 seconds respec-
tively.
Returning through Penrith, a test of
service braking equipment was con-
ducted, the Vauxhall coming to a stand-
still from a speed of 25 m.p.h. in 24ft.
without deviating from its course.
The time taken for the journey of 120
miles was 3hr. 30min., averaging 34.3
m.p.h.; and, as 5f gals, of fuel were
used in refilling the tank, petrol con-
sumption worked out at 20.9 m.p.g. (38.7
ton miles), a highly creditable perform-
ance.
Italian Cars Win Again.
Time was when in every event worth
while Sunbeam or Talbot was handy at
flag fall, and later Bentley showed the
way to most Continental makes.
Now the machines of the Cold Country
are merely also-rans, and a vicious dog-
fight is regularly conducted between Alfa
Romeos, Maseratis and Bugattis, all hail-
ing from the Land of Olives.
Latest classic, the Marne Grand Prix,
over a difficult circuit of 500 kilometres,
provided a scoop for Alfa Romeos, Louis
Chiron, averaging 90.71 m.p.h., collecting
first monc- } with two team mates filling
the minor positions. Second car was only
11 seconds behind the winner. English
competitors H. C. Hamilton (Maserati)
and Lord Howe (Bugatti) filled fourth
and fifth places respectively.
Charcoal Gas for Cars.
An unusual contestant in the Royal
Automobile Club’s 1060-mile rally re-
cently held in England was a Humber-
Snipe which ran on charcoal gas, made
in a Koela producer outfit carried aboard.
Makers claim that the touring car com-
pleted the distance without the slightest
trouble at a cost of £1 13s. 4d. for char-
coal for the run. As special cylinder-heads
were not fitted, six gallons of petrol were
used for starting the engine, bringing the
total fuel bill for the thousand-odd miles
to £2 2s. 4d. This must be nearly a
record for cheap motoring in a full-sized
car.
(Continued on page 30. t


Readers are reminded that the
services of Fred Berry are now at
their disposal should they require
information or advice upon any
motoring subject.
Inquiries should be set out as
briefly and concisely as possible.
A reply will be forthcoming immedi-
ately.
•HOOD DRESSING-
sdf
Nouj in HslF-pi.nt Tins.
Ilont worrti
MUILERS
can fix it...
sdf
Don’t let another motorist’s
thoughtless carelessness
rob your car of its beauty.
We make a specialty of
Panel beating and can
restore the damage in
quick time and at reason-
able cost.
A dented mudguard, a new
panel, or indeed a com-
plete body is “all in the
I day’s work” to us! We
match the original color
and contour of the dam-
jaged part, and our speedy
service insures that your
car is “off the road” for
a minimum period.
F. MULLER
LTD.
77-79 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
’Phone: !L3201 (3 lines).
National
Advertisers :\
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from E. L. Wilson, 80 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
He Said— “ Drive it only five miles and you’ll
invest in a Chevrolet” —He Was Right! ...
1
&
mm
mmmmm
Have you had your Chevrolet five mile ride
yet ? Chevrolet dealers are saying, “Take the
car, and drive it yourself, not round the block
but for at least five hard miles—and you’ll
never be satisfied with any other low-priced
car.” And after those five miles, the thou-
sands who come to try Chevrolet stay to buy
Chevrolet.
Of course, it’s simply a matter of value for
money. In the Master model, for instance
Knee-action Wheels make all roads smooth
for safe speed . . . that new engine gives
tremendous power, 80 m.p.h. and 15% greater
petrol economy . . . Octane Selector,
Synchro-mesh gears, 20 times stronger frame,
better brakes and steering all combine to
pack thorough enjoyment into every mile.
And the Standard, too, with its own individual
features is a full-sized six that offers full-
sized value.
The nearest Chevrolet dealer will be glad
to arrange your five mile ride at any time.
He knows it’s an open-minded test of value
which keen buyers appreciate.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
CHEVROLET
STANDARD AND MASTER-1934
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
HI 704M8
Motor Oddities.
“W.R.A.”: Runs of bad luck? We
were bogged, and dug the car out only to
pitch into a deep hole and blow a piston
head off. Because the train that brought
the spare took three hours to do 20
miles we borrowed a Chev. and went up
the line to meet it. Ten miles from
town we had a puncture, and while we
struggled with the spare wheel, which
was buckled, a Ford came along and we
entrusted the piston to the driver. We
caught the Ford up half a mile further
on with its radiator boiled dry. We got
into town just as the train pulled in at
8 p.m. The town’s electric lights failed
and the piston went in by candle light.
We started for Perth at 11.30 p.m.,
dropped into a washaway and bent the
front axle. Then we hit a “road-closed”
sign whose light had gone out and
smashed our headlights. We went round
that nightmare of a detour with a spot-
light and crept into Perth with the dawn.
* * *
“Spark Gap”: Here’s a bush repair tip
for burnt-out platinum contacts on the
distributor. Start by filing down the
worn or burnt points to the metal on the
breaker arm, and then with a soldering-
iron thoroughly tin the exposed surface.
Then take a silver coin, shape it to the
required size and solder firmly into posi-
tion. I have used a worn threepenny-
piece, which, after being dressed, faced
up and adjusted to the correct breaking
distance, has been quite satisfactory, and
was in constant use for several hundred
miles.
* * * *
“W.G.1.”: My memories of the hire-
car business go back to the beginning of
the century. In 1907 the swankiest taxi
in Adelaide was a four-cyl. Minerva
owned by a chap named Rigby; the
humblest car on the rank in Grenfell-
street was a one-lunger Di Dion with
door at the back. I was working in a
Perth garage when the first Ford landed
in W.A. What surprised us most about
it was that it had white metal bearings.
All other cars had bronze bushings in
those days. In Northam (W.A.) I drove
an Oldsmobile with tiller-steering and
engine at the back —two cylinders
opposed—and remember bringing her
home with my bootlace tied to the com-
mutator to advance the spark. In Syd-
ney I joined up with Dalgetys in Phillip-
street, and helped to teach the first police
examiners to drive. My N.S.W. license
number was 307 : I still have the plate.
Genuine back-country conditions on The
BULLETIN test course.
Australian Speed Records.
Fastest time ever recorded on a motor-
cycle in Australia was 125 m.p.h., attained
by Paul Anderson on an Indian, in 1925,
at Sellick’s Beach (S.A.), and officially
recorded by the electric timing apparatus
of the Motor Cycle Club of S.A.
Getting It Right.
“S.E.”: “I’m getting this traffic busi-
ness straight,” said the visitor to Sydney.
“There’s the traffic cop to direct the
traffic. This one looks after pedestrians
going one way, and that one guides them
the other way. The chap with the note-
book pinches people for jay-walking,
and the cove with the flags signals the
trams. The other three or four direct
whatever needs directing at the moment;
but I can’t make out who the chap with
the stripes is.’'’
“That,” explained the local, “is the
traffic cop to direct traffic cops.”
The Trouble Lamp.
A.B. (Seymour, Vic.). —My 1927 Essex
tourer has an intermittent buzzing noise in the
vicinity of the dashboard, becoming more pro-
nounced as the accelerator is depressed. The
noise is there whether lights are on or not, and
wiring is in order. Have oiled the speedo. cord.
What’s the remedy ?
You don’t say whether this trouble occurs
when the car is stationary or when driven.
Fibre pinion in the speedo. drive might be the
trouble. Disconnect and test. Thrust-bearing
in clutch assembly may be worn. Start the
motor, throw out the clutch and see if the
noise if still there.
A.S.K. (Sydney). —The clutch in my 1929
Morris Minor has a fit of slipping about every
month. When I take the plug from the
clutch housing I collect a pint of dirty oil, and
the trouble disappears until next time, when
the same thing occurs. How can matters be
put right ?
Look for a series of studs and plugs between
bell housing and motor. These are loose and
allow oil to leak into clutch assembly. Take
them out, smear liberally with a mixture of
red lead and gasket cement, restore to posi-
tion and you will have no further clutch slip.
W.McN. (Benalla, Vic.). —My four-year-old
car is in excellent mechanical condition, but
its highest speed is 60 m.p.h., and acceleration
from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top takes 12 seconds.
In accounts of Bulletin tests I note that
similar types now have a maximum of 70
m.p.h., and that acceleration front 10 to 30
m.p.h. in top takes only B sec. As latest models
have much higher compression, can I get equal
results if I plane cylinder-head and block to
an equal ratio ? Will petrol consumption and
other performances be affected ?
You will increase maximum speed and perhaps
top-gear acceleration by increasing compres-
sion, but your cylinder-head design was not
intended for the higher ratios. Consequently,
slow running will be “snatchy” in top gear,
the motor will “knock” when accelerated,
unles you use one of the latest “non-detonat-
ing” fuels, and, furthermore, the motor will
be harsh at all speeds below 30. Fuel con-
sumption should not be affected.
Amac (Toowoomba, Q.). —What can I do to
prevent my brakes squealing ? For days after
rainy weather they howl and chatter every time
they are applied. Inspection shows the linings
to be shiny. Should l rough them with a
file or clean them with petrol ?
You should do neither. If brake-drums are
lightly constructed you will always experience
this trouble until you have a band shrunk on
the drum to increase rigidity. More than
likely you can rectify the trouble by chamfer-
ing the ends of the linings. If this does not
effect a permanent cure it will be because they
are worn down to the rivets and need new
linings.
J.L. (Bexley, N.S.W.).— My 1929 Oldsmobile
has been going well until last week-end, when
its power seemed to drop suddenly, and in
climbing long hills the water boils. Should
I have the engine pulled down ?
Check up ignition and valve timing; more
than likely you will find a new timing chain
is all that is required. When the old timing
chain stretches it will jump the sprockets and
so retard ignition; hence the poor pulling and
overheating of the motor.
Vis (Pennant Hills, N.S.W.). —The oil gauge
on my Marquette flies back to 0 on turning
a left-hand corner at speed, and at the same
time there is a distinct tapping noise in the
engine. The car still pulls wtll and is other-
wise perfect. Is there anything needing atten-
tion ?
You have a fractured oil pipe leading from
the main oil-line in the sump to one of the
bearings. Turning left, the cracked portion
is no longer submerged in oil and air is
admitted, causing the needle on the gauge
to show zero pressure. The noise is due to
air trapped in the line when the pump again
begins to operate. Get the fracture repaired.
Chev. (Gundiah, Q.). —My car is only a year
old, but on top gear below 15 m.p.h. it seems
to ‘‘shudder,’’ the vibration disappearing from
20 m.p.h. onward. Is it serious ?
Unless you have driven rubber-mounted
motors before you might easily mistake engine
flexibility for “shudder”; alternatively, the
clutch requires attention in order to correct
plate tension. This would be particularly
noticeable at low speeds on top gear.
H.E. (Mullumbimby, N.S.W.). —What causes
my Overland Six, after fitting new rings, to take
inordinate quantities of lubricating oil ? My
oil pressure is 50/ b. Is this too high ?
If the cylinders are worn out of truth, new
rings won’t help much. You will always
use a lot of oil until cylinders are rebored or
relined. 201 b. to 301 b. oil pressure when hot
is ample; higher pressures increase waste.
A.R.R. (Mossman, Q.). —I have broken a
part of the carburettor on my 1929 Graham
Paige, and a substitute carburettor gives only
10 miles to the gallon. Would you suggest
another type ?
If you cannot secure a duplicate of the
original Johnson, either Marvel or Stromberg
would give good results.


Permanent
Value —
from every Chanex
Silent Resistor you use.
You can rely on Chanex
to give you years of
noiseless and efficient
operation.
At all
Radio Dealers.
RESISTORS
£
In Wire-wound
and Metallised
types and Color
Coded.
Wire-wound i n
resistance values
up to 5000 ohms.
Metallised type up
to 2 megohms.
Manufactured by
DUCON CONDENSER PTY., LTD.,
Sydney and Melbourne, *
RADIO NEWS.
A PRE-SELECTOR UNIT FOR INSELECTIVE
BROADCAST RECEIVERS.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
This inexpensive accessory is preferable to a wavetrap,
and can improve considerably the selectivity and
sensitivity of many types of broadcast receivers.
There are many listeners still using
old-type tuned R.F. receivers, and with
these the question of overlapping stations
and inselectivity generally is an ever-
present one. With stations using more
power than they did a few years ago,
the user of the tuned R.F. receiver in
the metropolitan area is fortunate if he
can enjoy, without interference, the pro-
Fig. 1.
An external pre-selector is a useful addi-
tion to an inselective receiver. It is
inexpensive and easily made.
grammes from three or four locals. Dis-
tant programmes are probably out of
the question.
Chiefly the complaint centres in the
local station nearest to the listener. In
the case of complete overshadowing by
the local transmission, there are one or
two methods of overcoming the trouble,
but such methods are not really satisfac-
tory. One of these is the expedient of using
a very short aerial, or no aerial at all.
Actually, nothing is done to improve
selectivity, for the receiver is com-
pelled to work under conditions of dis-
tinct loss in signal strength. The signal
may be built up to some extent by a
regeneration control, but all T.R.F.
receivers were not designed with a re-
generation control for the detector. A
simple and effective method of reducing
or completely eliminating the signal from
a powerful local station is by means of
the wavetrap. This does what its name
implies. It absorbs energy at the fre-
quency to which it is tuned, but it is
of no use for any station save the one
offender. If the setting of the wavetrap
is disturbed, with the idea of using it to
separate two signals somewhere else on
the dial, of equal strength, in comes the
local station, overshadowing everything.
Many of these old receivers would, if
the local stations did not exist, be quite
capable of tuning in distant stations, but
they are confined to the status of local-
station receivers because they are unable
to cope with the conditions existing
to-day on the broadcast band. Even if
the receiver is used in a suburb well away
from any local transmitting aerial, the
stations at the high-frequency end of the
tuning range overlap, and this applies
also to the T.R.F. receiver of old design
used anywhere in the country.
Selectivity can be obtained in one of
two ways: either the number of tuned
circuits in the receiver can be increased
or the radio-frequency resistance of the
tuned circuits can be reduced. In
Europe, and latterly in America, the re-
duction of R.F. resistance is being
applied. This is done by the introduction
of the special iron-cored R.F. coils, in
investigation of which manufacturers in
Australia are behindhand. Thus, the
alternative method at present for the
listener using an inselective receiver in
Australia is to increase the number of
tuned circuits.
Unless a new receiver is under con-
struction, the suggestion is invariably im-
practicable. There is no more room for
extra condensers, coils, etc., on the
chassis, and so something of an external
jxa iure. is necessarv.
Not a Wavetrap.
The pre-selector unit described here is
quite different in action from the wave-
trap, and does not suffer from the limi-
tations of the latter. Radio experimenters
of earlier days will recall the three-coil
tuning arrangements with plug-in honey-
combs, and variable coupling for a tuned
aerial coil. This pre-selector takes a leaf
out of the book of old-time practice,
but in a more modern form. It adds to
the selectivity of the receiver by virtue of
its tuned and loosely-coupled circuit. It
is, of course, another control in addition
to the receiver controls, but the results
obtained are usually well worth the
slightly greater tuning effort involved. In
early radio days the value of the tuned
receiving aerial was appreciated, but the
modern broadcast receiver entirely
neglects aerial considerations. Tuning
the aerial raises the signal noise-level
ratio, and is desirable where the utmost
is required in long-distance reception,
broadcast or short wave. Thus this little
unit will be of use to the DX man, and
will enhance the performance of any
200 to 550-metre receiver in this respect.
Used with a humble two-valver, with
regenerative detector and single-audio
stage, over 50 stations have been logged
on the broadcast band in a Sydney
suburb under the shadow of 2BL, and
this with a lengthy outside aerial.
Circuit -Details.
The diagram of the circuit, Fig. 2,
shows the principle of the unit, and from
this and the illustrations it will be seen
that it is a simple affair to put together.
The coil L 2 and the condenser C con-
sist of the usual L-C combination to
cover the broadcast band ; 200 to 550
Fig. 2.
Circuit diagram of external pre-selector
unit for use with inselective T.R.F.
receivers. The unit must be totally
screened.
metres. L 2 is tapped for two alternative
aerial connections, this being necessary
owing to varying aerial lengths. The
first connection, Al, is tapped half-way
along the coil, and the other, A 2, two-
thirds the number of turns from the
earth end. When in use, these alternative
connections are tried to determine which
best suits the aerial. Al will be worked
with a particularly long aerial. Coil
LI consists of six turns of any fine-
gauge insulated wire, wound on a layer
of tape, over the “top” end of L 2. The
turns are wound in the same direction
as those on L 2, and the inside end is left
open, with no connection. Any of the
various-sized formers with the correct
winding and tuning condenser can be
used for L 2, and if the reader has on
hand one of the old-fashioned 3in.
diameter coils wound with 26 D.S.C. it
can be tapped and employed.
If a standard liin. former is used, L 2
will have 102 turns of 30 D.S.C. tapped
at 51 turns from the “top” end for Al
and 34 turns for A 2. LI is wound just
over the “top” end of L 2, on tape, and
has six turns of the same gauge wire.
Later, when the user is familiar with the
action of this unit, a little experiment-
ing with the number of turns for LI and
the degree of coupling with L 2 may be
advantageous. The start of the winding
of LI (no connection) is secured by tying
a loop of thread round the former. The
variable condenser should have a capa-
city of .00036 mfd. for this specification
of L 2, and if a 3in. coil is used for L 2
a .0005 mfd. condenser (S.L.F.) will be
suitable. In the latter case, fewer turns
for LI and looser coupling will suffice.
Good single variable condensers can be
obtained in the second-hand stores
( e.g ., Radio Supply Stores, Royal Arcade,
Sydney). A plain knob will suffice to
operate the condenser, but if precise cali-
bration is required a vernier dial is
necessary.
Screening Box.
The assembly is built into a metal
screening box (aluminium in the case of
the original) to ensure the usual shield-
ing of the tuned circuit. The box
measures 6in. by sin. by 4iin., and is
provided with a cover plate to lit over
the bottom, as illustrated. Four termi-
nals are fitted at the rear, with three
insulated from the metal and one direct
(for earthing). The diagram illustrating
the connections to the broadcast receiver
shows how the terminals are arranged.
Mounting of the variable condenser de-
pends upon the fixing provided with the
particular type. The
rotor is earthed to
the screening box,
with the condenser
mounted in such a
position as to clear
the box cover with
the rotor plates open.
The coil assembly
may be placed in any
position convenient,
and in the original
it is seen bolted to
the inside top of the
box (Fig. 1).
Operation.
Fig. 3 illustrates how the pre-selector
is connected to the receiver. Remove
the aerial lead from the receiver and
connect it to one of the two terminals,
Al, A 2. Which one is most suitable will
have to be determined by subsequent
trial. Connect a lead from the earth
terminal of the receiver to the earth
terminal of the pre-selector, the two thus
being earthed via the earth lead. An-
other wire is connected from the ter-
minal providing the coupling from the
pre-selector to the aerial terminal of the
receiver, and the unit is ready for use.
Tune in a powerful local station on the
receiver and -then adjust the pre-selector
control. The “spread” of the local
signal will be narrowed down consider-
ably, without any loss in volume. At
the lower end of the tuning range those
stations which previously were hope-
lessly jumbled together can be separated,
and in between will probably be heard
stations not logged before. The tuning
procedure is always the same ; receiver
first, pre-selector afterwards. If the two
aerial tappings on the pre-selector do not
provide a balance between the two,
whereby the tuning action is apparent
over the whole of the condenser range,
intermediate tappings should be tried, or
a reduction (or increase) in aerial length.
Practice will soon familiarise the user
with the effect of the unit, and it will be
speedily realised that, although it con-
Fig. 3.
Showing how the pre-selector unit is connected to the receiver.
stitutes another control, it is no trouble
to use. The wavetrap entails loss,
whereas this unit brings definite gain, and
must not be confused with the bandpass
filter. Nor is it a pre-selector circuit
as embodied in some earlier types of
superheterodyne receivers. In fact, a
better name than pre-selector would be
“selective aerial tuner.”
D. B. K.
THE PERFECT RECEIVER.
Infinite development and improve-
ment of any human device are neither
possible nor necessary, and there are
certain crafts, such as the making of
violins, pianofortes, bicycles and watches,
which seem susceptible to no important
advance. The automobile, with a
scant third of a century of development
behind it, appears to be nearing a stage
in which further progress must be very
slow. Possibly the manufacturers of
radio apparatus and other technicians of
wireless transmission officially consider
that their craft, so far as the needs of the
listener are concerned, is also very near
the dead end of perfection, but the gusto
with which they continue to produce im-
provement after improvement and pile
refinement upon refinement indicates
that they anticipate quite a long journey
before their products become absolutely
standardised on the edge of perfection.
What they can see at the end of the
trail probably varies with the class of
problem with which each individual is
most concerned at the moment, but it
(Continued on next pnge.)


“As a Dealer .
. / recommend
DIAMOND
BATTERIES
.. .. always
mm
%
m
m
■
L I
t#
“I want my customers to be satisfied—not constantly complaining
and being dissatisfied with the goods I sell them—so I play safe
and recommend Diamonds.
“I’m pretty keen about Diamonds—l use them myself. They
stand up to long, hard use in my radio better than any other
battery I know. It must be something to do with the Pertrix
formula that makes them stand up so well.
“If you want the advice of one who has a good lot to do with
batteries—take my tip and buy Diamonds.”
DIAMOND-PERTRIX
The energetic battery
WIDDIS DIAMOND DRY CELLS PTY. LTD.
119 Hawke Street, West Melbourne -- - - Victoria
Dalgfety Road, Millers Point, Sydney - - - - N.S.W.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
cannot do them any harm and may
bring an occasion for a contemptuous
chuckle or two into their dull lives if a
listener who couldn’t tell a potentiometer
from a grid leak if one bit him in the
leg lets his uninstructed fancy roam on
the subject of the ideal receiver.
In the first place—and on this point
it is necessary to be very firm—the
thing must be equipped with television,
though for a good deal of the time it
is in use, maybe, the television screen
will not be in use. The receiver proper
—the collection of coils and valves and
wires and gadgets that gathers impulses
out of the ether and crystallises them as
sound and light—will be built into the
wall in the most convenient room' for
listening and seeing—in most cases the
apartment where the family sits in the
evening. Here will be a speaker (not
a /owrfspeaker ; they’ll be abolished by
Act of Parliament) and a television
screen. The television transmissions will
be not only in natural color, but bio-
scopic, giving the illusion of three dimen-
sions. How it’s going to be done isn’t
this writer’s business. There will be a
demand for it, and the demand will have
to be met.
In the average household —these are
not specifications for palaces—only one
television screen will be installed, but
in every room where people work and
in each bedroom there will be a built-in
auxiliary speaker connected with the main
set, and put in operation by pushing
down a button. In connection with these,
as well as on the main set, there will be
a dialling system similar to that used
with the automatic telephone. Frequen-
cies of transmitting stations will be abso-
lutely stable; the whole world will have
adopted no-overlap principles by an
International Convention, and the lis-
tener will be able to bring in any one of
30,000 stations, from Pernambuco to
Spitzbergen, by dialling its number.
Possibly the set will mostly be used
for listening to gramophone records
from tlie nearest station or to news
about what won the 2.15, but the owner
must be able at will to switch to the
opening of the Chinese Parliament or
the bullfight in Seville or the revolution
in Uruguay. The world will have be-
come so much less parochial that many
people will take a passionate interest in
affairs very far afield.
In every respect this ideal receiving
equipment will be permanent, and an in-
tegral part of the house in which it is.
Facilities for stringing the best possible
aerial (if they still use aerials) will be
designed by the architect and built as
part of the house. Repairs, renewals and
overhauls will be needed only at very
long intervals, if ever. Sound volume
The 1934 Radio Industries Ball, held at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries, Sydney,
on September 8, was attended en masse by the radio trade. Illustrated is the
striking table display of Ducon Condenser Pty., Ltd. The massive masculine
figure holding the two plates of a condenser is symbolic of the Ducon slogan
of “Dependability.”
will be subject to automatic adjustment,
and sound insulation will be effected so
that in no circumstances, not even in
the smallest flats, can broadcast sound
sent out by one set be heard in the
vicinity of another. Static and the
whole host of noises due to electrical
interference will long ago have been
banished.
Only one feature of the era of perfect
radio reception is a bit hazy, and that
is how the listener with such a vast
range of stations at his command is to
make his selection to best advantage.
Probably the newspapers will come to
his aid (as, in a much more restricted
field, they do now) and indicate what
is best worth listening to and looking
at throughout the day. For the one
thing most certain in a world whose
future is growing more uncertain every
day is that radio, which was at first
expected to oust the newspaper, will
make it more and more necessary.
Already it has raised a goodly crop of
weeklies where none grew before.
ELIJAH..
Improving the Short-wave Signal
Noise-level Ratio.
According to Kruse, the American
radio engineer, transmitting amateurs do
not pay enough attention to the tuning
of receiving aerials. Neither does the
short-wave listener. The average aerial
used for reception is just a wire, resonant
at no particular frequency, and is thus
susceptible to interference at unwanted
frequencies.
With a tuned aerial and looser coup-
ling to the tuned input circuit of the re-
ceiver a much better signal ratio to
general noise background is obtained.
The diagram illustrates a changeover
tuned coupling to the receiver employ-
ing the feeders of the transmission aerial.
For short-wave listeners the feeders
may be considered as an aerial and coun-
terpoise combination. A direct earth con-
nection should not be used. The aerial
coupling coil is wound on the plug-in
coil former, with a mica compression type
(superhet 1.F.) condenser fitted in the top
of the former. The number of turns for
the aerial coil and the degree of coupling
must be determined by trial. For ama-
teur work the aerial is tuned to peak at
the centre of each amateur band, and for
general short-wave reception at the fre-
quency channels used for short-wave
broadcasting. The fitting of the small
peaking condenser as part of the coil
unit is in the interests of convenience,
and an external manually-operated vari-
able condenser can be fitted if an extra
control is not an objection.
VK2NO.
Casual Comment.
From a listener in England: Howard
Marshall, a 8.8. C. commentator, received
a shock at the fourth Test match at
Leeds, when liberty was taken with the
microphone. A Yorkshireman, full of
bonhomie and beer, leaving the Headingly
ground towards the close of play, leaned
over into the broadcasting box and re-
marked in stentorian tones, “Hey,
’Oward, owd lad, tha might call up t’
missus and tell ’er Ah’m cornin’
whoam.”
* * * *
“S.H.”: An instance of exceptional
radio reception occurred at Garema rail-
way siding, near Forbes (N.S.W.). Wait-
ing for a train, a resident carrying a
two-valve all-wave portable decided to
try his luck. Fencing wire attached to
a post 10ft. high was used for the aerial
and more fencing wire as an earth con-
nection. First station heard on the broad-
cast range was Corowa at surprising
strength, and with this encouragement a
change was made to short waves. A
strong station proved to be Daventry
(Eng.), “QSAS RB.” Further dial twist-
ing brought in FYA Paris, also very
strong. Satisfying proof of what can be
done with a humble portable and fenc-
ing wire.
* * * *
With all-wave receivers selling fast,
and public interest in short-wave recep-
tion in Australia on the increase,
manufacturers will need to pay atten-
tion to the production of special lead-
in cable for the doublet-type aerial.
The doublet, with transposed feeders,
is an effective means of reducing, or
even completely eliminating, the electri-
cal noises set up in the receiver by
vacuum cleaners, car ignition, dialling
telephones, neon signs, dentists’ drills,
medical apparatus and a host of other
things. Whereas twisted lamp cord is
effective for a while, the efficiency de-
creases rapidly with exposure to the
weather. American manufacturers sup-
ply a special cable of Litz wire, with
thin varnished cambric insulation instead
of rubber. The cabling is supplied with
a marker at every foot, to provide for
predetermined lengths. The impedance
of the line is very low, and the cambric
insulation, having a high-voltage break-
down, renders the cable suitable for
transmission as well as reception.
* * * *
“V.E.”: In Dalby (Q.) the three
machines supplying the 440-240 volt D.C.
for the town are fitted with spark sup-
pressors. Each rotary machine in the
town is so equipped. The power-house
chief, though not the user of a short-
wave receiver, insists on radio-interfer-
ence suppression, and his example might
well be followed by others.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Sufferers from inselectivity
in broadcast reception can improve
matters by making use of the window-
pane, two discs of tinfoil and the aerial
lead-in. One disc, which need not be
more than 3in. in diameter, is attached,
outside the house, to the lead-in wire and
placed in contact
with the glass, be-
ing held in posi-
tion by rubber
stickers. A similar
disc is connected
to the aerial wire
to the receiver in-
side the house and
arranged on the
glass opposite to
the outside disc.
By sliding the inner
disc closer or fur-
ther away from
the outer, it is pos-
sible to improve the
selectivity of many
receivers, and thus
to produce finer
tuning. Writer has often been able to
separate overlapping stations by this
method.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Reception recently has been disap-
pointing, due mostly to the change in
season. Stations on 19 metres have been
coming in around midnight, but most
erratically and fading badly. The 25-
metre band has been dead, and 31 v£ry
weak. The 49-metre band has been be ? st,
with the D.E.I. stations quite good apd
one American fair. \
On several nights, RNE, 25 metres, has
been excellent at midnight, but on other
occasions barely audible. DJC, 49.8
metres, has been very consistent in the
morning until seven, with quite good
strength, but RFN has been only fair.
All through a recent week RVIS was
extremely strong, but static on some


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
■ S. Y. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone'. 82201.
STUDY
AT HOME
pai4icu/cri*s/ 0#
Schooler a dio
ENGINEERING
WEMBLEY HOUSE,RAILWAY SQUARE,SYDNEY
MORE THAN JUST MAKING VALVES
During the past ten years of radio, more
Mullard Valves have been sold than any other
make. This definitely proves two things:
that Mullard Master Valves must be the
finest radio valves obtainable, and that ten
years’ preference by the radio public has
been maintained by continued research and
experimenting. Write for Booklet.
Mullard
n. i>i® v/. LVEB-
- Mullard Radio Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sidney.
sdf
Radio
Two Premier U. S. A.
Amateur Radio Magazines and
Two Outstanding Books
The magazines ....
R/9—the intimate magazine of amateur radio.
Excellent technical articles from standard and
unknown writers. Intimate news of amateurs, Per
year, $1.50 in U.S.A. Foreign, $2.00.
Radio—far ahead of ALL other amateur maga-
zines technically. Articles from highest authori-
ties. Famous since 1917. Large pages, B'/2X1 2 in.,
more than 30,000 words monthly. $3.00 the year;
foreign, $4.00.
The books ....
R 9 Sigs!—Angle Radiation. How to get 'em with
low power described in this. valuable book on
angle radiation. The trick is in the _ antenna.
New 3-wire feeder system described. Price, post-
paid anywhere, $l.OO.
Kruse's Radiophone Guide including Batcher's
Radiografs—Edited by R. S. Kruse famous radio
consultant, ex-technical editor of QST, con-
tributor to "R/9," etc. Covers phone operat-ng
troubles—how to build, adjust, improve, econo-
mize. The "Radiografs" solve your numerical
problems; only a ruler is needed. Included are
inductance, capacity, resistance, frequency, time,
and other calculations. Price 50c per copy,
foreign, 75c.
TEMPORARY SPECIAL COMBINATION OFFERS
(Subject to cancellation without notice)
I. R/9 and Radio, both for I year, $3.00; For-
-2 BOT id (I year each) and BOTH
BOOKS, postpaid $3 75 Fpreign $5 25
3. R/9, I year, and R/9 Sigs! Postpaid, $2.00.
Foreign, $2.50.
Remittances must be payable at par in U.S.A.
funds. Send all orders to and make all checks,
drafts, and money orders payable to
R/9, LIMITED
1455 Glenville Drive, Los Angeles, Calif., U. S. A.
nights was very heavy. PMY, 58 metres,
was also very good, and what I take
to be YDB2, on 68.6 metres, was fair
after midnight.
The 8.8. C. stations have been coming
in well, with GSB, 31.5 metres, still far
the best. GSD, on 25.5 metres, is much
W'eaker towards 5 p.m.
FYA has been erratic, varying. from
very strong to very weak. The week-
end has been disappointing on all
stations, and the short-wave session at
2 p.m. from WBXK was too weak to
understand.
The amateur 20-metre band has been
nearly silent in the afternoon, and 80
'metres has been poor, with the M.L.
stations much weaker.
The 40-metre band has been very
lively, and from 6 to 7 a.m. quite a
number of weak ’phone stations has
been heard. Several speak Dutch, but
the strongest uses French. His call is
The romance of the “QSL” card. Such a display on the
walls of an amateur station is proof of contact with other
stations.
not yet identified, but his “d vous” is very
plain when changing over. HBL, the
League of Nations station, was too'
weak to copy on a recent Sunday morn-
ing, and the foreigner on 31.56 metres
was missing.
The station mentioned by WBXK as
being erratic in operation is probably
YV3BC, Venezuela. All the 25-metre
stations have been weak between 7 and
8 a.m., with FYA strongest. Reception
conditions should improve at any time.
The 8.8. C. and HBL are running a series
of experiments relative to echoes on
signals. A fair knowledge of Morse will
be necessary to follow them, and they
should be audible in Australia. GSB is
the transmitter used, the time being 6.30
p.m. S.M.T. HBL is using the 38-metre
station at 7 p.m., and will most likely
be inaudible.
NIGHTOWL.
8.8. C. announces the callsigns and
wave-lengths of the Empire short-wave
stations as follows: GSA, 49.59; GSB,
31.55; GSC, 31.30; GSD, 25.53; GSE,
25.30; GSF, 19.82; GSG, 16.86; GSH,
13.97 metres.
What’s What in Radio.
W. R. G. Baker, of R.C.A. Victor,
states the cost of establishing television
stations throughout the U.S.A., consider-
ing the service range of a transmitter as
15 to 20 miles, would be fantastic. Eighty
transmitters would cost 40 million dol-
lars, and maintenance and operating costs
could come to 14 million dollars yearly.
Moreover, the public would suffer dis-
tinct shocks when gazing upon some of
their radio favorites for the first time.
* * * *
Radiolympia, the annual London radio
exhibition, has surpassed itself this year.
Sales are reported to have totalled several
million pounds. It is not surprising.
Apart from the demand for radio re-
ceivers by broadcasting listeners, the
army of constructor enthusiasts is con-
stantly growing. Evidence of this is
given in the steady sale of the large
number of English semi-technical
weeklies and monthlies publishing con-
structional articles and the amount of
radio advertising carried by these publi-
cations. England is the radio amateur’s
paradise, to say nothing of the radio
trader.
He * * *
The official announcement by the
A.B.C. of seven new “regional” stations
to be erected includes this: “Several of
the wave-lengths... .are very close to or
are actually in use by existing national
stations. However, before the new sta-
tions are placed on the air a rearrange-
ment will be made in the existing condi-
tions to prevent any interference.” This
can mean only the
redistribution of
frequencies, and
thus many receiv-
ers now in use, and
boasting calibrated
dials with the sta-
tion callsign
marked thereon,
may need to be re-
calibrated and to
have new dial indi-
cators fitted. Pro-
vided the frequency
of existing national
stations is not
altered widely, a
change of a few
kilocycles would
not cause much
difference in indi-
cation.
* * *
The U.S.A. Su-
preme Court has
ruled that Dr. Lee
de Forrest, and not Major Edwin Arm-
strong, was the inventor of the re-
generative or feedback principle as
applied to radio valves. Thus comes
to an end litigation involving several mil-
lions of dollars. American radio engi-
neering authorities express regret that
the energies of these two men should
have been concentrated on such a fight
instead of on further inventions.
Some time ago the
American valve
manufacturers call-
ed a halt in the pro-
du c tio n of new
types of valves, the
radio trade protest-
ing that bewilder-
ment was being
caused. Consequent-
ly attention is being
paid to the improve-
me n t of existing
types, in contrast to
Europe and Great
Britain, where new
valves are making an appearance almost
weekly. From Australia’s viewpoint, it
is a pity that British and American valve,
manufacturers cannot agree to both do
something the same way and to adopt a
standardised form of valve-base. Not one
receiver in thousands in Australia to-day
uses the English type of valve-base and
-socket
* * * *
An interesting use for the photo-elec-
tric cell is reported in connection with
railway engineering. In Belgium a
tunnel on a main railway is fitted with
light control actuated by the photo-cell.
The tunnel is wired for illumination, and
when a train enters the tunnel the lights
are switched on, being automatically ex-
tinguished when it leaves.
* * * *
A manufacturer of noise eliminators
for radio reception has brought his wares
before the public in an enterprising
manner in America. The salesman uses
a car of the sedan type with a standard
form of radio receiver fitted on one of
the front mudguards. An electric fan is
mounted. Stopping in a crowded district,
the salesman tunes in to a local station.
A few words on sources of radio-induc-
tive interference, such as tramways, leads
to the claim that his firm’s product will
eliminate it. The fan is switched on,
and this practically drowns the re-
ceiver’s reception, but the salesman un-
couples the aerial from the receiver and
connects the noise-filter, when the inter-
ference from the fan is reduced to a
mere whisper.
* * * *
The Columbia broadcasting organisa-
tion, the largest in America, has been
reprimanded for permitting an actor to
imitate the voice of President Roosevelt
during an item styled “The March of
Time.”
* * * *
A DX crystal-set craze is in full swing
in America. Some enthusiast, wearying
of multi-“toob” superhets, decided to see
what crystal sets would do. Instead of
mere locals, stations hundreds of miles
away came in. The result is that cat’s-
whiskers are now nightly scratching
galena surfaces in a competition for
station reception of over 1000 miles’ dis-
tance.
* * * *
“Amateur Wireless” (Eng.) says that
the 8.8. C. seems to enjoy having fun,
its motto emblazoned on the portals of
Broadcasting House being “Nation shall
speak peace unto nation.” A bit out of
joint with the times, apparently, but
whilst there are microphones there is
hope.
Latest in the Trade.
Reported that the makers of Ever-
Ready batteries have acquired control of
the Lissen Radio Co. The name Lissen is
associated with the production of kits
for the home constructor and many inter-
esting components for short-wave re-
ceivers.
The Q. and A. Column.
In reply to cptery 104 (B. 29/8/’34). Edison
primary cells are mentioned as being ideal for
filament supply for a receiver using 2-volt
battery valves. Where can they be obtained ?
—122.
From Charles M. Terry, Ltd., 115 Pitt-
street, Sydney, who will supply details on
application.
The name of a book on the action of the
various parts and. the construction of wireless
receivers, suitable for beginners ? —127.
The “Wireless Constructor’s Encyclopaedia,”
by F. J. Camm, from Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlcreagh-strect, Sydney.
Does The Bulletin accept contributed
articles in the radio section ? —l2O.
Yes; technical, semi-technical or topical.
Technical articles of a constructional nature
should preferably be accompanied by legible
diagrams and clear photographic prints.
7 wish to modulate a push-pull oscillator
intended for 56 me. experiments by using the
valve grid leak method for the sake of economy.
Can you give a circuit diagram showing how
this is done? —124.
In the diagram illustrated the modulator
valve is connected across the push-pull Oscil-
lator grid leak. R is the grid leak, of a value
to suit the oscillator valves, and R 2 is a
variable limiting resistor. This latter can be
a 5000-ohm potentiometer. This resistance
determines the total grid excitation of the
oscillator and limits the current available
through the modulator. It prevents the grid-
leak resistance from becoming too low when
modulating at a high percentage. For the
usual push-pull oscillator using 71’A or similar
valves, a 201’A makes an excellent modulator.
7 wish to learn Morse preliminary to taking
exam, for the amateur operator’s certificate of
proficiency. Please illustrate a circuit of an
audio oscillator suitable for practice work. —
123.
The diagram, which includes the Morse
symbols of the alphabet, shows the best form
of arrangement. A general-purpose valve,
which may be 2,4, or 6 volts, is used with an
audio transformer connected in a simple feed-
back circuit, with headphones in series. This
is more satisfactory than the more simple
buzzer, battery and key arrangement, as the
student becomes accustomed to the signal via
the ’phones. Depending upon the characteris-
A simple method of practising the morse code.
tic of the audio transformer, a high-pitched
note is produced, and the tone may be regu-
lated to some extent by variation of the rheo-
stat.
How should capacities, etc., be arranged to
use power lines as a “mains aerial ” ? —125.
This is easily done, but it must be carefully
done. All that is necessary is a .0001 mfd.
or .00025 mfd. mica fixed condenser connected
in a lead from the aerial terminal of the
receiver to one side of the 240-volt mains. It
will be appreciated that, should the series con-
denser be at all faulty, the method is danger-
ous. To be well on the safe side, two .00025
mfd. mica condensers in series should be
used, and they should be carefully tested for
any possible fault beforehand. Try each side
of the mains in turn for best results. The
scheme has the disadvantage that line noises
will be much in evidence, and a line filter is
useless, as the R.F. is by-passed to earth be-
fore reaching the tuned circuits of the receiver.
What is your opinion of the receiver
(battery-operated) ? Would it give daylight
reception at Eden, N.S.W. ? —126.
Without knowledge of your reception condi-
tions, it is difficult to help. Cannot locate the
technical details of the receiver mentioned.
Where did you hear of it? If the receiver
is a superhet it probably would need two I.F.
stages or pre-R.F. amplification.
7 have the All-Empire short-wave receiver as
designed by “D.8.K.” in 1928, and intend to use
it as the basis for the Wide-World Four (B.
18/7/’34). Would the same variable con-
densers do ? They have three rotor and four
stator plates. Also, would a pentode output
be comparable to the Class-B ? —l2B.
The variable condensers will give approxi-
mately the same coverage of the various short-
wave bands as for the coils specified, and
should be suitable. The pentode output will
be satisfactory, and the Milliard PM22A is
suggested. It will not be so economical as
the Class-B method.
In reply to query No. 90 (B. 22/8/’34), R.
O. Wilson, Payneham, S.A., volunteers the
information that the nearest agent for the
Eddystonc All-World Four receiver is Eddy-
stone Radio Electric Co., 28-30 Orchard-road,
Singapore, Straits Settlements, Singapore price
of the receiver is 295 dollars (equivalent to
about £43, Australian currency).


c
>
fn this friction fabric
machine every Chrysler-
Plymouth upholstering
material is thoroughly
tested .... before
approval.
EXHAUSTIVELY TESTED
BY CHRYSLER
ENGINEERS
The new Chrysler-Plym-
outh Six benefits from
every development of
Chrysler Engineering.
There is a constant search
for better methods and
materials, and the me-
chanical excellence and
advanced engineering of
Plymouth is testimony
to the thoroughness of
Chrysler engineering.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane: Stradbroke Motors Pty., Ltd., Adelaide
and Boundary Streets.
Sydney: York Motors Pty., Ltd., 101-111 William
Street.
Adelaide: Flinders Motor Company, 26 Flinders
Street.
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., X,td., 89-105
Exhibition Street.
Perth: Wentworth Motors, Ltd., 414-416 Murray
Street.
Hobart: Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., 33 Argryle Street.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Dennis Connelly, who has put the
Australian bear on the British screen,
was on The Bulletin staff for a while
after Dave Low went to London. Con-
nelly’s most remarkable journalistic ex-
ploit was performed on the comic maga-
zine which endeavored to float into popu-
larity on the name of the actor Frith.
Under a variety of signatures Connelly
decorated the journal with his drawings,
using a dozen different styles. Unfortu-
nately Frith’s name vanished from the
theatrical headlines shortly after the
journal started, and with it vanished
“Frith’s.”
* H* * *
A fountain to be erected in Regent’s
Park, London, has been chosen for the
Pavlova memorial. The sculptor is Carl
Milles; the design centres in a swan
and a group of rhythmic figures. Eunice
Weston, of Chartres House, Collins-
street, Melbourne, is receiving donations.
* * + *
“Pincher”: For many years the Brit-
ish Post Office has suffered the loss
of pens on the public desks, though no
one who has tried to use the things would
think so ; An unrustable nib introduced
vanished so quickly that a patent device
locking it into the holder was adopted ;
then the entire pen disappeared. In
desperation the P.O. is issuing 10,000
de luxe pens carrying its monogram ; if
the public souvenirs these, no further
attempts at reform will be made.
* * * *
“Wanderer’s”: South Africa is to
follow the example of the Melbourne
centenarians, and hold a wide-open tennis
tourney at Johannesburg in March next,
when the national championships will be
played. Overseas players who will be in
Australia this summer are expected.
Jo’burg, with its altitude of 7000 feet, is
a problem for visitors, as the Australian
Wallabies found out. The rarefied atmo-
sphere takes a great toll of heart and
lungs, and some weeks’ acclimatisation
is necessary.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: I doubt whether early-
or mid-Victorians turned over in their
graves when Brisbane’s Archbishop Wand
pronounced in favor of Sunday sport (B.
12/9/’34). In the East Riding of York-
shire when I was a boy cricket practice
was the usual thing on Sunday after-
noons, few of the parishes in those days
holding evening service. My grandfather,
a country parson of the old school, told
me that on Sunday afternoons in the ’for-
ties and ’fifties cricket and archery were
indulged in ; archery was confined to the
nobility and gentry, but all hands took
part in the cricket. The rule was that
morning service had to be attended first.
A glance at any representative weekly
will show that Sunday sport is the rule
rather than the exception in England
nowadays, though competitive play is
barred. Golfers and tennis players seem
to work double shifts on the Sabbath, and
no one lifts a protesting squeal. The
truth is that Australians are the most
wowser-ridden people in the Empire. It’s
time we woke up to the fact.
* * * *
“Vanua”: Fiji is worried over its new
coinage. Instead of getting a good job
done in Australia, the colony sent to
England for it, and, like M.L., is dis-
satisfied with the result: the metal is
so poor that no ring can be got. The
pious Hindu, who is very far from being
a mug coiner, has hopped in, and brown
Fiji and white Fiji alike are getting head-
aches trying to pick the “dinkum” from
the “smash.” It recalls an old memory of
Natal. A railway contractor, a Scot, hit
upon the bright notion of paying his
Zulu laborers eight two-bob pieces to the
pound. The guileless savage was under
the impression that the unfamiliar coins
were half-crowns, and took a long time
to wake up. Years later, when I last saw
Natal, you had as much chance of get-
ting a Zulu to accept a “Scotchman” in
payment for even a shilling ’shaw ride
as you would in getting the Rev. Ham-
mond to swamp a couple of pots with
you.
* * * *
“Centurion”: lam no mariner, but the
controversy raging in Sydney newspapers
as to how the Admiralty guessed that
Von Spee would make his next landfall
at the Falklands after leaving Valparaiso
leaves me cold. There are a dozen
claimants to the honor of putting the
Admiralty wise, but was there any neces-
sity? It must have been evident to any
junior staff officer that V.S. could go
nowhere else. ✓ The mainland of South
America was closed to him save for a
few hours at a time. The undefended
Falklands with their supplies and coal
were the obvious choice. A sudden
arrival would nullify any attempt to get
the local wireless into action, and, any-
way, there could be no effective fleet to
interfere until the islands had been
stripped and the German fleet lost in the
South Atlantic. That Britain could
dispatch battle-cruisers across that tre-
mendous distance of sea did not occur
to Von S., and that is where he fell in.
As it was, if he had been able to put on
a bit more pace round the Horn he
might have slipped away.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Rosehill people had a beautiful
spring day for their September meeting,
and the racing was attractive. Particu-
larly the Guineas —no trustworthy guide
to the A.J.C. Derby, as a rule. Silver
:King was favorite at 5 to 4 on, and was
: set a severe task. The Marne, a smart
galloper, kept him going at his top for
five furlongs ; then Kelso’s chestnut had
had enough. Silver King beat off Dark
Sky at the turn, and went on to vanquish
Gladswood and Theo: three lengths;
half a neck ; lmin. 53isec. A brilliant
performance, but the El Cacique colt
cannot be improved; Gladswood and
Theo —both finished well —can be.
A.J.C. committeeman R. C. Allen, who
bred Silver King, saw his colt race for
the first time on Saturday. Naturally he
was highly pleased with his victory—
the fourth in succession. Trainer Eiver
Walker is confident that Silver King will
run the Derby distance right out. His
judgment must be respected, but these
brilliant nags rarely prevail in Derbies.
Chatham, pronounced under a cloud
early in the week, was saddled up for
the Hill Stakes, and the bookmakers
demanded 2 to 1. Closing Time made
the running, but half a mile from home
it was obvious that the beautiful son of
Windbag had his measure. Pike cut
GERT’. ‘‘"LET me TW<H A, SN/YP OP YOU
IN YOUR FOOT-E>Ao_V- Rig-out''
Bert ! v Hovg do you wc\mt me ?• VN
OUST A,PPE(kR M4 v TURAL V '
matters a bit fine; also his mount
crowded Closing Time at the Leger, but
the latter was beaten at the time. Nightly
plodded on to get third money, Duke
Caledon finished fast after having been
tailed off at the half mile, but he doesn’t
look a Derby colt. The Victorian Aztec
fills the bill in point of appearance, but
he was hanging badly throughout, and
beat only Silver Scorn home. Somebody
has backed this mare for the Epsom.
Seemingly a waste of money.
Hunter White’s big chestnut Oro (7
to 2) enhanced his prospects for the Met-
ropolitan when he annexed the Spring
Handicap from Braebum (5 to 1) and the
improving lolaus. Keith Cook rode a
fine race on Oro, who showed gameness
and stamina when Braeburn tackled him.
Braeburn went past him in the final fur-
long, but Oro battled out every inch of
the way to beat the Queensland Cup
winner by a head, with lolaus 2 \ lengths
away.
Topical and Limarch both dis-
appointed. However the pace was not
solid in the early stages, and when it
was clapped on they dropped back.
Topical was fourth at the finish;
Limarch, who had to be repeatedly
checked on the rails, was fifth. Journal
made a fast move rounding the turn, but,
going wide, was soon out of the race.
He looks well enough if he is good
enough.
Little Carefree (10 to 1) put up a
meritorious performance in the Camellia
Stakes. She was badly away with Auto-
pay, and at the half-mile was still in
the rear division. Her rider stuck to the
rails, and, moving up fast in the straight,
Valicare’s daughter came through with a
great burst to run down Roman Spear,
when that mare looked all over a winner,
with Blixtcn, on the outside, a good third
and Celebrate fourth. Carefree has 7st.
101 b. in the Epsom, and as she won the
last Cantala Stakes should not be troubled
to run out the mile at Randwick.
Highboy, a stable-mate of Australia
Fair, Cid and Peter Pan, went out at tens
for the first division of the Highweight.
He was piloted cleverly by Keith Cook,
who landed him a winner, a head in
front of Le Legion (5 to 1). Le Legion
ran in under pressure and badly inter-
fered with Tatyoon and Prowler. Bom-
bus, always prominent, was third, and the
favorite, Cercello, fourth. Highboy has
7st. in the Epsom.
A poor lot contested the second divi-
sion. Cabalist (5 to 4) followed up his
Moorefield win by getting up in the last
couple of strides and beating Gothlin by
a neck, with the pacemaker, Dole, in third
place. Cabalist was supported on the
strength of a trial with Fashion Star. He
is a big type of four-year-old by Caledon,
sire of Duke Caledon, and is owned and
trained at Moorefield by R. Mead, who
used to, race the jumper Mount Dangar.
Greensea, carrying 13st. 131 b., made a
grand effort to win the Brush Hurdle, and
failed by a mere neck to catch Newbold
Boy (lOst. 121 b.). He is the greatest
weight-carrier over the sticks that Syd-
ney has seen since the days of Jack Rice.
For the information of outback
readers, who bombard the office with
telegrams at this time of the year, The
Bulletin fancies Gladswood for the
A.J.C. Derby, Whittingham for the
Epsom and Topical for the Metrop., and,
barring accidents, is unlikely to change.
* * * *
Though Aztec prejudiced his Derby
prospects by failure in the weight-for-
age race at Rosehill, his stable-companion
Titanium put up a smashing perform-
ance on the same afternoon at Moonee
Valley in the £IOOO event for three-year-
olds. Arachne had to carry a 91b. pen-
alty. Doubt existed as to whether the
flying filly could see out furlongs, and
she was allowed to go out at 5 to 1.
Titanium figured at 6 to 4, Spearflash at
9to 2.
Arachne and Titanium were drawn
wide out. Arachne dashed away, but
Titanium dwelt noticeably. Daniels got
to work on the favorite with hands and
heels, sweeping round the field until he
was able to drop in on the rails about
two lengths behind the leader. Arachne
bowled along merrily, and at the home
turn it did not appear that she could be
overtaken. Backers of Titanium were
dismayed when he shifted in under pun-
ishment, but Daniels quickly straight-
ened his mount. Then followed a de-
monstration of high courage and un-
doubted stamina. Titanium lessened the
lead of Arachne with every stride. When
caught, the filly faltered, and Titanium
scored, running away, by two lengths.
Titanium possesses exceptional speed,
combined with stamina, and is a gener-
ous galloper. As the result of a heavy
downpour of rain earlier in the after-
noon, the track was soft; yet Titanium
covered the 1\ furlongs in lmin.
Spearflash was third ; he never looked
like getting nearer. Still, the son
of Spearhead ran honestly, and he may
do better on a course where there are
longer galloping stretches. Fred Foul-
sham, who trains Aztec and Titanium,
was operated on recently, and is unable
to take an active interest in stable man-
agement. His brother Ike has charge in
Melbourne, while Aztec was taken to
Sydney by a cousin, W. Foulsham, who
as a jockey won the Doncaster Handi-
cap on Eurobin and the A.J.C. St. Leger
on Kandos in the autumn of 1916.
Aztec belongs to a son of A. T. Cres-
wick, the wool baron. Woodmason, the
dairy-cattle breeder, gave 1000 guineas
for Titanium as a yearling, and already
has more than recouped the purchase
money.
From a spring carnival point of view,
the success of Gothic Gem in the Bud-
geree Handicap was as noteworthy as
that of Titanium. Henry Boan’s neat
little black stallion, who favors his sire,
the late Gothic, in color and build, was
successful in the Doona Trial at Caul-
field on September 1, when Gay Star cap-
tured the more important Heatherlie
Handicap. Each of these horses is four
years old. Gay Star was required to con-
cede Gothic Gem 121 b. at “The Valley,”
yet he went out a pronounced favorite,
with Gothic Gem next in demand. Five
furlongs from home Gothic Gem was
even farther back in the field than Gay
Star; but, whereas the favorite did not
materially improve his position, Gothic
Gem unwound a brilliant run, which
brought him into third place, behind
Irish Chieftain and Yaropin, at the
straight entrance. The manner in which
Gothic Gem then settled down to his
work was a treat to witness. He de-
feated Irish Chieftain by a length and a
half, and was going right away from W.
T. Hazlett’s banner-bearer at the finish.
Gothic Gem has an undoubted chance
in the Caulfield Cup with 7st. 21b. He
shifted about a good deal on Saturday,
but will settle down with racing. Ruach
(33 to 1) came from a long way back to
run third.
McShortodds began and ended the day
profitably. Dragon Prince (33 to 1), hav-
ing his second run over the battens,
romped home in the Boomerang Hurdle,
and Dark Look (25 to 1) annexed the
Corroboree Handicap. For the latter
event odds of 6 to 4 were accepted about
Dermid, who finished third after being
nearly last at the five-furlong post.
Doubtful whether Donohoe will take
him back to Sydney to compete in the
Epsom.
(Continued on page 36.)
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Ma’s amateur boxing and wrest-
ling championships reached the semi-
final stage last week. Eddie Scarf, the
Olympic wrestler, is still in both sec-
tions for the heavyweight title. In the
wrestling he hasn’t had a match yet—
there’s only been one, won by P.
Canning (13st. 61b.), in this division —
receiving two forfeits. Boxing he’s had
two good wins, the latest against A.
Raynor. Scarf (13st. 71b.) will fight Inskip
(list. 111b.) in the final. In the other
semi-final Inskip knocked out Reilly
(12st. 101b.) in the fourth round. In
the bantams Bowden, runner-up for the
Australian mat title last year, also quali-
fied for both finals. Boxing he’ll have
to meet the holder, J. Mace (8st. 51b.), a
clever, hard-punching fighter, who
quickly won his semi-final. Finals to-
morrow night at Rushcutter Stadium.
* * * *
Old hands heard with genuine regret
of the death at 55 in Brisbane of
Arthur Cripps, for 12 years undefeated
middleweight champion of Australia.
Born of a Sydney professional family, he
was well educated, and stepped to the
professional ring after long success as
an amateur. Arthur put a lot of his
winnings into a farm. Sometimes he
would leave the plough when challenged
and return to the hempen square. He
never seemed to box a whit the worse
for his absences.
* * * *
“Another Hackenschmidt! ’’ veterans
murmured when Dan Koloff, a Bul-
garian, made his appearance at Sydney
Stadium opposed to Oki Shikina ; and,
like the remembered “Hack,” he wastes
no time. The Japanese was outclassed.
Koloff slammed and then body-pressed
him for a fall before the second round
was half-over, and as the third began the
Bulgar rushed over with another slam
and press that ended the unequal con-
test. It was such a departure from pre-
cedent that the crowd gasped. The
Dawson-Lurich affair at Leichhardt went
five rounds; then Dawson fell un-
assisted and Lurich flopped on him to
win by two falls to one.
Footbrawl
Despite showers and the fact that the
meeting of Geelong with South Mel-
bourne was virtually a practice match,
some 12,000 enthusiasts visited the Albert
Park ground on Saturday, and when a
cloudburst swamped the ground in the
first quarter many of them, thoroughly
drenched, left for home and dry duds.
After that the game was largely bur-
lesque. South kept going, but the Hub-
bites took things easy. Only in the last
quarter, when the rain had ceased and
players could run without splashing, did
Geelong appear to be in earnest. The
game was no criterion of either team’s
form. At the end South owned 97 points
to Geelong’s 55. Of the others, Rich-
mond kept its place at the top by beating
Hawthorn —82 to 51. Carlton outed St.
Kilda by 114 to 99; Essendon downed
Fitzroy by 95 to 76, and Collingwood
rubbed it into North Melbourne without
mercy by piling up 108 to 20. Mel-
bourne smashed Footscray with 131 to
65. Next Saturday South meets Colling-
wood in the first semi-final, and all
parties are praying for fine weather.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby football season
came to a close in brilliant weather on
Saturday, when both the Union and
League codes put the shutters up.
The R.U. final between Manly and
Randwick was one of the most attractive
games seen in Sydney for many a year,
and was played at a tremendous pace
throughout. Those advocating a return
to the semi-professional rules because
international laws “slow up the
game” are invited to bag their heads
after watching this match.
Manly had hard luck in leading 12-8
up to a minute or two before time and
then going down 12-13 on the bell. At
half-time Manly led 9-5, but a p.g. to
each side raised the scores soon after
the beginning of the second spell. After
that the match was a welter of attack
and counter-attack, Randwick trying
desperately hard to get through. At
last Towers made a fine opening, and
subsequent exchanges let Purcell over.
Purcell added the two points, and Rand-
wick were premiers. Randwick scored
two tries, both converted by Purcell, and
Larnach-Jones added a p.g. Mackney
scored for Manly and Ross kicked three
p.gs. In the last match of his career,
Ross played an inspired game. Towers
was also at his best, but the third Wara-
tah, Malcolm, was slow and patchy,
though a head injury in the second half
obviously affected him. Richards, be-
hind the Randwick scrum, was very-
effective, while Potter, an emergency
full-back, was by no means eclipsed by
Ross.
* * * *
The Rugby League’s closing game at
the Sports Ground saw a strong side
from country centres pitted against a
metropolitan team. Sydney wen 32-29.
(Continued on next page)
FOR HAWKESBURY.
Flying Handicap: Bim Boy ; next,
Diatomous.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Satmoth ;
next, Measure.
Three-year-old: Alftruda ; next,
Constantine.
Highweight: Celebrate ; next, Wee
Warrah.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
N.S.W. TROUT SEASON
OPENS Ist OCTOBER.
Farlow’s English Hewitt semi-invisible
Taper 3-yard Casts, 2X, 3X, 4X, 3/9 each;
Hardy Haughton Casts, 3/9; Red Loop,
3/3; Sinfalta, 2/6; Sinfalta 2-yard Taper
Casts, 1/6.
Largest Variety of Quality Trout Tackle
in Australia.
Write for my New Fishing Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
14S ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
mgmm
mi
cw
Jtt^ c
I MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
«<ajmz~io>2:
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
p-rzouip*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A.,
LTD., Melbourne*
Brisbane
The Richardson Chain Hotel
II
m
m
I?
i*
2 5
H *
*« 13
9 1.3 a
41 'i j
BW
Hi
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
HOUSER SUPPORT*
m
m
pull iwnyrttioNS
fou attaching
sjyvo buttons
SUPPLIED .
ito
D'OES A WAV WITH
BRACES.
GIVES ADDED FREE-
DOM OF MOVEMENT,
RELIEVES
BODY STRAIN
IN CRB AM IN CREY
1/6
I/-
n> i k e
brothers ltd
[inQUEEN ST BRISBANE
Under the Whip
“Thormanby”: Doncaster St. Leger,
run on the famous Town Moor last
week, was won by Windsor Lad, who
broke the heart of punters at Epsom
by taking the Derby from the heavily-
backed favorite, Colombo. Windsor
Lad failed rather badly in a couple of
races at Ascot later ; at Doncaster, how-
ever, the Blandford colt, backed down
to 4 to 9, won easily by two lengths. Hav-
ing tipped the winners of the Two Thou-
sand and the Derby, this writer had
beatific visions of spotting the three
great English classic winners right off
the reel in one season. It was not to be.
A Moslem friend switched him off at
the last moment to the Aga Khan’s
Umidwar. The animal started, but seems
to have been lost at the other side of
the Moor.
* * j|: *
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt has
hopes of landing the Metrop. or the Caul-
field Cup with his bay horse Waikare,
son of Limond and Waterwings. On
Wednesday Waikare won the Rosebery
(Sydney) Cup after a good finish with
Confab, who is hard to beat when he hits
the front; that Watt’s horse was able to
run him down and cut to 2min. Bsec. the
track record for 10 furlongs—held by
Confab —says much for Waikare’s
stamina. Regal Son, again a Metrop.
fancy, was backed as if there were no
settling-day ; he tired and just missed a
place. He will be all the better for the
run.
* * * *
Lough Neagh is now right in the boom
for the Epsom as a result of the Queens-
lander’s win in the Canterbury Stakes,
a weight-for-age event, run over six fur-
longs, at Canterbury Park. Golden
Wings was favorite, but Darby Munro
was too smart for Roy Reed, who should
have made more use of his mount’s bril-
liancy in the early stages. Whittingham
was third, and he came home so well that
The Bulletin still thinks he will win the
Epsom. He was all at sea on the small
Canterbury track, and lost ground at
the turns.
* * * *
Queensland pastoralist H. J. Winten
breeds a horse or two. One of his string,
Brown Paddy, by Magpie, is highly
rated. The owner makes no secret of
the fact that Brown Paddy is a useful
galloper; if he fails in the Epsom he
may tackle the Metrop. A good two-
year-old (winning the Q.T.C. Champagne
Stakes and the Sires’ Produce Stakes), he
was second in the St. Leger, and later
beat Lough Neagh in the Flying Handi-
cap of seven furlongs in lmin.
Asa four-year-old Brown Paddy took
the Winter Handicap of nine furlongs
and Exhibition Handicap of ten furlongs.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C., like its younger sister
the V.R.C., has ended up its financial
year with an increased profit as com-
pared with 1932-33, the brass in the sock
on August 31 being £7612. The season
before it was £6455. The club threw in
£68,034 to run the show. Of this £55,740
went in stakes and £8705 in general ex-
penses. Additional expenses were
£ 13,000-odd in maintenance and another
£4316 on course improvements. As usual
the club has made heavy contributions
to charitable causes. The Duke of
Gloucester will add the lustre of his pres-
ence to the Caulfield Cup, the added
money for which has been jumped to
£6500.
Woodfull’s Men
The game against Leveson-Gower’s
Eleven was a weak reflection of those
Test matches in which weather conditions
did not weigh the scales. Our bats-
men showed the same capacity to
hit the bowling, slow or fast, and the
English fielding was again deplorable.
Australia reached 489, McCabe increas-
ing his’score to 124. Bar a 53 from
Chipperfield, the rest failed badly, thanks
to the bowling of the Essex amateur
Fames, who on Monday morning fin-
ished up with 5 for 132.
England’s reply was 223. Nichoils, the
hard-hitting Essex fast bowler, walloped
Fleetwood-Smith to the tune of 75, but
no one else did much of note. F.-Smith
took 4 for 111. England’s second try
was as bad as the first. Leyland, Hen-
dren and Sutcliffe all made a few runs.
The total was 218, and F.-Smith’s figures
this time were 6 for 90. This is pretty
good going considering that his victims
numbered Sutcliffe, Hendren and several
other crackerjacks. The tour seems to
have made a bowler of this lad, as
opposed to a server-up of tripe.
* * * *
With all the first-class matches over,
nothing remains but to con over per-
formances, as far as the averages reveal
them. Six Australian batsmen have
topped the 1000-run mark. Bradman
(2020) leads in averages with 84.6
for 24 completed innings and a high-
est score of 304. McCabe’s 2078 is
the best aggregate, but he has finished
30 innings and the average is 69.26.
Ponsford* who has had his best season
in England, totalled 1784 and averaged
77.66. Skipper Bill Woodfull piled up
"How’d y’ like the googly bowler, Jacky?”
“No good! Seven times I hit nothings, and then he hit stumps.”
1268, Darling 1022 and Brown 1308.
O’Reilly and Grimmett were expected to
top the 100 wickets, and did, with 109
each—av. 17.04 and 19.80 respectively.
Had the pair been let loose among the
rabbits, instead of being reserved for the
big stuff, their records would have been
dazzling. As it was, rabbit-killing was
left to Fleetwood-Smith, who, after a
shaky start, took 106 wickets at a cost
of 19.20 each. Towards the end of the
season the Victorian seems to have de-
veloped into a really formidable bowler.
Ebeling, with 62 for 20.53 each, earned
his oats, while gallant Tim Wall also did
well for a fast trundler with 42 for
30.69.
Looking back on the tour, McCabe
was undoubtedly its star. He was won-
derfully consistent, and at his best in a
tight corner. Bradman was patchy for
a month or two, though when he found
himself he proceeded to give the English
bowlers a headache. Summing up, and
with all deference to our boys, it is
apparent that our win was due to a
goodish all-round team studded with half
a dozen plums like Bradman, Grimmett
and co. against a lot of names. Of the
lot we have seen here, Ames, Leyland,
Verity and Hendren were the most con-
sistent. With the exception of Walters,
no others showed signs of cricket genius
in the Tests. It will be a new lot of
Englishmen we shall see here in 1936.
For that matter, there should be a new
lot of Australians also.
* * * *
One wonders who will make up Eng-
land’s next team for Australia in 1936.
Among the star batsmen of other days who
definitely showed they are slipping badly
are Sutcliffe and Hammond —old Hen-
dren proved better than either. Allen
has made a dashed poor showing,
and Ames can only hope for a place
through his wicket-keeping. For solid
consistency, Leyland is the pick of the
lot of them, and he will be no younger
two years hence. Of the young entry,
Walters is about the only batsman the
selectors have bothered to consider.
How a sterling batsman and field like
Gregory, of Surrey, a prolific scorer in
county games against the Australians,
was not considered is a mystery. He was
picked as twelfth for the last Test, but
when the vacancy came the venerable
Woolley was shoved in front of him. Of
the bowlers, only Verity, was effective,
and that only when the wickets suited him.
England cut its own throat when it
dropped Fames after he had taken 10
for 179 in the first Test. Outside the
Essex amateur, no new English bowler
of any note came to light—a dismal out-
look for England. Larwood, Voce and
Jardine will not be invited. Of the other
old hands, not one looks worth the.
steamer fare.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The wiseacres are say-
ing that Grimmett will retire from big
cricket after the close of the English
season. I am inclined to doubt it, for
slow bowlers, like wicket-keepers and
old soldiers, do not die. But if the man
who had to carry his talent from M.L.
through N.S.W. and Victoria before he
could find a market for it in South Aus-
tralia does go out it will be in a blaze
of glory. In his Test-match career he
has taken 106 wickets. Only four others
have topped the three figures—Turner,•
Trumble, Noble and Giffen. Trumble,
with 141 wickets, and Noble, with 115,
lead Grimmett. All played in many more
matches than the googly man.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: The Victorian F.L. is
again complaining about the scarcity of
first-class umpires, 35 men having been,
tried for the big games in five seasons.
The trouble occurs in every football code,
as it does in cricket. The League con-
tributes to its own woes by its studied
failure to support its officials. The
V.F.L. referee cannot send a murderous
ruffian off the field—can only report j
him to a committee. A week after the,
ref. gives his evidence, and is
and cross-examined by officials of
offender’s club in a manner which sug-
gest that he is the basher and not the.
accused. The ref. is a professional, and|
his weekly fee means something to him.,
League delegates are mostly aldermen
and similar potentates, who can easily fix
it that he is crossed off the list. Smail
wonder that good umpires are hard to
get.
* * * *
“Huon”: The Victorian F.L. has re-
pented of its sins and is standing in white-',
sheeted repentance. In other words, it
has confirmed the ruling—forced on it
by the other A.R. States, by the way—
that no player from another State may
figure in Victorian football until he has
been 12 moons in the Cabbage Garden.
The old residential rule called for only
13 weeks, so this one looks bright and
shiny. The other States are preparing to
throw up their hats in glee, but I dunno.
There is a clause saying that a player
transferred by his employer from one
State to another may get special permis-
sion to play earlier. That leaves an open-
ing for chicanery as wide as a garage
door.
* * * *
The N.S.W.R.U., which ran the last
All-Black tour, announces receipts at
£4005, and when fares, pubs, advertising,
outfitting and other oddments had been
deducted there was £l7OO left. Of this,
Victoria, which contributed greatly to the
success of the show, gets a measly 255
quid, Ma pouching £1445. Queensland
had a couple of matches in Brisbane,
and is supposed to look after itself.
* * * *
“Old ’Un”: Touching that comment
on football honor caps (B. 15/8/’34);
the old idea was revived at a Rugby
Union meeting the other day, but was
thrown out amid universal enthusiasm.
One individual put it rather happily
when he said that the honor cap was one
with the antimacassar and the bunch of
wax flowers under glass—he forgot the
china dogs on the mantelpiece. Still,
the weird things had their uses. There
was very little press publicity for sport
forty years ago, and “annuals” recording
the names of inter-State and interna-
tional players had not been born. If
one remarked that one had played for
a State —there were no “Australian XVs”
then—the reply was the late-Victorian
equivalent of “Oh yeah?” followed by
an urgent demand to show your opener
—the h.c.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: G. M. Cooke, the big
Toowoomba (Q.) forward who was with
the Wallabies in South Africa and later
returned to take up a Jo’burg billet, was
not long in clicking with his adopted
countrymen. A cable says he was
picked for the Transvaal against Natal.
The last-named must have improved out
of sight since the Wallabies ran over it,
the game ending 11-11 —and the Trans-
vaal is the most formidable of the Union
provincial teams, barring only the Cape
Western Province, perhaps.
* * * #
“Richmond”: Melb. Rugby Union,
which was not pleased at being left
out of the All-Blacks’ itinerary, is bucked
over an assurance that a Maori team will
be in Melbourne for certain in 1935.


HOME
(Ha, Sue 3
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
To enhance still further the comfort and popularity of the P & O Branch
Service Steamers, extensive improvements are being made to the "Bara-
dine," "Balranald," "Bendigo" and "Barrabool."
All cabins on "A" deck and a number on "B" deck are being re-arranged
and refurnished with modern wardrobes or chest of drawers, and new type
wash basins. In addition the forward Lounge and the Smoking Room are
being enlarged and refurnished. These improvements combined with
moderate fares, excellent menus and faultless service offer passengers the
ultimate in overseas travel comfort.
Inspection is invited. Agents will make arrangements.
S. S. BALLARAT
(eaves Sydney Oct. 20
S.S. BARRABOOL
leaves Sydney Nov. 10
Fares from
£3B
Subject to Exchange
S.S. BENDIGO
leaves Sydney Nov. 24
S.S. BAIRANALD
leaves Sydney Dec. 19
w
Principal Agents:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 Bent Street, Sydney
Tel.: B 6701
p*o
Joint Passenger Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
nion House, George St., Sydney
Tel.: B 7511
BRANCH SERVICE
The side may visit the other States, but
the visit is definitely to Melbourne first.
LI. H. Stirling, one of the heads of the
M.L. railway system and the All-Black
Rugby Union, fixed matters up during
a recent visit.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Other football codes than
the Australian (B. 12/9/’34) occasionally
indulge in a come-all-ye. Brisbane saw
a bonny exhibition in a B-grade Rugby
Union match, when all hands, including
the spectators, had an open go for 10
minutes. Most of the boys used feet
and fists, but one genius took off his
football boots and, tying them together
with the laces, waded in “with telling
effect,” as Brisbane “Courier-Mail” put
it. The end of it all was that the chief
actor has been consigned to the outer
for life. Notice of the disqualification
is going out to every R.U. body in Aus-
tralia, and the Q.R.U. talks of even more
drastic action. Fourteen were injured.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Bertha Biffit”: The final of the Aus-
tralian women's golf championship at
Rose Bay provided a staggering surprise.
The field was so thick with champions
that they were shouldering each other off
the fairways. Maoriland Misses Kay
and Gaisford looked like making a
welter of it. Out of the blue, as the
racing writers say, came Mrs. Clive Rob-
inson, winner of many club events, but
hitherto an also-ran in the big stuff. The
lady broke into the qualifiers with a
terrifying round and then bolted from
everybody. She beat Miss Gaisford, 4
and 3, after downing Miss Kay in the
semi-finals. One thing I noted about
the lady. She doesn’t take the game too
dashed seriously; writer never knew a
really good player who did.
* * * *
The Australian women’s golf cham-
pionship wound up last week in Sydney
with the mixed foursomes. Jim Ferrier
and Oliver Kay, of M.L., covered the
36 holes of stroke in 159—77, 82 —seven
strokes ahead of A. S. Deane and Miss
Wray. There was a gusty wind in the
morning, but otherwise conditions were
ideal.
$ $ * *
“Sandringham”: Good to hear that
Ivo Whitton, three times open and twice
amateur champion of Australia, not to
count State titles, is in the game again:
A badly-sprained wrist kept him out
for some months, but he won the
Victorian foursomes title with Mick
Ryan in a style that suggests he is back
to the old mark. Ivo is playing in the
Australian open in Sydney, and, of
course, will be up to his neck in the
tourneys with the visiting Americans and
Britons. His experience and steadiness
should be invaluable.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: As is always the case
where women are concerned, there has
been the devil’s own tangle in inducing
associates to represent Australia in the
matches for the Tasman Cup. -However,
a side was got together and left last
week. The final team, after many resig-
nations and adjustments, is: Rene Aus-
tin, the secretary of the A.L.G.U., who
will manage; Mrs. Clive Robinson
(N.S.W.), who will skipper; Misses C.
Lascelles, Mona MacLeod and Leslie
Bailey, all of Vic. ; and Joan Hammond,
of N.S.W. The absence of the Victorian
Tolhursts, both out with ’flu, is to be
regretted, but the team is a good one,
the showing of the Australians against
the two M.L. cracks, Oliver Kay and
Betty Gaisford, being particularly en-
couraging.
* * % *
“Sen;ex”: Golf, once the guarded
flame of the elderly and sedate, has of
late years been infested with youthful
champions, some of them in their teens.
Moved by pity for the Old Men or
something, the Victoria club in Mel-
bourne is staging a special contest for
dodderers of 55 years and over. It is
open to members of all affiliated golf
clubs throughout the world. The event
will be played on November 5 and 10
after two qualifying rounds of stroke.
The best net scorers play off in 18 holes
of match. Worth noting, by the way,
that Michael Scott, amateur champion
of Britain last year and still one of the
world’s best amateur players, will arrive
soon after this show—he is 57!
Racquet and Bawl
“Forest Hills”: Perry hung on to his
American championship title, won last
year, by beating Allison 6-4, 6-3, 3-6,
1-6, 8-6, evidence that it was not
a walk-over for the Englishman. Like
Crawford, Perry has had to forego
his ambition of winning the four
world’s major championships in a
row. Crawford, with three on his
list, flopped in the fourth in America.
Perry’s hopes were wrecked when a
second-rater like Stefani cut him out in
the semi-finals of the French champion-
ship earlier in the season. However,
Perry should have no trouble in starting
all over again by winning the Australian
title.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Norman Brookes,
keenest of' advocates of an Austra-
lian Davis Cup team every year,
has changed his mind. He urged
the Australian L.T.A. the other day
to send Australia’s best team to
Japan in 1935, “even if it meant the
avoidance of a challenge for the Davis
Cup.” Norman pointed out that Austra-
lia’s failure, season after season, to return
the Japanese visit of some years ago is
a gross breach of good manners, and is
so regarded in Nippon, though the people
there have been too polite to actually
say so.
* * * *
“Prunes and Prism”: Having read, no
doubt, that Queen Mary had made no
objection to women or other tennis
players performing in shorts before her
(B. 12/9/’34), the highly moral but in-
tensely loyal N.S.W.L.T.A. has with-
drawn its ban on the garments. Another
reason that probably induced the climb-
down is the fact that most of the over-
seas players of both sexes who will be
here shortly wear the breeks.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: In spite of
other heavy engagements, Victoria is to
send a mixed team to Sydney for matches
beginning November 22. N.S.W. will
toddle off to Melbourne for a return
game a fortnight later, and in between
teams will probably visit Queensland for
the championships there. Most of the
people who play tennis in Australia, men
and women, are supposed to work to
earn their living. Here is a prospect of
nothing but amateur tennis for dozens
of people for three or four months to
come. How do they get time to earn
bed and board, to say nothing of drink?
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum had
tough luck in his current match with Joe
Davis in Sydney when he missed making
a new world’s billiards record under the
baulk-line rules —by 18 points. The
standing figures were 1927, put up by
Clark McConachy in Brisbane. Lindrum
reached 1909, when it was found that
two of the balls were touching after a
close cannon and had to be spotted.
Lindrum tried a losing hazard off the
white on the middle spot, but failed.
* * * *
Leon Moore, member of a cricket
family once almost as noted in N.S.W.
as the Gregorys, died at West Maitland
last week at 64. Much of his big cricket
was played before the Sheffield Shield
series started, though he figured in the
State Eleven several times after that,
notably in match against South Aus-
tralia and Queensland, while he toured
M.L. with a side led by Noble. He was
a stylish and effective batsman, and got
many wickets as a slow bowler.
* * * *
A fine sportsman went west in South
Australia last week when A. G. Rymill
collapsed from heart failure. A member
of one of S.A.’s oldest .families, “A.G.”
was one of the State’s biggest business-
men. Sportsmen will remember him
best as the owner of the motor speed-
boats Tortoise I and 11, with which he
won the Australian speedboat cham-
pionship practically for 18 years on end.
“Bumpkin”: An American airman
has dropped out of the centenary air
race because he has figured that if he
doesn’t win the effort he’ll lose money.
Others are expected to yield to the same
mercenary consideration. The prizes are
disproportionate to the possible expenses.
There will be £350,000 worth of ’plane
in the air. Over £20,000 worth of petrol
will be burned, and ’planes will have to
be transported to the starting point.
Wireless services, insurance and warship
patrol will swallow another £250,000.
The event will run away with something
nearer a million than a half, and the
prize-money is a bare £15,000!
* * * *
“Lavinia”: The news that the London
R.C., bound for Melbourne’s centenary,
got off the boat at Colombo and was in-
dulged with a practice spin on Beira
Lake by the C.R.C. reminds me that
we are in for a welter of rowing. It was
hoped to get the Londoners to Sydney for
the- Sydney club regatta, but Melbourne
crabbed that by putting forward the date
of its inter-State championship to
November 10, the day of the Sydney
event. The visitors will row in the Vic.
affair and then go home. However, the
All-Black eight and scullers will be seen
at the Sydney show, and have already
sworn to the fact on a stack of Bibles.
The eight will meet the pick of the Ma
State club eights over two miles. R. B.
Smith, of Waitemata, and P. Abbott, of
Petone, are the scullers. They’ll scull
in the Henley Challenge and the Sydney
2000 metres. In each race they will
meet the Australian champion, Herbert
Turner.


DRY HASH GOLD MINE
(Etheridge Gold Field)
Tenders are invited for the
purchase of the above
mine, including all plant
and machinery, together
with 3000-odd tons tailings,
situated six miles from
Forsayth, North Queens-
land.
The mine is in full work-
ing order. Lease 24 acres.
Full details from the under-
signed. The highest or
any other tender not neces-
sarily accepted. Last date
for tenders, I 9th November,
1934.
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LTD.
395 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Executors Estate late John Candlish.
Patents.
SPARK ARRESTERS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
4236/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale of
its rights in the above, or for the granting of
a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia. Par-
ticulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
METHOD OF SEPARATING SOLIDS
FROM LIQUIDS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
29375/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale of
their rights in the above, or for the granting of
a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia. Par-
ticulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
ELECTROLIERS
OF THE
HOUR...
IJiSiii
*
m
vv
\\y//
6
ygj
m
w
j_|ERE are new designs, many of which are exclusive and obtainable
only in our showrooms, Sydney and Melbourne. They are a
combination of beautiful metalware and glass, and are featured in antique
bronze, old gold and lovely Butler Silver. Satin glassware in tints of
amber, pale blue, pink or Nile green gives subdued but efficient illumina-
tion. Wall brackets to suit are stocked in the same style.
See also our Indirect Bowls, Parchment Shades, Silk Shades ,
Reading Lamps, Electric Cookers, Toasters, Jugs, etc.
Call in and inspect without obligation.
fo/mlltmfaakiM
324-330 PITT STREET - - - - - SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
shadow dance—are original in concep-
tion, something that hasn’t happened in
musical comedy since Kerker finished
“The Belle of New York.” Taken all
round, it’s a capital show—better than
any imported sample of the genus shown
in Sydney for years.
* * *
Marjorie Hesse, a young pianist and
composer of Sydney, chose for her re-
cital at the Con. small hall the Bach
Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue, Ravel’s
suite “Le Tombeau de Couperin,” a
Franck fugue and smaller pieces by Pit-
field, Con. Director Bainton, Frank Hut-
chens and herself. Her playing is intelli-
gent and graceful, qualities well brought
out in her interpretation of the Ravel
group. Her own composition, inspired
by Rupert Brooke’s “Song,” is an excel-
lent translation into musical idiom.
f ; V
Principal offering at Sydney Con.’s
chamber music recital was Ravel’s
Quartet, played by Gerald Walenn and
Lloyd Davies (violins), William Krasnik
(viola) and Gladstone Bell (’cello). This
is very early Ravel—the quartet is 32
years old—and is in places very remini-
scent of Grieg. It was given somewhat
reticently. Chausson’s pianoforte quartet,
with Winifred Burston at the keyboard,
was tastefully performed, but Beethoven’s
A Major ’cello sonata (Gladstone Bell,
with Dr. Bainton at the piano) fell grate-
fully on ears strained with the finicky
graces of the Frenchmen. Jla Turnbull,
a recent addition to the Con. staff, sang
a group of French songs, including
Ravel’s “La Flute Enchantee,” and
wound up with Brahms and Richard
Strauss. She has vivacity and is a most
accomplished singer.
*{•
Alice Delysia appeared once more in
her one and only role at Melbourne
Princess on Saturday. The nationality
is French, the cultural subdivision is
Paris, the language is a charming mixture
of broken English and inconceivably
rapid Gallic. The age is 37, when the
hormones are still in good repair, but
middle-age is looming round the corner.
The character is tolerant, benign, smil-
ingly indulgent of other people’s failings
and very gratifying to people not so
happily circumstanced. It can still get
a kick out of life without unduly strain-
ing its muscles. The intellect is not
highly developed, but the deficiency is
made up by a vivacity, a grace and a
coquettishness which is of the art that
conceals art.
The history is of a cocotte, born
to poverty and misery in Marseilles,
who rises by sheer vitality out of the
gutter—not far, as she remarks, but at
least as far as the British aristocracy.
Has she been unfaithful? —yes, many
times. She can still fall in love but not
head over ears into it; she can maintain
a sense of proportion and knows on
which side her bread is to be buttered,
and as it is good bread it deserves the
best dairy butter. For six years she has
been the mistress of an English K.C.
who has paid periodical clandestine visits
to Paris. She now wants marriage and
security, and she pursues him into his
domestic haunts with the somewhat
dubious promise of a lifetime of devo-
tion, plus sufficient risk of losing her to
keep the pot of interest boiling. This
character is brought into sharp contrast
with a collection of English types who
have all had the same experiences but
have had consciences about it. The differ-
ence between their attitude towards life
and hers provides the comedy and a
criticism of conventional values which is
never solemn though it is based on arti-
ficial situations. These include her recep-
tion of each member of the family in
turn in her bedroom at midnight, where
they make confession of their sins with
a readiness not warranted by the circum-
stances.
Needless to say, Miss Delysia threw
into this part every ounce of her art
and energy, and a packed house received
the boon with every symptom of pro-
found gratitude. Campbell Copelin gave
a suave and finished performance of Sir
John Chadwick, K.C., Kiera Tuson,
Harold Meade, Nancy Forde, Joyce
Turner and Robert Coote were adequate
members of the British upper crust, and
George Blunt, the most reliable butler
in stage service, scored a success by inter-
rupting the action at a critical moment
by clearing away the tea things. “Her
Past,” which is by Frederick Jackson,
should have a considerable future at the
Princess.
* * *
“Tantivy Towers,” architects A. P.
Herbert and Thomas Dunhill, was erected
on the King’s stage, Melbourne, on
Saturday night by the Melba Conser-
vatorium Opera Society. With a baton
in his hand and no doubt with anguish
in his soul, Fritz Hart conducted the
music. The construction proved to be
of early-Victorian design, complicated
by Gilbert and Sullivan influences plus
London “Punch” humor. The proposi-
tion Mr. Herbert asks us to consider is
that the habit of hunting the fox inflicts
great suffering on that animal, which is
indubitable, but it is equally obvious
that if it ceased to be hunted it would
be exterminated with trap and shotgun,
since it is a nuisance to farmers. More-
over, the English people are much more
entitled to consideration since at the
moment they are hunted or haunted by
the fear that huntsmen from the sky may
at short notice sound tallyho in a foreign
language and start smoking them from
their burrows with gas bombs. Mr.
Herbert presents his theme with the usual
conventional choruses, which the ladies
and gents of the conservatorium made as
jovial as possible ; the labored and old-
fashioned story concerned the daughter
of a peer who is torn between admiration
for a muscular fiance who clears fences
and an unmuscular hero who clears his
throat and denounces hunting in melodi-
ous numbers.
The first act takes us into an artist’s
studio. It contains no easels, and sug-
gests that artists spend their time prancing
about in fancy dress and singing tinny
ditties. In short, Mr. Herbert, although
comparatively a young man, reveals him-
self as a dreadful old fogey. As the
protest of Art against Sport, Vincent Mc-
Murray displayed an excellent tenor;
Beatrice Oakley was an engaging love-
lorn damsel; Richard Burke showed
histrionic talent as a beefy-minded
Briton ; Charles Evans was a comic earl
and Jean Hambleton deployed a satis-
factory contralto.
* # *
The Spivakovsky-Kurtz session at
Melb. Town Hall closed last week with
a matinee and an evening performance.
Highlight of the first was Tossy’s pyro-
technical display in connection with
Bach’s unaccompanied Sonata in C
Major for violin, said to be the first
performance in Australia; the rest of
his items were chickenfeed. At the
final concert Kurtz’s ’cello was at the
service of a sonata by Tessarini, the date
of whose death is unknown, but who
was born in 1690. Jascha played delici-
ously with Beethoven’s Lebewohl Sonata,
and there was beautiful teamwork by
the three in Tschaikowsky’s A Minor
Trio, Op. 50. The tendency towards
showmanship in these performers’ solo
playing is absent when they have con-
certed business in hand.
■fi * *
Galsworthy’s “First and Last,” so-called
one-acter (four short scenes, really),
played by Adelaide Repertory, suffers
from the usual dramatist’s error of assum-
ing manslaughter in a scuffle to be a
hanging matter. Two of the Rep.’s best,
Downey and Matthews, played the K.C.
and his wastrel brother, and Edna Heysen
did her best work to date as a foreign
girl. Nicely contrasted was Sylvaine’s
“Bite of the Apple,” a witty farce-comedy
on Parisian lines; the last ounce was
got out of it by the stolid friend (Cyril
Sparrow), who is incited to make love to
a willing lady (Mimi Mattin) by her
scapegrace husband (Arthur Fay,
formerly of Melbourne).
The Palette,
Percy Leason’s abos. have been mak-
ing high corroboree at Melbourne
Athenaeum, and in larger numbers than
in his earlier exhibition. The present
muster numbers 28, and there are still 18
to immortalise before the tale of full-
bloods or probable full-bloods in the
State has been exhausted. All Leason’s
models are stripped to the waist and have
been painted against the same back-
ground—a grey-blue blanket. This will
enable anthropologists like Wood-Jones,
who thinks the collection should go into
the State archives, to study their pecu-
liarities without the distraction of a
varied environment. They are not so
much a sad-looking assemblage as a
neutral-looking one. They look out on
the world —a world that has passed
them by—with calm passivity as if
the ways of the white man weren’t
worth bothering about, but even that
is doubtless fancy. They are all
radio fans, cinema addicts and con-
sistent barrackers for Bradman. When
Leason was painting one lady she be-
came restless, so he asked her what he
could do to entertain her. “Tune into the
football,” she replied promptly. “But
there is no football on week-days,” re-
marked Leason. “Oh, yes, there is,” she
countered. Leason looked at the day’s
broadcasting programme, and, sure
enough, there was a match on —between
Wesley and Xavier. “Not interested,”
said his sitter. “I’m a ‘Scotch’ bar-
racker.”
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Pronounced Sane
I periodically send cuttings of The
Bulletin’s film critiques to one of the
producers’ editors in London. You may
be interested to hear that he thinks your
film notices “remarkably sane compared
with those of London journalists.”—
Muriel Farr (Bracknell, Eng.).
The Bullring
Am constrained to write regarding a
reference in the Red Page to “emotional
veronicas” and the “easy acquirement of
the jargon of the bullring” in a review of
a novel. It appears to me to be a fault
of translation, possibly in Hemingway’s
book. Emocionante in Castilian con-
veys the sense which “thrilling” does in
English, and you can take it from me that
many a veronica performed by the
artistas con cartel is thrilling to the /zth.
The whole subject of the bullfight is an
absorption of mind to a vast proportion
of the Spanish people, and Hemingway’s
is the first adequate attempt 1 have seen
to convey the extent of that absorption
to English readers. There is a basis for all
this worship of the licle tauromaquica,
as anyone with a discerning eye and
some experience will confirm. Good
luck to you and to Australia! — Carib
Marques, Mozambique).
“An Enjoyable Holiday Trip"
With sorrow I read in the “West Aus-
tralian” that a State Labor Minister, his
wife and daughter and the two daughters
of another State Labor Minister had
done the round trip to Singapore
in a Chinese-manned, privately-owned
steamer. “An enjoyable holiday trip,”'
the “West” called it. On this route
there are two State-owned boats,
the Koolinda and the Kangaroo, manned
by white trade-union labor, catering for
tourists. Newspaper cutting enclosed ;
I hoped to send more, embodying the
opinions of the unions concerned, but
they have preserved a dead silence on the
subject.— Payne’s Find (W.A.).
Direct Negotiation
It is the quickest, simplest and
cheapest form of arbitration. In trades
where employers tender, it allows them
to quote more freely for work, and they
ring the union office more often for
men. They can have more jobs going
on, more plant occupied and the rela-
tions of employers and employees knit
closer instead of widening.
Direct negotiation brings trade-union-
ism back to its real function —bargain-
ing for and marketing its labor. Queens-
land Painters’ Union goes in for it, and
has not found it necessary to approach
the costly, long-winded Court for years.
No strikes or lockouts have occurred
during that time, and painters get £5 a
week and more for 44 hours. —L. A. S.
(Queensland).


AMAZING NEW TREATMENT—ROOTS OUT CATARRH
THOUSANDS REPORT AMAZING
RESULTS IN CATARRH, MUCOUS
DISCHARGES, STUFFINESS,
HEADACHES, SPITTING, HEAD
NOISES, BAD BREATH,
WEAKNESS, LOSS OF VITALITY,
DEAFNESS, ETC
Catarrh sufferers in Europe have been
thrilled by the new treatment developed
by a Swiss Research Scientist. Most
wonderful results have been obtained by
this new Catarrh therapy, which is the
result of over 25 years’ intensive research.
Its importance to millions of Catarrh
sufferers can hardly be over-estimated.
UNLIKE ANY OTHER TREATMENT
—HELPS THE WORST CASES
This treatment works wonders because
it is a NATURAE METHOD. The
Scientist discovered that Catarrh is a
blood disease and that its BASIC CAUSE
arises from abnormal conditions present
in the body of the sufferer, and NOT
from climatic conditions. He asserts that
inhalations, douches, sprays, injections,
etc., which treat the symptoms only,
cannot clear away Catarrh. His new
method is totally different—different in
conception, different in principle—and
different in results. It acts to overcome
the BASIC CAUSE of Catarrh. It goes
directly to the blood stream, purifying it
of all catarrhal and other poisons. Pure
blood means vigour, vitality, healthy
tissues and freedom from the grip of
Catarrh.
NO HABIT-FORMING DRUGS—
NO SPRAYS OR DOUCHES
This marvellous new home hygiene does
away with sprays, douches, expensive
injections, serums and vaccines. It is
easy to follow. You can use it in the
comfort and privacy of your own home—
or even room, without losing: an hour
from your work or a shilling: from your
income. No matter how deep-seated or
how long-standing: your ease, you owe
it to yourself to learn all about this
astounding new home method, which has
helped some of the worst cases known to
medical science.
NEW HOPE FOR SUFFERERS
Even children and elderly people in the
most weakened condition find this natural
system wonderfully soothing and healing.
Results are noticed in a few days—clearer
head, clearer skin, new vigour and
vitality, freedom from headaches, dizzi-
ness, continuous hawking and spitting.
As the treatment progresses, so the head
noises become less and the hearing be-
comes more acute. Exhaustion and
despondency give place to a nefv feeling
of power and vitality. This amazing new
method is now offered to sufferers under
liberal contract —feelbetterinTdaysor
money refunded.
SCIENTIST’S BOOK SENT FREE
—NO OBLIGATION
Write your name on tlie coui>on below.
Enclose with 2d. in stamps,, and mail.
You will receive valuable facts about
Catarrh and complete information regard-
ing: this new home treatment which has
brought new strength, new vigour and
new health to thousands. Don’t lose a
single day in getting these amazing facts.
Charlton Sinclair, Limited, 12 O’Connell
Street, Newtown, N.S.W.
CHARLTON SINCLAIR, LIMITED,
(Desk 8A),
12 O’Connell St., Newtown, N.S.W.
I enclose 2 penny stamps. Send me,
without obligation, the valuable illus-
trated book on Catarrh which contains
full details of how I can clear away my
Catarrhal trouble.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
Ca 2.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Adventures in Finance
. Henry Landon Smith and Douglas S.
Wylie about 11 years ago got the idea
of reafforesting certain blocks of land
in Maoriland that could be bought
cheaply. Companies were formed, and
the enterprise started, backed more by
ambition than by share capital. The
issue of “bonds” was commenced. The
prospectus of N.Z. Perpetual Forests’
first bond issue showed “capital” at
£35,000; how much was actually paid
up in cash was not mentioned. The pros-
pectus said that “already 54,000 acres of
land have been acquired,” and that
people should come into the scheme be-
cause “for every £25 you invest you
should receive £5OO or more.”
N.Z.P.F., from very shaky beginnings,
developed into “the world’s largest com-
mercial forestry company,” with bond
subscriptions totalling £3,800,000. The
concern now has big and strong reserves.
Over 152,788 acres of pine-trees have
been planted ; what these plantations will
eventually be worth is a matter for
speculation.
The progress of the co., as far as its
expanding business goes, reads like a
romance. The prospectus of Smith,
Wylie (Aust.), Ltd., issued in 1927, said
that its subsidiary co. (Smith, Wylie and
Co.), selling-broker to N.Z.P.F., had
started off three years earlier (in 1923)
with a capital of £3OOO. In 1927 its
share register totalled £49,975, and,
though £30,000 of that represented
“goodwill,” profits had risen from £1152
in 1924 to £17,591 and £26,502 in the two
succeeding years. The bonds and shares
placed by this broking concern rose from
£200,825 in the first year to £1,004,360
in the third! The profits of the
Smith, Wylie Co. and N.Z.P.F. were
mainly the fruits of the idea of
Smith and Wylie, which went over
with the public in a big way. The
S., W. Co. eventually became inter-
ested in the Purr Pull petrol enterprise.
These amazing results, due in a mea-
sure to the “bond” form of finance, soon
brought forth a host of imitators. Some
of these imitators had little or no cash
of their own ; some were just salesmen.
Where N.Z.P.F.’s .resources —in its later
years, at any rate —were carefully
supervised and strengthened, concerns
that took advantage of the boom have
followed the path of dissipation that
leads to smash.
Australia and M.L. are periodically
astounded at the audacity with which
some go-getter puts over a scheme.
One stunt that didn’t go over was
“Mr. Mond’s” Britannia Bank and affili-
ated cos. The “bank” was regis-
tered in Sydney with a nominal capital
of £100,000,000! That was towards the
end of 1931. “Assets” were stated in a
balance sheet to be over £20,000,000 —
“investments, securities, etc.,” which
turned out to be worthless paper in inter-
locking companies. This concern, ac-
cording to “Mr. Mond” —he let it be dis-
creetly hinted that he was connected with
the English Monds —was to take over the
old Australian Bank of Commerce and
the P.P. Bank. His manner and approach
were impressive enough to delay the clos-
ing of the P.P.’s doors for a week or so.
“Mond” was arrested and charged with
conspiracy; acquitted, he left the
country.
An adventure in finance that proved
disastrous to the public was that of V. A.
C. Partridge and his Australian Federal
Insurance Co. The small but flourish-
ing People’s Prudential Assurance was
virtually bought with its own money, and
within a few years was brought to ruin.
It was one of the worst shocks ever ex-
perienced in Australian insurance history.
This buying control of insurance cos.
without policy-holders’ consent is a great
danger. There is a similar danger, though
not so great, with bond concerns; the
sound management of to-day may be re-
placed by spendthrift control to-morrow,
with bondholders or policy-holders im-
potent to interfere, except through the
limited powers of their trustees. Hence
the crying need for adequate company
legislation.
“Controlled by J. W. McArthur”
At the Trust Inquiry in Sydney last
week C. G. Alcorn admitted that travel-
lers of the Investment Executive Trust
“Can you chop wood then?”
“No, Mrs. Cowflats; but give us a feed an’ I’ll show yer how ter stop yer gas-
meter from workin’.”
or the Transport Mutual Insurance Co.
—the latter described by Judge Halse
Rogers as “a dummy”—had been supplied
with cash and sent over Maoriland with
instructions to buy shares in the Trus-
tees, Executors Agency Co. “as cheaply
as possible, but to buy them.” The shares
on Maoriland Stock Exchanges were at
£3 ss. ; those obtained by the I.E.T.
cost an average of £3 12s. 6d. An in-
terest representing about 45 p.c. of the
shares had been acquired, which he
thought gave them control of the co.
Alcorn further admitted that in the
ultimate analysis .it came back to this
trustee co. in Maoriland being controlled
by J. W. McArthur.
Witness said that the T.E.A. con-
trolled £3,500,000. Mr. Monahan, K.C.,
assisting the Commissioner, asked
whether some of these trust funds were
to be invested in British National Trust
debentures. His Honor would not per-
mit the question, remarking that it was
more in the nature of an inference than
a question.
W. C. B. Hewitt admitted that a
balance sheet submitted to the Commis-
sion was hopelessly wrong.
Business Earnings
A run through the reviews of com-
panies in The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat”
column during the past month or so dis-
closes some very refreshing figures. Elder
Smith, the big wool-broking firm with
headquarters in Adelaide, showed profits
equal to 6.2 p.c. on capital in its last year,
as against 4.4 p.c. in the preceding term.
Brook House, Ltd., a little co. which
earns its living from letting a building
in O’Connell-street, Sydney, showed S
p.c., as against 6.6 p.c.
The Commercial of Sydney, like all
the banks, disclosed a lower profit. Banks
are the exception to the general recovery.
Pitt, Son and Badgery revealed 11.8 p.c.,
as against 7.7 p.c. ; Howards, a Brisbane
co. dealing in cars, refrigerators and wire- J
less, exhibited 12.9 p.c., as against 8.6
p.c.; even Mort’s Dock, despite addi-
tional competition from Cockatoo, was
able to report 1.5 p.c., as against 1.1 p.c.
—a thin return, certainly, but the best
since 1929.
Peters-Arctic, a Brisbane ice-cream
vendor, showed 4.5 p.c., as against 3.8 ;
Equity Trustees, Melbourne, put 16.6 p.c.
in the window, as against 13 p.c. ; the
C.B.A; dropped from 6.4 p.c. on ord.
capital to 6.2. Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell, a
S.A. fertiliser co. dependent on the wheat
industry, showed 4 p.c., compared with
4.1 p.c.
Standard Portland Cement, helped
partly by its N.S.W. Government con-
tract, exhibited the best profit since its
formation nearly 10 years ago—ll. 3 p.c.,
as against 8.5. Bennett and Fisher, wool-
brokers (Adelaide), had its best year since
1930. The Trustees, Exec, and Agency
(Melbourne) put 8.1 p.c. on view, as
against 6.1 p.c. ; the improvement in
trustee earnings indicates that property
and security values are beginning to per-
mit the realisation of estates.
Berlei, Ltd., the corset-manufacturers,
showed 11.3 p.c. on ord. capital, profits
being the largest to date. N.Z. Insur-
ance had its best year since 1930. Mel-
bourne Steam’s earnings continue to
be satisfactory, though the co. lacks a
modern passenger vessel. .Mercantile
Mutual Insurance and Silverton Tram-
way, which hauls concentrates from
Broken Hill to Cockburn (S.A.), both
report improvement. Australian Secu-
rities, a motor-finance concern., disclosed
6.9 p.c. on its capital, nearly double the
profit of the previous term. Cash Orders
(Amalgamated) showed 14 p.c.; there
has been a great revival in this type of
business, due largely to re-employment.
Broken Hill Prop., Australia’s great
steel-making enterprise, earned 14.3 p.c.,
as against 10.5 and 3.4 p.c. in the two
preceding years. This is a pretty fair
reflection of the recovery in construction
and mining industries. Australian Knit-
ting Mills’ profit was double that of the
preceding year, indicating improvements
in the textile trade.
These figures all go to suggest what
confidence can do. The improvement in
wool prices towards the middle of last
season demonstrated that depression
can’t last for ever. They are down again
now, but the benefit of last year’s re-
covery will take some time to wear off.
N. S. Wales Government has turned
down an offer of £5,000,000 for the
trams and ’buses. Premier Stevens says
the tramways represent a capital invest-
ment of over £8,000,000 ; the undertak-
ing “is now in a very healthy financial
position— not only paying its way,
but making provision for renewals
and depreciation.” Unless wear and tear
are provided for, the service can hardly
be described “as paying its way.” That
is why the railway accounts are so mis-
leading.
* * * *
An Australian wool clip for the cur-
rent season of 3,146,000 bales is expected,
about 185,000 bales higher than for the
year to June 30 last. Roughly 83 p.c.
will be merino.
* * ❖ *
Bradford spinners have declined to
supply Germany with further yarn until
existing debts are paid. Lancashire cot-
ton-yarn exporters have been offered
£500,000 worth of German goods in satis-
faction of their debts. Lancashire isn’t
having any.
* Jje *
The Morro Castle disaster, following
the burning of l’Atlantique, has empha-
sised the necessity for fire-protection in
modern liners. Builders of the giant
Cunarder No. 534 are paying particular
attention to this item ; the ship has been
divided into 100 fire zones, each of which
can be isolated by controls from the
bridge. Woodwork is to be coated with
fireproof paint.
* * * *
The tobacco-growing industry is to be
granted £20,000 a year for five years by
Commonwealth Government, mainly for
research and organisation purposes.
C.S.I.R. gets £5OOO, N.S.W., Vic. and
Queensland get £3750 a year each, while
£1250 goes to S.A., Westralia and the
Speck.
* * * *
“Solomonoo”: A quota on foreign
cotton goods has lately been instituted
here in the Solomons. Japan’s quota
has been filled; the larger importers
have been stocking up to compete with
individual Chinese merchants, who im-
port their own country’s products—
as cheap and attractive as Japanese.
The few remaining white traders find it
more profitable to buy from the China-
men, even though Chinese compete with
them in selling to natives. Stocking Brit-
ish goods is a patriotic form of suicide.
Why we should stop at restricting cotton
goods only beats me, since practically all
British lines are being replaced by Chinese
and Japanese, which are not affected by
the trifling p.c. preferential tariff.
Even Chinese biscuits are now being
bought by whites because they are
cheaper.


e
s
ix famous words that
pertinently apply to modern
business. Interpreted ... 'to
be' implies 'to thrive, prosper,
surmount obstacles, actively
enjoy the fullness of success'
contrasting with 'not to be' . . .
'fail ure to grasp opportunities,
visualise possibilities or reap the reward of progress'.
T*' '
o
m
To-day, the business of
effic lent production and profitable disposal needs the
help of a complete plan of advertising to aid and
maintain demand. No phase of commerce has
broadened and progressed like advertising. The
standards of but a few years back have given way to
modern complete schemes that inspire new force, new
impetus, new recognition amongst all who contact a
product,' as well as the eventual consumer. Advertising
as interpreted by O'Brien
Publicity Company, covers the
whole circle of sales. Pack,
product, presentation,
purchase and profit are its
normal divisions...a sequence
that simplifies selling and stimulates success.
se
o
u
The self-same laws of
economics apply to this method of advertising as to the
budgeting of selling expense. A stipulated amount must
produce a given volume. The problem of how it may be
achieved comes as the result of advertising experience.
This selling co-operation is
extended to every commercial project or service that
is worthy of the market for which it is intended.
sdf
O'Brien House,
Young Street,
Sydney.
BW 150! (3 lines)
e
Collins Street
Gent. 5944 (2 lines)


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: A half-forgotten anniversary
passed on September 11. That day 20
years ago eight officers and 180 Austra-
lian naval reservists landed from the Ber-
rima on the low and lovely waterfront
near Kokopo in New Britain and began
to march up the scrub track to the Kaba-
kaul German wireless station. Native
police posted in the trees fired upon them,
and there were several casualties, the first
to be killed in that first Australian action
of the Great War being W. G. V. Wil-
liams, born at Richmond (Vic.). The
little cemetery hidden in a cleft of the
hills which enfold the Botanical Gardens
at Rabaul holds the remains of those
who died. The last time I was there the
place was very still and peaceful, with
no sound except the rustle of tiny lizards
on dry leaves. Near by, somebody had
erected a rough wooden cross to a Ger-
man non-commissioned officer, with the
words “lin Frieden” (In peace) roughly
chalked upon it. The graves were moss-
grown and neglected-looking then. I
wonder if anybody has thought of put-
ting them in order in the last 10 years.
* * * *
“Vic”: It will be a proud day for
Qantas when the mail run is extended
to Singapore. When the show was
founded in 1920 a lot of people scoffed,
but A. J. Mac Master, with dour Scots
persistence, went on selling shares wher-
ever he could meet anybody to button-
hole. By 1922 there was enough money
to start the Charleville-Cloncurry service
—570 miles of route. Three years later
the run was extended to Camooweal. In
1928 Brisbane was linked to Charleville.
The original machines used were primi-
tive post-war vintage—E. G. Theodore,
by the way, had used one of them to
pioneer the use of the air for electioneer-
ing in 1919. They carried a couple of
well-strapped-in passengers in an open
cockpit at an air speed of 70 miles an
hour. Their longest daily run was about
300 miles. With the advent of the new
D.H. 86 machines 10 passengers will be
carried in easy chairs in an all-enclosed,
artificially-cooled or -heated ’bus more
comfortable than most motor-cars. And
the longest daily run will be 1323 miles.
* * * *
“East Point”: The retirement of
Driver Robert Murray after a generation
in Darwin (20 years of it in the railways)
reminds me how times have changed since
he arrived. Then the steamer saloon
fare from Adelaide was £B, against £3O
to-day. Three shipping lines used to
drop into our harbor—sometimes a ship
left us as many as four passengers and
picked up a couple of tons of cargo at
10s. a ton. Men were men in those
days, and they had fitting handles to
their monikers. The porter’s name to
all who spoke of him was Honest-be-God
Marchant. The Fizzer was still in his
prime on the overland to the Barkly, and
the Resident used to trot round in his
buggy and have an internal ablution with
those of his friends who had enough
cash to buy one. The Territory was run
by policemen—good old coves with real
moustaches and cast-iron insides. And
with hopes that the Pine Creek line would
soon be extended to Adelaide we were
all confident that we were on the eve
of a tremendous wave of development.
We still are.
* * * *
“Vic”: The demand by a Dutch liner
captain for better charts and lights on
the Australia-East India run will be
received with cheers by dozens of pilots
and commanders. Many of the charts
in use date from the ’forties, and,
although they are remarkably accurate,
fresh shoals are picked up every year
or so. It is not so long since one was
discovered a few yards off the main
course for ships leaving Townsville by
Magnetic Channel. Lights on the north-
east Australian and New Guinea coasts
are as scarce as beer in Boggo-road. One
of these days a really thorough wreck
will emphasise the need for a few more
of them.
* * * *
“Under Below”: The new Australian
diving suit in which Diver Locke went
down 45 fathoms and remained below
for an hour off Sydney may revolution-
ise deep pearling in the North and give
a nasty knock to the “skin” men. Al-
ready a company, of which Captain
Jimmy Arthur, formerly Mayor of
Thursday Island, is chairman, is forming,
following a tour by Messrs. W. H. Car-
penter, the shipping man, and M. G.
Aitkin, formerly manager of an Aru
Island fleet. The co. will have a capital
of £50,000, and will operate from Dar-
win. With the improved methods thou-
sands of square miles of virgin shell
ground will be available for prospecting.
What with extensive preparations for the
new mail service and this move, the N.T.
capital is enjoying something almost like
a feeling of hope for the future.
* * * *
“X.T.”: We Queenslanders are ready
to try anything once. While the South
struggles along with the same old land
industries we add a new one every season
or so and extend a few others. Tobacco
hasn’t done us much good, but peanuts
are proving a boon. This season’s pro-
duction will be about 3000 tons, and the
business is expanding northwards from
its original habitat in the Burnett at a
great rate. There are now 150 growers
in Central Queensland. Our cotton crop,
too, is a record—26,ooo,ooolb. to date for
the season, which is 44 p.c. above the
previous record. We’re not afraid of
Alabama and Indian black labor.
* * * *
“Isnik Geul”: Has “Singali” (B.
5/9/’34) considered the drum as a bush
wireless? Along the low country of the
Niger it is in regular use, and messages
are passed hundreds of miles down the
river by means of it. I suspect that the
same system operates among the villages
of Asia Minor. Often on a quiet night
I have listened to the distant throb of
a dozen instruments taken up from vil-
lage to village. The human voice, too, is
not beyond the range of consideration.
There is a tradition in Greece of a lost
“Mary she bin say, ‘You take young Jacky longa you: den dem Brisbane girls
know you married.’”
art which enabled the mountain people
to speak over long distances by uttering
their words kneeling—interesting, since
at least some Australian tribes use this
position for the long-distance coo-ee. In-
cidentally, I wonder who knows the
origin of “coo-ee.” It might come from
“Kouara,” the cry of the dingo, having
in mind the western Queensland tongues,
though it seems to have been in use
before any white had seen a Kalkadoon.
Or did somebody in the Rum Corps bring
it from India, where the immemorial hail
is “Kooee-hai,” a word which tacked
itself on to the class of irascible mofussil
nabob of the eighteenth century, which
was for ever using it with arrogance and
asperity? The blacks themselves do not
use “coo-ee” when calling. Their cry
among most of the tribes I know is
“lu-lu-lu!” The Roman soldier’s ulula-
tion, in fact!
* * * *
“Hallo”; Phil Forrest and John Col-
lins, directors of Alexandria N.T. Pas-
toral Co. (it is about the size of Belgium),
recently adopted modern methods of in-
specting a station. John Collins piloted
his machine, with Forrest as passenger,
over the 4000 miles’ inspection. Leaving
Brisbane on August 21, the pair arrived
at Alexandria at 2 p.m. the following day.
A week was spent there inspecting the
whole property by aeroplane, motor-car
and horseback. The station possesses
50,000 head of cattle. Continuing their
flight to Marion Downs, they made the
first landing there, and flew non-stop via
Longreach to Charleville, where they
stayed the night. Next morning they
arrived in Brisbane for lunch. There
was considerably less fuss than there was
about the three weeks’ record motor run
of Chief Justice Blair from Longreach
to Brisbane in his Panhard via Charle-
ville in June, 1928.
*** ■ *
“Molasses”: North Queensland must
rejoice to know that Australia is
proxime accessit in the international
sugar-eating contest. Only Denmark
beats us. She uses 119.21 b. per capita
against our 1111 b. Then come Hawaii
and the U.S.A., about a spoonful a week
behind. China uses the least sugar in the
world—only 3.31 b. per head —and Soviet
Russia is next lowest —12.81 b. I recom-
mend the consumption table to econom-
ists. It is about as good and sensitive
an index to general conditions as 1 have
yet seen, though there are countries
which are exceptions to the general rule.
Italy, for instance, where they prefer a
hunk of garlic to a chocolate.
* * * *
“Beachcomber”: I’ll take “Tripod’s”
word for it (B. 22/8/’34) that the
current doesn’t exist which brings
glass balls from the shark net lost at
Coogee to the Whitsunday Islands. Three
or four years back we islanders of the
Barrier were excited by glass balls being
thrown on our beaches. At least 20 of
these have been found. None of us
knew what they were, and it was only
after many wild guesses that a fellow
came to light with the suggestion that
they were shark-net balls. I have one
on my table now. I admit I only go
on hearsay that it is a shark-net ball.
“Tripod” might know better. It is
almost globular, sin. in diameter, green-
ish in color, slightly faded, and on one end
it has a stamp with a rough impression
of what might be a fleur-de-lis or the
ace of clubs standing on a platform.
Further, I’ll take my oath these things
came here and were not brought. Now
it’s “Tripod’s” turn.
* * * *
“Mundic”: Interest in gold round the
storied fields of Central and North
Queensland is reviving. From back of
Raglan (C.Q.) 2400 z. was brought in for
a few weeks’ work, and Congden’s claim
at Lolworth, near Charters Towers, has
yielded £2OOO in seven weeks. The
Towers, too, is excited at the chance of
revival. The issue of an exemption cer-
tificate covering most of the famous
workings in the centre of the town, com-
bined with the recent presence of a repre-
sentative of the British-financed Gold
Mines of Australia, Ltd., who is said to
have formally applied for the rights, is
regarded as significant of great changes.
Most of the mines, which were closed
in 1918, will take a lot of dewatering,
but nobody disputes that there is still a
lot of gold in them which modern pro-
cesses can recover.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Among the newest engagements are those of
Joan Cobb, daughter of the F. Cobbs, of
Frensham, Winton, to Arthur Hordern, of
Kalkadoon (N.Q.), son of Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Hordern, of Melbourne. Miss Cobb, grand-
daughter of Mrs. A. P. Lloyd, has inherited
the famous Lloyd sparkling eyes. Early
November will see the wedding.
Edna Sapsford, only daughter of the H. A.
L. Sapsfords, also sports a ring, the donation
of lan Keir, youngest son of the late Mr. and
Mrs. .1. Keir.
Cecily Watson and John Dyson have an-
nounced their engagement. Cecily is the third
daughter of Mrs. G. W. Watson, of Tanda-
wanna North. John owns Kiama, near St.
George. His parents, the F. C. Dysons, live
in London. October will sec the wedding in
Goondiwindi.
, Weddings are numerous; each day secs one
or more parties in honor of brides-elect. Doris
Green and her mother have been buying the
finishing touches for Doris’s lovely trousseau
for her wedding with Francis Elworlhy at St.
John’s.
Orah and Dorothy Roubin gave a pink tea
for Vera McCleary, whose wedding day rapidly
draws near. Numerous hostesses arranged
parties for Fay Riithning, who marries Geoff
Alder this month. Among them was a recent
bride, Mrs. Lionel Johnson—late Phyllis Atlee-
Hunt, a cousin of Fay.
Mrs. T. H. Goddard, secretary of the Hobart
branch of the Victoria League, is staying with
Prof, and Mrs. E. J. Goddard at New Farm.
The prof, talks over the air each Sunday night
on world affairs, and, thanks to him, many
women who never see anything but the social
page of a newspaper are taking an intelligent
interest in international problems.
Pretty Meg Dermer, once of Brisbane, who
was here last Christmas, was married in Mel-
boure to Alfred G. M. Earl, late of Devon-
shire (Eng.). Meg is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. G. Dermer, of Toorak. No wreaths
and veils for Meg. She was married in a
frock of brown matte crepe with beige fox furs
and a small hat of pony-skin with an ostrich
mount. Noreen Massey was bridesmaid, and B.
James best man. St. John’s, Toorak, echoed
to the “Voice.”
Mrs. Scott Mullin and her daughter Del,
who have been visiting Scotland, will cast an
eye over U.S.A. before returning to Brisbane
in November.
Brisbane almost was deserted
while the Camp Draft at Esk
was on. Most visitors motored
up, but the trains carried quite
a few. Mrs. A. H. Whitting-
ham was among them, as were
Capt. Pat Honnor, aide-de-
camp, and Mr. Rossiter, from
New Guinea, who has proved
a boon at many a party. And
some of our prettiest girls, in-
cluding Nell Hayrnen, Orme
Bell and Nancy Renwick,
packed up their prettiest frocks
for the affair.
Lorraine Henderson, the
young violinist to whom Bris-
bane has more than a shadow
of a claim, is on her way
home now, and should be in
Melbourne when this sees
print. Lorraine studied at Syd-
ney Conservatorium and under
Gerald Walenn. In Germany,
she had Carl Flesch as master.
In Sydney she will broadcast,
teach and give concerts. Her
mother formerly was the organ-
ist at one of the Queen-street
picture theatres.
To tourists who do not like
serpents and sampans, we can
offer mountains. The chosen
week-end sport of young
people is climbing Tibrogan-
gon, not by the safe and ac-
cepted route, but by any per-
pendicular way they can find.
While they were engaging in
this pastime a few days ago a
boulder weighing about 2cwt.
whizzed past them, but fortu-
nately was turned aside by a
tree. Not content to let well
alone, one of the party, George
Fraser, then blew the bagpipes,
derisively, from the summit.
Over 100 small boys did the
honors at the 15 th annual
father-and-son dinner arranged
by the Y.M.C.A. W. A. Jolly,
ex-Lord Mayor, presided. Both
the dads and their offspring
seemed to enjoy it.
The Housewives’ Association is to be
reorganised on more constructive lines
Most women are so busy cooking three meals
a day for their men and children that
they have no time to belong to associa-
tions; but if the reorganised body can think
out some perfectly good scheme by which
farmers can market their produce direct to the
consumer most women will be glad to sup-
port it.
Returned soldiers are busy with their
arrangements for Poppy Week. The first meet-
ing already has been held, and the R.5.5.1.L.A.,
the Limbless Soldiers’ Assoc., the British Ex-
Service Legion and the Incapacitated and
Wounded Soldiers’ Assoc, will all get their cut
of the money raised. A meeting of the women’s
auxiliaries will be held later in the month, and
Lady Mayoress Jones will preside.
The Glasgow lady is spending a holiday in
South Australia, and at present is with Mr.
and Mrs. H. P. McLachlan at Glenelg. Later
on she will go to Pokataroo to stay with her
daughter, Mrs. Byron McLachlan.
It is 26 years since Violet Gibbins, principal
of the Osborne Ladies College, Blackheath
(N.S.W.), last visited Queensland. She has
brought with her a party of five pupils who
had never seen her native State. Violet G.
was a Brisbane girl, daughter of one of our
former well-known civil engineers. She was in
charge of the Cambridge Ladies’ College at
Southport, and after she went down south
was on the staff of the Methodist College a:
Burwood (N.S.W.) and other famous southern
schools. Next year she hopes to rewJta to
Queensland and bring a larger number of
pupils with her.


YOUR HAIR IS ALWAYS
UNDER CRITICAL NOTICE
IN social or commercial life your
hair, if neglected, will tell the tale
of advancing years, yet how glorious
your hair can be by using DR.
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN, which restores the natural
colour and lustre, and gives that
youthful freshness so much admired.
Apply ALLEN’S STAIN yourself
—the treatment is simple, rapid and
unfailing. The directions tell you
what to do. No expensive equip-
ment is required, and there can be
nc moments of doubt —you obtain
the happiest results every time.
In brown or black shades.
4/- per bottle at all Chemists.
ZfrcUl&ris CMEXICAN)
WcUtud SiauAt
EVERY COUCH
IS A CALL FOR
asdf
asdf
COUCH CURE
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from tbe
roar of trams, etc. Running liot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject
interest to women.
PRICE
On Sale Every Friday.
of
3d.
• Golfers! Improve your game by
wearing “Niblick” Golf Shoes. The speci-
ally designed non-clogging, non-skid soles
make it almost impossible for your feet to
slip. The soles are guaranteed not to crack;
they are water-resisting in both construction
and materials. Full and half-sizes for Men
and Women on comfortable, roomy lasts.
Carubo
Golf Shoe
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
One of the outward and visible signs
oi polling day in the city was vast activity
in the taxi trade—towards evening it
was almost impossible to charter one.
Feminine humanity was divided into two
sections —those who hadn’t voted and
whose brows were furrowed with care
at the prospect of apportioning 13 shades
ot preference, and those who had got
through the ordeal and were full of joy
at having survived it. One girl admitted
frankly that, faced by that long, menacing
list of Senate candidates, she numbered
them in sequence from top to bottom.
The Girl in the Opposite Flat spared a
divergence from her U.A.P. ticket for a
Douglas Creditite. “He once proposed to
me,” she explained.
Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, the Nationalist
candidate for Fremantle, has personality
and brains and cut an imposing figure on
the platform. She still has a chance.
Not so Mrs. Bessie Frewin, who might
have been endorsed for one of the indus-
trial seats, where the women had benefited
from her activities in their behalf. (She
was greatly responsible for getting relief
work for women during the bad days
just passed.) But she had to contest
Warringah, stoutest of Nationalist strong-
holds. Mrs. Cochrane’s name is linked
with child welfare and family endow-
ment, and Mrs. Lillie Beirne, one of our
ablest women speakers, has not wavered
in her loyalty since, as a very young girl,
she enlisted under Mrs. Pankhurst’s
banner and fought for the suffrage. Both
were Douglas Credit candidates.
Drian, of Paris, has arrived, just in
time to dress the women of Sydney for
the royal visit and the spring meeting.
From his exhibition of models the young
come away intoxicated with his color
combinations ; the older women (o.s. or
e. 0.5.) with a gleam of hope in their eyes,
for he says they can wear all that slim
sister wears provided the cut is right.
“Organdie is only for those who can
afford to wear the dress one day,” says
Drian. His idea is to design frocks and
suits that will be smart right through the
season. Sleeves give character to the
gown, so he makes them demure or
frivolous, long or short as the individual
dress demands. All the materials have
the Lyons mark. The colors might have
been inspired by pictures by the Old
Masters. There’s a blue like a jaca-
randa-tree in bloom, seen in the dusk of
a summer evening. An ice-blue crepe
and satin wedding dress (50 yards to the
making) wore its collar high, and had
a spreading peacock train. The ’maids’
dresses, one in two shades of daphne,
the other in lavender and mauve, had
sashes that tied in the front and long
floor-length ends. A little black taffeta
costume with ruched front was crowned
with a black stitched taffeta hat. Under
a soft powder-blue costume was a nigger
taffeta blouse. There were plus-fours
for golf, or, if you preferred it, a pinky
skirt whose fullness only disclosed itself
when a stride was indulged in. A gor-
geous magnolia satin with folded wing
sleeves, pleated and ruched, was worn,
but not hidden, under a ground-length
wrap of gold lame. This had a slim
panel of Tudor red down the centre back.
The fronts, thrown back and buttoned
on the shoulders, revealed the same rich
red. The whole column of molten gold
and flame ended in glowing billows about
the wearer’s feet. If the whim took you,
you could change around and wear it
red side out, showing the gold as a lining.
Hundreds are daily going to the Men's
Hobbies Exhibition in the Trust Build-
ing. Boys from six to 60, a dream in
their eyes, walk up aisles of yachts, of
pirate-ships flaunting skull and cross-
bones. They feel the romance of
Drake’s Golden Hind, of the King’s
galleons, of the ships with bellying sails,
whose cargo might easily have been
.... of ivory
And apes • and peacocks,
Sandalwood, cedarwood and sweet white wine.
There v are working locomotives and
cranes ; rugs, petit point handbags and
wall tapestries; dolls’ houses and fine
furniture. The Young Citizens’ corner
is worth more than a glance. There
should be a market for those wooden
toys now Christmas is so near. There’s
an Old English village with a Tudor
inn, manor house, Norman church and
Roman bridge, complete with red-coated
hunters riding to hounds. A garage and
a motor-car, both built of burnt matches,
the blackened ends used with good
decorative effect, carvings and paintings
and a Doges’ Palace that took six years
to build are a few of the things that are
making the show a joy to many.'
When Mrs. Morgan O’Neill left school,
and for 14 years afterwards, she acted
as social secretary for St. Martha’s In-
dustrial Home at Leichhardt. Now
daughter Mary, pictured here by George
Johnston, has taken on the work, and is
up to her eyes with the Spring Ball. This
is always held at the Home, and for
this night the trees in the garden wear
jewels in their hair, the lawns sprout
brightly-colored marquees and huge
striped umbrellas to accommodate the
dancers at supper-time (usually about
800 to 1000). This year spring blooms
will climb up the walls of the recreation-
room, and when high enough form a
canopy to cover the whole of the danc-
ing area, and a full moon is expected to
throw a mantle of silver over the scene,
for October 17 is the date of the shivoo,
of which Mrs. G. McGirr is the
president.
When this old grey stone structure was
built is not quite known. But it was
bought in 1888 by Cardinal Moran from
a Mr. Wetherill, a draper in Pitt-street,
and handed over to the nuns for the
Home. Its wide, shallow cedar stairway
is the envy of all visitors. Its long
windows, reaching from floor to ceiling,
have solid wooden shutters, which are
fastened with bars. There are still thrills
to be got from looking over the convicts’
cells and soldiers’ quarters, which are
led down to by stone steps. Sister Regis
will tell you all this, for she was one of
the little batch of nuns that founded the
Home.
By this time members of the Tasman
Cup golf team have sampled Enzed hos-
pitality and have probably tramped over
a few hundred miles of Auckland’s links.
Victoria is well represented in this, the
first women’s team to leave Aus-
tralia, as Mona McLeod, Lesley Bailey
and Cecily Lascelles all come from the
southern State. Joan Hammond is also
one of the competitors. Mrs. Clive
Robinson is the captain (her mother,
Mrs. Colin Venn, and her sister, Jessie
McMaster, were among the hundreds
who went down to see the Niagara off),
and Rene Austen is looking after the
business end. The tussle for the cup will
come off at Auckland on September 26,
and the team is looking forward to bring-
ing it back.
After Saturday night there shouldn’t
be any doubt in E. J. Tait’s mind as to
whether Aussies
like home-made
plays. So, with the
Firm and Mr.
Thring satisfied on
this score, play-
wrights should
come into their
own, unless, of
course, Jimmy
Bancks is commis-
sioned to write all
the family’s pro-
ductions. E.J.’s
smile was the smile
of a man who knew
that the blank
cheque mentioned
by his son-in-law
later was a very
good investment.
Mrs. Tait shared a
box with her hus-
band, daughter
Jessie (wife of the
author), Jimmy
himself and the
Wrigleys. Kings-
ford Smith and his
wife sat opposite
and smiled at Leo
Franklyn’s sally
about the flying
man. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax came in
b r o wn-and-white-
patterned georgette
loaded with flowers
which later glad-
dened the heart
of one of the
players. Mrs. Fat Levy’s grey chiffons
wore a hip-length black velvet cape
bordered with deep-grey fox. Lady
Poynter’s coronet was of diamente ; Mrs.
F. J. Davy’s coat and dress were of amethy-
stine hue. Mrs. Spencer Brunton’s black
georgettes and laces won admiring
glances. Things to remember are the
“Shadows” and “Blue Mountain Melody”
ballets, the unassuming speeches of
Jimmy Bancks and composer Charles
Zwar, and the refusal to step forward
of producer Frederick J. Blackman.
After the tying into place by the
Governor-General of the Birthday
Honors on Saturday, his Ex. received the
guests, and there was an informal tea-
drinking on the sun-washed wide ver-
andah. Here there was a general buzz
of congratulation in an atmosphere of
clanking swords, glinting spurs, gold
braid and medals against a background
of a sapphire harbor sparkling and
dimpling in the sunlight, of the coolness
of mauve wistaria and of green lawns.
The sword flashed only once out of its
scabbard. That was when it descended
on the shoulder of Claude Reading, who
now holds the Letters Patent of the Order
of St. Michael and St. George. 0.8.E.’s
were handed out to Nancy Consett
Stephen and Mabelle Grant Cooper, and
M.B.E.’s to Nellie Constance Morrice
and Mrs. J. Waugh.
It was all over by noon ; then most
cars were turned homewards. A few
slipped into the Gardens to walk for a
while amid the beauty of azaleas,
flowering plum, white wistaria, and the
tall spikes of delphinium whose bloom
rivalled the blueness of the waters beyond
and the sky above.
The benign countenance of Mary Gil-
more looked down from the walls of the
Lyceum Club on the round head and
cherubic visage of a smiling little German
on Thursday afternoon. The German
was Professor Gustaf Hiibener, of Bonn
University, and he was being entertained
at a cocktail party by Mrs. Muscio and
Mrs. William Moore. He speaks excel-
lent English, and he had something agree-
able to say in that language to each of
the hundred-odd guests who filed past
him during the afternoon. Dorothea
Mackellar, Dave Souter and his daughter,
the Mackanesses, Marjorie Quinn, Ruth
Bedford and scores of others prominent
in the Sydney world of art and literature
were there.
Professor Hiibener will be one of the
guests of the Fellowship of Australian
Writers at a social evening at the Lyceum
Club to-night.
The Hon. Michael Scott, last year’s
British amateur champion golfer, and
captain of the team which will shortly
visit the Commonwealth, lived here for
many years, and his first wife was a
Sydney girl—Celia Bruton, who married
Bruce Bairnsfather, the artist, shortly
after the war. Mr. Scott, who is now 57,
is an uncle of the present Earl of Eldon
and a descendant of the Eldon who was
Lord Qiief Justice at the end of the
eighteenth century.
The American Association of Uni.
Women is offering two Fellowships, each
of 1500 dollars, to enable the holder to
carry on a year’s research in some coun-
try other than her own during the
academic year 1935-36. The one called
the American Association of Uni. Women
Fellowship Crusade will be awarded by
the International Fellowship Award Com-
mittee, London. Applications for this
must be in the hands of the hon. sec. of
the Sydney Uni. Women Graduates'
Association, 4 Kent-road, Rose Bay, not
later than the first week in November,
and candidates must have published the
results of independent research work
within the last five years. The second
will be awarded by the American Associ-
ation of Uni. Women. In this case, appli-
cations must reach the hon. sec. at the
same address not later than the first week
in October.
There’s still time to buy that ticket for
to-morrow night’s ball in the Maloja.
The gate-money will be divided between
the Rawson Institute for Seamen and
the Limbless Soldiers’ Association. The
former is striving to lay a little by so
that it will be assured of a certain yearly
income, enough at least to keep the wolf
from getting inside the door. Everyone
knows .the demands made on the L.S.A.
and how difficult it is for it to keep its
head above water. The Maloja will be
ablaze with lights, and the moon, it is
hoped, will lend an air of romance to
its decks. The supper as well as the use
of the ship is the donation of the P. and
O. Co. The Acting-Governor and his
lady will be there; the Navy and Army
will add dash and color and Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard will be among
the night’s good companions.
(Continued on page 44.)


COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
6
£
<9
*
m
SSP
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient —
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., proprietors
sd
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
10 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Melbourne
Chatter
For the Navy League Ball the Town
Hall hung up all its flags. A steering-
wheel, very polished as to its brasswork,
which used to guide a cruiser, had for
company a ship’s bell, which clanged
the hours from its salty sea-sprayed
throat. Jack Tars stood at attention on
the steps and marched across the ball-
room as a rearguard for the v.-r. party.
The smallest and youngest looked very
relieved when his ordeal was over, for
his chubby face has not yet acquired the
pose of aloof solemnity deemed fitting
for such occasions. Mrs. Farquhar
Smith, Admiral Hyde’s lady, Mrs. H.
Bundock, wearing oatmeal lace and
pearls, and J. G. Purves were official
people. Valerie Purves, with an organdie
flower perched on the back of the cross-
wise straps of her pale-blue satin gown,
entertained a party of which Delysia
was a member. Madame, escorted by
Tom Holt, wore white satin and many
layers of purple eye-shadow, and her
carmine toes peeped out of backless
sandals. She did not dance, but by in-
vitation visited the v.-r. allotment.
Joan Neuendorf, in blossom-pink satin,
had an exciting-looking throttle neck
and a low back. D’Arcy Lawry was in
cream lace and net. To match a branch
of ivy leaves across the neck of her
coffee-colored lace, Judith Nicholas wore
a cunning jade ring, square, with a hole
bored for the finger. Mrs. Lionel Grim-
wade was in black, and Betty Horna-
brook’s blue satin plunged into a V de-
colletage below an intricate arrangement
of crossed straps. She was the emissary
who went forth to call Cis and Buddy
Roberts, who performed some agile
dancing. Commander Nicholl was leader
of a band of jolly sailors who sang rol-
licking sea chanties.
Arrivals at Salisbury, South Yarra,
paused to take breath on the verandah
and repair the ravages of a fierce north
wind before entering the reception-room
for a musical lecture in aid of the Bala-
clava and East St. Kilda Free Kinder-
garten. Mrs. T. G. Tucker, whose
dangly earrings were a fitting comple-
ment to her style of hairdressing,
sprinkled a sense of humor into her talk
on “Tantivy Towers.” There’s no dia-
logue ; all the quaint verses of A. P.
Herbert are sung. Mrs. Tucker played
excerpts from the opera and dipped into
the words for illustration. Prof. Tucker
was the only man present, though if
he’d felt nervous he cquld have had the
moral support of a bright-eyed school-
boy who sat beside his mother and fol-
lowed proceedings with interest. Mrs.
Tucker’s daughter, Mrs. G. Youngman,
was there in a suit of diminutive black-
and-white plaid. The Masson and
Barrett ladies occupied front-row pews.
Mrs. O. Benjamin and Mrs. J. Kingston
were early arrivals. Mrs. Willie Sta-
well wore a flecked rabbit weave suit,
and Mrs. P. Q. Henriques was in blue.
Sitting together on a chintz settee were
Mrs. D. Roseby, in a large cartwheel
hat with gardenias balanced precariously
upon the brim, and Mrs. A. Richardson,
wearing a speckled blue-and-white scarf.
After the Bohemians with “triangular
legs” had made merry in Chelsea and
the “huntin’, fishin’ and shootin’ ” people
had picnicked out of doors, Mrs. Tucker
played the finale and tea was served.
Melbourne always recognises the night
of a hunt-club ball by the gentlemen in
riding-boots with a slice of pink coat
visible through the slit in the back of
their overcoats who may be seen in the
city hunting a bite of dinner. The Oak-
land Club decided to hold its ball at
Bulla, which is in the district where it
chases the fox, and to give proceeds
to local charities. In the village * hall
hunting crops and brushes from many
a chase swept the walls in between layers
of streamers, bunting and flowers from
Alister Clark’s garden. Twin marquees
sprang up in the grounds for supper and
sitting-out. The Master brought Mrs.
E. C. Robertson, clad in black chiffon.
Also in black was Chris Walker. From
Melbourne Hunt Club came C. C.
Moore and his better-half, she with a
colored kick round the hem of her black
chiffon. Sec. of the dance Molly Mc-
Aulay had a long swinging cape
attached to her white gown with its
silver traceries. Betty Magennis was in
youthfully-cut blue satin. . From Findon
Harriers came the W. J. Seymours. The
Stan Frankenbergs motored over from
Berwick. Among others who rollicked
through “John Peel” were the Currie
Johnstons, Doris Foster, Joyce Cameron,
Harold Payne, Percy Fleming and Noel
Mason.
Great things are planned for the Cen-
tenary Naval Pageant to be held at the
Showgrounds on October 31 and three
following days. Commander E. D.
Nicholl is the able producer ; he has an
instinct for stage management and a
talent for acting, and would not baulk
at a song-and-dance. The audience won’t
have to put up with tedious waits be-
tween numbers on the programme, for
one part of the arena will be used as a
floodlighted stage while another portion
is being prepared in comparative dark-
ness tor the next scene. Thus there are
two Captain Cooks. The first one does
not need to sprint across the grass,
change his clothes and die on the point
of a spear a few minutes after he is being
made much of at Court. In the troop
convoy scene returned soldiers and
sailors will recognise the ship in which
they sailed for the front; models built
to scale will “steam” (by invisible tow
rope) round the grounds. The contest
between the Sydney and the Emden pro-
mises some realistic fireworks.
A dash of humor is introduced by the
dream of a sailor whose ginger head
is completely turned by beautiful nymphs
in diaphanous pale-green draperies and
mermaids who comb their golden hair
on seaweedy rocks. (As the mermaids
can’t walk in fishtails they have to be
carried by marines and dropped in their
possies under the cover of darkness.)
Jimmy Paxton springs out of an oyster-
shell and astonishes the ginger sailor
with an eccentric dance in a whirl of
grass-skirts and a tow wig.
Mrs. Fred Krcrouse is training the
nymphs and the Hawaiian girls. Court
ladies and gentlemen and the lads and
lasses who are performing pastoral
dances have been rehearsing lately at the
Ernest Poolmans’ home (Mrs. Poolman
offered her ballroom before she went
abroad). While Commander Nicholl
directs things, his wife and Mrs. J. Bur-
nett share the job of playing accompani-
ments. Admiral Hyde’s lady, Denise and
Judy Finch, Bettine Fisken, Jessica
Rodda, Merri Cohen, Madge Baird and
Ina Corbett are a few of the dancers.
The first rehearsal of the entire pageant
took place at the Flinders Depot one
day last week. There was some practice
in the afternoon, then a meal in the mess
and another rehearsal by torchlight. Hot
soup and sausages comforted the mum-
mers of history before their drive back
to Melbourne.
Here is a Dickinson-Monteath photo,
of Betty Fellows, who every morning is
inundated with a pile of circulars,
notices of meetings and general news
about her pet charities. But she man-
ages to create order out of the inunda-
tion, for she is one of Melbourne’s most
reliable young committee workers. For
the Homoeopathic Hospital and the Blue
Triangle Miss Fellows has turned her
hand to everything from organising
bridge parties and lassoing lads and
lasses to dances to house-to-house col-
lecting. She likes the races, but gets as
great a thrill out of League football.
Betty is the second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. H. H. Fellows, of Brighton.
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer sang a paean of
spring on color notes of blue and white
at the International Club’s reception in
her honor. Her enormous white hat was
balanced upon her nearly white and very
attractive hair; over her ice-blue dress
Were slung a couple of luscious white
foxes, and three inches of pearl grapes
dangled from her ears. Mrs. Dyer’s speech
was on the value of international under-
standing. She wants to meet everyone,
but before the crocodile could get itself
arranged in line was so deep in Euro-
pean gossip that introductions became
informal or were waived by spontaneous
chatter. Among those who escorted the
guest of honor up in the lift were Mrs.
Emmerton in a sable cape and Judge
Foster’s wife in a periwinkle blouse with
her black suit and silver-foxes. Under
the brim of a large hat was Mrs. Arthur
Norman. Mrs. Eggleston was in red,
and Cynthia Wood manoeuvred a tea-tray
in a tweed suit with primroses pinned to
her lapel. Mrs. Hylton Dale’s black hat
was a Goya, tamed and modernised in
shiny straw.
The gilded lily has arrived. For the
first night of “Her Past” the Princess
was filled with arums tinted pink with
kalsomine. It seems that these old-
fashioned flowers which grow in odd
forgotten corners among weeds and dank
grass are to have a new lease of life.
They are most popular pink or gold—
for variety a narrow line of white left
round the edges is successful —but green,
lilac, blue and deep purple have been
effectively massed together in a large
bowl at a city florist’s.
This is a Broothorn picture of Betty
Hornabrook, who shared with Mrs.
Lionel Grimwade the ticket secretaries’
responsibilities at the Navy League Ball
in the Town Hall. Lord and Lady
Huntingfield were guests of honor. The
v.-r. representatives are paragons of
punctuality. When they are expected at
a function at a certain hour it is never
more than two minutes after the given
time that they are shaking hands and
receiving bobs of homage from the wel-
coming committee.
Delysia, after waging a three-days’
pitched battle with the ’flu wog (she was
not able to attend the dress rehearsal),
wriggled from under her eiderdown and
cheered up the packed Princess with
“Her Past.” She wears a lovely black
satin gown with snaky hips and silver
foxes upon the sleeves when she proposes
matrimony to Campbell Copelin—for
with the approach , of what she an-
nounces is her 36th birthday she decides
to become respectable. Fluttering a
smoky periwinkle-blue neglige, she re-
ceives in a rose-pink boudoir a series of
nocturnal visitors, each with a skeleton
rattling in the cupboard of his or her
indiscretions. When Kiera Tuson makes
dates with a gigolo she wears a knee-
length swing-back coat of mignonette-
green ; later she is elegant in black lace
with kicks of black velvet round the hem
and sleeves. Nancy Forde chooses purple,
then tweeds. She is Lady Havers, whose
past is an incident wherein her virtue
is saved by the arrival of papa. Mrs.
Lindsay Biggins, who sticks to her stage-
name of Joyce Turner, looked her best
in apple-green chiffon. Bobbie McMillan
(Mrs. Frank Harvey) has a small part in
which she wears a cap made to look like
lacquered hair.
In the audience were Mrs. Leslie Mac-
donald, wearing an unusual little theatre
cap made from black and white beads,
and Mrs. Fred Thiel, wrapped in black
velvet. In the stalls were the George
Dickensons and Lynette. Mrs. Frank
Andrew sat in the dress-circle. Mrs. Bur-
nett wore a raspberry coat and a clever
new style of coiffure, a roll of hair paral-
lel with her parting. Mrs. A. Pratt was
accompanied by her son Alec (the heal-
thiest laugh in the house belonged to
him). Dark-eyed D’Arcy Lawry thought
out a new kind of head adornment, a
scarlet feather in place of a bandeau;
she shared the same box with Pat Stuart,
in a squirrel coat, Balcombe Griffiths
and John Rivett. Dr. Stewart Ferguson
was in another box. Next door were two
platinum blondes —they threw a flower
wreath to Delysia, which she carried
while baskets and bunches were heaped
around her. Thelma Scott’s dark head
was seen in the circle. Fay Robinson’s
frock was of the completely backless
variety supported by a thin dog-collar
round the neck.
Melbourne did its voting in the pour-
ing rain. People who put off the job in
the morning hoping the weather would
relent were forced to swim in the after-
noon. One old woman paddled across
a wet street towards the booth, but she
jibbed at the rushing torrent in the gutter.
“Hey, young man,” she cried, waving
her gamp at the employee of the Nation-
alists, “come and help a lady.” Bash-
fully he carried her across the muddy
river, and for his trouble couldn’t even
unload one of his U.A.P. tickets. The
Communist got the lady’s vote. A bunch
of girls, with much giggling about the
first votes they were to have, consulted
several kinds of leaflets and went off to
do their worst with the privileges the
suffragettes starved for. One girl was
astonished to find that the roll had mar-
ried her off. Name and address were
correct, but “married woman” appeared
instead of “typist.” At the Town Hall
polling-booth a nervous little female in
a breathless whisper told the man with
the roll that she’d broken her glasses and
couldn’t see the names on the voting
papers. He offered assistance, and asked
her preferences. “Oh, really, 1 don’t
know,” she replied; “it doesn’t matter
as long as you ryit Mr. Lyons first and
Mr. Lang last.”
The perfume of freesias was wafted
through Melbourne Grammar School
chapel when Ron Nettlefold stepped
forward to claim Margaret Souter from
the arm of her father. The bride chose
the simplicity of these scented white
flowers for her loosely-arranged posy
and for the wreath which moored her
tulle veil. The satin wedding-gown had
a folded-cape effect, long sleeves and a
train. Chris Harvey and Lola Thring
bound sprays of white blossom with
ribbons and stepped into the green of
early spring, layers of chiffon frills rip-
pling over their shoulders and down the
backs of their dresses into short trains.
After the evening ceremony the bride’s
parents entertained at No. 9.
Chief Justice Gavan Duffy kept a date
last week in his pyjamas. He should
have been tucked-up in his crib with
hot-water bags and ’flu exterminators,
but thought it was his job to watch the
adoption of the annual report of the
National Debt Sinking Fund, so he crept
into a dressing-gown and arrived at the
Assistant Treasurer’s office by closed car.
The meeting was speeded up, and the
C.J. turned his slippered footsteps home-
ward.
Australian beauty competition winner
Gwen Munro has returned after nearly
a year in Hollywood. Miss Munro likes
America, and hopes to go back some day,
though her stage ambitions are rather
damped by the long working hours of
most of the stars. She says they are
temperamental people, and lots of the
popular dazzlers wear a hungry look
through dieting. Curing their hours off
they sleep and have Turkish baths. It’s
the tourists and small-job people who
keep the cabarets going. The fashion
for string, laquered and plain, has crept
from neck and wrist adornment to
actual clothing—collars, jabots, hats
and blouses. Hollywood women love
pyjamas, and wear them in the street and
to the theatre. Jewellery gets bigger and
bigger, and throats and limbs without
clanking fetters look quite undressed.
Fingernails have followed coiffures and
eyelashes, and are now detachable.
A musical prodigy aged two enter-
tained the Jimmy Dyers when they
visited the Vic. Institute for the Blind.
The child, Joan Morice, was born
totally blind. She speaks well for such
a baby, but sings better still. She learns
a tune without any effort, and her ear
is excellent. Joan likes to mark the
rhythm with hand and one foot, and is
never happier than when curled up next
to a radio.
The Jim Paynes are off across the
Tasman —he has been made Assistant
Trade Commissioner for Australia in
M.L. Wearing an ice-blue dress and hat
Mrs. Payne said good-bye to some of her
friends at the Wattle in between packing
and labelling her trunks.


29 Years'
Stomach Pains
Ended!
m
w
i
MR. H. P. MARTIN Of KELVEDON, ESSEX,
SAYS: I WRITE AS
‘A SERVICE TO THE PUBLIC’
“I have suffered with gastritis (indi-
gestion, etc.) for the last 29 years. I
was none too well last April and could
hardly eat anything without pain. Seeing
your advertisement for ‘ Bisurated'
Magnesia I bought a bottle and am pleased
to tell you that I got free from pain almost
at once. I can now eat my food without
fear of pain and lam in better health. I
send this letter with the object of being a
service to the public. I am truly very
grateful for the benefit I have had from
it.... I am keeping quite fit thanks to
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia.”
For indigestion, gastritis and other
painful stomach troubles there is no
more effective remedy than ‘ Bisurated ’
Magnesia which has been used and
recommended by doctors and hospitals
for over 20 years. This remarkable
remedy has brought instant and perma.
nent relief to thousands who had almost
given up hope.
‘pISURATEb’
MAGNESIA V
POWDER TABLETS
Every package heart the
oval * Bismag ’ Trade Mark —>•
fasd
Missing Friends.
ISAAC WOOLARD, formerly of Carngham,
in Victoria, now aged about 63 years. Left
Carngham 34 years ago, and has not since
been heard of. His mother, Jane Woolard,
died July, 1929. Will he, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
THOMAS WOOLARD, Carngham, Victoria,
or with CUTHBERT, MORROW, MUST &
SHAW, Solicitors, Ballarat, Victoria.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1395 of 1934.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH MARY MACPHER-
SON Petitioner
And STANLEY DOUGLAS MACPHER-
SON Respondent.
TO STANLEY DOUGLAS MACPHERSON
late of 33 Georgiana Street, Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed ELIZA-
BETH MARY MACPHERSON has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Fourth day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-four
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourth day of September a.d.
1934.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOHN F. WILLIAMS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 817 of 1934.
BETWEEN JAMES ADAM DYE Petitioner
And VIOLET LEITH DYE Respondent.
TO VIOLET LEITH DYE formerly VIOLET
LEITH ROBBINS late C/o Seppelts Wine
Cafe Swanston Street Melbourne Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES ADAM
DYE has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Fourth day of Decem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
four and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding.
A copy of the petition herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of September 1934.
L. HAY SIMPSON,
Solicitor for Petitioner,
107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
The Bankruptcy Act 1924-1933.
IN THE COURT OF BANKRUPTCY.
DISTRICT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
No. 36 of 1934.
IN THE MATTER of E. J. DAVIES ex parte
SAIES LIMITED.
IN THE MATTER of a Bankruptcy Notice
filed the 26th day of August 1934.
TO E. J. DAVIES ESQ. of Meringur in the
District of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that a Bankruptcy Notice
has been issued against you in this Court
by SAIES LIMITED a duly incorporated
Company having its registered office at Ren-
mark in the District of South Australia and the
Court has ordered that the service of a sealed
copy of such notice together with a sealed
copy of the order upon your wife and by pub-
lication in the Commonwealth Gazette and in
two consecutive issues of the Sydney Bulletin
newspaper shall be deemed to be service of the
Bankruptcy Notice upon you on the day of
service of the sealed copy thereof upon your
wife or the last publication as aforesaid which-
ever shall be the later.
DATED this Thirty-first day of August 1934.
(L.s.) A. S. HOWLAND,
Registrar.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wHJ
quote you price for the original.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY FRIDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Trails of hyacinths and orange blossom
escaping from the prayer-book carried by
Sylvia Anne Davies gave an added beauty
to her wedding laces. Following the
billowing tulle veil walked Angela
Phillips in glowing sunset-pink taffetas,
and the blue of forget-me-nots was
glimpsed among her faintly-pink hya-
cinths. Eric Comrie-Thomson was the
man who waited with the ring at St.
Mary’s. The bride is the daughter of the
H. Davies, of Potts Point, and the ’groom
the youngest son of the C. E. Comrie-
Thomsons, of Elizabeth Bay and Baan
Baa, N.S.W.
St. John’s, Darlinghurst, blessed the
vows of Myra Langworthy, elder
daughter of Mrs. R. E. Langworthy, of
Longview, Manilla, and Geoffrey Douglas
Loveridge, son of Mrs. Loveridge, of
Wunulla-road, Point Piper. The bride
carried golden orchids with her white-
and-gold laces and sister Iris carried her
name flower in tones to match the golden
band on her white tulle hat. Subsequent
rejoicings were at No. 11 Onslow-avenue,
where the bride’s mother hostessed in
brown laces and a brown velvet coat.
Harold Stewart writes that he has
landed a job as Assistant Librarian at
Cambridge, and is as keen as mustard
over it all. The hours are from noon
till 7, with two clear days to himself
every week. His plans for his five weeks’
vacation included a visit to Munich
(one of the German lecturers at King’s
had given him an invitation to visit one
of Hitler’s camps), the Black Forest,
Oberammergau, Venice and Switzer-
land. His address is Gray’s Inn-square,
and to get in after hours he has to
ring an ancient bell, whereupon an
ancient porter opens a still more ancient
gate in the wall. Mr. Stewart tells of
the delightful figure work being done by
artist Eileen McGrath, of her famous
architect brother who hopes to get
enough drawings together for a show,
and of his, Harold’s, surprise on finding
in a Cambridge shop a show of prints
by Melbourne’s Ethel Spowers.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Invitations for the ball in honor of
the Duke of Gloucester have been issued
by Mayor and Mayoress Cain, and
there is much heartburning. Our Town
Hall is small and the visiting-list is large,
while on an occasion like this there are
so many official folk who have to be
invited that there isn’t much room left
for anyone else. The Show and the
Grand National meeting at Morphett-
ville will give hundreds an opportunity
of seeing the royal visitor at close
quarters, however. '
As Bishop Nutter Thomas and his
family are in England and Bishop’s
Court is let to the Melroses, the two
ecclesiastical garden parties usually
given in September were merged into
one and held in the grounds of Wood-
lands Girls’ Grammar School. His Ex.
was present, but Lady Dugan, owing to
’flu, was unable to attend. The guests
were received by Mrs. H. C. Downer,
in russet-red; headmistress Dora Gil-
lam, in leaf-green marocain, and Dean
Jose. Afternoon-tea was served at small
tables set under the trees and in the
school theatre.
The dance organised by the St.
Peter’s Old Scholars’ football club and
held in the Memorial Hall was a great
success. Mrs. J. C. Hines, the convener,
had a committee of 50 young married
women and girls to help her. A large
bridge party had raised enough to cover
expenses, and everyone contributed to
the supper, which was served in a huge
marquee, the tables done with bowls o
mixed dowers, and the hall decorated
with daffodils and Iceland poppies. Two
recent brides were present: Mrs. L. Sin-
clair, in her wedding dress of soft white
satin with long sleeves, and Mrs. Alec
Turnbull, wearing ice-blue chiffon cut
on long lines.
The attendance at the bridge party
organised by Mesdames E. M. Luxmore
and H. Bickford in aid of the S.P.C.A.
put up quite a record. Girls in poudre
hunting costume persuaded players to
take chances in the largest turkey ever
hatched and a tiny fox-terrier puppy.
The second meeting of the Music
Salon, held at Birk’s Piccadilly, was
attended by about 500. The salon now
has a membership of over 230, and
everyone brought friends. Prof. H. J.
Wilkinson mentioned that Peter Born-
stein, one of the founders of the salon,
is leaving shortly to reside in England,
and a collection was taken up to pur-
chase a parting gift from members. Mr.
Bornstein contributed several violin
numbers, and the vocalists were Madame
Greta Callow and Fred Williamson.
Supper was served in an adjoining room.
Lady Dugan opened the fete in connec-
tion with the Salvation Army’s self-denial
appeal at Congress Hall. Mrs. Com-
missioner W. Maxwell, who is visiting
Adelaide, presided, and the Acting-
Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) was present.
At a dance in aid of the Burnside
branch of the Mothers and Babies’
Health Association the decorations were
worthy of note. The walls were adorned
with drawings suitable for a nursery,
and huge powder-puffs were suspended
from the ceiling.
WESTRALIA.
Government House ballroom was agog
with flags for the United Services Ball,
and in the foyer a cheerful array of naval
and military uniforms and rainbow deco-
rations wandered through the jungle of
palms. The v.-r. party was greeted by the
Institute’s president, Major Corbett, and
by Mrs. A. R. Baxter Cox, set about with
lunar-blue lace and crystal. Patience
Egerton-Warburton, Betty Griffiths Bowen
and Pauline Farrar spread debutante
wings of traditional white and hovered
over pastel posies. Colonel Olden’s lady
nurtured golden roses on her scarlet
georgettes; Mrs. Hatten’s lace of tur-
quoise velvet shone with silver; Mrs.
Collett robbed the bees for her honey
laces and velvet; and Jean Henn held
her cornflower-blues together with a
gleaming ornament.
Rear-Admiral W. T. R. Ford and the
officers of the Fleet gave the dance of the
season in the Canberra. The squadron’s
band was moored to the quarter-deck in
a sea of flags and bunting, and buoys of
supper were moored in different parts of
the ship. The shore provided the masses
of poppies, sweet-peas, carnations and
gum-tips which rivalled the colors of the
twinkly lights overhead. The Mitchell
lady’s green satins trailed in her wake ;
Ruth Clifton’s georgettes ran riot with
field flowers ; yards and yards of black
tulle billowed round Joan McLeod ; Jane
Shann flung a silver cape over sea-blue
chiffon ; Hetty Forbes was sheathed in
gold satin, and Mrs. C. P. Smith’s laces
were summer-sky blue.
The Little Theatre celebrated its first
birthday anniversary with a two-nights’
presentation of Pirandello’s “Naked.”
Olga Sunley rose to the occasion in the
exacting part of the tortured girl; Gay
McNeil’s interpretation ofthe Italianland-
lady was neat and effective ; and James
Quinn, Howard Bagnall, Lawrence
Hunter and Norman Watson filled their
roles acceptably.
The W.A. Golf Club spread itself
lavishly on decorations for the founda-
tion anniversary ball. From miles off the
contours of the clubhouse at Mt. Yokine
were seen, outlined against the hills with
strings of colored lights, which continued
their fairylike passage through the laby-
rinth of trees surrounding the lawns. The
supper-room was hung with wistaria, and
the lounges were vivid with sweet-peas,
gladioli and daffodils. Mr. R. Allingham
and the ladies’ president, Mrs. C. F.
Maclaren, stood at the portals, her pre-
sentation roses nestling against ice-blue
sheer crepe, beaded and slashed as to
bodice. The Sydney Bells were there,
her black velvets trailing lengthily at the
rear.
The ’Varsity’s farewell dinner to Prof.
Shann was a most cordial affair. Chair-
man Fred Alexander (his better-half’s
black marocains hung from a yoke of
gold sequins) received the guests in the
east wing of the refectory, which was girt
with flags, almond-blossom and sweet-
peas, and guided them to the hollow-
square table, where, backgrounding the
guest-of-honor pews, signalling flags spelt
“Shann.” Chancellor James and his lady
were there, she in graceful black lace,
sitting near Mrs. Shann’s blue floral
georgettes.
Shakespeare Club members and friends
overflowed from the Pleiades ballroom on
to the roof garden for their first dance.
Mrs. Le Tessier stood next her president
husband in violet and fuchsia lace and
satin ; secretary Sylvia George arranged
doings in peach lace splashed with silver ;
and Mabel Balding looked after the
coffers.
TASMANIA.
Bishop and Mrs. Snowdon Hay had
to convert their garden party at Bishops-
court into an indoor affair, for it rained
cats and dogs. However, room was made
in the big drawing-room and the bishop’s
study for the guests, who came from all
parts of the island. His Ex. and Lady
Clark were there.
Lady Clark started the Collegiate
School Fair on its way with a very short
speech. The bazaar, usually a City Hall
fixture, was held in the school grounds,
and the innovation proved successful,
though a high wind gave stallholders
many anxieties.
The Tas. Women Graduates’ Assoc, ran
an Adamless but cheery party at the
A.W.N.L. rooms. Mrs. Steane gave an
account of her life in Kashmir, and there
was music.
It rained on Wattle Day, but the break-
ing of the drought was welcome, and
many unbuttoned their pockets because
of it. Stalls did solid business. The
Tasmanian Sanatorium benefits.
S. J. Bisdee presided over a dinner at
Hutchins School, when 106 old boys,
from all quarters of the Speck, met at
Hadley’s. A presentation was made to
R. W. Vincent, who has worked hard
for the school and the Old Boys’ Asso-
ciation.
The P. A. Findlays’ second daughter,
Meryl Kathleen, became Mrs. W. L.
Curtis at St. Aidan’s, Launceston, attired
in deep strawberry dull silk. A coatee
of the same stuff sported a little shoulder
cape of silvery-grey fur, and a big pic-
ture hat to tone completed the picture.
Joan Oldrey, Campbell Town, and
Prof. L. McAulay, Tas. Uni., announce
their engagement.
Two more entrants for the Matrimonial
Stakes are Enid, fifth daughter of Mrs.
and the late Spencer Brownell, and
Quentin, son of Prof. McDougall, Sandy
Bay.
Homeward bound from England next
month will be the Walch clan, with Miss
Clarke and her niece Patty.


CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
‘“The 'JM.acleod, Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
i
r
T
HE dampness of the greens
• . . the squelch of water underfoot • • .
the chilliness of
that insinuate
down the back
• . • then the
downpour, the
retreat to the club
A
■x
the rain drops
themselves
of your neck
torrential
resigned
house. A glass
of Dewar’s? Welcome invitation, sound
advice! Relax in sheer content. After all—
there are 364 other days in the year for golf.
■«&’ M
B||?' jg 4
mt. %
i \
r
A
A
-gpE
fev:
m- f %
v.VfiGv- ,2Z
K?
DEWAR’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
CORNS!
Small things, but big worries ; short heads but
long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied . . .
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an octopus,
kills it and roots it out. The treatment requires
no preparation, no mess, but is easy, rapid and
painless. A sixpenny packet is all you need.
Ask your Chemist for A’CORN SILK.
Packed by Felton Grimwade & Duerdins Ltd.,
Melbourne. as 2
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
REACH THE
MAN ON THE LAND
BY ADVERTISING IN
THE PERTH
®mfs
Westralia’s National Newspaper.
SPECIAL
SHOW ISSUE
SEPTEMBER 30, 1934.
The 1934 Royal Show promises to
be a particularly good one and will
reflect the progress being made by
our Primary Producers in W.A. The
“Sunday Times” is regarded as the
“Bushman’s Bible” in the West and
enjoys a large country circulation.
BOOK SPACE NOW!
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingtllo House.
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins Street.
London Rep.: F. A. Smyth, 34 Ludgate Hill.
BRIDGE
WITHOUT
SIGHS.
BY DR. H. L. TONKIN.
Dr. F. V. McAdam.
The Australian bridge world lost an
outstanding figure when Dr. Francis
McAdam was killed by a runaway
motor-car near the Royal Automobile
Club, Sydney. After a brilliant scholastic
and university career, he graduated
8.A., B.Sc. and M. 8., Ch.M. Dr. Mc-
Adam saw war service in Gallipoli and
France, and on his return established a
practice in Lidcombe. In subsequent
years he practised in Macquarie-street,
and was attached to the staff of the South
Sydney Hospital.
Dr. McAdam had all the attributes of
a first-class bridge player. Apart from
his vast knowledge of theofy, he was a
shrewd reader of character and summed
up his opponents speedily and correctly.
It was in extended match games that he
was seen at his best. No matter how
badly the cards might treat him, or what
errors his partner might make, he was
never upset. No change of tactics on
the part of his opponents escaped him.
If they had a lead of a few thousand
points, it was only there to be removed.
In the match N.S.W. v. Victoria last
December, which was arranged through
his energy and efforts for the advance-
ment of bridge, he captained the N.S.W.
team in a way no one else could have
done. His campaign was planned before-
hand, and allowances made for all coun-
termoves. When N.S.W. won, he did no
more than point out the hands on which
the team had been fortunate. Frank
McAdam has left behind the memory of
a leading medico, a master bridge-player
and, more than all, a friend worth having.
After the Event.
A few years ago when four people who
knew each other fairly well sat down to
play bridge, one of the commonest intro-
ductory remarks was “Now, no post-
mortems, please!” Properly conducted
post-mortems are useful to all grades
of players, but I am afraid they are the
exception. It is only among those who
are not merely fine exponents but enthu-
siasts that you get dispassionate review
of bids and plays, with acknowledgment
of guilt and promises of reform.
Learners seem oversensitive to criti-
cism, even after inviting it, and placing
before the more experienced a record
of their deeds. Accordingly, they are not
inclined to tolerate remarks from players
of their own class. Yet a quiet discus-
sion of a hand immediately after play
is, without doubt, the best way to im-
prove one’s game. It need not occur every
dpal; in fact, with players of fair ability
■there are generally no more than two or
'three hands in a night which require re-
view. But in rubber bridge it must be
done while the cards are fresh in every-
one’s memory, because there is not the
advantage of recorded hands such as
duplicate players enjoy.
♦
Brisbane Bridge.
Queensland’s very progressive bridge
association, which has conducted over 20
duplicate matches during the last year,
shows not only a steady increase in
membership, but a marked improvement
in the standard of play. Members hope
that inter-State matches will be arranged,
with exchange of visits between Queens-
land and N.S.W. and Victorian teams.
President R. Baxter, who succeeded
Frank Cayley, is an expert player. Sec-
retaryship is in the capable hands of Mr.
Austin Lennon.
•— ♦
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J.K. (Bellevue Hill, N.S.W.).—The
next inter-State bridge match will be
played in Melbourne about the middle of
October. The best book on more ad-
vanced contract is Culbertson’s “Blue
Book.”
W.G.H. (Woy Woy, N.S.W.).—Thanks
for interesting letter with hints on your
new system of bidding. Mr. J. R. Adams
fathered something similar a year or so
ago, and there was a system tried in
America eight or nine years back. The
failing with all those artificial methods
is that they concentrate solely on top
cards, and fail to take distribution into
account. After all, the actual tops win
only about 60 p.c. of tricks in every deal.
You say your system will leave the
“Barton” club and the “Official” two-bid
well behind. I don’t doubt it; those
bids are moribund already.
M.G. (Waverley, N.S.W.).—With this
hand: —
4jk —A, K, J, 10, x, x
V—A, K, x, x
♦—K, Q, x
•fr —None
you were justified in opening with two
spades. The hand contains nine playing
tricks with spades as trumps, and five
plus honor tricks. A much better hold-
ing than many recommended as opening
two-bids by some, and if you can get a
diamond response offers possibilities of
a slam.
E.K. (Melbourne). —Although there are
slight differences in technique be-
tween Melbourne and Sydney players,
the framework appears the same. Mel-
bourne has some very able exponents.
J.M. (Maclean, N.S.W.). —See reply to
W.G.H. 1 don’t see any future for
these artificial strength-showing bids
for the reason given. Culbertson appears
to have arrived at the most logical con-
clusions, after research, although Sims
opening birds are coming into more
favor with a number of good players.
J.M.—Certainly; you will get some
excellent contract. Make contact with
Austin Lennon, secretary, Queensland
Bridge Association, Griffiths House,
Queen-street, Brisbane.


Take your Holiday
ifV,
r
trc
■
Plan your trip now. No exchange. Write
for full information and descriptive
literature to
NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
14 Martin Pla ( ce, Sydney. :: B 7043
Collins Hse., 360 Collins St., Melbourne
Telephone Centra,! 3110
And all Travel Agents
1 -18 «34
NewJeaiand
THE SCENIC PLAYGROUND
OF THE-PACIFIC
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander"
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand. London, W.C.2, where they ca;.
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information withou'
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street
Sydney; or 49J-95 Collins Street. Melbourne
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
FIRST CLASS
RETURN
CABIN CLASS
RETURN
£93
£65
Usual fares £125 \lO j - and £B7 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER—
Via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva (Fiji) and
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO—
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Papeete (Tahiti).
Full particulars from
Stop-overs at any port of
call can be arranged.
Passengers may return by
the alternate route.
The trip allows a two
months’ stay in either
Canada or U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
i Georgre .street, Sydney.
50 William Street,, Melbourne.
Short History of the Holy Land.
BY JAMES EDMOND.
To the delight of Edmond’s old associates on “The Bulletin,” a
pile of MSS. in his well-known hand has been discovered—it was
thought after his death last year that he had left none behind. This
historical study in Edmond’s unique style was part of the cache, which
includes travel-notes and descriptive sketches; they will appear from
time to time.
ALL the reports from Palestine, in-
cluding official statements, jour-
nalistic yarns, missionary outpour-
ings and travellers’ tales, are to the effect
that the British rule is an unqualified
success.
The country has settled down for once
in its stormy existence. The native, who,
for centuries upon centuries, hid his
spare coin in the earth, except when the
land had a rare lucid interval, now has
terraces of banks to choose from ; also
building societies not a few. A mere
sketch of a force contrives to keep the
peace fairly well, and the Arab majority
is restrained from looting the Hebrew
and mixed Christian minorities now
that the Ottoman looter is gone. Good
buildings are going up and drains are
going down, and clean water begins to
move about in pipes instead of goat-
skins.
The Palestine Government works more
miles of railway than exist in Tasmania,
though the area of Palestine proper is
little more than one-third what Tasmania
possesses. Palestine in transition requires
the rule of a dispassionate foreigner who
doesn’t join in local animosities, and the
Turk, while foreign enough, was short
of other qualities except bad ones.
In the midst of all its other activities,
the British authority keeps an eye on its
instructions, one of which sets forth that
“His Majesty’s Government views with
favor the establishment in Palestine of
a national home for the Jewish people,”
with the footnote that no one else must
be shoved out so that the Hebrew may
come in. Too much concentration on
this topic may have a bad effect on the
authority’s intellect.
Some people hold that the link between
the Hebrew and the Holy Land may
have been taken over-seriously. It began,
according to commonly-accepted chron-
ology, with the arrival from foreign
parts, about 1921 8.c., of the childless
Abram, his wife and some relations
whose descendants passed out of the
Hebrew circle. These arrivals weren’t
Jews, for Jews were not yet invented.
They don’t seem to have been any more
distinctively Hebrews than the posterity
of Eber which stayed behind at the old
address. And their language seems to
have been the same as that of Canaan.
They entered a land full of disreputable
little kinglets who mostly ruled over a
fortified hamlet apiece and owed allegi-
ance to Egypt. The strangers followed
pastoral pursuits, apparently on what was
a considerable scale for the land and
the times, and led an unsettled existence
in tents.
After about 215 years the race, a
very limited one, left for Africa without
establishing any claim on the landed
estate it was quitting. The people didn’t
know that their masters had been and
had gone. According to the familiar
story, the Hebrews stayed in Africa for
another 215 years, and then spent 40
years on the journey back to make for-
mal demand for their property. The
period between the first entry and the
second corresponded to that between
William I. of England and the closing
days of Henry VIII.
The invaders are said to have num-
bered 603,550, and they fell upon the
squalid kinglets who dominated the
dusty little hamlets. So many were these
princelets that 32 of them are enumerated
in one chapter of the Scripture. The
resumption was for long a very partial
success, and it is doubtful if an indefeas-
ible and complete title was ever secured.
The alleged conquest by Joshua spread
over 24 years, and apparently the alleged
conquered land began to slide away again
even before his death. About 200 years
after the supposed annexation Palestine
was ruled, or “oppressed,” by a “King
of Canaan” who was no Israelite, so the
conquest appeared for the time to have
been reversed. At a date 873 years after
the time when Abram first came to
take possession and 403 years after the
beginning of the alleged conquest, the
position was this:
The north-west coast was held by the
heathen Phoenicians; and the Israelites
never shifted them.
The south-west coast was in the hands
of the Philistines ; and they outlasted the
Hebrew kingdom. In fact, they helped
to plunder Jerusalem five generations
after Solomon the Much-Married.
The great fortress and future capital,
Jerusalem, remained in the hands of the
original inhabitants.
The country’s other great fortress,
Beth-Shean, was still held by the Philis-
tines, and the dead body of the first
legitimate King of Israel fa king with-
out a capital) had lately been fastened
on the wall, along with the corpses of
his three sons.
A capable captain of irregulars or free-
lances, David by name, was making a
brave little show of reigning over a frag-
ment of the nation, with his throne in
a country town.
The Canaanites had not been extir-
pated as per programme, but a process
of assimilation had set in. Both races
assimilated. The land was full of stray
gods and goddesses, and many of them
remained after Nebuchadnezzar’s day.
Spooks were worshipped in the “high
places,” and they are still there, camou-
flaged as dead Mohammedan saints.
The progress towards the completion
and registration of the Hebrew freehold
title thus showed very unsatisfactory pro-
gress during a period as long as that
between Edward the Confessor and
George V.
It is on the events of the next 73
years that the Hebrew claims mostly rest
from a legal point of view. Under David,
after his rise to greatness, and under
Solomon, the State had a fixed metro-
polis, and the king’s writ ran through the
whole of Israel’s nominal inheritance—
save that no attempt was made to take
the north-west coast from the folk of Tyre
and Sidon, and on the south-west coast
the Philistines, if any Hebrew monarch
ever got them down, flatly refused to
stay down. There was even, for a few
years, a standing army, partly at least
foreign and possibly heathen, and there
was a period of outside annexation on
a modest scale. But after this historical
oasis of 73 years the kingdom split into
two kingdoms, and the title deeds were
divided.
The larger kingdom sank into senile
decay, and after 254 years certain
foreign conquerors shifted the popula-
tion into foreign parts, where it still re-
mains. So far as Israel was concerned
the premises were marked “To Let.” The
southern kingdom led its separate and
precarious existence for about 370 years,
but it was more the size of a Northern
Territory cattle station than a monarchy,
and it was almost always cut off from the
sea. Its people were also removed into
foreign parts, and the freehold title be-
came either extinct or dormant. The
Statute of Limitations is obscure on the
point.
A fairly extensive return to the ruins
of Jerusalem happened after 70 years.
The resurrected nation lived under
foreign domination for 392 years,
though some of the foreign domi-
nators were too weak to dominate
much. There were 78 years of de-
clared independence. There was a
Roman conquest. There were 133 years
of mixed happenings, which included the
kingship (practically the deputy-kingship)
of Herod the Tremendous. Then the
year a.d. 70 opened a series of catas-
trophes, and the most portable of the
world’s surviving races was off on its
travels again. It remained away so com-
pletely that in 1874 the Hebrew popula-
tion of all Asiatic Turkey, which was r a
huge region then, was a mere 80,000.
The kind of title that rests on effective
and continuous occupation has been darh-
aged, in the case of any Hebrew claim
to Palestine, by frequent absences, especi-
ally the last one, which has been a re-
markably effective absence, lasting nearly
1800 years. That dates a century or two
further back than the retirement of the
Roman Government from England, and
it has been away for a perceptible period.
But the most practical difficulty in the
way of any well-intentioned commis-
sioner with hazy directions about pre-
paring a “national home” for Hebrews
in the old spot is that 1000 Hebrews to
each square mile is too much, especially
if the square mile is pretty full of
Mohammedans already. Also a national
home seems to involve an independent
national Government which will do
battle for possession against hostile neigh-
bors.
Some of the neighbors, as well as
many of the inmates, are a nasty crowd.


face
mor
L'.iml!!!;;
I
.111" .VI
3
1 Hnn» ,, **mithC" -• T 1
ii iiii >.
m
J^XNNN\\\\>
ir*
3K
•I
yhe Won
This "Garden of the East"
has countless attractions
for the tourist Beautiful
landscapes towering
mountains —ancient tem-
ples —bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels.
Equipped with every
modern convenience the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" sails
regularly from Melbourne.
Sydney and Brisbane by
way of the Great Barrier
Reef, Thursday Island,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Sama-
rang and Batavia, to Sing-
apore. Fares have been
greatly reduced and are
free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased
to forward folder No 2 5
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
312 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE 128 ADELAIDE ST.. BRISBANE
The Rural Bank
of New South Wales
u
has, as its main objective, the assistance of
Primary Producers in New South Wales.
Branches are being established throughout the
State for this purpose, and in places where the
Rural Bank has no branches the Common-
wealth Bank acts as its agent.
General Banking Business is undertaken, and
the funds available are lent to all classes of
Primary Producers.
Sydney Branch:
350 GEORGE STREET (opp. Wynyard Street).
Head Office;
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President)
H. ROGERS
P. KEARNS
URDY ROBOLEINE FAMILY !
The children of Mr.
and Mrs. Hutchinson,
Homer St., Underclifje.
Roboleine has proved a real blessing to thous-
ands of anxious mothers who have seen their
ailing little ones brought back to vigorous
health by this magical tonic food. Roboleine
is not a “medicine.” It contains no drugs—
nothing but a concentration of Nature’s own most
valuable body-building foods, rich in vitamins.
Not only is Roboleine a complete food in itself
—in addition it causes the body to extract the
utmost nourishment from the ordinary diet. Read
what Roboleine contains. RED AND WHITE
BONE MARROW to make good red blood.
CREAM OF MALT, a source of energy. EGG
YOLK, containing lecithin, the greatest
food known. LEMON JUICE for building bone.
VITAD, a wonderful tasteless concentrate of cod
liver oil, the most powerful source of vitamins
A and D. If you do not know from experi-
ence what Roboleine can do for ailing children,
send the coupon for a sample. Three teaspoons-
ful a day (the proper ration for children) costs
less than 3d., surely little enough to pay for that
priceless blessing, perfect health.
Roboleine now costs only 4/6 per 12 oz.
jar or 12/- for 3 times the quantity,
at all Chemists. .
\
THE FOOD THAT BUILDS THE BODY
READ WHAT USERS SAY
“My little girl ■weighed 4 lbs. at si*
months. I enclose her photo on her
first birthday, when she weighed 21 lbs.
after six months Roboleine treatment.”
— Mrs. lversen, Charlestown, Queensland
“Since taking Roboleine baby’s
weight has increased 10 lbs. in four
months.”
— Mrs. Pollard, Point Street, Pyrmont.
“My baby weighs 14 % lbs. at four
months. He was rapidly losing weight
until he became a Roboleine devotee,
but we are sure our worry in that
direction is now over.”
— Mrs. McCahon, Nicholson St., Balmain
“We interview 500 mothers a mon'h
with their infants, and frequently ord r
Roboleine to be added to baby’s diet.”
—Sister in Charge, Baby Health Centre.
“I have known children after severe
illness to make fine progress and put
on condition after taking Roboleine.”
—Matron Miller, Govt. Hospital, Geraldton,
COUPON
Muir &. Neil Ltd., Box 1562
G.P.0., Sydney. I enclose 3d. i
stamps for sample of Roboleine.
►
ZNante- - - -
dPlddress..
S.B. 14.
m e
Strength.
BY DOUGLAS DAVISON.
THE big man took off his coat. Husk-
ing his braces from his shoulders
he lurched and grunted until he
got his shirt over his head. But he had
forgotten to undo the cuff-links, and he
stood solemnly regarding his imprisoned
wrists, debating whether to put the shirt
on and start all over again or whether
there was some other way out. The
matter decided, he flipped the shirt-tails
close to his feet and stood on them
before they could escape. A wrench
of his powerful arms tore him free, but
left the cuffs of the shirt bracelet-like
around his wrists.
He picked up the axe and thumbed
the edge. Satisfied, he squinted up the
smooth trunk, walking slowly around it.
With the axe he scored two parallel
lines on the bole to mark the width of
his cut and then drove the axe into the
soft wood. A quick jar on the haft and
the blade was again free, and then he
settled down to a rhythmic swing that
flaked off chips the full size of the cut.
Half-way through the trunk he paused
to straighten his shoulders, and for the
first time showed that he was aware of
a close-packed circle of watchers. The
circle was growing on the outside, arid
those closest the axeman were bracing
their legs to prevent being pushed within
the arc of the flying axe.
On most of the faces was a delighted
and admiring grin, but the more know-
ing ones had a hint of expectancy which
suggested that, while they were enjoying
themselves, the real treat was yet to
come.
“Getting a bit of firewood, Bob?”
Before the older man could reply the
circle heaved and boiled as a constable
forced his way through.
“Now! What’s all this about?” he
boomed mechanically; but he needed
no explanation. Bob McCoy stood look-
ing at him with drunken gravity, axe in
hand, beside the telegraph pole. The
constable looked from McCoy’s face to
the neatly-cut scarf half-way through
the pole and back to McCoy, as if daring
him to deny his guilt'.
, “Will you come along to the station
peacefully, Mr. McCoy?” he asked, but
his voice held no hope.
“If you want me you’ll have to take
me, same as you always have to!”
McCoy spoke carefully to prevent the
words playing tricks with his tongue.
The constable eyed McCoy specula-
tively. He didn’t overlook the size of
the hands dangling at the end of the
arms that most men would have been
proud to own as legs, nor the shoulders
that looked as if the skin was stretched
over redgum girders.
The man in uniform went for help
and felt no shame at the necessity.
During his absence the crowd in-
creased. The bars of the Railway and
Royal were emptied. Word went round
that the Johns were going to try to
take Bob McCoy again.
Across the vacant allotment between
Peagley’s grocery and the Elite Refresh-
ment Rooms the crowd could see the
constable returning, accompanied by his
sergeant and two other policemen.
Half an hour later the tale was being
told gleefully in both bars. How McCoy
had knocked out one of the constables
with a push from the heel of his palm.
And how the remaining three had fought
him without seeming advantage on either
side until McCoy had tired of the fun
and had agreed to go to the station if
he was allowed to ride his horse. And
here was the point of the yarn, told with
delighted slapping of legs.
McCoy had mounted his horse and
one of the police had led it by the bridle
reins up the main street of the town-
ship. Before they turned the corner, in
full view of the crowd McCoy had
leaned over, undone the throat-latch and
slipped the bridle from his horse’s head.
A wild yell from McCoy and a rake of
the spurs, and the rider and bridleless
horse disappeared out of town at a
gallop in the direction of McCoy’s home-
stead.
“Cripes, old Bob’s a character! Do
you mind the time he stood behind a
ihirteen-hand pony, grabbed a hind leg
under each arm and wheeled it along
on its front legs as if it was a wheel-
barrow? I seen it with me own eyes.”
The story was not disputed. Others
had seen it, all with their own eyes.
“He’s the strongest man I ever seen.
He doesn’t know his own stren’th. Do
you remember how he used to stand out
in the road and challenge any three men
to fight him for the fun of it? I tackled
him once, but the only fun I got was
when he sent me a fiver because 1
couldn’t do much work for a week."
The sergeant and McCoy understood
each other. A summons was issued, but
the sergeant didn’t bother sending a con-
stable to the homestead to serve it. When
the magistrate next sat, McCoy pre-
sented himself at court and pleaded
guilty, waiting with cheque-book in hand
to pay his fine.
McCoy rode home with slack reins.
His horse minced nervously, snuffling
and throwing his head from side to side
missing the steady hand on the reii
that usually held him in check.
The rider’s shoulders had lost some ol
their square rigidness. His chin descendec
by degrees until it rested on his chest.
For the first time he looked what he
was —a shaggy old man and a lonely one
Then he suddenly straightened hi'
shoulders and thrust out his chin in the
oid way, as if daring the world to hit it.
Holding his clenched fists together he
threw back his elbows, flexing his mag-
nificent muscles, the old gleam of pride
and defiance in his eyes. But the glearr
quickly died and his shoulders saggec
again.
What was it the magistrate had said?
A cheque-book his chief weapon!
“I have heard many stories of your
great strength, McCoy, but never have
1 heard of its being used to benefit you
or your fellows. It is a great waste.”
His strength had been but' an acciden!
of birth and environment. His long
purse no less an accident. Thousands of
acres of natural meadow left him by his
father, who had bought them with a life-
time of toil and sweat.
On an inferior property adjoining.
McLean had dowered three daughters
and put two sons through university, one
of whom was making such a mark in the
world that the townspeople boasted of
him and vicariously shared in his
triumphs.
McCoy’s property had not been im-
proved by his thriftless occupancy. He
had done no more than repair the fences
his father had built. He had not even
bothered to build a new homestead, but
lived alone in the old slab hut.
The throb of a motor disturbed the
bush quiet, and McCoy looked up as a
rabbit-trapper’s lorry turned the bend. A
woman was driving and the trapper
nursed their baby.
The lorry approached a shallow wash.
The woman screamed as a tyre blew out
and the van lurched to the side of the
road. McCoy saw wood splinter as a
wheel hit the culvert buffer. The vehicle
reared grotesquely and then crashed over
on its back.
Again the bush was quiet.
The woman was thrown clear and lay
without moving. The radiator-cap was
buried in the soft earth, but the tail of
the lorry rested obliquely against the
culvert buffer. With his baby still in the
crook of his arm the young man lay fact
up on the roadside grass, a corner of the
lorry’s frame crushing his ribs against
his heart as the lorry slowly slippee
from its insecure resting place.
McCoy did not need the appeal of th
trapper’s pain-glazed eyes to tell him the
need for haste.
Stooping, he settled the small of hi,
back against the frame of the lorry where
it reared upward. With his hands on his
knees he shuffled his feet for firm footing
on the turf. And then his old back took
the strain.
Peaceful life warmed the young man’s
eyes as the weight lifted from his chest
and at last he could roll free. Placing
the baby near its mother he turned to
help Bob. The lift had so altered the
position of the car that McCoy now
bore the full weight of the back of the
chassis. It would have to be held to
allow him to get free.
Desperately the trapper searched for a
rail or log to serve as lever, but they
were too close to the township and the
township’s wood stoves for loose timber
to lie at the roadside.
Young man and old man ; both lives
spent among material things ; but at last
mind held dominion. Their eyes met and
held for a revealing moment. McCoy
saw the other start forward and read his
resolution to offer his back as a sacrifice.
On the grassy bank McCoy could see
the trapper’s wife and baby, and he got
the illusion that the lithe young man car-
ried them on his shoulders, lightly and
buoyantly. His lips twitched sideways in
a grin and he showed he still owned his
strength by lifting the lorry a trembling
inch. And then he let go !


11*34}
119)341
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford excep-
tional facilities to its customers.
I
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
Advances made. Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED.
C OARVALL, General Manager.
mm.
m
r j-
H .
'£&£. ctdtnq
ifer
No. •* \
Z^ oc '° h °
'"£'***■
XKriU ing stw .age^ 5
ent erW ininen
and : s ; tots! Of
ArfCVS 0 ** 0 u «e like
don * J n^tHinB
„«.« - Z^'
it-*-” o '‘fcß*'*’
**” l e the to***
Fares are
fas
AND
MELBOURNE
CENTENARY
CANADA'S
ROCKIES
dfs
dfs
dfas
SCENIC
JEWELS
On the way to Europe
Home, via the picturesque Rockies
. . . scenic marvels . . . gigantic gla-
ciers . . . snow-capped peaks . . . jade
forests . . . magnificent Banff and
Lake Louise. Luxury trains, showers,
white waiters, personal service . . .
C.P.R. accommodation and cuisine all
the way at moderate rates. Stopovers
arranged at all resorts. Write for
literature and details.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
EADE’S PILLS
Dispel Rheumatism
Eade’s Pills are indeed a famous remedy,
they make no extravagant claims to cure
everything, only to be what they are, namely,
a famous and marvellously successful
remedy for all Rheumatic Complaints.
Read the following letter; it is one of
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. The
sum of £5O will be paid to anyone proving
that testimonials published by Eade’s are not
unsolicited appreciations from the public.
2 Portland Terrace,
Mooris Hill, Freshwater, 1.0. W..
October, 1932.
Hear Sir, —Thank you for the good your
pills have done me. I have been taking
them for 14 years, and they have com-
pletely cured me of Gout and Rheumatism. 1
take one Pill, and pain leaves me like magic.
I have recommended them to all my friends,
who have also found relief. I would not be
without them for love or money. My wife
is now taking them for Rheumatics in her
arm.
W. KELLEWAY.
Every high-class Chemist in the Common-
wealth sells Eade’s Pills, which are packed in
two sizes.
for All Who Love Australia’s Scenic
Charms—
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
PICTORIAL ANNUAL, 1934,
Ready Early in October. Price 1/6.
BRAND NEW GOODS ONLY. Every Garage
and Motor Engineering Shop should have our
new Wholesale Motor Accessories Catalogue, No.
88, 60 pages, over 300 illustrations, every page
loaded' with profits for you. Brand New Goods
Only; we handle no second-hand or reconditioned
material of any description. As this catalogue is
strictly wholesale, please enclose your business
card when writing for it.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydnej.
Telephone: 83356.
Telegrams: “VINCO,” Sydney.
A Bit of His Own Back.
BY FREEMAN SANDOM.
Black jim tinkerman sat on
his bunk. He was in a vile temper.
Nothing unusual in that, for life
and Jim were permanently at logger-
heads ; but this morning he had reason
for feeling sore. Jim had got the sack.
“You can call for your time to-mor-
row, Tinkerman,” the overseer had said.
And when Jim had asked what the hell
he had done the answer had come pat:
“Slack time. The company is putting
men off; single men first.”
He knew that yarn. To-morrow there
would be a Dago in his job. Some oily-
faced Macaroni would come along and
pull his forelock: “Pleace, meester, you
gotta da job for me?” The company
wanted crawlers —not men like Jim,
always ready to stick up for their rights
and damn the consequences.
All right, he’d get ready and clear
out! He bent down and tugged viciously
at a bootlace. It was in keeping with
the essential contrariness of things that
the bootlace should break. Jim flung
the broken piece to the wall.
“Damn the lace!”
The boot followed the lace, crashing
against the corrugated iron.
“Damn the boot! Damn work! Damn
everything! ”
The barracks stood on the high bank
of Deep River. At the back a huge tea-
tree swamp sent a narrow lagoon cov-
ered with water-lilies to within a stone’s-
throw of the building. But north, south
and east across the river were rich
canefields.
When Jim had retrieved his boot he
went out on the verandah to cool down
a bit. Through the dark-green foliage of
two magnificent mangoes he looked out
over acres of ripe cane, a pale-green sur-
face as level as the sea, glittering in the
morning sun and rippling to light puffs
of wind that slipped through the gap in
the hills and fanned the broad valley.
It was a scene to cheer a man’s heart,
but Jim shook a clenched hand north-
wards. For there, framed in glorious
flame-trees, shone the corrugated-iron
roof of the sugarmill, the headquarters
of oppression. Jim swore. Then his eyes
fell on something which started a train
of thought in his resentful brain. A slow
smile cracked through the hard lines of
a face unused to this exercise.
He had wanted to get a bit of his own
back for a long time, and now more than
ever. Here were the means, not twenty
yards away. The dynamite shed! All
right, all right!
Black Jim turned and began to roll
his swag. First he would collect the
few lousy quid coming to him ; then he
would return.
It was shortly after dark when Jim
pushed the cane aside and stepped out
on the headland. Cautiously he moved
towards the barracks, keeping in the
shadows as much as possible. As he had
thought, there was not a soul about.
The town was a magnet which had
drawn every man to the delights of
talkies, feminine companionship, beer or
gambling.
Early in the afternoon Jim had said
cheerio with tongue in his cheek. He
had slipped through the cane to a shel-
tered spot on the edge of the swamp
with a bottle of whisky in his swag.
Now he was back to give tit for tat.
He crossed over to the dynamite shed.
A rusty bar of iron, leaning con-
veniently against the wall, made a handy
lever with which he ripped out the staple
holding the padlock. After a last sweep-
ing glance to make sure the coast was
clear, he swung the door open and
stepped inside.
In the flickering light of a match Jim’s
eyes gleamed with satisfaction. He
counted seven cases of gelignite ; coils
of fuse ; caps. A hurricane-lantern hung
on the wall full of oil, the wick nicely
trimmed and the glass speckless.
It was a sample of the company’s cele-
brated efficiency—the efficiency of con-
struction. Jim chuckled. He would now
give a demonstration of his efficiency—
the efficiency of destruction.
He began to uncoil a fuse. The ex-
plosion must take place about ten to-
morrow morning. The cane trash would
be dry then, and with the usual fresh
breeze a champion blaze would be
assured. He calculated and spliced
lengths of fuse together expertly, for
Jim had been a powder-monkey’s offsider
at one stage of his career.
Satisfied at last, he arranged the fuse
on the earthen floor without overlaps,
fitted a cap at one end and pushed it into
the hole he had made in the end of a
plug of gelignite. Now the cases in a
heap, the plug in the middle, a match to
the free end of the fuse and all was
ready.
Jim walked to the door and surveyed
his work with satisfaction.
“A bit of me own back, brother!” he
said triumphantly to the manager of
the sugar company, who, by the magic
of Jim’s imagination, was made to cower
abjectly on the heap of dynamite.
Jim blew the lantern out, closed the
door, hammered the staple in and re-
turned to his swag on the headland.
Shortly after sundown on the follow-
ing Saturday, Black Jim Tinkerman crept
into the little sugar town and made for a
restaurant. He had camped on the bank
of a small creek, living on bully beef,
damper and whisky, and he felt a little
shaky and hungry for decent tucker.
Picking a table in the darkest corner
he sat down and ordered a plate of ham
and eggs. While eating he wondered
how to get news of the outcome of his
little enterprise. He had covered his
tracks pretty well, he thought, but it
wouldn’t do to ask point-blank. He
trusted no one.
Fate, in the person of the chubby
proprietor, came to his aid. With the
intention of cementing the friendship
begun by the ham and eggs, the cafe-
keeper approached Jim’s table, dry-wash-
ing his hands and smiling politely.
“Stranger here, sir?”
“Yairs —lobbed in from South lookin’
fer a job.”
“Well, you’ve come to the right place.
You are lucky. The company’s putting
men on every day. They’re wanting a
hundred and can’t get ’em fast enough.”
The proprietor beamed on Jim, happy
to impart good news and to get a chance
to gossip a little while business was slack.
“Perhaps you haven’t heard about the
attempt to blow up the property?
Dynamite, sir. Explosives. A great bar-
racks blown sky-high.”
He demonstrated with both hands and
looked enthusiastically among the cob-
webs of the ceiling for the wreckage.
Jim moved uneasily in his chair. “Was
there much—l mean anyone —hurt?”
“Not a soul. All the men happened
to be in town. Not even a bit of cane
was burnt. A shower fell just before the
explosion and the trash was too damp
to catch fire.”
Jim’s feelings were mixed. Relief, first,
that no one was killed ; then furious re-
sentment. If no cane was burnt, the
devil had looked after his own, as usual.
“Well!” he snapped, “what’s it got to
do with me? You tryin’ to tell me they
want a hundred men to build a lousy
barracks?” r \
“I haven’t finished, sir. I happen to
know all about it; my brother-in-law’s a
cane inspector on the Deep River estate.
At the back of the barracks is a big
swamp—three hundred acres of fat land
only waiting to be drained and grubbed
to grow bumper crops. Of course, the
company knew that very well, and my
brother-in-law tells me they were plan-
ning to demolish the barracks—old, sir—
and dig a deep cutting through the bank.
You see? Then some criminal loonatic
comes along. Bang! Bank goes sky-
high ; swamp water finds an outlet into
Deep River. Now the company’s going
ahead with the work, and any man who
wants a job can get one.”
He paused to let the information sink
in, and then continued with shining eyes.
“Funny how things work out. Here
we have scores of men out of work ; noiv
they’re all blessing that criminal loonatip!
My brother-in-law says he’s a public
benefactor, a philanthropist.”
But Jim had heard enough.
“Damn your brother-in-law! ” he hissed
in the astonished restaurant-keeper’s face.
Then he dashed a coin on the table and
flung out of the room.
A philanthropist! It was the last thing
in the wide world that Black Jim wanted
to be.
Weariness.
Now, the wan lake, and the grey wind that
flings itself down on the reeds ...
For that day that was like a white swan
Is passed on, on pale wings,
And none said sorrowful words;
And that day that was like a black swan
Is also gone, and none heeds.
And now —the wan lake without birds
And the grey wind that hides its face in the
reeds.
Maokiland.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
For contributions to B. 1 2/9/’3 4
they go to
A. JOYNER, Samson Vale, Queens-
land;
K. BESTON, Tenterfield, N.S.W.;
P. W. DOW, Tumbe Munda, Fern-
dale, S. Australia; and
JOHN CHARTERS, The Outspan,
Port Nelson, Maoriland.
The prizes, original “Bulletin”
black-and-white drawings, are
offered each week in respect of
Society pars., Aboriginalities, Hints
for the Farm and gags for joke-
blocks. In each case they are
accompanied by cheques.
dfs
o
m
o
DT-6)
Big, sturdy, powerful, dependable—regardless
of their capacity, all Dodge Trucks have these
outstanding attributes. Translated into terms
of hauling efficiency they mean operating prof-
its. Low initial cost, the minimum of mainte-
nance and the inherent quality for long hours
of gruelling work, make Dodge Trucks an out-
standing investment for the efficient operator.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane: Austral Motors Pty., Ltd.
Sydney: Harden & Ltd.
Melbourne: Canada Cycle & Motor
Company (Victoria) Pty.., Ltd.
Adelaide: Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd.
Perth: Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd.
Hobart: Co-operative Motors, Ltd.
Shaking Up the “Banner.”
BY HAROLD MERCER.
PETERSON was a “lit’r’y” man merely
by courtesy. He was proud of the
courtesy, but found it troublesome.
His real business was meat, but he had
taken over the Bunglewongie “Banner”
for a bad debt, and it had remained one.
The “Banner” was such a hopeless affair
that the proprietor, having extracted a
series of loans from Peterson, had simply
disappeared, leaving the whole concern,
including the unpaid compositor and
what he grandiloquently called “the
plant,” on Peterson’s hands.
Peterson had tried to keep it going,
being pleased at the standing the paper’s
ownership gave him. His misfortunes
with his editors may be ascribed to his
habit of seeking them by advertisement,
and then selecting the man who sought
most hungrily for the job; “thirstily”
would perhaps be the better term, for
Peterson’s cheapest-in-the-market editors
were invariably thirsty. Sooner or later
fie always paid them a week’s money in
advance, knowing that they would seize
the opportunity and disappear. He would
then struggle to fill in the columns him-
self, with the aid of the comp., until the
cares of that job induced him to try a
new man.
The only satisfaction Peterson got
out of it was his own full-page adver-
tisements —when he got tired of trying
to fill the paper otherwise —of the prices
and merits of his meat.
It was in one of his moments of exas-
peration that he met Walker. With his
curious wild eyes, his red nose and his
frayed clothes, Walker was not impres-
sive ; but his manner was, and so were
his testimonials. He had worked “on
the literary staff” of a multitude of
papers, from the Tuckerburra “Trum-
peter” to the Crowfiat “Chronicle.” He
had written some small things for papers
of much larger standing, and he spoke
about those achievements as if he were
their most notable contributor.
When Peterson broached business he
found Walker an enthusiast.
“What I have always wanted,” Walker
said, “is to have charge of a paper. I’m a
man of ideas. Mister Peterson, we’ll
shake up the old ‘Banner’ —we’ll make
its presence felt! What you want is
circulation; then you’ll get advertising.
We’ll make the ‘Banner’ spread right
into Mullagownie, Gingaranga and all
those places. We’ll make it a paper that
the people’ll want to read. You’ll see!
We’ll make it the London ‘Times’ of this
part of thq State!”
After the third drink Peterson was
almost convinced by his enthusiasm ; but
he reminded Walker that, hardly a tap
having been done on the bi-weekly, he’d
have to set to work at once to get the
out at all. “Not that it matters
4ftuch being a day or so behind time,”
he added, a little bitterly. “The people
don’t seem to mind.”
' “We’ll alter all that!” cried Walker
forcefully. “It is going to matter ; and
the ‘Banner’ is coming out on time,
with people looking for. it. I won’t
promise a big change in this issue—it’s a
matter of just getting it out; but wait for
the next!”
The energy that was put into the job
amazed Peterson. Walker, with his coat
and vest off, exposing his string-tied
'Braces and torn shirt, bent over the
■rough editorial table and dug his pen
into paper at a great rate ; he harried the
slow-moving country-bred comp, to some
grumbling speed. Soon Peterson had
the satisfaction of reading proofs that
Stirred his soul with pride.
“That leader, ‘Wake Up, Bungle-
wongie ! ’ ought to shake ’em up,” gloated
“its author.
“It’s good,” commented Peterson.
“First-class! But where did you get this
‘Mystery Murder at Mildura’?”
“That’s my feature story,” said Walker.
“How did you get hold of it?”
“Mildura’s in Victoria —hundreds of
miles away. Nobody’s likely to know
whether it’s true or not.”
“Oh, but” began Peterson, stag-
gered.
“It’s a good yarn, and will hold up the
interest for the next issue. If people
can’t find it in the Sydney papers they’ll
look for further details in the next
‘Banner.’ ”
“But if it isn’t true” Peterson began
to protest. Then, harassed by the rush
to get the “Banner” out at all, he de-
cided to let the argument wait. “But
what about this: ‘Rumored Corruption
in Shire Council’?”
“We’re safe on that,” remarked
Walker. “We don’t accuse anybody, and
we don’t say what the corruption is. We
merely mention rumors having reached
this office which demand inquiry, and
which we are investigating in the public
interest.”
“What’s it about?” asked Peterson
helplessly.
“Hanged if I know,” retorted Walker
cheerfully ; “but it’ll make people look
out for our next issue. You bet there
will be rumors, too, once we’ve made
the suggestion. We’ll investigate them—
refute them or not, just as we like. You
see if some of those councillors don’t
come in with ads. You see!”
Whatever doubts Peterson may have
had, he was entirely pleased with the
finished product. Walker had worked
all night, and forced the comp, to work
all night, too ; and, amazingly, the “Ban-
ner” was out to time. A casual remark of
the owner’s had been turned into a lengthy
paragraph about the movements of “our
esteemed fellow-citizen, Mr. Frank Peter-
son,” who would shortly leave for a few
days upon business “of incalculable value
to Bunglewongie.” And he was flattered.
He felt that his world was a bigger world
than before, and he was a bigger figure
in it.
His confidence established, he went
away for the few days, with a parting in-
junction to Walker to go slow on such
items as the shire scandal. But misgivings
smote him occasionally during his
absence.
He was startled on his return to find
a boy selling the Bunglewongie “Banner”
on the station. Every member of the
crowd seemed to have a “Banner” in his
hand. Even as he responded to Walker’s
greeting, he heard Bill Johnson say to
a man on the train, “Eh, Joe, git an
eyeful of the ‘Banner’! You take this
copy—l’ll git another.” Every train
passenger seemed to be leaning out of
the windows to secure copies of the
“Banner.”
The proprietor and the editor of the
“Banner” had a drink in the hotel, and
Peterson had the impression that there
was something queer in the publican’s
manner as he served them.
“The ‘Banner’s’ made a hit to-day, all
right, Frank.” There was a grin below
the publican’s remark, and Peterson, feel-
ing uncomfortable, muttered, “It seems
so ; I haven’t seen a copy yet.”
“I had a couple here just now,” said
the publican. “Somebody must have
grabbed them.”
“They’re going like hot cakes,” exulted
Walker. “Come down to the office and
have a look at a copy.”
Peterson did not respond this time
to the warmth of the enthusiasm ; he
was cold with suspicion. And he felt so
afraid of what he would find in the
“Banner” that he wanted to postpone his
inspection. He said civilly that he would
be down directly he had slipped home
and had a brush-up. His doubts were
not allayed when, as they moved away
from the bar, the publican tapped his
forehead significantly, whispering, “A
bit mad, isn’t he?”
At the door Peterson watched Walker
stepping buoyantly towards the “Banner”
office. People who happened to be on
the pavement edged aside as he passed
(Continued on next page.)


If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
.. \ '*u
mi/
WAL
FRED
MOIOR
1934
SECOND
EDITION
Hints, advice and technical infor-
mation for Australian motorists.
Features and Tests of all New Cars.
AT ALL
NEWSAGENTS
3/- or
Posted direct from The Bulletin,
252 George Street, Sydney,
3d. extra.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
'
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS .
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send SOI-.)
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £100 per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matterr. arising out of the contest
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 93rd YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
and came back to look after him and
whisper together.
Peterson was an easygoing man, not
given to wrath; but when he got angry
he frothed. He was frothing when,
much sooner than he had intended, he
reached the “Banner” office; yet he
stood at the door for a moment, half-
fearfully, prepared to slam it between
himself and a dangerous maniac if
Walker showed a dangerous mood.
Walker, however, merely greeted him
with a cheerful grin—“an idiot grin” was
how Peterson mentally described it.
Reassured, Peterson’s wrath flamed
again.
“What th’ hell have you been doing
with the ‘Banner’?” he howled, coming
right into the sanctum and waving the
crumpled copy he held.
“Shaking it up,’ sir,” said Walker.
“Putting it on the map. Everybody’s
bought a copy.”
“My God, I should think so!” groaned
Peterson.
“As I said, I’m a man of ideas”
“Ideas! ” flamed Peterson. “What sort
of an idea is it to print the leading
article upside down?”
“I wanted people to read it. Print
anything upside down and people will
read it; so”
“You’re crazy!” yelled Peterson.
“What the hell do you mean by printing
the report of Peter Pickering’s funeral
under ‘Sporting News’?”
“Mr. Peterson”
“What have you done? Pickering was
one of my friends, and now his family
And look here —look here!” he continued
frenziedly, turning over the paper until
he found the paragraph he wanted: “‘A
meeting of the local shareholders of the
Bunglewongie Creek Tin-Sluicing Com-
pany was held yesterday to consider the
statement of affairs presented by the
board.’ Why in the name of goodness
was an item like that placed under ‘Cook-
ery Recipes’?”
“Don’t you see”
“I see nothing but the rattiness of the
whole thing! Here: ‘Charles O’Neill,
47, was charged at the Bunglewongie
Police Court with being drunk and dis-
orderly’—and that’s under ‘Social Gos-
sip’! And the report of the Hawthorn-
Patrick wedding is under ‘Obituary
Notices.’ There’s not a piece in the
paper that’s in its right place, unless it’s
printed upside down! You flamin’ ”
“Mr. Peterson,” said Walker, rising
with dignity, “listen to me for a moment.
Can’t you see my great idea?”
“Great idea!”
“The ‘Banner’ suffered because nobody
read it—even those who bought it. Con-
sequently nobody advertised in it. Well,
everybody’s reading it to-day. Every-
body has a copy; some have bought
several copies. People will advertise in
the next number in the hope of another
big issue. It’s made a sensation!”
“Because people think you’re mad;
they’ll think 1 ought to be in the rat-
house, too.”
Half a dozen loungers could be seen
on the other side of the street, gazing
curiously at the “Banner” office. “Why,
the whole damn town is staring at us!
The whole world is laughing at us,”
Peterson yelled.
“Just so,” said Walker with that satis-
fied grin of his. “It’s been a great suc-
cess. I’ve had special issues printed and
sent out to Gingaranga—to all the ad-
jacent towns. They’ll sell there just as
well as here, and”
Peterson, nearly choking, tore at his
collar.
“I’ve had copies posted to every paper
in New South. I bet they’ll comment on
this issue and give us the widest adver-
tisement a paper ever”
“You ruddy idiot!” roared Peterson.
“And my name’s on it as proprietor,
printer and publisher! I’d like to strangle
you!”
“Don’t you see?” said Walker. “In the
next issue I explain that the whole thing
was done in order”
“There won’t be a next issue—not with
you in charge!”
“If you’ll only be reasonable”
“Reasonable! You talk of being rea-
sonable! You, who Look out\ ”
Peterson had seen the brick coming,
and dodged as it crashed through the
window. “See what you’ve brought upon
us,” he gasped. “And here’s old Patrick
coming into the office”
The door burst open, and a man whose
wild whiskers seemed to bristle and whose
walking-stick waved belligerently came
in, a crumpled paper in his hand.
“I want an explanation, Mister Peter-
son —from you and this worm who’s
workin’ for you! Me darter’s weddiri’
printed under the Obitcharies; an’, as if
that isn’t enough, look-it here!” He
turned the paper over. “ ‘The wedding
party was full of moderately good spirits,
and some of the younger guests spent a
very hoppy time.’ Watcher mean by a
reflection like that on respectable people?
I didn’t throw that brick. There’s plenty
others after you.”
“It’s not my fault,” cried Peterson
frantically as the murmur of excited
voices was heard outside. “It’s this
escaped gorilla! He’s sacked!” He
turned upon Walker fiercely. “You’re
sacked, d’you hear? And get out through
the back before murder is done. You’ve
had money from me in advance, and it’s
all you’re goin’ to get. Get out, I tell
you, before they scrag you!”
The man of ideas showed a tendency
to argue, but the rapid approach of the
belligerent voices and a push by Peter-
son decided him upon the safest course.
He dragged a forme crashing to the floor
as he dashed through the printery.
And Walker, if you meet him now,
will tell you that the “Banner” just missed
being the greatest organ of public opinion
in the Commonwealth because of the in-
ability of the benighted inhabitants to
absorb new notions in journalism.
Cuckoo.
In the chill, misted morning
The silver hours are long.
Not yet has soared the brown lark
To fill the sky with song;
Not yet has waked the throstle
Upon an almond spray,
Nor trills the rose-breast robin
His tiny, lovesome lay.
There’s nothing but the cuckoo,
The lonely, wakeful cuckoo.
The pallid cuckoo, piping in the dawn.
Day breaks above the hilltops
With rustle of light rain;
The winds sough in the valleys;
A rainbow spans the plain;
Bee-song and bird-song falter
As swift the showerets pass
To shake the dripping sedges
And bend the sodden grass.
But there is still the cuckoo,
The restless, outcast cuckoo,
The pallid cuckoo, singing through the rain.
With sound of storm-racked oceans
The great pines rock and sigh;
The wild, white moon is scudding
Across the windswept sky;
Deep in the sheltering boscage
Close lies each resting bird.
Who calls then through the darkness
With note by grieving stirred?
Who but the sleepless cuckoo,
The lonely, outcast cuckoo,
The pallid cuckoo, crying to the stars?
O loveless bird, you follow
The summer round the earth,
Heeding the call that bids you
Know naught of* wane or dearth;
What of your young waif cherished
Under a stranger breast?
Homeless and hated wanderer,
What of your heart’s unrest?
Mournfully sings the cuckoo,
The strange and mystic cuckoo,
The pallid cuckoo, calling in the spring.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY-
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Mr. Cronin’s course is a masterpiece of
expert practicality. The components of
a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description the
very names of which excite the imagina-
tion, and the awe, of literary aspirants,
are considered in detail with *a wealth of
illustration and practical advice that at
once removes many of the more serious
obstacles from the path of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronin’s
own enthusiasm-is so great, his sympathy
so large and his handling of the practice
work sent in so competently confident
that the interest of his pupils never flags.
Those who have a real flair for writing
very soon make a good job of every
piece of work they send in. They are
helped the more inasmuch as they are
never kept waiting for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work.
Mr. Cronin is not content with less than
the best they can do ; and neither are
they allowed to rest content until he has,
by instruction and illustrative revision
of parts, trained them to polish and re-
polish until the whole is a finished piece
of work truly expressive of the writer’s
intention and individuality.
Later, in the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier story, and in the light of his —
and frequently her—added experience
and increased knowledge improve it to
publication standard. Mr. Cronin is
most insistent, however, on his pupils
submitting to editors none but good
work. Not, of course, the best they ulti-
mately will do, but Work of such a stan-
dard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as per-
manent mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Some are given in detail in
“Friendships,” copies of which can be
had on request.
In addition to teaching story-writing,
Mr. Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of great
value to many whose work, through
minor faults of construction or presenta-
tion, has just failed to get publication.
Mr. Cronin’s Story-writing Course is
fully described in an illustrated pamph-
let, “Writing to Win.” Copies will be
sent post free to any reader of The
Bulletin who would like one.
Newspaper Articles and Paragraphs.
Those specially interested in the criti-
cism of MSS. or in the writing of news-
paper articles and paragraphs are
requested to mention the fact.
Letters can be addressed to Mr. Ber-
/ nard Cronin, c/o E. H. Welford, 398
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Pelmarvism
MENTAL TRAINING FOR PRACTICAL MEN AND WOMEN
The 650,000 Pelmanists
\¥/HAT was in the minds of*
** the 650,000 Pelmanists
when they joined the Institute?
Probably nothing more than is to
be found in the mind of the reader
of this article. They sought means
by which, through developing and
sharpening their natural faculties,
they could increase their self-con-
fidence ; they wished to know how
to create interest within them-
selves and how to excite it in
others; how to remember quickly
and with certainty, how to stimu-
late that initiative whose peculiar
province is “taking advantage of
opportunity,” how to develop the
imaginative faculty which sees the
opportunity before someone else
robs them of it.
The Personal Equation
IN. other words, the personal
equation was quite properly
uppermost in the minds of these
people. They wished to increase
their personal efficiency, physical
and mental, so that they could
stand well with their fellows, and,
which is more important, so that
they could stand well with them-
selves because of wise and prompt
decisions made and good work
done.
There is nothing extraordinary in
having these desires. It is realis-
ing them that lifts a man or
woman out of the ordinary. The
Pelman Institute helps its mem-
bers to realise them. Many pro-
minent people have said so very
convincingly, but we are now
talking about average citizens, the
kind of men and women with
whom we come in contact every
day and with whom we are com-
fortable.
/'"ANE,, whose trouble is not
uncommon, says: “My
efforts at early rising have been
crowned with Success.” Another
says: “The efficiency of my senses
has been wonderfully improved,
my will power has been streng-
thened and I have learned to work
with more method.” Yet another
says: “I have made considerable
progress in my conversational
efforts, which are now a pleasure
and relaxation instead of an em-
barrassment.” Others speak of
passing examinations, increased
sales, developed concentration,
conquest of fear and greater fer-
tility of ideas. The writers of
these letters are the kind of people
with whom you associate. They
certainly have a distinction, “an
enrichment of personality,” which
the polishing and pruning process
of Pelmanism gives, but this only
makes association with them more
pleasant.
A N analysis of six letters taken
at random and written by
a doctor, a farmer, a Senator, a
storekeeper, a university student
and a salesman shows that the
consensus of opinion may be
summed up in the following words
from the doctor’s letter: “The
‘personal touch’ appeals greatly
to me, so that the written and
specially dictated corrections are
valued more highly than any
pages of printed matter. I have
learnt a great deal through the
examiner’s ability to put his finger
on the weak spots in my answers,
though there has not been any
discouraging word.”
Are All Minds Alike?
HTHIS may lead to the question:
But are all these people
and their minds alike? The
answer is “No,” but the natural
laws which govern the operations
of their minds are the same. The
application to the special circum-
stances and needs of the pupil is
the business of the Pelman Insti-
tute, which knows its work and
does it thoroughly.
The Pelman Institute sets out to
make the individual efficient —
efficient in his social relations as
well as in business, likeable in his
companionships as well as effec-
tive in the doing of his work. Its
first question, after enrolment, asks
the pupil to state specifically why
he enrolled for the Course. He is
encouraged throughout the Course
to discuss his personal difficulties,
to ask questions as well as to
answer them, to get, in fact, as
much as he can, not only from the
textbooks, but also from the indi-
vidual service offered.
DELMANISM is so univer-
* sally successful largely be-
cause it sets out to train rather,
than to teach. It presupposes in-
herent possibilities in every man
and woman; it knows that,
according to the nature and the
strength of the individual’s habits
of mind and will, so are his per-
sonal efficiency and his standing
with his fellows. If these habits
are bad he will be ineffective per-
sonally; if they are good he will
be strong and successful.
Pelmanism develops the following
attributes and qualities:—-
mat.
w
m
adf
And a Reliable Memory
The development of these strong, posi-
tive, vital qualities contributes to one’s
earning capacity, and makes it possible
to live intelligently in the present and
build strongly for the future.
In “The Efficient Mind” you will find
a full explanation of the Pelman Course
and much interesting information on
me eFrweNTHmo
the subject of Mental
Training. This book
will be sent you free
on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. Write
for it to-day and it
will be in your hands
by return of post. All correspondence
is regarded as confidential. We have
no outdoor representatives.
CUT OUT OR COPY AND POST TO-DAY
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
394
JUST PUBLISHED !
“Psalmist of the Dawn,”
By MARY MARLOWE.
There are few settings left in the world
that some novelist or other has not used,
but for this charming romance Miss
Marlowe has found one of them. Her
story, from the bustle and feverishness
of city life, moves quickly to Lord Howe
Island, palm-crested speck in the Pacific
which is a romance in itself. Miss Mar-
lowe knows her islanders intimately:
remote from the world’s hurly-burly;
characteristically ruled over by Three Wise
Men; altogether about the happiest people
on earth. The real and yet almost fairy-
tale island atmosphere gives the novel a
refreshing distinction, a compelling touch
of difference.
“Psalmist of the Dawn,” by Mary Marlowe, is now on sale at
all bookstalls and newsagents. Published by The Endeavour
Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book. Price 4j6 (postage 3d.).
X
\> e
A t\S ro- e^'
V <v
v< *> V;>• V** o^
C,v" t^ e $ v '° e V^ftvC C *
►.<)(«
eJ* 3
o°;
. ~0
A'®
a-'V;
..■■■' ..•••■


I
■
1
m
m,
■mm,
s?V
?§
sr^===a'
£L 7
L -
L C
0
Si)
V>
45 our trade
Hark •< l.A'Utl
-
*
O
iC
Ll M |T£O
o
bottled by
ftOßEfb PORTER & CO
*
LtD
.
w.
LONDON, ENGLAND 47
D,.“ik.iin«/ *£s/,
if,
>
Dull Dog
£
Bottling
<p
V'rfN
S
H tx
GATt
D
II
LOOK FOR THE
WHOLE BULLDOG
ON THE LABEL .
The whole u BULLDOG” means you are
gaining the whole tff the benefit and
nourishment of GUINNESS STOUT, a
health asset obtainable at its best with
this famous bottling.
The invigoration, refreshment and
sustenance in a single bottle make it
worth many times over the slight extra
charge made for it. To insist upon it
means better health.
