

A CENTURY
OF PROGRESS
JH
J
MARCOVITCH VIRGINIAS....
|t is now one hundred years since Marcovitch brands of cigarettes
were first manufactured at 84 Piccadilly, London. Today the famous
Marcovitch Black & White Virginias are introduced to Australia
at nine for sixpence.
Black & White’s offer a sweeter, cooler blend. The
finest Virginia-grown tobacco. AND a packet of out-
standing style and distinction—with an inner wrapping
of tissue and foil, plus an external wrapping of exclus-
ive “Insulane”, —completely moisture-proof and guar-
anteeing lasting freshness.
Withall these differences,—all these extraqualities,
Black & White’s are sold at
Q /or& 9
Hfla/iawitcli
3s
i
/re
'36
//7/a
COM
r/PPED
(MI
alwohijzt
Aitiokutq
ambimt
□
n
CORK TIPPED OR
C
o
PLAIN CIGARETTES
ew/i/^a
The Bulletin
New Features Announced
Vol. 55.—N0. 2833.
Wednesday, May 30, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'yHE New Library Catalogue for 1 934 is
now ready, and will be sent post free
o any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Cut Here and Mail
Please, send, Txnthout obligation, your Mew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Fame
My Address
S.B. 234
J
Preparations
have won world-wide
recognition because of
their unusual healing
andmedicinalqualities.
Emollient and healing,
the SOAP protects as
wellascleansestheskin.
Pimples, rashes, cuts
and burns are quickly
healed by the OINT-
MENT. The TALCUM
adds the finishing touch
to the daily toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is.
and 28. Talcum ls.3d.
Australian Depot:
R. Towns & Company
Sydney. N. S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business.
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Clk mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFL
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phorife: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance’ schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to'the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New' Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., AVellington, N.Z.
Atistralian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
s.-*
mmm
m
(0=?-
y
h — &/>
“ Markets are People—
not Places ”
Queensland, as a market, is therefore
its 950,000 people, collected in fami-
lies throughout the State.
It would seem a difficult task to
find a common bond between all the
varied interests of these people
a market-place where mer-
chant ana client may meet.
Yet there is such a market place
. . there is a common bond be-
tween all the varied interests . . .
the daily newspaper.
Through ic you can reach the fami-
lies . . . the 950,000 people that
make up the Queensland market.
\ market too, that has thrown off
the throes of depression and is now
well advanced along the road to
-rosperity.
Deliver your advertising messages
into the homes of these people, and
you will find a ready response. Let
The Courier-Mail carry the story
of your merchandise into more than
62,000 homes throughout Queens-
land
Make the columns of The Courier -
Maii the market-place of the
250,000 people who dwell in these
homes. . . . Make each family
circle a market-place.
No other Queensland newspaper—
Daily or Sunday—can deliver your
advertising messages into so many
homes ... can offer you a mar-
ket of so many people . . . can
render such a service at so low a
cost.
QUEENSLAND’S NATIONAL DAILY
Sydney Representative:
R. JACKSON, 74 Pitt St.,
London Representative:
' J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Melbourne Renresentative:
Newspaper House, Collins St,
■eur’.SAU op>
CIRCULATIONS.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Golden Age?
One of the favorite practices of the
modern clergyman is to call on the world
to disarm and “get back to Christianity.”
The U.S.S.R., which claims to have wiped
out Christianity over an area about four
times the size of Western Europe, and
which is also calling on the nations to
disarm, wants the world to “get back
to internationalism.” Here are two bio-
graphies which show what the civilised
world was like when nationalism was in
its infancy; when there were no arma-
ment firms or standing armies ; and when
the Powers were as preoccupied with
Christianity as they now are with sport.
“ Weak as Water”
Marjorie Bowen’s Mary Queen of
Scots (John Lane ; 155.) is studiously
objective. The style is simple, and no
episode or conversation is imagined. On
historically controversial questions such
as the Casket Letters the evidence for
both sides is given.
Mary was one of life’s predestined
failures. When she married the Dauphin
of France the Western world, though
shaken by the Reformation, was still
an international family under the
Papacy (even Elizabeth—not to be ex-
communicated till 12 years later—was
hearing Mass regularly in her private
chapel), and France was the Papacy’s
most favored nation.
Mary Queen of Scots seemed to be the
fitting queen and goddess of such a world.
She had been born into it, she had been
trained by it; she stepped, as by right, on
tb the steps of the throne of the most
cultured kingdom in Europe.
Unlike Elizabeth, she had neither the
moral nor the mental equipment required
of a sixteenth-century ruler. She ad-
mired the methods of Sir William Cecil
•and Elizabeth’s other Ministers, who
“employed, without scruple, every means
of direct and indirect deceit, duplicity,
craft and treachery to gain their ends ;
the Queen abetting them in all the most
dubious twists of their anxious policies.”
But she lacked the greatness of mind and
soul which enabled Elizabeth to inspire
loyalty in those around her ; she was the
slave of her infatuations, while Elizabeth
was the mistress of hers ; and she was a
Frenchwoman in Scotland, whereas
Elizabeth was an Englishwoman in
England.
This book gives a grim picture of life
in an era when everybody went to church
and there were no national armies.
Mary’s life in Scotland, from her first
Sunday in Holyrood, when Lord Lind-
say, husband of her half-sister, “clad in
steel, and with a rout behind him,” at-
tacked the priest at Mass, was a series
of violent and bloody scenes.
Many of those who were enraged by
Mary’s Catholicism, by her Protestant-
ism (“From the day of her marriage to
the Protestant Bothwell, Mary was re-
garded by the potentates of Europe as
discrowned”), by her love-affairs, and by
her attempts to emulate the Machiavel-
lianism of Elizabeth, had private armies.
When Rizzio was murdered a force of
500 was stationed outside the palace by
Mary’s husband Henry. When Henry
was murdered “fifty men quietly sur-
rounded the house, and sixteen others, led
by Bothwell, entered in by means of dupli-
cate keys.” Practically all political mur-
ders, other than poisonings, were com-
mitted with private armies in the back-
ground. Social disputes were also settled
by private armies.
A quarrel between Maitland and Lord
Seton in Edinburgh filled the streets with
five hundred men armed with “spear,
sword and jack.”
The Border raids of the period reduced
rich' and populous areas like the one
between the Tweed and the Forth to
wildernesses, and bandits such as Lord
Hertford massacred men, women and
children indiscriminately. The rich lived
in incredible luxury, the poor in in-
credible squalor; and nobody, rich or
poor, was safe. Mary in many ways
personified the well-bred woman of her
decadent age. She
was deeply reli-
gious, but ready
to sacrifice her
co-religionists if
the betrayal look-
ed like adding
to her power ; she had charming manners
and the heart of a savage; she was capable
of passionate love, but it never lasted ;
her unbalanced temperament brought
her into many undignified positions, but
she never lost a dignity which was im-
plicit in the belief that she was a queen
by divine right, and she never showed
fear.
Her attitude towards the Babington
plot was characteristic.
She would “look through her fingers”
at the murder of Elizabeth as she had
“looked through her fingers” at the murder
of her husband. She would put nothing
on paper to commit herself, but she would
take no steps to prevent the crime being
successful.
With her execution England’s dwindling
Catholic party virtually gave up hope.
Pioneer Democrat
Protestantism was as essentially Ger-
man in its origins as the Nazi creed.
Brian Lunn in Martin Luther (Nichol-
son and Watson; 15s.) emphasises
the profound spiritual disappointment
experienced by the “gaunt, uncouth
German” Luther with the Italy which
he saw for the first time in 1510.
He was shocked by the luxury of
the monasteries at which he stayed
after crossing the Alps, shocked still more
by tlie “worldly Epicureanism, with its
varnish of classical learning,” of the
fashionable ecclesiastics of Rome. It
was not the German conception of Chris-
tianity. Doubts first entered his mind
in Rome, and he had one of those minds
which are unable to keep doubts under
foot. He quickly reasoned himself out
of belief in indulgences, by which the
Church was largely financed, and in the
spiritual pre-eminence of a Pope whom
he had come to despise. He was the first
of Europe’s class-conscious democrats,
one whose truculent rebukes to the
highly-placed were to be imitated later
by Knox and other Puritans. He wrote
to the Cardinal of Mainz in 1521: —
Now Y.E.P.G. [Your Electoral Princely
Grace] thinks I am out of the way.... I
am not going to let myself be played
with.... It is my request that Y.E.P.G.
will leave the poor people alone, and not
rob and deceive them, and will prove him-
self a Bishop, not a wolf.
Luther was not a Christian of the
pacifist stamp.
He never lost his horror of heresy, and
he was as convinced as any Catholic that
right belief was essential to salvation.
Through the mortal wounds which he in-
flicted upon the authority of the Church
which dominated Western Europe at his
birth, Luther unwillingly impaired the bases
of all authority and institutionalism in re-
ligion, and thus opened the way to re-
ligious toleration, but that toleration was
eventually achieved, not as the result of
Luther’s doctrine, but of the teaching of
those religious individualists who had now
to sustain the full blast of his persecuting
frenzy.
Protestants like Bishop Barnes, Dean
Inge and Dr. Angus reject most of
Luther’s doctrinal teachings, but he lives
in the grateful memories of people of all
denominations and races as the first
Christian in Europe who made an effec-
tive stand for the poor against the rich,
and as the father of free speech. Less
directly he was also the father of nation-
alism, with all that it means in peace
and orderliness within national boun-
daries.
Both books are admirably indexed,
and Martin Luther has eight reproduc-
tions of sixteenth-century paintings.
Red Page.
Three Kinds of Capitalism
In What Marx Really Meant (Gol-
lancz; Dymock’s; 55.) G. D. H. Cole
disputes the Lenin idea —based on that
godlet’s study of Marx, Engels and
Bakunin—that a collapsing capitalism
must necessarily be succeeded by blood-
and-mud proletarianism. Indeed, he ques-
tions whether the proletariat is the natural
successor to the existing regime ; and he
emphasises that “only idiots learn The
Communist Manifesto’ and the key pas-
sages of ‘Das Kapital’ by heart, and
{“Red Page” continued on page 4.)


Truth in Advertising”—Now and Always.
Anthony Horderns’
HYGIENE CAMPAIGN
44
BETTER 8 CLEANER BEDDING
Ilk will give you
Ĵ
for your cfa Mattress
Wf WANT TO BURN IT!
Here, again, is this famous campaign presenting to the Public the opportunity
of securing new and BETTER BEDDING, and at the same time disposing of
old mattresses which may be a positive nuisance.
What an offer! £1 for the privilege of making a bonfire of that old mattress
of yours—however dilapidated its condition!
In instituting this Campaign—Anthony Horderns’ are mindful of the
immensely important bearing that Bedding has on health—they know how
easily bedding might become unhygienic. It is this fact that prompted the
Government to practically forbid the remaking of bedding (kapok) under
the Public Health (Amendment) Act 1921.
Your old mattresses are a liability. You cannot have them remade; you
cannot sell them; you would probably have to pay for them to be removed.
Take advantage of Anthony Horderns’ Hygiene Campaign to secure “Better
and Cleaner” Bedding!
what we do & what you do
1— YOU select your fresh bedding from our unrivalled assortment, the prices
being, as always at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible, quality considered.
BUT—note this! From our “Famous Low Prices” you receive a generous
rebate on your old bedding.
WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF YOU
PURCHASE A NEW FULL SIZE ONE. If you decide on a mattress smaller
than 4ft. 6in. wide, WE WILL ALLOW YOU 10/- off the price of a new one.
This, of course, is off our standard prices as quoted in our regular price list.
We do not include Flock or Fibre Bedding in this offer as we do not
recommend them as “Better Bedding.”
2 WE WILL deliver your new Bedding without charge (if you live in the
Metropolitan Area), and special vans will pick up your old Mattresses and
remove them.
0 Bedding Department—Third Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
Country Residents please write for further particulars.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
“The Senior Store,” Sydney
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Ou
*3
0
4
&
//
(sy
*1
m
Wi
<ji
<&
c'-'
ftiM
mam
6
Ci££
*2
“Hordernia” Spring-filled Mattress.
and buy a New Comfy
MATTRESS
at these “Famous Low Prices”
The “Hordernia” Spring-filled Mattress
Represents the last word in mattress construction, the full-
sized mattress containing 408 spiral springs. Each spring
is encased in a separate calico pocket. Layers of fleecy
felted cotton and hair are placed on each side of the springs,
thereby ensuring perfect comfort and complete relaxation.
The covering is of best-quality Blue and White, Belgian or
Damask Ticking. Various colours.
2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
£5/17/6 £6/15/- £7/12/6 £B/10/- £B/19/6
Sizes
Prices
» jF
v .1*
/ 7 #
a ,
;
/
n
«?*»>«
*8
$
st*
<7
o
<7
\)i^
ss:
-*k!
The
House
SHconom
Hordern
ThoNV
£r Ujbu^v -TT
AN
jWIYHORDfE
Ahthor
pNTHORy
W««ptRH!
HCWdei,
“"mm.
&
UL^hi*
Antho
m
m
m
S V(J(g^Y
K
W.
W
w/">
3
A


It's safer to drive
WITHOUT CHANGING GEAR
RED AUTOMATIC GEAR
mam/ aaeSm
ctywim
lajfoutii&i ea/mkf
Anyone who has not yet driven an "Automatic
Sear" Reo cannot comprehend the vast dif-
ference between changing gear and NOT
changing gear. Sitting at the wheel of this
amazing new car gives you a sensation of security
relaxation sheer enjoyment that you've never
experienced before.
The Reo "Automatic Gear" takes all the hard
work out of driving. It eliminates the fuss and
fatigue of incessant changing in traffic. It makes
it easier to control the car on slippery greasy
roads. It leaves both your hands free for the
steering wheel where they belong. In any
situation —at all times driving with the
"Automatic Gear" is safer because it is simpler.
Arrange for a demonstration of the new,
supremely beautiful Reo. Experience for yourself
the magic of the "Automatic Gear".
REO 'AUTOMATIC-GEAR' OPERATION
IS SIMPLICITY ITSELF
Q The Reo "Automatic Gear" does what drivers are other*
wise required to do by hand with a gear lever.
Q There are no new driving habits to acquire.
Q No levers no mysterious buttons.
© No action or effort on the driver's part.
O As the car's speed increases it automatically changes to
high.
Q As the car's speed decreases under load it automatically
changes back to low.
FLYING CLOUD
DISTRIBUTORS
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
REO MOTORS LTD., Sydney.
THE REO SERVICE COY.
Brisbane.
DENNY BROS. LTD., Perth.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE MOTORS
PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR
VEHICLES LTD., Adelaide
REO MOTORS LTD., Auckland,
Hamilton, Palmerston North
McLAREN & CO., Christchurch
T. R. TAYLOR, Dunedin
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LANSING,
MICHIGAN
R.C.14.3S
J
OF THE
A I ft
ST ft E
conceive themselves thereby to have un-
locked the secrets of the capitalist
system”....
He gets away from the Hegelian con-
ception of endless ideological conflicts,
and explains that “Marx’s so-called
materialism, which was in fact realism,
upheld actual mind equally with actual
matter against the Absolute, which is
greedy to engulf them both.” Men, not
God or the Absolute, “make their own
history, and they make it primarily in
the economic sphere.” Men have made
capitalism, and it is nothing to be
ashamed of, though it has had some very
unhappy accompaniments.
All this is very ably set out in the
chapter on “The Growth of Capitalism,”
which proves capitalism to be a fallible
human institution, doing evil on
the one hand and good on the other.
There are three sorts —what may be called
Past, Preseht and Future, if we accept Mr.
Cole’s thesis —viz., unregulated, regu-
lated and State capitalism. He sees the
first as hull down on the horizon of
history ; the second as in decline ; and
the third as the only possible alternative
to anarchy. State capitalism is, of course,
Socialism; and we have had large doses
of it administered to us since the war.
In “The Outlook for Socialism” Mr. Cole
thinks that “in Great Britain... .the
chance of a constitutional ehange to
Socialism still exists; but its continued
existence depends on the persistence of
conditions which do not drive the con-
tending parties to the unrestrained ex-
tremism of despair. If a large part of the
British proletariat were to go Communist,
or a large part of the British middle
classes Fascist, the possibility of getting
Socialism by constitutional means would
disappear.”
O. C.
Christianised Maoris
T/je Hymn Q f t j ie TLui Tan,
w hi c h f e n ou t G f the blue, so to speak,
w |th its bilious cover and its illustrations
G f an unspeakably ugly hall and a dread-
ful chapel, represents, so far as it goes,
the utter failure of the pakeha to teach
the Maori anything worth knowing that
he didn . t kn ' w b ? £ore the keha ar .
rived.
~ . .
The descendants of the canoeists
from Hawaiki had a religion when they
landed in M.L. Their tohungas developed
it with especial reference to certain
qualities of the M.L. landscape—the exal-
tation of snow-specked granite peaks ; the
deep peace of the thickly wooded valleys.
They gave personality to the forests and
the mountains, the rivers and the seas.
Their mythology was, in a poetic sense,
more advanced than that of Greece,
Every god or goddess, every demon, was
identified, not as a person, but as the
essence of notable features of environ-
ment, topographical or pathological. On
these lines they developed a strong faith.
Came the English—Cook with his
pigs; Marsden with a firm conviction
that the heathen were less than pigs;
Selwyn, who learned a great deal spiritu-
ally and otherwise, but died before he
could use his knowledge to the advantage
of a totally alien race. The Church of
England became the Church of New
Zealand, but it didn’t fit the bill. Nowa-
days the most popular religions in brown
circles are Christian, but of the Old
Testament sort. This Hui Tau hymn-
book is issued by a Mormon sept. It
contains 22 sets of verses. They are
mostly “good old ’ymns,” as a Cornish-
man would say, and eminently singable.
“Old Hundred,” “Onward, Christian Sol-
diers” and another have been translated
(very neatly) into Maori. But printed
first is a piece entitled “Overthrow of
Gog and Magog.” One quatrain:
Tis Togarmah looks forth from the lands of
the north
For to spoil and to prey on the faithful and
free.
Thou art come for a spoil, but the worms of
the soil
Shall fatten and feed on thy bands and on
thee.
Read “Te Rauparaha” for “Togarmah”
and you’ll realise that the Maori race
hasn’t forgotten its bogey-man and
cherishes a warlike topical allusion.
w.
The Universal Speech
A Sydney paper, in denying recently that
there was a “fixed or general Australian
accent,” concluded:
City speech, which is more or less Cock-
ney in every language, is becoming uni-
versal.
Two Englishmen who have just writ-
ten books about Australia (Tom Clarke,
formerly managing editor of London
“News-Chronicle,” and Dr. Wood, the
musician) agreed that we have a national
accent, and that it resembles Cockney.
A couple of lines from Cockney songs
which were immortalised by Albert
Chevalier and Harry Randall respectively
indicate what the writers meant.
(1) “I’m wytin’—wytin’ for yew, my dear.”
(2) “Ahs is an ’appy little ’ome.”
Australians don’t drop their “hs” as
many Cockneys do ; but from Fremantle
to Brisbane, and from Darwin to Adel-
aide, it is possible to hear representa-
tives of all classes —university professors
and day-laborers, Premiers and shop-
assistants, Judges and Judges’ tipstaffs—
saying something like “wyte” for “wait”
and “ahs” for “ours.” It is audible not
only to Englishmen but to Frenchmen,
Americans and others. Our accent is
“fixed” and “general,” and it has sound-
nuances which differentiate it from Cock-
ney, as witness two well-known facts:
(1) Anybody who has visited Australia
can identify an Australian voice abroad ;
(2) nobody can tell by the voice what
part of the Commonwealth its owner
comes from.
Nothing could be more absurd than
the statement that city speech is becom-
ing Cockneyfied. Edinburgh, Manchester,
Dublin haven’t a trace of Cockney in
their dictions. The tragic truth is that
real Cockney—the richly humorous
accent which Bessie Bellwood, Herbert
Campbell, Marie Lloyd and many other
music-hall stars exploited to such pur-
pose in the ’nineties —is going out, even
in London. Universal education is caus-
ing it to be superseded among millions
of Londoners by a kind of bastard
“Oxford accent.” The “Oxford accent,”
as exploited by an occasional school-
master or parson, is bad enough ; the
tortured imitations which one gets nowa-
days from London typists, shop-assist-
ants, clerks and others who have never
seen Oxford are incomparably worse.
Britons of nearly all classes, while re-
taining their regional accents in most
cases, are adopting the language of
Hollywood. The following passage is
from a crime novel (“Too Dangerous to
Live”) which has just been written by
a Briton, David Hume, and published
by a London firm. Both speakers are
supposed to be English.
“Sure I'll do that for you, Henny, but
your boy friend will have a dumb evening.
I’ve got the blues these days, and it gives
me a pain in the neck to laugh. This place
is just giving me the jim-jams.”
“Never mind, sister,” said Mick, “we’ll
take the laugh out of a decent supper. I
don't know a better joke than ill-treating a
good meal.”
“You sound like sweet music to me.
You’ve got the right idea, at any rate. I’ll
be waiting at the ready for you.”
This is the only universal speech. You
hear it in all the London accents; in Mid-
land accents in Hull and Liverpool ; in
Scottish accents in Glasgow and Aber-
deen ; in the Australian accent all over
the Commonwealth. Let’s hope it is only
a phase ; but on present appearances it
has come to stay.
J. D.
(Continued on next page.)


(PcS s?
V
O^XO
[O 4°J o°'
\<£ m >V*
<9
<>> s<! ***
<£? '
\N®'
V^‘
</' h V?K^
<^V
<v & . ~
oV°/
V
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
Ĵ
w
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, kTD., Sydney.
A Safeguard for Travellers
The safety and security of a Letter of Credit which enables the traveller
to draw on his account in any part of the world is only one of the many
services and advantages which The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
offers. The Bank also establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable.
It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or by telegraph. It transacts
all classes of general Banking and Exchange business. The Manager of any
Branch will gla'dly explain these facilities to intending travellers and place
at their disposal the information on current conditions of Exchange, etc.
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank,
Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
Cable Address: “Thermostat,” Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application,' will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, ror
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
fudges, worthy of an award.
Laureates of Melbourne
The failure of the laureates of Vic-
toria to produce a satisfactory ode to
the glorification of Melbourne has started
the usual explanations. It has been stated
that no poet has ever been delivered of
transcendent verse as the result of a
competition or a commission ; in short,
that art can never arrive by subsidy or
contract. Also, that the Muses refuse
to visit the poet or other artist when he
essays to reflect national sentiment.
This is all contradicted by history.
Titian was regularly commissioned by the
Church, and the Church got supremely
good value for its money. Velasquez was
a hireling, yet he painted his royal em-
ployer’s somewhat horsy visage with un-
compromising realism. Rembrandt was
commissioned to paint his “Night Watch”
much as a modern painter might be com-
missioned to immortalise the members of
a ping-pong club, and the result is one of
the world’s artistic glories.
As for poetry, it is true that official
laureates have done dreadful deeds in
the name of patriotism ; but they have
created beauty as well. Shakspeare was
a frank propagandist of militarism, and
his “This England Never Did, Nor Never
Shall,” is still considered worthy of a
place in the anthologies. “The Ballad of
Agincourt,” by Drayton, might be in-
cluded in the same category. Ben
Jonson got a tierce of canary with the
official post; Tennyson took £27 in lieu
of the tipple. It made no difference to
the quality of their inspiration.
The only trouble with the disappointed
laureates of Melbourne is that they were
bad poets. They had the right emotions,
but, like the mourners who print
memorial verses in the “Argus,” when
they came to express them only conven-
tional images arose in their minds.
Between an emotion and its fit expression
looms a frightful gulf across which only
the greatest can build a bridge, and it
takes some of the greatest a lifetime to
do it. They build and cross their bridges
in the nude, while the minor poets sit on
the brink and don their left-off clothing.
F. S.
A Professor Philosophises
Dr. Cowling, whose Essays in the Use
of English comes from Melbourne Uni-
versity Press, is a learned man. He
knows what ellipsis, litotes, prosopopoeia,
metonymy and hypallage mean, wherein,
no doubt, he has an advantage over
Shakspeare. He knows the correct things
to say about the accepted literary giants
of the past, and he says them charmingly.
Words like “passion,” “emotion,”
“beauty” and “truth” lend a sparkle to
his pages. But what does it all signify?
Exactly nothing. For the ability to re-
iterate gracefully what has been said by
somebody else and the capacity to con-
firm established reputations are the com-
monest of attributes. Here are a few
gems from this writer’s treasure-house:
Romance is a substitute for revolution.
Those who love Romance will never be
bored.
Romance is that which is something
more wonderful than ordinary life.
If you would keep young, never let go
your hold on Romance.
Spelling, correct spelling, I mean, is a
necessity and a duty.
Read as much history and biography
and travel as you can. You can’t read
too much.
In point of fact, romance is no more
a substitute for revolution than a sniff
at a roast joint is a substitute for eating
it. It may be remarked also that romance
is not more but less wonderful than life ;
that Shakspeare’s spelling was abomin-
able ; and that Corot during his career
of painting only so much as began to
read one book, and never succeeded in
finishing it. Yet, besides being the most
significant painter of his generation,
Corot had a highly-developed intellect,
and could hold his own in real know-
ledge and wisdom with a universityful
of professors.
M. G.
A Satchel of Books
In Winterfield, by Marjorie Booth
(Ivor Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.),
we find an elderly, introspective chemist
with an insane jealousy of (1) his son
and (2) his best friend. He thinks they
are smitten with his (the chemist’s) sec-
ond wife. The young woman herself is
on the verge of an affair with the friend,
who knows that the chemist is nearly
insane owing to overwork, introspection
and quite causeless jealousy, and who
has serious intentions of reporting the
case before anything dreadful happens
in the prescription department. A satis-
factory denouement is gracefully con-
trived. The whole action takes place in
three or four rooms.
The action of Eleanor Dark’s Prelude
to Christopher (P. R. Stephensen and
Co. ; 7s. 6d.) is spread over the four days
following Nigel Hendon’s motor smash,
but the author conveys through the. in-
trospections of her characters the inci-
dents of the 20 years prior to the
accident. Hendon, a doctor and an
idealist, has a wife, Linda, who comes
of a family which is tainted with insanity.
True to his principles, Hendon denies
her children. Linda lives in constant fear
of madness, and Nigel is the only safe-
guard of her sanity. When the accident
sends him to hospital, she is left alone to
combat her morbid and uncontrollable
thoughts. Apart from her husband, no
one understands her peculiar tempera-
ment, and none less than Kay, a nurse
at the hospital, who loves Nigel and
desires him for the father of her dream-
child Christopher. The book is inten-
tionally disjointed, and, although this
helps to give the effect of incoherence
to Hendon’s thoughts, and of mental un-
balance to Linda’s, it makes it some-
what hard to read. Yet the author
achieves what she sets out to do. It’s a
sincere and convincing study.
The Commander 5ha11 ...., by Humfrey
Jordan (Angus and Robertson ; 65.), is
a picture of life on an Australian liner
as it appears to the master. Most officers
of luxury liners have the same vague
resentment of the passengers as is felt by
Transcontinental railway guards. It is
compounded of scorn of the passengers’
technical ignorance and envy of their
money, and these emotions are exacer-
bated by a suspicion that the passengers
draw sneering comparisons between mer-
cantile marine and R.N. officers. All
three complexes are revealed, consciously
or otherwise, in Mr. Jordan’s book. The
only really decent passenger, British or
Australian, that the Commander strikes
in several trips between Tilbury and Bris-
bane is a dear old lady who is derided
by everybody and dies, whereupon one
or two regret their boorish behavior. His
bitterest hatreds, however, are reserved
not for ordinary passengers, but for the
directors of his company. There seem
to be some prime hogs among them, and
he Has etched their failirigs with a loving
care which is own child to venom.
Stories of the French Revolution
mostly reek with blood, but R. J. White’s
The Breton (Hodder and Stoughton;
Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) is dif-
ferent. It tells of Armand de Chateau-
briand, who for his rescues of dispos-
sessed aristocrats became known as “The
Defrauder of the Guillotine.” The death
of his elder brother caused a change in
the family plans, and a military instead
of an ecclesiastical career was chosen
for him. His real desire, however, was
for the sea, and the Revolution gave
him his chance. With Jersey as his base,
he hovered around the coast of Brittany,
assisting refugees and carrying messages
from the exiled princes to loyalists in
France—an ever-dwindling body. His
wooing of and marriage to Jenny make
a touching story, but it’s merely an inter-
lude in a life dedicated to what he knows
to be a lost cause. With Jenny it is
different.
From her window she watched the
night where they were gone, and their
going seemed eminently fitting. The stars
marched down the sky, joining the lights
of the ships on the deeper darkness of the
sea, a still and splendid company., And,
as she watched, one star of all the host slid
outwards to the night, faded, and was
gone.
Read it.
Dent and Co. have published The Saga
of the Faroe Islanders, a translation by
Muriel A. C. Press from the Flat Island
Book MS. of the fourteenth century.
The deeds of the heroes during the life-
time of Thrand (970-1030 c.) are simply
told. They all die, and most of them
do it as suddenly as this:
Then out leapt Thord the Short, and
Brand, Sigmund’s son, went against him
with two other men and attacked Thord.
And the end of it was that Thord killed
Brand and both his followers.
Then Lief Ozsurson came up and drove
his sword through Thord, the same with
which he had killed Sigurd, his brother.
And Thord at once lost his life.
An attractive little book at 4s. 6d.
The heroine of Louise Mack’s
Maiden’s Prayer (Bookstall; 4s. 6d.) is
one of those tiresome young women who
like being naughty, but won’t admit it
even to themselves. Holidaying in Paris,
she takes over, unknowingly, the flat of
a notorious demi-mondaine. The young
man to whom she explains that she’s a
clergyman’s daughter thinks it’s a joke.
When he realises it’s true, and that there’s
to be a child, he leaves her for his noble-
minded uncle, “a mediaeval man,” to
marry. She’s already in love with the
uncle, so that’s all right. The rest of it
tells how she brings the uncle round.
We take leave of her, hoping that she
won’t meet any more men for a while
otherwise, Heaven help the mediaeval
uncle!


9
S'*
71
m
m
|
14
ms
1
IS:
> 4$
mm i
'
V - ¥
* : ' ;ol> ,
/< * 'VAi
i? ...,
r *: # #• <if •■; •.-■
/
§*ryfe 4i
j. y
BilS
I:'/
A
mm
A
A
m
/
4s***
.


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2833.
May 30, 1934.
AT THE WRONG ADDRESS.
“I'd better get back to the ark while my neck is safe.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
W'estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE SQUABBLING LEADERS.
It seems almost certain now that the
Commonwealth election will be held in
September. Provided the rearrangement
of boundaries can be completed, a Sep-
tember election would suit the people,
and those who sent the Scullidores and
the Langsters about their business would
welcome it if the U.A.P. and the C.P.
patched up their quarrel.
Early last week it seemed that a
friendly atmosphere was developing. But
within a few days the secretary of one
party organisation had outlined “matters
of grave importance” which “must” be
dealt with in the coming session, and the
other concern had issued a handbook for
election speakers, “based on material fur-
nished by the private secretary to the
Prime Minister,” in which the C.P. was
accused of “having scrapped its election
policy on the tariff,” and of having “in-
sisted upon a determined policy of sepa-
ration” from the U.A.P. There are too
many of these secretaries about, and they
have too much to say.
Admittedly, redistribution will have to
be taken early if the rolls are to be
printed in time for a September poll. It
is no small or formal matter, and it is
long overdue. The South Australians
object to the proposed sacrifice of a seat in
their State, the Victorians to the elimina-
tion of Corangamite, and various N. S.
Wales U.A.Ps. to the suggested altera-
tions of their electorates. The passage
of the Budget, too, will not be smooth
if the moderates remain divided. In the
agreement reached before the 1931 poll,
the U.A.P. and C.P. adopted an aspiration
to “reduce cost of production and distri-
bution in both primary and secondary
industries,” and “to increase employ-
ment.” Mr. Lyons, in his last policy
speech, said:
Eighty per cent, of workers are depen-
dent on private enterprise.... We must
concentrate on the stimulation of private
enterprise.... Crushing taxation is one
of the strongest contributing factors to un-
employment In my opinion industry
can look forward confidently to some sub-
stantial reduction in the demands which
the Government to-day is compelled to
make on it.
Dr. Page put forward a plan for reduc-
tion of taxes to 1928-29 rates, involving a
cut of about £20,000,000. Mr. Lyons has
gone less than half-way. Yet revenue
has been so buoyant, partly in conse-
quence of the taxation he did remit, that
he now expects a substantial surplus. It
is promised that in the new Budget there
will be cuts in primage and sales tax, in
land tax and super tax. On this and
other matters the U.A.P. and the C.P.
might easily arrive at an agreement.
It would be a calamity if the Labor fac-
tions were to come back with a majority,
or even strong enough to force another
election in 1935. Mr. Scullin, as his meeting
in Sydney last week showed, has learned
nothing since 1931. He still dreams of
disarmament, political control of banks
and fiduciary issues. If he were to go into
office at the mercy of a Lang tail which
could wag him and his followers, the result
would be plain chaos. Luckily, that is a
remote chance ; but the U.A.P. is certain
to lose seats in N. S. Wales, and pro-
bably other States as well, and will be
unable to govern alone. After a stormy
campaign ending indecisively, a U.A.P.-
C.P. understanding would be difficult,
perhaps impossible, of arrangement. It
should be negotiated beforehand. Noth-
ing should stand in the way—not even the
retention of the present leaders. If Mr.
Lyons and Dr. Page cannot agree; they
must make way for chiefs who can.
Australia is sick and tired of their
squabbling.
THE N.S.W. POLITICIAN’S
BOOZE.
“For years the debts left by some hon.
members at the Parliamentary bar were
a scandal,” said Mr. Carter (Liverpool
Plains). Some of these “honorable”
members departed owing “£2O to £50,”
and “never paid.” “But that was many
years ago,” interposed Mr. Kilpatrick
(Wagga). Mr. Carter admitted it, adding
“Such a state of affairs does not exist
to-day, owing to the efficient administra-
tion of the House Committee.”
Mr. Monro (George’s River) agreed
with Mr. Carter. But the “efficient
administration,” it would seem, dates only
from the advent of Mr. Monro, himself
a hotel manager, and so able to testify
that “publicans look for a profit of 40 to
50 p.c. on liquor sales.” Mr. Monro
was “alarmed” at the meagre returns
from the bar.
The first balance sheet presented to me
showed a turnover of £BO to £lOO for a
month, and only £2 profit.
And no license to pay, nor anything for
rent or wages—the taxpayer foots the
wages bill, and in the long run meets all
losses, unless they can be charged up to
“Development of Agriculture, Loan
Vote.” “I deemed it my duty,” Mr. Monro
proceeded with solemn pride, “to make
exhaustive investigation” ; and what did
the martyr to duty discover?
Direct abuse by members on both sides
of the privilege of helping themselves to
liquor. •
“Four-finger artists,” in the coarser lan-
guage of Mr. Lee (Drummoyne). Mr.
Monro and the other committeemen
“have given great consideration to the
matter of furnishing members with
liquor more cheaply than they can get
it outside.”
We have fixpd lower prices, and yet
have turned a loss into a profit.
Of course the refreshment provided
for these tribunes is not only spirituous
and fermented. There are times when,
as Mr. Lee complains, “the hungry sheep
look up and are not fed,” just as there
have been festal days, as Mr. Ross
(Kogarah) reveals, on which “members
arrived at the House with as many as 15,
20 or 30 ladies, and when their friends
were refused admission they became very
hostile.” But, generally speaking, meals
can be had at all convenient hours, also
“more cheaply than members can get
them outside.” True, Mr. Bate (South
Coast) can’t eat them, and Mr. Foster
(Vaucluse) protests that too much is
slammed on his plate ; but food, cooking
and service find stout champions in Mr.
Clyne (King), Mr. Ross (Kogarah)
and Mr. Carter (Liverpool Plains). “I
had my usual midday meal here to-day,”
the enthusiastic Mr. Ross confided;
“cocoa and milk and a copious supply
of butter, cheese and biscuits for nine-
pence. You will have to search a long
way before you will get better food and
service for the money.” Mr. Carter en-
larged on the enticing theme, here and
there in the French of Penrith-atte-
Nepean:
For threepence you can get soup (“creme
au merlan”); for ninepence, tea and pie
or sandwiches; for Is. 3d., cold kippered
herrings, herrings in tomato sauce, pilchards,
braised rabbit and bacon, fricassee of
lamb, “haricot verts,” curry and rice, pork
sausages, pork chops, loin chops, rump
steak (with either mashed or chip pota-
toes); for Is. 9d., a first-class three-course
meal. As for sweets, there is steamed
date roll, baked creamy tapioca, compote
of peaches and jelly or pure cream, for 3d.
All this was said in the course of a
debate which occupied nearly the whole
of two afternoon sittings. Almost every
speaker pronounced it a shame that
members should devote so much discus-
sion to the question of their drinks and
meals when there are so many unem-
ployed who have to go short of both ;
but almost every speaker went on talking.
And the chances are that the taxpayer
will get more artless revelations for his
money ; for the debate stands adjourned.
PUTTING THE CLOCK BACK.
Campaigning for one of the Denison
(Hobart) seats in Tas. Assembly, Hon.
Minister Turner has had the courage to
put into words what most people are
thinking on a subject which most politi-
cians avoid. He said:
We cannot go on stifling motor trans-
port merely because the State has spent
so much on railways. We must accept the
inevitable and, like the progressive factory
owner, scrap machinery that has been
superseded.
He went on to say that in 1931-32 Tas-
mania lost 1 l-sd. every time a Govern-
ment train travelled a mile, as well as
the whole of the interest on a capital ex-
penditure of £6,500,000. A general
survey for the same year showed that
the Australian Government railways cost
£341,000,000, employed 80,000 men and
made losses amounting to £8,000,000,
which had or would have to be (with
interest added) made up out of the taxes.
On the other hand, the privately-owned
motor industry cost £225,000,000, em-
ployed 195,000 hands, and paid in duties
and taxes £9,000,000.
Australia allowed its politicians to
build railways far in excess of require-
ments, with a break of gauge at every
border, and to cumber city streets with
tramlines, many of which have becomg
ludicrously obsolete. It has suffered the
same politicians, in a desperate attempt to
retrieve the position brought about by
their own follies, to deprive it, as far as
they have been able, of modern means of
transport, in the process multiplying
offences against the King, his crown and
dignity, and enrolling fresh battalions of
jacks-in-office to tell the people they
mustn’t do this and they mustn’t do that.
Service cars, which brought the plea-
sures of motor-travelling in the country to
city-dwellers in humble circumstances,
were the first to be put down. Banned were
the swift and comfortable motor-’bus ser-
vices which sprang up in all the capitals
and became a main factor in outer-suburbs
development; banned, the equally effi-
cient motor-truck and -lorry systems
which carried goods to and from coun-
try districts, bringing to remote farms
conveniences previously unknown. And
the banning was done at brief notice and
without compensation. Even farmers who
had bought motor waggons, finding that
they could save time and money by
carrying their own produce to market
and back-loading with necessaries, were
prohibited from competing with the slow
and dear railways, or penalised for doing
it. It was made culpable for a lorry-
driver to give a foot-passenger a friendly
lift, and for the owner of a private car
going a journey to let a friend pay for
part of the petrol.
This policy has been enforced long
enough, in the two most populous States
especially, for results to have appeared.
It was to have made the Government
railways and tramways pay ; but in this
respect, as in others, it has proved a
sorry failure. It has been alleged from
time to time that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment railways are having a “good year,”
but it seems that official expectations
will be satisfied if the deficit for the
current twelvemonth is kept down to
£2,700,000, practically £1 per head of
population. Victoria, less optimistic but
more candid, reports that railway revenue
has persistently declined and the
monthly loss persistently increased —for
April it was £346,700, “making £1,127,100
for 10 months.” Other States have issued
progress reports as bad or worse.
In short, Australia is still losing money
hand over fist in the effort to keep the
80,000 Government railwaymen and
the 18,000 Government and municipal
tramwaymen in their jobs. Yet it is con-
stantly informed by union leaders that
these men are shamefully underpaid (as,
no doubt, some of them are), and that
those who lent the money for the build-
ing and equipment of the railways and
tramways should be deprived of their
interest so that the pay may be raised
all round. Nearly all the interest
is paid overseas in Australian goods, and
if the lenders were told they were not
to get it it is unlikely that their country
would take the goods.
In N. S. Wales particularly, many
private businesses were ruined and thou-
sands of drivers and conductors were
thrown out of work when the motor-’bus
and -lorry systems were butchered. Some
of the men have been re-employed since
feeder ’buses were grudgingly permitted,
and others have found work in concerns
expanding their delivery branches; but
most of them are still on the dole. Little
shopping centres which sprang up every-
where in suburbs which the private
motor-’buses served withered when they
were removed. Trade was diverted from
department stores with thousands of men
and women on their pay-sheets, at whose
doors the ’buses used to unload and
pick up crowds of shoppers, to chain
stores employing cheap girl labor. There
has been a vast fall in property values,
and municipal revenue has dropped
accordingly. Rubber-tyre, car-assembling
and body-building factories, spare-parts
shops, repair shops and filling stations
have all suffered ; and so have the cus-
toms and income-tax receipts.
An effort should be made by Govern-
ments whose policy has borne such fruit
to ascertain the cost. They would pro-
bably find a decided improvement in
their financial and unemployment figures
if they permitted taxed and regulated
competition with their railways and tram-
ways, due regard being paid in the taxing
to the expense of road-construction and
maintenance, of scrapping unpayable
lines and compensating retrenched em-
ployees. It doesn’t really pay a country
to put the clock back.
THE LOWER EDUCATION.
Attacks on sex and crime films often
appear in the correspondence columns of
the newspapers, and nearly all of them
take the point that such films are morally
harmful. If it were so, this country would
long since have become a cross between
an Agapemone and a thieves’ kitchen.
Australians have been patronising sex
and crime films in ever-increasing num-
bers for over quarter of a century, and,
in spite of the O’Reilly and his myrmi-
dons, the films have grown steadily
nakeder and more outspoken on sex
questions, and more concerned with
murder and robbery.
The evidence of statistics, and of some
of the very clergymen and others who
have denounced the films, shows that
they have done no damage to the nation’s
morals. Relatively to population, there
are fewer murders and robberies than in
pre-film days, and most social students
agree with a view expressed by a Presby-
terian minister last week: “The young
people are all right; they have a sane
and healthy outlook on life.”
Though the films habitually show
hordes of girls with practically no clothes
on, and though the plots of some films
resemble those of the Palais Royal farces
which caused nineteenth-century Britons
to regard the French as monsters of de-
pravity, modern youngsters take no more
notice of them than they do of surfers,
who would also have been regarded as
agents of the Devil by the Mrs. Grundies
of another age. That the feelings of the
elderly (and also of some youthful pic-
ture-goers) are wounded by the films
from time to time is largely the fault of
the very newspapers which subsequently
print Ihe scandalised letters of these same
good folk. E. A. Baughan, of London
“News-Chronicle,” wrote last month:
They [the critics] should make their
readers understand the kind oi picture
they arc criticising, and leave it at that.
Our critics rarely do. In “Leap Year,”
for example, Tom Walls meets a lady
just before dinner, becomes infatuated
with her (as she does with him) at dinner,
and spends the night with her. He gets
engaged later to a flapper, and she finds
him in the first lady’s bedroom. The
only hint given by the “S. M. Herald”
to old-fashioned readers that this is not
entertainment for Puritans concerned the
hero’s treatment of one of his victims:
The spectator has the feeling of embar-
rassment that is caused when an over-
facetious person carries a good joke too
far.
The real case against the films rests
not on the moral but on the cultural
damage that they are doing. The Ameri-
pan ones are infecting the English-speak-
ing world with a jargon which is a med-
ley of German, French, Italian, Yiddish
and Eastern European words (many of
them debased slang words), and which is
freely peppered with the nigger patter.
It is nothing like English. And every
day in every way the products of both*
Hollywood and Elstree are doing some-
thing fresh to debauch the public taste
in other directions. Here are advertise-
ments which appeared in the Sydney
dailies last week on the subject of two
different films:
Prepare Yourself for the SUPREME
EMOTIONAL THRILL of your Picture-
going Life Time! A Dramatic Thunder-
bolt is about to be Launched, the like of
which has never before come before the
Talking Screen.
ANNOUNCING.... The Supreme
Masterpiece of the Screen! Its Magnitude
has never been Known —for Never Before
has it been possible to create so MAG-
NIFICENT a film.
At the same time as this vulgar rub-
bish is splurged across the pages of the
journals whose chief appeal is to the
uneducated, Australia is spending more
per head of the population on education
than any other country. We have made
a fetish of education. The poorest child
can look forward to rising by means of
State school, high school and university
bursaries to the highest professional
positions. Shakspeare Societies, Dante
Societies, choral societies and every
other known organisation for disseminat-
ing culture exist in all directions. And
side by side with them flourish the
counter-schools. The schools which in-
culcate the lower education. The movies.
Newspapers are not in a position to
object. Most of them make a similar
appeal; they live by featuring murders,
robberies, sex problems and false senti-
ment.
The films don’t need to be censored
for nudity, osculation or kindred manifes-
tations, which, to tell the truth, bore
sophisticated movie-addicts, however they
may excite censors. But they do need
to be censored for literacy ; and so dcf
some of our newspapers.
SECOND DIVYY.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Records and Machines.
It has been reserved for Jean Batten to
capture Amy Johnson’s laurels. Miss
Batten completed the journey from Lon-
don to Darwin in 14 days 22\ hours ;
Miss Johnson took \9\ days. The
Maoriland girl had better luck than the
Englishwoman on the actual flight, but
to offset that she had no great faith in
good fortune to sustain her; she had
crashed in two previous attempts. That
she crossed three continents and five seas
without serious mishap in an unfavor-
able time of the year is a tribute to her
skill as a pilot, and to her courage and
endurance; and the fact that she was
able herself to overhaul and recondition
her ’plane at two stages of her journey
indicates the thoroughness of her
training.
Miss Batten’s flight, apart from its
sporting and spectacular aspects, gives
evidence that the aerial pathway from
Britain to Australia is getting fairly well-
worn, and that aeroplanes are becoming
mechanically more and more efficient
and trustworthy. It does not prove that
women in the air are serious rivals to
men—Kingsford Smith flew solo to Aus-
tralia six months ago in 7 days 4hr.
47min.—nor does it add anything to the
knowledge upon which permanent air
services between various parts of the
Empire have been or will be based.
Women are nevertheless entitled to re-
joice at the triumph of so intrepid a
representative of their sex, and men can
only admire.
But some of the plaudits bestowed
upon aerial record-breakers should be
spared for the men who devise and build
the machines which alone make such
performances possible. The development
of ’plane design in the last quarter of
a century has proceeded with a rapidity
not equalled in any other branch of engi-
neering, yet the names of the men whose
work in study, laboratory and workshop
has so speedily made the conquest of
the air a fact are seldom heard. Fokker
and De Havilland —Kingsford Smith’s
Southern Cross is a Fokker, and Miss
Batten flew a De Havilland ’plane—are
about the only aeronautical architects the
man-in-the-street could mention, and
these only because of some dimly re-
flected glory from stunt flights. Possibly
in days to come, when men race the
sun through the stratosphere and the
records of the first 30 years of flying are
regarded with gentle scorn, it will be the
same. The men “who mould the age,”
to borrow a phrase from Miss Batten’s
countryman, are seldom well known to
their own generation.
« '
Scullin Conies to Sydney.
In the ringside seats were leading Nats.,
members of the Communist executive and
a phalanx of Fed. Labs. On the plat-
form, in a long row, Parliamentary sup-
porters of the principal performer were
arranged geographically, beginning with
Mr. Riordan, the member for Kennedy,
and ending with a bouquet of South Aus-
tralians. The back of the hall was well
filled with Langsters.
Before the main event the organ played
selections from light opera, and a lot of
artistic-looking young men and women
distributed a Douglas-Credit manifesto.
This, headed “A Few Words to Mr.
Scullin and His Supporters,” assured
Labor leaders, “although they might not
consciously know it, that they are
amongst the most valuable assets of the
financial control of industry.”
Looking pale but heroic, Mr. Scullin
advanced to the microphone, but before
he could be heard a Scullinite hit a
Langster in the eye. Thereupon another
earnest advocate of brotherhood leapt
to the scene of the fray, and, with
masterly technique, began to sock
everybody in sight. When the mess had
been cleared up and removed, a beauty
chorus of about 30 police filed in to
restrain the exuberance of a lot of per-
sons with loud voices—Mr. Scullin called
it “enthusiasm.”
Mr. Scullin was very careful not to
strike anyone. He led with a straight
left at the banks, but his reach was de-
ficient. It was noticeable that his “objec-
tive” is now merely “nationalisation of
credit” through the Commonwealth Bank
instead of the “socialisation of credit,”
which he moved into the Labor platform
m 1921. He expressed an aspiration to
“free the machinery of distribution” from
the “clutching hands of the financial in-
stitutions,” so that all the unemployed
might be fed ; he ascribed his previous
failure to feed them to the hostility of
the Senate. When he gets a majority in
both Houses things will be different; and
“our work will not be interrupted by
internal troubles.”
He advocated the election of a conven-
tion to revise the Constitution as a step
towards making the Commonwealth really
sovereign. Here, for once, there was
applause that seemed genuine. But,
generally speaking, the speech was an
empty one, because the orator’s efforts
to deal with such matters as arbitration,
wage cuts and pensions were more like
fancy-skating turns than explanations. It
was obvious that attempts at full exposi-
tions would have led to uproar from the
Lang supporters present.
Federal Labor will have to do much
better if it is to win the election.
♦
Partyism v. Patriotism.
The Minister for Defence made two
attempts to justify his department’s treat-
ment of the late Lieut.-Commander Alan
Casey, R.A.N. Then The Bulletin put
a question which reduced the issue to
its simplest terms.
If Lieut.-Commander Casey was not
found medically unfit to remain in the
R.A.N. by his last medical board, why
was he discharged from the service? If
he was found medically unfit, why wasn’t
he compensated?
To that question the Minister gave no
answer. There was an excellent reason ;
the question is unanswerable. The Lieut.-
Commander was irregularly retired from
the service, and irregularly deprived of
compensation.
If there were one M.H.R. or
Senator with a tithe of the courage
and public spirit which Zola displayed
over the Dreyfus case, which Northcliffe
displayed over the shell-shortage, and
which Carter displayed over the Meso-
potamia scandal, a Parliamentary agi-
tation would be started that would lead
to an inquiry. Not a whitewashing de-
partmental inquiry, but an inquiry
before a Judge sitting as a Royal Com-
missioner. Apparently there is no such
member amongst the supporters of the
Ministry; and the lions of the Labor
factions are not interested in Australian
defence.
Politicians with no experience of engi-
neering are not appointed to supervise
the building of harbor, or other, bridges.
Commissioners of Police are selected to
run police forces because of special quali-
fication. If a bridge engineer or Police
Commissioner betrayed the gross igno-
rance of his job revealed in the official
statement by Senator Pearce which was
analysed by The Bulletin (25/4/’34) he
would be superseded. No one is per-
mitted to supersede Senator Pearce or to
deal with those who are making a by-
word of his department. Party discipline
comes a long way before patriotism under
our present system of inner-group gov-
ernment.
«
“Adjusted” Deficits.
This comes from Hobart:
A. G. Ogilvie certainly did say that in 35
pre-Federation years there were in Tasmania
18 deficits and 17 surpluses, and in years
of Federation six small surpluses and 27 defi-
cits (B. 9/5/’34). But it is not correct
that he went to ex-Premier McPhee’s last
Financial Statement for his summary; there
would be no more unlikely place to find the
truth. He went to “The Case for Tasmania,
1934,” presented to the Commonwealth Grants
Commission in January, “on behalf of the
Government, by Hon. Claude James, Chief
Secretary.”
“Column 2,” he said, referring to that docu-
ment, “has a strange heading, ‘Deficits as Pub-
lished,’ which means as set out in the Annual
Financial Statement of the Treasurer. But
Column 11 has the heading ‘Deficits as Finally
Adjusted,’ which means as they were in actual
truth. Having informed the Commonwealth
Grants Commission that the deficit for 1930-
31 was £245,104, the Government then informed
the same body that the deficit ‘as finally ad-
justed’ was £636,526.”
This is the return (a copy is forwarded) from
which Mr. Ogilvie counted his “six small sur-
pluses and 27 deficits.” If the 27 deficits are
added together the total will be found to be
£4,915,101. Deduct total surpluses (£166,785)
and net failure of revenue during the first 32£
years of Federation will be found to have been
£4,748,316. But there are certain obsolescences
not included (£312;272), bringing the total
failure to £5,060,588, with 1933-34 yet to be
counted.
It is difficult to conceive that the Dominion
of Tasmania could slip down the hill any faster,
even if the Premier had to be called “the Prime
Minister.”
It is not inconceivable, though, con-
sidering the rapid descent of the New-
foundlanders before they made Father
Bull a present of their Dominion status.
But these “adjusted” deficits and “ob-
solescences” are utterly unconvincing, as
the Assistant Secretary to the Common-
wealth Treasury has said. The only sur-
plus-and-deficit figures that can be taken
seriously are those announced by the
Treasurer of the day and reported in
Year-Books and the like—by statisticians,
not special pleaders.
—. +
Air Defence.
London “Daily Express” publishes a
dispatch from a special correspondent
who discovered a few miles from
Hanover —by air line less than three
hours from London — a military aero-
drome hidden in the woods, complete
with barracks, huge hangars and bomb-
proof shelters.
It is a warning to Australia. Remote as
yet from the danger of aerial attack, we
still face the possibility that within five
years we shall be within the practical
aerial offensive zone. The air record
from Amsterdam to Batavia to-day
stands at four days.
An aerial base needs little visible para-
phernalia outside fuel supply. Any nation
with designs on Australia could lay down
the requisites without discovery in a ring
of out-of-the-way islands. Indeed, for
all civilised Australia would be likely to
hear of it, the thing could almost be
done at present in the heart of Cape
York or Arnhem Land.
There is one precaution which could
meet the chance, and that is the creation
of a decently-equipped Australian aerial
militia. In the event of invasion Aus-
tralia to-day could find neither pilots nor
machines, neither anti-aircraft guns of
modern pattern nor accessory military
equipment. Since compulsory training
was scrapped there has been a shortage of
volunteers for infantry battalions. There
would be plenty for a judiciously-organ-
ised aerial training force. And, since re-
quired numbers are relatively small,
sufficient squadrons of picked pilots,
whose knowledge would be useful in civil
as well as in military life, would soon be
built up. Every big town in Australia
should have its aerial-defence unit knitted
into a national scheme.
»
The A.B.C. and the Author.
The A.B.C can be frugal and canny.
For its radio-play competition writers
are to produce plays or sketches to
occupy from 20 minutes to 40 minutes.
They are debarred from the use of
coarseness or profanity, and may not
mention sex problems and controversial
questions regarding politics or religion, or
plunge into sordid tragedy, or invent
characters that stutter. The A.B.C. places
the value of the best effort at £5O, the
second-best at £25, the third at £lO and
the fourth, fifth and sixth at £5 each —
which would be called sweating if paid
by a magazine or newspaper. Others
may be bought at a price which the Com-
mission is apparently ashamed to men-
tion.
The Commission will own free for
several months, except for the prize-
money, the full copyright, whether for
radio, printing or moving pictures—
rights which, for a radio play of the stan-
dard of, say, “The Paths of Glory,”
might be worth anything up to
£lO,OOO. Risks are the author’s concern.
He must indemnify the Commission not
merely against actions for libel arising
out of his play, but “against any claims,
damages, actions or suits which may be
brought... .and against all expenses and
costs.” Should he be a minor, or “under
any other legal disability”—such as bank-
ruptcy, which sometimes afflicts authors
—the Commission holds itself entitled to
retain the prize-money until its rights in
the play expire.
It is true that publishers sometimes
place a libel indemnity clause in their
contracts, but nothing so drastic as that
proposed by the Commission. Such an
indemnity given in respect to a radio
play is a very different thing from one
given in respect to a book. Libel depends
usually on some character being identi-
fiable by an ordinary reasonable man,
irrespective of the intention of the author
or even of whether or not the author
knew the actual person aggrieved to
exist. In the printed text, a character
might have no resemblance to anybody ;
but the words in the mouth of an actor
uttered with peculiar mannerisms or par-
ticular intonation might instantly identify
them with some living person. But it is
to be the author’s funeral, and, to make
sure that any privileges the author may
have under the agreement won’t hold
water, A.B.C. inserts this clause in its
conditions:
14. The Commission shall have power to
make stipulations relating to matters not
covered by these conditions, and any
stipulations so made by the Commission
shall be as effectual and binding as if
contained herein.
The Commission apparently thinks of
authors what Judge Edwards thinks of
artists—that they are all a bit cracked.
#
A Model for Parliaments.
“X.P.”: The best Parliamentary tech-
nique known is that of the London
County Council. There are 145 members,
elected on party tickets but organised
to allow busy men and women to get
through the task of spending £30,000,000
p.a. as quickly as possible. There are no
wild and whirling debates at the L.C.C.
meetings.
The council works through com-
mittees, each charged with the care of
a special department. With each of these
sit experts and permanent heads. Except
in vital matters of universal interest, the
council as a whole does not indulge in
full-dress debate on bills approved by
the appropriate committee, with the re-
sult that even important measures fre-
quently go through with no more than
a few desultory questionings by which
some member desires to clear his mind
on obscure points.
Some committees usually, sit when the
House is in session, and committeemen
(when I was last present) were kept
advised of the progress of business in
the council by an endless electrical sign
installed in the committee room.
Under carefully-drafted rules the com-
mittees have power of action in routine
matters, in which actual principle and
major policy are not involved, so that
only really vital affairs come before the
full meeting except in the form of re-
ports on definite action already taken.
The system works well. It is not con-
ducive to caucus domination or intimi-
dation. The proceedings are the most
impersonal I have seen anywhere, and
the business of the full House is con-
ducted so expeditiously that I have seen
as many bills as are passed in an Aus-
tralian Parliament in a couple of ses-
sions disposed of in a single afternoon.
Some Australian politicians who are
in London should have, a good look at
the L.C.C. system.
+
A Suicide Fleet.
“Feng-Shui”: Many people have won-
dered for many years why Uncle Sam
keeps a squadron at the Philippines.
Japan is the only potential enemy in
sight, and in the event of war the
Japanese would mop up the “suicide
fleet” almost immediately.
The Filipino has shown no affection
for his masters. He has shrieked con-
sistently for “independence,” regardless
of the obvious fact that, if he got it, it
would only be to exchange one lot of
bosses for another. The withdrawal of
U.S. warships from Manila, however,
would mean the abandonment of the
army and the American community. This
would be almost as damaging to Uncle’s
prestige as a military disaster.
Uncle might grant independence to
the archipelago here and now and make
it a noble gesture of self-sacrifice. Or
he might offer the troublesome colony
to the League, and the League might send
a commission with a bale of stationery
to run it. Still, the League sent a com-
mission to Manchuria, and it did not
prevent one of its members being shorn
of that province.
A BIGGER “BULLETIN.”
One of the features of the depression has been the increased interest
shown in the great life-assurance societies, which have been such a tower
of strength to the nation in good times and bad.
By way of encouraging this healthy development “The Bulletin” has
published a periodical life-assurance section. There will be another in the
issue of June 13, which will be increased to 52 pages.
A permanent enlargement of eight pages has now been decided upon.
All the existing features will remain; those to be added are designed to
remove the complaint (not infrequent, it, is confessed) that “there is not
much in ‘The Bulletin’ about motor-cars, very little about wireless and
nothing about bridge.” And there will be more illustrations.
The bigger “Bulletin” will appear on June 20. From that time forward
52 pages will be the normal size.


Society
“AND IT'S DRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“O. W. Waireki”: The trials of a free-
lance! When I got my first job outback
I was already bombarding editors with
MSS., though the household knew no-
thing of my literary aspirations. My
efforts usually returned in a self-
addressed envelope, and the boss’s wife,
who recognised my writing, drew her
own inferences. “He’s touched,” she told
the neighbors. “Writes himself letters,
so as he can get a big mail.”
* * * *
“Quack”: Many who served in the
Great War, including doctors, will be
surprised to read (B. 23/5/’34) that the
efficacy of tetanus serum was questioned
at an Adelaide inquest. It was the fixed
practice to give wounded men a tetanus
injection, at the first-aid post if pos-
sible. As a result, the mortality,
hideously high in the old days, shrank
to negligible proportions on all fronts,
especially in France, where the filthy
conditions on highly cultivated and in-
tensively manured land —always a happy
home of the tetanus bacillus —were all
“Mother and I are waiting for our baths."
“Well, you ’ave yours right now, and I’ll be finished by the time SHE'S ready.”
in its favor. Typhoid killed more British
troops in South Africa than any enemy
instrumentality; In the Indian Frontier
wars of other days the staff always wrote
off a percentage of effectives on cholera’s
account. In this last show, with troops
inoculated against typhoid, paratyphoid,
smallpox and cholera, losses were trifling
by comparison.
“Sark”: This uniform-shirt business
has grown a long way since Mussolini
cribbed an idea from Garibaldi’s red
shirts, and clad his followers in black.
Looking over a recent list of people
affecting this indicative garment in
Europe and elsewhere, I find that Ger-
many and Rumania are wearing brown,
the Irish Free State and France blue,
Belgium and Hungary (and the Douglas
Creditites in England) green, Switzerland
yellow and black, South Africa grey and
the U.S.A. silver. Australia has not yet
definitely decided, as far as can be seen,
but Eric Campbell may give it a lead
any day.
* * H= *
“Medicus”: Touching the practice
among Cornish communities of lighting
bonfires on June 24 (B. 9/5/’34), the fol-
lowing extract from Dr. Dan McKenzie’s
“The Infancy of Medicine” (1927) may
prove of interest:
It is an old belief that the midsummer bon-
fires of Europe were health-bringing. In the
Ardennes- shepherds used to pass their flocks
through the smoke of the fires in order to pre-
vent sickness and witchcraft. In Cornwall the
people danced round the bonfires and leaped
through the flames to ward off evil spirits and
prevent disease. Until the eighteenth century
similar bonfires, known as the “Beltaine fires,'
used to be kindled in tb; Highlands of Scot-
land, and in the ceremonies connected with
them we can trace the vestiges of an ancient
human sacrifice.
“Bonefire”: It isn’t only in Cornwall
and the Highlands that St. John’s Eve is
celebrated with bonfires ; the Irish people
have always been addicted to them.
When I was a child Galway’s celebrations
invariably took the form of large bone-
fires (as they were called), consisting of
cartloads of peat with kerosene poured on
the lower parts. The young people all
dressed up in their best clothes and
danced round the fires until they burned
down to ground level. Many took away
portions of the burnt-out embers, which
were supposed to be luck-bringers. Bone-
fires in Ireland are said to have been
originally lighted on all the hills in honor
of pagan deities, but St. Patrick dedicated
them to St. John.
$ * * SH
“Shoreditch”: Samuel Insull, who has
earned so much notoriety as an un-
successful fugitive from Uncle Sam, is an
old man to have gone tearing about the
world pursued by extradition warrants —
he is in his 75th year. Although so long
identified with American finance and
Chicago enterprises, he was born in Lon-
don, and it is doubtful if he ever saw
America until he was in his twenties. He
went there in 1881. and became private
secretary to Edison.
* * * *
“Gospodin”: Something seems to have
survived the wreck of Royalist Russia.
A Sydney shop exhibits, in small modern
glass containers, a comestible labelled
“Romanoff Caviar.... under Royal and
Imperial patronage. Made at Astrakan,
Russia.” I shan’t be surprised now
if I see in some shop window the allur-
ing notice: “Larks’ tongues in aspic,
As purveyed to the Roman Senate
Dining-rooms. Made at Capernaum.”
“Now, Myrtle, don’t go staying up all night on deck with the officer.”
“It’s all right, auntie. He goes on watch at four o’clock.”
“Torsion”: As an engineer of parts
(mostly spare parts) I am interested in
the claim of the Soviet that an aero-
plane now being constructed will develop
600 m.p.h. after rising to 80,000 feet and
entering the stratosphere. This is based
on the theory that in that tenuous atmo-
sphere—almost a vacuum —there will be
no friction to retard the speed. But how
is the propeller going to get grip enough
to pull or drive the machine through fric-
tionless space? Whether the crew could
be kept alive or not is quite beside the
question.
J ... ... ifc
“Uskub”: Sydney “Tele-
graph” contrasts the orderliness
and quiet efficiency of the recent
coup d’etat in Bulgaria with the
violence and massacre that were
formerly almost inseparable
from a change of Government
in the Balkans. By way of em-
phasis, it adds a pen-picture of
“the Karageorgevitch who, in
1903, strode into the palace at
Belgrade with an axe and be-
came a king over the mutilated
bodies of a king and queen.”
This is on a par with some of
the distorted history of the
talkies. The Karageorgevitch of
the period (Peter, father of the
present ruler of Yugoslavia) did
no axe-work on the night when
King Alexander and Queen
Draga were hacked to pieces.
He wasn’t within hundreds of
miles of the place. The assassins
were officers and men of the 6th
Infantry Regiment, and after
they had finished their grisly job
they formed themselves into a
new Ministry and offered the
throne to Peter, then at Geneva.
Peter had been waiting for such
an invitation ever since the
Obrenovitches began to go downhill.
* * * *
“H.W.L.S.”: The Saguenay, in which
four men were drowned in Bass Strait,
was not, as “C.Q.” implies (B. 16/5/’34),
“a little cockleshell with an enormous
well.” It was a fine craft, bought from a
Port Phillip yachtsman, who had used it
for pleasure trips, by Lionel Learmonth,
a member of a pioneer Hamilton family.
The owner-skipper was one of those
claimed by the storm, a sudden onslaught
which might have overwhelmed the best
of fishing craft. McGrath, the survivor,
was one of a well-known Portsea fishing
family ; he owed his life to a marathon
swim of 400 yards through tremendous
surf.
“Emsworth”: The 304 ft. mentioned by
“Corselet” (B. 16/5/’34) isn’t by any
means a diving record for an air-filled
dress. British naval divers have operated
at nearer 400 ft., and last year some Ger-
mans, testing new diving-suits, attained
a shade over 500 ft. These records went
by the board at the beginning of last
month, when two Italian divers on the
salvage ship Briarco got down to 1181 ft.
They, too, were testing new suits, to be
employed in salvaging the British steamer
Glenartney, sunk in T 8 by a sub., and
now resting 750 ft. below the waves. The
test took place off Porto Pino, in Sar-
dinia. For steel cylinder gadgets, the
record stands at 2100 ft. Americans Dr.
William Beebe and Otis Barton pene-
trated that far off Nonsuch Island, Ber-
muda, in 1932.
* * * *
“U.R.E.”: Some of the suburbs of
Canberra named after statesmen of other
days are advancing very slowly. Turner
and Symonston have a population of
three persons each ; Deakin has 39 and
Parkes 43. At the other end of the list,
according to the latest census bulletin,
is Fyshwick, with a population of 1229.
Nobody ever calls it by its proper name,
however; it has become “Causeway.”
Kingston, always called locally “East-
lake,” has 728, Braddon 764, Forrest
634, Griffith 586, Reid 492 and Barton
359.
* * * *
“C.M.”: One of the Britons asked to
attend Melbourne’s forthcoming birth-
day party was Aldous Huxley, whose
“Brave New World” is still regarded by
the Customs as unfit for consumption by
adult Melbourne citizens. Invitation
declined.
* * * *
“Missing Heir”: A rich harvest for
lawyers has been provided by the spiteful
will of Pieter Taylor Vanderbulst (origin-
ally Peter Taylor), who died in Holland
150 years ago leaving a vast sum of money
in four steel chests, bequeathed to a
nephew in Scotland. The will directed
that if the nephew died first the money
was to be held for 100 years and then
distributed to his male descendants, the
object being to ensure that Peter’s brother
shouldn’t get it. During the last half-
century claimants have arisen all over
the British Empire, but all have failed
for lack of proof of descent. What looks
like the most direct bit of evidence
hitherto dredged up has been found in
Maoriland, an old family Bible, which
records the birth of John Taylor, brother
of Peter, of Agnes, John’s daughter, and
her marriage to a man named Nimmo.
But the Nimmo of'the third or fourth
generation who owned the Bible was for
40 years in a mental hospital, and is now
probably dead, and exactly how he con-
nects up with the original beneficiary—
the “Scottish nephew,” who certainly
wasn’t John’s son —is obscure. The pre-
sent value of old Peter’s gold is com-
puted at £8,000,000.
JEAN BATTEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jean Batten! Name that’s something of a
hurdle,
Hard to be welded into rippling rhyme,
But what’s it matter when she’s put a girdle
Half-round the earth in woman’s record time?
Tune up your lyres, you sons of bright Apollo;
Out of the blue drops an aerial queen,
Of swallows flying south the super-swallow.
Here’s to you, Jean!
Forgive me that your name I cramp and flatten
Into such brief, familiar address,
The words which might be made to click with
Batten
Being a meagre lot and meaningless.
To tropic Darwin from the cliffs of Dover
You winged your perilous way in days fifteen,
A solo feat that’s worth exulting over.
Here’s greeting, Jean!
Across the world, o’er seas and mountains
faring,
Through storms that blind and under suns
that grill,
She came, a glowing proof of woman’s daring.
A miracle of hardihood and skill.
What wealth of tributes waits to fall upon her,
Another link the ends of earth between,
Another name upon the scroll of honor.
Here’s to you, Jean!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Topper”: Add to the virtues assigned
by “St. James de M.” to the high silk
hat (B. 23/5/’34) that it is unrivalled
as a repository for loot. I wore it con-
stantly on Sundays as a schoolboy. Sun-
day afternoons were devoted to walks
abroad in a pleasant countryside teeming
with rabbits and othen small deer. With
the aid of a catapult or an ingenious in-
strument known as a “squailer,” it was
a common thing to capture a rabbit, and
sometimes even a hare. Concealment of
these in the brief jacket and tight trousers
of the Sunday schoolboy of those days
was impossible. It was possible, how-
ever, by careful manipulation, to pack
two rabbits or one hare, one duck (farm-
yard) or two chickens into a topper.
* sis * *
“Sixenate”: Not all the absent-minded
beggars leave their untouched balances
in the bank ; over £14,000 of unclaimed
money, held in the Probate Juris-
“How dare you bring my husband’s name into this argument!”
diction of the Supreme Court during
the years 1893-1913, has been handed
over to the N.S.W. Government.
The amounts range from twopence to
£2669, and include sums paid in for
security for costs which the successful liti-
gants apparently never troubled to re-
trieve. But perhaps the greatest aggre-
gate of unclaimed cash, although it is
in small amounts, goes to swell the pro-
fits of pawnbrokers. When an unre-
deemed pledge is sold the right remains
with the original owner to claim the
difference between the amount lent plus
interest and that received at the sale.
Whatever may be the case with valuable
pledges, there are small balances upon
the great bulk of pawned articles, but
not one person in a hundred of those
who seek the assistance of Uncle puts
in a claim.
* * * *
“Sucker”: One of the greatest bluffs
ever put up on credulous humanity is
recalled by the death in England of John
Hine, until recently Bishop of Grantham.
Nearly 120 years ago, Johanna South-
cote, founder of a creed
which still has a few devoted
followers, died without ful-
filling her promise that she
was to be the mother of the
new Messiah. She left a
locked box which was only
to be opened in time of grave
national emergency, and then
only in the presence of 24
bishops. In 1927 it was de-
cided to open the box, but
the late Bishop of Grantham
was the only bishop to toe
the mark. The contents con-
sisted of an old pistol, a few
coins and a dice box, with a
novel, published in 1796, en-
titled “The Surprise of Love.”
* * *
“Selma”: The gentleman
who had been ringing the
changes round our suburb
decided that the girl in the
small haberdashery looked an
easy mark. He asked for a
bolt of tape, and as the 9s.
lid. change was within his
grasp suddenly discovered
that he had a penny, and
asked for the return of his
ten-shilling note. But the
damsel clutched it, swept up
the 9s. lid. and remarked,
“I’ll get dad to settle this.”
A lusty call for dad sent
the customer scurrying off, leaving 10s.
Id. behind. Dad now reckons that
if he could sell his stock of tape at
that price per bolt he could afford to go
to the Melbourne centenary.
* * * *
“Erua”: Some of the Sydney dailies
are agitated over the report that Bom-
bala (N.S.W.) is suffering from a plague
of earwigs, an insect described as a new-
comer. Possibly the earwig is a newcomer
in quantity, but most gardeners can testify
that he is to be seen around Sydney on
any Saturday afternoon when the weekly
digging is in progress. He is slightly
larger than his English brother, and the
fact that he is carelessly dubbed a “scor-
pion” may account for the fact that he
is not more widely recognised.
* * * *
“Meteren”: I heard another advantage
claimed for anti-aircraft shells when
Mick and I stood in the mud of Ypres
and looked at the barrage dotting the
sky with fleecy puffs, ’way back behind
the town. Mick should have been tread-
ing the pavements of Piccadilly instead
of the duckboards of Westhoek, but his
pass had hardly been made out when the
command came from headquarters for
all leave to be cut out, and he was still
filled with a sense of injury. “We might
“Never could shtand these blasted eshcalators!”
as well be throwing clods of mud at
them,” I remarked. Mick pondered a
moment. “I dunno,” he said; “head-
quarters is back there somewhere, and
p’raps the fragments and duds are drop-
pin’ among ’em. The shootin’ ain’t
wasted if a few uv ’em get donged.”
“Double Disc” : “Jeviel” has got things
mixed (B. 23/5/’34); British anti-aircraft
gunners invariably used time shrapnel.
About the middle of 1918 a small per-
centage of H.E. shell with time fuse was
issued to our “Archie” batteries. The
black bursts from German A.A. shells
were caused by H.E. ; their time shrap-
nel usually burst with a yellowish smoke.
The German High Command pinned its
faith to H.E. and gas for all branches
of their artillery. Documents captured
at Ypres and Vimy showed that the allo-
cation for 77 m.m. (“whizz-bang”) field-
guns was 70 per cent. H.E., 25 per cent,
gas and 5 per cent, shrapnel. For nearly
all other calibres H.E. and gas were used
almost exclusively. Anyway, I’ve never
seen an H.E. burst give white smoke.
The nearest thing to it was the dirty grey
wisps of the wicked little Mills grenade.
* * * *
“Bullionist”: The reputation of the
London Mint hasn’t been enhanced by
the silver coins made for Maoriland.
The shillings hadn’t been in circulation
a week before a man took one to an
Auckland bank and asked if it was a
dud—his reason was that it had com-
menced to split along the milled edge.
A few days later a half-crown with the
same disease turned up in Masterton.
* * * *
“Sinbad”: So the old Indian rope
trick shows up again, with the embel-
lishment of a dismembered body and a
bloody sword. Some years ago, in Cal-
cutta, I heard what is by far the most
probable explanation, that the rope trick
was originally performed in a courtyard
after dark, the rope being thrown from
below and caught by an accomplice
stationed on the balcony above. On a
dark night the courtyard flares would
make the balcony practically invisible to
onlookers; add to this an audience of
newly-arrived Tommies imbued with
tales of Eastern magic and canteen beer,
and it is not hard to imagine the rope
trick starting on its weary way.
* * * *
“Unity”: I recollect another rebuke
from the boards that carried more punch
than those already quoted. When an
opera co. toured M.L. the red-haired
leading lady received among her floral
tributes a bunch of carrots. Unfortu-
nately for the youth who had tossed the
bunch over the footlights her husband
was in the wings. He took one flying leap,
crashed on to the youth, and bore him
to the floor. Only the young man’s agi-
tated statement that he had thrown the
carrots for a bet prevented bloodshed.
“Quatre CEufs”: “El V.” (B. 9/5/’34)
hits the nail on the head regarding the
method of teaching languages in our
schools. In Egypt a merchant who could
only speak French sought out our lieut.
Q.M. to transact some business. This
officer was a university professor, and
was later attached to Intelligence for his
knowledge of languages; yet he could
make no headway with the Egyptian.
The sergeant Q.M. butted in with “Let
me have a go at him, sir.” Within a few
minutes the business was settled. We
found afterwards that the sergeant had
picked up his French in New Caledonia
and was unable to read or write it.
'** * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide police court
has been enlivened by a humorous insult-
ing-language charge. P.C. 49 said he had
found a man carrying a pair of white
shoes. “I suspect you of stealing those.”
“You would, you great lobster!” “That
is insulting.” “I couldn’t insult you.”
Arrest; “and all the way to the watch-
house he used the words ‘lobster,’
‘goat’ and ‘mug.’ ” When it was found
that he had been peacefully carrying his
own shoes the P.M. told him to apolo-
gise and go.
* * * *
“Gilbert de Sleuth”: The “Spanish
prisoner” swindle (B. 2/5/’34) has been
worked continuously for over 70 years.
Names and addresses are taken at ran-
dom from the postal directories of the
world, and the appeal for aid goes out
regularly with slight variations. It costs
about £2 per hundred to mail and write the
letters, and if only one person in a hun-
dred replies and sends the £5 asked for
preliminary expenses the venture is pro-?-
Stable. In spite of the almost childish
simplicity of the swindle it works, because
it suggests that the mug will be put in
the position where he or she can do the
defrauding—and without that little touch
99 per cent, of confidence tricks wouldn’t
work.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: It was proposed that Mary
Pickford and Ronald Colman should be
guests of Melbourne during the forth-
coming centenary celebrations, but the
proposal was turned down flatly. Why?
I should like to ask. There is nothing
in the centenary arrangements to suggest
that the committee is doing anything
more than aim at a programme which
will attract visitors. If the World’s Sweet-
heart and the World’s Lover signed an
agreement not to call at Sydney or M L.
there would be an enormous migratory
movement in the direction of the Yarra.
Although myself somewhat of a high-
brow, I would far sooner entertain Mary
and Ronnie than any of the other guests
invited. The ruling snobbishness does
not extend.to sport, for which purpose
even a girl tennis-and-pingpong expert is
being imported from China.
THE INFALLIBLE SIGN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘You could tell there was something more than
friendship between them,’ said a witness in Sydney
Divorce Court, ‘by the way he looked at her.’ ”
It isn’t only written words or spoken
May give away a secret of the heart;
It doesn’t need an overt sign or token
To sometimes wreck a fellow’s applecart;
It matters nothing after whom you’re tagging,
But here’s a tip, my son, should you prefer
To keep the tongues of stickybeaks from
wagging:
Be mindful of the way you look at her.
When Romeo is on his Juliet gazing
Rapt adoration will not hurt a jot,
But what an indiscretion fierce and blazing
’Twould be accounted in a Lancelot!
And when he came, that luckless erring gallant,
Into King Arthur’s halls with Guinevere
Perchance (who knows?) what waked Round
Table “talent”
To what was up was —how he looked at her.
In this censorious world suspicion’s chronic;
Mere friendliness as such is seldom viewed;
And in that grin you fondly deem platonic
Others may find a proof of turpitude.
Shame, says the saw, on him who evil fancies —
It’s sound philosophy, I do aver;
But, all the same, unless you’re taking chances,
Be wary of the way you look at her.
The glance of welcome, nothing more, ex-
pressive
Is apt to be interpreted (my oath!)
As either unmistakably possessive
Or patently acquisitive—or both.
And if so be she runs in harness double
In busybodies’ minds you’re bound to stir
Uncharitable thoughts and waken trouble
By the admiring way you look at her.
Heigh-ho! With such a galaxy of graces
About (and such a lot of rubbernecks)
’Tis well that some of us have poker faces
And others go abroad in horn-rimmed specs.
In either there’s a measure of protection,
I’ll say, against the stigma and the slur
Implied in that malevolent reflection:
“Speaks for itself, the way he looks at her!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Ĵ
J
I
A World of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
“CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH -4 SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 100% VIRGINIA
Ouw£ti W OM maM fpejUaMy to tWUrtMjb Sort UviOUjU
POLITICAL POINTS
A bundle of telegrams to Scullin was
read at his Sydney Town Hall meeting.
Longer than all the rest was the one from
Collier, the Westralian Premier ; in it he
slated the Langsters and urged waverers
to remain faithful to “Federal” Labor.
But isn’t this gentleman trying to secede
from everything “Federal”?
C. A. Lamp, one of the Labor candi-
dates for Bass (Tas.), says, in effect, that
farmer-relief is as easy as shelling peas.
The Commonwealth Bank should make
up selling price to cost of production
plus a fair margin of profit. All advances
should be issued free.
Regardless, of course, of whether a man
has good land or bad ; tills it properly
or just scratches it; is a worker or a
loafer. This Lamp should be put out.
One of the first moves of Brisbane’s
Labor-controlled council has been to
apply the spoils-to-the-victors principle.
The industrial officer has been given a
month’s notice —“nothing personal,” ol
course ; “just a matter of policy.” The
usual defeated Labor candidate has been
appointed in his place.
A bulletin from the Prime Minister’s
superflous department:
Before the Ottawa conference meat prices
were ruinous The negotiation of the
agreement at Ottawa was a delicate task,
but, thanks to the work done prices
almost doubled and the foundation of the
Australian chilled-beef trade was laid.
Not a word about the invention of the
new process which made chilled-meat
export possible. Why doesn’t the Prime
Minister’s department claim credit for
the rise in wool prices and the continued
good weather?
When the Moore Government granted
a concession over abandoned N.Q. gold-
fields, the then Labor Opposition fought
the proposal tooth and nail, as interfering
with the rights of the small prospector.
With the formation of a £600,000 co. in
London to develop the concession, Labor
politicians now in charge in Queensland
are claiming the whole credit for Our
Party.
One Labor gentleman to another in
Tasmania:
If you were mixed with the pollard the
pigs wouldn’t eat you.
The speaker is Fed. Lab.; his “comrade”
belongs to the other faction.
Holman, M.H.R., opened his “S. M.
Herald” the other morning and found in
it a circumstantial report, evidently in-
spired, that he was going to efface him-
self to oblige Stevens. Though the mildest-
mannered politician who ever served two
parties, he was provoked into replying
with some heat that it was the first he
had heard of it, and that he wouldn’t
leave Martin till Martin left him. He
has a right to feel hurt. After all, he was
Premier for just on seven years—the
longest term on record —and played no
mean part in history when Stevens was
unknown. As for oratory, Stevens is not
in Holman’s class.
Victorians are either eminently satis-
fied with their Upper House or dashed
apathetic about it. Seventeen of the 34
members had to face their constituents
this year, and 11 have been returned un-
opposed. They are Assistant Minister
Harold Cohen, H. H. Smith, W. C.
Angliss, G. V. Lansell, C. H. A. Eager,
Martin McGregor and Marcus Saltau, of
the U.A.P.; Dr. Harris, Richard Kil-
patrick and Henry Pye, of the U.C.P.,
and E. L. Kiernan, now an Independent.
There are solid men among them ; but,
considering that members sit for six years
and get salaries, railway passes, postage
allowances, club and library privileges,
it is strange that there should be so
little competition for their jobs.
In the Commonwealth Commissioner
of Taxation v. Payne, the High Court
decided that an Australian is liable for
income tax on interest on British Gov-
ernment stocks received in England and
expended there, and also on exchange,
even if he does not bring the money to
Australia. Now in the same Commis-
sioner v. the Colonial Gas Association
it has decided that an Australian co. must
pay tax on interest sent abroad to a
debenture-holder, though English law is
that the debenture-holder is entitled to
the interest in full. If these interpreta-
tions are right the Income Tax Acts must
be unspeakably bad ; but that is no con-
solation to the victims.
The mystery of the Free State’s surplus
is apparently explained by the profits on
its sweeps. From five held last year, a
Sassenach newspaper alleges, the Govern-
ment netted “over £2,000,000.” To one
on the Grand National the amount sub-
ARMAMENTS& CO.
“The U.S.A., which is entering on a new vast and aerial building programme,
intends to push for reduction and control of armaments.”
“Coming to the disarmament concert, Sam ?”
“Sure, buddy. Wait till I buy me a few more gats.”
scribed was £3,139,321, and £2,025,730
was distributed in prizes, “including those
given to sellers of tickets” ; of the balance
the promoters (Hospitals Trust) took
£69,026, the Government £193,832 for
revenue and the same amount for poor-
law hospitals and nursing organisations.
Nearly all this easy money comes from
the other side of the Irish Sea —or did
until the Oppressor objected.
It looks as if the next aristocracy will
be composed of lottery promoters.
Printed that “heads of departments” on
Hospitals Trust, which runs the Irish
sweeps, get from £lOOO to £5OOO p.a. ;
and a “technical adviser to the promoters”
receives £20,000 p.a. No wonder one of
the gentlemen batting on this wonderful
wicket can afford to buy a ’plane for
the Melbourne centenary race and pay all
expenses.
Westralian Federal Nats, and Cockies
always pray for a State Labor Govern-
ment to be in office when they have to face
their constituents. Their prayer has been
answered this year, but secesh. has intro-
duced an uncertain factor. It won’t
bother Johnston, who is on the executive
of the Dominion League, but it will
sorely embarrass Kingsmill, who came
out manfully for the Commonwealth
cause, and will have to look for a nomi-
nation from a mostly secessionist Nat.
Fed. As he is getting old and has been
ill, he may not try.
Former N.S.W. Leg. Councillors who
failed of election when Trautwein was
exalted are to be allowed to keep their
rail and tram passes for as many years
as they were members. The public was
assured at the referendum that they
would be deprived of them. But the
Government prefers to “honor” a promise
made previously by Bavin or somebody
that the privilege of free travel would be
continued. The public never authorised
Bavin or anybody else to commit it to
expenditure which will go on when
Bavin is forgotten. It is a prime example
of the impudence of elected persons.
Evidently the other States and the
Commonwealth won’t agree to let retired
and passed-out N.S.W. Leg. Councillors
travel on the nod, so the passes to be
retained by these worthies are good for
N.S.W. lines only. Many voted for
Lang’s 10 p.c. tax on the A.M.P. and
other repositories of the savings of the
thrifty dealing in mortgages. Their dead-
head badge should be of leather.
For years the treatment of N.S.W.
mental cases has been handicapped by
overcrowding, the superintendent’s pro-
tests to Government after Government
having fallen on deaf ears. This stain
on N.S.W.’s name is to be removed
through the munificence of one of those
bankers whom Lang abominates.
Thomas Buckland, chairman of the
’Wales, is giving £lOO,OOO so that con-
valescents may be transferred to the
mountains —enough to build a modern
hospital and keep it going without State
aid —stipulating only that water should
be laid on by the Government. Stevens
and co. have accepted the gift and the
condition, and are to spend £60,000 on
a water supply for the district, which
takes in Springwood and Woodford.
What’s the matter with Prince George?
His sudden and unexplained cancella-
tion of his Australian tour has been fol-
lowed by a refusal to go to a British
Legion conference which he had ar-
ranged to attend. The Legion is the
equivalent of our R.S.L., and the heir-
apparent hurriedly intervened with sooth-
ing words. When Prince George was
leaving South Africa, a correspondent
mentioned in a cryptic cablegram that he
had gone about that sub-lropical coun-
try without a hat. It will be hard to
restrain the Hatters’ Union from point-
ing the moral.
Collier’s pre-election promise that
Labor would “appoint a Minister to
devote his full time to unemployment
problems” was derisively recalled at the
Leg. Council elections, and was a factor
in his party’s wretched showing—with
only seven seats in a House of 30, it did
not gain one. The Full-time Minister is
J. J. Kenneally, of Labor faction-fight
celebrity. Mr. Kenneally, according to
the scornful “Diver” Hughes, is “either
just going to or just coming from the
Eastern States,” and, from Sydney’s ex-
perience, his former “comrade” is pretty
right.
Reviewing the gold-mining revival in
Westralia, London “Financial News” re-
marks that “the industry is extremely
lucky in having Governments which have
not tried to cut pieces off the golden
goose.” Lucky it is, considering that
South Africa is taking 52 p.c. of Rand
cos.’ profits. “Australian Governments,”
the “News” proceeds, “have even tried to
fatten the goose.” The Commonwealth
one did when the bird looked rather
feeble—with a bonus. It is nevertheless
called an octopus by fiery octogenarians
in Perth or thereabouts, who vow they
will secede from it, though the gold-
fielders vow they won’t.
Brisbane City Council has surprised
many of its Labor backers by refusing an
offer of a share in a goldmine. A syn-
dicate wants to develop a show in Enog-
gera, and, in consideration of permission
to mine being given, said it would give
the council a sixth share f.p. and n.l.
Lord Mayor Jones, who knows some-
thing about mining, declared against the
proposal, though permission to root
about in the area, which is part of
the Enoggera water reserve, has been
granted.
Members of Hogan’s Labor Ministry
are furnishing the only lively features of
the Vic. Leg. Council elections. W. J.
Beckett, who lost his Melbourne North
seat and his Health portfolio before the
party went to pieces, is out in its interest
for Melbourne East, and has a last-
minute opponent —H. E. Hall, Mayor of
Brighton. The Trades Hall did not tackle
Kiernan in Melbourne North, but is run-
ning W. H. Walsh, a Footscray con-
tractor, against Bob Williams in Mel-
bourne West, and will doubtless instruct
the faithful to vote for J. T. Gill, Mayor
of Newtown, against J. P. Jones, in the
South-western Province. Jones sat for
Melbourne East as Hogan’s Minister of
Works, and then Argyle’s ; but is now
looking for something easier. Gill and
Gray, a Williamstown man who is out
for Melbourne West, are I>.A.P., but
the party organisation has had the
effrontery to repudiate them.


chairman 'a solemn duty Faces us, gentlemen , that of choosing a name for. the nation’s
LATEST IDOL . I SUGGEST - ER- 'SKY QUEEN*.”
disgruntled shareholder : "rotten! 'bats’ 15 the name
for us ITS SNAPPY, FAMILIAR, an’ BATS FLY, AN* — "
MIGHT AS WELL CALL THE G|RL ' BATTY' At ONCE . LETTS’
HAVE SOMETHING POETIC. WATTABOUT 'ANGEL JEAN 1 ? "
' i'm in favor of inventing an exclusive name of our
own.‘birdie’ for example what could BE BETTER.THAN
‘ BIRDIE' BATTEN ? "
MISS BUTTIN *. "WHY NOT CALL HER MISS BATTEN ?"
WHY MISS BUTTIN LOST HER JOB ON A GREAT NEWSPAPER.


(jive*. PICK-UP/
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some June birthdays:—•
Dr. Alexander Leeper (Melb.), 86, on 3rd;
W. B. Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.),
73, medico-knight David Hardie (Bris.), 78,
on 4th; Bishop Radford (formerly of Goui-
burn), 65, Major-Gen. Kenneth Mackay, 75,
Prof. A. B. Taylor (Hobart), 38, and Mrs.
Gunn (“We of the Never Never”), on
sth; Major-Gen. Glasgow, 58, Justice lnghs
Clark (Speck), 52, Arthur H. Adams, 62, Jus-
tice Boyce (N.S.W. Supreme Court), 62, Waltei
Marks, former M.H.R. for Wentworth, 59, and
film censor O’Reilly, 57, on 6th; F. W. Mole
(former Q. Public Curator), 69, and Prof. G.
V. Portus, M.A. (Adel.), 51, on 7th; Dr. Pres-
cott (Newington Coll., Syd.), 77, S. L. Gardner,
M H.R. (Robertson), 50, and author Charles
Rodda, 43, on 9th; George Marks (Sydney
“Sun”), 50, art-critic William Moore (Syd.), 66,
Geo. Steer (gen. man. Brisbane Tramways), 61,
on 11th; J. Lane Mullins (N.S.W.), 77,
Kent Hughes, M.L.A. (Vic.), 39, and Carmn
Hammond (Syd.), 64, on 12th; entomologist
Walter Froggatt (Syd.), 76, on 13th; Tas. Rail-
way Commissioner F. P. St. Hill, 60, on 15th;
J. H. Prowse, M.H.R. (Forrest), 63, and Bishop
Halse (Riverina), 53, on 16th; Justice Cantor
(N.S.W. Industrial Commission), 47, on 17th;
R.C. Bishop Barry (Goulburn), 59, Frank Tate
(Vic.’s former Director of Education), 71, and
T. L. Axford, V.C. (W.A.), 39, on 18th; Dr.
J. H. Cumpston (Director-Gen. of Quarantine),
54, Col. R. A. Crouch, former M.H.R. for
Corangamite, 64, Capt. R. C. Grieve, V.C.
(Vic.), 45, and J. W. Kitto (P.M.G.’s Dept.,
Syd.), 63, on 19th; J. M. Fowler, former
M.H.R. for Perth, 69, on 20th; N.S.W. Govt.
Printer Alfred Kent, 61, on 21st; Major-Gen.
Coxen, 64, and Prof. J. B. Cleland (Adel.), 56,
on 22nd ; knight Gilbert Dyett (pres. R.5.5.1.L.),
43, on 23rd; R. O. Blackwood (Vic.), 73,
and Heber Longman, Director Q’land Museum,
54, on 24th; T. J. Roseby (long of Syd. Water
Board), 68, knight Harold Luxton (former Lord
Mayor of Melb.), 46, and Errol G. Knox
(editor of “Who’s Who in Australia”), 45, on
25th; author C. L. Barrett (Melb.), 55, and
Melb.-born Prof. W. K. Hancock (Birmingham
Uni.), 36, on 26th; geologist Dr. Frank Still-
well (Vic.), 46, J. Nevin Tait, 58, Dr. Fred
Watson (editor of “Historical Records”), 56,
Speaker George Pollock, M.L.A. (Q.), 44, on
27th; ex-Speck Senator J. H. Keating, 62, on
28th; Dr. S. S. Cameron (for many years Vic.
Director of Agriculture), 68, on 29th; Tas.
Solicitor-Gen. Griffiths, 53, knight Victor Wil-
son (ex-S.A. Senator), 57, and painter Norman
Carter, 59, on 30th.
During the war The Bulletin wrote:
“Another patriot has been discovered.
Harry J. Weston sends his onfy father,
and wishes he were young enough to go
himself.” The father, who went as a
munition worker, died last week, aged 83.
Robert Hogarth, who was 76 last Sunday,
has worked in the Waverley Woollen
Mills, Launceston (Tas.), since the busi-
ness started. It celebrated its diamond
jubilee a few weeks ago. He wove the
first piece of cloth produced in the mill,
became first a partner, then proprietor.
He is now managing director.
Elsie Wearn is Sydney’s only woman-
dentist. She graduated at Sydney Uni-
versity three years ago, took her doctor’s
degree at Toronto Dental College, and
is now holding down the job of dental
superintendent at the Rachel Forster Hos-
pital.
R. T. Hilder, at present signing a.g.m.
of the Bank of N. S. Wales, in the
absence overseas of A. C. Davidson, has
just completed half a century’s continu-
ous service. Born in Brisbane, his
apprenticeship in the bank was served
in Toowoomba under Charles Alford,
who afterwards filled the chief inspec-
tor’s chair. R.T. goes out on furlough at
the end of the year.
The managership of Tooheys is one
of the plums of the Sydney commercial
world. Eric Callaway landed it last week.
He is only 30, and looks younger, is a
teetotaller and non-smoker, and has been
with the firm since he started there as
1 a messenger-boy 16 years ago. He
belongs to a family of cricketers and
used to play for Paddington second
eleven.
Father Rockliff arrived in Sydney on
a cargo steamer last week. He has three
distinctions. He is the world’s most tra-
velled cleric: he has done an average of
1000 miles a week for the past six years.
He is one of the three R.C. priests who
hold master-mariners’ tickets. And his
flock consists entirely of sailors—the
700,000 Catholic seamen of all nationali-
ties who go up and down the Seven Seas
in ships. He is in Australia in connec-
tion with the Apostleship of the Sea
which he started.
Thos. Maddock, of Glenview (Q.), must
be about the oldest man on the land in
Australia, if not in the world. At 92
he still works on the farm which he
pioneered in the ’sixties. Born in Corn-
wall, he arrived in Queensland on the
first immigrant ship, Artemesia, in
1848. He took the first mob of cattle
(500 head) into the North Coast in 1863,
and helped to capture the abo. bush-
ranger “Captain Piper,” who murdered
the botanist Stephens in 1869.
Here is the vision of the Right Hon.
J. H. §cullin, P.C., which impressed itself
on the dazzled retina of the caricaturist
Finey at Sydney Town Hall last Wednes-
day night. The ex-P.M., who is now
touring the political “smalls,” had a
Mr. J. H. SCULLIN. In support, Honesty ( L.) and Purity (R.).
hostile reception from a horde of
metropolitan Langites, but his patient
resignation not unassisted by the
physical impossibility of howling down
the loudspeakers—won the day for
free speech in the end. Mr. Scullin
has been a member of the A.L.P.
for 31 years and an M.H.R. for 24
of them, with a long break. While
out of Parliament, between 1913 and
1922, he edited an evening paper at Bal-
larat, where he and his wife were born
and educated. He differs from his rival,
Mr. Lang, in several respects. He has
no need to drape a few dozen elongated
hairs over his skull in a futile attempt to
camouflage its nakedness ; barbers envy
him his coiffure. And no one has ever
hit him on the nose and got away with
it. He is about half the Auburn chief-
tain’s size and weight. It is not so easy
to distinguish between their policies.
Percy Coleman looked a sick man as
he sat mopping his forehead in the chair
at the Scullin meeting in Sydney Town
Hall last Wednesday night. At one stage
he had to hand over to a deputy and pull
himself together outside. His dogged
determination to carry on probably cost
him his life. Within 48 hours he was
dead. Coleman did much in his 41
strenuous years. Going to sea at 13, he
became a trade-unionist in 1908, and later
organised the Clerical Union. He was
invalided out of the A.I.F. in TB, and
never really recovered. He won Reid in
1922, and held it till Gander ousted him
2\ years ago. Since then he had worked
like a beaver for Federal Labor. Called
to the N. S. Wales Bar last year, he was
beginning to earn good money when the
light went out.
The late Henry Wigram, of Christ-
church (M.L.), was born in London,
educated at Harrow, and given one of
the coveted Bank of England clerkships.
He arrived in M.L. 51 years ago, and
started business as a maltster. When
Christchurch took several neighboring
boroughs into its boundaries he became
first mayor of the enlarged city. Shortly
before the war he formed the Canter-
bury Aviation Co., which trained 180
pilots for war service. In 1921 the De-
fence Department took over the co.,
Wigram contributing £lO,OOO to the pur-
chase money. He also gave the newly-
formed Air Force a Gloster Glebe
fighter, and formed the Canterbury Aero
Club. A K.B. came his way seven years
ago. He was for 30 years chairman of
directors of the Lyttelton “Times” (now
Christchurch “Times”), M.L.’s oldest
newspaper.
Captain “Bunny” Hammond, who has
rejoined Vacuum Oil as aviation officer
for N.S.W., served with the R.F.C. and
R.A.F. during the war. He was forced
down in a fight, and was a prisoner of
war for 15 months. He joined the Sydney
branch of the V.O. Co. after the Armis-
tice, and later became instructor to the
Aero Club of N.S.W. and a director of
Adastra Airways. Afterwards he was
Holden’s pilot at Wau in New Guinea
for a year.
H. G. Chapman, the famous physicist,
who died in Sydney last week, had a
mind which was equally at home with
the problems of miners’ phthisis and the
scientific intricacies of breadbaking, with
the habits of the X-ray and the innate
characteristics of the brick. Chapman
looked more like a professional athlete
than a university professor, and his im-
passive countenance hid a clear-thinking
mind and an iron will. For years he
had been overworked. Not satisfied with
being Professor of Physics at Sydney
University and later Director of Cancer
Research, he seemed to have endless time
to give to Royal Comffiissions and to
commercial enterprises. Most of his
earnings went in benefactions. Science
House and the University Club Building
in Sydney owe much to his generosity.
His spare time was given to fishing and
poker —particularly poker.
C. J. Cerutty, Commonwealth Auditor-
General, who clashed with counsel at
ihe petrol inquiry in Melbourne, has a
mind of his own and doesn’t care who
knows it. When Federal Ministers
ordered him to shift his quarters to Can-
berra he told them to go to the place we
all want to avoid. Despite remonstrances
he is still carrying on in Melbourne. He
prefers it, and that’s that.
W. H. Austin, just dead at 59, was
one of Queensland’s best-known public
servants. He went from Brisbane Gram-
mar to the P.S. over 40 years ago, and
became Deputy-Auditor-General in 1918.
He was appointed by T. J. Ryan as Com-
missioner for Trade to control a new
department which handled the State en-
terprises. After eight years of worry, he
was promoted to be Under-Secretary to
the Trade and Industry Department. He
captained the Queensland Rugby team in
the ’nineties, and was a member of the
State bowling team for 14 years.
George Julius, the Sydney consulting
engineer who is to preside over the Un-
employment Relief Committee set up by
the Stevens Government, is known to the
world as the inventor of the tote. His
father was Churchill Julius, Archbishop
and Primate of M.L., and he was educated
at the C. of E. Grammar School, Mel-
bourne, and the University of M.L. The
chief job of the new committee will be to
look after the future prospects of the
36,000 lads who leave school each year in
N. S. Wales. George Julius will bring a
certain amount of practical experience to
the job: he has brought up three boys of
his own.
T. J. Hartigan, Commissioner of
N.S.W. Railways, belongs to an Austra-
lian family whose name is prominent on
the sporting records. Brother Roger, a
wool man, was a member of the Aus-
tralian XI which saved the Ashes on a
famous occasion at Adelaide, and has
since been a Board of Control man. T. J.
himself was a notable first-grade
cricketer. He is also a skilful tennis and
golf player, and daughter Joan is putting
the family name high up on the tennis
courts. Dad entered the railway service
of which he is boss as a nipper of 16
a temporary clerk. He is 57, and says he
doesn’t feel it —certainly he doesn’t
look it.


AWAITED BY THOUSANDS
THE
1934
ra
m
kso
SHORTLY TO BE RELEASED
BY
PHILIPS
Millions of homes throughout the world enjoy real
radio entertainment with Philips receivers.
The advent of the 1934 radioplayer makes possible
the highest standard of radio enjoyment and is de-
signed especially for Australia.
The 1934 radioplayer is an Australian-made product,
incorporating all that science offers in the design of
radio reception the cabinet is of entirely new design,
and of selected timbers glass polished.
The 1934 radioplayer is engineer designed to give
fidelity in reproduction, while the micrometric selector
enables accurate station finding with minimum effort.
Watch the press for release dates of the 1.934 radio-
player.
HEAR THE BIG CRICKET WITH A
PHILIPS
1934 m


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profit. (10p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 442,178 272,500 40,000 129.678 1,806,324
Premiums on new shares, £191,823.. 1,998,147
1924.. 498,168 307,973 40,000 150,195 2,148,342
Premiums on new shares, £167,529.. 2,315,871
1925.. 538,833 400,000 40,000 98,833 2.414,704
1926.. 568,254 400,000 50,000 118,254 2,532,958
1927.. 581,645 400,000 70,000 111,645 2,644,603
Premiums on new shares, £411,577.. 3,056,180
1928.. 640,401 498,086 50,000 92,315 3,148,495
1929.. 659,278 500,000 50,000 109,278 3,257,773
1930.. 655,134 500,000 50,000 105,134 3,362,907
p.c.).
1931.. 561,206 425,000 50,000 86,206 3,449,113
(6 p.c.)
1932.. 276,838 300,000 3,425,951
(5 p.c.)
1933.. 291,944 250,000 20,000 21,944 3,447,895
1934.. 274,024 250,000 20,000 4,024 3,451,919
There is not the profit in banking that
there used to be. What there is is de-
rived mainly from the difference between
the income from advances and payments
made for deposits, from the margin be-
tween buying and selling prices in the
exchange market, and returns from invest-
ments and sundry pickings, such as inter-
state clearances, rents, etc. In all cases
margins have narrowed. Certainly there
was a heartening spring in the total value
of Australia’s external trade last year, due
mainly to the rise in the price of wool,
and exchange earnings were better. Also,
local trade was livelier. But gains in
these respects were more than offset by
the continued shrinkage of other margins,
due chiefly to the reduction of advance
rates and lower returns from Consols,
Treasury bills and other investments.
Taking the rate for 12 months’ de-
posits as the average, the price paid by
the co. for fixed deposits has been re-
duced from 5 p.c. to 2\ p.c. over the
last three years. Charges for advances
are not disclosed, but the shrinkage
therein has not been so great as in the
average deposit rate. Yet, in the aggre-
gate, the surplus available to the bank
has diminished, because old deposits have
been allowed to run on to maturity at
the old rates, raising the average cost
well above current rates, while cuts in
charges for overdrafts have been general
and immediate. Also, for each £lOO of
fixed deposits there was £126-odd of
advances at work when the books last
closed as against over £136 three years
earlier, and some of the advances, especi-
ally in the wheat areas, are not earning
their keep these days.
From one cause and another' the con-
traction in last year’s gross earnings
(£1,087,369) was £32,869. Exes. (£813,345)
were £14,949 lighter, due to a reduction
of £21,610 in the tax bill (£71,611). That
left the net result at 3.2 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), or less than could be had from
Consols. On the £5,000,000 of capital
alone it was 5.4 p.c. as against 5.8, 5.5,
11.2, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c. back to 1929.
The div., which had been steady at 10
p.c. for the nine years to the close of
accounts in 1930, was kept at 5 p.c.
Subject to political and economic de-
velopments, a bit better might be ex-
pected when the old deposit contracts run
out in a year or two.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
are encouraging:
1920. 1933. 1934.
Notes .. .. £49.809 £47,613 £47,599
Bills, etc. - . 962,908 421,305 418,761
Free deposits . . 11,926,167 10,243,837 12,020,952
Fixed deposits . . 11,472,035 23,418,362 24,191,928
Liquid assets . . 13,194,160 12,470,935 13.947.772
Advances .. .. 13,903,139 29,560,678 30,671,114
Premises, etc. .. 643,636 1,315,041 1,306,739
The year’s growth in current accounts
was £1,777,115, and in fixed deposits
£773,566. Of the lot £1,476,837 was in-
vested in low-interest-bearing liquids, and
advances increased by £1,110,436 net.
When the books closed liquids were equal
to over 225. of each pound of call liabili-
ties and to 38 p.c. of all outside liabilities.
For over 60 years the National was
little known outside its home State. Then
it adopted a vigorous policy of expan-
sion by amalgamation and otherwise, and,
judged by the size of its advances and
deposits, it is now running the ’Asia a
close race for third place amongst the 11
big associated banks.
The market prices the fully-paid £lO
shares at £l3 6s. and the £8 shares paid
to £5 at £6 10s. The return in each
case is approximately 3.8 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. Visibly the backing per pound
of paid capital is £1 13s. 9d. in net tan-
gibles.
Anthony Hordern and Sons (Sydney)
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7i p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ ~£ £ £ £
1927. .150,320 39,221 8 p.c. = 69,589 41,510 20,283
Nominal
Reserves.
1928. .196,947 56,250 8 „ ~100,000 40,697 20,414
1929. .200,404 56,250 8 ~ „ 100,000 44,154 64,56 S
1930. .187,049 56,250 7 „ „ 87,500 43,299107,867
1931.. 55,280 56,250 2 „ ~ 25,000 81,897
Loss.
1932.. 16,907 Nil Nil 64,990
Profit.
1933.. 16,817 Nil Nil 16,817 81,807
1934.. 51,864 51,139 Nil 725 82,532
*After deducting debenture interest.
Results exceeded prospectus estimates
until exchange, tariff adjustments and
taxation made it impossible to get over-
head back in proportion to the fall in
turnover. However, the very progressive
management lost no time in readjusting
the great organisation to altered trading
conditions. The marked improvement in
earnings over the last two years suggests
that stocks, always a tricky item when
conditions are disturbed, are clean,
healthy and rightly priced; they were
taken into the sheet at cost or market
price, whichever was the lower.
Last year the co. spent over £150,000
on remodelling part of the premises.
Though the work was not completed
until November, the new show windows,
better lift service and greater attractiveness
of departments particularly patronised
by women helped to further liven turn-
over, which had already responded to the
rise in the price of wool and improvement
generally. After making all allowances
considered necessary, and they appear to
have been liberal, the visible spring in net
earnings was £33,962:
Net - --Debenture Available for
Feb., Profit. Interest, etc. Shareholders.
1927.. £262,922 £112,602 £150,320
1928.. 267,714 70,767 . 196,947
1929.. 270,404 70,000 200,404
1930.. 257,049 70,000 187,049
1931.. 125,280 70,000 55,280
1932.. 46,530 63,437 16,907*
1933.. 66,727 49,910 * 16,817
1934.. 100,689 48,825 51,864
*Loss.
The £51,864 available for shareholders
was enough to clean the prefs.’ slate to
the end of Feb.( 1932, and another half-
year’s arrears has been paid since the
close of accounts, leaving £65,390 (=ls.
7d. per share) still to come at the end
of February last. Prospects of payments
being brought up to date during the cur-
rent term are encouraging, and, provided
trading conditions become no worse, it
may not be long before the ords.
get into the picture again. Hence
the market prices the ords. at 15s. 3d. and
the prefs. at 255. 9d. as against 9s. and
17s. respectively a year ago. Allowing
for the statutory cut, the prefs. at 255.
9d. return 4\ p.c. The ords. at 15s. 3d.
would yield 4.6 p.c. on a 31 p.c.
distribution, which, together with the
pref. div., would call for £87,300-odd
p.a. Including intangibles, which are
lumped with fixed assets in the published
figures, the net asset backing is £2 15s.
6d. prefs. and 21s. 4d. ords.
The co. is well ribbed financially:
1927. 1933. 1934.
Ord. capital . . £1,246,250 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Pref. capital . . 750,000 750,000 750,000
7 p.c, debentures. . 1,000,000 900,000 900.000
Sundry creditors.. 249,210 83,843 128,209
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant,
goodwill, etc. . . 1,750,237 1,726,387 1,799,150
Stocks . . . . 1,130,878 646,942 641,285
Book debts, cash,
etc 441,777 692,321 670,306
Despite the year’s outlay on premises,
etc., only £72,763 was added to the book
value of fixed assets. Book debts and
cash were down £22,015, and £44,366
was added to the amount coming to
trade creditors. It is quite probable that
the board could have shown more profit
if it had wanted to.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends ~ Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves. *
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 ~ „ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 i 3,085 200,619
Mar., ’29. .50,771 4000 12 ~ ~ 30,000 16,771 217,390-
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 ~ ~ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 ~ „ 20,000 9,0‘20 257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 .. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20.000 —'261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 260,923
Mar.,’33. .25,678 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 1,678 262,601
Sept.,’33. .31,280 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 7,280 269,881
Mar.,’34. .30.867 4000 10 .. .. 25,000 1,867 271,748
*Subject to goodwill, £118,074.
The figures suggest that the manage-
ment has kept a very tight hold upon
the business, which is scattered through-
out Australia and Maoriland. When
the present co. took over, about 15 years
ago, it set to work to tighten up the
organisation generally; a lot of atten-
tion was given to weeding out dead lines,
livening others and stopping up out-
lets. The div. climbed from 8 p.c. to
10 p.c., to which a 2\ p.c. sweetener was
added for the 18 months to the end of
Sept., 1929. Then came slump and
exchange and primage, which bumped up
the cost of imported literature, and for
a while it looked as though 8 p.c. might
prove to be beyond the co.’s reach.
But stocks and debtors’ balances were
worked down without, mishap, the out-
side debt was reduced, and investments
and cash were strengthened. The co. was
thus able to take immediate advantage
of the turn in the tide. The Government
gave a little assistance by reducing the
primage on imported literature, etc., and
the figures have responded nicely.
For the 12 months to March 31 the
improvement in gross earnings (£113,350)
was £16,510 ; exes. (£51,241) took £3537
of the increase. Allowing for minor re-
serve adjustments, there was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 10.8 p.c.
on the half-million of ord. capital as
against 8.2, 7.6, 8.8, 13.3 and 18.9 p.c.
back to 1929. So the div. was lifted a
point, making 9 p.c. for the year, the
final being at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.
This fitted in with market anticipations ;
the ords., which had fallen to 16s. 6d.
in 1931, advanced from 345. 6d. to 41s.
over the twelvemonth. The return at
41s. is 4.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs.—there are 100,000 of them —
are entitled to a fixed cumulative 8 p.c.,
and have priority as to dividend only.
At 355. they return 4.5 p.c. The cover for
all shares is 255. Id. in net tangibles.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances: —•
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’33. Mar.,’34.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . .. 69,000 —■
Sundry creditors-, .. 127,050 96,030 102,065
Bank overdraft .. 79,880
Total liabilities . . £275,930 £96,030 £102,065
Freeholds .. .. £199,230 £206,056 £214,832
Leaseholds . . . . 25,515 20,030 19,299
Plant, fixtures, etc.. . 46.595 35,032 34,167
Stock . . . . .332,896 195,161 209,782
Book debts . . . . 353,249 239,594 239,842
Other assets . . 18,560 187,005 188,681
Tangible assets .. £966.045 £882,878 £906,603
To carry an extra £14,621 of stocks and
add £8776 to the freehold item, only
£6035 was tacked on to the amount com-
ing to trade creditors. The more or less
liquid surplus (£536,240, including stocks)
improved £10,510, notwithstanding the
addition to fixed assets.
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 23,811 10 p.c. = 19,282 4529 14,358
1925.. 25,062 10 „ „ 19,282 5880 20,138
1926.. 26,141 10 ~ ~ 21,123 5018 25,156
1927.. 25,117 10 „ „ 21,912 3205 28,361
1928.. 21,633 9 „ „ 19,720 1913 30,274
1929.. 16,149 7 „ „ 15,338 811 31,085
1930.. 7,746 2i „ „ 5,478 2268 33,353
Provision tor bad debts, £15,000 .. 18,353
Loss.
1931.. 4,881 Nil -- 13,472
1932.. 1,034 Nil 12,438
Bad debts reserve included, £15,500 .. 27,938
Visible unexplained additions, £44,439.. 72,377
Written off, £7403 64,974
To profit and loss account, £4263 .. 60,711
1933.. 1,108 Nil 59,603
Written off, £3846 55,757
To profit and loss account, £4389 . . 51,368
1934.. 2,499 Nil 48,869
It is difficult to say what the future
holds for this co., which trades in
musical instruments, etc., largely on
a t.-p. basis. The past is no guide as
to what may lie in wait. When the big
scattering of loan funds and the craze
for credit-buying which accompanied it
ceased, the debts problem became trouble-
some, and more or less remains so. Also,
the market was flooded with second-hand
instruments, and forced sales by small
importers made things worse. Mean-
while the rapid growth in the popularity
of wireless—the number of listeners’
licenses in N. S. Wales has advanced from
100,798 for 1928-29 to over half a mil-
lion—has largely changed the outlook in
the musical instrument trade, especially
for pianos.
Last year new business of a first-class
character was very difficult to obtain,
the chairman says. Including £4389
charged to reserves on account of
old business, the year’s loss was £6BBB,
up £1517. That leaves out of the
figuring £2500 struck off the book value
of hire agreements, and £1346 used to
rub out the final loss on liquidation of
the Concord Piano Co. Reserves were
thus reduced to £48,869. Their existence,
however, depends on the value placed
upon the assets in the books.
Before the close of accounts in 1930
the co. sold its Pitt-street freehold at a
profit of £75,689, which was sent to inner
reserves. Three years later a new item,
“reserve in respect of real property,
£43,728,” appeared, and £61,189 was
added to the book value of freeholds and
mortgages combined. At the same time
an unspecified amount was written off
stocks, hire agreements, etc., down
£49,864 ; but the cut was apparently not
deep enough. Here is the position as the
published figures show it:
1929. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £219.114 £219,114 £219,114 £219,114
M'ortgage .. 99,500 89,500 79,500 74.500
Overdraft . . 73,298 58,145 20,281 4,745
Other liabilities 117,660 29,369 27,003 32,859
Stocks, hire
agreements,
book debts. 312,458 223.942 153,382 133,053
Plant, etc. . . 1,888 1,068 659 393
Freeholds and
mortgages. . 219,017 186,810 244.915 244,915
Sundry assets 14,367 13,281 6,644 1,726
Last year the book value of stocks and
hire agreements, etc., was reduced by
£20,329, and £15,536 was knocked off the
overdraft and £5OOO off the amount com-
ing to the mortgagee, while £5856 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. Including £70,000 put out by
the co. on mortgage, the contraction in
the more or less liquid surplus (£92,675)
was £10,567.
The market, doubtful of the co.’s earn-
ing capacity, prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 9s. and the 15s. paids at 4s. On
paper, the cover per pound of paid capital
is 245. sd. in net tangibles.
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 10,872 lOp.c. = 2500 6,880 16,033
1924.. 12,171 10 „ „ 3750 7,434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets. £8742.. 25.762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in. £6OOO 31,762
1925.. 10,983 lOp.c. = 3750 6,972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 „ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ „ 7500 10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 ~ „ 7500 11,251 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 ~ ~ 9981 10,548 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ ~ 7000 Nil 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 7000 1,233 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 „ „ 5000 1,056 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 .. „ 5000 2,300 49,977
1934.. 16,611 6 ~ „ 6000 4,583 56,005
Shareholders in this little semi-co-opera-
tive concern, which set up in 1910, have
nothing to complain about. They aver-
aged 5.7 p.c. for the first 11 years, fol-
lowed by q steady 10 p.c. for the next
eight, and then an average of 6 p.c. for
the last five. Also, bonuses to consignors,
who are mostly shareholders, were inter-
rupted only in 1930, though they are
now on a slightly lower scale than they
used to be.
The spring in last year’s earnings was
mainly the result of the sharp rise in
the price of wool. The average per bale
for the Commonwealth was £2O Bs. 6d.
for the ten months to the end of March
as against £ll 9s. Id. and £lO 18s. sd.
for the two preceding seasons. Sheep
and cattle prices were up, too. Also
more produce and wool was sold. The
wool figures hereunder include the carry-
over at the end of each term —1502 bales
at the end of March, as against 10,380 a
year earlier:
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1927 . . 80,157 334,162 20,035 83,969
1929 . . 82,562 286,196 15,165 91,392
1930 . . 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1931 .. 87,232 389,065 14,286 70,132
1932 .. 85,703 391,183 15,466 65,451
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
1934 .. 82,514 '340,801 10,938 78,750
So, despite the contraction in the wool,
sheep and cattle figures, gross earnings
were £12,925 better. Including £5lOO set
aside for the taxgatherer, exes. (£62,139)
took £4374 of the increase, and, after re-
funding 20 p.c. of the wool and 10 p.c. of
the stock commissions, enough profit re-
mained to show 12.1 p.c. on capital as
against 5.7, 6.7, 9.5, 7.4, 13.6 and 14.8
p.c. back to 1928, when wool averaged
£25 4s. 9d. a bale. The div. was lifted
a point to 6 p.c. Provided wool prices
hold, a further lift in the rate is obvi-
ously within the co.’s reach.
At the close of accounts in 1933 the
co. was leaning heavily upon the bank
and others to finance current production
of its clients. But as the wool and other
produce was sold the position improved :
1927. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £75,124 £100,124 £100,124 £100,124
Mortgages . . 42,974 ■ —
Sundry creditors 63,506 91,935 103,283 45,926
Freeholds . . 93,884 146,523 146,523 146,523
plant, shaves in
other cos., etc. 10,150 15,652 12,372 6,0(4
Debtors & cash 125,704 87,601 102,488 60,558
Debtors’ balances were thus reduced by
£41,930, and £57,357 was knocked off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, leav-
ing the more or less liquid surplus at
£14,632, an improvement of £15,427 over
the twelvemonth.
The pound shares, which are covered
by 31s. 2d. in net tangibles, are not
listed.
Miller Anderson, Ltd. (Adelaide)
f Dividends s Towards
Net Pvef. Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£££ £ £ _
1928.. 11,565 4000 8 p.c. = 6000 1565 5,43 a
1929.. 10,339 4000 8 „ ~ 6000 339 5,096
1930.. 7,116 5200 4„ „ 3000 6,180
Loss.
1931.. 3,296 3200* Nil 12,676
1932.. 11,835 Nil Nil 24,511
Profit..
1933.. 23 Nil Nil 24,488
1934.. 1.195 Nil Nil 1195 23.293
*Half-year’s div.
The Marcus Clark organisation has not
had much luck with its activities in other
States. After acquiring the scrip in Craig
Williamson, Melbourne, the Vic. offshoot
of the big Sydney co. bought all the
75,000 ords. in this Adelaide drapery con-
cern, which had been in the Miller Ander-
son family for about three-quarters of a
century. That was in 1927. To lighten
the debt, carry more stocks and further
extend credit, the parent took another
30,000 ords. and the public a like number
of prefs. at a premium of 6d. each, mak-
ing paid capital £185,000 in 80,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 105,000 ords.
Then slump caught the co. with stocks
and book debts at their highest, and a


Inventors. —Hrve you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— \dvt
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies St Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
FORESTRY AND TUNG PLANTATIONS, TIMBER,
MILLING. Independent and experienced services,
examinations, reports and advice. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.Sc. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer. Charges
moderate. Confidential correspondence invited.
Umori Building. Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other alloys, try O. T. LEM-
PRIERE & CO. PTY. # LTD., Sirius House, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
WOLFRAM ORES.—We are anxious to purchase
Large and Regular Tonnages. Write, with samples,
Norman Hill & Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers all classes ores, including gold ore and
concentrates.- — Advt.
p f'il F> The Metallurgical Works of
A VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you write and post a sample of the
Ore or Concentrate which you have for
sale, it will be assayed for Gold content
free of cost, and price submitted.
"A sure friend in uncertain times *
m
m
m
m
Is it your birthday
next week?
ABOUT 128,000 Australians will celebrate their birthdays
next week. Perhaps you, who read this, will be of the
number, and will be old enough to realise that birthdays
are milestones of opportunity, as well as of satisfaction and
pleasure.
Let us assume that you are one of this group of 128,000. You
will be a year older next week; A.M.P. Life Assurance will
then call for a little larger investment than it will this week
for the same result. If you are 28 years old to-day you can
secure an A.M.P. policy for £5OO, whole-life assurance, for
£ll/15/5 a year. If you wait until your birthday the annual
investment will be £l2/-/10. Every year you postpone the
taking out of a policy (or an extra policy) the larger will be
the annual investment required.
There is a member of the Society who, very early in his life,
took out a £5OO policy, Table B, under which he was required
to pay a premium of £l4/4/2 a year for only 20 years.
Premium payments ceased 39 years ago. With bonuses added,
the total sum assured now stands at £1,619/10/-, i.e., the
policy has trebled and all this on a total investment of
£284/3/4. Take a hint from him. Lay the foundations of
your finances early, when the amount to be invested is
smallest.
The simplest way to go about this is to ask the nearest A.M.P.
office to send an experienced counsellor to talk your opportuni-
ties over with you. Another way is to ask that a book,
“Investing in Happiness,” and other booklets, be sent to you.
Whether you are one of the 128,000 or not, don’t delay about
this. Do it to-day and seize your opportunity.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE-: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States,
ew Zealand Branch Office: Custom House Quay, Wellington.
loss of £3926 for the 12 months to the
close of accounts in 1931 was followed
by another of £11,835. When the tide
turned, new departments were opened, the
carpet section was extended, and, last
year, special efforts were made to extend
the co.’s country connections. But com-
petition has been very keen, and seems
likely to remain so. Hence it has been
difficult to squeeze much profit out of
the larger trading. The net result was
£1172 better at £1195, or less than one-
fifth of a full year’s pref. div. There is
now ss. 7d. per share (= £22,400) com-
ing to the prefs., payments being 3£ years
in arrears.
A year ago there was talk of modifica-
tion of the pref. div. rights, but the board
has apparently hesitated to put forward
definite proposals until it can see more
clearly what the co.’s earning capacity is
likely to be. The market prices the
shares, covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 40s. 5d., at 10s. The ords.
are not listed.
The floating debt is well covered ; but
total outside liabilities exceeded more or
less liquids by £8649 when the books
closed, an improvement of £1513 over
the twelvemonth:
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £185,000 £185,000 £185,000 £185,000
Mortgages .. 104,167 92,500 86,667 80,833
Sundry creditors 16,855 9,237 24,315 27,471
ASSETS.
Freehold .. 146,773 146,050 145,865 145,869
Equipment .. 26,176 24,245 24,809 24,667
Stocks .'. 73,859 54,445 62,136 60,776
Book debts .. 49,172 37,284 38,526 38,721
Cash .. . . 7,061 202 158 158
To clip £5834 off the mortgage, £3156
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors and the book value of
stocks was reduced by £1360. Debtors’
balances were only £195 higher.
A deposit of manganese has been dis-
covered at Mt. Walli, near Kenilworth
(Q.). Other deposits exist in the Obi Obi
Valley near by. There has been very
little manganese raised in Queensland
since 1927. From 1894 to 1927 produc-
tion totalled 20,4821 tons, valued at
approximately £79,000.
* * * *
“N.T.”: An Alice Springs party
has been assiduously digging into
Temby’s Line, the eastern formation
of Tanami goldfield. Very little has been
said, but a lot of shaft-sinking, open-
cutting of outcrops, costeening, trench-
ing and generally exposing as much of
the auriferous deposits as possible has
been done. After four years, A. J.
Beckett, manager of Tanami, has come
to Sydney to take back machinery to
provide power for the crushing and
pumping plant now erected on the mine.
Work done has proved that Temby’s Line
strikes all the way through Warramulla’s
120 acres—the co. took its name from
the local desert tribe. Where opened the
formation shows payable values. Fresh
water, struck at 180 feet and carried
down to 200 feet, is coming in so well
at the bottom that there may be an
overplus lower down. But there are
years of work ahead on the oxidised ore,
so further water troubles can be put
aside for the moment.
* * * *
The New Lady Jersey has been formed
in Sydney to take over the old Lady
Jersey mine, about six miles from Drake
(N.S.W.). At the end of last century the
show was worked on a small scale by
English interests, who gave up when the
sulphides came in 100 ft. or so down. In
1899 1038 tons yielded 7210 z. of gold
over the plates. The mine has been
flooded for over 30 years.
* * * *
After 30 years one Warn, who used to
be a shift boss below, has decided to give
the old Bushman’s reef, Parkes (N.S.W.),
another go. The last crushing yielded
Bdwt. 14gr.; but gold was then selling at
its statutory price, and the show was
abandoned after 125,0000 z. had been won
from it. The sands have been three times
treated for returns aggregating £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
Oxenbridge brothers are reopening the
old Record and Mountain Maid in the
Walcha district (N.S.W.). The two mines
gave fair returns years ago, and the
Oxenbridges know the field inside out.
Fossickers are returning, too; good
alluvial values have been recently
obtained in the locality.
■* * * *
Wadnaminga Consolidated has been
successfully launched in Adelaide to
resurrect the Milo and Virginia on the
Wadnaminga field. The pair produced
about 16,000 tons of loz. 3dwt. stone in
the early ’nineties, but their owners
thought the chances in Westralia were
better, and the field has remained dor-
mant for the last 40 years. Jim Hebbard
has recently reported favorably. There
is 6500 tons of 15dwt. stuff in sight on
the Milo, and screening of the mullock
dumps is expected to yield 6000 tons
of sdwt. fines. In addition there is
10,000 tons of 2dwt. sands. The Milo
has been worked to a vertical depth of
139 ft., and the Virginia to 60ft only.
The lode has been traced for about two
miles on the surface. On the board are
Andrew Young, Geo. McEwin, F.. S.
Alford and J. C. Rundle.
* * * *
Adelaide reports oversubscription of
the Rothesay gold float (W.A.). In all
450,000 2s. 6d. shares were offered. The
show was first worked 38 years ago by
a London co., which gave up owing to
copper difficulties. Others tried their
luck from time to time, but drew blanks.
B.H. Prop, did some boring last year.
The flotation process is now expected to
overcome any trouble in connection with
the presence of copper in the ore.
* * * *
Capital has been raised in Adelaide to
try to solve by a new process the pro-
blem of extracting gold from the
Kanowna (W.A.) pug at a profit. Pros-
pecting rights have been secured over a
fairly large area, and word is being passed
round that the stuff to be treated con-
tains 9dwt. a ton. It is an optimistic
estimate.
* * * *
J. A. Agnew has struck a double. He
has been appointed chairman of Wiluna
Gold Corp. in succession to F. H. Hamil-
ton, and has also been awarded the gold
medal of the British Institution of Min-
ing and Metallurgy. Once Bewick More-
ing and Co.’s chief boss in Westralia, he
is now chairman of Consolidated Gold
Fields of South Africa, Lake View and
Star and Wiluna Corp. He is also on the
board of the Roan Antelope and a
number of other big things.
* * * *
Triton, Cue (W.A.), has put up an
accommodation house for 150 boarders.
Electric light, ice, kelvinators, etc., are
provided. It is a fair step to the pubs, the
nearest being 30 miles off, but a few
enterprising souls make it for week-ends.
The south shaft is down 300 ft., and cross-
cutting for the lode is about to com-
mence. If developmental results at this
point coincide with diamond-drill expo-
sures, shareholders should be happy.
* * *
London is nibbling at the Transvaal,
Southern Cross (W.A.), and it might do
worse. There is 40,000 tons of Bdwt.
ore exposed in the mine workings, and
the tonnage will increase as development
proceeds. The nigger in the woodpile is
the arsenic content; but arsenic has
proved to be no obstacle at Wiluna.
* * * *
South Kalgurli Consolidated is seeking
a reservation from Western Mining Corp.
at Kanowna (W.A.), which takes in the
Robinson and North White Feather
mines. The Robinson, worked only to
water level, yielded 16,000 tons for
16,0000 z.
* * * *
Granites Development, which has an
option over the North Wiluna, has struck
the sulphides at 380 ft. The bore is now
down over 400 ft., and still in the lode.
There is talk of amalgamation with
another co., and of S. African capital.
* * * *
Southern Cross United intends taking
no half-measures with Fraser’s group,
wSouthern Cross (W.A.). Diamond drilling
and mine unwatering are to commence
immediately.
* * * *
Diamond drilling is the vogue in West-
ralia now. Some of the drills, however,
have taken to the jazz habit. One de-
flected to such a degree that it struck
the rich shoot of an adjoining property,
and numerous bears were skinned.
Another went on such a bender that it
flashed its diamonds above the surface,
lust now the market value of a successful
drill hole is anything up to a quarter of
a million.
* * *
Taxation of S. African goldmines now
runs into big figures. Working profits of
17 cos. totalled £19,516,000 in 1933, of
which the Government took £10,225,000,
or 52 p.c. The proportion paid in divs.
to shareholders was 40y p.c. The Govt,
thus received a substantially larger in-
come from the goldmines than the share-
holders, whose money was at risk in the
business.
* * * *
The Federal Government’s new map of
New Guinea and Papua is welcome at a
time when mining propositions in both
territories are attracting attention all over
Australia. The scale is 40 miles to the
inch, and the map is a much better thing
than any of its predecessors.
BRTEF ANSWERS.
J.L.S.: Cannot 5ay....W.C.: (1) They are
a satisfactory lot. Hold on. (2) A long-term in-
vestment which promises well. (3) Business is
very brisk in the motor trade M.E.J.: (1) Sit
tight for a while; the show has possibilities.
(2), (3) and (4) Gambles at long odds R.E.:
(1) Shareholders’ funds are the capital and
reserves combined. The reserves are the un-
divided profits, share premiums, etc., accu-
mulated from year to year—for half a cen-
tury or more in the case of most of the banks.
They belong to the shareholders the same as
the capital does. (2) See B. 23/5/’34, page 18.
. ...T.K.M.: (1) Yes. (2) General Industries
ords. are worth consideration... .D.S.: (1) Im-
possible to say when bondholders are likely to
get any return on their investment. (2) The
bonds have no open market. Write to the
secretary of the co.; he may be able to find a
buyer for you Alpha: Disappointment at
the co.’s failure to pay an interim div. The
declared aim is to strengthen the prop for
capital, which is pretty certain to mean keep-
ing the div. down, for a while, at any rate....
J.S.P.: It is an English co. of which we have
no record... .F.G.J.: Yes, but you may have
to wait for a while. In front of the Bs, there
are the overdraft, calling for reduction, and
100,000 As. There is also the possibility of
the prefs. being asked to forego arrears....
W.T.R.: Five C.S.Rs. and 100 Queensland In-
surance for preference. Keep Bulolo and
Wiluna. Lake View and Triton have possi-
bilities Inquirer: (1) Hold on to the scrip
you have. (2) N0....J.F.: Nestles, Goodyear,
British Tobacco, Myers and Carreras prefs.
offer good protection for both capital and
income... .H.R.: Last year the co. netted more
than enough to pay a full year’s pref. div., but
the money was wanted to finance increased pro-
duction. The board said payments would not
begin until some time after the end of this
month. Sit tight C.W.W.: See B. 23/5/’34,
page 18.


r*
BRITISH & DOMINIONS FILMS LTD. present
HBWAUNEK
SORRELL'SON
from +Jne storu bu Warwick deeping—
Wa ‘±!;7e Th
:
m
UL
7
v
SO
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Silence of Dean Maitland”
In view of the inane ballyhoo which
presaged this alleged masterpiece, the
writer felt despondent as he battled
through the multitude waiting to be cine-
matographed in the vestibule of Sydney
State on Friday night. A pleasant sur-
prise followed. The truth about the thing
is that it is up to the artistic standard of
an old-time Adelphi melodrama. In
some respects it is better—the acting is
more naturalistic, there are fewer bro-
mides, and the comedy, though sharply
compartmented according to tradition, is
less horsecollarish.
The outstanding defect is that it isn’t
English or Australian, Victorian or
Georgian. Charlotte Francis, who plays
the fisherman’s wanton daughter, is seen
surfing in 1914 in a 1934 costume, and
the villagers are English stage fisherfolk.
One of them yammers that he will be
“eighty-four come Michaelmas.” The
principals have English and the children
Australian accents. William Terriss
specialised in beautiful, soulful, dapper
divines like the Rev. Cyril Maitland;
but they were recognised as myths even
in the relatively unsophisticated England
of his day. And we are asked to believe
that Australian theological colleges were
turning them out in 1914!
John Longden makes an astonishingly
good job of the Rev. Cyril. Here is a
sanctimonious humbug who lets every-
body down, and is in the act of separat-
ing two young people by a particularly
dirty lie when he is bowled out —where-
upon he conveniently dies. Yet in Mr.
Longden’s hands he becomes sympa-
thetic. John Warwick also does more
than might be expected with the pre-
posterous doctor who gets 20 years for
manslaughter, refuses to say a word in
his defence or to communicate with
anybody outside while in gaol, and is
given no remission of sentence. The
timing, photography, sound, all the tech-
nical processes can be compared with
America’s best; and in one direction at
least the great Republic is outdistanced.
The nakedness of the Garbo-like lass
who betrays the future Dean is quite as
sensational as her victim’s silence.
“Happy”
This all-English musical comedy pro-
vided another surprise. It begins like
any other Elstree disaster, with Stanley
Lupino and others overacting hard in
a Parisian attic. (The characters, Heaven
knows why, are supposed to be French!)
Then the action shifts to the restaurant
where Lupino conducts a band; to the
office of a man to whom he is trying to
sell an invention; to a mansion where
Jimmy Godden is giving a party. The
tempo speeds up, a plot intrudes, the
heroine appears, and there are some
genuinely comic interludes. The heroine
—name unknown to the writer —is one
of the gems of the cast. She is a beau-
tiful youngster with little make-up and
no mannerisms, and a most attractive
English voice. Anyone who wants to
learn how the language should be arti-
culated ought to go and hear her.
Lupino’s desperate efforts to hog the
limelight come to naught while she is
about. The tall, monocled individual who
plays her father —name also unknown —
is the best of the comedians.
“Should Ladies Behave?”
It is odd to turn from the turgidly
righteous conversation of the Dean and
his friends to the resolute naughtiness of
the new St. James film. Yet one picture
is as essentially old-fashioned and false
as the other. It is nearly 15 years since
Aldous Huxley invented the fashionable
flapper clamorous to be seduced in the
interests of experience ; and she has been
appearing in novels, plays and talkies
ever since. Mary Carlisle represents her
on this occasion. The veteran with the
ravaged face and the sternly controlled
waistline whom girls, young and old, fall
in love with is another of the conven-
tional lies of our entertainment world.
Charles Hawtrey, Wyndham, George
Alexander and others used to portray
him in the ’nineties, and Tom Wall is
doing it in “Leap Year” ; Conway Tearle
shoulders the burden in “Should Ladies
Behave?” Alice Brady, the amorous
flapper’s mother, is funny as a garrulous
Messalina of 50 or so who confuses Mr.
Tearle with someone she loved too well
in the past. And then there is the tired
FROM SYDNEY TALKIES.
In “Should Ladies Behave?” at the St. James: (1) Conway Tearle, (2) Lionel
Barrymore; between them, Mary Carlisle. At bottom: Laurel and Hardy (not
in that order) in “Sons' of the Desert,” at same theatre.
old husband enraged by the behavior of
his womenfolk and their idol. It is a
great part for Lionel Barrymore.
Much of the dialogue is smart in a
fashion that has been done to death, but
some of it is human and in character.
Barrymore is trying to sleep in a theatre-
box when his daughter arrives in tears,
having had a row with her lover. Alice
Brady wants to know what is wrong.
“Perhaps she can’t get to sleep,” suggests
Barrymore bitterly.
“Sons of the Desert”
A Laurel and Hardy in which Charlie
Chase is supposed to have a leading part.
Apparently the censor has cut most of
Chase’s stuff out. Anyhow, little is seen
of him. The theme is the American
businessman’s passion for promenading
publicly in fancy dress. The two friends
go on the loose at a Chicago convention
without their formidable wives, and
suffer hideous indignities when they re-
turn. The blank indifference of modern
audiences to provocative nudity may be
seen in this film. While the hula-hula
dancers were writhing across the screen
the spectators were obviously bored; but
everybody woke up when the crockery
began to fly again.
“Cradle Song”
The title is deceptive. Though this film
at the Prince Edward has a religious
background it is without false sentiment.
The story begins in a Spanish town on
the day Dorothea Wieck enters a closed
order. She bids farewell to a brood of
infants whom she has nursed and looked
after for years. The impulse which
makes her renounce the world is strong,
but her affection for her small charges is
almost as great.
Inside the convent she pines for the
children, and finds the discipline hard
to master.
Then a baby is left on the convent’s
doorstep, and the wise old Mother Su-
perior lets her look after it. The novice
has something to live, as well as die, for ;
her melancholy vanishes.
The child grows up and marries hap-
pily—Kent Taylor being the young man.
The parting between the nun and Evelyn
Venable, who plays the girl, might have
been maudlin, but it isn’t. The actresses
manage to imbue it with dignity.
“Six of a Kind”
Charles Ruggles and Mary Boland, a
homely pair who have been married for
20 years, decide to have a second honey-
moon in the form of a motor trip. To
reduce expenses, another couple (Burns
and Allen) are asked to come along.
They and their outsize dog land the long-
suffering Ruggles and his equally placid
wife in all sorts of trouble. Just before
they leave a bank clerk plants the pro-
ceeds of a robbery in Mary Boland’s
bag, and Ruggles, unknown to himself,
becomes a hunted man.
Things come to a head in a Nevada
township where W. C. Fields is the
sheriff and Alison Skipworth the pro-
prietress of a run-down hotel. After
which the usual happy ending.
It is Ruggles’s picture. His apologetic
air when he dons a beret to please his
wife, his attitude to the man-eating dog,
and his concern when his wife falls over
a cliff are in his best vein. But they’re
all good.
“Man of Two Worlds”
A stage success as the Tyrolean inn-
keeper in “Autumn Crocus” persuaded
Hollywood that Francis Lederer would
make a good film Eskimo. So they
put him into Arctic settings, as a
prelude to tearing him from his
tribe and his spouse and planting
him down in London, where the
first thing the untutored blubber-eater
did was to fall in love with Elissa Landi.
Her rejection of his inebriated advances
led to the inevitable climax. Elissa
struck him, and, to quote the blurb, “Illu-
sions and joy in life gone, Aigo returned to
his people and became as one whose
heart was dead.” Then he got over it.
The thing wastes 7129 feet of good film
and an hour and a quarter of time. It
is to be seen at Sydney Capitol.
“Night of Terror”
Ingredients of “Night of Terror,” also
at the Capitol, are a homicidal maniac,
a Hindu married couple (servants in a
lonely house), several scientists, a re-
porter, a comic police captain, ditto
negro chauffeur and a savant who is
buried alive to prove that he has the
secret of suspended animation. The
maniac pins newspaper headlines an-
nouncing his previous crimes to the
bodies of his victims. The faithful Hindu
servant unmasks the villain who com-
mitted a murder wrongly ascribed to the
maniac. The maniac is shot while
abducting the heroine to a secret vault
underneath the house. The phantasma-
goria is advertised as “suitable only for
adults” —meaning, one presumes, adults
with child-minds.
“Massacre”
This week’s “first release-in-the-Sydney-
suburbs” film. It’s concerned with U.S.A.
Injun problems—firstly, with the mal-
practices of Government officials, and,
not so noticeably, with education. Joe
Thunder Horse, son of chief Black Pony,
is sent to college, graduates, and becomes
a rodeo star at the Chicago World’s Fair.
Of course, he falls in with a society girl
and becomes bumptious. Then he hears
his father is dying and goes back to
the tribe to lead them against the Agent.
There are fist fights galore, and a pretty
(Continued on page 22.)


§
m.
m
'
i c -*, m i
f, \(? i •
WX/fllMi U ie
H6s l E
fully F p S LTD.
PRODU CT O c . to ," J r ' ( ", 9 ;”„„...a '■»
*»«« A i-SiS?: ,; “ h k ” 1
**
hosiery of qoal.ty STOCKINGS
?rMOU U HWuW R ' TEE ° • • '
N°477
Pure Sfc
service-weight.
N°455
IN
S*s?ik ."<1 R” 0 "-
J


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hopalong”: He pitched a very good
tale in support of his request for an ex-
tension of the mortgage, but this little
human touch at the end of the letter
carried more weight than all the rest: “I
have a wife and seven children, and my
holding is also infested with dingoes and
wallabies.”
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: After scanning the
menu-card Dad said he would have
oysters. “On the shell?” asked the
waitress. “Ri’ chou are, if y’re short of
plates,” Dad answered, always the gentle-
man.
* * * *
“Cachalot”: A Sydney paper, describ-
ing a fight between a whale and a pack
of “killer” grampuses off Bondi, says the
attacked animal was a “huge, white
sperm whale,” at least 35ft. long. The
sperm whale, lord of all that swims the
seas, is not white but as black as the
Earl of Hell’s riding-boots. He runs to
90ft. in length at maturity, and, since
he is one of the toothed whales, with
jaws like the machines that shear armor
plates, is never attacked by anyone save
man. The highly intelligent killer would
as soon think of tackling this monster
as of beaching himself on purpose to be
“But, mother, there’s no gooseberry bush here!”
taken by the press photographers. Many
of the various species of whale that pass
up our coasts to the breeding waters in
the tropic seas at this time of the year
are fair game to the killer —but not the
sperm whale, thank you!
* * * *
“F.S.”: The other day I took a farmer
round a Melbourne gallery and showed
him some of an eminent landscape
painter’s work. Half-way through the
inspection my friend burst out, “Well,
this bloke may be a good artist; but he
knows nothing about sheep.” “How’s
that?” I asked. “Well,” he said, taking
me up to one picture, “see that. The
grass’s green, isn’t it? The jumbucks’ve
got long fleeces? That means lambin’-
time. Well, now, look at this one. The
grass’s dead, isn’t it? And the sheep’ve
got long fleeces still? Well, that may be
art; but in my district it’d be called a
blanky miracle.”
“Auburn”: Touching those early N.Q.
rabbits (B. 23/5/’34) on the Georgina
River which have neither decreased nor
increased appreciably for 40 years, my
mother told me that when she was a
small girl on Durah, her father’s run on
the Burnett watershed, a huge woodheap
was inhabited by a colony of pied rab-
bits, mostly black and white. They were
never disturbed, and seemed satisfied
with maintaining the regimental strength,
so to speak. That would be some time
in the late ’fifties or early ’sixties, and
the rabbits were still there years after
when the family left Durah.
* * * *
“Brassbound”: More than one hardy
mariner on the Tasman Sea a few nights
ago was moved to regrettable
blasphemy when the true im-
port of a wireless SOS which
had upset the routine of his
ship was discovered. First of
all, the international distress
signal in rather faint tones was
picked up; then came a strong
message asking all ships in Aus-
tralasian waters to be silent and
listen for the SOS again from
some vessel presumed to be in
the Tasman. After transmission
had been held up for some
time, listeners were told that all
was clear and they could carry
on. The static occurred later,
when the hardy mariners found
that the SOS was an introduc-
tion to “Rocked in the Cradle
of the Deep,” sung by a Scottish basso,
broadcast from a Maoriland studio.
* * * *
“First Brigade”: I read with interest
of that way of catching crows by
luring them on to a woolled sheepskin
(B. 23/5/’34), and then frightening them
suddenly so that they involuntarily clasp'
their claws in the wool and become en-
tangled, because I have often practised
it myself. You need to be careful and
anchor the fleece down, though. The
last occasion I tried the trick was at the
end of August, 1914. We had put out
the skin of a big crossbred wether, and
a couple of dozen birds pounced on it.
When we rushed out with a yell the
whole lot rose in the air and departed
in a south-easterly direction with a strong
wind behind. It happened on a New
England run. A couple of days later
we read in the Sydney papers that a
German aeroplane had flown over Syd-
ney as evening was falling, and so low
down that the guttural exclamations of
the crew could be distinctly heard as it
headed out to sea.
* * * *
“Lanus”: In the N.S.W. central table-
lands I have seen white-gum saplings cut
down by some bird, evidently in search
of the fat yellow grub which infests the
timber. Sometimes the wood is torn
away on one side only, until the grub is
exposed ; in other cases, where the grub
is in the centre, the bird works all round
until the sapling falls. Splinters up to
6in. long and |in. thick are ripped off.
I put it down to the black cockatoo.
Anyone confirm this?
* * * *
“Dogger”: Ever since payment of
bonuses for the destruction of grass-
eating marsupials and sheep-killing
dingoes was abolished in Queensland
the wild dogs have increased out of all
belief, especially in the southern and
south-western areas. They are reported
as being more plentiful than ever this
season. What this means to sheep- and
cattlemen alike—for they kill many
calves as well as sheep—is seen by the
history of a dog killed near Charleville.
He had been known to trappers and
station-hands for seven years, and had
evaded countless attempts to trap or
poison him during that time. He was
blamed for the killing of over 900 sheep
individually, and of many more in com-
pany with others of his kind. Like most
of the worst of the wild killers, he turned
out to be a crossbred with a lot more of
the sheep-dog about him than the dingo.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Nearly 50 years ago F. P.
Dodd started a butterfly farm at Kur-
anda, near the Barron Falls (Q.). He
has since collected for many of the
world’s museums ; the British Museum
alone contains 18,000 moths from his
vast accumulation of half a century.
When he gets hold of rare forms he
“How about a job on your jolly old skeleton staff ?”
breeds from them on his farm, which is
planted with numerous native shrubs and
flowers. Caterpillars are reared and de-
veloped in various ways, according to
species. There isn’t a caterpillar family
in the land that Dodd hasn’t tracked up.
Tourists doing the winter trip to Cairns
and the Atherton tableland inspect
Dodd’s collection as part of the regular
itinerary.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Different towns have dif-
ferent dogs. I came to this conclusion
after a tour of western Vic. The silliest
dogs for miles around live in Warrnam-
bool; these mongs crouch down when
a car approaches and spring at the front
wheels with snappy barks. Port Fairy
dogs sleep in the middle of the street
and refuse to budge for anyone. At
Apsley they hop into your car if you
are not looking. Horsham hounds are
the friendliest. The moment I arrived
there a cattle-dog trotted up with a bone
and dropped it at my feet; and during
two days of house-to-house canvassing
I never encountered a savage one.
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: I hope “Milne Bay” (B.
16/5/’34) doesn’t suggest that the term
“dog-barking” originated on the Papuan
coast. W. W. Jacobs
refers to it as a prac-
tice of English coastal
skippers while creeping
along over the five-
fathom line. At any
rate, the word was old
when I went to sea
over 30 years ago ; it
was always used as a
term of opprobrium to
indicate a skipper who
couldn’t navigate any
other way. I doubt its
efficacy on the coast of
Papua for reef-dodging
purposes; the main
consideration then is to know one’s
distance off shore, and I never heard of
the bark being used for finding range.
* * * *
“Selma”: Picnickers visited some
locally-famous rocks in the vicinity of
Crookwell (N.S.W.), where two walls of
stone stand sufficiently apart to permit
the fairly slim to edge through. All the
girls but one had safely negotiated the
passage ; the last lady, not so slim as
the others, stuck in the opening. The
incident was regarded as humorous for
a few minutes ; then it became evident
that dislodging the damsel was going to
be a job. Pushing and pulling were with-
out effect, and short of blasting the two
sheer walls of stone there seemed no
way of moving her. When her pals
had given up the task and were con-
sidering going 20 miles for help, the girl
became hysterical, and by some means
managed to move an inch forward.
Shoving from all angles, the party finally
released her. She fainted, but had re-
covered by the time they were due to
leave for home.
* * * *
“John Dory”: Saw a swarm of insects
on the trunk of an apple-gum. They
were as excited as a mob of women at
a Friday-morning special. Looking
closer, I found that a small hole in the
tree, through which one of their number
had come to the surface for a mouthful
of fresh air, was exuding a sap which
beetles, bees, wasps and ants were jost-
ling each other to mop up. Gradually the
excitement worked up to a frenzy. The
insects’ movements became more erratic ;
the ants and beetles staggered about, and
the bees and wasps hit the tree in their
flight. After a short while some began
to drop to the ground, and an examina-
tion showed that they were dead-drunk.
The sap had doubtless fermented and at-
tracted the thirsty creatures from far and
wide, like a pub in Hades with all drinks
on the house.
* * * *
“Aga”: Record long-distance delivery?
Jock Nelson, son of Nelson, M.H.R.,
covers 220 miles twice a week delivering
meat in Centralia. He kills at his station
about 50 miles from Tennant’s Creek, and
supplies the goldfields scattered around
that area.
* * * *
“8.5.”: “Wagga’s” method of catch-
ing rabbits (B. 23/5/’34) is too cum-
bersome and expensive. No need to
scoop out carrots and fill them with
pepper, or to build a circle of
stones about the bait for the rabbit
to fracture his skull on. I sprinkle
slices of apple or turnip with a special
cayenne pepper made by myself from
the small red chillies to be obtained
from any Chinese shop. When the rabbit
sniffs at one of these the sneeze is so
violent that he breaks his neck.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Maori Jack, our
cream-can collector, often posts cockies’
mail. The other day he slyly in-
formed me that old bachelor McSkin-
flint was writing to a 17-year-old flapper.
“How do you know?” I asked. “Can
see it on every letter,” he grinned. “He
orways puts: ‘Miss B. Gay, 17, High-
street, Waiwaiwai.’ ”
* . * * *
“B. & L.”: Sydney’s Dogs’ Home takes
in boarders whose owners are tempor-
arily absent; but that’s about the limit.
A copy of the “Kennel,” received from
England, shows that London has many
establishments of the sort for dogs and
cats —the ads. fill a four-column page.
There is also a “select” boarding-house
for pet monkeys, most of which come
from the West End, where the human
infant has gone out of fashion. The
limit to me is a boarding establishment
for goldfish. When people leave London
for their holidays, or are likely to be
away for other reasons, they take their
goldfish to this place until their return.
The stock is fed, watered and, presum-
ably, groomed for a weekly considera-
tion, and returned to its owners when
required. How the individuals are
identified by their adoring owners when
wanted again I have no idea. Still, as
there are people who can tell one China-
man from another, or even pick their
own wives out of a mob just leaving
a beauty-treatment parlor, I suppose a
special sense must be developed.
WASHING UP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Washing up’s a weary game, dirty, sad and
dreary game;
Often just the thought of it puts me in a
. pique.
Knives and forks and crockery make my life
a mockery,
So at least it seems on half a dozen days a
week.
Mornings, there’s tiie dairy things—how I wish
they’d vary things;
Wash the separator, say, ’fore we go to bed!
Little use requesting it, when the mere suggest-
ing it
Brings the waves of indignation down upon
my head.
What, they ask, would Grannie think? What
would Auntie Annie think
If they knew a -child like me had the face
to dare
Openly to violate, trample on, annihilate
Good, housewifely usages followed every-
where?
Thus my mother movingly, and a bit reprov-
ingly.
What care I for lecturing when there’s a
Sunday night?
Twenty tasks laborious fit me for the glorious
Sabbath evening washing up, Bill as neophyte.
Slow we do it, lingering, every vessel fingering,
If our hands should chance to touch, good-
ness, what a thrill!
Why, it’s worth the waiting for all the week
and dating for,
Washing up the supper things Sunday nights
with Bill.
N.S.W.
SPADGER.


“Barang”: Easiest fishing 1 ever ex-
perienced was down at Port Hacking
(N.S.W.) the other day. Walking along
Jibbon Beach during a strong nor’-easter,
I noticed a movement at the water’s
edge ; it was a 21b. John Dory struggling
to right itself and regain deeper water.
Ten yards further on I picked out an-
other, and within 200 yards had collected
seven fish, aggregating over 101 b. John
Dory is a deep-sea fish, and his peculiarly-
shaped body renders him almost help-
less when in the shallows. .Any member
of the Council explain why these fish
committed suicide for my benefit?
. * * * if.
“Kooragai”: The appearance of four
magpie geese in a lagoon not far from
Brisbane caused a stir among birdmen
and others, for none of these fine big-
game birds had visited the mid-eastern
districts for over quarter of a century.
Thousands used to frequent swamps on
both sides of the border, and at one time
they were common in most parts of the
continent. Now, like the jabiru, they
are found only in the far north and
north-west, where the abos. in season
reap a rich harvest of eggs. The large,
open nests are numerous among the reeds
and rushes, each containing from six to
“The new hand’s gone.”
“Didn’t he give notice ?”
“No; the bull didn’t give him a chance.”
twelve eggs. Collecting is usually the
work of gins, who wade for hours
through weeds and water, often up to
their necks, with a rush-bag slung over
their shoulders to hold the spoil. The
magpie goose is regarded as a curiosity ;
it differs from all other geese in having
only partially webbed feet, and a con-
voluted windpipe (in the male) that is
sft. long. It is long-legged, has a knob
on the head, and perches in trees.
“W.P.T.”: A rabbit-trapper on the
N.S.W. South Coast found one of his
traps turned over on its side but not
sprung. In a hole it had been set
in a mushroom was growing. Obvi-
ously it had grown beneath the trap
in a night, pushed it out of the loose
dirt and turned it on its side. The fungus
measured 9in. in diameter; the stalk was
an inch and a half thick.
* * * *
“Foreign”: That argument about frogs
living for long in rock (B. 2/5/’34) moves
me to ask if any Aboliar can tell me how
long toads can live in
cider. I was much ex-
posed to exiled Cor-
nishmen many years
ago, and whenever dis-
cussing the ruling ques-
tion of the day—this
was in North Queens-
land —they invariably
plumped for Cornish
cider as the most satis-
fying beverage under
Heaven. Asked why
Cornish instead of the
product of Devon or
Hereford, they insisted
it was because of the
Cornish practice of
putting a live toad
in every barrel of
new cider to make it
“work.” According to
them the toads had
been known to live for
years in this useful em-
ployment, being tipped out through the
bunghole when the barrel was empty and
immediately transferred to a “new
brewen.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Don’t know how long a
magpie will live in its wild state (B.
16/5/’34), but a Kensington (N.S.W.)
man had one for 24 years, and it was
hale and hearty right up to the time it
had a fatal argument with a terrier. This
maggie was rescued from some boys at
Kurnell, Botany Bay ; it was never caged
after the first three months. It flew daily
to Centennial Park, but always returned
home.
'** * *
“Snarer”: Alf and I were down and
all but out. We knew nothing about
’possums other than that the season was
open and skins were worth money. We
decided to give it a flick. A fellow with
a large heart gave us a few snares and
showed us how to make others —after
we’d got enough money to buy copper
wire. He opened up a bit further and
gave us a lump of cyanide and told us
how to mix it with pollard. I shook a
bit of pollard and Alf put it on the
fellow for the loan of five bob to buy a
license. His reply was practical and to
the point: “Buy your license after you’ve
got your skins.” We set our snares. The
only ’possum that wandered into one
broke away and took the snare with him.
That left us with two. We mixed the
cyanide and pollard. I forgot then, and
so did Alf. and neither has remembered
since, whether the water went in before
the cyanide or if the pollard went in before
the water. We chanced it, and we spread
our baits on a tree that had a marked
road of ’possum tracks. Alf pinched a
drop of aniseed and we added that. We
went to bed with money jingling in our
dreams. We stayed a week. We caught
none. We examined the lures. We
saw the ants climbing the tree to reach
the honey-blossom. And such was the
lure of our baits that even the ants made
a detour when passing them, and the
’possums had not left a new track since
the stuff was spread !
“D.E.”: Maurice Baring in
a book of reminiscences re-
ports a conversation with
“Beg pardon, miss, I’ve lost me room. But you’re not half as bad as the one
I saw nex’ door.”
Sarah Bernhardt, 10 or 12 years after
she visited this country. The lady told
him “the most remarkable sight she ever
saw was on a large prairie in Australia”:
a flight of “brilliantly-colored birds that
filled the sky.” They mounted all of a
sudden and “completely obscured the
horizon with their dazzling plumage.”
Now, where did Sarah witness this Spec-
tacle, and what were the birds?
H* * Jj: He
“Tiewire”: It is not unusual for the
heavens to rain fish, as described by
“Ruat Coelum” (B. 9/5/’34), but I’ve
only once seen it rain rabbits. They had
been bad that year on adjoining proper-
ties ; mine was rabbit-proof, until they
began to arrive from the heavens. With
a pair of field-glasses I saw that the
bunnies were being dropped by eagle-
hawks. Apparently the threatening
weather conditions worried the birds into
jettisoning their cargo. It was just my
luck that the storm came when they
were over my place, because I’ve been
pestered with rabbits ever since.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: I’m still in doubt as to
how the baby kangaroo makes his entry
into the world ; that is,
with the exception of
the nesting variety. The
female of this species,
of course, lays eggs.
She seldom lays more
than three, and these
she buries in the sand
for the spring sun to
hatch. A swagman is
set for a week if he
comes across a laying
kangaroo’s nest; but he
must be careful not to
start a war with the
layer. She will leave
the egg-thief looking as
if a harrow had been
drawn over him, and
his dying depositions
she alone will hear.
It’s not for me to take
my affidavit on this;
but when the argument
was on in Regan’s pub
the only doubt seemed
to be whether the ’roo
buried the eggs or sat
on them in the ap-
proved fashion of a
ducky hen. I left
when the combatants
got to proving it with their coats off.
* * * *
“King T.”: Scrub turkey young must
be unique in that they are able to fly
immediately on leaving the egg. They
are then fully-feathered, and, though their
progress is clumsy and slow, it is some
protection against their numerous ene-
mies—dingoes, cats, goannas and hawks
taking toll of unwary youngsters.
* * * *
“Gundy”: Conspicuous daring in a
fox is sometimes brought about by
famine. My neighbor’s fowlhouse was
being raided ; he trapped a fox, but it
escaped after leaving three toes behind.
A few nights later the chook population
was further depleted, a hole being re-
opened under the fowlhouse wall. This
time three traps were set, and the robber
was there next morning. It was a vixen,
in full milk and low condition, minus
three toes.
* * * *
“Sailor”: “A.W.C.” (B. 2/5/’34) re-
minds me. Humping “Tilly,” I was walk-
ing through the second-last Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) railway tunnel, when a down
passenger train roared into it. This
didn’t worry me until the headlamp of
a goods train on the up line no more
than 30 yards ahead blinded me. In
a panic I made a frantic search for one
of the safety niches 1 and found it, but a
shotgun in my swag prevented me back-
ing in. The driving wheels of the lead-
ing loco, spun not six inches from my
nose. I got a pair of boiled legs, from
the knees down, from the waste-pipes
of both engines.
* * * *
“Marko”: It is not strictly correct to
refer to puss as a domesticated animal
(B. 16/5/’34), because the cat has never
become domesticated. All house cats
have allowed themselves to do is to be-
come accustomed to human beings, but
they have shed none of their “bush”
habits. A cat, for example, whose ances-
tors for uncounted generations may have
drunk milk out of a saucer and slept
on satin cushions will still keep herself
scrupulously clean so that the keen-nosed
jungle animals shall not scent her while
she has a nap. And the said nap will
still be taken in a circular attitude so
that—where a tabby is concerned, at any
rate —puss, viewed by the eye of an eagle,
will look like a coiled-up snake. An
eagle won’t swoop on a snake.
* * * *
“Cudgerie”: “Breaker’s” method of
swimming horses (B. 16/5/’34) is crude.
It’s best to swim beside the prad on the
downstream side, gripping the reins in
one hand and placing as little weight on
the withers as possible. Hanging on to
a moke’s tail is the quickest way of tiring
him ; it is risky, too, as many animals
have a habit of kicking backwards as
soon as their hoofs strike bottom. Be-
sides, if there are crocodiles about it is
no good being near the rear end, as Scaly
may grab just before the far bank is
reached.
* * * *
“Mho”: The method employed by
“Carrick, A. 8.” (B. 25/4/’34) in dislodg-
ing his stump reminds me how expan-
sion and contraction of some materials
were utilised during the construction of
the Speck’s hydro-electric scheme. A
steel pipe-line, 3ft. in diameter, and
weighing about 100 tons, had been con-
structed from the station to a point
several hundred feet high on the hillside
near by. It was found necessary to move
the line bodily a foot higher. Expan-
sion joints were locked, then the top end
of the line was made fast at the hottest
period of the day. In the night, as the
temperature dropped, the line, of course,
became shorter. The gap left at the
bottom was wedged, and the top left -
free to rise when the heat of the day
brought about expansion in the line. The
top was made fast again at the time of
maximum expansion, and the whole pro-
cess continued for a week, by which
lime the heavy pipe-line had lifted itself
to the required position.
MILKING COWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, it’s pleasant, early mornings,
Milking cows,
When the wet leaves sparkle on the lightwood
boughs,
And the rusty fencing wires
Are all strung with dewy fires,
As the fleecy sunlight finds me
Milking cows.
1 can see, these autumn mornings,
Milking cows,
A far-off hillside where a neighbor ploughs,
All chocolate squares and green;
1 can smell the earth scents keen,
Better far than frying bacon,
Milking cows.
Hear the magpies sing o’ mornings,
Milking cows.
Singing madly from a dead gum’s naked boughs,
And the butcher-bird’s clear whistles,
And the scrub wrens in the thistles,
I should miss them if I wasn’t
Milking cows.
Still, it’s very quiet of evenings,
Milking cows.
Quiet and lonely in a season that allows
No time for two to meet
When they’re putting in the wheat,
And it’s dark before I finish
Milking cows.
And the frosty starlight finds me
Milking cows - ,
While the sleepy-headed ranges seem to drowse.
1 must hurry or be late.
Is that someone at the gate
While I’m still (Stand over, Blossom!)
Milking cows?
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Short Story \ Free Lance
Writing : Journalism
NEW COURSES r
Instruction and Training in your own home by
practical journalists. Write for free prospectus,
1.C.5., 140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Money to Lend.
The Commonwealth Life (Amal-
gamated) Assurances, Limited.
MONEY TO LEND
On First Mortgage, on approved
security, in sums of £5OO and up-
ward. No procuration fees payable.
Apply:
The General Secretary,
“The Block,”
424-430 George Street, Sydney.
Tenders.
THE NEW ZEALAND GOVERNMENT
(RAILWAY DEPARTMENT) REQUIRE
240,000 SLEEPERS AND APPROXIMATELY
700,000 SUP. FEET OF AUSTRALIAN
HARDWOODS AND A QUANTITY OF
PILES AS SHOWN IN QUOTATION ON
R. 36.
Quotations C. & F. New Zealand Main Ports
will be received by the undersigned on or be-
fore Monday, 18th June, 1934.
For quotation forms and all particulars,
apply to
L. J. SCHMITT,
Trade and Tourist Commissioner,
New Zealand Government Offices,
Cnr. Martin Place and Pitt Street, Sydney.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Patents.
THERMOSTATS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
2919/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel r & Griffith, Patent Attor-
neys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MAKING SEMI-
FINISHED OR FINISHED STEEL
PRODUCTS.
JHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
491/31. is prepared to negotiate for the sale
ol its rights in the above, or for the granting of
a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia. Par-
ticulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attor-
neys, Sydney.
Ĵ
FOE
NURSING
MOTHERS
1
n
v
E
A nursing mother's attention
to her baby should begin by
taking care of her own health.
A regular course of Roboleine, which is a special combination
of Nature's own most valuable foods, provides that extra
nourishment which is so important at this time. Where the
mother's milk is deficient the need for Roboleine is still greater,
and it is prescribed by doctors all over the world for this
condition. Do not take chances with your own baby. Begin
a course of Roboleine now.
The adult dose being one teaspoonful, which contains an
adequate ration of all the essential vitamins, Roboleine is very
economical in use. I2oz. jars, 4/6, or three times the quantity
12/-, at all chemists and stores.
%
THE FOOD THAT BUILDS THE BODY
SEND COUPON
FOR SAMPLE
Muir Neil Ltd., Box 1562 E, G.P.0., Sydney
I enclose ad. in stamps for Sample of Roboleine
Name.
GOOD BOOKS TO READ!
FOR LIBRARY WSTS AND GIFTS
The Endeavour press recommends
“PAGEANT”
by G. B. Lancaster
PAGEANT is aptly named.
It describe the spectacle of
life in th days of Queen
the stage-setting
Tasmania. The
have all the
factors in a bril-
erade. The pages
with dramatic
t>ld in a masterly
fe is History in
the makUjjg, told as a
dramatic sflry of individuals.
A book t® read and keep,
to discuss a and recommend.
PRICE Postage 4d.
Victoria, 1
of Coloni
characters
glamour a
liant mas
are pack
incidents
style.
“It is a fascinating record
of the great days of Tas-
mania seen with the romance
that always clings to a lost
cause.’’—London “Times."
“It is a picturesque piece
of work upon which the
author may be congratu-
lated.”—London “Sunday
Times."
“It is decidedly one of the
best and most absorbing
works of the kind that has
so far appeared in print.”
—“West Australian.”
“The Doughman”
by
Robert Desmond Tate
It is more-;than an author’s
brilliant first novel; it is
the first of its kind among
our novelists. It trans-
lates, in terms of the
sharpest rpalism, an aspect
of life in, the raw—in the
sweat and . steam, the stealth
and sinister dealings that
may form .the atmosphere of
industrial It shows
the insidious effect such
atmosphere may have on
those who breathe it—men
and girls. It shows the re-
action of a girl of clean
character and a man who in
other circumstances might
have been ■an inspiration to
men. It carries with it a
quick spice of humor and
the softening influence of
romance.
PRICE 6/-, Postage 3d.
“In many ways ‘The Dough-
man’ is the most remarkable
Australian Novel we have
come across for years.”
—Melbourne “Herald."
“Mr. Tate writes with
vitality and conviction about
something that will appear
refreshingly new to readers
of Australian fiction.” —
“Sydney Morning Herald.”
“The most distinctive piece
of writing evolved in Aus-
tralia for many a long day.”
—Sydney “Telegraph.”
“JONAH”
by Louis Stone
The late Mr. John Gals-
worthy said: “I’ve lapped
up your novel, which I think
extraordinarily actual, vivid
and good.” This is an epic
of the city’s back streets.
Jonah is an unforgettable
character, as truly Australian
in his way -as any man from
the Bush. The book will
surprise those who now read
it for the first time, by its
dramatic power in telling of
a phase of Australian life
which has almost entirely
vanished. '
PRICE 6/-, Postage 3d.
“Acknowledged as one of the
outstanding Australian works
ot fiction.”
—Hobart “Mercury.”
“The book is a living and
moving document, an in-
stance of stark realism which
on the face of it carries the
hallmark of genuineness.”
—Brisbane “Telegraph.”
“Louis Stone’s book is des-
tined to become an Aus-
tralian classic. Its bril-
liance of style, ease of nar-
ration and dramatic power
are outstanding.”
—“Smith’s Weekly.”
Send for Colored lllustratet
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS
252 George St., Sydney.
COMPLETE AND SEND
COUPON IF BOOKS ARE
UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
Catalogue of all Publications
To THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Please post the following books to me
by return post. My cheque is enclosed.
TITLE
TITLE .....
TITLE
NAME
ADDRESS
Indian girl to help it along. Richard
Barthelmess makes a sufficiently forceful
hero, and Dudley Digges and Arthur
Hohl are unscrupulous villains. Ann
Dvorak is the Indian maid and Claire
Dodd the blonde first-love.
* * *
The Tatler opened its unmighty doors
in Collins-street, Melb., last week. Its
aim is to supply variety and social news
in movie form. On the initial programme
Melbourne’s best-gowned deploy in front
of the new-model cars at the Motor
Show ; Elf tee Films reveal the domestic
economy of the bee ; a few Hollywood
babies are presented as evidence that
some film stars are human; ice-yachts
slither about; and so it goes on.
This is the second news-movie theatre
achieved by Melbourne.
Sundry Shows
A show that has been attracting insuf-
ficient attention from biologists and
eugenists is the Motor Show at Melb.
Exhibition. This usually annual event
had been in suspension for some years
under a ukase issued by General
Depresh. Its resumption indicates that
the interim has been well spent by those
sculptors in steel and rubber and painters
in duco, the designers of Model A 9395-
1934, complete with penwiper. Some
hint of what was in store for the poten-
tial car-buyer had already been vouch-
safed on the streets, a few months ago.
But these were merely tentative and
stumbling steps into the unknown.
There is a Chrysler, slowly re-
volving on its elevated base with the
pride of a stallion conscious of the
nobility of its blood, which for creepy-
crawliness baffles description. It re-
sembles a torpedo fitted up by some
eccentric for human habitation, or some
sort of boring tool, and, if you climbed
into the thing and pressed the accelera-
tor, you would not be quite certain
whether it would travel straight ahead,
burrow 'slowly but surely into the
earth, or shoot, whistling exultantly, into
the empyrean. This vehicle goes the
whole hog or beetle in the direction of
air-flow or streamline, and it is difficult
to imagine much further development in
that direction as far as automobiles are
concerned. It will be necessary now to
modify the human structure in the direc-
tion of the tapeworm before cars can be
designed more like rifle bullets than they
are now. This is where the eugenists and
biologists could lend a hand.
H- * *
Conductor Harty, on the Wagnerian
night at Melb. Town Hall,' gave the im-
pression that he made the orchestra work
harder than it had ever worked in its
life before ; the result was that it seemed
to be enjoying itself. This intensity was
passed on to the audience, which eagerly
snatched at the titbits tossed to it. But
a programme composed of so many
shorts is not really satisfying ; it is like
a meal in a Chinese restaurant, or, to
change the metaphor back to the artistic
realm, like being introduced to Rem-
brandt per medium of small areas cut
from half a dozen of his principal master-
pieces. Soloist Laelia Finneberg was ade-
quate to her job. There is a musical
quality in her voice that was nowhere so
well brought out as in “Elizabeth’s Greet-
ing to the Hall of Song.” Her final
appearance was as Brunnhilde in
“Gotterdammerung,” in which the sing-
ing was part of the orchestration. The
musicians occasionally lacked finesse.
This defect had, however, disappeared
by Saturday night, when a packed hall
listened to the third gift of the A.B.C.
It led off with the “Royal Water Music”
of Handel, for some inexplicable reason
never before played by orchestra in this
music-loving land. The transcription is
Sir Hamilton’s, the composer having
written the original piece for performance
fin a not very large barge and not on a
spacious platform. He wanted to draw
the attention of George I. to the state of
his bank account and the result was the
most melodious piece of dunning in the
history of musical mendicancy. In this
piece the orchestra was extraordinarily
delicately poised, like a dancer on his
toes. The next item, according to the
programme, was the Fifth Symphony of
Beethoven, but it was totally unlike the
composition commonly performed locally
under that name. The Harty baton
picked out nuances in the score that were
hitherto unsuspected; searched for the
contrasts lurking in the second move-
ment, and gave mystery full rein in the
third. And the finale reached unexampled
heights of pomp and circumstance.
A brilliant item in the second part was
the polka and fugue from “Schwanda,”
by Weinberger, also performed for the
first time; another debutante was the
conductor’s own tone poem, “With the
Wild Geese,” a neat bit of description
based on an incident in Irish revolu-
tionary history of the eighteenth century.
Also, there were three excerpts from
Berlioz’s “Damnation of Faust,” during
the performance of which the big drum
fell through the floor. This closed an
evening which brought Melbourne
orchestral standards back to where they
were 30 or 40 years ago, when conduc-
tors were not asked to work like
draymen, orchestrions were properly re-
hearsed and music was not fed on finan-
cial husks.
* * *
In “The Marquise,” presented by the
Independent Theatre at Sydney Savoy,
Noel Coward crosses the Channel and
moves the clock back two hundred years,
despite which some of the humor has a
very modern flavor. Crux of the play is
the fact that the daughter of Raoul, a
reformed rake, betrothed to the son of
Esteban, a gallant, had the same mother
as her fiance. Mother, the Marquise de
Kestournel, with the aid of pistols, forces
a priest to marry the girl to someone
she loves. Having arranged for her
daughter’s happiness, the Marquise runs
her eye over her two former lovers with
a view to living upon one of them. She
makes them both jealous, and finally the
reformed one gets tight and wins her.
Acting was patchy. Doris Fitton gave a
good account of herself as the Marquise,
and Arthur M. Stoyles was a carefree Este-
ban, but Clive Coppard could have been
improved upon as Raoul. There were times
when Lorraine Smith almost became the
captivating Adrienne, and others when
she remained Lorraine Smith. Allan
Davis, as the secretary, and Tony New-
som, as Esteban’s son, gave promise of
better things. George Blackwood was
the producer. The group’s next essay
will be Galsworthy’s “The Fugitive.”
* * H-
Brisbane Repertory Society opened its
season at the Royal with two Spanish
plays on Thursday night—“ Wife to a
Famous Man,” by G. M. Sierra, and
“Dona Clarines,” by S. and J. Alvarez
Quintera. Dulcie Scott scored as
Marianna, the leading character in the
first play, with good support from Leo
Guyatt. In “Dona Clarines” Barbara
Sisley was successful in the role of an
eccentric old lady who had been disap-
pointed in love. Spanish music between
acts was played by the society’s orchestra,
under the baton of Eric John.


I
Nit
Ml
Nlll
IN||
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
(NORTH QUEENSLAND)
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia's Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, -Color and Beauty.
VISIT
MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND, BARRON FALLS
AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Boole your Passage by CANBERRA, MANUNDA, ORUNGAL, KATOOMBA.
Ĵ
A SUNSHINE CRUISE TO THE Warm
NORTH
n
Full particulars and pamphlets from Howard, Smith, Ltd., Adelaide
S. Co., Ltd., Mcllwrakh, McEacharn, Ltd., A.U.S.N., Ltd., at all Ports.
SMOKE-OH!
Border ballad for use in Paraguay and
Bolivia: “My Old Chaco.”
tf. *
“The musician later played the saxophone
to his rescuer.”— “Sun.”
The height of ingratitude.
* *
“Some trainers, obsessed with an idea that
their horses can gallop on one course only, will
listen to no other argument.”— “Telegraph.”
One-track minds.
* v
“An American has estimated the distance to
the moon as 30,000 miles more than the
accepted amount.” — “Herald.”
Obviously a taxi-driver.
* #
“The payments he collected went promptly to
the nearest hotel.”—Sydney paper.
Spot cash.
* *
“Cultured pearls sell for about half the price
of natural ones.” —News item.
Proof that breeding is nothing to boast
about.
“Caught ’im teachin’ my parrot to croon, sir.”
“Man who posed as a deaf mute sent to
gaol.”
Test cricketers, please take notice.
* *
“A furrier says that in the fur trade the
rabbit has 75 different names.”
The farmer can only think of one.
* *
“What is the best way to abolish the stiff
shirt?” —Sydney paper.
Send it to the laundry.
* *
“Russians ascend 12| miles.”
Looking for the silver lining?
LEAVES FROM THE PAST.
II. —Bushranging Days.
Bushrangers as a class were much mis-
understood. Actually, they were fine,
noble, God-fearing men, intent on bring-
ing about a more equitable distribution
of wealth. As they lived before politics
became a profession, they were debarred
by the minions of a festering Toryism
from putting their principles into prac-
tice in the cities, and were forced to
start in a modest way in the bush.
The average bushranger was an in-
spiring figure, six-feet-six in height, with
black hair and beard and piercing blue
eyes. He was a dare-devil rider and an
unerring shot—though he seldom shot to
kill. His horses were always superb
animals —as fast as the wind and much
more dependable.
The bushrangers were great lovers of
sport, and it was quite a common occur-
rence for a gang to turn up at a bush
race meeting and carry off all the prizes
(including those they won themselves).
Next morning they would be robbing a
bank 100 miles away, and the same night
would see them 90 miles to the south,
spending the money loyally in their home
town, buying beer for all-comers and
dancing with the girls of the village. The
police, lumbering along on their slow
horses, would probably not arrive until
the following day, when all the beer was
gone and the gang was holding up a
ccjach 75 miles to the north-east.
The police were low, degraded and
ci*uel. They seldom ventured into open
fight with the bushrangers, relying more
upon low cunning to gain their ends.
Take, for instance,
their capture of
Thunderbolt. Pos-
sessed of a horse
which was a real
champion, even for a
bushranger’s mount,
this gentleman’s long
suit was leaping over
chasms. There was
one particular chasm
that his horse could
just barely manage
to leap. The police
found this out, and
cut two feet off the
far-side bank. Every-
one agreed it was a
mean thing to do.
Then, again, the
case of Ned Kelly.
His armor made him
almost invulnerable,
but Sgt. Steele stole
it and substituted a
tin suit borrowed
from the State
Theatre. The bullet
holes in the suit
were mended after-
wards, but Ned was
never the same again.
Actions such as
these tend to make
the police unpopular
with the public, but
they are greatly ap-
preciated by novelists
and scenario writers.
The Last of the Bushrangers died only
the other day. In fact, he has died half
a dozen times in the last 10 years, and
will probably be still doing it at reason-
able intervals for another 20 years.
He claimed to have originated the say-
ing “Who’s robbing this coach?” but the
claim has not been substantiated.
Bibliography: “Bushlover’s Vade Mecum”;
“I Know a Bank”; “Necks, Please”; “Snob-
bery Underarmed”; “Anybody Here Seen
Kelly?”; “Police Gazette.”
Jasby.
NIL NISI BONUM.
“Merchants are agitating against coupon trad-
ing and the giving of bonus gifts with goods
purchased.” —News item.
Percy Anstruther walked moodily to-
wards his cheerless home. The bonus
system was getting him down.
Towels with every bar of soap. Cups
and saucers with each pound of tea.
Quite all right. But the thing had got
out of hand and had become a public
menace.
The local butcher created chaos by
offering an Alsatian dog with every
pound of sausages. His rival countered
with a Mexican parrot with every joint
purchased. The first
chap came back by
offering a Persian
kitten with every
half-pound of drip-
ping.
Percy’s backyard
became a menagerie.
Dogs, parrots and
kittens, not to men-
tion half a dozen
Mongolian horses,
the inspiration of a
grocer who gave one
away with every
package of porridge.
Percy surveyed the
furniture waggon
outside his gate with
consternation. “This
is going too far.
Which is mine, the
wireless set or the
pianola?”
“Both,” said the
furniture man hap-
pily. “This is one
of Tearem’s 280-
guinea wireless sets
—the pianola is free"
Percy spoke with intense feeling. “It’s
over the odds; we have three wireless
sets already and four pianolas.”
“Your wife has signed up for them,
sir Where’ll I put ’em?”
“On the verandah,” snapped Percy.
“The blasted house is chock-full of bonus
goods ; you couldn’t get anything more
in with a shoehorn.”
He meandered listlessly to the front
door, edged through, and collided with
the combined billiard-table, gas stove
and bird aviary they had acquired when
paying the last electric-light bill. He
reached the dining-room. There was a
note for him conspicuously displayed:
“Have gone to the chemist’s; back in
half an hour. In a hurry. Mary.”
A full-page newspaper advertisement
laid out on the table caught his eye. His
jaw dropped, his hair stood on end.
Burnham and Buryem announced that
with every cremation entrusted to them
they were giving a brand-new aeroplane
free. The first six customers would also
get twelve months’ supply of free air.
And Mary had gone in a hurry to the
chemist’s!
A Mongolian horse kicked with de-
lightful abandon at a tramp-like figure
sneaking towards the back gate.
Percy, beaten to his knees by the bonus
system, was taking to the bush.
Beta.
* #
SOCIAL ETIQUETTE OF KING’S
CROSS.
When accompanied by ladies, gentle-
men should walk on the inside of the
pavement, the idea being to protect the
weaker vessels from bottles, etc., issuing
from adjacent windows.
Always address a female by her maiden
name. To use the names of her hus-
bands is both bad form and confusing
to all concerned.
When guests become incapacitated
during a party, the host (or hostess)
should never undress and put them to
bed without their consent.
It is bad form to ask a man whether
he uses a gun or a razor. Be careful
not to offend on this point.
When attending a “snow” revel en-
deavor to sniff without ostentation.
When throwing a party always re-
member that, whatever the quantity' of
liquor you order, your guests are capable
of drinking twice as much.
T. N.
* *
LUCK.
As he walked out of the building it
started to rain. He was in a hurry to
get to the s.-p. shop and had no
umbrella. He dashed across the street,
but was hauled back by a policeman, who
took his name for jay-walking. At his
“Is the new filing clerk getting familiar with her duties ?”
“Well, sir, she hasn’t tried to kiss me yet."
second attempt he was knocked down
by a car.
A pickpocket made off with his wallet,
and his new hat rolled into a pool of
water. The ambulance men dropped him
and broke his leg as they were lifting
him into the ambulance. Then they took
him to the hospital where his mother-
in-law was matron; and he found out
later that the horse he had intended to
back had romped home at 50 to 1.
It was just another day in the life of
Lucky Steve, who has won so many
lottery prizes for his clients.
Sef.
HAVING IT BOTH WAYS.
“Dear,” my wife whispered, “wake up.
B-b-burglars! ”
“Burglars be hanged,” I muttered. “Go
to sleep.”
“But I heard them. I heard a noise.”
I got up and ransacked the house.
When I returned I adopted a superior air.
“No sign of anyone. Anyway, when
burglars break into a house they don’t
make a noise.”
Half an hour passed, and then I re-
ceived a jab in the ribs.
“Percy! There must be burglars in
the house. I can’t hear a sound.”
P. C.
PREFERENCE.
“In this territory it is not permissible to
shoo elephants.”— “Sun.”
You must not shoo an elephant.
Be mum, and {if you can ) levant.
Although to shoo the beast you pant
The rules forbid it, so you shan’t.
It seems the law is adamant.
But I {concealed in some tall plant )
Confess that / would rather want
To shoot than shoo an elephant.
H. M.
RIFT IN THE LUTE.
Though you’re the acme of beauty and
charm,
Our future together 1 view with alarm.
/ am persuaded—though heavy my
heart —
That sooner or later, my love, we must
part.
‘‘But, precious sweetheart, what more do
you ask ?”
(/ hear your crooning voice take me to
task.)
That is the point of it, Light of my
Day —
You always ask, but I have to pay.
P. O. M. c.


SPO RTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Smiles were on the face of S. Fielder
as he returned to scale after winning the
Federal Hurdle at Moonee Valley on
Kengo, and punters applauded the vic-
tory, notwithstanding that Kengo (16 to
1) had downed a 5-to-4 favorite, Zetheus.
On his breeding this gelding makes a sen-
timental appeal to Victorians, as he is
closely related to Mosstrooper. Because
he had been entered for the G.N. Steeple
and not the G.N. Hurdle, it was assumed
that Kengo’s attention would be con-
centrated on cross-country successes, and
the Valley outing over hurdles was re-
garded as merely a pipe-opener. How-
ever, Kengo smothered the leaders over
the concluding few furlongs and romped
home. It now seems as if an oppor-
tunity was missed in not nominating him
for the first leg of the National double.
Another striking achievement by a
jumper at Moonee Valley was the debut
of Pactolus over fences. In May of last
year the Rossendale gelding landed a
hurdle race at Bacchus Marsh. Bill Burke
determined to convert him into a ’chaser.
He schooled so attractively at Moonee
Valley early in the week that L. K. S.
Mackinnon, chairman of the V.R.C.,
hastened to acquire the horse. Weighted
at 9st. 71b. in the Commonwealth Steeple-
chase, Pactolus met with solid support at
Bert'.“’lll. mever we vou
SHOOTINQ &,(SA.IS!
G|ER.T ; ° WH/VT MWE I DOME MOwV
Bert '."Plsktv '. vouve nmemrly
hit ME -tHRBE )'
G<=RT! a, sport i.wo Qive. v\e
&,NOTHeiR CK^MCS"
6 to 1, only Tezpur (7 to 2) and Fulham
(4 to 1) being in more request. Tezpur
knocked up in trying to win all the way.
Fulham shaped so miserably that an ex-
planation ought to have been obtained by
the stewards. Fencing magnificently,
Pactolus scored with a lot in hand from
old Calfly and Gravelines. Like Kengo,
he is a G.N. Steeple aspirant only. Pre-
cocious, winner of the G.N. Steeple of
1932, finished fifth, and would have done
better if he had not been seriously inter-
fered with when Whurlic came a purler
seven furlongs from home.
The main feature of the galloping events
was the maiden victory of Chelandric in the
first division of the Piccaninny Handicap.
This colt, who is by Heroic-Green
Patch, and therefore a full brother to
Top Hole, cost C. B. Kellow 1400gns. as
a yearling. Holt discovered that it would
be unwise to hurry Chelandric, who did
not sport silk until December. The
chestnut has made rapid progress lately,
and, starting at 7 to 1, he gave Dempsey
the easiest of winning rides. Titanium
(Heroic—Winter) is an even better-
looking colt. Titanium was favorite for
the second division o£ the Piccaninny
Handicap, but lost by halt a neck to Sun-
raysia (Equator-Vivanda) after appear-
ing to have the race won. He shows an
inclination to hang out, and, being soft-
mouthed, is difficult to handlt. Titinium
brought 1000 guineas.
S P ea sP an ’ i°f mer ly raced in Sydney by
E. J. Watt, registered his first Victorian
victory in the Mount Alexandra Handi-
cap. He squeezed home by a head from
Scobie s representative, Petau. It was a
great afternoon for N.S.W. horses—
Kengo, Pactolus, Spearman and Barren
Corn. The success of Barren Corn was
earned in a division of the Headwind
Highweight Handicap. In July of last
year Barren Corn won the Grafton Cup,
beating Ranchero, the favorite, by two
lengths; but he has only just commenced
to pay his way in Victoria.
Expertly handled by William Kelso’s
apprentice S. Weiss, old Tortoni (7 to 2)
made hacks of the opposition in the
Moorefield Handicap, making every post
a winner. Ramrod, the favorite, was
second, and the improving Mayonnaise
was third. Baltimore’s rider was per-
haps overloaded with instructions ; any-
way, instead of being close to Tortoni,
he allowed the Treclare gelding to sneak
away at the half-mile, and it was left
to Ramrod to chase the runaway. Touchit
was bothered by the soft going, and Out
Back, well supported at sixes, finished
last.
Having his first run for some months,
Le Touquet showed a fine turn of speed
in the Flying Handicap. He carried the
Payten colors, and started at sevens.
Rosaban, from a bad post position, was
the early leader, but he could not get over
to the rails. Le Touquet dashed through
at the half-mile, and was never in danger
of defeat from that point. Some Boy
was third, and Mafoota, who dwelt, was
fourth: the grey came home so well that
she is worth following. Anchor, the fav-
orite, never showed up.
• ‘
King of Diamonds, who carries the
colors of W. S. Glenn and is trained at
Randwick by Jamieson, won the Juvenile
in a manner that suggested more vic-
tories. When pressure was put on, the
son of Chief Ruler ran right away from
Hugh Denison’s Heroic colt Heritor,
with First Son third. Early backers of
King of Diamonds took 5 to 2, but he
started at fours. Jamieson saddled up an-
other winner, to * n
J he , Rockdale Mile but was perhaps
Jpcky , Jamieson s gelding got a race run
fr f> m th S u tur T whereas Rogerson went
wide. The favorite lasted long enough
19 beat Rogerson by half a neck, with
Zeus, who tired, in the other place. Earl-
minster was badly placed most of the
way; his ong strides were not suitable
to t l ac | c an f g( ? in f; Moallm a
great effort to lead all the way, and his
fourth su BS ests a ™ ln weaker com-
P an^;
A ■ , . • w ,
. Randwtck trainer fiver Walker has
been patent with, the Top Gallant geld-
n.gJpoll gh > wh ° ls , °f ,? f l t ad , ,an
Llgh, ; h S ' ar “"« a ? 9 ‘° ««.chestnut
" on ,he division of the Three- and
from . ° nan,al a , nd Sweet
am '' . P “ e s r ?'> ,ra ' n f d a ‘ Mo°re-
field, was backed from 5 to 2 to 5 to 4
in the second division. She had to be
ridden right out to defeat Orpah’s stable-
mate Great Tress and Festive Season,
Paneerai, a three-year-old, is by Pan-
theon from Boonerai, a good performer
m the Newcastle area
* * * *
To the disappointment of many
Queenslanders, Soft Step—hailed as a
champion, and favorite at 10 to 9 on —
was beaten into third place in the
Doomben Cup. But defeat was no dis-
grace, for Whittingham (3 to 1) and
Rivalli are both good horses ; and the
three-year-old was receiving only 71b.
from the winner. Moreover, he very
likely prefers a longer journey than a
mile and a quarter, as did his sire, Spear-
felt. McCarten rode Whittingham, who
quite possibly will be figuring in w.f.a.
company next season.
* * * *
Ike Andrews, the Warwick Farm
trainer, had a profitable trip to New-
castle at the week-end. There he was
first in the Flying Handicap with Legis-
lator (5 to 4) and in the Cup with Broc-
coli (twos). Broccoli, who was ridden by
Parsons, hadn’t much to beat—Magnaver
and Fickle Glass, second and third, are of
little account —but did his job in work-
manlike style, as his Novice Handicap
victory at Randwick suggested he would ;
and the son of Rivoli —Broncurry is now
being talked of for the Metrop.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The Derby, run at
Epsom next Wednesday, is looked on as
already the property of the unbeaten
Colombo. This youngster has yet to
show that he can gallop over a mile, all
his wins being at and below that distance
and on the billiard-table levels used in
England for sprint events. The “hill” may
stop him, as it has stopped others. The
French are very keen on Admiral Drake,
trained by Australian Frank Bullock. To
the writer the likeliest of the lot is Wind-
sor Lad, a Blandford colt who lately
waltzed off with the Newmarket Stakes.
He has already proved himself partial to a
bit of distance, and the Ring has installed
him second favorite to Colombo.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Lurich v. Gotch at Leichhardt was
uninteresting until the sixth round ; then
both were down fighting among the ring-
siders for a minute or more. On re-
entering the ring Lurich picked Gotch up
and slammed him for the deciding fall.
“Whiskers” Blake, who is exactly two
yards and a sixth in his socks, wrestled
a fast draw with King Elliott at New-
town.
Woodfull’s Men
With Middlesex out for 258 things
seemed rosy for the Australians. Hen-
dren, always dangerous at Lord’s, played
a fine innings for 115, and slow-bowler
Robins, who more than once did well
with the bat against Woodfull’s 1930 side,
kept Patsy in countenance with 65. Wall
(3-41), Grimmett (3-80), O’Reilly (2-56)
and Ebeling (2-37) bagged the wickets.
With Woodfull and Ponsford each gone
for a duck to fast-bowler Smith, Aus-
tralia’s chances looked gloomier. How-
ever, as on other occasions of this tour,
the moment produced the man. This
time it was Bradman who flayed the
bowling, and finished with 100 n.o. in
75 minutes, the three figures going up off
the last ball of the day. The century
included 19 fours. Darling played
another bright shot for 33 n.o., but
was overshadowed by his mate. The
pair added 126 in 65 minutes, and at
stumps on Saturday the score was 2 for
135. Smith, a fast, bumping right-hander
with a swinger, got Ponsford and Wood-
full l.b.w. His average was 2 for 34.
0 Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
In Melbourne League football this
season every big game so far has been
won and lost in the second quarter,
Saturday’s bout at Victoria Park follow-
ing the rule. The undefeated Richmond
Tigers started well against Collingwood,
but after an even first quarter the ’Wood-
men’s cleverness and pace told; they
backed each other up, and their position
play could not be faulted. At half-time
they were just 5 goals to the good, and
though the Tigers battled on they were
a weak imitation of the team that had
chewed up Carlton the week before. At
the end Richmond had gathered 64 points
to ’Wood’s 91. For ’Wood Regan and
Dibbs, in defence, Beveridge, at centre,
and Le Brun, forward, shone ; the best
of the Tigers were Judkins, O’Neill and
Foster. On Carlton Oval Geelong put
up an unexpectedly good scuffle against
the Blues, who again were well ahead
in the second term. After that the Sea-
skiers got to it, playing determinedly
round the wings, and a little before the
end held a 3-point lead. But the long
effort told, and Carlton’s last drives
brought a 10-point victory—lo 4 to Gee-
long’s 94. South Melbourne went to
Footscray and managed to reach the in-
terval with a 4-point lead. After that the
Tricolors wilted, and South won com-
fortably with 120 points to 84. St.
Kilda beat North Melbourne, 102 to 80;
Essendon downed Hawthorn, 103 to 89,
and Melbourne accounted for Fitzroy
with 65 to 59. ’Roy promised to show
up this year, but seems to have fallen
from grace sadly.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby Union series on
Saturday saw University deposed from
the top of the table, a possie it shared
with Randwick. Northern Suburbs were
the offenders, winning 21-14 from the
Students and scoring four tries, one con-
verted, a field goal by Gibbons and a
p.g. Uni. notched three tries and West-
field converted one and added a p.g.
The game was patchy in the first half.
Uni. forwards outplaying the formidable
Northern pack, while neither back divi-
sion earned its oats. Uni. led 6-3 at
half-time, and looked like winning. In
the second spell the Northern rearguard
settled down and proved too pacy alto-
gether for its opposite numbers, Cowper
revealing glimpses of his Wallaby form.
In the remaining matches, Randwick
had no trouble in downing Eastern
Suburbs 26-0 at Coogee, and now is
perched in solitary state on the top of
the Shute Shield table with 14 points,
though the club has to replay a
game with Drummoyne. Parramatta
again proved that good football does not
lie in a list of well-advertised names, and
gave the strong Drummoyne side a tough
go before going down by 15-12. Manly,
with a depleted side, struggled home
from St. George at the Village by 16-11.
“Hotham”: The team selected by the
N. S. Rugby Union to meet Victoria on
Monday next at Manly is nothing more
or less than a slap in the face for the
Southerners. Offered a match with Manly
Victoria refused it as absurd, pointing
out that last year in Sydney it had nar-
rowly lost to N.S.W. in one match and
won handsomely in the second. Every-
one has been staggered at the side now
selected. It includes 10 men from Manly
club, and some of them from the lower
grades! The balance is made up of un-
knowns from the country.
* * * *
Though, with the exception of Beaton,
Sydney Leaguers fielded a full set of
Kangaroo backs against Combined
Country at Sydney Sports Ground on
Saturday, in addition to a fair comple-
ment of forwards from the same source,
the home players had very little the better
of it, even if they won 28-14. The
countrymen showed many instances of
individual brilliancy, while their defence
was exceptionally sound, but they
naturally failed in the combination and
understanding necessary to finish good
attacking movements. This was particu-
larly noticeable in the second half, when
the men from the open spaces were on
the move towards the Metropolitan line
most of the time. Sydney scored six
tries, five of which Beaton converted;
Country’s tally was two tries and four
goals from Felsch. Ward played a great
game at full-back for the Country.
Elliott, Reardon and Toovey were other
outstanding players for the visitors. The
game was spoilt as a spectacle by the
over-strictness of the referee.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK ON MONDAY.
First Nursery: Alftruda; next,
King of Diamonds.
June Stakes: Turbine; next,
Veilantif.
A.J.C. Hurdle: Gadray; next,
Delwood.
Ellesmere Handicap: Ranchero ;
next, Broccoli.


FREE YOUR CAR
FROM WINTER'S GRIP
When the thermometer is getting low, and your engine
cold-stiffened, do not hesitate —change at once to the
correct winter grade of Mobiloil. Then Old Man
Winter cannot hold you up!
Easy starting is not the only benefit you will get. You
will have quicker get-away and better acceleration.
You will have more horse-power, because there will be
no oil-drag. Sluggishness will be banished. You will save
your battery, and motor spirit, too.
Mobiloil is double-range. The grade recommended for
your model will distribute at once in the coldest engine,
and give instant protection to the moving parts. It does
not thin out unduly, like ordinary oils, but gives full
protection at all speeds and loads. Change to-day
and enjoy your winter motoring.
J
TO THE
WDKffllS
CRADE OP
Mobil oi
C CONSULT THE MOBILOIL DIRECTORY }
J° r easy starting and more horsepower
M 476
VACUUM CIL CCMPAIMY PTY. IT®.
Wood full’s Men
The Australia-Oxford match faded
out rather pathetically after the good
start made by the Dark Blues in getting
rid of a formidable batting side for 319.
They lost two wickets in the dark at the
end of the first day—an appeal against the
light would certainly have been upheld—
and, as it was, the game had to be closed
down a few minutes later. Next morn-
ing, on a wicket that was evidently talk-
ing back, the balance of the team went
to blazes, the innings closing at 70. The
condition of the pitch may be judged
from the fact that Ebeling took 4 for 34
and Fleetwood-Smith 5 for 30 —his first
real bowling success. Following on,
Oxford got to 216. Wanting an innings
win and an extra day’s spell, Old Man
Grimmett was shoved in to do the dirty
work—his tally was 1 for 109. One Oxon-
ian gave the second-innings score a better
complexion than the first. He was a Cinga-
lese named De Saram, and by all accounts
show’ed dash and initiative which his
English-born cobbers might well have
imitated. He hit a fine shot for 128 and
may see an All-England Eleven some day.
like Ranji, Duleep, Pataudi, and many
other players of the bulldog breed who
have been enlisted under the banner of
Old England in the Tests.
* * * *
Hampshire, regarded as a soft snap,
gave the Australians the gallop of their
lives to date, the county batting first and
piling up 420. The venerable Mead was
responsible for 139, made in quite a
carefree style for him. Perhaps the
fact that Grimmett was looking on had
something to do with it. The skipper,
Lowndes, an old Oxford blue who
doesn’t play much first-class cricket,
partnered Mead with 140, raising the
score to 326 for the fourth wicket after
3 had gone for 79. McCabe’s 4 for 79
was the best bit of bowling; O’Reilly
took 3 for 113 and Chipperfield 2 for 41.
Fleetwood-Smith had another off day.
Further shocks came along when Wood-
lull (2), Brown (0) and Bradman (0) were
all out for 10. The destroyer was Baring,
a fastish right-hander whose bowling
average for the county last year was
44.8 ; in this match he took 5 for 121.
McCabe (79) and Darling (96) came to
the rescue, and by fast batting changed
the outlook. Kippax Was going nicely
when he was caught for 38, and Chip-
perfield, repeating his Essex performance,
banged the bowling hard to be n.o. for
116. The tail-enders, Bromley (37), Old-
field (22) and O’Reilly (23), helped him
to hoist the total to 433. With the
exception of Arnold (109), the home
side in its second knock could do
little with O’Reilly (4-34) and Fleet-
wood-Smith (3-86), and Lowndes closed
at 7 for 169. With 157 needed in a little
over an hour, the tourists’ chance Was
spoilt by bad light, >vhich caused an
adjournment for a time, and then com-
pelled the drawing of stumps. Australia
had lost Darling (1) for 10 when the
match was drawn.
*** . *
“Five Ways”: Those who have only
seen him in Australia will wonder again
to hear of the big first-innings score by
the 47-year-old left-hander Phillip Mead
for Hampshire. Mead came to Australia
first with Douglas’s 1911-12 team and
again with Chapman in 1928-29. On both
tours he made a fair amount of runs in
the general matches, but was undistin-
guished in the Tests. In England it has
been another story, for there he has put
up some fine Test performances, including
a highest of 182 n.o. Yet in spite of his
wonderful scoring year in and out —
last season he got 2748 runs —he has only
been asked to play in seven Tests during
his long career. This is the more remark-
able since his Test average for 10 innings
—mostly played in England—is 51.87.
* * * *
Tenth Slip”: After chewing the
matter over for some time, N.S.W. cricket
heads have decided to back the Vic-
torian suggestion that a match be played
in Melbourne from November 23-27 be-
tween the team now abroad and a side
led by Richardson. The proceeds will
go into a testimonial fund for the benefit
of Ponsford and Woodfull, the latter of
whom at least is retiring from big cricket
for good after this season.
* * * *
Bramall Lane”: Here goes for a
wild shy at England’s Test team to meet
Australia at Trent Bridge on June 8, all
being fit to go to the post. Sutcliffe,
Wyatt (capt.), Hammond. Ames, Lang-
ridge, Robins, Verity, Leyland, Hendren,
Larwood or Nichols, Walters or Valen-
tl?®- Presuming Wyatt opens with Sut-
clitle, Walters would drop out, and only
one fast bowler is likely to be called on.
While the side is tremendously strong in
batting—there isn’t a rabbit in the lot—
Langridge, Robins, Verity and Leyland,
with Hammond and Wyatt, could provide
sny amount of variety in the bowling.
It may be said that the selection is over-
full of left-handers. Grimmett is the one
man the Englishmen are really scared of,
and he is notoriously ineffective against
good left-hand batting.
Footbrawl
“Simon Legree’’: Buying footballers
on the hoof is not always what it seems.
Among other recruits of the kind, Fitz-
roy recently acquired the services of J.
Cashman, captain and coach of West
Perth, the Westralian premiers. Cash-
man’s showing with Fitzroy has not been
up to label, and he applied the other day
for a transfer to Carlton, which was
granted. ’Roy gave him an excellent
character and its blessing. How it will
feel if the Westralian recovers his lost
form with Carlton remains to be seen.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Though the Victorian
R.U. has lost several of last year’s cracks,
the team playing N.S.W. in Sydney on
June 2 and 4is a strong one. Full-back
Beyers, who should have been one of the
first picks for the Wallabies, if for no
other reason than his capacity for find-
ing the line with tremendously long kick-
ing, is here again, and All Black Jessup,
Shore, Lang, Dunlop, Dewar and
Wallaby Bridle are also on the warpath.
Three-quarter Minnis also calls for at-
tention. He has only been playing two
or three years. In that time he has played
with Queensland Uni. in its inter-State
fixtures, with Queensland against N.S.W.,
with Australian Universities against
Japan, and is now with Victoria. Last
year the Blues narrowly lost their first
game in Sydney and won the 'other
handsomely.
* * * *
The N.S.W.R.U. annual for 1934 is
well up to the standard of its predeces-
sors, while fresh matter includes details
of the 1933 season’s inter-State matches
with Queensland and Victoria and of the
Wallabies’ tour of South Africa. It is
to be regretted that the publishers have
dropped the list of Queensland represen-
tatives since the inter-State games began.
As the last Queensland annual appeared
in 1900, this list was the only information
on the subject available for many years.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Following its invariable
practice of spragging the R.U. wheel
whenever possible, the N.S.W. Rugby
League is staging a series of inter-State
games with Queensland in Sydney on June
2 and 4, when the Union will be engag-
ing the Victorians. In Brisbane, where
the Ma State amateurs will be tackling
Queensland on the same dates, there will
be no League opposition save that offered
by club matches. What the League will
do when the All Blacks come to Sydney
in August remains to be seen. Their
best chance of queering the pitch is to bid
high for the use of Sydney C.G. for the
All Black dates. As there are four of
these for Sydney the stunt would be a bit
expensive, and the League funds are not
what they were.
(Continued on next page.)


Ĵ
The Prontac
(Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation....
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
Box 98cc, G.P.0., Sydney.
Indispensable to Sportsmen
THE
STANLEY VACUUM
A Boon to Duck-shooters, Fisher-
men, Campers and Boat-owners,
the STANLEY VACUUM
FLASK is absolutely UNBREAK-
ABLE. It is made from steel and
thoroughly insulated, always keeps
liquid piping hot or icy cold.
Never fails, cannot break and will
last a lifetime. Order yours to-
day.
Pint Size 42/-, Quart Size 57/6,
2 Quarts 4 Guineas
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
men, Campers and Boat-owners
And at Toowoomba and Townsville.
1
as*
-comz-xo>x
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
mmm
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth - E.S.C.A., Brisbane
The Richardson Chain Hotel
w:
3s
I
Mi
Jl/jj
ii
m
HI
IU
1
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
The Nineteenth Hole
Jim Ferrier, of N.S.W., who has been
playing wonderful golf this year, made
a good job of his first visit to Brisbane
for the Queensland championships, col-
lecting the open by the big margin of 10
strokes over the second man, professional
A. Denholm. The youngster took only
286 for the 72 holes of stroke. His score
equals the record for the event held jointly
by C. Brown, of Brisbane, and Tommy
Howard, of N.S.W. Radcliffe, holder of
the title, finished in twelfth place.
* * * *
“Brassey”: In these days of youthful
prodigies it is refreshing to find someone
out of his teens coming out on top in a
tourney. Such a one is D. G. Soutar, who
won the Dunlop Cup for N.S.W. profes-
sionals at the Lakes course with a gross
298 for the 72-hole competition. The
veteran led most of the way, and stalled
off W. Bolger by a stroke at the finish.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: We hear much of the
tennis temperament, but golf also has its
victims. During the British amateur
championship, which is in progress as I
write, one Pakenham-Walsh, ex-cham-
pion of India and otherwise distinguished
in the game, was dormie s—that is, was
5 up on his opponent with as many holes
to play. The opponent was Dunlap,
American amateur champion, and his
job looked hopeless. One more hole
would have given the Briton the game,
but he went to pieces and missed short
putts on green after green. Dunlap
steadily overhauled him and won, after
reeling off the last nine holes in par.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: An indignant squeal
about an ancient golfing grievance comes
form Brisbane. Like other Brisbane
clubs, that known as Goodna has gone to
great pains to make itself a course fit
for champions to play on; but there is
the inevitable protest from the mug
member who supplies 75 per cent, of
the club membership and funds. Beauti-
ful narrow fairways, grassed and shorn,
may be ideal for plus players, but they
are punk to the also-rans. Men who
are never sure whether their drive will
go straight down the fairway or off at
an angle of anything up to 90 degrees in
impenetrable “tiger country” like their
fairways at least 100 yards wide ; many,
indeed, would vote for a quarter of a
mile.
* sf: Jfc
“Beni Soeuf”: A returned traveller
has been telling the Sydney press how
the caddies on the Gezireh golf links
near Cairo carry mud round in their
pockets to make tees for their employers,
there being no other material available.
Times have changed, for when I was a
member of the Gezireh club and grounds
—which also include a racecourse —-at
odd intervals from 1915-17 there was
plenty of sand available, and, as far as I
can recall, this was kept in the usual box
at every tee. But I can vouch for un-
usual tee material being used by the
miserable wallahs who used to accom-
pany players round the nine-hole course
in the desert outside Heliopolis. As Miss
Fanny Squeers wrote in an immortal
letter, it was of such a description as
“my pen would blush to record.”
* * * H: •
“Hoylake”: The British women’s golf
championship at Porthcawl in Wales pro-
vided a lot of excitement. First, a com-
petitor turned out in trousers, and then
another was queried for practising with
a professional before the tourney started.
Then a 17-year-old schoolgirl, Pamela
Barton, knocked out everyone until Mrs.
Holm from Scotland woodened her in
the final, 6 and 5. The Australasian
champion, Miss Kay, failed to strike
form and dropped out early. Betty Gais-
ford, a M.L. champion, ancj Mrs. Jacob-
sen, also a Shivery Islander, got into the
later stages, the latter defeating Molly
Gourlay, ex-champion.
Racquet and Bawl
The first round of the European zone
saw Austria and India knocked out of
the Davis Cup. France accounted for
Austria and Switzerland for India in
very easy fashion. There was a curious
happening in the doubles match between
France and Austria. The Frenchmen
were late in turning up and the Austrian
skipper claimed a forfeit. Later, pro-
bably realising that it made no difference
since the singles had been, lost, he
repented, and the match was played, the
French winning. Meanwhile the Austra-
lian women players were showing in
Berlin, and when the Cup meeting had
finished England and France engaged
in an exhibition match at Paris. This
provided a sensation of a sort, Perry
going down by two sets to one to
Boussus. England—including Maori-
lander Malfroy—won the other singles
and one of the doubles.
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: America is going for
its life in this year’s preparations to
regain the Davis Cup. The possibles and
probables—the team for Europe has not
yet been picked—were housed together
at the Merion cricket club and ground
in Philadelphia, and put under the care
of Nusslein, the German professional,
who will match them and coach. Last
year Bill Tilden offered to coach the side
gratis, but the Yankee tennis heads, still
sore at his secession from the amateur
fold, gave him the raspberry. What Bill
“Wot’s th’ idea puttin’ ME wing-three-quarter?”
“We’re scared of them pants if y’ was t’ get down in th’ scrum.”
thinks about the Nusslein appointment
would be worth listening to —by adults
only, of course.
* *
“Top Spin”: Those inclined to con-
sider Australia’s chances in the Davis
Cup improved owing to the withdrawal
of Allison through a foot injury forget
that his place has been filled by Van
Ryn. The latter has improved out of
sight since he was in Australia, and now
is rated a better doubles partner for the
redoubtable Lott than even Allison has
proved himself. Crawford, for one, has
been telling interviewers that he considers
the change will make the Yankees an
even harder lot to handle.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The unparalleled dry
summer and winter in England during
1933-34 seem to have played as much
havoc with the grass courts of the Old
Country as they have with many of the
cricket pitches. The centre court at
Wimbledon is not itself at all, and experts
are wondering what condition it and the
others will be in after a fortnight’s play.
It is not unlikely that the Davis Cup
semi-finals will have to be played on one
of the other courts, and the inter-zone
final at Queen’s Club even. This last
idea will not please those teams which
consider their chances of fighting out
this final good, since they will be
anxious to play under the conditions and
in the atmosphere which will prevail for
the challenge final with England.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: The annual Wight-
man Cup match between British and
American tennisettes is to be played on
June 15 and 16, and on the Wimbledon
courts, which were refused to the Aus-
tralians and Japanese for their Davis Cup
tie a week earlier. America has won at
the last three meetings, but had Helen
Wills-Moody playing, as well as Helen
Jacobs. The latter will lead the Ameri-
can side, three others of which have
played in this tourney before. With the
Moody out and Miss Round showing
splendid form in England, the home girls
are hopeful of winning back the trophy
this time.
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: The inevitable Eyston
has been breaking more small-car
records. Driving at Montlhery he was
credited last week with six new sets of
figures. The best were 200 miles at
128.07 m.p.h., 500 miles at 162,22 m.p.h.
and a six-hour run at 124.82 m.p.h.
The car is described as a single-seater
Panhard-Levasseur, but the capacity was
not given. On the figures it should be in
the 1101-1500 class, a new departure for
the French firm.
* * * *
“Toeclip”: Conditions for the cen-
tenary 1100-mile cycling road race round
Victoria in October have been issued
by the promoters, Dunlop-Perdriau.
There will be two sections, championship
and group handicap. The group-handi-
cap section is divided into four. The
scratch lot will include only first-class
riders, who will concede a handicap of
several minutes, according to the stiff-
ness of the stage ridden each day, to
B- C- and D-class wheelers. The rider
scoring the highest aggregate of points
will pouch £500; the championship goes to
the rider with the fastest aggregate time.
If he is not first in the handicap sec-
tion, he also gets £5OO and a gold cup.
If first in both sections, £750 and a gold
cup will be his portion. All the above
prizes have been given by Sydney Myer.
The provision of a championship section
may induce some of the Continental
riders who shied at the original handicap
idea to change their minds and come
along.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The Victorian cyclist
H. K. McKenzie, who was recently
deputed to ride over the Land’s End-
John o’ Groat’s run to spy out the land
for Opperman, seems to have taken the
chance to do a bit of record-breaking
himself. He rode from London to
Land’s End and thence to John o’
Groat’s in 101 hours for the 1230 miles
covered. He had real assorted British
weather, hot, wet and windy mixed, but
finished in fine fettle.
Miscellaneous
“White Knight”: The N.S.W. chess
championship ended in the Metropolitan
Chess Club’s rooms at Anthoriy Hor-
derns’ with young C. J. S. Purdy the
winner. This is Purdy’s second cham-
pionship, the title having gone his way
in 1929. Two years earlier he tied with
Crakanthorp, and has been runner-up
several times. He is the first player to
win with an unbroken run since 1923,
when Crakanthorp won 10 games straight
off the reel.
* * * *
“White City”: There will be over
500 athletes competing at the Em-
pire Games in London. Canada is
sending no fewer than 130 across
the herring pond, while British Guiana
is content with a modest pair. The
bowls entry is an unexpectedly large
one, and includes one from the Irish
Free State, which is holding aloof from
all the other events. This will be a truly
inter-Dominion contest, among the vari-
ous teams of assorted colors being one
from Hong Kong.
H» H* H*
“Tenakoe”: M.L. is sending a team of
six to the Empiad in August. The
athletes are H. Brainsby (jumping), T. G.
Broadway (440 and 880) and J. Lovelock,
the Oxford blue and Olympian (880 and
mile). Swimmers are Noel Crump (100
and 440), W. Whareaitu (100 and 100
backstroke) and L. Smith (220 breast-
stroke). A compact and likely side.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: We hear a lot
about golfers being penalised for holing
in one, but not many of the vulgar herd
are aware that there is a custom of the
same kind observed in bowls. The
sufferer is the bowler who scores
the possible eight points in one end in
a rink game, and the happening is not
a common one. Sydney saw an instance
the other day when N. D. Hopson, presi-
dent of Burwood club, did the trick
against City club in the Don Nicol Cup
tourney. His opponent, A. Gabriel, con-
sidering that he had shared in the feat,
staged an additional celebration.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: N.S.W. polo heads have
fixed the dates for the annual tourney
for the Countess of Dudley’s Cup and
the J. J. Garvan pot. The week will
run from June 23 to 30, and entries
number seven to date. The Dudley Cup
teams will be representative of the N.S.W.
country districts, as the original condi-
tions prescribed. A change this year will
be a cup presented by Anthony Hordern,
to be competed for by the beaten clubs
in the semi-finals. Hitherto, these have
received nothing but a licking, and
they could not compete for the Garvan
trophy. The final of the Stonehaven
Cup, for polo teams from L.H. regi-
ments, may also be played for at this
tournament.


J
(though THEY’RE
PAST FORTY !
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
Ĥ
Ħ
H
You, too, can throw off listlessness
and find fun in life once more.
Clean out the “human rust” from
your system and revive your health
and high spirits. Make a ten day
test of this remarkable corrective
und enjoy the results.
“Over 40 ailments are caused
by clogged intestines/’ ex-
plains Dr. J. Bruenaur, the
noted European Specialist.
Constipation, ind i g e stion,
stomach. troubles, gastritis
rheumatism, neuritis, sciatica
bladder weakness, catarrh,
frequent colds, headaches
lassitude and poor appetite
all these and more can be
caused by the clogging of the
intestines which gives rise to
Self-poisoning ( Autoxima ).
NEARLY EVERYONE SUFFERS
Self-poisoning is caused through
incomplete evacuation of the
bowels. Nearly everyone suffers,
even people of regular habits.
Modern foods and lack of exercise
give rise to flabbiness of the ab-
dominal organs which makes com-
plete elimination almost impos-
sible. Fragments of food waste
cling to the intestinal walls and'
there decay, breeding germs and
poisons which enter the blood-
stream. Self-poisoning is all the
more to be dreaded because it is
hidden and often unsuspected'. The
symptoms of self-poisoning are
always apparent, however. Skin
blemishes, those frequent head-
aches, fits of ‘blues,’ the strange
lassitude and weakness which pre-
vent you from entering fully into
the enjoyment of life all point to
you being a victim.
Poisons from sluggish intestines spread
throughout the body and undermine
health, prominent physicians explain.
COLOSEPTIC combats ill-health by
activating the entire intestinal tract.
<C
C
Here’s where 95% of
present-day ill-health be-
gins. Keep clean intern-
ally by daily drinking
COLOSEPTIC.
‘EQUAL TO 15 YEARS OF LIFE”
“I have been using COLOSEPTIC
for over three years. I have felt
very grateful to it as it effected a
wonderful difference in health and
strength, equal to a recovery of 15
years of life. I became absolutely
free of any physical complaint
whatever. I am 83 years of age and
my health continues perfect and
free from any trouble. I now
find it only expedient to take
COLOSEPTIC occasionally of a
morning.”
H.A.C., Auckland, E.l.
COLOSEPTIC BRINGS BACK
HEALTH
Before you can regain the spark-
ling health that is your birthright,
you must sweep away the poison-
ous intestinal accumulations. Drink
COLOSEPTIC in hot water every
morning. Coloseptic first loosens
the fermenting matter encrusted on
the walls of the intestines and then
gently sweeps it right out of the
body. COLOSEPTIC activates the
kidneys, the pores of the skin, and
the respiratory apparatus, thereby
ridding the blood-stream of all
impurities.
DRINK COLOSEPTIC EVERY
MORNING
COLOSEPTIC gives you the in-
ternal cleansing which is the first
step to perfect health. And with
the body internally clean how well
you feel. Gone are the aches and
pains, the feeling of being old be-
fore your time. You regain the
vim and vigour of youth, your step
is firm, eyes sparkle, you are a new
being alive to all the pleasures
that life can offer.
TEST COLOSEPTIC FOR
YOURSELF
Don’t let the ill-health, so sympto-
matic of self-poisoning, drag at
you any longer. COLOSEPTIC in
regular full-size jars is obtainable
at all chemists. For a convinc-
ing test, fill in the coupon below
and post with 1/- stamps or postal
note for a special 10-Day Demon-
stration jar and interesting book,
“Autoxima.”
Drink
COLOSEPTIC
every morning
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD., j
24d Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/- (Stamps .
or postal note). Send me one Special Demonstration
jar and booklet. "Autoximj.”
Name
Address j


HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carle.
Del'ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
COMPLETE SAMPLE ROOMS
AVAILABLE.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral
SYDNEY.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A RISK
Too Grave (o T a lief
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you —or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this risk of hardship hanging
over you. x\nd you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
IVrite now for details of this P. & C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself without delay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director:
H. FELL.
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C,
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
BALE WEIGHTS.
“Valerin”: “Sheepo’s” contention (B.
16/5/’34) that growers by increasing
bale-weight averages to 3401 b. can save
£200,000 annually sounds all right on
paper. It is open to serious doubt whether
growers would be, generally speaking,
any better off.
Seasonal conditions are an important
factor in bale weights. Last season’s
clip was light, and it was hard to get
weight into the packs. Excessive press-
ing of dusty, burry, heavy-conditioned
and gummy wools does cause de-
terioration, especially if held in store for
any time. The dust permeates the fleece,
and burrs become matted through the
wool. Experts place this deterioration at
1 per cent. On a 3401 b. bale this equals
the cost of the pack.
Buyers are human, and appearance
does count with them. A newly-shorn
clip with the bloom on it makes an
attractive picture on a show floor, and
unquestionably attracts keener competi-
tion in the saleroom than a heavily-
pressed dingy one.
A grower who has seen dumped wool
opened up in a mill will hesitate to
“save” by excessive pressing.
In any case, no hard-and-fast rule
can be laid down for bale weights. It
is a question of individual judgment.
THE CLIP MAKES THE
STANDARDS.
“Murrawong”: “Merino’s” layout for
classing a 20,000-sheep clip (B. 16/5/’34)
might possibly suit one particular clip for
one season, but it is impossible to lay
down limits to suit all clips in every
district in varying seasons. Strictly de-
fined limits of length and quality are an
ideal attainable only in a well-bred, culled
flock, and even then it has to be modi-
fied to local and seasonal conditions.
“Merino’s” layout embraces nine lines,
distinguished by length and quality, plus
one doggy and one condition line. He
evidently means to cast fleeces —stained,
water-rot, cotted, dingy, etc. —but he
allows for no variation in condition in his
fleece lines, and this may be considerable.
“Merino” advocates blending tender
wool with the short-stapled fleeces. What
is the use of insisting on evenness of
length in nine lines and then destroying
the standards of the three shorter lines
with tender fleeces which, even in a clip
of less than half the size, should be a
separate line?
“Merino’s” top or warp line, which is
scheduled to take all wools with a staple
of 2}in. and over (although a full warp
is usually defined as having a minimum
length of 3in.), would include practically
every fleece in some flocks. Take a line
of mixed wethers, the tops cutting 45
bales per 1000 with deep-grown sin.
staple, but with a lot of smaller wethers
with a 2|in. staple through them. No
sane classer would put all those fleeces
in the same bin, yet if he were working
by “Merino’s” standards he would
have to.
In wool-classing each clip makes its
own standards. Deciding in advance how
it shall be classed is like bidding on a
bridge hand before the cards have been
dealt.
BLOWFLY ON THE HUNTER.
“Omo”: This year on, the Upper Hunter
(N.S.W.) the blowfly is showing us a new
tritk. All the sheep that have been
crutched in the usual way, i.e., crutched
between the legs, and wigged and rung,
are now being struck on the shoulder,
extending down each side of the saddle
and under the armpits. This method of
attack had not been seen in this district
in the knowledge of the oldest inhabitant.
The small green fly is the chief (if not
the only) offender, and he is making a
thorough job of it. Riding through a
mob in the paddock is wasting time ; the
only way is to muster them in a corner
and then to go through them by hand.
The fly gets under the wool and strikes
and the juices flow down each side while
developing the maggot, and he cannot
be observed in the usual way until he
has gone far enough to have completed
the job. Then a small yellow stain is
observed, and this can be detected from
horseback.
It seems to me there is only one solu-
tion to reduce the menace of the fly, and
that obviously is a drastic one. In the
old days, when the kangaroo-shooters left
all their carcasses to rot. on the ground
and no one ever thought of burning a
beast that died in the paddock, the fly
was unheard of, as far as striking sheep
was concerned. He was too much
occupied with his natural food. We
have become too civilised, and too
hygienic, and have robbed the fly of his
natural prey. Dipping and crutching as
practised to-day are practically futile
when it is realised that the fly can come
along and ruin the best part of the fleece.
Previously he used to strike the most
useless part.
Shearing generally commences here
about the beginning of August. Why not
induce some of the braver spirits to ex-
periment and shear about March, giving
the sheep time to grow sufficient wool to
keep them warm during the coldest win-
ter months? Don’t dip at all and don’t
crutch, and leave some of the natural
stench in the paddocks. The experiment
may prove a much more economical one
than the present system, and, even if a
few sheep are struck, they will be struck
in a place where they can get at the fly
themselves.
SHEEP ON THE BARKLY.
“J.R.D.”: In the various schemes
to develop the Barkly Tableland, it
would be a good thing to forget the
Tableland’s suitability for sheep-breed-
ing. Much has been said and written on
the subject since the failure of the Avon
Downs experiment, but most of the advo-
cacy of sheep has been due to hard-hit
cattlemen’s anxiety to find someone else
to hold the baby.
Lately, promoters have conceded that
distance from market is the only ob-
stacle ; that in itself is serious enough to
stop anyone who takes the trouble to
investigate. The proposal to substitute
a road-train for the costly Tableland
railway line is sound.
But while this form of transport would
greatly help the proposed sheep industry
it would not solve the problem of costs.
When the outlay on, fencing, bores,
freight on material and stores, shearing
and marketing wool and stock is con-
sidered, the result will provide food for
thought to anyone who knows how
much it costs to grow wool per pound in
districts handy to market. Admittedly,
water is found at fairly shallow depths—
sub-artesian supplies can be tapped at
200-400 ft., although the quality of water
varies ; but the sheepman must be pre-
pared to put down bores close enough
to water all his country. The permanent
waterholes of the Tableland are limited
and far apart, and the rainfall is not to
be relied on.
It has been said that sheep failed to
do well on the Barkly Tableland because
the paddocks were too big. That may
have been a contributing factor, but at
the same time I have seen sheep dying
in scores within easy reach of apparently
luxuriant Mitchell grass. I do not dis-
pute the fact that bores may have been
placed to suit shareholders rather than
sheep, but the fact remains that the sheep
died from malnutrition. I cannot agree
with the statement that as pasture the
Tableland is equal to Central Queensland.
After the rains there is no limit to its
carrying and fattening capacity for cattle,
but when it dries off the grass carries
no sweetness or nutriment. And “Bull
Mitchell” is not sheep grass. The feed
will keep strong sheep alive, but old and
weak sheep will find nothing in it to
carry them on till the next green grass
arrives, and the balance between the
natural increase and losses will give
something to ponder over.
As a purely wether proposition the
Barkly would be worth considering
if it were closer to markets. As things
are, it is good cattle country.
Except with wool at a regular 16d. per
pound, sheep will never pay on the Table-
land even after pasture, acclimatisation
and transport difficulties have been
solved.
FARM FACTORY METHODS.
“Tangmalangaloo”: “Duke of Derri-
mut” (B. 4/4/’34) hits the nail when he
says that producing chillers is a factory
job. We shall learn it in time. When the
world has satisfied itself about the folly of
intensive nationalism, and decides to buy
its food where it can be produced the
cheapest, our rich lands will be used to
grow its beef and lamb. We can grow
the maize and lucerne even better than
U.S.A., and we can follow its methods,
Lucerne hay is fed there to lambs in
lanes that extend between two rows of
pens or yards, each of which accom-
modates about 400 lambs. The low
fences bordering the lanes have a seven-
or eight-inch space between the first and
second rails (usually boards) through
which the lambs feed on the hay. Each
lamb has about a foot of feeding room.
The hay is hauled into the lanes and
men keep it forked up to the fences
as the lambs eat. Maize is fed in flat-
bottomed troughs. Plenty of good water
and salt are always near by.
FEED FOR CALVES.
“Poddy Puncher”: Few farmers think
of adding expensive meals to whole milk
for the rearing of poddies, yet dairy-
farmers pay high prices for protein-rich
concentrates to add to skim milk, which
is really a little more absurd. Average
whole milk contains 3| p.c. protein, 3|
p.c. fat and 5 p.c. carbohydrates, with a
nutritive ratio of 1 to 4. Skim milk
averages 4 p.c. protein, 5 p.c. carbo-
hydrates and a trace of fat, and its nutri-
tive ratio is 1 to H. Only the fat has
been removed —all the protein, which is
the most important part for the calf’s
growth, is still there.
Maizemeal, oatmeal or barleymeal,
which are only moderately rich in pro-
tein but rich in carbohydrates, are excel-
lent for supplementing the skim milk.
Any of these meals, or preferably a mix-
ture of two or three, can be fed at the
rate of £lb. to |lb. daily (preferably in
separate feed-boxes) for poddies to six
weeks old, gradually increasing the allow-
ance until 21b. per head is reached at six
months.
A little linseed-meal or high-grade
cottonseed-meal may be added with ad-
vantage, as both contain a high per-
centage of oil (fat) and are palatable, but
any excess of these high-protein feeds
may prove unsatisfactory, since a calf’s
ability to digest any kind of fat but the
form nature intended is strictly limited.
The extra cost must also be considered.
Molasses, where cheaply available, may
be added to the grain mixture, but only
in small amounts at first. A couple of
ounces per head daily can gradually be
increased to as many pounds at six
months. Where skim milk is limited, in-
crease the linseed- or cottonseed-meal
correspondingly to secure the proper
nutritive ratio. For young poddies a
gruel should be made with meal and
water, but for older ones dry-feeding is
best.
STOCK POISONING.
“Rich. J.”: The danger of fodder
poisoning to stock cannot be too highly
emphasised. Mouldy hay and chaff
should be treated with suspicion, as cer-
tain moulds contain a virulent poison.
Varieties of the sorghum family con-
tain prussic acid in dangerous quantities,
and care should be taken not to feed
stock while the sorghum is in blossom.
The poison disappears only when the
sorghum is cut and thoroughly wilted.
Potatoes should never be fed in a raw
state owing to the presence in them of
solanin, which is destroyed when tubers
are boiled.
Sudden changes in feeding caused by
removal from poor pastures to land rich
with young clover and oats should also
be avoided, and the change must be made
gradually.
HORSE FISTULA.
“Agamemnon”: The reported increase
in wither fistula in horses confirms the
view that farmers do not realise the
seriousness of the disease, which is not
necessarily caused by a blow. Often it
may be due to the swallowing of the
germ. A little-known fact is that the
suppurating sore gives off a great number
of germs, which cause contagious abor-
tion in cattle. This is vital knowledge on
dairy farms, where horses with broken
fistulas are often allowed to mix with
the cattle. Most cases only yield to
skilled surgical draining. The applica-
tion of caustic substances is barbarous
and useless. Hence, bearing in mind the
danger of contagious abortion, and of
the communication of the fistula to other
horses, plus the cost of daily surgical
treatment over a long period, the only
reasonable course is to destroy the animal
once a fistula has been definitely estab-
lished.
GRASSHOPPER ERADICATION.
“Seenitall”: In many parts of Australia
this year grasshoppers have been a curse.
According to W. B. Gurney, the N.S.W.
Government Entomologist, they can be
effectively dealt with cheaply during their
early stages by poisoned baits or by
spraying.
They lay their eggs in small areas up
to two acres, and as the ’hoppers hatch
they are in clusters about the hatching-
(Land page continued on page 30.)


EIGHT BOTTLES of the
BEST COUGH REMEDY
for cost of ONE by using
k
HEENZO
F
piiltiil
' f
mm
m
i.
m
r
ssss
m
V U
■ y '
f!
#siSS:S?^^SS;:¥is
lie*
mm
m
will
: v >:
Miss Madge Elliott,
Mr. Cyril Ritchard,
and
Mr. John Moore
are just a few of the
many world-famous
stars who use and
recommend
HEENZO
as a money-saving
remedy for chest and
throat ailments.
wm
m
WW
■m
wm.
Wi
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough mixture that is equally good for
children and adults, and is far better than the usual made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO. Add the Heenzo to
sweetened water, according to the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough remedies that would cost up to £l.
Heenzo does NOT contain any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with perfect
safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the speedy way HEENZO soothes sore
throats, eases the chest, and banishes coughs, colds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have Heenzo ready in the home for the first sign of a cough or cold. Remember,
an ounce of prevention is better than a ton of cure.
Every Leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells
HEENZO, the famous money-saving remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS AND INFLUENZA
HEENZO HOMES ARE HEALTHIEST


The Authoritative
Australian Dog Book.
“BARKERS AND BITERS”
by
ROBERT KALESKI.
At all good bookshops or direct
from The Bulletin.
3/6 (postage 3d. extra).
.1—
V
Made of the toughest
leather
And, in addition, the sole of this
Abbey Boot is double the usual
thickness. The smart upper is de-
signed in an easy-fitting shape that
eliminates risk of tightness or strain.
It sets smoothly to the foot, without
dragging over the instep. This
Abbey Boot gives extra long ser-
vice.... and preserves its smart
appearance.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL SB7
H
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run.
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIEP & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bride*' Street. Sydney, and Branches.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
£
\0
<9
$
US
tP
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient —
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
/ ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CCRDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Positions Vacant.
Proposed Outer Harbour for Mackay.
RESIDENT ENGINEER.
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the
position of Resident Engineer: such applica-
tions to be in the hands of the Board (marked
Resident Engineer) not later than midday of
TUESDAY, 24th July, 1934. Applicants must
state age, qualifications, experience in harbour
construction, and the date upon which duties
could be commenced. Salary to be at the
rate of seven hundred and fifty pounds (£750)
per annum, with residence, fuel, water and
light.
E. ELDRIDGE SMITH,
Secretary.
Mackay, 21st May, 1934.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
O O Q
I^RMERS
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
1.. Notes Etc All in '
ITHE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES 6-
Get VmrCOAaJte/o&v Vis Speed///
-it you If T .22 Non-Rusting
use -I.V/.1. Rim Fires
you’ll make certain of your game.
“1.C.1” and “1.C.1. Express” .22 Rim Fires
combine the very latest advancements in smoke-
less ammunition for small game shooting—being
sure, swift and dependable at all times.
The new and powerful priming composition used
in these cartridges is non-corrosive in its proper-
ties & protects your rifle barrel against rusting.
With “ 1.C.1. Express ” you obtain higher
velocities with low pressures.
377
Obtainable Everywhere
In Short, Long and Long Rifle
/ Solid and Holloto Point
LCI
“SILVER
EDGE"
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the
uncanny feeling of pressing'
your brake pedal and nothing
happens? Do not wait for
this experience to be yours,
but have your brakes watched
and adjusted at definite
periods in the same way as
you attend to the oiling of
your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RAYBESTOS
BRAKE LININGS and so ensure reliability, uni-
form wear and safety.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England
Factory Rep.: John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
grounds. Watch for this time and then
deal it out to them.
The Gurney formulas are:
The Bait.
Ilb. arsenite of soda or
lib. Paris green (not both).
41b molasses.
241 b. bran.
3 gallons of water.
Dissolve the arsenite of soda in hot
water and allow to cool; then dissolve
the molasses in this solution. Mix in
the bran slowly and thoroughly. Broad-
cast finely, using about 301 b. to the acre,
on a strip 20 yards wide (approx.) in
front of the approaching ’hoppers, and
across the line of their advance.
The Poison Spray.
lib. arsenite of soda.
21b. molasses.
16 gallons of water.
Mix this spray in the same way as the
bait, and, when cold, spray over the
affected area. The ’hoppers go for it
quickly, especially if you have not been
too stingy with the molasses.
If every farmer will treat his ’hopper
swarms like this promptly a lot of good
grass will be saved.
ROTARY PLOUGHING.
“W.D.McC.”: I have just attended a
demonstration of an Australian inven-
tion, a “rotary plough,” which I am con-
vinced will go a long way towards solving
the problem of the eradication of the two
bs —bracken and blackberry. It is a re-
markable machine and will work as effec-
tively going uphill, on a grade as steep
as one in three, as it will on the flat. In
fact, its power to climb ceases only
when the fuel supply stops feeding.
The machine went up a steep hill
covered with dense bracken from four
to five feet in height; this cut into
pieces about two inches in length, at the
same time completely pulverising the
ground to a depth of six inches. It is
claimed that two ploughings will com-
pletely destroy both bracken and black-
berry. I quite believe it. On ground
that was ploughed once three months ago
only a stray plant has reappeared here
and there, indicating that another once-
over would finish the job.
In the Wandin district (Vic.) there are
more than 20 of these machines at work
and doing the job well. The only fly in
the ointment is the first cost, which is
high and beyond the reach of the strug-
gling settler. The running cost is com-
paratively low, and when you calculate
the saving in horse feed and the quality
of the work done it must be considered
cheap. It only remains for the price
to be reduced for the plant to become
universal in districts that are overrun
with the two worst of our pests.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Jerry”: I find ordinary spirits of
salt efficacious for cracked hooves and
hoof sores when applied half-strength,
broken down with water.
“Eureka”: Don’t leave the carcasses of
poisoned rabbits lying where cattle can
get at them. Long after the flesh has
decomposed the bones retain poison.
“Pick”: An emergency plumb-bob
may be made from a sheet of flashing
lead. Cut a 2in. by lin. rectangle. Mark
it exactly down the middle and cross- _
wise, and punch a hole for the line cen-"
trally on top. Then snip the strip neatly
into a diamond shape. In use the lower
point should hang perpendicular with the
string.
“Nuchum”: Plant your kurrajong
seeds in old stumps, especially if stock
are running in the same paddock. Be-
sides the richness of the soil in them,
stumps provide a natural tree-guard.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) How is the grass known as “water-
meadow grass” (Poa aquaticd) propagated ?
(2) Where is it obtainable ? (3) Can it be
grown in Q’land ? —1520.
(1) By roots. (2) Chas. Taylor and Co.,
Roma-street, Brisbane, or Law, Somner and
Co., 83 Swanston-street, Melbourne can supply
roots. (3) This grass has given indifferent re-
sults in Queensland and is considered more
suitable to a temperate climate. The ideal
situation for Poa aquatica is a swamp through
which a stream of cool water is constantly
running.
How to make charcoal ? —1577.
Choose an oven site where good grass sod
exists, not on sand or light soil. Remove
the turf in squares and set to one side. Dig
an oven hole not more than three feet deep
and of width to suit. Timber which is half-
dried out should be selected, but include some
freshly-cut wood as well. Blue gum, ironbark
and bloodwood will make satisfactory char-
coal. The timber is stacked in the oven like a
cart-wheel placed on its flat. The hub would
represent the central flue, while provision should
be made for at least four flues radiating from
rim to centre. The firewood is stacked to con-
tinue the central flue system, but the outside
flues are not continued from top to bottom, the
object being that, when the timber is first
ignited, the four flues from the rim will bring
about enough draught through the central flue
to assist combustion. When the timber is
stacked to a height equal to the depth of the
oven, or a little higher, the soil is carefully
filled in over it, care being taken to
see that the free entrance of air to the outside
flues is not hampered. Turf over so that little
work remains once the stack is well alight.
Light from all four flues, and, once the stack
is well alight, cover in smartly. Too rapid filling
in will put out the fire, but, once the burn has
well started, all air should be excluded. The
oven will take from 10 to 15 days to finish, and
must be watched during that time to see that
there is no leakage, otherwise the flames will
burst out and the charcoal will be consumed.
(1) Best food for bees and (2) how to feed
it to them ? —1527.
(1) A comb of ripe honey. Failing that, a
syrup consisting of two parts of white sugar to
one part of water by measure. One pint a day
will be sufficient. (2) It may be placed in any
vessel that will fit inside the hive —this prevents
robbing. Float some thin pieces of wood on
the syrup so that the bees can take it up with-
out risk of getting drowned.
When is the correct time to dig roots of
ginger plant for use ? How is it preserved in
syrup ? —1584.
The roots should be dug as soon as they are
fully grown and green and before the leaves
begin to wither. They are washed and scraped,
cut into slices, and put into jars with salt and
water for a few hours, or long enough to take
away any earthy flavor. The slices are then
rinsed in clean water, and are put into jars in
thin syrup made from white sugar. The syrup
should be changed in three or four days, or as
soon as it shows signs of fermenting. It should
be reboiled, more sugar being added, and
poured upon the ginger again. This may have
to be done three or four times, until the ginger
has lost all its wild flavor, and is sweet and
aromatic, when it can be covered for future use.
(1) Do woolbrokers confine their businesses
to wool-selling? (2) How to learn the busi-
ness ? (3) Is it compulsory to become a mem-
ber of the Wool Brokers’ Assoc., and what
connection ., if any, has this body with the wool-
buyers ? (4) Any particulars about wool draft ?
—1671.
(1) Wool-selling is only one part of the activi-
ties of most Australian woolbrokers. The
smaller firms include the selling of livestock,
pastoral properties and station supplies, hold
agencies (insurance, etc.), advance money on
crop, stock and property mortgages. Some
firms own pastoral properties, and their busi-
nesses cover many fields outside the wool trade.
(2) The only way to learn is to join the staff
of a woolbroking firm. (3) All arrangements
for sale dates and conditidns are mutually
arranged by the Wool Brokers’ and Wool Buyers’
Assocs. Any firm outside the Wool Brokers’
Assoc, cannot hope to obtain recognition for
selling dates. Their sale days would probably
clash, and members of the Wool Buyers’ Assoc,
would not be permitted to attend (by agree-
ment with brokers). (4) The wool draft allow-
ance of lib. per cwt. in favor of buyers is
still in force, despite efforts made by the
Graziers’ Assoc, to have it removed.
(1) / have been growing lemons in clay soil
on the Q’land coast, but they have not been
doing well. Would the district be against
them ? (2) Best fertiliser for tomatoes, and
good variety to plant near Brisbane ?■ —1529.
(1) Lemons as a rule do not thrive for many
years in coastal districts. They are out of
their latitude, and for best results should be
grown further west. Near the coast they are
subject to a gumming disease which kills the
trees prematurely. Plant for preference Tahiti
limes. (2) To fertilise tomatoes mix 1 part
of ammon. sulph., 2 parts of sulphate of pot-
ash, and 3 parts of superphosphate, and apply
three ounces per square yard. Break of Day
is a good variety of tomato for early planting.
How to make white hide by the alum tanning
process ? —1502.
This is the process suggested by the lecturer-
in-charge of the Sydney Technical College
Tanning School at Waterloo, Sydney: (1)
Soak the hide in clean water for four hours,
then run off the dirty water and cover with
clean water; leave for 24 hours. This should
be sufficient for fresh or salted hides. Dry hides
should be soaked for a further 24 hours, or
until they are soft. (2) Remove the hair by
soaking hides in milk of lime—3olb. lime per
lOOgal. water. Handle each day, and leave
until the hair can be removed—about six to
seven days in summer. (3) Remove all flesh
and fat by scraping with a knife. Wash well
with several lots of water during the 24 hours
after removing the hair and pieces of flesh,
fat, etc. (4) Tan in a solution of alum (51b.),
salt (1 jib.), Glauber salt (l|lb.), and water
(lOgal.). Cover the hides with solution. Handle
twice daily and allow six days for tanning. (5)
Drain well from the alum-and-salt solution,
but do not wash; then cover both sides with
fish oil or neatsfoot oil, and hang up and
allow to dry slowly. Tanners have a machine
for forcing the oil, fats, etc., into, the hide.
(6) When dry, stretch until soft. If dry skins
are difficult to stretch, sprinkle with water and
cover for two days; again stretch and dry.
Alum-tanned leather is sometimes covered with
a paste instead of oil before drying. The paste
is made up as follows: 51b. flour, 2|lb. alum,
lib. salt, lib. neatsfoot oil, and 1 to H gal.
water. Mix the alum and salt with water,
and then the flour and oil in a separate basin.
Add to the flour and oil sufficient of the alum-
and-salt solution to make a paste. Put the
hide and paste into a tub, and handle the hide
vigorously so as to force the paste into the
leather. Hang the leather up and allow it to
dry slowly without removing the paste. If the
leather is too firm, rub on more fat, such as
soft dripping, etc. If possible, stretch the
leather just before it is quite dry. After
stretching, it can be nailed on a wall or simi-
lar surface.


LONDON CALLING
Write to ). Ilott
(Aust.) Ltd., Turner
House, Jamieson St.,
Sydney, for the
Langham Tariff and
Brochure.
Of all the famous hotels of London, the Langham is most truly English. Quietude and
dignity abide both inside and around. The courteous service, so quickly conscious of
your needs, does not intrude upon your privacy. Even the most modern comforts
have acquired an “ old world ” air. Yet only a few moments distant is the busy whirl
o London life, the shops and shows, the tubes and buses. What a perfect centre for
your forthcomingvisit,and what moderate terms for so much comfort and convenience!
Single Rooms from 12/6. Double Rooms from 25/-. Private Bathroom Sj- extra.
Write now to Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l, or cable
“ Langham, London.”
LANGHAM
p>
SS
BUSINESS, ROBBERy,ETC
Sugar and Costs
Australians pay 4d. a pound retail for
their sugar. The sugar-mill worker
averages 2s. 2d. an hour for his labor.
The value of raw sugar, out of which
the grower and miller must make their
profit, worked out at £l6 3s. 6d. a ton
for last year’s crop.
During and for some years after the
war Australia produced scarcely enough
sugar to meet local consumption. Over
part of this period the sugar agree-
ment operated greatly to the benefit of
the consumer, the world price going
to a very high figure. Encouraged,
Queensland growers extended their plan-
tations, and in 1925 heavy exports of
sugar commenced, fetching about £25 a
ton in the world’s markets.
Then heavy overproduction through-
out the world broke down the price. In
1926 209,000 tons of sugar exported
from this country was valued at
£5,313,000. In 1929 200,000 tons sent
away brought only £2,391,600. Last year
312,000 tons was sold for about £lOO,OOO
more than that, averag-
ing only £8 Os. 6d. a
ton.
The price of refined
sugar in Australia was
reduced by a pound
as from January, 1933.
This new price re-
turned the grower for
local consumption
about £23 a ton of
raws. Then the pooi
had to decide who was
to bear the loss on the
export surplus; so a
“peak - year” (1926)
quota was allotted to
each mill, any produc-
tion in excess of quotas
being paid for at world
parity, irrespective of
the average in No. 1
pool. This excess sugar
is earmarked “No. 2
pool” ; 71,969 tons
went through last year.
Because of bountiful
crushings in its district
the big Tully mill re-
ceived only £l4 12s. a
ton for its raws last season ; the Proser-
pine mill collected only £l4 7s. lid.
Since 1926 there has been a fall of nearly
£8 a ton in the return to the sugar-grower
and -miller, but the hourly wage rate in
the mills has come down only from 2s.
sd. to 2s. 2d. And the Labor Govern-
ment reintroduced the 44-hour week.
Life Assurance in 1933
Life offices’ reports generally struck a
more cheerful note during 1933 ;
accounts of those which balance to Dec.
31 have not long been published. More
new business was written, and lapses on
the part of old policy-holders slackened
off.
The trend of interest rates is still down-
ward ; nevertheless, net returns on funds
invested improved in the case of
nearly all offices. This was due in a
measure to slight remissions of taxation ;
the full benefit of the reduction in the
property rate (from 10 p.c. to 6 p.c.)
should be felt during the term now cur-
rent.
Bonuses were generally better; pros-
pects for the current term are, if any-
thing, brighter. Those offices which
strengthened their actuarial and contin-
gency reserves during the slump—par-
ticularly those which are keeping their
exes, down—should show very good
figures when investments become more
profitable.
There is still a pressing need for
an up-to-date Federal Assurance Act.
Industrial assurance, often the last line of
defence with a family of small means,
needs particular attention, particularly as
regards surrender and paid-up values.
Tung Oil
The British D.S.I.R. in March, 1929,
set out to investigate the possibilities of
freeing the Empire from its dependence
on China for tung-oil supplies. Aleurites
fordii, the tree whose nuts produce the
oil, flourishes in the Yangtze Valley. In
1930 69,000 tons of oil was exported from
China, of which the U.S. took 56,000
tons.
The oil is an essential in better-quality
quick-drying varnishes ; it brings a higher
price than linseed oil. In the opinion of
the Imperial Institute it is likely always to
command a premium of £lO a ton or
more over the flax product.
At the same time the institute sounds
a warning note to intending investors.
“Ge t an y orders this mornin' Jim ?”
“Yairs, two. ‘Be home by six’ and ‘Keep away from the horses, you brute!’”
“It must be understood that the trials in
Empire countries are still in the experi-
mental stage, and that in no case has it
yet been established that the cultivation
of trees on a commercial scale will prove
remunerative.” The main doubt is
whether the tung-tree can be successfully
cultivated, as it requires peculiar climatic
and soil conditions.
On a small experimental holding at
Pennant Hills (N.S.W.) Rawes Whittell
has cultivated the nut for many years
with success. There are several bond
companies planting on a larger scale in
Australia, but in most cases it is too
early yet to gauge results. There appears
to be no doubt about the market for
the product; the question boils down
to one of successful cultivation and pro-
fitable yields.
In Maoriland, too, there are many con-
cerns experimenting. Nuts grown by E.
S. Little at Keri Keri, North Auck-
land, are reported to have shown an
oil content of 25.9 p.c., as against an
average of 18 to 23 p.c. in Florida. It
has still to be settled, however, whether
there is a large area of suitable land,
and whether yields of nuts will be profit-
able.
“Popular” Gold Scrip
“King D.”: A peculiarity in the mining-
share market that becomes quickly
apparent to the newcomer is “popularity”
among the various stocks. Good mining
scrip sometimes is not “popular,” simply
because it is well held and doesn’t invite
bull or bear dealings. The veriest derelict
show, if the scrip is widely distributed
and held by speculators, usually has a
lively market one way or the other.
There are several concerns of pro-
mise on Sydney ’Change that do not feed
the market with weekly reports. Their
scrip is comparatively dead, because the
gambling section is not catered for.
There are, bn the other hand, many
good stocks that are popular. Placer
Development, Lake View and Star and
Wiluna are examples. But there is rarely
the spectacular dealing in these shares
that characterises the purely develop-
mental gamble; they don’t interest
operators so much as concerns through
which the emotions of the public can be
played upon. A concern that can show in
tonnages and yields approximately what
it is going to return to shareholders dur-
ing the life of the mine is likely to move
slowly in the market; and if there is
anything which the speculator who is
paying 6} p.c. to be “carried” doesn’t
want it is something that moves slowly.
Some “popular” gold stocks will turn
out badly for the person who is
left holding; others, on the law of
averages, should turn out all right.
But the uninitiated who dabble in gold
shares, even if they buy only to sell,
should first of all find out whether there
is any real substance behind the con-
cern to warrant the price. A show that
has the stuff there must eventually come
good, irrespective of the market; but
with Pitt-street mines the scrip is gener-
ally passed around until it grows heavy
enough for someone else to hold.
On May 21 the world’s estimated
visible supply of wheat was 425,000,000
bushels, the lowest since 1930, when the
figure was 390,000,000 bushels. The
London market for Australian wheat has
strengthened compared with a few
months back, which is in sympathy with
American trends, where a lighter crop is
anticipated. Sydney millers are offering
2s. 84d. a bushel, with growers holding
off for an advance. The overseas market,
however, is threatened with the possibility
of the Argentine repudiating the wheat
agreement. If it does, the whole restric-
tion scheme will break down.
* * # *
Queensland Government is to assist
the Superior Meat Preserving Co. Pty.,
a Brisbane concern, in establishing a
meatworks at Karumba, on the mouth
of the Norman River, in the Gulf. The
plant will start operations inside of three
months, treating about 50 cattle a day.
In the first season it is intended to treat
8000 carcasses for the British chilled- and
frozen-meat market and the Asiatic and
islands trade.
* s|: =1!
Mr. Bruce’s utterances at Los Angeles
were calculated to give the Yanks some-
thing to think about on reciprocity in
trade. As a country which buys little
from us and sells a lot, the U.S. is a
shining example ; the trade balance with
the States since 1924 has been against
Australia to the tune of £200,000,000.
* * sfc *
“Old Court”: Having carried a large
shipment of Australian whisky across to
Uncle Sam a couple of months ago, the
Mariposa is acquiring the habit; any-
way, she was back in Melbourne last
week looking for more. When she left
there was 3500 gallons aboard her, to-
gether with 30,000 gallons of Vic. and
South Aus. wines.
* * * *
N.S.W. exports of mutton and lamb
have jumped, partly because of better
overseas prices, though some of the extra
slaughtering can be traced to the weaken-
ing in wool values. For the three weeks
to May 19, 140,000 carcasses went into
cold store, as against 50,000 in the pre-
vious year.
* * * :|i
Maoriland Government is asking Aus-
tralian millers to tender for 240,000 hard-
wood sleepers and between 600,000 and
700,000 super, feet of mixed hardwood
timber. It should give a welcome fillip
to a depressed industry.
* * * *
“Brassy”: A prospecting syndicate,
after sinking 100 ft. on Gunambil station,
near Oaklands (N.S.W.), cut a 6|ft. seam
of coal. A good deposit of steam coal
in this locality should capture orders for
railway coal on southern lines.
* * * *
“Essence”: We permitted S’Africa to
set up a great industry by cultivating
our ‘tanning wattles, and made many
countries free gifts of the equally-
valuable eucalyptus; but we are not
going to be so foolish always. A. R.
Penfold, of Sydney Tech. Museum, has
refused many requests for tea-tree seeds,
and has asked for an export em-
bargo. He considers that the seeds are
being sought by overseas Governments or
firms desiring to set up plantations, the
Netherlands East Indies being particu-
larly under suspicion. From the paper-
bark of this tree one of the most valuable
essential oils yet known is extracted. The
oil is being manufactured in increasing
quantities, and it is in strong demand
for medical purposes, its high germicidal
yet non-poisonous properties being quite
out of the ordinary. It has been found
13 times more effective in killing typhoid
germs than carbolic.
* * * *
“Michael”: Car dealers, like Aladdin,
exchange new cars for old crocks —at a
price. But in Melbourne the other day
the owner of an almost-new sedan traded
his car for a pre-war Rolls-Royce and
received a cash bonus into the bargain.
The Rolls, despite having worn tyres for
20 years, with its waxed stove-enamelled
coach-work, long bonnet and luxurious
upholstery, still looked the aristocrat.
And she could still do her “sixty per”
without soul-shaking reverberations.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Foreigners Before Diggers
Since the Queensland Government
decided to issue free railway passes to
Mt. Isa men unable to get work on the
mine, over 150 have availed themselves
of the concession. Fifty per cent, were
Diggers who could not pass the medical
test (much more rigid than was the early
war-time period examination), and others
will have to go by later trains. Not
one of the 150 was a foreigner. The co.
employs about 200 Finns. According
to the chairman of directors, to get a job
on his concern —which has received such
substantial concessions—a man must be
under 40 and 100 p.c. lit. Few Diggers
can comply with these specifications;
but presumably all the Finns do.— Last
Post (N.Q.).
Wool and Markets
This is from the representative of a
big American firm of wool merchants
and topmakers:
I haven’t any time for the assertion that
Australian wool is the best in the world (B.
25/4/’34). It is a futile statement, since there
are wools grown in other countries which pos-
sess special characteristics that Australia can-
not hope to equal. Hence they are better
than Australian wools for special purposes.
Ask any woolbuyer.
Nobody talks of restricting Australian wool
at present, for the simple reason that it is
going into consumption rapidly enough at a
generally satisfactory price. But two years ago
when prices were very low the air was full
of discussions about that same subject.
Is it not apparent that, in all this talk of
quotas and restricted markets, the use of a
little horse-sense in regard to the Australian
and Maoriland reaction to official opinion in
England would stand us in very good stead?
England holds the trump card so far as our
meat and butter markets are concerned, and
it would seem that the troubles affecting these
commodities had best be discussed in a spirit
of “get together” instead of the “you’ll-take-
all-we-like-to-send” attitude which The Bul-
letin appears to suggest.
The Bulletin has suggested nothing
of the sort; but let the gentleman have
his fling.
Restriction Pays—Sometimes
Not being a born fool, I know that re-
striction of production in effect decreases
the wealth of the country and, in the long
run, is unprofitable. Yet it pays tem-
porarily, provided prices are forced up to
correspond. They don’t always.
I specialise in apples, of two varieties,
and quinces. Last year I had a splendid
crop of apples, with rotten prices ; I even
had to send good money after bad to
make up loss on exported Jonathans.
This year I had a good crop and expected
payable prices; but Nature decided
against my recouping my losses and sent
five consecutive days with the ther-
mometer over lOOdeg. Result, three-
fourths of the apples on the ground,
scorched, bruised and unsaleable. In-
stead of 400 cases I had contracted to
export I could only supply 120.
Now for quinces. In 1931 I had a good
crop, but Gen. Depresh obliged the fac-
tories to refuse them except at the ridi-
culous figure of £3 a ton. In 1932 Nature
concluded we didn’t want quinces and
shouldn’t have them. Result, three tons
instead of 15 ; but the price jumped to
£l4, providing a small profit. Last year
showed a fair return, a decent crop at £7
a ton. This season the Sugar Rebate Con-
trollers fixed the price at £5 a ton —£1
too low, but the crop promised well and
a good cheque was looked for. Then
Nature cut in again and sent a fort-
night’s almost continuous rain just as
they were ripening, so I collected three
tons only, leaving six or seven tons on the
ground, split and rotten. That, of course,
shows a debit balance again.
It’s all a gamble ; but if you are going
to restrict you want to be quite sure of
three things: (1) that the other fellow
will restrict too ; (2) that prices will rise
to correspond; (3) that Nature won’t
take to restricting likewise. The last con-
tingency is the worst. — Elgar (Vic.).
“What About Australians?”
One enthusiast has not only thought
about putting Australian boys on
farms (B. 18/4/’34), but has evolved a
practical scheme —T. C. Chandler, head-
master of Perth Boys’ School. With the
help of a committee he raised £2OOO in
plant, stock and cash (mostly cash), and
got hold of 1500 acres of virgin land at
Seven Hills, about 15 miles from Bun-
bury. A party of seven boys and a
manager (a practical farmer) was sent
down, and a further half-dozen lads
arrived. They fenced a soak and put in
a vegetable garden ; erected six huts and
“Why do you drink so much, my poor friend? An unfortunate love affair ?”
“No, padre; most forshunate one. I'm engashed to a barmaid at the Angel’sh
Resht.”
a manager’s house of mud bricks, a barn,
chicken run and cowsheds.
Water was laid on the living quarters
from soaks, and a 4in. main was brought
in for irrigation purposes. The place was
stocked with sheep, pigs, cattle, fowls
and horses. Five acres of spuds were
cropped last season, and a five-acre
orchard has been planted. The boys kill
their own meat, bake bread, grind por-
ridge and make their butter. It costs
about £2 .a month outside this to feed
the lot. And it has all been done in 18
months, with no assistance from the "Gov-
ernment ; the only expense to parents is
for clothes. Thirty-six lads are now on the
farm ; it is hoped to increase the num-
ber, and to put suitable boys on small
holdings with some capital obtained from
the profitable working of the parent
farm. — Pat (W.A.).
Rifle Clubs and Defence
I resigned from my rifle club in dis-
may. Most of the shooters were men
past military age (one was 77); half of
the younger men would not have passed
the M.O. Invariably rifles are fitted with
special aperture sights and elaborate wind
gauges which would soon become use-
less on campaign.
At a club shoot leather elbow-pads and
a cheek-pad are first adjusted ; a prone
position is assumed, and the rifle 4s
picked up; then ensue much wriggling
and grunting while the ridiculously long
sling is wound round shoulders and arms.
Trial-sights at the target and a discussion
on wind-gauge allowance follow. Firing
is at the rate of one shot or less per
minute, every cartridge being loaded
singly by hand from a box beside the
marksman. Then you have long-winded
discussions on why every shot wasn’t
a “bull.”
As a contrast, watch a unit of infantry
on the range. Men in the prone posi-
tion ; a minimum of movement (the
Boers taught them that, as also did the
Turks); magazines filled from the pouch
and sights adjusted. Firing commences,
and reloading is a wrist movement only:
no fancy sights or slings to assist. Con-
tinuous training, leading by degrees to
an assault course, with ball cartridge and
lifelike disappearing targets, teaches
rapidity of aiming and firing—essentials
in an engagement with the enemy.
No, we don’t need more rifle clubs ;
but let us have more school-cadet units.
Training is in conjunction with the
militia forces, and instruction is given
(by non-coms, of the C.M.F., most of
them returned soldiers) in the use of the
rifle, rifle-bomb and Lewis gun, followed
with actual firing practice at the range.
Anyone who doubts the usefulness ot
this scheme should look in at the nearest
school when the cadets are on parade.
There is an excellent spirit amongst these
lads and amongst their parents, too, who
have in most cases paid for the uniforms.
The Defence Department should give
more financial aid to this or similar
schemes. Provision of more arms
and ammunition, inter-school shooting
matches with rifles and machine-guns,
leading up to inter-State competitions,
would be sufficient incentive. The C.M.F.
would be the gainer.—“ 4 x 2” (Q-)-
What Readers Want
I have been feeding my mind out of
an evening Sydney journal weighing
about half a pound which claims that
“its net sales are larger than those of
any other newspaper in Australia.”
The front page carries 117 in. of so-
called “news matter,” of which 35in. is
made up of headings. Out of the re-
maining 82in., 16in. is devoted to photo-
graphs. There is “Ponsford playing care-
fully for his 195 not out”—-at Cambridge,
though the background to the picture
seems to be a bit of the Sydney Cricket
Ground. There is Darling, “providing
the brightest display of the tour” —again
on Sydney Cricket Ground. Add a car
which has bumped into a telegraph post
(very large), a pilot who has flown a mil-
lion miles (very small) and Adam Lind-
say Gordon and you have all the events
worth illustrating on a front page which
have happened in this world of
1,500,000,000 people within 24 hours.
The front-page news is equal in fibre
to the pictures. A column about an aero-
plane which has, or may have, fallen
into the British Channel. A love story
of A. L. Gordon —described in de-
tail in every biography of Gordon ever
written. A few lines in which the
Imam of Yemen denies that he is de-
feated, and a dozen more about a wharf
strike in U.S.A. A brilliant piece of
special reporting headed “Wore Trews
Woman Golfer.”
But overleaf I read, tucked away
under a single-column heading and sur-
rounded by 12 columns of advertising:
It is no secret in the Foreign Office [Lon-
don] that general staffs everywhere are
making plans on a more than tentative
assumption that hostilities between Russia
and Japan will begin when the Siberian
winter is over.
Am I old-fashioned in believing that this
is more worthy of being on the front
page of a great newspaper than Gordon’s
rehashed loves or the slogging of
influenza-stricken 19-year-olds against a
minor English cricket team? —El V.
(N.S.W.).
GENERAL VIEW OF THE MACLEOD GALLERY. BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Original ’'Bulletin drawings for
contributions to B. 23/5/ 34 go to:
J. M. MADDOX, Box 199, Tully,
Queensland.
REV. W. H. MACFARLANE, 409
Drummond-street, Ballarat, Victoria.
V. A. KRUGER, 23 Ventnor-
avenue, West Perth, W.A.
J. H. SCHMEIDER, Seaview,
Watalgan, N.C. line, Queensland.
The prizes are offered weekly in
respect of “Society” pars., “Aborigi-
nalities,” "Hints for the Farm” and
gags for joke-blocks. In all cases
“Bulletin” cheques accompany
them.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Northern Mining
Symptomatic of London interest in
Australian minerals is the 1 formation of
a British company with £600,000 capital
to prospect the mineral reefs of North
Queensland. There are few better fields
of opportunity in the Dominions.
Most of the northern goldfields which
petered out in the years immediately
before the war were operated in crude
fashion and on a comparatively small
scale—fields like Charters Towers, of
course, were exceptions. The gold dis-
tricts were remote, transport was diffi-
cult and expensive, and many reefs when
they left the shallows and plunged to-
wards the bowels of the earth were not
pursued farther.
Incredible as it may seem, the Palmer
(discovered in 1878) is only now being
prospected for deep gold, and capital has
never been found to test completely the
Etheridge-Kidston areas and to follow the
rich, small pockets of the Flinders coun-
try to their ultimate sources. Croydon,
Ravenswood, the outlying districts around
Charters Towers, Coen and Ebagoolah
all need turning over thoroughly, and
it is by no means certain that the pro-
ducing capacity of the rough country
around the Dee in Central Queensland
has been fully determined.
Apart from gold, North Queensland
is a rich source of rare metals—it pro-
duced most of the molybdenite and
much of the wolfram used by British
armament firms during the war. Many
of these metals are found in association
with others, but in such small quantities
(hat they are discarded at the mills. Aus-
tralian firms which have sent their ore
to Belgium and Germany have learnt
what can be done by exhaustive extrac-
tion processes. There have been cases
in which output value has been doubled
by comparison with the rewards reaped
out of local crushings.
Stable mining beyond Capricorn means
a good deal more population in the partly
empty North.
From “Kaloa”:
Detailed reports of the evidence in the Stott
case at Darwin fully justify the comments of
the Judge and of The Bulletin. If the gin
whom Constable Stott was alleged to have mal-
treated stood all she was alleged to have borne,
she must have had the constitution of an ele-
phant. According to one of the principal wit-
nesses, who arrived to find her already strapped
to a bloodwood tree by the wrists, she was (a)
left tied to the tree all night, (b) beaten next
morning with a green waddy after disgusting
torture, (c) beaten again “hard pfeller” with the
same waddy—about four feet long and as thick
as his wrist—and (d) hot ashes .were poured
on her. Cross-examined, witness said that
Dolly sat down while being beaten over
shoulder, neck, body and ribs and head. He had
spent several months in Boorooloola afterwards
but had made no word of complaint to the ser-
geant there, and he testified to half a dozen
acts of unusual kindness by Stott to other
blacks, telling in sedulous detail of the care
with which accused had looked at prisoners’
wrists each day on trek and tied up sore fingers.
Another witness acknowledged that Dolly’s skin
was not broken by the beatings which killed
her. (The medical examination showed “no
evidence of ill-treatment.”) Still another native
declared that Stott broke “ten waddies” over his
victim. None of the native witnesses seems to
have said a word until after seeing a Mr.
Cahill, who admitted having asked the Society
for the Protection of Native Races whether a
prosecution could be instituted. This man
could not produce the letters which he had
received from the society—he “always destroyed
his correspondence.” When he owned to hav-
ing received £3O on loan from the society, the
Judge remarked that “there seemed to be a lot
of easy money about.” How the Crown could
put forward such a series of charges on such
evidence calls for an inquiry in itself.
* * * *
“Omadhaun”: “II Vecchio’s” yarn re-
minds me of a far-off day when a Cabinet
Minister visited a turbulent mining town
to open a campaign. There was a pro-
cession—a band, white horses and a
marshal, the undertaker’s carriage for
the visitor and the candidate, a mounted
escort and torchlights. While the band
lounged waiting for the train to arrive
a dark stranger was seen to approach its
leader, and during the ensuing conversa-
tion with that doughty Cousin Jack the
words “I bet you a pony” floated out
into the soft night air, followed by a
sharp, short “I’ll take thee, boy!” The
procession formed. The horses pranced ;
the distinguished visitor bowed. All went
well until the show began to enter a
democratic suburb descriptively known as
Tipperary Point. Then did Cousin Jack
wave sternly to his band, and raise his
from and to ’ee” with a look of stern
resolution. A moment later an indignant
Hibernian electorate heard the hated
words of “The Battle of the Boyne” ris-
ing in the dust-laden air. The torches
were the most needed part of the proces-
sion after that—it is hard to drag a fat
politician out of the creek in the dark.
But next morning the sun shone brightly
as a dark, satisfied democrat with an
accent from Donegal counted out a lot
of money to a square Cornishman,
with the air of a successful punter and
two black eyes and a set of whiskers
which looked as if they had been plucked
by an infuriated emu.
* * * *
“M. 0.”: The Darwin division of the
Australian Army, whose strength of 60
guards our 3000 miles of northern coast-
line, suddenly found out what tropical
campaigning means when it dawned upon
its leaders the other day that stocking
liquor for the mess was a breach of the
licensing ordinance. A hurried wire to
Canberra soon put the matter right. The
“keeping, supplying on sale or otherwise
to members of the force, or at the expense
of the force to their guests,” and the
supplying of it at any gathering of sol-
diery, with or without guests, is now
legal. The army breathes again.
* * * *
“Travel Stain”: Cooktown still calls
vainly for telephone communication with
Cairns, 100 miles southward. The town
has a radio station, but that is not worth
much in a cyclone, when there is no
“Always remember the cows like nothing better than chaff.”
“That's good, sir. I appreciate a bit o’ fun meself.”
means of warning settlements on the way
to Cairns —the Bloomfield, Daintree,
Almason and Mossman. Yet Cooktown
is the national outpost in the Far North
and still serves the historic Palmer, which
is ripe for a new era of development.
* * * *
“X.N.T.”: While the fashion of naming
baby after the politician and distinguished
visitor seems to be defunct in European
Australia, it still thrives among Black
Brother. I noticed, blushing, my own
unusual Christian moniker tacked on to
a witness in a recent N.T. trial—
acknowledgment of the fact that I was
generous with the stick tobacco and sugar
supplies a long time ago, a policy which
often gets one elected an involuntary
godfather in the outback. It is a nice
tribute from a simple people, and I there-
fore put it to Mr. Perkins that he should
be more humane to the aborigine, select-
ing Administrators whose parents have
titled them with simple monosyllables.
How can any poor bush nigger be ex-
pected to pronounce Joseph Aloysius
Carrodus, the name of the present Acting
Administrator of the N.T., after whom
dozens of doting and dusky mothers will
long to christen their babes?
* * * *
“Capricorn”: How northern develop-
ment is implemented is illustrated by the
fact that Port Alma, a deep-water harbor
with modern wharfage, which is the
main sea outlet of Central Queensland,
is not yet connected with Rockhampton by
motor road, and that the central west, the
mother of all Australian motor country,
is in turn similarly isolated from the
coast. Many a big ship ties up at Alma
waiting for cargo or unloading it, but
the tourist or ship’s officer who wants
to get to the city of sin, sweat and sor-
row, which normally would be an hour’s
motor run away, or to Mt. Morgan, an-
other 25 miles on, or to any of the en-
chanting seaside resorts round Keppel
Bay, must catch one of the very occa-
sional out-of-date trains which make the
journey, and preface his enjoyment of
the scenery with a hot-water bath. The
district round Rockhampton has abun-
dant tourist attractions —splendid scen-
ery, excellent sport, romantic mining
areas and a large junk of real outback
Australia laid on in the near-by ranges.
In any country with an eye to business
the whole place would long ago have
been honeycombed with good roads.
* * * s|c
“Kaloa”: Mr. Pearce has put the fin-
ishing touches on his plan for defend-
ing the North against raiding sam-
pans—which the Queensland Govern-
ment has suggested are not raiders
at all. Also, his scheme will safe-
guard the Commonwealth against the
smuggling of opium and the secret entry
of foreigners. It is comprehensive—
after the Pearce fashion. There will be
a launch and a seaplane at Darwin.
About 1100 miles further on at T.I. there
will be a launch. Still another four or
five days’ journey away there will be
another launch and seaplane at Rabaul.
And Senator Pearce and Mr. Perkins
will be in Canberra. So all’s well with
the world, and the opium smugglers, ille-
gal immigrants, sampans and other
menaces to about 9000 miles of island
and mainland coastline may now go
ahead, secure in the knowledge that un-
less they do something foolish the sparse
patrol will usually be under a thousand-
mile handicap. What is needed is a
dozen small, fast launches covering cer-
tain beats, or three or four ’planes cover-
ing the same areas. Either could serve
a double purpose. As well as doing
police work, they could carry the mail,
medical supplies and light stores for local,
settlements.
* * * *
“Posorus”: Crocodiles are becoming
pests in northern waters. They live
indefinitely. They increase at about
eight per clutch. They can adapt
themselves to a variety of food. I advo-
cate a rigorous campaign against them
now. Poisoned baits and the destruction
of nests are the only way to keep them
within bounds.
* * * *
“Questo”: Tell “Amity” (B. 23/5/’34)
that the deserted ruin of a mullet-canning
factory still stands on a Moreton Bay
island. Its owners, who ceased opera-
tions about 15 years ago, turned out
tinned mullet equal in flavor to Canadian
white salmon. The prices were reason-
able, but Queenslanders preferred an
often inferior imported article.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
During Empire Week the shops showed, in
a patriotic manner, products not only of our
own but those of other Australian States, and
of Britain. On Thursday there was a proces-
sion, in which Queensland goods were ex-
ceptionally well represented; a lot of us were
surprised that our own little corner of the
world could produce so much. J. Bull was to
the front with commodities ranging from sar-
dines to motor-cars. The latter, by the way,
made the backbone of the procession, and very
glittering and handsome they looked. There
was a meeting at night in the City Hall, with
his Ex. and Lor’ Mayor Jones freeing flags to
the breeze, and a host of speakers urging every-
body to “Buy Empire.”
The Y.A.L. Band is a good advertisement for
this country so far as the looks, physique and
manners of the visiting youngsters are con-
cerned. They gave a concert which was very
well attended, and now they are off to North
Queensland, with tours of M.L., S’Africa and
England to follow. Eight-year-old Don Dickie
is the baby of the party. He will never know
the kidnapping instincts he aroused in many a
breast as he trotted along wearing a miniature
oilskin coat over his natty blue uniform. The
most mature member of the party is Ted Bird,
who has reached a ripe 15; but he isn’t the
most-travelled. Charlie Stanton, the drum-
major, who is only 10, is making his 14th
Y.A.L. tour.
The late W. R. Black, Queensland’s Coal
King, left memorials all over the place, mostly
in connection with the Kirk. Fairholme Col-
lege, Toowoomba, owes much to his generosity,
and there are several W. R. Black Homes that
are doing useful work. Boys and girls occu-
pied a large share of Mr. Black’s heart, though
(or perhaps because) he was a bachelor. Mem-
bers of the Presbyterian Assembly visited the
Black Home for Girls at Chelmcr a few days
ago. _ The girls displayed cooked foods that
promise well for the digestion of their future
husbands; delectable vegetables were sent along
by the inmates of the Hopetoun Home for
aged men at Oxley and boys from Black Homes
showed an array of jams and preserves that
staggered housewives.
No fewer than 22 debs, made their bow at
the Naval, Military and Air Force Ball at the
Trocadero. The Governor regarded the young
things with a fatherly eye. Uniforms were
everywhere, and as there were sufficient part-
ners for the buds, good music and plenty of
supper, the affair was a huge success.
To brighten the days of the kiddies at the
Blind, Deaf and Dumb School, a new play-
ground, with a slide, swinging boats, see-saws
and swings, to say nothing of other delights,
has been opened. Education Minister Cooper
began talking to the deaf children in sign
language. However, his knowledge was not
equal to the task of telling them they were to
have a holiday on the first fine day, so he de-
puted S. E. Holle, the superintendent, to break
the good news. One of the most interesting
features in the afternoon was the excellent play-
ing of the school orchestra.
Friday, July 27, is the date chosen for the
Journalists’ Ball this year. The- “Midnight
Horror,” a newspaper which should never be
shown to maiden aunts, is to be especially en-
tertaining this year, as it will contain entries
from secret diaries.
Mrs. R. E. Nixon-Smith, president of the
social committee, received the guests at the
dance held at the Victoria
Park Golf Links for local
and visiting professionals.
Eunice Marconi (hon.
sec.), Mrs. S. E. Travill
(captain) and other well-
known golfing women lent
a hand with the arrange-
ments.
Wife of one clergyman,
and mother of another.
Mrs. G. S. Bird, a lov-
able little lady who came
to Brisbane in the Maloja,
chattered away with the
inky sisters who clustered
around her as soon as the
boat berthed. This is her first visit to Aus-
tralia ; and she is on her way to Brewarrina
to visit her son, Rev. A. I. Bird, who is a Bush
Brother. Mrs. Bird wears a necklet of black
opals sent to her by her son from Lightning
Ridge, N. S. Wales.
Hazel Campbell left for India six years ago to
marry A. G. Hall, who is stationed at Rawal-
pindi. This week she returned to Queensland,
bringing with her two delightful small boys,
twins, aged four. She is going up to Bunda-
berg to stay with her brothers, and to display
to them their small nephews.
In May, 1874, Mr. and Mrs. Charlew Crow-
ther were married in Lancashire. Both born
at Middleton, they had known each other all
their lives. Four years later they left for
Queensland. From the day of his arrival Mr.
Crowther has been connected with the building
trade, and, with the assistance of his seven large
sons, has successfully handled many contracts.
To-day there are nine sons, one daughter, 41
grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
Miss Eva Armstrong, the dignified little lady
who lived for so many years in Toowoomba,
and who is back again after spending some
years in England, is staying with Dr. and Mrs.
Tineas McDonnell at their home in the Downs
city. Miss Armstrong is a sister of the late
Speaker Armstrong, and is the aunt of the
newly-arrived Governor of Victoria, Lord Hunt-
ingfield.
Woodlands, on North Quay, one of the his-
toric homes of Brisbane, is to be turned into
a hostel for unemployed single men. A dor-
mitory with accommodation for 90 is to be
built, and the other 60 men —the whole 150 are
at present in rather an unsuitable building in
the Valley—will occupy the main building. "The
C.E.M.S. is behind the scheme.
For the first subscription concert of the year,
the State and Municipal Choir tackled Sulli-
van’s “Golden Legend,” with Nancy Muirhead
and Bessie Dougall as the soloists. Both girls
excelled themselves, especially Nancy, whose
soprano voice thrilled the big audience.
“Man-shy” Davidson, his wife and Dr. and
Mrs. Brook Nicholls have been in Brisbane
for a few days on their way to North Queens-
land. Poetess Emily Bulcock entertained the
visitors, who will have a look at the beauties
of the Barrier Reef before turning the nose of
their car towards the South.
Frank Reid, better known as “Bill Bowyang,”
who is living at present at Bowen (N.Q.), is
preparing another book for the printer. This
time he writes about the Barrier Reef. No one
was more surprised than Frank at the instan-
taneous success of “The Fighting Cameliers.”
Mrs. Cyril Gore, who was one of the
Spowers girls and a daughter of A. A. Spowers,
so long connected with the Agricultural De-
partment, arrives from India early next month
with her small son. She has established some-
thing like a record in travel, this being the
sixteenth time she has crossed the water
between India and Australia.
Gwendo Paul, the Queensland girl who mar-
ried Herrold Kyng, delighted old friends when
she broadcast to Australia from a' London
station. The pianist, who is a daughter of Dr
and Mrs. Paul, both accomplished musicians, is
keeping her fingers limber while husband Her-
rold studies medicine. He has just passed his
first year’s exam, in London.
Old military and naval heroes were enter-
tained at dinner at the Australian Hotel by
the Federal Government. Almost all the old
Crimean men have gone, but there are still
one or two oldsters whose tales of warfare in
the days when romance still lingered exercise
a fascination over the younger generation.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET. *
Rooms, «/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families
r , , „ FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
liUnch from 12 noon (Sunday 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 pm )
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young married couple, S.A., one child, want
situation; man, exp. orchardist (dried fruits);
wife, help in home; or man alone would take
job on station. —1580.
English collegiate teacher, N.S.W., desires
position as tutor on station. All usual subjects
and elocution, piano and singing.—1616.
Young man (22), Vic., exp. as clerk, seeks
position any State. Refs.—l 644.
Young lady (23), Q’land, well educated,
wants position as librarian or other congenial
post.—l67o.
Digger wants partner with truck and £5O
to prospect reef northern N.S.W. Lease
secured and Mines Dept, has granted aid. —
1625.
Woolclasser will exchange for one July or
October shed two or three August or September
sheds, each about 2000 per man. Would also
like to get in touch with classer for August-
September.—l 649.
To buy copy of the “Australian Star” of
May 24, 1890; “The Feud,” verses by A. Lind-
say (1864), and Henry Savery’s “Hermit of
Van Diemen’s Land” (1829). —1711.
To buy Gregory’s “Dead Heart of Aus-
tralia” and “Cartoons,” by Thomas Nast. —
1677.
To buy second-hand “Dykes’ Motor Manual.”
—1617.
To buy quantity of small white river pebbles.
—1605.
Words of poem “Pflegan’s Ride.” —1586.
Whereabouts of Lyman Tenbosch, returned
soldier, one-time golf club secretary. Nephew,
inquiring.—1640.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of S.A. aboriginal word “Wanena.”
—1582.
Information Sought.
1 hear that a kilted regiment is to be formed
in N. S. Wales. (1) Is this correct ? (2)
Would it be possible for an untrained youth
of 19 to join as a cadet? (3) To whom should
application be made ? —1506.
(1) Yes. The wearing of kilted uniform by
present 30th Battalion, the direct descendant
of the old N.S.W. Scottish Regiment, has been
approved. (2) Suitable men of ages between
18 and 40 are eligible for enlistment. Those
between 16 and 18 enrol as senior cadets. (3)
Applicants should report personally to the drill
hall, Miller’s Point.
(1) What is the largest piece of ambergris
that has been found ? (2) What is the value
of ambergris per ounce ? (3) Is the smell
pleasant or otherwise? —ls3o.
(1) A lump was found recently which was
stated to weigh 8001 b. (2) A few shillings to
£2, according to quality. (3) The odor is musty.
I understand that one of the reasons for the
present low price of copra is the competition
of substitutes for cocoanut oil. What are these
substitutes, and to what extent do they affect
the cocoanut-oil trade ? —1655.
Main competitor of cocoanut oil is whale
oil, of which large quantities find their way into
the European market. The production of whale
oil in the Antarctic last season amounted to
about 2,000,000 barrels. Palm kernel nuts,
which are grown in ever-increasing quantities
in South Africa; soya beans, cottonseed and
ground nuts, all suitable for the extraction of
edible oils, are other competitors.
At death of an old-age pensioner will his
children be called upon to pay back the
amount of pension received by him, the children
having no independent means ? Pensioner owns
home he lives in, worth approximately £5OO.
—1562.
The law is that all pension paid shall be
a charge on a pensioner’s estate at death after
all other debts have been paid. The follow-
ing property is exempt: Personal effects of a
value not exceeding £5O; any funeral or mor-
tuary benefit from a friendly society over and
above actual funeral expenses; and property
left to a relative who is a pensioner, or is, in
the opinion of the Commissioner, in necessitous
circumstances, or is residing in a home owned
by the pensioner as a member of the family.
Is there in Queensland any hospital fund to
which an old-age pensioner could contribute
a weekly sum ? Would such person then be
treated free of charge ? —1298.
There is no such fund, but pensioners are
eligible for admission to a public hospital and
are allowed free treatment for 28 days. After
that period 12s. 6d. a week is paid to the
hospital and the remaining ss. to the pensioner.
(1) Tariff on motor-cars entering Britain ?
(2) Can a rebate of tariff be secured on a car
imported for touring purposes when it is being
taken out ? (3) Is a visitor required to register
his car and take out a third-party insurance ?
—1659.
(1) Motor-cars of Empire origin are subject
to import duty of 22 2-9 per cent, of their
value. Duty on cars of foreign origin is 33 1-3
per cent. (2) Arrangements can be made with
the Customs authmities for a refund of the
amount of duty paid upon re-exportation of the
car from the United Kingdom within about
six months. (3) Yes.
Does the wind resistance increase in direct
proportion with the speed of a car ? —1692.
No. It increases in proportion to the square
of the speed. Thus at 20 m.p.h. it is four
times what it is at 10 m.p.h.; at 40 m.p.h.
sixteen times, and so on.
(1) Are Alsatian dogs admitted to New
Guinea ? (2) What tariff is payable on motor-
cars imported into New Guinea ? Are used
cars subject to duty ? (3) Must motorists pay
license and registration fees ? (4) What com-
panies operate aerial services between the coast
and the N.G. goldfields ? (5) What are their
charges for freight ? (6) Can they handle all
sizes of motor-cars ? —1726.
(1) No. (2) A duty of 20 p.c. ad valorem
is payable on all cars, used or new. (3) Yes,
on a scale according to size and purpose of
car! (4) Holden’s Air Transport Service, the
Pacific Aerial Transport Co. and Guinea Air-
ways. The offices of the first two are at Sala-
maua. Guinea Airways is located at Lae. (5)
Minimum rate is £3B per ton. (6) Motor-cars
have been transported by ’plane to the gold-
fields. Information as to whether any particu-
lar size of car could be taken could be obtained
on application to the cos. mentioned.
(1) Probable cause of the knock in water pump
of a 1927 model Buick car, noticeable only
when the engine is idling ? (2) Cost of registra-
tion and tax of Pontiac tourer, 1927 model, and
Buick tourer, 1927 model ? —1561.
(1) Probably due to backlash between the-
timing and case gears. New gears will re-
sult in a temporary cure, but, as the knock will
not damage the mechanism in any way, your
best plan will be to leave it as it stands. (2)
Pontiac (23cwt.), registration £6 6s. 6d., tax
£l. Buick (29cwt.), registration £7 19s. 6d.,
tax £l.
Method of preserving everlasting daisies ?
1690.
Everlasting daisies last indefinitely with-
out treatment. Pick the flowers when they
are fully opened, but before the crowded flower
centres become fluffy and old. Dip the ends
of the stalks in beeswax or paraffin, arrange in
vases and leave alone. If this does not suc-
ceed, immerse flowers and stems in melted
paraffin wax and dry on sheets of paper.
Formula for making sawdust concrete and
for coloring ? —l3BO.
Melt one quart glue in two gallons water,
leave till nearly cold, then stir in equal parts
of sawdust and prepared chalk until it becomes
thick and plastic. Lay down at least six
inches in thickness, using a trowel dipped in
the water to level it. Leave till dry and hard
before using it. The addition of a little creosote
will repel white ants, which are fond of this
material. Color with any of the dry colors
used by house painters, red oxide being a shade
which wears well.
(1) Where can I get plans and specifications
of a monoplane, to be driven by a motor-
cycle engine ? (2) Where can 1 get proofed fab-
ric, and approximate price ? —1515.
(1) None available in Australia of a sort
that would meet Defence Dept.’s safety re-
quirements. A motor-cycle engine would not
be approved as an aircraft engine unless it
could pass the tests prescribed in Air Publica-
tion 1208. From time to time blue prints of
light aircraft are submitted to the Defence Dept,
for approval. These are generally of American
origin, and to datfi none has been passed as
meeting requirements. (2) Two types are in
use, and either may be obtained from Qantas,
Brisbane; De Havilland, Mascot, N.S.W.;
Matthews Aviation Co. and Hart Aircraft Co.,
Essendon, Vic., and Larkin Aircraft Supply Co.,
Coode Island, Vic., at about 2s. 6d. per sq. yd.
(1) Designer and manufacturer of the war-
time S.P.A.D. biplane ? (2) Some details of
equipment and performance ? (3) Who was
England’s greatest .war “ace” ? —l4BB.
(1) This type was designed by M. B.
Bechereau and manufactured by the old Deper-
dussin firm, which was founded in 1910 and re-
vived in the first year of the war by M. Bleriot.
(2) It was fitted with a 150-h.p. Hispano-Suiza
engine and equipped with a Vickers gun, firing
through propeller. The ceiling of this machine
was about 19,000 ft.; it could climb to 14,000 ft.
in 10 minutes, and had a speed at this height
of 115 m.p.h. (3) A matter of opinion. The
names of Major Edward Mannock, Captain
Albert Ball, Captain James McCudden and
Major L. G. Hawker, V.C., are most promi-
nent in this connection. •
Principal details of the Fairey lUF seaplane ?
—1543.
It is fitted with a 570-h.p. Napier-Lion XIA
engine. The wing-span is 45ft. 9in.; chord
(both planes), sft. 6in.; length, 34ft. 4in.;
speed (maximum at 3000 ft.), 117 knots; fuel
consumption, petrol 35 gallons per hour, oil
0.416 pints per hour; weight, gross, 63001 b.
How to mould ebonite ? —1532.
It is not practicable for the home constructor
to mix the ingredients and vulcanise them, as
this necessitates elaborate plant. The best
plan is to use dental rubber, obtainable in
plastic state. This is pressed into plaster of
Pans moulds, placed in a metal container, and
vulcanised in a small dental vulcaniser. The
time required for vulcanisation varies, but as
a basis an article taking about 3oz. of rubber
would require vulcanising for about an hour.
eradlcating bor ers from furniture ?
,A . P- c ; solution of paradichlorbenzene
(obtainable from wholesale druggists) in kero-
sene should be made and injected by means
or a suitable syringe. Detailed instructions
can be obtained on application to the Techno-
logical Museum, Sydney.
I am considering going in for meat inspection
and taking the diploma course at Adelaide
School of Mines. My age is 20. (1) What are
the prospects? (2) Would the diploma entitle
trie to a position ? (3) What is likely to be
the effect of the development of the chilled-meat
industry on prospects of meat inspectors ?
1567.
(1) Fair. (2) The holder is qualified to apply
for a position when a vacancy occurs. (3)
It should improve their prospects.
(1) Distance by road from Adelaide to Dar-
win via Alice Springs ? (2) Towns between
Alice Springs and Darwin where motor spirit
is available ? (3) Suitable time to make
journey ? (4) Can the route from Alice Springs
to Darwin be easily followed ? —1620.
(1) About 2100 miles. (2) Newcastle Waters,
Birdum and Eumungal. (3) June to August.
(4) Yes. Telegraph line runs all the way to
the Katherine.
Method of calculating height of hills not
involving use of trig, tables ? —1596.
It can be done with a pocket aneroid, which
will give direct readings in feet, but it will be
necessary to take the readings from the summit
of the hill. Esdailes, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney,
can supply such an instrument at 555., capable
of measuring heights up to 8000 ft. in gradua-
tions of 50ft.
(1) What is the penalty for a revoke in solo
whist? (2) What is the score for a big slam
and open misere hand ? —1606.
(1) The loss of three tricks from the score
of the revoking side. (2) There is no system
of scoring, save the progressional value of bids,
and that depends on the stakes fixed. For in-
stance, with solo at 6d., misbre might be Is.,
abundance Is. 6d., open misbre 2s. 6d. and
slam 3s.
(1) Method used for enlarging photographs ?
(2) Procedure in making enlarged solar prints ?
(3) Cost of apparatus required to execute such
work? (4) Textbooks on the subject? —ls3l.
(1) Enlarged prints are made by means of
an enlarging camera, employing in most cases
artificial light. (2) Sunlight may be used as
an illuminant, usually reflected from a white
surface, but is considered unreliable. (3) Kodak
Co. and Harrington’s, both Sydney, stock en-
larging apparatus'at various prices. (4) Details
of the process of enlarging is given in various
photographic manuals and textbooks. “How to
Make Good Pictures,” published by the Kodak
Co., 45., would meet your requirements.
(1) Cost of establishing a cardboard manu-
facturing plant for purpose of making con-
tainers for meat, butter (prints), etc. ? For
purpose of approximating cost, production
is estimated at half a million cases per annum.
(2) Is cardboard manufactured in Australia ?
—1325.
(1) It is difficult to get any reliable estimates
as to the Australian cost of plant. Communi-
cate with the editor, “Fibre Containers,” 228
North La Salle-street, Chicago, who could give
American costs. (2) Yes, by Paper Manufac-
turers, Ltd.
I am contemplating trochus-shell fishing at
Thursday Island. (1) What license fee must
be paid ? (2) What is the present value of
trochus ? (3) Is the shell easily obtainable ?
(4) What wages are paid to skin divers ? (5)
To suit divers ? (6) What is a fair day’s aver-
age of shell per boat ? (7) How many boats
are at present engaged in the industry ? (8)
Approximately what amount of trochus shell
is exported from Thursday Island ? (9) Pros-
pects ? —1464.
(1) For vessels of 10 tons or less £3 per
annum, with an additional 10s. per ton or
part thereof over 10 tons; maximum fee, £2O.
Every person in charge of a boat or diver must
also obtain a license, the fee being £1 per
annum. All crews of vessels used must be
signed on under a written agreement in a Gov-
ernment shipping office. The fees mentioned
permit a vessel and person to engage in the
taking of pearlshell, beche-de-mer and trochus
shell. (2) During the year ended June 30, 1933,
the price of trochus varied between £52 and
£B5 per ton, and at the close of the period
mentioned realised from £75 to £B3 per ton.
(3) The shell is obtainable by skin-diving and
wading on the reefs. The boats work in the
waters inside the Great Barrier Reef as
far south as the latitude of Rockhampton. (4)
and (5) The diver or man in charge of the boat
is paid a rate per ton of shell or other product
raised. He pays the crew and provides victuals.
(6) Can’t say, as the boats engage in gathering
the three products mentioned according to the
demand at the time for each commodity. (7)
and (8) At June 30, 1933, 91 boats were en-
gaged in Q’land waters in gathering pearlshell,
beche-de-mer and trochus shell, and their pro-
duct was: Pearlshell, 416 tons 6cwt., value
£69,083; beche-de-mer, 245 tons 16cwt, value
£19,265; trochus shell, 557 tons 17cwt., value
£40,433. (9) Can’t prophesy, but boats belong-
ing to firms regularly engaged in the industry
are laid up at present.
Who was Thomas the Rhymer? —l63o.
He was Thomas Learmont, of Ercildoune
(1220-1297), a Scottish poet and prophet. He
had a reputation almost equal to Merlin’s, and
in the “Scotichronicon” he foretells the death
of Alexander. Wyntoun asserts that he prophe-
sied the result of the battle of Kilblane. He
is mentioned in the works of Barbour, Harry
the Minstrel and Hector Boece. See Murray’s
“The Romance and Prophecies,” Brandi’s
“Thomas of Ercildoune” and Lumby’s “Early
Scottish Prophecies” and “The Whole Prophe-
cies of Scotland.”
A newspaper reports that a thesis by Gilbert
Eagles, M.A. ( Q’land University), on “Thomism
and Spiritual Monism” is a ‘‘valuable contri-
bution to learning.” What is Thomism ? —1629.
“Webster’s Dictionary” defines it as “The
philosophical and theological principles and
doctrines of St. Thomas Aquinas (about 1225-
74) and of his followers.” St. Thomas syn-
thetised the diverse factors of scholasticism in
one complete system. He held that faith is a
continuation of reason and that philosophy and
revelation therefore harmonise. The basis of
his system is Aristotelianism, which he adapted
to the needs of the Christian dogma, combating
especially the Arabian pantheistic interpreta-
tion.
Brief Answers.
K R B.: (1) Returns must be lodged by bene-
ficiaries individually, showing their share ot in-
come from the estate, together with any other
income they may possess. Amounts received
as corpus are not subject to tax. (2) ine ex
ecutor will not pay tax on that Pf rt ° f
income distributed to the beneficiaries and
taxed in their hands E.F.: Mix
linseed oil, lqt. benzine and 6oz. cedai.oil.
Apply with a sponge running in one direction,
let stand half an hour, then polish with a
dry c10th....E.V.T.: Put into a kerosene-tin
of water 1 tin of caustic soda, 1 small packet
Lux, ilb. borax, |lb. resin and 71b. dripping
which has been clarified and freed from tat
Boil slowly for two hours. Turn into a wetted
mould or wet cloth draped inside a box and
leave for two days, when it will be ready
to cut into bars. Improves with keeping....
FT.: No means of keeping cut cab-
bage in a fresh condition'for such a P e jj; l0 ** 1 v: •
M.E.M.: The “Pastoral Review, 10 Bligh-
sireet, Sydney, publishes a pastoral directory,
price £2 5s A.L.H.: The crews of overseas
vessels are engaged in England for the round
trip. For engagements aboard coastal vessels,
apply to the various coastal cos. direct..
R.M.K.: Apply Deputy Commissioner, Dept,
of Repatriation, Mary-street, Brisbane....
HMC.: Directories do not so classify
them. Depts. of Agriculture in each city could,
however, furnish you with such lists... .E.A.r..
There are many such relics in existence,
but no record of who owns them... .A.E.P.:
(1) Copy of conditions for the scenario compe-
tition posted. (2) Question of defining the term
“scenario” will be left to the adjudicators, yet
to be appointed. (3) Chance of a winning
scenario being filmed is, going on past experi-
ence, not bright... .R.M.D.: (1) He cannot
force you to sign agreement. (2) If you have
no lease and it is a weekly tenancy he can
give you a week’s notice, after which you will
have to leave. (3) As you are required to
hand back the property in its original condi-
tion, fair wear and tear excepted, obtain the
consent of the landlord... .H.L.: (1)
Wetherbys founded the stud book conducted by
them. (2) A matter of opinion, though generally
conceded to be English. (3) Eclipse, the greatest
horse of his time on English tracks, and never
defeated, was in the stud book, but some of his
ancestry could not be traced. Newhaven, a great
performer on Australian courses, could not be
traced on the dam’s side... .T.T.: Hobart is
10 hours ahead of English standard time;
noon at Hobart is 2 a.m. in England... .P.R.:
Pace at which modern racehorses walk is not
recorded. Phar Lap, with his huge strides, was
considered to be the fastest walker of this cen-
tury. Shadow King is another good walker.
H.N.L.: “Webster’s Dictionary” pro-
nounces the first “o” in koala as in obey, the first
“a” as in arm, and the second “a” as in sofa. It
states that the native name is pronounced
koo-la; koala being perhaps a misspelling that
has acquired a phonetic pronunciation....
L.G.8.: No, a scenario is an abstrusely tabu-
lated and extremely technical document which
serves as the “architect’s plan” from which the
director shoots his film... .F.A.: Never heard
of any island of that name... .8.W.: Can find
no trace of the game in any work on patience.
H.T.: (1) Write Mines Dept., Melbourne.
(2) Write Director, Commonwealth Lighthouse
Service, Customs House, Sydney A.F.:
Write Working Men’s College, 134 Latrobe-
street, Melbourne... .8.T.: Demand for both
sheet and good, clean scrap mica is limited.
Price of former is governed by quality, size, etc.;
latter is worth about £7 per ton in Sydney. Try
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney;
also try him with amblygnite... .W.S.: As far
as is known there is no agent in Australia for
A.E.Gs. Manufacturers are Allgemeine Elektri-
zitats-Gesellschaft, Friedrich-Karl-Ufer 2-4, Ber-
lin, N.W.40, Germany... .W.R.J.: Write Offi-
cer-in-charge, Correspondence Courses, Sydney
Technical College, Harris-street, Sydney....
A.A.8.: The formulas you require are too
lengthy to quote here. You will find them in
Henley’s “Book of Recipes, Formulas and
Processes,” N.S.W. Bookstall Co. There is a
copy at the Public Library, Sydney P.G.:
Dip repeatedly in petrol until clean, and dry in
the open air; beware of lights or fires. Or
scrub thoroughly in hot, soapy water containing
plenty of ammonia or washing soda, and rinse
well. While drying in an airy place, pull and
stretch the parts into shape and flatten with
the hand; when nearly dry, take down and
iron with a fairly hot iron... .W.A.M.C.: This
is a polishing mixture, not a glaze: Melt
together 4oz. white wax, }oz. stearin and 2oz.
spermaceti. Cool and make into small, handy
cakes. After ironing the article and while it
is still warm, rub briskly with one of the cakes
until the linen shines, and polish further with
the iron if necessary... .8.F.N.: The man is
not a professional golfer as defined by the
recently-published Rules of Golf N.H.:
You and your wife are not performing any
work for which a State industrial award pre-
scribes a rate of pay. The “new award” to
which you refer apparently is the Federal Pas-
toral Employees’ Award, and inquiries about
it should be made to the Deputy Industrial
Registrar, Commonwealth Court of Concilia-
tion and Arbitration, Court House, Darling-
hurst... .T. A.: (1) Yes, for Federal, State and
special income tax. (2) £5O for State, less £1
for every £8 by which the net income exceeds
£5O. There is no exemption for Federal and
special income tax. (3) Special income tax
takes the place of the former unemployment-
relief tax. (4) The rate payable for special
income tax is lOd. in the £l. The rate pay-
able for Federal and State income tax depends
on the amount of income... .H.W.H.: The
facts supplied are not sufficient to enable defi-
nite answers to be furnished. As to (a) a more
detailed description of the work performed by
the employee and of the business carried on
by the employer should be furnished. As to (b)
(c) and (d) the work in connection with which
the engines are used should be described
J.F.: Public Works Act (No. 45, 1912), 3s.
posted, is the Act dealing with the resumption
of the land; River Murray Water Act (No.
8, 1915), Is. 4d. posted, is the Act dealing with
the construction of Hume Weir. Both are
obtainable from Government Printer, Sydney.
.. .(Many others mailed.)


Starts 31st May
MURDOCHS
Mighty.
Ħ
H
10%
has been reduced from
everything throughout the
Store (except a few pro-
prietary lines and £3/3/-
Tailoring).
Many lines, to effect rapid clear-
ance, are selling even as low as
HALF PRICE
Despite the great reductions., you have
that quality and high standard work-
manship typically—MUßDOCH.
£3/19/6 Suit-to-Measure,
653
ERE are genuine £3/19/6 quality
A Suitings for just 65/3. Murdoch
experts mould your Suit, under mer-
chant conditions, in our own Work-
rooms. Choose your material from a
large array of pure wool Worsteds
or pure Indigo Dye Serges. To your
measures, for
65/3
OTHER TWO SPECIALS:
85/9
(Usually £5/5/-
to £5/19/6)
90|9
(Usually £6/6/-)
Art Silk Lined.
In the higher priced field, Murdoch’s
present unrivalled values. Pure wool
Worsted Suits of superb quality,
peerlessly tailored to your measures
and wishes. ART SILK LINED at
90/9 only.
PATTERNS ARE FREE
You are under no obligation! Just
write to Desk “R”—stating the price
you require and FREE patterns of
these Suitings will come to you by
return mail.
A FEW FROM THOUSANDS! Sale Price.
25/- Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats . . 12/6
1 3/6 Men’s All-Wool Fancy Pullovers, 9/6
49/6 Men’s D.B. “Canberra” O’ coats, 29/11
(
m
m
I
r.
%
r
v
Big Sale Catalogue FREE
We pay
freight.
Murdochs l! d
Kindly write
to Desk “R
PARK AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Future of Gold
The Silver Question
Market Prospects
Queensland Forest Debentures
To be successful, the investor must keep one eye on
economic and trade developments.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
Australia’s leading financial journal, enables Him to do
this and other things.
June Issue Ready on Saturday.
From China to Peru.
A returned traveller tells a doggy
story of London and a catty one of New
York. At Bond-street restaurants you
can get a meal for your pampered pup
and park him by the hour at a dogs’
salon, where he may be shampooed or
manicured. At a cat shop in West
Eleventh-street you can buy a Persian
or a Siamese ; strings of beads and milk-
bowls to match pussy’s eyes; a grey
flannel mouse stuffed with catnip ; rolling
and rattling toys; beds, houses and a
medicine-chest; and skin powders —they
range from scented talc to something
with a fluffy kitten on the jar which is
really insectibane. The stock of cat food
includes lamb’s liver, guaranteed. And
myriads of people in both cities are on
the dole!
* * :J: *
“Chut”: Seeing that this curry contro-
versy has arisen largely over the ques-
tion whether the dish can be made in its
true perfection anywhere outside the
Orient, it seems a fair thing to point out
that curry equal to the Indian variety
was being compounded and consumed
in London as long ago as the golden
days of George 111. My authority for
this is Jos Sedley. Readers of “Vanity ,
Fair” will remember the stout epicure’s
glowing tribute to the curry served at
old Sedley’s dinner-table on the occasion
when Becky Sharp was persuaded to take
a chilli for the first time: “Capital; as
good as I get in India.” And Jos was
no mean authority on matters of this
sort. Neither, for that matter, was
Thackeray.
* * =l= *
“Übique”: “Jackdaw” is wrong.
FI.M.S. Cadmus did not arrive in Singa-
pore until 60 hours after the mutiny
in February, 1915 (B. 18/4/’34). The
Cadmus was alongside Borneo wharf,
about three miles from Alexandra Bar-
racks, when the outbreak occurred. She
was advised by ’phone, and a detach-
ment was landed at once, with a machine-
gun on a lorry. The force encountered
a party of mutineers about five o’clock
on the Keppel-road, and opened fire,
effectually stopping the advance on the
city by that route. Another party of
mutineers was halted at the Central
Gaol; a third lot, who did the shooting
at the P.O.W. camp, was held up by
volunteers and armed civilians at Tang-
lin police station. The mutineers never
got to Singapore. “Jackdaw” is again
wrong in saying that civilians bungled the
first firing party. The volunteers mis-
handled the last execution only; previ-
ous firing parties were supplied by regu-
lar gunner and sapper units, and they
made no mess of it. I know, because
I was there.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: Quaint to read that
the Australian Eleven has chosen the “Lily
of Laguna” as its “Marseillaise.” This
40-year-old bit of maudlin melody was
brought to Australia in the mid-’nineties
by Alice Leamar. Alice was co-opted
to help the third London Gaiety Co. in
Australia, and later toured the Harry
Rickards circuit. She pinched the
“Lily” and other coon songs from Eugene
Stratton, who first brought them to Eng-
land from America, and made a big hit
with them there. Alice jibbed at the
black face, possibly to give the audience
a chance to see her blushes when it com-
mented extra freely on her very shapely
understandings.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: That Chinese tennisette
who is coming to Melbourne centenary
(B. 4/4/’34) owns a smiling visage
which is familiar to every Celestial sports
lover who collects cigarette cards. She
is not only tennis champion, but an
expert of sorts at golf, ping-pong, bil-
liards and cricket. It used to be argued
by evolutionists that if you cut off rats’
tails for a sufficient number of genera-
tions you would produce a tailless breed.
But Gem Hoa Hing’s ancestors had their
feet bound for centuries, and some of her
living relatives still hobble about on
crumpled extremities. Modern Gem
escaped the curse, and her feet are
normal.
* * * *
A scholarship is offered by the Spanish
Republic to a member of the Inter-
national Federation of University
Women. Graduates’ associations in all
countries have been notified, but those
in Australia, being furthest away, were
the last to learn about it, and must be the
first to make up their minds. The suc-
cessful applicant will be offered free
board and residence at the Residenzia
Internacionale de Senoritas in Madrid for
eight months, Christmas and Easter holi-
days included. In between her studies
she must lecture for an hour a day to
her fellow-students in English or Ger-
man. Emoluments amounf to £l3O ster-
ling.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.A.: Quite interesting as a travel note, but
it makes rocky verse L.A.S.: With more
care and polish you might have knocked up
a readable rhyme... Harshly phrased, and
a good deal of it is unintelligible... .H.H.S.:
Emphatically of no use to us J.W.H.: A
dance which inspires such a tempest of emo-
tion must be a crackerjack... .E.C.8.: Satire
too lengthy for its content C.S.: You
rhyme badly and your grammar has holes in it.
. ...C.W.: Hardly... .C.V.8.: Awkwardly
phrased... .M.K.: Not ill told, but strung out
to a length that gives it no chance for these
columns... .F.M.D.: Original, no doubt; feeble,
t 00.... J.T.R.: Edifying, but; nothing more.
. ...E.R.M.: They don’t get past... .M.R.: A
bit out of our line, even were the ending less
weak... .C.A.W.: Nothing wrong with ’em met-
rically, but most of the similes are as old as
the subjects... .C.E.G.: Too ambitious. Con-
fess that you wearied of it yourself before it
was finished!... .C.E.D.: Take more water with
it H.G.: The sketch might make a picture
gag, but we can’t make anything of the verse.
....C.S. (Fiji): It would take a little time to
get used to the weird metrical scheme of
“Hurricane” J.S.W.:
Some shade the glad light from vain intellect’s brow,
Get down to pure reason with argument how
They may check up the process of Nature’s own law.
With the hope that the heavens may verily fall
On less than the dust which is driven by the wind
To sanctuary softened, natural and kind.
But what in thunder does it meant J.J.:
There’s an idea in it, but your craftsmanship
is p00r... .R.H.H.: Hardly worth sending all
the way from Canada M.H.H.: It reads
more like an acrostic than a poem M.M.:
There are some fair lines in- “The Dreamer,”
but you have a lot of faults to cure. Your
endings are almost always weak.... J.H.S.:
One is prosy, the other unchivalrous; neither
has any melody... .8.H.: Thanks, but it’s not
our style... .E.M.S.: You throw your adjectives
about too lavishly... .C.C.: It’s “light verse”
all right—thistledown class R.R.: Slightly
more intelligible, anyway... .A.M.S.: They
don’t click.... F.T.: But doggerel verses about
the iniquity of war won’t help to end it
L.A.C.: The “charming ladies” who made you
forge,* your true love don’t seem to fit into
a highbrow sonnet A.W.M.: Three floppy
verses and one obscure one... . D.M.M.:
There’s something in them, but your long-
windedness threatens to be a heavy handicap.
O’F.: Well, there’s something poetical in
it, but the last verse is a declension J.H.J.:
On the thin side Sliprail: Too extravagant,
and it doesn’t run a bit smoothly... .N.Y.:
It might make a sentimental song C.M.S.:
We don’t recall anybody but Walt Whitman
who could slash verse successfully into those
erratic lengths K.T.: You have done much
better. .. .J.H.: The mug sprinter who beats the
champions plods in regularly every week....
C.W.P.: Write about things nearer home and less
improbable C.E.G.: Terrible Low: A
rambling tale with a weak anti-climax....
P.LI.W.: The neatest and most immaculately-
bound story rejected this year E.S.H.: A
good way off D.L.T.: We don’t really think
you have a depraved mind, but your story sug-
gests it... .J.D.W.: Of no general interest....
K.L.S.: No room for Ichthyosaurus cameliensis
in our menagerie Ixion: Not enough in it.
....G.D.S.: Too thin... .8.A.: Wouldn't raise
a laugh outside the crow’s own circle of friends.
H.A.S.: People don’t really get taken that
way H.G.L.: Misses C.L.: An old
friend in a new coat C.1.D.: Nearly ran
into a place.. . .G.M.: Can’t give it a home.
Try something with more story in it J.D.V. :
Not far off C.J.A.: Well told, but far too
long, and not the type of yam wanted D.H.:
Disjointed and involved Bunny: We shall
still stick to our beards W.R.W.: Tales of
long-delayed and carefully-calculated revenge
not wanted Kesem: Wild-horse story not
good enough N.McF.: The point of your
yarn is the drought wager. The lawyer inter-
lude is mere padding A.H.N.: Below your
usual form D.E.8.: It was nice to have
your toothache cured so cheaply, but your
account of it doesn’t thrill.... Topaz: “My
love will live for ever.” Not in these pages.
J.T.D.: A historical novel would probably
prove the best outlet for your talent
E.M.T.: A human sketch, but not quite up
to standard E.W.: Banal Q.H.: Falls
Short T.P.H.: We were hoping for a laugh
at the end. It didn’t come A.F.: Not good
enough M.C.: A new location ; but that
doesn’t make the plot new W.A.: Try it on
one of the party organs Peter: Can’t take
it M.S.: Doesn’t quite get past... .C.J.:
We laughed twice, but neither joke was new.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.V.: The jest has had its little day; the
sketch won’t have even that M.R.S.: Has
the old fellow got gout or is that how you
always draw legs? T.W.: Shows some
promise, though it is on the mechanical side.
M.J.: No market for such gags L.H.:
Good, crisp work, but such subjects are done
by a staff artist. Send us joke-blocks or cari-
catures A.M.: Surely they can’t be your
best efforts C.J.S.: If you are under ten
we are prepared to forgive and forget
N.J.: Arms do not sprout from the middle of
a person’s back... .H.H.: Merely a jumble of
figures.. . .P. 8.: It has been exploited from
every possible angle W.E.: The “fish and
actors” jest is a chestnut; the other is only a
tame pun R.G.: Nicely set out; you should
do well when you remove the stiff-
ness from your work C.A.A.: Only
a Yorkshireman could understand that
wheeze L.M.: Slight improvement; stick
to your studies 8.C.: This week’s
dullest drawings and dullest gags J.M.W.:
Frankly, we don’t think you have a hope of
becoming an artist... .A.F.: It has been served
up often N.K.: Smudges and half-hearted
erasures somewhat obscure what merits the
drawing may have C.J.W.: Well, you cer-
tainly did not capture any of the humor of
the bush A.A.M.: Get away from those
niggling, scratchy lines F.N.8.: There’s a
faint sparkle about the jokes, but the illustra-
tions are lifeless... .B.B.: Make them simpler
and bolder H.R.: In this case the early bird
collects no worms C.C.: More confidence
needed; also, sharpen your powers of obser-
vation.


m
m
j
ll'y-*
i==i
iM
mm
m
Uif
S 3.
. !ft*sss
Ui
-it
a
S-li
j&ar
r
COMING TO SYDNEY FOR
THE SHEEP SHOW?
(JUNE 21, 22 AND 23.)
MAKE THE “AUSTRALIA” YOUR HEADQUARTERS.
YOU CAN ENJOY “AUSTRALIA” EXCELLENCE
AT MODERATE COST.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES:
Single Rooms from 10/6
Double Rooms from ......... 20/-
Write for copy of the new ratecard, handsomely
printed in gravure.
‘THE AUSTRALIA’
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney,
“After all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’"
A
H
fele graphic
Address:
“Austraotel,”
Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETT ER
The parade at the Alice in Wonder-
land Ball wasn’t exactly exciting. One
Alice, one Mad Hatter, one Duchess, one
White Rabbit. However, the ugliness of
the Duchess made up for a lot. The dress-
ing was mostly of the sheath variety, but
Doreen Higgins had pink-showing-blue
frills trembling on the back of her pink
satins.
All the family came from Government
House. Lady Game pinned green orchids
on her lily-green crepes. The carnations,
roses, violets and mignonette thrust upon
her by the committee were unwired. The
Mad Hatter hats fascinated the Gover-
nor ; he wore one from supper-time
onwards. Joan Gifford and Jean Black
trailed green crepes; Sadie Budge was
all summer-sky blue, three giddy-looking
bows holding her cape. Rosemary Game
wore an Alice in Wonderland band on
her hair. One shoulder strap of Betty
Higgins’s green satins was of diamente ;
she secretaried with Mrs. Lionel Dare,
who was sheathed in dull silver lame,
and wore dangling earrings. The Walder
lady was in white bespattered with
diamente. A golden girdle added a
mediaeval touch to Diana Wentworth’s
red velvets. These were slipped off the
shoulders and tethered by a gold cord
slung around the neck. The Far West
Children’s Health Scheme benefits, and
director S. V. Drummond brought Mrs.
Drummond in black velvet and a silver
lame cape.
Lady Game adopted the D.N.A. ; now
the Governor’s wife has written and pub-
lished a booklet (it can be bought for
25.) on the work of the nurses. At the
N.C.W. good-bye luncheon to her last
week she sent out an SOS —cute, for
80 affiliated societies were represented.
Twenty-four hockey girls, bright and
eager-eyed, were there. Mrs. F. J. Davey
brought them, and later introduced them
to the special guest.
It was a pleasant occasion. Compli-
ments passed between the invitors and
the invitee. All endorsed what Mrs.
Muscio said about Lady Game and the
personal help she has given in the cause
of women. They applauded Lady Game’s
remark, “The Australian woman doesn’t
know how to complain,” in referring to
the cheerfulness and pluck of the woman
outback. The speeches lost nothing from
being spoken over a barrier of floral
offerings.
Flowers enough to carpet the way
from the Cove to the Heads were thrust
on the Games when they left by the
Niagara for their holiday in England.
Books and the sort of gadgets that for-
tunate people can give other fortunate
people carried good wishes. Most of
Sydney’s Who’s Who were on the wharf.
Streamer rainbows fluttered. Overhead
five ’planes droned, a smoke screen add-
ing to the excitement. All the way
to the Heads Rosemary was kept
busy untying parcels dropped at her
feet from the ’planes. Philip, very ex-
cited over it all, returned by the pilot
ship. He’s to stay with the Archgaiter
Mowlls while the family is away.
The Canberra flew flags from stem
to stern on Empire Day ; the rest of the
fleet in the harbor flew them from the
masthead. In Martin-place the Union
Jack draped the platform from which
loyal speeches were delivered in the
morning. Almost every society in Sydney
held an Empire luncheon set in a frame
of flags. Enzed Brenda Guthrie, white-
fox-furred, listened to the Bavin knight
and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax at the Victoria
League’s meal. The Loyalty League held
a rally at the Town Hall, where speeches
were sauced with community singing and
amusing stories.
People were again loyal at the Empire
Society’s dinner at the Wentworth. The
food was good, but there was too
much speechmaking. It was get-
ting on to eleven when Admiral
Ford’s pertinent remark struck the ear.
By this time young things were busy play-
ing noughts and crosses. The Lud Mayor
was one who made listening easy ; Mr.
Latkaka (a visitor from India and a
Fellow of the society) was another.
Acting-Governor Philip Street and his
lady were the night’s importants. She’s
addicted to silver (no dark cloud about
it). Her epaulette' sleeves were slashed—
not so frivolous as it sounds. President
Kelso King’s lady wore black velvets. The
cheeriest group contained Harry Budge,
daughter Sadie, Clifford Hay and the
Laytons. The Walder lady’s rose chiffons
glowed under a squirrel coat; the
Mayoral lady was coral pink, and Mrs.
Latkaka’s white chiffon headdress, edged
with gold, brought an Eastern air to the
banquet.
The Guild of Empire showed its loyalty
in a very practical manner. It held a
baby show at Surry Hills, when Kath-
leen Stacy won knight Kelso King’s prize
of three guineas for the champion baby
of any age. Everyone had tea, and a
jollo followed in the evening.
Mrs. Murai, the Japanese Consul-
General’s wife, had niece Nishi Sagimar
to help her with a party last week. Both
wore their national dress, Mrs. Murai’s
being mauve embroidered in crimson,
and Nishi’s black embroidered in orange.
When the guests had taken tea English
fashion, accompanied with Japanese sweet-
meats, Mrs. Murai made tea Japanese
fashion in a blue-and-white china teapot
which she took from a sandalwood box.
The tiny handleless cups were also blue
and white, but the saucers were black
papier mache. Later Miss Sagimar sang
Japanese songs. Among the guests who
enjoyed the afternoon were Thelma
Houston, Doreen Dunn, Jean Cheriton,
Mrs. George Irvine and the Barlow lady.
This is Winnie Carter, first harpist
and only woman in the Detroit Sym-
phony Orchestra of 91 members. Musi-
cal Sydney will remember Winnie as
one of the Verbrugghen orchestra. That
was before she went to America to play
in Aimee Semple McPherson’s Temple at
Los Angeles. Her present job she has
held for 11 years. In winter the orchestra
tours the American cities and gives six
performances a week. In summer the
members are free, and Miss Carter hopes
to visit Sydney in 1935. She had got as
far on her way as Maoriland this year
when a cable recalled her to the U.S.A.
Things have been happening at the
Feminist Club. Miss Preston Stanley
resigned from the presidency about ten
days ago. Members gave her a party
and a gold-mounted travelling-case last
week. Still not a word leaked out that
she was to be married. But even as
this Letter is getting into its pink overall
she and Crawford Vaughan, one-time
Premier of South Australia, are entering
into partnership at Melbourne. The only
grouch the bride’s friends have is that the
knot wasn’t tied in Sydney. Miss Stanley
was Sydney’s first (and, so far, only)
woman member of Parliament.
With her graduation behind her,
Catherine Wood is working for the Inter-
national Ball, dated for June 6 at David
Jones’s. Flags of 66 nations, led by Aus-
tralia’s ensign, all carried by Boy Scouts,
will be a feature of the pageant. There
is to be a tableau in which each country
taking part will be represented by a girl
in its national costume, and then a single-
file march round the hall. The Julius
lady is president. Lady Isaacs will be
present; so will Acting-Governor Philip
Street and his lady. Prizes typical of their
lands have been given by many of the
Consuls. The League of Nations’ Fund
benefits. Picture by Falk.
Sydney was on tiptoe all the week over
Jean Batten’s arrival. Everywhere, at
pictures, at theatre, at bridge, you heard
her name. Jean’s brother is a film actor
and her aunt is a poet. And she has a
fiance as keen on flying as she is.
Thousands were disappointed that the
Maorilander didn’t arrive at the week-
end or on Monday, and thousands are
going out to Mascot to-day to welcome
her.
The Mayoral lady is hoping that 1600
will come to her bring-your-own-supper
Clothing Fund bridge party on Thursday.
If you are among the first 900 tc* book
you will have a table in the main hall;
if not, you and the other 699 will play
in a basement heated with radiators and
glorified with flags and palms. The prizes
are in the super class —Prestige and Hole-
proof hosiery, a Stromberg-Carlson
radio receiver and a trip to Cairns and
back (from Burns Philp). The trip will
take a month, which means there will
be plenty of time for the lucky winner
to view the Barron Falls and the Ather-
ton hinterland. Ring Mrs. Hamilton
Lewis, Town Hall, M 2071, for bookings.
“Sheherazade” mustn’t drag a minute.
It didn’t when it was put on by the First
Australian Ballet (Lightfoot-Burlakov
School). The scene is a harem; the
wives, in the absence of the Sultan, are
having a hectic time. Presentment and
dancing depend on each other for the
effect of exotic luxuriousness and air of
aliveness.
In Don Finlay’s settings, there were
purples, bronze-green pillars, rich Orien-
tal drapings, again all greens, purples and
magentas ; gold, silver and bronze gates
set in grilled arches against a purple back-
ground. There were gaily-colored
cushions and a gaudy carpet. The harem
walls were red ; the Sultan wore purple
and gold. The movements of the dancers
were breath-taking in their rapidity and
meaning; constantly changing groups
added to the excitement. Betty Ains-
worth danced with the grace and aban-
don to be expected of the leader of the
Bacchantes. Burlakov was the slave in
love with the Sultana, all royal blues and
as alluring as a Sultan’s chief wife would
have to be in a harem full of such ravish-
ing beauties!
Everyone knew Mrs. Epps ; the traffic
policemen had many a word with her as
she went dashing about in her car, her
head full of ideas for making money for
Prince Alfred’s. This she commenced
doing in 1918, and kept on till her last
illness. Mrs. Epps founded the first hos-
pital auxiliary in Australia, P.A.’s, which
has brought in £lOO,OOO in service and
money in its 15 years of existence. It
says much for her tact that the women
who started with her have remained
loyal throughout the years. A husband,
two sons and a sister, Mrs. Arthur
Adams, are left sorrowing.
Widespread sympathy is felt for Helen
and Katherine Barlow, who are mourn-
ing the death of their mother. Mrs. John
Barlow held the papal decorations
of Dame of the Holy Sepulchre and the
Cross of Leo, and worked for the
N.C.W., the Prisoners’ Aid Society and
the Victoria League. She had been
president of the Catholic Women’s Asso-
ciation for 20 years.
In Noel Coward’s “Marquise,” put on
by the Independents, Doris Fitton wears
a morning dress of old-gold taffeta, with
panniers of gold brocade, and an evening
dress of mulberry velvet all hand-
embroidered in silver, both becoming.
But her first appearance in a grass-green
corduroy velvet travelling-coat, brass
buttoned, and a tricorn velour hat is the
most striking. The period is early
eighteenth century, and dresses, coats and
knee-breeches were designed and made at
the club’s rooms by the clever fingers of
Ethel Gabriel.
A letter from Isabel Carter, an
old Melb. Uni. Con. girl, tells of her
success on the other side. Isabel, who
was a pupil of Edmund Goll, went to
London on a Clark scholarship. Here
she studied under Sargent. Now she is
in Germany, and recently had the dis-
tinction of playing the Second Brahms
Sonata before a German audience —and
that is something for an Australian to
write home about. Another interesting
point was that she is being encouraged
to play the composition with which she
gained her scholarship.
Now that the first harsh nip of winter
is on us, the voice of the charity worker
is loud in the land discussing ways and
means. She begins early and works
late ; she takes a few minutes off for a
snack in the middle of the day, then goes
on to another meeting or to play bridge
in the interests of a friend’s good cause.
Night finds her again bridging or danc-
ing. She gets to bed in the wee sma’
,’oors ; at nine o’clock she’s in town ready
to repeat the programme.
Science has found a way to take the
itch out of the fleece, so we can all be
sisters next the skin as well as under the
skin. And in addition to “no itch” we
are to have absolutely “no shrink.” Just
think what that means when it comes to
white jumpers and white cloth cruising
suits!
The Hawdon Wilsons (she was Grace
Hart, of the Independents) have a
daughter.
Visiting Australia are Dr. and Mrs.
Munn. He’s the director of the Pitts-
burgh Carnegie Library. They came by
the Mariposa, and will stay with us two
months; Dr. Munn will spend his time
visiting libraries.
The Nellore brought back Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Feakes, the lady disap-
pointed that she could not souvenir even
one brick from the Angkor ruins. The
carvings this couple found as intriguing
as do the Persian and Chinese carpet-
weavers who visit the ruins to copy the
designs. The Feakes were in Japan for
the cherry-blossom season, but they had
some praise left for the chrysanthemums.


QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions—they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
£pCill&rCs CMEXICAN)
VkUruL tStcuLn,
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Bunch and Dinner a la carte., from, 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write the Manager, E. HYNDMAN , for full
information.
■' -
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Iloolciet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne guests who were invited to
say farewell in a naval setting to Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Sarel enjoyed their
long drive through clear, cold air and
a thin edge of moonlight. The party
started off in the wardroom of the Flin-
ders Naval Base with cocktails and
dinner, proceeded to dancing and finished
up with piping-hot revivers in the early
morn. Mrs. Sard’s demurely-waved
coiffure emerged from white matte crepe
shot with silver, and her youthful Erica
was in springtime-green and white.
Guests plucked from the Navy, Army
and Air Force brought their wives, and
Enid Murdoch, Claudia Palmer, Judy and
Denise Finch, Betty Clarke, Olive Thom-
son and Dr. Margaret Steele were also
there.
For the A.B.C. concerts the pro-
grammes wear gold covers, the usual
open spaces under the balconies are
wedged with extra and all-occupied seats,
and through the audience there is a vast
expanse of shirtfront. Sir Hamilton
Harty has grey hair, wide, square shoul-
ders, a kindly eye and no mannerisms.
He conducts without pulling faces or
doing physical jerks; he makes no
speeches, and if he ever mops his fevered
brow it’s done backstage. The Oldest
Habitue declares he has never heard such
applause as these concerts are getting.
At the Wagner concert a dragon in black
velvet crept after soprano Laelia Finne-
berg, who wore a white flqyver over one
ear, and her gown, cut low at the back
and up in the front to hide her vocal
chords, was inky black until it burst into
white jewelled sleeves. In the body of
the hall were the F. W. Clements couple,
she with her shoulders warmed by white
fur on black velvet. The same pelts
and fabric were chosen by Meg Mc-
Donald. Mrs. Edward Stevens was an
attentive listener, and a pair not often
seen at concerts were knight Harry Law-
son and General R. E. Williams. Twink-
ling through a haze of cigarette smoke
during the interval in the lobby were
the pearl baubles in Mrs. George Caro’s
hajr. Other heads recognisable were
those belonging to the Walter Finleys,
Harold Cohen, Mrs. Hugo Wertheim and
Italian Consul Anzilotti.
Margaret Carson, with gold threads
mingling and vanishing on moonstone
matelasse which rippled into an eel-like
train, and Lesley Vine, a tonic of silver
making livelier her spring-green chiffons,
stood together on the portals of No. 9
to welcome a host of young things whom
they had invited to dance. Ruth and
Mary Russell, Agnes Thomas, Margaret
and Jon Deravin, John Dudley, Charles
Alsop, Dr. T. Lowe and the Tony Coxes
were a few of those who unpacked them-
selves from cars in Darling-street.
The most exciting thing about the
motor show was the streamlined Chrys-
ler parked high on a revolving platform.
It looked more like a submarine than a
car, its bow and stern being identical
but for the facial expression of the
thing, head on. Its buffers made a wide,
grim mouth, its bonnet and lamps a
griffin nose and its windscreen a pair of
closely-set eyes. Next door was a chas-
sis only, the engine painted bright gold
and the rest violet over silver (there’s an
imported nail varnish of exactly the same
dull lustre specially on the market for
the woman who likes her what-nots to
match her car). Mary Guy Smith and
Judy Price occupied analogous positions
as “social hostesses,” armed with sales
ammunition in the form of pamphlets
and inviting hesitating spectators to see
the engine. Both have measured their
paces as mannequins and on the stage
and have a heap of self-confidence.
Many of the lean, low sports cars were
in contrasting colors inside and out. In
an annex were displayed the joys of
camping ; car under canvas flap, canvas
basin, bucket, bed, papoose hammock for
baby, tables, chairs and meatsafe. On
the stage was a hansom cab dated 1834
and a little ’plane of 1934. The mechani-
cally-minded crowded round the mechan-
ism by which an expensive new model
glides smoothly over bumps by lifting
the knees of its axles.
Though Shipley House is no more its
former pupils must cherish happy
memories, for as the Shipley Scholars’
Society they hold tea-time meetings from
time to time. Last week, at the invitation
of hostesses Mrs. Seton Williams, Mrs. R.
G. King, Mrs. James Finlay, Mrs. S. A.
Finlay and Mrs. Rupert Greene, they
rallied at the Alexandra Club to do honor
to former headmistresses Mrs. Percy
Douglas and Miss Webster. Shipley
House in South Yarra was a very exclu-
sive establishment for many ladies who
made their ddbut into society from the
’eighties to the early nineteen-hundreds.
The maidens were educated in refine-
ment, they curtsied beautifully, they
could prattle about the weather, they
could embroider and play the piano, and
they took small breaths in their whale-
bone armor. Proud mammas came to
call in carriages. They were all frills
and lace and gossamer veils and would
have swooned had they foreseen the
futures of their daughters, who have
grown to like a snappy play and a cigar-
ette and perhaps a political argument,
and their granddaughters, who whirl
about in a melee of cocktails, shorts and
aeroplanes.
Thorold Fink and his tall, slender wife
are off on yet another trip. This
time it’s to the U.S.A. in the Mariposa.
Other travellers who will cross the Paci-
fic in the same ship are the T. W. Tink-
hams, of New York, whose Vivienne and
Phyllis have been dancing and skating
with the youth of Melbourne ; the C. J.
Nankervis couple and their children, and
Olive and Thelma Watt, who have Holly-
wood down on their itinerary.
Mrs. D. P. Mackey shelved her wor-
ries to look pleased in this Jack Cato
portrait. As well as her work as hon.
sec. of the matinee for St. Anthony’s
Home for Little Children, she and Mrs.
Bernard Nolan had extra responsibilities
owing to president Mrs. Merson Cooper’s
illness. But her expression isn’t pre-
mature —the matinee was a great success
and the babies won’t go short of rations
or woollies this winter.
In honor of vice-regal slippers, a red
carpet protruded from the portals of the
Majestic. White foxes were the only
concession Lady Isaacs made to a grey
day, her dress being of black silk crepe
with a white corsage attachment. “Why
doesn’t she always wear black velvet?”
reverberated in whispers during Gladys
MoncriefFs duets with Robert Chisholm
—they both looked their very best. Kath-
leen Goodall and Charles Zwar played
up to one another in songs of spring and
romance, Charles keeping his improvisa-
tions above reproach. George Wallace told
stories about Central Queensland, where
he ate fish and chips three times a day,
and Ada Reeve’s encore was “Ain’t It,
Jim?” during which somebody’s baby in
the gallery woke up at exactly the right
time and gurgled in response to Ada’s
remarks to her infant. The musical bill
was sandwiched between Walt Disney’s
“Jack and the Beanstalk” and “Red
Wagon.” In the audience glimpses
were caught of Mrs. Lyons, the Scullins
(he crept out in the dark en route for the
Sydney express), Mrs. Charles Nodrum
in a short and jaunty coat of summer
ermine, and her sister, Mrs. Arthur
Boyes, whose navy-blue dress was orna-
mented with ice-blue motifs.
The v.-r. sedan will roll up to the
Green Mill on the afternoon of June 8 ?
for Lady Huntingfield has accepted an
invitation to open, with an address, the
bridge party for Somers House. Pic-
tured here by Dickinson-Monteath
is Mrs. Humphrey Clegg, president
of the South Yarra branch of the
C.W.A., which runs this annual money-
gatherer. The younger members of the
South Yarra branch are within whistling
distance of having raised £9OO towards
the buildings and equipment. A few
more hundreds and the mortgage will
be lifted. The house is at Black Rock,
and a seaside holiday under its friendly
roof is the tonic which helps women of
the outback to get through a hot, com-
fortless summer. It is open to all C.W.A.
members, and they are encouraged to
bring the children with them.
Gaieties of the West:
Most women took a fur of some sort along
to the W.A.T.C.’s May gallops in hopes of
wrapping it becomingly round the throat, but
the temperature made a dangle-over-one-
shoulder the order of the day. Mrs. Geoffrey
Mclntyre’s beige Arctic fox rested on nut-
brown cloth; Mrs. Theodore Ambrose’s self-
same beastie contrasted with smoke blue;
Elsie Paxton slung the pelt of a silver-fox over
black faille; Dot Howe’s sherry tweeds were
buttoned in brown; a white pin-stripe wan-
dered down the smart lines of Mrs. Teddy
Blackman’s black suit; white satin gleamed in
the blouse worn with Mrs. Dan Quinlan’s
ebony coverings; and Jo Temperley popped a
sailor hat on at a rakish angle over her slim-
ming blacks.
W. A. Golf Club’s dance at Mt. Yokine
clubhouse saw palms, balloons, streamers and
pom-poms waving cheerily on the verandahs
and a canopy of streamers in the club colors
roofing the supper-room. President Allingham
and his lady, she with a covering of black
flamisol yoked to gold lame, did the honors
with Mrs. C. F. Maclaren, whose black laces
oozed from a coat of rose-crushed velvet. The
Oscar Negus couple were there, the Oscar
Zehnders, Dr. and Mrs. Keith Gray (her moss-
green laces trailed enticingly) and Mr. and
Mrs. Chappie. Scarlet draperies ran over
Mrs. Roy Saw, Dora Rotenberg and Mrs. Gaze.
Mrs. Norman Temperley, trim and slim in
sporting beige tweeds, opened the Nedlands
Golf Club, where rallied all the presidents
and secs, of the metropolitan clubs. Mrs. Guy
Christoe, who leads the new club’s social ac-
tivities, smiled greetings, her magpie tailored
suiting next to captain Mrs. Weston’s similarly-
toned outfit. There was a musical programme
and tea, and in the evening a couple of hun-
dred rolled up to dance. Mrs. Christoe changed
into autumn floral chiffons and Mrs. Weston
into black and silver; sec. Mrs. Daniels was
all silver eyes in her peacock-blue crepes; Rua
Christoe splashed bits of green on her black
laces; Vans Anderson’s bougainvillaea georg-
ettes caught the eye; Gay Trotman’s blonde
curls topped ciel-blue mousseline, and Mrs. F.
A. Synnot’s velvets glowed softest pink.
Huntsmen’s pink coats brightened the scene
at the Soldiers’ Institute when the Hunt Club
members foregathered there to trip the light
fantastic. A diamente belt clasped the ivory laces
occupying Mrs. T. Pelloe’s official chair, and
vice-pres. A. E. Joyner’s lady aired a sym-
phony of velvet and taffetas in soft orchid ton-
mgs. The “Steeplechase,” with its two bush
hurdles and water jump, had so many en-
trants the event had to be run in heats.
The programme arranged by Gladys Cunliffe
for the Kylie Music Club enticed a horde of
members and friends to the Karrakatta club-
house. The William Doyce Sonata in G Minor
for two violins and a harpsichord, with Leo
Chase, Bill Glassford and Gladys vibrating the
strings, called forth rounds of applause. Others
who did their bits against a background of
roses, autumn foliage and marigolds were
Gwyn Brockway, Zoe Lenegan and Mr. N. E.
Moran. Betty Gravenall and Mrs. Moran
accompanied.
Glittering sequins, shimmery velvets and
gleaming metal weaves glowed in the house at
His Majesty’s for the opening night of “Gay
Divorce.” The regular first-nighters were nearly
all there, and musicomedy lovers had ear-
marked some front pews. The A. W. Jacobys
were on deck, of course, and the C. P. Smiths,
R. A. Camerons and John Stoddarts, Kitty
Gillies and the Percy Whites.
The young things of Peppermint Grove
had a shivoo at Freshwater ' Bay Yacht
Club which went with a swing from the outset.
Mollie Manning, Betty Thomas, Dorothy Bals-
ton, Mollie and Marjorie Church, Ellen Foulds,
Eila Vincent and Ruth Fleming arranged the
doings.
Adelaide enjoys sunshine:
Unseasonably warm days have given Victor
Harbor a second summer. Mesdames Maxwell
Fowler and Julian Ayers are there; Mrs. Doug-
las Salter, of Reynella, and Phyllis and Mar-
garet Salter, of Walkerville, are staying at Mrs.
Keith Wilson’s place; and Mrs. J. H. Gosse, of
Parkside, and her daughter Mary occupy Cul-
roy, the Barr-Smiths’ house on the Esplanade.
Mrs. T, R. Scarfe, of Eden Park, entertained
a number of friends at afternoon-tea at the
Adelaide Hospital kiosk, after they had in-
spected a display of the work done by the
women of the hospital’s auxiliary, of which
Mrs. Scarfe is president. The auxiliary has
taken over the responsibility for all household
linen and garments for the patients. Premier
Butler’s wife and Mrs. George Ritchie were
among the guests.
There is to be another flock of debs, at the
Uni. Ball on June 20. Already six damsels
have sent in their names to be presented to
acting-Governor George Murray, who is also
Chief Justice and Chancellor of the Uni. Miss
Murray will help her brother to receive this
promised avalanche.
Betty Hunt, who is about to marry Keith
Lawson, will make her new home at Pad-
phaway station, about 70 miles from Nara-
coorte. Mrs. Leonard Marriott gave a linen-tea
in her honor at Avenal Gardens. Barbara
Woodham and Margaret Woodward were joint
hostesses at a coat-hanger tea and bridge. Other
tea-parties were given by Queenie Kennedy,
Mrs. Gregory Bruer and Mrs. Arnold Reid.
Mrs. Colin Bowden was hostess at a lunch
at the South Australian Hotel, and a kitchen-tea
was spread by Mrs. Trevor Heath at the resi-
dence of her mother, Mrs. R. Homburg,
Medindie.
An attack of ’flu prevented Florence Austral
from being with us on the due date, but Prof,
and Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson, who had in-
vited people to meet the singer at Urrbrae, de-
cided to hold the party, and everyone had a
delightful time. The weather was summery and
the garden looked a picture. Afternoon-tea was
served in the dining-room, where the table was
massed with roses in every color. Mrs. Richard-
son wore black chiffon velvet, with yoke of
white angel-skin lace, and a black-and-white
toque. Lud Mayor and Mayoress Cain were
there, Mrs. Cain wearing mulberry satin, a
velvet hat in the same tone and a stone-marten
fur.
The Master of Kinnaird, who arrived with
his mother, Lady Kinnaird, in the Ulysses, is
the guest of Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith
while Lady Kinnaird in in hospital.
The clergy were well represented at the Town
Hall when a reception was given to Dr. Nor-
wood, of London’s City Temple, who once
upon a time lived in Adelaide. The Mayoress’s
room was a bower of Lorraine Lee roses.
The Speck speaking:
At Elwick races Mrs. Young had a crowd
of guests to tea. Mrs. D. P. Young sported
a tailored coat and skirt in air-force blue, and
a grey Angora hat. The Ashbolt lady was in
grey tweed with a green plaid blouse. Many
of the women wore black tailored suits and
nice furs.
The vice-regal Clarks went to the, Y.M.C.A.
cafe chantant at the Town Hall with Lieut.-
Governor Lewis and his lady, and were enter-
tained at supper by the president and com-
mittee. Mrs. Lucy Atkins arranged the pro-
gramme. In addition to music there were dances
by Beatly Jordan’s pupils and a one-act play
got up by John Storr.
The sun shone on President’s Day at the
Royal Hobart Golf Club, Rosny, and the M.
C. Henrys had to give the welcoming handshake
to a record number of guests. The tea-roonj
was gay with the browns and yellows of chry-
santhemums and marigolds.
Campbell Town Golf Club started its winter
activities with the opening of a new pavilion
by the president, Dr. Webster. Members and
guests rolled up in full strength and Longford,
Oatlands, and Ross clubs sent representatives.
Chrysanthemums of every shade and size
made a brave show at the City Hall, where the
Amateur Horticultural Society held its autumn
show. Exhibits were surprisingly good, con-
sidering the long, dry season we have had. E.
V. Fellowes won the chrysanthemum champion-
ship, and Mrs. C. J. Campbell took the prize
for cut flowers.
Mrs. Spencer Brownell staged afternoon and
evening bridge parties at her home in Mahwera-
avenue, in aid of the Child Welfare Associa-
tion. Tea-tables in the dining-room were
decorated with pink roses and early violets.
A company of amateurs ran a performance
of Noel Coward’s “Hay Fever” in the Town
Hall, where they coped successfully with the
difficulties of producing without the conveni-
ences of a regular theatre. Robert Montgomery
devised the settings, and the dialogue was
brightly spoken.
Olivene Pearl Golding (“Billie” to her
friends) and R. W. H. Burgess faced the music
at St. George’s, Battery Point, the bride wear-
ing a Directoire-style frock of heavy ivory satin
with cowl neck and long train. The Limerick
veil, lent by Mrs. E. E. Grant, fell from a
halo of twisted sprigs of orange-blossom. The
bridegroom’s sister Audrey was sole ’maid, in
pink chiffon with a picture hat and pink mittens.
There was a feast afterwards at the Continental.
Mrs. G. H. Butler and her daughter Evelyn
were given many farewell parties before leaving
in the Ormonde. They expect to be away for
several months. Hostesses during their last
week included Mrs. Thos. Lyons, Mrs. Flex-
more, Miss J. Swan and members of the
Lyceum Club.
Passed over, at the end of a notable scholastic
career, Miss J. C. Hogg, who took over Broad-
land House School, Launceston, in 1884, and
turned out girls of good attainments, especially
in modern languages, till her retirement in 1907.
She was a woman of many parts, a traveller
and a linguist. After her retirement from school
work, she was active in social services.


THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
LIMITED
HEAD OFFICE: 271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l, AUSTRALIA.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
Sir James A. M. Elder, K.8.E., Chairman.
Hon. Sir Frank G. Clarke, K.8.E., M.L.C., Vice-Chairman.
T. C. Alston; Sir Henry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.8.; H. G. Darling;
Sir John Grice; D. York Syme.
Boards of Advice.
LONDON—R. H. Caird, J.P.; The Right Hon. Lord Tnverforth, P.C.;
The Right Hon. Lord Luke of Pavenham, K.B.E.
BRISBANE —Sir Edward H. Macartney, T. F. Moxon, De Burgh B. B. Persse.
Chief Manager—E. H. Wreford. Chief Inspector—E. J. Osborne.
Branches throughout Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South
Wales and Queensland, and at Hobart and Launceston in Tasmania.
Agents in all parts of Australasia, the United Kingdom, and throughout the World.
London Office: 7 Lothbury, E.C.2.
Sub-Branch: Australia House, Strand.
EXTRACTS FROM BALANCE SHEET DATED 31st MARCH, 1934.
Capital and Liabilities.
Proprietors’ Capital-
-200,000 £lO Shares fully paid up ..
600,000 £8 Shares paid up to £5 per share
Reserve Fund (used in the business)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business)
Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Customers’ Deposits
Other Liabilities
Total
\ £5,000,000
3,000,000
300,000
276,918 19
£8,576,918 19 4
36,212,880 15 6
1,135,826 10 11
£45,925,626 5 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Australian Notes, Balances at Other Banks, Cheques and Bills in
Transitu, Government and Municipal Stocks and Bonds, and Other
Liquid Assets
Advances to Customers and Bills Discounted .. .. " *
Bank Premises, Other Real Estate, etc ’'
Total
£13,947,772 0 10
30,671,114 8 4
1,306,739 16 7
£45,925,626 5 9
„ The Statutory Declaration made by the Chief Manager, the Auditors’ Report and
Certificate and the Statutory Certificate signed by two Directors appear on the original
Balance Sheet and are printed in the Annual Report, a copy of which has been posted to
each Shareholder.
Dividend for the year is at the rate of five per cent, per annum. This amounts to nearly
three per cent, on the total of shareholders’ funds, as shown above.
The
Australian
Art Exhibition
The Macleod Gallery,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Bridge Street).
G. V. F. MANN (Director).
The leading Exhibition of Australian Art
—latest works by the most prominent oi
Australian Artists always on view and
for sale.
Collection includes new works by Norman
Lindsay, Will Ashton, Robert Johnson,
James R. Jackson, etc.
Selected works by the late E. Phillips Fox.
Best etchings by the best etchers.
Admission Free
Telephone: 87971.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; Xi. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australia!:
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street.
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
„ T , , , £2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
, £3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
On Thick Ice.
IT is hard to understand why Sydney
people go to talkies, theatres,
stadiums and the dogs when the
Glaciarium beckons them to sample the
thrills of ice-skating. On a remembered
Saturday night Frith and the staff Psy-
chologist answered the beckon—or rather
the combined beckons of the ice itself,
Sadie Cambridge and Albert Enders.
Sadie and Albert have been on the
ice quite a lot. even without counting the
occasions on which they won the world’s
u ■ u- t j in-,,,
championship tor 1932, 1933 and 1934.
It was the Psychologist’s first attempt at
the slithery sport. Frith’s experience was
somewhat wider. He claimed to have
skated in five continents (not including
\ . .. - , , , ~ ... .... ...
n arc ica), but whether this entitled him
to say that, with the possible exception of
a rheumatic crab, the Psychologist was
the most graceful figure on skates he had
ever seen is a debatable point. It may
or may not have been correct, but the
centre of the skating floor was hardly
the right place to say it.
i n the Psychologist’s own opinion the
mos t noteworthy feature of his perform-
ance was his joyous abandon. His legs
and arms went anywhere they pleased,
without consulting him at all, and he
we " t ani T here < ha ; ™Mt
. Jf“
heels as they pass, advised Frith. The
Psychologist did so, but apparently he
leaned too far or clicked too much,
When he got up he tried again, but this
time it seems that he didn’t lean far
enough, or else didn t click enough. As
he sat there, he had an excellent view of
proceedings, but the ice was too cold for
comfort. Frith was leaning and clicking
like an expert, though it is doubtful
whether an expert would have grasped
the railings quite so often or quite so
lovingly.
Much has been said and written of the
dangers of skating on thin ice, but the
Psychologist is of the opinion that skat-
ing on thick ice is just as perilous, and
certainly much more uncomfortable.
This is not merely an afterthought. He
felt it the first time he sat down, and
continued to think it at intervals of two
or three minutes for the rest of the even-
ing. The trouble about thick ice is that
it won’t break, and, of course, as every-
“The Psychologist’s skates were
uncontrollable.”
one knows, once you’ve broken the ice
everything is hotsy-totsy.
The Psychologist felt far from com-
fortable. Someone had taken his feet
away and had put in their place two
huge, heavy pieces of mechanism, appar-
ently taken from the feet of a submarine
diver. These appeared to be balanced on
greased razor-blades, and, in addition,
were fitted with propulsive mechanisms
which were not only non-synchronised,
but were actually adjusted in such a way
that it was impossible for them to act
in. unison. Other skaters were at times
afflicted in this manner, but most of them
seemed to have skates which, at any rate,
were capable of being controlled. The
Psychologist’s were absolutely uncon-
trollable.
Frith was in slightly better state.
Despite his wide experience, there are
many things that Frith can’t do. Skat-
ing just narrowly escapes being one of
them. Chiefly owing to the help of the
railings he didn’t fall very much, except
when in the centre of the arena, and
when he did he carried it off with sang-
froid by pulling out a pencil and sketch-
ing Sadie and Albert.
Frith’s figure-skating was impressive,
if unpremeditated. He didn’t achieve a
figure eight, but threw several sixers.
The attraction of figure-skating is un-
doubted. Provided you watch the right
figure, it is fascinating, and at the Glaci-
arium there are so many figures that are
just right that you simply can’t go wrong.
There is one exception. If you watch
Manager Austin you get the impression
“...the figure is described by the body.”
that the figure is described by the body
and not the feet.
Frith’s eyes were glued to a vision in
cerulean blue who seemed to have learnt
her skating from the elves of Iceland,
and who went through the most difficult
evolutions with an ease and grace which
quite justified the claim that skating is
the most graceful of sports. The Psycho-
logist was fascinated by an 18-stone
reality in purple velvet who appeared to
have studied assiduously under Harry
the Hippo. Her blimp-like gyrations were
such as have seldom been seen since
Mezozoic times, when great antediluvian
monsters wallowed in the primeval slime,
and they would certainly have brought a
thrill of pride to the heart of her tutor.
Her final movement, a left-foot pivot,
changing into a back-flip and finishing
with a pancake crash, made finished
skaters wonder whether they really
understood the craft after all.
At this moment the signal for “fast
skating” was given. The Psychologist
other beginners hurriedly floundered
off the ice, some wetter than others.
Frith and other experts speeded up. The
ambulance men drew near the rails with
expectant looks. Frith saw the looks.
He also saw some stains on the ice which
he took for blood. He hesitated, banked,
flattened out, went into a tail-spin and
left the arena. The ambulance men re-
sumed their conversation. Frith resumed
his seat.
There is no doubt about Sadie and
Albert. Even if they were not world
champions they would deserve- to be.
The beauty and grace of their per
formance baffle description, and their
exhibition of fancy skating must be seen
to be believed. In fact, even after seeing
it one finds it hard to believe. The
Psychologist was frankly sceptical. “It’s
impossible,” he said as Albert whirled
around in giddy circles with Sadie
attached to his neck by her toes. But it
was apparently quite genuine, and after
seeing it repeated he would not have been
very much surprised if Albert had per-
formed the Indian rope-trick,' or Sadie
had skated up a cobweb and vanished
through the ceiling, reappearing again,
“There is no doubt about Sadie and
Albert.”
smiling and triumphant, through the sur-
face of the ice.
One great advantage ice-skating has
over the theatre is that onlookers,
attracted by the performance of the
champions, may join in the fun and
attempt to emulate them. It is difficult
to imagine what would happen at a
theatre if, at the conclusion of a turn,
half the audience trooped on to the stage
and endeavored to copy the act. At
the Glaciarium everyone has this
privilege. Frith and the Psychologist
attempted to copy the foxtrot as demon-
strated by the experts —not very success-
fully, it is true, but, still, no one tried to
stop them, and if the signal for the cessa-
tion of hostilities had not at that moment
been given they would probably have
mastered it.
But there is always next time, and they
will manage it yet. ,
“Cine Ma”: A recent International
Parliamentary Conference considered the
cinema problem as it concerns sub-
ject races, and decided that it was in-
soluble. The white man in Asia,
wants his Hollywood and Elstree un-
diluted, while the Governments would
like them more or less emasculated of
features tending to lower Caucasian
prestige in the eyes of colored brother.
A suggestion for erecting separate
theatres for the two races was dis-
missed as financially impracticable,
and without them a further scheme,
for Governments to make films based on
native history, folklore and customs,
becomes nugatory. Anyhow, colored
brother has something to say in the
matter. It is a curious fact that he
doesn’t ask for the same variety in his
native drama as the white man does in
the pictures. Far from expecting weekly
changes, the Indian and the Malay have
been surveying performances of the sam:
cycle of plays for upwards of 20 centuries.
The “Mahabharatta,” written by an un-
known playwright before the Christian
era, still delights audiences in the
Javanese wayang wayang. But the same
audiences are just as insistent on fresh
diet in the talkie palaces as the Cauca-
sian.


A. —The Larynx or Organ of Voice.
B. —The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung.
D. —The lobe of one of the Lungs.
A medicinal preparation not
just a confection . That’s why —•
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
have stood the test of over 40 years, and are
sold throughout the world. During that period
hundreds of other so-called “just as good’’
remedies have appeared—but to-day they are
gone and forgotten.
Doctors endorse the high medicinal value of
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes for all affections
of the throat, chest and lungs.
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6d. tin
FO
OR
■c T,S.
1« <■■■
2
BAH! He Said,
and Lost His Wool
... just because of you!
i
Mi
w
u
MB.
m
m
m.
Q Shades of choleric colonels! How he did
carry 0n!... But kindness prevailed, and he
ultimately yielded his wool, as did thousands
2s
of other woolly aristocrats.
Today you will find that fine,
soft fleece at any Mercer’s
Store cunningly knitted into
the warmest and most com-
fortable of all woollen under-
wear .. ."Golden Fleece” or
"Kookaburra.” Ask for either
brand by name, and ensure
snug-fitting comfort for many
a long Winter’s day.
These are the Prices for Heavy Weight
U’wear ."Golden Fleece”. ."Kookaburra .
696—A1l Pure Wool
NATURAL
Size 36 38 40 42
671—W00l with Cotton
NATURAL
36 38 40 42
Light Weight also Available at Slightly Lower Prices.
GOLDEN FLEECE
Cl Li CPu re QCox)l
KOOKABURRA
iip;
e n
is
\CPure ( Wool ivLik Cotton
PRODUCT OF AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS LTD.
Out of tine Past.
THE PERVERSION OF ANTHONY.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
“Cogitations Upon Eternity.” By Benjamin
Best, D.D., Prebendary of Bristol, and Chap-
lain in Ordinary to His Majesty. The Fifth
Edition. London, 1777.
Printed by T. Timmins and F. Makepeace at
Number 53, St. Paul’s Churchyard.
IT was a fat little volume, printed in
black type, with splashes of italics,
and it told in half a score of chap-
ters, each headed with one of the Ten
Commandments, all that the learned and
pious author knew, surmised, guessed
and imagined concerning the state of
Man’s immortal soul after it had de-
parted out of his body. It was bound
in brown leather, and on the title-page
was a spirited vignette depicting a chubby
angel and a ferocious devil contending for
the possession of a human soul—a stout
person in a nightgown.
Strange that such a work should have
been the means in the early part of the
last century of sending a good young
man to the devil! Yet that is exactly
what the “Cogitations” did for Anthony
Brownlow, a clerk in the Bank of Eng-
land, who lodged respectably in Red
Lion-square, Bloomsbury, and was the
joy and pride of a Twickenham maiden
aunt.
At the age of 19 Anthony was deeply
concerned for the welfare of his soul.
His face was a little pimply, and his
brain was as incapable as his stomach of
digesting what went into it. Walking
homeward to his lodging one foggy
evening in the autumn of 1823, Anthony
turned his melancholy visage into Pater-
noster Row. At a bookshop outside
whose paned window was a broad shelf
packed with second-hand volumes, and
illuminated by a lamp, he paused to
examine the litter of dingy and battered
books and periodicals. Almost the first
he picked up was Dr. Best’s “Cogita-
tions.”
Here was a find! For many months
the vague and drastic cerebral processes
which he conceived to be his innermost
thoughts had concerned themselves with
misty speculation upon Eternity. He
picked up the volume and opened it at
random at the beginning of the chapter
headed “Thou shalt have none other gods
but Me.” This he read in a spirit of
guilty self-accusation, when he was
startled by a cry of “ Fire!” It came
from that end of Paternoster Row which
is closest to Amen Corner.
He looked up fearfully to the narrow
strip of dark sky between the overhang-
ing gables of the tall old houses, and
marked a red glow that flickered increas-
ingly upon the ceiling of opaque fog
floating low over the city. Then, involun-
tarily, and in a moment of panic, he
slipped the book into a side pocket of
his caped overcoat, and turned to run.
But Isaac Truman, the proprietor, had
been observing him through the window,
and instantly pounced out upon him as
he began his flight towards St. Paul’s
Churchyard. “Stop thief! ” Isaac howled.
“A shoplifter! Stop thief!”
Before he reached the end of the Row
Brownlow found himself in custody, and
fifteen minutes later was terrified and
confused to hear himself charged with
theft at the police office in Old Jewry.
“But I didn’t intend to take the book! ”
he protested feebly.
“Oh, gammon an’ spinach!” said the
inspector. “Ye needn’t come that ’ere
story ’ere. Keep it for th’ Lor’ Mayor
at th’ Manshun ’Ouse in th’ mornin’.”
And so, surprisingly, began the career
of Anthony that ended so dismally in
New South Wales eight years afterwards.
The Lord Mayor, with suitable ad-
monition, committed the unhappy
Broyvnlow for trial, a jury found him
guilty of larceny, the Recorder sentenced
him to five years’ transportation oversea,
and the barque London Belle duly de-
livered him in Sydney, in the month of
June, 1824. Long before that time, how-
ever, his spiritual outlook had suffered
a revolution. Newgate, the hulk Retri-
bution at Rotherhithe, and the prison
deck of the convict transport effected it.
Indeed, Flash Tony, who came riding
across Patrick’s Plains along the Great
Northern Road on a summer’s afternoon
in 1830, was a very different being from
the youth who had met with such grim
disaster in Paternoster Row. You would
never have taken this booted and spurred
swashbuckler, armed with a double-
barrelled gun and two large horse-pistols,
for the lad who had shrinkingly listened
to sentence of exile being passed upon
him at Old Bailey. Instead of a pale and
pimply boy, we find a well-developed,
bearded, athletic man, bearing himself
towards the world with an air of trucu-
lence and defiance. And if his outward
and visible personality was altogether
changed, so —and more so —was his inner
being.
In the ’tween decks of the London
Belle he had matriculated in that course
of viciousness and crime in which he
was later on to graduate as a member
of the iron gang upon the Western Road,
when he brained an overseer with an
axe and made his escape into the bush.
Now, with a reward of 100 guineas upon
his head, he was one of the many des-
perate men whom Governor Darling’s
Bushranging Act had been designed to
thwart and exterminate. From Brisbane
Water to Page’s River he was known
and feared as one of the most desperate
highwaymen who had hitherto supplied
excitement to travellers and run-holders
in the valley of the Hunter.
Towards sunset he turned aside from
the bullock-dray track that constituted
the Northern Road, in order to stick up
the homestead of Peter Nottingham at
the Bald Hills cattle station. At dusk he
was in complete possession of the three
bark-roofed huts, storehouse and stock-
yards that made up the headquarters of
that pioneer establishment.
Mr. Nottingham sat at table opposite
to him, and Mrs. Nottingham fed him
apprehensively upon such dainties as her
primitive larder afforded. Across the
room, four scared stockmen and a rouse-
about were lined up against the wall, not
a little fearful of the two pistols on the
table and the gun that leaned against it
on the bushranger’s right hand.
When his appetite was satisfied Brown-
low requested his hostess to take her seat
at the table. To the station-hands he was
less polite.
“If one of you coveys moves from
where you are now,” he said decisively,
“he’s a dead man. No hundred guineas
for any of you lads this time, and don’t
forget it. Now, ma’am, don’t be fright-
ened to eat your supper and talk. I’ll
do you and your husband no harm.
He’s come down handsomely with his
money, and I’ve enjoyed my meal. I
don’t get much congenial company in
the bush.”
The lady, a little pale, but brave and
composed, sat herself at the table, be-
tween her husband and Flash Tony, and
made a pretence of eating. Placing his
gun between his knees, and arranging
the pistols ready to either hand upon the
table, the latter took out his pipe, lighted
it with flint and steel, leaned back in
his chair and prepared himself for the
brief enjoyment of those social amenities
which his calling usually denied him.
“Well, sir,” he said to Peter Notting-
ham, pleasantly enough, “and what part
of England do you come from?”
“I’m from Devonshire. Near Exeter.”
“Ah, the West Country. I’m Cockney
bred. And you, ma’am? Are you also
from the West?”
Pretty Mrs. Nottingham smiled a little
piteously. “Yes, Mr. I don’t know
your name,” she said, hesitating.
“ ’Tis given in full in the Government
handbills,” laughed the bushranger.
“Here is one.”
He took a folded paper from his
pocket, opened it and spread it out upon
the table before her.
“There, you see,” he pointed with the
barrel of a pistol, from which the lady
shrank back. “ ‘Anthony John Brownlow,
per London Belle ; five feet ten inches—
brown hair and beard —blue eyes—regu-
lar features —twenty-six years of age—
light build—active.’ A word picture ;
and, as you see, Mr. Macleay, the Colo-
nial Secretary, values the original at a
hundred guineas. But where do you
say you come from, ma’am?”
“From Gloucestershire, sir. Bristol.”
“And may I ask your maiden name,
Mrs. Nottingham?”
“My name before my marriage was
Best, Mr. Brownlow.”
The bushranger pondered a moment
or two, then nodded. “I seem to have
had something to do with that name;
but I can’t quite remember what it was.
Pray, what was your father, ma’am?”
“A clergyman, sir—as was his father
before him. You may have heard of my
grandfather? He was an author of theo-
logical works that had some reputation
towards the end of the last century. May
I get one of his books from the book-
shelf yonder? You will doubtless recog-
nise his name on the title-page.”
Mr. Brownlow nodded.
“Certainly, Mrs. Nottingham. As you
surmise, I have had a good education.
Merchant Tailors’ School. I should like
to see the book.”
{Continued on next page.)


Three months
ago I was
a Mr C* an t > • <
m.
mm $ 3?
-X''-
m
m
h>
.
• •
■
Here's a funny thing! You know those Eno's 'Fruit Salt' advertisements in the
newspapers? Well day after day I used to read them. Laugh at them. Talk about
them. But never once did I realise that Mr. Can't was me— an exact, full-length
portrait of me, complete with headaches, gloominess, grumpiness and general
half-health.
0 _
And then one day someone said to me—
'George, if ever there was a Mr. Can't in this world —it s you!
Well, that did it. I told him his remark was in the worst possible taste, that
nothing would make me try Eno's 'Fruit Salt anyway—and promptly bought a
bottle on the way home.
I've taken Eno every day now for three months. And if you want to know
why—well look at me. Mr. Can himself!
Au. 37
EHO'S ‘FRUIT SALT'
Eno—that sparkling morning draught is the best way of keep-
ing fit that the civilised world has ever discovered. Eno is
simple and pleasant to take. It's got nothing harmful in its com-
position or its effects. It simply clears poisons and impurities
from, your blood—a natural corrective that keeps your system
in first-class order—and makes you 'another person.' Doctors
entirely approve of the way Eno works—by natural 'osmosis/
diluting the contents of the food canal so that they are punc-
tually dismissed. Everybody who takes Eno regularly—feels
the fitter and better for it.
IMPORTANT:
During Winter months Eno taken in slightly warm
water is definitely more efficacious.
ARE YOU A MR. CAN'T?
see symptoms below
CONSTIPATION
DEPRESSION
SLEEPLESSNESS
INDIGESTION
RHEUMATISM
LIVERISHNESS
LASSITUDE
IRRITABILITY
se~4
run
m
mm.
The words Eno and 'Fruit Saif are
registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: The British Harold F. Ritchie
Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W .
She rose from her seat, and returned
from the bookshelf with a little brown
volume in her hand, which she laid on
the table, open at the title-page, before
the bushranger. He leaned over it and
read the title. A quick change came
over his face as he did so and his right
hand closed on the butt of a pistol. He
frowned as he read slowly, aloud:
“ ‘Cogitations upon Eternity.’ By Ben-
jamin Best, D.D., Prebendary of Bristol,
and Chaplain in Ordinary to His Majesty.
The First Edition. London, 1774.”
“My God, man — my God!” yelled
Peter Nottingham as Flash Tony’s pistol
covered his wife.
The bushranger’s not unpleasing coun-
tenance had become the distorted visage
of a devil. Too late, the distracted
husband hurled the teapot as the pistol
roared, missing his mark. With her
pretty face shattered and bloody, Mrs.
Nottingham slid below the table. There
was another shot, and the lamp went
out.
The afternoon sun was shining in
through the high and narrow little
window of one of the condemned cells
in the gaol in George-street, Sydney, mak-
ing a golden pattern of crossed bars on
the whitewashed wall opposite, above the
closed door. On a bench below the
window sat Anthony Brownlow, heavily
ironed at wrists and ankles, reading the
Bible. On a chain opposite to him, arms
folded across his chest and nodding with
sleepiness, was a convict constable whose
weary task was to watch the prisoner.
Upon the morrow, up on the hillside
behind the gaol, Brownlow was to enter
that Eternity speculation as to which
had finally landed him in this unenviable
situation —but none the less did he now
experience a peace of mind such as never
had been his since those days of boyhood
when he used to fish in the Thames
below Twickenham Ferry. From the
wonderful Book resting upon his knees
he was deriving that consolation which
is its extraordinary gift to tired human
souls, and he felt reconciled to his lot,
content to die and only a very little
perturbed at the manner of his dying.
“Then,” he read aloud, from Eccle-
siastes, “ shall the dust return to the earth
as it was: and the spirit shall return unto
God who gave it. Vanity of vanities,
saith the preacher; all is vanity.”
He was interrupted by a gentle knock-
ing at the heavy wooden door of the
cell, which also recalled his keeper to
his waking senses. Almost immediately
the door was opened from without, and,
looking up from the Bible, Brownlow
beheld in the corridor the red face and
burly figure of Puddicombe, the gaoler,
and the mournful features of the Rev.
Henry Podley, the curate of St. James’s
Church.
With a jangling of his fetters, Brown-
low rose to receive his visitors.
“Here y’are, Tony,” bawled Puddi-
combe heartily ; “here be his rev’rence
coom for to stay wi’ ye awhile. He do
be main zet oop by y’r visits, zur,” he
roared in the chaplain’s ear.
Nodding cheerily, he slammed the door
behind the parson. The shadow of the
gallows never seemed to depress John
Puddicombe. At Mr. Podley’s request,
the constable followed him, standing in
the corridor beside the little square open-
ing, high up in the cell door, through
which he was able to observe what went
on inside.
“And how are we to-day?” asked Mr.
Podley pleasantly, as though he sat be-
side a sick bed with a convalescent in it.
“I am well, thank you, sir,” replied
the prisoner. “Well, and at peace.”
“And fully repentant, I hope?”
“Indeed, sir—yes. I’ve been a bad
lot, sir ; but I think, somehow, I never
meant to be. It has been a sort of an
accident, sir. All my life, I mean —since
first I went to gaol. But I’m at peace
now, thank God. I can die without
trouble.”
“I’m glad to hear it, Brownlow —glad
indeed to hear it. I cannot stay with you
long this evening—l have to dine with
the Archdeacon —but I will be here at
daylight in the morning. You have been
reading the Holy 800k —good! I’ve
brought you another little book which
you may find it profitable to glance
through to-night. They give you a candle,
don’t they?”
“Oh, yes, sir—all night, if I desire it.”
“Good! This is a most helpful
little volume. It was written many years
ago by a devout and wise old man whom
I had the honor of knowing as a lad. I
have marked certain passages in it where
the leaves are turned down. I must go
now; but I’ll be with you by four
o’clock.”
The chaplain stood up, and, shaking
Mr. Brownlow’s hand till the gyves
jingled, he turned to depart. The prisoner
glanced at the title of the little volume.
“Oh, by Hell!” he howled, as he
sprang upon the chaplain’s bottle
shoulders with a great clashing of metal.
This is what Constable McCarthy said
of it to Puddicombe, the gaoler.
“ ’Twas that sudden ye’d not belave.
I’d but just put the key in the dure for
to let his rev’rence out, when I hears a
yell like a woild baste ; an’ when I opens
the dure there’s Flash Tony atop o’ the
chaplin (an’ him on the flure) a-thryin’ for
to choke the life outer him. An’ he near
done it. ’Twas not till I hit him on the
head with the stool he’d lave him go.
Glory be —an’ him so quiet an’ continted,
an’ all! Sure ye can’t trust one o’ thim,
sorr. Ye can’t trust one o’ thim. God
save us all!”
The Gamblers.
BY H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN.
IT was the last candle. The last light
they had. The oil had been all used
up for a long time: they’d rum-
maged the candle out of a box stored
away years before as something not
wanted. It kept in shadow the shining,
vacant black faces of the hurricanes jeer-
ing from their nails on the walls. The
light of it made a soft rose of warmth.
But Mabe abruptly put out her hand
and pinched the wick.
Outside it was moonlight; enough
light for her need came dancing through
the window. It wasn’t as if she was
doing anything! There was nothing left
to do. Company, the candle had been,
and it had looked warm. All the same,
she supposed she’d better save it. Not
that it mattered much.
The worst of iron shanties was the
way they let you down. They were handy
and cheap to put up, but in summer they
were little ovens, and in winter cold as
the grave....
Did Ronnie feel cold out there? He
had always been so warm, scrambling
into her lap and loving her so, until that
day when they’d carried him in from
the yard with the purple mark of an
iron hoof disfiguring his little head....
He had been warm even then. But he
had grown cold in her arms at last....
He’d have been twelve by now, Ronnie.
And still here with her. Not gone, like
young Bill, restless, to sea ; or like Mabel,
away into her own home and her own
troubles. Yet wouldn’t it make things
harder than ever if Ronnie were with
her? Maybe she’d been wrong all these
years to fret over him. Even Ronnie
couldn’t be laughing if he were with her
n0w....
She shivered. Fred would have to go
and find wood to-morrow, though she
knew it wasn’t easy since the horse and
cart went.
Why wouldn’t Fred leave the place?
What good had it ever done them?
Work, work, work! And now there was
no longer even work, because there' was
no money, no seed, nothing to work with,
no food —nothing. If Fred didn’t trap
a rabbit to-night—but she was sick of
rabbits! And the flour in the bin was
as low as the candle ; and Mr. Scott at
the store had said, last time she was in
at the siding, months ago: “I really
couldn’t let you have another bag on
account, Mrs. Willis. I’m sorry, but”
How quickly she’d gone out then, with-
out a word, to save him stammering and
reddening afresh! No, Scott really
couldn’t be expected to let the Willises
have anything more. And yet Fred
hung on! .
Hung on to the rotten place as if it
meant something to them. And what
did it mean? Just nothing! A two-
roomed shack in wheat country. Not
even a garden: the plants she had tried
to grow had died summer after
summer. And a few sticks of furni-
ture. Every penny they’d ever had
(i Continued on next page.}


ywFm
A
w §
T :|
ms
m.
.rap
s?
w
JOURS
■ Bouth Sea Islands await you
dir palm-fringed beaches,
native villages and won-
derful coral lagoons. Enchanting
tours are Available to Papua and
s New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Norfolk Island and the New
Hebrides. These round trips
occupy from nine days up to
five weeks and are no more ex-
pensive than many an interstate
holiday. Fares are free of ex-
| change, and there are no hpt&M
j expenses—you live on t
throughout these islarttJ , ,crul?e6 { j i 1
At uour request we
shell be pleased to
forward folder No. 2S.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
312 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE 128 ADELAIDE ST.. BRISBANE
THESE LAST FEW
YEARS
These last few years have, in a marked or lesser degree,
proved to all the wisdom of making some provision for the
future. All of us have experienced the unexpected financial
calls of everyday life, and, while it is impossible to gauge
accurately the needs of the future, it is possible to provide
for them.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open, and can be
opened nearly anywhere in Australia. With it and the regular
saving of money, however small the amounts, adequate pro-
vision for the unexpected calls will be made.
Cbmmoiiwcaltb Savings Janf: of Biistralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
und
is.-
r.-. 7.1
.non
n
I#
*V 'n©
A
1
r
k.s
to the Sunshine of the
South Sea /s/ands
r FIJI—TAHITI—HONOLULU
Delightful trips away from Winter’s gloom to enchanting
lands of sunshine, flowers, romance and loveliness. No
holiday land in all the world can compare with the
fascinating glamour of the alluring South Seas.
Specially reduced fares make possible a delightful
South Seas voyage for no more than the cost of
the average stay-at-home holiday.
Let us help you plan a care-free, economical
South Seas Vacation. Illustrated literature
with full details of fares and sailings will
be gladly supplied on request.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
296 Queen Street, Brisbane.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).'
went back into the land—it might as well
have been tossed into the sea! All gone.
From where she sat in shadow, out of
the cold moonlight, her hands slack on
the table, the woman glanced through
the window. She wished he’d come in ;
he’d catch his death the way he’d taken
to tramping round at night. Didn’t he
know every yard of the place? He
shouldn’t leave her alone like this, with
nothing to do but think! Maybe he
didn’t realise she had nothing to do—
she who had always been so busy, mend-
ing, making, contriving. But nothing left
now. Not a thing to do.
Yet when Fred did come in she would
only snap at him. She hadn’t been able
to help it lately. Bitter words came prick-
ing to her tongue and out before she
could bite them back. Where was
Fred?....
Fred was standing alone in the bril-
liantly, frostily, dancing moonlight. Stand-
ing still as the unstirring night after walk-
ing round for hours. Staring out over
his land was Fred, from the little rise
where grew a solitary gum-tree. Away
to the sky spread the country, flat and
uninterrupted except where far off a
group of trees huddled together as
though ashamed to show their height in
face of the low-growing scrub. Close
to the man a small white tomb shone in
the grass bright as the moon in the
heavens. But Ronnie’s father stared
bleakly past it, out over the monotonous
sweep of land.
No crop, no fallow. They’d come and
taken the ploughs away too soon. What
little bit of seed he’d saved and sown
had sprung well enough—till the weather
let it down. And that had been his final
effort.... Work! Hadn’t he and Mabe
slaved here for thirteen years? Ever
since he got the place through a soldier-
settlement scheme? Nothing but work.
Yet it was his own. A place which
he had won with his sweat and his blood
—though neither his sweat nor Mabe’;
had done much good towards making it.
pay. He’d not minded the work either
at first; pleased he’d been, ready enough
to gamble with life on new land, just as
for years he had been gambling with
death in No Man’s Land.... Of course
he had dreamed of leaving a flourishing
farm for Bill and young Ronnie and
Mabel, if she didn’t marry. But Bill had
run away to sea ; had said, at sixteen,
that the land was no good to him! God
knew where he’d got to by now! Mabel
married soon enough, too soon. And
Ronnie....
Over there, close to the centre of the
block, he’d planned to build a decent
house and stables, and to have a car.
Pinched and saved for machinery, they
had. How the money poured in at first
—and how it poured out! Always tra-
vellers with some new improvement,
always himself so keen to improve. Sun-
rise to sunset on the go. But now, over
to the right, scarring the long strip he
had cleared unaided, dark feelers from
the scrub beyond were already sneering
at his labors....
At his labors, and, it seemed to him
to-night, at all the labors of generations
before....
But it was no good getting down to it!
When he’d been a little pincher, no
bigger than Ronnie, he’d dearly loved to
listen to his father telling tales of the
Ballarat diggings. Even been in the
Eureka Stockade, his father had, a wiry
lad standing shoulder to shoulder with
the other diggers, game in revolt and
game in defeat; determined, they said,
to stick out for a square deal.
“Not that you ever get it* me lad,”
his father always ended. “Life’s the
same. Some strike it lucky and some
don’t. Gamblers we are, and don’t you
forget it. Learn to stake high—and to
laugh when you 105 e”....
Strange the way in moments of crisis
a man’s thoughts seemed to turn back
to little things like that! He had re-
membered those.same words just as he
went over the top for the first time, on
Gallipoli. At least just before he went —
he’d watched young Wenn fall back, sob-
bing —
Barely eighteen, Wenn had been. Up
he d scrambled with the others, hung
a moment-fallen back! Back, he’d
crouched against the wall of the trench,
his face chalk-white, the tears streaming
from his blue eyes. He couldn’t face it.
Unconsciously the man kicked up the
earth at his feet. He’d wanted so badly
to say just a word to young Wenn ; but
there had been no time. The second
whistle blew; he’d had to go himself.
And over he went, wondering if the poor
kid was still crouching back there, scared
and crying....
He had found Wenn again, later. The
lad was smiling. A good clean bullet he’d
stopped, not like some of the poor devils.
Flat on his back, he’d lain, out in the
open, smiling at the harsh blue sky with
hts blue eyes, a triumphant kind of kid’s
smile, jeering to Death: “See! Thought
I couldn’t, didn’t you?”
Staked high, Wenn had ; and lost; and
smiled. But to lose like that was almost
as good as to win.
The man stiffened. His eyes lifted
from the kicked-up earth beneath his feet
to the horizon. All these years, and he
had never until this moment seen that!
It was what his father had known, though
...'.what his father had meant him to
know.... All right. He would throw
the place up.
Mabe had been unhappy for ages —
he had felt a brute keeping her dragging
on. She’d had more than enough. They’d
go. Clear out. He had lost his stake, the
stake he’d loved and slaved for. He didn’t
care to think about the d01e... .but he’d
go down smiling....
His wife was crying when he reached
the shack. He’d not seen Mabe cry for
years—her head lay on the table and
her thin shoulders shook, as young
Wenn’s had. Miserable, she looked, sit-
ting alone crying at the empty table, in
the bare, cold place. He had left her
too much alone. He had wanted only
to get away with his bitterness; but
women were different—they didn’t feel
so badly if they could talk about things.
“Mabe,” he said. “Cheer up. We’re
going”
The woman lifted her head. Dreary
and uncertain she looked in the dancing
moonlight.
“What do you mean?” she asked flatly.
“I’m through. Walking off —leaving
the bones to the bank”....
“Fred!” Mabe’s voice faltered. “How
can we? We owe We’ve got no
money at a 11”....
“That’s all you know! Enough for two
tickets to the city and a couple of days’
keep, anyhow. I’ve saved that much
always. Hung on to it. It’s me very
last stake. We’ll go right now —to-night.”
“To-night?”
Mabe had risen. He could see her
eyes turning vaguely from side to side,
but he could not read their thought.
“To-night!” she repeated. “Just —go?”
“Just go. As we stand. Leave every-
thing. Walk into the siding in time to
catch the four o’clock rattler.”
“But Fred”
The woman twisted her hands. How
could she go? Leave Ronnie for ever —
leave this place which was her home,
where as a young wife she had been
happy, with her man safe back from
the war, with her children and her baby
—this place they had slaved for their
own! What hadn’t she done? She had
made all the packing-case furniture, every
stick of it herself, just to have things
nice.
And there had been good times in
the little shack. It seemed to Mabe as if
memory of the good times rushed forth
from the bare walls like a night
fragrance stealing in at the window.
And Fred wanted her to leave. To-night.
Now.
“You’ve been wanting to go, haven’t
you?” he was demanding.
“Yes”
But not like this. Not suddenly. When j
it really came to going there were so ;
many things....
“What about you?” she whispered, her t
wandering eyes fixed at last on her hus-
band’s face, a white, grim mask in the
thin light. He smiled suddenly. She
had not seen him smile like that for
years! Maybe it was a trick of the
deceptive light; but, she thought with a
pang, he looked as he had before Ronnie
was killed—young, keen....
“Me? I’m done with the place. Some-
thing new for me!”
Still she stood, fingering the table.
“We’ll need to move,” he said calmly,
“or we won’t make it.... Twelve miles
is a fair step for y0u.... Get on your
hat. And push anything you want to
take into an old sugar-bag. We can’t
carry much.”
Slowly Mabe went into the second
room. When she came out, presently,
Fred had lit the stump of candle. She
put the sugar-bag down on the table and
stood with her hat in her hands and
stared at the few twigs of kindling she
had saved for the morning, blazing
bravely in the stove. Fred was search-
ing for the tea-caddy.
She shook her head in answer to his
questioning look. There was no tea left.
There was nothing left. Only—this was
their home. Outside..-.. What was
there for them outside?
“Fred,” she said breathlessly. “Fred,
don’t let’s go. Not just yet.”
But the man laughed. He was like a
boy, she thought. Careless of every-
thing.
He came to her side abruptly and laid
his rough hands gently on her shoulders.
“Mum,” he said, smiling into her
racked eyes—that young smile! “Didn’t
(Continued on next page.)


ms
m
a*
; ■
■
1
*
. *
w?
11
m
1
■
Hi
m
J >j
H
~T*' i
Hi
■
BLUE NORTH"
H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN
This strongly-written first-novel holds
the color and romantic appeal of
fortune-seeking on the West Aus-
tralian pearling grounds in the days
when that glamorous life made it's
irresistible appeal to the adventurous
of all kinds and' classes. “Hand-
some” John Fordyce, throwing off
the petty ties binding him to his
society-obsessed lady and the social
life of the South, adventures into the
“blue North” in search of complete
freedom among men. He finds it
there, but only through the agency
of Woman—a wanton his handsome
figure attracts at one of the pearling
outposts, and who, when he breaks
from their one-night liaison, takes a
fiercely-jealous revenge on a pretty
little waif of the outpost, with unex-
pected results for herself, for the
waif, and for the man she sought to
hurt. A feature of the novel is the
realistic presentation of the pearling
life, spiced with adventure, rich
finds and sometimes violent action.
A very colorful picture of pearling
up and down the blue waters of the
Nor’-West.
At all good bookshops, or direct from the publishers,
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS, 252 George St., Sydney.
PRICE 6/- (postage 3d.)
CONTRACT BRIDGE —BY Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
Ĥ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 4S) years.
Bankers: The Union.
Ħ
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural.
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 93rd year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. TV, G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
H
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME 4
ADDRESS
(■Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
you reckon you was taking a risk when
you married Fred Willis? Wasn’t you
told he was wild and all that?”
“Yes,” she admitted.
“And, after the war, didn’t Mrs. Miles
ask however you expected to get that
Digger husband of yours to settle down
safe and sober?”
“Yes,” she admitted.
“And didn’t you up and sell the little
shop and come away out here into the
blue just to please your wild Digger, all
the same, and without a grumble?”
“Yes,” she admitted.
He shook her a little, smiling. “The
truth is, Mabe, you’re a gambler! Same
as me. Same as all good Diggers. It’s
what keeps the country going Come
on.”
He dropped his hands and wen
open the door. , tlirn . n flp
In silence they walked to f nr i o rn
Straight ahead they trudged t w °
black spots moving across the flat lace
of the moon-silvered land- B e >
shack, unlit, gleamed white as a skeleton
long-bleached In silence they walked.
straight ahead and their breath blew
out on the cold air in vapor as g
and as separate as their though s.
Where the road branched the w
half-turned, but the man caught her -
“No looking back! he said gruffly*
“That farm belongs to the bank,
got nothing to do with it—h s not h. in §
you or to me, Mabe.... You an
going to look forward. So step l
sharp, or we’ll miss the rattler.
After Twenty Years.
BY HILARY LOFTING.
IT being the ’Loo I ran across the road
in shirtsleeves, carrying my milk-jug.
My old mate, Marty’s prototype, still
kept the store, but Mary, my dear, was
dead.
“A good many people can die in twenty
years,” Marty reminded me, his voice
old and dry now. “And how are they
treating you, Hil? Still writing?”
I confessed that I hadn’t had the
commonsense to alter that, while his
sister filled my jug. Her, also, I had
known twenty years ago, but only as a
fugitive visitor to Marty, and she had
forgotten me. Getting my bread she sang
a muted “Plaisir d’Amour” and the first
two phrases of “Vous Avez Parle Moi
d’Amour,” her middle-aged voice, sweet
with regret, a grace-note in the autumn
morning.
It was early when breakfast was done.
I dodged the washing-up and sneaked out,
a homing-bird hungry to see again this
birthplace of the spirit. Happily the ’Loo
day begins late, and quiet solitude still
enveloped my streets and lanes, the bits
of broken gardens, the watchful, sullen,
steady houses.
More than I had hoped was as of old,
twenty years ago. Some fool had propped
up a good many fences and cut back the
trailing green ; other fools had built a
dozen stolid factories, dreary as new pins.
But the red stucco house in Corfu-street
still burned against the pepper-tree’s
green rain. The merchant of eggs in
Bourke-street still had his blatantly
Spanish name over the window, but he
was the son of the old exile who had
wept and poured wine for my slow, rough
Argentine-Spanish long ago. He too had
been earth these ten years ; but a son or
grandson was chiming a guitar in the
narrow patio the old man had made of
the backyard to keep something of Spain.
Coaly Mimbles’s wood-and-coke yard
had shrunk to a refuge for dead motor-
cars, with or without wheels. Ettore
Scala, embracing me in a garlic storm,
said that there were no Mimbleses now,
“not for a t’ousand years, caro mio.”
That wasn’t true ; I saw a dozen Clifford
Mimbleses during the day—still-faced,
secret young men, damnably well-dressed
and dangerous —but Ettore thought it was
true, which is near enough in the ’Loo
as elsewhere.
Easy Annie fell out of the pinkie-shop
as I passed, sat firmly on the pavement
half-asleep, while her off-shoe rolled into
the gutter. Annie shows her age, which
might be anything between thirty and
sixty, drunk or sober. She looked just
the same twenty years ago, and, according
to Marty, has not changed for thirty
years. Her head has gone back on her,
though; four pinkies will do it now,
which often spoils the day for her. Adela
the Wharfie picked her up this morning
and carried her home.
Down by the docks we are a bit worse
than we were, once you get behind the
high-class buildings putting a good face
on it for the incoming ships. The old
schoolhouse has given in and lies in ruins
in the weeds ; Mrs. Briggs’s resident’al
has had a fire and stares, gutted and
black, at an indifferent world with
troubles of its own ; even the pubs look
uncertain about the good of it all.
But that hang-over passes as you come
higher up into the middle ’Loo. Here
the old magnificence of ancient balconies,
tattered and full of potent life, warms
a/id comforts one as of old. Gardens,
not broken but gay with cosmos and
chrysanthemums, gleams in the lanes;
bright window-boxes bridges the sills
between the latticed shutters of square
stone houses built sixty years ago, when
we were rich and serious. Wise and
kind now, the houses shelter a half-dozen
households each, with gardens on the
window-sills thrown in. Not that there’s
anything' sentimental about them ; on the
contrary, their ’Loo damn-your-eyes
angle is firmly in evidence, as heretofore.
Twenty years ago it was the spring
of the year as well as of the spirit. The
spring and the early summer draped the
falling fences with dolichos and yellow-
green, threw a mauve wistaria veil over
the faces of the houses —which, for all
their damn-your-eyes, are sometimes
haggard. There used to be a flame-tree
half-way down Forbes-street, and a jacar-
anda beside the old vicarage ; there used
to be more pepper-trees, and the gardens
overflowed the fences and the battered
brick walls.
Now that I am home again with
the twenty years in my pocket, it is
the autumn ; the pain in Marty’s back
nags at him until the keenness of the early
day has gone; and none of us kicks
about the streets in the dusk. But the
’Loo’s heart is changeless; home, I feel
only the spring and summer it gave me
long ago. The spirit of the place has not
altered, any more than the slumbrous
streets and lanes. Probably no part oi
Sydney has changed so little in the twenty
tumultuous years.
The man in the room across the land-
ing is a dark Assyrian king, fathomless-
eyed, melodious. He hawks cushion-
covers and drapes, doyleys, table-strips.
Yellow dragons storm out of black velvet
caves on his shoulder as he goes down
the stairs ; little scarlet girls twinkle at
the corners of scarves and narrow tapes-
tries ; orange chrysanthemum-showers
droop over his arm.
He’ll go down the streets, making his
dim melody at the doors, weaving Assy-
rian spells; ’Loo will take the money
saved for the winter coat —smart girls
whose pride is to dress well at all costs
—and buy a dragon or a scarlet geisha.
Old, fumbling women, deep in the spell,
will take the rent..... Perhaps the winter
coat and the rent will be made up some-
how, perhaps not —anyhow, the dragon
and geisha will put such a splendid kick
into the day, opening the best door of
all, that it will be worth it, whatever
betide.
But it is the two little French songs
while you are buying your milk and
bread, the soft, middle-aged voice inspir-
ing the early day, that will stay longest
in the memory of this homecoming. The
’Loo is the proper setting for that defeat
of matter by mind ; the ’Loo lives in the
mind, has gone far beyond the three-
meals-a-day pattern. We know by now
that what is, is; what may be, and what
it can be made to feel like in our hearts,
is our own inviolate affair.
The Trooper’s Horse.
He was small: a dark-bay gelding with a star
at his fetlock’s rim; .
God knows what he thought of his rider, but I
set great store on him.
Little he recked that he .drank from a deep
trough under a wall
Built by Caesar’s legions ere England was
England at all!
Small thought he gave to the thrill of treading
the selfsame way
That Richard Coeur-de-Lion passed along in
his day! f
He would sooner the dates from my wallet, or
the biscuit out of my hand,
And his chief care was for water in that waste
and burning land.
Together we baulked at the shadows under the
Sinai moon;
Together we hungered and thirsted in the red
Khamsin at noon.
And I never think of the pounding and boom
of the Turkish guns
And the gaunt, unshaven faces burnt with the
desert suns
But I think of him, all shattered, his head on
my shaking knees,
And the blood and foam, and his moaning; and
the bullet that brought him ease.
Sometime we may find a reason for the pawns
who fight and fall,
But the horses who share the carnage; what do
they think of it all?
So I never see the mourners packed in the quiet
street,
But in fancy I bring a laurel to lay at 'a
charger’s feet.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


PELMANISM
BUSINESS
AND
IMAGINATION
By Alpha
The story of Pelmanism is the story
of applied imagination. About thirty-
five years ago there was a man of vision
who dipped into the future and saw its
needs. Peljmanism is the result. He
dared to believe that psychology might
be reduced to a practical living system.
He saw, in imagination, the half a mil-
lion . Pelmanists who attest, at this
moment, that Pelmanism is the eureka
of modern times. Pelmanism, therefore,
is just a dream come true. It is a strik-
ing and convincing instance of the
potency of applied imagination.
The Unimaginative
Britisher.
“The British race,” said a well-known
journalist Ihe other day, “possess every
great quality except the greatest of all,
the quality of imagination.” Further, he
said, “It is strange that the race which
bred Shakespeare and Milton should, in
the twentieth century, be found sunk
in the bog of unimaginative Philistinism.”
It is a stern indictment. Is it true?
We fear it is. Partly owing to our de-
fective educational methods, and partly
owing to innate conservatism, the flower
of imagination withers and dies as the
years advance. Hence it is that, in
national, social and commercial affairs,
we make difficulties and create problems
for ourselves which a little insight might
prevent. Pelmanism holds the field as
the corrective of all this. It is pre-emi-
nently an appeal to the imagination. It
is a rousing call to image the dormant
possibilities of the mind, and to picture
the ideal methods of business. There is
imagery and poetry in daily affairs, and
Pelmanism shows you where these are,
and how-to realise them in terms of suc-
cess and advancement.
Imagination in the
Market Place.
But what has imagination to do with
business? it may be asked. Imagination
and the arts, yes. But imagination and
business! Well, let us see. What is
business? In general terms, it is the
doing or conducting of one’s affairs in
such a way as to bring profit, or pleasure,
or happiness. A man’s trade, or profes-
sion, or calling, each is that man’s busi-
ness. Now, there are many ways of doing
or conducting one’s affairs. Imagination
shows us the best way. Imagination
is insight. It is the power of seeing the
end at the beginning. It enables us
to be wise -Before the event, instead of
after it. For example, if the shopkeeper
has a picture of the ideal shop in his
mind, he has something clearly defined to
work to, and so makes fewer mistakes
than he would otherwise. Self ridge’s and
Harrod’s mammoth stores in London,
and Myer’s and Hordern’s in Melbourne
or Sydney, are striking examples of
imaginative shopkeeping. Similarly, the
man who makes boots, or breakfast
foods, or cheese, or woollen goods,
or furniture, can make better articles,
with less wear and tear of mind, if he
has the image of the ideal article in his
mind to work to. Vision lightens the
task, whilst at the same time it enables
us to do it better. Pelmanism gives a
man this vision. It lifts the mind above
the ruck of sameness and monotony. It
stimulates the thoughts and emotions and
generates the faculty of imagination.
The Crying Need of the
Moment.
If one were asked what is the first
essential for any successful attempt, to
stabilise an unsettled world, beyond all
doubt the answer must be imagination.
In pre-war days, the spirit of laissez faire
clogged the mind and killed imagination,
and now again the old spirit of drift
and complacency is apparent in high
places, and there is unrest, dissatisfac-
tion and a feeling of frustration in all
walks of life. The need, the crowning
need of the moment, is imagination,
vision such as shall forecast and devise
new relations between capital and labor,
new sources of materials, new kinds of
manufacture, new methods; in short,
enlightened and imaginative thinking.
We are profoundly convinced that Pel-
manism can and does do an enormous
amount in this direction.
Pelmanism is, at its very best in teach-
ing the art of insight and imagination.
Advice is given, and exercises set for
this purpose. Pelmanism, in fact, is
largely a system of training which
enables a man to see ahead, and to give
him far-reaching horizons. .
Complaining
Incompetence.
Quite frequently the man who com-
plains about his hard lot, his “bad
luck,” and circumstances over which he
has no control is lacking somewhere.
There are exceptions, of course. But,
generally speaking, the complaining,
cynical, grousing spirit is a sure sign of
the lack, of faith and hope and confi-
dence, and, above all, imagination.
The fault was not in his opportunity but
in himself. The Pelmanist, being a man
of vision, knows himself first of all, and,
knowing himself, he sees more clearly,
and he sees farther than his nose; he
hgs far-reaching horizons. The astonish-
ing thing about Pelmanism is that its
students supply the best arguments for
its claims. Here is one:
“In one sentence, I may say that
I have experienced a thorough trans-
formation of mind. There has been
such a renewal of mental vigour, a
strengthening of memory and develop-
ment of will-power as I did not dare
to hope for.”
That’s it, “a thorough transformation
of mind.” When the faculties are quick-
ened and the mind is “transformed”
imagination is provided and things and
men are seen in a new light. Often
enough what is needed is quickening.
The mind becomes sluggish and dull
through strain or neglect, and any sys-
tem which can give it warmth and move-
ment, and so imagination, is its own
justification. And Pelmanism is such a
system. It is not a dry set of rules
or exercises. It is a warm, living atmo-
sphere such as thaws the powers of the
mind, and frees it from the icy hold of
routine and tradition.
Courage and Pluck.
From wide experience and inside
knowledge, the writer is confident that
among the many fruits which grow upon
this wonderful tree of knowledge called
Pelmanism are Courage and Pluck.
When the public realises how much Pel-
manism concerns itself with will-power
and personality, it will not be sceptical
on this point. Pelmanism is education
of the highest order. It brings out the
whole man, and when the whole man,
with trained faculties, has imagination
backed up by will-power and person-
ality, he laughs at impossibilities and
says “It shall be done! ” It is this note
of conviction and courage which the
times demand.
The Pelman Mail Bag.
Every mail brings letters to the Pelman
Institute from enthusiastic Pelmanists
thanking Pelmanism for the great change
for the better Pelmanism has made in
their lives.
The great majority of these letters
speak of an increase in income, a rise in
salary. This is natural, for money is
the yardstick for the measure of Success.
As Pelmanism increases your worth, so
it increases your income.
Pelmanism will reveal your latent
talents and show you how you can set
them to work for your immediate and
ever-increasing profit.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to Success the world
has ever known. It seldom fails.
Pelmanism has stood the test of time.
For more than a third of a century
Pelmanism has pointed the path to Suc-
cess. There are more than half a million
Pelmanists in the world to-day.
The PELMAN
INSTITUTE
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
(Corner Market St.).
Headquarters: London.
Pelman ( Overseas ) Institutes: PARIS,
NEW YORK, MELBOURNE, DUR-
BAN ; CALCUTTA, DELHI, AMSTER-
DAM, JAVA.
Pelmanists
m
: I
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
S/r Arthur Quiller-Couch.
wm
r. F. VV. Norwood, D.D.,
f tile City Temple, London
Lord Riddell.
*
Lord Baden-Powell.
Send to-day for a copy of The
Efficient Mind, free of charge, post
paid. In the pages of this book you
will read stories more wonderful than
fiction, telling of the marvellous
changes for the better Pelmanism lias
made in the lives of men and women
of all ages, and of every circumstance
and condition in life.
Readers who can call at the Insti-
tute will be welcomed. The Director
of Instruction will be pleased to talk
with them; and no fee will be charged
for his advice.
FREE ENQUIRY FORM
To the Felman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.’’
NAME
ADDRESS
PELMANISM IS SCIENTIFIC TRAINING OF MIND,
MEMORY AND PERSONALITY. Headquarters: LONDON
JUST PUBLISHED !
A New Novel by the Author of “Pageant”
“THE WORLD IS YOURS”
By G. B. LANCASTER
G. B. Lancaster chose the modern Yukon as the setting for this graphic
story. In a succession of brilliantly descriptive pages, this romantic outpost
of Empire is presented with all its haunting glamor. The riddle of human
relationships is personified in Tamsin MacDonald and Kirk Regard. The
tragic love story of these two young people is unfolded in a well-
sustained atmosphere of suspense, leading to a strongly presented climax.
“The World Is Yours,” by G. B. Lancaster, now on sale at all bookstalls and
newsagents. Published by The Endeavour Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book Price 6/6 (Postage 4d.)
&
\p
&
\y
X
*?>s&*?s■*
& <?<P
4*
0
■ ■
\S
o°\
,m' c V
1
if
A '^W'
<^o<^
of
VxA*. *°*V V «<
tm


»
/
/I
.//
/ /
/
/
/
/
1/
X
1
/
/
/ A
IT'S NEW ENERGY
AND WARMT-H f ROM
/
/
/
/
\
/.
/
/
QVERCOATS —thick clothing
—they are superficial aids
to warmth. It is rich red blood
you need to withstand the
biting chilis.
*4
/
" Here's 7b f ee
■ ; l* <
A
m /
iiifp
mi H
V *
*
t
- n
m
um
; I# I * j
mm
,tf66SBS&*
w
■BKK3?! x J
X n 11
I
stp‘7 f t i? if
k# ..
*
Mm
* c
TOOH£VSJ££-
THE SAME
PRICE AS
ORDINARY
STO U T
IN THE
H
Ĥ
