

.
AUSTRALIA
m
Wm
m,mß
Mmxm
£
m
>< , #>&
■ ■
. ■
1. Ironstone Quarries —Electric shovel loading 30 ton Quarry Wagons. 2. Wilputte Coke Ovens—discharge side. 3. Blast
Furnace 12.,710 tons Pig Iron per week. 4. Open Hearth Furnaces —Tapping 100-120 ton heat. 5. Plate
Mill. 6. Finishing Mill Loading yard. 7. Merchant Mill Stock yard—Racks containing merchant bars and sections.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited
Mine Owners Ship Owners Steel Manufacturers Colliery Proprietors.
Manufacturers of: PIG IRON, INGOTS, BLOOMS, BILLETS, TEE RAILS, BRIDGE RAILS, TIE PLATES, PLATES,
BEAMS. CLUTCH BAR (FOR SHEET PILING), CHANNELS, ANGLES, ROUNDS, TEES, SQUARES, FLATS, OCTAGONS,
ALLOY STEELS, REINFORCING BARS, WIRE RODS, BENZOL, TAR, TOLUOL, SLAG, SOLVENT NAPHTHA,
NAPHTHALENE, SULPHATE 01" AMMONIA, FOUNDRY' COKE. COAL. HOUSEHOLD COAL AND BUNKER COAL.
Offices: Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and London.
Works: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Tas.), Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
The Bulletin
Banks and Brays (Page 13)
Vol. 55.—N0, 2847.
Wednesday, September S, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’J'HE New Library Catalogue for 1934 is
now ready, and will be sent post free
o any address on application to —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Storu Writing
U l^ A Vf at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
.Cut Here and Mail.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining hoto to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 134
. V s ' ) \
5 > M
yAA
It pays to look your best
at all times
Cutioura Soap
will do much to help you.
Used daily, it protects the
skin and keeps it in a healthy
condition.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE'
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
A Newspaper in which the spirit of Progress
and Development abounds, and whose forceful
Editorials and Literary features provide a
wealth of interesting reading—both socially
and politically.
For 80 years this influential household publi-
cation has enjoyed an envious period of pros-
perity, and is an institution •firmly established
in the regard of the Victorian people generally.
Tf you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE,”
whose vigorous articles and great political
principles—with its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine, news value —'
have made this publication an outstanding
newspaper in modern journalism.
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per ■ quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LITERATURE.
F. W. Preece and Sons, Ltd.,
extend to you a cordial invitation to inspect
their stock at the newly established business at
11 Victoria Arcade, Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Outstanding!
Head Office:
‘‘The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W, J. HESLEKURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
tlx mercury
(TASMANIA'S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address; “MEKCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
3O Carrington Street, Sydney.
'Phone: RW5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. 'Phone: F 3348.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,’* Id. extra.
sz
i CJSsp
Kpl
k— *j>
The Sunday Mail
Brisbane
Should be Included in Every National
Advertising Campaign
As a newspaper “The Sunday Mail” speaks for itself, and the average net
circulation for April (42,696), May (44,006) and June (46,300) bears testimony
to the ever-widening circle of readers of Queensland's great Sunday news-
paper-magazine and to the ready appreciation with which it is received
wherever it goes.
The consistently increasing popularity of “The Sunday Mail” renders
necessary its inclusion in every national advertising campaign planned for
the Queensland market. Used in conjunction with “The Courier Mail,”
Queensland’s greatest daily, it gives a combination unequalled in coverage
and lowness of cost. Further particulars gladly supplied on request.
THE SUNDAY MAIL
BRISBANE’S GREAT SUNDAY NEWSPAPER-MAGAZINE.
Sydney Representative:
R. JACKSON, 74 Pitt Street.
London Representative:
J. CHARD, 92 Fleet Street.
Melbourne Representative:
R. D. FISHER, Newspaper House, Collins
. Street.
The Red Page
“Vile Bodies”
Here is a subject which is more attrac-
tive to the general public than politics.
The proofs can be seen on every
side--special articles by doctors in the
dailies, syndicated prattle about patients,
a colossal yearly output of health books
and pamphlets designed for popular read-
ing. It is one of the directions in which
the post-war cult of plain speech has
benefited the English-speaking races.
False shame about our physical func-
tions has almost vanished ; in fact, it is
considered bright in some circles to talk
about them, and watch the shattering
effect on the old-fashioned. Young
people to-day know infinitely more about
the mechanism of their bodies than their
parents did 30 years ago, and there is
a keen demand for additional informa-
tion. All the books reviewed below cater
for it in some degree.
Chiefly for Women
Stand Up and. Slim Down (Heine-
mann ; 65.) is by E. A. Hornibrook, who,
as Ettie Rout, was a frequent contributor
to The Bulletin in pre-war days. Her
purpose is to show how “middle-aged
spread” may be avoided. Man doesn’t
walk upright naturally ; his forebears were
horizontal animals. Horizontally the
abdominal organs are supported by the
ribs ; vertically, they tend to sag, more
especially in women. Her remedy con-
sists of body or stomach dances wliich
are the antitheses of the physical-culture
exercises that most of us know.
Physical jerks are spasmodic movements,
whereas the movements of the body dance
are continuous and cyclic, and such move-
ments are the orny ones suitable for the
bodies of grown women.
Having explained her methods in de-
tail, with diagrams, she turns to diet.
Digestive troubles, she claims, are among
the chief enemies of human happiness,
and they are largely the result of unsuit-
able food. They are responsible for the
most improbable manifestations. The
slim, white lily of a girl who stands
coldly aloof from the male sex usually
becomes quite jolly and warm-hearted
after her chronic indigestion has been
cured. Mrs. Hornibrook’s dietary is on
the conventional side—plenty of vege-
tables, and particularly onions; a “cer-
tain amount of raw'vegetable food, and
not too much meat.”
Eat More Meat!
A disconcerting characteristic of dieti-
tians is their tendency to differ. Arthur
F. Kraetzer, M.D., author of Your Long-
suffering Stomach (Allen and Unwin;
35.), disagrees with the regimen pre-
scribed by Mrs. Hornibrook. An Ameri-
can who practises in his native land, he
has seen much of the evil effects of re-
liance on “physical-culture experts and
diet-racketeers.” He thinks we eat too
much sugar, roughage, cereals and fruit.
Particularly fruit.
Fruit is indigestible.... Healthy people
can eat moderate amounts without
trouble.... If a person is suffering from
intestinal toxaemia, fruit is one of the
things that must be cut out completely.
Meat is his cure-all; Stefansson, the
explorer, proved in his own person that
an exclusive diet of meat would prevent
and cure scurvy.
As a matter of fact, it is the easy
digestibility of meat, leaving little or no
residue to decompose, that makes it one
of the best of foods.
As for the cranks who eat no meat,
Wander into a vegetarian restaurant
some time and note the sallow, pasty,
pimply faces.
Nearly all doctors are enthusiastic
about meat. But who can dogmatise?
Shaw, the vegetarian, is 23 years older
than Stefansson, and he seems to be as
healthy, physically and mentally, as any-
one in the world,
Threats to Civilisation
In What Is Eugenics? (Lothian ; Base-
ment Book Co., Sydney; Is.) Major
Leonard Darwin sketches man’s rise
from the amoeba. How can the breed
be improved?
Though it obvi-
ously isn’t desir-
able that there
should be groups
of super-men tyr-
anmsing over in-
ferior castes, he thinks that congenital
imbeciles, invalids and criminals should
be eliminated, or diminished in numbers.
Epileptics, consumptives, etc., ought to
refrain or be restrained from having
children. Sterilisation will have to be
•considered seriously in many quarters
where the idea is now rejected. It is
being practised in California; “5000
operations were performed in the 18
years ending in 1926.” In view of
America’s crime record, which is no-
where worse, relatively to numbers, than
in California, it looks as if they may
have been sterilising the wrong people;
still it represents a beginning.
Nearly all the highly civilised races
are deteriorating ; there is a low birth-
rate among the intellectuals, a high birth-
rate among illiterates, morons and crimi-
nals. This state of affairs undoubtedly
did much to bring about the fall of
Egypt, Greece and Rome in ancient
times, and it has contributed to the de-
cline of modern Spain.
Insanity Can Be Cured
Isabel Hutton, M.D., author of The
Last of the Taboos (Heinemann; 55.),
strikes a more hopeful note. She con-
tends, as a specialist, that most mental
and nervous disorders are curable. Her
remedy for the 10 per cent, of patients
in the California State Asylum who are
now being sterilised is treatment. The
public has a wrong outlook on cases of
the sort. The man who gets a nervous
breakdown from worry or overwork is
suspect among his friends for ever after,
while one who has been “certified” and
“locked up” is highly unlikely to get
either a wife or a job when he comes
out; and if he has a wife already there
are those who say she would be justi-
fied in refusing to risk living with him.
Yet
It can be said with confidence that acute
mental disease is every bit as curable as
any other acute illness, and it is even
possible that patients may go back to the
normal more completely than those suffer-
ing from purely physical ailments.
Every criminal lawyer should have this
book in his library ; also every Judge.
Summary • *
C. R. Mcßae, of the Teachers’ Col-
lege, Sydney, whose Concerning You and
Me has been published by the Oxford
University Press, Melbourne, deals with
all the above questions, but he doesn’t
dogmatise about any of them. He has
a charming, easy style and a sense of
humor —in point of fact, his love of fun
oftens gets the better of his desire tp im-
part information —and the tips he offers
seem to be founded on personal experi-
ence. He thinks most adults sleep too
much.
Napoleon kept quite fit on a ration of
five hours. At the other extreme was the
tramp who didn’t quite know what was,
wrong with him, but who reckoned it
must be insomnia, since he kept waking
up every two or three days.
whole book is written in this
blithesome vein, and it is sprinkled with
limericks, old and new, yet at bottom it
is profoundly serious. Mr. Mcßae’s aim
is to show why we act as we do—fight,
grow afraid, fall in love, pursue knowledge
and so on. He is outstandingly success-
ful in explaining the behavior of child-
ren, and his stories about them are appo-
site and revealing as well as good. The
chapter on why we laugh appealed most
to the writer, but they’re all interesting.
Red Page.
An Occasion—and Some Letters
On the 26th of this month the school-
house at Yana Glen, Victoria, will see
the unveiling of a tablet-portrait of
Joseph Furphy, otherwise “Tom Collins,”
author of “Such Is Life.” He was born
91 years ago in a shack on the site of
the schoolhouse.
The commencement of “Tom Col-
lins’s” reputation may be traced back to
("Red Page " continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Foundation of Confidence.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712C, G.P.O.
Men’s Sac Suits from 63/-
Discriminating men prefer to buy their suits at Anthony Horderns’
because they know they are getting the utmost value for their
money. For instance, the ready-to-wear Sac Suits illustrated
above are tailored in the latest style of All-Wool Materials, and
pre-shrunk English linings are used throughout. These Suits
have been tailored in our own workrooms and are guaranteed to
keep their shape. In Fine Indigo Serges.
Prices 63/-, 69/6, 79/6, 89/6, 95/-, 105/-
In Plain Grey Worsteds. Prices 69/6, 79/6, 95/-
In Fancy Blue, Grey or Brown tonings.
Prices 63/-, 69/6, 79/6, 95/-, 105/-, 119/6
Men’s Flannel Suits, 45/-
Just the thing for week-ends and leisure hours! Men’s Flannel
Suits, featuring the chalk striped effects which are quite new
and very smart. Navy or Dark Brown grounds with neat stripes.
Tailored in our best style with double-breasted coat. Two-piece.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 45/-
Flannel Slacks from 11/9
Men s Flannel Slacks are an absolute necessity for their Summer
Wardrobe. Comfortable All-\l/00l Flannel Trousers, cut and
made from plain Grey Flannel in Mid or Light Grey. Available
in several qualities.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, pair . . 11/9, 13/6, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-
MEN’S WORK TROUSERS
from 8/11 per pair
We cut and make all our Work Trousers in our own workrooms
and every pair is guaranteed to give satisfactory wear. Please
state waist and leg . . . also your preference for side or cross
pockets. Strong Cotton Tweeds.
B/11, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6
Hard Wearing Australian Woollen Tweeds.
Prices 10/6, 13/6, 16/6
Fine Indigo Serges. Prices 18/9, 21/-, 25/-
Plain Grey Worsteds. Prices 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
® Men s ft ear Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
Style and Value In Men’s Fashions
Even though the price tugs are so modest, Anthony
Horderns’ name is sufficient to show that there is
genuine QUALITY in their Men’s Wear. On style, rugged
wear, and low prices . . . Anthony Horderns* have built
their reputation.
Popular as
Ever.
Golf Shirts
611
The Shirt illustrated is of Anthony
Horderns’ own make. Featured in
a reliable British Poplin in Check
and Striped effects in tonings of
Blue, Grey and Fawn. Double cuffs
and two soft collars to match ensure
extra wear. Sizes 14 to 1 inch
neck.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, ea., 6/11
Broadend Neckties in shades of
Grey, Fawn or Blue. Price . . 4/3
“Hordura” quality Cashmere Half
Hose. Prices 2/11, 3/6
Reliable in wear and available in
tonings to match other outer wear.
French Braces. Price, pair . . 4/6
The
“BRICKFIELD
Men’s
HAT
19 7 6
A perfect companion to
your new Spring Suit . . .
The “Brickfield” Hat is
featured in Pure Fur Felt
and is finished with a silk
lining to tone. Popular
snap brim shape of medium
width. Grey or Fawn
tonings. All sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 19/6
# Men’s Mercery—Ground
Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all seaports in the
Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.
*
%
USE THE D.P.S.
If inconvenient to pay cash, Anthony Horde* Deposit
Purchase System is at your service. This service is particu-
larly useful for buying Christmas Gifts.
Ideal for Spring Wear
“TREE” BRAND SUPER
HANDCRAFT SHOES
SMS
I'LL CROW
37e
It’s their finer details that make “Tree” Brand
Super Handcraft Shoes so unusual at 3 7/6 pair.
They are made of genuine imported Gorse Calf
in the new Bespoke model. Every pair is
neatly perforated and punched and the wide
welts and stitched heels ensure the utmost com-
fort. Full and half sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 3 7/6
® Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Boa 2712 C, G.P.O.


Modern speeds w Braking power
have keen mating cat tijhei too fndt /
K. ■“'
MW
•••■.'*
P?
m
p
• v 1 * 3
3*3
V :''- •
riiW
tyr-
-7
m
m m
O'wm
GOODYEAR SOLVES THE PROBLEM with
Yesterday's tyres were never built
to stand the punishment of to-day's
driving conditions!
So Goodyear engineers set out to
make an improved tyre to match in
performance the improved motor
cars.
New treads, new compounds were
tried. Tyres were ground on the
cruellest racing grindstones the
laboratories could devise. One tyre,
the "G-3 " weathered it far better
than others.
Then the Goodyear test fleet did its
worst... speeding to 50, jamming on
the brakes, without a let-up, 24 hours
a day—and the "G-3 " weathered
that*
The Goodyear engineers had won
•.. and found the finest tyre Good-
year ever built.
The "G-3” has the non-skid blocks
in the centre of the tread, where
modern driving conditions demand
them for traction and safety. And
there are 16% more of these blocks.
It has a wider, flatter tread with
more rubber in it —an average of
2 pounds more per tyre! More road
contact, more grip.
The famous Supertwist Cord, extra-
durable and extra-elastic, handles
the extra strain of this wider,
heavier tread on the sidewalls,
easily and safely.
The "G-3” gives you 43%> more
non-skid mileage at no extra
costl See it at your Goodyear
dealer’s!
%NEW
5E
«
: , ■■■
—j
■f:
p
m
m
m
0j
i
i
i
1
Briefly —here's
what you get in
the New "G»3"
More non - skid
blocks.
Wider riding ribs.
Flatter, wider ,
thicker tread.
Pounds more rubber
: n the tread.
Supertwist Cord
carcass.
43% more non-skid
mileage at no
extra cost!
Tread prints of old and tie iv
tread slunv how new tread is
widened with more blocks
of rubber against the ground
3*
5-Cl6-34
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


&
l
HOME
'Diet Sue 3
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT
To enhance still further the comfort and popularity of the P & O Branch
Service Steamers, extensive improvements are being made to the "Bara-
dine," "Balranald," "Bendigo" and "Barrabool."
All cabins on "A" deck and a number on "B” deck are being re-arranged
and refurnished with modern wardrobes or chest of drawers, and new type
wash basins. In addition the forward Lounge and the Smoking Room are
being enlarged and refurnished. These improvements combined with
moderate fares, excellent menus and faultless service offer passengers the
ultimate in overseas travel comfort.
S.S. Baradine will be in Sydney from 13th to 15th September and from
21st to 25th September. Inspection is invited.
S. S. BARADINE
leaves Sydney Sept 25
S. S. BALLARAT
leaves Sydney Oct. 20
Fares from
£3B
Subject to Exchange
S. S. BARRABOOL
leaves Sydney Nov. 10
S.S. BENDIGO
leaves Sydney Nov. 24
2*l
ippim
mi
7$
w 4:
= *T gg»
Principal Agents:
Gilchrist. Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 O'Connell St., Sydney
Tel.: B 6701
PsO
Joint Passenger Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Union House, George St., Sydney
Tel.: B 7511
BRANCH SERVICE
a letter which he wrote from Sheppar-
ton to the editor of The Bulletin in
April, 1897:
Circumstances compel me to solicit a
private reply of two or three words only.
I have just finished writing a full-sized
novel'; title, “Such Is Life”; scene,
Riverina and northern Victoria; temper,
democratic; bias, offensively Australian.
Now what publishing firm should I com-
municate with—Melbourne preferably, but
not necessarily? I am absolutely in the
dark- here, and have no other reference.
A. G. Stephens, then editor of the Red
Page, replied telling Furphy to forward
“the animal for inspection.” It arrived,
and Stephens duly sent Furphy a letter
containing his opinion:
I have conscientiously waded through
NS As regards style, honestly, I do
not think I can improve much, if at all.
Yours is not quite up to date—a trifle long-
winded, maybe; we rap out shorter sen-
tences nowadays, and lay more stress on
sense-and-sound antithesis—but l fancy it
is better than the usual up-to-date.
I am in the habit of classifying MS.
as “worthless,” “tolerable,” “fair,” “good”
or “very good.” “Such Is Life” is good.
It seems to me fitted to become an Aus-
tralian classic, or semi-classic, since it em-
balms accurate representations of our
character and customs, life and scenery,
which, in such skilled and methodical
forms, occur in no other book I know.
....But I do not think it would .find a
quick sale or an extensive sale.... I
should expect for it a slow, dropping sale,
largely among men over 40 —“old hands,”
who could grow young again as they read.
By-and-bye, I think it would establish itself
as a standard book of Australian reminis-
cences—but that would take time.
“Archibald and Macleod,” as Stephens has
explained elsewhere, “were proprietors of
The Bulletin at that time: Archibald
smelt the book and did not like it —too
long and too slow: Macleod was content
to take Archibald’s opinion. Furphy
maintained a gentle and unrelaxing strain
upon the manager of The Bulletin’s
book publications.” This was Stephens
himself, who at last, on October 26,
1899, was able to write to Furphy:
(i Just a line to put you out of suspense.
“Such Is Life” goes—past two bosses —
and we’ll print first chance —early next
year.
But that year went by and nothing hap-
pened. Furphy wrote (27 /1 / ’01):
I hate to pester a man while he is writing
out his sermon, or sneaking on wild
turkeys, or taking down a speech in short-
hand, or steering eight tons of wool down
on a punt, or carrying out any such
weighty task —nevertheless, I am con-
strained to refer to y0u....1f publication
be further postponed by reason of the
unseemly tonnage of the work, revision
would certainly be advisable... .On the
other hand, if it has got lost through a
crack, or if the office has pawned it and
spent the 7s. 6d. in hearing the chimes
at midnight, then I have only to say that
I’ve had worse misfortunes before, and
hope to have worse still before I g 0....
Therefore I beseech you in the name of
the Prophet—what has become of “S.
Is L.?”
He wrote again a couple of months
later: —
Saul, we are told, inquired of the Lord,
and the Lord answered him not. Hard
luck for Saul, as he couldn’t accomplish
a personal interview except at ruinous
cost. But we move. Under conditions
somewhat analogous, I have been able to
arrange for a pilgrimage to the Sanctuary
of The Bulletin. So I will meet thee at
Phillipi (the name, by the way, is not
inapt). And this is merely to prevent
any superstitious alarm which might be
caused by my apparition gliding into the
Tabernacle at a time when your nerves
will naturally be unstrung by the obla-
tions proper to Easter.
After the visit to Sydney Stephens got
this:
As we agreed, contraction proper is im-
possible ; the operation must be performed
as if you would cut an ocean liner in two,
then take a portion out of the centre, and
deftly stick the ends together, making a
tight, seaworthy brig Pray commend
me to the boys severally. I have yet to
write to Archibald and V.J.D.
The MS. was reduced by cutting from
the middle about a third, and this, with
some other portions excised, was later
elaborated to become “Rigby’s Romance.”
October 18, 1901, finds Furphy sending
to Stephens the last sections of the re-
vised MS., “typed to a comma”
(Stephens’s words). “Night after night
he tap-tap-tapped, following mechanical
days in his brother’s Shepparton Imple-
ment Works.” It arrived at The Bulle-
tin office accompanied by the dithy-
ramb :
Herewith, last chapter of “S. Is L.”
Selah! Avaunt! To-night my heart is
light; no dirge will I upraise, But waft
the angel on her flight with a paean of
old days! Now for a good roll in a dusty
place, and a thorough shake.
It was well into 1903 before Furphy
received the first completed copies of
the book, with a letter from Stephens:
I have bound 500, but have no hope of
selling them for some time. Nothing is
very saleable just now. Your whole affair
is a curious instance of the power of that
dead and gone thing conscience. The
book’s so good that it has got itself printed
against foreknowledge and predestination
absolute that it’ll have a darned slow sale.
Furphy afterwards wrote his view of
the matter thus:
As a chastening experience there is noth-
ing to surpass the discipline of waiting on
publishers with a little thing of your own
in your hand and a hangdog expression on
your face. The slow disillusionment is
more spiritually enlightening than any
actual misfortune which may be met by a
text or a swear.
On. the first page of Stephens’s letter
sending Furphy copies of the book there
is a rough prophetic drawing, “the his-
torical picture of 2002.” It depicts in
the foreground a “drinking fountain and
dog-trough in memory of J.F.” In the
background is shown the Shepparton
ironfoundry with a “bust of J.F.” and an
inscription to him. On one side stands a
“stall with guidebooks to Shepparton
and J.F.,” and a “stream of pilgrims”
goes towards the foundry. Stephens’s
estimate of the work and its prospects is
from the beginning astonishingly ade-
quate, and now another of his prophe-
cies, humorously embodied in this crude
drawing, is, in effect, to be fulfilled
(tardily enough, but befofe 2002) in the
gathering at Yarra Glen this month.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
A Frozen Asset
Stay-at-home Britons think of Aus-
tralia as a land of tropical heat and
drought. The news that it snows oftener
here than in any part of the U.K. pro-
vokes polite incredulity in the average
Englishman; and if he were told that
within easy reach of some of our chief
cities there are facilities for winter
sports equal to those of the Swiss
Engadine he would think his leg was
being pulled. In point of fact, relatively
few Australians realise that Barrington
Tops, for example, which is only 60 miles
n.-w. from Newcastle, and which is in
almost the same latitude as Cairo, has
regular winter snow. It is frequented by
members of the Newcastle Ski Club, and
will shortly become available to Sydney
ski-ers by cheap week-end aeroplane trips.
Mount Donna Buang, 60 miles from Mel-
bourne, has cleared courses, and holds
weekly ski races throughout the winter,
These, and other relevant facts, are
revealed in the Australian and N.Z. Ski
Year-Book,, which is published, in con-
junction, by bodies representing close on
50 Australasian ski clubs under the
general editorship of Stewart Jamieson,
a Sydney barrister. The book sum-
marises ski-ing activities all over the
world, but its significance to most Aus-
tralians is economic rather than sporting.
Here is a development which, with the
right publicity, should be as profitable to
the Eastern States as it has been during
the past quarter of a century to Switzer-
land. The Ski Year-Book is turned out
as a labor of love by amateur clubs and
editors, and has no connection with any
tourist bureau, but every Australian and
M.L. organisation for the encouragement
of the tourist trade could make profitable
use of it. If copies were sent to the
luxury hotels of Europe and the U.5.A...
and put in the saloons of liners and tour-
ist ships, not only would many overseas
misconceptions about the Commonwealth
be dispelled, but a lot of overseas capi-
tal might be attracted.
D.
A Satchel of Books
John Lane has published at 7s. 6d. an
admirable translation by Arthur and
Henrie Mayne of Pirandello’s The Naked
Truth and eleven other short stories.
Some of the master’s best-known studies
of Italian life are in this volume.
The hero of Netta Syrett’s Judgment
Withheld (Geoffrey Bles; 7s. 6d.) is
Mark Somersby. He marries Juliet, a
beauty with a past, and it takes him
some time to realise his mistake, and
leave her for Christina, his childhood
friend. Juliet, now an incurable invalid,
does the one decent act of her life by
passing out in time for them to get re-
spectably married. Juliet is well drawn
—passionate, selfish and undisciplined—
but the best character is Mimi, the
singer, courtesan, pervert and drug fiend,
whose love for Juliet ennobles her and
finally brings Juliet to her altruistic exit.
Laurence Oliver’s Family Parade and
The Grandmother, by Margaret Master-
man (both Nicholson and Watson ; 7s.
6d.), came to hand together. Each is
concerned with a grandmother: the first
a likeable old lady who is sick and tired
of being coddled and treated like a fool
by her children merely because she’s in
the eighties; the other a peevish and
overbearing tyrant. The efforts of Mrs.
Parberry (Family Parade ) to gain her
freedom, which she does eventually, are
entertainingly told, and there is a fresh-
ness about the book which makes it en-
joyable. The Grandmother is dull by
comparison. It is too long-drawn-out,
and none of the characters, barring, pos-
sibly, the granddaughter Kitty, is fully
developed.


pIHEOLP PAlt
Para
. sw »eir* SONS LTD SO,IH
S£PPE^ SF ' El ° u "
'i 8
at Jfefc ,
if i*
IweOidPai


The Bulletin
Vol. 55.—N0. 2847.
September 5, 1934.
IN THE CAVE OF ADULLANG.
“And everyone that was in distress and'everyone that was in debt and everyone that was discontented gathered themselves unto him” —and he promised them all “credits.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street. Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribere in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 64.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to
Country and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas : 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua,, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“GREATER THAN LENIN.”
Those who like variety in their politics
get plenty of it from J. T. Lang. When
Treasurer in the Storey Government he
had the Government Savings Bank Act
amended to admit of the receiving of
large deposits. Now he blames large
depositors, egged on by “Tories” and a
“banking ring,” for wrecking the bank
that he wrecked.
Promoted to the leadership, he shouted
that the electors would find him “free
from all traces of Bolshevism and
Communism —there is none of that wild
rubbish about me.” About the same time
the “Labor Daily,” of which he was a
director, was explaining that his party’s
policy was “nationalisation without com-
pensation, with workers’ control of banks
and large-scale industries.” It accused
the Communist party of “stealing these
planks from Labor.” Evidently realising
the necessity of explaining these things
away, the rage of Auburn said that
“every sane man” knew he would “at-
tempt nothing so idiotic as socialisation
of industry. It could only be done by
confiscation and force, and Labor stood
for neither.”
At the 1930 State election Lang prom-
ised the people some of the miracles he
is offering them now, especially work for
all and high prices for all produce, except
that the wonders were to be worked by
means of public borrowing. He had
been a pillar of the N.S.W. borrowing
policy since 1913, had never voted
against a Loan Bill, and had, as private
member, Treasurer for two years and
Premier-Treasurer for two years, assisted
to increase the State debt by £168,000,000,
much of which was flung away. “If the
State is to progress,” he said when Pre-
mier-Treasurer in 1925, “then loans must
be raised, with a consequent annual in-
crease in the public debt.” But investors
seemed nervous at the end of 1930,
though in thundering against reduction of
Parliamentary and civil-service pay he
had proclaimed the depression “a
Nationalist fake,” “a state of mind.” It
was necessary to soothe them, and he
did his best.
Of this people can be assured. The
Australian Labor movement will not permit
for one moment any of its leaders to be
associated with a policy of repudiation.
The Labor party sets its face against all
repudiation, whether it is of the kind
practised by Premier Bavin or the kind
preached by Alderman Garden.
Alderman Garden had been a Com-
munist candidate for Sydney in 1925.
The end of 1931 found him a Lang
Labor candidate for Cook, and he is out
for this electorate, also as a Lang Labor-
ite, again. Fawning on his patron, he
said “Lang is greater than Lenin.”
A few months after “the Labor party
set its face” against repudiation of the
Garden sort, it adopted by resolution a
plan of “government by regulations, such
regulations to aim at the establishment in
three years of a socialised State.” The
“plan” was dropped when it had lived
only a day, but Mr. Lang said:
You must get among the people; you
must point out to them the benefits of
socialisation; you must make them ready
to receive it. Nobody is keener on our
objective than I am.
He proceeded to advocate the “national-
isation” of banking on lines recom-
mended by Lenin in 1917 as a “first step
towards socialisation.” He had already
thrown his anti-repudiation pledge over-
board by proposing to a conference
of Premiers that they should “pay
no further interest to British bond-
holders until Britain has dealt with Aus-
tralian overseas debts in the same manner
as she settled her own foreign debt with
the U.5.A.,” and “reduce interest on
Government borrowings to 3 p.c.” Get-
ting no co-operation in any quarter,
he defaulted on a 3 p.c. British loan,
incidentally exposing Australia to the
danger of a boycott of its produce
by its greatest customer, even while
he was paying American bondholders
£5 Bs. Bd. p.c. He defaulted also
on debts (£2,600,000 worth) due to
the Government Savings Bank when
alarmed depositors were besieging it,
and it closed its doors.
Tamed by this disaster, he handed over
the wreck to the Commonwealth Bank,
crawled to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for accommodation, and signed the
Premiers’ plan. But before long he had
torn up his undertaking and was default-
ing again ; and he rushed from one crazy
proceeding to another. He tried to extort
a 10 p.c. tax from mortgagees while
exempting his own mortgage on the
“Labor Daily” ;* he tried to sock
employees with a 55.-in-the-£ wages
tax, though he had fulminated against
Bavin’s tax of 3d. in the £. His
sharp medicine for the civil service,
to which he had promised repeal of the
“iniquitous” Bavin Act under which pay
was reduced one-eighth, was attempted
reduction to £5OO p.a. of all salaries in
excess of that figure. He achieved a
deficit of £13,000,000 in one year (1931-
32), while N. S. Wales lost millions of
pounds in fleeing capital and thousands
of citizens sought refuge from him in
other States. Civil war was looming up
as a dread possibility when he was pro-
videntially kicked out of office, having
precipitated his own downfall by trying to
associate the King in his rebellion against
Commonwealth law.
Now, the loan market being for ever
closed against his crowd, this dangerous
demagogue is frantic for “nationalising
banking” and “socialising credit,” be-
cause, among other reasons,
Deposits in private banks are never safe,
being always liable to a run Private
banks do not hold sufficient cash to
honor their obligations to their depositors.
He himself, as Treasurer in, one
Ministry and leader of three others, kept
the N.S.W. Government accounts in a
private bank, and it came out in Willis v.
Lang that in his own business transac-
tions he gave private banks preference
over the Commonwealth Bank ; never-
theless he and his mob would transfer
all deposits to the credit of depositors in
the Commonwealth Bank, where they will
be supported by the entire credit of Aus-
tralia, estimated by the Government
Statistician at £2,500,000,000.
That would give him and his mob “the
control of credit,” and with credit they
would do “in the public interest” what
private banks do in their own interest.
When you put £lOO in the bank, on the
strength of that deposit the bank will lend
to its customers £lOOO, and you can
multiply that into any figure you like. If
you put in a fixed deposit of £lOO,OOO, the
bank can lend a million.
No bank could lend a million on the
“security” of a debt of £lOO,OOO without
going bung. No banker would attempt
it if he valued his liberty. But the pros-
pect of a “nationalised” banking mono-
poly trying it is doubtless alluring to
knaves and fools. And it has a certain
appeal to the discontented and the
wretched, who tell themselves they
“might as well ‘give it a fly’—things
can’t be worse.” But things can be
worse, and will be if these crazy ideas of
banking and “credits” prevail. “As a
dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool re-
turneth to his folly,” and if this vain
fool is allowed to have his head the
whole structure of public and private
finance will come crashing down. His
Savings Bank smash will be nothing to it.
THE SALARY GRAB.
The Bulletin has been asked to publish
the names of Ms.H.R. who voted for
the salary grab last year. It is pleased to
comply with so reasonable a request, and
it suggests that every member standing
for re-election should be questioned as to
whether he voted for the grab, and why.
It should be premised that the salary
was £BOO a year when members of the
1931 vintage were elected, and had been
reduced to £750 by the Financial Emer-
gency Act, 1932. There was no mention
of any addition in the Budget speech, nor
was any provision made for it in the
Financial Relief Bill as drafted and in-
troduced. That measure, which embodied
the main provisions of the Budget, was
debated on the second reading from 3.11
p.m. on October 19 till 12.40 p.m. on
October 20, with only two stops—from
6.15 p.m. to 8 p.m. and from 11.43 p.m. to
12.15 a.m. On the 20th, a Friday, there
was no pause even for breakfast, though,
of course, members individually wan-
dered out and had that meal.
At 9.26 a.m. the bill was about to
be reported, with amendments, when
G. W. Martens, the member for Her-
bert, moved that it be recommitted
“to have the question of members’
allowances considered.” Mr. Martens
said, in effect, that the screw had
been £lOOO p.a. and that the reduc-
tion to £750 had withered his heart. He
was supported by David Riordan, the
member for Kennedy, who mentioned
with deep feeling that he had cut out
breakfast, “because I can’t afford it,” and
had refused invitations to “gaieties” for
the same reason. Mr. Riordan is a large
man who seemingly enjoys the pleasures
of the table, and when he had concluded
these artless revelations there was scarcely
a dry eye in the House.
Mr. Speaker interposed with the ob-
jection that there were defects in the pro-
cedure. These having been straightened
out at the instance of the Prime Minis-
ter, Rowland James, the member for
Hunter, took up the running, explaining
that “it would be cowardly on my part
to hold out my hand and accept the pro-
posed restoration if 1 were not prepared
to support the hon. members for Ken-
nedy and Herbert.” Tears flowed again
as Mr. James described the straits to
which he had been reduced in the service
of a callous country ; “I owe approxi-
mately £2OO and my home is mortgaged.”
(The State A.L.P. executive neverthe-
less read the account of this domestic
tragedy unmoved. It impounded Mr.
James’s increase and those of his fellow-
Langsters for electioneering purposes.)
Malcolm Cameron (Barker) spoke
strongly against any increase, “in view of
the position in which a great number of
taxpayers in my electorate are placed.”
He was supported by H. K. Nock
(Riverina), J. M. Gabb (Angas), F. H.
Stacey (Adelaide), T. H. Scholfield (Wan-
non) and others, notably G. J. Bell (Dar-
win), the Chairman of Committees, who
scornfully reminded members that they
had been asked to hasten the passage of
the measure so that pensioners and
others might benefit “next pay-day,” and
here it had been delayed for hours so that
they might raise their own salaries. The
Prime Minister denied that the proceed-
ing was irregular or that there would be
any delay in the payments to pensioners.
The motion for recommittal was put
and carried by 44 to 16. In committee
again long new clauses, which had obvi-
ously been prepared hours before, were
agreed to on the voices. They provided
that members should get another £75 a
year apiece, that the amount to be
divided among Ministers should be in-
creased from £10,710 to £12,240, and that
the President and the Speaker, the Chair-
man of Committees and the leader of
the Opposition in each House should
share in the good things to be furnished
—to the extent altogether of £9765 p.a.
The division list is appended.
For the Grab:
U.A.P. members Lyons, Parkhill, Perkins,
White, Marr, Guy, Francis, Casey, Stewart,
Gardner, Price, Dein, Groom, E. J. Har-
rison, Holman, Hutchinson, Jennings, Lane
and J. Lawson.
C.P. members Abbott, Corser, R. Green,
McNicoll, Thompson, Thorby and Hunter.
Scullin-Labor members Scullin, Baker,
Blakeley, Forde, A. Green, Holloway, G.
Lawson, Makin, Maloney, Martens, Riley,
Riordan and Watkins.
Lang-Labor members Beasley, Gander,
James, Rosevear and Ward.
Against the Grab:
U.A.P. members Bell, Blacklow, Cameron,
Dennis, Fenton, E. F. Harrison, Hutchin,
Maxwell, Mcßride, Nairn and Stacey.
C.P. members Gregory, Nock and
Prowse.
Independents Gabb and Watson.
Latham (U.A.P.) and Collins (C.P.) paired
for the grab; Hawker (U.A.P.) and Schol-
field (U.A.P.) against it.
Messrs. Cameron, Gabb and Watson
are not standing for re-election. The 15
members associated with them in resist-
ing this forenoon raid on the public
purse, which was apparently plotted at
midnight or thereabouts, are out again,
and most of them are being hard pressed.
Electors of their way of thinking should
not let any of these faithful public ser-
vants be sacrificed to inertia on their
part.
TRANSPORT TYRANNY.
From S. A. Maddocks, N. S. Wales
Commissioner of Road Transport:
With reference to articles on transport mat-
ters published in The Bulletin, 1 have no
desire to enter into a controversy as to the
criticism, but I should be glad if you would
give prominence to corrections.
“A fine is prescribed for the citizen bringing
his neighbor to work in a car” (B. 25/7/’34).
The owner of a private car may carry whom-
soever he wishes, provided he does not make
a charge for service or operate his vehicle
for hire.
“A tax [is prescribed] for the charitable
organisation taking honorary entertainers to a
sanatorium.” No tax is imposed. On the con-
trary, my department issues permits, on appli-
cation, free of any charges.
“ ’Bus services and delivery services they ban.”
My department operates 22 omnibus services
in the Sydney metropolitan area, and 142
services (262 omnibuses) are operated by private
owners. In October, 1931, before the Trans-
port Co-ordination Act, there' were 200 vans
and 37,266 motor-lorries registered. At present
there are 2049 vans and 49,960 motor-
lorries registered. There ard 3000 more goods-
carrying vehicles on N. S. Wales roads than at
any previous time in the history of the State.
“‘A taxi passenger occupies 81 sq. ft. of
thoroughfare, a tram passenger only 6 sq. ft."
Sheer nonsense.” The figures were taken out in
1929 by the Canadian Electrical Railway
Association. A later test made over an 18-hour
period in a section of street in Brooklyn
0.6 miles in length proved that, measured
by passengers per vehicle, the efficiency of the
tramcar was approximately 135 times that of
a taxi-cab and immeasurably greater than that
of the average motor-car.
It is true that tourist vehicles may operate
freely within a 50-mile radius of Sydney
(B. 8/8/’34). One of the first administrative
acts of the present Government was to extend
the area from 20 miles to 50 miles. But no
attempt whatever is made to restrict tourists
visiting the Blue Mountains to travel by train
or Government ’bus. No Government ’buses
whatever are run to the Mountains, and, in
order that motor-cars operated by the Gov-
ernment Tourist Bureau might not enjoy an
advantage over those run by private enterprise,
the bureau is voluntarily paying charges on the
same scale as those imposed on private services.
There is no restriction whatever on visitors
to Jenolan. Tourists are conveyed there daily
in private vehicles and in commercial passenger
vehicles operated by private companies.
Some of the statements to which Mr.
Maddocks takes exception were made in
articles dealing with the generic habits
of “Australia’s new lot of oppressors
called Transport Regulation Depart-
ments.” It is good to know that
the N. S. Wales Transport Depart-
ment does not prohibit private citizens
from carrying their friends to work. Pre-
sumably the department suffered from a
lapse of memory or something when it
wrote to a citizen saying that he had
been seen picking up a lady neighbor
each morning in his private car and
carrying her from Five Dock to Railway
Square, Sydney, and that he must desist.
Transport officials swarm everywhere,
and possibly there are two N.S.W. Trans-
port Departments. Certainly a N.S.W.
Transport Department got a Canterbury
man fined in February for picking up
three unemployed Diggers who had
hailed him on the road and asked for a
lift from Lakemba to Canterbury —two
were his next-door neighbors. And there
was a man who put his friends and
camping-gear on a vehicle and took them
away for the Christmas holidays; he
was punished for the crime. Another,
late with his registration fee, being poor,
was fined and went to prison by default.
Mr. Maddocks assumes that every
vehicle registered is on the roads. This
is not the case, nor do new registrations
necessarily mean new vehicles at work.
Take the case of Alfred Mason, now be-
fore the department. Mr. Mason paid
£24 registration on a delivery vehicle
which has broken down. He wishes
to replace it during repair with a
lighter vehicle, transferring the registra-
tion temporarily. Mr. Maddocks’s de-
partment insists that Mr. Mason take out
a new registration and apply for a re-
fund when the old vehicle is back in
service.
If there is no banning of ’buses,
where have the private services gone?
Three years ago 276 ’buses plied to and
from Central Station alone. And if the
proceedings of the department are actu-
ally stimulating private road transport,
how comes it that wool transport over
the Blue Mountains has ceased? Then
we find the secretary of the Motor Van
Owners’ Association saying at a deputa-
tion on June 21:
In consequence of the road tax and the
Railway Department’s activities in relation
to furniture removal, privately-owned plant
valued at approximately £142,000, which
was specially constructed for the removal
business, is idle.
Is it seriously suggested that the deaf-
ening traffic-cumberers called trams in
Sydney are “efficient”? If so, the public
will require an interval for laughter.
The Blue Mountains and metropolitan
tourist position is best illustrated by the
fact that so soon as the new regulations
operated one of the biggest tourist con-
cerns put most of its plant up for sale.
Mr. Maddocks, whose tourist ’buses “do
not run to the Blue Mountains” (he
makes a fine distinction between motor
services and ’bus services), insists that
tourist vehicles “operate free of [taxa-
, tion] charge within a 50-mile radius”;
he is unaware of or has forgotten a letter
written to one of the tourist concerns at
the end of last year:
The exemption [i.e., from the crushing
road tax] is only applicable in respect of
bona fide tourist traffic, the rates of travel
for which have always been considerably
in excess of charges for regular services.
So that any tourist company which
keeps down charges to the public is
taxed.
It will be necessary for a permit to be
obtained for any trip made in competition
with existing services where the fare is
less than ordinary fare plus co-ordination
charge [i.e., road tax] of one penny per
passenger per mile.
Apropos of Mr. Maddocks’s closing
paragraph, will his department allow
private tourist companies to advertise
accommodation at the Caves House,
Jenolan, in connection with their tours,
and give them such facilities as will en-
able them to compete with the Govern-
ment Tourist Bureau on reasonable
terms?


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Inflation and Fascism.
From the second half of last century till
several years after the Armistice, the
slogan of the English-speaking revolu-
tionary socialist was “Blow after blow
till the capitalistic State is destroyed.”
Jt was believed that revolution could be
brought about by making extravagant
demands on employers and taxpayers,
and fomenting strikes if they weren’t
granted. When employers and taxpayers
proved unexpectedly tractable, the other
part of the programme was tried. But
every big strike of the past 25 years has
been a failurb, and in Britain complete
disillusionment came with the disastrous
British general strike of 1926.
Lenin was the first to discover that
the tempo of revolution could be
accelerated by debasing the currency.
The truth of his theory had been proved
in various parts of Western Europe be-
fore 1926, notably in Germany. He
sighed for bank smashes in the “capi-
talist’ 7 countries, while careful to point
out that bank smashes were not
enough. There have been many in the
U.S.A., but, though depositors and credi-
tors have suffered horribly, there has
been no general collapse. Of course, if
the stable banking systems of Britain and
Australia collapsed, the effects would be
far more dreadful; and in general ruin
the revolutionary leader finds his oppor-
tunity.
Ever since the coal strike and the
general strike failed the Left Wingers
of British Labor have been agitating for
the “nationalisation” of the Bank of Eng-
land. Mr. Lang’s latest plan is an imita-
tion of theirs. If the Commonwealth
Bank and credit-control were captured
there would be no need to legislate the
trading banks out of existence ; inflation
would eliminate them. Financial chaos
produces social chaos; then a dic-
tatorship comes, usually a proletarian
dictatorship. But except in Soviet
Russia, which went to unprecedented
lengths in the way of slaughtering or
exiling enemies, real and imagined, of
the ruling faction, proletarian dictator-
ships have been succeeded by Fascist
dictatorships. That stage would assur-
edly arrive in Australia if Lang had his
way ; it arrived in Germany, where the
Nazis have been only too successful in
exploiting the bitter memories left by
the inflation period. In Australia,
as elsewhere, there would have to be
some kind of dictatorship eventually, if
only for the purpose of checking the
bolting currency. And what sane Aus-
tralian wants a dictatorship?
*
Peace in the Pacific.
The “Asahi Shimbun,” a newspaper with
a reputation for being well informed,
states that Britain and Japan have nego-
tiated an agreement that will pledge each
country to respect the interests of the
other in Asia. Britain will recognise
Manchukuo and Japan’s right of free-
dom of action in North China ; Japan
will co-operate with Britain in South
China and respect British rights in
Malaya and India. The spokesman of
the Japanese Foreign Office denies that
an agreement has been made, but foreign
observers believe that “something is in
the offing.”
Britain and Japan had an alliance
which stood the test of two wars and
was abandoned only as a concession to
American feeling. Sympathy between
the two countries is based on their re-
spective insular positions and their rela-
tionships to disturbed Continental
peoples. If a non-aggression pact is to
succeed the alliance, the U.S.A. has
doubtless been informed, and may be-
come a party to it.
Peace is still the greatest of British
interests, and American interests, too;
but the situation in Manchukuo and
parts adjacent grows increasingly diffi-
cult. The latest bandit raid on the China
Eastern Railway has all the seeds of war
in it. Just when Manchukuo, backed by
Japan, is demanding control of the line,
partly to deal with the bandits, these
marauders have derailed and machine-
gunned a train, killed ten Japanese,
wounded 16 others and kidnapped
Japanese and Americans—two Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer men. Tiny red flags
and brassards labelled “Friends of the
Soviet” were found near the wreck.
There is, of course, no proof of Russian
complicity in that, but Moscow will
need all its boasted cleverness to avoid
trouble.
The Chain-store Issue.
From Alan Foley, vice-president Com-
monwealth Storekeepers and Traders’
Association, 169 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney :
The chain-store menace has been discussed
at all our association meetings and in some
trade papers; but it is to The Bulletin that
traders owe a debt of gratitude for bringing
this subject up for public discussion through
its columns.
Bulletin readers will be interested to know
that the Commonwealth Storekeepers and
Traders circularised candidates for the Com-
monwealth election asking them to express
their willingness, if elected, to vote in favor
of the passage of legislation that would have
the effect of curbing undue activities of chain
stores.
The replies indicate, in no uncertain measure,
that there is substantial unanimity of opinion
among all shades of political thought that the
time has arrived when something must be
done in the interests alike of general public,
manufacturer, wholesaler and retail distributor.
This knowledge is very heartening to our
members. The association is now engaged upon
the task of preparing a comprehensive report
on chain-store methods, and of suggesting
adequate forms of legislation, with the view
of securing the passage of such legislation
when the new Parliament assembles.
♦
Schools in Queensland.
“El V.”: The fine old grammar-school
system of Queensland is in its
death-throes. Originally, apart from
denominational colleges, these were the
only important secondary schools in the
North. Their nucleus was of lads from
stations and commercial and professional
families whose parents could afford to
pay fees. There was a leaven of scholar-
ship and bursary winners—it was not
hard for a youngster of average ability
to pay his own way through them. A
small Government subsidy eked out the
income.
In the early part of this generation
the schools were small. Brisbane Gram-
mar School, the largest, had about 200
pupils. The upper forms rarely num-
bered more than about a dozen boys,
and consequently they got individualised
tuition. The results were self-evident.
In my first year “Grammar” boys won
the Empire Essay prize against all the
schools of the Empire ; in sport they car-
ried off the Earl of Meath’s rifle-shooting
trophy against the schools of Britain,
Canada, Africa and India. They scooped
many of the prizes in the Sydney Univer-
sity Senior Examinations ; their football
captain went to England as a Rhodes
scholar to become England’s Rugby cap-
tain. In those days it was an unheard-of
thing for a B.G.S. boy to have to look for
a job when he left school. When war
broke out the old boys of my form
volunteered to a man immediately.
When the Ryan Government came into
power things changed. Despite the fact
that Government high schools were
being established, the grammar schools
were flooded with scholarship boys.
Crowded classrooms became the rule;
individual teaching went; standards
became lower, though a high average
was still maintained considering the diffi-
culties —certainly a better average than
most of the high schools reached,
though denominational schools became
real competitors in a way in which they
had never competed before. Now, the
Government has taken over Mary-
borough Grammar School, and proposes
to convert it into an ordinary free high
school. The other famous schools are
in danger.
There is plenty of room for these schools
to exist under the old tradition, but
democracy apparently must interfere and
become a leveller of intellects. Govern-
ment control is not likely to improve
these places under a department whose
chief inspector the other day deprecated
a suggestion that Oriental languages
should be taught in primary and second-
ary schools, because he thought the right
place for teaching them was a university
—a conclusion which would make 999
out of a thousand language-teachers
laugh a loud, hoarse laugh of derision.
♦
Forestry.
“Forester” discusses it:
Even though the ideal of national forestry
(B. 22/8/’34) may not mature for some time,
owing to constitutional difficulties, at least a
national outlook towards forestry will tend to
free it from existing fetters of ignorance, apathy
and local antagonism. By no means the only,
but the most recent, example is seen in N. S.
Wales.
The N.S.W. department had its genesis in a
tax-collecting and ranging branch, under con-
stantly changing control. It became self-con-
tained only 110 years after settlement.
Under all its different forms of control the
department has been a Cinderella service. Into
its field staff have been pitchforked people of
various sorts —some misfits, some good bush-
men, some with practical knowledge of local
timbers, very few conversant with the funda-
mentals of forestry. There was no technical
supervision until 1918. Not until a trained and
experienced field staff is available to handle
major field operations will the full benefit of
technical management be apparent.
Meantime the non-trained staff, many of
sterling worth, will give their most effective re-
maining service under technical direction. It is
only those among the untrained staff whose
better judgment is dazzled by the prospect of
becoming Commissioner through general upset
associated with political influence who do not
admit the need of a technical head.
The present suggestion that the control of
the N.S.W. department should be in the hands
of a clerical man is too staggering to contem-
plate. It is a direct negation of the policy
of 16 years ago, at a time when the need for
expert conservation of forests is urgent.
If The Bulletin can prevent the proposed
retrograde step in N. S. Wales it will make a
notable contribution to forestry advancement.
4
The Right to Kill.
According to Mr. J. C. Watson, presi-
dent of the N.R.M.A.,
Police action should be taken against
motorists who continue to flout the law by
overtaking and passing other vehicles when
nearing a curve or the crest of a hill,
Taken it never is, because in the pro-
foundly illogical mind of the Law, as
disclosed by the actions and statements of
policemen, counsel and Judges, the con-
verse of volenti non fit injuria doesn’t
apply.
Volenti obviously applies to a driver
who tears round a blind corner, or over
a blind rise, and injures, say, a pedes-
trian ; the driver was asking for trouble.
So if the pedestrian gets killed the driver
should be indicted for murder, on the prin-
ciple that a wrongdoer is legally respon-
sible for all the consequences of his act.
On this principle in N. S. Wales within
the recollection of many now living a
man was convicted of murder and
hanged because he fought with and
killed a companion in a police-court cell,
both being too drunk to know what they
were doing. The Law rightly said that
drunkenness was no defence.
As showing how the Law regards car-
murderers, at the Stafford (England)
Assizes last month a young woman was
indicted for manslaughter. She and a
friend had got drunk and, while driving
without lights after dark, had knocked
down two people and killed a third. She
got six months —in the second division!
/About the same time Sir William
Jowitt, K.C., appeared in the Appeal
Court to argue that the damages (£25,000)
given against M.-G.-M. in the Yous-
soupoff case were excessive. He
gave the example of a woman injured for
life in a motor-car accident, and awarded
£2OOO damages.
No one dreamt of suggesting that the
woman injured for life had been awarded
too little: it was a motor-car case.
The same illogical point of view with
regard to injuries done by persons, drunk
and otherwise, in cars is taken in Aus-
tralia. Till Attorneys-General, Judges,
Crown Prosecutors and Police Chiefs
get rid of the notion that drivers of
expensive cars have some sort of legal
right to kill and maim, a few thugs will
continue to bring the general body of
drivers into hatred and contempt, and
motor vehicles will go on destroying 800
Australians, and more, per annum.
4
“Weaver Won’t Wobble.”
R. W. D. Weaver, Minister of Works
and Health in the anti-socialist Sydney
Government, is tightening his hold on
the State abattoirs at Homebush. Last
year he appointed the office accountant
as Commissioner, with other accountants
to advise him.
Now, it is proposed to refuse the use
of the abattoirs to private killers, which
amounts to the creation of a Govern-
ment meat monopoly. However, “the
commission’s trading powers will be
withdrawn.” They have never been
exercised, but had the commission
desired to set up butchers’ shops under
the present law it could have done so.
The new system will nevertheless create
machinery whereby a socialist Govern-
ment could force the saleyards out of
existence and make open-market com-
petition a dead letter. The commission
will be able to compel the people of
Sydney to take meat at a wholesale price
to be determined by it.
The amending legislation will also em-
power the commission to introduce the
chain system of killing and dressing meat.
This is regarded by the Minister as much
more efficient and economical than the
method now in operation at the works.
Opinion is fiercely divided about the
chain system even among experts. Mr.
Weaver is not an expert—he is merely a
politician. But, being the chief supporter
of the State lottery system in the Cabinet,
he is, perhaps, willing to gamble in meat
control.
4
Film Quotas.
“10-2-4”: If the films are to become
entertainment for intelligent people, they
must become international. It was
while American movies were blatantly
American that Hollywood became a
term of reproach, and the English-
ism of most English films was threat-
ening to ruin the name of Elstree when
the depression brought about a change.
Dr. Keith Barry interviewed Douglas
Fairbanks for the Melbourne “Herald”
last month on the lot, near London,
where “The Private Life of Don Juan”
is being produced. Said Fairbanks,
There’s a Frenchman, there’s a Hun-
garian, there’s an American, here are some
Englishmen. Films to-day are international.
And it is at this stage in their develop-
ment that some Australian States are
talking of quotas! The effect of quotas
will naturally be to Australianise our pic-
tures. That may suit Australian audi-
ences, though it is significant that in
Britain practically all the genuine British
films have been reviled by British critics
and have failed to make money. Judg-
ing by the experience of England, France,
and Germany, if Australia starts turn-
ing out films which are definitely Aus-
tralian in treatment, casting, etc., Aus-
tralian audiences will neglect them for
American films. In any case the local
market is not enough. If our film in-
dustry is to survive it will have to make
pictures that appeal to the entire Eng-
lish-speaking world. In other words, in-
ternational pictures.
Quotas represent a retrograde step in
another direction ; they tend to curtail
the tourist trade. With ever-improving
travel facilities, and with stable govern-
ment (an asset which isn’t enjoyed by
many European or American States these
days), Australia has a great chance to
attract holiday-makers. It will have a
better chance of doing it if it desists from
taxing tourists ; a better chance still if our
Governments let it be known that they
aren’t shutting any amusement-purveyors
out: that they are in the market for all
the producers, scenario-writers, actors
and actresses that.care to do business
with us.
4
Cold Lamb and Apple Sauce.
The national scheme to cheer the shiver-
ing English with Christmas gifts of frozen
lamb has its points.
Dr. Page has sent a lamb to Walter
Elliot, who is Scotch and a Benedict, and
some genius has posted one off to Lar-
wood. This is, indeed, the Christmas
spirit, though it is hard to believe that
the pride of Nottingham eats anything so
insipid as lamb. A large hunk of blood-
filled and muscular bullock, shot through
with sinews and gristle, sounds more like
the natural Larwood diet. However, even
if the lamb itself proves poor pabulum
for a bodyliner, we have the assurance of
another authority that he will find book-
lets to be showered on his native country
“a wonderful form of advertisement for
Australia.”
Scenes of a sunny land were always
appreciated during an English winter,
says the enthusiastic propagandist, which
shows how observant some people can be.
Most Australians carry away from the
fog-ridden Old Land a firm conviction
that the most appreciated prospect there
around Yuletide is that of a wide expanse
of hot rum with a bit of lemon on top
of it.
The puzzle to an ordinary man must be
why the scheme is restricted to lamb. The
N.Q. and Westralian goat industry has
long been languishing. If a Goat for
Niemeyer Movement could be started in
the Labor party, which is paying so much
attention to the Bank of England, it
would show that the Larwood gesture of
the sheep people had not been sown on
barren ground. The gift scheme even
might work in politics. A sleek young
carcass delivered at every home on Sep-
tember 14, with an artistic label saying
“This is what Lang gives you—Vote for
U.A.P. and No Kid,” might turn the
scales on the fifteenth. And an exchange
of presents between Earle Page and the
Victorian C.P. bosses, and between the
Communists and the Douglasites, would
be of immense value in commercialising
wet gidya, prickly-pear, Noogoora burr
and other well-known but neglected Aus-
tralian products.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Inner Temple”: “Yes, there is an
Australian accent,” said James Anderson,
an adjudicator in the elocution sections
at the City of Sydney Eisteddfod, to an
interviewer last week. “All over Aus-
tralia I have found it, from Perth to
Sydney.”
Australians say “boi” instead of buy,
they very nearly say “sigh” instead of say,
and they say “deown” instead of down.
A queer fact which he didn’t mention is
that pur accent is becoming more marked
with every generation. Thus, Gavan
Duffy and Rich, of the High Court, talk
like K.B.D. Judges; some of their
“And, remember now, no bad language or suggestive remarks!”
learned brethren have strong Australian
accents. Ernest Lamb, K.C., is old
enough to have a voice like a London
silk ; nearly all the younger K.Cs. have
Australian voices. It is the same in the
other professions and in business. This
seems to dispose of the theory that Aus-
tralians talk like their often illiterate
forebears, and goes to prove that the
accent is “in the air,” as the saying goes.
In other words, it has something to do
with the climate.
* * * *
“Old Lag”: A pleasant breath of the
old days was wafted back by the dis-
covery at Gosford (N.S.W.) of official
documents dating back a century or
more. One which particularly intrigues
me is a letter to the Colonial Secretary
of the time requesting the appointment
of an official scourger, and stressing the
importance of a “proper person” being
assigned to the duty. There are few
more interesting pages in N.S.W. history
than those dealing with scourgers. When
the memory of Macarthur is fading and
the glory of Macquarie is a dying ember
I shall revisualise the periodical proces-
sions of the conscientious Major Morris-
sey up the Coal River in whaleboats, the
first of which was fitted with a triangle
at the bows, with a scourger sitting, ready
for action, on the for’ard thwart. Imagine
the major’s cheery cry, “Any for a flog-
ging to-day?” <jnd the rush of farm
children following their parents down to
the boats to see the assigned servants get
their dozen or so!
* * *
“Y. Kik”: Somebody told somebody
else that if somebody got hold of a
million used Melbourne tram tickets
before a certain date a cripple girl would
get £1 a week from the Tramway Board.
Melbourne streets
began to look
cleaner than at
any time in their
whole hundred
years; Brighton
Tech, got to-
gether 15,000 of
the things and the
Disabled Soldiers’
Assoc. weighed
in with 3000.
Then the board
said it had never
heard of the plan. There are fierce mut-
terings of another “big Sydney ‘leg-
pull.’ ”
“Balfour”: There are still honest
people about. An old man went
to a Launceston firm and, plank-
ing down £l5, said he wished to
pay his account. The clerk burrowed
through a lot of ledgers fruitlessly ; “I
can’t find your name on our books,” he
said. “Look back 43 years,” replied the
visitor, and the search disclosed a long-
forgotten entry, the debt being £l3 6s.
Then the old chap explained that he was
in business on the north-west coast when
the V.D.L. Bank burst in 1891. It left
him broke and heavily involved, but
having made good since he was deter-
mined to pay off the old liability.
* * *
“Left Choke”: No need to go back
into the Dark Ages to find shooting
material close to Sydney (B. 29/8/’34).
Behind my house on the southern slope
of Bellevue Hill is a deep valley, fringed
on the northern side with lantana, in
which there are pools. I am a habitual
6 a.m. riser, and when I am brewing tea
look out of the kitchen-window over the
valley. As soon as the light brightens,
anything from a pair to half a dozen of
black duck rise from the pools and make
off for Centennial Park. Save for the
valley bottom the neighborhood is a mass
of houses for miles. Half a dozen times
I have resolved to get up before dawn
“I’ll bet ’e’s a pommy. Look at his body-
line.”
and bag a brace or so, but laziness, or
perhaps a feeling that such an action
would be bodylinish, has restrained me.
* * * *
“Morita”: At Bullecourt hundreds of
us crouched on the slope of the railway
embankment while Fritz howitzers sought
to drop their coalboxes amongst us. In
the midst of one particularly heavy strafe
two cripples helped each other over the
bank from the Hindenburg line, just
further on. Wounded in the legs and
waiting only for directions to the next
aid-post, the eyes of hundreds of us on
them, they plodded on. Came the roar
of the next h.e. salvo, and the pair were
enveloped in the black smoke of a burst
that sent clods of dirt and whining frag-
ments even back to us. We looked for
them as the smoke cleared, fully expect-
ing that they had been blown to pieces.
They were still plodding on, only a bit
faster. We saw them later on at the post
they were making for. Their first clear
recollection was of a mighty shellhole
yawning practically at their toes.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: With the coming
summer cults of surfing and grilling, 1
begin to wonder who dies the Sooner, the
coughing conductor who earns a crust
in wind and rain upon the footboard of
one of Sydney’s ancient trams, or the
phthisical, fair boy lying almost naked
on some blazing beach. In Australia
certain light-rays are so malign
that cancer of the skin is com-
moner than elsewhere ; and in
early cases of consumption
unlimited sunshine causes a
spread of the disease. Sun-
worship, like cocktails and
jazz, can be overdone. Dark
people, those who “brown”
readily without burning and
discomfort, are safe ; but the
blondes who blister and turn
brick-red should be careful
about baking too much. In
sanatoria where the “sun”
treatment is used the feet, and
only the feet, are uncovered
first, for five minutes at a
stretch. Not until the end of
a fortnight does the patient’s
body get a strictly-censored look at the
sky.
“Pawang”: Victorian mental-diseases
experts are sceptical about the new nar-
cotics treatment that is said to have
achieved spectacular results. Patients are
put to sleep for 10 or 15 days, and on
recovering consciousness are found to oe
restored to mental health. At Mont
(Vic.) experiments on similar lines were
made 20 years ago, but were found to be
impracticable owing to the danger of
congestion of the lungs. A much simpler
method has been employed in that , in-
stitution for a long time past. This is
to plunge the frenzied subject into a
hot bath. This relieves the blood pres-
sure on the brain, and is claimed to be
generally efficacious as well as safe.
* * * *
“Kerys”: The story of the Melbourne
man who was trapped in a refrigerating
chamber (B. 29/8/’34) reminds me that
cats take such matters more calmly.
Soon after the Rimutaka left a Maori-
land port with a cargo of frozen meat,
the ship’s cat was missed. When the
mutton was opened up in England puss
tottered out of the chamber. Though
the room was hung with meat, she had
starved and frozen for six weeks, was
skin and bone, had lost her fur and was
unable to make a sound. Apparently she
had lived on the trickle of moisture down
the sides of the chamber. Care and
good food brought her round, but she
always afterwards declined to go within
yards of the scene of her Arctic experi-
ence.
“Rouge Dragon”: Curious that demo-
cracy, once it has abolished titles and
decorations, either returns officially to
the old vomit, as in the case of the
Soviet, or creates a dream world for
itself wherein all manner of home-made
powers and principalities have their part.
The U.S.A. is notorious for its extrava-
gance in this regard. Australia is shortly
to see a delegation from the Ancient
Order of Nobles of the Mystic Shrine
—note the “nobles.” The Mystic
Shriners, who are touring the world, pro-
pose to walk about Sydney streets in
the daytime in full evening dress, plus
a Turkish fez. If a special parade is
ordered, they will wear an alleged
Turkish costume with trimmings. The
order is divided into temples: the head
of each is known as The Potentate, the
boss cocky being The Imperial Poten-
tate. It sounds rather absurd, but at
least the Shriners can hug to themselves
the consolation that the blight of the
0.8. E. has never been visited on any of
them.
* * * *
“Current Account”: It isn’t only for-
gers and robbers-under-arms that bank
tellers have to beware of. An acquaint-
ance’s bank, though it starts business at
ten o’clock, has a door open from nine.
Through this door at 9.45 came a
pathetic-looking little woman with a £lO
draft. Could she have it cashed? Her
steamer sailed at ten, and if she didn’t
catch it she’d have to stay in the city an-
other week, which she couldn’t afford.
The draft was all right, so the teller took
a chance and paid it. Exit pathetic lady.
At one minute to ten there arrives on the
scene a perturbed man; he has been
robbed of a draft for £lO and wants to
stop payment. “Sorry,” says the teller,
“but it has been paid.” “But it can’t have
been,” the man protests ; “it was stolen
last night and banks don’t do business
till ten.” He produced evidence that he
was the rightful owner, and demanded
his money. The teller was in a fix. He
had broken a regulation, and if there was
a rumpus he would get into trouble. It
seemed best to pay out, and he was
reaching for the cash when he had a
second thought. “Go and see the police
and lay a complaint,” he said; “we’re
not going to pay twice.” That was several
weeks ago, and as no more has been
heard of the matter the teller is begin-
ning to enjoy unbroken sleep again.
RONDEAUX OF TIMELINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
“A bit too soon,” the trainers say
Who sec their horse a mile away
Making his early bid to win,
To cut all down —and lead them
Though optimists may shout “Hooray!”
The trainer knows he cannot stay
He’s got his head (a jockey’s sin)
A bit too soon.
It’s said that youth will have its day.
Too true; yet keenness to begin
Too often prompts the vain essay
That heralds failure and chagrin
A bit too soon.
11.
“Too late! Too late!” The lawyer’s song
Is pitched in minor key. “Too long
You’ve slept upon your precious right;
No case is left for me to fight,
Though once it seemed so clear and strong.
The statute’s run, you’re now ‘in wrong’;
No use your many proofs to cite;
Too late! Too late!”
So they who never heed the gong
That starts the race, the game, the flight,
And chase the ’bus lost in the throng,
Arc left lamenting day and night:
“Too late! Too late!”
111.
“And just in time!” Ah, doctor dear,
You are the messenger of cheer!
Prompt and efficient as can be,
You treat our ailment seriously.
What though you dock our wine and beer,
You save our life and make that clear:
“It’s lucky that you sent for me,
And just in time!”
We would that all the ills we fear
Might thus be cured! We would agree
To call you in day, month and year
To stave off tax, loss, poverty,
And just in time!
S.A.
BILL O'C.


“J. 8.”: The gobs of the Astoria left
a bit of new slang behind them. In pubs
they frequented (though abstemious com-
pared with the lot that descended on Syd-
ney when prohibition was still raging) it
is not now “de rigger” to order a whisky-
and-soda ; if you’do, the barmaiden will
correct you—“Oh, you mean ‘bottle and
nurse.’ ” Nor do the young women who
accompanied them on their wanderings
visit the “pitchers” any more —they go to
“the gabbies” or “the squawkies.” And
if they don’t ride to them in cars they
“ankle it.” Some indigenous boy-friends
talked of dealing it out to the “hag-
snatchers” from the other side of the
Pacific; but the sailors didn’t care.
“Wind-suckers,” was their only comment.
* * * *
“Shoot, Durn Yuh”: A Melbourne
paper which exposes abuses received a
letter complaining of the local milk
supply. If the lady left a bottle standing
for any length of time a yellowish scum
collected on the top, and she wanted to
know whether the health of her house-
hold was in danger. The paper
reported the phenomenon to the city
health officer. “Send it to an analyst,”
he said. “Possibly he might find some
cream in it!”
* * * *
“Wagga”: A Vic. country rector is
in the habit of popping a card beneath
the doors of parishioners who are out
when he calls. It’s an innocent-looking
brief which emphasises the benefits of
“Well, so long, Joe —I want to
catch this train.”
church attendance and regular Sunday
worship ; but spinsters of the parish are
apt to sniff and look over their glasses
when they read right at the end: “ Where
are your children? What of the future?”
* * * *
“Mako”: Brown Brother in M.L. gets
the same justice as the pakeha, so when
Henare was in trouble over some fairly
serious fall from grace I put in a con-
soling word. “I no ko to gaol,” he
assured me. “Piri Peroni [Bill Brown]
on te jury, so I no ko to gaol.” “Didn’t
know Bill was a friend of yours,” I said.
“Oh, he no friend,” Henare explained.
“I owe him te ten pound two year ago.
I ko to gaol I can’t pay. Now I kot te
good job up Te Waimana.” The verdict
was not guilty.
* * * *
“D.”: Dogs have always been the
most difficult pets to keep for any length
of time. In favorable circumstances
they die or age soon —a reason why Kip-
ling advised his readers not to give their
hearts “to a dog to tear.” Also, they
have a genius for accidents. You never
hear of epidemics of horse-poisoning,
cow-poisoning or even cat-poisoning ; the
dog-poisoner is practically always with
us. So is the dog-stealer. People steal
dogs for many reasons: because they
want a dog, because they know somebody
who will buy one, and for the reward.
Above all for the reward. Now another
reason why dogs leave home in Aus-
tralia has come to light. Certain breeds
—notably cockers and wire-haired ter-
riers—are stolen for transhipment to
India and Japan. It only costs £5 to send
a dog to, say, Bombay, and it may be
worth £5O on arrival. Moral: Become a
baby-fancier.
* * * *
“Retired Killer”: “4 x 2” (B. 22/8/’34)
is dodging Pompey in attempting lb
refute my shotgun-pattern figures.
He originally advised me to make
experiments with an ordinary gun
and thus blow up my own conten-
tions. Faced with indisputable bal-
listic figures, he has crawfished
back to the sawn-off shotgun state-
ment which aroused his ire against
me originally. He again cienies that
a satisfactory pattern could be
made with a weapon like this at
over 20ft.—quite far enough for
any bandit, by the way. He gives
no facts or figures in proof. If
“4 x 2” is content to take a flying
start at 20 yards I undertake to
register a satisfactory pattern on the
seat of his pants with my old sawn-off
Hollis single.
“Billo”: A few months ago I intro-
duced an American friend to the gentle
art of fishing. He was fortunate enough
to haul in a couple of large snapper that
day, and has since been a keen convert.
Recently he felt a craving to go to some
place where bigger and bolder fish
abounded in larger and more venture-
some schools, and he accordingly set out
for the Barrier Reef equipped with the
most complete set of fishing tackle that
ever left Sydney. To-day I received the
following telegram from Townsville:
The best place to get fish is across the
street from the California Coffee Shop,
King’s Cross.
if* Jf.
“M.A.R.”: During the calamitous
tidal wave at Port Pirie (S.A.) hundreds
of men, women and children were forced
to spend the night on roof-tops through
a 60-mile-an-hour gale and blinding
rain. A rescue party called at one house,
whence the wife had been safely re-
moved earlier, and found the husband
on the roof in nothing but soaked
pyjamas. None the less he was still
capable of treating his sufferings lightly.
“Where’s the wife, Bill?”' called the
boatman. “Down in the kitchen baking
scones for the regatta,” was the cheerful
response.
“Findy”: Many domestic animals and
birds were drowned at Port Pirie. One
cockatoo, who escaped by a whisker, took
the experience very nonchalantly. His
owner, rushing from the rapidly-flood-
ing house, seized Cocky’s cage and placed
it on the kitchen table. On returning
next morning he waded into the house
through water up to his armpits, to be
greeted by a plaintive appeal from the
“’Sail right, miss; I’m a ’tec. Noticed any Peeping Toms around here?”
half-submerged bird, “Cocky want a
drink.”
He * # *
“A. de G.”: Haemophilia (B. 22/8/’34)
had nothing to do with Alfonso’s
heredity; it reached the Spanish royal
family through his queen. The disease
originally entered the British royal family
(it has passed out of the direct line)
through the old Duchess of Kent, Queen
Victoria’s mother. Prince Leopold, one
of Victoria’s sons, was afflicted, but only
slightly. However, he proved an excep-
tion to the rule that men do not trans-
mit it; his only daughter gave it to her
only son, who died of it. The condition
tends to improve as the patient grows
older ; but a bad bleeder is always in
danger of a fatal haemorrhage.
* * * *
“Infant Phenomenon”: According to
the cables, a district of Mexico has
bi-oken into upheaval over an infant,
now deceased, that spoke prophecies in
Spanish as soon as it was born. It recalls
a colleague’s yarn of a happening on a
Sydney tram. A Mae Westish woman
was giving her baby his tea from what
Micawber called “Nature’s fount.” Two
flappers perkily objected, saying it was
“indecent.” Said the indignant matron
as she climbed off, “I’d like to have the
spankin’ of the pair of you.” Added
her offspring, disengaging himself for a
moment and wiping his mouth with the
back of his hand, “An’ that goes for me,
too.”
H* lit •
“Cauboy”: Roosevelt’s country seems
to be in a bad way under the N.R.A. plan,
but there seems to be enough money
about to conduct the old Babylonian
business in places. A circus agent turned
up at a Mae West party in New York
with a live llama. He explained that he
always had llama milk in his cocktails
and was inconsolable without it. The
animal was milked in the drawing-room.
A South American llama presumably. If
it had been one of the Tibetan variety
there would have been an “1” of a dif-
ference.
Hi ifc H«
“General Prac.”: Nobody could call
diphtheria a menace to Australia’s
health, but it smoulders unpleasantly,
and is so far from being abated that
during the first eight months of this year
there have been 5600 cases in N.S.W.,
as against fewer than 4000 in 1933. The
cure is the systematic immunisation of
infants after the first year of life; it
reduces the toll of diphtheria by 75 p.c.,
and in crowded districts, with one child
in ten a possible carrier, the effort is
worth while. Immunisation has been
actively practised in Europe and the
U.S.A. for years past. The disease itself
has been known and feared for centuries:
old Hippocrates, about 500 8.c., de-
scribed it, Washington died of it, and
so did Napoleon’s nephew in 1807 —
which impelled the Man of Destiny to
offer a prize of 1200 francs for the best
essay about the scourge. But nothing of
much use was forthcoming until the
operation of tracheotomy was invented
20 years or so later, or until Klebs dis-
covered the causal germ about 50 years
ago.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: The smooth-as-glass
hands of the axe-swinger (B. 22/8/’34)
could have been made amenable to
finger-print recording by soaking them in
hot, soapy water. The external integu-
ment of man is tough but flexible;
it is only the outer layer that is
non-sensitive and non-vascular. This
skin, by the constant use of the axe,
becomes pressed down and smooth, but
wet heat or even moist heat will bring
it back to normal, as any bushman will
find after washing his clothes on Sun-
day. The axeman doesn’t need to be
told that. He knows that merely spitting
on his hands will lift the pores at once
and give him a leechlike grip of the
handle.
sfc H* Jje
“Retired Volt”: Campaign managers
having reported that attendances at elec-
tion meetings were insignificant, Amalga-
mated Wireless rushed to the rescue in
Victoria and produced the largest ampli-
fier yet employed in any election cam-
paign . anywhere, even in Germany,
which has carried the art of popular
appeal to frightful lengths. The new
terror boosts the natural gas of a
candidate by 200 watts, and the power
in the moving coil is 125 watts,
compared with the mere two watts of a
common domestic listening set. This
enables the most ordinary rhetorician to
hurl abuse a distance of three miles from
his soapbox, and will probably permit
candidates in one suburb to drown the
arguments of rivals in another. The
has been erected on the top of
a sedan car, so, unless some enraged
citizen brings it down with a shotgun, it
can range over the entire country.
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gr-reat noos vot dey put in da paper! You
r-read it, eh, mister, dis veek?
Pr-rince George-a da England he marry our
Princess Marina, da Greek.
I gotta da peecture. You see it? Ha, ha!
Verra foony, good sir.
No blame heem for meessing Ostrelyah to play
da piano to her.
Pr-rince Nicolas, he ees her father. Poor Tino,
da king, vos her unc.
Her cousin vos King Alexander—he die of a
bite from a monk.
When George-a he marry Marina, unite our
two nations as well.
If Mustapha Kemal grow nasty he get (vot
your name for eet?) hell.
I feel so excite and so merree —hey, Tony, you
wash-a da deesh!
You feenish ?Do someting, you loafer. Here,
brush-a da flies off da feesh.
Eighteen pence ? Nodder seexpence pleece,
mister. Now, den, don’t you make any row,
I call-a da John at da corner. Fried flathead —
he two sheetin’ now.
N.S.W.
D. E.


ê
ë
ē
ĕ
A World of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
“CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH —l SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 100% VIRGIN IA
G63SM
C/icuutn, 'CC cutf, maM fp&cioMi/ to /mjMh£ Sore, tfiACdU
POLITICAL POINTS
The author of “Why I Fight!” (who
never fought in his life) oozes sympathy
with “the young men and women of to-
day” who find their “entire national life
stultified by the weight of artificial debt”
(he helped to pile 168 millions of it bn
them) and have been “left with a war
legacy of the foolishness of their fathers.”
You’re in that, Digger!
It is unfortunate for “solidarity” that
just when Lang is flattering Scullin, and
Scullin Lang, the “Labor Year-Book”
should come out with a condensed his-
tory of the decline and fall of Scullin’s
Government:
It drifted, through timidity and incom-
petence, into general disfavor, and finally
accepted a dissolution to save itself from
an inquiry into its administration of relief
money. It had ceased to be a .Labor
Government except in name.
And in its account of the resultant rout
the “Year-Book” designates the Scullin-
aries as “T.Bs.”
Victorians realise that if the two Labor
factions get a majority on September 15
poor, weak, little Scullin will be shouted
down by Lang, and evidently they are not
going to take the risk. For the Nunawad-
ing Assembly by-election the Nats, polled
14,730 primaries, 3798 more than in
1929 ; the Labor vote was 4772 compared
with 8793. In 1929 the victorious Nat.
was Bob Menzies; he was unopposed in
1932.
Seldom has a State Premier refused
a trip to England, salary and all expenses
found; but Collier, of Westralia, has
done it. The secessionists wanted him to
head the delegation that is to pre-
sent their petitions to King, Lords
and Commons; but the disadvan-
tages outweighed the advantages, so the
Labor Premier has appointed McCallum
Smith, of the “Sunday Times,” and H.
K. Watson, of the Dominion League,
both Nats. They will have the help in
London of Agent-General Colebatch and
ex-Minister Moss. If “Black Paddy,” the
pugilist, is available, Collier might
include him —“ Paddy” would at least
impart a native-born flavor to the pro-
cedings.
A Victorian (Collier) introduced the
Westralian Secession Bill; an Irishman
(Kirwan) signed the petitions to King,
Lords and Commons as President of the
Leg. Council; an Englishman (Cole-
batch), a lew from M.L. (Moss) and a
Scot will have to argue the case at West-
minister if called to the bar of either
House. Secesh has furnished Westralians
with many a laugh, but the composition
of the embassy to England is the choicest
joke of all.
If Lang’s head doesn’t burst it won’t
be the fault of his flatterers. The dull
rubbish for which he is charging 7s. 6d.
a heap is described in his newspaper
as “the most interesting and stirring
book ever published.” Dickens, lie
down!
Last week’s traffic cases in the chief
Sydney court were about the average-
-129 on two days alone. One day 40
policemen were present to give evidence
against the delinquents, most of whom
were charged with horrifying offences
like overstaying their parking time by
2.37 minutes. Wouldn’t it be better to
prohibit the public from owning cars at
all?
The question whether Victoria is to
go into the State-lottery business can’t be
kept out of Parliament. Premier Argyle
says the menace will enter only over his
dead body, but Vic. hospitals and chari-
ties are in a bad way and the State is
almost surrounded by Governments sell-
ing lottery tickets. If South Aus. joins
the band the Victorian citizen will be
able to lose his money by post in every
direction except upwards and down-
wards.
Fair exchange is no robbery, and if
Australia has borrowed money from
Britain, Britain borrows ideas from Aus-
tralia. At least, the Langsters say it does.
One of their allegations is that “the Brit-
ish Government adopted the Lang Plan
with respect to its debt to America.” And
at Bathurst last week Lang dazed a
Douglas Credit man who had interjected
by asserting that Douglas Credit had
been “filched without acknowledgment
from the Labor party”—his, of course.
Not only Lang but Forgan Smith has
contrived to annoy the Douglas Credit
people—Lang by insinuating that they
pinched their nostrum from him ; Fore-
gone by asserting that the Douglas
Scheme for Scotland provides for a 25
p.c. wage cut. An infuriated Douglasite
has offered to forfeit £lOO if Foggy or
any other opponent can prove it.
When the four South Aus. Labor
groups came together, or were alleged to
“Listen to the wonderful things the kind gentleman’s going to do for us, Aggie!
And look at the beautiful decoration he got for valor”
“Not for valor, lady—for nerve.”
have done so, the outlook for the massive
Stacey darkened, for under normal condi-
tions Adelaide is no Liberal seat. But
the selection of one of the Langster Bar-
dolphs as Labor candidate and the drop-
ping of J. J. Daly from the Senate ticket
have altered things, and Stacey is now
reckoned to have an excellent chance.
Habitues of the gallery would like to see
him back at Canberra, especially as Joel
Moses Gabb and old William Watson will
be there no more.
Another civil-service palace is to be
added to the gorgeous edifices which the
Sydney Government has approved for
Railways, Rural Bank, etc. The police
are to have a “huge headquarters” (alias
“a modern Scotland Yard”) at a cost of
£150,000. Decentralisation has evidently
been dropped, and it seems to be taken
for granted that the Big City will grow
bigger than ever. Depression raises
doubts as to whether this is true of any
vast wen in the world.
The news from Erin is that the Dublin
Government’s Civic Guards, seizing cattle
in default of the land annuities, are being
received with the warmth once reserved
for the Oppressor’s peelers, and that the
dour Craigavon has forbidden General
O’Duffy to spread the blessings of Blue-
shirtism to the North. “This country,”
writes a Dublin contributor to the
“Round Table,” “has become the prey
of second-rate politicians whose personal
hatreds and bitterness have poisoned our
national life.” Australia had a similar
experience in 1931-32. God help it if it
has another!
In a radio play which the Langsters
are broadcasting a wicked banker pur-
sues a wretched worker through the
reigns of Bavin, Lang and Stevens, even-
tually driving him to starvation, his son
to ruin and his daughter to the streets.
The simple fellow could have stopped
the persecution by taking advantage of
the moratorium, but that would have
ruined Lang’s attempt to improve on
Dampier and Bland Holt. With over
200,000 mortgages in force in N. S.
Wales, there have been only 134 fore-
closures in the last two years. Some
were by consent; not one was made by
a bank.
It is in a sense fitting that “Texas”
Green should be the only M.H.R. to get
a walkover, for he has been the luckiest
of members. During most of his 12
years as a Commonwealth politician Kal-
goorlie has been a travesty on the one-
vote one-value principle for which he
professes to stand, and “Texas” would
have gone out long ago had large por-
tions of agricultural Swan been added
to it, as they should have been. At the
1931 election there were 31,932 electors
in Kalgoorlie and 54,089 in Swan. Re-
distribution was provided for at length,
but “Texas” protested that the electorate
was too huge as it was, t»nd the U.A.P
weakly let him have his way.
Some English newspapers, aggrieved
at the new cotton duties and at the loss
of the Test-match rubber, are in the
mood for carping at Australia, and the
nomination of 46 Douglas-Credit candi-
dates gave them an opportunity. Lon-
don “Observer” finds it bewildering, since
Douglas has very little following in his
own country. The major’s stocks slumped
when he ran away from the Macmillan
Committee, and refused to satisfy the
British Labor party’s thirst for informa-
tion. That party’s condemnation of his
theories is the most crushing that has
appeared.
It has been immensely difficult to get
manufacture of galvanised iron estab-
lished in Australia, and now the future
of the industry has been endangered by
a lawless strike. The future of arbitra-
tion, too, according to Judge Cantor, of
the Industrial Commission, who gave the
ironworkers an award which, he said,
meant “a big advance” for them, and is
appalled at “their thoughtless and selfish
attitude.” Dunningham, the Minister of
Labor, gave instructions for the taking of
a secret ballot, but it was boycotted. It
is difficult to know what to do in these
cases, but disfranchisement for the period
of one general election might be tried.
Westralia elected the first feminine
M.L.A., the late Mrs. Cowan, and has
kept Miss Holman in the Perth House
since 1925, whereas no other lady poli-
tician has lasted more than one Parlia-
ment. Now Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, of the
Women’s Service Guild, is inviting Fre-
mantle to send her to Canberra as the
first skirted M.H.R. She has Nat. sup-
port, but the odds are always a bit
against the Nats, in Fremantle. Jack
Curtin, who is out again for Scullin-
Labor, has always said that old Watson
was the only opponent capable of beat-
ing him, and Watson is an opponent no
longer.
Judging from the stuff he is beefing
out, Lang’s “policy” for the Common-
wealth is a hotchpotch of Moscowism,
Rooseveltism and German inflation. It
is natural for him to praise Roosevelt,
whose deficit has now reached five thou-
sand million dahlars, and whose New
Deal has resulted in farmers being paid
by the Government for ploughing up
their crops in a drought-stricken land,
and in colossal labor upheavals—a strike
of a million textile workers has followed
the general strike at ’Frisco. Roosey
went in for shorter hours and higher
wages, as Lang wants to do. These and
the other proceedings of his Brain Trust
have had such an effect on prices that
the workers find themselves worse off
than when he started. Still, one arcbiTrt
of ruin has a fellow-feeling for another.
Mr. Amess, who proposes to win the
Maribyrnong (Vic.) Federal seat, is the
right sort of politician. He advocates
Douglas Credit, abolition of the national
debt, immediate placing of every out-of-
work in employment and halving of
taxation within a few months. The
banks need not be alarmed: “Under my
system there will not be banks enough
to hand out the national dividend
and create debt-free and interest-free
money.” And yet a blind electorate will
probably pass him over for an unimagi-
native person like Fenton.
[Responsibility for Commonwealth-election
matter in this issue is shared by J. E. Webb,
J. B. Dailey and M. H. Ellis, of 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


BANKS AND BRAYS.


me Besr thing
SHtIL HAS DONt
■cl
4
t
Tht ONLY STRAIGHT, CRYSTAL-CLEAR,
SUPER PETROL ON THE MARKET
SHELL
S-O*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ted Holman is the youngster of West-
ralia’s Senate team, and he must surely
count himself lucky in winning a Labor
selection ballot first up. He is a son of
the late J. B. Holman, M.L.A., a brother
of May Holman, State member for For-
rest, and a printer on the Westralian
“Worker.”
R. H. Antill has ceased to be a coroner
in the Picton-Camden district, thus end-
ing a family tradition of 109 years. The
first coroner in this part of N. S. Wales
was Major Henry Cobden Antill, who
was aide-de-camp to Governor Mac-
quarie. The major was grandfather of
Major-General John Macquarie Antill,
C. 8., C.M.G., who served on Gallipoli
and in France.
Francis John White, the G.O.M. of
New England, who has died at 80, was
a grandson of James White, an English
farmer who arrived in Sydney with a
flock of merino sheep in 1826. Old
James, who was said to be as good a
judge of country as he was of sheep and
horses, settled in the Hunter River dis-
trict, and founded the family of pas-
toralists who own so many N. S. Wales
properties—notably Edinglassie, where
the Duke is to stay. His eldest son
James twice won the double (V.R.C.
Derby and Melbourne Cup) with Chester
and Martini-Henry respectively. Francis
John lived at Saumarez, but was buried
in the family graveyard at Edinglassie.
G. Kermode, who succeeds the late
G. F. Holden as chairman of the Mel-
F. E. BA UME as he appears when writing a novel.
bourne Harbor Trust, warms almost as
many chairs as James Barrett. Born at
Queenscliffe, he learnt pothooks at
various Victorian State schools, and got
his final polishing at Wesley and the
Working-men’s College. The University
put the seal of Master of Civil Engineer-
ing on his studies. Until his present job,
which carries a screw of £l5OO, he was
chief engineer of public works.
Court item from “A. de G.”:
Princess Marina, who is to marry Prince
George, is one of his cousins. She is a grand-
niece of Queen Alexandra. Her Uncle Con-
stantine lost the throne of Greece; her
grandfather, the previous king, was assassi-
nated. Her mother was a Russian grand
duchess, and she is also related to the
Romanoffs through the wife of Alexander 111.,
tvho was Queen Alexander’s sister. The Duke
of Cumberland, who married the ex-Kaiser’s
daughter, is a kinsman, and, to round it off,
she has American affiliations. Mrs. Leeds, an
Ohio millionairess, married her Uncle Christo-
pher. White Lodge, where the young people
may have to live for a time, is an ugly
Georgian structure in Richmond Park. It is
usually available to members of the royal
family, as nobody likes living in it. The park
is infested by trippers in summertime. The
Lodge has hardly any grounds, and, while not
being in the country, is a long way from the
West End. Also, it is alleged to be uncomfort-
able and old-fashioned.
The late George Bosch, of Sydney,
was a small-scale Carnegie. He gave
£27,000 to Sydney Uni. for a Chair of
Embryology and Histology at the begin-
ning of 1928, aqd nine months later he
gave the equivalent of £220,000 in real
estate, etc., to endow three other medical
chairs. He had previously handed £lO,OOO
to Trinity Grammar. A quiet old idealist
who shunned limelight assiduously, he
was hardly known by sight outside
Gordon, where he lived. He founded
Bosch, Barthel and Co.
Robert Sabeston, new chief super-
intendent of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, joined from the State Savings
Bank of Victoria in January, 1913. En-
listing in June, 1915, he was sent to the
Pay Corps, and saw service in Egypt,
France and at headquarters in London.
He finished up a lieut.-colonel and chief
paymaster. Returning to Australia in
1920, he rejoined the bank and was
appointed superintendent at Sydney. In
1923 he was promoted inspector, and in
1931 he went to W.A. and took charge
of the amalgamation with the Govern-
ment Savings Bank there. He also
handled the absorption of the Govern-
ment Savings Bank of N. S. Wales in
December, 1931.
F. E. Baume,
here portrayed by
Frith, has packed
a lot of writing
into his 34 years.
A son of the M.L.
K.C., he was born
in Auckland and
educated in his
native Dominion
and in the U.S.A.
He began journal-
ism on Maoriland
papers, and is
now editor of
Sydney “Sunday
Sun.” The public
knows him best as
the author of
“Half - caste” and
“Burnt Sugar.”
The material shown
in the bottle, by
the way, is not
burnt but barley
sugar. Baume has
been a barley sugar
addict since 1903.
“H.T.”: A great-
granddaughter of
John Batman will
be in Mel bourne
for the centenary
proceedings. Bat-
man’s eldest
daughter married
one Robert Fennell, an Irishman,
who returned to his native land with
his young family after the death
of his wife. One of the Fennell
girls became Mrs. Murphy, of Prior
Park, Clonmel, and a daughter of this
lady is now Lady Moore, wife of Major-
General Sir John Moore, of the Army
Veterinary Corps. It is the major-gen-
eral’s wife who will be Melbourne’s guest
at the end of the year.
The late J. D. Williams labored under
a handicap: he was always ten years
ahead of his time. When he went into
the movie business shabby little barns
were thought good enough for the pic-
tures” ; he built theatres which seemed
palatial to Melbourne and Sydney film-
fans 30-odd years ago. At the now-
deserted Crystal Palace in Sydney he
started a type of American restaurant
that is coining money in Darlinghurst.
He was the first to give Australia con-
tinuous picture shows, a Palais de
Danse and a Luna Park, and he went
bankrupt in short order. A brisk, nug-
nety, loquacious little spellbinder, with
a cigar for ever stuck in the side of his
face, he could have made a success of
the part of “Get-Rich-Quick” Walling-
ford by being himself.
Victor Daley once an-
nounced his candidature
for the Senate, but it has
been reserved for Edwin
Greenslade (“Dryblower”)
Murphy to be the first
representative poet to
stand for that House. A
Victorian by birth, “Dry-
blower” has for nearly 40
years entertained West-
rali a n s with rippling
rhymes and racy yarns,
and he is a witty after-
dinner speaker. He wrote
the words and music of
“This Bit o’ the World
Belongs to Us,” and some
of his war verses —not-
ably “My Son” —had a
great vogue. Except for
a slight operation with a
razor, Murphy has
changed little since Low
sketched him for The
Bulletin, being one of
those fellows who never
grow old.
“Hamfat” remembers:
The queer folk who supply us with overseas
news didn’t think it worth while to cable the
death of Isabel Bateman. Yet this predecessor
of Ellen Terry as leading lady to Henry Irving
was a world-figure in her day. Her father,
Hezekiah Bateman, gave Irving his first big
chance at the Lyceum. Isabel was seven
years younger than her supplanter and only
16 when she first played lead with Irving.
Later she deserted the stage and took the veil,
and at her death at 79 she was Mother-General
of St. Mary’s Convent, Wantage (Eng.). She
had three sisters, all well-known stage identities.
Kate was the grandmother of Leah Bateman;
Ellen was the mother of Irene Rooke, and one
of Virginia’s sons is Compton Mackenzie.
“S.T.S.”: The career of A. P.
Guinand, who has left for Oxford
as S. Aus. Rhodes scholar, will be
watched with interest. Having already
taken, at 21, the honors B.Sc., he talks
of specialising in “relativity and philo-
sophical and symbolic mathematics,”
which local rumor translates as an inten-
tion to take on Einstein at his own game.
“The most outstanding mathematician I
have ever handled,” says his recent prof.
“He seems to begin where others leave
off,” is the tribute of another Australian
mathematician.
No one touched Australian life at
more points than the late Professor Edge-
worth David. As a young geologist, he
revealed the wealth that lay below Greta
—and he scorned to make a penny out
of it. At Sydney University he built up
the Geological School from insignificance
to an institution of major importance.
For his anthropological work he was
awarded the Conrad Malte-Brun prize
by France and the Wollaston Medal by
England. He went with Shackleton to
the South Magnetic Pole, where he
scaled Mt. Erebus, and he did valuable
engineering work with the A.I.F. in
Flanders (lieut.-colonel and D. 5.0.). He
resigned from the university in 1927 to
write his book on the geology of Aus-
tralia, and he startled the scientific
world in 1928 by his discoveries of the
remains of prehistoric animals in S. Aus-
tralia. Two things can truthfully be said
of David: from his youth, when he
became head of his school and a scholar
of New College, Oxford, to his death
in Sydney at 76, he did well at every-
thing he turned his hand to, and he was
loved by all who knew him. Not merely
admired, loved. He had a gay and
kindly nature which was expressed in
charming manners and panache (the
only word) which drew attention to him
and his rare qualities. A good and great
man, and an oddity.
“Temp S.C.”: “P.S.C.” slipped (B.
15/8 / ’34) when he named Chetwode as
Allenby’s Chief-of-Staff. Major-General
Sir L. J. Bols had the job from Sep-
tember, 1917, until the Armistice ; Chet-
wode commanded the 20th Corps. I have
a vivid recollection of Allenby, after an
explanatory talk to C.Os. before the final
“DRYBLOWER” MURPHY , candidate for the
Senate.
push, saying, “And I want to impress on
you gentlemen—and my Chief-of-Staff,
General Bols, has urged me to express
it also—that time is the essence of the
contract. Time, gentlemen.”
Major J. C. Brosnan (late Staff Corps),
who has retired with the honorary rank
of lieutenant-colonel, claims a rare dis-
tinction for an Australian: he has met
four generations of the royal family. He
was presented to Queen Victoria at
Windsor Castle as a member of the
Queensland contingent that went to the
Diamond Jubilee ; he received a jubilee
medal from the Prince of Wales (after-
wards Edward VII.); and the Duke of
York (afterwards George V.) presented
him with a South African medal at Bris-
bane in 1901. And he met the present
Duke of York and Prince of Wales when
they were here. Brosnan served for nearly
40 years in the A.M.F., having joined
the ranks of the Warwick company (Dar-
ling Downs Mounted Infantry) under
Captain Harry Chauvel, as he then was.
H. T. Green, dead in Adelaide at 40,
was a lino, man on the “Herald,” a
short-lived Labor daily. He landed at
Gallipoli with the 27th and lost his right
arm at Pozieres. He became a reader
and then a reporter on the “ ’Tiser.”
At the finish he had charge of the make-
up in the old paper’s composing-room.
D. H. Bardolph, the senior member
for Adelaide, arrived after the 1933
elections, being first past the post in a
mixed field of 13 starters. Until the
faithful decided for “unity” he was the
leader and solitary representative of one
of the two Lang parties in the House ; his
two fellow-members for Adelaide com-
prised the other. Bardolph has been iden-
tified with the Labor movement all his
articulate life, has served on the City
Council, and edits the S.A. “Worker.”
Don’t mix him up with K. E. Bardolph,
who, as editor of Adelaide’s “Labor
Weekly,” got a verdict for £lll4 10s.
against the N. S. Wales Government.
The Stevens Administration annulled an
advertising contract given to K.E. by the
Langites. K.E. is standing for the Adel-
aide Federal seat.


w
z
z
i
z
✓
:
1
111111111111 l
m
/
. ■s»x-x'A-’
m**.
mmg
r: a
m
i
ill
H
mss
Mtt
iiiliiii
tggi
i
TREAD
Checksfeid" TYRE
With Deeper Cut Pattern
for Greater Safety and
Longer Service
Modern motoring conditions of higher speed
travel on smoother, harder road surfaces —demand
a tyre with a broader, deeper tread. Broader, to give
extra road grip, and so increase both safety and mile*
age. Deeper, to prolong the effective non-skid life
of the tyre. And in this improved Barnet GlassTyre,
with its broader, deeper tread, you also get a unique
carcase construction which gives extra sidewall
flexibility, while super - imposed buttresses
strengthen the shoulders and support the new tread.
e
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
I
*BB
Barnet Glass
Tyif6S for Endurance


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombc, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profit. Dividends; Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 42,047 8 p.c..= 17,372 24,675 103,948
1925.. 43,724 10 „ „ 30,007 13,717 117,665
1926.. 50,838 10 „ „ 31,613 19,225 136,890
1927.. 64,549 10 „ „ 34,427 20,122 157,012
Written off, £6OOO 151,012
1928.. 56,073 10 p.o. = 39,820 16,253 167,265
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 117,265
1929.. 59,783 10 p.c. = 49,986 9,797 127.062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ „ 35,000 8,653 186,715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6 „ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
1933.. 41,017 6 „ „ 30.000 11,017 163.624
1934.. 48,638 7 „ „ 36,000 13,638 177,262
It was the rise in wool, sheep, lamb,
mutton and skin values that put the
spring of £7621 in last year’s net earn-
ings—the co. does a large wool-broking,
pastoral finance and agency business in
N. S. Wales and Queensland. Owing to
seasonal conditions, 47,370 fewer bales,
115,857 fewer sheep and 4533 fewer
cattle were put under the hammer:
Wool
(hales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 .. 117,550 332,501 32,676
1930 .. 182,221 485,958 37,243
1931 .. 186,801 518,125 26,099
1932 . . 214,126 481,507 21,901
1933 . . 253,647 557,935 24,980
1934 . . 206,277 442,078 20,447
Still the whole clip of the two States
combined was worth £9,112,411 more
than the one on whose heels it trod:
r Value
r— 1932-33 t 1933-34
Average Average
per per
Gross. Bale. Gross. Bale.
£ £ £ £
Sydney .. 14,982,852 11.25 23,039,671 20^26
Brisbane .. 6,499,561 12.98 7,555,153 21.09
So, despite a further cut in selling
charges, the co. was able to show a profit
of 9.7 p.c. on its half-million of capital
as against 8.2, 7.8, 7.3, 8.7, 11.9, 14 and
15.8 p.c. back to 1928, when wool aver-
aged over £25 per bale in Sydney. The
final div. was at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.,
making 7 p.c. for the year, or a point
better than for the three preceding terms.
As for the current season, early esti-
mates are that the Australian clip will
total at least 3,146,000 bales, or 150,000
bales more than for the one just closed,
from which there is a carryover of an-
other 150,000 bales. Assuming that the
lot sells at an average of £l3 (last week’s
Brisbane figure was above that), it would
turn in nearly 43 million pounds as
against over 52 million and 35 million for
the last two seasons. Also, livestock
values promise to be better than in 1932-
33. Prospects of the co. being able to
repeat a 7 p.c. div. are therefore encour-
aging ; it is doubtful whether anything
better need be looked for.
The market prices the pound shares at
30s. 9d. as against 14s. 9d. three years
ago. At the higher figure the return is
4.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 275. Id. in net tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1920. 1928. 1933. 1934.
Capital . . £205,755 £414,018 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 461,352 553,490 376,57 S 598,795
Freeholds . . 160,856 199,965 200,624 200,624
Plant, etc. . . 35,087 31,656 29,733 29,629
Advances, etc. 505,048 899,365 714,251 1,051,066
Investments and
cash .. 21,396 21,865 94,810 11,321
Consignments 1,916 15,783 3,417
To put out an extra £336,815 on advance,
mainly against wool and other readily
realisable products, and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£345,207) by £31,371, the co. went to
the Commonwealth Bank for £253,588.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£467,009) was £18,743.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12i p.c. Off. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924 .. 28,259 15,625 3995 8,639 167,012
1926 .. 30,600 17,600 2600 10,500 177,512
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 167,512
1926 .. 31,651 20,000 2209 9,442 176,954
1927 .. 31,972 21,125 2545 8,302 185,256
1928 .. 33,552 21,875 2583 9,094 194,350
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6,427 224,314
7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 . . 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 . . 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
This is Australia’s biggest trustee co.,
and a very solid concern it is, too. In-
eluding the fidelity reserve (£10,000)
there was £253,207 visibly supporting
and assisting £200,000 of paid capital at
June 30. The lot, together with £9,088
coming to sundry creditors, was invested
in freehold, £112,000 ; equipment, £2725 ;
mortgages, etc., £148,803 ; book debts,
£5034; Consols and cash, £203,734.
Returns from these sources are supple-
mented by corpus and other commission
earnings, all of which have been affected
by the fall in interest and rents and
conditions in the real-estate and other
markets.
During the last term a net growth of
£1,901,546 in the volume of trusts on
the books was accompanied by an all-
round improvement in revenue from
estates. This gave commission earnings
a lift, and the co.’s gross income from
all sources sprang £6238:
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 .. 18,432,862 77,404 55,261 71.4
1925 .. 25,637,073 101,220 74,774 73.8
1928 .. 34,231,040 127,009 96,343 75.9
1929 .. 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 . . 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1933 .. 43,910,904 126,230 109,727 86.9
1934 .. 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 84. S
The last column of the table reflects the
extra burden which financial-emergency
legislation and taxation threw upon the
co., whose own charges remained un-
altered. Exes, took £2 2s. less of each
£lOO of last year’s income, thanks largely
to a little reduction in taxation.
Taking into the reckoning a net addi-
tion of £4929 to the commission re-
served account (£106,447 —it is the un-
earned portion of corpus commission),
and a reduction of £7l in the premises
renewal reserve (£920), the net result was
£4187 better at 12.4 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 10.2, 11.1, 12.7, 18.9,. 19.8
and 19.2 p.c. back to 1928. The div.,
which had been steady at 12{- p.c. for a
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1930, was lifted a point, making it 8 p.c.
It all fitted in pretty well with market
anticipations. For the £lO shares paid
to £2—-the other £8 includes £5 callable
only in the event of liquidation—74s. is
offered; sellers stand off at 80s. At the
middle price the return is 4.1 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. To pay 8 p.c. on capital
alone, shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) need net only p.c. ;
and that leaves out of the reckoning
returns from the trustee and agency busi-
ness, growth of which can be expected
to continue.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926.. 18,793 174 p.c. = 15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 18,926
Struck off plant, £3500 .. .. 15,426
1927.. 19,760 20 p.c. = 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 .. 34,184
1928.. 19,975 17i p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
Premiums on shares, £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
June, Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 73,766
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82.683
Written off, £6OOO ..■ .. .. 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7 „ „ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off, £5O 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,590 655 78,250
This Melbourne “dry” hotel —it began
as one of the coffee palaces of the
’eighties—paid divs. averaging 17f p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1926. Then its old Collins-street
leases fell in, and some urged that the
business be wound up. Instead the
board secured other leases (the main
one has about 57 years still to run), put
up a nine-storeyed building, and went
into the cafeteria business as well. Here
no rent is paid ; the co. spent £5OOO on
the first and ground floors, occupied by
the vendor, the Baptist Church. Over
the last eight years divs. have averaged
a shade over 13 p.c., and shareholders
have put up £BB,OOO of fresh capital,
which brought with it £66.000 of share
premiums, thus taking most of the gilt
off the gingerbread.
Earnings responded as space became
available, and it was hoped to stabilise
the div. at 15 p.c. ; but slump inter-
vened. Still, very good results have been
won:
Exes. p.c.
Dec., Revenue. Exes, of Revenue.
1926.. £83,308 £64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 75,084 79.1
1928.. 107.075 87,100 81.3
1929.. 133,483 109,051 81.7
June,
1930*. 68,975 57,088 82.7
1931.. 114,573 100,298 87.5
1932.. 102,821 89,757 87.3
1933.. 111,813 90,884 81.1
1934.. 108,433 90,182 83.1
‘Half-year.
The drop of £3380 in last year’s gross
earnings was due to the rebuilding, now
almost complete, of the centre block
(freehold). This put 160 rooms out of
use, and resulted in other disabilities as
well. The net result was 10.3 p.c. on
capital as against 11.9, 7.4, 8.2, 7.6, 17.4
and 18.4 p.c. back to 1928. The div.
remained at 10 p.c.
The new building added £22,178 to
the book value of freeholds, and £9287
was tacked on to the debt:
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Capital .. £174,857 £176,000 £176,000 £179,573
Liabilities . . 56,230 50,742 51,553 60,840
Freeholds . . 165,617 166,745 167,546 189,724
Leaseholds . . 102,984 105,262 104,542 103,851
Plant & furniture 41,024 37,952 34,470 33,062
Stores . . 607 678 987 1,561
Debtors . . 505 95 125 91
Investments is cash 6,000 2,653 7,808 643
To see the work to completion, 35,200
new 10s. shares were put out at a pre-
mium of ss. each just after the books
closed. Arrangements have also been
made with the A.M.P. for a 25-year loan
of £lOO,OOO at 44 p.c., repayable in quar-
terly instalments.
Completion of the new building and
the centenary celebrations should give
the current year’s earnings a nice lift.
The market, which looks upon the co.
as a steady 10 p.c. proposition, prices the
scrip at 21s. 6d., at which figure the re-
turn is 4.6 p.c. Including the new issue,
the cover is 14s. 6d. in net assets.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£j £ £ £
1924.. 23,°44 10 p.c. = 16,219 ) 2 ,425 112,977
Written off, £ 4400 .. ) ’ ’
“;“ 0 j 1008 110,781
1927.. 11,078 10 p.c. = 15,000 112,859
Taken from reserves, £9535 .. 103,324
1928.. 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
192 9.. 12,382 _ Nil ) 9 5g2 n 0,072
Written off, £2BOO .. )
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 102,372
1930.. 7,908 2i p.c. = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO .. ' 95,280
1931.. 13,016 31 p.c. ss 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written ofT shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. •. 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions, £2OOO . . 96,990
1933.. 14,655 54 p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£5OOO 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
It has never been much of a money-
spinner ; but the outlook is now brighter
than it has been for some time. In 1922
this co. and J. Boag and Son passed their
beer-making plants, etc., to a subsidiary,
Tasmanian Breweries Pty., for £200,000
in scrip, half 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and half
ords. Cascade’s whack was 52,407 prefs.
and 50,000 ords., together £63,0Q0 in
excess of the book value of tangibles
transferred.
The trouble began about seven years
ago, when, in order to meet competition,
a new Nathan brewing-plant was in-
stalled and the operating co. ceased to
contribute to the pool, leaving Cascade
dependent chiefly upon returns from its
hotel properties and the cordial- and
cider-making section of the business.
Shareholders were passed by in ’2B and
’29, but sales picked up despite slump,
savings in interest and other exes, helped,
and the div. climbed to 54 p.c. in ’33.
Meanwhile the Pty.’s local and inter-
state trade began to recover, thanks
partly to “arrangements made with some
of the mainland breweries,” and during
the 12 months to June 30 it paid a div.
on its pref. capital, the first for seven
years. The amount is not mentioned,
but the spring in Cascade’s gross earn-
ings (£42,932) was £l6ll. This and a
little relief from taxation (exes, were
£1341 lighter at £25,325) lifted the net
result to 8.8 p.c. on capital, compared
with 7.3 p.c. and 6.3 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms, and 14 points were added
to the div., making 7 p.c. for the year.
That is disregarding £5OOO struck off
shares in other cos., making the total
amount so rubbed out since the merger
£57,462, and reducing the book value
of the item to £57.596.
To help finance installation of the
Nathan plant already referred to the co.
gathered £50,000 of fresh capital and
went a bit into debt:—•
1925. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Mortgages and
• deposits . . 57,148 129,124 119,229 125,329
Overdrafts, etc. 4,734 10,976 15,516 3,797
Hotels, etc... 173,699 253,847 252,041 252,391
Stock & plant 22,627 111,281 103,153 98,818
Book debts, etc. 26,491 24,801 24,610 28,712
Cash and in-
vestments . . 12,212 312 6,506 9,507
Shares other cos. 106,530 70,809 62,846 57,596
When the books last closed the debt ex-
ceeded more or less liquids, including
stocks but not shares, by £82,767, an
improvement of £12,615 over the twelve-
month. The floating debt is well covered.
Prospects of further improvement in
the div. depend mainly upon what the
Pty. is able to do. The curtain is kept
drawn over its figures, but the board
expects that trade will be well main-
tained for the current term. The 21s.
shares paid to 20s. are priced at 275. on
the market, as against 20s. a year ago.
The return at the higher figure is 5.2
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and the back-
ing 295. lid. iiy net tangibles.
Intercolonial Investment and Land (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924.. 40,282 8 p.e. = 25,098 15,184 148,900
1925.. 40.15 S 8* „ „ 26,667 13,491 162,391
1926.. 41,356 9* „ ~ 29,803 11,553 173,944
1927.. 42,317 10 „ „ 31,372 10,945 184,889
1928.. 45,058 10 „ „ 31,372 13,686 198,575
1929.. 45,946 10 ~ „ 31,372 14,574 213,149
1930.. 43,006 10 ~ ~ 31,372 11,634 224,78?
To realty depreciation reserve, £35,000.. 189,783
1931.. 23,798 64 p.c. = 20,392 3,406 193,189
1932.. 21,080 5 „ „ 15,686 5,394 198,583
1933.. 12,843 5 „ „ 13,526 197,900
1934.. 13,358 5 ~ „ 13,094 264 198,164
This carefully-handled concern, which
has been subdividing Sydney suburban
properties and financing home builders
for the last 49 years, is well equipped to
take care of a much larger volume of
business than it is considered prudent to
accept at the moment. Moratorium legis-
lation is the lion in the path. “For the
time being,” says the chairman, “we are
not keen on lending on real estate, or on
selling rent-producing properties on our
former usual extended terms.” This, of
course, has curtailed earnings, and so has
the reduction of interest and rents, while
repossessions, following cancellations of
contracts under the moratorium, and
special taxation have had their effect, too.
Also, the demand for suburban homes
and buildiug sites in the areas in which
the co. operates is not yet active.
The £261,874 of paid capital was
visibly assisted by £198,164 of free
reserves at June 30, and the amount
of outside money in the business was
negligible. The year’s gross earnings
(£31,536) fell away £1172. There was a
little relief from taxation, and exes.
(£18,178) were pulled back £1687, leaving
enough to show 5.1 p.c. on capital as
against 4.9, 6.7, 7.5, 13.7 and 14.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept at 5 p.c.,
and it is doubtful whether anything better
need be looked for during the current
term. Much depends upon the extent to
which demand for homes and building
sites continues to improve and upon what
happens in connection with the renewal
of moratorium legislation.
The market prices the fully-paid 16s.
shares (2s. was returned a year or so ago)
at 19s 6d. The return at that figure is
4.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis, and the
cover 325. Id. in net tangibles. In addi-
tion to the lay-by shown in the table
there is £35,000 earmarked for deprecia-
tion, and £24,568 for taxation and public
risk insurance.
The board’s careful trading policy and
other things are further reflected in
balance-sheet movements:
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915. . £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1923.. 20,098 368,737 73,854 56,378
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 44,271
1927.. 32,739 466,870 74,726 33,941
1929.. 21,984 480,369 67,412 45,411
1930.. 17,216 460,723 84,440 52,796
1931.. 15,178 428,543 93,558 81,252
1932.. 10,907 385,432 113,675 97,699
1933.. 5,336 332,046 140,997 60,028
1934.. 4,395 287,539 157,431 85,578
The year’s growth of £16,434 in the
property item is due mainly to cancella-
tion of contracts in connection with im-
proved holdings, for which there is a fair
demand as letting propositions. Official
valuations for rating purposes are said to
exceed the balance-sheet figure. The pro-
vision for contingencies is considered
to be adequate, and advances (down
£44,507) therefore wor'.h 20s. in the £
of their book value. Government secu-
rities (£46,258, up £15,113) figure at less
than face value, so there is an inner
reserve there.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 3,710 10 p.c. = 3312 39S 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ ~ 8250 3984 25,531
Goodwill sold to associate co., £5000.. 20,531
Nominal
Reserves.
Taxation and depreciation reserves in-
cluded, £34,280 13,749
1930.. 15,992 5 p.c. = 7537 8455 22,204
Unexplained additions, £7598 .. .. 29,802
1931.. 6006 Nil 6006 35,80 S
Unexplained additions, £12,099.. .. 47,907
Depreciation ( £48,457) and tax ( £519) Deficit.
reserves disclosed, £48,976 .. .. 1,069
June. Reserves.
1932.. 2,223 Nil 2,223 1,154
1933.. 6,818 3£ p.c.= 6003 815 1,969
1934.. 8,230 4„ „ 7203 1027 2,996
This co.’s Brisbane factory has been
turning out ice-cream according to
Peters’s formula for nearly six years.
Meanwhile, the co. bought two opposi-
tion concerns for £20,000-odd, put up an-
other factory at Rockhampton, and sold
its rights in N.Q. for £5OOO in scrip.
This amount it struck off the £28,000
originally paid for goodwill, etc., reduc-
ing intangibles, not treated as an asset
herein, to their present figure (£23,000).
But just as the co. was getting into its
stride the boom burst, and shareholders,
who got 10 p.c. in each of the first two
years, were passed by in ’3l and ’32.
Still, the management had made the out-
side debt the servant, not the master, of
the business, and as conditions improved
the trade picked up.
After sending £B5OO to the deprecia-
tion reserve (now £65,811, equal to 63.4


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilasscl and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Anvr.
* * * *
N.Z. and AUST. FORESTRY VENTURES, Timber,
Tung Plantation Operations. Independent appraisals,
reports and technical advice for investors, bondholders
and operators. Charges moderate. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.S'c. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer, Union Build-
ing, 8 Bond Street. Sydney.— Aovt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.-—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co.. Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
* * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LKMPRIERE & CO. PTY..
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when' soiling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt. x
He He He He
MINE MANAGER.
Applications are invited from qualified Mining
Engineers for the position of Mine Manager to a
strong financial Company having extensive interests
in the Northern Territory of Australia. Applicants
must possess practical knowledge of modern mining
methods, machinery and recovery and l>o capable of
taking full charge of the Company’s various activities.
Sound engagement and adequate remuneration will
be given to the right man. Apply by letter, giving
full particulars of age, qualifications, experience and
salary required to Macßride, Hinton & Co., Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), 72 King Street, Sydney. All
communications strictly confidential.
* * * H=
NEW Ml SI.HA GOLD MINES, EIMITED.
Applications are invited from qualified men for the
position of Assayer and Cyanide Manager. Applicants
must have had practical experience of assaying and
treatment, of gold ore, sands and slimes. Apply by
letter, with full details of age, experience and quali
fications, married or single, to Secretary, Samara!,
l’apua.
SMB
"A sure friend in uncertain times”
■ v.-r-
i
m
How to be sure of a
PENSION
THE A.M.P. has a plan by which young women in
business (and young men, too, for that matter)
can make themselves sure of a pension for life,
beginning at whatever age they plan to retire.
Perhaps the best way to explain this plan is to show
just what income a certain woman will soon enjoy
because she adopted it when she was 29.
Thirty years ago this woman (when she was 29)
decided to invest less than 10/- a week (£25 a year
to be exact) in an A.M.P. policy with the object of
having a pension when she retired at 60 years.
This year she will retire, and she can have her choice
between a pension—a life income—of £99/13/8 a
year, or a cash payment of £1,319/12/-. If she had
died before now her estate would have benefited
by an amount far exceeding what she paid in.
This is but one of many plans that the Society offers
its members. Full particulars may be obtained from
any office of the Society. If you live within reason-
able distance of any A.M.P. office an experienced
counsellor will be sent to discuss them.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A. I. A., General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A., Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A., Chief Inspector & Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
p.c. of the book value of plant at June
30), and despite a mild summer, last
year’s net earnings were £1412 better at
4.5 p.c. on capital as against 3.8, 1.2, 3.3,
10.6 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1929. Half
a point was added to the div., making
it 4 p.c., and the £1027 that remained
lifted free reserves £2996 higher than
intangibles.
The year’s better trading is again re-
flected in movements in balance-sheet
figures:
1928. 1982. 1988. 1934.
Paid capital.. £07,181 £180,086 £180,086 £lBO,OBO
Liabilities .. 5,520 17,723 3,388 2,942
Freeholds .. 4,174 101,928 101,928 101,928
Plant, etc. .. 17,797 100,478 101,502 103,80!)
Investments .. 35,848 85,003 34,073
Stock.. .. 2,149 4,202 4,547 5,829
Hook debts . . 2,233 4.705 1,849 2,483
Cash, etc. .. 23,190 058 6,207 12,259
The co. is well equipped to make further
progress as opportunity offers. Including
investments and stocks, the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£52,302) was £BOB4, notwith-
standing the addition of £2307 net to the
book value of plant.
At 14s. 6d. the pound shares paid to
15s. return 4.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 20s. 4d. per
pound of paid capital, mostly in plant,
worth what it will earn.
Beyond the fact that Sunshine Gold
Development had taken up a lot of allu-
vjal ground in New Guinea and Papua,
and, speaking generally, talked in
optimistic but vague terms about it,
there was nothing to justify the market’s
guess that the 10s. shares were worth 455.
Expectations that a powerful group might
become interested had sent them there ;
they are now fairly steady around 265.
The co.’s holdings include about 130
acres, known as the Consolidated Claims,
on the Watut River, below its junction
with the Bulolo. This area includes four
blocks, of which the Goldfoil, test bored
by Olaf Moen, is figured to contain
1,066,300 c.y., worth £190,800 with gold
at a premium of 80 p.c. ; another, the
Gorge, not yet tested, is expected to
contain about 800,000 c.y., worth
£144,000 with gold on the same basis.
A single line of bores, extending 500 feet
across the old river channel near the
boundary of the Goldfoil and Gorge, re-
cently disclosed 4s. 4d. dirt. No esti-
mates concerning the other two, Gold-
foil Extended and Widubosh No. 3, have
yet been given. It is proposed to treat
the ground by hydraulic sluicing, and
costs are put at from 6d. to 7d. a yard.
Results will partly depend upon re-
coveries, and what they will amount to
remains to'be proved.
Of the co.’s other areas, most is ex-
pected from a dredging claim of about
3000 acres on. the Ono River, where the
bouldery ground needs to be more thor-
oughly examined before any worth-while
opinion of its value can be formed. The
Sunset and the Sunshine claims, 1500
acres and 300 acres respectively, have
yet to be tested. This work is to be
pushed ahead.
* * * *
If W. G. Congdon’s recent find, the
Midas, at Lolworth Creek (N.Q.), turns
out to be a continuation of the Mons
Meg lode, which is being worked about
1000 yards further north, a lot more
should be heard of this field. He got
colors at the grass roots, and at a
depth of 4ft. 6in. was in rich stone.
About the middle of last month 24j tons
of this was crushed at the Pioneer bat-
tery for 124|0z. of smelted gold, worth
£3 15s. 2d. an ounce with the metal at
its statutory price. Still, a lot remains
to be done before any reliable idea can
be formed as to the value of the Midas
as a mine. In the same locality George
Coleman is also reported to be on top of
a lode which is opening up well.
* * * *
All the deep leads at Avoca (Vic.) have
not been taken by English interests.
Ground covering one showing satisfac-
tory bore results at No. 2 Creek has been
secured by New Pyrenees Alluvials, N.L.,
a Melbourne float with a nominal capi-
tal of £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of which
the vendor takes 35,000 paids, and 65,000,
which have been underwritten, are
offered. The new co. will do more
boring before shaft sites are chosen, and
will test 1000 acres above the deep
ground with a view to bucket dredging.
* * * *
Oil Search, Ltd., whose bore on a
closed structure at Warooby Creek,
Roma district (Q.), failed to tap a pool,
has turned its attention to North-west
Cape (W.A.), where a stratigraphical sur-
vey is to be made. Following an aerial
survey, Dr. Woolnough, Commonwealth
Geological Adviser, considered that this
area had possibilities worth closer
examination.
* * * *
The Endurance Co. has bought the
assets of the Pioneer (Tas.), including
a hydro-electric plant, for £15,000. The
idea is to work the tin drifts at South
Mount Cameron. It is estimated that
300,000 cubic yards will be sluiced annu-
ally by gravitation at a cost of 6d. a
yard. On the deeper leads the yardage
would be reduced to 200,000, and costs
would be raised to about lOd. With tin
around £220 a ton, London, a profit of
11yd. a yard from the more easily
worked ground is talked of. Cecil G.
Ryan, formerly manager of the Pioneer,
is general manager.
* * * *
Cash held by South Kalgurli Consoli-
dated (W.A.) at the end of March last
totalled £100,744, and investments, mostly
Government bonds, were valued at
£67,136. The four directors divided
£5710 in fees and percentage of profits,
compared with £6237 for the previous
12 months, and £4915 the year before
that. The recent shrinkage in earnings
was attributed to a sudden fall in the
grade of ore mined from the leased
Croesus Prop. ; this alters the outlook
for divs., etc. (100 p.c. last year). There
is 209,000 tons of blocked ore assaying
7.3dwt., and 76,000 tons of probable
6.4dwt. stone. The co. also has a three-
fourths interest in a lease near Mt.
Monger, where lldwt. stuff, 4ft. 3in.
wide, has been exposed, and a lease at
Kanowna, where the borehole showed
traces of gold at 625 ft.
* * * *
At the beginning of last month the
Imperial Co. (W.A.) had £25,000, mainly
the proceeds of sales of reserve shares at
a premium, and it hasn't spent much
since. It owns three blocks, originally
worked by a London concern, at the
southern end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile. Government records show total
gold production at 64,18 loz. The only
work thus far done by Imperial is on
the Idaho block, where exposure of a
2oz. and, so far, comparatively short
shoot of gold sent the shares from a few
shillings to over £2 in the market; they
have since fallen to under 30s. The
policy is to continue development until
enough ore has been opened up to justify
installation of a treatment plant. Mean-
while, stone raised is being crushed at
a neighboring mill.
* * * *
Lanarkshire has abandoned another
Westralian gold option, this time at Mul-
line. The shares recently advanced from
a few pence to over 35., on the strength
of an official announcement that a good
thing had been struck, but subsequent
reports were less glowing, and the market
has weakened. Kangaroo, in the same
stable as Lanarkshire, has taken an
option on the once London-owned
Last Chance mine, at Kanowna (W.A.).
From all accounts, it has a chance.
* * * *
London-controlled Hampton Gold
Mining Areas, Ltd., spent £1212 last year
to get about £423, which was made up
of grazing fees and lease rents, £246 ;
dividends and transfer fees, £118; ex-
change, £25 ; profit on investments, £34.
Salaries and directors’ fees, office rent,
etc., took £965; and audit fees, legal
expenses, etc., £247. The co.’s property
consists of about 200,000 acres of free-
hold pastoral and auriferous country, 25
miles south of Boulder (W.A.). Mining
operations have been carried on here
during the past 40 years, but share-
holders have not received anything, and
there is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that they ever will.
* * * *
The Westralian goldminers’ demand
for higher wages and better working
conditions is now before the State Arbi-
tration Court. Claims include (1) a
minimum wage of £1 a shift, with
margins as at present, and an increase
in district allowances of 50 per cent. ;
(2) five seven-hour shifts a week for
underground men, and five eight-hour
shifts for surface hands. The owners
offer a basic wage of £4 2s. a week,
object to allowance proposals, and sug-
gest a 48-hour week, exclusive of crib-
time, for surface workers, and 44 hours,
inclusive of crib, for underground men.
Other disputed claims refer to employ-
ment at reduced rates of the infirm and
elderly and preference to unionsts.
* * * *
Wavic Gold Development, N.L.,
operating at Higginsville (W.A.), has
crushed another 97 tons for 30oz. over
the plates, with 2dwt. 12gr. in the sands.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I want to precipitate tin in a metallic form
from sodium stannate solution. Will the intro-
duction of zinc plate or an electrolyte assist ?
2928.
(1) Assuming that the solution is decidedly
alkaline in reaction, and that the sodium stan-
nate has been obtained by fusion of the tin
with caustic soda, then much will depend upon
the degree of alkalinity of solution. Experi-
ence shows that very strong alkalinity retards
precipitation. (2) Zinc or even iron plate
would act as the cathode, with scrap tin or
metallic tin as the anode, free caustic soda
acting as the electrolyte. From 3-4 volts and
a current of approximately 1-2 amps., with the
solution at 60-70 degrees, should precipitate
the tin. It is usually deposited as a colored
spongy mass. The precipitated nietal will be
very pure (about 99 p.c. tin).
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.K.: Sunkissed Banana bonds are not an
investment but a speculation; the venture has
yet to prove itself R.G.McF.: (1) Non-
tariff offices are those which do not belong
to the associated underwriters. They usually
charge a lower premium, and have to look
to other non-members for reinsurance. (2)
No record Ignorance: (1) No. (2) Lia-
bility not made clear in prospectus, which
fails to fully set out the terms and conditions
of the certificate. (3) Selling price is put
at £ll per ton, London. Last year’s Australian
exports averaged £8 per ton in local currency.
(4) Shares not listed P.G.L.: No Ex-
pona: (1) No. (2) Poor.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Battle”
Anybody who wants to see how the
next war will be fought should view this
picture at the Majestic, Melbourne. The
Japanese fleet goes out to meet an enemy
(presumably France), and, after an in-
decisive engagement, returns home to
encounter nation-wide rejoicings. The war
is then forgotten for three-quarters of an
hour while the Marquis Yorisaka
(Charles Boyer), the Marquise Yorisaka
(Merle Oberon) and Commander Fergan
(John Loder) engage in a triangular love
affair amongst the chrysanthemums.
The upshot is that the marquis, who is a
navy captain and the idol of the nation,
pinches from the commander, who is a
British attache, the secret of what’s
wrong with the Jap gunnery, but in the
process discovers that the commander
has been engaged in pinching the affec-
tions of his wife. He thus goes forth
to fight the next battle of the war, which
the producer has just remembered is
still on, with divided counsels in his
Samurai heart. His ship is pulverised,
he takes charge of the last turret person-
ally, is wounded, the commander (a
more than benevolent neutral, appar-
ently) takes charge, blows the enemy
to smithereens and makes the supreme
sacrifice. The marquis then dresses him-
self in a white kimono, calls his second-
in-command and tells him he is going to
commit hari-kari, possibly because that
is in accordance with the Bushido code,
or possibly because the producer didn’t
know what next to do with his idiotic
plot.
In present critic’s opinion, this
picture, which has been highly praised,
is not only bunk but must have a brutal-
ising effect on an audience. The roman-
tic glamor which is thrown over the
emotions of the persons involved is ex-
tended to the horribly realistic battle
scenes, and, moreover, the treatment is
a botch. There are three themes, and
each is treated for its own sake, without
due attention to the connecting links,
so the relationships are lost.
Miss Oberon is a conventional Holly-
wood type, her concession to her
Japanese character being a shuffling gait
suggestive of corns. Charles Boyer, how-
ever, plays the ancestor-worshipping
marquis with restraint, and you feel
really sorry that he has to disembowel
himself to make a Roman holiday or a
butchers’ picnic, or whatever it is.
“Kamet Conquered”
This film, at Melbourne Athenaeum,
is the record of the British expedition
to the summit of Kamet, one of the
Himalaya peaks. The story is narrated
by the leader, F. S. Smythe, F.R.G.S.,
with commendable restraint and in a
mellifluous voice. The other actors are
Dr. Greene, the botanist, R. L. Holds-
worth, Wing-Commander Beauman,
E. E. Shipton, Capt. St. J. Birnie and
sundry lowly Tibetan porters.
It is a staggering tribute to the in-
domitableness of the Life Force that the
white men got to the top, but it is an
even more staggering circumstance that
the porters did so, too, for they were
loaded like camels, and alongside the
Englishmen they looked like dwarfs.
If the expeditionists did not discover
anything of scientific importance they
saw, and photographed, a magnifi-
cent sunrise over a titanic landscape of
frozen peaks. In the last stages of the
journey they crawled by inches up per-
pendicular ice 23,000 feet above the sea,
and the oxygen was so scarce that they
gasped for minutes before taking each
successive step.
On the same programme is an impe-
cunious-looking grub which forces itself
up the social scale by mere instinct until
it emerges a handsome butterfly with
a swallow-tail. A tribute to the Life
Force, too.
“All of Me”
Once upon a time there was a wealthy
girl (Miriam Hopkins) who fell in love
with a lecturer in engineering (Frederic
March). She refused to marry him be-
cause she feared that the alliance
mightn’t stand the test of the U.S.A.’s
quick-divorce facilities. Along came a
little sneak-thief (George Raft) and his
girl (Helen Mack). Contemplating the
devotion of these humble fugitives from
justice, Miss Hopkins learned the mean-
ing of trew lurv, and the end was a kiss
that almost certainly impelled Mr. Cres-
well O’Reilly to call indignantly for his
stopwatch.
Frederic March has developed a tragic
formula which he applies to the lightest
scenes, and it makes this opus appear a
lot more important than it really is.
However, Miss Mack fits her part like a
glove, and the story isn’t badly con-
“NO GREATER GLORY.”
At Sydney Liberty: Mars registers approval of Frankie Darro’s victory over the
Paul-street gang. In background, string entanglements. Inset: George
Breakston, boy star.
structed. March’s observations on mar-
riage are unconventional but sensible. At
the -Capitol.
“Wharf Angel”
’Frisco’s Barbary coast in the naughty
’nineties is the locale of this melodrama.
Dorothy Dell, a newcomer to the screen,
portrays a woman of the streets who
hides from the police a man falsely
accused of murder (Preston Foster). With
unexpected delicacy the cops refrain
from entering her boudoir. She falls in
love with the man, and when he goes off
to China, a-stoking a tramp steamer with
Victor McLaglen (who fain would make
her his bride), she reforms. When the
seafarers return from the Orient, McLag-
len gets jealous, gives Foster away and
lifts the 1000 dollars reward. And now
comes remorse. Shall he give himself
up? No. Better to use the reward to
hire a lawyer. He does so, and com-
mits suicide.
McLaglen imparts some vim and vigor
into the romance, which as a picture
of the Barbary coast in'any of its eras
is a washout.
Sundry Shows.
Of the hundred and one concerts and
recitals of Sydney’s Music Week the
most interesting and the one, probably,
that commanded the widest audience
was the A.B.C.’s contribution, an
orchestral affair conducted by Fritz Hart,
of Melbourne. Sydney for the first time
heard Mr. Hart’s orchestrated choral
work “Joll’s Credo.” This contains
many beautiful and dignified passages,
but its connection with the words it is
supposed to embroider is nowhere
obvious. The essence of Sheppard’s
poem is confident joy, whereas the music
is sometimes plaintive ; sometimes almost
questioning. The prelude from Mr.
Hart’s opera “Isolde of the White
Hands,” not being hampered by words
and linked merely to fairy legend, stands
on less debatable ground, as does “Seeds
of Love,” described as an old English
fantasy.
Other broadcast concerts of the week
were one arranged by the Musical Asso-
ciation of N.S.W., in which pianist Bessie
Coleman, ’cellist Gladstone Bell and
Madame Goossens-Viceroy presented a
short programme of French music (Ravel
represented by four short pianoforte
works), and two by Eisteddfod competi-
tors. These latter proved, if they proved
nothing else, that the senior State is still
producing a steady annual crop of first-
class voices, and that the radio, the
gramophone and the player-piano are
stimulating rather than stifling the study
of music in all its departments.
The craze for books, films and plays
about Henry VIII. shows no signs of
abating. Sydney playgoers braved
drenchings two evenings last week to
witness at the Savoy Theatre Clifford
Bax’s version of the monarch’s union
with Kath Howard. The play, “The
Rose Without a Thorn” (Harry Tudor’s
pet name for the lady), was presented by
the Independent Theatre under the direc-
tion of Doris Fitton. Mr. Bax does
some juggling with historical facts, but
has produced a capital drama of its kind.
Movement is brisk from the annulment
of Henry’s marriage with Anne of
Cleves to the execution of his fifth.
Neville Malley, though a little too young
in voice and appearance, gave one of the
most colorful performances seen on the
Sydney amateur stage for a long time as
Henry VIII. Anne Gordon as Katheryn
was equally convincing, her early
lightheartedness contrasting well with
her sombreness when her sins found her
out. John Wyndham was an elegant-
looking Culpeper, and gave the part life.
The Cranmer of William Rees also lived,
and subsidiary parts were smoothly filled.
The scenery was by Don Finley, and
Eva Kuraz’s designs for the costumes
were executed by Peggy Aveney.
* * *
Ibsen’s “Pillars of Society,” given an
airing on Saturday by Sydney’s Kursaal
Theatre, embroiders the same theme as
“The Silence of Dean Maitland.” Consul
Bernick, like the dean, makes a mis-
take, the blame for which is taken by
his friend, and delays confession until
after he has become the acknowledged
leader and model of the community. The
players were overweighted. There is no
change of scene during the four acts, and
the play stands or falls on characterisa-
tion. In the difficult role of Bernick
Alan Stone did passably well, though in
the important last act he was far too
hesitant. Fenton Dobson fell to the
temptation to melodramatise Johan.
Ainslie Dower, John Rybak and Grace
Armstrong showed to better advantage
in less exacting parts. The Kursaal
Theatre proposes next to have a go at
Shakspeare and Tchekov.
* # *
The first concert of the Spivakovsky-
Kurtz trio, now permanently attached to
the Uni. Con., filled Melbourne Town
Hall on Saturday night with sounds and
nearly filled it with audience. The trio
are said to have, among them, only
three vices—Kurtz’s is the ’cello, Jascha’s
the piano, and Tossy’s the violin—and,
according to their fellow boarding-house
inmates, they practise these vices eight
hours or more a day. The result on
Saturday was an evening of almost fault-
less music. Tossy introduced a hushed
house to Viotti, whose Concerto in A
Minor was a favorite with Johannes
Brahms. It turned out to be as gracious
and melodious a piece as anything in
musical literature, and Tossy’s instrument
sounded very full and self-confident.
Kurtz’s contribution was the “Arpeg-
gione” sonata written by Schubert out
of temporary enthusiasm/ for an in-
strument invented by a Viennese friend
—the gitarre d’amour. The instrument
became extinct, but the music lived on
for Kurtz to arrange it for his own
favorite instrument and play it for the
first time in Melbourne on Saturday
night. It is an extraordinarily beautiful
thing. Jascha Spivakovsky played two
pianoforte pieces of Chopin with ele-
gance, and concluded the evening by loos-
ing some moisture from the waterworks
of Ravel, which, after a bright and cheer-
ful evening, left things a trifle damp.
The complete organisation was heard in
the Brahms Trio in C Major, op. 87, and
the teamwork was particularly good.
* * *
“Arabian Nights Extravaganza,”
presented on the ice at Sydney Glaci-
arium on Thursday, provided a brilliant
spectacle. The stars of the piece were
Sadie Cambridge and Albert Enders, well
supported by Peggy Littlejohn, Sid Croll
and a company of 60 performers, all
amateurs. Unhampered by stage limi-
tations, the ballets were able to extend
themselves in effective fashion. Cos-
tumes and lighting effects were excellent.
The show will be repeated to-morrow.


£1
iiliiii
ii '
Il'j!
BE
&
lift
iii
?i>!
ill
ft
lj'W< ■■riffftl
T*\\y
in
M
: 1
9
*mnntun\
m
li?
mwm
Kl
w
i ifi
'•art//,
i
tmr^ ?Am
m
ii
m
in L 1
ffi
I
ii
') 11
» i/<
Capstan Clock
Series No. 7
To see the Markusturn of
Rothenburg, Bavaria ( rem-
nant of the earliest town walls )
is almost to revisit the Middle
Ages. A feature of the Mar -
kusturn is the old Clock Tower.
Tired of the city’s headlong pace,
The everlasting, restless race;
What bliss to find this ancient place,
This peaceful hill.
Here life flows by with quiet grace
And Time seems still.
Original Verse Copyright by IV. D. & H. O. IVitti.
Not all of us can travel to Bavaria to
escape "the city’s headlong pace,” but
all of us can find "time for a
CAPSTAN” There is a quality about
the famous "CAPSTAN” blend that
really does help one to relax.
TIME FOR A
e
CAPSTAN
(The Blend is exclusive to Capstans )
6662-2.4.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: Dave had fallen badly for
the city girl. She was seated on a log at
the woodheap ; Dave was, stooping over
her, and unburdening his soul. “By
cripes, Beryl, I’m dead gone on yer,”
he said passionately. “I bin thinkin’ of
yer all day. All th’ time 1 bin bendin’
over me work I’ve seen yer luvly face
an’ eyes lookin’ up into mine.” He was
interrupted by a shout from Dad at the
kitchen door. “Hi! Dave,” his sire
bellowed, “if y’re ready we’ll go an’ bag
them spuds y’ been sortin’.”
* * * *
“S.G.”: The fire menace on the great
plains of n.-w. Queensland is heartily
cursed by drovers’ cooks on the long trip
southwards. During the winter months,
when most big movements are under-
way, a southerly blows day and night.
At this very time the Mitchell and
Flinders grasses are as dry as tinder. In
most cases the grass is shovelled back
some distance, a break of earth is thrown
around the camp and the fire is lit in
the shelter of the waggon. The most
curious fire I ever saw occurred a few
years ago near Julia Creek (n.-w. Q.).
"There ain’t goanna be no bones!”
The fire, leaping the break, travelled six
miles in as many minutes, but so high
was the wind that at no part was it
able to spread more than a couple of
chains. A bare patch of ground saved
a nasty situation, as the fire was follow-
ing the telephone line, and Normanton
was only a couple of hundred miles
away.
H* *{*
“Hotham”: Victorian philologists are
becoming alarmed over an outbreak in
the State schools of a new form of slang.
Two words in particular have gained
great popularity—“dink” and “pug.”
These are, apparently, both used to ex-
press a request for a double-bank ride.
The fortunate Melbourne schoolkid with
a bike, when time comes to go home, *is
asked by his cobbers for a “dink.” In
the country the other word seems more
popular, horses being largely used there.
When a cobber wants a lift home behind
the kid in the saddle he asks for a “pug.”
Derivations will be welcomed —no prizes
offered.
“Nivis”: One of the show turns at
Taronga (N.S.W.) Zoo just now is the
three-months-old polar bear,
who has just been permitted
by mamma to come into the
open. The chief attraction is
not the quaintness of the little
chap, but the astonishing dis-
parity in size between him
and his half-ton mother. To-
day the youngster is a trifle
bigger than an Irish terrier
pup of the same age. When
born, he was no larger than
the ordinary kitten, bears
being born much smaller
than any others of the Car-
nivora. Australia, though,
can supply an even more
striking difference between
the sizes of parent and child.
When the great red kanga-
roo, six feet high and weigh-
ing some five hundredweight
of bone and muscle, becomes
a father he would need a
magnifying glass and a set
of analyst’s scales to appraise
his offspring—a matter he
never cares a hoot about in
any case.
* * *
“Uramao”: The Maori thinks his own
veneration for Government official docu-
ments is also felt by the pakeha. A
Ratana Maori entered a store and tried
to borrow five bob on the plea that he
was anticipating a large sum from the
Government. Storekeeper failing to bite,
Hori drew from his inside pocket a for-
midable envelope and solemnly placed its
contents on the counter. It was an
application to the Advances to Settlers
Department for a loan.
t- * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: The most sacred
thing known to south-eastern Papuan
tribes is the will of a dying person, its
sanctity, however, being due more to the
fear of being transformed into three-
legged wallabies than affection or innate
probity. The metamorphosing of the
culprits into that particular monstrosity
is a power vested from time immemorial
in the spirits of all departed ones whose
disposition of their earthly goods is
interfered with. As Papuans have a par-
ticular weakness for wallaby meat, and
three-legged animals are not, as a rule,
good sprinters, the penalty carries nasty
implications.
* * t- *
“Cudgerie”: The milky or “blind-your-
eyes” variety of mangrove (B. 15/8/’34)
is a remedy for the sting of the stone-
fish. N.Q. abos., while cutting ordi-
nary mangrove wood for the beche-
de-mer boilers, occasionally tread on one
of these terrors. I heard one boy scream-
ing with pain two miles away until his
mate cut a “blind-your-eyes” and applied
the juice to the small punctured wound
on his heel. Relief was almost instan-
taneous.
* * * *
“Top-rail”: Swimming horses is a
simple matter compared with transport-
ing baggage across flooded streams. To
make a good improvised boat for this
purpose, use two saddles, two saplings
about Bft. long and a good tarpaulin or
tent-fly. Spread the fly on the ground,
“And how fast would you say he was going?”
“Well — er —he seemed to take a good while to get over me.”
place the saplings (about 2ft. apart)
across it. Lash the saddles upright to
the ends of the saplings to form the bow
and stern of the boat, then fold the
canvas over, bringing the edges well
down inside. A pack-saddle placed up-
side-down in the centre of the craft im-
proves its shape and stability. If there’s
a rope amongst your gear swim across
with it and then haul the boat over, your
mate swimming on the upstream side to
balance it. Otherwise two men swim-
ming alongside can manage the boat
without much difficulty.
* * t- *
“G.G.6”: That Victorian shooter who
bagged eight hares at a drive with three
barrels (B. 22/8/’34) has raised up a
horde of alleged sportsmen to
tell how many birds and beasts
they have “browned” at a shot.
The hare man was destroying
vermin, so can be excused.
Not so the others. When my
brothers and I first began to
shoot the law was laid down
that birds, with the exception
of the plain turkey occasion-
ally, must be shot on the wing.
Disobedience meant the loss of
a shooting permit for a month
at least. My youngest brother
was the outstanding .offender,
and that with one performance.
Only a kid, he was given a
gun and a couple of cartridges
to start off the ducks, which
had taken refuge at the far end
of the long “briary,” back to
the shooters again. A blackboy
with him basely gave the show
away. When he crawled up
the embankment of the dam
which closed the end of the
long lagoon, he found the
water black with resting ducks.
Immediately below him and
end on was a fence-rail a few
inches above the water. On
this a dozen teal were sitting
in line dozing. The tempta-
tion was too great. Loosing
off, he bagged the entire dozen.
It was many a year before he
heard the last of that shot.
* * * *
“J.D.S.”: Luck? A mill-hand was
crushed beneath a two-ton log at Tumbi
Umbi, near Gosford (N.S.W.). He was
snigging it to a mill when he slipped on
wet sawdust, and the log passed right
over him. He escaped with a broken
leg and slight abrasions ; his body had
been pressed deep into the sawdust.
* H> t *
“Erne”: I must permit myself to
doubt “S. Q. Whyffe” (B. 22/8/’34), who
says he has seen an Australian eagle chase
a flock of flying ducks. No eagle that ever
was by sea or land ever chased his prey.
The work is done by swooping from a
high altitude. I can claim some per-
sonal knowledge, having seen the
Bedouin using them to capture gazelles
in the Libyan Desert. These are never
loosed at birds, though falcons of several
kinds are. The great terror of Australia’s
wild ducks, as he is of the tribe the
world over, is the peregrine falcon. He
also uses his pace to gain position to
strike from above. The sparrowhawk,
smaller, but even more ferocious, is a
chaser. “S.Q.W.’s” examples of eagles
taking rabbits does not apply, since I
quoted their capacity to pick up lambs
and marsupial ground game from terra
firma —but always by the swoop, and
not a chase. The yarn about the osprey
who caught a fish, had to resign it to “a
silver sea-eagle” and then see the second
receiver robbed in his turn by a wedge-
tail leaves me cold. Ospreys and the
fishing eagles are seashore birds. In
many years’ experience I have never seen
our great inland eagle within coo-ee of
salt water, save in a zoo.
*j* 'fi
“Old Miner”: In the early days round
the Towers (Q.) there was one old miner
who regularly gathered a bag from the
company’s tailings heap. These he treated
in his own leisure for his own benefit.
To allay suspicions during the process of
gathering his “bag,” however, he tied
an old bullock bell round his neck and
worked to the accompaniment of its
jangling.
it- * * *
“Tom Willie”: It’s still a secret
whether the snake I ploughed out of his
winter suit made the clobber for himself
or not. But “Bam” (B. 15/8/’34) has
found another snake which fitted the
hole exactly—until the creature swal-
lowed a stumpy-tail lizard. If a snake
does dig the hole for hibernating in, does
it always do the job on an empty stomach
or does it dine out occasionally after
making the hole and then go home to
sleep it off? If I appear to be insistent,
it is because I have had to suffer so
much at the hands of scoffers.
t- t- t- *
“W.P.T.”: A wise bushman never
picks bracken to make a bed with. If
he can’t get gum-leaves or dry grass the
hard ground is preferred to the fern.
It makes a soft enough bed, but—in N.
S. Wales, at least—it is usually infested
with ticks.
* * ■$ *
“Golden Casket”: I nominate as the
luckiest bird in Australia the waterhen.
That he’s strong on the wing is shown
by his mighty migrations. He can swim
like a duck, being quite at home on the
water, and can dive like a dabchick.
Added to that, he can run like a red-
shank, skip over the ground and do zig-
zags and straight runs like the shadow
of an inebriated streak of lightning!
That joker follows the rains, too. He
skims the cream of life all the time ; he
lives in a land of young and growing
grass always, of full waterholes and burst-
ing foliage. As soon as things start to dry
the least little bit the waterhen just fades
from the picture and goes to where the
living is good. There may be a few
advantages I’ve omitted. Those named
are sufficient for me to start a Water-
hen Lottery Syndicate (lucky charms of
a strutting waterhen, half a guinea), and
those wishing to join can send me their
money—cheques not accepted.
THE MISSING COUSINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re working now with new-found (tope
where once we toiled in vain,
And names that waken memories arc in the
news again.
They know more than we knew, perhaps,
though much is as before;
But our good Moonta Cousins don’t come
westward any more.
Ihc men who knew “she’d come again” have
now a lot to say:
they always knew, if rightly worked, she
couldn’t help but pay.
But there are voices that we miss whene’er that
tale is told,
For Moonta doesn’t send across her quotas as
of old.
From Laverton to Nullagine, from Norseman
to Lake Way,
Old shows are being dragged again into the
light of day.
The vendors tell their ready tales, and some
folks think them true,
But what’s a mining boom without a Cousin
Jack or two?
Stands Moonta where it used to stand? Does
it no longer grow
The kind of men who helped to man the
mines of long ago?
May we not hope to see them here before
the boom is done?
Good Cousin Jack, of Moonta Town, where
be ’ee to, m’son?
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Diamond”: That story of the aban-
donment of the puff-adder for digging
post holes (B. 8/7/’34) reminds me that
in our American desert, where fuel and
service stations are scarce, rattlesnakes
often come in handy. One of the draw-
backs to the beasts is that they won’t
get out of the road, and when run over
frequently bite the tyre and puncture
the inner tube. The thing then is to
stop the car as the snake is pinned
down. The high-pressure air from the
punctured tube rushes down the ser-
pent’s throat and inflates it hugely. Jump-
ing out of the car, the driver grabs the
bloated snake, slips off the tyre and puts
the beast inside the cover in place of the
inflated tube. The only trouble is the
rattle, which makes an irritating noise
while driving. I have had the chap in
charge of a service station vainly search
the car from end to end for the noise
that annoyed me ; there wasn’t even a
loose bolt to be found.
Ht * * *
“Fancar”: Tell “Tom Willie” (B.
18/7/’34) that on the Darling Downs
(Q.) we distinguish the animal from the
vegetable by spelling the former “pade-
melon” and the latter “paddymelon”
“Now, son, soldiers don’t cry!”
“Yairs, but they don’t get walloped fer pinchin’ a bit o’ jam.”
(pronunciation the same). Pademelons
are rare on the Downs, but we’ve got
more than our share of paddymelons.
When the Warwick Show Society staged
a noxious-weed display they listed the
paddymelon as African cucumber. Look-
ing at the exhibit an old-timer told me
he was responsible for introducing
paddymelons to the Downs. He sent
for a vegetable novelty named African
cucumber—the ad. said it could be
eaten as a cucumber when young,
or when old as a substitute for
passionfruit—and got paddymelons in-
stead. The dinkum African cucumber
is a delectable vegetable, but the other
thing in all its stages has a vile taste,
even worse than oleander.
“Moo”: There are sometimes worse
things than being a cow, though most
of us wouldn’t think so. A mob of the
milky mothers of the herd walked over
some ground in Cronulla (N.S.W.) where
the rains had earthed an electric cable.
They were chucked all over the place and
finished up in attitudes which must have
been most embarrassing to respectable
matrons. They eventually recovered,
their horn-covered tootsies having par-
tially insulated the electric current.
Whether there was more kick than usual
in their milk next morning has not been
reported.
* >;: * *
“Lynch’s Farm”: N.S.W. dwellers on
the land have lately been telling tail
tales about the grasshopper
invasion which has been de-
vastating a section of the
west, a wall of the insects
three feet high being stacked
against a fence in one place
for miles. Motorists have
had to drive with blankets
over their heads to protect
themselves from the living
hailstorm beating on them,
and grass goes before the in-
sects even quicker than be-
fore fire. Lucky our brutes
do not seem to have the
fecundity and habit of de-
veloping periodically into
countless hordes which has
always been the terror of the
S’African farmer. No one
who has seen a great locust
swarm on the wing in that
country will ever forget the
experience. In the last stages
of Roberts’s advance on
Bloemfontein in 1900, a
whole army corps was held
up for half a day by one.
Even the infantry couldn’t
battle into the horny storm.
As for the mounted troops,
no horse could be induced
to face it, and none was too happy tail-
on to the blast.
* * * *
“Mick O’Mulga”: The old-time
swaggie who comes easiest to my memory
was “Razors.” He and his swag, strapped
on a bike-—wheeled, but seldom ridden
—were always welcome at a station.
He’d camp in the shearers’ quarters
for a few days, then say “I must
be going—any of you blokes got a razor
you’d like done up? ’ All the hands
would trot out their shaving implements,
and old “Razors” would sit down with
a hone before him and set the lot. If
offered payment, he would decline ; the
accepted way of rewarding him was to
take him aside, hand him a shilling and
say “I don’t know if I’ll ever see you
near a pub—take this and have a drink
for me when you get to the next one.”
Approached in that way, he always took
the money, but work he refused with
scorn. “I’ll have ye know I’m of inde-
pendent means,” he'd roar. “Razors”
used to make a regular round on the
Darling, Murray and ’Bidgee ; can any-
one tell me if he’s still on deck?
: f= * *
"Jim G.”: A case of one industry
killing another and, in turn, helping a
third happened on the ’Bidgee Irrigation
“Dave, wouldn't it be lovely to have a
little son and heir?"
“P'raps it would, kid. I'll chop down
all those trees round the house first
thing in the morning."
Areas when rice-growing became so
popular. It wiped out dairying ; on the
other hand, starlings that were ruining
the sultana-growers left the vineyards for
the ricefields, where they helped rather
than hindered.
* * *
“Timothy Tywire”: Black Brother’s
remarkable eyesight is equally keen for
the distant or the diminutive. At lunch
my neighbor told how a 10-year-old
piccaninny identified him a long way off
while two bushmen were arguing that
the horseman was one of two other indi-
viduals. This was immediately capped
with an ambulance-man’s story of his
fruitless efforts to locate a sting he wished
to extract from an agonised patient. A
near-by abo. performed the operation in
an instant.
* * * *
“Huon”: The ineradicable tendency of
people to immediately slay something
new and strange in the animal world is
unpleasantly exemplified in that yarn of
the seal which invaded a
Tassie fish-cleaning shed
and was butchered (B.
22/8/’34). The Austra-
lian seal is one of the
gentlest, most confiding
and harmless beasts in
the world, as well as one
of the most attractive.
All this chap did was to
climb into the shed and
eat some fish. The gal-
lant lads of the homo
sapiens breed fled in dis-
may before the innocent
invader. Getting some
Dutch courage, they re-
turned and slew the flipper with axes.
A pity the mob couldn’t have been
handed three months’ hard apiece for
wanton destruction of a lovable and in-
telligent creature.
* '■{- * *
“Wagga”: In an old diary once be-
longing to the wife of a pearling captain
who worked boats up Roebourne (W.A.)
way in the ’seventies, I came across the
method used for testing Malayan skin
divers before signing them on. They
were made to dive for a coin in five
fathoms of water. If they did this with-
out difficulty they were taken on ; the
duds were of no further interest.
s(: * * *
“Airline”: For a faithful partner I
back the brolga against allcomers. Test-
ing a new rifle, I took a casual potshot
at one a long distance from me. To my
mingled surprise and regret, tinged, I’ll
admit, with not a little appreciation of
unexpected marksmanship, I scored dead
centre. Half an hour later I became
aware of an insistent call in the vicinity
of my victim. Her mate had discovered
the slaughter. His distress was pitiful,
and after standing it for an hour or so
I made what amends I could by burying
the dead. But I was not to escape as
easily as that; I was camped at that
waterhole for a fortnight, and day and
night the lone survivor made me curse
my thoughtlessness with that long-drawn
note of plaintive entreaty.
* * ■* *
“Cooie-Bird”: Day after day I’ve been
a witness of two soldier-birds harassing a
surly-looking old kookaburra watching
from the lopped jacarandas in our
garden for a grub to show up. The
cheeky ones sit just out of reach of the
laugher’s powerful beak, daring the old
boy to make a grab at them. When
he disdains to notice they fly up and
make a half-hearted peck at him. In
disgust he sometimes flies off to the next
lopped tree, but they follow close at his
tail, and, taking up perches just out of
reach again, renew their teasing. Occa-
sionally he makes an open-mouthed rush
at his tormentors ; but they are too slick.
There’d be some language flying round
if that aged fellow knew how to swear.
* * * *
“Bitter Bark”: High up on the eastern
slope of Mt. Demi, near Mossman
(N.Q.), there is a natural statue of a
shepherd holding a lamb in his arms,
while another gazes upwards from his
feet. It consists of a single boulder of
grey granite standing out from the sur-
rounding scrub, and is about 40ft. high.
It is known locally as the Good Shepherd
rock.
* V V *
“Ugar”: A native teacher in the
Torres Strait islands had to send a certi-
ficate of death to the authorities at T. 1.,
He filled in all % necessary details regard-
ing name, age and sex of the defunct, but
bit deep into his penholder at “Cause of
death.” Then inspiration came, and
down went two words —“Short wind.”
It filled the bill! He wasn’t trying to
be humorous, either. “Short wind” is
the ordinary island expression when a
man’s breathing apparatus isn’t acting
properly.
* ❖ ❖ *
“Splodger”: As one who has sampled
the smell of the gidya from one end of
Queensland to the other, in drought, flood
and every other old time, let me support
“F.Y.7” (B. 1/8/’34). At Blackall in the
’nineties there was a gidya tree growing
between the courthouse and the river.
When rain was hanging about, and when
that solitary tree did its best billygoat act,
there was no business doing down at the
lower end of the town, and fellows up
before the beak always asked for an
adjournment. They knew the stench
must have invaded the P.M.’s house, that
Mrs. P.M. must be annoyed, and that the
old boy himself would not be in a mood
to deal lightly with those before him.
JOE’S VISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How is your sight for signals?”
tt The shed boss said to Joe.
Wou’ ve been a long time driving;
The, best of eyes will go.
I don’t want any inquests
To come back here to me,
When you’ve run through the signals
Or made the speed too free.”
Said Joe, with old eyes peeping
(i His half-closed lids between,
I know the ‘red’ by instinct
And I can smell the ‘green’;
And as for wreckin’ engines
Or bustin’ up the cars—
I guess my eyes ain’t failin’,
’Cos I can see the stars.”
That night old Joe smelt trouble
Ere it could come to him,
And he reversed and “sanded”
And stopped on Ruin’s rim;
And when the people cheered him
Because he’d saved his train,
He said, “I seen the signals;
I got ’em full and plain.”
And that is why the shed boss
Is puzzled about Joe —
He knows there were no signals
To make his whistle blow
Across the gaping washout . . .
An engine and ten cars
And Joe —but Joe had vision,
For he could see the stars.
Perhaps a star, low-shining
And red and dim with rain,
Had caught his eye, all watchful,
And made him stop the train;
Or else another signal
His inner sight had seen,
For Joe knew “red” by instinct
As he could smell the “green.”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


TTw'^xilleixJL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
è
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
A Policy
of II alp fulness?
T’HE P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. St C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director;
H. FELL.
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
EXTREME WOOL TYPES.
“Murrawong”: In addition to the
newly-created superfine-wool classes at
shows, we have now a section for extra-
strong merinos—lower than 60’s. Just
how low these may go is a matter for
conjecture, and while that sort of sheep
has its adherents in suitable districts it
must include extreme types of merino
whose indiscriminate use in the Eastern
States would wreck most flocks.
The term “merino” has always been
synonymous with fineness and soft
handling, and any attempt to interfere
with regular types to meet a fashion
should be deprecated.
A collection of photographs of cham-
pion rams since the earliest Sydney Show
provides an illuminating reminder of
what can happen when sheep-breeding
blindly goes to extremes. The big, plain-
bodied sheep whose wool has a spinning
quality on a level with comeback or, in
some cases, fine crossbred is a useful
animal in its place, but, in the hands of
an owner with little wool-knowledge and
a desire to add size to a medium-fine
flock, the result must be unhappy. The
progeny might show improvement in
frame, but heaven help the fleece!
“Sheepo’s” suggestion (B. 8/8/’34) to
call a 64’s a fine wool is revolutionary.
Instead of allowing the new superfine
class to crowd out the older and more-
widely-established types it would be far
better to keep the extreme types where
they belong. Otherwise sheep shows will
consist of so many sections with such
little distinction between them as to be
completely bewildering to all but
thoroughly experienced wool- and sheep-
men. Let the strong wools be confined
to 60’s —anything coarser to be Extra
Strong; medium wools would be 64’s,
fine wools 70’s, with superfine on a strict
minimum of 74’s.
Why confuse the issue by displacing
existing standards? “Superfine” is only
a subsection or extreme limit of “fine,”
so the latter section only should be
affected. The proportion of superfine to
fine wool grown in Australia is small.
In fact, the bulk of so-called 74’s is re-
garded by wool buyers as fine only, and
valued as such.
“Dead Finish”: The innovation in
sheep judging at shows suggested by
“Sheepo” (B. 8/8/’34) is overdue, and
should be taken in hand by the Sheep
Breeders’ Association. It is not only at
country shows that we see sheep ex--
hibited in their wrong class. The big
show at Sydney’s Agricultural Ground
is by no means free from this fault.
Because a breeder nominates into a
certain class, it does not follow that he
is right in his estimate of wool types.
Within recent years we sometimes have
the spectacle of a judge at Moore Park
sending an exhibit from his section into
another class. The job is not as easy
as it seems, because at times the second
judge has sent it back again.
The Sheep Breeders’ Association
should appoint a small committee of
wool experts to grade and classify the
entries prior to cataloguing.
This would ensure a reasonable degree
of accuracy.
TREATMENT OF FOOTROT.
“Sheepo”: Not 1 p.c. of graziers bathe
their animals a couple of hours for foot-
rot, as “Rich. J.” (B. 1/8/’34) rightly advo-
cates. To be effective the solution must
get to the root of the trouble, and deep
paring is essential, so as to expose the
supporting pockets.
Footrot symptoms are easy to detect,
and when any old sheep are seen limp-
ing along, even though the country is
regarded as rot-free, the whole of the
paddock should be mustered and the
hoofs of the cripples examined. Foot-
rot is easily conveyed from one sheep to
another and sometimes from one pasture
to another. Young sheep are not so
prone to it as aged ones. The toes of
the latter tend to spread and get out of
shape. Thus lameness results. Preven-
tion beats all cures. Go through the
flock regularly.
As “Rich. J.” says, simply walking
affected sheep through a bath is futile.
Build a pen under cover, cement the
bottom with a wall about a foot deep
right round. Have the bottom sloping
so that the solution can be swept out
through a plug hole placed in one corner
for cleansing. Entrance and exit races
are necessary, and with a pen large
enough to hold 40 or 50 sheep the in-
valids can be kept standing in the solu-
tion for an hour at least, and then
allowed to stand in another pen for dry-
ing purposes. Cure, not time, is. the con-
sideration. Don’t turn the sheep out on
to pastures until the solution has dried
on them. Formalin and water make a
good bath. Formalin is as cheap as blue-
stone, and will not stain the wool.
For studs or sheep having a malignant
rot, pare away and open up the pus
cavity, and syringe. The Vic. Agricul-
tural Department recommends:
Stir into 1 quart of warm Stockholm
tar 2oz. of finely-ground bluestone, and
add 1 tablespoonful of lysol or monsol.
Antiseptic footrot boots can be pur-
chased, but, other than for stud sheep,
they're expensive.
SHED EFFICIENCY.
“Mouton”: “Murrawong” is too mild
(B. 15/8/’34) in his attack on inefficient
sheds.
Classing cannot be successful unless
the wool-table hands do their work
carefully. I visited a small shed last
week, and saw one man skirting and
rolling, piece-picking and doing the locks
and bellies for three good average
shearers. The fleeces were quite free of
seed or burr, yet quite 30 p.c. of the
total fleece wool was being converted
into skirtings. The piece-picking was
rough; the good second pieces were
mixed with the locks.
In these cases no one is to blame but
the graziers. Firstly, they do not supply
convenient tables and bins. Secondly,
they rush shearing through as quickly as
possible, regardless of how the work is
done. Thirdly, many prefer to employ
inexperienced boy labor to save a few
shillings a week —what they save they
lose many times over.
I have come to the conclusion that
efficiency can only be obtained by work-
ing one rolling-table for every four
shearers, thus giving the two men at it
ample time to skirt and treat the fleece
carefully, and throw the skirtings and
stains into separate baskets. In this
way, piece-picking is almost entirely
done away with. Most station clips are
free, and, if skirting is correctly done,
there should be no first pieces, as they
consist of good fleece wool which will
bring more money when sold as such.
HIGH COUNTS AND HIGH YIELDS.
“Dead Finish”: We have been waiting
for such an opinion as “Nedos” (B.
8/8/’34) gives regarding “Kai Te Pai’s”
(B. 27/6/’34) sheep of a 72 count, cutting
121 b. wool. Mobs of us, like “Nedos,”
would like to know where these are to be
found. Normal fine-woolled sheep will
not cut as much as medium-woolled ones,
except in specially favored districts. The
average for Queensland last year (official
figures) was between 71b. and 81b. per
head. Even throwing in lambs, it is still
a mighty long way off 121 b. per head.
“Kai Te Pai’s” mob was 1500. Try it
with a flock of 15,000. Any of us can get
a big fleece from pet poddies, but flock
sheep on natural pasturage are a dif-
ferent problem.
There are many districts which natur-
ally grow a fine wool, but it is the
medium wool we must concentrate on.
The grower with open country can get
a fine wool any old time he lets up with
his flock. But he can keep them from
going too fine only by judicious selec-
tion of rams.
A mob of wethers of 64-66 spinning
count going 101 b. is a pretty good effort,
but ewes of a 72 count cutting 121 b. is
beyond me.
DIPPING FOR FLY.
“Crutchem”: Tell “St. Andrews” (B.
15/8/’34) that the dip I used was neither
too weak nor improperly prepared ; also,
that the sheep had as good a soaking as
they ever get when dipped. The fact
that they were blown four days after
dipping does not prove any of his points.
I still maintain that dipping does not pre-
vent fly strikes. If it did, why do jetted
sheep get struck?
“St. Andrews” also says that “I have
never seen properly crutched sheep
blown after being jetted or swabbed
unless wrinkly,” etc. Jetting was brought
in in place of crutching so that the
wool might retain full length at shear-
ing time, and also to save expense. So
it is necessary to crutch first and then
jet to prevent strike. I consider that
it is cheaper and knocks the sheep about
less to crutch only, and attend to struck
sheep by keeping them healthy and
clean, etc.
I agree with “St. Andrews” about the
walk-in dips, and admit that mine is not
that kind ; but the fact still remains that
sheep do get knocked about in dipping,
however careful one may be.
PREVENTING BLACK DISEASE.
T. Weston Morris (Biological Institute
of Aus., Ltd.): Until recently, it was
thought that black disease (“Lion,” B.
15/8/ ’34) occurred only where fluke were
present, but it has been found that, while
most outbreaks occur where fluke abound,
anything which sets up liver necrosis
provides the necessary setting for the B.
cedematiens, the causative microbe.
We have proved this at our experiment
station. The spores of B. cedematiens
were carefully introduced intravenously
into four healthy sheep. All remained
well. Two were inoculated with a chemi-
cal which destroys liver cells. They soon
died, and the post-mortem showed death
to be due to black disease. The other
two remained well.
The destruction of the snails will
minimise fluke, and so reduce black
disease, as fewer livers will be diseased,
but the only rational measure for the
farmer is to immunise his sheep against
black disease.
One dose of our toxiculture will secure
immunity, and it costs only l|d. per
sheep. Over 70,000 sheep were
immunised by our toxiculture last season
in N.S.W. alone.
FODDER CONSERVATION.
“X.T.”: Anthony Brunskill, jun.,
trained by his father, one of the finest
farmers Australia has produced, gives
some sound hints in a recent lecture on
conservation of fodder. He recom-
mends pit silage as a staple for stock
farms in dry times, because it is laxative
and helps digestion of dry grazing feed,
and because it helps milk production in
cows and lambing ewes.
Pit silage has strong advantages. It
can be made for from 3s. to 4s. per ton.
It will keep permanently. It is safe from
fire, flood and pests if properly stored.
Mr. Brunskill says that he has two pits
which were put down in 1918, and the
quality is as good as when it was pitted.
One of the secrets of effective pitting is
to lay down the fodders at the right
stage —lucerne when just in flower,
cereals when the heads are well formed
and the flower just falling. Lucerne with
short, flaggy crops makes the best silage,
but any green feed cut at the right stage
is good. It is useless to stack away barley
grass and coarse grasses which stock dis-
like.
Next to material, as Mr. Brunskill sug-
gests, sound packing is the greatest factor.
Drive the loaded lorries over the pit when
it is full and keep three or four har-
nessed horses trampling the filling until
the stored feed is thoroughly consolidated
and airtight. Then a pack should be
made above the pit equal in bulk to it,
and a replica of it in shape, except that
it should be well rounded off on top to
make a good crown when settling down
is complete. This helps to throw off
water, which an efficient drain should
carry away. Water is a deadly enemy
of silage.
When the feed pack has settled down,
take a foot of clay refuse from the pit
and lay it over the top of the silo. The
best sized pit is about 14ft. wide at top
by 13ft. at the bottom, giving the ends
a backward slope, which will make the
bottom, at 6ft. deep, about 28ft. long. A
silo this size should hold from 100 to
120 tons of good green silage.
Once down, inspect occasionally. It is
worth while, since; a few good pits are
the best form of insurance against
drought.
INVIGORATING PASTURES.
“R.J.”: In early spring it is a good
idea to top-dress and invigorate all pas-
ture lands.
The average phosphoric-acid content
of a sheep is 31b., of cattle 151 b. ; so
the enormous drain on the mineral re-
sources of the soil is obvious. The
amount of manure varies according to
locality, but a mixture containing
l-2cwt. of phosphates and lime per acre
is enough for most purposes. By top-
dressing regularly every year I have
found lcwt. of fertiliser enough.
Harrowing, either before or after fer-
tilising, to invigorate existing root
growths, to spread accumulations of
droppings, to open up heavy, matted
ground, and to eliminate weed growths,
should be resorted to. Old and dried
herbage should be mown or grazed.
When pastures have responded to
treatment, and there is an abundance of
feed, judicious stocking should be prac-
tised to prevent the growth of coarse
(Continued on page 24.)


sSS)
01
imnm
THERE IS NO BETTER
LAMP IN THE WORLD. \
The Condor lamp is guaranteed to give maximum
light for minimum current consumption. Condor
welcome the opportunity to prove their claim of
"Quality" by Photometric and other recognised
scientific tests particularly in comparison with
so-called "cheap" imported lamps.
ADVERTISEMENT OF CONDOR LAMPS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED, 35 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
A
An easy-to-wear,
lightweight boot.
It is softly supple . . . and it's built
to fit easily over the curves of the
foot without the least tightness or
strain. For the sole, the toughest
obtainable leather is used. This
Abbey Boot is ideal for comfort.
It preserves its good shape and
appearance. It wears splendidly.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when ordering
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF . . . . 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . . 52/6
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
TELEO lupine! ADDRESS :
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 401.
e
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
"LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
- c or the original.
THE GOLD BOOM!
W.A. GOLD PRODUCERS
Get £2,641,569f0r Half-Year’s Output
The total is £418,002 higher than the first
half of last year. Keep in touch with events
in the West by reading the Perth
Westralia’s Largest Newspaper.
Sydney Pep.: Ilal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Melbourne Rep.: Mervvn Allan, 271 Collins St.
London Red.: F. A. Smyth, 114 Ludgnte Hill.
TAKE
EADE’S PILLS
AND LAUGH AT
RHEUMATISM.
Eighty-six years ago _ Mr. George Earle,
Chemist, discovered this famous remedy.
From that day to this Eade’s Pills have
been the most successful remedy for Rheu-
matism, Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica and
Lumbago in the world.
There is no need to suffer the agonising
pains caused by these dread complaints,
Eade’s Pills have proved successful in thou-
sands of other cases, and will do so in
yours.
Every Reputable Chemist sells Eade’s Pills.
READ THIS LETTER:
August, 1932.
Manningliam, Bradford.
Birs, —Two years ago 1 had an awful
attack of rheumatic gout in loth feet. They
had to get a doctor in the night to me,
as I thought I would go mad. 1 took three
Blade's Pills, and in three days I was up
walking about. They are the most wonder-
ful pills 1 have ever taken. — Mrs. E.H.
Every testimonial published by Eade’s is a
genuine unsolicited appreciation.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
CENTENARY NUMBER
A Wonderful Souvenir of Victoria’s
Century of Progress. 72 Pages —200
Pictures.
Ready Early in October. Price 1/-.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 49.3-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
For the Man on the Land.
Grazier.
Sheep and Cattle Dips
Branding Fluid
Blowfly Oil
Fluke Drench
Mineral Rations
Wheatgrower.
Copper Carbonate
Copper S'ulphate
Pickling Machines
e
Best By Test.
Dairyman.
Dairy Vigoreen
Pig VIGOREEN
('Mineral Rations)
WEED KILLERS & WOOD PRESERVATIVE
Manufactured by Victor X,eggo & Farmers, lAd.,
222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Orchardist.
Arsenate of Lead
Oil Sprays
Bordeaux
Nicotine Sulphate
Ovicidal Wash
Lime Sulphur Wash
Interesting Literature Posted Free on Request.
Is Inflation Best Way Out?
Source of Purchasing Power
The Banks Again
Share-market Review
To be successful, the investor must keep one eye on
economic and trade developments.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
Australia’s leading financial journal, enables him to do
this and other things.
September Issue Now on Sale
grasses and bracken. Full advantage
should be taken when the growth is
young and green. The young grasses
contain a higher mineral content than
at a later stage.
Last year I top-dressed only half a
paddock and proved the preference stock
evinced for the treated portion. The un-
treated part was neglected by the stock,
and quickly became coarse and sour.
PADDOCK SUBDIVISION.
“Lion”: Subdividing large paddocks
adds to the carrying capacity of a hold-
ing.
Subdivision means capital outlay, but
it enables the sheepman to spell some of
his grass, with the result that the stock
do better and more grass grows which is
sweeter and more nourishing than for-
merly. The paddocks never become
sheep-sick, nor do the stock become
discontented.
Lambs especially feel the benefit of
subdivision. It is an insurance against
drought, and enables a portion of the
property to be shut off for sowing grasses
and clovers and for top-dressing.
The more a property is cut up (within
reason), the more it will return per acre,
provided the stocking has been carefully
carried out. The following figures will
prove the force of the advice.
A 2000-acre property, before subdivi-
sion, produced 55 bales of wool and 900
surplus sheep, exclusive of horses and
cattle as a sideline.
The same property after subdivision
and consequent necessary improvement
turned off 114 bales of wool, 2200 sur-
plus sheep, carried the same number of
horses as before, and treble the number
of cattle. The sheep and cattle were
turned off fat.
The figures quoted are for the best
years in each case. Many hundreds of
properties would show similar returns
if the owners made their paddocks
smaller, and improved them when and
where possible.
GRASS HARROWING.
“Lion”: “Sandy” (B. 22/8/’34) tells
us how to do the job, but he does not
point out its advantages. Recently pub-
lished figures show the need of har-
rowing.
Each cow depastured is estimated to
drop the equivalent of 6cwt. of sulphate
of ammonia, Ucwt of super, and 3cwt.
of sulphate of potash per annum. This
means that for every 30 cows (at to-day’s
market value) £204 is spread over the
ground in heaps only. That is where
the advantage of regular grass harrowing
comes in.
If this manure is left in heaps a small
area only gets the benefit, and grows
rank feed which soon becomes too sour
for the stock to eat. (This fact can easily
be seen in a crop that has been sown by
horses.) By spreading, the maximum
value is obtained.
Harrowing after rain is no use unless
the manure has been allowed to dry
enough to crumble. Otherwise the
harrows drag through it without spread-
ing it.
CHOOSING POTATO SEED.
“H.U.C.”; “W.D.McC.” (B. 15/8/’34)
goes one better than “R.J.,” whom he
criticises, but not far enough. The time
to start selecting is while the plants are
growing. At this stage, plants free from
leaf-roll and mosaic can be marked.
Further culling of these selections may
then take place at digging, using the
type of tuber and prolificacy of plant
as the main criteria.
Everyone with a large area should
have a seed-plot some distance from the
main crop, and this should be carefully
watched and rogued for virus diseases
and degeneration. This plan gives the
farmer two years to select his seed.
JUDGING A DAIRY COW.
“H.D.8.”: In “score-carding” a dairy
cow there are laid down requirements of
which a lot of people don’t understand
the purpose.
Starting with the head. A good broad
even muzzle will allow the animal to
graze with freedom and ease. Full,
bright, contented eyes indicate the tem-
perament, which is important. Everyone
knows how easily nervous cattle will
drop in their milk yield when upset.
Taking the triangular frame of the
cow, a deep flank for good feeding
capacity is essential to “put the milk in
the bucket.” The deep chest, with well-
sprung ribs, indicates both heart and lung
capacity. The digestive, circulatory and
respiratory systems go hand in hand. If
the capacity and the digestion of an
animal are good, a satisfactory blood cir-
culation and lungs to “purify” the
blood are necessary to carry the food to
e d “ d e d e e p r t >° e ide ™ ilk - s row a calf
It has been truly said that the hind-
quarters are the business end of the
cow. a well-balanced udder “slung up”
high behind and extending forward, that
milks out without leaving a fleshy bag,
indicates maximum prod uction. Teats,
of course, should be well placed, medium
j size , and convenient to milk . Bell-
d d , , s often bet oken a tough
mi |£- cow
Jhe mjlk * vein indicates t he activity
of the udder> as it is by this channel
that the blood reaches the milk system.
Flat thighs allow for full expansion of
the udder when carrying its maximum
load.
Width and length between the haunch
and pin-bones indicate a roomy pelvis,
which is necessary for successful breeding,
“Conformation” is certainly not a mere
matter of show points.
CHOU MOLLIER.
“Oxo”: Green feed? Why not chou
mollier?
a little-known crop here, this, or
marrow-stem kale, has recently given ex-
cellent results in Victoria,
The plant looks like something be-
tween cabbage and rape. It is relished
by every animal on the farm. Plant at
the rate of 21b. per acre in Nov. and it
will he ready for use when the maize
j s finished and before the cereals come
in, furnishing green feed right through
the winter. It will stand the severest frost,
Leaves may be cut and fed as ready,
or the whole field depastured, the former
procedure being more economical. Secure
a well-packed seedbed and plant in rows
2ft. 6in. apart so as to permit inter-row
tillage. Yields are anything up to 20
tons per acre.
HINTS FOR THE FARM,
' “Amber”: Bird’s-foot trefoil will thrive
on hght, poor, sandy, shallow soil, and,
unlike sub. clover, does not need so de-
pendabie a rainfall. Bird’s-foot ( Lotus
cornicu i atus ) is perennial. It is not
affected by dodder or spindle shoots, to
which lucerne is subject. It is not advis-
able to sow bird’s-foot trefoil as a self
crop, like lucerne, as it does better in
company with grasses. The European
variety (known as the “erect fine leaf”
type) is the best. It grows 2ft. high. The
English type is too slow and low growing
to provide much feed.
“Werrimee”: Tyres will rarely require
shutting, and the life of the cart or dray
will be lengthened, if the wheels get an
annual painting at the beginning of
summer. At the same time, go over the
bolts with a spanner.
“Timothy Tywire”: A better way to
mount overhead planking in the shearing
shed (B. 15/8/’34), is to clamp it to the
posts. All you need is a piece of old
car-spring leaf with a hole drilled in
each end and two long bolts passing
through the post just above and just
below the planking. This saves mutilat-
ing the 1 planking and makes a solid job.
“Cees-em”: When harrowing a pad-
dock badly infested with couch, clear the
harrows this way: Cut strong battdns
about 3ft. 6in. long and bore a small
hole 2in. from one end. Bind between
the hole and the end to prevent split-
ting, and fasten a batten to the centre of
each harrow-leaf with wire. When the
harrows become blocked lift each leaf
and prop with the stick. Drive on, and
the harrow will fall clear of the rubbish.
“Irish”: Do not throw away a glass
oil-lamp with a broken oil-container. An
ordinary glass jam- or pickle-jar with
a metal screw-cap makes a good spare
part. Make a round hole in the screw-
top to fit the brass burner and wick-
holder —it can be soldered into the hole.
When the jar is filled with oil the lamp
is serviceable and almost impossible to
tip over. # . .
“Airline”: When ringbarking it is
advisable to keep an eye on young
timber, particularly box and sandalwood.
Too deep a ring will cause the tree to
break off, which usually leads to very
heavy suckering. A light ring with the
bark turned well back is best. Sandal-
wood in particular calls for care. I have
seen the small stuff over large areas cut
off level with the ground. In a year or
two they resembled wheatfields, so heav-
ily did they sucker.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Ilead Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: Castlereagb St., Sydney.
Vic. Office: 360 Collins St.. Melbourne.
è
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole X<ife,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
E. D. SMOUT, F.F.1.A.,
F.A.1.5., Gen. Sec.
.o^o<V
\r
C%.
°x>
•
o^'
0
xb N
*-V
V s
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
é
ê
ë
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
John Heine
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd « SYDNEY
Raprsientativai:
McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne,.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
Adelaide, Perth*
SMOKE-OH!
Ponsford and Bradman will be re-
membered through the centuries.
* *
“Yesterday afternoon at Waikerie a service
car was blown backwards down the street for
50 years.” —“West Australian.”
In Waikerie the days are long, but the
streets are longer.
•y *
“ ‘The silk hat has had its innings,' declares
an English writer.”
It’s bowlers they want now.
* y.
“He had yearned to meet her; and now
she was his wife.” — “Royal.”
A little yearning is a dangerous thing.
“45J (Western District). —Cream woollen
shawl, 2 woollen bonnets, and pair rubber
pants, for young pullets.”— Daily paper.
All this mollycoddling is ruining the
poultry industry.
“Suppose father should come in.”
“Oh, tell him I’m your brother!”
FOR ALL TASTES.
The representative of Bickers-Arms-
worth was hopeful of receiving a large
order for arma-
ments from the
Minister for War
of Costa Rica.
“W e have
here,” he said,
“the very latest
thing in armor-
piercing projec-
tiles. Goes
through the thick-
est and toughest
steel as if it were
brown - paper.
Nothing can with-
stand it. A pro-
gressive country
like yours simply
can’t afford to be
without it. Only
last week we de-
li ver e d 50,000
to”
“Just a mo-
ment,” interrupted
the Minister. “I’m
not interested in
shells. We only
use our guns once
a year for firing
a salute on Inde-
pendence Day.
Our fleet is purely
for ornamental
and defensive pur-
poses. What we
want is armor-
plate.”
“Of course,” replied the salesman.
“My foolish mistake. Come to the
armor section.”
They went.
“Here we are. Just the thing you
want. Armor-plate specially toughened
by our latest secret process. Absolutely
impervious to gunfire. No shell can
possibly pierce it. The heaviest pro-
jectile bounces off like a tennis ball or
flattens out like a pound of butter. Just
the thing for a peaceable, self-contained
country like yours. Now shall we
say” 1
“Take me to the poison-gas depart-
ment,” broke in the Minister.
Uco.
* *
“It was a blow to see their whisky carried
away by the flood.” — “Sun.”
Naturally it would damp their spirits.
* *
TRAGEDY.
The yacht had capsized at the finish-
ing point, and the skipper was asked how
it happened. “Oh, we had the rottenest
luck ” he replied. “We came skating
down to the finish like a speedboat
“Just my luck —the missus!”
gone mad ; then the centreboard caught
in the imaginary line—and over we
went! ”
Y. O. Y.
* *
POLITICAL HOROSCOPE.
A close study of the stars indicates
that great things are toward in politics,
but toward what I am not prepared to
say. However, a combined horoscope
based on the birthdays of Messrs. Lyons,
Page, Scullin and Beasley, and worked
out in conjunction with the Melbourne-
Canberra train timetable and the high-
tide times at Alice Springs on September
15, gives some astounding results.
Taurus is very prominent in the
Zodiac, indicating more than the usual
amount of bull being handed out to the
electors, who are indicated by the sign
Pisces, being due for the usual scaling.
The sign of Venus indicates the all-
sacrificing love of the politician, repre-
sented by Sagittarius, the man who
draws a longbow at a venture. The
relation of Venus to Taurus and Pisces
clearly indicates the sacrifice of the latter
to the self-love of Sagittarius.
Neptune’s position in relation to the
moon undoubtedly is a warning to can-
didates standing for seaside electorates
not to indulge in too much moonshine.
One of the toughest astrological pro-
blems is Mercury, and you can have
your pick of the following: (1) Quick-
silver legislation by the Labor party if
returned ; (2) rising tempers as the cam-
paign proceeds ; (3) sudden changes of
policy; (4) cold nights and wet days
until after the elections.
Individual candidates can have their
horoscopes cast as desired. All casting
done in our own foundry under award
conditions. Orders must be accom-
panied by cash, as the positions of
Uranus and Jupiter indicate that the
time is unpropitious for the giving of
credit.
Angus O'Cohen.
TRAFFIC SCARES.
Penpusher was showing his country
cousin round the city. As they were
crossing Collins-street, Hayseed saw a
car approaching. In terror he fled back
to the footpath, though Penpusher had
crossed safely.
Laughing at the episode, Penpusher
walked back and took hold of Hayseed’s
arm. “You’ll be all right if you keep
calm,” he advised ; “there’s nothing to
be scared of.”
The same thing happened again. Once
more Penpusher returned and gave in-
structions to the terrified countryman.
They made another attempt. Before
he noticed it an old horse-cab was almost
on top of Penpusher. Penpusher raced
back. He was scared of horses. Gasp-
ing with fright, he regained the footpath
and stood panting.
Hayseed was laughing on the opposite
side of the street.
M. D. S.
THE PATHOS OF IT.
Bloggs put a detaining hand on my
arm. “Let’s keep down this end,” he
said. “There’s Phulpotts up there. It’s
not that I wouldn’t buy the old boy
a drink—only too glad—but he’s such
a nuisance when he’s drunk.”
“I thought at one time,” I commented,
“that it was impossible to buy enough
liquor to put Phulpotts over the odds.”
“That’s so,” said Bloggs. “Fine chap
he was —full of jokes and yarns and fun.
The life of the party. And always, as
you might say, sober. The depression hit
him badly, of course, poor chap.”
Watching, I saw the man we were dis-
cussing nearly topple to the floor. His
friends held him up, however.
“What a change to come over a fine
chap,” I remarked. “It’s pathetic to see
anything like that.”
“I should say it was pathetic!” said
Bloggs. “Of course, he’s got out of the
way of drinking regularly—a mere 19
or 20 whiskies is enough to knock him
over now!”
H. M.
* *
“Practical joke on trainer.” —News item.
It’s usually on the punter.
* *
Some typists never miss the male.
STRIFE!
His body bore the marks of iron shard
As from the hot and bloody fight he
reeled ;
A visage weary, drawn and battle-
scarred
He turned upon that sorely-stricken
field.
Some mediaeval lord who had, perchance,
Sought glory in the days of.chivalry ?
Some knight, you ask, who loved to
> break a lance ?
No! Just a Melbourne football
referee !
S. W. K.
PEEPS AT THE PROFESSIONS.
II. —THE LAWYER.
What a life the lawyer leads!
He’s not like you and me.
Our bread we get by honest sweat
Or wearied brain; but he
Solicits, affidaves and pleads
For to supply his daily needs.
The lawyer (and the term includes
solicitors, barristers, attorneys, commis-
sioners for oaths, articled clerks and all
other excrescences to which the legal
system is heir) is an interesting charac-
ter, though apt to be devilish sly.
By dint of a few examinations, a large
library and an inborn genius for pry-
ing into other people's business, he
acquires a knowing look and the right to
draw up wills, garnishee your wages and
argue till he is red in the face that black
is white.
There have been lawyers who derived
their main income from trust funds. They
proceeded on the theory that, as long
as one remembers to pay a small portion
of somebody’s principal out to somebody
else as interest every now and then, there
is no chance of complications arising.
The theory worked, up to a point.
A lawyer’s account includes charges
for consultations, interviews, talks, chats,
coffee, cocktails, ’phone calls, bridge
losses and the cost of preparing the bill.
If a lawyer telephones a client and
can get no reply, he notes in his day-
book: “To ringing Mr. Jones, he not
in, 10s. 6d.,” and continues ringing and
noting for the rest of the day. When
the bill is complete and there is nothing
more to add, he adds 60 p.c. to cover
the reduction which will result if the
account is taxed. If the account is not
taxed the 60 p.c. goes to the “Lawyers’
Wives and Daughters’ Finery Fund.”
When a lawyer takes silk he also pays
for it out of this fund, but his wife and
daughters get their share, too.
JASBY.
MARY’S LITTLE LAMB.
Mary had a little lamb,
Its fleece was white as snow;
It used to tag behind her once
Wherever she would go.
It follows her to school no more,
As once it would have chosen.
It obviously can’t, because
It’s gone to England — frozen.
H.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available. .
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirety free. Ail you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married couple, N.S.W., with child, man
engineering and stock exp., want employment
on station.—322l.
German, W.A., seven years in Australia,
wheat- and dairy-farming exp., able to speak
and write English, requires position.—322o.
To buy “The Diseases of the Ox” and “The
Diseases of the Horse,” issued by the U.S.A.
Bureau of Animal Industry.—3l27.
To buy novel “Olga Patricia.” —3198.
To buy set of Steele Rudd's and Henry
Lawson’s works ; also copies of the “Lone
Hand.”—3l92.
To buy regimental histories of the Aus-
tralian, M.L. and Imperial forces. —3203.
To buy books of proverbs, maxims or
quotations.—3lsB.
To exchange Sykes spirit hydrometer and S.
book for D.B. hammerless gun!—32oo.
Information Sought.
What was the cause of Les Darcy’s death ?
Did he undergo an operation in the U.S.A.;
if so, what for ? —3028.
When Les Darcy died at Memphis, Tenn.,
on May 24, 1917, it was reported that death
had been caused by pneumonia. Doctors at a
Memphis public hospital diagnosed his trouble
as due to infected teeth, and two were extracted;
but this failed to bring about an improvement,
and Darcy was removed to a private hospital,
where he was operated on for tonsilitis. He
was suffering from a cold, which then de-
veloped into pneumonia.
What are the facts concerning the N.Z.
Grand National Steeplechase in which jockey
Fred Hedge rode first and second horses ?
3044.
An Adelaide paper recently told the story
thus: “Clarence [ridden by Hedge], Sailor
Boy and Agent were the only', three left in
the running with three fences' to go, at which
stage Agent made - a bad jump and unseated
his rider. Clarence and Sailor Boy safely ne-
gotiated it, but Sailor Boy ran off at the second
last. However, he was kept going and, in
a punishing finish, just beat Clarence. On
weighing-in Hedge dj-ew the stewards’ atten-
tion to Sailor Boy having failed to jump the
second-last fence. He then ran back to where
Agent was picking at the grass. Hedge jumped
into the saddle and completed the course on
Agent, whose rider was hurt. Sailor Boy was
disqualified, and Hedge had the distinction of
riding first and second horses.” There does
not seem to be much foundation for the yarn.
In the first place, when Hedge weighed in and
was posted the winner the race was over; in
the second, Clarence is ndt on record as a
winner of the event. Agent won in 1879,
ridden by W. Hankins, and in 1880, ridden by
H. Lunn.
Meaning of the word "Ashes” in connec-
tion with cricket ? —3137.
When Australia defeated England at the
Oval in 1882 London “Sporting Times” (the
“Pink ’Un”) published’ this In Memoriam
• notice: “In affectionate remembrance of Eng-
lish cricket, which died at the Oval on August
29, 1882, deeply lamented by a large circle of
sorrowing friends and acquaintances. R.T.P.
N.B. —The body will be cremated and the ashes
taken to Australia.” Now Test matches are
regarded as contests for .the Ashes.
In the Archibald Memorial Fountain, Hyde
Park, Sydney, Pan is represented by a youth.
Isn’t that incorrect ? —3214.
No. In art Pan is represented in two differ-
ent aspects. Sometimes he has goat’s feet and
horns, curly hair and a long beard. Sometimes
he is a handsome youth, with long flowing
hair, with horns just beginning to grow, the
shepherd’s crook and pipe.
How long do kookaburras live ? Is a
penalty provided for persons who shoot them,
and is it the duty of the police to take action
against culprits ? —3057.
Duration of life not definitely known. They
have been known to live for 10 years in cap-
tivity. This bird is protected, and anyone
killing the kookaburra is liable to prosecution
and fine. It is the duty of the police to take
action on any information received from a
citizen.
In what year was daylight-saving introduced
into Queensland, and for what period was it
in operation ? —3020.
Queensland had no special daylight-saving
legislation. The Daylight Saving Act was a
Commonwealth Act, passed on December 21,
1916. It came into force on January 1, 1917,
by proclamation, and was to continue for the
duration of the war and for six months there-
after in the States and Territories of the Com-
monwealth. It was repealed on September
25, 1917.
Reference is made in a recently published
book to ‘‘the historic home of the Academy for
Young Ladies of the Misses Cooksey.” Did
this school really exist, and where was it
situated ? —3168.
Yes; it was established in 1866 by the two
Cooksey sisters at Carthona, Darling Point,
Sydney, and was a fashionable school of the
period. Carthona was built as his home by
Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor-General of N.S.W. :
it is of Gothic design, and stands on the western
shore of Double Bay. Mitchell died there in
1855. The house was leased by Earl Beau-
champ during his recent stay in Sydney.
(1) Was salt ever mined in Lisdillon or else-
where in Tasmania ? (2) What gemstones are
yellow, and what is the rarest yellow or orange
stone in the world? —3155.
(1) There is salt at Buckland, 25 miles s.-w.
of Lisdillon, but it has never been mined.
(2) The diamond, topaz, sapphire, quartz,
tourmaline, zircon, sphene, spodumenc and
beryl are found in yellow tints. Most valuable
of these to date is the Tiffany orange diamond,
weighing 125-jj carats, which came from Kim-
berley in 1878. Ceylon produces magnificent
yellow carundum or sapphires.
Biographical details concerning Francis
Howard Greenway, Government Architect
under Macquarie, and where can l see a good
example of his work? —3160.
He was born in England in 1777 and trained
to be an architect. Practised in Bristol and
Bath, and studied landscape gardening and
town-planning. In 1811 lie was declared bank-
rupt, and in 1814 was transported for con-
cealing some of his assets. Capt. Arthur
Phillip put in a good word for Greenway
with Governor Macquarie, who granted the
architect a ticket-of-lcavc and set him to work
on plans for a market-house and town hall
for the settlement. In April, 1816, Green-
way was appointed Government Architect,
and was emancipated in December, 1817. He
made a number of fine plans for buildings in
Sydney, including one for a Government House
on the model of Thorbury Castle in Glouces-
ter. Many of these plans were curtailed or
quashed altogether by Bigge, and Greenway
fell back upon private practice, at which he
once again failed. In 1837 he applied for a
grant of land promised to him by Macquarie,
but died the same year before it could be
granted. St. James’s Church, King-street,
Sydney, is one of his finest efforts.
Is there any danger to health in using a tin
boiler with a zinc bottom for cooking meat ?
—2890.
The use of zinc or zinc-coated vessels is
not advised for cooking or - keeping foods.
Though it may not be detected by taste, a
sufficient amount of zinc may be dissolved to
be injurious.
What is preferential voting'? ' • When was
it introduced in Australia, and is it in use
at the present time ?- —2930.
Any-system of voting in which, where there
are a number of candidates, the voter may, by
the number 1, indicate his first choice, and
by the numbers 2,3, 4 (and so on as the case
requires), the order of his preference for the
remaining candidates. If No. 1 candidate is
not elected, the vote is transferred to No. 2,
and if -No. 2 is in turn excluded the vote is
transferred to No. 3; and so on until one
of the candidates secures an absolute majority
of all the votes recorded. Preferential voting
was introduced into the Commonwealth Elec-
toral Law in 1918, since when it has been
continuously employed.
Classification, according to gauge, of the
total mileage of railway lines, exclusive of
sidings and crossovers, in A ustralia ? Give each
State and Federal Territory separately.— -3156.
The figures are for all railways (Federal,
State and private) open for general traffic:
N.S.W., 4ft. 8-jin., 6132.06 miles; 3ft. 6in„
• 76.24 m.; total, 6208.30 m. Vic., sft. 3in.,
4612.94 m.; 3ft., 11m.; 2ft. 6in., 121.77 m.; total,
4745.71 m. Q'lafid, 4ft. Biin„ 68.82 m.; 3ft. 6in.,
6556.25 m.; 2ft. 6in„ 7.50 m.; 2ft., 188.47 m.;
total, 6821.04 m. South Aus., sft. 3in.,
1451.24 m.; 4ft. B|in., 597.86 m.; 3ft. 6in.,
1899.94 m.; total, 3949.04 m. West Aus.,
4ft. Bj)in., 453.99 m.; 3ft. 6in„ 4512.07 m.;
total, 4966.06 m. Tas., 3ft. 6in., 758.63 m.; 2ft.,
27.82 m.; total, 786.45 m. Federal Capital ter-
ritory, 4ft. Biin., 4.94 m. Northern Territory,
3ft. 6in., 316.50 m.
Which are the first four naval Powers of
the world in respect of personnel, tonnage and
power ? —3096.
Latest available figures give the U.S.A.
personnel as 105,198; Great Britain, 92,238;
Japan, 91,506; and France, 57j527. No recent
figures are available as to tonnage. Washing-
ton Treaty of 1923 allows a replacement ton-
nage for capital ships of 525,000 tons for
U.S.A., 525,000 tons for G. 8., 315,000 tons
for Japan and 175,000 tons for France. In-
clusive of all types, the U.S.A. on February 1
last had 434 ships, another 54 were being
built, and six more \yere projected; G.B. had
360 and 61 under construction; Japan had
236, was building 18 more, and proposed to
build another 14; France had 302, with 47
being built.
(1) Names of song composers in Australia
to whom I could submit verses ? (2) Is it
usual for a publisher to offer to accept verses
conditionally on writer buying 200 copies of
song and getting royalties on further sales ?
3090.
(1) Allan and Co., Collins-street, Melbourne,
could put you in touch with composers. (2)
Not in Australia. The Australian publisher
either purchases the song (words and music)
outright, pays royalty, or prints at cost of
author or composer.
(1) How much blood is there in the body of
a human adult of average size ? (2) How much
blood can a normal adult lose without death
ensuing ? (3) How are transfusions given ?
(4) How is the risk of disease being com-
municated to the patient prevented in cases
that have to be dealt with on the spot in order
to save life ? —3057.
(1) About one-thirteenth of the total weight.
(2) Varies with vitality of subject. Normal
saline solution may be used as a temporary
vehicle in extreme haemorrhage. (2) Before
transfusion, both donor and recipient are tested
for type. The blood compatibility is classed
in four groups, each of which reacts in a defi-
nite manner to the other three. Formerly,
transfusions were made by direct connection
of the blood-vessels of donor and recipient ;
the blood is now taken and prevented from
clotting before injection with every aseptic pre-
caution. From half to one pint of blood may
be used. (4) The surgeon attending may use
his discretion when immediate transfusion is
essential. Disease risk is eliminated by prelimi-
nary test of typed donor.
Meaning of the term “Kernig’s sign” as
applied to meningitis ? —3068.
It is one of the diagnostic features of menin-
gitis, and may also be present in sciatica.
With the patient lying flat on the back, one
thigh (with the knee flexed) is bent at right
angles to the body. In this position it is
found impossible to extend the leg at the
kneejoint. The pain of movement is due to
inflammation and consequent sensitiveness of
the nerve roots.
I am married, and have been subscribing to
a superannuation fund at the rate of £6 per
year for over 27 years. My annuity in 10
years will be £47. Will I be eligible for the
old-age pension, since my income will be less
than £7B p.a.? —3011.
In the case of married persons, the income
of husband and wife is deemed to be pos-
sessed by each in equal shares. The half-share
in your case being £23 10s. p.a., a pension
at the maximum rate, £45 10s. p.a., will be
payable to you and also to your wife if both
arc eligible in other respects.
(1) If a debtor in N.S.W. is sued, can he
escape payment under the Moratorium Act ?
(2) Can debts, after, a verdict of the Court, be
recovered by the process known as ca. sa. ?
—3041.
(1) No. If the debt were one which came
under the Moratorium Act he would not be
sued. (2) A writ of ca. sa. is issued against
the person of a debtor where the Court is
satisfied that he is fraudulently concealing his
money or goods or is about to leave the State.
(1) My father was in a branch of the Com-
monwealth service for 22 years. What pay-
ment is my mother entitled to. ? (2) He was
paying for five units of superannuation, and I
have one sister under 16 years of age. What
is the total weekly pension to which she is
entitled ? —3143.
(1) Provided conduct record was satisfactory
and there had been no furlough, an amount
equivalent to salary for six months. The value
of any recreation leave availed of in respect
of the year of death would be deducted. (2)
Widow, pension at the rate of £65 p.a.; child,
£l3 p.a. until the age of 16.
If an old-age pensioner receives a gift of
£lOO for medical fees, etc., must he inform the
pensions office, and will he lose his pension ?
—3146.
Pensions department should be notified. The
Act provides that where a pensioner has prop-
erty - (which includes money) other than the
home in which he permanently resides the rate
of pension otherwise payable shall be subject
to “a deduction of £1 for every complete £lO
by which the net capital value of such accumu-
lated property exceeds £50.”
Am contemplating a tour by motor-cycle and
side-car to Bourke, and down the Darling
River to Wentworth via Wilcannia, Broken
Hill and Menindie. (1) Are the roads good,
and what’s the distance ? (2) Can dry weather
be expected in October ? (3) Features of inter-
est along the route? —3lo6.
(1) The trip proposed is over earth-surface
roads for the greater part. From Sydney to
Nyngan the road is formed, but from Nyngan
to Bourke, thence to Wilcannia, Broken Hill,
Wentworth and Hay to Wagga, most of the
road is natural surface. From Sydney to
Wentworth by way of Bourke and Broken Hill
is 961 miles, and from Wentworth to Sydney
by way of Hay and Wagga is 722 miles, making
a total of 1683 miles. (2) Rainfall is usually
light in the far-western districts, which get
more rain during the summer months. (3)
Nothing of particular interest. N.R.M.A.
touring department will give you complete
details of the trip on application.
Particulars concerning the wrecking of the
Fijian and the Oahu in South Sea waters ?
3 134.
S.S. Fijian (633 tons), of Sydney, was wrecked
on Fijian Beach, near Lenakel, western coast
of Tanna, New Hebrides, in May, 1889. No
lives were lost. Cannot trace Oahu.
How to build a fence to shield garden against
strong winds, and material to use; also suitable
evergreen shrubs and shrubs to brighten the
structure ?—3199.
Use 4in. x 4in. posts and 3in. x lin. rails
(hardwood), bolted where they cross over.
Lace hoop-iron (previously painted or oiled)
over it. In very exposed corners posts should
be set in cement and the iron lattice riveted
at intervals. Hardy vines suitable for such
a position are lonicera (honeysuckle), big-
nonia ( Venusta . orange flowers; Tweediana,
golden; Australis, cream and brown; Jasmi-
noides, white with dark eye), cobtea ( Scandens,
purple flowers), thunbergia ( Laurifolia, blue;
Gibsoni, orange), solanum ( Wendlandii, laven-
der-blue flowers) and bougainvillaea. Grow
these on the protected side of the fence.
(1) Best month to plant seeds of sweet-peas,
poppies, pansies, stock and phlox in Sydney ?
(2) Is it too late to plant freesia bulbs ? (3)
Best month to plant lettuce, radish and tomato
seeds ? —3112.
(1) Sow winter-flowering sweet-peas from
December to March, spring-flowering in April
and May, and summer-flowering from June to
September; poppies between June and August;
stock between March and June; pansies be-
tween February and May; phlox between July
and March. (2) Yes. They should be sown
before the end of May. (3) Lettuces and
radishes can be sown all the year round, and
tomato seed from June to August (early
varieties) and August to December (late varie-
ties).
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of “Moruya” and “Polwomera” —
both N.S.W. aboriginal place-names.—3l67.
Brief Answers.
The S.A. Director of Chemistry
states that the water is not fit for livestock,
but there is reason to believe that under stress
it would be accepted by sheep... .J.M.L.:
Methylene blue B dissolved in water. Dyes
dissolved in alcohol would dry quicker....
C.M.: (1) The Pyramids, the Hanging Gardens
of Babylon, the Tomb of Mausolus, the Temple
of Diana at Ephesus, the Colossus of Rhodes,
the Statue of Jupiter by Phidias and the Pharos
Lighthouse of Alexandria. (2) Sir Henry
Irving died Oct. 13, 1905.... W.1.K.: From
Sky Engineering Co., 83 Queens-road, Five
Dock, N.S.W C.G.M.: Elwood’s “The Art
of Pen Drawing” (205.), Furness’s “How to
Draw in Pen and Ink” (6s. 9d.) and “More
About How to Draw in Pen and Ink” (6s.
9d.), Lutz's “Practical Pen Drawing” (12s. 6d.),
Maginnis’s “Pen Drawing” (10s.) and Salway’s
“How to Draw in Pen and Ink” (7s. 6d.)....
T.W.: You do not give sufficient information
on which to base a diagnosis. The Stock
Inspector for your district has been asked to
investigate... .A.A.: Figures are not available.
. ...A.D.: (1) Hunt’s “Gardening Simplified”
(25.), Rumsey's “The A to Z of Australian
Fruit-growing” (25.), “The A to Z of Aus-
tralian Vegetable-growing” (25.), “The Aus-
tralian Garden Fair” (25.), and Brunning’s
“The Australian Gardener” (7s. 6d.). (2)
“Dance Steps for Modern Ballroom Rhythm”
(Is )... .C.r.: The book has no commercial
value... .G D.: You cannot claim a deduc-
tion lor your housekeeper... .J.J.: Write
Tyrrell’s, 281 George-street, Sydney... .G.A.G.:
Quite useless for the purpose... .S.C.: Infor-
mation you require is a trade secret....
A.T.S.: There is a market for small crocodile
skins. Demand is very limited, and it is
doubtful whether the business would be pro-
fitable... .A.R.S.: The stand as constructed
would be incapable of safely carrying a tank
of reasonable size. The central sin. by 3in.
angle should be supplemented by a further
sin. by. 3in. angle placed back to back with
the existing angle. The |in. diameter bolts con-
necting the column heads to the top plates
should be replaced with lin. diameter bolts
driven into reamered holes J.D.: (1) At
least -20 ft.. long and 6ft. beam. (2) Two-cyi.,
four-cycle, water-cooled. (3) Impossible to say.
Depends on quality, style and finish of hull
and speed of boat. Boats of the size given
above sell in Sydney for about £lOO in good
condition... .H.A.: (1) The Prince of Wales
receives the revenue from the Duchy of Corn-
wall, amounting to about £66,000 p.a. (2)
Bairnsfather is his surname. (3) lan Hay is
the nom de plume of John Hay Beith....
A.T.: Particulars are obtainable from the Chief
Film Censor, Commonwealth Film Censorship,
9 Bligh-street, Sydney... .J.H.: About 2\ yards
of double-width material approximately 54
inches wide ; pronounced patterns or anything
noticeable in the weaving might require a little
more... .H.L.C.: Very good butter can be
made from goats’ cream, and it is quite as
wholesome as cows’ butter. It is treated in
exactly the same manfter as the usual dairy
product; the only difference is that it is white.
A drop or two of cookery coloring may be
worked into it to give a yellow tint... .A.H.:
You may change your baptismal name by
having a deed poll, usually drawn up by a
solicitor, deposited with the Registrar-General.
The registration fee is about 2s. 6d., and the
solicitor's a matter of agreement, but the
whole matter, including advertisements, should
not exceed three to four guineas W.J.S.:
Cannot see that the sworn statement would
be of any value, save as a representation to
the vendors. In the event of legal proceedings
it could not be produced as evidence; witnesses
would have to be called and cross-examined.
If the contract, of which you should possess
a copy, does not include the representations
made as part of the consideration proceedings
would have to be taken, and, if unsuccessful,
heavy costs would follow.. . .J.0.R.: The coin
is an 1844 Queen Victoria crown, and its
collector s worth is 6s. Its present currency
market value as an English silver coin would
probably be about 7s G.P.: The work is
not covered by an avvard T.T.: Married
females, 14 and over, in N. S. Wales as at
June 30, 1933, numbered 513,786 W.P.: It
is a practice the Courts deprecate, but is not
illegal. The proper course is for the secretary
to transcribe his notes into the minute book in
ink and in his own hand A. 8.: (1) Yes.
(2) Yes; if the crossing does not limit negotia-
tion then it can be negotiated with any party.
You need not sign or stamp the printed receipt
on the cheque but may send a stamped re-
ceipt to the firm personally. (3) It appears
to be a perfectly safe, and certainly a con-
venient, practice, is widely used, and has
been so for some years past... .H.F.: Insert
an ad. in the local paper stating that you
have money in hand, property of late club,
and, unless claims are rendered or a
contrary view is expressed by any member
within a stated period, you propose
to devote the money to some local charity,
which you should name. Then act accordingly.
E.E.H.: (1) As the “sheltering rock”
appears to be no part of your property the
council is not liable to you in any way for its
removal. It has been held that there is no
right of action against a builder who spoils a
landscape. Much less would there be a right
against a council cutting away a cliff with the
object of increasing the ocean view. (2) The
council would be liable for any damage done
to your property, foundations or superstructure.
Write saying that you will hold it responsible
and claim for any damage done. (3) You have
no hope of obtaining an injunction restrain-
ing the council from proceeding with the
work... .J.N.: It may be argued that where
five members constitute the committee it may
a ct as such only when fully constituted; but
the rule you quote appears to contemplate a
Case cu W^ere f° ur elected members
can fill the vacancy in its number in order
that it may be fully constituted. Seems to
be no way out but course you took. Unless
*ii ru^es otherwise provide you could not
for a further nomination after the time
fixed for receiving nominations had expired.
....(Many others mailed.)


SPECIALISATION
All business men realise the significance of the word
“specialisation.” The National Bank is a specialist
in providing for travel needs. Whether you travel
for business or pleasure, take a trip round the world
or through the East, or visit the various States of
Australia, the easiest way to avoid the inconvenience
of finding yourself stranded without money, and, at
the same time, to minimise the risk of loss by theft,
is to obtain a Letter of Credit from one of the 323
branches of the National Bank of Australasia
Limited.
By establishing its branches in London and appoint-
ing Agents in the business and tourist centres of all
countries, the Bank has “drawn a girdle round the
Earth,” thus enabling travellers to obtain funds just
when and where they may require them.
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Capital paid up, £5,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £3,000,000.
(Used in the business.)
PAT# fSI
HAT
A LOT
OF FUN\ ]
YOU'LL HAVE
f
AT THE \■%
VICTORIAN] &
MELBOURNE
CENTENAR
October, 1934 to May, 1935
SPECIAL EXCURSION FARES
■&SL
X
am
m
%
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
011 your next trip to England, travel .
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
•SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
v 3
\
V
•=sr
=av.-~
%
sw
■ V
*s
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Raglan: Still unthrilled... .G.R.S.: Style
immature and story improbable.... M.Q.: It
doesn’t get anywhere. You create interest in
the man and then leave him where he began.
L.C.R.: Below your standard.. . .8.R.H.:
A long, long way off D.D.: Don’t like
yarns where people get away with smart deals,
improbable, anyway... .P. A. D.: Promises well,
but falls into a complete anti-climax A.E.C.:
Not much... .H.P.M.: Doesn't hold the inter-
est. .. .L.A.W.: “Gold” has very little in it.
lhe other yarn is based on fiction rather than
life... .M. 8.: Sentiment sound, but not enough
jn it.... 5.1.1.: Pointless. No use writing a
story that gets nowhere C.N.8.: That held
has been worked too often Catherine: Of
no interest here. Try one of your local papers.
• ■.. H.M.McG.: Too labored J.C.L.: Your
sketches have the ring of real life, but
®rent quite up to publication standard
G.S.C.: Not far 0ff.... J.G.S.: Too long and
discursive.... R.S.H.: Couldn’t get enthusi-
astic over the old mare... .G.R.M.: An oldish
theme Nowan: We’ve heard of the bullocky
and the parson before Dorn B.: Too long
and not amenable to cutting F.J.L.: First
feeble, second rather promising, third old and
tottering... .1 .W.D.: Not interested in Uncle
Bob s antique car J.T.D.: You don’t suc-
ceed in making it interesting Nemo: Try
one ol the dailies.... R.F.W.: Too long; re-
duced by a third it might stand a chance.,..
A.H.1.: Written in too sentimental a strain,
and marred by such phrases as “tired Nature’s
sweet restorer” Narnron: Story of sailor
and rajah not in our line H.M.H.: You
set out to make your yarn-spinner a bore and
succeeded.... 1 iment: Sacred burial cave of
Ma?ns (or Aztecs, Zulus, Hottentots or
Eskimos) has been plundered so often that there
can tbe anything left in it P.L.W.: Baxter’s
toast is the whole point of the yarn, and it
seems a most unlikely one Austral: Doubt
whcthei acceptable anywhere. It is rather
1 utile writing Nature-stories giving insects
human attributes G.V.K.: You have tried
to get too much into one story P.S : Dope
story ends on an old note A.F • Just
misses... .A.N.M., R.A.P., K.B.G. and S.S.:
Not suitable....F.A.L.: It certainly presents
a picture:
The council men, clearing a rain-choked drain, down
tools and seek the shelter of a friendly pine.
But humor like yours loses half its punch in
disorderly free verse N.A.: No good
G.M.: Quite a creditable sonnet, but we shy at
girls whose “lips are of the poppy’s blatant
red .. ..G.M.1.: Reader has a mild regard
J ° r “ le , bunyip, having been brought up on
the hobgoblin and the leprechaun, but 90
lines floored him....E.R.: Turgid... MD-
Irredeemably hopeless... .M.E.L.: “The Win-
J 1 ™g Post” came nowhere near it....
1.M.R.: Try it at the nineteenth hole
P B „ : Wliy “Songings”? Why not “Rav-
3nSs A.H.: But how are we to decide
whether you are the poet Australia has
been waiting for unless you send us samples
of your wares? H.S.: Not a bad idea, but
you’ve overloaded it with musical terms....
C. 8.: Your rhymes set our teeth on edge....
M.P.: We don’t run a children’s page....
J.Y.P.: Awful... .P.S.: Hardly excusable, even
for spring poetry... .R.S.D.: Very close to
childishness... .L.D.: We can’t see an S.
squeezing itself between those letters.... W.A.P.:
It came very near... .J.O’C.: Still, a girl can’t
do any window-dressing with a beautiful soul.
... .8.N.F.:
This thing called Price,
Spawned in the miasmic cavern of a leprous brain,
A bethean stream anaemic to the body politic.
That’ll be enough to go. on with, thanks....
l , The blight of untidiness is over it....
H-L.W.: A dull ending; you might more
profitably have finished with an anti-climax.
. ...C.E.G.: It rhymes all right, but we
haven’t much time for “harsh melodies” and
“cosmic drums” L.W.: Can’t find anything
,n 11 besides the demerits you hint at....
A.J.8.: Dreadfully rickety jingle J.N.L.:
Not even passable doggerel S.S.: It isn't
a poem or even a dim imitation of 0ne....
»YinV; : f-, a nl do anything with them....
M.E.8.: Very feeble stuff. We can’t send re-
views or criticisms by post Word: Senti-
ment sound; jingle full of holes j.W.: 100
absurdly trivial for print W.P.: Its sim-
plicity nearly carried it in, but we don’t like
the ending.... R.F.S.: Your diffidence is justi-
fied. Such scrappy sentimentalities are not
for us.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.W.: Drawings fnust be in black and white.
No use submitting colored sketches C.W.:
Joke was based on lady being a heavyweight,
but you make her a sylph A.T.: Boundary-
riders don’t wear sombreros or Sam Browne
belts... . P.R.8.: Sketch is not so bad, but
gag is a sinker... .C.L.: Discard that mapping-
pen and get one that will give a broader
line... .E. 8.: Lower limbs much longer than
they should be, and arms sprout in wrong
places. .. .J.M.C.: Fact that pasteboard had
gilt edges did not enhance value of drawing.
V.W.: Odd pieces, clumsily put together.
... .1 .J.: Centenary cartoon amateurish. If you
Jive until the bicentenary you may be able to
draw well enough.., .H.R.: With more care
and smarter jokes you may satisfy editors.
; . ..D.N.: Some good ideas, but you can’t
illustrate them... .N.K.: All with the same
complaint scratchiness....W.W.: Cannot
judge I rom copies; get him to submit original
Had already seen that drunk
with his head m a goldfish bowl R.E S• A
cartoon should be direct and based on a single
idea. Yours is a jumble A.L.S.: You can
never have seen a buckjumper in action
0.K..: it you keep on as you are going you
may cpme through in a few years....V.D •
Promising... .S.J.: Will give it further con-
sideration it redrawn....N.C.P.: Don’t want
anything dashed off on the back of a hand-
bill while waiting for a ’bus.”
A MIXED GRILL.
“Wagga”: Portland (Vic.), where the
Hentys landed, and which is now pre-
paring for centenary celebrations, claims
to possess the oldest printed Bible in
Australia. It is a massive tome, dating
back to 1616, printed in German and
illustrated by quaint woodcuts. Also it
contains the 14 books of the Apocrypha.
The volume is in a private museum,
along with other old books in German!
German settlers came to Victoria very
early.
tt * * * *
“Cam Cove”: The red-gum is one of
the most useful trees we Ma Staters have,
it grows along the ’Bidgee River as
truckly as wild oats in Darlinghurst.
But from Yanco to Whitton the red-gums
are choked and stunted for the want of
room to grow. Millions are crooked and
only man-high. For lack of a little thin-
ning out the trees remain a mass of
twisted uselessness.
* * * *
The other day Dalby (Q.) Council
was told that the Treasury at Brisbane
wou d lend it £l2OO to build the Town
Clerk a house. Dalby hadn’t asked *for
the money and doesn’t want it; and
this was mentioned with some asperity
in the council’s reply. The Brisbane
explanation was that someone unspeci-
fied had inquired whether a loan could
be got for the purpose, and that in the
?i? 0C C ess * ts h ear t it had at once made
the brass available. Yes; the election
takes place on September 15.
* * * *
El V. : Queensland is mildly inter-
ested in the case of a girl teacher at a
small school who, on her way to spend
her week-ends with her parents, is in the
habit of accepting a free lift from a
cieam-carter to Ipswich, there catching
a train. On the way to Ipswich, the
carter passes a suburban railway station.
A policeman warned the driver that he
was infringing the Government’s rail-
way monopoly. The matter went
to the Transport Board, which re-
plied firmly that the lady must not be
carried beyond her nearest station. The
local member was imported into the dis-
cussion. Parliament heard about it. The
Police Commissioner, the Transport
Commissioner and the head of Queens-
land’s expensive railway system, held
weighty converse. Result, the girl may
now ride on the cream-cart on the broad
highway, but her permit is “not to be
taken as a precedent.”
* * *
“H.A.L.”: I live in a South Aus. dis-
trict where one person in five has had
his or her appendix removed. The mem-
bers of a certain sect explained it with a
sarcastic “The doctor needed a new car,”
but the theory fell flat when one of those
responsible for it tried to “faith” away
an acute appendix and nearly went under.
The doctor had to have his own re-
moved in a bit of a hurry, and I myself
was the next victim. I have since found out
that newcomers to the district who
never knew they owned an appendix de-
velop a chronic trouble with the organ
within a year or two, irrespective of age
Why? 5 '
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Flat, miles of it cov-
ered with sand, remains a mute mem-
orial of Government waste in the netting
fence that is supposed to mark the boun-
dary between Queensland and South
Australia. A couple of decades back
lonely boundary-riders kept the fence a
barrier against rabbits and dingoes, but
since the depression the fence guardians
have been sacked. Now, where once a
rabbit could not find an opening, all the
bullocks in Queensland could be driven
through without touching a wire,
* * * *
“J. 8.”: When the Duke of Gloucester
returns home he will be able to put the
Earl of Huntly right about the eucalypt.
The Earl, having discovered Australia
while on holiday, took back to London
the news that “Westralia is the habitat
of the gum-tree; Sydney and Melbourne
can show it, as yet, only in their Botani-
cal Gardens.” While the Duke of
Gloucester is on the job he might cor-
rect another explorer—the C. P. Hodg-
son who enlightened Europe by inform-
ing it that our death-adder “cannot stin"
with its tail, but, standing erect on if
will project itself some sft.” He added
that while he was in the bush one of
these reptiles crawled over his arm
“quacking and hissing,” and that another
used to hang from a rafter ejaculating
“Cah, cah, cah.” 1 ung


USEFUL DATA ON THE CHRYSLER
PLYMOUTH.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12 4-5 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in
7 sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in
4 4-5 sec.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft.
Maximum speed, 75 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 22.8 m.p.g.
TWO-WAY, DOUBLE ACTION
TYRE INFLATION
The “RENRUT” QUADRUPLE TYRE PUMP gives a
remarkable service in tyre inflation. Built on the principle
of quadruple compression, which provides a double-acting
main barrel, drawing in air on both the up and down strokes,
this unique mechanism doubles the capacity of the large barrel,
and so halves the time of inflation. The inner high-pressure
cylinder ensures easy delivery of this large volume.
Sturdily built for a long life of faithful service, the “RENRUT”
QUADRUPLE offers quicker and easier pumping than you
have ever known.
"DELIMIT" Quadruple
tf ENIttU I TYRE PUMP
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
JOHN ARNOLD, 356 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
PRICE...
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
•o
Is*
“SILVER
EDGE”
{RfuAebktt,
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
YOUR STOPPING DISTANCE REFLECTS THE
EFFICIENCY OF YOUR BRAKES
RAYBESTOS Brake Liners fitted
to your car will ensure reliability,
Use a quality lining.
Why not check the performance
of your car against these
figures?
é
RA YBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep,: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
The Steerign Column.
PUTTING THE CHRYSLER PLYMOUTH
THROUGH ITS PACES.
INGENIOUS MECHANICAL FEATURES AND GOOD
PERFORMANCE.
BY FRED BERRY.
HR YSLER products have established among Australian
motorists a reputation for performance, reliability and
appearance. In a test of the 1934 Chrysler Plymouth over
the strenuous “Bulletin” course it was made abundantly clear
that the latest model maintains that reputation. It seems likely
to make a host of new and enthusiastic friends.
Changed drastically in appearance and
mechanical details in 1933, the Plymouth
manfully stood up to Australian condi-
tions. The latest creation is just a little
better all round than its predecessor.
This year’s model incorporates con-
stant-mesh gearbox, free-wheeling auto-
Graceful and efficiently streamlined profile of latest Chrysler Plymouth
De Luxe.
mafic clutch, a powerful motor and
splendid roadholding qualities. It fills
the requirements both of the novice
driver and the dyed-in-the-wool speed
tourist.
Developing 77 h.p. at 3600 r.p.m. when
fitted with standard head of 5.5 to 1 com-
pression ratio, or 82 h.p. with special alu-
Plan of cross steering layout used on
Chrysler Plymouth in conjunction with
independent front-wheel suspension.
minium 6.5 to 1 head, the R.A.C. rating
is 23.44 h.p. The motor is of 6-cyl. L-
head type with side by side valves, bore
3iin. and stroke 4|in., giving a piston
displacement of 201.3 cub. in. The four-
bearing crankshaft, diameter, is bal-
anced with seven integral counterweights,
and as a further aid to smooth running
an impulse neutraliser is attached to the
forward end.
Pistons are aluminium alloy T-slot type,
carefully balanced, and each fitted with
three compression rings and one oil-
control ring. Inlet valves are of chrome
nickel steel ; exhaust are silcrome. Seat-
ings in the cylinder block of exhaust
valves are inserts made from heat-resist-
ing alloy steel, so minimising the neces-
sity for valve-grinding. All crankshaft
and connecting-rod bearings are steel-
backed and readily interchangeable.
Full force lubrication is provided to
all connecting-rod, crankshaft
and camshaft bearings and tim-
ing chain, while pressure from
a metered hole in each con-
necting-rod lubricates cylinder
walls and valve mechanism. A
cartridge-type oil purifier is
placed in the pipe line, and
an efficient crankcase ventilat-
ing system is incorporated, in-
coming air being drawn
through a copper-mesh cleaner,
while the outlet is so placed
that the forward movement of the car
creates a partial vacuum, and so extracts
vapors from the crankcase.
Fuel is drawn from a rear tank by a
pump driven from the camshaft, a fuel
filter being cast integral with the pump.
The down-draft carburettor is equipped
with a Duplex-type combination air-
cleaner, and a silencer is fitted, the
throttle being connected with the starter
pedal for purposes of easy starting. Stall-
ing, due to “over-choking,” is avoided by
fitting an auxiliary valve to the main
choke, admitting sufficient air immedi-
ately the engine begins to fire to prevent
Hooding the combustion chamber with
petrol.
Electrical equipment is six-volt, with
coil and battery ignition. The generator
is provided with an automatic voltage
regulator, and the coil is protected
against interference by a thief-proof
armored cable leading
to a lock on the in-
strument board.
The power unit is
suspended in the
chassis by floating
power mounting,
using live-rubber sup-
ports.
These mountings,
two in number, are
positioned athwart
the gearbox at rear
and in a special
cradle above th e
centre line at the
front, so that the
motor is allowed to
oscillate on its natural axis in order to
dissipate impulses caused by power ex-
plosions.
Transmission is through single-plate
dry-disc clutch, with special automatic
control to a three-speed and reverse gear-
box in unit with engine fitted with cen-
tral-control lever. Gears are easy-shift,
constant-mesh type, and all gears are heli-
cally cut and silent at all speeds. A free-
wheeling unit, actuated by push-pull
dashboard control, is integral with the
gearbox.
Roller-bearing universal joints are used
fore and aft on the open propeller shaft,
and final drive is through semi-floating
rear axles. Back-axle reduction is 4.375
to 1 in sedans and 4.11 in roadsters.
Chassis is of rigid X-type construction,
with box section channels. Wheelbase is
114 in., and road clearance Bin. front and
B|in. rear. v
Independent wheel suspension is fitted
in front. Rear springs are conventional
semi-elliptic type, with Oilite discs
between leaves and silent U threaded
shackles to prevent squeaking.
Steering is worm-and-roller type,
movement being imported to the road
wheels by the Chrysler cross method,
preventing road shocks being transmitted
to steering-wheel and providing positive
control at all speeds.
Hydraulic brakes operate on all four
wheels, internal-expanding shoes 2in.
wide being fitted into centrifuge drums
of lOin. diameter.
Bodywork is streamlined, roomy and
insulated for quietness.
Adjustable ventilation is provided in
the doors of the front compartment and
in the rear windows. Front windscreen
is adjustable and crank-operated, and
front seats are movable to suit indivi-
dual requirements.
Radio antenna is standard equipment
on de luxe models.
The car tested over The Bulletin
course was a de luxe PE type Chrysler
Plymouth four-door sedan, driven by
O. James, of York Motors, Ltd., N.S.W.
distributors. Complete with driver and
observer, the weigh bill showed 33cwt.
Although speedometer reading stood
at 11,213.5 miles, the car appeared to
be in perfect mechanical condition, and
bodywork was free from squeaks or
rattles.
Motor was quiet at all engine speeds,
an u^ ree - from Mbration, and it appeared
to be giving its full rated horsepower.
Driving through the city snappy top-
gear acceleration and easy steering per-
mitted of excellent manoeuvrability in
traffic, and on reaching open country
through Baulkham Hills the pilot elected
to keep a steady speed around the 50
mark, a figure which appears to be both
economical and comfortable for this car.
Approaching Windsor a test of coasting
was conducted, the car beginning in
neutral gear at 15 m.p.h. and rolling
685 yards before coming to rest —a fair
result.
Through Windsor and approaching
Richmond maximum speed was timed
over a measured mile, the clock show-
ing 48 seconds, giving an average of
75 m.p.h. On this section steering was
positive and free from shock, while road-
holding and suspension were very good
indeed.
On the way to Kurrajong Mountain
the turn off through Grose Vale was
taken, providing a spot of country-road
conditions. Over this rough stuff the
Plymouth acquitted itself admirably,
passenger comfort being practically the
same as when running over paved road-
way.
With 2 1-5 miles to go to the summit
of Kurrajong a halt was made for a
standing-start timed climb. On this
Cross section (side view ) of down-draft
carburettor, (a), (b), (c) Accelerator pump
seasonal adjustment, (1) air horn, (2)
choke valve, (3) needle valve, (4) float,
(5) and (6) metering screw assembly, (7)
accelerator pump lever, (8) throttle, (9)
main vent tube and plug assembly, (10)
flange gasket.
test, occupying 3min. 21sec., the Ply-
mouth appeared comfortable and safe,
even when cornering at speed, while over
the final steep section, strewn with
boulders and in extremely rough condi-
tion, the pilot demonstrated the value of


-j
®2*srs
1
■ •■
HR
w^isss*)?
£B*l
Kfe
&
pk<s
mMggm
mm' />
%&
f--.m
?.«g
BH
£M44hustoi
A CITIZEN OF '
THE WORLD"MUST
kw9<J>
AMERICA
E
■fr
No stravel-plan complete without America!
Can anyone really know the world who has
not visited this vihrant land of scenic
grandeur and epochal achievement?
Distance? ]\o longer a problem, nor cost a
harrier—thanks to modest fares on swift,
luxurious ships and trains! And America
marks your shortest, most enjoyable route
to England. Like a rainbow of happiness,
linking Australia and California, the 18-day
route of the brilliant, new liners, “Mariposa”
and ‘’-Monterey.”
Equally luxurious, the appointments of
America s great transcontinental # trains.
Modern “Pullman” sleepers . . . meals
smartly served in the dining car . . . club
cars with “buffet” refreshments . . . shower
baths ... a retinue of skilled attendants.
Liberal stopovers and low costs urge leisurely
exploration. Visit California’s great cities,
Los Angeles and San Francisco . . . Holly-
wood, world s film-capital . . . sun-swept
beaches . . . “ghost towns” of the Mother
Lode, immortalized by Mark Twain and
Bret Harte . . . Sacramento, California’s
capital, with its famed arboreal park.
See the West’s wild grandeur, glorified in
Yosemite, Yellowstone, Zion - Bryce, and
Grand Canyon National Parks . .. the mightv
Rockies . . . the painted desert. Fee'l
America’s tremendous sweep in her rivers,
lakes, farms and roaring cities —flung
between two oceans for a full 3,000 miles!
Questions? All answered in the absorbing,
new booklet, “England Across America.” You
may have a copy without cost or obligation.
ê
cm * Oc&cutlc J2*te
AMERICAN RAILWAY'S TRAVEL and INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge Street, Sydney r Telephone B-7981-3
9R-1A
independent front-wheel suspension by
picking a selected course with precision
even though driving at high speed.
Returning down the mountain emer-
gency braking equipment was tested with
satisfactory results.
In order to determine top-gear flexi-
bility the Plymouth was then first driven
slowly over a distance of 350 yards, tak-
ing smin. lOsec. (average 2.3 m.p.h.), fol-
lowed immediately by 350 yards
Cutaway section of rear spring leaves
showing Oili[?]e insets.
“accelerated,” still in lop gear. The car
crossed the finishing-line at 60 m.p.h.,
the time taken, 17sec., averaging 42.3
m.p.h. This dual performance proved
that the car is more than ordinarily
handy in traffic, particularly as the auto-
matic clutch was not in operation over
the slow-running section, the motor pull-
ing directly through fixed drive over the
full distance.
Next test, accelerating from a stand-
ing start to 50 m.p.h., making provision
lor speedometer error, occupied 12
4-ssec., and in measuring braking effi-
ciency the car was brought to a stand-
still from 25 m.p.h. in 20ft. without
deviation from its course.
The total time occupied for the
journey of 117 miles was 3hr. smin.,
giving an average speed, inclusive of all
tests, of 39 m.p.h., while 5 gal. 1 pint
of petrol was required to replenish the
fuel tank, showing a petrol consumption
of 22.8 m.p.g. (37.6 ton miles per gallon)
—an excellent result when the high
average speed is taken into account.
In measuring steering lock it was
proved that the car could be turned in a
41ft. roadway on either left or right lock.
Motor Oddities.
“T.G.8.”: How many old-time
motorists can produce a receipt for the
purchase of their first car? Here’s mine,
dated August, 1908, for an 8-h.p. De
Dion. A cantankerous box of trouble on
wheels, her maximum output was about
eight ’possum-power, but she was fast
on a hill —down grade. Coming down
“T.G.B.’s” invoice and receipt for 1908
De Dion car.
Warland’s Range (N.S.W.) on one occa-
sion the brakes, never reliable, failed.
Rounding a turn, to my horror, I spied
a travelling circus strung out down the
grade. Luckily they were drawn to the
side of the road giving the horses a
breather. For many years after I sold
the De Dion the engine did duty in a
launch on the Clarence River.
sfc
“Dead Finish”: Travelling south from
N.Q., I noticed after leaving Augathella
that the ammeter was not working.
Banged it without results, and from the
heat in the generator decided it had
burnt out. Nothing to do but set sail
for the nearest garage, some considerable
distance, where the mechanic (as I sub-
sequently discovered) tested the generator
on the battery side of the cut-out and
pronounced it all right. Carried on that
night with lights going and camped. In
St. George had it tested again. This time,
though, it was tried on the generator
side of the cut-out, giving a negative
reading. It was burnt out. Had the
battery tested ; they reckoned I might
get as far as Mungindi or Moree. I
carried on without headlights this time.
Next day 1 had the battery tested in
every town reached and was told each
time, “You might get to the next garage.”
On to Tamworth about sundown, I had
a 10 hours’ charge put into the battery
overnight, and reached Manly (via Broke)
the next night with headlights going full
blast. The 600-odd miles between occu-
pied roughly 34 hours’ running time,
for five hours of which the lights were
used. This should give some idea what
a fully-charged battery will do with a
23cwt. car loaded to the Plimsoll and
over rough roads.
* * * *
“C.J.8.”: I filled the radiator and started
the engine without trouble, but the car
appeared to have tpken root overnight;
it would move neither backwards nor
forwards. Half a gallon of hot water
poured over the brake drums remedied
the trouble. I had crossed a creek, wet-
ting the brakes, just before stopping for
the night. Overnight the shoes froze to
ihe drums.
Mistakes in Gear-changing.
Many drivers, when ascending a hill
on which it is obvious that a change
down from top to the next gear will have
to be made, hang on in top until the
engine starts to labor. Far better is it
to change down a gear as soon as the
speed drops to about 18 m.p.h. Not
only is it easier on the engine and trans-
mission, but the hill will be surmounted
quicker. One of the reasons for dis-
inclination by many drivers to change
down from top gear is that they have not
properly mastered gear-changing. After
all, it is not a very difficult matter. In
changing down the engine must be
allowed to gain speed. A slight depres-
sion of the clutch pedal enables the
engine to race up, and, if the gear-lever
is then pushed into neutral, it will usually
be found possible, after a slight pause,
to engage a lower gear quietly.
Road Hogs and Noisy Exhausts.
Not so many years ago many motorists
appeared to delight in driving with an
open exhaust. Those days are gone so
lar as car- and truck-owners are con-
(Continued on page 30.)


Readers are reminded that the
services of Fred Berry are now at
their disposal should they require
information or advice upon any
motoring subject.
Inquiries should be set out as
briefly and concisely as possible.
A reply will be forthcoming immedi-
ately.
THE HILLS ARE STEEP AND LONG
THE IS FARGO
FA R.G.O
M A 0 EBr^^Cm S LE R
Where the hauling problem is particularly
difficult because the hills are steep and long, the
powerful, flexible Fargo Truck is the owner's
assurance that here is a transportation unit
capable of handling profitable pay loads at mini-
mum cost. For the long hill, for the steep hill, the
answer is Fargo. Let us prove this fact to you.
FT-51
DISTRIBUTORS:
Sydney: York Motors Pty., Ltd., 101-IAI Street.
Melbourne: Automobiles Pty., Ltd., o-16-»52 Collins .street.
Adelaide: Flinders Motor Company, 26 Flinders Street.
Perth: Wentworth Motors, Ltd., 414-416 Murray Street.
Hobart: Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., 33 Argyle Street.
■HOOD DRESSINC
ë
Nouj in HalF-pi.nt Tins.
A Service
every
motorist
needs
motor-
ists a i||tlse result
of twerify^nirlid' ipecialis-
, atio.nl Ajf type* of Metal
»££srWdrlL Radiator /Repairs and
Seitvice .Pandi Beating Work, is
/ hbndfed, and/We offer you a
/ fair price on/a first-class jobl
//' We..have/ one of the largest
/'/ ParjeHx Beating works in the
1/ SQvthV rn /H em ' s P^ ere can
ff anything from a dented
to the complete re-
of the entire body.
Xs Radiator Specialists y*e RE-
PAIR, REBUILD AND SERVICE
ALL TYPES OF RADIATORS.
We are makers of the famous
"MULLER COOLAHCORE
RADIATOR CORE."
Permit us to send you further
details of our service.
F. Muller Ltd.
7 7-79 Parramatta Road
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY
Phone: L 3201 (3 lines)
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 Old (SECOND
XSJOHh EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin,
252 Georare Street, Sydney. 3d. extra.
cerned, and it is now an exception to
hear a really noisy exhaust from any of
these vehicles.
The same cannot be said of motor-
cycles. The manufacturers are not to
blame. The vast majority of machines
made during the last few years have
been adequately silenced when marketed,
and it is well known that a fast cycle
need not necessarily be a noisy one. The
number of motor-cyclists who appear to
delight in “roaring their engines” is rela-
tively small, but those who do indulge in
this objectionable practice bring odium
on all users of the two-wheeler.
The authorities should set a standard
of silence and see that those riders who
create an offence are warned and, if the
offence is repeated, penalised.
“Free Air.”
In most Australian towns there will
be found some garage or filling station
equipped with a compressor plant in
order to provide free air.
Originally this service was supplied in
the hope that sales of petrol or spares
might be increased.
As practically every motorist has his
own particular garage wherein regular
purchases are made, and as tyres don’t
go flat at times and places to suit the
convenience of drivers, thousands ol
owners carry on with leaky or partly-
inflated equipment rather than be under
an obligation to some strange station for
a free “blow up,” or they give the
attendant a tip for a job that may be
carelessly done.
Matters being so, “free air” is due for
abolition. Far preferable would be a
specific charge of a penny per wheel.
The Trouble Lamp.
G.L. (Unley Park, S.A.).—Do down-shaft car-
burettor and accelerator pump cause rapid wear
in rings and cylinder walls ?
Excess use of choke or accelerator pump will
flood the induction manifold more readily than
when up-draft type is used, but efficient hot-
spotting and provision for drainage of mixing
chamber should prevent flooding of combus-
tion chamber. There is little difference in
engine - wear with up- or down-draft car-
burettors.
P.G.C. (Berala, N.S.W.). —Although I can
start my Fiat easily it will not pull, and the
trouble gets worse when the motor heats up,
which it does quickly. Can you suggest a
remedy ?
No doubt the timing chains have slackened,
putting the valve timing astray. Write Wills-
t'ord, Ltd., Phillip-street, Sydney, for timing
chart, and follow instructions carefully. At
the same time make certain tappet clearances
are correct, for riding valves in a hot motor
will not allow full power to be developed.
Essem (Sunshine, Vic.). —Have been using
Oil Dag in lubricating oil on my V 8 Ford,
and changed sump oil at 400, 800 and 1700
miles. i have been told that oilways will
clog up if colloidal graphite is mixed with
compounded oils. Can you recommend colloi-
dal graphite in the fuel in addition to lubri-
cating oil, and what quantities are required ?
Colloidal graphite, as manufactured by re-
putable firms, cannot clog up oilways with any
type of oil. Use one teaspoonful to each
eight gallons of benzine.
J.L. (Epping, N.S.W.).— Having recently pur-
chased a 1932 model British car, / have been
told that, as the speedometer already shows
20,500 miles, I might expect serious mechani-
cal trouble at no distant date. Should cylinders
be rebored, or will it be necessary to renew
gears, etc. ?
If the car is equipped with air-cleaner and
oil-purifier, you should have at least a further
20,000 miles to go before considering reboring.
Life of gears depends almost entirely upon
care and intelligent operation. If the car is
running sweetly and gives its usual perform-
ance, you have a long time to go before be-
ginning to worry about mechancial defects.
Check up adjustments of valves, steering and
transmission details in order to rectify troubles
at their inception.
R.M. (Corowa, N.S.W.). —/ am getting a
new car and intend to try graphite in the oil.
(1) A good brand ? (2) Quantity to use to
each gallon of oil ? (3) Must / use it
indefinitely or only for a few thousand miles ?
(4) Should / use it in universal, differential,
etc. ?
Oil Dag or Motor Kollag. (2) One ounce
to a gallon. (3) Up to 10,000 miles. (4)
No great advantage.
J.W.C. (Punchbowl, N.S.W.).—/ am under-
taking a tour of several thousand miles. Three
tyres on my car are worn smooth but appear
sound. Should l buy new tyres or have old
cases retreaded ?
New tyres would be the safest investment,
but if the old casings are sound and free from
faults you might effect some saving by re-
treading. Have the work done by a firm
which will give a guarantee.
L.P. (Hurstville, N.S.W.). —(1) Cause of
knock in my 1927 engine that sounds like big-
end rattle ? As oil pressure takes a fair while
to drop after stopping, it must be some other
trouble. (2) / also have a wheel-wobble at
about 30 m.p.li., losing it again at 35. What
can I do to cure this? (3) When turning sharp
corners the oil pressure drops back to zero for
a few seconds and then comes up again with
a buzzing noise. What’s wrong ?
(1) Bearing knock can be heard in pressure-
fed motors, but, as oil pressure is constant, loose
gudgeon pins are most likely responsible. (2)
Due to bent front axle or one front spring
sagged more than the other. (3) Due either to
low level in sump or to one of the branch feed
pipes to main bearings being fractured at the
nipple, causing a temporary air-lock.
F.P. (Macksville, N.S.W.). —Price of Rover
car, tested, and can I get spares ?
Write Cameron Motors, Ltd., Elizabeth-
street, Sydney (N.S.W. agents), who will supply
all particulars.
E.McL. (Wagga, N.S.W.).—/ have recently
had my 1930 car top-overhauled, including
valve grinding, and oil consumption has jumped
alarmingly. Has the work been done cor-
rectly ?
Possibly cylinders are worn and piston rings
slack. If this is so the increased vacuum in
the intake manifold, due to better seating of
valves, will tend to draw more oil past the
rings and so increase consumption.
H.B. (Boggabri, N.S.W.). —/ have had to
buy three new timing chains and two sets of
sprockets for my 1929 car. What can I do,
and why have they worn so quickly?
The sprockets are evidently running out
of truth, or there is excessive end play in
crankshaft or camshaft. Have these details
attended to.
W.D.H. (Toowoomba, Q’land). —1 have been
driving my sedan for four years without
trouble, but lately every time I pull up the car
is filled with gas fumes. All gaskets on inlet
and exhaust manifolds are in good condition.
Cause ?
No doubt cylinders and rings have now
worn to such a degree that burnt gas blows
past the rings into the crankcase and is re-
leased through the breather pipe. The effect
would be observed only when the car is
stationary. It would be advisable also to ex-
amine the muffler. Check up whether it is
badly clogged with carbon. Back-pressure
may be the reason.
M.M. (Rozelle, N.S.W.).— When driving over
uneven roads my 1-h.p. light car has a chatter
under the floor that 1 cannot locate. Cause?
No doubt due to brake rods vibrating and
striking chassis cross member. Look for fric-
tion marks, and wire on a felt pad at points of
contact.
E.L.M. (Bendigo, Vic.).—/ wish to fit a
gauge to my dashboard petrol tank, but am
afraid when drilling holes that metal might fall
into the tank and give trouble. Is there much
risk?
Metal will fall into trap and is unlikely
to block feed. Best method would be to
smear drill liberally with grease just before
breaking through metal, and then nothing will
drop.
G.McN. (Warren, N.S.W.). —When I reach
40 m.p.li. on smooth roads a tinkling sound
comes from under the bonnet. The car has
recently been overhauled, is pulling well and
in good mechanical condition. Cause ?
The fan bearing is most likely worn, and
the fan blades are striking the radiator core.
Inspect radiator and water connection. Also
you have most likely let the belt of the gene-
rator drive out to the limit, in which case a
new belt with closer adjustment will fix
matters up.


RADIO DEALERS, SERVICEMEN
The Slade-Paton A.C.-D.C. Analyser
A complete anti compact multi instrument in one, indispensable
for rapid faultfinding or general radio construction and repairs.
è
Equipped with Bakelite d’Arsonval
Meter (1000 ohms per volt) having knife
pointer and Mirror dial, with individual
scales for ohms, A.C. and output volts;
also D.C. volts, millinmps. Utilises
heavy D.S.C. Eureka Bridge Calibrated
Multipliers. Laboratory Accuracy on
the many ranges assured.
FEATURES: Push button operation
for quickness and simplicity. Universal
socket and metal shielded grid lead on
cord reducing capacity effects to mini-
mum (essential in It.F. testing). Point
to point resistance measurements.
Moulded panel with raised lettering, etc.
Complete in Black Leatherette case, Model B (as illustrated),
£l3/17/6, plus tax. Model A, £l5/15/-, plus tax.
-Make
The Slade-Paton Valve Tester
a Feature of Valve Testing in Your District.
é
Tests to a degree American,
English and Continental type
Valves DIRECT on the colored
dial as
GOOD POOR BAD
Features : Direct Reading. Mutual
Conductance Test. Line regulation
with meter check. Simplifies sales.
Note: Over one million Valves are
sold annually in Australia.
Price. A.C. Type (as illustrated),
£9/17/6, plus tax. D.C. type, Price on application.
Sold on Seven-day Money Back Guarantee. Easy payments over N.S.W.
Obtainable from leading: Wholesalers or
Slade-Paton Radio & Test Eauipment Manufacturers
IAXG STREET. CROYDON. SYDNEY. Phone: UJ4576, UA1960.
STUDY
AT HOME
Write for particulars to-
Schools
WEMBLEY HOUSE,RAILWAY SQUARE,SYDNEY
RADIO NEWS.
ADDITIONAL AUDIO GAIN FOR THE
WIDE-WORLD TWO RECEIVER.
By DON B. KNOCK.
The unpretentious little receiver known
as the Wide-World Two is the most
popular of a large array described by the
writer for the benefit of the home-con-
structor during eight years of increasing
public interest in short-wave reception.
Correspondence on the subject includes
requests for more information, sugges-
tions, and praise for the performance.
G.H.G. (Katoomba, N.S.W.): “I’m not
going to try to give lists of stations re-
ceived, because they are scattered like
stars all over the dial ; literally hundreds
of ’em. (I have just been listening to
GSB at a good. RB, fading to abouf R 7.)
Secondly, as I am away from home until
late in the evening, I have not had time
or energy for more than an hour or so
during two evenings per week. VK3LR
was pounding in the other night, and it
was necessary to have the volume con-
trol right back and regeneration right off,
and then she’d make one’s ears ache.
FYA is R 7 to R 8 almost any day.”
Katoomba is a notoriously poor receiv-
ing location.
With the suggestions came one that
signal strength might be raised a point or
two by coupling the aerial direct (not
Circuit illustrating additional audio amplification for the Wide-World Two
receiver, with aerial-cathode coil coupling.
through a series condenser) to the
cathode end of the cathode coil. By so
doing, this coil functions in a dual
capacity, and provides an inductive aerial
coupling in addition to feedback.
Requests for information have in-
cluded a goodly number asking for a
circuit diagram showing the use of an
extra audio stage. The circuit illustrated
shows the most suitable arrangement,
and also the feature of the aerial cathode
coupling.
In the original Wide-World Two the
single audio stage was a 37 valve. This
provided ample audio gain for head-
phone use, but was not very suitable for
loudspeaker work. Substituting the 38
pentode (B. 15/8/’34) effected an im-
provement in audio gain, but for con-
stant speaker work extra audio amplifi-
cation is desirable.
The circuit illustrated shows that the
37 is retained as a buffer audio stags
and the 38 used for output. Transformer
coupling is used between the 37 and 38,
and it should go without saying that the
transformer should be a good one. A
500,000-ohm potentiometer is used in the
grid of the 38 as a volume control (the
new I.R.C. potentiometer is excellent for
the purpose), and thus headphones or
speaker may be employed as desired. You
may have a magnetic-type speaker, but the
permagnetic type is recommended (fitted
with pentode input transformer). If the
receiver is to be used with B batteries a
second break switch is fitted (SW2). This
open-circuits the B negative, and thus
prevents any drain through the regenera-
tion potentiometer. The new type 76
valve can be used in place of the 37
without any alteration with greater econ-
omy, the 76 taking less plate current than
the 37.
A receiver built to this specifica-
tion will satisfy those who want loud-
speaker reception with plenty of punch,
and if the receiver is carefully constructed
it will do all and more than much more
complicated, prone-to-noise-level super-
heterodyne arrangements. It should be
noted that the 78 can be used as detector
in place of the 77, but the 77 is better
where higher frequencies (28mc.) are to
be covered.
D. B. KNOCK.
CHEMISTRY’S CONTRIBUTION TO RADIO.
•
During the war the chemist was called
upon to synthetise dyes, foodstuffs and
other substances otherwise unprocurable.
Since that period chemistry has assumed
a most important place in everyday life.
It is one of the fundamental sciences,
yet is so interlocked with other sciences
that it is often overlooked. The phar-
macist, textile manufacturer, electrician
and even the baker are indebted to the
versatile art of the chemist. Radio would
not have taken its present position had
it not been for its sound chemical foun-
dation.
The valve, that Aladdin’s lamp of
modern physics, was only developed after
the chemist had delved into the mysteries
of metals. Tungsten, thorium and other
elements had to be investigated, and a
process unearthed for rendering them
malleable, so that they might conveni-
ently be made into filaments, heaters,
etc. Then they had to be treated to
obtain the necessary abundance of ions.
This stream of sub-atomic bullets, • pro-
duced by the genius of the chemist, is the
foundation of the magic carpet of radio
entertainment.
The “getter” of a radio valve has a
chemical history of its own. It is usual
to improve the vacuum inside the valve,
after sealing off from the vacuum pump,
by “gettering,” or combining chemically
with the residual gases, and raising the
vacuum to a higher degree. An early
“getter” was phosphorus, and then came
sodium and potassium alkalies, followed
by calcium, strontium and magnesium.
Magnesium has been used extensively,
and the brightly-silvered inner surface of
many types of valves is due to a thin
coating of this metal, deposited when the
“getter” tablet is flashed or volatilised.
The most useful contribution of the
chemist is probably that of bakelite, de-
veloped primarily for radio purposes, and
now used in other and ever widening
fields.
Made from carbolic acid and for-
maldehyde, this amber-colored material
is burdened with the name oxybenzyl-
methyleneglycolanhydride. For radio
purposes fillers are
used to reduce cost
and increase
strength. Sawdust
is one, and for
radio-frequency ap-
paratus mica is em-
ployed. There are
many other types
of synthetic resins
on the market, but
bakelite is the most
common. The
name is derived
from the originator,
Dr. Leo H. Baek-
land, who produced
it in 1909.
Next in popu-
larity are the hard
rubber composi-
tions such as ebon-
ite and vulcanite.
These are cheap
and easily worked.
Much costly re-
search has been de-
voted to the de-
velopment of the vulcanising process.
Speeding up with accelerators and reduc-
tion of temperatures and pressures in-
volved were the biggest problems.
Accelerators are organic chemical com-
pounds capable of hardening rubber
quickly, and possess the typical long
chemical names. One of these is uro-
tropin, a combination of ammonia and
formaldehyde.
Insulating lacquers have superseded
shellac for coils. Cellulose derivatives,
oils, gums and resins are but a few of
the basic elements of these new finishes.
In a short space of time, a coating of
one of these lacquers produces a hard
surface that cannot be scratched with the
thumbnail. Coils of all kinds are dipped
into such lacquer, and are thus not
affected by humid weather or dust accu-
mulation. Moisture and dust are serious
enemies of radio. The insulating sleev-
ing known as “spaghetti” is merely
lacquer-impregnated silk or linen.
Many other chemical compounds have
assisted radio, such as glass and porce-
lain for insulation, and considerable
finance is devoted to improvements in
batteries, dry cells, and all the resistances
with which the modern radio receiver
bristles. Perfection of the high capacity
Chemical science makes possible these synthetic insulating
mouldings for the modern radio receiver.
electrolytic condenser has resulted in a
saving of space. Certain compounds of
boron were found to be best suited in
these liquid condensers, and in demon-
strating the high-resistance film of oxide
which forms on aluminium chemists have
made a valuable contribution.
Rectifiers of many kinds come from
the chemical laboratory. Synthetic
crystals of silicon, carborundum and sul-
phur have long been available and widely
used. More recently, the dry oxide film
rectifier became prominent as a rival of
the valve rectifier. Similarly, improved
silicon steel has reduced the size and in-
creased the efficiency of transformers,
while enamel insulation permits the use
of more wire in a given space.
M. H. M.
SQUARING RADIO WITH THE FAMILY
CIRCLE.
On chilly winter evenings when the
home fireside looks the best place to
even the most confirmed gadabouts,
radio seems to be the ideal accompani-
ment of a happy two or three hours of
cards or conversation. Seems so, and
so it should be ; but if there is anything
more likely to cause turmoil and unhap-
piness than the switching on of the radio
receiver it takes a lot of searching to
find.
Families are composed of persons
of varying sexes, ages and tastes, and at
every moment during the evening there
probably is available, over the air, as"
great a variety of fare as there is diver-
sity of predilections among the listeners.
Serious eldest son wants to hear a poli-
tical speech ; his junior votes firmly for
the cricket scoring ; daughter would fain
listen to that great soprano Madame
Kangaroo; mother prefers a spot of
drama, and dad’s savage breast yearns
for the soothing influence of orchestral
music.
If they are reasonable folk they come
to a compromise, more or less satisfac-
tory to all; but even then opportunities
for friction are not at an end. Dad con-
siders that a very limited volume of
Madame Kangaroo’s A in alt is the
utmost that can be stood by the human
ear without something (most probably
the radio set) being irreparably damaged,
and his running commentary. on the
views expressed by eldest son’s pet poli-
tician is apt to start a hot argument.
Smallest son’s absorption in the cricket
narrative is sneered at by the older off-
spring, who tell him for the hundredth
time that it’s all a fake; that all the
studio gets is a cablegram giving the bare
score and the rest is made up as they
go along. Smallest son says for the hun-
dredth time that he knows all that, and
for the hundredth time registers in-
wardly implicit belief that the voice
which so excitedly and convincingly tells
the story of the battle comes direct from
Lord’s or the Oval.
The elders settle down to bridge—
penny a hundred —played with as vindic-
tive determination as if the stakes were
a guinea a point. At the crisis in mother’s
drama where the heroine, supposed to
have been murdered and placed in the
boot cupboard, is found to be only
slightly injured, dad trumps his partner’s
(Continued on next page.)


Hieridb most foiltiatd Aadia VVuiei
o* ers COMPLETE COURSE
Cri| %E
'■-**-
■-?%<
jpg*?
•:x
The ONE
Book you need.'
GHIRARDI'S
RADIO
\PHYSiCS COURSE.
Ghirardi's Radio Physics Course, by
A. A. Ghirardi, is the clearest and
most complete Radio Course ever
written. There is a complete Radio
education between these two covers
in the 992 pages, crammed with
essential Radio facts, explained
simply and clearly and made clearer
still by over 500 illustrations. Here
is the quickest and surest method
of really mastering Radio, or bring-
ing your Radio knowledge up to
the minute. As a Hadio student,
set-builder, experimenter, or service
man, vou cannot afford to be with-
out Ghirardr s Kadio. Everything
you want to know is here. Ghirardi s
is the one book you need—clear,
concise, complete, np-to-date. lake
advantage of the Special Terms
Offer to “Bulletin” readers. Pay
cash or easv terms as you wish. Fill
in Order Form and Get Gliirardi
Now. Here are 20 chapter headings
chosen at random:—
Sound, Speech, and
Music
Electron Theory, Elec-
tric Current.
Electromagnetic Induc-
tion.
Inductance and Induc-
tors.
Capacitance and Con-
densers.
Alternating Current Cir-
cuits.
Electrical Measuring In-
struments.
Electromagnetic Radia-
tions.
The Broadcast Station.
Elementary Vacuum
Tube Study.
Vacuum Tube Charac-
teristics.
Vacuum Tube Construc-
tion.
Vacuum Tube Action.
Superheterodyne Re-
ceivers.
Car and Aircraft Re-
ceivers.
Short-Wave -Reception.
Photo-Electric Cells.
Television.
Testing and Servicing.
Sound Motion Pictures.
SPECIAL TERMS TO “BULLETIN” READERS
Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Booksellers to the University,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ORDER FORM.
Please send me Ghirardi’s Radio Physics Course. I enclose a first instalment of
6/-, and agree to make 3 further monthly payments of 10/-. The price for cash
within 30 days is 30/- (post 1/-), a saving of 5/-.
Name •
Address ....
Occupation Dale
Business Address
B.” oi'Ji'U
EVERYBODY’S USING IT!
The Wide-World Two Short-wave Receiver.,
featured in “The Bulletin,” 15/8/’34.
See this issue for details of extra amplification
for speaker reception, and let us supply you
with your parts or the complete receiver.
COHEN & BURROWS,
14 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA2411.
perfectly good ace and forgets to return
her lead. Smartly reproved for this, he
retorts that nobody could concentrate on
the game while listening to such balder-
dash. Whereat mother acidly reminds
him that he committed worse offences
while Splittoffsky’s Concerto in G Minor
was making night hideous, sojie’d better
think up another alibi. Serious elder
son, who usually poses as a sort of com-
bination of Culbertson, R. F. Forster
and Iris’s Godfather, revokes twice in
succession while absorbing new light on
Douglas Credit, turning an easy five
tricks in no-trumps into “one down” ;
whereat daughter says he ought to tell
people how to play bridge, a theme
eagerly seized upon by smallest brother,
who embroiders it with unholy fervor.
And why, asks dad, is that boy up at
this hour? Mother, always defender of
her youngest, explains suavely that
Tommy is finishing his homework. He
hadn’t time to do it before because at
five he had to listen to Uncle Mike, at
5.30 to “The Doom of the Tarantula,”
at six to “The Smirking Burglar,” at
6.30 to “Gulliver’s Travels,” at seven to
“The Missing Clue” and at 7.30 to “Tar-
boy and the Gorillas.” Work should
come before play, observes dad senten-
tiously. Mother says she quite agrees,
but dad ought to have put his foot down
before the boy started all those serials.
Now he’s started there’s nothing for it
but to let him go on. Ah, well, says dad,
when the valves burn out of that blasted
contraption he doesn’t know who’s going
to buy new ones. It certainly won’t be
him.
But next evening, when the family has
gone to the pictures and dad is (a) smok-
ing, ( b ) reading Edgar Wallace, (c) listen-
ing to Sir Henry Wood’s orchestra play
Beethoven’s Ninth, he weakens consider-
ably on that resolve. And mother, whose
brightest spots in the day are when she
listens to a*well-told story, is resolved that
valves shall be bought, whenever called
for, by the gross if necessary. As for
the offspring, they are unable to imagine
what life was like before broadcasting
was invented —especially Tommy.
All the same, there’s a fortune waiting
for the inventor who can devise a re-
ceiver that will supply items from six
stations at once, audible each to only one
listener.
TANIWHA.
IS THAT OLD RECEIVER WORTH WHILE?
The energetic radio salesman has night-
mares about those “prospects” w h°
refuse to be torn from the companion-
ship of a set venerable in its antiquity.
Can the owner be blamed if it con-
tinues to provide a local station or
two, with an occasional sprinkling of
DX? Not where the set is used under
country conditions, miles away from
broadcasting centres.
In the metropolitan areas, it is a dif-
ferent matter, unless the user is well
satisfied with reception from one pet
station and he doesn’t care a hoot about
the others. But to put up with the poor
performance of an inselective receiver
where broadcasting stations are clustered
within a few miles of the listener’s resi-
dence, and yet be desirous of something
approaching the performance of the
modern apparatus, is rather ridiculous.
Assuming that, despite the unsuitability
of the relic receiver, the owner stead-
fastly refuses to scrap it, all a conscien-
tious radio consultant can do is to find
some way of improving the old set. Such
improvements will not place the instru-
ment on a par with a modern one, but
material betterment should be possible at
little cost.
First to be considered are the possi-
bilities of decoupling. The subject has
been fully explained (B. 29/8/’34). De-
coupling gives better audio stability, with
the probability of better audio quality,
and the advantage of being able to run
the B batteries longer. A properly de-
coupled set will permit the use of the B
batteries to the last few volts without
any signs of crankiness such as howling
or “motor-boating.”
The snag likely to be encountered is
in connection with the replacement of
old-type valves by modern ones.
Unpleasant things are likely to happen
when a modern valve is put into an
old set. Audio quality may become
atrocious and distortion may be present.
The radio-frequency stages, if any, may
become hopelessly unstable, and the out-
put valve may be greatly overloaded by
the increased amplification developed by
the more efficient valves.
In the case of the receiver of the re-
generative detector and two-audio type
(there are yet many of these in use), the
change-over to modern valves is fairly
easy, but in the case of a receiver with
R.F. amplification it is quite likely that
structural alteration will be necessary.
Considering the former, and taking as an
example a set with detector, leaky grid
or plate-bend, resistance coupled to a
first-audio stage, in turn coupled to an
output stage by an audio transformer,
the first decision to make is the type of
new valve to use as detector.
The range to choose from is a wide
one ; there are various makes of triode
valves with impedances from 10,000 to
50,000 ohms.
A high-impedance valve will probably
be chosen for the reason that plate re-
sistance in the receiver is likely to be of
a high value (they mostly were), and
maximum sensitivity is wanted. But why
not change the plate resistance and use a
valve of lower impedance? This can be
done readily if the resistor is a separate
component, but if it is included in a
resistance-capacity-coupling unit built
into a moulded case as a complete unit
it is essential to use the high-impedance
valve, unless the R.C.C. unit is scrapped.
It is better, however, to use the low-
impedance valve, say, 25,000 ohms,
because with this a larger grid swing
can be obtained. This means that the
receiver can be used near a local broad-
casting station without overloading. An
amplification of 20 or so can be expected
from a valve with an impedance of
25,000 ohms.
To use this valve, a plate-coupling
resistance compatible with the plate load
requirements of the valve must be em-
ployed. It is likely that the plate re-
sistor in the old set is .25 or .5 megohms.
Out it conies, and for it is substituted
Choke coupling may be used alternatively with
advantage. This circuit also illustrates choke coupling
to the loudspeaker.
a resistance of 75,000 or 100,000 ohms.
Examination shows that the grid leak is
probably 5 megs. A 1-meg. leak is pre-
ferable, and 2 megs, at the most. Then
the coupling condenser between detector
and first-audio stages comes in for atten-
tion. In earlier days quite low values
were used, even down to .00025 mfd.
The old (and probably leaky) condenser
is replaced by a .01-mfd. mica dielectric
condenser.
The question of suitable audio valves
arises. As the detector is a modern valve
capable of greater amplification, over-
loading must be avoided and a first-
audio stage provided that will deal with
the extra gain. A low-impedance valve
is thus necessary. Herein arises an im-
portant consideration, for the low-
impedance valve will pass about 5 milli-
amperes, with maxi-
mum plate voltage,
and correct biasing.
It is most likely that
the audio trans-
former will not stand
the extra load for
long. If the trans-
former is a good
one, such as a Fer-
ranti, there is no
cause for worry, but
the old types, of
which there are hun-
dreds in the junk
stores, have a pri-
mary winding limita-
tion of 2 milliam-
peres at the most. , A . slight alteration
can be made which is' worth while,
while still retaining the. old transformer.
This is done by resistance-feeding the
transformer.
The plate current is not taken through
the primary winding, and only the
audio-frequency signal flows through
it. The resistance should be between
30,000 and 50,000 ohms, but because of
this value a fairly high initial plate
voltage is necessary. By using audio-
choke coupling, as illustrated in a dia-
gram here, the advantage is obtained of
less voltage drop and the provision of
a suitable impedance at the same time.
By reason of the step-up ratio of the
transformer, a fairy high signal voltage
will be available at the grid of the power
valve, and thus it is desirable to use a
power triode in preference to a pentode.
A pentode only requires a low input
voltage. The power valve chosen will
be. in accordance with the filament
voltage of the valves used in the set
There are other
simple modifications
which can be effected
to improve the old
set. With the extra
gain, aerial length can
no doubt be reduced
somewhat, and a series
fixed condenser (.0001
mfd.) included. Such
practice is, of course,
unnecessary with mod-
ern receivers of the
superhet type. Then
there is the advantage
of the separate pre-
selector unit, which, at
a cost of but a few
.shillings, can help selec-
tivity remarkably, although it consti-
tutes another manual control. Detec-
tion > may be further improved by
the inclusion of a .0001-mfd. mica
dielectric condenser between the plate of
the detector valve and earth. 1 here is
one important point to observe. By
fitting valves of lower impedances, the
plate-current consumption has been
raised, and so the largest capacity of B
battery should be used. In any case,
the decoupling arrangements will enable
the batteries to be used to the last gasp,
so such doctoring of the old-time set is
really worth while.
D. B. K.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Conditions have been again very irre-
gular, with some exceptionally good as
well as bad reception. Improvement
in the reception of the 8.8. C. stations
continues, and during a recent week-end
it was necessary to reduce volume on
GSB, 31.5 m. 3LR came in well one
night at 9.30, but was heterodyned by
another station. Radio Manila has been
variable, but should improve later in
the season. WIXAZ has apparently
changed its frequency. It was heard at
the same time as Manila, and is sched-
uled to operate on the same frequency,
9170 kc.
On a recent Saturday an early test
was made to note whether conditions
were changing or otherwise. At 5 a.m.
there was a very funny burlesque on a
boxing match from an American station
in the 31m. band ; only fair strength, but
good copy. FYA and GSE, in the 26m.
band, were excellent, with GSE the
stronger ; and in the 20m. band quite a
few English amateurs could be heard,
on code, of course. 7LO Africa, 49.5 m.,
was also coming in strongly, but this
band suffered from static, which over-
shadowed reception. Later in the morn-
ing both DJC, 49.8 m., and RFN, 50m.,
were good, but marred by high noise
level.
At night on the same day conditions
were made impossible above 25m. by
static, but in the afternoon GSB, 31.5 m.,
GSD, 25.5 m., and FYA, 25.6 m., were all
received at excellent speaker strength.
DJD, 25.5 m., was weaker, but still good.
At present all the German stations
seem to be fully occupied, when speak-
ing English, in singing hymns of praise
for Hitler.
On the Sunday DJA, 31.3 m., was at
fair strength between 6 and 7 a.m., and
at 8 a.m. a few Americans were heard
fairly well in the 49m. band. W3XAL


w.°>*
MORE THAN JUST MAKING VAUVES
During the past ten years of radio, more
Mullard Valves have been sold than any other
make. This definitely proves two things:
that Mullard Master Valves must be the
finest radio valves obtainable, and that ten
years’ preference by the radio public bus
been maintained by continued research and
experimenting. Write for Booklet.
Mullard
- L'vES
The Mullard Radio Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
DON
ELECTRICAL
COY.
Country Theatre Owners!
Enjoy the benefit of our experience
and instal DON Power Conversion
equipment. Products of the DON
include:—
Petrol Electric Sets
Rotary Converters
(Inverted)
Transformers
Arc and Spot Welders
Battery Chargers, etc.
Write or Call.
DON ELECTRICAL COY.,
112-116 Salisbury Road, Camperdown.
•thousands of real
1 RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E, (Aust.), “
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin'’ Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone : 82261.
UJ
id
stations
IVIODFI 734 A 7 - valve ( a - c -
-lO l *. 200-265 V.) All-
Wave Receiver (top illustration), with Auto-
matic Volume Control, Visual Tuning, Push-
pull Audio S’ystem and “Focussed’’ Repro-
duction. Two of the new type valves, which
really incorporate two valves in one tube,
enable its 7-valve circuit to
give 9-valve performance.
£45/19/6
MODEL 564.-
A 5-valve (a.c.
200-265 V.) All-
Wave Receiver (lower illustration), featuring
Stromberg-Carlson’s new Duplex Circuit,
Light-line Tuning, Planetary Drive, Litx
Wiring, Isolantite Insulation and new type
valves, .which give its 5-valve . .
circuit 7-valve capabilities £3l/19/6
MODEL 604 .
A 6-valve Battery-operated All-Wave
Receiver, with all the new improvements.
(Similar cabinet to Model 734.) This set is
giving country listeners the same range, tone
and volume as the best All- . .
Electric, AU-Wavcrs. Price, £47/17/6
3
&
Slromberg-Carlson
ALL WAVE RECEIVER
THE fun to be had from an All-Wave Receiver depends on
the number of stations it will bring you. The more you
can tune in, the greater will be your entertainment.
The Stromberg-Carlson All-Wave Receivers, described here,
offer you the last word in short-wave efficiency. When atmo-
Mm.
:4"
SEND THE COUPON
FREE—a handy Log Chart, showing
wave-lengths, etc., of the world’s
principal stations. Also Race Card
giving details of Centenary Air
Race. Limited offer. Send coupon
at once to Stvomberg-Carlson,y»
72 William Street, Sydney, y
spheric conditions are right
they bring you pro-
grammes, not only from
England, but also from
Japan, America, Russia,
Germany, France, South
Africa—from every corner
of the globe—north, south,
east and west.
Get the whole world, not
just part of it. Choose a
Stromberg-Carlson.
FREE
Log Chart S
and
Air-Race Card.
/ I enclose stamped
/addressed envelope.
Please send me FREE
/ Log Chart and Race
► Card.
NAME
ADDRESS
was best on 49.1 m., with WBXK, 48.8 m.,
close, and three others too weak to
identify.
The League of Nations station HBL,
31.3 m., was fair, but rather difficult to
copy. The signal improved about nine,
when the French translation was given.
The foreigner at the top end of the 31m.
band, to whom reference has been made
before, was strong. According to cali-
bration, he is on 31.56 m. (just above
GSB). At 9 a.m. announcements were
made in many languages, but the first
part of the English was missed. Fre-
quent reference was made to Argentina.
WBXK, 25.25 m., was much better
strength this Sunday, and the short-wave
session was very good, but, as before, the
signal strength was maximum just be-
fore closing down at 3 p.m.
It is surprising, vide WBXK, to hear
how many of even the lowest-power B
Rations in Australia are reported heard
in America on the broadcast band.
NIGHTOWD.
An Adjustable Circle Cutter.
Ofttimes, whilst I wrestled with coping-
saw, drills and other apologies for the
tool I asked myself why I didn’t have
a proper cutter made. At last I de-
signed one, illustrated in the attached
diagram.
The shank of the tool is made from
an old Yin. carpenter’s bit, with a taper
to fit the chuck of a brace. The twist
of the bit is straightened, punched with
a square hole and fitted with a shoulder,
against which the upper portion of the
arm of the cutter is to bear. The point
is rounded and case-hardened to follow
a 3-16 in. guiding hole. The cutting arm
is forged from best tool steel, or, alter-
natively, the bit itself is tempered. The
arm is slotted along its bar to take up
to radius. The screw may be either
round throughout its length or squared
where it passes through the shank and
arm.
Make sure that a panel being cut is
on a flat surface, and when you get half-
way through start from the other side,
and finish with a file to remove all rough-
ness from the edge of the hole. The
mouth or cutting edge of the cutter
should not be too wide, and should be
kept well oiled and sharp. For circles
of a fixed diameter the cutter might well
be made in the shape of an inverted U
and permanently bolted to the shank. A
shearing action cuts better than a shot
edge.
V. E.
Constructional Tips.
A hint for “Nightowl’s” short-wave
listeners. If you are using a receiver with
non-illuminated dials, obtain a Ford
mod. A 1 dash or instrument board lamp
assembly complete with switch. Aver-
age garage price is 2s. Drill a hole in
the panel above and between the two
dials. If the supply is A.C., insulate the
body of the lamp from the metal panel
by using two electrolytic condenser
washers. Connect the lamp to the ’BO
rectifier filament supply, and the result
is illuminated dials and the advantage
of being able to switch off the room light.
E. M.
What’s What in Radio.
No trade more resembles a game of
“follow my leader” than the radio busi-
ness in Australia. There are several
points in receiver design where manufac-
turers do things in one particular way or
refrain from doing them simply because
they have got into a rut. Certain
makes of English battery valves are
superior to the American versions, but
(referring to the screen-grid types) the
fact that the valve has the plate
connection via the cap on the top
of the bulb is an excuse for a
plea of “inconvenience” or “alteration in
general design.” Of extreme importance
is the question of the tuned R.F. re-
ceiver, battery or otherwise. One manu-
facturer was game enough, in a recent
issue of a trade publication, to say that
tuned R.F. receivers are very necessary
for use in certain couhtry districts, and
the writer agrees. Western Electric, with
which the birth of the superheterodyne is
associated, recently turned out a new re-
ceiver for use in hotels, etc. —not a super-
het, but a T.R.F. model. The audio
channel of this receiver gives a flat re-
sponse, and the W.E. Co. says that the
reason it is a T.R.F. is because it
didn’t want to cut sidebands. Now will
•some Australian manufacturer please
give us a modern tuned R.F. receiver,
and, in so doing, spare a thought for
Ferrocart?
*'* X X
A wave of enthusiasm for 28-mega-
cycle (10-metre) communication is again
sweeping over experimental trans-
mitters in most parts of the world. The
congested 40-metre band is driving many
to seek pastures new in the higher fre-
quencies, and once again 10-metre DX is
likely. A Belgian amateur has reported
hearing two West Coast Americans on
10 metres, and this indicates the possi-
bility of a return to the long-distance
conditions of 1928. In Australia VK’s
are interested in “ten,” and many are
doubling up on the inductances of 56mc.
receivers to try “super-regeneration” on
this band. In Sydney, Wal Salmon,
VK2SA, officer in control of police wire-
less, reports the successful combination
of super-regeneration and beat frequency
oscillator for ’phone or CW reception,
with big advantage over the usual lO-
meter receiver.
(Continued on next page.)


YGEN RESERVE
m
«>
So?
y>
u s
P.r
11
&
w»s
» s
fi°
ffi
«|s»
S®
raw
ev v %
21
aaT^o;
w&tteAi&i.
TWO
I ■iVPt
mes 1- - ▼ Sm w
GUARANTEE: We guarantee
to refund the purchase price
of any Inipex OXYGENATED
Battery that fails to give,
under normal conditions of
operation, longer service than
any other dry battery has
given you under similar con-
ditions.
PRICES
45v. Heavy Duty 14/6
45v. L.is:ht Duty S/0
Or. C 2/3
4 sv. Triple Cap 18/-
OOv. Heavy Duty 18/-
4.5 v. C 2/3
lSv. A. Dry Cell 2/7
OOv. Light Duty 11/0
TORCH i.ov., Flat .. 0.1. >-o. 2,1.5 v... 6ad.
UNITS: No. 3,1.5 v... 6.1. No. 5j 3v. .. 6d.
M
OXYGENATED!
e
£)IIY Batteries live by oxygen; they
die -when their supply fails.
Impex OXYGENATED Batteries in-
corporate an OXYGEN RESERVE
to give them another lease of life
when ordinary batteries would die
—something scientists have been
trying to do ever since dry batteries
were first invented. This exclusive
invention —known to Impex alone —
has been tested for three years and
only recently released. Impex
OXYGENATED Batteries last half
as long again, or twice as long, el-
even longer. But they cost no more
to buy!
Make certain your next Battery has
the word OXYGENATED on the
label. It is not a genuine Impex
OXYGENATED Battery unless it
has!
Illustrated is the Impex Oxygenated
“Power-plus”—4sv. triple capacity.
The most powerful battery of its
size on the market and the most
economical for all modern sets.
Price 18/-.
HERBERHOLDS DRY
BATTERIES (Aust.) PTY.,
LTD.,
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne,
C.l. ’Phone: F 5225.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney;
and at Utrecht.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written In simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/or posted direct lro&
“The Bulletin,”. Id. extra.
The Q. and A. Column.
1 have a six-valve As/or neuirodyne, using
6-volt valves, and, performance having
fallen off during the last two months, realise,
that it is time to do something about the
valves. They have been in use for years.
Could this receiver be fitted with 2-volt valves
and permagnetic speaker ? —99.
As yours is a battery-operated receiver, the
falling off in general performance is probably
due to the combination of old valves and
partially discharged batteries. The recent types
of 2-'volt valves should effect an improvement,
but look to the batteries at the same time.
The permagnetic speaker can be fitted without
trouble, but it should include the correct
transformer to match the output valve. If you
do not mind your receiver being of ancient
vintage you will be well advised to stick to it.
The neutrodyne is quite a sensitive arrange-
ment, and that is desirable in your country
location. The improvement of the audio side
is no problem at all.
Am interested in the short-wave autodyne
frequency changer ( B. 4/7/’34), and would
like further details. Would it give loudspeaker
signals with a very sensitive 6-7 superhet ?
Would the filament supply have to come from
a separate transformer, and what would the
extra load on the receiver be ? —100.
This is the simplest of short-wave converters,
and would be suitable for use with your re-
ceiver. In the diagram published the wording
indicating the receiver aerial terminal connec-
tion and H.T. positive was transposed. Obvi-
ously D.C. couldn’t pass through the fixed
condenser. The filament would preferably be
heated from a separate transformer or, alter-
natively, the wiring could be paralleled with
the heater wiring in the receiver. The extra
load would be l| amperes on the power trans-
former, and this would not affect the receiver
generally. So long as the receiver is doing its
part as I.F. and audio amplifier, loudspeaker
signals may be expected.
Please explain the queries in the enclosed cir-
cuit: Function of the centre-tapped and earthed
resistor A, and how to calculate its value in
ohms ? Also, how does resistor B create a
negative bias of 50 volts at 32 ma. ? —102.
The centre-tapped resistor is placed across
the filament of the valve in order to provide an
electrical centre where the transformer wind-
ing has no centre-tap. The value of this
resistor is not very critical, and anything from
20 to 50 ohms is suitable. Whenever you see
such a circuit diagram, the resistor is of such
a value unless otherwise stated, as in the case
of a 400-ohm potentiometer across a detector
filament for a grid-leak return. Resistor B
places the filament of the valve above earth
by the voltage drop across the resistor, depend-
ing upon the plate voltage and current of the
valve. The voltage drop in the resistor makes
the end connected to the filament centre-tap
become positive with reference to the earth
end, and as the grid is returned to earth the
grid itself is made negative with reference to
the filament.
An economical superhet is required for
Queensland. Would the Minimil superhet
(“ A.R.N.” 6/4/’34) be suitable ?— lO7.
Yes. Any information on this receiver, re-
garding improvements, etc., may be obtained
from Colville Wireless Equipment Cos. (S. V.
Colville), 4 Rowe-street, Sydney.
Which of two circuits ( enclosed) do you
recommend? Does the' variable-Mu valve in
the R.F. stage of No. 1 act as a volume
control and eliminate fading ? —lO9.
The R.F. pentode valve of the type indicated,
34, is used as a tuned R.F. stage with volume
controlled by variation of grid-bias, this
being permissible by the variable-Mu feature
of the valve. It does not reduce or eliminate
fading. The effect of fading may.be nullified
by the inclusion of a form of automatic volume
control, but this will not overcome the dis-
tortion which almost inevitably occurs with
severe fading. Circuit No.' 2 is preierred.
You may think I am foolish to persist with
an old-timer, but I am using Solodyne, as de-
scribed by “D.8.K.” many years ago. My only
trouble with it is the wave-length range. The
Lewcos screened plug-in coils have a range
only from 250 to 550 metres with .0005 -mfd.
condensers. How can I get down the scale
among the smaller B-class stations ? I have
tried removing plates ■ from the condensers, but
it only shortens the top end of the band a •
little.— lll.
There is no need to apologise for the old
receiver. Many like yours in various parts ot
Australia are still going strong. Your problem
necessitates attention, mainly to the condenser
gang. ■ You do not indicate if this is a straight-
line frequency type or one of the old semi-
circular plate kind. The Stromberg “bathtub
type of ganged condenser may turn the trick
for you. This is the type that was popular
about two years ago. On the other hand, it
may be advisable to remove turns from each
coil in sequence until 2CO appears just at the
top of the dial. Wherever possible, wiring to
the tuned circuits should be shortened. The'
complete coverage can be effected, but it will
require a little juggling with coil turns and
condensers.
/ would like circuit and details of a short -
wave adaptor (A.C.) suitable for use with a
receiver using a 2AI, 58, 57, 2/45 and 80
valves, with all values, etc.— llo.
See answer to query 32 (B. 4/7/’34). This
circuit illustrates suitable adaptor. The indi-
cated B positive and aerial terminal connec-
tions must be transposed. All values, with the
exception of coil data, are shown, and the
new type 76 valve would be applicable. Coil
details can be: 80-metre range,, grid coil 20
turns, reaction coil 7 turns, 26 D.S.C.; 40-
metre range, grid coil 8 turns, reaction coil 5
turns, 26 D.5.C.20-metre range, grid coil 4
turns, reaction coil 4 turns, 26 D.S.C. All
coils must be close wound, with |in. between
coils. The reason for the less number of
turns on the grid coil and the size of the re-
action coil is because a .00025-mfd. tuning con-
denser is specified, and the series-capacity,
(Reinartz) method of regeneration control calls
for a larger plate coil than normally. ■
BRIDGE
WITHOUT
SIGHS.
BY DR. H. L. TONKIN.
These Systems.
It is interesting to look back on the
New York match between Lenz and
Culbertson as a test of the merits of
their systems. Newspapers described it
as “the Bridge Battle of the Century.’'
It did not live up to the title. It was
more a battle' of tactics and tempera-
ment than a bridge contest.
This hand occurred about half-way
through the match, when the contestants
should have been in excellent form:
4— A, K, 7, 2
¥— 10, 2
♦— Q, to; 4, 2
4~ 5,4, i
Lei xi.
4k-j, 10, 4 : 4— None
V-A; Q, 9, 3 w - F | V—J. 8, 6,i5,4:
♦-J, 5 4-A, K, 9, 8,-6
4— Q, J, 9, 6 '4— A,' K, 10
Culbertson. Lightncr.
Q, 9,8, 6,5, 3
v—K, 7 j
♦,- 7 ’ 3 ; '
4—B, 1,2
• Jacoby.
After two passes, by West and North,
East opened with one heart. This is the
wrong bid. It may give partner quite a
false idea of the strength in hearts. He
may double, expecting a ruff on the
second or third round. As it was, West,
holding ace and queen, doubtless placed
his partner with the king. Another rea-
son why diamonds should be bid first is
that, if the opposition get the declaration
in spades, hearts is the very suit which
one does not wish led. Unfortunately,
in this instance it was the bid which
prevented East-West from arriving at a
slam declaration in hearts. That may
seem rather peculiar, but if East bids one
diamond, and West makes a free bid of
one heart, instead of.having to support
East’s heart call, the slam is not at all
difficult to reach.
Another deal about the same stage of
the match is a warning against weak
vulnerable overbids:
4-9
—A, K, 10, 2
♦—Q, J, 4, 3
4—9, 8,7, 4
4-A, 8, 7 n ]4-K, Q,J, 5, 2
*-5, 4, 3 w £ V—Q> T 8,7, 6
♦—A, K, 6, 2 4—None
4—K, J, 5 - <4— A > Q> 6
4—lo, 6,4, 3
V-9
♦—lo, 9,8, 7, 5
4—lo, 3, 2
Both sides were vulnerable. Culbertson,
sitting West, dealt and bid one diamond.
North has two and a half honor tricks,
but only four playing tricks. He should
pass, because experience has proved that
these weak vulnerable overbids are the
biggest losers in the game. However,
Lenz, who was generally overcautious,
decided to bid one heart. East was now
on the box seat. He was practically cer-
tain that he had a game in spades, but
that was not of much account compared
with the big penalty being offered to him
and his partner. Seeing that his partner
had already bid, his double, even though
it was only one heart, was meant for
penalties, and could not be misunder-
stood by Culbertson.
Lightner led the spade king, which
won. The second round was trumped,
and North led a club, won by West, who
returned a diamond. This was hardly a
good lead. It is obvious that North is
trying to make another small trump by
ruffing, and as West can get in at least
three times he should lead trumps
through. East was aware of North’s
hopeless position, and as soon as he got
in by ruffing, the second round of dia-
monds he led the trump queen.
Lenz made three tricks, for a penalty
of 1400. This drives the lesson home
that, though the hand may contain ade-
quate honor strength, five playing tricks
are needed for a vulnerable overcall of
one, and six playing tricks when forced
to overcall at the two level.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
L.v.W. (Sydney).—Answered last week
to L.C. (Auckland). Thanks for letter.
L.B. (Wollongong, N.S.W.). —The new
honor-sequence leads have not yet been
generally adopted by leading players.
They should be, as all the standardised
leads would then be consistent.
H.D. (Brisbane, Q.).—There is cer-
tainly a difference in the technique of
bidding in Howell match-point tourna-
ments as compared with rubber bridge,
or with a match under the aggregate
point-scoring system ; but experience is
needed to appreciate it fully.
' J.O. (Dubbo, N.S.W.); —Problem-solv-
ing is a fine mental exercise, but to im-
prove one’s play an acquaintance with the
recognised devices used in awkward
situations, such as “stick-ins” and
“squeezes,” must be made. These, of
course, are of no avail unless one is able
to count up the hands in opposition.
G.M. (Sydney).—Yes, there have been
slight additions and. alterations in Ely
Culbertson’s Blue Book since the 1930
edition, mostly consisting of raised re-
quirements for certain bids, but the
framework of the system still stands
unchanged.
At the end of June there were 11,596
more savings-bank accounts open in
South Aus. compared with the previous
year. The average deposit, £39 2s. 6d.,
also shows an increase.
* * * *
Siemens Bros, and Standard Tele-
phones, English cos., are to share the
contract for the ’phone line to the Speck.
The job will cost £200,000, and should
be completed within 12 months. Ordi-
nary inter-State rates will be charged for
use of the new service.
* * * *
Since Hamilton Harty’s advent Mel-
bourne orchestrions have developed cer-
tain ways. The man with the caucepan-
lids, for instance, now throws hid instru-
ments up in the air after a stroke, as i:
he were Cinquevalli.
* * * *
“Carmelia”: Has any other pious
reader had an experience like this? A
wage-earner living in a sedate Perth
suburb, I have received tvw double-
headed pennies—good jobs both —as
change. The first was unwittingly al-
lowed to re-enter circulation ; the second
is being held to confound those enthusi-
asts who would have us believe that
“heading ’em” is the fairest “sport” ot
all.
*_* * * .
A red rash has broken out at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne, the cause of the
fever being some oils by Will Ashton
and some water-colors by Harold Her-
bert. The Herbert touch applied'to the
snow gums of Mount Buffalo is as suave
as ever, but it suffers somewhat in being
brought into the company of the other
man’s oils. There is a robustness about
Ashton’s pictures and his use of the
superior medium which make the water-
colors look a little dead. On the other
hand, some of Ashton’s lively color might
turn out to be mere exuberance if Nature
looked in. In “The Market Place, Con-
carneau” and “Veere, Holland,” however,
the color sings harmoniously, and “Le
Pont Royal” looks like an impression
definitely understood and skilfully set
down.
-is * * *
Jean Hoggart, bound for Oxford, and
G. S. Plant, who has chosen to study
political science at the London School c:
Economics, went from Vic. in the Jervis
Bay under the terms of the Returned
Sailors and Soldiers’ Scholarship Funct
This trust fund has provided travelling
scholarships for five students, who hays
now reached a degree of distinction in
professions as varied as research work
on Shakspeare, old English, industry
chemistry, medicine and the vocations -
guidance side of psychology.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Victorious in the Underwood Stakes
at Williamstown on August 25, Hall
Mark failed in the V.A.T.C. Memsie
Stakes on Saturday. Carrying standard
weight-for-age, he had vanquished
Waltzing Lily by lj- lengths over one
mile and 55 yards. The distance at
Caulfield was nine furlongs, which
should have suited the son of Heroic,
who is more of a stayer than the marc.
But Hall Mark and Waltzing Lily each
had to put up a 71b. penalty, and the
9st. 7Jb. may have hampered Hall Mark,
who is of low stature and by no means
massive. Backers of the 1933 Mel-
bourne Cup hero obtained a shade of
odds. On form Hall Mark ought to
have been at a much shorter price. But
punters remembered that Waltzing Lily
had turned the tables on him in this race
12 months ago.
Despite her Williamstown downfall
there was big money for Waltzing Lily.
One wager of £2OOO to £5OO was noted.
H. Leek, who holds the mare on lease,
is a plucky punter, and was gleeful as
the daughter of Beau Fils came back to
scale. Her winning margin was a length
and a half, as in the case of Hall Mark
at Williamstown. The luck of the race
was with Hall Mark, rather than Waltz-
GsER,T ; "Someone WRITES to A.SK ,
ARE VMS M4.RRIEO, OR. MEREUV
i-ceepimG) comp^mv. 2
VMHAT SHOUUS l S/V/ \ "
BERT 1 "OH ( TELL'em Vtfc PLIW QOLE ' v
ing Lily. All the other starters —11 in
number—were in action before the
mare ; she appeared to have been taken
by surprise when the barrier lifted. On
the other hand, Hall Mark dashed away
smartly, and Dempsey was able to take
up a nice position behind the leaders, one
of whom was Charles Fox, the A.J.C.
Derby aspirant. A hot pace was set
throughout: the first half-mile was
covered in 49|sec., the last half-mile in
48fsec., the last six furlongs in I.l2|sec.,
the last mile in I.3Bisec. and the full
journey in I.sl|sec.
Half a mile from home it appeared
to be merely a question as to how much
Hall Mark would win by. An agitated
backer ejaculated “Dempsey is going to
the front too soon.” However, Dempsey
restrained his mount and set plans for
slipping through on the rails at the turn.
In this- he was frustrated ; Hall Mark
had to go outside one horse. It meant
the loss of a little ground, but Hall Mark
had no great difficulty in hitting the
front after turning for home. Mean-
while, Waltzing Lily had electrified on-
lookers by coming round the field from
the five-furlong post. She tackled Hall
Mark at the distance and beat him in
most decisive fashion. Though written
down as a non-stayer, Waltzing Lily
is likely to come into renewed favor as
a Caulfield Cup candidate.
Several three-year-olds acquitted them-
selves with credit. First and foremost
was Spearflash (Spearhead—Valotte),
who vanquished 17 rivals of his own age
in the Warriston Handicap. On his im-
pressive second to Titanium at Williams-
town a week before, this fellow was
backed down to 9 to 4, and he scored
with a lot in hand. Spearflash belongs
to Harry Boan, of Perth, who also won
the Doona Trial with Gothic Gem. He
paid 600 guineas for Gothic Gem and
1250 guineas for Spearflash as yearlings ;
the former now is four years old. Each
lost his maiden certificate on Saturday.
Gothic Gem is rather delicate, but Spear-
flash looks a hardy sort. His dam is a
sister to Manfred.
Farndale (Curialis —All Chatter) came
home particularly well to run third in
the Memsie Stakes. A Derby and Cup
candidate, he is raced by A. G. Hunter,
the breeder, and J. Fell, of the V.A.T.C.
committee. These sportsmen expected
big things of Brutus (Windbag—Scarlet)
when that horse beat Hall Mark in a
three-year-old handicap at Flemington at
the commencement of the 1933 spring
carnival, but Brutus went to pieces as a
galloper, and has been sold for stud pur-
poses in Queensland. Farndale’s dam
is out of a half-sister to Greenstead.
Lou Robertson, trainer of Farndale,
has a smart three-year-old filly in Geyser
(Windbag—Oboe), who narrowly beat
Yultewirra in the first division of the
Whittier Handicap. The second division
of that event was captured by J. A.
Donohoe with the flying Arachne. She
scampered off like a scalded cat and set
up a lead of five lengths from a field of
fast sprinters, but tired in the straight,
and got home by a long neck only. How-
ever, it was the first outing of Arachne
for several months, and she will benefit
by the run.
* * * *
So much rain fell in Sydney on Fri-
day and Saturday that the Canterbury
Park meeting had to be put off until
Thursday. Chatham is to be a starter
in the w.f.a. race, unless the stable
changes its mind. The wet has been
interfering with training, and many
spring candidates will have to be hurried
along during the next couple of weeks.
* * * *
Randwick trainer Eiver Walker ridi-
cules the idea that his Derby candidate,
Silver King, cannot stay. Silver King
will have the acid put on him in the
Rosehill Guineas, to be run on Satur-
day week ; that nine-furlong race should
demonstrate whether or not Silver King
can go the Derby distance. He seems
much the same type of galloper as
Ammon Ra and Mollison.
❖ * * *
Little Australia Fair, who has 7st.
111 b. in the Epsom, has been genuinely
backed—and not many candidates have.
Peter Pan’s stable-mate is a mere pony
in height, but he is very thick and well
able to stand a bump or two. Australia
Fair is a four-year-old by Heroic from
Fair Rosaleen. At two years he won
at Randwick over six furlongs; a year
later he ran second to Mafoota in the
Biragambfl Handicap, a mile, and third to
Rivalli in the Final Handicap, 1| miles.
He was then taken to Wagga for the
Cup; with 9st. 31b. he won easily
over 10 furlongs in 2min. 6sec. Trainer
Frank McGrath’s candidate is a noted
mudlark.
* * * *
No horse in training at Randwick is
doing better than Whittingham. AH
along he has been this Page’s fancy for
the Epsom, in which he has Bst. 121 b.,
and his owner is sanguine that his geld-
ing will finish ahead of Chatham and
Golden Wings, who beat him in the
Doncaster after Whittingham had
stumbled a few yards from the winning
post.
* * * *
The prize-money allotted by the A.J.C.
for the spring meeting beginning on Sep-
tember 29 amounts to £25,000, spread
oyer the four days. There are seven
four-figure amounts, beginning with the
Spring Stakes of £1300 on the first day
and ending with the Randwick Plate of
£1000 on the fourth.
* * * *
Recent “ring-in” cases have stirred the
V.R.C. to take action with regard to a
definite system of brands. The club has
circularised studmasters, asking each to
brand all foals with the stud brand, with
a number showing the year of foaling
and another to serve as an identification
mark. It seems an extraordinary thing
that Victoria has never possessed a
branding Act like those of N.S.W. and
Queensland, the latter probably the most
fool- and rogue-proof in the world. A
brand once allotted to a man is his for
ever, though he may transfer it under
regulation. All brands on thoroughbreds
have to be registered, and, if an animal is
sold and the new owner wants to put his
mark on, this must also be registered.
Legislation will be necessary before any- '
thing can be done by the Cabbage Gar-
deners. A copy of the Queensland Act 3
would cover all requirements. <
{Continued on page 36.)
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules !
Using many spectacular jiu-jitsu holds \
and throws, Oki Shikina made things 1
interesting for Sonnenberg at Sydney 1
Stadium on Saturday, and scored a fall
in the third round. But flying tackles
and body presses overcame him in the 1
fifth and again in the seventh. It was a i
good show—and no more than a show, t
Lurich beat Nylan again at Leichhardt.
After each had gained a fall, the Aussie
burst at his foe with a flying tackle,
missed and knocked himself out. Nylan
is fast learning the tricks of the trade.
Footbrawl
With practically half its regular team
out of action with injuries and disquali-
fications Collingwood had to draw
heavily on reserves to meet Geelong on
Saturday. Nevertheless, the teams gave
one of the finest, most exciting shows
of the season, fast, hard, open and clean,
and Geelong won just on the bell. The
Magpies were quicker in the pick-up
and backed up better; the Seasiders
were superior in marking, and co-
operation between their centre and
forward lines was excellent. Gee-
long has to thank L. Metherall. Hickey
and especially Collins for the win.
Thrice in the last quarter scores were
level; ’Wood gained an extra point;
then, as the timekeepers reached
for the bell, Hardiman snapped the ball
through—Geelong, 117 ; ’Wood, 112. For
the losers Albert Collier, Le Brun and
Doherty were conspicuous and Syd
Coventry set his team a fine example,
but he wasn’t really fit to play. Rich-
mond’s Tigers visited Essendon and had
to put in some strenuous work to save
the day, only the brilliant play of Doug
and Gordon Strang in the last term
pulling them through with 113 to ’Don’s
90. South Melbourne had a comfortable
win over Hawthorn, 101 to 70 ; Carlton
downed Fitzroy, 120 to 69 ; Footscray
walked over St. Kilda, 98 to 77 ; and
Melb. handed North its sixteenth con-
secutive walloping with 90 points to 57.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Joe Murdoch, of Rich-
mond League club, had a mixed day
recently. Going to play with his club
against Collingwood, he lost his purse
with his week’s wages. He helped his
team to victory with three goals, and
when he got back to the dressing-room
found he had won a special cash prize.
Also, the news of his loss had got round,
and a collection more than made up for-
mat. Later he discovered intact the lost
purse, and promptly handed over the col-
lected money to the Richmond officials
to be given to the local dispensary. A
good scout!.
* * * *
The Rugby Union in Sydney con-
cluded the second round of the Shute
Shield competition on Saturday in
ghastly weather. The four teams left
in the semi-final are Randwick (30
points), Manly (29), University (26) and
Northern Suburbs (25). Randwick, as
minor premiers, will have the right of
challenge if defeated in semi-final or
final. Saturday’s games resulted in Rand-
wick scoring a surprisingly easy win,
considering conditions, over the tough
Western Suburbs side, which was beaten
34-3. Northern Suburbs disposed of
Parramatta by 22-11 ; Uni. had a narrow
shave with St. George, scoring 6-3, while
Drummoyne downed Eastern Suburbs
14-3. Manly had the bye, and was at
home to Newcastle. The Goalies went
under 21-3.
* ' * * j|;
“Statist”: Winning six of their matches
in Australia, losing one and drawing one,
the All-Blacks scored 176 points against
90. Seventeen of the 40 tries were con-
verted, and there were six p.gs. and one
field goal. The above included a couple
of marathon scores against Western Dis-
tricts (N.S.W.) and Q. All told, the
Australian teams nicked 17 tries and
converted seven. There were seven p.gs.
and one f.g. Bullock-Douglas, with six
tries, was the leading line-crosser. Full-
back Collins converted 14 tries and
kicked four penalties.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union, which still arrogates to itself the
right to run Australian Rugby, expects
to make a profit of £ISOO at least from
the tour of the All-Blacks. Ma would
have been in a very sick position in South
Africa and against the All-Blacks this
season if it hadn’t been for the hefty
help of Queensland and Victoria. The
formation of an Australian R.U. with
control of the game throughout the
country is overdue. When are we going
to get it?
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby League roused the
wrath of some hundreds of its supporters
who had gone out to the Sports Ground
early by postponing the final between
Western and Eastern Suburbs on account
of the weather and the bad condition of
the ground. Action of the sort is almost
unprecedented in the story of football
in this State, though there was an in-
stance many years ago. Football has
been played regularly this season under
even worse conditions than Saturday’s.
The League took the practical view that
the gate for the last big game of the
season would be a wretched one and
that it would be better to wait for a
non-rainy day and pouch a bagful of
shekels. Where it erred was in not de-
ciding on the postponement until after
midday, a point the angry crowd did not
hesitate to impress on the officials when
they arrived to post the notice on the
gates.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Melbourne centenary
boom has awakened many madhouse
ideas, but the worst to date is a proposal
from America that two teams of pro-
fessionals playing the murderous travesty
of football that they call the American
game should give exhibitions in Mel-
bourne, and possibly engage in Rugby
matches with Australian teams. There
is no hope, of course, of the R.U.
tackling the visitors if they come, though
the Rugby League might. Punching,
kicking and general rough-house stuff
are allowed in the American game. All
are banned in the Rugby League, but
they are not a pernickety lot when it
comes to an all-in go.
{Continued on page 36.)
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Novice Handicap: Barak ; next,
Lanacian.
Tramway Handicap: Whitting-
ham ; next, Roman Spear.
Chelmsford Stakes: Rogilla ; next,
Duke Caledon.
Spring Handicap: Topical; next,
Limarch.


• Golfers ! The placing of the boom-
erang-shaped, non-clogging studs grip the
ground and stay steady there is no slip-
ping. To wear the Flexible type “Niblick”
Golf Shoe will be a new sensation for you.
Water-resisting, but light and comfortable.
Ail sizes for Men and Women at better-
class stores.
I*
Carubo
Golf Shoe
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
w
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient —
- at King’s Cross, in
/ the highest part of Sydney.
'Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
The BRUCE EASY, PROVEN,
CERTAIN PILE REMEDY
Painless, stainless, odourless, . antiseptic.
For external use.
what an Eminent Chemist reports.
The Laboratory, 22 Napoleon St., Sydney.
March 14, 1933.
ihe formula of your pile remedy submitted
to. me could have no effect other than bene-
ncial. I gave your sample to a client who
had suffered many years, and before he had
used half the bottle he reported himself cured.
GROVE JOHNSON, F.C.S. (Lond.),
‘Honours” City and Guilds of London Inst.,
Analytical and Consulting Chemist.
Testimonials posted free.
Price 5/- per bottle.
Post free, 6/9, securely packed in plain card-
board box.
Obtainable from,
Robert Bruce, Room 7, 15 Hunter St., Sydney.
Also at
11 Ipper Bayview St., McMahon’s Pt., N. Syd.
HAND
PLAITED]
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
fith new
rind fastener^
PRICE-
“KB-BH
uirciD
r\\^)LTD
L
in, Queen. St Brisbane
Under the Whip
The death of Tom Malone by a fall
from a window of the A.J.C. office in
Sydney deprives N.S.W. racecourses of
one of their most picturesque figures.
For many years he was a leading detec-
tive in the N.S.W. police force, and some
20 years ago joined up with the A.J.C.
as a racecourse detective. In this posi-
tion he did splendid service, and was
the terror of every sort of undesirable
that infests a racecourse. In his early
days Tom was a footballer of note,
playing with the old Randwick club. He
made one appearance for N.S.W. against
Queensland at S.C.G. in 1896.
* * * *
“Rissala”: An old Indian grievance
cropped up the other day when one of
the Indian members of the Council of
State at Simla tried to put through a
motion imposing a duty on imported
horses, apart from military remounts or
for breeding. He complained that Indian
horses —that is, “country-bred”—were
placed in one class and imported nags in
seven —presumably he had an eye on the
handicapping and the race classifications
familiar to us in Australia without quite
understanding what they imply. The
truth is that for many years the
Indian Government has tried to breed
a horse equal to the Waler and
has failed. Somehow or other the
thoroughbred will not keep his stamina
and other good qualities if he is
bred in India. Many of the Indian
native breeds —the Kathiawar and the
Mewarri, to take two famous instances
—are, in their way, splendid horses, and
suited to ordinary Indian cavalry require-
ments, but centuries of preservation of
all male horses as stallions have brought
about the inevitable result of deteriora-
tion. I mean inability to stay under
punishment—the capacity to perform feats
under conditions which their greatest ad-
mirers did not expect them to overcome
shown by the incomparable mounts of
the Light Horse in Sinai and Palestine.
WoodfulPs Men
The Sussex wicket is apt to be tricky
in the morning, like that at Melbourne,
so the county skipper took a sporting
chance —closed at 8 for 304, and sent
the Australians in. Ponsford and Chip-
perfield departed early, but Brown (66)
and Kippax improved matters ; Kippax
played a flashing innings which ended at
250. McCabe helped with 46, but Darling
(117) was the other factor in raising the
total to 560. In its second try, Sussex
could reach only 221, Fleetwood-Smith
(5-87) and O’Reilly (4-49) doing the kill-
ing. Australia won by an innings and 35.
Kippax likes Sussex evidently, for in
1930 he made a century in each innings
against the county. Their scores in this
match brought Kippax and Darling past
the 1000-run mark, this making seven who
have nicked the four figures. Chipperfield,
with 846 up, has a chance to join the
gang. If he does this team will equal
the record of the 1921 Eleven.
* * * t-
The Australians’ match with Kent,
usually the pleasantest of the tour, was
washed out by rain. Skippered by Percy
Chapman, Kent took the field at Canter-
bury, and had lost 2 for 21 when play
was abandoned. On the last day Chap-
man closed and Australia went in, the
tourists closing in their turn when they
had one down (McCabe 108) for 197.
Ponsford was 82 n.o. Kent lost 7 wickets
for 74 in its second try, and the match
was drawn.
* * * *
“Stoomper”: Old “Sundries” scored
consistently for Australia in the Test
matches, and aggregated 201 in nine in-
nings. Such poor work in the field is the
biggest bag of bricks about England’s
neck in Test cricket; Australia gave
away only 75 extras. Ames caught 10
players, while Oldfield stumped eight and
f u S hl ™ s . a bi S mar S'»
taVOr ° f the Au f!!f:
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Victorian League players
are grumbling about their monetary
reward for taking part in “sport.”
Under the Coulter law this cannot be
more than £3 per week—pause here for
loud laughs from all over Melbourne —
j n addition to what they earn in their
ordinary avocations. Anyway, the
players consider that in the finals, which
have been purposely delayed to make a
centenary holiday, they should have
double pay. They naively assert that
they get twice as much knocking about
in these deciding games as in the earlier
ones, and they anticipate an extra-special
issue of stoush in this year of years,
* * * *
“Linesman”: A pity that the All-
Blacks, who left these shores the friends
of all who met them or saw them play,
should have criticised conditions in Aus-
tralia on reaching home. One assertion
is that referee Cooney, who presided over
the first Test, in which the tourists were so
decisively beaten, allowed the Australian
hooker to employ unfair tactics in the
scrums. Manager Geddes had experience
of Cooney’s work in the games with
N.S.W., yet chose, him for the first
“I’d have had a good round but for a seven at that cursed sixth.”
“Same ting happen to me seventeen at tat tarn rotten sixteent.”
Test. The truth is that M.L. has not
yet awakened to the fact that other R.U.
countries are growing up and that its
invincibility is a thing of the past.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Bledisloe Cup is to be
sent to Queensland and Melbourne
in order that the players from those
States who did so much to win it may
have a look at it. It is a huge thing but
an artistic atrocity compared with the
lovely and very valuable cloisonne vase
presented to the Australian footballers in
Japan recently by the Japanese Govern-
ment.
The Nineteenth Hole
The M.L. associates Oliver Kay and
Betty Gaisford, just returned from a
European tour, carried off the Austra-
lian women’s foursomes championship at
Sydney. The match was played in wet
and blustery weather, and the winners
did well to do two rounds of 82 and 87
—an aggregate of 169. Two N.S.W.
pairs, Mrs. McKay and Joan Hammond
and Misses Ebert and Sydney Jones, tied
for second place with 172.
* * * *
“Claremont”: An unlucky gentleman
is Cassidy, open golf champion of
Westralia last year. He had a hard battle
to stall off Snow, last year's runner-
up, but apparently finished first. A check
of the cards showed that Cassidy’s
marker had given him a three instead of
a four at a vital hole. Snow, with a
score of 300, was awarded the champion-
ship, and Hill, the first amateur to
qualify, was runner-up, with a card of
305.
* * * *
“Edna”: Supposing the cow mentioned
by “Carnoustie” (B. 1 /8/’34) had been
on the putting green, it could not neces-
sarily be removed as a loose impediment.
Everything depends on the creature’s age.
Rule 15 says that “anything fixed or
growing” may not be moved, bent or
broken save to give clearance for the
player’s swing. The case I have in mind
was that of a poddy calf which got in
the line of my putt. I kicked it out of
the way, and friend husband, who was
the other player, claimed a lost hole
under the rule, the poddy being obviously
a growing object.
* * * *
“Oaklands”: Australian golfers got
the wind up last week when a rumor
flew round Melbourne that the expected
visit from a team of American profes-
sionals was off. The people at this end
cabled president Jacobus, of the Ameri-
can P.G.A., who is handling affairs there.
He replied that the six men would defi-
nitely leave San Pedro on Oct. 17. Sara-
zen and Kirkwood sail from Vancouver
for Australia via Honolulu on Sep-
tember 12.
*■* * *
“Divot Digger”: An interesting point
of golf law cropped up the other day
in Sydney, when the committee of the
Suburban Districts Association decided'
that the substitution of one Manly player
for another in the Killara Shield four-
somes was illegal. Ferrier was to have:
played with Hattersley, but dropped out
through illness. The pair had a bye in
the first round, and did not play a stroke
in the competition. With no substitute
permitted, the match had to be forfeited.
Among other things, the decision means
that a bye amounts to a played match, 1
a ruling which would be submitted to in
no other sport that writer knows of.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Gerald Patterson, just re-
turned from viewing big tennis in Europe,
endorses the opinion (B. 15/8/’34) that
Crawford has played himself to a stand-
still, and says continual play, winter
and summer, will ruin any champion. In
Patterson’s opinion Crawford is still a
fine strokemaker, but is now definitely
inferior to Perry; as for McGrath,
he needs some other athletic train-
ing outside tennis—“something that will'
sharpen him up.” Gerald has evidently
read The Bulletin’s recommendation
that when McGrath returns he should be
sent out west for a couple of years to
dig postholes.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Well, Perry has
got his, and many a hissed-at ballboy and
glared-at umpire will glow with satisfac-
tion at the news. In other words, he is
to be married. His bride-to-be will be
well remembered in Australia, though
not as a tennis player. Mary Lawson is
the lady’s name, and we saw her here in
1929 as a charming and clever comedi-
enne in musical comedy, one of her best
hits being in “Follow Through,” a show
with a flavor of sport. Perry’s team-
mate Austin also married from the stage,
his missus being Phyllis Konstam.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: There is some talk
again,of bringing Tilden and some of his
troupe, preferably Cochet, to Australia
for an exhibition tour. The matter was
discussed a couple of years ago, but Bill
was so busy raking in the shekels in the
States that he had no time for us. The
game is evidently not so good now, for
William has been making inquiries about
prospects on this side. Frankly they are
not good. The pair would be a nine
days’ wonder, but would have to confine
their matches to themselves and our few
professionals, the best of them now in
the second-rate class. The public would
soon sicken of that.
Miscellaneous
Hubert Opperman has returned speci-
ally for the Melbourne centenary cycling,
and has much to say regarding the
popularity of the pushbike in France.
Test-match fever in Britain or Australia
is a fleabite compared with the Tour de
France fury. This year’s race will carry
700,000 frogskins donated by bike firms
in addition to the official prizes. No
wonder, as O, says, one leading French
pro. has made £15,000 in the last three
years, and is still raking it in.
* * * *
“Stalled”: Bespectacled Arthur Rich-
ardson, most amiable- of Australian
cricketers as we knew him, has fallen
foul of the Lancashire professional
League. Arthur is captain of Burnley,
and after Nelson had played an innings
he had an argument with Nelson’s skip-
per as to whether the light was good
enough to send his own side in. He has
been suspended, which is only to be ex-
pected. League cricket followers in Lan-
cashire expect their men to bat in dark-
ness if necessary, even if bowlers like
Constantine are on the other side. These
Miss Nancy tactics of “bad light” may be
all right in Test matches, but they
won’t do with Lancashire Leaguers who
have paid sixpence to see a whole day’s
cricket and expect their money’s worth.


bank
onwealth
COMM
NSURANCE
political
"FRIEND LY
SOCIETIES
FACTORIES
h
St*
BANK
SAVINGS
FARMS
//
mote issue
m
m
m
%
(a
u
S>iiii
«£
S£
il
B 1
yr>»
4ft
:oti
I
r\
vv
M f J
//•
r? 4,T,CAI -
C °WTROL / **s
frit 0,: l
F ARMS I
. w
V'cr
"mx.
'-%v.vv•. v.v.v.vv-^^
«|| M
ESfc.
■
I
&
sw?
50 cv^
1
m
v
i
t*
&r
4
*°Lit fCAt
Control
factor^
?>
pi'
r.
n
‘‘The Commonwealth Bank would be mere
stabling for Labor’s Policy. . . .This is not
a jest. It is a deliberate statement of an
obvious policy.”
Statement made at Preston, Vic., Aug. 16,
1934, by Mr. Frank Brennan, Federal Labor
candidate for Batman and Attorney-General
in the Scullin Ministry, 1930-31.
TO PREVENT POLITICAL CONTROL
OF THE COMMONWEALTH BANK
Vote for
LYONS GOVERNMENT SUPPORTERS
Authorised by A. de R. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
The Basic Aim of the Sane Democracy League is to combat fallacious and revolutionary doctrines. It needs members and funds to help it do its job.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865,
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 207 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Patents.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24227/29 in respect of an invention entitled
“Improvements in and relating to sepa.aisle
fasteners particularly suitable for uniting strips
of fabric and the like,” and Patent of Addition
No. 7181/32 in respect of an invention entitled
“Improvements in and relating to zip fasteners,”
is prepared to negotiate for the sale of its
rights in the above, or for the granting of a
license to make, use and vend the inventions
within the Commonwealth of Australia. Par-
ticulars of the inventions obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO THE SEPARATION OF DRY
MATERIALS.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent No.
28936/30 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the invention
within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ISAAC WOOLARD, formerly of Carngham,
in Victoria, now aged about 63 years. Left
Carngham 34 years ago, and has not since
been heard of. His mother, Jane Woolard,
died July, 1929. Will he, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
THOMAS WOOLARD. Carngham, Victoria,
or with CUTHBERT, MORROW, MUST &
SHAW, Solicitors, Ballarat, Victoria.
WILLIAM HENRY FOSTER, son of John
and Ann Foster, formerly of Keysborough,
near Dandenong, Victoria, last heard of in
Bundaberg, Queensland, in 1908. Information
as to the death or, if living, the present address
of the above is required by THE TRUSTEES,
EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD., 412
Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The BuL<.
tin” takes your fancy, write to th
Manager, who will quote you pri'
for the original.
LOOK AT THEM
TEST THEM
Ifl
srs
H,
©
£
%
%
a
*** ouaut'*
BRYAN Tt MAYS
MATCHES
AMAZING
NEW PEN
r.
TWO
HALF-
TURNS
oif the
TOP
ano[ iti
FULL/
SIMPLER TO FILL
& CANNOT GO WRONG
All up-to-date people—and what Australian
isn’t ?—will want to own this new wonder pen
—the latest and the greatest made by “ Swan.”
See how it fills—try it for yourself to-day at
any good Stati n:r or Jeweller.
PRICES : The New LEVERLESS “Swan ”21/-
and 25/-. Other “Swans “from 15/-. “ Blackbird ”
Pens from 10/-. "Jackdaw” Pens from 6/6.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings.
255 A George Street, SYDNEY.
è
«WAN
W REM
é
MADE IN ENGLAND
STOMACH
REMEDY
with over 20 YEARS’
PROOF of EFFICACY
Doctors the World over will tell you that
‘BISURATED’ MAGNESIA
NEVER FAILS TO REMOVE
INDIGESTION
and all STOMACH TROUBLES
Here are more letters which prove how
easily and quickly you can get permanent
relief from the pain and agony of indiges-
tion. They tell of amazing recoveries
when hope had almost been abandoned.
¥
Jrom a recent photo
of Mrs. Jones.
GASTRITIS & ULCERS
-NO PAINS NOW!
Mrs. Jones of Worcester
writes:—“l have been ill for
seven years with gastritis
which turned to ulcers—the
pain almost drove me mad.
I was not able to take food
of any kind. A month ago,
whilst in dreadful pain a
friend told me to try
‘ Bisurated’ Magnesia which
I did, and l have had no pains
since—the first month with-
out pain for seven years.
Can now eat any kind of
food with comfort.”
Complete recovery effected by ‘Bisurated’
Magnesia after other means had failed I
“MARVELLOUS FOR
STOMACH TROUBLES”|
says Mr. Dyson of Birming-
ham, who writes: “I have
suffered with my stomach for
the last five years without
relief. It was like being in
hell. I saw your advertise-
ment and sent for a bottle
of ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It
seemed to drown the pain.
Il is marvellous for stomach
troubles. I am a dead man
come back to life as the
hardest work does not hurt
me now, thanks to ‘ Bisurated’
Magnesia.”
from a recent photo
of Mr. J. Dyson.
After 5 years torture ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia
brought this man complete relief!
For indigestion, heartburn, gastritis, or
stomach ulcers there is no more effective
remedy than ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia. If
you want to put your stomach right, don’t
waste time and money on experiments,
get ‘ Bisurated * Magnesia first.
bisurated'
MAGNESIA
Powder or Tablets, of all chemists.
Every package bears the
oval ( Bismag’ Trade Mark ->•
ê


Business, Robbery Etc
What Credit Isn’t
The hue and cry against the banks
has been loosed with all its election-
time vigor. The Douglas Credit party
is offering national dividends for all,
4nd, referring to the capacity of
countries to produce as against their in-
capacity to buy, says that what is physi-
cally possible should be financially
possible; that if it is possible to produce
goods, it is possible to sell them to those
who want them, irrespective of whether
they have the money or not.
Douglasites offer to overcome the
shortage of purchasing power by issuing
“national dividends.” This section of the
new economists at least believes that it
has discovered a fundamental flaw in
the economic system ; hence the A +
B theorem, by which, it says, production
can be bridged with consumption through
the issue of national credit.
Apart from being mathematically un-
sound, this sovereign specific is against
nature. Individual endeavor, even if
it were not hampered by socialistic con-
trol, would become undermined by the
knowledge that whatever goods cost to
produce they will be sold at a “profit”
owing to the subsidy from “national
credit.” The more slipshod and extra-
vagant the manufacturer, the greater the
inflation.
The straightout inflationists and those
who would socialise credit are more
vague and confused still. They are to
grab out of the air, or the ether waves,
or somewhere, the nation’s credit, and
to put it to work “for the people.” The
banks, they say, have been using this
credit to serve their own ends for far
too long. Therefore, nationalise bank-
ing, issue more currency, and the credit
which has been withheld from its right-
ful owners for so long will get to work
and dissipate the depression!
Where there is any honest thinking in
this school, it is usually terribly con-
fused. Credit is visualised as something
which has escaped notice until the
present—a mysterious force which is
capable of improving our financial well-
being in a way something akin to
magical. The power of banks to create
and destroy credit is seen in greatly-
distorted pictures.
Finance has' been aptly described as
ihe handmaiden to trade. Trade is
barter, and money and credit are merely
means of facilitating barter. Value must
be given for value ; if it isn’t, and the
something-for-nothing element is intro-
duced into the exchange mediums, some-
one has to be robbed.
A British banker gave the new econo-
mists their principal argument when he
said that every advance made by a bank
created a deposit. On that axiom all
sorts of twisted and crazy arguments
have been built. His statement would
have been truer and less liable to distor-
tion if he had put it that every advance
created a debt. Every penny that a bank
advances leaves it open to loss. As a
Sydney sharebroker’s ably-written circu-
lar on the subject says, when we create
credit we also create debt. “If this were
not so the value of money itself would
deteriorate.”
To say that a bank can create £lOOO,
hand it over to a borrower and earn a
clear 5 p.c. without asking the aid of
depositors is absurd. Banks collectively
can make it easy or hard to obtain credit
(and incur debt). But their earnings are
restricted to the margin of interest be-
tween borrowing and lending rates, and
the only “free” money they have to play
with is that which is left with them vol-
untarily on current account and their
own funds.
The greater the expansion of credit by
these institutions the greater their risk
of loss. An embarrassed bank cannot
create credit at all. We depend on over-
seas prices for wool and wheat, our prin-
cipal primary products, and banks can-
not safely lend money on properties
which are losing money because of low-
world parities. Overexpansion of credit
means bad debts ; overexpansion of cur-
rency means bad money.
Dilly-dally Mines
The speculator in new goldmines is
apt to get confused if he tries to find out
something definite and reliable about the
concerns he is interested in. The less
intellect and energy he possesses, the less
liable is he to confusion ; the mug usu-
ally accepts the opinion most appealing
to his imagination and lets it go at that.
Businessmen who have followed the
courses of several shows which have
risen and fallen over the last three years
or so must be struck with the lack of
reliability in assays where only the faces
in a couple of drives have been tested.
When a co. starts off supplied with
ample capital, it has a duty to share-
holders to go ahead measuring up the
mine as expeditiously as possible. There
are cos. listed on ’Change which have
been scratching over (heir properties for
anything up to two years without defi-
nitely proving values one way or the
other. While the fate of the mine is thus
weighing in the balance bulls and bears
may be able to have a grand time, but
that’s no good to the genuine mining
investor. He wants to know whether the
particular proposition is any good before
too much capital is frittered away, so
that if it is a dud the co. may try its
luck elsewhere.
A mining engineer’s job, generally
speaking, is not a happy one, even in
these days. If he reports favorably on
a show for (he promoters, and capital is
sufficient to start developing, he is
“Five guineas! But, doctor, I want to reduce my weight, not my hank balance .”
usually sure of a job. That is a tempta-
tion, though only subconscious. On the
other hand, if he damns a proposition
from the outset, it probably never goes
to flotation; in that case, he ' gets no
more than his investigation fee, and if
the promoters are hard-boiled he may
get no more retainers from them.
The speculator who is tempted to have
a flutter in an unproved show which has
been floated for any time longer than
six months needs to ask himself and his
broker why it is unproved. Share-market
mining may be all right for the shrewd
ones, but in that case someone has to
be the mug. The genuine speculator
should be looking for real mines ; delay
in development is dangerous for him.
Lancashire Is Offended
Lancashire cotton-spinners are having
a desperate struggle for markets with
foreign competitors, Japanese and In-
dian in particular. Unemployment is
rife, and the Lancastrians are in a touchy
frame of mind; possibly the miserable
bodyline rumpus has helped to make
them touchier. So when they heard that
the Commonwealth had imposed new
cotton duties they talked retaliation. A
boycott began in a small way; it has
been suspended, and the Commonwealth
Government, for its part, has promised
to reconsider the situation.
Lancashire particularly objects to
duties on denims and dungarees. The
new duties are also described as
a breach of the Ottawa agreement.
They were, of course, introduced for
the purpose of encouraging the Queens-
land cotton industry. Lancashire will
still supply between 70 and 80 p.c. of
Australia’s cotton-goods requirements.
Australia’s isolation requires that ap-
parently uneconomic industries should be
fostered in a small way in case of war or
other emergencies. Cotton is a particu-
larly necessary article during war-time. It
is conceivable that, in a world crisis of the
1914 variety, what is at present a small
industry even from a local standpoint
might develop into an asset of Empire
importance.
Another point to remember is that
Lancashire did very well out of us when
the importing boom was on. At present
our trade balance is running the other
way, but we are still very vulnerable to
droughts and world prices.
One reason for the weakness in Sun-
shine Gold's shares has been the confident
bearing since the issue of New Guinea
Alluvials’s report. Sunshine has interests
on or near the Ono, Waria and Watut
rivers in New Guinea and Fish Creek
and Lakekamu River in Papua. New
Guinea Alluvials, Ltd., in its report dated
August 3 last, says that its engineer
“tested the company’s [Alluvials’s] large
holdings of alluvial river flats situated
between Bapi village and the junction of
the Waria and Ono rivers. The depth
of wash, water supply and physical fea-
tures were found to be ideal for bucket-
dredging, but values disclosed by boring
were too low to warrant installation of
a suitable dredging plant.” The report
also mentions that a large area of allu-
vial higher up the Ono was tested, but
the values were erratic. Prospecting was,
therefore, discontinued. An option of
purchase over an alluvial area on the
Upper Watut was abandoned after test-
ing. Shareholders are wondering how
near Alluvials’s operations were to Sun-
shine’s leases.
* * * if
At the last of the Brisbane wool sales
greasy fleece and skirting wools were
about 5 p.c. stronger ; 74 p.c. for a few,
special lines. The rise was due largely
to the entry of private manufacturers
into the competition, which had been
mainly restricted to Bradford and Japan.
The average for the whole sales may be
lid. per pound. That is better, but
prices still have some way to go to meet
production and selling costs.
The U.S. Government made it a crime
to hoard gold, and bought up private
stocks at 20.67 dollars an ounce. Having
taken title to all the monetary gold in
the country, the Treasury then raised the
price to 35 dollars an ounce, reducing the
gold value of the paper dollar, with
which gold-holders had been paid, to 59
cents. Total profit to Government was
2,800,000,000 dollars, most of which was
ostensibly earmarked for an exchange-
equalisation fund. Secretary of the
Treasury Morgeflthau forecasts that the
profit will eventually be used in reduc-
ing the national debt. It is conceivable
that those who once owned gold and who
at present hold U.S. bonds will be repaid
with paper currency backed by the gold
profit they were deprived of.
# *• * -\:
London “Financial 1 imes” says that
Australian and Maoriland currencies are
undervalued in relation to sterling. It
doesn’t think, however, that either
country would be agreeable to a truer
exchange rate on account of the export
industries. The accumulation of funds in
London, the journal adds, can be justi-
fied by quoting London borrowings, and
the necessity for keeping something in
reserve against the inevitable drought
year. On August 17 (taking old gold
parities as a base), it took 125 units of
Australian money to buy 100 English,
119 Aust. for 100 U.S.A., and, 202 Aust.
for 100 French.
* * * *
The sterling price of gold went over
£7 an ounce last week, the highest figure
on record. The pound and the dollar
are both weak compared with the gold
franc. Australian mines get the benefit
of an extra 25 p.c. over sterling prices,
less freight and insurance. Market values
of established shows strengthened with
the price of the metal. The exchange de-
preciation is making it very hard for gold-
standard countries such as France and
Italy to export to Australia ; hence part
of their antagonism to Australian wool.
❖ Jje * *
Exports of Australian fresh fruit dur-
ing the year to June 30 were not so
heavy ; they were valued at £1,955,700,
as against £2,342,000 in the preceding
year. A poorer crop of apples in nearly
every State was the main cause.
* $ *
Thorold Fink, of Melbourne “Herald,”
has cabled Speck’s Premier Ogilvie that
Canadian tests with Tasmanian eucalypts
have successfully produced newsprint.
“Ninety per cent, eucalypt pulp can be
used.” Ogilvie says that by December
1000 men will be engaged in the Tas-
manian paper industry, including exten-
sion of the hydro-electric scheme.
#
Queensland Meat Export Co. adver-
tised its Pinkenba (Brisbane) meatworks
for sale the other day. The property
covers 137 acres. Q.M.E. has had a poor
run since the war-time meat contracts ran
out; in 1915 its pastoral interests were
passed over to the Australian Stock
Breeders Co. In 1933 ss. per share was
handed back to Q.M.E. shareholders in
cash. Co. also owns the Townsville
meatworks.
* * * *
The value of Melbourne’s new build-
ings during 1933-34 was £4,218,283 com-
pared with £2,568,249 and £1,857,936 in
the two preceding years.
# :*e * *
Maoriland Government proposes to
establish a national mortgage corpora-
tion for stabilising the private borrowing
market. Its aim will be to borrow at 4
p.c. or lower on bonds, and lend at 4 p.c.
higher. The corp. is to take over the
loans of the State Advances Lands De-
partment and Rural Credit Board.
Finance Minister Coates, in his Budget
speech, said that export prices showed a
rise of 20 p.c. since 1932, internal prices
had remained stable, and mortgage
money was available at 44 p.c. and lower.
if * * *
Mussolini’s Raw Materials Committee
has found that raw silk and wool can
be successfully blended ; it recommends
that 9000 tons of home-produced silk
should be diverted yearly into the wool-
manufacturing industry, and that imports
of the staple should be correspondingly
reduced. About 60,000 bales of wool
a year would thus be dispensed with.
* * * *
Maoriland Government, pending fur-
ther negotiations with the Common-
wealth authorities, is relaxing the
embargo on Australian oranges to the
extent of allowing 50,000 cases of S.
Australian fruit into the Shivery Isles
during September.
* * * *
Westralia is to annul the minimum
admission clause in contracts between
suburban picture-show owners and
American distributors. At present the
lowest admission charge is a shilling ;
showmen say sixpence would mean better
business on week nights.


ADVtnmznEMT
A
&
STILL
k\r
mm
osHSSSL
min,
y\
V
\
i»b» a
r
&
a
r~
Of
is.
*l.l l>
•• f«* •*. .V ,J|
//
f ‘jmw
di> ' : .■■in..
1•'‘v-*;ri&•»'• tr^*.• ‘• • (ft ~*
(i?J(
*-•>
_EVEL
npi
1021-28 BRUCE-PA6Er TARIFF WALL
)i i:-^
K.jfif}* S";i !
\}Y '
ah.
(■*/?*"
;* nviK , -.»/v',);V : I
fv»
mUC
as*<*
IAiU
bxsta/e
ar>
i®r
I
IP K
i/ifK-ftl
• •<■■■ jj /
V
.■/■ . i
rr 4^
\
4*
pa*
FX V
-y
<c>VO,
€
9
*y<
%
\ \T
.
Yi o
*>£
or
aj £
iV,
The Sky’s the
LIMIT
Despite all promises, the Australian Tariff Wall goes up and up.
1929.—The Australian Tariff Committee said that duties
had reached their economic limit.
1931. —Labour increased 531 duties, plus prohibitions and
super duties.
1932. —After Ottawa, Lyons increased 440 foreign duties
and left British duties at prohibitive Scullin levels.
1934.—0ver 400 British and 630 foreign duties are still above
1928 levels. The burden of duties has doubled—an
increase from 20.5 to 40.7 per cent, since 1928.
Page Puts the Pick in
THERE ARE TO-DAY 36 BRITISH AND 21 FOREIGN DUTIES BELOW 1928 LEVEL.
The Country Party cast the only real stones off the Tariff
Wall when it forced deductions on 839 items to offset
protection afforded by Exchange.
VOTE COUNTRY PARTY
How to VOTE COUNTRY PARTY in the electorates
e
è
In all cases place a number in each square in the ballot paper.
AJbsentee votes can be cast at any
Country Party voters will be provided at the booth at the Sydney^Town^jjall^
(Authorised by E. J. Munro, 25 O'Connell St., Sydney.)
Voting is Compulsory and you must
number all candidates in your own order.
The
Senate Vote
There's nothing con-
fusing about the
Country Party Sen-
ate Vote. You simply
number
"From Top to
Bottom" thus:—
é
11033 V '*W
0 ABBOTT
0 Courtenay
0 Dein
—and carry on your numbers to the
bottom of the Senate paper.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: Some of the southern shows
should send a delegate to have a look
at our Ambulance Transport Brigade.
This year it handled 25,571 cases and
travelled 123,011 miles. It doesn’t
fcharge, as do some southern ambulances,
unless it has to. Most patients who can
afford it give 10s.; it raises the rest by
voluntary effort, plus about a 33 p.c. sub-
sidy from the Government. Nothing
comes amiss to it—the sawmill hand with
a hacked arm a hundred miles away, the
marooned expectant mother, the dying
Digger in the scrub are never let down.
When I first knew the organisation it was
nothing for its men to walk behind the
Ijand-stretcher for 20 miles, but now
modern motor-ambulances ease the jour-
neys. It is 42 years since the brigade
was started, and it has moved 597,212
cases and travelled 2,915,899 miles, all
at a modest cost of £309,000. This year,
as usual, it comes out with a credit
balance.
* * *
“Vic”: Chum Duck, or James Duck,
who in Brisbane the other day couldn’t
pass a dictation test, was luckier than
some old friends of mine. The worst the
Commonwealth could do to him for
some years was to “suspect that he had
entered the Commonwealth illicitly since
the passing of the Immigration Act of
1901.” Three years ago, the Cunnamulla
and Charleville police held on to him
long enough to take his finger-prints, but
when somebody mentioned dictation he
faded away. Then one day a Customs
officer saw him in Brisbane and dictated
a short test in English to him. The
examination was a flop, and he now has
a sentence of “three months or back to
Canton.” In pre-war days I’ll swear he
would not have escaped so long. Once,
on the Pinkenba wharf, an anxious C.O.
baled up the press with: “Come on, you
with the beard ; I want you to give a
Chow a test in Bulgarian.” “But I’m not
a Bulgarian,” pleaded the scribe. “Well,
you look like a Bulgarian, and this cove,
who we think is a white-slaver, seems to
speak every other language. So you’ve
got to be a Bulgarian!” And a Bul-
garian he was till such time as an aghast
Macao man had failed to write down the
words of “’Twas brillig and the slithy
toves” read off backwards to him.
* X * *
“Singali”: Re “bush wireless” (B.
1 /8/’34). One morning in 1915 a San
Christoval boy on an estate in the Solo-
mons told me that a white man had been
killed on his own island. I found that 1
had had the news within an hour of the
crime ; the distance to the scene was over
90 miles. Smoke signals were out of the
question. In my 19 years’ experience
of Melanesians I have seen several
uncanny instances of their apparent
possession of special senses which
Europeans do not possess. Take, for
instance, the Santa Cruz natives’ power
to die at will. More than one of these
natives have told me that they were going
to die at a certain time on a certain day.
They could work and eat quite as usual
(a little of the former and a lot of the
latter), and to all appearances there
would be nothing wrong with them ; but
when the hour arrived they would pass
out without any preliminary illness or
fuss.
❖ ❖ * *
“T. 1.”: The taking of a man by a
shark is a rare accident in N.Q. waters —
a fisherman named Robert Steele was
torn to pieces the other day when he
dived off a launch to retrieve a drifting
punt 20 miles from Cardwell. Years ago
Townsville was notorious for its danger
—children were taken in the shallows
along the Strand, and to put a foot into
Ross Creek was to court obliteration.
Thursday Island used to have a native
“Exhibit A” who made a living out of
the fact that he had got his head into a
sea-wolf’s jaws and escaped with no-
thing worse than scars. It is something
of a miracle. Any day at Magnetic Jetty
a dozen monsters can be seen. I have
spent hours trying to get a fish into the
boat while some marauder standing by
picked them steadily off the hook asjhey
bit, leaving me only the heads. I have
seen a dead sheep, heaved overboard, be-
come the centre of a live whirlpool of teeth
in a few seconds. And I have seen, too,
a far choicer morsel —a nice fat nigger
—slip easily into the ocean around the
spot a few hours afterwards without
even losing the dirt on his carapace.
What’s the secret of it? There is a lot
to learn about sharks yet.
•T ' * * *
At the Eventide Home (Red Hill, Bris-
bane) a young candidate dealt with an
audience whose average age was 78 years.
Pensions were the issue, and the air rang
with the kind of interjection which used
to be heaved at Parkes and Dailey. Glad-
stone and Disraeli were freely quoted,
and the old familiar gags which were in
the mouth of every competent interjector
before Federation were taken out of
lavender and given a good airing.
Probably, however, the best came from a
sturdy old fellow who shouted: “I voted
against your grandfather in 1878, I’d
have voted against your father if he’d
stood and I’ll vote against you!”
■f * * >l=
“Eekay”: The true nomad still lives.
Motoring along one of our lonely roads
near Emerald (Q.) I came on a family—
dad driving a team of 30 horses, with a
small son of seven or eight holding the
shatter's reins. Behind the huge wag-
gon, with its seven-foot wheels, mum
drove the pair in a waggonette piled
with clothes and bedding. Two comely
lasses in blue shirts and khaki trousers
rode ponies. The family always travel
like this, although they have a good house
in a western town. Education? As we
handed a packet from the Government
correspondence school to mum, I saw a
black scowl on seven-year-old’s face
CANDIDATE (listening to opponent’s speech): “It's a pack of lies! I hurl them
in your teeth.”
Lessons are no easier for being learnt
among the tall black brigalows, where
the passing fauna divert the mind of
youth.
* * * *
“Ulam”: If gold still is to be found on
the old Dee Rush country (C.Q.) —they
got a 20oz. slug there last week —there
should be no worry about picking up in
less prospected places the 2830 tons
which we need to pay off the national
debt. The rush began in September,
1903. For several months, 3000 men
scraped the limestone bottom of the
.river flats for nuggets. Then somebody
discovered gold below the bottom, and the
good work went on for a year or so on
the new level. In the generation which
has elapsed since then, there has always
been someone at work. Every vicis-
situde of the Mt. Morgan Co. has sent
a bunch of hopefuls to Struck Oil. The
last time I was there, some of them had
been reduced to cleaning wash out of
tree roots with knives. And if there is
still “yaller j n them thar hills” it must
be mighty coy metal to have dodged the
sealchers, who have been half a lifetime
in the district and know the field as a
tomcat knows his fence.
* * * *
“The Belt”: Brisbane, by the hand of
the Duke of Gloucester, will launch the
new Orient liner Orion which is being
built by Vickers-Armstrong at Barrow-
on-Furness. Royalty initiated this sort
of ceremony with the opening of the St.
Lawrence bridge by cable in 1929 or
thereabouts, but the first radio ceremony
was the lighting of the Sydney Town
Hall by Marconi in 1930. The thing is
simple—a single impulse does it —but it
is splendid advertising for Australia.
Ceremonies of this sort seem to fascinate
the European press, and it gives columns
to them.
* X X *
“El V.”: The editor of the old-estab-
lished Ipswich (Q.) “Times” has sued the
mayor (who is also a “Times” director)
for libel. His Worship was said to have
accused the journalist of asking a com-
mittee to put two ladies of the local
School of Arts staff on the unemploy-
ment market, of not being a lover of
Ipswich and of making caustic remarks
to him with a sneer on his face. The de-
fendant refused to admit that he had
made the allegations, and alternatively
pleaded fair comment. Verdict for plain-
tiff ; £5O with costs.
“Oke”: The case of the Ipswich
editor who sued one of his own direc-
tors for libel reminds me of an early
adventure on the old Brisbane “Daily
Mail” which might have ended my
career. A 17-year-old youngster, I wrote
the paper’s tennis notes in the days when
tennis was the plaything of the middle-
aged. 1 proceeded to wake up the
Q.L.T.A. I wrote that its methods were
out of date and its president a back
number and due for retirement, salting
criticism with sarcasm and fact with in-
vective. The editor sent for me. I found
him closeted with a large person with
a brow like a thundercloud, who
gazed at my weedy figure for a
moment before he burst into Homeric
laughter. “Let me,” said the editor tartly,
“introduce you to the president of the
Q.L.T.A., whom you know, and our
managing director, whom you apparently
don’t.” I had good cause to be thank-
ful that dear old James Love —he is now
chairman of the Q.N. Bank —had a large
heart for the young and an immense
sense of humor.
* * * *
“Innisfail”: Dr. Grenfell Price, of
Adelaide, not long back from America,
returned with his White Australia con-
victions strengthened. General Gorgas,
who built the Panama Canal, believed
that the white man can live in the tropics,
while he himself thinks the evidence is all
in favor of it. In Costa Rica, under far
worse conditions than any in North
Australia, he found a pure white Spanish
community, artistic and educated. The
same applied, he said, in Saba. In
Panama, he saw whites who for 30 years
had carried out the hardest physical labor
in the tropics, while their second genera-
tion was healthy and high-school child-
ren in the Canal zone showed higher
mental attainment than similar children
in U.S.A. The same contrast was evi-
dent between the whites of Florida and
those of the Yankee States. But isola-
tion of the black races is vital to white-
man success near the Equator.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The usual crowd gathered at the Parliament
House gates to watch the notabilities arrive
for the opening. Conspicuous among the
group was Abdul the Afghan, famous on our
racecourses, where he backs many winners;
and there was an old, old man, with silvery
hair and bright-blue eyes, across the breast of
whose shabby greatcoat were pinned strings
of ribbons.
Our Sir Leslie is a brave figure in full-dress
uniform, and Captain Pat Honnor, A.D.C.,
and Captain A. V. Stark, honorary A.D.C.,
also looked their best. Lieut.-Commander J.
C. McFarlane and Brigadier-General Ralph in
lull fig marched into the chamber on his Ex.’s
heels, and stood up very stiff and soldierly
while he read the address. Chief Justice James
Blair and Justice Webb, gay in scarlet and
wigs, sat on the first Government cross-bench,
with behind them a solid wall of Law and
Church. The Premier and his colleagues had
gallantly made way for the fair sex, and women
in their best frocks preened themselves on the
front benches.
The Assembly Chamber was crowded. Among
the women, almost everyone wore a posy oi
real flowers, and as one damsel in a neat
brown tailored suit passed she left a breath
of boronia on the air.
Mrs. Forgan Smith was springlike in rose
du Barry crepe, worn with a grey hat and coat,
l ord Mayor Jones, complete with furs and
chains, was with the Lady Mayoress, who
sported a necklace of chromium which almost
equalled the splendor of her husband’s bauble.
Habana-brown wool de Chine was the choice of
the Blair lady, and her rather large hat was also
brown. Black georgette relieved with white up-
holstered Mrs. Mullan, and a tailored suit in
two tones of brown was worn by Mrs. F. A.
Cooper. Black was also the choice of Mrs.
P. Pease, and her frock showed white killings.
Mrs. A. E. Moore brought with her the
Braddon lady, whose husband is a nephew of
(he late Sir Henry Wiley Norman, once Gover-
nor of Queensland. Mrs. R. M. Bell and
daughter Phyllis came along to see R. M. Bell
take his seat for the first time, and J. D.
Annand, just elected for East Toowoomba, also
had a group of friends with him. .
Parliament House was almost unrecognisable,
so busy have the decorators been getting it
ready for the Duke. The old musty feeling
has quite gone, and as one crawls up the stair-
cases one is greeted by the odor of new lino.,
paint and plaster. Softening influences seem
to have been at work, for, not only was the
main vestibule ablaze with Iceland poppies and
mauve statice, but the Premier’s and Speaker’s
rooms and the room inhabited by the leader
of the Opposition all were gay and fragrant'
with spring flowers. Pink sweet-peas and gladioli
were in the Premier’s room, red roses and
carnations had been chosen for A. E. Moore
and blue bowls of pink sweet-peas, gladioli
and roses made a delightful bower for George
Pollock. Even the refreshment-rooms pro-
claimed spring.
After the address, most of the Parliamen-
tarians entertained parties of guests at tea.
The Duke’s bedroom is to be furnished in
the style of Louis XV. Water-colors and
mirrors will form the wall decorations. What
period will be chosen for the lounge remains a
mystery.
Who says that Queensland has an enervat-
ing climate? Evidently they have not met
Wraylands Wray, an ex-Digger and a native
of Maryborough, who is about to start walk-
ing to Adelaide. The A.A.A.A. is sponsoring
his feat, which he thinks will take him about
31 or 32 days. Wray is 54, and landed at
Gallipoli with the 10th.
On September 7, King’s College, one of the
five residential colleges within the university,
will celebrate its 21st birthday at a reception
and dinner at the Canberra. The Governor
and representatives of the Queensland Gov-
ernment and the University Senate have accepted
invitations to be present. King’s is the Metho-
dist College, and its first master was Rev. Scott
Fletcher. The beginning of the war saw the
col. practically emptied, for every man who
could pass the medical examination enlisted.
All who returned went back to King’s. Rev.
L. E. Bennett followed Scott Fletcher, and
when he left to go to Wesley College Rev.
H. H. Trigge took on the job. On September
9 a special church service will be held, at
which the three masters of King’s will speak.
Mrs. Oscar Seppelt, up from Adelaide, is
being entertained lavishly. One party was
arranged by the ladies’ committee of the
Queensland Chamber of Manufacturers, and
Mrs. S. A. Best (wife of the Queensland presi-
dent) and Mrs. A. A. Fullarton (her stronger
half is the secretary) received the guests.
Competitions and chatter were the outstand-
ing features of the tea given by Joan Brady
in honor of Renee Shaw, who is leaving Bris-
bane to make her home in Sydney. Mrs.
Brady and sister Val helped to entertain the
guests, and the party was staged at the Bradys’
pretty New Farm flat.
Novel place-markers were a feature of the
big party arranged by Miss Chris Finlayson in
honor of her brother Malcolm and Meg Pat-
terson, whose wedding took place on Septem-
ber 1. A delightful doll, dressed in bridal
garments of white and silver, for the bride,
and two bridesmaid dolls in lemon and gold
for Nita Finlayson and Lorna McGuire, were
set at the supper-table. Andrew Finlayson,
junior, helped to entertain, and the hostess
passed over a wedding gift. Meg’s wedding
gifts were marvellous, and Malcolm’s male
friends also rallied round with useful oddments
in silver and crystal.
For two years Rotarians have been so busy
in another sphere that they have not held their
annual ball, which will take place on Sep-
tember 19, the City Hall being the setting.
The funds will go to the Creche and Kinder-
garten’s appeal for the Nursery Rest Shelter
Fund. Our Sir Leslie has promised t« attend.
A floral fete also is due soon in aid of the
Creche and Kindergarten, so that the financial
anxiety experienced by that useful association
during the last few years should be lightened.
THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Original “Bulletin” black-and-
white drawings for contributions to
B. 29/8/’34 go to:—
F. MURPHY, Somerville Street,
Bendigo, Victoria.
ALEX. BREMNER, 511 Fitzgerald
Street, North Perth, W.A.
J. V. CLARK, Horseshoe Bay,
Magnetic Island, Townsville,
North Queensland.
C. W. TAIT, 91 Campbell Road,
Onehunga, Maoriland.
The prizes are offered each week,
together with cheques, in respect of
Society pars., Aboriginalities, Hints
for the Farm and gags for joke-
blockc.


YOUR HAIR IS ALWAYS
UNDER CRITICAL NOTICE
IN social or commercial life your
hair, if neglected, will tell the tale
of advancing years, yet how glorious
your hair can be by using DR.
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN, which restores the natural
colour and lustre, and gives that
youthful freshness so much admired.
Apply ALLEN’S STAIN yourself
—the treatment is simple, rapid and
unfailing. The directions tell you
what to do. No expensive equip-
ment is required, and there can be
nc moments of doubt —you obtain
the happiest results every time.
Tn brown or black shades.
4/- oer bottle at all Chemists.
Medians cmexican)
Ukdmd Stain
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G:P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager jor full particulars.
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. Beckmann,. 20 Bridge St- Sydney,
Tin? Kirliarrtson Chain Hotel
mm
i
3.5
3 3
33
Wit
m
3
a?
• ’
it#
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-133 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
s
EVERY COUCH
?IS A CALL FOR
ê
ë
COUCH CURE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There were magic notes everywhere at
Music Week's Carnival Ball. They
soared their silver way to ceiling and
over balcony, sprang from the hearts of
the debs.' posies and ran rioting over
supper-tables. Balloons bobbed about
joyously,, and pennants flew gaily.
Old Masters and Great Artists came
to the party, so you rubbed shoulders
with Schubert, Beethoven, Liszt and
Madame Wagner. Carmen was there
with a red flower in her hair.
Crowds came from “Bitter Sweet” ; the
Ladies about Town, in their bustled
dresses, escorted by the “Green Carna-
tions.” The scent of growing things
tilled the room as the Garden Set passed.
Mary Queen of Scots trailed her black
velvets ; Fair Rosamunde was there, too,
and in this company of Fair Women
were such contrasts as Maid Joan and
the Du Barry. Joyce Bowden, Marjorie
Swift, June Lloyd and Shirley Burch
were in the Pompadour Set. Full of
abandon were the three little pigs till the
Big Bad Wolf appeared—then they made
a wild dash for cover through the hall.
Knight Sam Walder and his lady en-
joyed the fun. She wore graceful black
laces and smiled on the 12 youngsters
who tried their social wings for the first
time. The Ernest Lashmars and Harald
Bowdens’ party was one of the biggest.
Both ladies wore black. Mrs. F. J.
Davy’s amethystine crepes had touches
of silver. Aldrovandi, Evelyn Lynch,
Albert Cazabon, daughter Norah, Charlie
Westmacott and Louise Shaw were others
who think the revel was a good thing,
and like all good things should be re-
peated. Josephine Marks was the organ-
iser, and the gate-money is to be devoted
to scholarships for students of music.
Not to be outdone, the Highland
Society set its ball to the rhythm of the
week’s pageantry. The Mayoral party
came in on the skirl of 18 pipes (she
wore black velvets) and the debs, on the
skirl of two. There was heather in the
youngsters’ arms and in the tunics of
their kilted partners. The military flashed
scarlet and the glitter of decorations.
The Scottish standard and the Union
Jack draped the walls. J. W. Kidd,
acting-president of the society, sat in the
high-backed Gaelic chair, the ram’s head,
the symbol of friendship, before him.
Here, assisted by his wife in duck-egg-
blue angel-skin, he dispensed hospitality.
The naval Feakeses, she in midnight-blue
laces, sat above the salt. So did Scots
Church padre James Wright and his wife
(they leave Australia at the end of the
month), she wearing white windswept
satins. Mrs. H. C. Norton danced in
crushed-strawberry flamisol; Nancy
Munro trailed dusty-pink crepes. George
Morice, the society’s hon. sec., brought
his wife and daughters Jean, Beryl and
Norma. Muriel Childs came with her
Police Commissioner father. The whole
Mackay clan (or so it seemed) turned
up. Mrs. Ron and Mrs. Ken Patrick
were among the dancers, as were Aubrey
Halloran and Captain and Mrs. Crellin.
James Dempster made a royal progress
up the hall—there were so many hands
to shake after his illness.
Nobody ever stays away from the Old
Cranbrookians’ Ball because of the
v.eather, be it ever so bad. The wind
and the rain were forgotten on Friday by
the groups who danced in the beautiful
long ballroom or sat around the glow-
ing fires telling stories. The school’s
colors in red and white flowers and elec-
trics caught the eye in corridor and on
supper-table. Adrian Garling, vice-pre-
sident of the assoc., and Constance
Palmer welcomed the official guests,
among whom were representatives from
many of the other schools. Headmaster
General Ivan Mackay and his wife were
to the fore. On her dusty-pink georg-
ettes blue poppies blew. Woven through
Joan Spence’s water-lily green laces was
a golden thread, and sashes were worn
by Nerida Ryrie, Nancy Westgarth and
Lona Williams.
As joyous as any this season was
Riverview’s Parents and Friends’ Ball at
the Wentworth. Flowers, blue and
white, the college colors, were on the
table where president Mrs. G. E. Flan-
nery hostessed a large party. Rector of
the college Father Loughnan was the
night’s honored. Mrs. Roger Forrest
Hughes was sustained in her duties as
hon. sec. by black lace and red camellias.
Marjorie Shine pinned two small gladioli
at the waist of her gold lame. Mrs. Mel
Shefter's floral taffetas wore a big velvet
bow. A star twinkled in Mrs. King’s hair ;
otherwise she was Wedgwood-blue wind-
swept crepes. Mrs. P. Shipway’s choice
was graceful black laces. Mrs. R. L.
Snelling’s turquoise-blue cotelles sported
a cape scarf lusciously bordered in gold
beads. Eve Maher’s velvets glowed wine
red. Jean Foley’s crepes were ice blue.
Jean Fielder’s blue and Jacqueline Hol-
lander’s parchment satins were glorified
with iris. Pauline Spencer Parsons smiled
over floral satins. Mrs. Geoffrey Hughes
wore rose-splashed chiffons; Mrs. Ken
Prior, powder-blue crepes. Dorothy
Shine’s satins were rose pink, and crystal
stars glimmered on Heather Finlayson’s
summer-night-blue crepes.
Here is a George Johnston drawing of
Nancy, daughter of the W. Macnaughts,
of Darling Point. Nancy skates grace-
fully and is to be seen constantly at
the Glaciarium doing the most intricate
figures. She is also keen on dancing and
riding ; the latter she indulges in mostly
when at Bowral.
To St. Andrew’s Cathedral came pro-
fessors in their red, mauve and blue
hoods to show their esteem for a dead
confrere; came the Navy and Army
a-glitter with medals, epaulettes and
swords to show honor to their comrade ;
came the representatives of the Acting-
Governor and the Governor-General,
the Premier and other Ministers in per-
son to show the Government’s respect,
and hundreds of others who knew Pro-
fessor David, not as a scientist or ex-
plorer, but as a man. The coffin, draped
with the Union Jack, stood in the choir,
the floor carpeted with flowers. The
choristers’ “Lead, Kindly Light” rang out.
The Dean spoke of the man who made
many friends and never lost one ; the
Archbishop led the prayers; then the
solemn notes of Chopin’s Funeral March
told the waiting crowds that the service
was over, and a wave of sympathy swept
over all for the frail little bereaved wife
as she and her daughters followed the
coffin, borne by eight of Edgeworth
David’s old comrades, from the dimness
of the cathedral into the daylight.
Just as impressive was the final cere-
mony on the side of a wind-blown hill
near the Crematorium. Here the coffin,
draped with the Tunnelling Corps’ ban-
ner, was placed on a gun carriage and es-
corted by members of the corps to the
mortuary chapel. Again Chopin’s muffled
chords broke the stillness, this time
played by the Artillery Band. The ser-
vice over, a triple volley was fired, the
Last Post sounded, and promise of life
everlasting symbolised in the Reveille.
No Sydney girl was able to engage
the serious interest of Professor Rad-
cliffe-Brown during the six years that he
lectured on anthropology at Sydney
Uni. ; and now, at the age of 53, he is
to be married. Tall, dark, handsome, and
the possessor of charming manners, he
was equally popular in Government
House, the ’Varsity and artistic circles.
He left Sydney in 1931 to become Pro-
fessor of Anthropology at Chicago Uni-
versity.
Few young men have been placed in
a more delicate position than our visitor
Mr. Hugo Brassey,
grand - nephew of
the yachting earl
who was Governor
of Victoria 40
years ago. While
he was absorbing
outback experience
on Tabragalba, one
of the De Burgh
Persse stations in
Queensland, news
arrived from Lon-
don that Li 1 i
Damita, the film
actress, had an-
nounced her en-
gagement to him.
She had been en-
gaged before, to a
H o h e n z o llern
prince and to a
Vanderbilt, she
confessed, but had
had no luck. Mr.
Brassey was dif-
ferent ; with him
she hoped to tra-
verse the broad
highway of wedded
life in utter bliss,
or words to that
effect.
Interviewed by
Queensland papers,
Mr. Brassey said
he knew nothing
about it. Inter-
viewed by London papers, Miss Damita
explained that the engagement had
been a secret till the news “leaked
out”; her future husband, she con-
sidered, was abiding almost too scrupu-
lously by their arrangement. Again the
young man demurred, whereupon the
lady clinched the matter.
We contemplate marrying almost immedi-
ately. Our honeymoon will be a world
cruise. I do not propose to give up my
film career.
There seems to be but two explanations:
either Mr. Brassey is suffering from loss
of memory, or Miss Damita is laboring
under a delusion similar to that of
Mrs. Bardell, who thought Mr. Pickwick
was proposing when he ordered chops
and tomato sauce. And there are no
directions in the etiquette books to give
Mr. Brassey a line as to how to deal
with the situation.
Mrs. Goodisson, of the Racial Hygiene
Association, lodged a complaint with the
“Sun” last week:
The immorality of Sydney society has
become so outrageously blatant that a
lead from some responsible quarter is
urgently needed to check the moral drift.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd., is so upset
that one of its publications has started
an investigation. But doesn’t the issue
resolve itself into a question of What
is Society? Sydney society proper is
about the most decorous society in the
Empire. Its members are never present
when “Fifty-fifty clubs” are raided, and
they wouldn’t be seen dead in a “Five
Hundred club.” They can be recognised,
as a rule, by the publicity they don’t get.
The Women Writers gathered around
Mary Gilmore last week to wish her
many more happy birthdays and to con-
gratulate her on her book, “Old Days,
Old Ways,” of which the critics are
speaking so highly. There were baskets
and sheaves of flowers as well as small
fragrant posies of boronia marking the
guest’s cover. After Isabel Gullett had
made the congratulatory speech Mary
delighted the company with tales of abo.
brother and sister, their intelligence and
their loyalty to their friends. Connie
Robertson, Mrs. Crowther and Marjory
Quinn also had a word to say in praise
of Mary the poet and Mary the woman,
who is always willing to lend a hand to
others, whether inky wayfarers or not.
Owing to the rain on Sunday, the pil-
grimage to Henry Lawson’s statue in the
Domain had to be abandoned. It was
decided instead to hold a commemora-
tion meeting in the assembly-room of
the Education Buildings on Monday at
8 p.m.
So England is to have a royal wed-
ding. With the news of Prince George’s
engagement (or must we call it a be-
trothal, as it’s between royalties?) every
woman in Australia knows just why he
turned down a visit to our land, cen-
tenary or no. Be that as it may, every
woman is intrigued over this romance,
and is devouring every scrap of infor-
mation that the cables bring about Prin-
cess Marina.
By all accounts the Prince couldn’t
have found anyone more suitable. She
loves music, so does he, and they share
tastes for dancing and shooting. And
she loves England and English ways.
Mayoress Parker put on quite a big
musical programme at her party. Ray-
mond Beatty’s voice rang out trium-
phantly, and Colin Evans, Violet Twigg,
Ruth Scott, Muriel Edsall, Vaughan
Halley and Mrs. M. Borman were others
who sprayed the afternoon with melody.
The welcoming hand was extended in an
atmosphere of azaleas and camellias,
poppies and ferns. Tea was served in the
corridor. Among the guests were the
wives of many of Sydney’s knights, Mrs.
R. C. Hagon, Dr. and Mrs. Arundel
Orchard, Mr. and Mrs. E. Chappie, Mrs.
Norman Lowe and Lady Poynter.
A wedding of town and country
interest was that of Phyllis Bragg to Dr.
Stephen Hertford Weedon. The Anglican
Church at Cootamundra blessed the
vows. A feature of the bridal array
was the 200-year-old veil of Brussels lace
lent by the bridegroom’s mother. The
bride’s satins were of the same creamy
tint as the magnolias she carried. ’Maids
Lorria Bragg and Sheila Martin carried
muffs of rock-lilies, nasturtiums and
primroses which toned in with their tulle
frocks of autumn browns. The bride is
elder daughter of the pastoralist Arthur
Braggs, of Landgrove, Cootamundra,
and the ’groom eldest son of the Stephen
Weedons, of Wagga. Toasts were
honored at Cootamundra Town Hall,
Mrs. Bragg receiving the guests in blue
and gold laces and a decorative floral-
chiffon cane.
o Continued on page 44.)


Enjoy Springtime in Sydney
The
Australia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
Springtime is calling! Sydney and her wealth of seasonable
attractions await you—and so do the welcoming portals
of “The Australia.”
You are assured of a delightful holiday, luxurious comfort
and flawless attention to your personal preferences.
NEW “ROOM ONLY” RATES:
Single Room from 10/6. Double Room from 20/-.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel, Sydney.
Write for your copy of the new rate-card, illustrated in gravure.
Melbourne
Chatter
The most arresting figure at the annual
horse gymkhana at Ranelagh on Satur-
day was the youngest performer in the
ring, very small Judith Bright. In blue
beret and jumper and little khaki jodh-
purs, Judith sailed over the brush fences
as if she were part of her small round
pony. She won a ribbon to match her
jumper in the event for the best boy or
girl rider over hurdles. Billy Patten, who
is considered one of Victoria’s best
riders, came second. Among other
young performers were Margaret Bright;
Sue Sewell, in a businesslike black jockey
cap ; Joan Gentles and Jean Pape, with
schoolgirl curls dangling down their
backs; Mary Luxton, who prefers jodh-
purs to breeches ; Dorothy Anderson, in
a corduroy-velvet coat; and Nancy
Anderson, who sported a scarlet beret
and jumper.
Other girls who entered in some of the
16 events were Peggy McComas—she
won a hunting trophy—Lorna Embling,
Mary Saenger and Nancy Grice. Lord
Huntingfield had a pew in the very
modest “grandstand.” There seemed to
be as many horses as people. A yard
was filled with steeds, rugged-up and
making the most of the sun which crept
over the tea-trees. Another paddock
had a sawdust ring where a merry-go-
round of horses and riders waited their
cues. The squelchy ground, much too
damp to sit upon, made heavy going for
horses and cars. It was like a picnic
afternoon, for every car carried a
hamper.
People who made merry in aid of the
Renown Free Kindergarten cruised along
a wet, slithery Collins-street into the more
turbulent tributary of Alfred-place and
took a flying leap from car steps to the
glass portals of the Embassy. The Clarke
lady, with her hair dressed high on her
head and wearing silver with green pip-
ings, booked a table for her party of
guests. Mrs. Leslie Benjamin’s gown of
melting lilac satin was combined with a
flung-over-the-shoulder wrap in the same
shade of velvet. Betty Erswell was also
draped and caped, her tone-note being
sheeny ice-blue satin. Helen Anderson,
who wears her curly hair in a knot on the
nape of her neck, rustled black georgette
and rooster feathers. A conscientious
treasurer was Pat Peterson, who guarded
the strongroom in indigo velvet and a
tight necklet of pearls.
Downstairs an oyster-bar rubbed up
enthusiasm. Bill Wood, Rod Morell and
Hec Green (until he disappeared into his
own domain) cracked the shells and
looked for pearls, and Miss Carlyle and
Peggy Macfarlan (the latter brought a
pink overall to slip over her floral georg-
ettes) dressed up the shellfish with bits of
parsley. Mrs. Harry Oliphant wore blue
chiffon. Edna Carr’s hibiscus gown
picked up the illuminations with its half-
sovereign sequins. Louise Moran’s
cherry ninon wore a high neck and bare
shoulders. Valerie Pratt was in green,
and Valerie Wallace-Smith twisted an
amethyst ribbon into a dangling sash
from the neckline of her peach-tinted
dress.
The Hon. Sara Vanneck, wearing a
brown coat and a small hat with a stiff-
ened veil, opened the Girl Guide Handi-
craft Exhibition in the lower Town Hall.
Supporting her were the Chauvel lady and
Mrs. Frank Faulkner, both in Guide
uniforms, and, unofficially, an incubator
full of chirruping chickens. They
showed no respect for the speechmakers,
and piped in chorus all through the
formal opening. Though it’s early to
think about Christmas shopping, so
attractive were the articles for sale, and
so moderately priced, that everyone was
anxious to buy. Among the toys were
beautiful owls with soulful eyes, spider-
monkeys and squirrels, all made by
Guides’ capable fingers. At the slipper
stall one learnt that a cobbler’s badge
is given to the girls who can sole and
heel shoes and make felt slippers. A
mid-Victorian girl wandered round as
a lucky-dip—she was the overflow from
the dummy-dip who had so many things
given to her that she hadn’t enough
pockets in her muslin petticoats. A
dolls’-house made from 2000 matches —-
it has a terra-cotta roof and a chimney
—was exhibited by the Birchip Guides.
Other Guides baked cakes and scones
on the spot, ironed starched table linen
and sat at looms to produce scarves of
Scottish tartan.
The Brownies’ contribution was a
bushy scene of Dot and the Kangaroo.
The youngsters hadn’t forgotten an ant-
heap ; its dangerous-looking bull-ant
tenants were made of beads, and a strip
of cotton gummed to a snail-shell made
an expressive snail. In the crowd on
the opening day v;ere Mrs. Clive Fair-
bairn, Edmund Jowett, Barbara Lyon
and Betty Lawrance, Mrs. Fred Rae,
Mrs. Keith Roberts, Elyne Chauvel and
Mrs. W. J. Griffiths and her daughter
Nancy. Balcombe Griffiths designed the
“village.”
Funds from the exhibition, which is
lasting 10 days, go towards a Guide
camphouse. It is to be a permanent
centre, for camping is an important part
of a Guide’s training. In the past offers
have been accepted for the loan of
houses, schools and paddocks. Water is
often a difficulty if the whole camp is
out-of-doors, though obliging owners
have on various occasions rigged up a
temporary supply. There is £lOOO
already vin hand towards the camp
scheme, and £4OOO more is required.
Wearing the smart hat is Mrs. Oswald
Benjamin, who, after a period of settling
her family into a new home in Glen-
bervie-road, Toorak, is once more con-
cerned with her pet good work, the St.
Kilda and Balaclava Free Kindergarten.
She is secretary of the social occasion
for the kindergarten funds to be held
on Sept. 11 at one of Melbourne’s old
mansions, Salisbury, in Walsh-street.
During the afternoon the musical Mrs.
T. G. Tucker (who before her marriage
with the professor a few months ago
was Mrs. Theyre Weigall) will speak on
the opera “Tantivy Towers,” which she
saw performed in London. It contains
some lilting music, and its words are from
the whimsical pen of A. P. Herbert.
Fritz Hart is preparing to produce the
piece. Mrs. Benjamin’s photograph is
by Broothorn.
The organising committee for “Why
Not To-night?” must have felt very
bucked at the packed state of the King’s
on Saturday night. Priminister Lyons,
who caused some comment by not wear-
ing evening dress, made a speech from
the stage after the show. He occupied
a special box of honor with his daughter
Sheila, who was very shy at receiving a
presentation posy and having her photo-
graph taken during the interval. Among
sweet- and flower-sellers in the foyer
were Pat Adams, in an intriguing white
blouse fluted into a low decolletage and
tucked into a long black velvet skirt;
Monica Ryan, in black, and Norma
Clancy, with balloon sleeves in her black
velvet coat worn over a green trained
dress.
George Hargreaves was the life and soul
of the show. W. P. Carr produced and
Kevin Bradley was musical director. The
most effectively-dressed item was a song-
and-dance by the whole co. in black
swallow-tail suits with wide silver lame
lapels and shiny black bell-toppers. Some
snappy lasses in green floral blouses,
white satin shorts and garden hats made
hay while the sun shone with yokels in
orange overalls. A highly-successful
salty morsel was concocted by some
ginger-headed sailors. Three married
martyrs, wearing aprons and feather-
dusters, mourned their lot as husbands,
and a parody on the “The Shooting of
Dan McGrew” was a credit to the origi-
nality of the producers.
Melbourne gardens are sprinkled with
fluffy pink and white clouds from
flowering cherry, plum and almond, and
there’s a whisper of green on birches,
poplars and elms. Gardeners, too, are
rejoicing. Above is one of them, Mrs.
E. C. Dyason, whose profile was
snapped by Dickinson-Monteath. Mrs.
Dyason has made a study of rock
gardens, but declares that a really artistic
specimen is a rarity, for many so-called
rock gardens are really gardens of rocks.
She quotes Reginald Farrer, botanist and
Alpine rambler, who classifies the un-
successful rockery as an “almond pud-
ding” (with bits sticking up like nuts),
a slablike structure which resembles a
“dog’s grave” or a mess of oddments like
a “devil’s lapful.” When the Dyason
couple went to Russia they discovered
that most families cherished a dog and
a pot-plant, that very little attention had
been given to public gardens and parks
and that the Russian word for garden is
“sad.”
The Jimmy Dyers are early arrivals
for the centenary. Lorries full of flowers
were unloaded outside Rutland Court
during their first few days in Melbourne.
Mrs. Dyer kept all she could cope with,
but even a spacious flat has limitations.
Hospitals benefited from the overflow.
The British Music Society made special
preparations for its reception in honor
of the Jimmy Dyers. At the ensemble
group evening earlier in the week coffee-
drinkers wondered why tea only ap-
peared instead of the customary bever-
age. Any who happened to meander as
far afield as the kitchen decided that the
dazzlingly polished coffee urn was being
saved up for the Dyer reception.
For this party the flowers were really
superb. Near the dais monster jars held
a mixture of golden irises, pussy-willow
and the knobby nuts that grow on palms,
and other parts of the room were splen-
did with the flowers of spring mingled
with cherry- and peach-blossom. Mrs.
Dyer took a plunge into a startling color
combination. Her gown of vivid green
was shilling-spotted with white ; of elec-
tric blue were sleeves, crest-like shoulder
extensions and hair-bandeau. W. N.
McKie spoke a welcome, in which he
expressed the society’s gratitude to its
founder, whose idea has always been that
people must make their own music, but
that if worth troubling about at all it
should be good stuff, especially in these
days when so-called music is heaved at
one from all sides. After the programme
the general subject of conversation was
the playing of pipes. Through Mrs. Dyer
and the Lyre Bird Press the whole of the
first edition of the Centenary Book of
Pipe Music has been donated to the Vic.
centre of the British Music Society.
There are 1000 copies to be sold. The
edition is dedicated to Sybil Hull. Miss
Hull received her congratulations in
fuschia georgette twinkly with diamente
bands. Among others present were Rita
Miller, Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Rudall, Minna
Schuler, Mrs. Barnes, in dusty-pink, and
her daughter Peggy, whose black dress
had a frilly pink cape accessory.
Melbourne is getting ready for its
100th birthday party. Prince’s Bridge
has been painted silver, with scarlet pip-
ings. A mushroom crop of pylons has
sprung up over the bridge and at the
entrance of St. Kilda-road. At first these
looked like the dummy oil-wells used in
the movies ; next the wooden legs were
covered with tin, and now they are
painted to look like stone and are fitted
with lamps. The “totem poles” are creep-
ing through the city. It’s fortunate that
they are not really religious symbols, for
no pagan deity would remain placid in
the face of such a lack of veneration. The
poles have to go through a half-plucked
stage until the city runs up its flags and
bunting. Chevron (the “Glaxo Baby”)
has reached the stage where builders,
painters, decorators and furniture men
are getting under one another’s feet.
The Alec Russells’ country home,
Mawallock, will be under regal patron-
age, for the Duke is to have a few days’
rest cure beneath its roof. The house
was built by Alec Russell’s grandfather,
who showed his forethought by planting
English trees in the woody garden. They
should be bursting into a coat of tender
green about the time of the royal visit.
There is a lake with water-lilies, and if
his Highness is not a Spartan bather he
may take his choice of canoe or dinghy.
Mrs. Russell is a gracious hostess. Her
mother, Mrs. Fred Fairbairn, gave a ball
in honor of Edward P. during his visit
to Melbourne, and her sister-in-law, Mrs.
G. A. Fairbairn, is a sister of the
Marchioness of Cambridge, who, by mar-
riage, is a niece of the Queen. The
Russell couple have a son and daughter
at school and another very small daugh-
ter at home.
At the first Spivakovsky concert on
Saturday the late arrivals were permitted
inside the door during a pause between
movements in the first item on the pro-
gramme. The ushers, anxious to be
obliging, hustled the tardy ones to their
seats under a bombardment of scowls
from the players, the craning of necks in
the audience, the thunder of footsteps
and the creaking of chairs. In the large
assemblage were the Ivan Tates and Mrs.
Charles Tate; Mrs. Keith Klingender,
with spring flowers pinned to her fur
coat; Anne Willis, wrapped among her
squirrels; Mrs. Pat Cahill, and Adela
Wertheim.


e
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying amt
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
bunkers: The Union
CORSJS!
Small things, but big worries ; short heads but
long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied . . .
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an octopus,
kills it and roots it out. The treatment requires
no preparation, no mess, but is easy, rapid and
painless. A sixpenny packet is all you need.
Ask your Chemist for A’CORN SILK.
Paoked by Felton Grimwade & Duerdins Ltd.,
Melbourne. ass
Missing Friends.
JACOB, (nee Gerrard), CELIA MAUD, mar-
ried HAMILTON JACOB 31/12/’B4 at Glebe.
Information as to her whereabouts (or her
children George and Charles) is required. They
are entitled to money in the intestate estate of
their late husband and father, Hamilton Jacob,
who died on 23/10/’3l. —W. J. KESSELL,
Public Trustee, 107 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 885 of 1934.
BETWEEN HANNAH CHANDLER Peti-
tioner
And WILLTAM ALFRED AMOS
CHANDLER Respondent.
TO WILLIAM ALFRED AMOS CHANDLER
late of C/o Mrs. Parr Princes Highway
Kogarah in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HANNAH
CHANDLER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of her marriage to you the
said William Alfred Amos Chandler on the
grounds of bigamy with adultery AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Ninth day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
DATED the Twenty-first day of August, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. R. TRACEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1005 of 1934.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN TERESA CAMP-
BELL Petitioner
And ERNEST EVERARD LINDSAY
CAMPBELL Respondent.
TO ERNEST EVERARD LINDSAY CAMP-
BELL late of 318 Lygon Street Carlton
Melbourne in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
TERESA CAMPBELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-third day of November One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-four and in the
event of your not doing so within tne time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-four.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
A. M. LAMPART, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH
AUSTRALIA.
No. 501 of 1934.
BETWEEN MARY ANN ROBERTS Plaintiff
And JOHN ROBERTS Defendant.
TO JOHN ROBERTS formerly of Adelaide
South Australia Station Eland.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY ANN
ROBERTS has commenced the above action
and claims an order for divorce for desertion
since about the month of July 1928 and if
you desire to resist the claim you must file
an appearance in the office of the Master
of the Supreme Court of South Australia
within 35 days of this advertisement otherwise
orders for divorce costs custody of the child
and maintenance may be made against you in
your absence.
PAVY, HARRY & PAVY.
44 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Educational.
TAMWORTH
CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GIRLS’ SCHOOL
Complete Course from Kindergarten to Leaving
Certificate.
Write to Miss A. M. Parr, 8.A., Principal.
On tlie very ti>i> of the glorious
BLUE MOUNTAINS, N.SAV.
“OSBORNE” LADIES’ COLLEGE,
Paradise Hill, Blackheath.
Fine mansion amidst lovely scenery. Efficient
teaching stuff. Pupils prepared for Honours,
Leaving Certificate Examination. Solely a
resident school of fifty pupils. Sport includes
golf, tennis, etc. Religion Undenominational,
l'or Prospectus, apply Lady Principal.
THE SOUTHPORT CHURCH
OF ENGLAND SCHOOLS.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL
(For Boys).
Headmaster: B. G. Lawrance, M.A.
(Cantab.).
ST. HILDA’S SCHOOL
(For Girls).
Headmistress: Winifred L. Fittock, B.A.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to
The Bursar, The Southport School, or the
Headmistress, St. Hilda s School.
Fourth Term commences October 2, 1934.
ANNESLEY, BOWRAL
Chairman of Council: Rev. L. E. Bennett,
M.A., B.U.
DAY AND BOARDING SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
FROM K.G. TO L.C.
A modern, well-equipped school in surround-
ings of exceptional healthfulness and charm,
2210 feet above sea level. Fees moderate.
Telephone: Prospectus from Headmistress,
Ilowral 104. MISS A. WHEEN, M.A.,, Dip.E«l.
Public Notice.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS AND OTHERS
Re Mary Elizabeth Mahony Deceased.
PURSUANT to the Trustee Act 1928 notice
is hereby given that The Perpetual Executors
and Trustees Association of Australia Limited
of 100-104 Queen Street Melbourne the sole
administrator of the estate of the said MAR.Y
ELIZABETH MAHONY late of 403 Flemicg-
ton Road North Melbourne in the State of
Victoria widow deceased intestate who died on
the 21st day of February 1934 intends to
convey or distribute the estate of the said
deceased to or among the persons entitled
thereto and requires all persons and creditors
interested to send to the said The Perpetual
Executors and Trustees Association of Aus-
tralia Limited on or before the 10th day of
December 1934 particulars in writing of t.,eir
claims against the said estate after which date
the said The Perpetual Executors and Trustees’
Association of Australia Limited may convey
or distribute the said estate to or among the
persons entitled thereto having regard only to
the claims whether formal or not of which it
•hall then have had notice.
DATED the 27th day of August, 1934.
J. A. WILMOTH & SON, of 273 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Proctors for the said Com-
■any.
' 9
/£•
rr.
X.
JADED?
LISTLESS ?
NO APPETITE ?
Don't turn to drugs. Take Roboleine
a wonderful concentration of
Nature's most nourishing foods com-
bined in a special way. A short course
of Roboleine will literally put new life
into you and quickly restore your
appetite for ordinary food. Doctors
all over the world prescribe it and hos-
pitals use tons of it every year.
The adult dose being one teaspoonful,
which contains an adequate ration of all
the essential vitamins, Roboleine is very
economical in use. l2oz. jars 4/6, or three
times the quantity 12/- at all chemists and
stores.
oboleine
THE FOOD THAT BUILDS THt BOO»
Send Coupon for Sample
Muir & Neil Ltd., 5.8.13
Box 1562 E, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I enclose 3d. in stamps for sample of
Roboleine.
Name
Address..;. ...... _ -
The launching of the Eisteddfod occu-
pies only about half an hour in spite of
its growing importance in the cultural
life of Sydney and the not remote
possibility of its becoming a serious rival
to the Saltzburg Festival. Lud Mayor
Parker, G. W. Layton and Roland
Foster were, mercifully short in their
speeches, but this gave the adjudicators
no relaxation. However, the organisers
had some pity, and the choral work was
lightened by humorous recitations by
small girls, who seemed to enjoy their
absurdities as much as the listeners.
The amazing thing about the week’s
doings is the unabated interest shown by
the public. From the time the doors of
competition halls open in the morning till
they close at night the halls are filled.
Youngsters awaiting their call lean over
balconies or sit upright, their stillness
proof of their earnestness.
Lady Game is coming back to a house
as shining as a new pin. The square hall
—a dismal affair in the past —is now
painted beige, with sage-green outlines,
making a much more attractive entrance.
The little chairs in the drawing-room
have had a facial gold wash. The
curtains are to be in delicate shades of
green and gold. Gone are the silk shades
from the old gas sconces in the ball-
room. They have blossomed into shin-
ing gold candleholders. All the chairs
are being re-covered, many in the fascinat-
ing new linen weaves with old-fashioned
garlands of flowers. The crown on each
post of the shallow stairway has been re-
gilded, and the stairs themselves are to
have a new covering.
There is to be a moss-green carpet
on Lady Game’s bedroom, which has
been papered in ivory tones, and her
boudoir is to have a brown carpet. Here
the curtains and coverings are to be in
floral Liberty linen, and the paper has
the colorings of mother-of-pearl. Best
of all, the beautiful cedar doors leading
from the drawing-room to the ballroom
are no longer to be shrouded in thick
curtains. They have been polished, and
are to be left exposed to delight the eye
of the discerning. When the coats of
arms of Sir Philip* Game and of Acting-
Governor Street are placed in their
panels everything will be in readiness for
the family’s return early in October.
During the royal visit Lady Game is to
have the Melba Room —it’s at the front
of the house, but from its side-windows
a glorious view of Observatory Hill and
what is left of Old Sydney may be had
—while the Duke will occupy her suite.
These rooms are large, and the windows
are long, so that the harbor can be
viewed from inside as well as from the
deep, stone balcony that stretches the
length of the house. The Duke will be
able to keep an eye on the Sussex all
the time he is in residence, as the ship
will lie practically outside his rooms at
the end of the Domain.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Festoons of twinkly-colored lights
marked the passage to the Claremont
Yacht Club for the members’ annual
ball. More lights, nestling in a canopy
of gay flags and balloons, shone above
the dancers in the impromptu ballroom
and on the verandahs, where palms and
bamboos broke the nippy breeze blowing
from the river. In the supper-room
Vice-Commodore Lynn occupied the box
seat next to his better-half’s silver, lame
with its large shoulder posy of violets.
Freshwater Bay’s Commodore, R. N.
Smith, brought his wife, and Vice-Com-
modore Davies was accompanied by Mrs.
Davies. The Felix Levinsons were there
(her velvets smacked of the sea); Mrs.
Cam Milen combined black nets with
georgette ; Mrs. F. Renner flecked orchid
velvet with silver ; Mary Gooden fluffed
leaf-green chiffons, and Pat Wallace
sprinkled sequins over gold satin.
The am. dram, offering of the
C.E.G.S. Old Girls’ Assoc, was a breezy
mixture of song, dange and dialogue
after the style of a revue. Emma and
Ethel Trigg and Nancy Rogers penned
the scripts and Emma produced. The
girls were equally at home as cowboys,
senoritas, cabaret dancers or yokels.
G.H.S. and St. Hilda’s O.G. Assoc,
celebrated its 21st birthday with a dance
at the Karrakatta Clnb. Biddy Dodd
made the cake and fashioned the asso-
ciation’s badge in icing on its topmost
tier. Mrs. Max Rutter, lithe and blithe
in blue-striped matelasse, bowed wel-
comes and presided over the supper, at
which there were speeches. The school’s
principal, Miss Catherine Small, Molly
Rowe and Theola Douglas were guests
of honor.
The Knapp-Smith wedding was a
morning affair at St. George’s Cathedral.
Betty’s four tiers of tulle fell over a
sheath of silver lame, cowled at the neck,
frilled at the hip and winding off in a
sinuous train. Wynne Palmer, Pat Smith,
Betty Unmack, Beryl Randall and Noel
White followed in her wake, luminous
in hyacinth-blue windswept satin, swathed
at the throat, gleaming with crystal and
slit at the shoulder into cowl sleeves.
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Rowe, she with
feather fronds waving on the cape of
her cyclamen matt crepes, gave a dance
at the Carlton Club to celebrate son
Jack’s coming-of-age.
The A.O.F. centenary celebration filled
Claremont Parish Hall to overflowing.
Chief Ranger Strawbridge was on the
top branch of the official tree, with his
lady alongside in a snowy confection of
satin and lace. A highlight in the pro-
ceedings was the presentation of
P.D.C.R. honors to Bro. Beer. Miss
Beer carried off a tray and tea-service.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A touch of spring in the air brought
out a crop of light straw hats at Victoria
Park. Chairman James Hall and his
good-looking daughters Muriel and
Gwen entertained at afternoon tea, both
in black-tailored coats with skunk fur
collars and close-fitting black felt hats.
Mrs. R. L. Butler also chose black, with
a stone-marten fur and black velour hat.
The Australian Flying' Corps Asso-
ciation held its ball at the Palais Royal,
where huge bowls of peach-blossom and
white broom supplied a touch of spring.
His Ex. and Lady Dugan were received
by the president, Lieut.-Col. D. V. J.
Blake, and Mrs. Dudley Hayward (pre-
sident of the Harbor Lights Guild), the
profits being dedicated to the Missions
to Seamen. From under Lady Dugan’s
silver lame coat lined with wine-colored
satin peeped a turquoise chiffon toil-
ette. Mrs. Hayward’s black crepe had
a yoke effect of silver-and-white lame.
Mrs. R. L. Butler chose black marocain
with epaulettes of silver tissue. The
Mayoress (Mrs. H. Dunstan) sported a
squirrel fur coat over Alice-blue flat
crepe.
St. Peter’s College Mission Fete was
held in the Memorial Hall at the col-
lege. Sideshows in the grounds pro-
vided entertainment for the boys. Lady
Dugan gave the shivoo its kick-off, wear-
ing navy blue relieved with white, and
a small navy hat. Padre Guy Pentreath,
Mrs. Dudley Hayward and Mrs. Frank
Rymill received Lady Dugan, who, after
her opening speech, visited all the stalls
and purchased liberally. A cabaret dance
in the Memorial Hall wound up the day.
The bridge party organised by Doug-
las Mawson’s lady to relieve distress at
Port Pirie established a record. Every
foot of space on the huge floor was cov-
ered with tables; in fact, there was only
standing room in the lifts. Supper was
served at the bridge tables.
The Public Service Ball at the Palais
Royal was attended by about 700; an-
other hundred who had bought tickets
were unable to attend owing to ’flu.
It was surely a bachelor who sent out
an SOS for 400 or 500 sheets and pillow-
cases to “replace those destroyed by the
floodwaters at Port Pirie.”
TASMANIA.
Launceston’s younger folk held a
dance at the Metropole and timed it to
fit in with the visit of the three destroyers
in port. “Thank God we have a navy,”
said the committee. Mrs. A. C. Baume,
the president, with hon. sec. Yolande
Bashford, received the guests in the outer
lounge, Mrs. Baume in pale-pink ripple
crepe with little bolero coatee in checked
taffetas. The Mayoress was in yellow
lace.
Four hostesses engineered a dance at
the Colliers’ home, Red House, Fern-
tree —Mrs. J. D. A. Collier, J. E. Thorp,
Sybil Sale and Joan Thorold. Many
bright young things motored out from
town. Almond-blossom, bulbs and prim-
roses were used in the decorations.
Gertie Atkins and Keith White dis-
pensed with frills at their morning wed-
ding at St. George’s. The bride wore a
navy ensemble with pale-blue blouse and
navy hat. The newly-weds left for Mel-
bourne to join the Orama for a trip to
England. They will settle in Penang on
their return.
Captain and Mrs. Sisson are off in the
Oronsay to England. Friends in the
military circle have been farewelling Mrs.
Sisson during recent weeks. Mrs. M. D.
Williams and Mrs. R. H. Robinson were
two recent hostesses.
Violet Day was fine for once in a
way, with the result that hard-worked
stallholders and bouquet-sellers were all
smiles, and more shekels than usual
went to the Clarendon Children’s Home.
Mrs. Mclntyre, the Launceston Play-
ers’ keystone, gave a talk on the reper-
tory movement at Hobart Town Hall,
and demonstrated her points by bringing
with her two of the Players’ leading
lights, Mrs. Phil Fysh and Dr. Holman,
who played a scene from Somerset
Maugham’s “Circle:” After the show,
many members and the guests from the
north met at the Imperial for supper.
The Art Society’s winter exhibition
repays a visit. Joseph Connor, Ethel
Nicholls. Mabel Hookey and L. and M.
Dechaineux all show good work.


SUPER POWERED J KNOCKPROOFf
SUPER
PLUME
the New and Greater Plume
SUPER
ETHYL GASOUNE/V
CORPORATION
7/WRW
w\
ETHYL
the World-Famous
Ant i- Knoc k Compound
SUPER
1
f
K
XAX
The Greatest Motor Spirit of all/
SUPER
PLUME
ETHYL
VACUUM Oil COMPANY P TV. LTD.
Pursuit.
BY REX G. RIENITS.
MULLAN dropped his pack and
flopped wearily beside it on the
sand. Two days’ walking across
saltbush desert country on short food
throat was na cKed was
blistered an/stinging from consent ex-
posure to the sun, but these discomforts
were as nothing to the mental irritation
he suffered, occasioned by Blair’s insist-
ence on more and more speed.
“I’m tired,” Mullan declared. “This
is as far as I’m goin’ to-day.” He glared
mutinously at his companion.
Blair stopped and looked down con-
temptuously at the sprawled figure on the
sand.
Tired! Of course he was tired. No
man could travel for two days under
such conditions without being tired. Blair
was tired, too ; just as tired as Mullan,
probably. There was nothing on earth
he < ?, esired mor ? “““* twenty-four hours
later"* an°d° grub on P ha’nd W ' Bufhe
wasn>t to jeopardise his life just
because be . w f t sn '‘ £ “ h " 8 in ! he P ‘ nk „
. ® ll air badn 1 tin \ e ./ or Mu|l an -
Mullan was one of those fellows without
sand> Full of energy and with plenty to
say when thln S s were swinging their way,
but surl y and inclined to whine when
tbe y went wrong.
“We’ve got over half an hour before
dark,” Blair said. “Don’t be a quitter,
Come on.”
Mullan stretched himself luxuriously,
and loosened the laces of his boots. “Aw,
you make me ill. What difference does
half an hour make one way or another?”
“Just a matter of two or three miles
between us and them niggers.”
“Niggers! It’s a wonder you don’t
dream about ’em. We been runnin’ for
two days now, and we don’t even know
if we’re bein’ chased.” Mullan kicked his
boots off, and sighed with relief as they
thudded into the sand.
“You’ll know quick enough when they
catch us up.”
Blair walked forward a few paces.
“Cornin’?”
“No.” Mullan shook his head em-
phatically. “I’m fed up of you houndin’
me on. I’m stoppin’ right here.”
Blair walked on a hundred yards, then
turned back.
Still sprawled on the ground, Mullan
watched the return with a flicker of
amusement. “Well, why didn’t you go
ahead without me?” he inquired. “You
know the way, and you’ve got a re-
volver.”
Blair tossed his light pack near that of
his companion and dropped on the sand
beside it. “You know damn well I
wouldn’t leave you,” he said gruffly.
“You wouldn’t last two days alone in this
country.”
His victory put Mullan into a better
temper. “How far d’you reckon this mis-
sion station is?” he inquired.
“About five days’ walkin’.”
“How much start d’you think we got
on them abos.?”
“Well, it’s hard to say. I don’t s’pose
the tribe was more than a day away from
us, so that’d give us two days’ start.”
“They can only follow our tracks by
daylight,” Mullan pointed out. “1 reckon
we’ve been movin’ pretty quick, too. And,
anyway, I don’t believe they’d come
chasin’ through a hundred miles of this
sand just to get even on us for killin’ a
thievin’ old cow like Warrool. It was
about time someone killed him, anyway.”
Curled in his blanket that night Blair
thought of his companion’s remark. Per-
haps Mullan was right after all. Perhaps
there wouldn’t be any pursuit.
• (Continued on next page.)


msm
WMmft
\
m
m
m
Km
m
m
m
m
i
m
m
m
m
\
m
n
Bs
-3?
-=M
§
0-61
f NEW
REALMS
As you sit behind the wheel
of the new Airflow De Soto or
restfully lounge in the relaxed
luxury of its comfortable seats
you are immediately conscious
of a new and thrilling sensa-
tion —a new conception of
motoring. Try a new De Soto —
“the Motor Car with a Future.”
è
Brisbane: Stradbroke Motors I’ty., Ltd.
Sydney: Buckle & Harden, Ltd.
Melbourne: Automobiles Pty.j Ltd.
Adelaide: 'Way month .Motor €o., Ltd.
Perth: Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd.
Hobart: Metro Motors Pty., Ltd.
Halt asleep, he reviewed the events
which had led up to the flight. He and
i lullan had been prospecting, and had
hired Billy and Warrool to do some of
1 f C ijsif WC L out the camp. First
° , a there had been that thunderstorm,
C i, ju S ’i terrified and uncon-
trollable, had broken their halters and
m n n- b V , tbe Allowing da y>
Mullan had caught Warrool with a stolen
in of jam. Curse his quick temper! That
blow with a pick-handle must have frac-
tured Warrool s skull. He died just before
dawn the following morning. Billy
disappeared about an hour later, presum-
ably to inform the tribe, which was
camped about a day’s journey away.
. ifk'u 'i5 W the babits tbe blacks;
aithough his companion grumbled and
ridiculed him, he had insisted on getting
fm J. S .ri;. ;°8 e i her and pushing off
y . . e nearest point of
•j ’ a misslon station about 250
awa T
Tu/r. .u p ... . .
cerTZ tiZt , 1U8 n tIVCS f °i
The'dpcprt rnim L e ' e being followed.
to barren peer y was 9° w wa y
tnn of the’fircZf t t r if Wn m - S ' E™? tb< T
of P hk field-aZfei h f e lair ’^ ltb t he a,d
do7en H u b ’ CS^- eC ab out ha I a
■icroS the t m r n 8 ‘ owards th .^ m
across the desert about twelve miles
-p.
lat evening they did not halt at sun-
town. They pushed on through the
nig until sheer exhaustion forced them
° s o b
Mullan was now scared. He woke
before dawn, urging Blair to renew the
flight. While not unduly frightened,
Blair realised the seriousness of the posi-
tion, and they lost no time in setting
ou t- .
Mullan’s panic became stark terror
shortly after midday, when Blair again
sighted the small band of pursuers, no
more than six miles distant.
It was only a hundred yards further
on that the accident happened. They
were descending a steep hill when Blair
trod on a loose stone. It gave way be-
neath him and he fell forward on his
chest and slithered down the incline.
Mullan, a horrified spectator, stared at
the crumpled-up body of his companion
for a moment, waiting in vain for some
movement, and then picked his way care-
down the hill. Blair in his descent
had cannoned against outcropping rocks,
His face was battered, and blood was
pouring copiously from half a dozen
wounds about his forehead and scalp. He
was unconscious, but a faint pulse beat
assured Mullan that he still lived.
Mullan’s knowledge of first aid was
only rudimentary. With strips of his shirt
he stemmed the flow of blood and bound
the wounds as best he could. The last
few drops in his water-bottle he poured
between Blair’s teeth. But after five
futile minutes his companion was still
unconscious, and every second meant a
reduction of a few yards in the distance
separating them -from the approaching
ab ™gines. .
Mullan paused irresolutely. Blair was
still alive, but it was doubtful whether he
would survive the forty miles still to be
covered, even if it were possible to carry
him that far. The man would probably
be dead within a few more minutes, any-
how.
Of course, he and Blair had been com-
rades in a sort of way, but they had never
really liked one another. It wasn’t as
though he’d be deserting a pal. The
abos. couldn’t be more than four miles
away now, and they were travelling light
and fast. In such a situation it was a
case °f every man for himself, and devil
take the hindmost. Every man for him-
self...
Mullan transferred Blair’s revolver to
bis own person, cursed vigorously as an
examination failed to reveal any further
ammunition, and then, without another
backward glance, set off at a jogtrot.
The niggers were sure to stop when
they came across Blair’s body. They
might even be satisfied with one life and
give up the chase. In any case they
would probably waste half an hour, and
if he could keep ahead of them until sun-
down he had a fighting chance.
He felt exultant as the afternoon wore
on and there was still no sign of his pur-
suers. He was tired. This last lap seemed
to be sapping every remnant of stamina
he possessed, but the conviction, gradu-
ally growing, that he was to escape after
all buoyed him up.
About two hours before sunset, he saw
them, no more than five hundred yards
away. They were running now at a
steady loping gait that ate up the dis-
tance. They must have seen him some
time earlier, because they were heading
in his direction purposefully, without
bothering to follow his tracks,
With terror gripping him once more
Mullan broke into a run, but his over-
taxed muscles could not endure the
strain. Within a niinute he realised the
hopelessness of evading them, and
stopped. To his left was a small steep
hill, with a cluster of large stones at the
summit, about forty feet from where
he was standing. As good a place as
any to make a stand.
He clambered up over the loose dirt,
and hid himself as best he could. Within
a couple of minutes the aborigines came
into view again. Mullan counted six of
them—lean young bucks, stark naked,
carrying nothing but womerahs and
spears. They had not seen him making
his way up to the little fortress. For a
second the faint hope came to him that
they might pass without noticing him, but
he dismissed this as he realised its im-
probability.
Six men. Six shots. One man, one
bullet. Mullan knew himself to be an
accurate hand with a revolver. There
was still a chance.
They were only fifty yards away now.
The leader reached the point where
Mullan had departed from the trail and,
stopping, pointed down to the ground. As
the others came up to him Mullan took
careful aim and pressed the trigger.
The leader uttered a wild cry, spun
half-round and then crashed into the
dirt. As his companions gazed at him
in stupefaction Mullan fired again. An-
other aborigine toppled, and before he
had hit the ground the revolver spoke
yet again. A third fell, and the other
three leapt hastily to cover. Mullan was
so jubilant that the terror of the last few
minutes was forgotten. Three bull’s-eyes
with three shots. If he could only repeat
the performance.
He looked carefully towards where the
blacks were hidden. For ten minutes
there was no sign of life. The strain
began to tell on his overtaxed nerves. His
jubilation gave way to anxiety. At last
he caught sight of a momentary flash of
dark brown on his right, a fleeting move-
ment among the stunted undergrowth.
Some sixth sense caused him to
wheel sharply in the opposite direction.
One of the aborigines had succeeded in
working right round to the left, had left
the last available bit of shelter, and was
now three-quarters of the way up the
hill, spear fitted to womerah, already pre-
paring to throw. The startled eyes of the
white man met those of his attacker for
a brief instant, and then Mullan aimed
quickly and fired. The aborigine’s body
straightened convulsively and toppled
lifelessly down the hill.
Four shots. Four dead.
From the corner of his eye Mullan
caught sight of a brown head peering
over the top of a rock to see what had
happened, curiosity apparently having
outweighed caution. Again he took quick
aim and pulled the trigger. There was
a scream, and an inert body rolled into
the open.
One abo. remaining, and one shot left
in his revolver. An even chance. Mullan
gazed anxiously right round him, but he
could gain no indication of the where-
abouts of his. enemy. Eyes and ears were
attuned to catch the slightest suggestion
of movement, but it did not come.
Gradually the shadows lengthened as
the sun moved westward. If only he
could last out until the darkness came.
It should not be hard to evade one pur-
suer then. Another half-hour and he
would be safe.
The sun was sinking behind a spur
before the dislodging of a small stone
caused Mullan to whirl sharply to the
right. For a second he saw nothing, and
then he thought he could discern por-
tion of a black thigh in a crevice between
two rocks. He looked carefully, and
within another moment was rewarded
with the sight of a slight but perceptible
movement.
Should he shoot and then run for it
or wait until he obtained a more vital
target? If he shattered the thigh the
native would not be able to chase him.
On the other hand, the target was small,
and if he missed his only hope would
be to escape in the darkness.
His problem was solved by the cau-
tious appearance of a head at the far
side of the rock. Mullan sighted care-
fully and pulled the trigger. At the same
instant the head jerked back, warned
apparently by the flash of the steel barrel
against the sombre brown of the rock.
Mullan held his breath. Had he scored
a hit? He could not be quite sure. He
knew that his aim had been true, but
whether the head had been drawn back
before or after he had pulled the trig-
ger was a matter of which he could not
be certain.
There was absolute stillness. Ten
minutes passed, seeming like ten hours
to Mullan. He fought and. conquered an
almost irresistible desire ’to leave his
hiding place and determine whether his
last shot had taken effect. •
Another five minutes went by. Night
was closing in rapidly. In another quar-
ter of an hour he could make a dash for
it. He still watched the rock closely, but
in the gathering gloom he felt that his
eyes were playing tricks on him.
His heart beat violently as he fancied
he saw something move, but it must only
have been a trick of the imagination.
Then, with the possibility of escape
almost within his grasp, he became cer-
tain that he had detected a movement.
He strained his eyes in the semi-dark-
ness. Was that a man’s head poking cau-
tiously out?
The doubt became a. certainty a
moment later.
It was no illusion this time. The head
was there, presenting a perfect target if
only he had another bullet.
Suddenly something rose from the
shadows and loomed up before him.
Mullan screamed, and, throwing the re-
volver with all his force into the face of
the oncoming figure, he turned and fled
madly down the hill.
As he ran he heard a peculiar swishing
noise, like the sound of the wind in the


iG
Non-skid mileage
increased by
a
but you pay no more
Dunlop now introduces a tyre with a new improved
tread containing 23 per cent, more rubber. The
famous helical - geared pattern has been retained
but the tread is 25 per cent, deeper and 7% per
cent, wider than before. Built into the tyre is the
capacity to deliver 30 per cent, more running
miles. Because the pattern stays on longer, you now
get an increased non-skid mileage of 48 per cent.
And, not one penny has been added to the prices
of Dunlop "Gold Seal” Tyres, which are still
the lowest in history.
Your dealer has complete stocks. Ask to see your size.
NEW
OLD f
NEW OLD
The increased width
of the Dunlop tread
(shown left) is a defi-
nite safety feature .
7%% wider, it gives
added road grip
and protection from
skidding.
The increased depth
of rubber in the new
" Gold Seal ” tread
is evident at right.
The full width grips
the road giving
more mileage and
safety.
38.48.
&
eat
m
H
TED!
trees. Something struck him with ter-
rific force in the centre of the back, and
he pitched forward on his face.
Boomi looked with a certain satisfac-
tion at the figure of the white man
sprawled on his face, and, with the aid
nf « ivw - 1! , V Tv 7
pulled his spear free s loulder-blades,
jj P ~ '
He retraced his steps, his keen eyes
searching the ground ; then stopped, and
picked up Mullan’s revolver. So this was
the little thing that coughed and killed
men! Not half as formidable-looking as
a spear or a boomerang! Boomi
examined it curiously. He placed a
finger on something that seemed to give
a trifle> w °ndering what it could be, he
a PP h . ed a little pressure.
Wlt J} startling . en^ S bi hand "I
seemed to burst into fire in his hand. A
sharp crack soun ded in his ear, flying
grains of sandstone struck him in the
f ace , and he heard a singing whine as
something ricochetted away into the
night. He dropped the evil thing and ran.
Mullan had forgotten that Blair’s re-
volver contained seven chambers.
The Scrub Turkeys
BY KYLIE TENNANT.
THE Scrub Turkeys were camped a
mile outside Tiburon. Old Sergeant
Knott had given permission to half
a dozen tramps to occupy temporarily a
deserted wine-shanty which stood near
the old ford across Mogong Creek. Their
numbers had slowly increased to tifteen.
They were all single men. Their leader
was Old Pink, who had been elected chief
year after year owing to his superior cun-
ning and experience.
Nowadays, their chief pastime was
baiting the new sergeant —“Safety First,”
they called him. He was efficient,, after
his fashion, but if he saw a fight in pro-
gress he would hasten back to the station
and send Constable Hide to stop it. Hide,
a large, easy-going man who regretted the
old sergeant, would stroll up slowly, hit
the fighters over the head with his baton
if they continued truculent, and lead
them to the lockup, one under each
arm.
Still, Hide was slow to do what he was
told, and it was one of “Safety First’s”
grievances that he was not keen on the
job of clearing the Scrub Turkeys out
of their camp.
“They don’t do much harm, Sergeant,”
he said in reply to one of his superior
officer’s outbursts. “They don’t mix with
the other bagmen, and they grow their
own vegetables, and they’ve been build-
ing themselves quite decent little huts.
They stand by one another and keep to
themselves.”
“Pity you don’t go and join them,”
the sergeant sniffed.
Hide wished he could. He saw trouble
ahead.
“They work, too,” he ventured.
“Work!” his chief growled. “Do y’
call it work ?”
For the Scrub Turkeys had a calling
and they guarded it jealously. No one
else in the district would they allow to
cut Bathurst burrs. Every season they
took up the vocation with which Pro-
vidence had seen fit to provide them, and,
in case Providence should discontinue the
supply of burrs, it was their custom to
(Continued on next page.)


Since 1834
Aiding' the
Primary Producer
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, has always been
noted for its sympathetic understanding of the problems and progress ot
the primary producer. Since the Bank was founded —100 years ago it
has had men on its Directorate who understand the difficulties that oftentimes
confront the man on the land, and so, at the present time, a large amount ol
the Bank’s total advances to Australian industries is in the hands of those
engaged in Pastoral and Agricultural development. In fact, the progress of the
Commercial Banking Company of Sydney has synchronised with the growth and
expansion of Australia’s great primary industries.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
With which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria, Ltd.
Head Office :
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DAKVALI., -
Uranchew and -Receiving OlticeN throughout N.8.W., Queensland, Victoria, South
Australia, and at Canberra, F.C.T. Agents throughout the World.
i
und < Dri
mon
to the Sunshine of the
South S&a is/an c/s
FIJI —TAHITI—HONOLULU
Delightful trips to enchanting lands of sunshine, flowers,
romance and loveliness. No holiday land in the world can
compare with the glamour of the alluring South Seas.
Specially reduced fares make possible a delightful
South Seas voyage for no more than the cost of
the average stay-at-home holiday.
Let us help you plan a care-free, economical
South Seas Vacation. Illustrated literature
with full details of fares and sailings w'U
be gladly supplied on request.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
296 Queen Street. Hrishane.
%
%
A
1
iwh
U
A
m
r
<81? ‘‘‘l
The Rural Bank
of New South Wales
has, as its main objective, the assistance of
Primary Producers in New South Wales.
Branches are being established throughout the
State for this purpose, and in places where the
Rural Bank has no branches the Common-
wealth Bank acts as its agent.
General Banking Business is undertaken, and
the funds available are lent to all classes of
Primary Producers.
Sydney Branch:
350 GEORGE STREET (opp. Wynyard Street).
Head Office:
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President)
H„ ROGERS
P. KEARNS
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without* it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published, by
The -Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
252 George Street, Sydney.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
cariy your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
select the best of the harvest as a seed
crop.
"Don't want to find ourselves among
the unemployed,” Old Pink told one of
the grumblers who objected to being sent
out burr-sowing. “You’ll be glad o’
them burrs some day.”
When the burrs were not demanding
their attention, the Scrub Turkeys lived
like gentlemen. They drank, but not
more immoderately than the rest of
Tiburon, for, since their money went into
a common fund, with Old Pink as treas-
urer, not more of it came out than would
pay for a mug of beer all round now and
then. They gambled for enormous
stakes and paid in IOUs. They did a
little fossicking and shot rabbits. They
swam in the pleasant little pool they had
hollowed out of the creek. But mostly
they just sat in the shade and yarned.
They did not allow trespassing on their
water frontage. Turnouts pulling in from
the road would be told in a friendly way
that there were better water and better
pasture farther up. Bagmen were in-
formed that there was a shire council
shelter shed on the other side of the
town.
It was this habit of moving on strangers
that brought about the first collision be-
tween the Scrub Turkeys and the ser-
geant. One hot January afternoon Old
Pink and Larry noticed a figure down in
the creek bed apparently getting water.
Closer inspection seemed desirable.
“It’s a girl!” said Larry and whistled
softly. Larry usually whistled when he
wished to express deep emotion. The
girl was bathing her feet in the river.
Beside her on the bank lay a large suit-
case.
“Hey, missus!” Old Pink called tact-
fully. “You’d better be careful ! There’s
snakes along them banks!
The girl ignored them and limped pain-
fully over the pebbles to where she had
left her flimsy stilt-heeled shoes.
“Look at ’er boots!” said Larry, and
whistled again. This time it meant “She
must be mad to walk out of town in
shoes like those.”
“Where y’ from?” asked Old Pink
affably.
“Sydney,” the girl answered, still keep-
ing her face turned away from them.
“An’ where y"r headin’ for?” '
“Sydney. I’m walking back.”
Larry whistled. She had evidently
been crying.
Bit by bit they got the story out of her.
She had been engaged as a waitress at the
Themistocles Cafe and had spent her last
penny to pay her train fare to Tiburon,
only to be informed when she got there
that a local girl had got the job. They
had refused to pay her fare back to Syd-
ney. “So I’ve got to walk,” she said de-
fiantly. “Anything else you’d like to
know?”
“We’re only tryin’ to help yer,” Old
Pink said. “Come up to the camp and
see what the boys say.”
The boys said a great deal. “Dirty
skunks, them Dagoes,” was the general
verdict. They all wanted to go into town,
but Old Pink decided that eight were
enough. “Seein’ that the young lady
hasn’t nobody to stick up for her,” he
said, “it’s up to us.”
Half an hour later the sergeant was
attracted from the police station by the
sight of a crowd outside the Themistocles
Cafe. He strolled cautiously past on the
other side of the street, where he could
see through the plate-glass windows that
there was a grand row in progress. A
voluble Greek could be heard declaring
that he would have no tramps dictating
to him. Outside the shop the Scrub
Turkeys were busy explaining matters to
the rest of the town, and the angry
murmurs grew into a babble.
The sergeant pushed his way to the
counter, undecided whether to arrest Old
Pink under some by-law or charge the
proprietor of the Themistocles Cafe
with creating a disturbance. He con-
tented himself with sweeping all in
the shop out on the footpath, where the
Scrub Turkeys promptly took up a col-
lection in aid of the stranded waitress.
A triumphal procession then streamed
down towards the railway station, the
waitress riding ahead in Sam Prescott’s
buggy in case she missed the train.
“If the girl had applied to the proper
quarters,” said “Safety First” to Con-
stable Hide, “we might have been able
to do something for her.” He' shook his
head. “Getting too big for their boots,
those fellows. They’ve got to be shifted.”
The complete indifference of the Scrub
Turkeys when the sergeant ordered them
off the river bank for the third time
infuriated him more than any previous
passive resistance.
“I suppose y’ think y’ too good to go
an’ camp with the other bagmen on
Warning Hill,” he said. The Scrub Tur-
keys regarded him with silent hostility.
“If you’re not gone in a week —I’m giv-
ing you a week, mind! —you can take the
consequences.”
The Scrub Turkeys were still there a
month later cultivating their vegetables.
Sandy Conn had planted a red geranium
beside the door of his hut. “So that 1
can sit under its shade in me old age an’
watch ‘Safety First’ cursin’ me from the
road,” he explained.
Below Warning Hill the creek water
was not as clean as it might be ; then
the Scrub Turkeys considered the place
overcrowded. Besides half-castes and
quarter-castes, their dogs and offspring
and hawkers and travellers with vans
and sulkies, there were several families
of woodcutters, notably Old Man Per-
sill and his fifteen children. Old Man
Persili once had the ambition to draw
family endowment for twenty children,
but his wife died on the fifteenth, leav-
ing him to drown his disappointment in
drink.
His sons cut down the trees and carted
them to the shelter built of bags and
flattened kerosene-tins where they all
lived. There the girls, well-built, sullen
young women, with bare feet and strong
arms, sawed the trunks into logs.
About November there was an epi-
demic of shopbreaking in Tiburon, the
articles stolen being chiefly foodstuffs and
tobacco. The sergeant went about hint-
ing that he had his suspicions, and was
only waiting to make an arrest. He
paid a visit to the Scrub Turkeys, where
he drew a blank and was unpleasantly
received. However, he did not fail to
tell the town that the Scrub Turkeys had
not only cunningly hidden the booty but
were adding sedition and the harboring
of undesirables to their crimes.
The night before the sergeant’s visit
Sandy Conn and Bill Foley had brought
a sick shearer into the camp. They car-
ried him to Bill’s bunk, where Bluey Ross
identified him by the light of a candle.
“It’s Soldier Mahoney. He was work-
in’ at Onslow’s shed and they cut out
yesterday. Probably on his way home
to Bangaroo when he got his touch of
malaria. He gets it every year. Just
lies and shivers.”
The man on the bed turned and asked
for a drink. “I’ll be all right in a few
days, comrade,” he said through his
chattering teeth.
“Comrade!” said Larry, and whistled.
“One of them Reds, eh?”
“Oh, well,” Bluey answered tolerantly,
“he don’t do much harm. An’ it’s simply
wonderful to hear him talk. ’E’ll try and
convert you as soon as he’s fit to speak.
I’ve never struck a Salvation Army chap
that could equal Soldier.”
Soldier Mahoney, recovering from his
malaria, was an entertaining patient. His
stories of New Guinea, Darwin and the
Barrier Reef were mingled with others of
strikes, lock-outs, the treachery of this
party and the cunning of that, the
demoniacal tactics of one boss and the
triumph of the workers over another.
Only when he began on the Soviets did
the interest of his listeners wane.
“Think of it!” he said, his eyes filled
with the light of one who has seen the
Promised Land. “No unemployment
there. In Russia every man has a job
—every man. You wouldn’t be wasting
your lives just existing on the edge of
starvation there. You’d be working.
Everyone works there.”
He failed to notice the disfavor on the
faces of his listeners.
Meanwhile, the rumor had spread that
the Scrub Turkeys had “gone Red,” and
were planning to set alight to the town
and burn the citizens in their beds. One
of those vague panics occurred which
begin as jokes and end in trouble. Also
Harry Field’s store was robbed for the
second time. Harry, who was shire
president, called a meeting of business
people.
“These men,” he said in his well-
prepared little speech, “form a menace,
a very definite menace. The citizens of
our town must make themselves respon-
sible for its protection. It is necessary,
in my opinion, to form ourselves into a
guard and patrol the streets every night
that this menace hangs over our heads."
Several of the more patriotic citizens
nodded their grey heads emphatically. >
“May be only a rumor,” Joe Collins,
the auctioneer, put in, filling his pipe.
“Rumor!” Sam Astill puffed. “Ain’t
they had that chap the council tried to
get turned out o’ Mogong staying with
them? Reds! That’s what they are!
No respect for law an’ order! I wouldn’t
put anything past them!”
It was decided that volunteers be called
for a patrol of citizens ; and night after
night, until they got tired of it, the
town would turn out to see old Sam


1 :"ihiiiiiii!i., '* >
J r
-] 1
'u '"'inr-;--
sNNV^\\\
m
Jhe Wondcrhwd
This "Garden of the East"
has countless attractions
for the tourist. Beautiful
landscapes towering
mountains—ancient tem-
ples —bazaars—colourful
native life—palatial hotels.
Equipped with every
modern convenience the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" sails
regularly from Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane by
way of the Great Barrier
Reef, Thursday Island,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Sama-
rang and Batavia, to Sing-
apore Fares have been
greatly reduced and are
free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased
to forward foltler No 25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
312 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE 128 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE
THESE LAST FEW
YEARS
These last few years have, in a marked or le6ser degree,
proved to all the wisdom of making some provision for the
future. All of us have experienced the unexpected financial
calls of everyday life, and, while it is impossible to gauge
accurately the needs of the future, it is possible to provide
for them.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open, and can be
opened nearly anywhere in Australia. With it and the regular
saving of money, however small the amounts, adequate pro-
vision for the unexpected calls will be made.
Commoiiwcaltl) JBank of Bustralia
Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Marks the important
points of lubrica-
tion in most types of
modern motor ve-
hicles for which
ALEMITE affords
the greatest meas-
ure of protection.
JLLEMITE
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
é
Clutch Release Bearing
Performing important duties, special lu-
brication is required for different types.
ALEMITE SERVICE covers ALL types.
Haphazard greasing is the
chief cause of old age in
young motor cars. Highly
specialized lubricants, ap-
plied under great pres-
sure, are the contributions
of ALEMITE to the effi-
ciency and increased econ-
omy of modern motoring.
Tk 1 • , 4-1 . • CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Alemite LoiporatioA Ca bu> Add almit... Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. Mi.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street. Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (4V.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. M A CHIN & CO. (Ptv), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street. Adelaide K-Aust—7-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
Astill puffing up and down between the
bridge and Turner’s Corner, or greet
the watch by the War Memorial with
a happy cry of “Bring out yer bombs!”
The town welcomed a bit of diversion
even if it felt that the Citizens’ Com-
mittee was making itself ridiculous.
There never was a brighter night in
Tiburon’s history than that Saturday
when a mob of the younger and more
aggressive citizens, led by “Safety First,”
with Hide competently at hand to pro-
tect him, set out for the Scrub Turkeys’
camp with the intention of “burning
them out.” Only five of the Scrub Tur-
keys were left in camp, the rest having
gone into town to make a night of it
and watch the guard parading the streets.
“Seems very quiet to-night,” Sandy re-
marked to Bluey Ross as they sat on
the kerb outside Neilson’s Hotel. If
they had come by the river road instead
of taking the short cut from the back of
the camp, they would have met “Safety
First’s” mob going out. The streets, as
was usual on Saturday, were full of
women and children, parked cars, dogs
and horses, but all the men seemed to
have vanished.
“’Tis funny,” rejoined Bluey, and spat
reflectively into the gutter. As he did so
a small boy panted up beside him. It
was Constable Hide’s son. “Hullo,” he
said. “What is it, Jimmy?”
“Sandy,” Jimmy whispered, “there’s
someone in the bank. 1 saw them gettin’
in, an’ the manager’s gone off with the
others an’ I guess it’s the burglars.”
The remnant of the guard and the
majority of their admirers were at the
other end of the street, the bank manager
was with the hut-burning posse, and
there was nothing to mar the effect when
he returned to find that the Scrub Tur-
keys had had little trouble in capturing
three of Old Man Persill’s sons in the
act of looting the bank.
There were plenty of witnesses at the
trial. So many, in fact, that few of the
Scrub Turkeys were needed. By the time
it came off most of them had scattered
down into the plain and divided their
forces between So-Long and Muttwont.
Tiburon would see them no more. They
are mentioned in recollections of “the
time the Reds camped round the town,”
and have become a local legend.
The capture had been a horrible blow
to the Citizens’ Committee and a worse
one to the sergeant. Constable Hide was
so busy being proud of his son that he
did not worry who actually caught the
burglars.
“Cheer-up!” said Bluey the day after
the trial, as he and Sandy took the Mutt-
wont-road to join the contingent already
camped there. “There’s plenty more
places where they need burr-cutters.”
“ ’Tain’t that,” Sandy said gloomily. “1
can’t help thinking of all the work we
put in sowin’ them burrs for next year.
And now the scum on Warning Hill’ll
reap all the profit. If Old Pink thinks
he’s ever goin’ to get me plantin’ any
more, he’s jolly well mistaken.”
The Scrub Turkeys no longer plant
burrs. They harvest only what Nature
so bountifully provides. They are an in-
stitution in Muttwont, though their
numbers have been greatly diminished
by marriage and other accidents; but
a small band under Old Pink still main-
tains the honorable industry. The ser-
geant at Muttwont is a friend of Old
Pink, and sometimes strolls out to hear
him relate his experiences ; but even the
sergeant never mentions Tiburon. He
knows it is Pink’s sore spot.
Out of the Past.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT
THE HASTY LADY.
WHEN Major Robert Du Moulin
was second-in-command of “The
Buffs” he was always alluded to
amongst the rank and file as “Old Hurry
Up.” No drill movement had ever been
done with sufficient rapidity to please
him, and no office work could be com-
pleted soon enough to satisfy his exact-
ing demands.
He once visited the garrison hospital
in Sydney to inquire about the condi-
tion of a non-com. who had been griev-
ously injured by an explosion of ammu-
nition, and was informed by the regi-
mental surgeon that the man would pro-
bably die before sunset. “Well, tell the
fellow to hurry up,” he said. “Sergeant
Archibald always was too slow!”
Yet the motto below the coat of arms
of the major’s branch of his family is
“Festina Lente.”
The major had an only daughter, a
charming girl. In thought, word or deed
she was constitutionally unable to hurry.
In contradistinction to the title with
which they distinguished her father,
pretty Fanny Du Moulin was alluded to
amongst the junior officers of “The
Buffs” as “The Tortoise,” much as they
adored her.
Governor Darling was an old friend,
and when in 1826 the major decided to
terminate his military career and settle
down in the colony he was permitted
to select 5000 acres of land in the valley
of the Hunter River. John Oxley, the
Surveyor-General, was directed to de-
fine the boundaries, as a grant to Major
Du Moulin “in recognition of his meri-
torious military and public services.”
With characteristic speed the major
took up his residence there in a tent, and
so urged and bedevilled the retainers
■assigned to him by the Crown that,
' in little more than six months, the hand-
some and commodious mansion which
even to-day is one of the best in the
district it ornaments was ready for occu-
pation by Mrs. Du Moulin and her
daughter. “Hurry Up House” was the
name given to it locally, but the major
headed his letter paper “Darling
Towers.”
In 1832 Lieut. Henry Postlethwaite, of
the Border Police—the semi-military
organisation appointed by Governor Dar-
ing to administer his Bushranging Act
in the country districts—rode out from
jyiaitland to Darling Towers to confer
with Major Du Moulin as to cattle-
stealing in his neighborhood. The major
had suffered considerable losses of stock.
“Demme,” said Mr. Postlethwaite to
Peter Nankervis, the police magistrate,
“I don’t expect to get any assistance from
‘Old Hurry Up,’ but they tell me he has
a demned fine filly running at grass out
there—his daughter—and she may be
worth knowing. Just arrived from civil-
isation, they say, and uncommonly good-
looking. I think I’ll call at ‘Hurry Up
House’ and see what’s to be seen.”
“What you want, Harry, my boy, is
a year out on the Big River, where the
only ladies you’d meet would be black-
gins. That’d do you good.”
“Ah, well, Mister P.M., there’s nothing
like having high ideals.”
Harry Postlethwaite’s ideals might
have been high, or they might not, but
he was well aware that one of the best
things possible to happen to a penniless
subaltern seconded from his regiment for
service with such a body of black sheep
as the Border Police was a matrimonial
alliance with the daughter of some for-
tunate and prosperous runholder.
Prosperous runholders were fairly
abundant in that part of the colony, con-
taining as it did some of the richest coun-
try in New South Wales and possessing
a port of its own at Newcastle. Most
of the retired army and navy officers had
chosen the grants given to them by Mac-
quarie and Brisbane and Darling along
the fertile agricultural flats of the Hunter
or in the well-grassed foothills of the
blue ranges that walled in the capacious
territories of its V-shaped valley.
Even if some of them had “gone broke”
by building stables and making race-
courses before they had fenced in cow
paddocks, and erecting mansions they
couldn’t afford to live in, a good many
had done well.
So, when the young and handsome
police officer found himself being enter-
tained at tea by the prettiest, if most lan-
guid, girl he had ever met, it is not to
be wondered at that he considered him-
self fortunate.
“Really, my dear Postlethwaite,” said
the major as he stood, booted and
spurred, before the empty fireplace in
the drawing-room at Darling Towers, his
cup and saucer in his hands, “the people
hereabout are immovable. These con-
founded fellows from the ranges could
be rooted out completely if my neighbors
would only bestir themselves in the way
I want them to. With a little energy
of outlook and execution, we could en-
tirely free the Hunter River of cattle-
stealers and bushrangers.”
“My dear papa,” said his lovely
daughter, turning her eyes up at him lazily
from the sofa she reclined on with an
air of graceful weariness, “why wish to
stir people up? What do a few head
(i Continued on next page.)


CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
> •
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
C, BRANDAUER & CO.’S, Ltd-
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS.
m
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware ot
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dm k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular,
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send SO/-.)
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matter: arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 Geor&e-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
<v
1
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania*
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
\V. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launcestun.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
of cattle matter to-day? More will breed
to-morrow. Do be leisurely in a country
so well adapted to a leisured class. Don’t
you agree with me, Mr. Postlethwaite?”
Mr. Postlethwaite agreed with both
parties to the argument. The Hunter
Valley was a lotus-land—but lotus-lands
should not be infested with bushrangers
and cattle-stealers. Quite impossible to
permit it. When these gentry had been
put in their place life would be as de-
lightfully easy-going as anyone could
wish. In the meantime he was at the
major’s service—he and his patrol. Also,
and of course, he was always at the ser-
vice of Miss Du Moulin.
“I wonder?” murmured that lady lan-
guidly, turning her big, dark eyes on the
smartly-uniformed young officer as he
bowed low over his teacup. “Would he
be game?” she asked herself. “We’ll
see.”
A great round moon rose over the
encircling steel edge of the sea as the
Lord Liverpool, the Sydney-Newcastle
packet, about to be superseded by the
Sophia Jane and William the Fourth
steamers, drifted out over the bar and
past Nobby’s Island at the commence-
ment of her weekly voyage to Sydney.
Under the big mainsail on the cutter’s
low poop, a little for’ard of the helms-
man and Captain Taggart, Lieutenant
and Mrs. Harry Postlethwaite sat upon
chairs which had been brought up for
them from the cuddy by the steward at
the captain’s order. This was exactly
one week after the officer in command
of the Border Police at Maitland had
led his patrol out to Darling Towers on
the Paterson River.
A gentle nor’-easter filled the big sail
straining above their heads as the little
ship swung round the lump of rock, as
yet unconnected with the mainland by
the convict-built breakwater which was
beginning to push out through the surf.
It took over forty years to build, and
had not got half-way by this glorious
summer night in 1832 when the famous
Hurry Up Elopement took place. Mrs.
Postlethwaite had become a grandmother
before it was finished.
“My darling,” whispered the bride in
her delightful drawl, “you’re quite sure
you love me?”
“I adore you, precious angel,” mur-
mured the bridegroom.
“Because,” she went on, “you’ll need
all your love for me when you en-
counter papa. My father will be furious.
But we’ll go straight to the Royal Hotel,
where he’s stopping, and break the news
to him, won’t we? Are you brave enough
for that, Harry, boy?”
“Sweetheart, with you beside me I’m
brave enough for anything! But, my
angel, are you sure you love me ?”
“Oh, I begin to think I do,” she whis-
pered a little shyly.
“You begin ? But I thought our
mutual attraction had been simultaneous,
Fanny, my precious. I had hoped ’twas
of as long standing with you as with
myself. Begin ?”
A little hand patted a whisker on the
cheek nearest her.
“I knew I would, darling'—l was quite
sure of it. I do!”
“But not at first?”
“Well —not quite at first. You see,
before you arrived the other afternoon
papa had been trying me most sorely.
He kept repeating that I was lazy, lacka-
daisical, languishing, and wanting in
initiative. So when he was called out to
meet you, and brought you back to the
drawing-room, 1 made up my mind to
prove to him how very inconvenient and
annoying hastiness could be. 1 would
adopt his own style of Hurry Up. I
would marry you—-just to show him how
hurried 1 could be.
“But, dearest, all this hurry we’ve had
to-day—the ride from Darling Towers,
Ihe capture of the Reverend Mr. Wilton
in his parsonage, the forcing of the poor
man to marry us, the hurried shopping in
Newcastle, this rush to sea —it’s almost
too much for me. You know, papa is
quite right, really—l’m not at all a hasty
lady. Deliberation is my motto, darling.
Never again, so long as I live, will I
indulge in hastiness.”
All through that wondrous night of
honeymoon they sat on the deck of the
Lord Liverpool, whilst the steady nor’-
easter, which unwontedly maintained an
undiminished force from darkness to
dawn and wafted them through Sydney
Heads at sunrise, aided and abetted their
elopement. Just as well might they have
been married in Maitland and stayed
there, but, her father having been sud-
denly summoned to Sydney, whither he
had ridden overland down the new road
by Wiseman’s Ferry, nothing would do
his daughter but this dramatic pro-
cedure.
“He must be taught a lesson,’’ she said
—“and I will teach it to him.”
Red Head, and Moon Island, and
Catherine Hill Bay, and Wabung Head,
and Bird Island, and Norah Head, and
Cape Three Points, and Barrenjoey, and
finally North Head slipped by steadily
to starboard all through that enchanted
ten hours as they voyaged over spark-
ling and flashing waters that rocked them
gently through their wedding night; and
they woke in their easy-chairs as the
cutter was rounding Bradley’s Head and
the little city was coming into view
behind the wooded rock called Pinch-
gut and the bastions of Fort Macquarie.
Captain Taggart was beaming down at
them, as he conned the cutter-packet
up Port Jackson.
“Many happy returns of this morning,
my dears,” said the kindly seaman.
Fanny, to his astonishment and confu-
sion and delight, ran across the deck and
kissed good John Taggart.
“My darling,” said Mr. Postlethwaite
to Mrs. Postlethwaite as they stood look-
ing into the heart of the town whilst they
passed by Sydney Cove—“l fear you
have acquired a little hastiness since
yesterday morning. Don’t you think
so?”
“Wait and see!” she smiled up at him.
“Oh, how ldvely everything is. Sydney
Harbor, and all the world.”
“I hope that includes your father’s
temper, my angel,” said Mr. Postle-
thwaite with a trace of sobriety in his
tone.
When they arrived at Mr. Barnet
Levy’s Royal Hotel in George-street, a
longshoreman’ from the Market' Wharf
in Cockle Bay (Darling Harbor) carrying
their carpet-bags, they found that Major
Du Moulin had just gone in to breakfast
in the coffee-room.
Fanny leaned on the arm of her hus-
band as they entered the chamber, which
her father had to himself at that early
hour. He sat back in his chair and gaped
at them, open-mouthed, as they came up
the big room.
“Be bold! ” she whispered, and he
squeezed her arm.
For a few moments, both a little pale,
they stood in front of the major. He
found his voice first.
“Good God! Fanny—and—and Mr.
Postlethwaite! ”
“Sir,” said the bridegroom, bowing,
“permit me to present to you Mrs. Henry
Postlethwaite.”
Dumbly, the major continued to gape,
first at one of them and then the other.
It was a full minute before he found
his voice again. It had, apparently,
from the sound of it, got down into his
boots.
“Frances, my dear,” he rumbled —
“have you not been a little hasty?”
“Just this once, darling ‘Old Hurry
Up,’” she cried as she flung her arms
round his neck—“but never again. Never
again, I promise you! ”
She kept her word.
Long Since.
Long since I heard the muttered anger of the
. reef:
But it was far off even then —so far indeed
That an imagined murmur, like the ear’s
belief
And faith of the night, was mingled with a
fuller knell '
Throbbing across the silence, and one could
not tell
Which sounds were of air stirring, which
come at the mind’s need.
And that was the old sea, alive beyond the
calm
Of those wide-reaching waters stilled in the
lagoon—
Alert, masterful waves summoning beach and
palm
To be up and about and moving, and ever
upon quest
Ol new desires of the spirit, not sunk in a
soft rest
Only expectant of some drunkenness of the
moon.
1 knew it .also for my own heart’s call to me,
As baffling still as it would seem in the lost
time
When it was loveliness on edge with melody,
Elusive always and yet eternally to be sought
Past any meaning of meaning or any thought
of thought
Mow wistfully heard again in even so dulled
a clime.
I turned harshly and strode back to the native
town,
Watched by the wooden faces, the stolid
Fijian eyes,
Sought my thatched doorway, entered, mechani-
cally sat down,
Wondering what fate was on rpe or what
weakness took toll
That thus I must go scurrying ratwise to my
hole
Lest some true self should claim me with
imperious cries. ,
FIJI.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.


Is
Kidney Trouble
Robbing you
of your Health ?
Do you realise the hidden
danger that exists if weak
and inflamed Kidneys are
neglected?
Impurities are permitted to
escape into the blood, excess
uric acid accumulates in the
system, vitality is lowered,
paving the way for dreaded
Rheumatism, Twisted and
Distorted Joints, Lumbago
and Sciatica.
'mm
mMm
m;
Y.YS&y/S-' ‘
\waßSmm
i
mm?*
m
%
iZX&ivXM
e*
: ■:■
■Vi,
r sie BeJ'
TUan&hfl
rl
J=-
(*n
ds SHELDON'S
Concentrated XXj«
Non Alcoholic) Extract \&l
jj“*of the constituents of GIN Vi
y combined with other diuretics \
f in pill form, according to the ’
method formulated by Dr E. M
SHELDON, for the treatment of all
diseases of the Kidneys, Bladder
and Urinary System.
it
a
DOSE -1 to 3 Pills
PREPARED BY
E SHELDON ORUGCO LTD
SYDNEY NSW#
1/9
2/9
27 Pills
60 Pills
Kidney Trouble may be caused in a dozen different ways—a chill in the back—
worry and overwork—incorrect food and indigestion. Whatever the cause, don’t
permit Kidney Trouble to continue and take its vicious toll upon you.
lI BM/
Don’t pay the penalty of neglect!
Check Kidney Trouble at once by taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, the reliable
Kidney Tonic which has brought relief to tens of thousands of sufferers from
Kidney Trouble during the last 25 years.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills will remove the inflammation from your Kidneys, help
them to become strong and healthy, dissolve any excess uric acid in your blood,
tone up your entire system, and make you feel strong, well and young again.
Keep free from Kidney Trouble by letting this tried and proven Remedy do for
you what it has done for so many others.
HAVE THE HEALTH THAT CAN BE YOURS BY BEGINNING
A COURSE OF DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS TO-DAY.
i> * Muidmu
BACKACHE
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
LUMBAGO
kidney
AND'
bladder
troubles,
-
JUST PUBLISHED !
"Psalmist of the Dawn,”
By MARY MARLOWE.
There are few settings left in the world
that some novelist or other has not used,
(but for this charming romance Miss
Marlowe has found one of them. Her
story, from the bustle and feverishness
of city life, moves quickly to Lord Howe
Island, palm-crested speck in the Pacific
which is a romance in itself. Miss Mar-
lowe knows her islanders intimately:
remote from the world’s hurly-burly;
characteristically ruled over by Three Wise
Men; altogether about the happiest people
on earth. The real and yet almost fairy-
tale island atmosphere gives the novel a
refreshing distinction, a compelling touch
of difference.
“Psalmist of the Dawn,” by Mary Marlowe, is now on sale at
all bookstalls and newsagents. Published by The Endeavour
Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book.
Price 4)6 (postage 3d.).
X
g 6 '
9
!^.rW
* V
F
0^
n>
>®V
,\\®
n *p
o°,
# V °' ,•••' ..•••■
,0*


m
r
t Kw
IM NO
RADIO
EXPERT
The Tasma “190”
This receiver is a 5-valve
battery-operated Superhetero-
dyne designed for the “Out
Back” listener. The re-
ceiver is one of the most
popular'in the Tasma range,
and is noted for its splendid
tone and EXTREME eco-
nomy in batteries.
m
The Tasma Auto Radio
Readily attached to any
make of car, the Tasma
Auto Radio brings you news
and entertainment wherever
you drive. City or country,
daylight or dark, the Tasma
will bring you the pick of
the programmes. The con-
trol unit, with its attractive,
easily-read Aeroplane Dial,
clamps on to the steering
column handy to the fingers.
You’re missing a lot of
inexpensive fun if your car
isn’t fitted with a Tasma.
“I’M like you; no money to waste and no time to listen to a
* lot of high-falutin’ technicalities about the set’s internals.
“1 want a set that gives me the stations I ask for right away
—and I expect to get them as clear as a hell no matter where
they are. Any receiver that has to be coaxed and petted is
no use to ME. If a set has to be ‘doctored’ I don’t want it.
“That’s why I swear by Tasma. Tasma Receivers are built one
at a time by men who take a pride in their job. Somebody
told me that every single chassis goes through 23 different tests —
and I quite believe it. There isn’t one mass-produced inch in a
Tasma set. Cabinet work! Well—l’ve looked at dozens of sets and
taken expert advice. It has no rival. It’s ‘on its own.’ As for
Tasma reception—well, what’s the use of talking? Go into any
radio dealer’s and let your ears tell you the story.”
Full information on any Tasma receiver can be obtained from any
leading dealer, or direct from the manufacturers, THOM & SMITH,
LTD., 55 Dowling Street, East Sydney.
m
mm
€m
m
m
The Tasma “Voyager”
A remarkably efficient 7-
valve all-wave Superhetero-
dyne. This set, as well as
being capable of picking up
at full volume practically
every Australian and New
Zealand station, will receive
the world’s short-wave broad-
casters.
.
m
The Tasma “135
The “135” employs 5 valves
in a Superheterodyne circuit,
and is one of the most
popular Tasma all-electric
receivers. This set is par-
ticularly selective, gives
splendid reception on the
most distant stations, and
its reproduction of both voice
and music will appeal to
the most critical.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
QUEENSLAND:
G .T. Grice, Ltd., 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
F. P. Moody, 34 Lake Street, Cairns.'
Kosensteng-els Pty., Ltd., Buthven
Street, Toowooinba.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 89
Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
DETAIL-BUILT
RADIO
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA:
Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 597
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd.,
381 Murray Street, Perth.
Thomsons, Ltd., 209 Murray Street,
Perth.
TASMANIA:
Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., Hobart
and Launceston.
