

POPULARLY PRICED
I ||||||||||
23
/
PRICES—THE FOLDING CARTRIDGE
HAWK-EYES.
No. 2 Model, for pictures 2J x 3J inches,
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, 23/6.
No. 2A Model, for pictures 2J x 4J inches,
Meniscus Achromatic Lens, 24/6.
gf
ƒ
gf
While stocks last, this high-grade Folding Hawk-Eye, photographically
and mechanically perfect, with dependable two-speed Kodex Shutter,
cable release and all-metal body, beautifully and durably finished
—for pictures 2.\ x3J inches —is priced at only - - - 23/6
See also the specially selected Pocket Kodak models priced from 26/-
A Huge Campaign for the Further Popularity of Photography
Photography for all—Kodaks at Gift Prices.
Make your selection to-day ! Load with Verichrome Film — it’s double-coated !
KODAKS ARE NOW BRITISH-MADE.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND A IX
(AUSTRALASIA)
PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney;
3 7 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth ; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street. Auckland; 40 Princes Street. Dunedin
294 Lambton Quay. Wellington; 681 Colombo Street. Christchurch.
The Bulletin
A Fine Lindsay Cartoon
Vol. 55.—N0. 2832.
Wednesday, May 23, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


r J' , HE New Library Catalogue for 1934 19
now ready, and will be sent post free
o any address on application to —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 Geurge Street, Sydney.
nni
sHk
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Cut Here and Maid
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
lGpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 334
MEDICINAL
ANO
toilo
Healthy Hair Will
Grew Only on a
Healthy Scalp
Keep your scalp in good condition
by shampooing regularly with a
liquid soap made by dissolving
shavings of Cuticura Soap
in a little hot water. Rinse thor-
oughly. If there is any dandruff
or irritation, the shampoo should
be preceded by an application of
Cutlcura Ointment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE ACE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business.
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl,
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
JlcS forCoq^j.
HOUSEHOLD PACES
» SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES>
LADYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
„ Etc. Etc. Etc. ii
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES €»S
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a. most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion’’ Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
w. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures ot
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
-economists aqree
That the Soundest State
it;
A o
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGQADH
L BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Ourselves
Nearly half a century ago J. A. Froude
and Max O’Rell visited Australia and
wrote books about it when they got
home. Thomas Wood, author of Cobbers
(Oxford University Press ; 7s. 6d.), is an
Oxonian Doctor of Music who was here
for two years between 1930 and 1933 ;
he arrived as examiner for the Royal
Schools of Music, and stayed on to lec-
ture and broadcast. Tom Clarke, whose
Marriage at 6 a.m. has just been pub-
lished by Gollancz at half a guinea, was
assistant-editor of Melbourne “Herald”
from 1923 till 1926, when he went back
to London to become editor of the
“Chronicle.”
O’Rell was a famous journalist, like
Clarke. Froude had that detached atti-
tude towards the outlying parts of the
Empire which is often found in members
of the British ruling classes; so has
Wood. O’Rell made more mistakes than
Froude, but his book was easier to read.
Here, too, history has repeated itself.
Marriage at 6 a.m. has many mistakes,
but it is provocative and proportionately
exciting; Cobbers is as judicial as a
summing-up, and it is on the dull side.
Do We Dislike the British ?
Dr. Wood thinks not.
I did not meet, in all my two years, one
single instance of anti-English feeling.
Mr. Clarke takes a different view ; he
returns to the subject again and again.
When someone like the Prince visits Aus-
tralia there is “such wild enthusiasm that
you would never think an Australian
could say ‘boo’ to a Tommie.’ ” How-
ever,
Let an Englishman be “imported” to a
big job in Melbourne or Sydney—they’ll
“polish him off” to the tune of “Austra-
lians first.”
He says he was disliked as an importa-
tion himself. “It would have taken more
courage than I possess to parade my Eng-
lishness those three years.” In point of
fact he was one of the best-liked men
on the “Herald” staff, and hardly any-
body gave his Englishness a thought. If
an Englishman can do his job no Aus-
tralian journalist will have a word to
say against him as a journalist, and, if
he is also a cheery, friendly, witty cus-
tomer like Tom Clarke, Australians will
take to him as a man. The present edi-
tors of the “Herald,” “Weekly Times”
add “Table Talk” are all English, all effi-
cient and all extremely popular. There
is no more Australian paper than The
Bulletin. Two of the key men of its
small literary staff are not only English,
but typical English public-school pro-
ducts, and two of its artists are English.
Everybody in the office likes all four.
James Edmond, about the best-loved
editor any Australian paper ever had,
was as Scotch as haggis.
If Tom Clarke did experience an occa-
sional leg-pull he seems to have asked
for it.
I often used to pass Mr. Bruce taking his
after-breakfast ride along the banks of the
Yarra in Melbourne. I would raise my hat
and say “Good morning, sir.” Australian
friends appeared to be either puzzled or
contemptuous about this little courtesy.
If an Australian journalist often ap-
peared in Fleet-street in a miner’s red
shirt and jackboots his English friends
would query his behavior. Even, per-
haps, his mentality. Yet such garments
were worn in Australia once. There has
never been a time when Englishmen took
off their hats to Prime Ministers as such.
The generals and admirals of, say, the
Army and Navy Club who identified a
friend persistently taking off his, hat
to Ramsay MacDonald on a golf links
would conclude that the old boy had de-
finitely gone gaga, and they wouldn’t
hesitate to tell him so. There is only one
man in England who is liable to be pes-
tered in this way—the King, and it is
the custom to spare him when he is
riding. The writer has seen his Majesty
traverse the length
of the Row with-
out being called
on to take off his
hat in response
to the salute of
a single mis-
guided loyalist.
Pommies
Dr. Wood refers only once to this
topic, and that in a footnote. {Pommy.
An Englishman; possibly any native of
Great Britain. Derivation obscure. By
no means a term of reproach .) The
word is rarely out of Mr. Clarke’s mind,
and it exasperates him. He regards it as
derogatory. As generally used, it is no
more derogatory than the terms “Corn-
stalk,” “Cabbage Gardener,” “Crow-
eater” and “T’othersider,” applied by
Australians to Australians, and it is em-
ployed in much the same spirit. It
is descriptive of a type. There is no need
to describe the type; every Bulletin
reader knows it.
Australian Society
Dr. Wood has either a worse sense of
tabloid news-values or a better sense of
real values than Mr. Clarke. He hardly
touches on this question at all. It is one
of Mr. Clarke’s obsessions. In Aus-
tralia, he says, “snobbishness reaches an
almost unbelievable peak.” No doubt.
But how many snobs have we relatively
to population? Though in Sydney
scores of columns of rubbish are pub-
lished weekly about the people Mr.
Clarke despises, the outer suburbs and
country remain ignorant of their
names and indifferent to their doings.
What is happening in Sydney would
happen in the neighborhood of Mr.
Clarke’s London home if the dances and
dinners of the solicitors, dentists, doctors,
accountants and so on of Dulwich, Croy-
don, Sydenham, Purley and adjacent
suburbs were described in reverent
detail by locally-read papers. Some of
those written about would get swelled
heads, but the phenomenon would have
no significance as a sidelight on English
character.
Where Dr. Wood and Mr. Clarke Agree
On many questions both writers not
only hold the same views ; they use much
the same language.
Dr. Wood: —
If I were in a tight corner he [the Aus-
tralian] is the best man in the world to get
me out of it. And he would succeed if
resource, good humor and sheer, unmatch-
able bravery could do the job.
Tom Clarke: —
If I had to be in a tight corner with a
woman I wouldn’t mind if she were an
Australian. They are so independent, so
self-reliant, so strong.
Dr. Wood: —
At the cinema “God Save the King” was
played as usual, and the usual number of
people stood up.
Tom Clarke: —
It is quite common to have “God Save
the King” at the beginning as well as the
end.
Dr. Wood: —
Australians have modernised William de
Wykeham and believe that Money Makyth
Man.
Tom Clarke: —
Money is Australia’s God.
Cobbers has 10 full-page photographs,
all interesting, and the frontispiece of
Marriage at 6 a.m. consists of a superb
caricature of Tom Clarke by Dyson.
Red Page.
More Shaw Swansongs
Shaw’s latest batch of plays, issued in
one volume by Constable (Booklovers’,
Melbourne; 11s. 3d.), shows no falling
off, but thfere is nothing surprising about
this. Socrates was physically and men-
tally hale at 70 when the terrified Bab-
bitts of his day shut his mouth for ever
with the hemlock. Titian painted one of
his best portraits just before the plague
cut him off at 99. Corot was painting
better at 79 than he was at 19.
The difference between Shaw and most
of his contemporaries is that he knows
what their world is like, whereas they
don’t. When he tells them what it is
like they are upset. A comforting illu-
sion has been destroyed. It becomes
necessary to create another. This can be
{“Red Page" continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —The Highest Ideal.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’PHONE: M 2401. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
10 DAYS SPECIAL SHIRT SELLING
©
m
;'
met
OF OUR BIG COMFORTABLE SHIRTS
1. Unshrinkable neckbands.
2. Shapely shoulders.
3. Ample room in armholes.
4. Reinforced front. V shaped
to below first button.
5. buttonholes.
6. Full-length skirt.
7. Well-fitting front.
8. Correct double cuffs.
9. Ample elbow room.
10. Shapely yoke.
11. Box-pleated back.
Anthony Horderns’ Shirts are well-proportioned and of generous dimensions,
noted for their outstanding value, comfort and lasting service. The shirts are
made by experts who fully understand a man’s requirements, and do their utmost
to make the shirts fulfil their purpose—to give a smart appearance, comfort and
freedom in every movement. Anthony Horderns’ make shirts for men in every
walk of life—each shirt is an achievement in its particular calling, representing the
utmost value for money and giving satisfaction in every case. Only the best
material is used, coming direct’ from the most reliable British manufacturers . . .
thus ensuring quality and value that is second to none. During alO Days’ Special
Shirt Selling, Anthony Horderns’ are offering astounding values in shirts of every
kind and quality. To buy them once is to buy them always.
THESE SHIRTS ARE ANTHONY HORDERNS’ OWN MAKE.
ess
v
c
m
\
m
m
.. ■ !
y/s
#
v
E
MAN-SIZED SHIRTS
FOR WORK AND PLAY
STRIPED WORK SHIRTS
A. Men’s Striped Harvard Work Shirts, made
with six-inch double backs. Light or Work
stripes. Sizes 14J- to 19-inch necks.
Price, each 5/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 5/6
Better quality with 9-inch double back.
Price, each 6/1 1
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 6/6
WHITE TENNIS SHIRTS
B. Our own make Men’s White Tennis Shirts.
Pocket and collar attached. In good wearing
quality White Mercerised Twill.
Prices, each 5/3, 6/6, 8/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Prices,
each 4/9, 5/11, 7/11
In White Poplin de Luxe. Price, each . . 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 6/11
SMART COAT SHIRTS
C. The Coat Shirt, made with smart shape
collar attached and military pocket. Single
cuffs. Smart range of stripes in Grey, Blue or
Fawn tones. Sizes I3j- to 17-inch neck.
Prices, each 7/6, 8/6, 9/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Prices,
«ach 5/11, 6/6, 8/6
“HORDURA” Golf Shirts
D. “Hordura” Golf Shirts. High-grade British
Durax Broadcloth. Grey, Blue or Fawn dressy
stripes. Two collars. Sizes to 19-inch
necks. Price, each 10/6
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 9/6
A GOLFING SHIRT
E.—Made of all-wool Crimean Flannel. In neat
check designs. Colourful tones of Fawn, Cedar
and Marone. Extra warm wear. Smart shape
collar attached. One or two military pockets.
Single cuffs. Sizes to 17-inch necks.
Price, each 15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 14/-
POPLIN GOLF SHIRTS
F.—Men’s Striped Poplin Golf Shirts. Made
with double cuffs and V-cased fronts. Detached
soft collar to match. Blue or Fawn neat hair-
line stripes. Sizes to neckbands.
Price, each 7/11
Anthony Horderns’ Special Price, each . . 5/11
0 Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all Seaports in the Commonwealth
and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. . ——
- - SYDNEY
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


VAUXHALL’S
Great Sales Sweep
in Australia adds to
England’s Laurels
in every city in Australia the
new English Vauxhall Light Six flashes
proudly, silently amongst the traffic —no
less than 570 have been sold in the past
three months.
These phenomenal Sales tes-
tify to the amazing qualities of this
beautiful car with its silky-smooth,
powerful engine, its silent gears —the
easiest car in the world to handle.
Get Behind The Wheel and
drive this new Vauxhall —you will learn
something of the progress made in motor
car construction since you bought your
present car.
70 MILES PER HOUR—Speed, if you
want it smooth, vibrationless perfor-
mance is a feature of the famous rubber-
mounted, six-cylinder overhead valve
Vauxhall engine.
32 MILES Per GALLON-The greatest
development of the high efficiency engine.
Economy previously unheard of in a car
of its power and size, a triumph of English
precision workmanship.
COMFORT Hard-wearing, luxurious
leather upholstery, and roominess found
only in much higher - priced cars and
Synchro-mesh 4 speed gears, No-draught
Ventilation are also embodied.
Prices from £285, plus Sales Tax. Ask
your dealer to let you drive the Light Six
Vauxhall. General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
VAUXHALL
Light Six
As English as England
Consult your local * authorised Vauxhall
Dealer
D1353M
ifllr
*
0?
1
c
v
m
'
i
done in a variety of ways. One is to laugh
and say the old man is, as usual, being a
buffoon. Another is to remark that,
though once unquestionably a clever
man, he is evidently at last in a decline.
Another is to point out that he is an
Irishman. Another is to speculate on
what a wise man he might have become
if he had only drunk beer and eaten
steak. The one thing that is not done
is to discuss the subject that he happens
to be discussing.
The socialistic theme of “Too True to
Be Good” is not that our system is un-
just to the poor, but that it is cruel to
the rich. Proletarian writers have con-
centrated so much on the horrors of
poverty that the equally degrading con-
sequences of unbounded wealth have
been lost sight of. It is an old, old
story that money does not bring happi-
ness, but nobody really believes it.
Moreover, the unhappiness of the poor
is exaggerated by romantic writers who
never experienced poverty. The con-
ventional writer who talks about the
misery of the poor ought to consult a
Communist organiser, who would tell him
at once that his greatest difficulty is to
arouse in the proletariat an active sense
of their disabilities. The misery of the
rich is in the same category. All they
get for their money, as is obvious on
any golf links or in any club, is endless
worry, boredom and dissatisfaction.
Shaw might have pointed out that they
do not even get power and security, the
two things that they are really after:
for only a selected few of the rich nowa-
days exercise more power than is repre-
sented by the ability to sack a servant,
tip a waiter or shift their capital from
one joint-stock company to another ; and
there is little security even for the most
opulent.
Most people are so constituted that
they remain wedded to the condition to
which they are born, and are hence
driven to seek imaginary satisfactions for
any failure of that condition to give them
the fulfilment they yearn for. In former
times the rich invented the fiction of
chivalry to hide the fact from themselves
that their lives were, in general, uncom-
fortable, dull and dirty. Nowadays they
go to the talkies, like their poorer
brethren.
This, then, is Shaw’s case for socialism
—that it will redeem mankind from the
double curse of poverty and riches. But
the recognition of social equality for
everybody does not involve the equal
right of everybody to govern, legis-
late, manage public affairs or even
private affairs, any more than the
Church’s recognition of the equality of
souls before God involves the fitness of
anybody or everybody to be Pope. That
is why Shaw is not half as surprised as
the various innocents all abroad who
have made the discovery that the Soviet
has replaced one religion with another.
In “On the Rocks” Shaw announces
the disappearance of the capitalist age.
This naturally arouses as great a start
of surprise at the Trades Hall as in
Flinders-lane. Shaw does not discuss the
supposed imminence of revolution: he
points out that the revolution has already
occurred. So-called capitalistic Govern-
ments are doing things that a Soviet
Government would hesitate to do.
Whereas in Russia Stalin is carefully
preserving the intellectual bourgeoisie
and the peasant proprietor because the
country cannot do without them, and is
trusting to the differently conditioned
younger generation to liquidate the rem-
nants of the old regime, the Tory Gov-
ernments of the West are attacking them
with the utmost ferocity by means of
colossal death duties, land and income
taxation that amounts to confiscation,
restrictions on trade and production,
Labor legislation and doles,
These, and half a million other sub-
jects, are discussed through the mouths
of a typically Shavian array of charac-
ters, and in both plays there are situa-
tions that are devastatingly funny. Add
to which two prefaces as good as any
(Continued on next page.)


r
m
&
0«*
5s
4* •
Snk
\l 3
M
%■
'r&, y
&
<*r-.
£***>! /**#t
,j/atk*i :
CUT YOUR
HOT-WATER BILL
When hot water is wanted day and night
and at many taps the old systems become
very extravagant.
ENGLISH “WHITE ROSE"
DOMESTIC BOILERS
(PLAIN OR RUSTLESS)
have long been used and brought to perfection in Britain
for service and saving. They are simple to care for, and
burn coke or wood.
You have a complete saving and effective system when
you instal this boiler. Equally good also for central
heating.
FULL INFORMATION ON REQUEST.
Mention the number of hot-water taps you intend using.
g
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
391-403 BOURKE STREET MELBOURNE
G.B.S. ever wrote, and a dialogue be-
tween Pilate and the Saviour which is
extraordinarily interesting, and you have
a budget any septuagenarian might be
proud of. The short play “Village Woo-
ing” was written in the Sunda Strait,
and suggests that, after all, Madras curry
is a good diet for the tropics.
M. G. SKIPPER.
“Daybreak”
About 30 years ago Tom Collins, by
the power of The Bulletin and the late
A. G. Stephens, published “Such Is Life,”
one of the best pieces of prose fiction in
Australian literature.
Seventeen years later it struggled into
a second edition. In a preface Vance
Palmer wrote:
Unfortunately, the number of people who
care passionately for literature are, in any
country, small in number, yet any achieve-
ment of value is in their keeping. Books
get published every year in great profusion,
arid the patrons of the circulating libraries
receive such nourishment as they demand;
but from this confused outpour of the
printing presses it is the business of the
critic, professional and unprofessional, to
select such works as are of permanent
worth and help to keep them alive. Books,
when all is said, are inorganic matter, and
have no life of their own apart from the
people who read and treasure them. In
Australia our literary achievement is so
small that we must guard every part of it
jealously.
It was a not unnatural hope that the
best work of our best writers would be
borne proudly and conspicuously on the
surface of the bubbling flood of Austra-
lian books that has been surging past
for the last couple of years. The reverse
proves to be the case. Those books
which deserve the name of literature, in
that they express the consciousness of
men and women through the medium of
art, have the same knack of falling from
the press and plopping straight into the
depths as they had when The Bulletin,
without profit to itself, gave Tom Collins
a place in letters.
One could, without effort of memory,
name a dozen such. One of them is
Palmer’s own novel Daybreak, which
was published in London by Stanley
Paul. In view of what its author, then
almost unknown, wrote in the preface to
“Such Is Life,” it challenges the spirit
of neglect more than any other.
Palmer’s book opens at peep o’ day.
The scene is a fruit-growing settlement
and the neighboring town in the Gipps-
land hills. The setting is vivid. There is
the scent of apples and mountain forest.
The characters, some primitives and
sophisticates, are perfectly realised ; they
are all three-dimensional. Over his drama
Palmer holds a perfectly clear literary
lens; you see life moving toward its
ends, its passions understood, as you
might observe it in the clarity of a tide-
water pool. The story is that of a man,
magnificent in war, broken in peace ; of
another, his friend, who holds life
tenaciously with two strong hands ; of
their wives, and of a score of neighbors
whose lives are woven a little way into
the main strand. It ends at lantern-
glimmer—with the swift realisation that
it all happened in one day. It is a novel
with the intensity and dramatic unity
of a perfectly written short story.
I believe that the small “number of
people who care passionately for litera-
ture” are most readily communicated
with through The Bulletin. This is
written for them. But Daybreak may
not be obtained by casual inquiry at the
nearest circulating library or book-
counter. It is “an achievement of
value” ; so insistence will be necessary.
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.
Religious Controversy
As an outcome of the “Angus case”
new religious books and pamphlets are
appearing almost daily. Nearly all are
critical of Dr. Angus ; that is, they up-
hold such fundamentals of Christianity
as the Deity of Christ and the Trinity.
But they are all by clergymen ; and in
consequence they contain arguments
which don’t carry conviction outside
church circles, and language which is
incomprehensible to most laymen. Dr.
Macintyre, for example, in his The
Theology of Dr. Angus, which has been
published by Angus and Robertson,
writes:
I am forced, sorrowfully forced, in
loyalty to the Lord, whom I adore in wor-
shipping faith, who is to me both Son of
God and God the Son, in loyalty to the
Church I love and serve, and in loyalty to
the Gospel I have preached for fifty years,
to strenuously oppose views which are
utterly contrary to the faith for which this
Church stands, and rightly stands, and
I pray God will ever stand.
There unquestionably is the voice of a
sincere man; but his asseverations amount
to nothing as arguments for use against
doubters. In support of his belief in
the Deity of the Saviour, he quotes from
the “great book” of another clergyman
as follows:
To see that Christ is Son from before the
ages is to see also that God is Father by
inherent nature, that this is His essence, it
is to plant the Fatherhood firmly inside the
Divine as the current Unitarian form can
never do. Concede as we may that to
lift the relationship of Father and Son to
the eternal plane lends no new content
to our knowledge of God’s interior life;
that the Trinitarian concept is empty if
sundered from the roots of history and ex-
perience ; that we become irresponsible and
fantastic so soon as in our thought of God
we cast loose from revelation within the
world.
It may mean something to theologians ;
to the man in the street it is utterly mean-
ingless. A leading Sydney K.C., on
whom the writer tried it, had to admit
that it baffled him. The traditionalists are
not alone in this habit of obscuring the
issues by the use of resounding but
vague phrases ; Dr. Angus, one of the
most articulate of men, becomes muddled
and obscure the moment he gets to his
disbeliefs.
Last week The Bulletin reviewed a
book in which a London barrister who
belongs to no Church examined the
Resurrection with reference to the evi-
dence ; and proved in simple terms on
the evidence that the Resurrection must
have occurred. The writer tried this
book on the K.C. mentioned above, and
the K.C. professed himself satisfied with
the conclusions arrived at.
Is it too much to ask Australian writers
on religious subjects to be as plain-
spoken as this London barrister? Dr.
Angus, for example, who denies the
Resurrection, might show in simple terms
the flaws, if there are any, in the reason-
ing of “Is the Resurrection True?” Dr.
Macintyre and his friends might give
reasons for their belief in other essentials
of the New Testament story in similarly
understandable language. For an ideal
literary model they need look no further
than the New Testament itself.
D.
“When the Kellys Rode”
The great talkie dealing with one of
the skeletons in our historic cupboard
has been made. Photographs of Messrs,
and Miss Kelly in their habits as they
are supposed to have lived are beginning
to appear in Sydney shop windows. Do
they bear any relation to the truth?
Well, here’s the scene as it appeared to
an American, one Augustus Baker
Peirce, whose Australian adventures are
described in a handsome memorial
volume on the foundation of the Read
Memorial fund, by the Yale Press (1924).
About the second year of my stay in Geelong,
I was surprised by a hurried and excited call
of my old friend Joseph Nash, a reporter on
the Melbourne “Age,” who informed me that
the notorious Kelley [sic] brothers had been
captured at Greta and that he was going up to
investigate and write up the affair. He asked
me to go with him and make the sketches.
The Kelley boys and their companions, well-
known outlaws —all of whom had prices on
their heads dead or alive, among them Burns
and S'herritt —had swooped down on Greta the
day before and, having bailed up the town and
torn up the railroad, proceeded to gather the
principal townspeople into Jones’s Hotel and
make merry. Word, however, was sent to the
police; and a large body of troopers came up,
surrounded the house, and demanded the sur-
render of the outlaws. On their refusal the
police shot into the house, and the Kelleys
returned the fire. Then the Greta priest
appeared at the door and informed the police
that if they would withhold fire the Kelleys
would allow the townspeople to leave the
premises. This was done and a second demand
of surrender made. But the Kelleys refused
to move, and the police were at a loss what
to do.
They contemplated burning the house, and
even sent to Melbourne for a cannon to
blow it down. Finally, they charged the place,
firing heavy volleys into it as they advanced.
Receiving no answer, they broke in and found
the outlaws dead or dying—all of them, except
Ned Kelley, their leader, who had disappeared.
Early the following morning he was discovered
by Troopers O’Callaghan and Steele, who were
watching in the fog. They saw something of
gigantic size rise in the mist and move away.
Taking no chances they fired. The object re-
turned the fire and then fell; whereupon they
rushed upon it and found it to be Ned Kelley,
dressed in full armour of ploughshares, later
found to weigh some 2001 b.
We arrived soon after Kelley was taken and
witnessed the placing of the dead bodies of
the outlaws in the courtyard to be photo-
graphed. Ned Kelley was taken to Melbourne,
where his trial was the sensation of the time.
After it I saw him hanged; on the scaffold he
turned coward....
It sounds unpromising, even as an
alternative to “The Squatter's Daughter”
type of picture. As a matter of fact, there
was a much better story in Morgan. He
ended by holding up a station at
Peechebla and, according to Peirce (who
arrived there a few weeks after and had
the story from Rutherford, the manager),
the manager’s wife had to entertain him
by playing the piano all night. “In fact,
after the first fright had passed away, the
whole family did their best to propitiate
their unwelcome guest.” A servant-girl
managed to send a message to the local
police camp, and Morgan was shot in
the back as he was going towards the
horse paddock in the morning.
Peirce has quaint drawings, by himself,
in his book which should gladden the
hearts of our local directors. And listen
to this:
The outlaw was hardly dead when the police,
brave enough now that there was nothing to
fear, bounded into the path, followed by a
large number of people. Among them was an
excited photographer who, in his eagerness to
secure a portrait of the body, broke his camera
while climbing a fence. However, with the aid
of some brown paper the damage was soon
repaired, and the corpse, propped up against
some wool-bales in the shed, was photographed
between the Macphersons. The Superintendent
of Police at Beechworth ordered that Morgan’s
face be skinned, so that he might preserve the
magnificent black beard as a trophy.
Christian burial was refused. They laid
the de-bearded corpse outside the fence
of the large cemetery on the road from
Wangaratta to Peechebla. Here surely is
a ready-made drama of the mellowest
hue all ready for local consumption.
Think of that last shot, the lonely grave
and, above all, the face-skinning inci-
dent! I doubt if Hollywood itself could
have thought of that.
H. G.
A Satchel of Books
Christopher Bush’s The Case of the
100% Alibis (Cassell ; Angus and
Robertson; 7s. 6d.) follows the usual
formula. Murder, four or five suspects
all with perfectly good alibis, several
false scents, Supt. George Wharton play-
ing Sherlock Holmes to the Watsons of
his underlings but not solving the mys-
tery, and finally Ludovic Travers, the
amateur criminologist, stumbling on the
solution by a more-than-usually-unlikely
chain of coincidence. Entertaining for
those who are not irritated by the detec-
tives’ habit of talking in italics and
Wharton’s endless repetition of “Bust the
alibi.”
Daconib Shorthand, by B. E. and C.
T. Daconib (Robertson and Mullens;
ss. 6d.). There are almost as many
Pitman heresies as there are Christian.
This modern system, invented by two
Victorians, has been in use at Wesley
and several other colleges for many years
past, and is being extended to the State
high schools. The claims of its creators
are that the theory can be learnt in a
few hours, that speeds of over 200 w.p.m.
are attainable and that the style is so
simple that a writer with moderate facil-
ity can hang on to the tail of even the
most garrulous politician.
In and Out of My Consulting Room,
by Dr. Ernest Parker (Edgar Backus;
Robertson and Mullens; Bs. 6d.). A
variant on the “Doctor Who Tells” stuff
syndicated in many Australian papers.
Dr. Parker, while convalescing after an
illness, got into the habit of telling inci-
dents in his professional life to his night
nurse. This book is composed of them.
There are upwards of two dozen little
stories which cast interesting lights on
human nature. The first tells how he
was taken down for £250 by one
Dudley, a confidence man, who after-
wards went to gaol. Though the doctor
doesn’t seem to know it, Dudley was an
Australian, and one of the cleverest card-
sharpers of his day.
Fran Celane —spun-gold hair, large
black eyes, a hint of feline grace in
her movements —has the principal part
in Erie Gardner’s The Case of the Sulky
Girl (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). It was to her
interest that her uncle Edward Norton
should die suddenly, and he did. He was
supposed to have been hit on the head
with a club by a man like Rob Gleason
(Norton didn’t want Gleason to marry
Fran) in the presence of a girl like Fran.
Our old friend Perry Mason, of New
York, takes up the case for Fran, and
eventually proves to the stupefaction of
the D.A. and to the tune of much in-
dignant gavel-banging by the Judge
that But far be it from us to give
the ingenious plot away. Excellent, as
American thrillers go.
Odette Cosway, the female partner in
the firm of Britain’s Most Perfect Screen
Lovers (Jennifer Ames’s Romance for
Sale; Hodder and Stoughton; Angus
and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is heartbroken
when the other half of the firm, although
engaged to her, secretly marries another
girl. For the sake of appearances (and
their job) they carry on, but the death
of the wronged bride involves them in
a scandal which causes the cancellation
of their contract. Disillusioned, Odette
goes to Hollywood, and, by the simple
process of dyeing her hair and plucking
her eyebrows, conceals her identity and
leaps to stardom once more under an-
other name. Lance, her partner, goes
downhill, and is disposed of by her faith-
ful doglike admirer, while she marries
the strong, silent man who has given her
her second chance. There is really no
need for the assurance which appears in
the front of the book that the characters
are fictitious.


9
l *"? ,Y,V
/ / • ,&
! ?.&&*!s& y
4i'--‘ ' f¥ : " . ••/''
.'
. :, V'"
- A * h,. m
• |
■1
- £ wsL'* $'
Iff ■
4r*.
’/Wlltt
.... A-as*
'■MmMm
.; ■ m
mmm
gw&m
II J
ggspif
-a ,
;? f/-.
IT"
■*Y
y< :
’•w
■
ft
J
tf.y
"
Jj/ioiMknow ~ and J f /o /


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2832.
May 23, 1934.
THE DISARMAMENT GAME.
“I'm leading them all right, but there seems to be a lot of jangle behind me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE HIGH COURT.
Australia will have to do something
about its High Court. In a spirit of
optimism the creators of the Common-
wealth erected this institution on the
model of the U.S. Supreme Court, only
with greater powers. In Garran’s words,
it was made “a court of original jurisdic-
tion” and “a court of appeal from all
decisions of the Supreme Courts of the
States” ; appointed not only “guardian of
the Federal Constitution” but “guardian
of the Constitutions of the States.” These
immense powers it has increased, as it
were, by interpretations which have had
the effect of making the legislative power
subordinate to the judicial power.
There is growing dissatisfaction with
the results. It is confined to no
party or section: organisations of em-
ployers share it with organisations of
employees, Tas. Attorney-General Baker
(Nat.) with Queensland Works Minister
Bulcock (Lab.); Mr. Lang expresses it,
and so do the hated banks. But it is
felt most strongly in the three States with
small populations, and it is helping the
secessionists.
It is held in these States, and also in
Queensland, that appointments to the
High Court have been made from too
restricted a field. The first Chief Justice
came from Queensland. Another Queens-
lander was transferred from the Crown
Solicitor’s Department to the Bench in
1913 (the Bar grumbled, but it had ex-
hausted itself in protesting against the
elevation of A. B. Piddington); but with
these exceptions their Honors have all
been drawn from Melbourne and Sydney
chambers. No South Australian, Westra-
lian or Tasmanian has ever been raised
to the High Court Bench. It is a pity, for
various reasons, especially as the people
of the four unrepresented States have
opportunities of comparing High Court
Justices who visit them from time to
time with distinguished members of their
own Benches and Bars.
At present the Court consists of the
Chief Justice and five other Justices.
Three practised in Sydney, and three in
Melbourne. The Chief Justice is 82 years
of age ; when moved up to his present
eminence he was just on 80. At the same
time two puisne Judges were appointed
at the instance of a distracted Labor
Caucus over the heads of the Labor
Prime Minister and his Attorney-General.
They had been Sydney Labor politicians.
The neighboring island of Barataria
also has an aged Chief Justice. The
Buff party, which is in -power, protests
that he is too old and ought to retire, but
lacks the courage to ask him. The Blue
party sneers that the Buffs want the posi-
tion for Parchment, one of their leaders,
and hopes the ancient will hang on till
the Blues come in again, so that they
may appoint someone with ultramarine
associations —probably Splurge. Bara-
taria, of course, is a topsy-turvy land.
In Australia it has never been the case
that only political lawyers may apply for
Judgeships, and when such are appointed
they respect the high traditions of the
office, and so are apt, in crises, to disap-
point the expectations of their patrons.
It was unfortunate for the High Court
in the beginning that it should have had
so vague a Constitution to work on.
It has been thrice unfortunate for the
people that certain of its interpretations
should have had effects so confusing, in
some cases destructive. One of its judg-
ments virtually wiped out the Inter-State
Commission. Another made the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Judges part-
managers of the State Government rail-
ways without being responsible in any
way to the owners. This decision, which
reversed a previous one that the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court had no
jurisdiction over the State railways, has
been the cause of trouble in many and
serious forms —trouble which, it would
seem, will never end till the people assert
their constitutional rights and make
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court
supreme with respect to the regulation
of wages and working hours on all rail-
ways, or prevent it and the High Court
from meddling in this province. For,
having caused the chaos in which
Parliaments, Railway Commissioners and
trade-unions are floundering, the High
Court adds to it from time to time.
Witness the judgment of Justice Evatt
annulling a decision of Drake-Brockman,
J., that no industrial dispute existed as
between the N.S.W. and S.A. Railway
Commissioners and the Federated Loco-
motive Enginemen, a judgment followed
by a “regulation strike” of locomotive
enginemen in South Australia.
Admittedly the Constitution is not
clear and precise as to the power of
Parliament “to make laws....with re-
spect t 0... .conciliation and arbitration
for the prevention and settlement of in-
dustrial disputes extending beyond the
limits of any one State” ; but even where
it is clear and precise there have been
interpretations which are positively be-
wildering. Section 92 seems definite
enough: —•
trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall
be absolutely free.
Yet it has been construed broadly, and
it has been construed narrowly. One
day the High Court decides, in substance,
that it is not in conflict with the section
for two States to tax motor vehicles
carrying goods or samples from one State
into another, say from N. S. Wales into
Queensland; the next day the Court
decides that it is in conflict with the sec-
tion for the Queensland Government to
oblige the owners of the vehicles (and
all other users of imported petrol in
Queensland) to mix a bit of Queensland-
made power alcohol with the foreign
juice they buy.
In McArthur’s case the Court ruled
that Section 92 is addressed to the States
but not to the Commonwealth. This
was taken to mean that the Common-
wealth may regulate and restrict inter-
state trade in any product. But in a
subsequent ruling three Judges held that
the section is addressed to States and
Commonwealth alike. So, as a Bank of
N. S. Wales circular drily suggests, the
Commonwealth’s butter-marketing law,
which has been hailed with relief by the
cow-farming industry, may not withstand
a challenge.
True, the Court sustained the Com-
monwealth in a grave emergency.
By majority decision, it held that
the national Government might attach
the revenues of a defaulting State Ad-
ministration to meet the interest on debts
taken over with the emphatic approval of
the people of the State (and every
other), and other debts due to the Com-
monwealth and the Commonwealth
Bank. But had Justice McTiernan voted
with the Chief Justice and Justice Evatt,
as he did lately in the Commissioner of
Taxation v. Payne, the Financial Agree-
ment Enforcement Act would have been
pronounced invalid, with consequences
which cannot be thought of without a
shudder, since the C.J.’s judgment would
have become the judgment of the Court.
This happened in Payne’s case, the amaz-
ing result being that an Australian who
drew interest in England on British Gov-
ernment securities, and used it there, was
ordered to pay Commonwealth tax (at
the rate of 9s. 6d. in the £), not only
on his actual receipts in sterling, but on
25 p.c. more for exchange, which, of
course, he never received.
It was fondly hoped that Federation
would rid us of border tax-gatherers and
do away with the necessity for appeals
to the Privy Council. But, with the sanc-
tion of the High Court, border tax-
gatherers are back again ; and there are
more appeals to the Privy Council than
ever. This development can only be
deplored, but the Court’s excessive pre-
dominance need not be tolerated. It can
be deprived of the inordinate powers
which it has exercised so unfortunately.
The Constitution is capable of being
made an effective instrument of govern-
ment —government by the people and not
by a hierarchy of lawyers. It can be so
clarified and strengthened, and the
powers of Commonwealth and States can
be so definitely and lastingly separated,
that the Court will rarely be called upon
to discharge its interpretative functions,
and there will be small incentive to party
politicians ever to pack a Bench. The
thing can all be done by means of the
referendum. But the impulse will have
to come from the people themselves, for
there is no zeal for constitutional reform
among the crowd in office at Canberra.
RELYING ON PROVIDENCE.
The Australian beef grower has a sub-
lime faith in Providence. All round him
are industries which have made them-
selves successful by effort and organisa-
tion, but, taking him by and large, the
meat-producer has never cared.
Sheepmen have held their place by
persistent improvement of their flocks,
doubling their offput per beast in a short
lifetime. Buttermen have established co-
operation and the best factory system
in the world outside Denmark, and have
bred world-champion producing cows.
Sugargrowers have developed one of the
most highly organised industries in the
world. But the beefman just drifts along.
He will have to stop drifting.
Fifty years ago long distances, scant
water and cheap land—in huge areas fit
for nothing else—were the main factors
in the beefgrower’s business. He had
never heard of baby beef or pasture im-
provement. If cattle were 18 months
on their way to market, drovers were
cheap and the beasts themselves were eat-
ing somebody else’s grass. The ideal
animal, therefore, was large—the fewer
the beasts carrying a given quantity of
beef, the smaller the droving and freight
costs. The ideal animal was also long-
legged and muscular ; a good walker.
To produce chilled beef, however, calls
for a tremendous revision of method.
The ideal beast in the British market is
a medium-sized one, matured young ; and
to make it profitable the breeder must
pack a maximum amount of meat (within
standard weight) on its bones in a mini-
mum of time, with a minimum of feed
and on a minimum of land. Quick turn-
over has become an essential, as it has
in every other factory.
Individual effort is, of course, the
most essential requirement, but organisa-
tion is needed, and that badly. Compul-
sion will have to be applied to the lag-
gard and the sluggard, whose efforts (or
lack of them) damage the interests of the
majority. The man who grows a noxious
weed to-day is looking for trouble, but
the man who produces and keeps a
noxious bull, which is just as harmful
to his industry, is encouraged.
When, for instance, the grazier in-
creases his turnover of stock and gets a
higher price for his produce, to the great
benefit of the country, his taxation rate
goes up, his land is assessed often for an
increased rental, and because he grows
his beef on more animals than formerly
his freight and agency charges increase.
As The Bulletin pointed out recently,
there is a trade worth at least £20,000,000
p.a., with work for 25,000 Australians,
waiting if this industry can be developed
to its peak. The opportunity has arrived
with the transport of chilled beef from
Australia, and organisation is both vital
and urgent. The heart of the first step in
the job is stock improvement. Let Gov-
ernments prohibit the use of any but suit-
able pure-bred bulls after a fixed period
—say five years—or encourage the use
of suitable sires by the issue of export-
breeding licenses carrying substantial
privileges—freight rebates on first-grade
export cattle, free carriage of farmers going
to buy stud stock and (as in Canada) free
transport of the stock when bought.
There should also be an easing of taxa-
tion rates, temporarily, at least, in cases
where graziers, by pasture improvement,
purchase of stud stock and provision of
extra paddocks and water, invest to in-
crease ultimate taxable income, together
with tariff assistance to firms prepared to
build modern chilling works at suitable
points, and concessions to shipping com-
panies which pioneer the chilling trade.
Small subsidies, too, might be granted to
the pure-bred-cattle societies to enable
them to develop their propaganda. And
loans to small cattle-raisers desirous of
substituting real bulls for their scrubs and
to enable districts to introduce co-opera-
tive siring systems would help.
Parallel to all this, a better education
in standards is needed. Some of those
who are now forming organisations to
deal with the meat problem place market-
ing first. If even leaders are of this mind
at the present stage in the game, who
can blame the remote station-owner if
he thinks likewise? But let there be
no mistake about it: Australian beef is
not yet on an average within 70 points
in the 100 of Argentine beef for British
import purposes. Governments should
select somebody in the British market—
Colonel Dunlop, the Chief Veterinary
Superintendent at Smithfield, would be
a good man —to establish a standard for
us. He might very well secure a line of
carcasses which he thinks ideal, and an-
other line of live animals from which
they could be bred, and send them to
Australia for exhibition at shows.
Of course, all the schemes vital to suc-
cess cost money ; but Governments and
growers alike are spending money on
objects less worthy and less likely to be
productive of national revenue. More-
over, no industry which the Government
could encourage would be more likely
to solve the problems of the North than
the modernisation of the cattle industry.
The best of the N.T. and North West-
tralian and Gulf of Carpentaria country
is reasonably good cattle land ; but at
present it is largely breeding scrubs
which are keeping many a pastoralist
poor, and its population dwindles.
PEACE AND THE PACIFIC.
While J. G. Latham is in Asia talking
peace, it is perhaps worth while to look
at people who are not talking peace.
Some of them are citizens of the U.S.A.,
the most pacific of nations in practice,
the most provocative in words. The
Hearst press has come out with a propa-
ganda of exaggeration and taunt directed
against Japan. U.S.A. dailies outside
the Hearst ring have followed suit, and
Americans in Asia whose language is
quoted seem to be doing everything in
their power to spread the notion that
Japan is preparing for wars of conquest.
One of these writers is Upton Close.
In himself he may not be important,
but the “Saturday Evening Post” is pub-
lishing his stuff. Mr. Close pictures
Japan as a nation armed to the teeth,
with a spy system which reaches to the
farthest corners of the Pacific and an
ambition which reaches from the farther
borders of India to Cape Horn. Its
island empire is “sprinkled with air bases,
made ready for submarine operations
.... among them the Bonins, which we
ourselves [the U.S.A.] threw to Japan
rather than leave to Britain, and the man-
dated islands.” The legend about man-
dated-islands fortification has been ex-
ploded over and over again.
China, in the Close conception, is a
pawn to be controlled; Russia, a sleepy
giant which is to be beaten back to Lake
Baikal. But the ambitions of the Japanese
do not end there. They include the con-
quest of Australasia, which is “indicated
to Japan by nature as part of her set-up” ;
and it seems that there can be no salva-
tion for us, despite the fact that we and
Maoriland “are building miniature navies,”
unless “sentiment” can be invoked:
It is evident that Britain has no interests
in the Pacific worth a first-class war
War to protect Australia, N.Z. and Canada
would be on a sentimental, rather than
an economic, basis
The truth is that the British Common-
wealth of Nations owns more Pacific
coastline than any other country. Its
territories stretch from Pole to Pole.
Loss of its Pacific possessions would de-
prive it of five of the world’s biggest ports
and finish Britain as a shipping power.
If the Pacific dominions and colonies
went India would go, and with them
the bulk of Britain’s cotton trade, most
of her oil interests, all her rubber and
nearly £1,500,000,000 sunk in Dominion
and Asian loans, plus a thousand million
pounds, in direct investments and a
couple of hundred million pounds worth
of export trade per annum. So Britain has
no interest whatever in keeping her Paci-
fic Empire intact —only “sentiment” is
impelling her to build the Singapore base.
Not that her efforts matter, because
“Australia’s economy is already in the
hands of Japan, who buys the ‘pros-
perity’ portion of her wool clip.” On
the same principle, since Australia buys
the “prosperity” portion of the U.S.A.’s
motion-picture and motor-car clips, the
economy of the U.S.A. must be in our
hands. It hasn’t worked out quite in that
way. Mr. Close again:
To put it baldly, if war be needed to
protect the British Dominions from Japan,
there is every prospect that some other
nation than Britain will fight it.
The identity of the “other nation” is no
mystery.
The Pacific Ocean is not Britain’s ocean,
and it was the United States of America
which first taught her so.
Our poor, tottering old Motherland,
which has “refrained from the frank
statements made by the American State
Department” on Pacific questions, is
regretfully asking herself “why she did
not play close to America in this matter,”
more particularly as her navy seems to
be a matter for scorn. In point of fact,
she could still send a fleet to the Pacific
equal to Japan’s present one, and still keep
one the same size as a home fleet. Never-
theless, in Mr. Close’s opinion, neither she
nor any other nation would court the
“debacle of Russia’s armada which sailed
into Japanese waters in 1904, to proceed
without pause to Davy Jones’s locker.”
The U.S.A. “our self-abnegative
selves”—has always resisted Empire-
building in the Pacific, as witness the fact
that it “hotly resisted Britain’s temporary
occupation of Hawaii,” now a sort of
outpost of Japan. Uncle Sam saved
China from disintegration against “the
vultures of Europe” without having to
go to war. But his Hearst-Close school
is doing as much to promote war in the
Pacific as any influence at present at
work. Uncle needs a few Lathams
among his propagandists.
FAN KWEI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A September Election?
In spite of the denials of Mr. Lyons that
Cabinet has made any decision about
an election date, the U.A.P. press is tak-
ing it for granted that he will go to the
country in September. Parliament will
meet in June, and the Budget, upon
which the election programme will be
based, will be brought down early in
August. That will allow members to do
a lot of their campaigning in the House
before making a breathless dive for their
electorates.
September will be a good month for
the election, provided the new rolls are
used and the new boundaries have been
approved of. There is crying need for
redistribution in every mainland State.
But if a way can be found within the
Constitution to avert the loss of a South
Australian seat it should be availed of ;
with the data they have collected, the
Commissioners appointed for that State
could soon recommend an equitable
arrangement providing for seven seats.
The early revelation of election plans
has already had a good effect on the
inter-party situation. The belligerence
of the U.A.P. press towards the C.P. has
been mitigated ; “S. M. Herald,” which
usually dismisses the views of Earle Page
with a sneer, reported his Empire-unity
speech at Grafton with almost as much
respect as it would have accorded to Mr.
Lyons. A pact should be achieved be-
fore the election —and will be unless
somebody in authority does something
unusually silly. The C.P. leader does not
aspire to the Prime Ministership, and
there is no quarrel between State Nats,
and C.Ps. in N. S. Wales, Victoria, South
Aus. or Westralia, nor any breach of the
understanding arrived at years ago in
Queensland.
Unless Messrs. Lyons and Page can
agree, however, it is a poor lookout for
the next Parliament. If they fail there
will certainly be four sections, and pro-
bably some Independents. No party will
have a majority of its own. It would
be a serious matter if faction fighting on
the present Ministerial side of the House
were to let Mr. Scullin creep back to
office or permit Mr. Beasley to form a
Government, even for a few months.
4
Wheat Again.
The Australian wheat position seems to
be in as big a muddle as ever. A com-
mission is wandering round the coun-
try taking evidence. With a captain of
industry like Herbert Gepp as its head,
an economist steeped in wheat lore and
a leading public accountant among its
members, farmers hoped that it would
reach a conclusion months ago, but it
seems no further on.
Meanwhile, measures for dealing with
the world situation are being put for-
ward. One of the professors with whom
the Government loves to surround itself
is quietly canvassing a plan under which
a world surplus of about 300,000,000
bushels would be placed under the con-
trol of an international commission—pre-
sumably of academicians —who will use
it as a bludgeon or persuader to keep the
market on a level keel. It is an unattrac-
tive scheme. Revealed wheat reserves
are certainly not actual reserves, and some
countries involved would undoubtedly
keep a few private million bushels
stowed away to use against the world
pool. Moreover, this year’s experience
with the Argentinos suggests that they are
likely to keep world pacts about wheat
only when it suits them.
Recent testimony conveys the impres-
sion that an overwhelming majority of
N.S.W. farmers favor a compulsory pool.
Whenever a vote has been taken in the
past, the opposite has proved to be the
case. A Commonwealth compulsory
pool would be a very awkward ex-
pedient. The Commonwealth has no
power to control commodity sales inside
a State. Export control would be its only
function, and complete pool manage-
ment could be established only by
six States passing uniform legislation to
dovetail into a Commonwealth scheme.
There is Buckley’s chance of getting
that, though, from the agitators’ point
of view, it would be eminently desirable.
Pools make a lot of fat billets.
Mr. Lyons should give the Wheat Com-
mission a quiet rap over the knuckles
and tell it to finish the job before Parlia-
ment sits.
4
Vanishing Victoria.
A part of Victoria regarded by many
young folk in Melbourne as probably
the most important portion of the State
is disappearing. This is the foreshore
between Brighton and Mordialloc. An
expensive highway runs along the cliffs
that line it. This highway is in danger
of becoming a submarine lane. The
crumbly cliffs are undermined with every
storm, and huge chunks break off, burying
bathing-boxes and occasionally carrying
an odd nurse and baby on a voyage of
exploration.
All sorts of proposals have been made
for remedying the situation, but most of
them are outside the realm of practical
finance. Engineers say that the only
practicable solution is to shave the cliffs
off and build concrete revetments at their
bottoms. This will destroy some of the
sesthetic charm of these lofty precipices,
but it can’t be helped, apparently.
In any case, whatever is done will
only provide a palliative against a geo-
logical phenomenon which goes back to
pre-history. The floor of the bay is
slowly subsiding. The Yarra used to flow
across the present waste of waters, and
once found the sea 40 miles further south
than where the bathing nymphs of 1934
disport themselves. The present ocean
road will some day be no more, though
it will probably serve the needs of a few
more generations.
4
The Achievement of Queensland.
If figures mean anything, Queensland has
established a record in trade in the last
nine months. In terms of £A Queens-
land exports were 5.1 p.c. above the
1928-29 average. Allowing for exchange,
export turnover in sterling was worth
84 p.c. of the return in the correspond-
ing months of the boom year. Accord-
ing to the League of Nations survey, the
world average is about 50 p.c. of pre-
depression figures.
In actual quantities, increases in ex-
ports have been splendid. Against the
1927-29 average there has been a dwind-
ling in only two lines —meat and tallow.
The wool outgo was 36.7 p.c. above the
boom average ; export of scoured lines
increased 209 p.c. About 84 p.c. more
sugar is being sent abroad than before
the crash, and 104.3 p.c. more butter in
terms of weight, though it is yielding only
9.2 p.c. more in Australian pounds than
the 1927-29 amount. Outside wool, about
85 p.c. of all Queensland exports go to
the U.K.
The prosperity index of the Queensland
Bureau of Industry places business at
91.3 in March against an index of 100.5
in 1928. The number of persons unem-
ployed has dwindled by 5000 since March
last year, despite the fact that the work-
ing population is “growing at the rate of
220 per month.”
The northern State’s achievement is
largely due to good seasons and to. its
excellent and well-managed system of
land administration. Its vast areas of
cheap leasehold place it at a tremendous
advantage over States where most pro-
duce comes off expensive and heavily-
taxed freehold.
4
Singapore and Siam.
“Feng-Shui”: London “Daily Express”
recently reported that agents of Nippon
were negotiating with Siam for a lease
of the Isthmus of Kra for the construc-
tion of a canal and naval base to offset
the Singapore base. The report was
denied by the Japanese Foreign Office.
The Isthmus of Kra is the corseted
waist of that long finger of land which
projects from Burma and Siam athwart
the route from India to Further Asia and
which breaks up in the Rhio Archi-
pelago (Dutch) and Singapore Island
(British). At its narrowest it is less than
30 miles across, though the tail-end of
the mountainous backbone of Malaya
runs through it. A canal at Kra would
shorten the steamer route by nearly a
thousand miles and reduce Singapore
from the Clapham Junction of Asia to
a mere local trading station. Proposals
to build it have been made to Siam
for generations, and syndicates have been
formed to do it, but they have invariably
been strangled in the cradle.
France has been interested in the
scheme, as it would create a direct route
to her vast possessions in Indo-China,
but it is difficult to see what advantage
Japan would gain, except that it would
make her relations with Siam closer.
When Raffles founded Singapore as a
free port he struck a deadly blow at
Dutch supremacy. The Dutch were en-
deavoring to form a gigantic monopoly
which would eventually weld the entire
Malayan Archipelago and all the adjacent
mainland countries into a single customs
union, with Holland as the sole collector
of imposts. To make their monopoly
complete they destroyed the spice plan-
tations outside their jurisdiction, closed
the native ports and slaughtered thou-
sands of recalcitrant natives. The sur-
vivors promptly took to piracy, and when
Raffles opened Singapore much of its
trade was with these freebooters.
The Dutch looked on Singapore as
little better than a pirates’ nest. But it
flourished none the less, and eventually
supplanted Batavia. Raffles’s freetrade
ideals are still a tradition in Singapore,
with results that are curious. An im-
mense population of every race in exist-
ence has collected on the island, and
it is used to buying in the cheapest
market. That market used mainly to be
Britain. Lately Japan has flooded Singa-
pore with goods of amazing cheapness.
British trade has been so seriously
damaged that firms famous for a cen-
tury have become indentors for Japan-
ese manufacturers. But it has saved the
local situation, because both native and
white man are on their beam ends finan-
cially. So the Government turns a deaf
ear to the proposals to abandon the
freetrade ideals of Raffles. This peace-
ful penetration is much more important
than rumors of an alleged plot to dig
a canal across the isthmus.
4
Snowed Under.
In a handbook recently issued the
Lyons Government is credited with hav-
ing passed 74 Acts of Parliament during
its 2\ years of office. In the same period
each of the States has passed as many
or more. No wonder there is work for
the lawyers!
Not only is there a flood of Acts, but
there is a flood of had Acts. Lawyers
draft them in the first place, and then
the amateurs of the party-room get at
them like leatherjackets at a prawn. Five
times out of six the battered carcass is
flung into a howling Lower House,
through which it is frequently gagged in
a matter of minutes. Then an Upper
House does a bit of mutilation, and after-
wards the first counsel who sees the Act
remarks that it is full of holes, and pro-
ceeds to get endorsement for his view at
immense expense to a couple of litigants.
When a few thousands have been spent
in obtaining High Court and perhaps
Privy Council opinions on the tattered
remains, an amending bill is introduced
to fill the gaps; but, as often as not, by
that time the Opposition has become the
Government, and has made some fresh
amendments of its own, while dozens of
regulations and by-laws have gone out
under the hand and seal of individual
Ministers.
What the study of the law will be like
in a couple of generations at the present
rate of progress it is impossible to pro-
phesy. If the youngsters of 1990 are to
have an adequate knowledge of Aus-
tralian statutes before they are allowed
to practise, most of them will argue their
first cases the week before they are cre-
mated, and “silk” will become a post-
humous honor. Each of our seven Par-
liaments could do with a repeal and revi-
sion session which would wipe useless
litter off the statute books.
4
Police and Crime Films.
Australia has cause to thank its stars
for its police system when it reads of the
kind of thing that happens in the U.S.A.,
where the force is a sketchy and disin-
tegrated affair.
Many of the Disunited States have no
police systems at all. The District
Attorney looks after indictments and the
sheriff and the village constable do the
catching—when they can. They fear
nobody but the party boss. Cities like
Philadelphia which have a few hundred
troopers think themselves well served ;
but if the local criminal, after machine-
gunning a bank, runs for shelter in
another town, the local constabulary bid
good-bye to him. Sometimes there is not
even an extradition treaty between
adjoining States, and when the retreating
gunman crosses a boundary-line he can
snap his fingers at his recent hosts.
U.S.A. Federal police powers are, of
course, increasing. Until recently, the
bootlegger and the gentleman who lives
by mail-order fraud were Washington’s
pidgin, but the murderer was not. Times
now are changing, thanks to Mr. Dil-
linger and his kind, but Federal opera-
tions are a good deal hampered by local
jealousies, and by the kind of political
sheriff who poses for Hollywood, arm-in-
arm with the captured murderer.
Mindful of what they owe to their fine
force, N.S.W. people are not quarrelling
with it for banning a Kelly-gang talkie.
It is only what the producers deserve
for trying to exploit such stuff when
there are thousands of better themes
available—A.l.F. subjects, for instance.
The embargo extends only to exhibition
in N.S.W. Overseas markets are still
available. The owners of the film might
arrange to send it to the U.S.A. and get
Mr. Chaffey—a kind-hearted man, really
—to write a prologue to it. Something
after this fashion:
We apologise for this rubbish, but we
haven’t been able to breed even a mud-
dling, easily-captured bandit like Ned Kelly
for well over 50 years. Australian police
systems make it impossible for even a
third-rate robber to last more than a day
or two.
When he feels in a censoring mood
again, Mr. Chaffey should have a look
at some of the Yankee productions.
These Erudite Judges.
Sydney Quarter Sessions Judges are
always saying and doing things which
catch the eye of the flapper press.
Edwards, J., for instance, last week pro-
nounced all artists “more or less mad.”
Another member of the Bench achieved
notoriety by suggesting that a certain
Larwood, a tourist, might be susceptible
to criminal prosecution. But Judge Cur-
lewis gets most limelight because of his
needless and inopportune displays of
learning.
A few days ago Mr. Curlewis spoke
crushing! y to an accused person who
had said that he wanted a remand so
that he might obtain “a mouthpiece.”
Mr. Curlewis would not “tolerate the
language of the gangsters of New York
and Chicago” in court, and would not
listen to accused until he “translated his
request into English.”
The word, of course, is not Bowery or
gangster slang ; it is hallowed among the
people of England by many decades of
usage. It has even achieved a section
to itself under its special cant meaning,
“a solicitor,” in the “New Oxford Dic-
tionary,” which should make it tolerable
even to Judge Curlewis.
In any case, diction and vocabulary
have nothing to do with justice. Even
the drunk who is speechless has his
rights; and the fact that some unfortu-
nate has not received the education of
a Quarter Sessions Judge should not tell
against him—be he accused or witness,
plaintiff or defendant —in a court to
which he comes for justice, not for edu-
cation.
4
Talkie Critics Don’t Tell.
“ ‘When the Kellys Rode’ is not a master-
piece.”—“S. M. Herald.”
To do justice to the author of this sub-
lime example of fatuity it should be said
that his admission was relative. “The
Silence of Dean Maitland” is the only
Australian production that has been
called a masterpiece by our papers so
far. But Australian critics spend most of
their time discovering Elstree and Holly-
wood masterpieces.
It is a recognised business. The
“Daily Blood” mentions that “Strangled”
is “Superb.... exquisite.... a beautiful
conception, beautifully carried out” ; and
the “Weekly Ghoul” follows with “A
masterpiece... .Australia honors itself in
honoring this soul-shaking production by
the director-genius, Schnozzle.” The
publicity-hound of the architectural
horror where “Strangled” is being un-
wound reprints the views of the critics
in his advertisements (together with the
names of their papers), and hurries off
to the city’s leading limelight-chasers,
male and female; and their rapturous
inanities (“A great, a thought-provoking
work” ; “Art in its highest form,” etc.)
appear in the news columns.
The truth about the talkies is rarely
told; and not only because it would
be detrimental to advertising. Critics
honestly believe that the rubbish which
pours into Australia from England
and America —to be imitated later
by our own producers—is admir-
able. For a very good reason. Ninety
per cent, of these works make iden-
tically the same appeal as a tabloid
or exposure newspaper. They feature
sex, murder and crime generally, and
social scandals, in that order. The
Hollywood picture barons, being cleverer
and more cynical than any others, catch
the fleeting sensation on the hop, as it
were. As a result, Australia has had
alleged masterpieces about American
navalism, prohibition, the collapse of
prohibition, gangsters, the depression,
the Roosevelt recovery campaign and
kidnapping, amid a welter of eroticism
with American college life, society and
the stage as backgrounds. It is enter-
tainment in the sense that the fruitier
sections of the “Police Gazette” or of a
Sunday paper are entertainment; the
acting is usually good, and unlimited
money is available for the technical pro-
cesses—but it isn’t art or anything like
art.
There is another reason why our
critics don’t tell. The countries and
customs depicted in most imported
talkies are unknown to most of them, so
they overlook the manifold bloomers.
They can’t even identify the bloomers
made in our own talkies; as witness the
acceptance by practically all of them of
the horses, homestead and bush humor
of “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Australia needs to readjust its values
in the talkie field. On present form it
is qualifying for the part of the Empire’s
idiot child.


Society
"ANE IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Lord Luvus”: A parson in a Mel-
bourne suburb recently selected for his
theme the ungodliness of modern fashions.
After picturing the perils to the soul of
last season’s bathing costumes, he went
on to speak of “scanties,” and denounced
them as wiles of the Devil. When he
saw girls wearing scanties, he added, he
was filled with an almost uncontrollable
desire to tear the accursed things off
them. An awed silence fell on his
congregation. “In any case,” the
preacher concluded, “they look better
without them! ” While he was re-
moving his vestments an agitated elder
rushed into the vestry. “Heavens,
mon! ” he cried, “why did you go on like
that? Half the congregation is shocked
and the other half’s laughing. Do you
realise what you’ve said?” “Certainly,”
said the minister, “every word of it!”
The elder looked astonished, and then a
light dawned on him. “Do you know
what scanties are?” he asked. “Yes, of
“ Where’s the boy who won the bun-eating competition?”
“Please, sir, he says can you bring the prize to him or mind it till he’s able
to walk?”
course I do,” replied the man of God.
“They’re those abominable little hats the
girls wear on the sides of their heads!”
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Anxious to keep the pot of
public excitement boiling, a Melbourne
daily directed a reporter to get in touch
with Larwood by wireless’phone and glean
his opinion of Ponsford’s scores. After
four hours spent in raking England for
the demon bowler, the pressman at length
raised Mrs. Larwood; time, round about
1 a.m. “He won’t give an opinion,” said
the lady. “Well,” said the reporter fran-
tically, “ask him to make some state-
ment.” There was a muttered colloquy,
and then a ghostlike voice said, “Tell ’em
to go to !”
* ¥ * *
“Findy”: When Flinders explored the
S. Aus. portion of the Bight he sprinkled
names liberally among the inlets there ;
Fowler’s, Denial, Smoky, Streaky, Sceales
and Venus bays were half a dozen of
them. Years afterwards, when the coast
became settled, the same names served
for the surrounding districts. When,
however, townships sprang up around the
jetties, new names were coined, the places
becoming (officially) Yalata, McKenzie,
Wallanippie, Flinders, Yanera and Par-
kin. For the most part these are merely
full-dress names, the old ones serving
for everyday use. Streaky-Flinders is an
exception. Some years ago the postal
authorities adopted “Streaky Bay” and
dropped the official “Flinders.” There
is now a movement, inspired perhaps by
the recently awakened interest in the ex-
plorer, to have the official name used
exclusively. But Streaky will die hard.
* * * *
“Runa”: Touching these songs of
greeting to royalties (B. 16/5/’34), I
nominate one that staggered Auckland
at the time of Queen Victoria’s jubilee.
Victoria, Victoria,
Our roads are made of scoria,
But the people’s hearts
Are soft as tarts,
Victoria, Victoria!
The writer remained hidden under a pen-
name, but it was persistently rumored
that he was a K.C.
* * * *
“Mad-ox” (N.Q.): To help a lame dog
oyer a stile, our local council gave an in-
digent Greek a wheelbarrow and set him
cleaning street gutters. His idea of work
was distinctly that of the Levant, and
after a few days a man was sent to
relieve him. The Greek flung a torrent
of gutturals at the intruder, seized the
wheelbarrow, marched with it to the
police station, glared at the sergeant,
barked “Whaffor?” in Doric, wheeled
round and returned to the job. “Let him
finish the day,” said the council. But tne
Greek took the barrow home with him
and started the next day. Unless some-
body can kidnap the wheelbarrow he
seems to have a job for life.
* * * *
“Barah Peg”: Newspaper reporters
have not always come off as easily in
interviewing rajahs as did the disgruntled
young representative of a Sydney flapper
paper who found his Highness of Dhar-
ampur uncommunicative, “as if he sus-
pected pressmen of treating him either
as a problem of India or as a butterfly
on a pin.” There is a story told of a
lowly reporter on a native newspaper who
called on a maharajah with no morals
but 79 wives, and was received with true
Oriental courtesy. “Do you like cham-
pagne?” asked his Highness hospitably,
“You bet,” said the scribe. “Champagne
for one—magnum,” said H.E. There was
a silence while they drank to matrimony,
“Now, you must have a good look at
our elephants,” remarked the potentate,
and he and some minions led the his-
torian into the courtyard and tied one
end of him to a baobab root and the
other to a hathi. “Here! What’ll hap-
pen if that brute moves?” asked the
alarmed correspondent. “It won’t
matter,” said his Highness comfortingly.
“The champagne was full of slow
poison, anyway. Giddup!” At sundown
“ ‘Becalmed,’ you dell me! Vot do you mean?”
“Got no wind, sir.”
they buried part of the correspondent
under the baobab and the other part in
a crocodile, and the Maharajah went
thoughtfully back to his harem. How
visiting Asiatic princes must regret the
good old times!
* * * *
“Mells”: Douglas Sladen’s request to
the Sydney Uni. heads to confer an
honorary degree on him (B. 9/5/’34)
makes one wonder if
such academic distinc-
tions are often directly
asked for. I doubt it.
Nevertheless, lesser
compliments which
are vaguely supposed
to be spontaneous are
frequently nothing of
the sort. I used to
think that civic recep-
tions were liable to
come as a pleasant
surprise to the persons
honored until a West-
ralian goldfields
mayor showed me a
letter in which the
writer announced his
intention of coming
along shortly and
added, without any
beating about the
bush, that he should
“expect” a civic re-
ception. And he was a clergyman!
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The centenary prepara-
tions are doing one thing—they are mak-
ing Melbourne citizens discover their own
city. Nature, within bounds, rejoices in
the Fitzroy, Treasury and Alexandra
Gardens, but humanity doesn’t. The cen-
tenary committee is going to alter all that.
The gardens are to be lit with colored
lights, fountains will be floodlit, bands
will play and, as the “Age” puts it, “a
small army of sweet and ice-cream sellers
will mingle amongst the gay throng which
it is expected will be attracted.” A few
open-air cafes purveying the wine of the
country would improve the landscape,
too, but none of the committee has the
courage to suggest that.
* * * *
“Andante”: Mention of the Hollywood
production which shows a thief rolling
up the “Mona Lisa” as if it were painted
on canvas (B. 9/5/’34) reminds me that
I recently saw on the screen the stolen
Van Dyck rolled into a fin. cylinder, with
the familiar action of a window blind.
A painting of that age, of course, would
definitely not stand rolling up. If such
a thing were done all that would be
found on unrolling would be a piece of
canvas and several thousand flakes of
paint.
......
“Val”; The question of what the
“Mona Lisa” is painted on cannot be
settled as- easily as “Caballer” thinks,
Newspapers have published a statement
by Jack Dean, who, with Perugia and
another, stole it from the Louvre in
1911. According to him, the painting,
with frame, glass and shadow box, re-
quired three men to move it. Under the
pretence of photographing it, they took
it to another room, stripped out the
painting (it measures 31in. x 21in.), and
then one of them walked out with it
under his workman’s blouse —probably
an overall. Dean says it is painted on
three blocks of walnut, lyin. thick, and
backed by a block of ebony. On the
other hand, “Outline of Art” says, “The
canvas was smuggled out of the build-
ing.” The Medici Society, in its cata-
logue, compromises by describing the
picture as “canvas on panel,” which
leaves the subject still as enigmatical as
the famous lady’s smile.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Our former visitor and
steadfast friend A. P. Herbert says
oddly in “Punch” (14/3/’34) that some
question “has been definitely solved, or,
as the Australians would charmingly put
it, finalised.” Is this useful and every-
day word really our invention and mon-
opoly? On search, I cannot find the
verb in any dictionary, including Col-
lins’s, the “Cyclopaedia,” Webster and the
great Oxford volume. So it looks as if
we had really done the English language
a service, without “realising” it. Natural-
ise, local-ise, legal-ise, special-ise—why
was just this one left for us?
* * * *
“Black Elliott”: Telling of the unveil-
ing of the A. L. Gordon memorial in
Westminster Abbey, an inspired cable
says that the Marquis of Huntly and
Gordon was present as head of the
Gordon clan, and that “The Flowers of
the Forest,” described as “The Gordon
Lament,” was played. The headship of
the Gordons is fiercely disputed. I don’t
propose to enter into that question, but
the assumption by a clan of Highland
caterans of one of the greatest and most
famous of the beautiful folk ballads of
Lowland Scotland as their own particular
“lament” strikes me as a piece of im-
pertinence. “The Flowers of the Forest”
is Lowland Scotland’s lament for the
death at Flodden of the prime of her
youth, noble, gentle and peasant. The
sad and lovely air is typical of the Border
Ballads, and the words are purely Scots
with no flavor of the jangled Gaelic
about them. Who composed the music
and wrote the words no one knows
exactly ; probably it was one of those
wandering minstrels, travelling with harp
and fiddle about the countryside, of
whom Walter Scott has written so inti-
mately.
TOTS AND QUOTAS.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Mr. Monro, of the N.S.W. Parliamentary House
Committee, said that members had' abused the
privilege of pouring out their own nips, and it had
been necessary to introduce the measured nobbier,
since when refreshment-room profits had shown a
marked increase.”
Their gullets seemingly were too capacious
To make a little liquor like a lot;
Their views presumably a bit too spacious
Upon what constitutes a fair-sized tot.
You think the inference unkind, ungracious?
It’s inescapable, though, is it not?
These M.L.As. of ours, it goes to show,
Are human —often singularly so.
Brimmers and “rozeners” they had a flair for,
And double-barrelled shots at single rates;
Mere Lilliputian spots they didn’t care for
After the thirst engendered by debates.
Their nips were those assigned (I know not
wherefore)
By popular belief to second mates.
At niggard thimblefuls they shied, ’twould seem,
And forty drops were held in scant esteem.
Briskly they’d grasp the bottle or decanter
And pour the whisky or the triple star,
Ignoring, ’mid the repartee and banter,
The immemorial ethics of the bar.
D’you want a proof how tempora mutantur
Then, verily and surely, here you are!
“Pilots’ two fingers,” these were freely slung
Until the joint went very nearly bung.
They broke their trust. No more may full
reliance
Be placed upon their handling of the tid.
The faith a pub reposes in its clients
(Or, to express it more correctly, did
In better times) they set at flat defiance.
They’re sadder men to-day, I’ll bet a quid.
For now, where glasses clink and sodas fizz,
They’re learning what the quota system is.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


‘ St. James de Mayfair”: I cannot in
the least understand why poor Alf Jones,
Brisbane’s new Lord Mayor, should be
in trouble because he once wore a top-
hat or why tophats should be re-
garded as undemocratic. In the past,
of course, they were affected by all
classes, but nowadays few seem to
wear them in Europe except undertakers,
bank messengers, Westminster school-
boys and Mr. Hitler’s executioner. Even
Ramsay MacDonald is not immune from
the habit, and not many years ago I met
a whole horde of Soviet emissaries parad-
ing the verges of Green Park and look-
ing the better for the shiny headgear.
Albert Willis became infected when he
went to London without becoming obvi-
ously less democratic, and I personally
am strongly in favor of the tile which,
beside being light and airy, adds to the
height of a small man, lends solemnity
to a humorous countenance, sheds the
rain better than any headcovering I
“How long will those sausages
be, darling ?”
“Aw, about the length of my
middle finger.”
know, keeps heat at bay better than a
helmet and makes a superb water-bucket,
flowerpot, hen’s nest or workbasket in its
old age.
H= * * *
“Biltong”: When Insull was brought up
at Chicago his counsel “challenged as
illegal” the seizure of the absconder in
Turkey. But, supposing international law
had been violated thereby, it is difficult
to see what redress Insull could obtain.
Uncle Sam, having got hold of him, is
not in the least likely to let him go or
to ship him back to Turkey. Years ago,
in Cape Colony, I remember hearing a
man who was being tried for a serious
crime take the preliminary objection that
he had been arrested illegally. He had
escaped into Pondoland, then a native
territory, and the police had run him down
and brought him back without bother-
ing about any legal technicalities. The
Judge told the prisoner that he had
raised an interesting legal point, but one
that was quite irrelevant to the case in
hand. “You’re here,” said his Ludship
drily, “and I’m not concerned with
whether you were brought here high-
handedly or otherwise; my business is
simply to try you.” If Insull had been
kidnapped for return to America (as 40
years ago it was seriously proposed to
kidnap Jabez Balfour in the Argentine)
the illegality of the proceeding wouldn’t
have prevented his trial for fraud, though
it might have given a ground for action
against the kidnappers.
* * * *
“Tired Sub.”: Our M.L. newspaper
office was thrown into confusion by the
“official” denial of the report, “officially”
confirmed in a previous cablegram, that
Prince George wasn’t coming. It was
in something the same form, with
statement and denial on the one sheet,
that Maoriland papers a few years ago
received the news concerning a certain
royal lady and an expected happy event.
One result was that a country paper in
Otago appeared next morning with the
following: —-
The Duchess of Blank is expected shortly
to be accouched at So-and-so Castle.
All papers have been asked not to pub-
lish the statement concerning the Duchess
of Blank at the special request of High
Authority.
So now there is at least one newspaper
where the last sub-editor on dog-watch
never wanders round the corner leaving
the handling of the final cablegram to
the last comp.
*** . *
“Exdig”: Some Diggers, badly in need
of it, are making a rush to collect cash
which has been awaiting collection ever
since the war ended. Generally speak-
ing, A.I.F. men knew that a D.C.M. car-
ried a £2O bonus and a spell of leave, and
most of them saw that they had the
money; but the conditions go further
than that. The medallist is entitled, by
British Army regs., not only to the initial
grant, but, at the end of a certain period,
to an additional sixpence a day as long as
he is receiving a pension for a war dis-
ability. In many cases the amount due
is over £lOO. The payment, like the
medal, comes from Britain, where the
sudden rush is likely to provoke some
wonder. The Australian Defence authori-
ties, who appear to know as little about
British regs. as possible, cold-shouldered
the few who vaguely thought that some-
thing extra was due to them; but a
Westralian D.C.M., who went straight to
the British war authorities and collected
£lOO back pay as a reward for his enter-
prise, started the ball rolling.
“Thurston”: The Newcastle (N.S.W.)
branch of the Australasian Society of
Patriots has discovered an injustice to
Australia in the selection of Adam Lind-
say Gordon for a. niche in Westminster
Abbey ; “not having been born here, and
having spent the greater part of his life
“Business must be bucking up by the size of this morning's mail”
“Yes, sir. It’s the typist’s birthday, sir.”
in England,” he was incorrectly ranked as
an Australian. All of which is calculated
to raise fresh doubts as to what con-
stitutes a patriot. If Gordon wasn’t born
here, he wasn’t born in England either ;
the Azores is entitled to such distinction
as attaches to his birthplace. What is
more to the point is that he lived here
from the age of 20, wrote all his verses
here and died here.
* * * *
“Jeviel”: One of the “Archie’s” most
useful functions has been passed over by
participants in the anti-aircraft discus-
sion. British gunners generally used
H.E., which burst white; the enemy
was addicted to shrapnel, which burst
black. As distant Archie bursts could be
seen from the air when their target was
invisible or too far off to be identified,
a trail of white “mushrooms” was often
a handy indication of the approach of
enemy ’planes; similarly black bursts
denoted friends in the offing. 'Sometimes
there were more direct warnings. Brit-
ish and Allied gunners often put up a
burst in front of their own ’planes to
warn them of a German formation up in
the sun or screened by clouds.
* * * *
“Peter Simple”: A debate in the
Commons recently disclosed that the law
authorising the press for the navy had
never been repealed. The press gangs
must have been a holy terror in English
seaport towns what time Britain was
building up her sea power in the
Napoleonic and earlier wars, but I have
heard of one case where they bit off more
than they could chew. They had cap-
tured a Whitby fisherman who stood
6ft. 4in. and weighed 24st. —an illegal
seizure, since fishermen were supposed to
be exerhpt—and after a great battle
dropped him into their boat “athwart-
ships.” He had been stunned, so they
left him alone while they pulled out to
their ship on a wild night. Coming to,
he put his feet against one side of the
boat and his shoulders against the other
and with a heave split her. She went
down, drowning all her crew and the
other pressed men. The giant, a famous
swimmer, got safely to shore. There is
no statue to him in Whitby, but as Wil-
liam Carr his name liveth for evermore.
* * * H=
“Centurion”: “4 x 2” (B. 16/5/’34)
falls into more errors in his attempt
to correct my comment on De
Valera and his “special army reserve”
—not the Free State Army, be it
observed. All that I said was that the
photo, showed that their uniform was
“uncommonly like that of the Black and
Tans.” The monochrome print exhibits
the men in dark tunics—impossible to
say whether these are black or dark-
green—and light breeches, presumably
khaki —which seems near enough for a
general description. And, in my opinion,
the fact that the British left arms and
equipment for the Free State does not
justify De V. in eating his own words
and using them when Liege or Connecti-
cut would cheerfully have supplied him
with a different make. Also, the British
“slope” has nothing to do with the posi-
tion of the magazine, as “4 x 2” airily
alleges. I learned to do it donkey’s years
ago with the Martini-Enfield, which has
no magazine. Further, the American and
Continental service rifles all have maga-
zines, yet they are sloped on the right
shoulder with the magazine and trigger-
guard downwards and the bolt project-
ing inwards —a most awkward position
in contrast with the British method,
where the rifle lies on the flat side on
the left shoulder with bolt, magazine and
trigger-guard out of the way.
* * * *
“Emsworth”: An alien after five years’
residence in the Commonwealth cannot
be deported for anything less than a
crime of violence against the person, but
he can be deported for any criminal
offence carrying a punishment of 12
months’ imprisonment if it has been
committed within five years of his land-
ing in Australia. Hence a blackmailer
or arsonist who has been in the country
for longer than five years cannot be de-
ported. This curious anomaly has been
revealed by the inability of the authori-
ties to deport an Italian sentenced at
Cairns to seven years for attempted
blackmail. Time the Act was amended
to enable the deportation of an alien con-
victed of any grave offence, whether
against property or the person.
He # * *
“Adelaide”: The value of the much-
advertised serum for tetanus has been
questioned following a death in Adelaide.
A doctor, asked why he had not injected
it before sending the patient to hospital,
said that (besides the symptoms present
being unusual and dubious) he doubted
the efficacy of the serum, and even thought
that what was given in hospital might have
hastened the end. Experts called said
that (1) it has, as a cure, “decreased the
mortality rate very slightly, if at all” ;
(2) in one recent local case it was actu-
ally harmful; but (3) all the textbooks
advocate the use of it “right up to the
end” ; and (4) as a preventive its value
is undoubted. The coroner (a lawyer)
ruled that, though any doctor may make
a mistake in diagnosis, he would be
to blame “if he were even in a state of
doubt whether treatment for tetanus
should be given or not” and omitted to
give it.
* * * *
“Tamar”: The Minister of the Interior,
having discovered that there are two
Melville Islands, is changing the name of
the one near Cape Arnhem to Bremer
Island. As a matter of history, the name
of Sir John Gordon Bremer is more
closely associated with the other Melville
Island (off Darwin). There it was that
Bremer started the original military out-
post in North Australia (1824); he also
founded the Port Essington settlement.
His only connection with the smaller
Melville Island was that, in October,
1838, on his way to Port Essington, he
planted a Union Jack “towards a hill
near Cape York,” thus taking formal
posession of the n.-e. and n. coast of
Australia for Great Britain. The settle-
ment initiated by Bremer at Melville
Island preceded the one at Raffles Bay ; it
was abandoned, principally owing to the
hostility of the natives.
IRONIC IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw them first and held them fairy-kinned;
But Jones had other tastes and merely grinned,
The graceless dog, to hear me name the two
Romance-in-Red' and Mystery-in-Blue.
Romance-in-Red! Her eyes were wide and
dark
As timeless tarns that guard a goblin spark.
Her lips seemed made for—poets, let us say:
So crimson vivid, so electric gay.
A smouldering rose; but Mystery-in-Blue!
Pansies at dusk and cornflowers bright with dew
Seemed of one flame with her, and she was
wise
With the lost meaning of Beauty in her eyes.
I would have passed her with a votive sigh,
But Jones had other plans; and by-and-bye
We walked and talked with—how I never
knew —
Romance-in-Red and Mystery-in-Blue.
Romance-in-Red! Alas, Romance, ’twould
seem,
Runs to roast peanuts and pink chocolate
cream,
And holding hands in warm and sticky bliss,
Her deepest vision a vanilla kiss.
Words! Words, what you must answer for!
Eheu !
She talked and talked, blonde Mystery-in-Blue;
A conversation piece for one was she,
A golden geyser of inanity.
Last night I met with Jones. I would have
passed,
But ironies and idylls end at last.
And Jones had other views; he jerked his
thumb,
And silently we went in search of rum.
To-day we glimpsed two ladies fair. Alas!
We shuddered, Jones and I, and let them pass.
Such are but to the dreamer’s distant view
Romance-in-Red and Mystery-in-Blue.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOĹOWAY.


The moisture-proof
“Cellophane” Pack is
exclusive to Craven
“A” Cigarettes and is
your only guarantee
of getting a really
factory - fresh smoke.
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
“I've smoked them for years
and they never vary
CRAVENS
in ine new moiAtWie-pwcf
C E LLOPH AN E' PAC K
m
m :
POLITICAL POINTS
Butler has a great plan for helping the
wheatgrowers: a fixed price for home
consumption, 2 p.c. off mortgage interest
and an increase in the exchange rate.
The Commonwealth is to pass the price-
fixing legislation, finance the interest cut
with a loan and find the higher exchange
on the debt commitments in London.
Butler’s idea, in a word, is “Let Joe
do it.”
Unless leave to appeal is refused,
Queensland Labor is going to carry the
power-alcohol case to the Privy Council.
The Government is still sore about the
High Court judgment, more especially
as it apprised Latham of its plans for
helping the power-alcohol industry, and
was assured there was no constitutional
impediment.
Ogilvie’s statement that his Labor
group has no connection with Lang has
been challenged by Jude, Tas. secretary
of the A.W.U., who is standing for Bass
“in uncompromising opposition to the
Lang-Gray-Ogilvie faction.” Ex-Minister
George Becker is also out against the
Ogilvies as Ind. Lab. candidate for
Wilmot —Premier Lee’s electorate, and
Lyons’s for 20 years.
One of the candidates for the West
Province (Fremantle) seat in the West-
ralian Leg. Council proudly announced
that he stood “four-square for Secession
and Social Credit.” He just saved his
deposit.
Peter Loughlin, once Lang’s lieutenant
and now U.A.P. member for Goulburn,
is demanding “the appointment of a
Cabinet representative of every willing
section of the House.” Presumably the
House as a whole would elect these
people, and, with the Langs ters voting but
declining to serVe, Stevens would pro-
bably be deposed in favor of “Alpha-
betical” Reid. Bruxner and Spooner
would go out; Gollan and “Curly”
Lloyd would go in. The Leg. Council
Ministers would, of course, be Trautwein
and Alam.
The Government at Dublin announced
a surplus of £1,200,000, and a few days
later its Finance Minister “appealed for
a settlement” of the war of tariffs, re-
minding “our British friends” that they
could gain nothing by strangling the Irish
cattle industry. As Australians know,
surpluses can be faked, but the appeal
seems to represent genuine feeling. If
so, the end of the sordid trade war is
not far off.
Boris, of Bulgaria, is unlikely to lose
much sleep over the coup d’etat which
has saddled him with a National Govern-
ment. Having lost one Ministry ( plus his
ancestral cathedral) through a dynamite
explosion, and having had to steal a picnic
party’s ’bus to escape from dissatisfied
subjects in the suburbs of his capital, he
should have become philosophical about
political change. The Bulgarian winter
is long, severe and hungry, and hard on
the temper. Politics are always lively in
the spring.
If the row over the cost of recondi-
tioning a State carriage for the transpor-
tation of Prince Henry in Melbourne is
any criterion, the Commonwealth’s
costing system is urgently in need
of revision. The first figure men-
tioned was £3035. When the Argyle Min-
istry expressed astonishment it came
down suddenly to £2600. It has now
been reduced to £175, and the Prince is
to have his vehicle. This is the record
drop in prices since the depression.
Australians who wonder why freight-
rates to Europe are heavy should have
an occasional glimpse at Suez Canal
dues. Despite reductions, 480 transits
through the 80-odd miles of channel
during March brought the Canal owners
£962,000. About £2OOO per ship.
Tas. Premier Lee says he is neither
a unificationist nor a secessionist, but the
present distribution of functions gives the
Commonwealth far too much revenue,
and his Government will continue to ask
for more. Meantime it is going to
reduce taxes and give a bit back to the
public servants, even if it has to send
the bill to Canberra. There is to be a
50 p.c. cut in land tax Qd. in the £) on
improved values up to £2500, and wages
below £7B a year are to be exempt
from relief tax. And the Government
railways are to carry fertilisers free.
A Labor report from U.S.A. mentions
“strikes affecting wharf-lumpers, iron-ore
and copper miners, textile workers,
petroleum refiners, shoemakers and auto-
mobile mechanics,” and predicts a lot
more. Indeed, “there is likely to be a
record number of strikes in the next
few months.” It was only to be expected.
N.I.R.A. introduced a compulsory arbi-
tration system like ours.
“Bees Visit Parliament Huse—Not Interested in Politicians.” —Melbourne “Argus.”
“Strange flowers, Bill—seem to smell of gall.”
“Yairs — let’s get back to the prickly-pear country where there is some honey.”
Reduction of members—lo Council-
lors instead of 18, and 20 Assemblymen
instead of 30 —is on Lee’s election pro-
gramme. Some of his own followers,
even Attorney-General Baker, are against
it, as in 1932, when a bill was dished ;
but Lee has promised to reintroduce the
measure, and to take another 10 p.c. off
salaries in any event. Tas. Parliamen-
tary screws are modest already compared
with what the other States distribute. In
his last annual comparison the Common-
wealth Statistician recorded that £9335
was paid to Assemblymen, £5829 to
Councillors, £3988 to Ministers, £350 to
the Speaker and Chairman of Com-
mittees in one House and £3OO to the
President and Chairman of Committees
in the other.
A rugged U.S. political ballad, written
by a disappointed Democrat after the
1897 Presidential election, begins:
Election night at midnight;
Boy Bryan’s defeat:
Defeat of Western silver;
Defeat of the wheat.
Boy Bryan is dead ; but Western silver
and wheat are very much alive and kick-
ing. Government has taken over the
wheatmen’s mortgages, and is paying
them for not growing wheat. And it
is going to buy silver “up to 25 p.c. of
the metallic monetary basis” for a dollar
an ounce.
Courtney, the Sydney M.L.C., in an
effort to stiffen the sinews of the Stevens
Government:
When I was alderman for the Phillip
ward Anthony Horderns’ had one vote for
their immense property. In the People’s
Palace opposite in Pitt-street, there were
58 lodgers enrolled; for two small resi-
dential opposite in Goulburn-street there
were 42 lodgers enrolled. Twelve months
after the election there were not 20 per
cent, of these lodgers left.
It brought an immediate announcement
that the Government was going on with
the abolition of the lodger vote, which
it has been promising for nearly two
years; but there is still a feeling that it
is not in earnest.
Westralian Labor must regret that it
ever fell out with J. J. Simons, the Y.A.L.
giant, when he represented East Perth in
its interest. It put up C. J. (“Diver”)
Hughes to get Simons’s scalp; this
Hughes did, but he left the party in his
turn and has been a thorn in its side
ever since. He it was who challenged the
position of Clydesdale, the Labor M.L.C.,
as chairman of the Government Lotteries
Commission and secured a Supreme Court
declaration that Clydesdale was hold-
ing an office of profit under the Crown.
At the Leg. Council elections Hughes
stood against the Labor member for
West Province, and would probably have
beaten him if the Nats, had had the
gumption to let the pair fight it out. He
is going to carry the war into the courts,
having issued another lot of writs.
Rotten sportsmanship was shown by
Hocking, president of the Vic. C.P.,
after the Gunbower by-election, in
which the Cocky with the party
label was beaten by another to whom
it had been refused. “Parochial
aspects,” Hocking snarled, “were the
dominating factor” ; an irrigation area
“was cunningly ranged” against a dry
area ; country towns, with characteristic
insolence and ingratitude, had rejected
Hocking’s man (a storekeeper, by the
way); and so on. There would have
been no occasion for this outburst if
the Vic. Cockies had not copied the pre-
selection dodge from the other parties.
They would be well advised to get back
to the “open go,” and to choose another
president.
Melbourne’s far from commodious
lungs suffered severe constriction in 1933.
The Government pinched them to the
extent of eight acres, that area having
been filched from three public parks for
organised sport. There are few votes in
defending the people’s playgrounds, many
in providing fresh facilities for profes-
sional athletes to draw huge Saturday
crowds. Yet it is still to be proved that
looking and bawling at a handful of paid
players chasing a ball help to breed a
better citizen than spontaneous recreation.
Somebody has told Weaver, the N. S.
Wales Minister of Health, that free milk
is distributed in Vic. schools by private
philanthropists, helped by a small Gov-
ernment grant; and he wants to improve
on Vic. and hang the expense. He has
“completed” a grandiose scheme, esti-
mated to cost £85,000 p.a. Suppliers, it
is gathered, are to get Is. 2d. a gallon.
Farmers shut out of the metropolitan
milk market have had to take 2|d. at the
factory. Many of them would be glad
to let Weaver’s department have milk
for nothing if they could get in on the
good thing.
With the anticipated deficit of £BOO,OOO
inflated to a million or thereabouts
through falling-off in railway revenue,
Victoria may be the next State to ask
for a Canberra grant. Chief Sec. Mac-
farlan complains bitterly that the Com-
monwealth “thrusts the expensive and
unprofitable management of education,
penal establishments, mental homes and
unemployment on the States.” Education
should certainly be made a Common-
wealth matter ; it could go hand-in-hand
with a separation of tax-fields. Still,
if the States are to continue to exist they
must retain some functions which are
“unprofitable.”
A reference of Hertzog’s to the pro-
posed placing of “certain British protec-
torates” under the control of his Union
raised the hackles of those concerned,
who have no desire for Dutch rule. As
Dominions Secretary Thomas had to
tell the Commons, the Act of Union
and later legislation provide that before
any such transfer may be made the con-
sent of the inhabitants, white and
colored, has to be obtained.
When the Chinese Revolution was
young and full of optimism it set out
to suppress opium-smoking. President
Yuan issued decrees, and provincial Gov-
ernors carried them out with joyful zeal,
one official rounding up all the smokers
in his district, pouring oil on them and
setting them alight. Later it transpired
that Yuan’s own generals were planting
the weed and paying their troops in the
commodity. Now, after 20 years of
Probish, President Chiang has re-estab-
lished the death penalty for traders in the
soporific poppy. It is estimated that there
are 200,000 indulgers in the province of
Kiangsu alone.


JONES BUYS A COPY OF
* be YOUR OWN DOCTOR"
A VERY HANDY TOME TO HAVE
ABOUT THE PLACE.
NEXT MORNING:SHOCKED TO
FIND ALL THE INDICATIONS OF
FUR-LINED INTESTINAL TRACT
INCIPIENT EPIZOOTIC SETS IN
IN THE AFTERNOON
—JONES SWAPS
"BF YOUR OWN doctor'
FOR A VOLUME OF
wodehou.se
FtTZ STING M D TURNS A COUPLE OF /
HONEST GUINEAS - VERDICT: FIT AS A HORSE
COMPLETE RECOVERY, <6 5 P.M.
HOME DOCTORS TELL TOO MUCH.


A. —The Larynx or Organ of Voice.
B. —The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung.
D. —The lobe of one of the Lungs
They PROTECT the throat
against germ infection
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
Any remedy to have retained its popularity and
continuously increased its sale over a period of
40 years must have real merit.
For over 40 years Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
have maintained their reputation as a Germicide
and Antiseptic for the throat, chest and lungs of
the highest medicinal value.
Endorsed by the medical profession.
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
FOR POCKET FOR HOME 1 /£*
OR PURSE. OR OFFICE. *. ® till
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The 'JVlacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Friends of Dr. Maloney, M.H.R.,
claim the Australian fan-mail record for
him. On his 80th birthday over 1000
letters and telegrams of congratulations
arrived at his Melbourne home.
Dr. E. L. Bainton, the new Director of
the N. S. Wales Con., was a juvenile pro-
digy. When Durham Uni. conferred an
honorary D.Mus. on him on the eve of his
departure for Sydney, it was mentioned
that at 17 he could play the 48 preludes
of Bach by heart. He worked his way
through the R.C.M. on scholarships.
Thomas Maguire, of Bribbaree
(N.S.W.), is a marvel for 80. At the
last local show, he won a male-riders-
of-over-60 competition from a field of
eight. He can dance all night and
work next day, and does—whenever a
chance offers. He has held the mail con-
tract to Morangorell for 46 years, and
still does his own driving.
Gordon Coghill, deputy-leader of the
gold-seeking expedition which will leave
Sydney for the interior of New Guinea
in a few days, was heavyweight boxing
champion of N. S. Wales in 1913. He
turned pro. afterwards, but didn’t do so
well. Joining the A.1.F., he rose to cap-
tain’s rank in France.
“S.”: Consider the fiery ill-luck of
Edwin Ashby, the S.A. naturalist. In
March, his Blackwood home was burnt,
with many of his native shrubs and
natural-history collections. At about the
same time a farm in the country in which
he has an interest was burnt out. And
the other day the Blackwood cold-storage
went up in smoke, with 1500 cases of
his apples. Legh Winser, golfer and ex-
A.D.C., lost 1000 cases at the same time.
Here is the late George Crowley’s suc-
cessor at the City Mutual Life office,
Sydney. William Bennett started the
Melbourne branch in 1899. Its total funds
at the time didn’t exceed £200,000. He is
English by birth, was educated at New-
WILLIAM BENNETT, who has arrived
in Sydney from Melbourne to be
g.m. of the City Mutual.
ington, and began his financial career
with the Brisbane branch of the A.M.P.
in 1885 at the age of 16. The new man-
aging director achieved fame jn Victoria
as author of the slogan “Bennett’s Bigger
Bonuses,” and as the swinger of an ex-
ceptionally wicked bowl. He is still on
the executive of the Vic. Bowling Asso-
ciation.
A political sportsman:
Charles J. Eady, who has been given another
innings in Tasmania’s Upper House, is presi-
dent of the local cricket assoc, and National
Football League, and he still finds time to judge
galloping and trotting races. His outstanding
sporting memories are of his tour of England
with the 1896 XI and the occasion when he
made 566 for Break o’ Day C.C. against Wel-
lington on the T.C.A. oval. The feat was
performed on March 15 and April 5, 1902, and
it took 7hr. 55min. Eady was the first to com-
pile a century in both innings in inter-colonial
cricket (116 out and 112 n.o. against Victoria at
Hobart in 1895). In a North v. South match
at Hobart in 1900 he took every northern wicket
in the second innings, and repeated the per-
formance for South Hobart against East Hobart
in 1906.
W. J. Curtis, K.C., who has been lead-
ing for the A.J.C. in the Naylor case, is
one of the best
men with a jury
in Australia. He
talks to the good
men and true
in a most melli-
fluous voice and
in their own lan-
gua g e, and in
moments of pathos
is capable of evok-
ing sobs from a
traffic constable.
The variegated
nature of his ap-
peal may be judged
from the facts that
he is counsel for
The Bulletin and
“S. M. Herald,”
and the trusted
adviser of both
Premier Stevens
and ex - Premier
Lang. Hobbies:
Racing, music (he
has written the
libretto of an
opera and several plays) and golf. His
golfing would hardly stand cross-exami-
nation, but he—and his friends —get a lot
of fun out of it. His autobiography,
which he started writing some time ago,
should be in the hands of a London pub-
lisher by the end of the year.
W. R. Bagnall, who has been claiming
damages from a tobacco concern, used to
be Labor M.L.A. for St. George (N.S.W.).
He entered politics via the secretaryship
of the Process Engravers’ Union. He was
recognised as the Beau Brummell of the
Assembly; and, though the distinction
was not much more significant than that
of being a giant of Tinytown, he took a
certain pride in it. He has been con-
cerned latterly with the organisation of
such bodies as the League of Nations
Union and the Australian Preference
League.
“L.R.”: Prof. Oliphant, an authority
on Elizabethan literature, is back in Mel-
bourne after lecturing for some years in
American universities. He has a low
opinion of Australian art. He says, in
effect, that the outside world knows noth-
ing of our artists, and that he isn’t sur-
prised: those now in Australia are
old-fashioned, and he sees no sign of a
genius, young or old, in the offing. The
artists are asking: “What the blazes does
Oliphant know about art?” The profes-
sor was best known as a mining expert
till he burst on the world as a Shak-
spearean some 15 years ago.
Rev. Joseph Lundie, N.S.W.’s new
Presbyterian Moderator, was formerly
Moderator in Queensland. He arrived
from Ireland —having acquired his the-
ology at the Assembly College, Belfast —
in 1898, and put in 22 years at Too-
woomba. After war service as an A.I.F.
padre, he was given a charge at Hamil-
ton (N.S.W.). His election as Moderator
is likely to have an influence on the
career of Dr. Angus. Unlike the retiring
Moderator (Rev. D. F. Brandt), Mr.
Lundie is a Modernist. “We must not
think that all truth was revealed to the
Westminster divines,” he observed in
his Moderatorial address.
From Melbourne:
Archdeacon Head is the first Melbourne
ecclesiastic to find himself faced with the kind
of problem that beset Pooh Bah. The Angli-
can Synod has decided to make him dean. But
the Cathedral Act provides that the synod must
introduce the new dean to the old archbishop.
Dr. Head had to participate in a certain amount
of make-believe on the day of his ordination.
According to usage he was required to knock
at the cathedral doors with a hammer; those
inside thereupon had to express surprise and
ask him who he was and why he was there.
Not till he explained did they admit him. As
he had been in Melbourne for several days at
the time, and had met all his interrogators (one
of whom had supplied him with the hammer),
the ceremony placed him in a false position.
He absolutely refuses to allow himself, as
dean, to be introduced to himself, as arch-
bishop, so the Cathedral Act is to be amended.
John MacFarland, the octogenarian
Chancellor of Melbourne University,
W.J. CURTIS, K.C.,who has been appear-
ing for the A.J.C. in the Naylor case.
who has at last
decided to call it
a day, has held his
unpaid post for 16
years. The diffi-
culty of finding
another man with
sufficient private
means, enthusiasm,
ability and prestige
to fill the chair
moved the council
to agitate for a
vice-chancellor on
a salary, who will
be able to relieve
his chief of all but
figurehead duties.
MacFarland is a
North of Ireland
man who became
master of Ormond
College in 1880.
He held that job
till 1914, and has
been a member of
the Uni. council
since 1886.
P. D. Phillips, barrister-at-law, the new
chairman of Vic. Transport Board, is a
grandson of a leading Melbourne solicitor
of half a century ago. His father, M. M.
Phillips, Master-in-Equity, is an eminent
Shakspearean authority. His mother
wrote “The White Feather,” which was
highly praised by the critics ; an aunt,
Dr. Marion Phillips, now deceased, sat in
the House of Commons as a Laborite.
P.D., who still retains a Lectureship in
Law at Melb. University, is politically
inclined himself, and created an impres-
sion at the last Summer School at Can-
berra. A dark, brisk, dynamic little man,
he was building up a useful practice in
Selborne Chambers when he decided to
become a Government official.
Jimmy Blair —nobody in Queensland
ever speaks of him as anything else—
celebrated his 63rd birthday last week.
In his early thirties, he reached Parlia-
ment by dint of Demosthenic eloquence
and the touching slogan “Give Jimmy
a vote.” It ended in W. M. Kidston giv-
ing him the Attorney-Generalship. As a
speaker he rivalled the late J. T. Bell,
who, in his Oxford days, was president
of the Union, and J. V. Lesina, the mara-
thon orator. It is said that Blair could
have had a Supreme Court Judgeship at
the age of 37. He became Chief Justice
in 1925. Also, he is Lieutenant-Governor,
Chancellor of the University and presi-
dent of half the local learned societies.
He probably holds the Australian record
for club memberships: he belongs to ten.
The Rajah of Dharampur, who has left
for M.L. (our dailies, by the way, insisted
on calling him a maharajah), hails from
Britain’s oldest Agency—Surat, in the
Bombay Presidency. He is a nine-gun
chief of one of the three States in the
Agency, and, subject to the Agent,
governs about 100,000 people. His is
the largest of the States —there are 150
others in the Bombay territory alone—
but his junior in the Surat Federation
has it all over him in names and titles.
Dharampur is merely the Rajah Shri
Vijayadevji Mohandevji, but the lord of
Sachin makes up for his confinement to
49 square miles of kingdom by being his
Highness Nawab Sidi Ibrahim Muham-
mad Yakut Khan Mubazarat Daula
Nazarat Jung Bahadur. The Rajah is a
small, plump, Europeanised man with a
passion for music. He is visiting these
parts on a health trip.
Ellis Silas, who used to send The Bulle-
tin black-and-white work, has had an odd
experience. Years ago he left some be-
longings in a Perth (W.A.) boarding-
house, and they were still there when
he enlisted in 1914. They included a
picture called “The Price of Glory,”
which he had at one time thought of
cutting up. The work has achieved a
resounding success at the Royal Aca-
demy.
Marulan, on the Hume Highway, takes
a justifiable pride in its octogenarian resi-
dent, Frank Elgar. A South Kent man,
he joined the R.N., was at the bom-
bardment of Alexandria, and got the
Khedive Star as a member of the naval
party which was sent up the Nile to
rescue Gordon. He also served on the
Cutty Sark. A Boer War veteran, he
fought on Gallipoli and was seriously
wounded at Bullecourt. He arrived in
Marulan via Randwick Military Hospital
and Rabaul, where he had put in a year
or so.
Premier Butler, of S. Aus., was born
at One Tree Hill, in that State, in 1885.
Before entering politics he was a farmer
and grazier in various parts of the Lower
North. He topped the poll in Wooroora
in 1915, lost the seat three years later,
but came back in 1921 and has repre-
sented the district ever since. An ap-
pointment as Liberal Whip in 1925 paved
the way to leadership of the party in
the following year, and in 1927 he be-
came Premier. The next Parliament saw
him in Opposition, but in April, 1933, his
party was returned to power with a big
majority. He is the tallest of the Pre-
miers, and is anything but the dour fellow
his speeches suggest.
Herewith Lord Huntingfield, the first
Australian Governor Victoria has had.
He was born at Gatton (Q.) 51 years ago,
is a'captain (ret.) in the 13th Hussars
and was M.P. for a constituency in his
Lord HUNTINGFIELD, Victoria's
new Governor.
home county, Suffolk, before succeeding
to the family barony. He began his vice-
regal career last week with a democratic
gesture. The Melbourne papers had made
the usual arrangements to ballyhoo him
on arrival. He checked this by issuing
a dignified but somewhat bald message
to the Vic. lieges.


Hi mxiBxv..
§j v ojxx
\ ‘\ s :&:*:
i
m
,.^V
ji§S
111111
SNWMv
:¥:5Sj
iiilii
ii
ppl
, * t
tm
mt
.
I ?:.r S N t v O' :
,f ) TB t
ij^j T( ) TE £T 335
&§
wSSw:
A'V.
m
mm
it <7^:533
mk$~m
g*:::*:*:*:*
S2S&;
%
w
MM
vv*
i
< f, M,
3
Wife
fcX>
Sk.
“MS
fX:
V^5
II
f\\
w
»- p s ■ «.
X J"XN ,_ ' ' X>"
v* ' M . '
I |
'Vv/
5
tlii§
Hr'-* ' *** XI X
s * fcKJ
XMl
sss&m
m
IM
m
mm
► Y* '
m
mmi
m
y x
liiiiiiiill
//Siv'/v : :v
w$$
4
:
MM
:;.; \v
v'i .
m
'O’
■■Ml
s , 'J .
*\
US
r
$
H
t
c
x
r
\
■V.
V- x
\ if
A
v
€>
r <
Handy Pocket Size.
Actual dimensions:
4I" X 2f" X
Packet ,i
of 2 7 fo r I 6
27 State Express "Three-Threes" in one packet.
27 cigarettes of Ardath quality—enough fine smok-
ing to last the longest day. And note how they're
packed. In three foil-wrapped sections, each
section steadied by a fixed cardboard rib that won't
let the cigarettes move, shake, loosen, or get flabby
as the packet slowly empties I
9 (or 6°
18 for V-
n (or Vi
Also Flat 50’s, Flat
100’s and Round
Airtight 50’s.
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN
7158-5-4


JUST PUBLISHED—
New Booklet on
Executive Training
what
“JJSINES
Host
If you would like to
have a copy of this
publication, instruct
your secretary to send
this advertisement
with your name on
your firm’s letterhead.
It will be posted to
you immediately.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
(Division of Hemingway & Robertson),
Executive Training for Business Men.
38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney;
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Gold - Bearing 1
Ores and
Concentrates.
Purchased in any
quantity.
and send a representative sample
(about lib. weight) by post. We will
assay and report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO PTY., LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne
Branches: 9 Phillip St Sydney; 72 Albert St., Brisbane.
\* orks at Bendigo and iarraviiie (V'ic )
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Doeg he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that offi
demands? omce
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLB
J, W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman}
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. Y. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Provident Life (Maoriland)
Ordinart and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
1925.. 68,583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1927.. 70,031 19,147. 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
1929.. 87,475 27,821 16,883 1 , a „
Trans, to shareholders, £4278 j 406,939
1930.. 94,735 39,038 17,589 38,108 444,047
1931.. 96,332 40,546 18,327 1 „ R , sn son
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO } 36)4u9 480 > 506
1932.. 98,989 44,532 17,994 1 35;463 515j9^9
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO j
1933. .101,922 44,568 18,913 1 ~,
Trans, to shareholders, £lOOO J 0
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
Transferred to
Shareholders.
1929.. 172,600 43,320 74,745 4937 519,671
1930.. 181,594 61,001 72,412 567,852
1931.. 181,664 71,997 68,023 609,496
1932.. 183,361 101,928 69,286 621,043
1933.. 185,043 92,121 73,971 640,594
“We may still anticipate difficulty in
connection with the growth of both our
premium income and our funds, but our
main trouble will undoubtedly arise in
the profitable investment of our surplus
income,” says the general manager and
actuary, H. de C. McArthur, who has
just completed his sixth quinquennial
overhaul of the co.’s assets and liabili-
ties. Nevertheless, prompt action has
been taken to offset the effects of the
fall in interest rates upon bonuses to
policy-holders by lowering the basis of
valuation in the Ordinary department
from 3j p.c. to 3 p.c. The method of
valuing by a low rate locks up during
the early years of a policy sums which
would otherwise be available for distri-
bution, and releases them with interest
at a later stage. In the Industrial section
the basis of valuation remains unaltered
at p.c. ; but it has been strengthened
in other respects.
Over the last five years £366,349, of
which £57,422 was in respect of the last
term, was added to funds, raising them
to £1,224,869 at the end of Dec. The
£366,349 was £27,915 more than the addi-
tion for the preceding quinquennium,
though the growth in the annual income
was £28,572 lighter at £40,144. In the
Ordinary branch the average rate of in-
terest realised fell from £5 12s. 6d. p.c.
in 1928 to £4 6s. sd. p.c. last year, and
from £5 13s. sd. p.c. to £4 4s. 6d. p.c.
in the Industrial section over the same
period. The margin between the actual
and the assumed rates has thus been
lowered by 6s. Id. to £1 6s. sd. p.c. and
by 18s. lid. to £1 4s. 6d. p.c. in the
Ordinary and Industrial sections respec-
tively.
Including interim bonuses paid, the
surpluses available for distribution in the
two departments compare as follows:
Surplus:— 1928. 1933.
Ordinary £42,782 £58,402
Accident 24,686 31,709
Total £67,468 £90,102
Bonuses to policy-holders remain un-
altered in both sections. On Ordinary
contracts they range from 10s. p.c. p.a.
on pure endowments to 60s. p.c. p.a. on
whole-of-life, and on Industrial policies
from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c. of the sum assured,
according to the age of the policy. These
bonuses called for £52,562 ( = 90 p.c.) of
the Ordinary and £25,360 ( = 80 p.c.) of
the Industrial surplus.
The other £12,180, together with £3OOO
from the Accident branch, was trans-
ferred to shareholders’ account. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and the usual 2 p.c.
bonus was added, making 12 p.c. for the
year. Also, 2s. per share (=£3000) is to
be capitalised, raising paid capital to
£24,000.
Last year the new business put on the
books fell away by £4558 in the Ordi-
nary department (£307,221), but increased
by £27,403 in the Industrial section
(£580,923). Including taxes, exes, took
21.8 p.c. of the Ordinary and 47.9 p.c.
of the Industrial premiums as against
23.7 p.c. and 48.2 p.c. respectively in
1930.
Changes in the co.’s investment port-
folio over the last five years are seen in
the next table:
1928. p.e. 1933. p.c.
Government securities. £115,267 13.6 £200,517 18.7
Local body debentures 620,548 73.5 760,340 64.3
Other debentures . . 38,775 4.6 46,357 3.9
Loans on policies, etc. 51,146 6.1 86,981 7.4
Mortgages . . . . 11,842 1.4 15,308 1.3
Premises . . . . 6,740 0.8 52,250 4.4
Mortgages, said to be on well-selected
properties, are also covered by collateral
in the shape of life policies, and at the
end of 1933 there was an inner reserve
of over £43,000 in Government and other
securities.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 25,405 15 p.c. = 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums . . 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32,834 15 p.e. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ ~ 22,500 6,09 S 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ „ 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ ~ 37,600 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12} „ ~ 31,250 242,596
1931.. 1,181 7A „ ~18,750 225,027
1932.. 19,177 0 ~ ~15,000 4,177 229,204
1933.. 10,081 5 „ ~12,500 226,785
1934.. 19,292 7 „ ~17,500 1,792 228,577
The clip was lighter, due to seasonal con-
ditions, and the co., which has been
handling wool, grain and produce in Vic.
and southern N. S. Wales for about half
a century, put 10,782 fewer bales under
the hammer. But the price was up. For
the ten months to the end of April wool
sold in Australia realised £49,489,962, or
£19,429,504 more than for the corre-
sponding period of the previous season,
the average per bale being £9 3 s. better
at £2O Bs. 6d. The value of turnover in
the stock and produce sections advanced,
too. So, after providing for contingen-
cies, which thus became less acute than
during the three preceding years, the
board was able to show £10,725 more
gross earnings:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114,864 85,800 74.6 „
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76.838 98.4 „
1932.. 75,464 92,315 73,138 79.2 ~
1933.. 90,068 84,598 74,517 88.0 „
1934.. 79,286 95,323 76,031 79.6 „
Including £l5OO sent to the staff fund,
exes, took £1514 of the increase, and the
net result benefited by £9211, reaching
7.7 p.c. on capital as against 4, 7.6, 0.4,
11.6 and 20.8 p.c. back to 1929.
A couple of points were added to the
div., making it 7 p.c. for the year, the
final being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. To
pay 8 p.c. ( = £20,000) total funds (capital
and reserves combined) need turn in only
a shade over 4.1 p.c. Much, however,
will depend upon the co.’s experience in
connection with debtors’ balances, and
this in turn will be governed by the course
of seasons and prices.
Though the immediate outlook is
favorable, it is too early yet to form any
reliable opinion as to what the coming
season’s clip will yield. As for prices, the
statistical position of merino tops in
Europe suggests a satisfactory figure for
fine wools; but the position of cross-
breds and coarse wools is more uncer-
tain. Germany continues to buy freely
in the local market, notwithstanding
Hitler’s policy of restricting imports.
The market, which expects the 7 p.c
div. to be maintained, prices the pound
shares at 355. 3d. as against 28s. 6d. a
year ago. At the higher figure the return
is 3.9 p.c. on the basis of last year’s
distribution.
The financial position improved:
1922. 1930. 1933 1934.
Paid capital. . £lOO,OOO £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 149,271 364,582 217,898 198,961
Premises and
plant . . 77,339 141,235 160,923 160,620
Book debts, etc. 235,652 722,077 -527,636 514,245
I n v e s tments,
cash, etc. . . 30,526 9,005 9,005 9,005
Merchandise . . 3,380 3,610 3,370 3,669
To clip £49,968 off the overdraft
(£54,560), debtors’ balances were reduced
by £13,391 and £31,030 was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£144,401). The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£327,958) was
£5845. How much, if any, of the
£514,245 of book debts, etc., has been
advanced on fixed terms against broad
acres is not visible in the published
accounts.
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
To Re- Re-
Ucc., 1 rofit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> & &
275,415
1926.. 33,904 20 p.c. = 24,000 9,904 285,319
1927.. 34,965 20 „ „ 24,000 10,965 296,284
1928.. 28,570 20 „ „ 24,000 4,570 300,854
1929.. 32,158 25 ~ „ 30,000 2,158 303,012
1930.. 26,053 25 ~ „ 30,000 299,065
1931.. 32,659 22.9„ „ 27,500 5,159 304,224
1932.. 38,364 25 „ „ 30,000 8,364 312,588
1933.. 31,737 25 ~ ~ 30,000 1,737 314,325
The outstanding feature of this co.’s
accounts is strength. Indeed, there are few,
if any, offices doing similar business that
can show their policy-holders a wider
margin of protection. At the end of
1933 net tangibles were equal to 460 p.c.
of the year’s net premiums, whereas 150
p.c. is usually considered adequate. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures
show it:
1926. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 15,089 12,999 13,350 16,377
Freeholds . . 142,771 142,771 142,771 142,771
Mortgages . . 45,990 31,510 31,950 31,971
Investments.. 157,545 189,501 189,487 169,487
Cash .. .. 82,663 88,665 99,018 127,949
Debtors .. 15,440 12,278 12,712 8,525
Freeholds are chiefly a property at the
corner of King and Pitt streets, Sydney.
It is entirely a letting proposition, the
co. itself living in rented premises. In-
vestments are made up of £149,895 of
Government securities, £4OOO of N.S.W.
Rural Bank loan, and £15,592 (down
£20,000 during the year) of shares, de-
bentures, etc. The cash holding was
strengthened by £28,931.
The slip of £6627 in the year’s profit
was due to a contraction of £7381 in the
underwriting surplus:
Loss. Expense.
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £33,888 £8,131 £13,765 24.0 p.c. 40 7p c
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44 8 '
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 .. 47.1 ”
1919.. 73,861 20,941 33,886 28.3 45 9 ”
1926.. 110,336 48,883 50,795 44.3 „ 46.0 ”
1927.. 114,440 46,007 56,288 40.2 49 2 ”
1928.. 116,020 53,367 57,540 48.0 ~ 49'6 ”
1929.. 117,143 48,143 59,869 41.1 „ 511
1930.. 106,336 40,165 67,986 37.8 „ 63 9 ”
1931.. 98,886 30,312 63,018 30.9 64 3 ’
1932.. 95,965 29,441 49,941 30.7 , 52 0 ”
1933.. 94,292 32,835 52,255 34.8 „ 55.4
Net premiums were £1673 lighter, and
claims, an uncontrollable factor, £3394
heavier. The growth of £2314 in exes,
was due to a spring of £2754 in the tax
bill (£6999). The underwriting surplus
was £9202, to which interest and rents
added £22,535, lifting the net result from
all sources to 26.4 p.c. on capital as
against 32, 27.2, 21.7 and 26.9 p.c. back
to 1929. These high returns on capital
alone are made possible by the large
accumulation of reserves (£314,325) dili-
gently built up over a period of 60 years.
The 25 p.c. div. thus calls for no more
than 6.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined).
The business is mainly fire and general
accident, the co. having looked askance
at workers’ compensation. The pound
shares, covered by £3 12s. 4d. in net tan-
gibles, are not listed.
Haymarket Land and Building Co.
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 6,217 6 p.c. = 6000 217 22,60.)
1925.. 6,238 6„ „ 6000 238 22,843
Profit on sale, £4759 . . • • 27,603
1926.. 5,614 6 p.e. = 6000 27,216
1927.. 6,702 23A „ ~23,500 10,418
Pref. Ord.
8A p.e. 6 p.c.
1928.. 7,434 931 6000 503 10,921
1929.. 8,926 2125 6000 801 11,722
Loss on investments, £lOOO .. 10,722
1930.. 3 1593* Nil 8 > 133
Loss.
1931.. 5,286 Nil Nil 3 >°46
Deficit.
Realisation suspense account, £43,348 . . 39,502
1932.. 5,498 Nil Nil 40,000
1933.. 489 Nil Nil 45,489
*Nine months.
This old-timer —it used to own the Fur-
racabad estate, near Glen Innes —is now
one of the Arthur Rickard group.
Shortly after the public became inter-
ested in 1928 (it put up £25,000 in 8|
p.c. cum. prefs., now reduced to 6.5 p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act) came slump and the class legislation
of the Lang Government, which struck
specially at property owners. Hence
trading losses have shown up for each of
the last three years, and at the end of
1932 the board earmarked £43,348 to
cover estimated losses on some of the
assets. But no provision was made for
possible losses on claims aggregating
£59,627 against four other members of
the group which are in liquidation. Too
much notice, therefore, need not be taken
of book values. Here is the position so
far as balance-sheet figures show it:
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £125,000 £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities . . 38,096 35,496 33,418 32,013
Premises . . 21,477 21,112 20,733 20,338
Unsold land.. 48,038 50,253 52,517 51,721
Shares other cos. 75 75 75 75
Mortgages, etc. 42,811 33,135 25,631 21,150
Debentures . . 35,511 34,364 -
Sundry debtors 377 264 149 76
Cash, etc. .. 2,664 2,110 829 1,'164
Liquidation
claims .. 24,273 24,753 59,627 59,627
Last year £1405 net was clipped off the
outside debt, and £335 was added to the
cash holding. To do it the book value
of mortgages, etc., was reduced by £4481,
and that of all other assets by £1264.
Actually, the loss on the year’s trad-
ing was £4134. The figure was reduced
to £489 by transferring £3645 to the p.
and 1. account from the paper reserve
against losses on realisation. Exclud-
ing this reserve, the book value of
the net tangible cover for the prefs. was
£3 3s. 7d. Impossible to say when their
slate is likely to be cleaned ; there was
£5400-odd coming to them at the end
of last year.
The marked increase in officially re-
corded sales of real estate and registra-
tion of mortgages in N. S. Wales sug-
gests that the co. has missed the early
’bus. Here are the figures for the month
of March and for the first quarter for
the last three years: —
f— ——March ——— v —3 Months to Mar. 31—
Sales. Mortgages. Sales. Mortgages.
1932.. £884,095 £606,990 £2,313,336 £1,918,783
1933 . . 1,247,642 673,854 3,505,325 2,191,887
1934 . . 1,843,812 1,302,177 4,920,543 4,083,663
The 1934 figures are more than double
those for 1932 for both sales and mort-
gages. A feature of the market is the
willingness of many buyers to pay cash.
One of the outstanding lessons of the
slump has been the heavy losses sustained
by mortgagors who overborrowed on the
basis of boom-time prices in order to
gain a title.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
/ Dividends.
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 71 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1929.. 25.211 9375 81 p.c. = 10,625 5211 60,874
1930.. 14.436 9375 Nil 5001 55,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 43,936
1931.. 13.106 9375 Nil 3731 40,205
Added reserves, £12,938 . . . . 27,267
1932.. 6,160 9375 Nil 30,476
Added reserves, £11,087 .. .. 19,389
1933.. 4,100 4688* Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 .. 35,569
1934.. 2,405 4688* Nil 37,852
*Half year, 3J p.c.
During the year the duty on tea was
reduced, and the primage was removed;
yet the price advanced, due to operation
of the growers’ restriction scheme. But
o Continued on page 18.)


SPLENDID YEAR OF PROGRESS
15he
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Special Features of the Directors’ Report for 1933
INCREASE IN NEW ORDINARY BUSINESS
£1,024,333
PREMIUM INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,000,000
SUBSTANTIAL INCREASE IN BONUS RATE
Ordinary Department
New Business (excluding Term Assurances for Guaranteed Income
Policies and Reassurances) —12,813 Policies, assuring £7,366,776
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £11,855,723) . . 586,096
Total Income for the year 2,361,055
Claims by Death (Death-rate low —only 48 p.c. of expectation) . . 377,747
Bonuses (EVERY YEAR A BONUS YEAR) —SURPLUS . . . . 434,769
This SURPLUS exceeds the previous year’s by 106,590
Combined Ordinary, Industrial and Accident Departments
New Policies issued during the year 63,047
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies
and Reassurances) £9,201,556
Total Income for the year 1933 3,086,636
Interest Income 693,309
Total Funds as at December 31, 1933 £15,076,442
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the Policy-
holders only .
Last year’s operations returned surpluses for the year over claims, expenses and provision for the
growing liability of policy contracts to the following extent:—
SURPLUSES FOR THE YEAR - - - £548,120
Contingency Reserves (in addition to actuarial reserves) stand at £276,500, an increase of
£156,500 during the year .
i
INTEREST EARNINGS £4-17-4 per cent.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society aims to render exceptional and unexcelled service to
the assuring public .
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
Arthur Bonville Were, J.P., Chairman.
Senator the Hon. Sir Harry Lawson, K.C.M.G. Geo. E. Emery, C.M.G., J.P. C. J. Henderson, J.P.
General Sir Harry Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
Cecil B. Hearn, A.C.1.5., Manager and Secretary.
C. E. Melville, Inspector General. F. C. McPhail, A.1.A., Actuary.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.-Graphine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
ulus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Codlison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Colli son and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
FORESTRY AND TUNG PLANTATIONS, TIMBER,
MILLING. Independent and experienced services,
examinations, reports and advice. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.Sc. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer. Charges
moderate. Confidential correspondence invited.
Un ; on Building. Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Gold Reefs or Dredging Shows of Promise. Finance
arranged for thorough testing under Option of Pur-
chase. Any State. Communicate, Frank H. Dawson,
Broker, Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers,
Rockhampton, Queensland. — Advt.
* * * *
WOLFRAM ORES.—We are anxious to purchase
Large and Regular Tonnages. Write, with samples,
Norman Hill & Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers all classes ores, including gold ore and
concentrates. — Advt.
* * * *
SILICOSIS PREVENTION, by Dr. Keith Moore;
Developing the Lancefield Goldmine; Summary of
Latest Gold-milling Developments Overseas; Barytes
in Australia, and An Aerial AVild Cat (Editorial)
are the special features in the May issue of
“Chemical-Engineering and Mining Review.” Copies
9d. each, posted. Annual S'ub., 8/-. Tait Publish-
ing Co., 39 Queen Street, Melbourne, Cl; or 8
Spring Street, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL!
NOBEL-GLASGOW |
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
competition amongst local traders has
been so severe that there has been little
profit in the trade. Still, half-way through
the last term things looked good enough
for the board to hand out a half-year’s
pref. div., cleaning the slate to the close
of accounts in 1933. But conditions
worsened, and the profit for the whole
year was £1695 lighter at £2405, or not
much more than one-quarter of a full
year’s pref. div. Also, there was a reshuf-
fling of reserves,£ls,s92 disappearing from
view during the process. The £15,592,
however, may have some connection with
the growth of £36,802 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors, which in-
cludes provision for taxation, etc.:
1929. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 57,551 92,029 67,922 104,724
Property, shares,
etc 53,491 149,140 152,915 148,416
Stocks . . 156,076 91,232 65,937 78,954
Book debts . . 41,800 44,431 39,245 51,142
Cash . . . . 9,623 31,435 44,535 38,301
The net addition to stocks was £13,017,
and to book debts £11,897, while cash
was drawn upon for £6174, and the book
value of fixed assets was reduced by
£4499. The figures also suggest that busi-
ness improved towards the close of
accounts.
The market, confident that the co. can
do better, prices the prefs. at 19s. as
against 16s. 6d. a couple of years ago.
There are 125,000 of them, p.c. cumu-
lative, and at. no time are they to exceed
half the total scrip issued. Including
£28,280 earmarked for depreciation, the
cover is 335. lid. in net tangibles.
The co. took over the tea business of
James Service and Co., which included
the Robur Tea Co., in 1928 for £275,689,
of which £75,000 was for goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein. Then it went
into the refreshment-room business, the
manufacture of table pottery, etc., was
undertaken, and the business of the
Oriental Tea Co. in N. S. Wales was
bought.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
Two parties are now mainly concerned
in this forestry venture, as in almost every
other: shareholders and bondholders.
Thus far shareholders have derived their
profits mainly from the sale of bonds.
Bondholders depend for their return
chiefly upon the net proceds of the sale of
forest products.
Indeed, bondholders in this company
are entitled to nothing else. They are
virtually in the position of creditors with
their teeth drawn. Certainly the co. has
contracted to pay them £lOO for each
£5 bond, but only out of the net pro-
ceeds of the forest products from
the land concerned. There is no
time limit in the contract, and bond-
holders have no say in matters con-
nected with the marketing of the
timber. In other words, they have no
control over exes. The co. has reserved
to itself the sole right to direct and
supervise all selling and conversion
operations. The charge for these ser-
vices is limited to 5 p.c. of the gross
proceeds. So, apart from any operations
undertaken on their own account, share-
holders really haven’t got to risk much.
A year or so ago bondholders
were perplexed about an account they
had received from the co.’s managing
agents, E. S. and R. C. Moulton, Ltd.,
who are the centre of a group of inter-
locking forestry, tobacco and other ven-
tures. It was a cool request for an
extra £2 per bond in respect of the co.’s
'“early marketing contract.” The scheme
fell through because, among other things,
the co. made no offer to repay the £2
asked for in addition to the contract price
of the bond (£5), notwithstanding that
the money was wanted for a purpose for
which bondholders had already sub-
scribed, namely, milling and marketing.
For the same purpose the co. is again
approaching its bondholders. This time
it is offering £30,000 of 8 p.c. debentures,
redeemable July 1, 1939, or at the option
of the debenture-holders after one year
from the date of issue on three months’
notice, provided the co. isn’t compelled
to release more than one-tenth in value
of the debentures outstanding in any one
year. The security for “payment of all
principal and interest” is the co.’s milling
and marketing trust fund, over which it
has given a specific charge. The trustee
for the debenture-holders is Australasian
Trustees and Executors, Ltd., another
one of the Moulton group ; it was not
long ago interlocked with Queensland
Forests by means of shareholdings.
With interest added, the trust fund just
referred to (it figured in the co.’s sheet at
£28,051 at June 30, 1933) is expected to
exceed £35,000 by the middle of 1939.
Under the terms of its bonds the co.
undertook to deposit with the trustees for
the bondholders (Australasian Trustees
and Executors and the Union Trustee
Co.) 335. 4d. of each £5 bond, after it
had collected the other £3 6s. Bd. Sub-
ject to the trustees’ charges, each 335. 4d.,
together with interest thereon, remains
the property of the co. One-half of it
is to be made available to the co. from
the fifth to the twentieth year, in equal
instalments, for maintenance and protec-
tion of the trees, etc. The other half,
which is the amount now offered as
security for the debentures, is payable
on or after June 1, 1939, for the purpose
of milling and marketing, etc. Bond-
holders who take up debentures have
thus already put up their own security.
But the money so held in trust is tied
up until 1939. The co.’s experts, how-
ever, consider that the present time offers
excellent opportunities for realisation,
and they may be right. Moreover, “the
co. expects to derive substantial profits
from the timber-marketing units which
it proposes to create.” The assurance
given to bondholders is less definite.
They are urged to take up debentures in
order “to make possible earlier payment
of their existing share in the co.’s forest
produce.”
Declared net earnings fell from £7339
in 1931 to £541 for the 12 months
to June 30 last, when both lots of
shareholders went hungry. Including
£1152 of calls paid in advance, there is
£81,079 of capital to feed in 30,000 10
p.c. prefs. and 70,000 ords. Until market-
ing begins and the co.’s commissions
commence to roll in, appearances are
that it will have to live mainly upon con-
tributions from the maintenance trust
fund, plus whatever it may get from the
sale of its own forest products on its
own account. To begin marketing now
on bondholders’ account would obviously
be a stroke of good business from the
shareholders’ point of view. Whether it
would be so for bondholders remains to
be seen.
Guinea Gold netted £8175 for the 12
months to the end of February. With
£6072 brought forward, there was £14,247
in the sock. Two divs. (Is. and 3s. 6d.)
took £13,750 of it. Most of the year’s
revenue came from the first div. from
Bulolo Gold Dredging, which looks like
making regular distributions. Guinea
Gold, which has worked no properties
itself for some time, has now secured
about 2000 acres of dredging country on
the old Lakekamu goldfield in the west of
Central Papua. The co. is in an excep-
tional position. It owns shares in Bulolo,
New Guinea Goldfields and the very suc-
cessful N.G. Airways. The rise in the
market value of the holdings added
£242,300 to their book value during the
year. This was sent to reserves, making
them £392,210. The capital is now
£50,000 in 2s. shares. The div. was paid
on the old pound shares.
* * * *
In March Fred Cuthbert’s show, the
New Misima, treated 1200 tons for bul-
lion worth approximately £1440, with
gold at the statutory price. The usual
Is. 6d. a month continues to be sent out
to shareholders.
* * * *
The old Gibraltar at Adelong (N.S.W.)
has recently been given the once-over by
an expert, whose report is expected to be
favorable. It was the most important
mine worked on this field in the past.
The deepest level is 1200 ft., but no ore
was met with here, and the body at
1100 ft. was low-grade. After 30 years’
continuous production, the mine closed
down in 1916. Total output of gold was
approximately 125,0000 z., worth half a
million. One div. of Is. was paid.
* * * *
Sulphide Gold, which is testing a
show about seven miles from Mandu-
rama (N.S.W.), enhanced its prospects by
taking an option over the old Mt. Boppy
Co.’s leases alongside. These con-
tain at least 166,000 tons, averag-
ing 6.13dwt., which was unpayable with
gold at 84s. an ounce, and another
44,000 tons of 10|dwt. stuff. Develop-
ments during the last few weeks suggest
that the tonnage of now-payable stuff is
likely to be increased.
* * * Mt
South Lucknow Extended (N.S.W.)
expects the gold-bearing ore in the ad-
joining Lucknow Sulphide’s leases to
continue in the Extended’s area. An
immediate resumption of work has,
therefore, been decided upon. The shaft,
down about 100 ft., is equipped with a
good hauling plant.
* * * *
Last week Paringas advanced sharply
from 4s. lOd. to 7s. 2d. in the market.
This followed the announcement of ex-
tremely high values over a width of 3ft.
in the No. 7 borehole, near the North
Kalgurli boundary, at a depth of 570 ft.
London has been bidding up for the scrip,
too. Boreholes, however, are not always
a very reliable guide to values over any
length of lode.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) has
its hands full. It holds options over
several gold-bearing areas at Grant’s
Patch. According to G. C. Klug, these
are likely to warrant completion on due
date, July 29. This means that £32,000
will have to be found, and more will be
needed to give the properties a chance to
show their real capacity as producers.
Arrangements for the necessary finance
are said to be in train.
* * * *
The Queen Margaret group at Bulong
—it used to be one of Westralia’s princi-
pal gold producers and market counters,
but has been idle for some years—has
been optioned to Ora Banda Consols.
The Adeaide co. which formerly worked
the property didn’t get all the gold con-
tained in the patchy shoot, and values
became impoverished at depth.
* * * • *
Radio South has taken a free-sampling
option over a block at Spargo’s find, 28
miles south of Coolgardie (W.A.). On
the adjoining block C. Spargo sank two
15ft. shafts in haematite and secured
values in both. A feature of the ground
is that pan values can be secured over
almost every yard. The area has not
been touched in the past 30 years.
* * * *
The Hill 50 G. M. Co., capital £50,000
in 4s. shares, of which 125,000 are
offered, has been hatched in Westralia
to buy a prospecting area, the Sirdar,
in the Mt. Magnet district, from M. T.
Williams for £6OOO cash plus 15,000
fully-paids. The claim is near Hill 60,
where developments have been satisfac-
tory.
* * * *
New Venture is elated at the richness of
a parcel from its latest acquisition, the
Asteroid, at Grosmont, near Coolgardie
(W.A.). Nineteen tons yielded 69|oz. of
gold, and the sands are estimated to con-
tain 15dwt.
* * * *
At the Melva Maie, Kunanalling
(W.A.), where good makes of ore have
been encountered, 42 tons yielded 730 z.,
and 20 tons from the Star of Fremantle
returned lOoz. The cyanidation of 220
tons of sands gave another 650 z.
* * * *
The Empress Co. has struck good
values on its property at Coolgardie
(W.A.). On the 157 ft. level, south drive,
a bulk sample over 6ft. gave 16dwt. 20gr.,
and stone from the east drive returned
12dwt. No walls have been exposed ;
the general assay over 104 ft. was 14dwt.
18gr.
* * * *
Following adverse reports on the pro-
spects of finding oil on its Wooramel
River area (W.A.), Wooramel Dome, an
offshoot of Oil Search, Ltd., has given
up the hunt. The parent, however, has
offered the pup’s shareholders their
money back in full or the right to trans-
fer their interests by taking shares in Oil
Search, which continues to go about
things in the right way.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Doubtful: Certainly not. It is a long-term
speculation; if you cannot afford to lose keep
out.... Small Investor: Triton, Paringa and
Princess Royal, in that order 8.T.8.:
Better left alone... .G.P.: (1) Cannot say defi-
nitely. (2) Crushing expected to begin in July.
(3) No definite quantity yet measured up. On
16/4/’34 the temporary main shaft was down
103 ft., with sft. of 13dwt. stuff showing in
the bottom. Estimated average width of lode
over length 1000 ft. is 15ft H.D.: It is a
small proprietary concern which does not
broadcast its figures C.H.D.: The bonds
have no open market. Write to the secretary
of the co., or L. Macintosh Ellis, Union Build-
ings, Bond-street, Sydney.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“Leap Year”
Tom Walls is striving at the Mayfair
to portray an English baronet who in-
spires beautiful girls with passionate love
practically on sight. It can’t be done
at his age. “Youth,” as Granville
observed, “is the proper time for love.”
The author of “Corinna” also held that
age was “virtue’s season,” and Mr. Walls
doesn’t seem to think much of that
either. How his screen goings-on got
past the inhibitory shillelagh of the
O'Reilly is a mystery-story in itself.
They include a night spent at Bourne-
mouth with Anne Grey, whom he hadn’t
met till that evening, and a small-hour
visit to her bedroom at Cannes. He
had had several emotional passages with
flappers in between, and among the
people who burst in while he is protest-
ing his love are the girl he became
engaged to on an Orient liner, her father
and her aunt. He is getting away with the
situation by spirited lying when the aunt
calls his bluff ; she was at the Bourne-
mouth hotel when he and Miss Grey
stayed there.
Walls is an accomplished mime and
a natural humorist, but his Sir Peter at
no time impressed this critic as other
than a vain old cad. It was indeed trying
to hear the aunt, who looks his junior
by several years, addressing him severely
as “young man.” Anne Grey is lovely,
and she creates a definite personality—
a serious young woman whose senses
are always too strong for her sense —
out of slender material. The other
players are good, and the settings are
splendid, a fake of the Suez Canal
excepted.
“Summer Lightning”
The casting of this version of one of
Wodehouse’s funniest books is flawless.
Ralph Lynn, as the dynamic imbecile
who persuades people to fall in with his
schemes, the butler, the pig-owning peer,
the aunt, are all as Wodehouse imagined
them, in appearance, voice and manner.
Winifred Shotter, as the girl, is a signi-
ficant feature. Wodehouse’s works are
really period pieces. The Berties and
Algies of to-day are not Piccadilly
Johnnies; they paint surrealist pictures
and bleat about the vulgarity of Beet-
hoven in Yankee slang. All the
people in “Summer Lightning” are
Edwardians, if not Victorians. Wini-
fred Shotter, for example, is pains-
takingly careful to keep her eyes down,
her arms at her sides and her feet to-
gether. Her voice is as prim as her walk.
She is in every detail the shy, virginal
little ingenue of 25 years ago who
aroused more masculine interest by re-
vealing a segment of leg below the knee
than a modern flapper does by taking off
everything the law allows.
This film doesn’t do justice to Wode-
house’s chief gift; the dialogue suffers
in the scurryings to and fro, the wallow-
ings in pig-pens and so on. It is one of
the few works of its kind that could
have done with less action and more talk.
“I Am Suzanne”
It was good Chelsea highbrowism to
be enthusiastic about puppets when the
writer was last in London ; to say they
bored you was equivalent to praising the
Artillery Memorial. They supply the
background for the principal picture at
the Plaza, and those who enjoy watching
locomotor ataxy cases are bound to get
aesthetic pleasure from them.
Gene Raymond helps to design and
work the puppets, and the film shows
how he met, loved and won Lilian
Harvey, a simple-minded child-dancer.
He looks the part of a headstrong boy,
but she is a palpable ring-in—a useful
w.f.a. performer competing in an event
for fillies. She has many traditional assets
of the screen virgin—the tossing curls,
the wide, snapping eyes, the mobile
mouth, now sad, now pouting in girlish
displeasure, now revealing faultless teeth
in a carefree grin. Her figure is glorious
of its spare type, and she dances well.
But her kittenish ways look absurd in
conjunction with her plucked eyebrows
arid artificial lashes well plastered with
mascara. When she has the customary
accident and her admirer with the plati-
num blonde coiffure and the immature
profile starts carrying her about the
difference between their ages is accentu-
ated. He might as well be carrying Joan
Crawford, or even Garbo.
Leslie Banks gets most of the laughs
as a suave, top-hatted waster who man-
ages the trusting little dancer and pockets
most of her earnings. But there are few
laughs; the story is essentially sentimen-
tal. The ballets are numerous and elabo-
rate. In one sequence the heroine gets
jealous of a puppet which she thinks Mr.
Raymond loves better than he does her,
so she shoots it. This leads to a night-
mare ballet in which she is harried by
angry puppets ; it is astonishingly well
done.
“One Is Guilty”
The elderly caretaker of a block of
New York flats finds the body while on
his rounds, and after that there isn’t a
dull moment. Ralph Bellamy is the
character who doesn’t take his hat off
indoors. There are about a dozen sus-
pects, including a lass whose glove is
found by the hatter’s friend in the room
of death. As all behave in an equally
suspicious manner, including Ruth Shir-
ley, whom the detective takes to his
bosom at the finish, it isn’t easy to pick
the winner of the handcuffs till the field
is well into the straight. In short, it’s a
first-class mystery film. The caretaker
takes care of the humor, such as it is ;
his job is to offer one stupid theory after
another.
“Three on a Honeymoon”
This is the new supporting feature to
“The Masquerader” at Sydney Regent.
We are introduced once more to the
FROM SYDNEY TALKIES.
With handkerchief, Fred Kerr, in “Summer Lightning,” at the Mayfair.
With lantern, Miles Malleson; with bacon, Ralph Lynn, both in the same film.
Inset, Joe Brown in “Son of a Sailor” (suburban release ).
selfish daughter (Sally Eilers) 6f a rich
father, in love with a proud young man
(Charles Starrett) who despises the idle
rich. The action takes place aboard a
pleasure liner.
There are also a honeymooning
couple, a timid librarian (Zasu Pitts), a
tongue-tied Scotsman (Russell Simpson),
a couple of gangsters and a blackmailer.
How Sally Eilers breaks down Star-
rett’s sex-resistance and how she rescues
the honeymooning bride from the
clutches of the blackmailer form the
bulk of the story, but the audience seems
more interested in the romance of Zasu
Pitts and the inarticulate Scot.
“Son of a Sailor”
A Joe E. Brown confection showing
at Sydney’s Arcadia and a number of
suburban houses. Joe is a boastful sailor
with an imaginary attraction for the
ladies who wins the boxing champion-
ship of the U.S.A. Navy by a lucky hit,
scored while his opponent and the audi-
ence are loyally standing to attention.
He gets shore leave, attends the Admiral’s
party, catches an international spy on a
seaplane and lands on a deserted battle-
ship which is being used as a target.
If you like Joe’s mouth you’ll like the
picture. It is helped along by propaganda
shots of the fleet at sea and of the air-
arm at bombing practice.
“Orders Is Orders”
This production, which runs second to
“Friday, the 13th” at Melb. Mayfair,
would have been the funniest picture of
a twelvemonth if the fun confectors had
known when to stop. James Gleason
invades an English barracks and seeks
permission to shoot a picture glorifying
the British Army for the benefit of
American audiences. The revolted
colonel (Cyril Maude) wishes to throw
the troupe out, but succumbs to the
blandishments of Charlotte Greenwood
so far as to ask the War Office for its
sanction. Owing to a misunderstanding
he thinks permission has arrived, and
the invasion of the temple of militarism
by hordes of actors and mechanics takes
place. When the brigadier pays an un-
heralded visit of inspection the battalion
is engaged in an Arab orgy scene. Glea-
son is wildly amusing as a Yankee pro-
ducer who has retained nothing of the
author’s story but the title. The military
background, played entirely by actors,
was, according to a soldier informant,
completely accurate.
“Murder in Trinidad”
Nigel Bruce, the peanut-eating detec-
tive of this Sydney Capitol thriller, has
none of the flashes of genius of the usual
screen sleuth, but he’s all the more im-
pressive for that. He arrives in Trinidad
to clean up a diamond-smuggling busi-
ness. The murder supervenes, and ad-
ventures follow in a croc.-infested swamp.
Heather Angel is the girl, Douglas
Walton the nice boy who helps to prove
her father’s innocence.
“King of the Wild Horses”
All these horses are knowing cus-
tomers, especially the three stars —Rex, the
hero ; Lady, his girl-friend ; and Mar-
quis, the piebald villain. Rex is convinc-
ingly vicious to begin with; if it is not
presumptuous to reflect on the acting
ability of one of his years and experi-
ence, it might be objected that he lets
himself be caught and tamed rather too
easily. Lady is suitably disdainful of
the villain’s advances, and Marquis takes
care to do no real damage when he
fights. In addition to the stars, there are
plenty of cowboys, Injuns, fights and
horseraces.
Sundry Shows
Anthony Armstrong’s thriller “Ten
Minute Alibi” kept stalls, circle and gal-
lery interested from start to finish at
Sydney Cri. on Saturday. They saw a
murderer attempting to thwart the efforts
of two Scotland Yard detectives to pin
the crime on him, and loudly applauded
the criminal. The audience appeared to
accept the playwright’s view that it was
a case of justifiable homicide. As the
“brilliant young barrister,” George Thirl-
well, despite deliberate underplaying of the
part in the first act, gives a masterly per-
formance. In the murder scene his fear
permeates the theatre. When confronted
by the police his assumed innocence is a
superb piece of acting. Australian actress
Thelma Scott is adequate in the role of
Betty Findon, equally at home in both
merry and sad moments. Guy Hastings
presents a confident picture of Sir Miles
Standing. R. L. Atholwood contributes a
good study of the sort of valet nice people
do not have about their premises, and
Frank Bradley makes the senior detec-
tive a likeable, humorous fellow and a
good foil for Russell Chapman, as
sergeant. The tempo of the play is a
credit to producer Frederick Blackman,
and the lighting, upon which a lot de-
pends, is very skilfully managed. Aus-
tralian tenor Lionello Cecil uplifts his
voice in “On with the Motley” and “Tell
Me To-night” before the curtain goes up.
* H- *
One of the first things on which Mel-
bourne can congratulate itself concern-
ing the visit of Sir Hamilton Harty is
that he has solved the problem of
the ferocious lighting scheme favored by
the purblind city fathers. On Saturday
night at the Town Hall one could survey
the A.B.C.’s platoon of 70 orchestrions
without having to note that the science
of optics was miles behind the art of
music. Veiled lights fell from above on
the performers, while the audience sat
in soothing semi-darkness. Secondly, Sir
Hamilton had arranged his men and
women according to his own liking, and
they looked as symmetrical, businesslike
and purposeful as a battleship. The
guest conductor conducted like a con-
ductor. You felt he felt the music and,
moreover, that he knew it. He weaved
it into patterns as an expert and instan-
taneous weaver, with the design complete
in his mind, might weave a tapestry.
Brahms in the symphonic mood has cus-
tomarily appeared to present writer as a
somewhat long-winded composer, but
under the Harty baton his Symphony No.
1 was instinct with variety and unexpected
beauties. The gentle argument in the
slow movement between the wood-wind
and the strings, led by Edouard Lambert,
was extraordinarily lovely. The Night
Music of Mozart brought half a dozen
violins, viola, ’cello and double bass on
the platform to perform a miracle of
grace and refinement. Tschaikowsky’s
Air and Variations from Suite No. 3 in G
was another example of crisp and con-
trolled conducting. Half a round of
applause or more might have gone to
Percy Code, the A.B.C. conductor. The
visitor had nine rehearsals, but Code
spent two painstaking years working the
material up.
* * ¥•
“Fresh Fields” was thrown open for
agistment on Friday at Melb. Comedy,
but The Bulletin did not arrive on the
scene till Saturday, when, owing to indis-
position, Gerald Savory had stepped
down from the juvenile role in favor of
Lloyd Lamble. Ivor Novello’s comedy
turned out better stuff than the London
correspondents of some Australian dailies
had led one to expect. If anybody
could find in this amiable skit an affront
to the Commonwealth he must be in an
advanced state of national megalomania.
Katie Towers, as Mrs. Pidgeon, the dear
old soul who sells her Brisbane pub and
seeks social advancement in London, ex-
hibited a mixture of shrewdness and good
humor. Agnes Doyle, as daughter Una,
also had claims to being a real person.
Grace Lane, as Lady Mary Crabbe, of the
effete yet struggling aristocracy, and a
strategist of the first order, was delight-
ful ; and Rita Paunceforth was distin-
guished as Lady Strawholme. However,
more than ordinary credulity is required
to accept Harvey Adams’s he-man tactics
as a likely passport to the affections of
Lady Lilian Bedworthy (represented by
Jane Wood). The fortress of an adult
infant, far gone in neuroticism and
romanticism and manned by a garrison
of aristocratic prides and vanities, is not
taken by direct assault in five minutes.
Nor is a bored younger son of a decayed
noble family likely to capitulate to the
shock tactics of a chit of a girl whose
chief asset is a habit of accidentally break-
ing crockery. Making allowances for a
degree of farcical overacting by all hands,
it can be seen that Novell o has extended
an equal sympathy to all characters, but
the result is that they become so real as
to make the final scene fantastically im-
probable, and reveal the play as at
bottom no more than an exceedingly
amusing potboiler.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Squalus”: A controversy has been
raging in Sydney as to whether there are
sharks in Tasmanian waters. The fact
that a bather was recently taken down
there by what was supposed to be a
shark has brought along dozens of dis-
claimers from Tassie barrackers, some of
which end on the note that, if there are
any, Federalists from the mainland must
have brought them with them. One Tas-
manian writes, however, to say he per-
sonally saw a shark attack a naval officer
who was paddling a canoe on the Der-
went years ago. In the end the shark
bit a large piece out of the canoe and
made off with it, leaving the n.o. un-
“Do you like school, Tommy ?”
“My oath, missus! If it wasn’t for school we wouldn’t get any ’olidays.”
harmed in the water. The intelligent
brute must have realised that the average
naval officer is tougher than any canoe.
* * * *
“Lugger’s Mate”: Just read a tourist’s
enthusiasm for little black pebbles of
various sizes picked up on the islands of
the Barrier Reef at the water’s edge.
They are said to be like bits of wood,
water-worn to pebble shape. Doubtless
some of the pieces of pumice strewn
along the reefs and on some of the main-
land beaches, even to Shark Bay (W.A.).
These fragments have had a Wandering
Willie kind of existence since 1883, when
they were spat out in millions during the
eruption of Krakatoa,
* * * *
“Peng.”: That penguin that took up its
quarters beneath Sydney Taronga Park
wharf may have strayed from Smedley’s
point, Manly, where there is a family of
them. For years at dusk I have watched
the elders call the family home, keeping
up their cry till the last bird returns.
Regularly at dawn they are heard again.
During one severe gale two of them
sheltered all day under my verandah.
* * * *
“Shelf”: The horse, which is popu-
larly supposed to be man’s best friend
among the animals, can, on occasion,
prove a viper biting the hand that fed
it, a bruised reed ready to do the same
thing, and a lot of other mixed meta-
phors. I am moved to this reflection on
reading that a farmer’s horse in Maori-
land was the means of getting his boss
lumbered for running an illicit still. It
was in the wilds of Invercargill, and
police searched in vain for any sign of
it until one was inspired to borrow the
farmer’s only horse. As soon as he was
out of sight of the house, the trap gave
neddy his head. The intelligent creature
led him through tangled bush to a camp.
There was nothing of import there, so
the rider mounted again. The steed at
once went off briskly, and this time
stopped at what was evidently an aban-
doned still site. Urged on his wild
career he this time carried his rider to
where the new still was in full blast.
* * * *
“Val”: The death of a Tas. farmer
must find a place in the Incredible Acci-
dents Stakes. He and his son were batch-
ing, and as the potatoes boiled on an
open fire he prodded them with a fork.
He felt a spark alight on his elbow, and
rubbed the spot. When he tried them
later, the same thing happened; but this
time he saw a snake’s head quickly with-
drawn behind the wooden chimney front.
First aid was applied too late.
* * * *
“Aquila”: Time and again Aboliars
have quarrelled over the habits of Aus-
tralia’s mighty wedge-tailed eagle—the
largest bird of his kind that flies. Some
have attacked him bitterly because of
ravages among young lambs, which come
into being just at the time that his own
nestlings need food and plenty of it.
Others say that the eagle never attacks
lambs and is a great destroyer of rab-
bits. Personally, the writer can recall
days on the Barcoo in the long ago when,
early in the morning, the sky would be
as full of the majestic birds as he was
to see it many years later crammed with
aeroplanes. In those days there were no
rabbits for the eagles, and their natural
food was the agile kangaroo rat. The
birds soon found the new-born lambs
much easier to swoop upon and carry
off; so they were shot, trapped and
poisoned by the thousand for years, until
an outcry against the destruction of such
wonderful examples of Australia’s fauna
eased off the massacre. Of recent years
they have increased beyond belief. A
Forbes (N.S.W.) pastoralist has been
trapping them in hundreds. He uses hens
(white) in coops, which are surrounded
by weighted traps. The eagles come
down, and when trapped struggle off at
once, leaving the way clear for other
traps to be set; unable to rise, they are
“Don’t be catty, barman ! Can’t a lady get shozzled
when she leadsh a dogsh life ’n’ her best boy
shells her a pup ?”
followed and killed. It all sounds rather
murderous, but, after all, it is a choice
between raising eagles and raising sheep.
* * * *
“Prickly Pear”: “Marsh” (B. 18/4/’34)
says rabbits have not yet made their
appearance as far north as Camooweal
(N.Q.). Rats! During ’l3 I killed a rabbit
on the Georgina within a mile of Camoo-
weal township. At about the same time
there was a pet rabbit at Number 7 bore
on Lake Nash station ; it had been there
for years, and was famous in the
district. There have been rabbits along
the whole course of the Georgina River
for at least 40 years ; and the Georgina
waters in flood have lapped the streets
of the ’Weal. The rabbits have not in-
creased perceptibly. They haven’t de-
creased to any marked extent. There
were five or six 30 years back ; there
might be three or four now. Some years
back, when a new superintendent heard
there were rabbits about, he pointed
out to me that, but for the protection
the fence afforded, the place would be
overrun. I took that fellow out and
showed him a place where for nine
months I had put brush to block my
cattle from getting through. I didn’t
worry about rabbits. I feared the Rabbit
Board a great deal more.
* * * *
“Poddy”: Of a piece with the Indian
rope-trick myth (B. 16/5/’34) is the
Australian legend that kookaburras kill
snakes. I have spent 40 years in the Vic-
torian bush, have seen myriads of kooka-
burras and killed all sizes and varieties
of snakes; I’ve ploughed snakes up
with jacks sitting in the furrow scoffing
grubs and worms ; I’ve thrown wrigglers
to the blessed birds; and never once
have I seen a kooka tackle a snake. I
suggest that nearly all the yarns about
combats between snakes and jackasses
originate in pubs.
* * * *
“Herbert D.”: I heard a commotion
near my hut. Loud shrieks of what
sounded like “Here, here! Fair go! Fair
go!” Running out, I found a whistling
hawk, back to the ground, fighting des-
perately against five jackasses. It wasn’t
the hawk that was appealing to the re-
feree ; however, I intervened on his be-
half. A few days later, hearing the furi-
ous twittering of a willie wagtail, I found
another one-sided conflict taking place.
Jack was sitting on Willie’s tree with a
vacuous expression on his face—looking
for all the world like a recent Frith cari-
cature of a certain long-distance politi-
cian—and taking no notice of Willie’s
frenzied efforts to dislodge him. At last,
exhausted and gasping, his little beak
wide open, Willie sat on the bigger bird’s
back to get his breath. Suddenly the
kookaburra woke up and flew casually
away. Willie, too tired to pursue him,
panted out a song of triumph, and skited
to his missus for a good half-hour,
* * * *
“C.Q.”: While anthropologists and
missionaries are arguing amongst them-
selves over the fate of the northern abo.,
the last words of the Victorian chapter
of Binghi’s book of fate have already
been written. There are 30 dubiously
full-blooded abos. left at Lake Tyers;
only five of these are pure Victorians,
the others being crosses with migrants
from Westralia and elsewhere. There
is only one full-blooded boy left and
no females. I saw a portrait of this lad
recently, and sentimentally saw in his
sad expression the realisation of his race’s
approaching oblivion; but the painter
disillusioned me. He said that, far from
feeling any such romantic emotions, the
full-bloods at Lake Tyers do not even
seem to be conscious that there is any
distinction between them and their fel-
low-Australians with pink skins. They
read everything in the papers, and have
been taking a deep interest in the pro-
ceedings at Darwin. But they talk
about “those blackfellows” in precisely
the same terms as a white man would. It
recalls an old Bulletin joke about the
abo. who clinched an argument with a
Chinaman with the scornful remark:
“You’re no plurry White Australian!”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: “Crows can be caught as
easily as rabbits,” said Dan the butcher.
“All you need to do is to study their
ways. I’ll catch some within five minutes
if you like.” We told him to go ahead.
He put a fresh sheepskin out on the
ground some 50 yards away, wool side
up. In the middle he laid some offal,
and as soon as he came back to the
slaughterhouse crows settled on the skin
and began to feed. “Now, watch,” said
the old boy; and he fired the slaughter-
house rifle into the air. With squawks
of alarm the crows tried to fly away, but
remained where they were, although flap-
ping their wings furiously. The butcher
walked up and laid them out with a
stick. “When a crow goes to fly,” he
explained, “he closes his claws. They
grip the wool he’s standing on, and he
hasn’t the brains to let go.” Try the
trick before you start calling me a liar.
* * * *
“Wagga”: Rabbiters will be interested
in a new and effective method of collect-
ing Bunny and his relatives, vouched for
by an English expert lately in America.
At a spot where the rabbits foregather,
a circle of stones is made, about 2ft.
across. In the centre are placed three or
four carrots which have previously been
partly scooped out and filled with pepper.
At night a light is focussed upon the spot.
When Bunny slips in, attracted by the
fodder, and commences to nibble, the
pepper produces a succession of sneezes,
which increase in volume and cause him
to turn a double somersault. In doing
this he strikes the back of his head with
such violence on the stones that he suf-
fers from concussion. It is then quite
a simple matter to collect him. (I forgot
to mention that any brand of pepper will
do.)
THE BUSH SPECIFIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He isn’t a vindictive chap—there’s none of that
in Zeke the cook;
He wouldn’t be too hard, I’ll swear, upon the
vilest sort of crook.
Whatever felony or crime or dirty work a man
has done,
His harshest commentary is “A feller oughter
pass him one.”
We argue round the fire o’ nights on punish-
ments we’d like to see
Inflicted upon difii’rent blokes for various kinds
of villainy.
All sorts of tortures are discussed, but Zeke
supplies suggestions none
Save that unvarying formula, “A feller oughter
pass him one.”
If Judas should come back to earth, or wicked
Deeming reappear,
Or Kelly with his ruffian gang return to this
terrestrial sphere,
I doubt if Zeke would advocate the rope for
any, or the gun;
He’d just pronounce judicially “A feller
oughter pass him one.”
The miscreant who salts a mine, the racecourse
spieler snide and sleek,
The publican who dopes his grog—they’re all
obnoxious to Zeke.
He’ll listen to the story of some rascal’s deeds
that take the bun
And give his ruling short and stern: “A feller
oughter pass him one.”
And, just as often as I hear the simple phrase,
regret it brings
That law and justice nowadays should be such
complicated things.
They managed better in the days when few
could Nemesis outrun
Because, whene’er a feller sinned, another feller
“passed him one.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Ibn el Issar”: So many rather clumsy
murders have been committed lately in
Australia’s great open spaces, with the
inevitable result of arrest by the eminent
detectives “on the case” —see any Sydney
or Melbourne evening paper —that I am
constrained to point out a most effec-
tual method practised by my maternal
grandfather until carelessness brought
him to the gallows. His practice was to
take a hollow bamboo tube and then,
having captured a poisonous snake—pre-
ferably a krait, because of its small size
and venom capacity— to imprison it in the
tube, making sure that it could not escape
by tying a string to its tail at the handling
end. When opportunity served, he ap-
proached a sleeper and pushed the Other
end of the tube against his or her body,
at the same time releasing the string.
The angered serpent naturally bit, and,
releasing it, my grandfather always
escaped before anyone noticed his
presence, taking with him, of course, the
bamboo tube and the string. His down-
fall was due to the fact that, before leav-
ing Laksmi one evening in the bazaar, he
had ignored the teachings of the Prophet
and drunk a bottle of aniseed brandy.
In addition to his serpent-containing
tube, he took with him to the scene of
his job a brass-bound lathi that had
been left by a drunken Punjabi. In the
darkness of the night and confusion of
his mind he poked this into the ribs
of the assistant-inspector of police in
Amritsar instead of his bamboo. The
old gentleman’s last words to me —I
“What’s its hair plaited for, Maudie ?”
“That’s so’s you can tell it’s a lady horse.”
translate from the Urdu—were “Never
drink when you have a job to do, my
boy.”
* * * *
“Chloe”: When I was on the Ord
River (W.A.) some years back it was
swarming with crocodiles, and the home-
stead folk encouraged the natives to hunt
them, as they took toll of young stock,
Slavin, a youth of 16, used to go down
near the bank just before sunset trailing
a terrified lamb on a long rope. When he
got a “bite” the resourceful abo. would
toss the rope to a near-by pal, who pulled
the lamb to safety, leaving the gladiator
and the crocodile to it. Slavin would let
the croc, come so near that the watchers
(on horseback at a safe distance) would
gasp. But just at the critical moment
the boy would leap over its head and
run in an opposite direction. The race
became something of a coursing match,
Slavin outdistancing the saurian by adroit
leaping and turning. At length his
chums came at the crocodile with spears.
A great feast would follow that night —
a feast which smelt to Heaven.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The swaggie who passed
me on the road was smoking something
that smelt very pleasant. He told me
what it was: the dried leaf of the wild
musk plant which grows in the mountain
gullies on the N.S.W. South Coast. After
sampling stringybark, gum-tree bark,
dried tea-leaves, pine-needles and other
substitutes for tobacco, this victim of
depresh was convinced that the wild
musk made by far the best smoke.
* * * *
“Broompah”: “Morobe” (B. 2/5/’34)
notwithstanding, the “twelve apostles”
you see in Queensland are suffer-
ing from no depression complex.
They are a jolly lot. To see
them combine in overturning dry
cow-dung is to get a lesson in co-
operation, whilst their excited
jabbering as they gobble up the
disclosed beetles, followed by
their game of “tag” on the nearest
tree, rouses feelings of pleasure
rather than the dumps. Inciden-
tally, the terms “soldier-bird” and
“minah” are synonymous up here.
I except, of course, the noisy
imported Indian minahs, bane of
Townsville publicans.
“Granite”: “Paumotu” on edibility of
fishes (B. 4/4/’34) reminds me of an
old German who had in turn been
whaler, shanghaier, soldier and cooper.
Jacob was a pensioner of the American
Government till death harpooned him
a few years ago. Asked how the whalers
decided on the edibility or otherwise of
fish caught during their voyages, Jake
assured me that it was done by tossing a
couple of silver dollars into the pot. If
they remained bright the fish was “goot,”
but if they came out discolored “we t’rew
der whole lot overboardt.”
H* * * ■ *
“Dai R.”: No Motuan (New Guinea)
vessel ever passes the Hall Sound en-
trance without performing a ceremony
that dates back hundreds of years before
the advent of the white man. When in
front of the Sound entrance the vessel
is brought right up in the wind. The
chief man then takes the youngest boy
aboard to a position in front of the mast
and hands him two bunches of cassowary
feathers. The lad waves these in pre-
scribed gestures of obeisance and uncon-
ditional submission towards the ocean
surface, while the crew, led by the cap-
tain, chant songs of friendship. Bunches
of ripe bananas are then thrown over-
board, and the lakatoi resumes her
journey. It seems that in the misty past
the Motuans, to keep an open coast,
killed many Loloans who had interfered
with one of their canoes. An inquiry
into the affair was held by the Inner
Circle of higher spirit powers, and, the
Motuans being found in the wrong,
damages were awarded the spooks of the
murdered in the shape of the penitential
ceremony. In default the wraiths are
empowered to inflict storms, contrary
winds and other inconveniences for the
duration of the voyage.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Evidence given at Dar-
win showed that the body of a prospec-
tor murdered by the blacks had been
thrown into a waterhole. In most
Queensland and some N.S.W. tribes
“Want to bring an action
against him, you say. But
what grounds have you
got?”
“Grounds ? Seven hundred
acres of the best cattle
country in the distride.”
members who die a natural death get
ceremonial burial; others are placed on
platforms built in trees. Even white men
who died amongst them, or were found
dead, were decently buried. But a mur-
dered man, for some reason, is always
thrown into a waterhole. I remember
two or three cases that occurred near the
border. One was a blackfellow who was
killed a few years ago by two members
of another tribe. He was thrown into a
waterhole in the same way as murdered
whites are disposed of. I suppose the
idea is to make it appear that the victim
got drowned. Decomposition would
remove the traces of spear wounds.
* * * *
“Bryan”: A rooster under the influ-
ence is a queer sight. A quantity of
pumpkin-seeds is all that is necessary.
Being indigestible, in a day or two they
ferment in the bird’s crop and the fumes
have an alcoholic effect. A sozzled cock
is pathetically human, staggering round
the yard, tumbling over, strutting and
showing off in front of his wives, who
regard him more with curiosity than re-
proach. Very probably he will pay for
his pleasure with his life; a dose of
pumpkin-seeds is almost invariably fatal.
5*5 ij:
“Flight Feather”: A constant query
among bushmen is why the storm-bird
should choose the crow, the cunningest
fowl in the bush, as the foster-parent for
its chick. Further, a note of wonder is
expressed that the crow, the wily one,
should put up with that imposture.
Added to that are the different diets of the
two birds. Stormy lives on berries, seeds,
small insects. The crow, as we know —
or believe—specialises in carrion and
meat. One thing that the average person
doesn’t know is that the bird which is
classed crow is really two families. One
is the raven, the other the crow. They’re
indistinguishable in shape, color and call.
White eyes are common to both. One
has a black down under the surface —
he is the raven, killer of lambs
and eater of carrion. The other has a
grey down beneath his topcoat of black
—that is the crow, who eats only berries,
fruit, small insects. The man who classes
the storm-bird as a fool has that judg-
ment reflected upon himself. Because a
man can’t pick ’em, it doesn’t follow that
the storm-bird is equally ignorant.
* * * *
“Kali”: Touching those seaweed baro-
meters (B. 25/4/’34), tourists to the
Celebes are often intrigued by vendors
of what appear to be withered twigs
twisted into a circle; they are actually
bands of black seaweed obtained from
Ternate Harbor. This seaweed is popu-
larly supposed to contain radium, and is
sold and guaranteed as a sovereign
remedy for rheumatism. Can’t vouch for
their efficacy, but I distributed a few in
Australia, and have had good reports
from the wearers.
* * * t-
“G.S.L.”: I have read many similar
tales to Rod Quinn’s (B. 13/12/’33) in
which some accident befalls the water-
bag. The bullet fired at a snake, the
burst seam and the bag that fell on
its side during the night are three I
remember. To a bushman none rings
true. For guidance of any writers who
wish to write a similar tale in future, let
me state that you don’t have to make
an accident happen to the waterbag.
Make your characters men who are bush-
men but quite unused to Central Aus.,
let them carry waterbags instead of
metal cans —no man with experience of
the Centre would carry water in anything
but a tin—and then let the precious fluid
just vanish out of the bag in a single
day, without leaks or accidents. That’s
exactly what does happen out there, due
to well-nigh incredible evaporation. I’ve
seen it happen.
5*5
“Cauboy”: At Yea (Vic.) recently, the
sad spectacle was presented of a crowd
of both sexes, estimated at many thou-
sands, becoming inebriated and indulging
in a drunken brawl on a scale never
before seen locally. Maddened by the
fumes of alcohol, individuals attacked
each other with ferocity, and casualties
were numerous. Others, rendered help-
less by their potations and indifferent to
public opinion, slept the effects of the
debauch off in the street or any other
place that happened to appeal to them.
They were members of a colony of bees
that had found a damaged truck contain-
ing sugar soaked in spirits.
* * * *
“Squalis”: Birth-control is a word
which falls unheeded on the ear of the
average lady shark. One 16-footer caught
near Gladstone (Q.) the other day had
51 youngsters inside her. Opening up a
shark always has a certain amount of
fascination, and I cannot recall that any
of the many I have seen landed escaped
the post-mortem. Perhaps the luckiest
find on record was made by a couple of
men who caught a shark at Port Stephens
(N.S.W.). Noticing it looked “mighty
baggy,” like “Dan’l Webster,” the Jump-
ing Frog, they investigated and found
the intelligent brute had swallowed a
crate containing half a dozen bottles of
beer. Four were unbroken. The fisher-
men enthusiastically toasted the manes
of the departed.
THE CAMP OVEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If ’tis true armies march on their stomachs,
As was said in Napoleon’s time,
There is part of a camper’s equipment
That has lacked its due credit in rhyme.
Not greenhide nor stringybark, mark you;
“The battered old billy,” et cet.;
But the camp oven. Where is the bard that
Has sung of its virtues as yet?
The armies that marched to the Turon
On the tracks of the scouts of the van,
The settlers that conquered the scrubland,
The drovers and such, to a man
Had to keep the old camp oven steaming;
For gold is a prize for the strong:
’Tis the full-bellied man drives the axe home
Or brings the store bullocks along.
The roads that were cut through the mountains,
The railways that followed the roads,
The hamlets carved out of the jungles,
The squatters’ and farmers’ abodes,
Were they not of the camp oven’s making,
With its corned beef, its roasts and its stew,
Its dampers and doughboys and dumplings?
Come, give the old black pot its due!
The furs that come down from the ranges,
Where the trappers work up in the snow,
The timbers hewn out of the forests,
Are the camp oven’s products. And so,
When a new coat of arms we’re designing,
Put the sheep and the wheat-sheaves aside,
And just have a camp oven couchant
With a goanna rampant —inside. >
N.S.W.
HERBERT DAWSON.


HOW DO YOU FEEL AT
THE END OF THE DAY?
Do you feel tired and WOm-OUt?
Does your back ache as if it would break?
Are you sometimes discouraged, and think
you will never get any better?
Can you tell what is the matter with
you, or what makes you sick?
Do you know that more than half of all
sickness is caused by Kidney Trouble?
Have you ever stopped to think that
your Kidneys may be the cause of your
poor health?
Most people do not realise how much work
the Kidneys are required to do every day.
Every drop of blood in the body must pass
through and be filtered by the Kidneys
hundreds of times a day.
How can they do their work well if they
are sick?
If your Kidneys need treatment, Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, the reliable Kidney
Remedy, will prove to be just the medicine
you need.
* , ' * » - ' „ , A* !
■wis' . . . J
■ V. #f
wJI *% f<V| 7 y :
St
fe ;
ii v -
II
vSj
m
m
\kvk
t*£§
■
m
JF* WILL GIVE
YOU RELIEF
THE FIRST DAY YOU
TRY THEM f
Hear
“The Sheldon
Follies of 1934”
from the
Theatre of the Air
Every Sunday: 2SM, 2KO
and 4BH, 9 to 9.30 p.m.
Every Monday: 3 AW,
8.30 to 9; 2XN, 8 to
8.30 p.m.
Healthy Kidneys Are Essential
To be free from BacKache, to feel well and full of energy, it is absolutely essential that
your Kidneys be in a healthy condition, so that they can carry out their proper function
of filtering the blood streams, and prevent impurities such as Uric Acid from collecting in
your system.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills can, and will, do this for you in the same safe and certain way
that they have for tens of thousands of other one-time sufferers from Backache, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Stiff Joints, and other forms of Kidney Trouble.
Gin Pills Make Weak Backs Strong
This remarkable and trusty remedy removes all inflammation from the Kidneys, and makes
them strong and healthy again, and at the same time tones up your whole system, and,
when this is done, not only will you be free from the agonising pains which have caused
your misery, but you will feel stronger and in better health than you have for many years.
Dr Sheldon's
o*
%
V'4
v«
4
%
27 P/LLS, I'9
GO P/LLS, 2'9
lor Backache, kheumalism.
Sciatica, Lumbago, and
All Kidney Troubles.


The Future of the Market
Interest Rates and
Security Prices
Control of Exports
Stocks Worth Watching
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
MAY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds £3,800,000
Reserves— *•
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £900,000
AREA PLANTED: 152,788 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex«
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
SMOKE-OH!
“A gipsy couple named Sterio have a family
of 27 children.” —News Item.
Steriotyped.
* *
“300 British Tourists.
“With about 3000 tourists the liner arrived
at Port Melbourne.”
Immigration or natural increase?
* *
“Twice as he was about to attempt a can-
non, he was distracted by noises.”
— “Telegraph."
Double baulk.
* *
“Nine women out of ten don’t know how
to powder.” —Beauty ad.
That’s laying it on rather thick.
# *
“Thieves consume contents of larder.”
—News item. ■
Evidently an inside job.
v *
“Girls should practise domestic duties before
they marry ."—“Telegraph."
Why not after?
“Why are all the miners here Cornishmen ?”
“Us built for t’ job, Cap’n. T’other ’uns too tall for
tunnel.”
“The accused admitted having robbed Goode
and was ashamed of himself.”
He did Goode by stealth and blushed
to find it famed.
* *
“He has not spoken to his wife for four
years.” —Evidence in a Brisbane divorce case.
But did she give him a chance?
* *
“A Manchester doctor is puzzled how to
treat a girl who shrieks at five-minute intervals
for 12 hours daily.”
Grandmother would have known what
to do with her.
LEAVES FROM THE PAST.
I.—Finders and Keepers.
Australia was discovered in turn by
Torres Vedras, Peter the Whaler, Claude
Dampier and Captain Cook. Most of
these were discreet about it, but Cook,
unfortunately, talked in his sleep. Con-
sequently the news was soon all over
England, not to mention Mauritius,
Tahiti and several other ports of call.
George 111. was told about it when
wrestling with the problem of how the
apple got into the dumpling. He
said: “Here’s a great new country, pro-
bably as big as Kent and Dorset com-
bined, simply going to waste. Send out
a few thousand lifers and give it a
chance. What, what, what?”
So Capt. Phillip sailed with instruc-
tions to find Sydney and name it. It
must have been rather difficult, because
there was no £10,000,000 bridge or
stationary cruisers or anything to
guide him. However, he was apparently
successful.
Quite a novel method Was adopted in
choosing the first settlers. England was
experiencing a rabbit plague, and it was
made the rule that no man could get a
trip to Australia unless he could prove
that he had “cotched a rabbit.” As the
English rabbits were both speedy and
cunning, this ensured that an athletic,
brainy type of settler was sent out. True,
a few men with influence were able to pull
strings, and wangle passages by stealing
crusts of dry bread, but they were few
in number, and were
looked down upon
by the genuine lifers.
They were never ad-
mitted to the inner
circle the chain
gang.
The chain gang
consisted .of the
noblest and _ best
men in the colony.
Bound by common
ties,, they went
everywhere together.
A chain-gang man
was never seen
alone, with the soli-
tary exception of the
last chain-ganger.
They excelled at
all the manly pas-
times of the period,
“treading the mill,”
“hugging the tri-
angle” and “whip-
ping the cat.” So
attached did they
become to their
adopted country
that few ever re-
turned to England.
The warders who
waited upon the
settlers were kindly
men, and spared no
pains to make their
lives interesting.
Many a lifer was
rewarded with
stripes for his
efforts, and carried mementoes of the
warders to the grave. A sanatorium at
Norfolk Island and a holiday camp at
Port Arthur were always well patronised.
After a while the supply of rabbits
in England ran out, and consequently
no more settlers were able to qualify for
admission to Port Jackson.
It was really a pity. M.C.C. mem-
bers consider that the falling-off in the
moral and physical standard of the
settlers, as well as the tremendous in-
crease in the number of rabbits in Aus-
tralia, was due to the cessation of the
system.
Bibliography: “Cook’s Tours”; “Botany for
Beginners”; “A Term of Unnatural Life”; “The
Chain of Friendship”; and “The Infernal Tri-
angle.”
Jasby.
THE FILM CENSOR REPORTS
BRIEFLY ON THE NEW TALKIE
“CINDERELLA.”
Strong exception must be taken to the
opening scene, in which Cinderella is
shown dressing her ugly stepsister’s hair
in preparation for the Prince’s Ball. The
neglige worn in this setting by the step-
sister in question is positively disgusting
—at least four inches of bare neck is
visible. The fact of its being a bed-
room scene is bad enough (a close-up is
actually shown of various items of female
raiment on the bed), but the director is
guilty of further indelicacy in showing
the curling-tongs being heated in a naked
flame.
Drastic measures will be taken with
the scene in which the transmogrified
Cinderella, in her silver robe (far too
decollete, while the elbow-length sleeves
savor too much of
blatant vulgarity), is
actually seen danc-
ing with the Prince
without having pre-
viously been intro-
duced to him.
In the scene de-
picting Cinderella
hurriedly leaving the
ballroom, the direc-
tor has made the
bell from the dis-
tant cathedral strike
the midnight hour.
This tacit accept-
ance of the keeping
of late hours by
girls is morally
wrong, and its effect
is apt to be perni-
cious. The last three
strokes of the bell
must be eliminated.
The most deplor-
able moral loose-
nesses in the film,
however, occur in
the scene prior to
the final fade-out,
when the Prince is
endeavoring to dis-
cover the wearer of the mysterious
glass slipper; the herald holds out
the slipper to allow the ladies to
see if it will fit them. Without
exception, each one is shown with
bare toes (covering ordered here). The
final enormity is a coarse manifestation
of love (osculation). I personally timed
the Prince’s kiss with a stop-watch, and
was horrified to see it register 3 9-10
seconds. (Time allowance cut down to
H seconds, though full time will be
allowed if alternative kissing of hand is
resorted to.)
Altogether strong comment on the
picture as a whole is justified. With the
necessary alterations, however, the
amended film may be passed for re-
stricted exhibition (adults only).
S. W. K.
* *
JUST FOR A CHANGE.
“Have you solved the mystery of the
stolen jools?” asked the police chief.
“No,” admitted the detective-inspector.
“Most of these crooks are absent-minded
coves and leave dozens of clues behind ;
but this chap beats all. He left the jools
behind and took all the clues with him.”
Ced.
THE PRAWN TEST.
If you would discover a man’s sterling
qualities; if you desire to observe his
inner character —his very ego—give him
a plate of prawns. The man who can
efficiently prepare prawns for seemly
consumption, chatting brightly the while
with his dining neighbor and showing
neither mental nor physical distress, can
be relied upon to comport himself with
credit in any walk of life.
The eating of prawns is more than a
mere assimilation of nourishment. It is
a test which none but the fittest can
survive. Before one can negotiate a
prawn, a certain deftness is called for —
a certain delicacy of manipulation is
needed to effect the neat extraction of
the creature from its unpalatable cuticle.
It requires something more than mere
table deportment; it is a test of sang-
froid and savoir faire —qualities essential
to the welfare of the nation.
Watch a man swallow an oyster, and
how much more do you know about him
“So I told him just what I thought of him.”
“And what do you think of him ?”
“Nothing”
after the operation than you knew
before? But put him in a society-leader’s
dining-room and ply him with prawns,
and the manner in which he tackles the
task will reveal the stuff of which he is
made. The prawn test is one before
which seemingly strong men may break
down completely, while an apparent
weakling may display amazing fortitude.
It is a test which cannot fail.
King T.
* *
“ ‘Be kind to insects,’ urges a writer in a
Melbourne paper.”
Personally, we never miss an oppor-
tunity of patting mosquitoes on the back.
* *
WELL NAMED.
Isaacstein has surprised his friends by
naming his new house The Cloisters—
as, he says, it’s “cloise to der peach, cloise
to der drain, cloise to der bicture-show
and cloise to my pizness.”
* ¥
THAT’S DIFFERENT.
“Where were you wed?” the lawyer
asked.
“I don’t know," I replied.
“What! Don’t you know where you
acquired
Your wife?” his Honor cried.
I felt confused, my cheeks suffused
With folly’s scarlet dye.
“Oh, where ?” I flashed, like one
inspired.
“I thought he asked me ‘why.’ ”
P. O. M. C.
SHE-FEVER.
/ must go down to the sea again,
For the call of the running tide
Isa strong call and an urgent call,
And must not be denied.
And all I ask is a roving quest
And the freedom of the sea,
For my seventh wife has heard of the rest
And she’s making it hot for me.
T. W. N.


SPOR TING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
While the. first-class sprinters are spell-
ing, owner-trainer George Allen is pick-
ing up a lot of money with Multudo.
Despite his lOst. 31b., Multudo, superbly
ridden by Jim Pike, won the Auburn
Handicap at Rosehill in a canter from
Leila Vale and Turbine. Backing of
Leila Vale caused Multudo to go out at
7 to 4, after the bookies demanded odds.
The favorite was suited by the fast track.
Dominion sportsman F. W. Thatcher
found Dole unprofitable, but made a
good purchase when he gave 600 guineas
for the Limond gelding Forestry, who
won the Rosehill Handicap in runaway
fashion from Le Legion and Magnaver.
Forestry was backed to 7 to 2, despite
his inglorious display at Randwick, where
he finished last on a soft track that did
not suit the long-striding chestnut. Little
Bill Wedgewood made a gallant effort to
lead throughout, but, like Earlminster,
was beaten at the top of the straight.
Tingalba drifted to tens. He is worth
keeping in mind for the Randwick events
next month.
The conditions of the Trial Stakes gave
Forestry’s stable-mate Upoko Ariki a
decided pull in the weights. He was
backed from 5 to 2 to evens, but was
all out to beat the locally-trained Wina-
€ert< Im Readimq about matrimony,
AND ITS LITTLE WORRIES".
Bert it say T*
/ TeK OUT OF= £VEISy HUMORED
Married people Divorce is
THREE VEASa v >
:" s-nsA,wqe t how *the others
OS A, LITTLE LOsqEß.'t
win, who carries the colors of Tom Han-
nan and went under by only half a neck.
Cockpen’s fourth was a promising per-
formance, as he was badly away.
Raced on lease by the Maitland trainer
A. Widgery, Sir Belford (7 to 1) got away
with the Maiden Juvenile in a style that
suggested more victories. He was wide
out most of the way, and came home
strongly to beat an outsider, Musk Deer,
with the favorite, Sipal, third. Sipal met
with interference. jSir Belford is by the
Phalaris horse Pharan from Sweet Ann,
and is a half-brother to Nan Verde.
The Highweight Handicap was a capi-
tal betting race, Windbird, Canegrass,
High Degree, Priapus and Tatyoon being
heavily supported. Canegrass (4 to 1)
went to the front after the first furlong,
but had to be ridden right out to stall
off a late run by Priapus, who was not
in the picture at the turn, with old Royal
Tune an excellent third. It looked as if
Priapus should have scored. Windbird,
who finished fifth, was sneaking through
on the rails at the Leger when he was
checked by tired horses. Nachara went
to an outside quote and was never
sighted.
* * * *
Williamstown races provided Mel-
bourne punters with some Grand
National pointers. Wayback, carrying
list., won the Kororoit Hurdle from end
to end, being followed home by two out-
siders, Silvion and Raiwena. All three
are engaged in the G.N. Hurdle ; Way-
back has been nominated for the cross-
country event as well. So far Wayback
has not jumped stiff timber, but Bill
Burke contemplated schooling him over
fences at Williamstown with a view to
running him in the Autumn Steeplechase.
Plans were changed, though he did not
give Wayback much chance of conceding
Sea Castle a stone in weight. Sea Castle
went out a warm favorite, but came a
purler at the hurdle in front of the
judge’s box ; after that Wayback never
was troubled.
Judged by the manner in which he
handled Lynden in the Kororoit Hurdle,
there is no room for doubt that Inkson
will regain his former prowess as a cross-
country horseman. Dr, Flanagan only
recently granted him a certificate of
physical fitness. Lynden blundered at
the hurdle near the seven-furlong post,
but Inkson pulled him together splen-
didly, and—which was still more encour-
aging—rode Lynden out with vigor. No
doubt Lynden will be Inkson’s mount
in the G.N. Hurdle.
J. H. Davis, the V.R.C. weight-
adjuster, will have difficulty in handicap-
ping Belar, Lynden and Baanya against
each other in the G.N. Hurdle. Last
year Belar (9st. 51b.) scored by five
lengths from Lynden (lOst. 121 b.), with
Baanya (9st. 71b.) six lengths farther off.
On that form Baanya should meet the
other pair on considerably better terms,
but in January he annexed the Laun-
ceston Cup with 9st., and on Saturday
he spreadeagled a good field of gallopers
in the Bay View Handicap. Because of
having run third in the Warrnambool
Cup, Eastern Chief was sent out a
slightly better favorite than Baanya. He
knocked up in chasing the Tasmanian
gelding, who drew away at the home
turn and scored by \\ lengths from the
fast-finishing Segati, with Wayback’s
stable-mate, Whitsome, a close third.
After failing in the big event of 1933,
Baanya gave Zetheus 201 b. and a beating
in the V.R.C. Keilor Hurdle, which is
sufficient testimony to his jumping
ability. At the moment nothing reads
better than Baanya in the G.N. Hurdle.
The Autumn Steeplechase was a wash-
out so far as G.N. Steeple prospects are
concerned. Four horses were scratched
on the course, and of the eight starters
only Appellant had any pretensions to
form. Appellant is trained by Fred
McCabe, who won a G.N. Hurdle on
Obi and an Australian Steeplechase on
Bullawarra. Over 12 months had elapsed
since Appellant last sported silk. He got
round safely, but was 20 lengths behind
the second horse, Royal Offa, who lost
to Red Earl by nearly two lengths. Five
horses came to grief, two of them, First
Wood and Our Alex, breaking their
necks.
Byron, who has lasted long on the
turf, but races seldom because of un-
soundness, registered a brilliant victory in
the Beach Welter, squeezing home by
half a neck from Baanya’s stable-mate
Lady Treasure. The six-furlongs Gelli-
brand Handicap went to Phenomenon,
from Queensland, who has won on three
successive Saturdays in Melbourne.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Tom Lurich returned to Leichhardt
for another go at Jack Clark, and
brought the crowd with him. In the
third round the Russian’s body-scissors
scored a pin-fall, and Clark looked as if
he could not answer the call for the
fourth. Nevertheless, the American
rushed out to forward-slam Lurich for
a fall in one minute flat. Lurich was
slammed again in the fifth, but got on
top of Clark again and won by two falls
to one. Elliott was disqualified for
punching Bucht in the last round of their
meeting at Newtown.
Woodfull’s Men
Oxford had the honor of holding the
Australians to their smallest first-innings
score to date, 319. Bradman sent his
side in and Ponsford (75), Brown (20)
and the skipper (37) gave the side a
decent start, 181 going up for the loss of
three wickets. Darling then proceeded
to supply the fireworks. Driving and
cutting with tremendous power and pre-
cision, the left-hander hoisted the 100
runs in 95 minutes, his score including
20 boundaries. With the Exception of
Chipperfield, who had a lash for a
quickly-made 40, none of the others did
anything. Tindall, a fast-medium right-
hander, got five for 94. Last year he
took 26 wickets for the University, aver-
aging 33.19. Oxford batted in a bad
light and had lost two wickets for 5 when
dusk and rain brought about the draw-
ing of stumps on Saturday night half an
hour before the scheduled time. Darling
is now the sixth batsman of the touring
side to put up a three-figure score. Brad-
man was again off his game, but Pons-
ford looked set for a big score when he
went. Bromley and McCabe both failed
to get going.
* * * *
The Australia-M.C.C. match was the
22nd played at Lord’s. Five of the first
ten matches played were lost. After
that things improved until the tally to-day
is seven wins to us against six, while nine
matches have been drawn. Prior to this
game, nine Australians had topped the
century, Ransford leading with 190, a
position from which Ponsford has dis-
placed him.
* * * *
“Delpus”: During the Test at the
Oval in 1882, Harry Boyle split his hand
stopping a hard drive. The Eng-
lish skipper tried unsuccessfully to
prevent him leaving the field to have it
dressed. Nowadays, if a player grazes his
finger playing deck tennis or quoits, he is
rushed off to the ship’s quack, and the
incident is cabled all over the world. The
’B2 team consisted of 13 players and a
manager. They played 38 matches, and
there must have been many .casualties,
but it was all taken as part of the game.
(Continued on page 26.)
Footbrawl
Another 40,000 crowd at Richmond
ground on Saturday saw Carlton tackle
the home side. The game was fast and
spectacular, but interest waned when the
visitors, after showing up brightly in the
first quarter, failed to add another goal
till the last term, while Richmond put
on six goals and many behinds in the
meantime. Carlton played brightly and
got behinds, but crashed against the unex-
pectedly strong Richmond defence. High
marking was good, Davey, Shea and
Vallence, for the Blues, and Titus, O’Neill
and Foster, for the Tigers, shining out; in
ground play and quick and accurate pass-
ing the locals had the call throughout.
Richmond, 104 ; Carlton, 67. On its own
ground South Melbourne held Essendon
up to lemon-time ; thereafter South took
complete charge and finished \vith 148
to Essendon’s 106. South’s star forward
Pratt got 15 goals off his own boot.
Down at Geelong 13,300 coughed up
£3lO ss. 9d. to see Melbourne put through
its paces to the tune of 47 to Geelong’s
86 in a game marked by more vigor
than skill. Footscray accounted for North
Melbourne by 77 to 62 ; and Colling-
wood pranced over Hawthorn with 129
to 62. St. Kilda visited Fitzr.oy and
managed to keep track of the Maroons
up to lemon-time ; then the Saints staged
a flying finish, and swept the field in a
manner of speaking. St. Kilda, 93
points ; Fitzroy, 80.
* * * *
“Black and White”: With 33 goals 19
behinds (217 points) against Glenelg on
May 12 Port Adelaide put up a record
for an Australian Rules League team. The
previous highest was 199 points by Rich-
mond, and the previous record for a
S.A. League team was 191 points by West
Adelaide against Glenelg in 1928. When
Glenelg was first admitted to A grade
shortly after the war, many tall scores
were registered against it, but in recent
seasons it has proved a tougher pro-
position. In the game under notice it
scored 12 goals 14 behinds. Port coun-
tered by putting on 14 goals -6 behinds
in the last quarter (also a record).
* * * *
Rugby Union week-end games in Syd-
ney provided some close finishes. The
cheeriest feature of the series was the fright
given the allegedly invincible Randwick
side by the infant club, Parramatta. After
being behind most of the time, Randwick
scraped home on the bell with a try
which lifted it from a point behind to
two ahead—scores, 16-14. Randwick
scored four tries, two converted, and
Parramatta two, one of which A. Peatty
converted, plus a couple of penalties.
The losers went out to bottle the Rand-
wick backs and did so effectively most of
the time. The new club has no noted
players outside Cerutti, most of the
players coming up from the lower grades.
In the other matches, Uni. triumphed
over the disgruntled Manlyites by 29-21.
Uni. scored six tries, four of which West-
field converted, adding a p.g. Manly
crossed thrice, Ross converting the tries
and kicking a p.g. The big scores suggest
that defence on both sides was slack.
Western Suburbs beat St. George 19-8,
Barnes converting two tries and adding
two penalties. Northern Suburbs downed
Drummoyne 19-10 ; and in the bye East-
ern Suburbs defeated N.S.W. Western
Districts 22-3.
* * * *
The Rugby Union selected its team for
Queensland at the week-end. The side
is made up of the old regulars for the
most part, from Ross at full-back to
Waratah Judd in the forwards. One wel-
come newie is T. Hills, the Newcastle
three-quarter, while Arnold, the ex-
Victorian rep., also worthily catches a
place.
* * * *
The Rugby League’s tussle of the week,
Western v. Eastern Suburbs, at the Sports
Ground, drew one of the best crowds the
League has had for years at a club match.
Eastern made a bold bid to upset the
leaders, but had luck as bad as Parra-
matta’s in the Union game. It was
leading by two points on the whistle
when Brady scored after a furious West-
ern rally. Mead added the goal and
Western won 15-12 (three tries, two con-
verted and a p.g., to two tries, one con-
verted and two p.gs.). The result puts
Western well ahead on the table with ten
points. Nearest are Eastern and last
year’s premiers, Newtown, with six each.
South Sydney is still in the doldrums,
the game with North Sydney on the
latter’s ground ending in a 10-10 draw.
The Southerners are a shadow of their
old selves this year. Balmain had to
go all out to beat St. George 14-12 at
Leichhardt; and Uni. staggered the
League’s followers by making Newtown
travel to beat them 13-10.
Geelong Grammar won the Head-of-
the-River race on the Yarra, while about
50,000 people struggled for foothold on
the banks. The time for the mile was
slow —smin. 18 2-ssec. —though weather
and water were ideal. Melbourne led
first, but when the three boats entered
the boom Geelong was in front, with
Melbourne second and Wesley next.
They finished in that order. Last year
Geelong withdrew owing to sickness in
the crew.
FOR MOOREFIELD ON SATURDAY.
Kogarah Stakes: Wondrous;
next, Depar.
Moorefield Handicap: Journal;
next, Tortoni.
Flying Handicap: Veilantif ; next,
Rosaban.
Rockdale Mile: Earlminster;
next, Ranworth.


is identical
mmm
:. v. :
# Johnnie Walker Whisky is under
Government Supervision from the
time of its distilling till it reaches
you in bottle. The Customs seal
placed upon it is a definite guaran-
tee that it is genuine Johnnie Walker
as enjoyed by connoisseurs the
world over.
< 1
m
, !v.’
: <ll
m
m
H m
li 11
:
:
HH
■S
H
LW **l®
: H
nwtf&mmm
mW V i>:~ *
' Vs «>A.yy,s..,~
.
■ m
>*s#>>«
v *
• §
• ■ '
*» ;f><ff *5 '
V ' ? |:W i •»
!
«f«HR
SSI
5 •
Hp
>~; ,* ? * a*
idC
mm m
I
w
m vi
1 Ml
/
.-■ ■
5 ' V' ' ?
S?77|^
Hiii
Warn. Wfm
U:
■
■ •
•7:®;--77
■■
H SS
,
7
' m
$
:?': ; : v ?
■
.«.i*«
:;:Jt
•"•LiU" >*
" m
■■
;■ «*#***?** / v /«**
i
■
•’ “■ •.;:.
X.:> • >.••■• • '•' X ' ‘ ._ .;** •.><•*•••• << '
wa«M J
* «* *,*■>!
yy*?y '' w, " „/„•*
•#«#***
• *££&vr
• •: >'-':
**##*',*< «*>
******7,
l|Jj||||||^
M JU/ " i ~( i o*4
JOHNNIE WALKER
SCOTCH WHISKY
BORN 1820-STILL GOING STRONG


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS 1”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
DON’T WALK—CALL THE FOX
TO YOU by using the New Improved
Ebony Fox Decoy Whistle, Price 3/6.
Sil Rohu s High Standard of Quality
Fireams and Fishing Tackle is well
known throughout Australia. If con-
sidering the purchase of any of these
goods, write for Catalogue (Firearms,
500 Illustrations; or Fishing Tackle,
200 Illustrations).
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith. Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurancoscffectcd on all classes of
Build'jigs, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks oll Wool, Merchandise,
• 1 Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
■ '• SRSR jwjw .-r—T.;:SffIJSWWJMR I
“BIRKO-BEST” Razor Blades
THREE-HOLE TYPE
First quality at quarter the cost. Over three
million sold annually in Sydney. Every blade
guaranteed. ALL STORES.
If unobtainable write
FRANK H. BEARDMOREj
279 Clarence St., Sydney, Sole Agent.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—BY Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
THE NEW .. .
M
OEI
300 Candle Power Lantern
ƒg
WICKLESS
MATCH-LIGHTING
The Perfect Outdoor
light that weather
does not affect.
TWO PINTS OF
PETROL will operate
it for 15 HOURS.
Obtainable at all leading stores, or write
Box 98CC, G.P.0., Sydney.
WoodfulPs Men
The M.C.C. finished its first innings
against the Australians at 362, Chap-
man being unbeaten with 46. Wall
bowled grandly (6-74), a happy augury
for the bigger stuff. With Bradman (5)
and Woodfull (20) out for 61, Australian
jaws were dropping. Ponsford was then
partnered by McCabe, and when the Ma
Stater departed after having scored 192
the tally was 450 for 3. Batting per-
fectly, Ponsford went on until Woodfull
closed at 6 for 559, when the Victorian
was 281 n.o. and Grimmett 26 n.o. Pons-
ford never gave a chance or looked like
it. Brown, here with Jardine, had the
best M.C.C. bowling figures—4 for 124.
The match ended in a draw after an
exciting finish, M.C.C. wanting 16 runs
to save the innings defeat and two
wickets to fall. Wyatt played a plucky
if lucky knock to be 102 n.o. at the
finish, and saved his side’s bacon. Hen-
dren (19), our old friend “Farmer”
White (21) and Brown (12) were the only
other double-figure scorers. Grimmett
(4-90) and O’Reilly (3-29) got the wickets
on a typical Lord’s third-day pitch. The
Australian catching was again patchy.
* * * *
In their match with Essex, fourth in
the county championship last year, the
Australians met their first taste of fast
bowling. Fames, rated the best amateur
speedster in England, and Smith both
opened fairly well, though their averages
suffered as the game went on. Essex batted
first for 220, Nichols topping with 62 n.o.
Wall was not playing, but Grimmett
(3-80) and O’Reilly (6-79) did the neces-
sary work. Ponsford varied recent per-
formance by going for a duck this time.
Woodfull (55) and Darling (43) changed
the complexion of things, Darling’s being
a grand exhibition of dashing left-hand
batting. McCabe (48) and Brown (58)
carried on the good work; and then
Chipperfield came along for his first hit
in England. He swung such a lusty bat
that when he was last man out on the
evening of the second day he had 175
to his credit, made in 185 minutes
(two sixers and 25 fours), and the
Australian total was 438. Fames
(3-111) and H. Smith (3-123) were the
best Essex bowlers-. With a day to do it
in, Grimmett and O’Reilly again hustled
Essex out, this time for 125. Cutmore,
who had made 21 in the first innings, got
31, and Pope 21. Grimmett (5-54) and
CPReilly (3-53) were helped by Ebeling
with 2 for 9. Australia won by an
innings and 93.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The shade of Lord
Frederick Beauclerk must have had a fit
of apoplexy when the news came to it
in Tartarus that the English newspapers
had started giving professional cricketers
their initials before their names, just as
if they were amateurs. There are others
still with us, like Lord Hawke, who pro-
bably found the news disagreed with
them when they read it in their morning
papers. Bit by bit the old foundations
are crumbling. One of these days we
shall have a professional captaining Eng-
land, and after that anything may happen
we may even find an amateur in an
Australian Eleven.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Some of these Australian
literary experts travelling with the Austra-
lian Eleven make one wonder in what
their qualifications consist. One who
should have known better expressed sur-
prise in his cable at the bad condition of
the Lord’s wicket on the last day of the
M.C.C. match. Lord’s boasts probably
the worst wickets of any recognised Test
cricket ground in the world, arid has done
so ever since players began to bother
about prepared wickets. It is proverbial
in English cricket that a century at Lord’s
is more meritorious than half a dozen on
any other ground. In addition to its
bad-wearing habit, the famous pitch has
quite a slope across the wicket. Right-
hand off-break bowlers with a knowledge
of this and the ability to exploit the
slope have had many field days there,
notably Jack Hearne, the Middlesex and
England trundler, whose home ground
was Lord’s.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian Davis Cup players
came out on top in the “international”
tourney at Amsterdam, in which Hol-
land, the English Queen’s Club and
Japan also took part. Following on the
misunderstanding as to the number of
sets in the match in which the Dutch
champion, Timmer, beat him 2-1, Craw-
ford was allowed a replay as a five-set go.
He won, but the Hollander took him to
the full five and scored 22 games to
Crawford’s 21.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: This week Canada and
the U.S.A. meet in the first Davis Cup
match for the American zone. The team
chosen to represent Uncle Sam includes
only one man new to the Cup series,
Stoefen. The others are Shields, Lott and
Van Ryn. Shields and Stoefen are the
singles selections, and Lott will probably
partner our old friend Van in the doubles.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: There has been a
mild disagreement between Australia and
Japan as to the dates for their Davis
Cup match at Eastbourne. Australia
wanted June 7 to 9, and the Japanese
June 9 to 12, the last days possible. The
Australians claimed the later dates were
too close to the next round in Paris,
which begins on June 21. The council
of the British L.T.A., which is this year
“Py korry, we fix t’at gun five-eight; he get te proomin’ nose proke.”
“How t’at happen, Turoa?”
“It no HAPPEN ; I to it te purpose."
controlling the D.C. programme, has de-
cided in favor of the Australians, so
that’s that. All that is left is to pray that
Crawford will shake off his apathy of
Bournemouth and Amsterdam —the Japs
are not easy money by any means.
Car and Cycle
“Corniche”: One of the queerest road
circuit races for cars held in Europe is
the annual Monaco Grand Prix. This
takes place through the narrow and
tangled streets which make up most of
the principality, and the course taken
covers some 200 miles in 100 laps. There
is plenty of opportunity for speed and
acceleration, while climbing and corner-
ing capacity is also heavily tried. Dur-
ing the race all traffic is suspended, except
in the Casino, and in the meaner streets
the infants, dogs, cats and goats are re-
moved from the gutters in which they
have been playing happily and placed in
safety until all is over. Most of the
big drivers started, the Frenchman Moll
winning. All the cars were Italian, includ-
ing that of Lord Howe.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The rumored inten-
tion of the Autocycle Union to cut the
Bathurst (N.S.W.) road circuit out, as far
as the annual road-racing meet is con-
cerned, and to transfer the big events to
a place known as Goulburn has the City
of the Plains fairly jumping off its tail.
A public meeting has protested bitterly
against the possible loss of an event which
brought at least £5OOO every year to
Bathurst traders. The A.C.U. has been
informed that, if it calls off its change-
over, Bathurst will lay out and lay down
with special road-making material a cir-
cuit the like of which hath not been seen
up that way within the memory of man.
Also it will provide free help for course
control and generally stage a week of
carnival to attract the gay-minded sports-
men of other parts.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: What’s the matter with
Bathurst? Following on the alleged in-
tention of the motor-cycle heads to cut
out Bathurst in future as an Australian
T.T. centre, comes the news that the Ma
State pushbikers have cancelled the
Sydney-Bathurst road race for next
season. Probably the stiff uphill climb
for the latter part of the journey was
responsible for the decision, but that
seems to be a faint-hearted outlook. One
of the merits of road cycling is that it
develops stamina and the capacity to
cover long distances at high speed. This
is a valuable asset in other and more
serious fields than mere cycling, and the
French, with their Tour de France race
through lofty Pyrenean and other moun-
tain passes, have long recognised this.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: The Victorian golf heads
struck their N.S.W. cobbers (?) speech-
less last week when they sent along a
bland request that a Kirk-Windeyer Cup
match be played in Melbourne as part of
the centenary razzle. There are several
reasons why the Victorian request will
not be granted. One is that this year’s
Cup has already been played for and
won by M.L. The second is that it has
been agreed between the only parties
who have shown interest in it that the
tourney be adjourned indefinitely till
happier days come along.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Odette Lefebvre’s
fine stand for woman’s right to sport an
unstockinged limb in golf (B. 16/5/’34)
has been followed by a similar gesture
of defiance to mid-Victorian conventions
by Miss Barron, a Welsh competitor
in the British women’s championship,
which is just about equivalent to the Brit-
ish open or amateur for those male
wretches. The damsel turned out in
ordinary he-man trousers —not beach
pyjamas or any of that silly half-and-
half stuff, but the real article through
the pockets of which every right-thinking
wife goes carefully when her husband
comes home from the links and resigns
himself to slumber. Her fellow-players
objected, and the L.G.U. heads worded
her. She told them to go to Gehenna,
or its Welsh equivalent, and played on.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: There will be no
American golfers save Sarazen and Kirk-
wood appearing at the Australian open
and other championships to be played at
Royal Sydney in October. The proposed
team cannot arrive in Australia before
November 5. By that time the cham-
pionships will be over and the big special
show in Melbourne just ready to start.
A cable to that effect arrived last week,
and Melbourne seems to have scored.
There is a catch in it, though. The
Americans won’t sail without a guarantee
of £l5OO.
Miscellaneous
“Third Base”: Nothing has been heard
for some time of the visit to Australia of
a couple of teams of first-class American
professional baseballers, which was being
so confidently forecast a few months ago.
In the meantime, Victoria invades N.S.W.
shortly and will play Ma at Petersham on
June 2 and 4.
* * * *
“Shell”: Cabled that William Miller, of
Philadelphia, America’s champion ama-
teur sculler, has gone over to the profes-
sional ranks in order to measure blades
with Bob Pearce. The meeting is to take
place during the Canuck National Exhi-
bition at Toronto over a three-mile
course for the professional championship
of the world. In addition to Pearce and
Miller, the two Englishmen, Barry and
Phelps, will also appear. Two heats
will be rowed on August 24, with the
winners showing in the final a week
later.
* * * *
“Inside Left”: The Australian hockey
heads are calling for nominations for
the team to visit Maoriland in August,
the tour being expected to take up five
playing Saturdays. A feature of the trip
which would not recommend itself to
Woodfull’s amateurs is that the 16
players will pay their own return boat
fares. On the other hand, the associa-
tion will pay all expenses of the tour
and provide “shirts and socks.” That is
a nice homely touch about the “socks,”
but what about other garments which
are even more imperative?


at an Array
~to clvOOd-t TdODL-
(4 DIFFERENT MODELS /6sTYLEJ_JN ALL)
*
THE NINE—S eda n,
Tourer, Coupe,
Roadster.
THE TEN—Sedan, Tourer,
Coupe, Roadster.
THE TWELVE—S eda n,
Tourer, Coupe,
Roadster.
d
THE TWENTY—Sedan,
Tourer, Coupe,
Roadster.
g;
m
ALL THE
MODERN FEATURES
BUOYANT POWER
SYNCHRO-MESH GEARS
CONTROLLED FREE-
WHEELING
STARTIX AUTOMATIC
RE-STARTING
REDESIGNED BENDIX
BRAKES
X-BRACED FRAMES
IMPROVED SPRINGING
SAFE, EASY STEERING
SILENT-BLOC SHACKLES
NEW LOW CENTRE OF
GRAVITY
ENTIRELY NEW BODYWORK
Unity there's a cat for every vv efevenc z
in ike 1934 ranqe of
STANMRDS
SEE the English Standards for 1934
and you see a range of sixteen truly
modern cars.
First there’s the “Nine,” the small car that’s
built like a big car. The “Ten” is slightly
larger, but offers “Baby Car” economy with
plenty of power. The “Twelve” is a medium-
sized model —an ideal family car of vigorous
performance and welcome economy. And
there’s the “Twenty” —England’s Luxury Car.
In size, power, beauty of design and all-round
performance its equal can be found only among
.much higher priced makes.
Sedans, Tourers, Coupes and Roadsters are
available in each Standard model. All are truly
modern cars —modern in design, in construc-
tion and in performance.
Whatever size car you prefer, whatever price
you have in mind, you’ve only to see the 1934
line of English Standards to find the car that
will give you all you expect from modern
motoring.
Talbot & Standard Motors Pty., Ltd.,
568-5 74 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Anglo-Austral Motors Pty., Ltd.,
85-95 Boundary Street,
Brisbane.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Harden and Johnston Limited)
117-131 Flinders Street,
Sydney.
Dominion Motors, Ltd.,
81 Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
Mortlock Bros., Ltd
10-16 Hay Street,
Perth.
Co-operative Motors
131 Collins Street,
Hobart.
Ltd.,
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: ROBERT F. LEE, 58-60 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO.,LTD. COVENTRY. ENGLAND.
sSSSsse
in


WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Sts
lys
pßoor
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
LYSAGHTS
Wire Netting
Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
m
■
&
'jtr .i»v
sp
Wk
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydrny
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO SIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
INCREASED LAMBING.
“Yelir”: The writer has seen Border
Leicester flock ewes average slightly over
100 p.c. and merinos as high as 80 p.c.
on a north-west N.S.W. property on
which the following method was adopted.
About a month before joining yard
the rams each morning and evening.
Feed them with four parts of lucerne
hay to one of bran, moistened with
molasses and water. Give them just
enough for the rams to clean up. Access
to water and pasture should always be
allowed.
When the rams are joined keep a small
number (depending on the size of the
flock) in reserve. Any injured through
fighting or suffering loss of condition
may be withdrawn and substitutes in-
serted. Over the last fortnight put all
the rams in.
To obtain the best results yard the
entire flock once a week at dusk and
liberate early next morning.
LAMB EXPORT QUALITY.
“Teg”: S. M. Bruce’s advice to the
farmers, that they should improve the
quality rather than increase the volume
of their exports, might well be taken
to heart by lamb-raisers. The re-
cent expansion of lamb export is due
not only to' the Ottawa pact, but to the
demand of an impoverished British
public for second-grade and inferior
sorts, which the exporter can buy at bed-
rock prices in a dry spring.
The figures of a large Vic. refrigerat-
ing co. show that prime lambs last year
represented 5 p.c. of 400,000-odd lamb
carcasses. The first-grade lambs included
some splendid consignments of Border
Leicester, Romney Marsh-Southdown
crossbreds, and other British breeds,
drawn mainly from the Vic. Western Dis-
trict and irrigation areas. But there has
been no concerted effort of the farmers
to stabilise an export type in the same
way as M.L., where careful line-breed-
ing has achieved uniformity in weight,
type and quality.
MAIDEN EWES.
“Jumbuck”: “Tipster” (B. 25/4/’34)
won’t find many graziers to agree with
him, in his advice that maiden ewes
should be joined separately and never in
company with older ewes.
I yard my maiden ewes with some
old ewes and join in the rams, leaving
the mob in the yards overnight. Next
morning the mob are taken out and fed
down to the water, with the lead (invari-
ably the young ewes) being steadied.
For the first couple of weeks the pad-
dock is mustered and the sheep are held
on the water.
If the paddock is large, this plan is
carried out twice a week, but, with an
average paddock and numbers not too
large, once a week does. Then, during
the third or fourth week, the sheep are
again yarded, another 1 per cent, of
rams added, and, after being kept in all
night, the procedure begins all over
again until it is time to take out the rams.
Allow rams to be placed in a paddock
with maiden ewes only, and not 50 per
cent, of them will get in lamb. If the
weather is at all hot and the young ewes
in good condition, the rams will, in most
cases, be absent in the shade, probably
tired and knocked up from trying to keep
pace with the walkabout young maidens.
TESTING THE DAG MARKET.
“Murrawong”: Every rise in wool
prices seems to be the signal for people
to send to market anything with a sem-
blance to wool that they can find on the
property. The past season saw bags,
butts and even bales of dags and pen
sweepings arrive for sale. In very few
cases did the senders realise enough even
to pay freight. Owners who are doubt-
ful whether certain low lines will pay
to market can test for themselves. Con-
sult the market reports in the news-
papers—they will supply quotations for
crutchings, dead wool, stained pieces, etc.
—and it is usually best to take a conser-
vative view as a seller.
If a low, earthy line, such as pen
sweepings or dags, is in question, weigh
off an average sample of 101 b. crush the
dags with a heavy hammer and soak the
lot until the wool content is left clean.
Dry the wool and weigh it carefully;
if the 101 b. of dags yield lib. of wool
then for a 6001 b. bale you can only
expect to receive the market value of
601 b. of inferior pieces less commission,
cost of pack, freight on 6001 b., buyer’s
allowance for crushing and his profit. If
101 b. of pen sweepings yield lib. of wool
—and I have seen stuff on the show
floor that wouldn’t do that —the same
figures apply except that the value of the
resultant wool (low locks) is even lower.
Testing on those lines will save expense
and may probably convince that the best
place for that low rubbish is in the
nearest gully or washaway.
STILL MORE BLOWFLIES.
“Maggoty”: I have read most of the
published comments and opinions on the
blowfly problem, given by those who pro-
fess to know, but I am still up in the air
as far as a remedy goes.
Having spent more years than I care
to remember among the jumbucks, and
being as conversant as the next man with
the ravages of fly, I say the information
now being spread about primary and
secondary flies leaves me cold. Like
everything else connected with the land,
it is a case for manual labor.
Thirty years ago we had a scientific
person endeavoring to introduce a disease
to the rabbit that would be transmitted
to its progeny. To-day we still dig out
the old bunny. If we are to get on even
terms with the blowfly it will be by
means of the man and the fly-trap.
The countless thousands of flies that
an ordinary fly-trap made from a kero-
sene tin will snare is an eye-opener.
Every tribe and breed of the pest are in-
cluded, provided a suitable decoy is em-
ployed. It is possible to keep the fly
within a certain degree of check by this
means.
Traps installed at strategic points—
sheep-yards, killing-pens, cooks’ galleys,
watering-places—and in suitable spots in
the paddocks, with a station hand told
off especially to attend to them, will go
a long way towards coping with our
trouble, but it must be done by all hands
—not in individual cases.
The cost of a station hand is more
than offset by the savings effected. Jet-
ting and crutching will always be with
us; but, were we able to effect a saving
in the direction of (1) the labor involved
in the everlasting mustering, (2) the
losses in stock and their low condition,
(3) the amount of dust put into the fleeces
through ditto, and (4) the dead loss of
wool left in paddocks through haphazard
crutching on the run, the credit balance
would be in favor of the trap and the
man attending it.
Take, for instance, the case of a mob
of ewes on the point of lambing, amongst
which the fly is busy. It is impossible
to estimate the ultimate cost, in loss of
ewes and progeny, that would ensue from
mustering, yarding and treating. With
the fly being checked by means of the
trap, one man could poke quietly
amongst them and attend to the odd one
struck.
Years ago, on the big places, it was
one man’s job to ride the boundary, tak-
ing pack-horses and being away from the
homestead possibly a week, to make sure
no fences were down to allow the sheep
to wander on to other people’s country.
If this was a paying proposition in the
days of low wool prices, how much more
so should the cost of one man be to the
grower these times, when the commodity
is showing a very comfortable return?
The annual loss to Australia through the
fly, apart from the individual grower, is
enormous, and any feasible scheme
should be given a thorough trial as a
national undertaking.
In the Peak Downs (C.Q.) district it is
common talk that the losses this year
through flies have been greater than that
sustained through the recent drought.
In passing, a fly with a new action is
reported from that district. It strikes the
ewe behind the udder and the wether
behind the purse, making a small punc-
ture which soon swells into a lump.
Death ensues in a very short space of
time. Does anyone know anything about
it?
THE COMPOSITION OF MILK.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Surely “W.D.McC.”
(B. 2/5/’34) doesn’t seriously suggest
that I assert butter-fat percentage to be
a monopoly of the pure-bred. What
I wrote was that it is determined by
breeding alone, and that feeding can’t
effect any permanent alteration. I
am aware that some pure-bred cows
are really productive mongrels whose
milk and b.-f. figures are beaten out of
sight by nondescripts.
Butter-fat percentage is a factor which
is transmitted from generation to genera-
tion in exactly the same way as color,
size or any other characteristic. All the
richest feed in the world can’t alter the
percentage of butter-fat in the milk,
though by securing a larger flow through
better feeding you get more cream,
because the test of the increased quan-
tity remains constant.
“W.D.McC.” scoffs at my suggestion
that some mysterious ailments of calves
might be traceable to radical changes in
the milk’s composition brought about by
variation of food. Then he speaks of
heifers being barren for no apparent
reason. Let him ponder over this:
Permanent incurable sterility can be
produced in animals by feeding a diet
lacking in Vitamin E for a very short
period. Circumstances may conceivably
combine to produce such a condition in
the diet of calves, and the proper feed-
ing of their dams is merely a common-
sense insurance against it.
Many will disagree with “W.D.McC.’s”
assertion that nine times out of ten the
good-looking cow is also a good pro-
ducer. If one could depend on such
an average, the need for herd-testing
would practically disappear. It takes the
Babcock tester to show up these good-
lookers as “star boarders,” and to bring
home forcibly to us the fact that show-
ring ribbons never swelled a cream
cheque.
CALF FLESH.
“Duke of Derrimut”: One of the
things about our beef-cattle herds that
astonishes experienced visitors is the way
we allow the young steers to lose their
calf flesh. Many of our station steers
weigh less as yearlings than when they
were weaned, which is bad management.
Until we overcome it, we shall do no
good at producing the chillers for which
the shipping companies are getting ready
to fight.
To grow a profitable chiller we
need to start with a well-grown and
well-nourished dam. If we haven’t that
we can’t expect a vigorous calf that will
be nourished with a good flow of milk,
no matter how well bred its sire. Run-
ning in good pasture with such a dam, a
calf should gain from Hlb. to 21b. a
day, and be a good vealer in five weeks.
If it is to be carried on to chiller weight
it should have good pasture in addition
to its dam’s milk. Its dam will help it
along until it weighs about 4001 b., and
then there will be need for good feed
to keep it growing. It is at this stage that
most youngsters are turned out into a
back paddock to battle along on old
burned-up grass. What is needed is good
pasture, such as perennial rye and white
clover, or, if there be no clover, a bit
of lucerne hay. There is more profit in
a pound of calf flesh maintained than
in a pound that is put on as a yearling.
PASPALUM DILATATUM.
“The Chiel”: “Compressum’s” state-
ment (B. 9/5/’34) that Paspalum com-
pressum is a better fodder grass than
Paspalum dilatatum is definitely wrong
in most districts. Dilatatum, introduced
many years ago from South America,
found the soil and climate of the N.S.W.
North Coast districts so congenial that it
spread rapidly, and, lacking the necessary
control, eventually took charge of the
pastures to the elimination of other
grasses.
Its habit of strong vigorous growth
under favorable conditions and its heavy
matted root development admittedly
have become a problem in many dis-
tricts. However, it can be rapidly solved,
not by eradication, but by a proper sys-
tem of control under modern methods
of pasture management.
It is not claimed that paspalum alone
is an ideal pasture. Being a summer
grower, it is more or less dormant dur-
ing winter, and winter-growing grasses
such as rye, Cocksfoot, phalaris and
white clover should be introduced to
provide a well-balanced pasture.
William Davies, the eminent Welsh
agrostologist, in a report to the Empire
Marketing Board on Australian grass-
lands, says of dilatatum :
Under favorable conditions and where
the grazing is controlled in such a way that
the paspalum is prevented from becoming
sod-bound this grass provides valuable
summer feed. In parts of the coast of
N.S.W a sward predominantly com-
posed of paspalum and temperate grasses
and clovers can be maintained, and will
give better returns under grazing than any
other sward complex.
This statement is confirmed by the
results of the pasture improvement trials
conducted by the Plant Food Advisory
Council of N.S.W., which have proved
that paspalum pastures which, before
treatment, were sod-bound, rank and un-
palatable can be converted into succu-
lent, well-balanced, high-yielding pas-
tures by a system of management which
includes the drastic renovation of the
sod-bound paspalum sward, subdivision
into small paddocks, the introduction of
clovers and winter-growing grasses, fer-
tilising and rotational grazing.
{Land page continued on page 30.)


PONTIAC GIVES
BALANCED VALUE
IN EVERY FEATURE
r'W“s
m
m
UlilM
The new 1934 Pontiac bases
its appeal, not on any one
extraordinary feature, but
on a list of balanced features
scientifically proportioned
to give the utmost in value.
APPEARANCE: The new
Pontiac’s well-balanced design is
the last word in car style
modern but not freakish, smart
but not garish.
PERFORMANCE : With all
the inherent smoothness that
only a balanced Straight Eight
can give, Pontiac flashes you
from a standing start to 50 m.p.h.
in just 17 seconds.
COMFORT: Balanced comfort
is given by “Knee-action” wheels
which absorb road shocks; a ride
stabiliser which prevents side
sway; and no-draught ventilation
which gives comfort in all
weathers.
SAFETY : In acceleration, in
steering, and in braking, Pontiac
is accurately balanced. Bodies
are steel reinforced by hardwood
—the strongest and safest built.
DURABILITY : Pontiac has a
uniform durability because all its
parts are of high quality ma-
terial, of sufficient size and
weight, accurately built andscien-
tifically proportioned.
ECONOMY : Pontiac gives you
the balanced performance of a
brilliant Straight Eight with the
economy you have been accus-
tomed to in former fours and sixes.
BUY PONTIAC— THE
MULTI-FEATURE CAR
WITH BALANCED
VALUE!
m
m
I
m
r
H
The New 1934 Pontiac is here—
. . . . the car with balanced value l
Improved in every way —yet lower in cost!
Balanced value is simply this—appearance, performance,
comfort, safety, durability and economy in such true
proportion, so well designed, so honestly built —that it
gives carefree service for many more thousands of miles.
This year Pontiac gives you features that ensure balanced
value : Knee-action wheels for added comfort and safety ;
higher compression for more power; an increased speed
of 82 miles per hour ; new cylinder-head for I S per cent,
more petrol economy; and a longer I I7|-inch wheelbase
accentuating the beauty of modern, aer-stream coachwork.
Those are just a few of the new features that will con-
vince you that Pontiac has every quality necessary for
high-class motoring. And remember, the 1934 Pontiac
is moderate in cost, for it is in a field that is just a step
above the low-price class. See your local Pontiac dealer
for details on any of the three new models : Roadster,
Coupe, and Sedan.
Pontiac’s value is emphasized in the lower prices. Send
to your local authorised Pontiac dealer for descriptive
literature. General Motors-Holden’s Limited.
Other noteworthy refinements in the 1934 Pontiacs are:
New and improved
steering that makes
driving effortless.
Ride stabiliser pre-
venting body roll and
side sway on corners.
Vacuumatic Spark con-
trol for the maximum
economy at all speeds.
Better cooling of cylin-
ders and valve seats for
increased effiiciency.
Starterator and meter-
ed-flow lubrication
are two new features.
Synchro-mesh gear box
and No-draught ven-
tilation are standard.
FONTIAC STRAIGHT EIGHT COUPE
PONTIAC STRAIGHT EIGHT ROADSTER
i 934 PONTIAC
STRAIGHT EIGHT
j
II
This is a view of the Pontiac
independent front wheel spring.
It is a coil spring enclosed in an
oil filled housing. This is the
basis of Pontiac’s new comfort
over the roughest roads.
Consult your local authorised Pontiac dealer
AIO7OM/B


The Authoritative
Australian Dog Book.
“BARKERS AND BITERS”
by
ROBERT KALESKI.
A t all good bookshops or direct
from The Bulletin.
3/6 (postage 3d. extra).
ET
7
Perfect shape. . .and 4
widths to choose from!
This is a shoe which fits you per-
fectly in width as well as length
and which never feels tight over the
instep arch. It is an exclusive Abbey
design modelled so that every
curve of the foot is accommodated
comfortably. The sole is made of
the toughest leather obtainable.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full
and half size. . . .narrow, medium,
wide and extra-wide. When ordering,
state which you need, and ask, also,
for the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 386
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
CHEAP POWER
AT 29 AN HOUR.
f
DIESEL
» TYPE
CRUDE OIL
ENGINE
Starts, runs and re-starts on
Crude Oil.
Send jor illustrated literature to the
Sole Distributors: —
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue, Ltd.,
11-25 Palmer Street, Sydney.
Q'LAND : Motors Pty., Ltd., Wickham
Street. Brisbane.
S. AUS.: Adelaide Car & Tractor Co.,
Ltd., Cnr. Morphett and Waymouth
Streets, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
RAPSON* DUTTON PTY. LTD.
B RIS BANE
SPRING-CART HARNESS
FOR LONG SERVICE
This No. 248 Set for Spring-cart use is
a well-made long-wearing set for country
use. It is brass-mounted in Brown
Leather with fin. Winkers, lin. Reins,
liin. Backhand and Traces, and Uin.
Hip Straps.
PRICE, £ll/10/-; or with Chain Traces,
£lO/5/-
Prices of Separate Parts are in Our 90-
page Catalogue No. 338 —Write for it.
fa
.too
“LEAKPRUF”
Duck lives up to its
name for Horse
Rugs. Write for
Rug List and
Samples.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
ft
tiki
SE,
m
vi’Tiia
aiiiHis
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
For Business
M
1
and Pleasure
Leipzig Autumn Fair, the world’s most popular and largest
market, offers unexcelled opportunities for profitable buying.
General Samples Fair, Building, Household and Industrial
Equipment Fair.
COMMENCES AUGUST 26, 1934.
Full information available of Commissioner Lars G. Brundahl, 121 Pitt Street, Svdnev •
C. N. Keppel, Box 1658, G.P.0., Melbourne; O. K. Ditter, Box 10, G.P.0., Adelaide- 'or
H. C. Ittershagen, West Subiaco, Perth.
BUY WISELY FOR FUTURE SELLING
LEIPZIG AUTUMN FAIR
Germany is Beautiful in August
HINTS FOR THE FARM
“J.A.M.8.”: Lengths of old machin-
ery belting make excellent bushfire
beaters.
“Rich. J.”: When treating foot-rot in
sheep, the race, or bath, invariably be-
comes fouled with droppings. To make
a practicable skimmer cut in halves,
diagonally, a petrol-tin, retaining the
half with the seam for greater strength.
Perforate the side, nail a broom handle
to the closed end, and reinforce by tying
a piece of wire from handle to the far
end of the scoop.
“Monaro”: Sore feet, so common with
sheep- and cattle-dogs when the weather
is hot and dry, grass seed plentiful and
much work to be done, can be greatly
relieved, if not cured, by an occasional
good greasing with kitchen fat. A little
Stockholm tar added will prevent the
animal from licking it all off and improve
the healing effect of the treatment.
“Mulgo”: Don’t use salted hide for
making whips or greenhide ropes. Fold
up a fresh skin and bury it for three
days in sand. Then spread out on the
floor of a shed, flesh side up, and pour
vinegar over it. Give it a rub now and
again with a broom until the vinegar is
absorbed, when the hide may be hung
up in the shade for use.
“Karaway”: Part of an old crosscut
saw makes the best bullock bell you can
put on Rattler. From the blade also
you can cut a meat-chopper and butcher-
ing knives (riveting two pieces of flat
wood on each for handles), a chipping
hoe and a burr-cutter. For the hoe, take
a sin. piece of iron piping, bend it to
a right angle, make a slit in one end with
the hacksaw, flatten that end to fit over
the blade, then drill or punch two holes
to rivet it on. You can then insert a
handle in the other end.
“J.G.M.”: Sometimes the spokes of a
wheel break off where they are mortised
into the felloes. A simple and satisfactory
method of repairing them is as follows:
Remove the iron tyre and bore a fin.
hole through felloe and into the end of
each broken spoke, about 2in. Cut
wedges to fit the hole tightly, and
hammer them through the felloe into the
spoke. Replace the tyre in the usual
way. The spoke and felloe will then
be held firmly in position.
“Cockyson”: A lot won’t agree with
“Gesto” that a better crop is obtained
when sweet-potato cuttings are planted
looped with both ends showing above
ground (B. 2/5/’34). A better crop comes
when only one joint of the cutting is
covered by soil. The tubers are then set
from a single level, spread evenly round
the root of the cutting. Good cuttings
are the main factor. They should be
from sections of vine free from rootlets,
well grown and firm. The immature
terminals of vines do not make good
cuttings.
“Murrawong”: The theory that the
wool tables in a shearing-shed should
never be washed doesn’t hold water.
Dirty tables and floors are in the same
category as blunt, rusty tools—you can’t
expect good work from them. An un-
even, dirty board is tiring to work on
and doubly hard to sweep. When a
fleece is thrown out on a dirty wool table
the fribs and second cuts which should
fall through the battens are held by the
rough surface, and are rolled up with
the fleece.
“Tin Can”: Add to “H.B.K.’s” dodge
for kerosene-tin life a light coat of
enamel, paint or lacquer. Both dry
quickly and don’t taint the water. I have
poultry drinking vessels made from tins
doing duty for over three years treated
with a coat of cheap paint and dusted
heavily with fine, clean sand. They’ll
last if you keep them off the fire.
“Granova”: Crutch the ewes gener-
ously about two weeks before lambing.
Do not allow them to become too fat —
it is almost as dangerous as having them
poor and weak. Keep a continuous eye
on them. Look through them daily for
fly-strikes, mal-presented lambs and
blocked teats. Try to avoid frightening
ewes that have just lambed, as some,
especially young merinos, will not return
for their lambs. If crows are trouble-
some, cut gashes in a fresh carcass, and
with the blade of a knife insert a small
amount of phosphorus rabbit poison. I
have poisoned hundreds this way.
“Marsh”: Still another cane-cutting
harvester has appeared. The inventor
claims that it will cut 100 tons in eight
hours, and save £lO,OOO for every 100,000
tons of cane harvested. Tests carried
out show that the topping and low cut-
ting of the cane stalks are satisfactory,
but what makes the cane cockies doubt-
ful is that the machine cuts the cane into
short lengths.
“Trac. Driver”: Steel ploughshares
before being used should have a tapered
point 2in. long by l|in. wide welded on
to them. Plough with it until this point
is within \in. of the share. Remove and
repoint. A good blacksmith can repoint
and re-wing shares at half the cost of a
new one. I have had steel shares done
up 20 times before the back was too
thin to weld to. They were employed in
very heavy work behind a tractor, often
in dry ground. The pointed shares lasted
three times as long as new ones. The
secret of their life is leaving the half-
inch on.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Can I shoot pigs trespassing on my properly,
after several times notifying the owner ? The
nearest pound yard is 10 miles. What other
course would he open ? —1453.
You must not shoot trespassing pigs, but may
detain them and give notice of the detention
to the owner and require him to remove them,
and may demand payment for any damage
done. If not released within 24 hours after
the notice has been given, you may turn the
pigs at large and may recover for any damage
done in a Court of Petty Sessions.
Is there any cure for the hard swelling just
above a horse’s hoof, commonly called ring-
bone 7—M2.
There is no cure for ringbone. Blister with
the following, as it may facilitate ankylosis
of the joint, and thereby reduce pain and ex-
treme lameness (though a certain amount of
mechanical lameness will always remain):
Biniodide of mercury, 1 drachm; lard, 1 ounce.
Rub this blister on for 20 minutes by the
watch, after clipping the hair off the affected
•part.
(1) How is sunflower oil extracted from sun-
flower seed, and what is the oil used for ? (2)
What are the by-products ? (3) How much pet-
ton does the Vic. grower receive ? (4) Can
sunflower seed be mixed with chaff for feed-
ing horses and sheep, and how much to use ?
—1446.
(1) Sunflower oil can be extracted from the
seed by “cold-pressing” or “warm-pressing,”
there being some variation in the nature of
the oil obtained according to the method used.
The oil can be used for culinary purposes,
lighting, candle- and soap-making, etc. (2)
The main by-product is an oilcake, useful as
a stock food. (3) Varies from £lO to £3O per
ton, but £l5 per ton is a fair average. (4)
Sunflower seed may be fed in the unground
form to sheep, swine, horses and poultry.
When fed to cattle it usually is ground. Only
a limited portion of the ration should be sun-
flower seed, because of the high percentage of
oil contained. It is suggested that the amount
used be not more than 25 p.c.
I am forwarding an orange that has a scaly
growth on it. This scaliness first started on
a lemon-tree and infected the leaves and the
fruit. It is now spreading through the orchard.
What is wrong, and how can I stop it ? —1425.
The orange specimen submitted was found
to be very heavily infested with red scale—
the most destructive scale insect on citrus in
Queensland. Control can be established by
spraying with one of the proprietary brands
of white spraying oil. Directions are generally
given on the tins. Apply in October or early
in November.
In filling the frames my bees build the comb
right out over the edges on one side of the
frame, while keeping it level on the other.
Sometimes the combs of two frames are joined
together. What’s the matter? —ls44.
It is not unusual for bees, when comb-build-
ing, to extend the cells on a full comb when
starting on the comb foundation of an adjoin-
ing one. The result is that the combs are lop-
sided. Lopsided honeycombs can be evened
with the uncapping knife during extracting
work. Where there is a bulge of honey above
the brood in brood combs, the extended por-
tion may be carefully sliced off with an un-
capping knife, during a honey flow in warm
weather. Treat one or two combs only at a
time, _ subsequently reversing their positions in
the hive. To lessen the risk of getting uneven
combs, add foundation frames as the increase
of the colony demands them. The full comb
used to induce the bees to enter a super may
be removed as soon as the bees have made a
good start in building out the comb founda-
tion in the super frames.
How is linseed meal manufactured? (2)
Where is the seed grown in Victoria ? (3)
Is the straw usable ? (4) How much per acre
does the grower get ? (5) Price per ton of lin-
seed ? —1445.
(1) Linseed cake or linseed meal is the by-
product when flax seed is crushed or treated
to extract the oil. The process involves steam
heating and the use of considerable plant,
f™, ls Practicable on individual small
vL u „ (Z) J n . Vl .ctona very little is produced,
the bulk of it is obtained as a by-product
when flax straw is treated for fibre. Flax for
fibre is grown mainly in the Drouin, Warragul
Colac and Drysdale districts. (3) In Victoria
straw production is the main object of the
flaxgrower. It is treated in central factories
for the production of fibre. The average re-
turn to the grower depends on the weight of
his crop. (4) With a crop of 11 tons per acre
of good-quality long straw the gross return
to the grower during the last season would
approximate £5 per acre. (5) The price paid to
the grower m Victoria is about £lB per ton.


BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Gold Boom and Investment
A Bulletin man was discussing the
Lucknow (N.S.W.) goldfield with a friend
in front of the Sydney Stock Exchange
sales board ; the friend remarked that it
had been a patchy field in the past. A
stranger with a gleam in his eye turned
on him with a snort. “Patchy? You
look at the price of New Lucknows in a
month’s time. You’ll find out how
‘patchy’ it is. Why, Bismarcks’ve only
got a corner of the Birthday reef, and
look at the values they’re getting. You
keep your eye on Black Jacks, too.
That’s all. I’m just telling you.”
With another snort he made off, button-
holed a man who had been anxiously
scanning the board for Eurathas, and
started laying down the law again, as one
who knows.
“Arnheim Lands?” another voice smote
the left ear. “A veritable El Dorado.
The deeper you go the richer it gets.”
This voice, too, sounded authoritative,
notwithstanding that- the show which
Francis Birtles floated is many weeks’
pushbike journey away in trackless coun-
try, and the speaker looked as if he’d
never ridden a pushbike in his life. He’d
probably never seen a goldmine, either,
but he sounded as if he knew. Anyway,
there was no hedging about what he had
to say.
Gold touched £6 16s. per fine ounce in
London last week. It used to be £4 4s.
lid. Add 25 p.c. for the Australian ex-
change, and the local price is something
like £8 10s.—double the old statutory
figure. Many old mines that wouldn’t
pay in pre-war years are highly profit-
able now. The change in the outlook for
gold shows has been so sudden and re-
markable that gold specs, are the prevail-
ing craze, and the Stock Exchange cor-
ridors are thronged with wiseacres who
may or may not be right. “I got landed
with 500 Pyrites,” a doleful voice drones
at your elbow. “Look at ’em to-day.”
Gold specs, overshadow investments in
the daily turnover. The crowd doesn’t roll
along until the mining sales are posted
up. Mines which have large quantities
of ore in sight, even if the grade is on
the low side, look like turning out well.
With Government stocks returning about
£3 ss. per cent, at present prices many
people with a small capital and irregular
occupations are living on the mining
market, a few pence a share over and
above brokerage often showing a good
return on a large and quick turnover.
Industrial stocks in the main show
small returns at present prices. There
have been very few new industries
started lately into which the public has
been asked. Old-established concerns
generally are suffering from an excess of
capital, and new share issues are few
and far between. Lang scared both pro-
perty-owners and mortgagees ; mortgage
money being difficult to get, property
values in N. S. Wales have lagged in
comparison with Melbourne’s recovery.
But they are shaping better now.
The difficulty of finding an outlet for in-
vesting money profitably has been a factor
in the present gold boom. While money
remains cheap and gold dear there is
likely to be a strong market for good
gold stocks, not to mention the medium
and the bad. Often Pitt-street mines
have a more spectacular career on
’Change than genuine ones, owing to
the activities of strong operators.
Silver Developments
The United States accounts for 21 p.c.
of the world’s silver output, being second
only to Mexico, which heads the list with
42.5 p.c. Australasia —mainly the Barrier
mines—turns out a mere 4.1 p.c.
Contrasting strongly with gold statis-
tics, the world’s output of the white
metal, 261,000,0000 z. in 1929, fell
steadily to 160,000,0000 z. in 1932. The
price was 7s. 6d. an ounce in 1920 ; a
year or two ago it touched the record
low level of Is. Last week’s London
price was Is. 7d.
The great fall in production of silver
in recent years has not necessarily been
because of its own low price, but by
reason of the low market value of its
associated base metals —lead, zinc and
copper. The world’s output of silver as
a by-product of these metals and gold
amounts to 72.8 p.c. Purely silver ores
produce only 27.2 p.c.
The U.S. silver-producing States, chief
of which are Utah, Idaho and Montana,
return 14 Senators to Washington.
Under the terms of an Act passed last
year, President Roosevelt may re-establish
the free and unlimited coinage of silver
at any ratio to gold. So far he has
steered away from such actual bimetal-
lism, but the silver bloc could not be
ignored. In December the Treasury
undertook to buy 24,000,0000 z. of silver
annually for four years at 64| cents an
ounce —half of $1.29, which would be
the price on a 16 to 1 ratio with gold.
Now the President has another plan
—to buy U.S. silver until the metallic
backing for the currency is 25 p.c. white
metal. The idea, apparently, is to pay
market price, but a dollar certificate will
be issued for each ounce of silver. The
scheme has pleased silver interests, but it
seems to apply only to domestic silver,
and the exact benefit to even the Ameri-
can producer at this juncture is uncer-
tain.
On the other hand, should the old
order of mining be reversed in the
States—that is, should higher prices for
silver result in lead and zinc being pro-
duced as by-products—the surplus pro-
duction of base metals may seriously
affect world prices. As far as one can
see into the workings of Roosevelt’s
“Sorry, but I already employ an odd-jobs man.”
“Could yer release some credit, then ?”
latest scheme it is likely to do Broken
Hill little or no good. America is not
likely to make herself the dumping-
ground of the world’s surplus silver.
The slump in the price of silver has
affected Lancashire severely. Oldham,
centre of the medium-quality cotton-
goods industry, has lost £7,000,000 in
bankruptcies during the past three years,
and there is a further £9,000,000 of insol-
vencies pending. The total is equal to
£llO per head of the population. Some
Lancashire towns have shown 60 p.c. un-
employment over several years. In 1913
Lancashire exports of cotton goods
amounted to 7,000,000,000 yards ; they
have slumped to 2,000,000,000 yards. The
domestic output has been halved in
the same time. Silver is not entirely to
blame, but it is largely responsible for
the falling-off in Asiatic trade. The
Chinese spinner has to pay the same price
for his raw cotton as the Lancashire mill,
but he pays for his labor in silver taels.
Owing to the fall in the tael exchange,
due solely to the drop in silver, the
Chinese spinner has a great advantage
over the Englishman. Again, Asia as
a potential market for anything has been
weakened owing to the reduced purchas-
ing power of its silver coinage.
* * * *
Australia’s crop of sugar for 1933
reached 660,000 tons, beating the
previous most prolific year by 24,000
tons. Home consumption 348,000
tons —increased by 16,000 tons, an en-
couraging sign. These raws consumed
locally were sold at £23 18s. 6d. a ton,
as against £8 os. 6d. net for the 312,000
tons exported. Average return for the
crop (valued at £11,350,000) was £l6
3s. 6d. a ton.
Last year’s average price (£l6 3s. 6d.)
paid at mill for Australian raw sugar
was the lowest since 1914, being £2 12s.
Bd. below the figure for 1932. In 1914
the price was £l4 15s. 6d., and the hourly
wage rate in mills was Is. lfd. In 1933
the hourly rate was 2s. 2d., as against
2s. Id. in 1932, and 2s. sd. in 1926, when
the average price was £24 10s. lOd.
Labor costs since 1907 have advanced
twice as rapidly as the price of sugar.
Australian investors are mainly inter-
ested in the Queensland sugar industry
through Fairymead, Millaquin and Gib-
son and Howes, all operating in southern
areas. Last year Fairymead mill crushed
13,381 tons; Millaquin, 11,924; Bingera,
13,629. Output of all three mills was
within peak-year limits, and the full
average price (£l7 4s. 3d.) was realised.
* * * He
On May 31 the flour tax of £4 ss. a
ton will be lifted by the Commonwealth
Government. The relief to the con-
sumer is a month ahead of estimates, and
is estimated at £250,000. Price of the
21b. loaf should fall in most parts by a
penny.
* * * He
“Looted Once”: At Sydney Ferries’
cloakroom at Circular Quay you can
leave a parcel for tuppence. At Central
Station it costs fourpence. Central
Station is, of course, Government-owned,
and was built in pursuance of plans for
wiping out cormorant companies.
Germany’s efforts to keep on a gold
standard resulted in the rationing of
foreign exchange ; hence the embargo on
wool imports. It is to be reviewed by the
German Government on May 25. The
embargo appears to have been antici-
pated by German importers; anyway,
prior to its imposition there was a big
increase in the Vaterland’s purchases, as
this comparison of the principal buying
countries’ orders during the first ten
months of the last two seasons shows:
Ten months to April .. 1933. 1934.
Bales. Bales.
United Kingdom .. .. 856,469 788,820
Japan 597,722 553,111
Germany 341,706 400,476
Belgium 273,768 332,466
France 398,226 228,076
Italy 191,847 197,980
The U.S.A. took only 18,523 bales. Bel-
gium and Italy were better customers
during the later period, but there is
some talk of Mussolini’s country follow-
ing Hitler in the matter of rationing
imports.
* * * *
The Federal Government is to contri-
bute £lOOO for one year to the wool
research station at Leeds. Priminister
Lyons acted on the advice of Dr. Rivett,
of the C.S.I.R. The station principally
investigates possible new uses for wool,
and has evolved a process for making the
fibre unshrinkable, as well as a means of
overcoming the tickling caused by new
woollen garments. S’Africa gives £4OO
a year, and Britain apd Maoriland £3OO
p.a. each.
* * * *
“King D.”: It would require very little
legislation to tighten up the position of
forestry-bond contracts. Make the pros-
pectus part of the contract, insist that the
property of the bondholders be free, from
encumbrances until handed over to trus-
tees —any mortgage being made null and
void under the Act —and restrict the
benefits of the promoting co. in the sale
of land and services. Selling expenses
should be limited —say to 10 or 12} p.c.
A. D. Lindsay has set up a forestry-
bond information bureau in Melbourne,
and says he is willing to co-operate with
those interested in the formation of a
bondholders’ protection association. That
a private individual should have to make
this move shows how backward legis-
lators are.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Between Pambula and
Eden, on the N.S.W. South Coast, there
is a very fine young pine plantation
which may return something in another
30 years or so. Local timbermen and
bushmen, however, consider that the
pine-trees will never be as valuable as
the natural timber displaced by these
softwoods. If Governments must plant
pine-trees, let them select an area
where only rubbish grows, or, better
still, plant them in places where there is
no natural timber at all.
* * * *
There is a distressing surplus of tinned
fruit in the Leeton (N.S.W.) district.
Mrs. Judah Green is appealing to the
women of Australia to get the habit of
buying two tins of fruit or two pounds
of dried fruits in addition to whatever
they are buying now, and so save the
situation. She isn’t going to rest until
she has every woman’s organisation
throughout Australia urging its members
to buy and use more canned fruit and
dried fruits.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Uncle Sam is seriously
considering a gigantic speedway from
New York to ’Frisco, missing all the
cities and providing eight-way traffic
lines when passing busy centres. Cost is
to be a mere £400,000,000, and labor
required 3,000,000. Each section is to be
financed by provincial bonds, the road
to revert to the States as the bonds are
redeemed. As motorists pay £200,000,000
p.a. on their 24,000,000 vehicles, the pro-
ject is regarded by Washington as in the
realm of practical politics. What the
lobbyists for the railway cos. will have
to say is another matter.
* * *
Five countries —the U.K., France,
India, the Netherlands and Siam—have
signed the rubber-regulation agreement
in London. The approval of three
more countries is awaited. Each country
may export 100 p.c. of its basic quota
in June and July, gradually reducing to
70 p.c. in December.
* * * *
Sonora House, a seven-storeyed build-
ing in Little Collins-street, Melbourne,
was sold last week for £61,250 —£2187 a
foot. The building, modern and substan-
tial, belonged to Allan and Co., the
music people; the buyer was trustee
for a new co. to be formed. Realty
experts look for a general price rise in
the city area bounded by Swanston,
Collins, Elizabeth and Bourke streets.
* * * *
A little Victorian industry that has a
ready market for its product is millet-
farming. Last week in Melbourne Dal-
gety’s auctioned 180 tons of broom millet,
70 p.c. being sold ; top price reached £33
a ton. About 100 tons from north-eastern
districts will be offered at Wangaratta
later in the year.
* =t= *
Having shown a profit of £17,000 for
the first nine months of its financial year,
the electricity dept, of Brisbane Council
expects a surplus of £20,000 for the full
term. Reductions in prices of current
are likely to follow. The Electricity Com-
mittee is expected to investigate the posi-
tion''and franchises of the City Electric
Light Co., which supplies Brisbane, New
Farm and South Brisbane, with a view
to possible resumption or elimination
of overlapping service. The C.E.L. Co.
has done a satisfactory job in the past.
The council’s electricity service is mainly
suburban.
* * * *
“Cover”: Victoria has on the stocks
a bill for compulsory third-party motor
insurance—practically a replica of the
M.L. measure. This provides that
every owner of a motor vehicle must
insure against liability to pay dam-
ages for killing or injuring anyone
through the agency of his vehicle.
If the driver at the time of the accident
is not the owner, the indemnity extends
to him as if he were. In other words,
the car is to be the basis of the insur-
ance and not the person driving it.
* * * *
The Federal Institute of Accountants
is introducing a post-graduate course in
cost accounting, the first exam, to be
held in May, 1935. Costing, a great help
to the manufacturer before and after the
goods are manufactured, made little
headway in Australia until recent years.
Large manufacturing concerns nowadays
would be in a hopeless muddle without
a proper costing system.


iniGESTION
mi
DYSPEPSIA, AFTER-MEAL
PAINS, ACID STOMACH,
HEARTBURN, FLATULENCE
End your Torture and Serious
Danger with this
New-Principle Remedy
Here is an indigestion remedy abso-
lutely unlike anything ever offered
before to dyspeptic martyrs.
This immediately successful prepara- .
tion, De Witt’s Antacid Powder, with
its entirely new principle, gives astonish-
ing and splendid results at once.
No purgative salts or strong sodas,
but a remedy that removes the cause
of your trouble, soothes and strengthens
the digestive organs, and is quick,
safe, sure in action.
One-time sufferers tell how they now
enjoy meals, and eat food they used to
dread. Here is proof-positive in just a
few extracts from letters proving that
you, too, can start to overcome digestive
danger at once. Read them carefully
and say whether you will stay in misery
and danger longer.
Acute Indigestion
After trying everything for acute in-
digestion I got complete relief—thanks
to De Witt’s Antacid Powder. It is a
grand feeling to enjoy a meal.—No. 25.
Gastritis Gone
I had terrible pains from gastritis, but
now know what it means to enjoy meals,
thanks to De Witt’s Antacid Powder.
I wouldn’t be without it.—No. 29. \
Heartburn Ended
I atn no longer troubled with heart-
burn. The first dose gave me relief. I
tell all my friends of De Witt’s Antacid
Powder. No. 44.
Flatulence Ended
De Witt’s Antacid Powder has done
me more Rood than anything I ever
tried before. I have suffered from
flatulence for nearly 20 years, and it is
a blessing to get relief.—No. 51.
Yes, De Witt’s Antacid Powder for
indigestion is really wonderful.
1. Of nine specially-chosen ingre-
dients, first the bismuth and
colloidal-kaolin soothe irritated
stomach lining—the cause of so
much gastric trouble.
2. The valuable malt-diastase ingre-
dient helps the absorption of body-
building, muscle and nerve-forming
food ingredients. It helps to expel
waste easily, thus avoiding the
dreaded evils of constipation.
3. This remedy builds up the alkaline
resistance of the body, so that the
acidity—which causes dyspepsia,
burning and flatulence—will no
longer trouble you.
Don’t be a dyspeptic martyr longer.
Don’t wait for that slight indigestion to
place you in serious danger. We know
this splendid remedy can and will help
you quickly. When all else has failed,
we tell you there is sure relief in
Dewitts
antacid powder
For INDIGESTION. Price 2/6
Sold in handsome canisters con-
taining average month’s supply. Be
sure you get the genuine remedy,
prepared by the well-known house
“ DeWitt’s,” which has supplied medi-
cinal remedies to the public for 50 years.
X
£Q
QUIS SEPARABIT
Now is the Winter of our Discontent
made glorious Summer by a
p & o
SUNSHINE CRUISE
Travel in the big ships to see the places and
people of whom Beatrice Grimshaw wrote.
ƒ
"MOOLTAN"
20,952 tons
Leaves Sydney 15th June
via Brisbane, Whitsunday
Passage and Barrier Reef
to PORT MORESBY, re-
turning to Sydney on the
28th June.
FIRST SALOON ONLY—Fares from 16 Guirn
"NARKUNDA"
16,632 tons
Leaves Sydney 13th July
via Brisbane, Whitsunday
Passage and Barrier Reef
to SAMARAI, returning to
Sydney on the 26th July.
gf
FIRST SALOON ONLY—Fares from 15 Guineas.
dfd
"STRATHNAVER"
22,283 tons
Leaves Sydney 24th Aug-
ust via Brisbane for SUVA,
FIJI, returning to Sydney
on the 6th September.
FIRST SALOON AND TOURIST CLASS— .
Fares from 20 and 13 Guineas respectively.
Early registration is advisable for these Fascinating Cruises
FARES ARE FREE OF EXCHANGE
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., 247 George Street, Sydney
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd., 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney
P & O SUNSHINE CRUISES
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Japanese foreign policy has had
some minor successes of late. Siam is
to have a Japanese financial adviser in
place of the Briton who traditionally
occupies the post. Rumors are abroad
of an offensive and defensive alliance
between the only two independent Bud-
dhist kingdoms left in those parts, and a
leading Siamese is to go as Minister to
Tokio.
* * * *
One of Roosevelt’s critics has been
turning up his campaign speeches. In
one he said:
Let us have the courage to stop borrow-
ing to meet continuing deficits. Stop the
deficits. Let us insist on a sound currency.
In another he slated Hoover for “seeing
visions of rubber dollars.” The stickler
for a sound currency has devalued the
dollar 40 p.c. ; and he is borrowing for
the vastest deficit in American peace-
time history.
* * * *
“Riina”: Add Paderewski to the list of
artists who have rebuked an audience
from the stage. Auckland’s musical and
not-so-musical folk still speak with bated
breath of the concert at which Pad., after
waiting for the audience to cease telling
each other why they went no-trumps on
nothing that afternoon, turned to the
chatterers and inquired mildly: “Shall I
play—or will you talk?” The effect was
sensational.
* iji $ *
“Pat McGinty”: The suggestion that
the Duke of Gloucester could make
an effective entry into Melbourne on
horseback is not without precedent.
The Lord-Lieutenant invariably rode
into Dublin when taking over the
office, and rode out when leaving it.
The practice was maintained right up
to the departure of Lord Wimborne
(about 1916). French and Fitz Alan were
the only two viceroys who rode neither
in nor out. The atmosphere had become
a bit too disturbed for such casual pro-
gresses just then —in spite of the fact
that French was the first Irishman and
Fitz Alan the first Catholic to be made
viceroy.
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: Cambridge Uni. has
announced that its restriction of the grant
of blues applies to track athletes only,
players of games like cricket and football
being exempted. The restriction enjoins
that students who have already attended
other universities will not be picked for
Cambridge teams unless they are under
19 on October 1. American university
cracks have been making a habit of
going over to Cambridge for a year and
staying there just long enough to win
the coveted distinction, and that is the
reason for clapping the lid on. That,
also, is why the ban applies only to
athletics, for the average American
student knows nothing of cricket or of
any football outside his own barbarous
code.
“Findy”: “Aigburth” (B. 9/5/’34)
errs in ascribing the death of Frederick
Prince of Wales to the game of cricket.
It was a tennis ball that relieved England
of the necessity of suffering, as King
Frederick 1., a man whom his own
mother described as “the greatest ass
and the greatest liar and the greatest
canaille and the greatest beast in
the whole world.”
* * * *
“Rentier”: The ever-practical French
did not take long to wake up to the fact
that the loss of the Davis Cup meant the
vanishing of the great revenue from the
challenge round which kept the elaborate
Stade Roland Garros going. The tennis
heads have leased it to a boxing pro-
moter.
* * * *
“Worm”: The British automobile
press has been making a dickens of a
fuss about a new method which has just
been put on the market to teach
motorists how to drive properly. It con-
sists in a dual-control device akin to
that employed on aeroplanes, and will
enable one driver to correct the errors
of the other. It seems a superfluity, for
dual control has been only too familiar
to the married motorist all the world
over these 30 years past. It isn’t known
as “dual control,” however ; just “back-
seat driving.”
“M. de Paris”: A Sydney inventor, I
read, has devised a tennis racquet which
... c j • ~
maintains a perfect balance during the
making of any stroke. This is achieved
, • c
by encasing in the handle a modicum of
quicksilver, which slides up and down a
tube, imparting its weight to the correct
snot at the riaht moment The nrincinle
spoi at me rignt moment, tne principle
was first applied to the two-handed
swords of the Middle Ages. To
get the right balance in making a
stroke the hlade was weighted with
stroke tne oiacie was weigniea wnn
steel balls running in an enclosed groove
on the side opposite the striking edge.
When the sword was swung up for the
rfnwnwarrl Wnw thp Mile ran down to
downward blow, the balls ran down to
the lowered hilt, thus helping the user
in his swing, as golfers would say.
As the sword came down the balls ran
down the groove until, at the moment of
contact with the objective, their weight
was added to the blow. Later, all execu-
tioners’ swords were equipped in a
similar fashion, and, while some retained
the old-fashioned groove with travelling
balls, the more modern variety were made
with’an internal tube carrying quicksilver.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: An American, irritated
presumably, like so many other golfers,
by the spectacle of mug players loading
up their perspiring caddies with half a
hundredweight of clubs, has invented a
single weapon which takes the place of
the full gamut affected by even the
swankiest dud. It is an iron, and the
head is adjustable to any angle, and kept
there by a locking device. Numbers on
the clubhead and on the traverse it works
on indicate just what the club is when
a new adjustment is made —No. 1, 2 or
3 iron, etc. A telescopic handle enables
the club to be adjusted to any length to
suit the player’s height. The inventor
describes himself as a jeweller. It seems
a pity that he didn’t think of sharpening
the end of the shaft so that the owner
could use it as a scarfpin when not play-
ing golf.
* * * *
“Khansamah” from the kitchen:
To “Sailor,” who suggests that “curry is only
an Irish stew with a kick in it” (B. 2/5/ 34),
I would say that Irish stew is a dish for princes,
and so is curry, but there is no similarity what-
ever between the two. On a P. and O. boat
you will find the “Curry Cook” a person
quite as important as the baker, the butcher
and the confectioner, for curry-making is an
art. I have several good recipes, which call vari-
ously for chutney, cocoanut, apple, raisins,
onion, green ginger, cloves, saffron, cinnamon,
cayenne, coriander, tamarinds, chillies, black
pepper, cream and, finally, when serving, lemon
juice. These do not all go in any one recipe,
but different items produce surprisingly differ-
ent results. Potatoes never go near a curry.
Intolerant Europeans have long been the de-
spair of good cooks in the East. Such men
reluctantly accept a little curry, reject the rice
as “coolie’s food,” and then tell their friends
at home that “the niggers shove fruit in the
stew.”
FOR R.S.L. BRANCHES
“1273”: Congratulations on tbe
“Brotherhood of Man” cartoon (B.
25/4/’34) —to my mind one of the
best that have appeared.
If “The Bulletin’s” pay-book will
stand the spending of a few bob, I
would suggest the printing of a
few copies, on paper suitable for
framing, and making them available
to returned-soldier institutions. Am
sure every R.S. club would appreci-
ate a copy.
[“The Bulletin’s” pay-book will
stand it. A copy of the Scorfield
cartoon, on art paper, will be sent,
on application, post free, to the
secretary of any R.S.L. branch or
club. ]
PRIZE DRAWINGS
For contributions to B. 1 6/5/*34
original “Bulletin” drawings have
been awarded to:
J. J. HARDIE, Cambridge-road,
Drummoyne, N.S.W.
J. C. LEETE, Bryah Station, via
Meekatharra, W.A.
B. DULHUNTY, The Rivers, Boram-
* bil, N.S.W.
ALAN SHEEDY, Wai Daula,
Tailevu, Fiji.
The prizes are offered weekly in
respect of “Society” pars., “Aborigi-
nalities,” “Hints for the Farm” and
gags for joke-blocks. In all cases
they supplement “Bulletin” cheques.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Caledon Diary
“Kaloa”: The police diary of the ex-
pedition to Caledon Bay which resulted
in the death of Constable McColl does
not suggest that the N.T. police have the
same expert technique in dealing with
natives as the New Guinea patrols. The
party at the end of a 20-mile walk came
on groups of natives belonging to the
tribe known to be guilty of murder. Two
constables went off on their own account
in a “game of hide-and-seek in the
jungle”—“McColl became separated
from them in one direction and Mahony
in another.” Mahony was left in the
open with a tracker to cover the retreat
of the others. The weapon with which
he was to do this was a revolver! Any
A.I.F. man knows what the effective
range of a revolver is, and any Terri-
torian knows what spear range is. The
consequence was that Mahony fired sev-
eral shots “to kill” up to 50 yards (sic!)
while spears were whizzing round his
head. One of them passed through his
hat. McColl, too, had only a revolver.
When his body was found next morning
two of its chambers had been fired and
another had misfired. Yet one of the
native trackers who accompanied the ex-
pedition seems to have been carrying a
rifle. If published accounts are correct,
the police, after missing McColl,
hunted far into the night firing shots
to tell their whereabouts, and after the
burial they “walked 20
miles back to the boat
which contained their
ammunition and sup-
plies.” The irony of
the thing is that, while
these evidently inex-
perienced men (mostly
newcomers to the Ter-
ritory) were jeopardis-
ing their lives unneces-
sarily, half a dozen old-
hand policemen with
lifelong native experi-
ence were being re-
tained on routine duties
in civilisation.
* * *
“Amity”: In one day
recently fishermen at
Wynnum, near Bris-
bane, landed over 20
tons of sea mullet. I
have seen the sea for
miles covered with
them. The mullet is
good to eat when pro-
perly cooked. He cer-
tainly is nothing much
to look at, but boiled
in milk and done up
with parsley sauce there is none to
beat him, and as a packer he rivals
the Canadian salmon, having a tender
but consistent flesh, a pleasant flavor,
few bones and rich nutritive qualities.
I have found the oil excellent for fatten-
ing—the abos. used it before us —and
altogether he seems to me a very tangible
asset if somebody will really look into his
possibilities and study his habits, so that
we may have more of him. Has any-
body, by the way, ever thought of treat-
ing him a la kippered herring or bloater?
* * * *
“Kumi-berinki”: Two young Austra-
lian anthropologists have received grants
from official sources to enable them to
go into the North and delve for know-
ledge in the well-known Black Brother
mine. One of them is a young lady, “23
years of age, slight build and less than
sft. 3in. in height and supremely con-
fident” ; she is to spend eight months
studying the “complicated but important
work of investigating kinships and enlarg-
ing the dictionary of native words.” I
wish I had the ability of these confident
young university people and those who
pay them. I was born among Black
Brother and prattled in one of his lan-
guages as soon as I could speak English,
and I learnt another in my boyhood, so I
should have something of an accurate ear
in these matters. But I am hanged if
I have ever found myself supremely
confident among the tongues of strange
tribes, and, judging by the vocabulary
variations, I don’t think anybody else has
the right to be either, unless he has spent
his infancy and half a lifetime in inten-
sive listening. Anybody who is not an
exceptional phonetician has not the
slightest chance of gaining more than an
elementary schoolboy knowledge of easy
languages like French and German in a
few months, and the amount of work
which a young lady with merely a uni-
versity education in anthropology can do
on a native language in two-thirds of a
year ought to be worth about a shilling
at a bazaar.
* * * *
“Fly River”: The absurdity of permit-
ting Queensland to continue governing
the three small islands lying within a
few miles of the coast of Papua (Boigu,
Dauan and Saibai) is apparent. They
are topographically and ethnically part
of New Guinea, and are so arid that the
natives cannot grow their own food-
stuffs, having to depend on the neighbor-
ing mainland for garden truck, building
materials and sago. Yet they are tacked
on to Thursday Island, two days’ sail
away, for administration of justice, medi-
cal aid and tucker, while all three are
available a few miles off in Papua. The
natives have everything to gain by the
change-over to Papua.
H= * * *
“11 .Vecchio”: A lively campaign is
being conducted in Italian on behalf of
a certain Mr. S. Prandolini, who is stand-
ing for election as a director of the
Babinda sugar mill (N.Q.). The Italian
vote is all-powerful in the district, and
the Italian language is a delightful one
in which to electioneer. It lacks nothing
in adjectives of praise and exhortation,
and possesses more terms of abuse than
can be found in Turkish, Malay and Can-
“Loafing again, Jacky ! Why don’t you get an object in life ?”
“Capes, ain’t Mary an objeck, boss?”
tonese combined. It is only when the
non-comprehending British use it that
they are likely to get into trouble. When
Percy Pease, now Queensland Treasurer,
first went up in 1920 as a Labor candi-
date, he employed a' scribe who limned
him as “un uomo piu ricco” —a very
rich man. As it happened, even demo-
crats respect wealth in Italy, and the
Mediterranean vote was cast solidly for
Labor. An aspirant for a Queensland
German electorate hadn’t such luck.
Noticing a slight coolness among the
Bavarians, the hopeful candidate became
suspicious of a terse appeal which he
had had translated at great expense. In
the original English it had read: “With
Blank in power—prosperity! Vote for
him and share it!” But he was distinctly
hipped to find that the translator whom
he had been nurturing in his breast was
a viper who had Germanised his suppli-
cation freely as: “Where the carrion is,
there will the vulture be! Vote for Blank
and get your cut!” The victim of this
joke is still out of Parliament, though
that happened a quarter of a century
ago.
* * * *
“Ao”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is the most abject of mandatories.
There is already a knocking of knees
and a twisting of fingers lest the
Mandates Committee of the League of
Nations haul it over the coals because
of the shooting of certain New Guinea
natives in country hitherto unpenetrated
by Government expeditions. The fact
that quite recently a couple of Govern-
ment officials have been killed or
wounded on duty should be proof enough
for anyone that New Guinea is not yet
like the legendary Ireland through which
the bejewelled virgin could walk un-
scathed. Yet past experience has shown
that Canberra will probably lift up its
coat-tails when the time comes and invite
the League to kick it. The League, not
being game to boot other mandatories
(except Liberia), will just as certainly
accept the invitation. Has anyone ever
heard of Britain, France, Japan, or even
South Africa caring a tinker’s damn for
anything the League may say or think
about the conduct of their mandates?
* * * *
“Petrie’s Bight”: The row about the
new bridge over the Brisbane River,
which practically divides the upper- and
lower-river wharfages, has burst out again
furiously. Announcing that the bridge
clearance would be 100 ft., J. B. Brigden,
director of the Bureau of Industry, who
is the boss cocky of the job, said that
this would be sufficient for all ships using
the upper-river wharves regularly, and
that occasional arrivals needing a higher
clearance would easily find berths down
river. To this Nixon-Smith, chairman of
the Up-river Shipping Committee, says
that most of the overseas vessels using
the up-river wharves have masts up to
150 ft. on light load. To shift the South
Brisbane wharfage some miles down the
river would cost a lot of money, and one
of the hardest-hit payers would be the
City Council, which receives rentals of
£20,000 a year from its wharves above
the proposed site.
* * * *
“Chinaman's Point”: lnnisfail (N.Q.)
maintains a small fleet of trepang- and
shell-fishers, the latter mostly interested
in trochus. Recently the town’s Chamber
of Commerce took occasion to cuss both
the State and Federal Governments for
not taking even elementary measures to
prevent the unlicensed working of the
Barrier Reef for shell and beche-de-mer.
But what can be expected in a State with
a Home Secretary who recently an-
nounced that he saw no harm in hard-
working Japanese picking up shells which
no one else wanted? Hanlon is, or was,
evidently pathetically ignorant of the fact
that, since the pearl-shell industry got out
of reach of the small man, the trochus
has been a sound meal-ticket to hundreds
of little N.Q. lugger-owners—men of the
type who habitually vote for Hanlon and
his party at election-time.
* * * *
“Travel Stain”: There is a well-known
tropical malady which has its own local
name in different countries. In North
Queensland it is called sprue—often
Babinda sprue, because of its prevalence
about the erstwhile Government town-
ship of that name. In India, especially
in the Carnatic, it is often avoided by
taking a daily meal of well-curried meat
with a helping of rice—unpolished. A
few chillies are often thrown in to help in
the assimilation of the meat, but the
tumeric and coriander in the curry
powders are the medicinal properties that
make the diet of value.
“Australia JaneY* Budget
There has been a nip in the air, and every-
body is digging out the winter suit and the
furs. A delicate odor of naphtha is notice-
able in trams and theatres.
Joyce Macmillan, of the dark hair and allur-
ing smile, is to be married next month to Jack
Quodling in the C.E.G.S. chapel at East
Brisbane. Poppy Irving, her cousin, will be
the only bridesmaid.
Mrs. J. W. Hetherington opened her doors
for a bridge party last week in aid of the
funds of the East Brisbane Croquet Club.
Sixty players busied themselves with cards, and
there were also competitions for the ladies who
don’t know a heart from a club. Mrs. S.
Sowden, president of the Queensland Croquet
Association, was there, and Ena Hetherington,
in blue and white checks, helped mamma to
entertain the guests.
Colin Evans, a small boy who plays the flute
so alluringly that he might be a direct descend-
ant of Pan himself, last week packed his bag
in response to a hurry-up call from Roland
Foster and went to Sydney. The musical world
here bemoans his loss, although its members
are delighted that the boy is to have a chance
to make good.
George Grace, of Coorparoo, who owns a
seaside home at Coolangatta, is hereby entered
for the Hard Luck Stakes. His seaside home
has been broken into five times. Each time
the thieves have got away. Yet, when George,
hastily SOS’d for on the last occasion of a
felony, leapt into his car and stepped on the
accelerator en route to see what had been done
to his property, no fewer than three large blue-
clad forms sprang upon him and charged him
with speeding. And he was fined £1 with costs
for it, too.
Kathleen Harris, elder daughter of the late
and much-beloved Colonel Hubert Harris, who
was in command of the sth Light Horse on
Gallipoli, was married last month in Scotland
to Cecil Skinner. The newly-weds are touring
England and the Continent before returning to
Japan, where the husband earns his tucker and
baccy.
The Queensland Ladies’ Bowling Association
staged its first tournament last week, no fewer
than 150 women taking part, and clubs from
distant centres being represented. One of the
keenest of the spectators at the first day’s play
was Mrs. L. E. Solomon, the only remaining
foundation member of the first bowling club
for ladies to be opened in Brisbane —the River-
view.
The Rotary Club entertained its sisters and
wives at a luncheon party at Lennon’s. Each
lady received a white posy, a reminder of
Mother’s Day. W. A. Jolly, the presi-
dent, lived up to his name, and the new Lord
Mayor came along with the Lady Mayoress,
who gathered in a posy of red roses from the
committee. There were several speeches and
some music. W. B. Darker (district gov-
ernor) covered 38,000 miles of country in his
travels last year, learning what the Rotary clubs
were doing for the community.
The J. E. Englands put up a good turn be-
tween them at the Brisbane Women’s Club
last week. Mrs. Ted gave sketches dealing with
the lives of the composers whose songs her
husband subsequently sang in his marvellous
bass. Margery Stuart played the accompani-
ments.
Lillian Walsh, who has been in Asia, has
landed back in Brisbane. She went over with
her aunt, Mrs. Western Walsh, and then stayed
on with Major and Mrs. Ponsford —the latter
formerly May Faulkner, daughter of Dr.
Faulkner, of Toowoomba, and one of the rec-
ognised Downs beauties.
Every day brings to light the names of an-
other lass or two who intend making their
bows to society at the United Service Ball. The
secretaries wailed, some time ago, that thcrl
really wasn’t room for more* but, short of
providing an official chucker-out for debs., no
one seems to know what can be done about it.
If the number continues to increase, it might
be a good idea to line them up in military
formation, make them march past his Ex. and
salute. It would be in keeping with the mili-
tary atmosphere of the affair, and probably
would prevent our Sir Leslie from developing
a painful attack of housemaid’s knee in his
right arm.
One of the city picture theatres recently
collected about 150 kiddies from the creches
and kindergartens, and entertained them at a
special children’s session for an hour. Gay
caps and toys were presented to the little things,
who were taken to and from the theatre by
kind-hearted motorists. Many of the youngsters
had not had such an exciting morning in all
their little lives.
Cremorne, South Brisbane’s open-air theatre,
where John McCallum first staged his Dandies,
and where Pat Hanna’s Diggers amused
crowded audiences for over 18 months, has
been thoroughly renovated and turned into a
picture show. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer have
secured the premises on a long lease from John
McCallum, and Keith Jefferies, of Sydney, has
arrived to be manager.
John Seymour, a clever Warwick boy, who
passed his exams, with flying colors, has been
appointed Assistant Parliamentary Draftsman.
When the C.J. celebrated his 63rd birthday
congratulations were showered on him,
and at night an impromptu gathering
of old friends met at the National Hotel. The
guests included Mrs. Wooler, that wonderful
old lady Mrs. J. J. Buchanan, Mrs. Gilbert
Forrest, Mrs. Jim Ramsay (who is Mrs. Tom
McCawley’s sister, and one of the O’Hagan
family) and Judge Brennan. The C.J. is leav-
ing for the west on circuit; his wife (now
quite recovered) goes with him.
Bernice Montgomery, the All Hallows’ girl
whose piano playing won her fame in her own
country before she left for London and the
extra polish that travel and study can give, is
on her way home. Report has it that singer
Gertrude Concannon also will be back in
Queensland before the year is out, as the Eng-
lish winter is too severe for her.
Jim Kerr, who recently passed the final ex-
amination for solicitors, has migrated to
Gympie.
Droves of members of the C.W.A. have been
packing suitcases to attend the annual confer-
ence of the Central Division at Rockhampton.
Among them is Mrs. Graham Milne, the State
president, who is proving a worthy successor
to Mrs. J. H. Fairfax, the first State president
and inaugurator of the movement in Queens-
land.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
, ingle and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families
„ FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from noon (Sunday 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
fables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —Janies Lore, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; 41. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq,, C.M.O,
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Meibouine, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Compositor, news and jobbing, fast and
clean; good knowledge cylinder and platen
machines; go anywhere, Queensland preferred.
—l5ll.
Well-educated young lady (17) seeks posi-
tion as governess, Queensland preferred. Refs.
—1568.
Youth (N.S.W.), Intermediate Certificate,
wants suitable position, subsidised school. Refs.
—1560.
Young man (25), Sydney, experienced all
station work, seeks position, preferably west-
ern districts. —1547.
Lad (17), Sydney, strong and willing, excel-
lent character, can milk, ride, drive car, seeks
work on wheat and sheep farm; go anywhere.
—1535.
Original Anzac, Sydney, four years’ service,
good clerk, storeman or timekeeper, must get
work at 0nce. —1523.
To buy cheap edition of Oliver Goldsmith’s
poems.—ls 24.
To buy wood-turning treadle-lathe, about
five-inch centres. —1498.
Lonely elderly woman, who cannot buy but
would pay rail gratefully, would like small
terrier (Sealyham or Cairn). —1545.
Words of the poem “Mr. Brown Gets His
Hair Cut.”—ls42.
Words of two songs sung by Peter Dawson,
“The Little Admiral” and “Homeward Bound,”
by Stanford. —1526.
Copy of periodicals giving biographical de-
tails concerning Leslie D. Weatherhead and
criticisms of his writings.—lsoB.
Information Sought.
Can I build a bridge across the Sovereign
River between N.S.W. and Queensland and
charge toll to cross it ? —1402.
Construction of a bridge over a river forming
portion, of the boundary between the States
could not be undertaken without legislative
authority of both States. Legislative sanction
would also be required for charging tolls.
(1) I am a British subject living in the
Pacific islands, and am married to a half-caste
Samoan. Could I bring my wife to Australia ?
(2) Could I take her to New Guinea ? —1328.
(1) The half-caste Samoan wife of a British
subject is not eligible for permanent admission
into the Commonwealth. If temporary admis-
sion is desired, application should be made to
the Prime Minister’s Department, giving par-
ticulars as to proposed length of stay, object
of visit, etc. (2) Perhaps. Apply to Adminis-
trator, Rabaul.
(1) Is the Stanthorpe (Q.) district suitable for
a T.B. case ? (2) Conditions governing the
erection of a camp in the district ? (3) How
much should it cost a single man per week for
foodstuffs there ? —1329.
(1) Yes. The Q’land Government has erected
a sanatorium, which is controlled by the Home
Secretary’s Department, there. (2) Application
must be made to the local authority. For con-
ditions see copy of Camping Regulations, pub-
lished in “Queensland Government Gazette” of
February 22, 1934. (3) About 12s. 6d.
« Where are the horse latitudes ? Origin of
the name ? —147,4.
The belts of calms and variable breezes at
the polar edge of the n.-e. and s.-e. trades.
According to the “New English Dictionary” two
explanations have been given of the origin of
the name: one that the calm kills horses on
a sailing ship, the other that the name signifies
the unruly and boisterous nature of these winds
compared with the pleasant trades. The name
is commonly applied to the permanent belt of
high atmospheric pressure which encircles the
globe in 30deg. to 35deg. from the Equator.
Am writing an essay on the interest displayed
by Englishmen in the late eighteenth century in
the subject of the colonisation of Australia.
What were the proposals of Sir George Young
in regard to settling New South Wales ? —1449.
In 1784 he, with Banks and others, actively
supported the proposals of James Mario Matra
for the establishment of a settlement in New
South Wales; and Young wrote a report (re-
produced in facsimile at Sydney in 1888) in
which he recommended Botany Bay (a) as a
centre for trade with South America and a
naval base in case of a war with Spain, (b) as
a port of call for ships trading between Eng-
land and China. He proposed that the settlers
should be mainly Chinese, Tongans and con-
victs, with a leavening of “loyalists” from the
just-lost United States, and a few Englishmen
“possessed of the useful arts.” He seems to
have contemplated leading such an expedition
himself either to New South Wales or to Mada-
gascar. In 1788 he unsuccessfully applied for
a lease of Norfolk Island.
(1) Would, a superhet. receiver be more suit-
able for short-wave reception than a tuned
radio-frequency set ? (2) Can s.-w. receivers
be operated from a 240 -volt A.C. supply ? (3)
Can a broadcast set be used for s.-w. reception
without having to modify the circuit ? (4) Are
overseas stations audible on a s.-w. set at
reasonable speaker strength ? —1484.
(1) The superhet. is more efficient for short-
wave reception, as the t.r.f. set is usually limited
to one r.f.‘stage. (2) Yes, if designed for A.C.
operation. (3) A short-wave attachment may
be bought at a comparatively low cost which
will convert the broadcast set into a s.-w. super-
het., or a s.-w. adaptor may be used in con-
junction with the audio-frequency portion of
the broadcast set. (4) Yes, given a suitable re-
ceiver and favorable conditions.
Which group of stars is Orion, and where can
it be located in the sky ? —1384.
Orion is not very well placed for seeing just
now, as it is one of our summer constellations.
It sets (early in May) shortly after 8 p.m. But
after dusk this group of stars can still be seen
low down in the western sky. Its principal
feature is a belt of three second-magnitude stars,
of which there is no other such conformation
in the whole sky. The principal stars in Orion
are Alpha (Betelgueze), Beta (Rigel) and
Gamma (Bellatrix).
Is the one-cent British Guiana stamp of any
value ? —1431.
Impossible to say without fuller information.
The 1865 one-cent British Guiana was purchased
some years ago by Mr. A. Hind at the Ferrari
sale for £7,343. This stamp, which is the rarest
known, was insured for £15,000 at the time
of Mr. Hind’s death, about a year ago. Present-
issue one-cent stamps are catalogued at Id.
each. There are many other one-cents cata-
logued at various prices.
Names of simple textbooks on wireless en-
abling the non-technical reader to obtain a
superficial knowledge of the theory and con-
struction of radio sets ? —1424.
“Concise Radio Handbook,” by R. C. V.
Humphery, price 3s. Bd., post free, from White
Bros, and Parsons, Wingello House, Angel-
place, Sydney; “Outline of Wireless,” by R.
Stranger, price 10s. 4d., post free, from Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89-95 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
Brief description of the new pfennig, two- and
three-mark German air-mail stamps ? —1427.
The pfennig values picture a swastika veiling
the sun, while a black eagle sweeping forward
partly obscures a map of the world. The two-
mark stamp pictures Otto Lilienthal, an early
aviation experimenter. A model of a Lilienthal
glider appears in the background. The three-
mark stamp gives a fine study of the Graf
Zeppelin, with an airship in the background.
Facts concerning the wrecking of a ship
called the Ningpo in New Caledonia sometime
during the fifties of last century ? —1437.
The Ningpo, bound from Hong Kong to Mel-
bourne, was wrecked on D’Entrecasteaux Reef,
northern New Caledonia, on July 28, 1854. A
month later four men seized the boat and sailed
800 miles to Queensland, where they were nearly
killed by natives, but managed to reach Bris-
bane in September. Survivors were rescued
from the sand islets by Lieut. Chimmo in
H.M.S. Torch on October 26, 1854.
How to make a small quantity of office paste
that will keep ? —1222.
Place 1 cup of water in a small saucepan over
fire, and add 1 teaspoon powdered alum. Put
1 tablespoon flour or starch in a cup, blend
smooth with cold water, then pour into sauce-
pan when it boils, stirring well until the mix-
ture thickens. Let boil for a few minutes, then
whisk in 1 teaspoon oil of cloves as preserva-
tive. Beat well, and pour into wide-mouthed
jars. A larger allowance of flour will make a
stiffer, lardlike paste.
How to preserve or keep autumn leaves so
that they may be used through the year and
may keep the coloring ? —1216.
Many leaves require no treatment if picked
when fully colored, but quite dry and dead.
Spread between tissue-paper sheets for a few
days in the shapes required, very lightly
weighted. Otherwise dip leaves in hot., melted
paraffin wax. This is procurable from grocers,
and is a hard, transparent wax which sets
quickly on cooling and is not sticky.
Whafsort of flower is a “sport” ? How are
“sports” obtained ? How is ordinary crossing
or hybridising of flowers carried out? —l4B3.
A “sport” is a plant that deviates from the
usual color or form of the parent, but without
artificial hybridising or fertilising. It is really
one of nature’s freaks. New varieties of all
kinds are, of course, raised by crossing well-
known parents, but the result of these crossings
could not be called a “sport.” The latter
appears naturally without human interference.
Crossing or hybridising is done by placing the
pollen of the male plant on to the pollen of the
female, and is a technical business. Angus and
Robertson or Dymock’s could supply good
works on hybridising.
How to remove dye marks from a white
blanket which were caused through the dye
from a grey blanket; also stains of verdigris
from a white blanket ? —1359.
Difficult to do anything, as wool is a touchy
material and reacts disastrously under many
cleaning methods. Try soaking both stains with
petrol in open air, making repeated soakings
until clean if the petrol appears effective.
Otherwise, prepare a bath of water as hot as
the hand can bear it, add plenty of cloudy
ammonia and a generous quantity of soap
flakes dissolved in hot water, and immerse the
blanket. Work and squeeze it about in the
water; rinse in two baths of the same tempera-
ture, each containing ammonia but no soap, roll
out as much water as possible and hang evenly
over line to dry.
(1) How is a silhouette painted on an or-
bass drum ? What stain is used ?
(3) Where can I procure the same in Sydney,
an “, a J what cost ? (4) Are brushes or sprays
used ? (5) Is the scene painted on the vellum
or on an outer cover? (6) Must the vellum
be stretched for painting, and, if not, will sub-
sequent lightening by the tension screws of the
arum distort the picture ? (7) Can a moderately
skilful amateur make a successful job of such
a silhouette ?—1336.
(1) The outline is lightly sketched in with
pencil and then colored; some art skill is
necessary for good results. (2) Colored drawing
inks are best; before applying them to the
vellum, the surface should be sprinkled with
French chalk, which is then lightly wiped off
with a dry cloth, after which the bare hand
must not touch the vellum or it becomes too
greasy to take the ink. (3) Swains, 119 Pitt-
street, Sydney; about Is. Bd. bottle; all colors.
(4) Brushes are best for the amateur, sable or
camel-hair. (5) Directly on the vellum. (6)
Should be stretched to normal playing tension,
when subsequent adjustments will not cause
noticeable distortion. (7) Yes, provided the
design is not fiddling or detailed; bold masses
will give the best effect and are easiest to do.
(1) Is there any record of a wooden vessel
wrecked on the north-west of Long Island
facing the Chute Islands, in Whitsunday
Group ? (2) Does Flinders mention any wreck
there in his diary ? (3) About what date did
round shot go out of fashion ? —1255.
(1) Cannot find any record of the wreck. (2)
No. (3) It gradually went out as the
rifling of guns came into vogue. After the year
1860 rifling was gradually adopted in British
naval guns, but many smooth-bore guns con-
tinued in use, firing round shot, until the
eighteen-eighties.
Who is Leslie D. Weatherhead ? Are his books
“His Life and Ours,’’ “The Transforming
Friendship” and “How Can 1 Find God ?”
worth reading ? Where can I buy them ? —l5OB.
Professor R. G. Macintyre has courteously an-
swered the question: “Rev. Leslie D. Weather-
head is a well-known Methodist minister in
England, connected with Selbyoak College, near
Birmingham. I have read the three books men-
tioned, and 1 can commend them ail as well-
written books, popular in style, written by a
man acquainted with modern thought, but with
a deep religious conviction. ‘His Life and Ours’
is a particularly good thing. The books can be
obtained from Angus and Robertson.”
How to make briquettes from coal-dust ?
—1472.
This is a commercial process involving the
use of highly-specialised power pressures, quite
beyond the scope of the amateur. The coal-
dust is bound together with pitch, pressed into
shape, and dried. A fair substitute can be
made by binding the dust in a mixer with a
thin mixture of clay and water, forming into
shapes, and drying in the sun; a little sawdust
lightens the dead effect of the clay and makes
better burning.
(1) What color tie shoidd the best man at
a wedding wear with a dinner suit ? (2) Duties
of the best man ? —1513.
(1) A dress suit with a white tie should
be worn. (2) The best man should be a
bachelor, although a married man may act in
this capacity. He should either accompany the
bridgegroom to the church or meet him there.
He should stand at the right hand of the bride-
groom during the ceremony, a little to the rear,
and should render him such services as taking
his hat and handing it back at the conclusion
of the ceremony. It is usual for him to sign
the register, and he should pay all fees to the
officiating minister and to the verger on behalf
of the bridegroom, either before or after the
ceremony. He should conduct the chief brides-
maid, on his left arm, to the vestry after the
ceremony, and be present at the door of the
church, together with the chief bridesmaid, to
see the bride and bridegroom away.
I live in a part of the country which is in-
fested with snakes. I have some valuable
horses, and I live in fear of snakes getting into
their stables at night. The stables comprise
a single isolated building. Do you know of
any preparation which would keep snakes out
i) laid in the form of a circle completely round
the stables? —ll6o.
Know of nothing which will positively keep
snakes from entering a building. Snakes are,
however, very susceptible to carbolic acid, and
it is possible that tarring a circle round the
building and keeping it freshly tarred would
be effective. A very fine mesh wire-netting
fence, the netting buried a few inches in the
ground, would be more satisfactory, but the
difficulty is providing a satisfactory snake-proof
gate.
In Europe, particularly France, I understand
immunisation of the young against tuberculosis
is now successfully practised by inoculation
with 8.C.9 (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin), or some
such thing. Is this the case ? If it is, can such
immunisation be availed of in Australia, and
where ?-^-1411.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (8.C.9) inoculation
is fully discussed in “Press Medicale” (Paris),
vol. 38, page 1009. In. suitable cases this
tuberculin has been employed as a protective
agent against T.B. infection in children, but
with its limited scope the treatment is not gener-
ally in favor. When an inherited lesion is
obvious, such immunity cannot be accepted as
absolute —variable results - have been obtained.
The Health Department (Tuberculosis Director),
Sydney, will forward literature through your
local medico.
Can you tell me something about a disease
called glaucoma ? —l4lO.
Glaucoma is a disease of the eyes in which
a gradual blindness develops, with an abnormal
hardness of the eyeball. The name is derived
from the greenish (glaukos —green) coloration
of the pupil that is noted in such cases. Either
the acute or chronic form of the disease may
be present; regardless of origin the initial
fault develops from an increased fluid pressure
within the eye. Acute glaucoma comes on sud-
denly, with severe pain and redness of the eyes
and sickness—serious loss of vision may result
if the condition is not relieved. In the chronic
form definite pain may be absent, but the field
of vision is gradually reduced until complete
blindness results. Various operatibns have
been devised to restore the normal circulation
within the eye—in the early stages pressure may
be reduced with a minor treatment. Medical
supervision is required.
Is a rubber-covered wire more suitable for
use as an outdoor aerial than bare wire of
similar size ? —1507.
Insulated wire has no effect on the recep-
tion of radio signals, but it tends to increase
the weight of the aerial and presents a greater
surface to the wind. On the other hand, it
protects the wire from corrosion, and so pro-
longs its life. The best form of aerial is one
which has been given a good coat of enamel;
this affords protection without increasing weight
or windage to any appreciable extent.
'Brief Answers.
8.J.: Payment of old-age pensions in N.S.W.
and Vic. commenced 1901 A.G.: “All wool”
usually signifies hard-wearing stuff made of
coarse wools. “Pure wool” appears on materials
of higher and finer quality M.F.K.: Noth-
ing can be done; much imported aluminium
has perished because of too-thin bottoms.
Australian utensils give good service; but never
use soda in aluminium, as it is the chief
causj; of pitting C.C.8.: (1) Rub the
wooden frame with raw linseed oil, as much oil
as the wood will take up without being sticky.
(2) Cannot suggest anything without knowing
the material of which the stove is made; if of
the usual iron, nothing can be done, coloring
matter being destroyed by heat V.R.R.:
Cannot advise until you tell us the process of
refrigeration used L.D.R.: No special signi-
ficance ; appears to be a shop method of
“beautifying” these trifles. The custom is of
pagan origin; call at a public library and read
the article on “Easter” in Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica S.J.: The “Crown Colonist” (Is.,
monthly), 33 Tothill-street, Westminster, London,
S. J.V.: Up to £lOO taxable income,
W.A. rate is 2d. in the £1 (minimum, 2s. 6d.); it
increases by ,007 d. for every additional £1 up to
a maximum rate of 45., with a rebate of 20 p.c.
W.F.: The first Thomas Reibey was un-
decided about the spelling of his name. Con-
temporary documents spelt it Raby, Reiby
(the favorite official spelling) and rarely Reibey.
On his marriage certificate it appears as
Rabey. A street in Sydney named after
him is Reiby-lane. But the only actual
signature of his now available for in-
spection—that to his will—is “Thomas Reibey,”
and that spelling was used by his
widow and descendants... .S.S.: Yemen occu-
pies the s.-w. corner of Arabia between Asir
and the Aden Protectorate, with an esti-
mated area of 74,000 sq. m. and a population
of three and a half millions P. 0.8.: Liam
O’Flaherty, novelist, was born in the Arran
Islands, Co. Galway, Ireland. Educated at
University College, Dublin J.P.: Assuming
your wife’s agreement to accept £BO p.a. in
lieu of the £l6O p.a. to be valid, any residue
would fall into the general estate and be
divisible as the will directed. Your wife’s
medical and funeral expenses should be paid
out of her own estate A.Z.: (1) The cover
at that time on the Valuer-General’s assessment
appears to have been reasonably sufficient. (2)
Cannot see any prospect of successful litiga-
tion 8.R.: In 1933 there were seven
Lutheran schools in South Aus., nine in Vic-
toria, three in N. S. Wales and none in
Q’land, W.A. or Tas C.R.: Suggest trying
creeping bent (Agrostis palustris) and buffalo
grass (Stenotaphrum secundatum). Both do
well in North Auckland under the conditions
mentioned... .T.J.L.: This certificate may be
obtained from the Sydney Nautical School,
Royal Exchange Building, Pitt and Bridge
streets, Sydney. Suggest you pay the Superin-
tendent, Capt. F. J. Bayldon, a visit
R.W.L.: The training given at the East Sydney
Technical College, Darlinghurst, would be a
decided asset in you! case... .A.A.F.: You
have no legal right to do either... .M.S.: Both
T. C. Roughley and A. R. McCulloch spell it
snapper W.M.8.L.: (1) Curtis Brown, Ltd.,
6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London. (2)
Yes. (3) No fee. Send return postage in case
of rejection. (4) Both handle such work
T.J.S.: (1) “Is Unemployment Inevitable?”
Macmillans, London. (2) Prof. A. C. Pigou con-
tributes a chapter, “Correctives of the Trade
Cycle,” to the b00k... .F. 8.: (1) Ivor Novello is
41 years old. The son of David Davies and
Clara Novello, and was born at Cardiff. (2) Yes,
he wrote “Keep the Home Fires Burning”
R.W.: There is no Crown land situated near
the sea between Stanwell Park (N.S.W.) and
Wollongong now available for leasing
G.W.G.: It has been off the market for some
considerable time and is not procurable in
Australia G.S.H.: Suggest that you place
the job in the hands of a competent mechanic,
as it requires an expert with proper equipment
to carry out this type of installation and
adjustment... .L.R.H.: Write Capt. Francis
J. Bayldon, Sydney Nautical School, Royal
Exchange Building, Bridge-street, Sydney
R.R.: Paint hood with three pints of “Dux-
bak” waterproof dressing, obtainable from
George Morgan and Co., 211 Clarence-street,
Sydney. Price, 7s. 2d.; postage, Is. 8d
A.P.M.: (1) Bernard McGrath, a New Guinea
miner, was murdered by natives last February.
(2) No. (3) No information locally about him.
Inquiries being made in New Guinea
W.J.H.: James Oswald Doyle (chairman), Farm
180, Doylton, Leeton; John Lyne, Farm 2359,
Yenda; William Rupert Cater, Post Office 6,
Leeton; Alfred Ernest Bowmaker, Farm 1429,
Gogeldrie, Leeton; Joseph Gleeson, Leeton;
William Nulty, Leeton; and Alan Dewar Mal-
colm, Murrami. Secretary is M. H. B. King,
McKay’s Buildings, Kurrajong-avenue, Leeton.
... .C.M.K.: The sentence is grammatically cor-
rect when a comma is inserted after “is” and
“intended,” though it is a little clumsy; place
the clause “as its Founder intended” at the
end....J.N.: It is from Horace, and should
read Mors ultima linea rerum est. Translated
into English it is “Death is the final goal of
things”... .E.H.H.: Swinburne’s “Collected
Poetical Works,” two vols. (225. 6d.), “Poems
and Ballads” (65.), “Tristram of Lyonesse”
(65.), “Songs before Sunrise” (65.), “Atalanta
in Calydon” (65.), and “Selections from Swin-
burne” (45.)... .N.T.: “The Book of Nonsense
and More Nonsense,” by Edward Lear (65.)
C.S.: There is no book on the game. A copy
of the rules posted H.E.8.: The N.S.W.
family-endowment tax was repealed on
December 31, 1933. Endowment is now paid
out of general revenue H.D.: The All for
Australia League was formed in February, 1931.
Its maximum membership is claimed to have
been about 200,000, all States. It merged with
the Nationalists to form the U.A.P. to contest
the 1931 Federal elections W.C.: From the
Director, Sydney Observatory, Sydney
C.C.8.: The “Rolex” is made by the Rolex
Watch Co., Ltd.; the “Craven” watch by
Datum Watch Factories, Switzerland, which
specialises in four qualities. ‘Craven” is the
lowest grade, “Ruler” second, “Peak” third,
and “Datum” top quality (Many others
mailed.)


CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
‘lt keeps you in good spirits.”
m
>
■
m
"Ah ken ye canna
get a finer
Speerit . . .!"
McNish’s, blended in its natural
Scotland, is the finest whisky you
can possibly get.
Its fine pre-war flavour, matured
to a mellow richness,, and its
fragrant aroma, have the stamp of
old age.
For seventy years McNish has been
adding to its long line of friends;
and you too, once you taste of its
rare, rich smoothness, will always
call for McNish.
54.34
SPECIAL SCOTCH
WHISKY
Agents for Australia:
THE COMMONWEALTH
WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD.,
89 Phillip Street :: Sydney
And at Melbourne
« m
a m /s
s
f
ft
X
A
a
Wm
Ik*'
Ce^.
\\ x
ffii
?
: ‘-'V
IS
m
m
m
&&S
& M
VSftc.
4*
,-’: jj
4£
~>
ssi
CAR.
TRAVELS AROUNP THE WORLD
7 TIMES /
ONE VETERAN *
WILLARD MOTOR CAR BATTERY HAS
TRAVELLED /7 6,64-2. M/LES, OR AS MUCH AS
SEVEN TIMES AROUND THE WORLD! ANOTHER
EXAMPLE QEW/UARD BWLT-1N- QUALITY/
All frogs, like most batteries, look
MORE OR LESS ALI RE ; —■ BUT THE PERFOR-
MANCE THEY OWE DEPENDS ON HIDDEN
POWER. lA//LLAR.D BATTERIES ARE DISTIN-
GUISHED FROM ALL OTHERS BY BETTER SER-
VICE, QUICKER STARTS / LONGER LIFE. THAT'S
WHY MORE THAN 2.0.000.000 W/L LANDS
HAVE BEEN BUILT.
Each IN ILL AHD battery must pass
RIGID INSPECTION TESTS BEFORE \T LEAVES
THE FACTORY. ONLY THE FINEST RAW
MATERIALS ARE USED FOR PLATES,
SEPARATORS AND OTHER PARTS.
/JON'! WASTE YOUR MONEY BY BUYING
SO-CALLED "BARGAIN BATTERIES" /
STATE DISTRIBUTORS
MOTOR SUPPLIES PTY.LTD., Brisbane. Rockhampton.Townsville
BROOKLANDS ACCESSORIES PTY. LTD, MELBOURNE
WAYMOUTH SERVICE CO v ADELAIDE
WESTCOTT HAZELL& CO. PTY. LTD.,SYDNEY ano NEWCASTLE
ATKINS (W.A.) LTD., PERTH
ROBT NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., TASMANIA
THE PALETTE
Gordon Esling hangs 38 bits of N. S.
Wales on the walls of the Grosvenor
Gallery, Sydney, and very nice they look.
This show is a distinct improvement on
his last. The color is brighter and better,
although still a bit on the black-and-
white side, with the shadows all some-
what cold. “A Country Street, Nowra,”
and “Pioneer Cottage, Hartley,” give real
pleasure, and “Evening on the Shoal-
haven” has a delicious static quality.
Esling may go far.
Not counting the craft work, the
Society of Women Painters hung 171
exhibits in the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment Gallery, and at least 100 were far
below exhibition standard. The Mel-
bourne section was of a uniformly higher
standard than the Sydney work.
Jessie Trail’s Mont St. Michel pic-
ture is most interesting, and the I. H.
Tweedle head, “Minna,” is a spot of
nice clean, bright color in a desert of
muddy paint. Three lino-cuts by Ethleen
Palmer show the influence of Breslern-
Roth, the Viennese; apart from that,
they are technically sound, well designed
and cut and beautifully printed, and the
colors employed are agreeable. Ethel
Stephens exhibited only flower-pieces.
One prefers the water-color painting of
tulips. Olive Birkenhead hung a good
atmospheric study of Gilbert Park,
Manly.
“F.S.”: The memorial exhibition of
George Coates’s work at Melbourne
Athenamm is a series of gravestones
under which bygone enthusiasms lie
buried. Coates went to Europe on
a National Gallery scholarship. At
one time he was obviously seduced by
the color pomps of the Renaissance, and
at another was bowled over by the
majestic tonal qualities of Velasquez.
The allegedly inscrutable smile of the
Mona Lisa moved him to find a similar
model, and he assiduously arranged his
sitters and his lighting in accordance with
the practice of one antique exemplar or
another. Hints of Brangwyn and of the
Royal Academy School of Portraiture
survive from his sojourn in London, and
traces of impressionism and post-impres-
sionism speak of visits to Paris. I should
say that the one picture that displays
his native talent uncontaminated by some
fashion or another is No. 53, “The
Young Mother.” A young woman is
holding a baby against a curtain with
the light coming from one corner.
A simple, unaffected statement and a
God-given subject, and it is labelled “un-
finished.”
Twenty-seven chips off an old block
have been hanging at the Sedon Gal-
leries, Melbourne. The chips are the
latest oils of Louis McCubbin, and the
block they came from is the late
Frederick McCubbin, his father. One
canvas, a bush glade, has the virtues and
the weaknesses of the elder McCubbin,
who was a sincere interpreter of nature
with a tendency to fuzziness in the de-
livery. His influence is least discernible
in some studies of the strange red cliffs
of Anglesea.
“F.S.”: There is a rush amongst
painters to limn the lineaments of the
aborigine. Arthur Murch, the Sydney
artist, who took his brushes with a scien-
tific expedition to the interior, is show-
ing the results in Melbourne. John
Gardner and R. Batterbee, two Vic-
torians who specialise in desert land-
scapes, are due back shortly from a cara-
van tour of the Dead Heart. Percy
Leason has just completed portraits
of the surviving remnant of the Victorian
race at Lake Tyers, 30 in number.
Gwen Barringer’s show at Adelaide
Society of Arts is largely the result of
motor trips in which she drifts through
the southern States and makes a stop at
whatever pleases her. Adelaide Art Gal-
lery has bought her Mount Kiera, a stark
hill with green foreground. Mount Stur-
geon and a Grampian study run it close.
Answers to Correspondents.
——; w 7 ' \
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be token of communications insufficiently
stamped: Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.P.: Edifying as a guide to conduct, exec-
rable as verse... .W.T.: “If not suitable please
inform me what is wrong.” Well, for one
thing, you’ve crowded six bad rhymes to
“Mazar” into 14 verses... .H.M.: We’re fond
of fairies, too, but you don’t throw any fresh
light on their ways and habits... .J.H.1.: The
climax almost saved it... .W.H.8.: Not enough
story in it.... Spero: Afraid you have a wicked
mind... .A.T.S.: Too long and humor too
patchy... .H.G. : “Reparation” not suitable
R.H.D.: Thanks, but they don’t quite make
the grade.. . .Toro: A fair skit, but you can’t
blame him for all this publicity slush D.F.:
What language do you do your thinking in—
Russian?.... F.IC.F.: Have you read E. A.
Poe’s “William Wilson”? ... .M.H.M.: Too
slight; but you got the atmosphere well
Stringy Bark: Both yarns have some humor,
but not enough G.P.: Method of horse-
taming sounds convincing, but story lacks
appeal... .E. 0.: You have been seeing too
many gangster films J.H.S.: Not this time.
... .8.H.: If you stretch the long arm of coin-
cidence too much it snaps G.S.: Runs very
close... .N.R. - : “Mark” has no glaring de-
merits, but it doesn’t quite get there.
A.H.: Too morbid G.G.S.: Misses.
. ...R.D.N.: That sort of article must
have light humor to be of any value M.K.:
No room for blood and thunder L. 8.:
After all your thrilling adventures it is just as
well your “birth is a reserved one” A.S.:
We can quite understand that it would affect
him that way Z.V.W.: Getting closer.
. ...M.S.J.: “Cupid” was not so bad.
....T.0.: We always reject that vision from
the past J.H.: The mystery was well
sustained, but the solution ruined it 1.N.C.:
Unconvincing... .V.A.L.: Sorry you misunder-
stood us. The whole theme is too sentimental.
. ...H.A.A.: Doesn’t get the right atmosphere.
E.McG.: Interesting but not suitable....
H.R.McD.: Make it half as long and twice as
funny and it might do S.N.: Not enough
in it... .A.G.W.: Animal stories require expert
handling... .K.W.: Too story-booky for a story.
... .L.0.M.8.: The only “trunkless body” we
can imagine is a decapitated elephant C.T.:
You canvassed and you cleared land; but your
account of it doesn’t hold the interest... .0.F.:
Cannot see much promise C.N.M.: There
is something in the idea, but you haven’t got
the best out of it W.S.L.: Very immature.
. ...W.X.K.: Not far off M. 8.: Misses
L.M.: Unreal... .R.H.G.: Came c105e....
W.G.T.: You have ideas, but write carelessly.
Concentrate on improving your style J.T.W.:
The legends don’t appeal F.H.W.: Glad you
take it that way C.H.: Of insufficient
general interest E.P.: Sentiment is too thick.
. ...G.W.: Whose pheasants were they, any-
way? Rata: That stunt was probably
worked at the first Olympic Games K.H.K.:
Hopeless; but we liked the concluding sentence
about the “two youthful hearts rapt in one,
devouring the sublime of all earthly paradise.”
....J.W.C.: All three miss. Don’t like
Americanisms... .G.N.: Good of its kind, but
not good enough J.M.8.R.: Soviet agents
who steal merino rams by ’plane from the
Riverina deserve all they get Sevenell: The
humor is there, but not enough of it.. ..H.B.
(M.L.): Not suitable... .E.W.: Too much sen-
timent... .G.M.8.: Strains probability over-
much... .J.S.W., L.J.G. and C.H.S.: Came
c105e....D.8.H.: We appreciate your liking
for clean sheets.... Dora M.: The type doesn’t
appeal... .E.M.S.: Balderdash seems to be the
right word A.C.8.: Dragged out to that
length it makes the hardest sort of reading....
V.Y.: There’s very little Cosmos in your Ego.
....Miss K.: “The Community Singers” beau-
tifully unintelligible H.M.F.: Submit it wher-
ever you like... .E.0’8.: It shows some facility
in rhyming, nothing more Penn:
I love the sunset and the dawn
Of this huge continent where I was born.
I love its people. Men of noble soul abound ;
On every side the patriot is found.
Especially at election time C.1.D.: Thanks
for appreciation... .8.M.C.: A queer mixture
of the obvious and the obscure... .M. 8.: The
lighter vein suits you best. Don't give up
G.F.S.: Trimeters or tetrameters would do
equally well if the jingle passed muster. Yours
doesn’t... .F.C.A.: Admittedly you know your
subject, but narrative verse is not your forte.
... .R.M.K.: Has about as much connection
with “Aboriginalities” as a kangaroo with
hydrostatics... .E.D.: You’re no hand at the
epigrammatic.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.F.: You’re “Another Optimist” yourself.
. ...8.D.: Not the week’s worst drawing, but
its worst pun A.C.: You can’t draw in-
terior scenes... .J.M.N.: Misfires, but you
should improve T.A.G.: You’re a stranger
to the game.... J.A.L.: None of the lines does
its duty.... A.W.: That loose and scratchy
style!... .F. 8.: Have heard the same
remark from other drivers whose cars
have been suspended over cliff edges.
. ...S.T.: Fair student stuff; send more when
you get more life into your work... .8.C.:
You’re poaching on Oswald Pryor’s preserve.
....W.J.S.: Lady is too angular and lop-
sided, and her escort is bulging in the wrong
parts... .R.V.: Gags need to be crisp and to
the point... .L.A.: You might notice that we
print the joke beneath the picture, not in bal-
loons tied to the characters’ lips... .W.M.: All
out of proportion, and the perspective is wrong.
. ...P.8.: A charcoal drawing should be
“fixed” as soon as finished; yours arrived in
A sorry state... .J.T.: You’ve gone about it the
wrong way; the head is too low down, and the
lower limbs are dwarfed... .E.G.: Wheezes are
stale.


QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions —they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
StPCiLLvris (.MEXICAN)
itkUtud SiaLn
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff ,
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Punch and Dinner a la cartej from, 2/- '
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Manager: E. EYNDMAN.
National
Advertisers:
liET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. 1,. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Htd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
f
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A WOMANN'S
LETTER
Government House was thrown open
to youth on Wednesday. Wearing tur-
quoise crepes and a band of flat white
flowers on her hair, Lady Game received
the guests, assisted by son Philip. But it
was Rosemary’s night, and David’s. Their
names, garlanded in leaves, were in elec-
trics on the verandah. A slim young
moon was over the harbor; the lawns
under the floodlights were emerald. The
fountain played, and couples walked the
garden paths, pausing a moment at the
fishpond to look at golden fins. There
were fires in the hall and drawing-room
and flowers everywhere. The dressing
was sophisticated ; some youthful things
wore trains, some carried flowers. Billy
Hughes’s Helen was one of the debs.;
Marguerite MacCallum was the other.
Philip and David, “Giff” and Sadie
Budge found partners for the strangers
within the gates. David got a big rally;
his boy friends gave him an etching of
Cranbrook to take to Cambridge.
C.W.A. members rolled up in force and
in their finest raiment to wish the Gov-
ernor and Lady Game bon voyage. East-
ern Suburbs branch organised the ball,
but every branch sent floral offerings.
Soon the v.-r. table was smothered in
blooms, but room had to be made for the
Eastern Suburbs’s tulip-wood nut bowl
and the Harborsiders’ much-talked-of
Westralian boomerang.
Lady Game wore turquoise green
crepes. The Brigadier-General Herring
couple were in the official group. Black
velvet, an exquisite Brussels lace scarf
and a cameo brooch graced Mrs. Herring.
Ruby-red satins clothed the Mayoral
lady, black satin Mrs. Colin Venn, and
mulberry laces Mrs. Hubert Fairfax.
Jessie McMaster danced in bronze-green
crepes. Mrs. Pearse, in her wedding dress
of white satin, Marjorie Luscombe-New-
man, in silver-embossed cherry taffetas,
and the Higgins sisters —Doreen in rose
pink and Betty in midnight blue —added
color to the night. Edna Drummond,
Patricia Suttie, Marcia Sisley and Sybil
Payne, white-clad and with pink rose-
buds in their hair, made their bob to Sir
Philip and his lady.
There was a crowd, of course, at the
Mayoress’s good-bye party for Lady
Game. The rooms were beautiful with
flowers. Violets nestled in the fox collar
of the honored one’s coat. Autumn
blooms glowed on the beige laces of the
hostess.
The McKelvey lady and Mrs. Norman
Lowe wore wide-brimmed black velvet
hats —very becoming. Lute Drummond,
Carrie Lanceley and Mrs. Frank Letters
talked of books, plays, singers and Joan
Hammond’s golf. Ben Fuller’s lady made
you think of opera. The Kingsmill lady
wore blue. Mrs. Tom Rolin spoke to
many ; the Poynter lady discoursed about
the dog gymkhana to all and sundry. Mrs.
H. G. L. Harrison brought a nice young
kinswoman ; Mrs. Harold Vale was elo-
quent on the Extra Chukka Ball pageant,
and Japan’s Consul-General’s little wife,
picturesque in national dress, talked hap-
pily with Archgaiter Mowll’s wife, all
striped crepes, with a rose velour hat.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly has already started
to set things moving. She gave Bertie a
birthday party at the Royal Sydney Golf
Club the other night, when a silver-
stringed violin —otherwise all red carna-
tions, roses and lily-of-the-valley—
adorned the centre of the table. The
John McPhillamys, the Tom Kellys and
Carlton sat round the board, and among
others were Nan Garvan and Sheila
Anderson. Afterwards there was music,
and among the 100 listeners were Italy’s
Consul-General and his wife, Mr. and
Mrs. Ken Winchcombe, Sir Hugh and
Lady Poynter and the Hector Claytons.
The sons and daughters of Italy must
have felt homesick when they arrived at
the Wentworth on Friday and found the
walls decked with posters showing the
beauty of their fair land. It was the
Italian Chamber of Commerce Ball, and
president Luigi Garigilo was a busy man
welcoming the guests. These included
Italy’s Consul-General, a black-gowned
Marchesa Ferrante and our own Chief
Justice Jordan couple. Mrs. T. H. Fiaschi
wore white-and-black flowered ninons,
and Katherine Grant sat with Mrs. M.
Bianchi, whose gown of white velvet had
flutings on the skirt. England’s red,
white and blue and Italy’s red, white
and green mingled on the official table
in ribbons manufactured in Sydney from
Italian silk.
Annette Kellerman staged her good-
byes at the Australia. Her dress, a sheath
of dull black satin, flew a saucy hip-
length cape ; the heels of her black shoes
matched its cuffs and the red in her
white collar. Her hat was jockeyish-
peaked. Perched on the corner of a table
she told of the wonders of the Barrier
Reef, its corals and monster fish ; of her
picture-making. Mrs. Bruce Prior and
Edith Prior were among the interested.
The Belgium Consular Segaerts looked in,
but daughter Sophie’s birthday shivoo
beckoned them home early. Annette gave
Mina Wylie, Fanny Durack and swim-
ming coach Dudley Helmrich auto-
graphed copies of her “Fairy Tales,” and
Mrs. Chambers a straight-from-Paris nut-
green bag. She took with her on the
Mongolia the good wishes of everyone.
Dayne pictures here Jean Ralston, who
is one of the committee working for the
success of the Palm Beach Surf Club Ball.
Jean’s brother John was the first to have
a surf-board in Sydney, and he has paid
two visits to Honolulu to study the native
way of navigating them. Jean is more
interested in ballet shoes than in surf-
boards. She studied with Minnie Everett,
and hopes' to take up dancing profes-
sionally some day. The ball takes place
at the Blaxland Galleries on May 29.
The Henry Lawson Society intends
making the celebration of the poet’s birth-
day an annual event and handing the pro-
ceeds to the National Literary Fund,
which exists to give a helping hand to
writers who need financial aid. There will
be an Australian play night at St. James’s
Hall on June 12. The Fellowship of
Writers, the S.U.D.S., the Players’ Club,
the Bankstown Players and Montgomery
Stuart are assisting. Tickets cost a florin,
and Jack Vincent, 37 Young-street, Croy-
don, and Bertha Lawson, of the Mitchell
Library, are looking after the business
side.
One has come to associate Lute Drum-
mond’s talks on the opera with the music
and the composer. For the Fellowship of
Australian Writers she changed her tune
and spoke of the work of the librettist.
This made the poets sit up and take
notice; the time may be coming
when our songsters will be looking for
composers, and Mrs. Alfred Hill will be
deluged with offers of words for her
“Children’s Cantata.”
The talk finished, Alice Prowse and
Jean Drummond filled the room with
song. The president of the Fellowship, Dr.
Mackaness, brought Mrs. Mackaness ; she
was the night’s honored, and wore flower-
patterned crepes. The Frank Clunes
were importants, and Marjorie Quinn was
a graceful hostess in black laces and
silver lame.
Wool, flowers, wine, gold and opals
will be represented in the “Fruitful
Fields” pageant that’s to be a feature of
the Extra Chukka Ball on June 28 at
David Jones’s. Mrs. Harold Vale’s Gold
set will be made up of red-headed girls
wearing gold lame dresses and golden
crowns. Percy Marks, it is rumored, is
lending the opals that will shimmer in
Mrs. Eric Shellar’s group. Jean Bowmer,
the pretty girl pictured here by Monte
Luke, is one of the Coal set. She will
wear a black cellophane dress, and a
miner’s lamp on her head.
Tom Clarke, in his book about Aus-
tralia which has just arrived from Lon-
don, says that a vice-regal personage re-
marked to him: “There are the people
who come to Government House —and
then there are the well-bred people.”
The alleged gibe is recalled by the death
last week of the Countess de Fousenel.
She was an Otago (M.L.) girl who mar-
ried the head of one of France’s oldest
families nearly 30 years ago. De
Fousenels were admirals and marshals
of France before Australia was dis-
covered, and their Breton estates were
coveted by the Catherine de’ Medici who
married Henri 11. The family was ruined
in the Revolution. The Count and
Countess settled in Sydney many years
ago ; he died during the war. The De
Fousenels were unknown to Sydney
society. They didn’t frequent Govern-
ment House, but they were extremely
popular in the neighborhood of Wil-
loughby, where they lived. The late
Countess left a son and daughter to carry
on the ancient line.
The death of Mr. Alfred Jennings set
the tongues of reminiscent old-timers
wagging. In a corner formed by one
of the sharp turns which the Watson’s
Bay tram makes shortly before reaching
the convent are some tree-shadowed old
gates and a carriage-drive which leads
steeply uphill to a stone mansion. Here
the Jenningses lived over half a century
ago, and here the late Mr. Jennings,
second son of Patrick, one of N.S.W.’s
early knights, was born. Patrick was a
notable politician in his day, and a friend
of William Manning, an old-time Sydney
mayor, one of whose sons, Harry, is now
Attorney-General of N. S. Wales. An-
other of Jennings’s friends was Chief
Justice Martin, whose youngest daughter
is Mrs. Harry Manning.
Alfred Jennings married one of the
Mahers, of Collaroy, a historic station
which adjoins Brindley Park, the Betting-
tons’ place. Collaroy was largely owned
in its palmiest days by Clives, members
of the great Anglo-Indian family. One
of old M. E. Maher’s daughters married
a Clive. Mr. Jennings succeeded his
father-in-law as manager of Collaroy,
and when the property was subdivided
seven years ago he bought part of it
and started as a grazier on his own
account.
R. J. D. Sellar, who bequeathed his
garden at Manly for use as a
bird sanctuary, together with £lO,OOO
to maintain it, was one of two brothers
who came to Australia from England to-
wards the end of last century, and bought
a station between Cooma and Dalgety.
They rather startled the bluff Crisps,
Ryries and Osbornes who were their
neighbors at first, being not only English
public-school products of a marked de-
scription, but aesthetes. Their grand
piano was the talk of the Monaro, and
they played it exquisitely. *
They settled in Manly 20 years ago,
and became closely identified with its
life. Both were bachelors and members
of the Union Club ; R.J.D. had belonged
for over 30 years when he died at the
beginning of this month.
Mavor Joan Foulsham and Eric
Osborn (Mick to his friends) Moyse have
just broadcast news of their engagement.
This means the linking of two C.Q.
families, as Mavor is the elder daughter
of the James W. Foulshams, of Newstead,
Ilfracombe, and Mick, the second son of
the late R. Moyse and Mrs. Moyse, of
Dunraven, Barcaldine.
Another newly-engaged is ' Phyllis
Bragg, elder daughter of the Arthur
Braggs, of Landgrove, Cootamundra. The
man who bought her ring is Hertford
Weedon, a Wagga medico.
From a spectacular viewpoint the Gov-
ernor’s Ball in aid of the D.N.A. was
very successful. Financially, it was less
satisfactory. The final meeting disclosed
receipts at £llOO. When exes, are paid
this will have dwindled to £650, plus a
few outstanding cheques, among them
one from Lady Game for photographs
she sold to the press. The vice-regals
won’t be here when accounts are wound
up, so they are leaving a letter to accom-
pany the handing over of the money. The
Governor voiced his disappointment. He
had hoped that the ball would have
created great interest in the cause.
. An embroidered tulle veil, centuries
old, is among the treasures of the Warra-
wee Fitzhardinges. Daughter Prudence
took it out of its wrappings last week for
her marriage with Bowen Bartlett Bryant
at St. John’s, Wahroonga. Very mediae-
val was the bride’s ivory velvet gown;
very glittersome her golden girdle; very
exotic her armful of golden orchids.
And very attractive were sister Jean and
Peggy Prell in their white and gold
chiffons. Their haloes were autumn-
tinted ; so were their floral muffs. Toasts
were drunk at Bridge End, the Warrawee
home of the bride’s parents, where Mrs.
Fitzhardinge’s grey laces won admiring
glances.
The knot-tying of Miriam Seamonds
and Albert Edson took place at the Syna-
gogue. The bridal finery of ivory satin
was served with seed pearls, roses and
trails of tuberoses. There was a matron
of honor and a ’maid, both in blue. The
State Assembly saw the rejoicings.
There’s to be a trip to U.S.A. after the
short Melbourne honeymoon.
Public Librarian Ifould thinks Daryl
Lindsay’s water-colors are nice things to
have about the house. So do other
people, judging by the number sold at his
show. Knight Philip Street called in for a
minute and stayed an hour, finding some-
thing in almost every canvas to arrest
his eye. Queensland artist Roy Parkin-
son and his wife were noticed ; Treania
Smith and Isabel MacKenzie were other
brush-and-palette artists who dropped in.
The French community and those
among us (including the G.-G.’s lady)
who speak the language are looking for-
ward to “Le Vol Nuptial,” to be pro-
duced at the Savoy on June 7. Bel-
gium’s Consul-General Henri Segaert will
play the principal part (Victor Boucher
did it in Paris). Mrs. A. Brenac, Hen-
riette Brenac, Eva Kuraz and Switzer-
land’s Consular O. de Dardel are in the
cast. The play is woven around the
adventures, aviatory and amatory, of two
aces. Paris loved it, It’s written by
Francis de Croisset.


Melbourne
Chatter
Government House has been modern-
ised. Gone are the dingy curtains, the
dust-catching ornaments and the old-
fashioned washstands loaded with un-
attractive jugs and basins so much in
evidence during visits of the Prince of
Wales and the Duke and Duchess. The
hip baths from the Latrobes’ old house
in Jolimont have been moved from the
cellars to make room for old wines and
new packing-cases.
Lord Huntingfield is the first State
Governor to reign in the St. Kilda-road
mansion since Lord Brassey’s tenure
nearly 40 years ago. Lord Brassey liked
to climb the tower in his pyjamas and
peer through a telescope at shipping in
the bay. His predecessor, Lord Hope-
toun, was lavish in spending his large
income. There are people still living who
have dined from his gold dinner service
for 40 guests.
While the younger Vanneck children
were excitedly exploring their new home
and its rambling garden, elder daughter
Sara went off in the care of aides Alan
Lawrence and Richard Barbour to her
first party in Melbourne. It was given
by Mr. and Mrs. P. C. Holmes Hunt for
their daughter Cara and the Charles
Coopers, who met Lord Huntingfield’s
family travelling out on the Maloja.
Cara, who has been abroad to school,
broke her journey to spend a holiday
with her sister, Mrs. Tennant Hunter, in
India. She wore a tiny hat, and white
bunny relieved her all-black frock. Mrs.
Cooper (she was Estelle Manifold) har-
monised her blue hat with a pigeon-
grey suit. Dr. and Mrs. Cyril Tonkin,
Mr. and Mrs. Oak-Rhind, the Gordon
Chirnsides, the Harry Whitings, Peggy
Broadhead, Alison Moule, Kitty Muir,
Ted and Tom Staughton were a few of
those who were given the opportunity,
of meeting Miss Vanneck.
Lord Huntingfield looked much happier
after the ceremony of inauguration than
on his entry to the Council chamber as
Governor-designate. Lady Huntingfield,
who is of a commanding height, with a
firm chin and sincere blue eyes, sat with
the Irvine, Clarke and Argyle ladies. The
Hon. Sara Vanneck is tall and fair;
the Hon. Anne wears schoolgirl plaits,
and the boys have frank and natural
manners. It was warm for overcoats,
and they took them off without any fuss
and disposed of them under their chairs.
Among the politicians on the floor of
the House was a row of Judges in their
scarlet robes. Consuls rubbed shoulders
in a tiered seat. The gallery was filled
long before 11 a.m. When filing out of
the Council chamber the Governor’s
daughters made an obeisance of the
knee, as did all the women guests.
The cocked hat worried Lord Hunt-
ingfield, for he placed it on a ledge
outside the luncheon room. Lady
Huntingfield was mindful of its magni-
ficent plumage and questioned an atten-
dant as to its safety.
Morning-tea was informal. Those in
need of a stronger brew could get it at
one end of the room. Noticed in the
vicinity of hot scones and sandwiches
were Judge Williams and daughter
Ainslie, the Harold Darlings, the Mayoral
Darlings of Ballarat, Commodore and
Mrs. Loudon Shand and the Peacock
lady.
Lady Huntingfield is much in request
by welfare organisations. She has
already accepted invitations to become
patroness of the C.W.A. (which is so
delighted that it is having a party in her
honor on June 20), of the Baby Health
Centres and of the Travellers’ Aid.
Lord and Lady Huntingfield’s entry to
the Legacy Club Ball must have given
the band an attack of nerves, for it
emitted a trembling “God Save.” The
v.-r. party was received by the Chauvei
lady in pale-gold draperies. Lady Hunt-
ingfield wore dark ironbark satin, and
her hands were occupied with a sweep-
ing feather fan and a load of red roses.
Trains were worn with varying success.
A few were long and held gracefully,
others were grabbed aloft, and too-short-
to-hold-up specimens made men part-
ners hot about the neck with worry. Mrs.
George Chirnside pinned luscious orchids
upon her apricot gown. Mrs. Hugh
Brain’s pale-blue sprouted flowers here
and there. The blue of Mrs. D. B.
Doery’s georgettes slipped considerately
to make room for silver epaulettes. Blue
in a deeper shade, broken by porthole
shoulders, was worn by Mrs. Rae Hall.
Mrs. Arnold Harvey scintillated lame,
and Mrs. G. W. Cox was icy-blue. Lola
Thring’s red lace was attached with silver
buttons, while rooster feathers preened
and curled upon her waist-length cape.
One siren in black velvet wore a V
down to her waist, back and front. Fresh-
flower diadems were attractive. Mrs.
Sam Harcourt chose hers of pale-green
hydrangea petals intermingled with red
berries. Mrs. C. Holmes wore black with
ruchings of importance on shoulder and
hip-line. Mrs. Charlie Buckley carried
her demurely-dressed brunette coiffure
above an orange decolletage. Legacy
representatives from Geelong were Mr.
and Mrs. Purnell, she in black lace with
gold wings and sash.
A member of the large committee
which worked for the success of the ball
was Mrs. Raynes Dickson, jun., pictured
here by Lafayette. She is a daughter of
Neville Howse and his widow. Her
sisters are Mrs. Dudley Brunton and
Alison Howse.
Though the Lady Mayoress’s name
alone appeared on invitations to a late-
afternoon party at Clowes-street, the
Lord Mayor was much in evidence as
host. Guests were bridesmaids, ushers
and members of the guard of honor with
their wives, who were given an oppor-
tunity of seeing themselves in a film of
the Lord Mayor’s wedding. Wedding
presents twinkled and glittered. The
hostess moved about with a silver jug
of sherry, a rare amber plate was piled
high with crisp, hot bites on sticks, a
maroon butler clinked ice on a silver
tray, and in one corner of the reception-
room chrysanthemums posed in the
glow of a ruby lamp. The Hon. Sara
Vanneck and Colonel and Mrs. Helme
Pott were special guests.
A successful interlude at the Autumn
Cabaret was June Mills, whose “Lazy
Bones,” with the aid of cushions, plough-
man-boots and blacking, drew guests
after her round the Forty Club under a
cotton-wool snowstorm suspended from
the roof. A ravishing gown was worn by
Rae Welshman; its liquid fall of palest
green satin swooped into a train of a
deeper green. Willowy Millicent Cairns
adorned her head with halo plaits and
the rest of her person with turquoise lace.
Percy Shelton brought his wife, a Direc-
toire neckline to her black dress. Pleated
frills made dynamic ripples down the
back of Gladys Park’s lizard-green satin.
Mollie Corben’s dress had a feeling for
beetle stripes in black and gold. Tuppy
Farrow was in blue, and green tulle
frills eddied round Mollie McCauley’s
spindle heels. Mrs. Tom King’s sombre
all-black was relieved by dangling ear-
hoops. Jill Ryan displayed three melting
shades of pink under her new squirrel
coat. Brown bunny pelts careered round
the cape attached to Dorothy Buxton’s
swinging ivory satin.
The leaves that formed a thick, green
roof a few months ago over the heads
of the Henley crowd dropped in golden
wisps on to cheering boatrace spectators.
Both heats and final (won by Geelong
Grammar) were rowed on grey, windless
afternoons. One man was so keen to
see the finish that he waded into the
muddy Yarra, shoes and all. But he
would have seen more from his square
foot of territory on the bank, for the
people in boats were not sympathetic
and pushed him off with oars and boat-
hooks. Early arrivals brought their lunch
and nibbled in picnic fashion, sitting on
their chosen viewpoints. Koala-bear
mascots were first favorites, but some
girls carried kangaroos and “little boy”
dolls, and Loch Ness monsters crawled
round the bonnets of cars, carrying a
member of the Mickey Mouse family on
each scale. Among houseboats moored
to the Yarra bank was the Scotch Col-
lege ark, where Arthur Robinson and his
lady entertained friends to tea on both
days.
Melbourne went gay on Boatrace Night.
At Menzies balloons bobbed above every
chair. Theatres were packed, the Comedy
being particularly festive with the open-
ing night of “Fresh Fields.” There Grace
Lane tactfully commenced her speech at
1
the final curtain with “Ladies, Gentle-
men and Boys.”
Old Xaverians lived up to their repu-
tation of providing a splendid Boatrace
Night dance, their plans including a
menu from which items were served
every hour or so. The Palais, St. Kilda,
became all red and black for the occa-
sion. Chairs were red ; so v/ere the mats
on the floor of the loges. Tablecloths
were red and white, pillars were hidden
with bunting, and the six school crests
swung overhead. A film of the race was
shown, and a “Head of the Ballroom”
race was contested on bicycles. Each
rider represented one of the schools, but
there was something the matter with the
iron steeds, and the man with the most
vigorous legs often went backwards by
mistake.
Old Boys’ president Dr. John Hurley
came from Corowa with his wife.
Her black velvet gown was in the mode
off the shoulders and down to the wrist;
its embroideries gave the impression of
beaten brass. Dr. S. H. Marion’s daugh-
ter Betty, who has only lately cracked
her debutante shell, rejoiced in the
sophistication of blue and silver lame.
Dr. Edward Ryan’s Margaret, with her
quaint fringe and straight, dark hair,
could have had nothing more attractive
than her bubble of white organdie. Rain-
bow ruffles were whisked round the hem
of Mrs. Jack Goulding’s peach-and-green
striped organdie. Shell-pink suited Betty
Tutton, as did an invasion of ruffles on
her angel-skin frock. Mrs. Bruch Mc-
Lean was in white ninon, and bat shoul-
ders in lame were perched upon Mrs.
Harold Brockhoff’s dark-brown satin.
Daisy Jackson always wanted to be-
come a landscape gardener, but it was
not until she found herself competent
at typewriter and adding machine that she
took the first step in her career by entering
a plant nursery. She worked on Maori-
land soil, and a few years later returned
to Melbourne to study soil values,
botany and surveying. She likes to plan
gardens containing woody nooks, rock-
eries and poplars. Miss Jackson has lately
extended her activities to the arrangement
of kitchens, and designed the pale-green
and primrose symphony in which the
meals of the G. A. Coles family are pre-
pared. For A. M. Nicholas, of Sher-
brooke, she devised a pale-green and deep
ivory kitchen, containing everything to
make cooking easy and pleasant. Brooth-
orn made the portrait. Its subject is the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Jackson,
of Elsternwick.
Mrs. Seton Williams and her daughter
entertained 150 friends at their home, for
Veronica is off to enlarge her mind by
study and travel abroad. For the party
she arrayed herself in scarlet and white,
and pulled a small black hat over one
eyebrow. Out of respect for a nip in
the air, Mrs. Williams wore a coat in
awning stripes of corded silk over her
black lace. Among guests who sniffed
the aromatic scent of lemon leaves on
the patio were the John Larritts, the lan
Blacks, the Leo Millers and a bunch of
girls that included Ruth Good, hjary
Armit, Muriel Graham-Officer, Rene
Crooke and Judy Finch.
Intent on getting funds for their Free
Kindergarten, Loreto Old Girls lassoed
friends to bridge at The George, St.
Kilda. Two large reception-rooms were
turned inside out to accommodate 65
tables, deserted at tea-time for refreshers
upstairs. Noticed on the sea of interest-
ing hats which bobbed around the tables
were the rakish tilt on Yvonne Swift’s
black sailor, Wilma Murphy’s right-off-
the-forehead halo and Sheila Mackenzie’s
amusing brown-and-white check forage
cap.
Mrs. Lyon Field, of Suva, is visiting
her father, Dr. Crawford Mollison, be-
fore continuing her holiday to Adelaide
and once more turning her eyes Pacific-
wards at the end of June. To celebrate
the visit, Mrs. C. H. Newbold and Mrs.
R. J. Larking gave a late-afternoon
party. Throughout the reception-rooms
bowls of roses, polished berries, vine and
maple leaves vied with one another for
honors in rich tawny shades of red. Mrs.
Field had one of those useful standbys,
a tulle cap, to wear with her blue crepe
dress. Silver motifs gladdened the effect
of Mrs. Newbold’s black gown. Among
guests were knight James Barrett with
his lady and daughter Cara, Colonel and
Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. Stanley Elder
and Mr. and Mrs. George Young.
A Scottish visitor, Miss M. A. Hotch-
kiss, is running an expert eye over Vic.’s
Girl Guides. She has watched the incep-
tion and development of the movement in
Scotland, having been hon. sec. of head-
quarters in Edinburgh since 1913. At the
close of the war she took on much more
work as general sec. Miss Hotchkiss
leaves in a few weeks to join her artist
sisters Isobel and Anne, who have their
easels balanced in the shadow of the
Great Wall of China.
The Speck’s budget:
His Ex. and Lady Clark enjoyed their West
Coast tour, though when they visited the King
River Gorge bushfires had worked their evil
will upon it. The R. M. Murrays accom-
panied them from Queenstown to Strahan,
where the Warden and Mrs. Luttrell did the
honors.
Uni. Commem. ceremonies were performed
with the utmost propriety at the Town Hall, and
degrees were conferred on many hims and hers.
The Chancellor announced that Mrs. James
Murray had given £lOOO to found a scholar-
ship in memory of her parents.
Nancy, youngest chick of the P. A. Find-
lays, Launceston, married Lindsay Garrott at
St. Aidan’s in the northern city. The bride’s
Empire frock of heavy white duchesse satin
had a short train, and was made with a lat-
ticed yoke, very low at the back. The long
veil of cut tulle fell from a cap of latticed
satin. Betty Garrott and Marjorie Findlay
maided in figured white angel-skin, with cowl
collars falling from the back of the necklines
At Launceston Mrs. Barnard (N.S.W),
Violet Teague (Vic.) and Miss Traill (Tas.) had
a show of oils and water-colors. Mrs. Bar-
nardwas born in Launceston—she was an
Eagell. Miss Traill has a family connection
with the Speck, but has spent most of her
time abroad.
Mrs. J. K. Reid housed the first gathering
tor the season of the Hamilton Literary Society,
whose own rooms were being refurbished. Mrs.
A. B. Anderson helped her mother with the
teacups.
Kathleen Pitt, who has been in Sydney for
the last few months, has taken on the job of
private secretary to Commander Garsia, and
will go to Nauru with him and his bride.
Padre Gault has been revisiting Hobart after
an absence of 20 years. He was given a warm
welcome by Diggers and old parishioners. The
padre had a genius for inventing games for
bored Diggers and wrote a capital book on his
return from Over There.
Only one woman has nominated for the State
Sbe is Mrs. Lesley Murdoch, wife
of the M.L.C. who controls the committee in
the Upper House.
Adelaide’s social amenities:
On the last day at Morphettville, chairman
Whitmore Carr had Mrs. F. W. Whyte to assist
him in dispensing hospitality. Her bright navy
wool do Chine frock had beige fox fur edging
the cape-sleeve effect, and her felt hat matched
her costume. Quite a number of red frocks
were worn, and the Hollywood complexion, a
bright tango, was a novelty that helped to
brighten the landscape.
In furs the demand this season is for silver
fox. The young girls have developed a fancy
for grass green.
Two fresh ballrooms are available this season
—the Embassy in Grenfell-street, where the
Hunt Club will hold its annual hop, and the
new Palladium. The latter can accommodate
1500, and the Toe H proposes to hold its
annual ball there.
Even charity dances are featuring debs,
among their attractions. The shivoo of the
East Torrens branch of the M.B.H.A. will
see the presentation of a bevy of buds to the
president (Mrs. Napier Birks) and the vice-
president (Douglas Mawson’s lady), and a Boy
Scouts’ ball in one of the suburbs is also to
see a crop of comers-out.
The Uni. Dance Club staged a cheery party
in the refectory, when over 300 were present.
The demand for invitations exceeded the supply.
Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters officiated as joint
presidents, she in a smart frock of Scarlet silk
crepe with ruched sleeves of white organdie.
Her guest Betty Wiesner, of Sydney, was in
pale pink lace. Mrs. J. H. Wilkinson, wife of
the president of the Uni. Union, chose black
chiffon velvet.
Hundreds of women flocked to St. Peter’s,
Glenelg, to see the marriage of Mrs. Clive
Milne’s second daughter Margot to Norman,
son of knight Norman Kater, of Sydney. It
was a fight to get into the church before the
arrival of the wedding party, and after they
entered the building the rush of the crowd
resulted in several people getting an unexpected
bath, immense brass bowls filled with flowers,
near the entrance, being overturned. The
bride’s well-cut gown of white panne velvet
showed through a lace veil that had served
three generations of brides in her mother’s
family. It was held in place by a coronet of
orange-blossom and leaves. The ’maids were
Betty Milne (sister), Barbara Crawford and
Joan Hawker, and there was a little flower-
girl, Susanne Angas, all frocked in silvery-
green panne velvet. The elder girls wore capes
bordered with dark emerald green, tied with
long ends at the throat. The young couple are
flying to their new station, Colmlee, New South
Walesj and will pass through Adelaide next
month en route for a honeymoon in South
Africa.
Very smart looked the Frontiersmen at the
Legion of Frontiersmen’s ball, held at the
Palais Royal. The navy-blue uniform with
cavalry chains on the shoulders is most attrac-
tive. They formed a guard of honor to re-
ceive Lud Mayor Cain. Col. W. Dollman
(commandant) and Mrs. Dollman received the
official guests. Mrs. Dollman’s windswept gold
crepe toilette was trimmed with gold sequins
There were about 600 present. Chrysanthe-
mums and roses decked the ballroom.


The
Australian
Art Exhibition
The Macleod Gallery,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Bridge Street).
G. V. F. MANN (Director).
The leading Exhibition of Australian Art
—latest works by the most prominent oi
Australian Artists always on view and
for sale.
Collection includes new works by Norman
Lindsay, Will Ashton, Robert Johnson,
James R. Jackson, etc.
Selected works by the late E. Phillips Fox.
Best etchings by the best etchers.
Admission Free
Telephone: 87971.
Til
ƒg
Save Car Battery and
Engine
Few motorists realise that easier start-
f LEGGETTS (
ing and complete
satisfaction depend
on the instant and
complete combus-
tion of the fuel,
which is governed
by the heat of the
spark delivered by
the plugs.
Don’t wait for plug
trouble this winter,
enjoy consistently
easier starting, more
miles per gallon—
sweeter running
and dynamic power
through the “hotter
spark” principle of
Leggetts Plugs.
Popularly priced at
all Garages
34/10-4
Bynamw
SPARK
PLUGS
i®
r
A POVyER oIMk
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C (Vice-Chairman):
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
two Winter cruises
|gr-
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
TRAVEL BRITISH
To Lord Howe Island
KING’S BIRTHDAY HOLIDAY
Leaving Sydney 6 p.m.
Saturday, June 2, by S.S.
"Maunganui" return-
ing 7 a.m. Wednesday,
June 6. First Class Only.
Fares: £5 to £6/1 07-
round ISLAND CRUISE
By S.S. ‘Mapama ,,
From Sydney on August
2 —to Auckland (N.Z.),
Suva and Levuka (Fiji),
Apia (Samoa), Vavau
and Nukualofa (Tonga),
Auckland (N.Z.). Re-
turning Sydney August 27.
First Class Only.
FARES
£35 to £37/10/-
jjfikuiiiiiiiiu.mui]-
.
For full particulars apply
UNION S.S. CO.
247 GEORGE STREET -
59 WILLIAM STREET -
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
UNION ROYAIMAIL LINERS
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers . customers very complete facilities for the transaction of
Australasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’. Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates and
Collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
Gratitude.
BY KYLIE TENNANT.
7 OU’LL come again soon, won’t
Y you, Evie?” The old lady bent
down to kiss her dumpy red-
faced niece.
“Can’t say, Auntie. What with Bert
breaking his leg and Georgie under foot
all day”....
“Of course, dear. Don’t let me forget
those geraniums next time.”
Old Mrs. Cheney gathered the tabby
cat into her arms and walked slowly up
the path, while Evie hurried home to
prepare Bert’s tea.
“And there’s Auntie’s two sons,” she
said angrily as she crashed the dishes
on the table. “There’s Bill and Frank
and their wives living rent free in her
houses down the street, and they never
go and see her in a month of Sundays.”
“What’s she to live on if she isn’t
getting rent for them houses?” Bert
asked. “They’re all the old man left
her.”
“Lord knows. She’s that thin! And
there’s Frank and Elsie with a house too
big for them and won’t ask her to come
and stay, because Elsie says Auntie gets
on her nerves. After all she’s done for
them, you’d think they’d show her some
gratitude! ”
Old Mrs. Cheney did not blame her
sons. They naturally liked to stay at
home in the evening after a hard day’s
work. Her daughters-in-law were too
busy with the children. She admitted
that she would have liked to help
with the children, pet them and wash
them, and make them little things. But
the girls had shown that they resented
her “interfering.”
She was glad of Pussy in her arms as
she shut the door on Evie and shuffled
along the narrow passage. Lately, walk-
ing that passage, she had felt that some-
one was stepping behind her ; had known
a little tremor before she could switch
on the lights. There were such terrible
things in the newspapers, murders, brutal
robberies and fires that broke out by
night. ■
She did not mind the long even-
ings with Pussy purring on the rug and
her Bible in her lap ; but it was in the
middle of the night, when she lay awake
like a terrified child who had no mother
to cry to, that Mrs. Cheney would pray
herself to sleep with fluttering little
prayers.
After tea she took down her Bible.
“Shall Thy wonder be known in the
dark? And Thy righteousness in the land
of forgetfulness?” The verses fell heavily
as footsteps in the kitchen passage.
“Lover and friend hast Thou put far
from me, and mine acquaintance into
darkness.” The tears blurred Mrs.
Cheney’s spectacles. David had been
lonely too. He seemed to know how it
felt to lose your husband and be left
friendless ; to feel that there was nothing
in life to look forward to. If only there
were something in life to look forward
to, she would not be thinking like this.
In the morning Mrs. Cheney felt better.
A little boy came selling flowers and she
bought three penn’orth. Pussy caught a
bird in the backyard, and a large, blue
motor-car drew up at the house opposite
and stayed there almost half an hour.
Then after lunch began the epic of The
Young Woman Selling Jug Covers.
Mrs. Cheney was usually afraid of
hawkers. They might put their foot in
the door and refuse to go ; but the young
woman was so thin and pale that Mrs.
Cheney, terrified at her own daring,
said:
“Would you like a cup of tea, my
dear?”
’ The young woman followed her
into the sitting-room, darting glances at
the crochet mats, china ornaments and
photographs in plush frames. Mrs.
Cheney, pattering in from the kitchen
with the cups, was wondering what she
ought to say when the visitor broke the
silence.
“Who’s that in the photer, missus?”
“That is Mr. Cheney, my husband.”
The young woman smiled at her, a
rather likeable smile.
“There’s nobody like your ’usband, is
there? I wouldn’t swap mine for all ’is
faults.”
“Why? Does he drink?” Mrs. Cheney
regarded the ragged dress.
“Not ’im. ’E’s not allowed, ’cos ’e’s a
Communist. But ’e makes up for it. ’E
talks an’ talks. ’E talked to the men in
the tile works till they went on strike, and
when they all goes back to work the
boss sacks ’im. Does ’e care? Not ’im!
The landlord’s turnin’ us out to-morrow,
and does ’e care? Not a bit! ’E’s goin
to get a lot of other Communists to come
up an’ barricade the place, an’ dare the
p’lice to throw us out. Why, bless yer,
’e enjoys it. Jack’d miss ’is dinner an’
walk ten miles for an argument.”
Before Mrs. Cheney could get a word
in, the visitor resumed:
“An’ Lennie—that’s our youngest —is
takin’ after ’is dad. Talk all the blessed
day. Of course ’e don’t know any words,
but ’e can keep goin’ for hours. We
sometimes say to ’im: ‘How does Dadda
go, love?’ an’ ’e’ll wave ’is arms an’ say
‘Yaw yaw yaw’ that natural Jack an’ I
nearly die laughin’.”
But Mrs. Cheney was perturbed.
“If you have to leave your house,
where are you going? Have you any
relatives?”
“Relatives! Relatives ain’t no good to
anyone.” The young face was contemp-
tuous. “Oh, I guess somethin’ll turn up.
If Jack goes to gaol the p’lice’ll ’ave to
keep me an’ the kids.”
“And you have nowhere to go?” said
Mrs. Cheney slowly. A desperate resolve
was forming in her mind. “If you could
feed yourselves, you could live here until
you found another place.”
The young woman’s look was half-
surprised, half-suspicious.
“What’ll yer ’usband say?”
“He’s dead. I live here alone.”
“Alone, are yer?” The young woman
was sympathetic. “Well, of course, thank
yer, but Jack’d make no end of trouble.
’E ’ates what ’e calls charity... .an’ ’e’d
be that disappointed at not bein’ evicted
by the p’lice” She grew thoughtful.
“Still, I might manage it.”
So busy was Mrs. Cheney reproaching
herself and fretting over her rash action
that the night was all too short. Next
morning she awoke to the roar of a
motor-truck at her gate; and a dark-
browed young man, in need of a shave,
began crashing articles of furniture on to
her front verandah. From the front of
the truck alighted the young woman,
whose name appeared to be Pop, little
Lennie, Arthur, a puppy and a lame
magpie in a cage.
Pop, catching sight of Mrs. Cheney,
began explaining at the top of her voice
that they had come before breakfast to
dodge the butcher, and that Jimmy, the
young truck-driver, hadn’t got a license
and had to put the truck back before it
was needed at eight o’clock.
“Mind yer, Ma,” bawled the dark-
browed young man, “we ain’t grateful.
The present system’s done nothing to
make me grateful. But yer won’t regret
it.”
Thereafter began for the newly-christ-
ened Ma an exciting nine months. Her
sons’ protests passed unheeded. What
did it matter that Jack held revolutionary
meetings in her sitting-room with men
who called each other “Comrade”? There
was Pop to talk to, there were children
to pet and wash and cook for ; the house
was full of noise, the garden a battle-
field for the pup and Pussy, while the
magpie whistled discordantly all day
long.
Pop and Jack had dumped their worries
on her as casually as the rest of their fur-
niture. She was concerned about their
lack of money, the dearth of clothes for
the children, the way in which they would
leave a heap of unpaid bills to take Ma
and the children to the pictures, and stand
ice-creams all round on the ground that
they would “be a long time dead.” All
in all, Mrs. Cheney felt very much alive.
More so than she had felt for the past
nine years.
Then the blow fell.
“I’ve got a job,” Jack shouted as he
rushed in one night, flinging his hat at
the pup and tossing the children in the
air. “Got a job. Pop —Ma!”
“You’ll lose it,” remarked his wife.
“Where is it?”
“Newcastle. A chap is going to give
us a lift up there on ’is lorry, day after
to-morrow. So get your things packed.”
Only Ma was quiet during the sub-
sequent jubilation. They were going away
and the old loneliness would take their
place. She cried a little. Not one word
of regret at leaving her!
Next morning when her son Bill
arrived with an invitation for her to live
with him and Elsie she hesitated to
accept.
“I don’t want to put you out.”
“Now look here, Mum, you can’t be
left here alone for any more loafers to
come imposing on you. You stay with
us where you’ll be safe.”
“Jack may lose his job,” she said
firmly. “I’d be worried about Lennie
and Arthur if I didn’t know they could
always come back here.”
o Continued on next page.)


SHE YIELDED
LIKE A LAMB
♦.. just because of you l
rS
tu(J i
tern.
v.
sd^gfsm.
on
vt*
nal
® Poor Lamb! She was so proud
of her fleece .... But, like many
another woolly aristrocrat, she
yielded to our plea for healthful
Si
t*A _
warmth and comfort.
So, today, you can stroll into
any store, and buy unlimited
quantities of "Golden Fleece”
and "Kookaburra”—the softest
and most inviting woollen
underwear that ever brought
snug-fitting comfort to man,
woman or child.
These
U’wear
Size
Shirts, S.S.
Trousers..,
Ath. Shirts
Shorts ....
are the Prices
."Golden Fleece”.
607—All Pure Wool
NATURAL
for Light Weight
."Kookaburra”.
614—Wool with Cotton
NATURAL
Heavy Weight Styles also Available at Slightly Higher Prices.
GOLDEN FLEECE
CILL CPure QUox>l
KOOKABURRA
CPure (Wool YViik Coiion
is©
eN
IK
1 PRODUCT OF AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS LTD.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
Bill turned several shades of crimson
and gave his opinion of his mother’s in-
telligence ; but she was firm.
When Pop and Jack heard of the inter-
view they were indignant, having taken
it for granted that Ma would pack into
the lorry with the magpie, the pup and
the children.
“Leave you ’ere with them cold-blooded
fish? Not a bit of it! You’re in the
family now, Ma. Leave you! Is it
likely? An’ I’ve got a tenant that’ll pay
real money for the ’ouse.”
“I’m grateful to you, Jack, for wanting
me, but”
“Grateful be damned, Ma!”
“But I’m too old, Jack. I’d be a drag
on you.”
Jack threatened to take her by force.
Pop shrilly protested that if Ma didn’t
go she wouldn’t, while the children
howled at the thought of leaving
Granma. But old Mrs. Cheney shook
her head. When the lorry was loaded the
last “Sure you won’t come, after all,
Ma?” began to sound hopeless.
“No, Jack. God bless you both. Come
back to me.”
“You bet,” Jack growled above the
wails of Lennie and Arthur as the lorry
swung away. “You ain’t seen the last
of us. We’ll be back to live on you as
soon as I get thrown out.”
“And that,” said Mrs. Cheney, gather-
ing Pussy into her arms —“that is some-
thing to look forward to.”
Her Ruin.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
JOHN GRAY had ruined her life ; yet
Connie wore black, even in her heart,
for him. But for him there would
still be for her the bright lights, gay
clothes, hectic nights—all the things she
had considered “life.”
The meeting had been an accident, at
one of those Darlinghurst parties which
themselves seem to be accidents.
There had been awed whispering about
the shabby man seated in the corner,
looking out of place in the assembly of
noise and inanity; and she had heard
the story of what had happened when
he was in hospital. The sister to whom
he had expressed gratitude for the infinite
patience of the nurses had told him to
thank, not them, but the grace of God
prompting their work. “Are you not
the grace of God?” he had retorted.
Connie liked the story. John Gray?
Yes, of course! She had never read any-
thing he had written, certainly ; neither,
probably, had those who spoke of him
in awed whispers; but she knew a few
limericks and a few soulful verses.
With the adroitness that was part of
her business she was soon talking to him.
She liked his talk ; it was a disappoint-
ment when he moved to leave.
“Could I come with you? I’m a bit
tired of —all this.” She wished to give
the impression that she, too, was bored
with the noisy triviality.
Actually, she was anxious to get away
from Charlie; she supposed that was
his name, since at the hotel lounge where
they met he had raised no objection to
it. Charlie was spending money with the
prodigality of the mean man when liquor
has loosened the reins ; but Connie knew
the type. There was likely to be a sudden
repentance—a savage one. Already he
had reminded her twice of the few
pounds she had extracted from him.
There was as great a likelihood of
trouble as more money, and Connie, an
adept at dealing with men who go out
to have a good time and wake next day
wondering whether they have had it,
thought it best to be satisfied.
Charlie was most uninteresting. He
had insisted on bringing her here, and
seemed to have forgotten her tempor-
arily.
“It would be wasting your time,
wouldn’t it?” It was John Gray’s first
revelation that he knew her calling.
He was warning her as nicely as he
could.
But they went out together to what was
to her an incredible adventure. Charlie
was wiped off the map. He would be
savagely angry, but he would return to
the ways of virtue and meanness, and
they were not likely to meet again.
It was merely a walk in the moon-
light and a supper of fish and chips at
his flat, a cheap place, all books and
untidiness. Nothing more. In a gener-
ous impulse she had wanted to buy
supper; but he had laughed. “Oh, I
can rake up a couple of bob for fish and
chips.”
Yet he had filled the gardens they
passed with romance, and in his cour-
tesy to her had made the poor supper
seem to her—who believed in making
her cavaliers pay heavily for her enter-
tainment, on the principle that it was
fatal to let them think her cheap in any
way—a feast of unusual delight.
That was the start of it.
“Connie’s gone dippy! She’s mad over
some writer chap,” her friend Alma
Hills said of her a few weeks later. “He’s
not young either ; and he hasn’t a feather
to fly with. When I asked her what she
was getting out of him she said she
didn’t want anything—she’d like to give
him everything if he’d take anything
from her. I told her she ought to see
a mental specialist.”
John Gray had been surprised to see
her again when she dropped into his
flat; not quite pleased. “It’s scarcely
bright amusement for you,” he had
said when she expressed a wish to
see him sometimes. She eagerly seized
on his lack of objection; a strange
friendship grew between them—the
gold-digger and the writer.
His treatment of her was so different
from that of the other men she met that
the difference fascinated her; for his
part, he found something that attracted
him to the impulsive girl.
Connie thought that she knew men,
although once, when she boasted of it,
John Gray had laughed. “You don’t
really,” he said, something like pity in
his voice. “You only know the worst
side of them.”
John Gray certainly puzzled her. He
was not prepared to accept anything
from her, not even herself.
But he came home one day to find her
installed in his flat, which she had re-
deemed from its untidiness.
“I’ve come to look after you—you
want looking after,” she laughed de-
fiantly.
Then she pleaded suddenly, eagerly.
“Jack, I worship the ground you walk
on, and it makes me hate —everything
else. I want to live here and look after
you.”
“You have your own flat,” he said.
He had seen it but once, and his “It
must cost you a lot of money” had given
her the impression that he despised her.
“I have given it up—l have given every-
thing up,” she said desperately. “I only
want you. I won’t be a burden ; I can
get a job.”
He suffered her to stay. She would
probably be tired in a week and would
go, leaving him a little hurt but a little
relieved.
The same idea was at the back of her
mind. But there was no going back for
her. She realised that when, for a time,
she lost him.
Editors were cutting down expenses.
They needed money ; and she got it. It
was for Jack, she told herself fiercely ;
and then she was afraid to let him know
she had it. But when she bought things
he knew they could not afford, he talked
of parting.
His attitude irritated her.
“But for you I would be at Rand-
wick! I’ve never missed a big meeting
at Rand wick, and I’ve always worn
pretty dresses there,” she stormed.
“I’m afraid I can’t give you Randwick
and pretty dresses there.” His smile
was gentle and a little hurt. “You want
them, I know; you can get them, no
doubt. It would be better if we finished.”
Connie’s training had taught her that
outrageous violence was a way to gain
her ends ; in emergency she resorted to
uproar.
She was desolate when she found him
gone ; she had refused to go herself.
The kindness of the note he left, the
intense trouble he must have gone to
raise the money, cut her to the heart.
It was the right moment for shaking
off her madness ; but life was worthless
now without John Gray.
Hunting like a wild thing, she found
him. She went on her knees to be taken
back to him.
She remained on her knees ever after-
wards. His was a tyranny powerful be-
cause of its gentleness ; the fear of losing
him was a terror that made her shape
all her nature to his desire. One by
one he clipped the claws with which she
had once fought successfully. She was
happy in poverty and cheap dresses.
Curiously happy. Gray’s step at the
door never failed to thrill her; there
was a glory in the unmarried respec-
tability she had attained ; a strange pride
in being called “Mrs. Gray” by his
friends.
“There is happiness even in watching
the white feet of the sunlight dancing
on the pavement,” he had told her. She
(Continued on next page.)


“S/LVER
EDGE "
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There road traffic and so on —but the
are many laws made for your fundamental basis of all safe
safety—rules and regulations of driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
- . . • in Good Condition .
Have them adjusted and examined adjustment and long life, specify
periodically by experienced men, RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING when
and, if you wish to maintain true re-lining is necessary.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
The
mm
RING-LOCK
The Strongest
Joint- ever
devised ?
A fence is only as strong as its joints. That’s
why “Cyclone” is the strongest fence made ...
because of the rigid strength of the famous
Cyclone Ringlock ; plus the fact that
“Cyclone” is the ONLY fence made through-
out of HARD steel wire.
ees
THE “JOINT TEST”
Grasp an upright wire above and below a
joint (see sketch), then wrench the upright
first one way and then the other. You’ll
never shift the Ring-lock joint. It’s rigid and
immovable. “Cyclone” Ringlock is the ONLY
fence made throughout of HARD steel wire.
It is absolutely unaffected by weather ; the
longer the fence is erected the tighter the
joints become.
There is the correct type of “Cyclone” Ringlock for
every class of fencing (sheep, lambs, cattle, horses,
pigs). For paddock subdivision—whether temporary
or permanent —Cyclone Ringlock fence stands alone.
“ CYCLONE ” is not a “ type ” of fence, but is our
registered trade mark, and can only be legally applied
to fencing manufactured by us.
tst
It—t
CYCLONE FENCE & CATE CPP'n."
THE GRACE HORDING, 77 VO It K ST., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Me
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced Catalogue of "Cyclone” Metal
I Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and comparison of costs.
had reached the stage of feeling that.
And then John Gray died.
Connie was like one who had been led
far into a strange land and then deserted.
It was Tom Martin who had stepped
from the background when the only
thought that kept her alive was that John
Gray’s memory must be honored, if for
the rest of her life she had to wear her
fingers to the bone.
A stodgy little man, an insignificant
worshipper in the circle around John
Gray, he had come forward with prac-
tical help. Friends had collected the
money for the doctor and the undertaker
and the cemetery people ; and there was
a surplus. He pressed it. into Connie’s
hands.
“We all admire the way you stuck
to Gray,” he said sincerely.
“There is nothing in life for me now
he is gone. I would rather be dead with
him,” she replied dully.
“It is something to have lived for so
long with him ; there must be beautiful
things to remember.”
He promised to do what he could do
to get her work; in an uncertain
way she thanked him. She did not know
about the future. God —if there was a
God —had forsaken her. Money had
come easily to her once. She would like
it again, as a means to drink and forget-
fulness and a quick end.
But the tyranny of John Gray still
held. She could not disgrace his memory,
even if she could overcome the repug-
nance that had come for the old life.
She did not go to the hotel but turned
aside into the little “ham-and-beef.” In
the times when Jack was ill and finances
were desperate, an apology for delay in
serving her had revealed the fact that
Stodgors was embarrassed by the absence
of an assistant.
“Why not try me?” she had asked.
Stodgors, astonished, had thought it a
joke.
“I would be very glad of the work,”
she had assured him. The money he
paid her had been useful.
Now, when she entered, Stodgors
greeted her with a kindly sympathy. He
had been proud of having the occasional
patronage of John Gray. In a way he
had been a worshipper, too.
“Mrs. Gray,” said Stodgors, “if you
felt inclined to consider a job in this
shop regular, I’d be glad to have you.
You was smarter than anyone I’ve had.
You want a little time to get over things,
I know,” he added hurriedly, “but any
time you’re ready, even if it’s months,
there’s the job, if you want it.”
His good-hearted words brought the
tears into her eyes ; but the proposition
seemed absurd. In a ham-and-beef shop,
doling out threepenn’orths —she who had
once had a flat which made her friends
envious; had been admired at Rand-
wick!
Still, jobs were few and applicants
many. Easy enough to go canvassing,
but hard to make enough to compensate
for the wear and tear of shoe leather.
She was living on the little money she
would accept from Martin.
Martin saw her regularly ; he seemed
to regard it as part of his duty to his
dead friend.
“You’re fretting too much,” he told
her. “He wouldn’t like that. Come with
me to the pictures to-night.”
They went regularly after that; it
became pleasant to talk of John Gray, as
they always did. Those talks enabled
her to put out of her head the recurring
thought of finding the path back to her
old life which desperation brought to
her. The memories made the struggle
worth while.
Her clothes were growing shabbier.
When a hotelkeeper sent for her to fill
a long-promised job in his bar, there was
a difficulty, only overcome by a kindly
barmaid offering to lend her some dresses
until her salary enabled her to buy some
of her own. In a bar a woman must
dress well.
The girl’s dresses were neat; and
Connie had not lost her looks. The pub-
lican noticed it. When they heard that
Smartern wanted to see Connie in the
office the other girls laughed.
She hated the way his eyes gloated
upon her, undressing her with their
stare ; hated the touch of his fat hands
on hers.
“You’re pretty slick, young lady,” he
said. “I may be able to put you on the
cash-desk, shortly. That’ll be more
money for you. Not that you need worry
about that—if you’re sensible. Don’t
make any appointment for Saturday
night. We might have a little outing
together.”
Connie was glad it ended there, a
demand for Smartern’s attention coming
opportunely.
Martin, absent for a- few nights, came
to see her. He was told the news and
shook his head.
“The money’s good,” he said. “But
at Smartern’s! I don’t like it.”
She laughed a little hysterically.
“The alternative seems a place in a
ham-and-beef shop,” she said.
“That might be better,” he commented
steadily. “Smartern’s! There’s another
alternative. You might marry me.”
“Marry you?” It startled her.
“Why not? We both have memories
of John Gray. I love you for yourself,
as well as for what you were to him ;
and I’m comfortably off. I have always
admired you ; your loyalty”....
The surprise stirred the hysteria that
had been in her heart.
“You don’t know what I’ve been.”
“Oh, yes, I do. You were good enough
for John Gray ; you are good enough
for me. You are as he saw you —a good,
loyal woman!”
Good! She could be better than he
thought. But she did not want to marry
Martin.
“I would rather we were just friends,”
she said, calm now.
“We will always be friends, I hope,”
he said, pressing her hand.
John Gray had ruined her. Because
of him she could not return to the old
ways, nor ever marry for the sake of a
home. And yet, the following night, as
she stepped out from Stodgors’s shop, a
queer contentment was in her heart. She
saw the moonlight flooding the street
and remembered the beauty John Gray
had seen in it.
She had once thought that she had
known men ; and now there had been
John Gray, and Tom Martin, and honest,
kindly Stodgors, who, to-morrow morn-
ing, would be her employer. She felt
a sort of pride in herself —pride and
thankfulness.
The row with Smartern was a memory
of the past. Rebuffed, he had been in-
sulting, filthily insulting—and, standing
erect, she had brought her clenched fist
down with all the weight of her arm on
his fat face.
“To think that I ever thought I could
go back!” she told herself with a smile.
“Why, I’d even forgotten how to swear
at him properly.”
For Remembrance.
“War veterans returned from a pilgrimage to
Gallipoli report that the ground at Anzac was as
the soldiers left it.”
Not rosemary, my friend. The winds of
morning
Are weary of the harbor where they slept.
The sheering gull strikes in to share the glory
Of risen day, and where the winds have swept
Upland through grove and orchard, silver
blowing
Beneath blue sky—wind-silvered pennonry—
Bids me remember: Thus were olives breaking
A long green lance above Gallipoli;
Day after day, and long ago, were blowing
The olives on a hill above the sea.
This is my cenotaph, this green and silver!
My oriflamme, this tapestry of boughs—
My call to prayer, my challenge to remember
The living to whose dead we sware our vows.
There, it is spring! Here, autumn, purple-
berried,
Sharp with the tang of vintage, presses home.
Autumn or spring! The wind among the olives
Troubles the green, breaks in a silver foam.
And I stand still, bareheaded, old, remember-
ing , .
Young life, lost laughter, ranks by shrapnel
thinned.
Not rosemary, my friend —but, for remembrance,
These lovely silver runnels of the wind!
S.A.
ROB McCONNAL.
Recurrence.
Ships of all the world,
From my balcony,
Sailing north and south,
Hour by hour I see;
Once was loneliness,
Silence, deep and wide,
Where with snowy sails,
Funnels black, they glide.
Once, upon this coast,
Bright with morning gold,
Wave, pursuing wave,
Sail-less, keel-less, rolled;
Dune and headland saw
Only empty seas:
Shipless swayed the tide,
Voiceless blew the breeze.
Here came neither mast,
Funnel, spar nor hull.
Here the gannet wheeled,
And the silver gull:
Then, as now, the waves,
Lit by morning, shone,
Careless of all keels,
Rolling on and on.
Far beyond yon sail
Rising pallidly,
Far beyond all sails,
Sail-less seas I see—-
All things once again
As of old they were—
Ne’er a cleaving keel,
Ne’er a mariner.
Dune and headland then,
Tree and grey sand-grass,
They shall hear the sighs
Of a time that was;
While the midnight gales
Roar and rend and rage
They shall see the ghosts
Of Man’s bygone age.
'Neath my balcony,
Blithe and bright and gay,
Building ships of sand,
Laughing children play;
Little do they heed,
Working joyously,
That which was of old,
That which yet shall be.
N.S.W.
ROFERIC QUINN.


■V V
m if, mwm
dwtli
«' *'£ \- 2 % «,
II ii
si**
V*l
>
.; ->.
:
SHI
Financing
Australia’s Trade
Throughout the World
PRACTICALLY the whole of Australia's great
export and import trade is financed by the
Trading Banks.
Wool, wheat and other products sold to buyers
in Great Britain, Italy, lapan and other countries
are paid for by the Banks in Australian currency
when shipped from Australian Ports, the Banks
collecting payment in British or foreign currency
after the shipments reach their destination.
For goods valued at, say, 100 British pounds a
Bank pays the Australian Producer 125 Australian
pounds. The 100 British pounds, when received,
become part of that Bank's London funds and in
due course are made available to an Australian
importer who requires funds in London to pay
for imports. The importer pays 125 L Australian
pounds for the 100 British pounds in London.
Thus the Bank's gross profit on the buying and
selling transaction is 10/- in Australian currency
of which a considerable proportion is paid away
in salaries and office expenses.
This is one of the many services rendered
to producers, merchants and the community
generally by the Australian Trading Banks.
Bank oj New South Wales
54C.
mg*
, , .
V
% C.L..W., of Brighton, has had
these shoes—a pair of heavy tan
Oxfords —for some four years.
They have had regular use and
regular cleaning with KIWI.
• They’re well worn but they’ve
• worn well . . . thanks to Kiwi
JjLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
H736M
A Distressing' Affair.
BY P. A. DARBYSHIRE.
FOR some days Johnson, a recent addi-
tion to our permanent staff, had been
having mysterious interviews with
Mr. Briggs, our worthy Chief of the
Department for Roundabouts (Steam).
We were all very curious about it, and
I was pleased, therefore, when Mr. Briggs
sent for me to join them in conference.
“Shut the door behind you, Mr.
Sniggs,” he said, “and please remember
that whatever I tell you is in strict con-
fidence.”
“Certainly, Mr. Briggs,” I said, closing
the door.
“There is a conspiracy afoot, Mr.
Sniggs,” he continued impressively; “a
conspiracy to defraud this department of
a large sum of money.”
“Good gracious!”
“You may well say it,” he said grimly.
“Let me elucidate the matter. As you
know, proprietors of roundabouts pay a
tax according to the number of revolu-
tions made by their machines, each of
which has one of our departmental
meters attached to it. Mr. Johnson has
discovered that there is a proprietor of a
roundabout in the Riverina who is run-
ning his machine backwards.”
“Backwards!” I exclaimed.
“Backwards,” he repeated, with a sig-
nificant nod. “He simply turns the horses
and seats around occasionally and runs
his machine backwards. This, of course,
ruris the meter backwards, too. 1 do not
need to point out what his object is.
“Under By-law CXXIV., Sub-section
(e) of our Act,” I said, “he is liable”
“To a fine of fifty pounds a day and
two years’ hard labor for tampering with
the meter,” he proceeded fluently. “But
first of all we must prove it. That is
where you come in.”
“You may count on me, Mr. Briggs.”
“Well do I know it,” he said warmly.
“I am sending two special officers to en-
deavor to catch the tax-evader red-
handed. You and Mr. Johnson leave by
to-morrow night’s express.”
“To-morrow night?” I repeated, won-
dering what Mrs. Sniggs would say.
“Your berths are booked,” said Mr.
Briggs.
“And the exes., Sniggs, old son,” put
in Johnson in his usual vulgar manner,
“are—ahem—adequate.”
“Absolutely,” emphasised Mr. Briggs.
“The department will spare neither pains
nor money to bring this miscreant to
book.”
The following evening Johnson and I
left Sydney—under sealed orders so far
as I was concerned, although, as much
the senior officer, I was nominally in
charge.
“Now, look here, Sniggsy, old horse,”
said Johnson when the train had begun
its long journey. “You and I will have
to act like anything in the world but civil
servants. We’re a couple of sports out
on the loose ; see?”
“I am afraid, Mr. Johnson,” I said
stiffly, “I do not quite see. Our worthy
chief, Mr. Briggs, told me”....
“Oh, tie that in a bag and give it a
kick,” he said rudely. “Relax, man, re-
lax. We’re out of the damn’ depart-
ment now. And for the love of Mike
don’t keep quoting old Briggs to me or
you’ll spoil the whole trip.”
“I resent very much your reference to
Mr. Briggs as ‘old Briggs’!” I said coldly.
“Please yourself,” he said. “Anyhow,
we've got to act our parts. I’m going to
call you Horrie and you’re going to call
me Joe.”
“I should much prefer not to,” I said.
“I promise you that once we’re back
inside the three-mile limit of Sydney
we’ll tack the handles on again,” he said,
“but, as I said, we must act our parts.
Is it a go?”
“On that understanding, Mr. Johnson,
and on that only ; yes.”
Next morning we alighted at a large
town which, for obvious reasons, I can-
not name. There was to be a race-meet-
ing, and the machine of the roundabout
proprietor whom we were to observe was
among the attractions.
We put up at an excellent hotel.
“Have you any objection to going into
a liquor bar?” asked Johnson.
“Every objection,” I replied sternly.
“Then you’ll have to get over it; you
never saw a sport who didn’t go into a
bar. You needn’t drink beer if you don’t
want to. Stick to soft stuff.”
4 Tf it is really necessary,” I said grudg-
ingly, “I may agree to waive my rule for
this day only. Can I rely on you not to
divulge this?”
“No oyster could be dumber than Joe
Johnson,” he assured me. “Stick to
something soft, like cherry brandy, and
you’ll be set.”
“I certainly shall not drink brandy,” I
said.
“Oh, it’s only a name,” he said. “It’s
a cherry cordial, and you drink it with
lemonade. Like O.T. and that kind of
stuff.”
I agreed, although with certain mis-
givings. The thought of strong drink
and of hotels is inexpressibly repugnant
to me, the wife and I both being staunch
members of our local Rechabite tent.
We had an early lunch and then went
to the racecourse —a mile or so out of
the town. I must confess that I had a
feeling of excitement at my first visit to
a place of the kind. It was a beautiful
day, though hot, and it was pleasant to
be llying along in the car.
At the course Johnson met some
friends and we adjourned—to the liquor
bar. When I was asked what 1 preferred
Johnson told the barman to give me a
double cherry brandy with a dash of
lemonade. I found it a pleasant beverage.
“Excuse Horrie drinking soft stuff,”
said Johnson to his friends. “He’s on
the water-waggon at present.”
“Go on,” said one. “What does he
drink when he’s off it?”
“Plonk, with a dash of turps,” said
Johnson, and there was coarse laughter.
They tried to persuade me to try a
little lager or whisky, but I stuck reso-
lutely to my cherry brandy.
I don’t think that I ever felt better in
my life than when I went out to watch
the first race. 1 had that feeling of being
able to jump over the moon, as it were,
and in my exhilaration I took off my
coat and tucked it under my arm. Later,
unfortunately, I took off my hat, too.
It proved my undoing. Within a very
few minutes I was sunstruck. There can
be no other explanation of what followed.
Johnson and I strolled arm-in-arm in
the direction of the roundabout. For the
moment I almost liked the fellow. So far
as we could see, the proprietor was run-
ning his machine the right way, and we
began to wonder if we were not on a
wild-goose chase. Johnson seemed rest-
less, and anxious to get away.
“You stay here and keep watch,
Horrie,” he said. “By the way, here’s a
couple of quid on account of expenses.
You may get more later.”
“What do you mean?” I asked sharply.
“Wait and see,” he said darkly.
I would have followed, but I had be-
gun to feel weak in the legs. Clearly the
sun had got in its deadly work all too
effectively. I stood up only to sit down
involuntarily. After one or two vain
attempts to rise, I decided to remain in a
dignified manner where I was, and keep
my eye on the roundabout.
Suddenly it began to go backwards at
a furious pace. I half rose and tried to
go to it, but fell back shocked to the
depths of my being at such malpractices.
It continued to revolve the wrong way.
I remember covering my scandalised eyes
with one of my hands: I remember at a
later period the jeering faces of two small
boys whom I threatened to chastise. I
made my way in grave, stately silence
towards the criminal roundabout-owner.
The next thing I knew I was in a stable,
reclining on some straw, and it was
borne in on me that I was being prodded
in the ribs. I sat up indignantly, to find
a policeman bending over me.
“What’s crawling on you?” he snapped.
“What’s crawling on me!” I echoed,
scrambling to my feet. “I’ll show you,
you pie-faced slop.” Where I learned
the phrase I know not.
“Is that so?” he sneered, thrusting a
crimson face at me.
I struck out and got him on the nose.
For a second he stood in amazement,
with a trickle of blood running down to
his chin. Then he rushed at me.
“I’ll knock your (dreadful word) block
off!” he shouted, and struck at me
viciously. But I had fallen down again.
“What’s gone wrong here, George?”
asked a familiar voice. I was glad to see
Johnson.
“What’s going wrong, you mean,”
panted the brute, shaking me so violently
as to loosen my denture.
Joe managed to part us.
“Now, look here, Geqrge,” he said
soothingly. “I can explain all this.
Horde’s a cobber of mine.”
“Cobber or no cobber, I’ll run him in,”
panted the policeman. “He assaulted
me.”
Joe led him away and evidently began
an explanation. Soon they came back.
“Now, see here, old cock-sparrow,”
said the officer. “I’ll forget all about this
on condition that you leg it to-night, but
you can thank Joe Johnson for keeping
you out of the cooler.”
I apologised, thanked him, and gave
him my assurance that we would both
leave on the Sydney express. We shook
hands.
{Continued on next page.)


LYSAGHTS GALVANIZED IRON
“RED ORB” Corrugated Sheets
for Roofing.
Specially prepared for roofing and walling
purposes, “Red Orb” is less pliable than
“Blue Orb,” is not suitable for curving,
but will carry heavier weights without
distorting the corrugations.
LYSAGHT’S SPECIAL SHEETS
for Tank-making.
Where exacting climatic conditions make
a high-grade sheet absolutely essential,
Lysaght’s Special Tank-making Iron is
the most satisfactory sheet to use. It
carries an extra heavy coating of zinc,
and Tanks made from this material are
guaranteed by tbe Manufacturers.
Made by
JOHN LYSAGHT (Aust.)
Ltd.
Brisbane, Adelaide.
Sydney, Melbourne,
Fremantle
f
o
' i
1? t J
* .ft *t v
mm
* *
PSMKSfcS
’
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel. Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather ease free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., fin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors it
oak case): Black, 85/
Xylo 100/
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin
All are set ready fot
use, guaranteed, ant
kept in order for tw(
vears free of charge
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other j
information reprinted from the “Man |
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.” <
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bdm.etin, 252 George I
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office—Melbourne, i
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.). i
THE OLDEST DAILY IN TASMANIA!
“The Examiner”
(Est. 1842), 92
years’ service.
“The Examiner” is the only daily
paper now published in Launceston, in
which city it reaches 90 per cent, of
the homes. It is delivered also in 332
centres throughout Northern Tas-
mania. It is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES
IN THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier’’ and “Saturday Evening
Express’’
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
On the way back to the township Joe
scolded me severely.
“You’ll have to keep that ugly temper
of yours in check,” he said. “I always
knew there were hidden depths under
that mild exterior of yours, but I never
suspected anything like this.”
I explained about my sunstroke, but he
wac «£ntiral
“It was just temper,” he declared..
“Mind yourself, or one of these days
you'll be landing old Briggs, and that'll
tear it altogethe?.”
We caught the Sydney express at nine
o'clock, and 1 was very pleased to see
that the sleepers were already made up.
I almost fell into bed, and did not
awaken until morning.
“What did you find out about the
roundabout?" asked Johnson when we
were eettinc near the citv
I described my experiences.
“Don't worry about it,” he said. “Tell
old Briggs the first thing you think of.. . .
Bv the wav here’s vnur share nf the
spoil; the,* thirty quid there.'' He
tossed me over a roll of notes.
“Sooil I ” T ejaculated
“v P X! n„o;X” t d l ‘ • • iitl
. ’ ih C f Sa T l ’grinning. The
8 ™ ™ s * hat I™. *». P u ‘ on a
sixes ni y H R’rf„ h luck ',° get
sixes. Old Briggs tas won a packet; so
“i a , ~, r -a stT-s-j
_ 1 Sa ‘ d D ' d y 0“
—er DficK a norse/
We certainly did, he said. ‘I had
the oil that he was trying yesterday,
but I was broke, so 1 persuaded old
Briggs to stake me.
“Do you mean to tell me that Mr.
Briggs has been a party to a gambling
transaction?” I demanded.
“Sad, but true,” he said, wagging his
h ead >
A ghastly suspicion dawned on me.
“Then that was merely a subterfuge
about the roundabout being run back-
wards?”
“It was, my dear Watson,” he replied,
“I concocted that yarn to get away, and
old Briggs sent you along to make the
affair lifelike. You’re supposed to be
respectable.”
“I am both shocked and disgusted,”
1 said.
“You’ll get over it,” said Johnson.
“Stick that roll in your kick.”
“I refuse absolutely and definitely,” I
said warmly. “I warn you that I shall
file a report immediately on my return to
the department.”
“All right,” he said. “We’ll both file
reports. Your row with the cop will make
interesting reading.... Put that roll
down south, ass, and be sensible for once
in your life.”
And that was exactly what I was forced
to do, though much against my desire.
Altogether a most unhappy affair.
Naturally, I had to conceal the money
from the wife. At present it is behind
the backing of the enlargement of my
cousin Albert in the spare room.
Last week Mrs. S. allowed me five
shillings to buy a tuber begonia, so I
abstracted a pound-note from my little
hoard and bought a beauty at ten shil-
lings, explaining to her that I had got a
bargain. (I think the subterfuge quite
justifiable.) However, she cross-ques-
tioned me so long and so closely that I
wouldn’t dare to do such a thing again.
With the fifteen shillings change I
bought a bottle of cherry brandy, which
I have under a loose board in the tool-
shed for safe keeping. When Mrs. S.
went to the Ladies’ Guild last Thursday
evening I mixed a little with some soda
water from our syphon, being careful
not to take too much.
I had had a very hard day at the office,
and I found the mixture alike refreshing
and invigorating. Indeed, I think that I
might do worse than spend the rest of
my little windfall on such harmless
pleasures. I do not think it would be
selfish. Quite apart from the fact that
I am sure I could never persuade Mrs. S.
that I had come by the money honestly,
she does not like cherries. Or, at any
rate, not very much.
Angles.
BY VICTOR KENNEDY.
THE Ole Man came out to the veran-
dah from the stifling heat of the
kitchen, where Missus was busy in
front of an open fire.
The iron roof of the homestead almost
curled beneath the relentless heat of a
sun that climbed steadily to the mid-
day sky. Not a cloud-fleck broke the
monotony of blue overhead. The few
sheep about the house paddock seemed
like lifeless things as they sought what
little shade there was. The shadows of
a scattered army of gum-trees were thin
and pale grey as they battled with the
reflected light around them.
It was not a nice day at all, although
the Ole Man had seen many such; so
had Missus since she had come to the
selection with him thirty years ago.
“But we didn’t come here to admire
the climate or the scenery,” mused the
Ole Man. It was the only bit of stoic'
philosophy left to him.
Just now he was busy looking across
the grass paddock to the road that led
from young Kirkpatrick’s fence where
the mailman’s horse stood. Presently, the
rider turned his horse towards the Ole
Man’s place ; there should be a letter
from young Tom in Sydney to-day.
Their Tom was having his first spell
away from the farm. It might do him
a lot of good and it might not; Tom’s
dad was a bit anxious.
The mailman drew up. Sure enough,
there was a letter from Tom. The man
on the horse wiped his forehead beneath
his wide hat.
“Bit warm to-day; be glad when this
job is over. I’m making over the river to
Finnigan’s now, and that’s the end.”
“Warm it is,” said the Ole Man. “Been
watching that young fellow down there
by the Two-Mile. He thinks it’s warm,
too. He’s been resting that mob in that
clump for the past two hours. Don’t
blame him, either; he won’t get another
spell this side o’ sundown.”
The mailman shaded his eyes. “Yes ;
young Mowbray, who droves for Smith-
son. He’ll make the best of a trip any
time.”
The Ole Man nodded. “Pretty tough
job all the same. It’d be bad enough in
any weather, but this is stinkin’. And
what’ll he get out of it? A few quid.
If he was in the city he’d have his regu-
lar hours and get his wages regular, too,
and then he wouldn’t work. I’d like to
put some of them fellows on these roads
for a while.”
He turned to Missus as the mailman
rode off. “I say, better put on an extra
cut for lunch. That young fellow is
bound to be over before he pushes on.
If he don’t, we can give him a call. I
wouldn’t ask a dog to cook its own grub
a day like this”
“Well, that’s that!” said the Ole Man
as he finished reading Tom’s letter. “No,
it ain’t. Here’s another page.”
“I was looking at some fellows
working yesterday,” Tom wrote. “They
were tarring a road, and it took half
a dozen of them to do a couple of chains
in an hour or two. While I was watching,
one of them went off looking for some-
thing. He was back in ten minutes. And
they call that work! They get fifteen
bob or a quid a day for it, and I sup-
pose us fellows up there have to find the
money for them. If it wasn’t for us”
“There you are!” exclaimed the Ole
Man with a savage jerk of his dusty
beard. “list what I was saying to Dick
Holt on the mail run scarce an hour ago.
They don’t work.”
He turned to the drover from Smith-
son’s. “If fellows like you and me didn’t
push through stinkin’ weather like this,
where would they be? Them and their
tar! ”
There was a postscript to Tom’s letter ;
the Ole Man read it: “The weather has
been rotten down here ; something like
it is at home this time of the year. They
tell me it rose to 102 in the shade yester-
day, and you couldn’t walk along the
street without feeling it jumping up from
the road”....
Young Mowbray, the drover from
Smithson’s, let his eyes wander down to
the Two-Mile, where his sheep still clung
to the meagre shadow cast by the clump
of gums ; but his mind was far away. He
dwelt again upon the iron deck of a little
sugar-lighter that voyaged between the
Johnstone River and the Cairns wharf.
It was the sugar season —and the straight-
hot season—in the Australian tropics. He
had “wharfed” the lighter for a number
of seasons before he had had the vision
to break away.
But he had broken away, thank God!
Larks in Late Autumn.
Like a scarf flung across the eyes of winter
Ripples the blown grass on the old brown
hills;
The cup of autumn, trembling on Time’s lips,
Spatters the trees with amber dregs, and spills
Patches of chrome and russet-golden fleck,
To hang like beads upon the winter’s neck.
Against that crystal screen where night and day
Pursue each other in an endless chase
Small, twinkling dots of black, like moving
stars,
Mount up; and, upward mounting into space,
Their clear notes intertwine at that far height
And fall in swift cascades of pure delight.
Between the half-stripped branches of the trees
The warm notes drip like wine, as if a song
Had flipped the season’s cards and turned up
spring.
So old men tell that, when they walk among
The falling leaves of age, they sometimes hear
Brown larks of memory calling, youthful,
clear.
N.S.W.
CHRISTINE COMBER.


| LUI. !!
1 !
\i 1)1 11 HI
'' /
S)'Ud.lurri»
1
ir
>
¥
*L 5
m
m
W#k
wm
w
m
mwzr - -
mmrnw
W-i
m
m
wmm
WW^m*
: : ■
MU*
vm
w
WPWM
m
m
'm,
/,■',:-.,;
y//////y.
mm.
mm.
m
Wm
m.
wm.
wmrnm
ZuU.
omy,
m
mm
m
Wm§^
wm
Wm
Ik.
■Mi
wMm
K.
4
\S-
F!
j.
i
■
-jss
(T) c Giilitms
Scots ((Jhisky
j>cj>jtqixu
] 4§roM%
■»
m
m
m
m
m
m
w
v
m
ofr////oi
e
m
: - :
8
■£:. >,
I
m
m
m
. ;'' .
I
m
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
JUST PUBLISHED !
A New Novel by the Author of “Pageant”
“THE WORLD IS YOURS”
By G. B. LANCASTER
G. B. Lancaster chose the modern Yukon as the setting for this graphic
story. In a succession of brilliantly descriptive pages, this romantic outpost
of Empire is presented with all its haunting glamor. The riddle of human
relationships is personified in Tamsin MacDonald and Kirk Regard. The
tragic love story of these two young people is unfolded in a well-
sustained atmosphere of suspense, leading to a strongly presented climax.
“The World Is Yours.” by G. B. Lancaster, now on sale at all bookstalls and
newsagents. Published by The Endeavour Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book Price 6/6 (Postage 4d.)
X
v
sp
&
o
o
yO
1i
ST
«*»
a< t^° e
4V <J*\ • AO 6 ' 0
OQ
**
S>*
o
o
A)
o
4'
©
v' 1
V''
Vs* .*V
A\ e
//o^7 e '
c^V


rasa
, s:
mm
Si E
!Ihw|:
■
B& 3 5f
m
i«i
Wi'v! : S ;'!
Phil
■
11
.Mil
V
ji
SI”
!w
5* * ,4.
R
;
.
lily
V'->V
'
A ffl
'
' T '-. r
;mk
■
//
//
.
the popular Rugby
League player says
SHEAF STOUT
keeps me fit I
n
B
A!
J.
o
<D
.-VO
6¥f
i
Wfflfgi
yi
m
Q
<&>
