

D.V
m
mm
Virginia
l77i£ on i,
UJR-fIPP-EDBR-fIND *
10 /» 6. Cuwtetbcs
Cigarettes definitely need protective wrapping
to keep them fresh and pure. Climatic changes,
and the odour of cardboard and printed surfaces, very
quickly affect the quality of the tobacco.
B.D.V. “Everfresh” wrapping is dim ate-proof. It
guarantees that the pure imported Virginia tobacco
which is used exclusively in manufacture reaches you
—wherever or whenever you buy B.D.V’s—in the same
perfect condition as when it left the factory.
10/6-201'
Guaranteed made SOLELY from 100% imported
Virginia Tobacco.
CORK TIPS OR PL-flm
y
r
CIGARETTES
The Bulletin
- CL Arfudij .
Vol. 55.—N0. 2815.
Wednesday, January 24, 1934,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o uR New Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ďf
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence ■ College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
tSoolclet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
ily_ Address
S B. 133
(CO
91
a
Kirk
Q
yr
Cntieura Talcum
Baby's Best Friend
Pure and delicately medicated, it cools
and comforts baby’s tender skin and
keeps it sweet and wholesome. Shak-
en on after the bath it protects against
chafing and irritation.
Price Is. 3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W. \
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence In the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, .which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE"
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
*7 las' le # 6/V
€4e JfrUsri? ’
TheAUSTRALASIAW
ON SALE ALL STATES G~.
Visit ...
THE AUSTRALIAN
ftRT EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George St. (near Bridge St.).
Recent additions include works by Mhud
Sherwood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel
Carrick Fox, and other prominent Aus-
tralian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
Tlie daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND'S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Come West!
The Best Country
in the World to-day
A Prosperous Market
for Enterprising
Manufacturers..
The Golden West and a
Golden Investment
THE PERTH
untJati
UNEQUALLED RESULTS
FOR ADVERTISERS
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins Street
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don’t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Repetitiveness of English History
It is interesting to consider the re-
sponsibility of the English public school
system for conditions in England.
Though few Englishmen go to public
schools, yet the orderly ideas inculcated
there, and at the universities, have been
half-unconsciously assimilated by the
nation. Rioting over a financial smash
such as Paris has just witnessed is almost
unthinkable in modern London. The
British attitude towards public affairs has
been based broadly for five or six cen-
turies on Plato’s “Republic” and the
“Ethics” of Aristotle. It is taken for
granted that the State is “a partnership
in a life of virtue.”
This accounts, to an extent, both for
Britain’s much-reprobated smugness and
for its absence of gangsters and
brigands ; for its distrust of drastic re-
forms and its freedom from violent
revolutions. It is agreed, even when
things go wrong through the demon-
strable fault of the Crown or Parliament
or their servants, that the edifice which
they constitute between them must be
preserved intact. The nation proceeds
to “muddle through” again, forgets its
lessons practically at once, and patiently
starts to relearn them at the next
approach of trouble.
“Muddling Through’’
All the avoidable errors of the Gal-
lipoli campaign were made on the
Crimean Peninsula. The latest work to
cast a light on the mental and moral re-
semblances between those who were
responsible for the Crimean Landing in
1854 and the Gallipoli one in 1915 and
their after-effects is the Countess of Air-
lie’s With t'he Guards We Shall Go
(Hodder and Stoughton; Dymock’s;
155.).
Her great-uncle, Strange Jocelyn, was
a subaltern in the Scots Guards when
the Crimean War began. The book con-
sists of his letters from the front and her
commentaries.
England had been at peace since 1815,
and it had been “so occupied since in
endeavoring to ensure universal peace for
ever” (and, it. might be added, in making
money) that the army had been allowed
to run to seed. Parade discipline was
good in the best regiments, but neither
officers nor men were capable of fend-
ing for themselves in strange surround-
ings. For years British War Ministers
had been civilians who were ignorant of
the requirements of an army on active
service. M.Os. were landed on the
Crimea without instruments or appli-
ances, and after the first engagement,
when 1600 wounded had to be got on
board hospital-ships, there turned out to
be a shortage of everything from drugs
to nurses. Hundreds died from exposure
and lack of attention before the base
hospitals were reached. The hospitals
were only able to accommodate a frac-
tion of the cases ; the others slept in pas-
sages, barns and on the ground outside.
The men in the trenches were badly
clothed, fed and sheltered, and continu-
ally exposed to shell-fire. They took com-
fort chiefly from the presence of the
navy and the belief that “the war would
be over by Christmas” —“the usual cry
with which we put our army into the
field” observes Lady Airlie. This soon
gave way, as on Gallipoli, to a growing
conviction that the objective was un-
attainable, and that many of those in
high places were incompetent.
Apparently there were no censorship
regulations. Lieutenant Jocelyn habitu-
ally sent information to his father, Lord
Roden, which would have been useful
to the enemy if it had gone astray: com-
plaints of bad generalship, lack of ammu-
nition, Lord Raglan’s habit of living in
luxury far from the danger zone, and
the shameful tactics used by influential
officers to get back to home and safety.
One of the many items of English news
which exasperated him was Queen Vic-
toria’s reaction to a suggestion made by
his father that there should be a national
Day of Humilia-
tion. She replied
that the people
should, instead,
“express great
thankfulness for
the immense
benefits we have enjoyed, and for the in-
creased prosperity of the country.”
The reader is relieved to find that
Colonel Jocelyn—he rose in rank as his
superiors fell —came through alive. He
reads like the best type of modern
Guards officer—brave, thoughtful of his
men’s welfare, intelligent and highly edu-
cated.
Windsor Castle
The second volume of Philip
Guedalla’s The Queen and Mr. Glad-
stone (Hodder and Stoughton ; Dymock’s ;
255.) covers the period between 1880 and
Gladstone’s retirement.
Long before 1880 the Queen had ex-
changed the mild dislike which succeeded
the respect that Gladstone had inspired
in her at first for something like hatred.
Their outlooks made it inevitable. She
was an Imperialist in the nature of
things, he was a Little Englander ; she
had the kind of mind that ages quickly,
his mind grew younger as he grew
older. The other factor was Disraeli.
Mr. Guedalla is one of England’s most
distinguished Jews, but he is merciless to
Disraeli. He makes the Christian seem
noble by comparison with the Hebrew,
who descended to every kind of dirty
trick to discredit his rival with the easily-
gulled Queen.
However, it is doubtful if Disraeli
mattered much. The world was chang-
ing, and Gladstone had unpleasant jobs
to do ; jobs which cost him the friend-
ship of most of the men he had
known at Eton and Oxford. The Queen
opposed him at every turn, and he had
an almost mystical reverence for the
Crown. Still his sense of duty drove
him on. The traditional Irish row had
developed new aspects, and English'
statesmen were trying to apply English
methods to them, as usual. In the heat
of political conflict Parliamentarians of
the Cripps type were criticising Windsor
Castle. Tim Healy—destined later to
become a popular London K.C., and later
still a pro-English Governor-General of
the Free State —offended in 1882. “Is
such language abt the Crown to be
listened to with impunity by the Govt?”
asked the Queen in an indignant letter
to Gladstone. The Egyptians were mis-
behaving, so were the Boers. At home
members of Gladstone’s party were talk-
ing of policies which were to be trans-
lated into laws by another generation,
and the Queen was scandalised.
The Queen feels sure that Mr. Gladstone
r ight do great service by dissociating himself
entirely from the extreme set of visionaries who
excite the people’s hopes and aspirations by
promises of what is impracticable or danger-
ous.
He accepted these and hundreds of
other interferences with a kind of holy
meekness. To the last he was unable to
understand the antipathy she felt for
him. “Taking relations to me since
1884,” he wrote in his journal after
fifty-odd years’ service, “there is in them
something of mystery.” Still
I hope my duty to H.M. and her family has
never in fact, as it has never in intention, fallen
short.... .God Save the Queen.
Mr. Guedalla is, of course, a Glad-
stonian, but it isn’t emphasised. He lets
the letters speak for themselves. They
reveal Gladstone as the kind of man his
old friends said he was during the Wright
libel case five years ago, and the Queen
as a conscientious and hard-working but
self-sufficient and stupid old autocrat.
RED PAGE.
Portrait of Sam Johnson
The inferiority-complex forced upon
Johnson by his disabilities makes Samuel
Johnson, by Hugh Kingsmill (Arthur
Barker ; 10s. 6d.), a sorrowful character-
study. As philosopher, Johnson was a
sceptic ; all his roaring insistence on re-
ligion and God was terrified dust thrown
in his own eyes. As creative artist, he
was oversexed, romantic, his heart tragi-
cally upon his sleeve. As man, mentally
he inherited from his father a melan-
cholia which made him “mad all his
life, or at least not sober” ; physically he
acquired from his wet-nurse scrofula and
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
Shop where “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” Always Protects You. Genuine Reductions from Genuine Prices.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
High-grade Guns and Rifles reduced for clearance
during the Sale. Buy now for the coming season
and save pounds. As there is only a limited quantity
of these Guns and Rifles left, we are clearing
them at big reductions . . . and when once sold
the offer cannot be repeated. Full particulars will be
sent by return post, if desired.
d
BARGAINS FOR THE SHOOTER AND ANGLER
£24 Hammerless Pigeon Gun
W. Cashmere’s 12 G. D.8.8.L. Ham-
merless Pigeon Gun, cross bolt
action, automatic safety bolt, Eng-
£2l
lish fine steel barrels, choke bored, 'flat file-
cut rib, figured walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
bered for 2fin. cartridges, good finish, neatly
engraved, specially proved for nitro powders;
weight about 71b. Price, £24. Sale Price . . £2l
£23 Westley Richards Gun - - - at
1 2 Gauge Westley Richards Hammer-
less Non-ejector Double Barrel Gun,
treble-bite action, special barrels,
£l9
bored left choke, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
top automatic safety slide, half-pistol hand stock,
30in. barrels, press-down rod fore-end snap; weight
about 61b. I Ooz. Named “Westley Richards and Co.,
Birmingham.” Special quality.- Price £23
Sale Price £l9
£35 Hammerless Pigeon
Gun at
Chas. Boswell’s 12 G. D.8.8.L.
Special Hammerless Pigeon Gun,
Anson and Deeley action, side clips,
£3O
30in. steel barrels, both full choke bored,
chambered for 2|in. cartridges, high flat
file-cut rib, Greener cross bolt, proved for nitro
powders, walnut stock. Price £35
Sale Price £3O
Rhi
warn
£45 Cashmore’s Pigeon Gun at
W. Cashmore’s 1 2 G. D.8.8.L. Ham-
merless Pigeon Gun, cross bolt
action, side clips, automatic safety
£35
bolt, steel barrels, choke bored, flat dead level file-
cut rib, dark, well-figured walnut pistol grip stock,
rod fore-end bolt, fine finish, high quality, deep
elaborate engravings, chambered for 2§in. cases;
weight 7 -Jib. to 7|lb. Price, £45. Sale Price, £35
£9/10/- Top Lever Hammer Gun
Chas. Bowerman’s 12 G. D.8.8.L.
Superior Back Work Action Top Lever
Hammer Gun, double bolt, steel rebound-
£8
ing locks, steel barrels, left choke, snap fore-end
fastener, thread engraved and well finished, nitro
proved. Price, £9/10/-. Sale Price £8
Chas. Bowerman’s 12 G. D.8.8.L. Hammer Gun, bar
front action, top lever fitted with Greener’s cross
bolt action, steel rebounding locks, steel barrels,
left choke, snap fore-end fastener, thread engraved,
nitro proved. Price, £ll/11/-. Sale Price £lO
£9/10/- 12 G. Bayard Gun at
12 G. Bayard, black steel barrels
with Pieper patent solid breech,
left choke, drop forged action,
£7
top lever system with treble grip top bolt,
improved rebounding double spring Jocks,
Deeley and Edge fore-end, case-hardened and
blued mountings, horn heel plate, engine-
turned rib, “Genuine Pieper Breech
Warranted” engraved on the breech, with
scroll and game engraving, chambered for
2|-in. cartridges. Price £9/ 1 07-
Sale Price £7
m
£7/10/- Breech-loading Gun at
1 2 G. Belgian D.B. Breech-
loading Gun, with quad-
ruple Webley-Greener bolt,
£6/10/-
best rebounding bar-action locks, best-quality
steel barrels, reinforced chamber, choke,
matted rib, full scroll fence, neat English
engraving, fine walnut stock, checkered
patent fore-end, nitro proved. Price, £7/10/-
Sale Price £6/10/-
n im imH-mtm,, i-Uw
£l2/12/- Split Cane Rod at
Alcock’s Imperial Split Cane
Rod, lift., 3 joints, lock fer-
rules, cork grip, extra top,
£lO
closely whipped, superior finish.
Price, £l2/12/-. Sale Price ...
£lO
ďf
Alcock’s Heavy Split Cane
Rod, Bft., 2 joints, porce-
lain rings, cork grip.
£4/10 1-
£4/10/-
Price, £5. Sale Price
immm
*4
8/- Rabbiter’s Set
at
Rabbiter’s Set, with leather sheath
and steel. Price 87-
Sale Price 7/-
71-
13/- Stainless Hunting Knife at
The “Teddy” Stainless Hunting
Knife. “Teddy” is a real knife, built
for real service—sturdy, efficient
111“
and rustless. The keen, hard-tempered, substan-
tial blade, measuring 4fin. in length, makes quick
work of underbrush or the toughest job of
skinning. Price, 13/-. Sale Price 11/-
GAME FISH REELS.
At Left—
£B/5/- Drag Handle Reel - - - for
Marlin Drag Handle Reel, with
handle stop, very heavily con-
structed.
£711216
Sizes, inches .. .
Weights, lb. .. .
Prices, each .. .
Sale Prices, each
6 7
3| 4i
£B/5/- £9/10/
£7/12/6 £B/5/-
At Right—
£B/10/- Strong Landem Reel from
Landem Drag Handle Reel, with
pillars and frame. Strongly con-
structed.
£7/15/-
Sizes, inches 6 7
Prices, each £B/10/- £lO/-/-
Sale Prices, each £7/15/- £B/10/-
£5/12/6 Surf Casting Reel - - - at
Oceanic Surf or Game Fish Reel,
free spool, double multiplying
with leather thumb brake. An
£4/17/6
optional check. 400 yds. Price
Sale Price
£5/12/6
£4/17/6
• Guns and Fishing Tackle —Lower Ground Floor, Pitt
Street, Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
SALE CATALOGUE.
Write for our Sale Catalogue. It contains
a comprehensive list of the hundreds of
values to be obtained during the Sale.
Post free.
SHOOTERS’ GUIDE.
An illustrated Shooters’ Guide, containing
a comprehensive list of Rifles, Pistols,
Revolvers, Ammunition, Sporting Guns
and Shooters’ Sundries at “Famous Low
Prices.’’ Post Free.
FISHERMEN’S GUIDE.
Every Fisherman should have a copy! Each
item is perfectly illustrated and described
.... making it perfectly easy to order by
mail. Post free.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


I Vith tyre prices
so low, why not
BUYTHE
BEST ?
CORD
THE world over, this is the
eighteenth successive year that
the Goodyear All-Weather Tread
Tyre has stood first in reputation as
in sales.
It must be strikingly superior in
quality and value to win and hold
popular favour like that.
Let others argue this or that feature,
this or that seeming advantage, the
tyre-using public confers the final
verdict.
The motoring public out of the
millions of miles of its experience with
tyres of every make has awarded
and continues to award its first
choice to Goodyear.
Surely the little money it takes to buy
new Goodyear Tyres makes it folly to
risk accident or trouble with old tyres
worn past the point of safety!
> v:
C3-5-34-'
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


FOR SPLITTING WOOD-CHOPPING STICKS
i cannot beatthe
TESTED
ON
BARS
IRON
Will cut iron bars, so will easily
cut wood
Ask your storekeeper to show you this
wonderful Hatchet, or write the Agents: —
MOLDEN WEBER & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
IIJ
No. 697 a
Sole Manufacturers:
THOS. STANIFORTH
& CO., LTD.,
Hackenthorpe Works,
SHEFFIELD, ENG.
WEAR the UNDERWEAR
THAT
LAIINDERIES
THAT’S THE RECORD OF
B. V. D.!
If you think that “bargain
counter” underwear costs you
less than B. V. D. you’re
wrong you’re dead wrong!
Bargain underwear is a
luxury. It costs you more than
B. V. D.’s because its life is
short!
B. V. D. outwears and out-
values all the catch-penny
private brands that ever pulled
the wool over your eyes and
the shoddy over your limbs.
No laundry can lick B. V. D.
It’s made to fit—never bags at
the seat —and never comes to
a parting of the ways when
you make a sudden movement.
Now made in Australia for
THE B. V. D. CO. INC., NEW
YORK
■j
•mu,
cQP. Ttfr
bad sight and hearing: “In ten weeks
I was taken home, a poor diseased infant,
nearly blind.”
So an amorous, vision-haunted poet
was at war with a strident moralist hid-
ing his panic in thunder, and both were
imprisoned in a body which was a figure
of fun.
The results of his spasmodic furies of
work are magnificent; but his work was
never anything but spasmodic. He suf-
fered from the physical laziness of the
scrofulous patient whose melancholy
dreams on and on, instead of picking
up the pen. He saw no smallest chance
of solvency until he reached the age of
54, when the King gave him a pension
of £3OO a year. He virtually ceased work
on the spot. Now he could eat, drink,
dream and lie abed while the years
gathered in the noise of talk, and what
energy there was died down. The “Lives
of the Poets” at 68 (his most valuable
contribution) was only a final arrow ; he
knew his subject backwards; the pub-
lishers’ instructions set fire to his dying
spirit and his fame allowed him to exceed
the instructions. And he took three years
over the job.
Kingsmill’s portrait is admirable. The
great figure that makes such a noise,
sometimes even now, comes into being
as the man with the hardest of all rows
to hoe: the man whose mind has lost
faith in the row and whose body dares not
confess it. This is achieved by the com-
plete subordination of the biographer to
his subject; there is nothing but Johnson
here —just his life and the high-lights in
his correspondence, the evidence of his
contemporaries taken with their charac-
ters well in view, a choice made in con-
flicting statements. Nothing is empha-
sised, no opinions are given, no “writing”
or special-pleading is attempted—only the
details of the sorrowful story dropped
luminously into their places without com-
ment. Until the portrait is Samuel John-
son himself, complete with warts, terrors,
fame, gluttony, and bitter heartbreak.
The book, as an example of the modern,
narrative-study biography, is more ab-
sorbing than nine-tenths of the year’s
good novels.
HILARY LOFTING.
Feminism in Art
Apologists for contemporary painting
tell us that drawing is not necessary to
good art. Almost always when there
arises a comparison between works by
moderns they extol that which has the
lesser technical merit. Why? Because
the contemporary movement is a femi-
nine one and women rarely shine where
workmanship is involved.
After hearing much blather on the sub-
ject from women one’s feelings with re-
gard to contemporary art remain as they
were. Only the yabba-yabba about it
is new. It is simply bad painting and
bad art. Its like was bad art forty-four
hundred and forty years ago. In the past
the same kind of thing had often been
doiie, but chiefly in the cases of indi-
viduals.
For years women had been shrilling
that they had no advantages. Two
generations ago a turn in the world’s
attitude gave them equal opportunity
with men, and soon double the number,
in comparison with men, were working
at the technique of painting. Since the
time of Angelica Kaufmann and Vigee
le Brun, who were never on a par with
any but second-grade men painters, no
women painters of worth appeared until
Berthe Morisot, Theresa Schwartz and
Mary Cassatt. Their names are not to
be found in any encyclopaedia, and
women, characteristically, know no more
of them than they do of Sonia Kovalev-
ska, Madame Curie, Mary Scharlieb, or
any other ornament to their sex.
For two generations women have
flooded the schools and, because they
were women, received intenser instruc-
tion than men got from the same masters.
In all other ways, too, they had given
to them greater advantages than had men.
Yet they haven’t learned to paint in any
numbers, though they learned to make
patterns, “make-up designs” and the like.
They cannot put paint of different shapes
together on canvas to express something
effectively any more than they can com-
pose music.
Their ambitions had opportunity after
the war. Unsuccessful in painting they
welcomed the conspiracy between the
failures, the critics and the dealers to
hoist mcompetency into prominence.
Never, in spite of sex-favoritism, having
attained to trade proficiency, they joined
with the botchers in deprecating the
necessity of learning to draw, to handle
paint in a workmanlike way. At first
they gained little or nothing by it; the
frauds, out for themselves, took their
support, grabbed the glory, and left no-
thing to the women but the knowledge
that they were on the side of those who
had the upper hand. So they were—
and are. They have the power and are
making good use of it. Having got in
with, and become the majority of, the
majority, they have seen to it that, though
still incompetent to paint, they shall be
recognised as creators of fashions in
what they call “interior decoration.”
Behind this so-called decoration is no-
thing but caprice. Conviction would im-
ply a measure of stability, and that is
precisely what women do not want. It
shuts out the opportunity which fickle-
ness provides, and prohibits the exercise
of that inane modishness which makes
them cast off one ugly fashion for the
next.
Naturally they soon tire of their
confections and decry them, thus justi-
fying the substitution of new and equally
silly assemblings of material and fabrics.
This development has led to the emer-
gence in numbers of what the Americans
call “pansies” ; and fine allies they make.
These beings can trim a hat or tie a
bow with any girl. Both can talk Art,
using freely such terms as “third dimen-
sion” and “significant form,” though
neither think nor express themselves “in
the round” nor in anything but insignifi-
cant form.
They rule the world of art to-day, and
unless real painters speak up for them-
selves and right art the women and
their near-men abettors will ruin both.
The feminists are in the majority and
content if a fashion, be it never so trivial,
be carried on the voices. Its lack of
worth troubles them not at all. Their
only anxiety is to prevail, and the non-
morality of this attitude incurs for them
no gallings or wincings, for they have no
consciences.
J. S. McDONALD.
Company
A friend has written to me about an
adventure in London. One afternoon,
returning from a matinee, she saw a
man who seemed to follow her; and, in
order to be certain, she walked quickly
through the more crowded thorough-
fares ; with the result that she found the
stranger continued to keep his length,
several paces behind. Then she crossed
the street; and, doubling back on the
opposite path, went up a lane, where she
waited at a shop-window. The man came
and stood beside her; so she moved on,
he still stepping after: until she turned
on him and said “I’m quite satisfied to
be alone. Please go away.” With a smile,
the interloper took off his hat; and did
as she had told him.
That evening, the woman’s husband,
after he had heard the story, attended a
dinner party. At this dinner party, the
principal guest made a speech, in the
course of which he related the same
adventure, ending with the comment that
it was unusual to find a woman who was
“quite satisfied to be alone.”
The guest’s name was Michael Arlen.
Well, some people are content with
their own company; some are not.
Here is the reverse side of the medal.
Last month, in a Melbourne tramcar, I
sat opposite a German whose bristling
white hair and Hindenburg moustache
formed a contrast to his smashed cigar
saturated with tears.
Soon he stretched across and touched
my knee: “Vos dere no grikket to-day on
account of de rain?”
When I said I didn’t know, he hung
back full of amazement, and exclaimed
“You aren’t Methuselah?”
After a minute’s silence, he continued:
“A mad generation! They blay music
in New York, undt they dance to it at
the South Pole! They visit the Pyra-
mids, undt do not know who the Ptole-
mies were! Or who Genghis Khan
vos! For seventeen years I haf
barracked for Gladstone: undt I suppose
now his very name is forgotten All
my friendts are dead.... Nobody cares
whether I live or die” (Handing me
the evening rag) Haf a look at the
paper: I can read it on the way home.”
Poor chap! If it hadn’t been after six
o’clock, I’d have dragged him into a
pub: just to cheer him up before he
entered that condemned cell he so
courageously called “home.”
Company? Or no company?
Best of all is the presence of a single
friend; such a one as the doctor I
lunched with to-day: mopping up ale
out of Georgian glasses (not George
Five); with a litter of dogs pulling at
the cloth for fat and bones. Then
poetry-reading —Humboldt Woolfe, Ches-
terton and Hueffer —while patients with
stomach-aches and broken legs over-
flowed the waiting-room and passages
outside.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Dawn-morn
I can’t for the life of me understand.
Eunice Hanger’s contention (R.P.
17/1 / ’34) that the “dawn-morn” rhyme is
perfectly legitimate because “it is only
people of Scotch upbringing who can
make an ‘r’ sound before a consonant
natural.” It is tantamount to saying that
the “r” in such a case can’t be sounded
without being rolled, which is absurd
(not absurrd). There is perhaps no coup-
let of pure poetry more quoted in the
English language than Keats’s
Charm’d magic casements opening on the foam
Of perilous seas, in faery lands forlorn.
And the proper pronunciation of the last
word is emphasised in the next verse
with
Forlorn! the' very word is like a bell.
Of course it is, but “fawlawn,” as pre-
sumably E.H. would sound it, isn’t in
the slightest like a bell. And Keats wasn’t
Scotch or of Scotch upbringing; he was
simply an educated Londoner.
OXMEAD.
A Satchel of Books
Great Stories of Human Courage,
selected by E. V. Odle (John Lanej
7s. 6d.), contains about a dozen classics,
such as “El Verdugo,” “The Raid” and
“Youth”; C. E. Montague’s beautiful
study of the man who saved himself by
saving others, and fine stories by Wells,
Katherine Mansfield and Hergesheimer.
But what some of the other yarns are
doing in this galley is a puzzle. Read F.
Britten Austin’s “Nach Verdun!” if you
want to know how misleading and
bathetic a popular type of Great War
story was.
Roger Dataller’s Uncouth Swain
(Dent; 7s. 6d.) is disapponting. It lacks
the daring independence of “A Pitman
Looks at Oxford.” The miner-hero is
suspected of a murder, and comes within
an ace of being convicted owing to his
refusal to admit that he was with the
heroine at the material time. She appears
at the last moment and blasts her repu-
tation to save him. But the pictures of
the hell that life was for the British poor
before the first Reform Act are well
done, and the characterisation is good.
Mr. Dataller should write a good novel
when he gets hold of a good plot.
Will Dyson as cartoonist of the
“Herald,” London’s only Labor daily, has
been tearing into bankers for years. In
Artist Among the Bankers (Dent; 65.)
he hurls aside his drawing materials, so
to speak, and takes to the foe with his
typewriter. After a devastating dedica-
tion to the arch-offender J. P. Morgan
(“a meed of grateful thanks for the
benefit-creating marvels of science and
art which he has conferred upon a thank-
less world,” etc.) he gets to work on
money-dictators and their malign methods
generally. He is a Douglas Crediter, and
his arguments have been used in thou-
sands of books and pamphlets, but he
embellishes them with so much wit and
rolling eloquence that they look as good
as new. In addition there are about
twenty of his best anti-banker cartoons.
The weakness of practically all Ameri-
can thrillers is stridency, a tendency to
overstate everything. Ellery Queen’s
The Siamese Twin Mystery (Gollancz;
7s. 6d.) is another of them. The charac-
ters shout at one another like lunatics,
tremble, turn pale, “sway with disbelief,
nausea, mounting rage,” sit rigid, “stand
glaring with awful triumph like mytho-
logical figures of vengeance,” and so on.
The reader longs for the disciplined re-
straint of the policemen in an English
thriller as he considers the hysterical re-
action of Inspector Queen to the loss of
his ring.
“By God I’ll have the eye-teeth of the so-
and-so who stole it I’m going to search
everyone down to their skins.”
The plot is ingenious and there is an
exciting finish.
The main conclusion arrived at by
Gladys Mary Hall in Prostitution : A Sur-
vey and a Challenge (Williams and Nor-
gate; 7s. 6d.), is that “professional pros-
titutes are losing custom and decreasing
in not only in England but in
most civilised countries. The Regius Pro-
fessor of Divinity at Cambridge (Pro-
fessor Raven, D.D.,), who has written the
introduction, is disposed to agree. How-
ever,
We have not been able to substantiate our
beliefs; and too often they have been only
theories or wish-fulfilments.
Her evidence from Australia is unsatis-
factory. The “Consorting Act” is said
to have driven many prostitutes from
N. S. Wales to the other States (particu-
larly to Victoria); but “professional pros-
titution is slightly increasing, or static,”
everywhere; and everywhere, also,
“promiscuous sex relations are increasing,
seemingly in all classes.” The catch in
these statements is that no means exists
of testing them for accuracy; they re-
present the opinions of anonymous wit-
nesses who are sometimes biased and
who know they will not be cross-
examined. The same objection applies
to a good deal of the information in
this otherwise useful work.
East Anglia, England’s Eastern Pro-
vince (Chapman and Hall; Bs. 6d.), is a
fascinating book about that part of the
world which the author, R. H. Mottram,
knows best. All his English novels and
short stories have had this region as a
background. Oddly enough, most of it
is little known to Londoners and over-
seas tourists, who mostly go south (to
one of the Sussex towns) or south-east
(to Thanet) for short trips; and west-
wards to Devon, Somerset or Cornwall
if they have time and money to spare.
Parts of Essex attract their Bank Holiday
crowds, of course; but Mr. Mottram
isn’t much interested in this end of his
chosen province; “Clacton and South-
end,” he says coldly, “belong to Lon-
don.” Norwich is the city he loves and
knows best. Read his book and it will
be the first place you will visit after Lon-
don, if you go to England.


9
mm
%
m
m
M
L: :i
■
mm
m
HHB
■
mmm l
: 1
i«
pH
mm
A
mm
■■
&
is
■Hi
an
Ed
■
H
■> -
y
■
w
1
■
I
EPPEL'IS
**■'
sc
3
w
PAHA
1 j
■ u ?- ■
“ iw.
~. pr'
* V ,


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2815.
January 24, 1934.
AS ONE BROTHER TO ANOTHER.
"No bilge about their politics, mind! Dance with the women and talk to the men about racing and YOU’LL be all right.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4. ’Phone
Central 5170.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
STUART DOYLE—A STUDY.
The Bulletin protested against the
appointment of an accountant to go into
the latest wrangle in the moving-picture
business and predicted that his inquiry,
now in progress at Sydney, would be re-
sultless. In that, as it now acknowledges,
it was wrong. One of the witnesses was
a certain Stuart Doyle. Mr. Doyle’s
evidence has proved a source of inno-
cent merriment to the public, though
shareholders in Stuart Doyle companies
may be pardoned for failing to see any
humor in it.
Mr. Doyle is (or was) head of what is
affectionately known in the trade as “the
combine.” “The combine” imports films
and exhibits them in every State. In the
design and decoration of its theatres, in
the Mexican-army uniforms of their
staffs, in its methods of business and pub-
licity and in its incursions into politics
it has been rather more American than
the Americans. This is true also of some
of the “Australian” films that have been
turned out of its studios at long intervals
—possibly to demonstrate how bad “Aus-
tralian” films can be.
Until the public would not be denied
British productions, 98 per cent, of the
feature films shown in “combine” theatres
came from Hollywood. Many of them
were war pictures, which conveyed the
impression that the war did not begin
until the middle of 1917 and was won
by the Americans unaided. When war
pictures began to pall the gap was filled
with crime pictures, and grafters and
gangsters, bootleggers and gold-diggers
still have their vogue—of late lynching
parties have been added. In fact, “com-
bine” theatres have been denounced as so
many schools of instruction in the morals,
manners and speech of the American
criminal and near-criminal classes.
But this is cruelly unjust to Mr. Doyle.
His soul revolted against this pestilent
rubbish, even while he was pocketing his
large share of the profits. He was all
the time a patriot struggling to be free
—a new Prometheus, chained to a mass
of Hollywood concrete, still grasping in
his hand the fire of Australian sentiment.
It was at this revelation that the laugh-
ter began. There were fresh outbreaks
of mirth when the gentleman was asked to
name one American picture his concern
had rejected “because of patriotism,” and
he had to confess that he couldn’t.
In 1926 Mr. Stuart Doyle was manag-
ing director of Union Theatres. In 1931,
according to his own statement,
Union Theatres was forced into receivership
and liquidation. Greater Union Theatres was
formed, financed by the E., S. and A. Bank;
it purchased the whole of the assets. In
1932 the bank, which was carrying the over-
drafts for both Greater Union Theatres and
Hoyts, desired the two concerns to merge, and
thus was created General Theatres Corporation,
a management company.
Mr. Doyle’s particular quarrel is with
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and “other
foreign producers.” He blames these con-
cerns for “pressing” Union Theatres to
build theatres “under the threat that they
themselves would build” ; blames them
also for forcing it into liquidation by
being too greedy. “Under pressure,” he
asserts, “Union Theatres and its asso-
ciate companies increased their capital
by £1,803,500.” There was no mention
of this “pressure” when the money was
being raised. If people had known of
what is now alleged, Union Theatres and
its associated companies would not have
got £1,803,500 or anything like it. So
far from placing all the cards on the
table, Mr. Doyle indulged in assurances
which have proved worthless and in pre-
dictions which time has made fantastic.
At the end of 1926 Union Theatres
Investments was launched in Sydney to
build what is now the State Theatre and
shopping block. The public was invited to
take up “350,000 8 p.c. cum. pref.
guaranteed shares of £1 each,” and in the
prospectus appears the vaunt that “these
shares are covered more than two and
a half times over” Indeed, “adding.... the
annual average combined profits of Aus-
tralasian Films and Union Theatres,”
there would be sufficient to cover pre-
ference dividends “approximately four
and a half times over.” With the liquida-
tion of Union Theatres and Australian
Films the guarantee disappeared, and in
1931 and 1932 shareholders received no
dividend.
During the hectic period Mr. Doyle
took credit to himself for having built
the Capitol Theatre, which hideous struc-
ture, as his blurb-writer put it, “opened
its mighty doors” in 1926 or thereabouts
—and closed them for a long period last
year. In a letter to a pillar of the Ameri-
can interests which he now asserts forced
him to erect theatres, he wrote with
characteristic modesty that he had made
“the building and operation of the Capi-
tol one of the greatest efforts of my
career.” He asked the American gentle-
man to put his appreciation of this
achievement on paper. Questioned about
his missive, the Great Australian Patriot
said “That is what is called in the trade
‘apple-sauce,’ ” whereupon the cross-
examiner murmured something about
“mint-sauce for lambs.” He was evi-
dently referring to the prospectus of
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd., in which a
“guarantee” was given by Union Theatres
to purchasers of 250,000 preference
shares. In 1932, as the “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly” records, they “agreed to the
forfeiture of their cumulative rights and
cancellation of the dividend arrears.”
Mr. Stuart Doyle having made a mess
of things and being apprehensive that
worse is to come, it has been coolly sug-
gested that the Stevens Government
should take sides and fly to his assist-
ance. The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer people
want to build a theatre in Sydney, and a
local syndicate talks of putting up a
theatre of its own. The Government has
been asked to refuse licenses to these
concerns, and in effect to give Mr. Stuart
Doyle the right to veto any proposal of
the kind. It is rank impudence.
By doing what Mr. Stuart Doyle wants
it to do the Government would not only
deliver a blow to the building trade but
it would establish a precedent that in
days to come would be invoked, probably
with damaging results, in industries more
important than the picture business. It
would be much better occupied in doing
away with the present Companies Act,
which has been described, not unfairly,
“as the worst in the Empire.”
N. S. Wales urgently requires a Com-
panies Act that will, among other things,
compel holding cos. to Furnish share-
holders every year with details of their
subsidiaries’ finances, and will also make
promoters and directors personally re-
sponsible for utterly reckless statements
in prospectuses and suppression of
material facts.
MUSSOLINI.
There is a good word to be said for
Benito Mussolini. Fascism and a dictator-
ship are not for Anglo-Saxon peoples,
but they have saved Italy: sealed its
unity, stabilised its commerce and en-
dowed the rule of the Italian nation with
some of the pomp and glamor of old
Rome.
Mussolini is no mere tyrant. He has
imagination, respect for tradition and
financial sense. He is a born diplomat,
who has succeeded in healing the Govern-
ment’s quarrel with the Papacy, which
kept pious Italians torn between two loyal-
ties, and in uniting large sections of capital
and labor, which he now has working to-
gether in a spirit of moderation unknown
in other Continental countries. And
while he has stood firmly for Italian
rights in international affairs, his attitude
generally has been sane and conciliatory.
His propaganda, unlike Hitler’s and
Stalin’s, runs rather to spectacular per-
formance than to words —witness the
Balbo flights to America and the per-
sistent entry of his fliers and motorists for
great international events.
The zenith of Mussolini’s programme
will be reached when he realises his plans
for unifying industrial and commercial
effort and introducing class co-operation
in government. Parliament, which has
long been a led horse in Italy, is virtu-
ally to be replaced by a National Guild
Council, composed of representatives of
every section and every class of Italian.
The guild is to be
an instrument which, under the aegis of the
Government, carries out the integral, organic
and Unitarian regulation of production with a
view to the expansion of wealth, political power
and prosperity of the Italian people.
The general staff of each guild will in-
clude representatives of Government de-
partments, of the Fascist party, of capital,
labor and of technical knowledge ; and
its tasks will be
conciliation, consultation —compulsory on
problems of major importance —and the pro-
mulgation through the National Guild Council
of laws regulating the economic activities of
the nation,
leaving to the Grand Fascist Council the
implementing of the decisions as they
affect public order and the Constitution.
“We must not,” says Mussolini, ex-
plaining his industrial plan, “make just
anything anyhow. That is folly and
leads to catastrophe.” Presumably if he
had been in the place of Australian poli-
ticians he would not have spent years
persuading Australian farmers to push
large tracts of land highly suitable for
producing wool, for which there is a
swelling demand, into wheat, which the
world is overproducing. Neither would
he have spent millions in removing mag-
nificent hardwood forests in order to
dump British immigrants on land worth
less than the cost of clearing.
Quite obviously Mussolini is no poli-
tician. The speech with which he
unfolded his plans is devoid of Lang-
ist hate and personalities and sounds
more like a succinct summary of an
address before the Economic Society. He
traces the phases of industry to the pre-
sent age, which he declares to be a period
in which capitalism has become inter-
national and trustified to a point where
the “dimensions of business enterprise
exceed the possibilities of man.... find-
ing its justification in a Utopia of un-
limited consumption.”
When does a capitalistic business cease to
be an economic phenomenon? When its size
transforms it into a social phenomenon. It
is then that the capitalistic concern when in
difficulties throws itself like a dead weight into
the arms of the State.... Things have now
gone so far that if, in all the countries of
Europe, Governments were to go to sleep, for
24 hours that parenthesis would suffice to
precipitate a disaster. Were we to give way
to this latest phase we should slide into
State capitalism and arrive at the bureaucratiza-
tion of the economic activities of the nation.
Italy will stand on its own feet. It will
remain capitalistic in the sense that it
will maintain “that complex of usages,
customs, technical progress now common
to all countries,” but it will maintain a
diversified economy:
A strong agriculture, the foundation of all;
a sound small and medium industry; a
banking system which does not speculate; a
commerce fulfilling its irreplaceable task of
bringing commodities rapidly and rationally to
consumers.
The guilds must “at a given moment be
felt and perceived by the masses them-
selves as instruments through which those
masses may improve their standard of
living.” The State, as Mussolini conceives
it, is not absolutist but organic and human
and concerned with the realities of life.
He knows that what he is doing is a
revolution, even though it will be brought
about constitutionally by a vote of the
Chamber of Deputies ; but he sees his
system as the only possible one. The
decline of super-capitalism is coincident
with the decline of socialism; but he
admits that both have their good points,
and desires that in his new plan Italy
should “inherit from both what was vital
in each.”
Australians have no use for Black
Shirts and theatricalism, though they may
be useful adjuncts to change in their
right place among Latin peoples. But
there are some features of Mussolini’s
planning which they can admire: his
optimism, his faith in his country, his
power of action and his ideal of modera-
tion in wealth-building and class-co-
operation.
Indeed, a lot of electors would go all
the way with him in his bitter scorn of
party government, professional politicians
and class hatred.
HOSPITAL “ART UNIONS.”
In its issue of October 18 The Bulletin
criticised the expensive workings of the
N.S.W. Community Hospital and its
supervising collecting agency. Following
further references to “art unions”
managed through the same collecting
agency, reports of accountants and effi-
ciency experts on Community Hospital
affairs have been furnished. They all
agree that the collecting office is effi-
ciently managed ; but this was not here
questioned, though other features and
proceedings of the organisation were.
Before the October article was pub-
lished the chairman of the concern was
asked in writing what it had cost to
obtain £BOO-odd which was shown in the
balance sheet as collected by an auxiliary.
“ Nil the chairman wrote. A balance
sheet of the auxiliary eventually secured
showed that it had cost £3845 gross. The
chairman was asked for details of prize-
money. His details did not tally with
those in the balance sheet.
Dr. A. H. Martin, director of the In-
stitute of Industrial Psychology, says in
his report:
Records of cash and tickets are most scrupu-
lously and carefully kept, meriting a full public
confidence in the methods employed.
But Messrs. Smith and Johnson, an
accountancy firm, write:
It would, of course, have been of material
benefit to us had we been able to actually in-
spect the entire workings of the “art union.”
.... Complete records of the receipts arising
from the “art union” are not now available
to us (having, we understand, been destroyed
on the authority of the Attorney-General), but
we have checked in detail all items of expendi-
ture making up the total.
So much for the agreement of experts.
As a test of the confidence-breeding
methods of the organisation, The Bulle-
tin asked several leading hospitals by
telephone for their balance sheets ; the
collecting agency was included. Sydney
Hospital and Royal Prince Alfred sent
their printed reports, which included
meticulous financial summaries, within
half an hour. The rest arrived next
morning with apologies for the delay.
It took a week’s correspondence before
a deputation from the collecting agency
produced (a) a typewritten balance sheet
of St. Margaret’s Hospital for 1932-33 ;
(b) a balance sheet, which bears no audi-
tor’s certificate, of the Golden Chest
“Art Union” in aid of the Food for
Babies’ Fund, Dalwood Homes and
N.S.W. Community Hospital.
The St. Margaret’s balance sheet
showed receipts to have been made up
of:
Subscriptions, donations, etc. .. £4439 15 6
From patients .. .. .. 2426 15 6
£6866 11 0
After further representations a printed
annual report was produced which gave
the same balance sheet in another form.
It showed that “subscriptions and dona-
tions,” which were itemised in a separate
list, amounted to £lO3 ; the “etc.” con-
sisted of interest on mortgages and fixed
deposits (£336 15s. 6d.) and
Proceeds from entertainments, “art
unions,” etc., as per special com-
mittee .. .. .. .. £4OOO 0 0
It would have been mere gratitude to
name the special committee which pro-
vided four-sevenths of the hospital’s
revenue, and it certainly would have
contributed to “full public confidence”
if it had been shown exactly how the
£4OOO was made up and what it cost to
raise it.
In the Golden Chest “Art Union” the
highest ticket to win a prize was No.
1,197,596. The balance sheet shows the
revenue from ticket sales at £32,489 13s.
In other words, at least £27,390 ss. worth
of tickets must have been unsold. Pre-
sumably they were all returned as re-
quired by the regulations. An assurance
from the Attorney-General would be wel-
come.
Messrs. Smith and Johnson again:
We cannot refrain from expressing the opinion
that whilst the character of these “art unions”
remains as at present the collection of moneys
from the public by such means is to be de-
plored. There can be no gainsaying the fact
(indeed the evidence is overwhelming) that “art
unions” in general are dependent on the almost
unbelievable credulity of the public. The prizes
offered are in the main altogether dispropor-
tionate to the total collections, due, of course,
to the expenses incurred being necessarily heavy.
They then quote the figures which were
quoted in The Bulletin —receipts, £3845
Bs. 6d.; net proceeds, £BO3 12s. lOd.
They write further:
The total sum expended on printing, station-
ery and postages, etc., was £lOOl 13s. 7d., or
26 p.c. of the total receipts—an abnormally
high percentage. Here we find the most objec-
tionable feature of the present method of rais-
ing moneys by means of “art unions.” The
cupidity of the public is pandered to by means
of circulars and.literature which is....neces-
sarily expensive in its initial cost.
Finally:
The relevant statute and regulations there-
under require inter alia that not less than 40
p.c. of the gross takings of any “art union”
shall be devoted to the objects of the institution
on whose behalf the “art union” is conducted.
ln the “art union” under review the per-
centage result was only equal to approximately
21 p.c. of the gross takings. The “art union”
was, therefore, if measured by statutory require-
ments, a failure.
Mr. Stevens has ordered an auditor’s in-
quiry into Community Hospital affairs.
It is necessary ; but it is not enough. The
N.S.W. Parliament should insist on a
thorough overhaul of this “art union”
business and of the affairs of those who
conduct “art unions,” and it should pro-
tect the public by passing a watertight
Charities Bill.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Devalued Dollar.
British exports have been moving up ;
the U.S.A.’s continue to slump, being now
about a quarter of 1929 values. British
costs compared with the same period of
last year show little rise; President
Roosevelt found that N.R.A. couldn’t
raise prices without raising costs.
Although that might be all right in the
home market it hit U.S. exporters
severely, particularly the farmers. Aus-
tralian manufacturers know what high
costs do to an export trade.
So the Reconstruction Finance Cor-
poration was given authority to bid up
for gold in terms of dollars in an attempt
to depreciate the dollar externally. The
idea was to make importers and others
who had to send money out of the coun-
try provide a bonus for exporters and so
help to offset the rise in costs.
But the Reconstruction Corp.’s
method of devaluing the dollar by arti-
ficial means was found to be “clumsy.”
Now, in effect, about half of the U.S.A.’s
stock of gold is to be made available for
an exchange equalisation fund, which
will be used by the Treasury “to keep
the nation’s currency at the desired parity
with foreign exchanges.” In other words,
if the dollar gets too high in relation to
sterling, this fund will be used to force
it down.
The gold backing of the dollar is to
be reduced by 40 or 50 p.c., and all gold
is to be impounded by the Treasury. In
Australia the gold or sterling backing
for the £1 has dwindled without any
other sign of inflation; but we have
always had some valuable security to
make the backing up to 20 shillings or
more. In the U.S.A. there is evidently
to be straightout reduction of between
40 and 50 p.c. in the backing for the
dollar, which will be a new coin alto-
gether.
Whether there will be any great rise
in prices will depend upon more than
mere devaluation. The U.S.A. is still a
very wealthy country, and, provided
there is no excess issue of fiat paper,
there is not likely to be a panic of ex-
changing currency for goods. It is pos-
sible that Mr. Roosevelt’s latest move
will have little direct effect on the in-
ternal price-level; if that is so, then
debtors will get little relief from their
obligations. But those Americans who,
at the bidding of the Government, ex-
changed gold for gold-certificates are cer-
tainly being legally robbed.
♦
No Place for- Refugees.
Some bright soul —a poet—has suggested
that the Northern Territory offers excel-
lent prospects for the settlement of Jewish
refugees. He says that there are 30,000
German Jews waiting for an invitation to
go there, and that the Administrator at
Darwin has informed him that “the agri-
cultural, mineral and pastoral resources
of the Territory are sufficient to accom-
modate a white population of a million.”
It is to be hoped that the Administrator
did not make this misleading statement;
equally that nobody will attempt to break
down the barriers against foreign refugee
immigration. Even the “S. M. Herald’s”
young man, after his six days’ explora-
tion of the ether of the North, has de-
parted from his paper’s traditional policy
of “follow the Minister” so far as to say:
There is no proven agricultural land imme-
diately available for settlement in the Northern
Territory This does not mean that the
land is being withheld, for the lessees and
owners would gladly put it to profitable uses
or sell out if they could.
The Territory is essentially large-area
country, and always will be. There are
tracts in Asia, almost exactly like it but
better-watered, growing substantially the
same types of native vegetation and
lying on the verges of areas which sup-
port teeming millions. Yet they are as
empty as the Territory, or nearly so.
Australia is a great continent; but its
future lies in its coastal and river areas
and their intensive development. Im-
provement of existing farms to make it
possible to decrease the individual areas
farmed and at the same time employ
more labor ; increase of yield per acre in
staple grains ; the quite-possible doubling
of milk production per cow via the tested
purebred; the standardisation of beef
cattle in consonance with market re-
quirements ; a pound more wool on every
sheep’s back ; better watering provisions ;
the introduction of new industries such
as pig-raising in agriculture and the ab-
sorption by them of surplus farm pro-
ducts which the world market does not
require—these are all factors which must
be implemented to increase population
and keep unemployment down. There
must be a closer relation between secon-
dary industry and primary industry—the
former turning surplus primary material
which the world market does not want
into products which the world or Aus-
tralia does want. Rural-town manufac-
ture needs encouragement. Above all,
there must be reduced Government costs
and cut taxation to give the producer a
chance.
With such a policy, nobody need worry
about a comparatively empty North so
long as it is pastorally occupied. Some of
those empty, neglected spaces are the best
defence in one direction which Australia
could have. The march of an army from
Darwin to the eastern railheads would
make Napoleon’s march to Moscow look
like a huge success.
An Unfederal Swindle.
“Bill o’ Costs,” from Adelaide: —•
To call the N. S. Wales tax upon incomes
derived from other States a “double tax”
understates the imposition. It is a third tax
on the same income: one paid to the State in
which it is earned, one to the Commonwealth
Treasury and a third to a stout gentleman in
Macquarie-street, xyho, of course, is the one
of the. trio with no shadow of a moral right,
and a very dubious legal one, to exact it.
Here is an example of how it hits the pro-
ducer. A farmer from South Aus. took up
land in N. S. Wales at the urgent solicitation
of the Stevens of the day. He made his home
there, leaving some of his family on the S.A.
holding; improved the country out of know-
ledge, and induced others of his type to follow
him. The farmer has made no income in N. S.
Wales for the past three or four years, for
obvious reasons, but, contrariwise, has piled
up an overdraft as high as his bank will permit
to enable him to hold out until better times.
The reward of his enterprise is to have the
profit from his S.A. farm (which, by the way,
never reached his hands, but only showed to
his credit on a p. and 1. account) pounced upon
by two fairly legitimate tax-gatherers and one
highwayman, and he is, in consequence, com-
pelled to beg of a deaf banker for more over-
draft with which to satisfy them.
As if this were not enough, he is annually
bled for Federal land tax, levied by the ridicu-
lous process of putting together every scrap of
land scattered about the continent and every
trifling interest in companies owning land as
sites for offices or factories in order to make
a “large estate.”
Mr. Stevens was asked long ago what he
meant to do about this income-tax pillage. He
replied that “the matter” was “under considera-
tion,” and “under consideration” it still is.
There is an impression that his Government is
saving up the promise of repeal as bait for the
general election. This sort of “reform” ought
not to influence the vote of a rabbit.
6
Patriotism Is Not Enough.
According to a cable the Duchess of
Rutland has been writing in the “Empire
Review” of the “snobbery” of some
British wine-drinkers; the prejudice
against non-Continental wines, she thinks,
“is breaking down under a new Empire
consciousness.”
Snobbery has always been conspicuous
in food and drink, and nowhere more
than in Australia. When the World War
began neither the Union Club nor the Mel-
bourne Club had an Australian wine on
its wine-list; imported wines were served
at Government Etouse functions in every
State, and at nearly all fashionable
dinners and dances. About the same
time there was a local prejudice against,
for example, Australian leather and
tweed.
As the years passed more and more
Australians took to drinking local wines,
and wearing boots and clothes of Austra-
lian origin, stocking their homes with
Australian furniture and so on. The
tariff helped, of course; but it also hin-
dered. Snobbery again. There are poli-
tical snobs —they were Freetraders in
this case —who resent articles which they
regard as having been foisted on them by
Protection.
We have reached a stage when prac-
tically every Australian who drinks wine
at all drinks Australian wine; while no-
body who orders, say, a pair of boots
dreams of stipulating, as in the past, that
they must be of overseas leather. The
same with innumerable other commodi-
ties. But this isn’t the result of what the
Duchess of Rutland might call “a new
Australian consciousness” ; it is a natural
reaction to the fact that our wines and
other products have improved out of
sight in the past 20 years.
Similarly, the British are not drinking
Australian wines as a compliment to the
Empire ; the compliment, in 99 per cent,
of cases, is to the wines. Already at
some of the London bodegas Australian
champagne and claret are served as often
as French, and English families are be-
ginning to stock our wines as Australian
families did a decade or so ago. The
movement is likely to grow. It will not
do so, however, because Britain is getting
more Empire-conscious (in point of fact
the British talk and think less about the
Empire than most of its white members),
but because the British know a good
thing when they see it. They built up
their own industries with quality as their
watchword, and it is quality alone that
has enabled their industries to survive.
The Duchess of Rutland’s late husband,
a well-known shot, would have been the
first to buy his sporting guns abroad if
England hadn’t been able to make him
better guns than Europe or the U.S.A.
♦
Wool and Wheat.
Wool is just on Is. sd. a pound, and
going higher; and every bale can be
sold. Wheat is about 2s. a bushel at sid-
ing, and there is a tremendous surplus in
all the States where it is grown for ex-
port. Steamers are not coming for it,
and silos won’t take it. Moreover, the
growers are in such a plight that a flour
tax has had to be imposed to help them.
Yet for 22 years our Commonwealth
politicians have been levying a land tax
“to burst up the big estates” ; in effect, to
drive sheepmen off their properties and
put wheatmen on. And in the distribu-
tion of the flour-tax proceeds the eight-
bushel man who put in, say, 400 acres
badly is to get as much as the twenty-
bushel man who put in 400 acres well;
and the good farmer who converted his
1932-33 losses on wheat into a profit by
keeping stock, and paid income-tax on
it, is to be punished by being deprived
of the bounty.
The man was right who marvelled at
the imbecility with which the world is
governed.
«
Official Bouquets for Douglas.
Major Douglas has arrived in Aus-
tralia, a Messiah of the new finance. He
has a large following here of earnest,
somewhat cocksure, young men, scores of
whom are artists. The Labor party and
the Communists look on with approval —
though “socialisation of credit” is not
exactly “social credit” writ large.
The major’s first days on this continent
must have inflated him with the idea that
he had at last reached Utopia. He was
greeted with civic receptions, Parliamen-
tary dinners, processions of motor-cars
and about half an acre of bagpipes. In
Britain Mr. Douglas is a very unimport-
ant person, who gets attention at all only
as an additional diversion for the silly-
season press. When he gave evidence be-
fore the MacMillan Committee his
world-shaking theories rang so hollow
that the report did not even mention
them.
Hospitable entertainment is the visi-
due. But nothing is to be gained by
giving official recognition to a nostrum
calculated to turn the eyes of Australian
taxpayers from the ideal of reducing our
costs, paying our debts and living within
our incomes.
♦—
The Lodger Franchise.
It is to be hoped that when the N. S.
Wales Cabinet discusses local-government
franchises E. S. Spooner, the Minister
concerned, will not yield to colleagues
who tremble at the thought of votes.
Sydney City Council has had a lodger
franchise for over 30 years. In the time
of a council which was a product of the
system, such daring things were done that
the city was placed under commission rule.
Now it is governed by a quarrelling par-
tisan body which cannot even elect its
own Mayor without making a laughing-
stock of itself.
There is no justification for the lodger
qualification. Ninety per cent, of genuine
lodgers don’t give a toss whether they
have a municipal vote or not —most of
them must regard it as a nuisance. The
vote was introduced into shire and
suburban government in 1927 to concili-
ate Trades Hall groups which saw in it a
means of manipulating the control of
rates into their own hands, since they
felt themselves capable of going a little
further in siretching definitions than any
other party would have the hide to go.
The only argument which has even a
colorable likeness to an excuse for a
lodger franchise is that the lodger con-
tributes to the rates indirectly. If that is
logical, every employee in a business
within the City of Sydney has an equal
right to vote. Nobody has yet devised
a franchise as safe and reasonable as the
one in vogue in N. S. Wales out-
side the City of Sydney before Lang re-
formed it. It recognised the owner, the
lessee and the rent-paying occupier of
rateable land valued at £5 or upwards.
The sooner the Stevens Government
returns to this system and makes it uni-
form, both in Sydney and the country,
the sooner we shall be on the way to
sane local government.
+
More Speed at Sea.
The Orient Co. is building another
steamer for the Australian trade. It is
a nice compliment, seeing the load which
every vessel which visits Australia pays
in Suez Canal dues, port charges, customs
duties and taxes. The ship will be 25,000
tons, the biggest on the Australian run,
and her construction will give work to
3300 people for 18 months. She will
accommodate 1250 passengers, and
amenities like children’s decks and bed-
stead cabins will abound in her.
Only one item is not mentioned in the
description—speed. Her horse-power,
24,000 b.h.p., does not sound promising,
and those who look on the refrigerated
trade as the salvation of some of Aus-
tralia’s industries might reasonably be
glad to see a few tennis courts and dining-
rooms thrown overboard to hasten the
voyage.
It is now a regular thing for both
small British and foreign cargo steamers
to beat the mail steamers to Europe
with boats whose top cruising speed
is about 17 knots. A British ship,
the Mauretania, about 5000 tons larger
than the new Orient vessel, set the pace
for the Atlantic in 1909 by crossing from
Manhattan to Queenstown in 4 days
lOhr. 41 min. In 1924 she made the
N.Y.-Southampton run in 5 days lhr.
49min. —3202 miles.
Mail steamers do the voyage from
London to Melbourne, about 11,200
miles, in 35 days. There are three or four
ports of call on the way ; still, even allow-
ing a week for calling, there is a con-
siderable difference between average
Atlantic speeds and average Australian
speeds. A service at an average of 20
knots even would, with the help of trans-
continental trains, land mails from Lon-
don in Sydney well under the month. It
is time there was a salutary speeding up.
♦
Names Wanted.
“Second Divvy’s” challenge:
I suggested (B. 10/1/’34) that present-day
Australians are not, as alleged by Deputy-
Premier Bruxner, of N. S. Wales, “the finest
horsemen in the world.” In rebuttal “Circle
Dot” began by citing (B. 17/1/’34) some Aus-
tralians of a past generation, such as Wootton
and Carslake, who “held their own with the
best flat-race jockeys of Europe.” Their careers
prove two of my points: (1) that Australians
who are champions, or near-champions, at any-
thing go abroad and win fame and money by
proving it, (2) that we have no horsemen of
that class at present. Bobby Lewis, in the
last instalment of his “Life,” wrote: —
“I’ve never seen so many bad riders in Australia
as there are to-day.”
The chairman of the V.R.C. (L. K. Mackin-
non) and James Scobie concurred.
“About 40 years ago,” said Scobie, “it was simple
to pick plenty of good riders. But to-day you
would be lucky if you could gather together 10
good riders. I don’t think you could get that
many.”
In the steeplechasing field “Circle Dot” cited
Corrigan, Regan and other stars of 40 years
ago as men who might have “shone over the
jumps in any part of the world.” I doubt it,
though my friend Paddy Nolan, who often
rode against them, has told me how much
better they were than present-day artists in the
same line.
Since “Circle Dot” has owned up to being
a drover, I will make a relevant admission:
I am a cross-country rider. Not a good one;
far from it. But I have ridden over Randwick
and Rosehill steeplechase courses in races, and
at the Sydney Showground, and at dozens of
up-country showgrounds, in hunting contests.
I have even had some wins. “Circle Dot,” as
a drover, could no doubt do as well, or better;
but I will wager fhe value of his entire herd
to that of Sydney’s oldest cab-horse that he
is no more capable of riding over the Aintree
course than I am, and that he would cut as
poor a figure as I would in the ring of the
Dublin Horse Show. I know Aintree and
Dublin, and I know the horsemanship stand-
ards of our drovers.
“Circle Dot’s” yarns about dud English
riders in the country, and anonymous back-
blockers who perform rip-roaring feats while
drovers’ offsiders drawl tepid approval, don’t
prove that “for percentage of the population
the Australian is still the best horseman in
the world.” They prove nothing except the
predilection of one Australian drover for out-
of-date skite. On a percentage basis we have
fewer potential horsemen than most countries;
out of our population of 61 millions, nearly
4 millions live in almost horseless cities and
towns.
Much more convincing than these old boasts,
which have been current in the Argentine,
America’s Wild West and every other cattle
country since I was a' child, was “Circle Dot’s”
reference to the Ashtons. Here we have four
present-day Australians who are genuine horse-
men. They are also champion polo-players by
our standards, and good ones by any standards.
Naturally, like the best of our flat-race riders,
they marketed their gifts overseas. They were
admired wherever they played, yet they turned
Out to be goals behind England’s (not "to men-
tion America’s) best. Their London handicaps
prove it.
The names of the world’s leading modern
exponents of every type of horsemanship—
polo, hunting-field, steeplechase, military, haute
ecole —are as well known to horsemen as the
names of the best modern cricketers are to
cricket-lovers. They are on record. Where
are our Bradmans, Crawfords and Lindrums of
the saddle? If “Circle Dot” can point to so
much as one I will for ever hold my peace.
If he can’t, and until he can, then I submit,
as a self-respecting Australian, that all of us,
and particularly our public men, should shut
up on the subject. Bragging, even when justi-
fied, makes a country disliked (look at
America!); when bragging can’t be supported
by proofs it makes the country that goes in
for it a laughing-stock.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Deoch an Dhoris”: That par. about
the farewelling of “popular” people on
their departure from country towns (B.
17/1 /’34) reminds me of the most in-
tensely disliked bank manager I ever met.
“How did the New Year party go off?”
“Nobody knows, Jimmy. When we woke up it was gone."
Flint in the matter of overdrafts but
porous sandstone when it came to absorb-
ing free drinks, he never paid for anything
if he could help it, and the publican wasn’t
game to refuse him the freedom of the
slate. In due course our man was trans-
ferred, and Bung combed the township
and neighboring stations for a presenta-
tion purse for the departing favorite. This
was handed over at a meeting in the
organiser’s pub, and, the usual blurb about
the guest’s popularity having been handed
out, the subject of these praises put the
unopened wallet in his pocket and de-
parted. “How much did he get?” I asked
Bung. “Not a stiver,” replied that
worthy. “1 raked in thirty quid. He
owed me £25 and the balance went in
paying for the send-off.”
* * * *
“Old Timer”: A new variant of
Edward Dyson’s Golden Shanty is re-
ported from Kalgoorlie, where a sharp-
eyed person has gouged a 2oz. nugget out
of the granolithic pavement in Hannan-
street. Since then several pennyweight
pieces have been chipped out. This pave-
ment was put down 33 years ago, crushed
rubble from one of the mine dumps being
used for bodying up the cement. There
is a mile or more of it, also about half
a mile of the same material in the local
cycle track, so, if gold continues to be
found, both pavements are likely to
assume a pock-marked appearance.
* * * *
“Impair”: France is throwing its
casinos wide open to roulette, the fas-
cinating gamble which for many years
has been the monopoly of Monte Carlo
and, with its sister, rouge et noir, estab-
lished the fame of the great gambling
hell. Systems invented to beat the wheel
have been as numerous as sand grains at
Bondi. The only one to show any profit
that writer can recall was invented by a
Yorkshireman named Jaggers. He was
an expert in delicate machinery and
knew that machine parts constantly in
motion developed varying degrees of
wear. Going to Monte, he made a long
and careful note of the almost imper-
ceptible fault in each of the many rou-
lette wheels in the Casino. He then en-
listed an army of confederates and pro-
ceeded to reap the benefit of each wheel’s
idiosyncrasy. He was some £200,000 up
before the proprietary at the Mount took
a tumble. They changed all the wheels
about and waited for Jaggers to come
back. This he did, and dropped half his
winnings before he also realised some-
thing was up. Ever since then the wheels
at Monte are changed about daily.
-jf * * *
“Hunter Tucker”: A telegram with a
novel address has reached its destination.
The superscription was: “In front of Par-
liament House, Canberra, to-day at two
o’clock, driving a grey car”.... It was
sent by a man whose car broke down
while on the way to meet his sister, and
who hit on the only possible means of
letting her know. Three minutes after
the grey car stopped in front of Parlia-
ment House the lady was reading her
brother’s telegram.
* * * *
“Bukshi Sahib”: The Indian native
potentate who outruns the constable con-
tinues to crop up, in spite of the alleged
advancement of the Native States under
the benign guidance of the Raj. The
latest whose affairs have been taken over
by the paramount Power is the Maha-
rajah of Dewas, a “small salute” State in
Eastern India. Indignant at the idea of
the British oppressor stepping in to pre-
vent him wasting his revenues and taxing
his people into the grave, the Maha-
rajah has bolted to the handy little
French possession of Pondicherry and
defied the Big Boss by announcing that
he will starve himself to death unless the
bailiffs are withdrawn. This is a well-
known threat in some parts of India,
where a fanatic is occasionally found
starving to death on the doorstep ot
someone on whom he desires the wrath
of the gods to descend. It is the spirit
behind Gandhi’s many stunts.
* * * *
“Tweedledee”: The question of the
correct spelling of Mosman (or Moss-
man) is not so easily settled as Cappo-
quin” seems to think (B. 17/1/’34).
Only the other day G. B. Mosman, a
nephew of the original Archibald, and
therefore presumably (like Tony Weller)
“the oldest surviving proprietor of the
"How would you feel if I were to take
you up ten miles in a balloon?”
"Oh! I wouldn’t like having to parachute
all that way home, thanks.”
name,” wrote to the “S. M. Herald” in-
sisting that the family, before and since
it left Scotland, has always been con-
stant to the single “s.” Yet the fact re-
mains that the Queensland township
named after another member of the clan
remains Mossman in all the maps and
gazetteers, and I am told there is a
Mossman-street in Charters Towers.
* * * *
“Arev”: The small girl who asked for
/ivepenn’orth of cream and took out the
change in an ice block (B. 10/1 / ’34) re-
minds me of a youngster who came into
our butcher’s shop in Port Melbourne.
A slab of the confection known as honey-
comb toffee decorated the customer’s
hand and the order was given: “One
and fivepence ha’penny worth of corned
beef, please.”
* * * *
“G.D.M.”: Fasoli’s Cafe in King-
street, Melbourne, has changed hands
with the retirement of the last Fasoli,
Madame Mazzolini.
Her father, an Italian
Swiss, reached the
Jim Crow diggings
(later Daylesford) in
the ’fifties, and in ’B4
he opened a restau-
rant in Lonsdale-
street. Twenty-eight
years ago he shifted
to King-street, and
Fasoli’s has been
something of a Bo-
hemian centre ever
since, on the strength
of the wit, the
wine, the macaroni and the garlic sau-
sages. Dr. William Maloney, Marshall
Hall, the Lindsays, the Dysons, Tom
Roberts, Dr. Pat Moloney and O’Hara
Wood were among patrons of the estab-
lishment.
* * *
“Jungor”: The most uncompromising
literary precisian I have met in 40 years
upon the Inky Way was an ancient who
had been transported to Westralia in the
old days and, after rehabilitating himself,
had turned to journalism for a living. He
claimed to have graduated for the job in
Fleet-street, and he wrote ponderous but
quite scholarly editorials for several
country newspapers. Anything like a
split infinitive would lash him to frenzy,
and he was always declaiming against
modern solecisms and vulgarisms. One
of his pet aversions was the term “roads
board,” which figured extensively in
Westralian country news at that period.
He wouldn’t have it at any price. It
should be “road board,” he would insist
vehemently ; “you don’t talk of ‘a rail-
way,’ do you, or of ‘a billiards-room’?”
And, as far as I know, nobody ever did
or does, but “roads board” it rpmains to
this day.
* * * *
“Kutchee Wallah”: “Wing • Com-
mander” errs in his statement (B. 10 /1 / ’34)
that members of the Anzac Mounted
Division saw the Indians with their tiny
“screw” guns in the Sinai fighting. The
screw gun, a cumbersome but ingenious
contraption which did fine work over
many years of frontier “affairs,” went
by the board long before a real war was
staged. The gun that the Australians
saw was a small field-gun, made in one
piece. The barrel of the old screw gun
was in two pieces, one of which screwed
into the other ; hence the name. Until
well into this century the gunners were
men of the Royal Garrison Artillery
chosen for their physique. To unload the
gun from the mules and have it in action
was a matter of seconds.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The ban upon music in
N.S.W. hotels which “Choom” resents (B.
10/1f34) has—or had—a reason. The
drinking-shop of the past invariably had
a parlor in which there was a piano, and
to these parlors some of the numerous
barmaids —there were always barmaids to
spare in those wicked old days —would
retire with well-cashed customers who
seemed in a mood to spend their money.
These tinkling pianos seemed to be so
closely associated with public-house
orgies that Parliament in a spasm ot
morality declared for a total prohibition
of music. Actually the piano in the up-
stairs sitting-room of the country hotel is
illegal—or its playing is ; and so are the
orchestras in the large city hotels,
although the police, to do them justice,
are usually reasonable. Still, I have
stayed at country pubs, not in the good
books of the local sergeant, where Bung
kept his piano locked for safety’s sake.
* * * *
“Merton Street”: The par. (B.
10/1f34) about Oriel College, which is
handing over its dean to Australia as
Archbishop of Brisbane, hardly did jus-
tice to the past of the secluded old spot
between Merton-street and the High. It
is true that in these days its outlook is
modest and that it is not one of the
“honor” colleges, like Balliol, but in the
past it housed some of Oxford’s most
distinguished sons. Walter Ralegh was
one of its first Empire-builders, and it
produced at least one Archbishop of Can-
terbury—Arundel —and that queer pro-
pagandist “Histriomastix” Prynne. When
Keble was Master, round about the end
of the eighteenth century, and for years
afterwards, Oriel fellowships attracted all
that was most brilliant at Oxford. New-
man, for instance, was there in the hey-
day of his enthusiasm, and it was the
Oriel attitude towards him which started
him on the road which ended under a
cardinal’s hat. James Anthony Froude
and Hartley Coleridge were both Fellows
of Oriel for a period.
PIECES OF EIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said the pound to the dollar: “Good brother-
in-bunce,
There were close upon five of you went to
me once.
Then four were sufficient, and finally three
Became very nearly the equal of me.
And I’m free to admit that 1 felt the disgrace
And counted myself in a perilous case
When no more I could look you straight-eyed
in the face.
But it’s obvious now it’s the other way round,
And you’re feeling yourself a bit glum. I’ll be
bound,
The same as I did,
Now you’ve slithered and slid
Till you’re eight-to-the-pound, brother, eight-
to-the-pound.”
Said the buck to the quid: “Can that stuff!
Cut it out!
You can bet our old Roosy knows what he’s
about.
What odds if just now I’m deflated and flat?
I shall bounce, in good time, all the higher for
that.
The forte of your Uncle (get this?) is finance;
You can’t circumvent him in England or France
At that, and you haven’t the ghost of a chance.
The star that his waggon is hitched to is hid,
Quite likely, from you, but paste this in your
lid:
There’s no cause for shame
When it’s part of a game
This being marked down to the eighth of a
quid.”
Said the pound to the dollar: “No need for
the spike.
You can gloze the thing over however you like,
But you can’t dodge the pertinent fact that
you’re down
From the giddy four bob to the modest half-
crown.
It may just be part of the scheme that you’ve
planned
To bring back content to your suffering land
By some process that none but yourselves
understand.
But you’ve fall’n, for all that, from your lofty
estate;
You’ve shrunken in power if you haven’t in
weight,
When what a mere five
Of old could contrive
Is a job that has come to necessitate eight.”
Said the buck to the quid: “But, bo, why
should we care?
We’re just as almighty as ever we were.
There are guys who to grab us will venture their
lives
As quick if we’re eights (by your measure) as
fives.
D’you remember the parrot, to Silver so dear,
And the slogan it shrilled, never-ceasing and
clear,
As it perched on the back of that bold bucca-
neer?
We’ve made it an eagle, alert and elate;
On our President’s shoulder it challenges Fate
And screams long and loud
To the listening crowd
On the lure and the glamor of pieces-of-eiglit."
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kerys”: I was chatting to the chemist
when the cheerful flapper blew in and
said she would take two ounces of nitric
acid. Asked why, she seemed annoyed,
and replied with dignity that she required
it to make summer drinks. It took some
persuasion to make her rummage in her
handbag and sort out the recipe, which,
of course, stipulated citric acid as the
ingredient. She was still ruffled when
she left. “Anyway,” said she, collecting
her change, “I don’t suppose there’s
much difference.” No wonder chemists
go grey earlier than other men.
* * * *
“Philabeg”: As “El V.” says (B.
17/1 / ’34) the Irish—that is, the Celtic
Irish—have as much right to the kilt as
their brethren of the Scottish Highlands.
With both sections of the race the kilt
evolved from the original one-piece gar-
ment, a long strip of cloth —skin in the
beginning—which was wound round the
loins and then wrapped about the upper
part of the body. You can see the idea
to-day in the sari, which is the only gar-
ment of the lower-caste Hindu women. It
is curious, however, that the Irish kilt-
wearers never seemed to have evolved the
“Don't you find that work very tiring?”
“Not much, missus. I was born to it —me ole man used to ’arpoon whales.”
clan tartans as their Scottish brethren did.
The Irish kilt was uniformly saffron
yellow, the dye being made from the saf-
fron plant, which in Cornwall is used to
color and flavor cakes. Some years
before the war an enthusiastic Irish mem-
ber used to appear in the Commons in
the ancient dress of his people.
* * * *
“Wandana”: At a Queensland seaport
not long ago, two Chinamen came down
the gangway of an overseas ship carrying
a sugar-bag in which something wriggled
and squirmed. To the Customs officer’s
inquiry as to the contents they protested
volubly that it was only “black tomcat
belong fliend,” which they were taking
ashore to him. “Open up that bag and
let me see!” insisted the officer. Out
leapt a spitting, swearing apparition and
made for the ship again. The two climbed
aboard and presently reappeared with
the bag, once more showing signs of
agitated life. “You like look see again?”
they grinned, but this time they were
roughly told to push on and deliver
Thomas. It wasn’t till weeks later that
the official learned that the bag on its
second journey contained opium as well
as cat, the Chows having rightly decided
that the risk of a second opening-up
was negligible.
* * *
“Jeanong”: The recent correspondence
in the “S. M. Herald” re R. L. Steven-
son’s open letter to Dr. Hyden
in defence of Father Damien
shows how easy it is to have a
conflict of memories over a 40-
year-back happening. The then
editor of the “Australian Star”
(in which the letter appeared)
is found asserting: “Neither
Stevenson nor I ever gave the
question of libel or no libel a
passing thought.” Yet Graham
Balfour, Stevenson’s cousin,
who lived with him in Samoa,
says in his “Life of Steven-
son” : “He realised the risks he
was taking. ‘I knew I was
writing a libel,’ he said. ‘I
thought he would bring an
action. I asked leave of my
gallant family, and the sense
that I was signing away all I
possessed kept me up to high-
water mark, and made me feel
every insult heroic.’ ”
“El V.”: Fate plays some strange
tricks. There were two serious motor
accidents in N. S. Wales within the past
six months. In one, a car was struck by
a train and all the occupants killed. The
other was the recent Gundagai disaster.
In each case, the driver’s name was Noel
Clarke.
* * * #
“Binduli”: What trivial things some-
times alter the whole course of a man’s
life and determine his career! Thirty-
three years ago Staniforth Smith, then
the young and ambitious Mayor of Kal-
goorlie, decided that he had a good
chance of becoming M.L.A. for the gold-
fields city and duly announced his can-
didature. Unfortunately his own com-
mittee upset his applecart by holding a
meeting in a pub, an illegal practice that
by Westralian electoral law would have
furnished a ground for his disqualifica-
tion had he been elected. Staniforth,
after taking legal advice, reluctantly
withdrew. But writs had been issued for
the first Federal elections, and somebody
suggested that he should have a shot for
the Senate. It looked a forlorn hope,
for the candidate was hardly known out-
side of the goldfields, but a few
weeks of campaigning put him in
at the top of the poll, to the amazement
of almost everybody, including himself,
After that it was all plain sailing for
“Stan” ; before his Senatorial term was
up a Commonwealth administrative
billet was cut-and-dried for him. But
much as he owed to his own talents and
energy, it isn’t at all certain that he didn’t
owe more to the blundering com-
mittee that held the electioneering meet-
ing on licensed premises.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: “Sixenate” tells of a
husband who, after paying maintenance
to his wife, not only got the order can-
celled, but obtained a maintenance order
against her (B. 27/12/’33). Actually there
is no Act of Parliament under which
such an order could be made. The De-
serted Wives and Children Act would be
inapplicable in such a case because it
provides for wives, not husbands. There
is a section under the Crimes Act dealing
“ You're home terribly late! Tell me, is there anybody else?"
“Why should y' WANT anybody elsh?”
with desertion, but when a prosecution
is launched under that head the defend-
ant, if proven guilty, can only be sent
to gaol. There is no provision for a
maintenance order.
* * *
“Silladar”: In the process of making
over the native army in India the cavalry
will be affected with the other arms. The
old wing divisions have been abolished,
and organisation will be on the squadron
troop basis of the British mounted regi-
ments. Each troop will carry one of the
new Vickers-Berthier automatic rifles in-
stead of the special section carrying the
Hotchkiss rifle. British mounted troops
in Sinai and Palestine were equipped with
both Lewis gun and Hotchkiss, so many
to a squadron, separate squadrons tak-
ing over the machine-guns. The Lewis
was satisfactory, though the lock action
was a trouble in sandy country. In
writer’s experience, the Hotchkiss was a
nuisance, though lighter than the Lewis
gun. Its capacity for jamming at the
most unexpected moments made it highly
unpopular. Biggest change of all, per-
haps, is the formation of field artillery
units among the native troops. Not since
the days of the Mutiny has the sepoy
been trusted with field and bigger guns,
the small mountain batteries being as
far as he was allowed to go.
* * * *
“Phil”: The stamp-collecting craze re-
ceived a rude shock in Melbourne the
other week when a flood of bogus stamps
was unloaded on the market. These
were excellent imitations of the Kings-
ford Smith and Sydney Bridge issues,
even to the cancellation marks. Several
dealers were victimised, but, strange as
it may seem, there is a demand in phila-
telic circles for even established forgeries.
Consequently most of the “stumers” have
been sent to London to supplement the
catalogue of an affluent gentleman with
a zest for such things.
* * * *
“Pedagogue”: I number among my
pupils Ernest, aged eight; surname
Martin. How the devil was I to know
his dad is a Frenchman and used to be
a teacher of maths.? Ernest seemed to
me to be paying insufficient attention to
his arithmetic, and I noted the fact on his
quarterly report. “I can’t understand it,”
said Mr. Martin, who called on me, much
disturbed. “Arithmetic I have taught my-
self to Ernest. He can add ; subtract;
divide. He knows what logarithms are
for, and can extract square and cube
roots. What is wrong?” “Tables,” said
I briefly. “Weights and measures. He
doesn’t seem to take the trouble to
master them.” Mr. Martin beamed.
“That’s all right,” he said heartily. “Your
weights and measures are cockeyed. Too
many surds. I have told Ernest not to
worry about them.” I retorted rather
hastily: “Weights and measures are per-
fectly straightforward and simple, and
there’s no reason why any boy shouldn’t
learn them.” “M’soor,” said Mr. Martin,
lapsing into his own tongue in his excite-
ment, “answer me this! What is the
side of an acre, your square measure of
land? I see you do not understand. Sup-
pose I plot a perfectly square acre. It
is 22 yards, one foot, eight inches, and
then decimals —523643297865487444631-
215432154” “Stop!” I said. “I’ll
admit that’s a surd. But that’s an iso-
lated case.” He grinned hideously. “You
have a duodecimal system of measures.
Twelve inches make one foot. But when
you measure land your unit is the chain
—Gunter’s chain—loo links to 22 yards ;
each link seven point ninety-two inches,
and even that perversion into decimals
doesn’t save your acre from being utterly
irrational. As to your weights, I thought
I had discovered a nexus between your
solid and fluid measures in a table-book
that gave 50 pints as equal to 1000 ounces
an d one cubic foot. That is a clumsy
decimalisation that works out at 276.48
cubic inches of water to the gallon, but
it isn’t accurate even at that. The same
table-book says that according to the
latest physical determination a gallon
of water consists of 277.123 cubic inches,
So you see you have no rational basis
for your measures. M’soor, if I had
had to learn arithmetic as the English
pretend to teach it—a matter of sevens
and tens and elevens and twelves and
dimensions that aren’t divisible exactly by
anything—l tell you I should have gone
mad!”
* * * *
“Diggaire”: Mention of the “Mosaic”
j n Tt e Australian War Museum (B.
mnru \ reca ii, the storv ne rsistentlv cir-
-IU/U d 4) recalls me story pe s s entiyc r
culated about it. The Rev. Maitland
Woods, who was chaplain with the Light
Horse in Palestine when the Mosaic was
discovered, was satisfied that it was the
floor of a church built 15 centuries ago
b y a . Bi , sho ? Geor f: The chaplain tele-
graphed to military headquarters:
“Mosaic St. George discovered.” Back
came the answer: “Trooper Saint
George’s name not on roll; telegraph his
number and send his identity disc.”
* * * *
“The Prooshan”: The finest shop-on-
wheels outfit I ever saw was at Gnomery
Nation, on an affluent of the Barwon
j^j ver (N.S.W.). The huge lorry was
elaborately built and fitted within to hold
household drapery, men’s and boys’ cloth-
ing, women’s wear and all manner of
domestic needs. The latest city fashions
were there, and everything was admirably
displayed at night, when station folk,
shearing hands and people from the sur-
rounding district arrived with their cash,
From the “shop” to a neighboring gum-
sapling extended an aerial, and wireless
music, songs and dramatic sketches served
to entertain the crowd and brisk up the
trading. A dozen colored lights, swung
in the trees and saplings around, were
supplied by electricity operated by the
motor in the lorry. On the night that I
was present the proprietor took £5B. He
carried a stock of reserve goods in depot
at Brewarrina, running from £2OOO to
£3OOO in value, and he worked the coun-
try round on a hundred miles radius.
When the shearing was over he would re-
turn to Sydney.
CENTENARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Rudyard Kipling has undertaken to compose
an ode for the Melbourne centenary.”
He’s writ us reams of swinging verse and
rippling,
And it’s mostly rare good Hippocrene for
tippling.
To be rattled for a rhyme
’S not his way at any time,
But here’s a word might puzzle even Kipling.
For the trouble is pronunciations vary
Till the local poet grows a trifle wary.
When scholarly grammarians
Always speak of centenarians
Little wonder that some dub it centenary.
But voluble and controversial Henery
(Who cuts my hair) is game to bet a tenner he
Has that sure and certain guide
Noah Webster on his side
Whenever he refers to the centenary.
There are others equally intent ’n’ airy
Who obstinately will be bent to nary
View except to stress Jike hell
The initial syllable
And let the others rip in centenary.
And let me voice a hope that Melbourne
scenery
Will be gorgeous and gay in gold-and-greenery
When debonair Prince G.
Arrives from oversea
To help in loyal Victoria’s centenary.
But I find these exercises somewhat crippling
And strenuous for a literary stripling.
I wish I’d never heard
The exasperating word,
And I leave the cracking of the nut to Kipling.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ď
f
Quality should be your
first consideration
CRAVENA
in the nea> rnci&tuhe-p'iocf
’cellophane:*, pac k
TlO for 9d.l
L 20 for 1/6 l
POLITICAL POINTS
The Sydney trammies took round the
hat last year to send one of their mem-
bers to Russia. The pilgrim has re-
turned with the shattering news that in
the Red Paradise “tram-work is mainly
in the hands of women —it is not re-
garded as skilled labor.” The next pil-
grim, if any, will go at his own expense.
Since the High Court decided that
State railwaymen might* have their wages
and working conditions fixed in the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court, that insti-
tution has never been without a railway
case. State tribunals have also been kept
busy with these “disputes.” Last year
the N.S.W. and S.A. Commissioners
asked for the cancellation of Federal
awards. Now they are asking for the
cancellation of State awards ; and so the
thing goes on interminably.
The Westralian secessionists have a
deepening suspicion that Premier Collier
is just stringing them on. His language
was enthusiastic enough when the vote
showed that they were in the majority,
but, beyond appointing a Parliamentary
committee to write an essay or some-
thing, he has done nothing for the cause.
He was invited to promote it by sum-
moning a special summer session; he
summoned one, but it was all about a
Premiers’ Plan wrangle with the Leg.
Council, which was still raging at the
week-end. When it is over he is going
to Hobart, not with any intention of
cutting loose from the Federal Oppres-
sor, but in the hope of tickling it for a
larger grant.
Not only are bookmakers back on
South Aus. racecourses, but shop betting
has been introduced. A Betting Control
Board has been set up ; it issued the first
shop license to Tatt.’s Club. Twenty
Tommies with their clerks were on hand
when the doors were opened for business,
but they were unable to cope with the
crowd, for thousands lined up to take the
odds or bet s.p. on a third-rate meeting in
Melbourne. Many more licenses have
now been issued with the approval of the
“Liberal” Government.
Queensland expects to have a wheat
surplus this year, and the Wheat Board
proposes to export it. It has sent 500
tons away for a start. In the past
the four States which grow wheat for
export have been prevented from cutting
into the Queensland market, despite the
constitutional guarantee of inter-State
Freetrade. Now, when things with their
farmers were never worse, this board,
with the Government’s approval, is cut-
ting into their tragically restricted over-
seas markets, although Queensland
wheatgrowers are getting a payable fixed
price and the Commonwealth bounty to
boot. It is unspeakably mean.
While recommending that the circu-
lation of gold coins be “permanently for-
bidden,” President Roosevelt has not
yielded to the free-silver people, though
he has fed them with fine words.
“The Governments of the world,” he
says, “may well employ silver as a basis
of currency, and I look for its greatly
increased use.” The Governments of
the world are unlikely to be impressed.
They know from American experience
how quickly silver coins issued in excess
of requirements find their way back into
the Treasury, and how easily they can be
counterfeited. Australia has found that
out these last four years.
Queensland Agency-General claims
the credit for the suppression of a pic-
ture postcard of a woman buying cagmag
and asking the butcher “Did you say
this meat was exported or deported from
Australia?” (“S. M. Herald” solemnly
describes it as “A Libel on Australia.”)
The claim is disputed by others, among
them a Sydney lady. Still, it wasn’t a
bad joke, and it would have been better
to let it die of natural causes. Object-
ing to mild jokes at our expense really
won’t help us sell more butchers’ meat,
and things.
Henry, M.L.A., who found himself up
against an insurmountable wall of preju-
dice when he tried to modernise the
N.S.W. Divorce Act, is back from Maori-
land with the report that the Wellington
Council is delivering pasteurised milk in
bottles at sd. a quart, and cream for
sd. the quarter-pint. Sydney prices under
Milk Board control are 7d. a quart for
country milk, Bd. for suburban milk, and
7d. a quarter-pint for cream. Weaver,
the Minister of Health, broke a long
silence to say that he hoped to bring the
price of country milk down to 6d. a
quart. It could be done, but it is doubt-
ful whether Weaver is the man to do it.
Dr. Lines, of Hobart, in his presiden-
tial address at the Health Congress,
warned Australians that their old im-
“Australian Communists are infuriated at the report that Russia is joining the League
of Nations.”
“Cripes, she’s turned respectable!”
munity from tropical diseases endemic
in other countries exists no longer.
Sea travel interposed a time barrier that was
longer than the incubation period. The aero-
plane has changed all that.
The anopheles mosquito may be borne
by ’plane, and persons who quit some
centre of disease seemingly well may
arrive infected ; moreover, insect vectors
of malaria and yellow fever are already
here. The assurance is given that “the
public health service is alive to the situa-
tion” ; but will the politicians support it?
Public health commands no votes.
As a result of the High Court’s deci-
sion upholding the levying of N.S.W.
transport tax on vehicles engaged in
inter-State trade, Queensland has can-
celled the exemptions hitherto granted in
respect of those taking goods and pas-
sengers from Queensland to N.S.W. and
vice versa. As most of these already pay
taxation on goods and passengers picked
up and carried on the Queensland side,
the gain in revenue is not likely to be
heavy. On the other hand, the change
will knock back the brisk trade over the
border which has grown up between the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers and southern
Queensland. It is one of the penalties of
Government ownership of railways that
people are denied modern means of
transport.
By dismissing the Bankstown council
and appointing an administrator from
the Local Government Department,
N.S.W. Minister Spooner gave a lead to
Forgan Smith, who has done something
of the sort with the Mackay Bumbles.
There were two equal factions of aider-
men, each determined to elect its own
man as Mayor. As business was held up,
the Queensland Premier dissolved the
council and ordered a fresh election for
February, the town clerk to run the show
in the meantime. Forgan was once a
Mackay alderman himself.
From a Douglas Credit Ass. mani-
festo :
Recently Major Douglas had the pleasure of
meeting in public debate Mr. R. G. Hawtrey,
Under-Secretary of the British Treasury, and
recognised authority on banking and finance,
and the difference of opinion revealed was
surprisingly slender.
If that is so, why the need for all the
splurge, bagpipes and railing? The
British Treasury is the most conservative
financial authority in the world. If its
officials nearly agree with the major, then
the bulk of world finance must out-
Douglas Douglas by several miles, and
all his crying is futile. But Hawtrey is
not Under-Secretary to the British
Treasury ; he is merely an assistant in the
office.
Trade-union figures for the last
quarter of 1933 show 13.8 p.c. unem-
ployed in Queensland, 18.2 p.c. in Tas.,
19.9 p.c. in Vic., 20.5 p.c. in Westralia,
27 p.c. in N.S.W., and 28.9 in South
Aus. Compared with the second and
third quarters there was a reduction in
every State ; it was greatest in the Speck.
But the returns apply only to about half
the registered number of trade-unionists,
so the Stevens Government (which re-
ports a 17 p.c. increase of employment
in “large factories” in 18 months) has
ground for its protest that they are mis-
leading. Many trade-union executives are
very lax in furnishing information which
it is necessary that the country should
have. As a condition of retaining registra-
tion, they should be compelled to furnish
to the registrar quarterly reports relating
to membership and unemployed and
annual balance sheets.
Throughout the depression Queensland
has had fewer unemployed in proportion
to trade-union membership than any
other State. South Australia has had
35 p.c. idle and N. S. Wales 33 p.c., but
the Queensland figure has never gone
much above 16 p.c., and it is now below
14 p.c. Two things have helped it;
diversity of crops and decentralisation,
the latter particularly. If it had gone
in for dragging most of its trade to one
overgrown port, instead of letting it
take the shortest way to the coast,
Queensland would doubtless have had
as bad a time as the One-Big-City States.
Doubtless an effort will be made in
Westralia to run a Nat.-C.P. ticket for
the Senate at the end of the year, as in
1931 and 1928, but there are difficulties
in the way. E. B. Johnston is sure of a
C.P. nomination, and the Nats, would be
glad to have Collett, who took Cole-
batch’s place, because he stands so well
with the returned soldiers. But the third
retiring Senator is Kingsmill, and the
secessionists, who are strong Tn both
Perth and the country, won’t have Kings-
mill because he took the national side at
last year’s referendum. Westralia has no
better speaker in either House, but per-
haps Kingsmill, who is just on 70, will
stand down rather than have a second
and worse edition of what he underwent
during the secession campaign.
In Australia mental defectives are left
under private control —supervised to
some extent where children are “boarded
out”—or confined in asylums for the in-
sane. Benevolent Queenslanders are
raising a fund to build an institution in
which these poor creatures may be
trained in simple handicrafts —gardening
and the like—and taught to help them-
selves. Mental deficiency is more preva-
lent in Australia than most people are
aware. Hundreds of cases that come
before the Courts are never reported. It
is not “good copy.”
Australian visitors to Austria tell dire
tales of conditions in Vienna —the city
half-lighted, the streets patrolled by
troops, borders closed with machine-
guns. It is borne out by cables which
record 140 bomb outrages since January
1 and the enrolment of 5000 more home
guards to assist the regular police. The
Austrian is a pleasant, laughter-loving
person, but he seems to have a genius
for being a bone of contention, and, like
the small schoolboys of fiction, he has
spent most of his history being soundly
licked.
Australians returning from the U.S.A.
report that business men with whom they
discussed Roosevelt’s New Deal have no
faith in his measures but will not de-
nounce them publicly. Still, there are
Americans who speak out. Garett
Garrett, the “Saturday Evening Post’s”
financial writer, flatly declares that the
people forced to surrender their gold cer-
tificates have been fleeced ; that there has
been a great flight of capital; that the
rise in prices is “pure illusion,” and that,
while debtors may give three cheers
for inflation, it is a serious matter not
only for bondholders, but for bank de-
positors and policy-holders in life
assurance societies —“they will all be
victims” and they “number millions.” For
the rest:
If the gold content of the dollar is reduced
one-half every debt owing to the American
Government by a foreign Government and
every foreign obligation of any kind in the
hands of American investors or an American
bank will be cut one-half. We shall have made
a gift of ten billions to our foreign borrowers.
Hence the mild nature of foreign com-
ment on the 40 p.c. reduction.


Edenl .
Entefr the Serpent.
Miked bowlingi starts.
Intrusion of the Voun&er set
QOVERMMEMT AsC/ti OtN .
FALL FROM GRACE.
“Women bowlers are insisting on the right to wear more modern clothes while playing.”


MiWKRy
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Australia now has a flag-captain who,
like Nelson, has only one arm. Captain
H. T. Walker, who, on loan from the
R.N., takes the job under Rear-Admiral
Ford on the Canberra, lost his wing at
Zeebrugge. Diggers who were on Gal-
lipoli had considerable regard for his
father, Sir Harold Walker, who had
charge of one of the British divisions
there.
Charles Wheeler, latest Archibald
Prize winner with a portrait of Ambrose
Pratt, is a Maorilander who learnt his
painting at Melbourne’s National Gallery.
He was in London when the 1914 scrap
happened and served through it with the
Royal Fusiliers, picking up a D.C.M. on
the way. At present he is drawing in-
structor at his old school, and 53. He
gets £371.
S.A. will honor its soon-departing Gov-
ernor by naming a county after him.
Hore-Ruthven is to lie alongside of York,
Buxton and Manchester, in the Port Lin-
coln district. It is an empty sort of
honor, for S.A. has no use for counties
except in land-titles, and not one man in
a dozen knows even which one he lives
in.
George Young, of S. Brisbane, looks
like going on for ever. He is now in his
104th year. He came to Australia from
England in the early days, and was a
Government mail-carrier before he took
up dairying. After 40 years of this life
he retired a few years ago. He still reads
The Bulletin without spectacles.
The quizzical and kindly face of A. D.
B. Rowley scarcely accords with his
occupation, and is a pleasant surprise for
harassed persons who are ushered trem-
bling into his presence clutching their
assessments in perspiring fists. He is
Federal Deputy Taxation Commissioner
in Queensland, and handles all the less
popular kinds of taxation —land, war-
A. D. B. ROWLEY, Deputy Common-
wealth Taxation Commissioner in
Queensland.
time profits, sales, estate duty, entertain-
ment —with a humane air which takes a
lot of sting out of the agony of payment.
He is a Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) native,
educated in Parramatta and Albury, but
now a confirmed Queenslander by adop-
tion. Many a divot of soil in that land
where the earth seems boundless has he
chopped into the air.
If some Martian visitor were to ask
tunefully “Who is Rinder, who is he?”
Adelaide, home of culture, would prob-
ably commission the local amateur
operatic society to reply:
A bulwark of our industry;
A Bayard of publicity;
And what a man in Rotar-ee!
J. A. Rinder and his smile are in every-
thing which goes on in the shadow of
Mt. Lofty. He did splendid work as
chairman of the publicity committee of
the local Chamber of Manufactures,
of which he has now been elected presi-
dent, and takes great pride in the fact
J. A. RINDER, newly elected president
of S.A. Chamber of Manufactures.
that 95 per cent, of the material which
goes into the confectionery which he
makes in business hours is completely
Australian in origin. He is a 49-year-old
Victorian and an ardent motorist who
has even braved the sandhills west of
Lake Eyre en route to Alice Springs.
“0.5.8.”: The 20-year-old Lord Petre
(B. 17 /1 / ’33), who is coming to Australia,
has a roundabout Australian affiliation.
His great-grand-uncle, the titleholder of
his time, was a Benedictine monk of
Downside (Somerset), from which monas-
tery also came the Benedictine pioneers
(Fathers Ullathorne, Polding, Vaughan)
to Australia. The monastic Lord Petre
spent much of his wealth enriching the
monastery and school.
Retiring at 69 is C. B. Westmacott,
g.m. of “the Firm” for the last 20 years.
He came to Australia ,50 years ago and
had three years in the bush before he
joined George Rignold in “Held by the
Enemy” at Sydney Her Majesty’s. Two
years later he linked uo with Williamson,
and has been a moving force in the pro-
fession ever since. C.B. interested himself
in Red Cross work during the war years.
H. A. Bowden, who represents J.C.W.
in London and New York, will fill the
vacancy.
On a royal visitor:
Prince George, who comes to the Victorian
centenary celebrations, will get on with Aus-
tralians. He is a tall, broad-shouldered
young man with a pleasant face and
manner. His speeches are up to the
“colonial Governor” standard, but lack
the matter and humor of Wales’s and the
splendid diction of his father’s. He has more
of the Oxford accent than any other member
of the family, and his penchant seems to run
to sports and dancing more than to public
affairs. He is popular and democratic, and
does a good many things better than the aver-
age, though he is not as good a shot as the
King nor a crack motor-driver like his brother
Gloucester. In this age of youth he will be
welcomed with open arms in Australia; but he
will need a long sleep when he goes home,
for his great difficulty here will be to get an
occasional hour in bed.
Archibald Watson, whose mannerisms
made him a legend at Adelaide Univer-
sity, is back there, unexpectedly, at 84.
Born in N.S.W. and trained in Mel-
bourne, he was Prof, of Anatomy in S.A.
for over 30 years, at a period when he
and Stirling divided all the medical
work j but with intervals for attending
wars —he was consulting surgeon at the
Heliopolis hospital, 1914-16. Latterly he
has been studying deep-sea fish off the
Queensland coast; but just now the
veteran is more interested in mineralogy,
having lately inspected W.A.’s north-
western coast, where, he says, there is
more iron ore than probably anywhere
else in the world.
T. J. Ley, who has got a verdict for
£5OOO damages against a London libeller,
has had a variegated career. Thirty years
ago, after having started work as a grocer’s
boy, he was a solicitor’s clerk in the em-
ploy of an old Sydney firm—Norton,
Smith and Co. He practised oratory by
night at the School of Arts in Pitt-street
and got into the State Parliament for
St. George, his leading planks being
righteousness, teetotalism and the Em-
pire. There was a row over his action
as Minister for Justice in releasing one
Puddifoot —a degenerate —from gaol, and
he transferred to the Federal sphere as
M.P. for Barton, after one of the
toughest fights in Federal political his-
tory. Losing his seat, he abandoned poli-
tics and went to London, where he be-
came active in the founding of Broome’s
lottery, which had its headquarters
in Danzig. To the astonishment of his
prohibitionist friends in Australia he was
next heard of as one of the speakers at
a sporting dinner at the Savoy. A stout,
suave little man, with an ineradicable
smile and a hearty voice, he is still a
clamant platform pillar of Empire, purity
and milk.
Major-General W. L. H. Sinclair-
Burgess, G.O.C. and Chief of Staff of the
Maoriland Forces, has a chin which
speaks for itself, and a modesty rare in
brasshats. Born at Papakura, he was edu-
cated in England, and he saw the Great
War through amid a rain of honors —
Major-General WILLIAM SINCLAIR-
BURGESS, who commands the Maori-
land Military Forces.
mentioned in dispatches half a dozen
times, C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., Officer of
the Legion of Honor, and the rare
American Distinguished Service Medal,
not often given to outsiders. His row of
distinctions was topped off with a knight-
hoodi the other day.
William Clarkson, who has just passed
out, was born at Whitby, one of the cradle
towns of Anglo-Saxon civilisation, and
trained in a machine-shop in Newcastle-
on-Tyne. He joined the Navy in Aus-
tralian waters just half a century ago.
The late Vice-Admiral CLARKSON as
he was just after the war.
During the Boxer row he served in China.
In 1907 he toured the world, studying
dockyard methods, and he helped to
supervise the building of the Australian
pre-war fleet and the equipment of the
small-arms factory. For 12 years from
1911 he was third and technical member
of the Australian Naval Board. He con-
trolled the transport and shipping de-
partment during the war, and in 1923,
soon after he had become a Vice-
Admiral, he was appointed Director of
the Commonwealth Shipping Board
He got a K.B.E. at the end of the war,
but cared little for baubles. Most
of the work Clarkson did for Aus-
tralia was sound and practical and com-
monsense. He had a figure and a roll
which made him look more like a retired
merchant engineer than a naval brasshat.
Once when he had charge of the Com-
monwealth Shipping Board, he was intro-
duced to a junior British naval man in
a Melbourne club. The visitor did not
catch his name. “So you’ve served in
the Navy?” he said presently, as the con-
versation had turned to ships. “In the
Reserve?” “Nothing so exalted as that,'’
said the Vice-Admiral drily; “I’m the
office mechanic.”
Ambrose Pratt, whose portrait by
Wheeler has won this year’s Archibald
Prize, was a valued Bulletin contribu-
tor in the ’nineties. He was practising
in Sydney as a solicitor at the time in
partnership with the late Bob Lenehan
—a keen hunting-man and soldier, whose
forthright methods with the Boers got
Kitchener’s back up during the S’African
war. Never were two partners more un-
like in appearance —Lenehan, a sawn-off
giant from whose red, blue-eyed Irish
face blazed the vitality and pugnacity of
a bulldog; Pratt, tall, slim, pallid, deli-
cate-featured, languid and dark. Pratt has
written some stirring stuff about bush-
rangers. He is a nature-lover, and the
Endeavour Press recently published a
book by him advocating the protection
of the lyrebird.


'■A
qr
fTA
K
x
f
K I /)
/**■ ;•*••/ I
-V
. W* *<M
. /
1111
lifl
Bl®
1 \ .'••
m
• •s
The peaceful shade
of a leafy tree,
Or the murmuring waves of
a summer sea
Are enhanced a hundred
fold for me
By the zest of a
fragrant Capstan.
TIME FOR A
CAPSTAN
(The blend is exclusive to Capstans)
6333-12-3


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Swan Brewery (Perth)
Dividends and
, Dividend Tax N Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’25.. 44,736 1600 16 p.c. = 24,655 326,748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ 24,655 425 323,628
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. 405,029
Mar., ’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 542,962
Mar., ’29.. 63,891 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 $67,524
Mar., ’30.. 67.910 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 606,130
Mar., ’31.. 40,580 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 ~ 611,174
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 613,496
Mar.,’32.. 45,892 1500 16 „ ~34,036 623,852
Sept.,’32.. 37,557 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 634,382
Mar., ’33.. 50,301 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 649,147
Sept.,’33.. 39,344 1500 12 ~,, 25,527 661,464
As usual, less profit is shown for the
autumn and winter half, and again the
div. has been lowered to the rate of 12
p.c. p.a., making 14 p.c. for the year.
Appearances are, however, that the
board could distribute a bit more if it
wanted to. The co. has a firm hold
upon the trade in its own State. Here
the percentage of trade-unionists regis-
tered as unemployed fell from 30 to 25
over the 12 months to Sept. 30 last. Also,
during the last couple of years, the num-
ber engaged in gold-mining has more than
doubled, and so has the value of the out-
put in Australian currency; wool is up,
and a little relief has been granted from
the burden of taxation.
So, despite the low level of agricultural
incomes, gross earnings for the 12 months
to the end of Sept. (£209,197) sprang
£16,856. Exes. (£132,283) took £13,917
of the increase, due mainly to larger
allowances for taxation and deprecia-
tion. Allowing for pref. requirements
(£2000), and including the div. from W.A.
Glass Manufacturers (£9247), dropped
direct into reserves, and an unexplained
addition of £3484 to the lay-by, there
was enough to show 21 p.c. on the
£425,454 of ord. capital as against 18.9,
15.7, 27.4, 25.8, 28.6 and 23.7 p.c. back
to 1927. These high returns on capital
alone are due mainly to the support and
assistance of reserves, visibly £186,010
in excess of capital at Sept. 30. The two
combined need net only 5.9 p.c. to cover
the pref. div. and 16 p.c. to the ords.
Balance-sheet movements are also en-
couraging :
Sept., Sept., Sept.,
1 QQO 1 QQ9 1 QQQ
Paid capital .. .. £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages .. .. 44,611 21,148 1,501
Other liabilities* .. 160,010 119,371 104,478
Freehold and plant .. 991,261 959,071 977,969
Mortgages .. .. 41,253 39,710 35,696
Stocks .. . . 65,206 50,234 47,003
Shares in other cos. .. 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts .. .. 91,951 65,817 66,174
Cash, etc 20,347 50,827 31,359
*lncludes goodwills accruing.
During the year £52,388 was spent on
the brewery and plant, and £31,955 was
written off ; on hotel properties £14,752
was spent, and £6690 was written off.
Also, outside liabilities, etc., were re-
duced by £34,540, and cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £19,468. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£74,253, including stocks but
not shares) was £BlB4. Shareholdings
consist of all the scrip in the Castle-
maine and Emu cos., bought in ’26 and
’27 respectively.
Impressed by the co.’s performances
and its prospects the market has length-
ened its bid for the fully-paid 255. ords.
from 555. to 87s. over the last two years.
The highest price paid was 102 s. in 1929.
The return at 87s. is 4 p.c. on a 14 p.c.
div. basis, or 4.6 p.c. on a 16 p.c. dis-
tribution. The well-protected prefs. sel-
dom come on to the market.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ „ 113,143 21,197 76,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 13J p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 . . . . 314,208
1932 . 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 „ „ 38,016 95 291,556
This co., which was the only cement
producer in Victoria, took over the then
30-year-old Australian Portland Cement
(it had recently written up its capital by
10s. per share) for £750,000, including
£75,000 for goodwill, early in 1925. For
the next five years it paid an average of
12 p.c. from profits averaging 16 p.c. on
capital. Then, seeing trouble ahead in
the industry, this co. and Kandos
(N.S.W.) decided to get together, the idea
being to eliminate wasteful competition
and reduce overhead. Each passed its
plant, etc., to a new operating concern,
Australian Portland Pty., for a million
paids, and became managing agent for the
proprietary in its own State. Australian
Cement showed a capital profit on the
deal of £311,057. This was placed to a
special reserve (now £144,624), which was
drawn upon for most of the 25\ p.c.
handed out in divs. during the three lean
trading years to the close of accounts
in 1932.
The operating co., whose figures are
not broadcast, paid no div. during the
1932 term, but made a small distribution
last year—appearances are that it was 3
p.c. or thereabouts —thanks largely to the
recovery of cement sales in N. S. Wales,
where work was resumed on the Mitta
Mitta, Nepean and Wyangala dams. In
Victoria there has been a steady revival
of building activity and increase in
cement sales over the last two years. Still,
the co.’s plant has been working to only
one-quarter of its capacity.
Thus, for the 12 months to the end
of Nov., Australian Cement’s gross earn-
ings (£44,582) sprang £32,422. Including
a small unexplained addition to reserves,
the net result benefited by £30,446 of
the increase, reaching a trifle over 5 p.c.
on capital, and a point was added to the
div., making it 5 p.c.
The position so far as this holding co.’s
balance-sheet figures show it is as
follows:
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital £760,178 £760,258 £760,283 £760,333
Liabilities .. 6,163 6,716 3,094 6,761
Investments 1,023,750 1,026,270 1,022,438 1,023,438
•Book debts .. 57,667 26,337 10,881 13,061
Cash . . . . 63,803 60,186 36,725 41,149
Besides the million pound shares in the
operating co. (in at par), investments in-
clude £3529 in public securities, a small
holding (£3750) in Bates (A’sia), Ltd., and
26,000 shares (in at £16,168) in the
Stream Line Filter Co., an English con-
cern said to be making satisfactory pro-
gress.
Though the outlook has brightened
somewhat, the industry remains heavily
overcapitalised, and expenditure on
public works, now to be financed by open
market operations, is likely to be much
less than it used to be. Still, a 5 p.c. div.
from the operating co. may be within
reach, and that would be equal to p.c.
on this holding co.’s capital.
The market prices the pound shares at
245. as against 19s. a year ago. The
return at 245. is 4.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
The cover is 275. Bd. in net assets, mainly
plant in the operating co., worth what it
can earn.
Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
Added
Writ- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
1924.. 11,400 12 p.c. = 6,000 1 3400 79 102
Provident Fund, £2OOO J
1925.. 13,675 12 p.c. = 9,000 251( „ p 9, „„„
Provident Fund, £5OO j So.iMb
1926.. 17,760 12 p.c. = 12,000 247 }. n , Q
Provident Fund, £5OO j 0018 88>U8J
1927.. 17,905 12 p.c. = 12,000 256 ) K , . p
Providend Fund, £5OO J 5149 93,188
1928. . 18,506 12 p.c. = 12,000 260 1 oc oor
Provident Fund, £5OO J 98 > y 8&
1929.. 16,564 12 p.c. - 12,000 254 f
Provident Fund, £5OO j 3870 102,740
1930.. 16,010 12 p.c. = 12,000 307 U 9n o
Provident Fund, £5OO J 3203 105,948
1931.. 10,997 8 p.c. = 8,000 289 \ 99nR Insi - R
Provident Fund, £500.... f 2208 108 ’ 156
1932.. 10,118 8 p.c. = 8,000 1218 ) , nf> , n 8
Provident Fund, £5OO } 400 108,550
1533 " ISenVi?»a, 8 S. m i
This is S. Australia’s largest trustee co.,
and Australia’s second-oldest. For 11 years
to the close of accounts in ’29 the div.
was kept at 12 p.c. and paid capital ad-
vanced from £24,130 to £lOO,OOO by par
issues, which were in the nature of
handsome bonuses to shareholders, the
scrip commanding a high premium in the
market. With the change in conditions
the div. dropped to 8 p.c. ; it has re-
mained steady since, and prospects of a
bit better later on are as assured as any-
thing of the kind can be in these un-
certain times.
The slip of £ll9l in last year’s net
result was due entirely to an unexplained
reduction of £l7Bl in reserves, which
may have some connection with the co.
taking over another floor in its own
building. The net addition to the volume
of trusts on the books was £122,005 as
against £550,366 in the previous term:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Expenses. Income.
1920.. £4,568,146 £22,477 £11,388 50.6
1925.. 6,480,945 31,581 18,006 57.0
1927.. 7,775,317 42,327 24,365 57.5
1928.. 8,302,728 44,439' 26,046 58.6
1929.. 9,087,768 44,297 27,733 62.6
1930.. 10,036,608 44,426 28,416 63.9
1931.. 10,320,304 39,173 28,176 71.9
1932.. 10,870,670 38,921 28,695 73.7
1933.. 10,992,675 38,195 27,487 71.9
Gross earnings were £726 lighter, but
exes, were pulled back £l2OB. So, after
allowing for the unexplained reduction
already referred to, and the writing off
and the contribution to the staff fund,
there was enough to show 8.1 p.c. on
capital as against 8.4, 10.2, 15.2, 15.8, 17.7
and 17.1 p.c. back to 1927.
The co.’s own funds are placed in this
way:
1923. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. ..£50,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. .. 211 230 230
Govt, securities
and cash .. .. 70,020 99,146 92,229
Advances to estates .. 6,468 18,775 20,967
Freeholds .. . . 41,328 68,000 68,000
Mortgages . . . . 4,688 9,359 12,202
Sundries . • • • 6,409 17,506 19,518
With reserves £8686 in excess of paid
capital, the two combined need net only
3.8 p.c. in order to show 8 p.c. on capital
alone. That leaves earnings from the
trust business out of the reckoning alto-
gether, and, with the rise in the price of
wool and a stronger property and securi-
ties maiKet, these may be expected to
improve
Over the last 12 months the pound
shares paid to ss. have advanced from
10s. 6d. to 12s. 6d. in the market, which
has thus anticipated future benefits. The
return at 12s. 6d. is 3.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis, or 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
Net Dividends To Re-
Sept., Profit. All Shares. serves. Deficit
1924.. 3,857 8 p.c. = 2880 977 717
Reserves.
1925.. 4,312 8„ „ 2880 1,432 715
Assets revalued; goodwill (£12,677)
written off and general reserve added
to by £3646 17,038
1926.. 6,513 10 p.c. = 3600 2,913 19,951
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £1707.. 18,244
1927.. 15,338 10 p.c. = 3600 11,738 29,982
Reserves capitalised, £9OOO .. ■ ■ 20.982
1928.. 15,496 12J p.c. = 6390 9,106 30,088
1929.. 15,587 124 „ „ 8490 7,097 37,185
1930.. 9.015 7 „ „ 7000 2,015 39,200
Loss.
1931.. 7,619 Nil 31,581
1932.. 3,301 Nil 28,280
Profit.
1933. . 323 17.8 p.c.f= 3570 25,033
fPref. div., including arrears.
Considering the extent to which it went
into debt in order to build up stocks and
finance clients, this co. is fortunate to
have turned the corner during its last
term. Unable to do any good for itself
in the engineering trade, it set to work
to specialise in electric refrigerators and
other agency lines. Competition in the
flat business had sent profits to 42.6 p.c.
on capital in 1927, but they dropped to
30.3, 22.9 and 9 p.c. for the three fol-
lowing years; meanwhile the div. had
reached 12| p.c. Then slump gave sales
a nasty jolt, stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances had to be worked down at the
worst time in order to reduce the debt,
and a loss of £7619 in ’3l was followed
by another of £3301 in ’32.
Last year there was more activity in
home and other building, a profit of £232
showed up, and the board considered the
outlook good enough to hand the prefs.
17| p.c., clearing their slate to the end
of Sept., though reserves had to be
tapped for £3247 to do it. Also, new
agencies have been added to the list, and
the co.’s distributing rights for “Frigid-
aire” now embrace the whole of Aus-
tralia, instead of the Eastern States only,
and a refrigerator assembly factory has
been set up at North Sydney.
Balance-sheet movements suggest that
trade was a bit better:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. £BO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 112,343 32,699 23,930 28,749
Freeholds,
plant, etc. .. 37,730 38,384 38,316 39,121
Stocks, etc. .. 85,363 69,141 55,194 57,151
Book debts .. 78,545 33,803 35,746 37,989
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 33,296 22,952 22,952 23,090
To add £BO5 net to the book value of
fixed assets, £1957 to stocks and £2242
to debtors’ balances, the board went out-
side for an extra £4819. The slip in the
more or less liquid surplus (£66,391, in-
cluding stocks but not investments, etc.)
was £619. Investments, etc., consist
chiefly of scrip in the Melbourne and
Brisbane subsidiaries.
The ords., which fetched 355. 6d. three
years ago, are now priced at 16s. as
against 11s. twelve months ago. The
return at 16s. would be 4 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
distribution, which, together with the
pref. div., would call for £5OBO p.a. The
prefs —20,000 of them 7 p.c. cumula-
tive less statutory cut —have not an active
market. They participate with the ords.
beyond the minimum contract rate, and
share in surplus assets. The backing for
all shares is 255. (book value) in net
tangibles.
Denton Hats, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927*. 6293 7 J p.c. = 6481 47,107
1928.. 4739 5 „ „ 4321 418 47,525
1929.. 2966 5 „ „ 4321 46,170
1930.. 2913 3J ~ „ 3241 45,842
1931.. 2416 2 J „ „ 2160 256 46,098
1932.. 2079 2 J „ „ 2160 46,017
Written off . . .. .. £3446 42,571
1933.. 2519 2.9 p.c. = 2520 —• 42,570
*l4 months.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
operating co.’s figures ; so investors have,
more or less blindly, to back those in
control, who forecast better things for the
last term. Certainly a trifle more profit
was claimed, and the div. was lifted
from 6d. to 7d. a share, but that is leav-
ing out of the reckoning £3446 struck
off the book value of mortgages. Over
the last seven years divs. have averaged
only 4.1 p.c. as against 14.5 p.c. for the
five years before that.
To meet competition from overseas it
was decided to link up with nine others
in the trade ; and one big operating co.,
United Felt Hats Pty., was formed in
1925. The Denton co. received £157,775
in scrip for its plant, stocks, etc.; it took
these shares into its own books at
£66,397 (= Bs. sd. each), and visibly
reserves benefited by £23,017. The pty.,
which has not yet paid a div., admitted
a loss of £17,569 in 1931; stocks were
the trouble. Savings of over £36,000 p.a.
were expected to follow an overhaul of
the organisation, including the closing
down of the Sydney factory and the
transfer of operations from Fairfield to
the Denton mills. Also, exchange and
the tariff have since placed further
obstacles in the way of the imported
article, though local competition, especi-
ally in ladies’ millinery, has sharpened.
Now there is talk of changes in the man-
agement and reconstruction of the capi-
tal account.
Whatever cut in capital is contemplated
is not expected to affect the figure at
which the Denton co.’s holding appears
in its own sheet:
1928. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital . . £86,420 £86,420 £86,420 £86,420
Sundry creditors.. 499 125 141 143
Freehold .. .. 29,507 29,682 34,648 34,664
Shares other cos... 66,397 66,397 66,397 66,397
Mortgages, etc. .. 1,040 17,844 11,793 7,92 <
Government secruri-
ties, etc. .. 40,232 19,978 21,455 22,066
Allowing for the div., etc., each pound
of paid capital was covered by net assets
with a book value of 295. 10|d. —free-
hold, Bs.; shares, 15s. 4d.; Government
securities, mortgages, cash, etc., 6s. 6yd.
Allied Motor Interests (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 77,431 17£ p.c. = 74,925 2,506 2,506
1925.. 129,056 20 „ „ 85,629 43,427 45,933
1926.. 94,777 17* „ „ 74,925 19,852 65,785
Written off shares in subsidiary, £68,766 ) „ 707
1927.. 34,688 Nil 34,688 J
1928.. 1,098 Nil 1,098 32,80 a
1929.. 2,142 Nil 2,142 34,947
Deficit.
Interest in subsidiaries written down,
£249,024 .. ... •• •• 214,077
10s. per share struck off capital, £214,077 •
Loss. . .
1930.. 1,304 Nil 1,30-1
1931.. 7,484 Nil 8,788
1932.. 2,505 Nil 11,293
Interest in subsidiaries written down,
£126,424 137,717
1933.. 1,201 Nil 138,918
Thus far approximately 16s. 6d. of each
pound of snare capital has gone down
the sink. The board now claims that the
drift has been arrested, but keeps the
curtain drawn over the operating cos.’
figures.
Originally it was Tarrants Motors,
formed in Melbourne in 1911 to take
over the agency for the Ford car. After
the war the board decided to launch out
in a large way, and this Allied co. was
formed in 1923. It had a paid capital of
£428,144, and controlled half a dozen
subsidiaries, one in the motor-body build-
ing business, and the others in the car-
selling trade, etc. For the three years to
the end of July, 1926, divs. totalling 55
p.c. were paid. Then the Ford agency
was lost, trading conditions changed
vastly and the pups quickly became a
sick lot. When the veil was lifted in
1929, combined figures disclosed losses
of £196,680 and £39,507 of goodwill.
There was then £483,829 coming to
creditors, including the bank (£303,198);
more or less liquids totalled £367,020.
The intangibles were rubbed out by jet-
tisoning half the capital.
This, of course, had no effect upon the
debt or the earning power of the assets.
The drift continued, so it was decided to
pull out of the car-trading business and
concentrate upon body-building. The
subsidiaries, except the Ruskin Motor
Body Co., relinquished their agencies and
the whole of the car stocks were sold. In-
cluding the holding co.’s figures, aggre-
gate losses for the four years to the end
of July last were £138,918, or nearly
6s. 6d. per fully-paid 10s. share in this
Allied co. This reduced the tangible
book value of its interest in subsidiaries
to £83,946, of which £19,502 was on loan
to Autocar Industries.
Incidentally, three of the directors and
another, who are deposit creditors, have
“cancelled liabilities amounting to
£33,579 in all.” In return they will pre-
sently ask the co. to “convert ordinary
shareholdings” with a face value ot
£33,579 into 6 p.c. non-cum. prefs.
How the body-building co. will fare
in the future it is difficult to say.
Amongst other things much depends
upon the extent of the co.’s liabilities,
which are not disclosed. The market
prices the scrip at 3s. 6d. as against
Is. 7d. a year ago.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestoa House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
* * * *
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other alloys, try LEMPRIERE
AND CO., Sirius House, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
ASSAYS.
Heath and Associates. 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Special facilities for handling large batches of
samples expeditiously under highly qualified assayer.
—Advt.
The Metallurgical Works of
A VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or Con-
centrate which you have for sale, it will
be assayed for Gold content free of cost,
and price submitted.
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA |
ESTABLISHED 1849
MAKING SURE
Why men choose the AMP.
WHEN a man (or a woman) decides upon the
wise step of assuring his life, his first thought
should be the security of his money. How can
he be certain that the undertaking given in the assur-
ance policy will be fulfilled ? How can he be sure that
he is getting the best possible policy for his needs at
the lowest cost consistent with this security? How can
he be sure that he will get the most generous policy
conditions ?
Hundreds of thousands of Australians have chosen
A.M.P. policies for these reasons:
(1) The Society is purely mutual. It belongs to the
policyholders, and the whole of the surplus (after wise
reserves are made) is divided amongst the participating
members annually.
(2) The existing members hold policies to a total of
£270,000,000, evidence of their faith in their own
Institution.
(3) The assets of the Society at last reckoning were
worth £92,000,000; they belong to the policyholders
absolutely.
(4) For the year 1932 the bonuses distributed
amongst participating policyholders in the Ordinary
Department totalled £2,495,000. It is a striking fact
that in life assurance the security is greatest where the
bonuses are largest; so far from sacrificing safety for
the sake of bonuses, the policyholder who obtains the
best results thereby acquires also the greatest security.
The Society is acclaimed by British authorities as “one
of the greatest financial institutions in the world.” It is,
in fact, impregnable, and the man who becomes a
member of it becomes a member of the greatest Mutual
Life office in the Empire.
AMP. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
Assets: £92,000,000
Last week the Mt. Morgan Co. divided
its 200,000 £1 shares, of which 172,088
are issued, into five-shilling paids, four
for one. On the market, the old shares
advanced 10s., reaching 735. in a little
over a week. At 735. for the pound
shares, the new scrip would be worth
18s. 3d. Fanciers of the scrip think that
the price may strengthen a little yet.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Gold Mines of Papua
has been registered in Canberra with a
nominal capital of £60,000 in ss. shares,
of which 60,000 are offered. The ven-
dors take 120,000 paids plus £2OOO cash,
and the other 60,000 are under option
at par. The idea is to test and, if quan-
tities and values are considered satisfac-
tory, to work and develop formations
on Misima and Woodlark Islands, south-
eastern Papua. Both alluvial and reef
mining have been carried on in these
islands for the past 50 years. At Misima,
the New Misima Co. has been operating
very successfully for some time now. The
new property is thought to cover an exten-
sion of the New Misima reef, and A. J.
Peterson estimates that it includes a con-
tinuous ore-body of over 2700 ft. The
Woodlark proposition is based on the
discovery of a shoot of rich ore
at the north end of the old Kulamadau
lease. This is thought to be a continua-
tion of the Kulamadau lode, a fairly
good producer in the long ago. Peter-
son’s sampling shows an average of
15dwt. for a width of 30ft. Here 130,000
tons of old sands and slimes is to be
cyanided. Slimes assay from 3dwt. to
4dwt. per ton; sands from a ’weight
upwards.
* * * *
“East Cape”: Several small shows con-
tinue to scratch busily about the old
mining field of Milne Bay in south-east
Papua. Samarai Mining Gold Develop-
ment has reported that it is on 2oz.
stone, but is silent as to how much of
it there is. There is also a rumor that
another concern has tested a big area
showing values from sdwt. to 50z., but
this has to be confirmed. Debolina, a
platinum show holding 800 acres, and
run by a local syndicate of six men, is
doing well.
* * * *
“Spare Towkay”: With tin apparently
pegged above the £220 mark, there has
been a revival of interest in Malayan
dredging propositions. In the Austral
Malay group, which has taken full ad-
vantage of the transfer of quotas system,
Thabawleik (a Siamese show) began work
again in April, 1933, after improvements
to the dredge. The surplus of revenue over
expenditure enabled the co. to retire most
of its debt. After paying off the balance
and building up a reserve for spares, re-
newals and contingencies, there is ex-
pected to be enough profit in 1934 to pay
a div. of Is. per share. Ulu Yam and
Puchong were idle throughout 1933.
Still, returns from the sale of their
quotas covered expenditure, and left
something toward depreciation, etc. The
same conditions may obtain during 1934,
unless the quota is raised to a point
which will allow these two cos. to operate
at a profit. Kampong Kamunting’s Kar-
angan dredge was also idle during the
year; but here again the sale of the
quota covered expenses, etc., and quotas
will have to be raised before profitable
work can be resumed. The dredge at
Kamunting was sold ; efforts to get an
assessment to work the Kamunting area
with gravel pumps failed.
* Hi * *
Two prospectors, G. O’Brien and M.
McKay, have struck a rich patch of
alluvial tin on the western slopes of Bell’s
Hill, between Ringarooma and Derby
(Tas.). A three-chain face has been
opened out without disclosing the walls.
There are three seams, one six inches,
and the other two nine inches and a foot
respectively. From a small paddock 17
bags of t.o. were obtained, and dish pros-
pects go 21b. and over. The alluvial tin
won in the Ringarooma valleys came
from the lodes at Bell’s Hill.
* * * *
Princess Royal, which is looking for
new properties now that the end of its
Westonia mine appears to be in sight, has
paid £lOOO for an option over the Sal-
vation Syndicate leases at Grant’s Patch,
near Ora Banda (W.A.). During the last
eighteen months the owners have secured
approximately £15,000 worth of gold
from 1237 tons of stone. Great Boulder
turned down an option over this area last
year: developments were satisfactory,
but the proposition was considered to
be too small. The leases are adjacent
to the Ora Banda mine, which has had
several rich crushings in the last twelve
months.
* * * *
Kalgurli Ore Treatment, Ltd., formed
by Boulder Perseverance and North Kal-
gurli to control a large bromo-cyanide
plant on portion of the former co.’s
ground, is expected to start operations
early in April. Between 14,000 and 15,000
tons a month is to be put through, of
which Boulder Perseverance is to pro-
vide two-thirds and North Kalgurli one-
third. The probabilities are, however,
that North will ultimately supply more
and Perseverance less. At present North
is treating about 2000 tons a month at
South Kalgurli’s mill, and 1800 tons at
the Perseverance plant.
He * * *
Western Mining Corp. has been sam-
pling the old Imperial, at Widgiemooltha,
about 70 miles south of Kalgoorlie.
The leases were taken up last year by
Hack, Towie and Kingswood, who re-
cently crushed 205 tons for an average
of 7dwt. The lode is 16ft. wide at 35ft.,
and values are improving. A large open-
cut on the property has also yielded satis-
factory returns.
* * * *
Two cos., each with eyes turned to
Westralia, have been recently floated in
London. One, Kookaburra Investments,
Ltd., has the backing of Claude de Ber-
nales and friends. Capital is £24,000 in
£1 shares, and the declared aim is to
deal in investments and assets of con-
cerns in Westralia and elsewhere. The
other, Banza Mines, Ltd., has been formed
by the British Australian and N. Z. In-
vestment Trust, to equip and develop a
group of leases about half-way between
Kalgoorlie and Boulder. These have
been worked only to shallow depths.
* * * *
Twenty-two members of Western Min-
ing Corp.’s prospecting expedition re-
cently arrived in Kalgoorlie, with two
aeroplanes and six specially-fitted motor-
lorries. Four bungalows have been
erected to house the party, which will
prospect co.’s reservations at Norseman,
Coolgardie, Southern Cross and Dunns-
ville. This preliminary survey, which
has now begun, is expected to take four
months at least.
* * * *
Meekatharra isn’t noticed much nowa-
days, though it is still well up in the
list of Westralian gold producers. Its
principal contributors used to be the
Fenian, Marmont, Ingliston Consols Ex-
tended, Ingliston Extended and Commo-
dore. Only Ingliston Consols is promi-
nent now; it has been mined to a depth
of about 1400 ft. Other producers in-
clude Ingliston Alberts, Lady Central and
Hill 70.
* * * *
Ora Banda, Grant’s Patch (W.A.),
cleaned up 3410 z. over the plates from
105 tons about the middle of last month
at the State battery. The co. has acquired
the Ora Banda Consols near by, and
amalgamation with the Salvation Syndi-
cate’s leases is mooted. In the same
locality Vince and Becker dollied 5160 z.
from a rich leader, and crushed 21 tons
for 1490 z. during the last few months.
* * * *
The search for gold in the West con-
tinues to reveal rich patches here and
there. One old battler at Broad Arrow
recently picked and blasted out about 30
tons of ore in small lots and got an aver-
age return of between 4oz. and soz. a
ton. Another at Meekatharra got 105 oz.
from a ton of rock.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(1) What effect would a drop in the exchange
rate Australia)London have upon the market
for gold-mining shares locally ? (2) What
caused the recent rise in the price of gold in
London ? (3) How much gold has the Bank
of England bought during the last 12 months ?
—9960.
(1) If not offset by other factors, such as in-
creased ore reserves, better values, improved
recoveries, lower costs, etc., a drop in the rate
Australia/London would reduce the price of
gold in Australian notes, and therefore lower
the revenue of local gold-mining cos. Within
the limits stated, the following table shows the
effect of exchange fluctuations upon the Aus-
tralian value of fine gold:
Value Per Ounce of Fine Gold.
Sterling. Australian when £lOO sterling equals
£AI2S. £AI2O. £AIIS.
£6 0 0 £7 10 0 £7 4 0 £6 18 0
640 7 15 0 789 727
680 800 7 13 7 772
6 12 0 850 7 18 4 7 11 9
6 16 0 8 10 0 832 7 16 4
700 8 15 0 880 810
No allowance has been made for handling,
freight and insurance charges, which aggregate
about H P-c. (2) Probably competition from
U.S.A. Government, which has bid up for the
metal in the London market. (3) Cannot say
definitely. The bank return at Dec. 6, 1933,
showed coin and bullion at £191,775,452 as
against £140,389,087 at Dec. 7, 1932. The
idea behind the building-up of this large gold
reserve is to protect sterling against the pos-
sible effects of an efflux of a large amount
of foreign capital which has sought refuge in
London pending stabilisation of U.S.A. and
other currencies.
Any information concerning Multiple Sys-
tems, Ltd. ? —9967.
It is an Auckland (M.L.) concern, the man-
ager of which was recently fined £5 Is. and
costs on a charge of running a lottery known
as “The Multiplication Bureau.” The declared
aim of the co. was to ultimately publish a
weekly newspaper in Maoriland. Meanwhile it
set up its so-called Multiplication Bureau. The
bait dangled before prospective members was
the chance' of earning £l5OO p.a. in commis-
sions. Membership cost £l. Each member
was to obtain new members. A member was not
entitled to any “commission” on the first three
new members whom he introduced. For the
fourth he was to get 155.; then 12s. 6d. “in-
direct commission” for the first three intro-
duced by the fourth and his nominees, and so
on. Ultimately the scheme would have ceased
for want of new members, and only the early
ones would have got any substantial reward.
Assuming that the bureau began with only one
member, on completion of the sixteenth cycle
of succession membership would reach many
millions.
(1) Purchase price paid by Western Gold
for Mararoa Co.’s Reedy’s leases ? (2) Were
these passed on to the Lancefield Co., and for
what consideration ? —9832.
(1) £50,000. (2) No; another subsidiary,
Triton Gold, in which Western Mining Corp.
and Gold Mines of Australia are also inter-
ested, was formed to take over and work these
leases. The consideration payable to Western
Gold was £50,000 cash and £lOO,OOO in paids.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.D.W.: (1) The bonds are a long-term specu-
lation, not an investment. They have not been
listed on the Stock Exchange, but the secre-
tary of the co. will endeavor to find a buyer
for you. (2) Default in payments renders the
bond to forfeiture T.V.R.: (1) and
(3) Yes. (2) Doubtful. (4) Australian Provin-
cial Assurance R.H.F.: (1) Castlemaine Per-
kins appears to have better prospects. (2)
Hold. (3) Keep clear at the moment. (4) Yes.
(5) A big wad of debenture and pref. capital
has to be fed first; so you may have to wait
awhile.


Jam K'iepurA
★
★
The Record Breaking Talking Picture which has had
72 Weeks of Capital City Screening in Australia &New Zealand
THAT
WITH
JAN WtPURA
Y
MACDA SCHNEIDER, EDMUND GWENN
SONNIE HALE WATHENE SEVLER
A Gaumottt UFA Productions
o
V
v*
A
m
oc
Z
&
A
'{ LtfiJ
NOW SHOWING IN
SUBURBS & COUNTRY
THEATRES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
WATCH FOR IT AT YOUR
FAVOURITE JHEAJRE.
SHADOW SHOWS.
‘I Was a Spy,” at the Lyceum, is the
best film of the sort that has been done
in England, and it is far ahead of any
Hollywood war-film as regards natu-
ralism. But its very restraint makes it
first-class war propaganda. There are no
villains here; only splendid men and
women who, whether as Britons, Belgians
or Germans, find it sweet to die for their
country.
Martha Cnockhaert, a young Belgian,
while nursing wounded Germans, is per-
suaded to join the Allies’ espionage
organisation. Associated with her is a
conscripted hospital orderly from Alsace
whose impassive features mask a fanati-
cal hatred of his masters. These two
small cogs in a gigantic machine work
patiently and humbly together, and
achieve results such as the destruction of
a German poison-gas dump and the
bombing of hundreds of Germans at a
church parade. Eventually the girl is
trapped, and the man confesses to save her.
Madeline Carroll, as Martha, gives a
fine portrait of a sensitive woman per-
forming a trying task under nerve-rack-
ing conditions. Herbert Marshall, as her
accomplice, is good, too. His wooden
mannerisms go with the part. Conrad
Veidt, as the German commandant of
the town, is a likeable fellow charged with
many painful duties. Gerald du Maurier
is also a good sort —a German doctor
who is only interested in saving his
patients’ lives. Edmund Gwenn (Burgo-
master), May Agate (Madame Cnock-
haert) and Donald Calthrop are other
members of a splendid cast.
* * *
There are two items of great interest
in “The Power and the Glory,” at Sydney
Plaza—Spencer Tracy and the new “nar-
ratage” device. Tracy is great as the
country boy who works up from track-
walker to president of a railway com-
pany. He is hard, forceful —a true mag-
nate —but still a simple country product.
The film opens with a cathedral service
for Tracy’s funeral, and is continued as
an argument between his greatest friend
and his friend’s wife as to his character.
Ralph Morgan makes the part of the
friend live. He has idolised Tracy, seen
him as a victim of circumstances and
cannot understand how others have mis-
judged him. The story is told just as it
would come to his mind. There is no
definite sequence of events, and the
events themselves are not perhaps the
most important, but those that have im-
pressed him. The story is especially suit-
able for the new method. Unfortunately,
not many stories are.
* * #
“Just My Luck,” at the Mayfair, gives
Ralph Lynn plenty of chances to exploit
his particular brand of humor. He is
certainly a great comedian; funnier in
ways than any of the Americans. One
sign of his virtuosity is that he can start
an audience laughing before he appears.
The sound of his bleat off is enough.
He is seen first as an indigent music-
teacher with an inferiority complex.
Motor-cars splash mud over him; dogs
harass him. The time he spends with his
pupil Winifred Shotter is the one ray
of sunshine in his life. She gets him
sacked by refusing to take her lessons
seriously, but at the same time persuades
him to pull himself together.
The new Lynn is a go-getter. He
r bullies Winifred’s father (Davy Burnaby)
into making him manager of a palatial
hotel, and even impresses her domineer-
ing mother (Vera Pearce).
At the hotel Lynn messes things up
hilariously, his prospective father-in-law’s
former loves infest the premises, and an
embezzling accountant and a conscien-
tious secretary fight it out in the back-
ground. If only more English comedies
were like it!
“The Lost Chord,” inspired by Sulli-
van’s song, has at least one distinction:
it is probably the worst talkie on the
technical side that has ever been publicly
exhibited. The sentiment is in period. Go
and see it if you want to know the kind
of thing that tore at the heartstrings of
Victorian England.
The writer diagnosed the identity of the
killer in “The Kennel Murder Case,” at
the Regent, shortly after the corpses
began to materialise by a process of pure
reason. True, his companion had done it
half an hour earlier on more direct lines ;
still the method employed may be found
useful as a bet-winner in future thrillers.
The gaolbird butler was ordered out
of the judging-ring on the spot, and the
homicidal-looking Dago followed. The
Chinese went next. Not only did he look
(Top to bottom, left to right.) At the Mayfair, in “Just My Luck”: Robertson
Hare; a thief; Ralph Lynn. At the Regent, in “Midshipman Jack”: Bruce
Cabot; Ella Shields (on the stage); and in “The Kennel Murder Case”:
William Powell and Eugene Pallette.
like a murderer, but he went on like
one. The baronet was exonerated, owing
to his association with Mary Astor. No
producer would dare to place the mark
of Cain on the brow of one who enjoyed
the love of this benign and beautiful
creature. Eugene Pallette, as the assist-
ant detective, ruled himself out; movie
murderers, though often mad, are never
imbeciles. This left hardly anybody but
William Powell (who, as Philo Vance,
was unthinkable), the District Attorney
and the comic doctor. It is against Holly-
wood rules to make District Attorneys
criminals, and Edgar Wallace has already
used a comic doctor as a surprise
murderer.
And so the real offender was identified,
and justice or a lynching-party —which-
ever got in first —was left to take its
course.
The acting is good, there are plenty
of laughs, and William Powell’s exposi-
tion of how the murderer worked is in-
teresting.
Ella Shields is on the bill. A packed
house gave her almost as hearty a re-
ception on Saturday night as she gets
in London.
*£»
The plot of “Dancing Lady,” at Syd-
ney St. James, has been used more than
once by Miss Drivel in her “Girls’ Com-
panion” serials; notably in the most
celebrated of them, “From Heartbreak
to Happiness.” But there is much more
to this opus «than the pursuit of Joan
Crawford by infatuated Franchot Tone
and her pursuit and eventual capture of
Clark Gable, whose cold, even rude, be-
havior was hiding a strong man’s vol-
canic passion all the time. Joan is every
bit as pure as shy little Virgie Maltravers,
the vicar’s daughter, who leads the
squire’s son to the altar in Miss Drivel’s
romance, but she enters on the road to
Love’s Kingdom by getting arrested for
indecency. This gives Franchot Tone,
millionaire, a chance to bail her out, and
introduce her to his family and palatial
home ; and so she meets Mr. Gable.
Clark Gable is a musical comedy pro-
ducer. He doesn’t get the results he wants
at first. Then he puts on an insanely
expensive show, and his artist’s soul is
satisfied. At about the same time he and
Joan clear up their misunderstanding. He
has fixed methods of registering emotion.
When troubles begin to rain he undoes
first his tie and then his shirt collar;
when things become insupportable he
ruffles his hair. The rebirth of happiness
is indicated by an adjusted collar and
tie, and a shave and hairbrush. Joan
Crawford relies for most of her effects
(lacerating to some, acutely boring to
others) on her exophthalmic eyes and
large, flexible mouth. Some of her close-
ups with Gable would appal an amuse-
ment-seeker who wasn’t hardened to such
fantastic spectacles.
The first part at the St. James, a series
of “shorts,” is excellent.
Sundry Shows
“The Dubarry,” which opened at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, is the answer
to the musicomedy actress’s prayer. Miss
Sylvia Welling, as the courtesan Jeanne,
is the centre of every one of the nine
scenes. She has easy little lyrics to sing,
a variety of attractive costumes to display
and no occasion to dredge into histri-
onics. Very little demand is made on
Cecil Kellaway’s talents as a character
actor as the Marquis de la Marche, and
John Dudley, as the poet Rene, one of
Jeanne’s early lovers, is little more than
scenery and musical accompaniment.
The piece, which delves (with rather more
attention to detail than is usual in such
representations) into the amours of the
court of Louis XV., has as its culmina-
tion the triumphant installation of the
Du Barry as the successor to the Pompa-
dour—doubtless a very notable social
achievement.
The piece is well mounted ; the dress-
ing is elaborate, and in many of the
scenes very effective; the music is negli-
gible ; the plot is slender. Strongest
feature, beyond the charming face and
figure of Miss Welling, is the taste with
which the very pretty ballets have been
arranged.
* * *
“Musical Chairs,” produced by Gregan
McMahon at the Garrick, Melbourne, on
Saturday, has no heroes and no villains,
but only human beings, which is much
more interesting. Herr Schlindler is head
of an extremely cosmopolitan and tem-
peramental family in Poland. There are
a peasant girl from the village who sees in
Schlindler an opportunity of escaping from
the drab monotony of rural life to Lon-
don ; a son who, in the course of his duty
as a war-time aviator, has inadvertently
helped to bomb the town in which his
fiancee lived ; a girl whose sex has been
subbed out of her by the materialistic
values of American civilisation; another
girl who is in love with the ex-aviator,
who is in love with his own self-pity ;
and other misunderstood and misunder-
standing individuals. The background to
the play of characters is Schlindler’s
search for oil and an American combine’s
intrigues to steal his discovery, arid the
merit of the author, Ronald Mackenzie,
lies in the fact that the background re-
mains a background correctly related to
the passions of the human beings raging
in front of it. That they think the back-
ground the important thing is consistent
with human nature. The curtain descends
on Schlindler, having lost his son and
made his pile, removing his family to
London, and one is left with the impres-
sion that nothing has been solved and that
there will be fresh typhoons in the family
until Time passes his sponge over the
Schlindlers.
Except for George Blunt’s caricature
of an American oilman, the McMahon
production was of a high order.
McMahon left little to be desired as
the patriarch with an eye for a pretty
domestic (Thelma Scott at her tempes-
tuous best). In his encounters with the
American girl (all made out of chilled
steel by Coral Brown) Arundel Nixon
consistently drew the distinction between
the ordinary lovesick swain and the pur-
poseless intellectual who tries to find in
cynicism and Beethoven an escape from
painful war-time memories and present
boredom. Kathleen Goodall, as the
luckless girl who wants to mother the
spiritually shell-shocked aviator, rent the
heart of the audience with a performance
that was no worse for having no element
of caricature in it.


The leader in
leads to-dhl
in refining equipment ♦
* ♦ in experience ♦ ♦
and in the production
of quality lubricants*
From the heart
of the crude
since 1861
USE ALSO
UNION
WHITE
FLASH
Travel 1000 miles on Atlantic—
you will understand its superior-
ity when you examine the crank-
case draining. Note the lower
evaporation loss, the enduring
“body” and the less-than~usual
amount of sludge, Atlantic is
refined from the “heart” of 100%
paraffin base crude, the costliest
in the world yet it sells at
regular price. Today’s the day
to start cutting your running
costs —the ATLANTIC way
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE MOTOR OIL
PRODUCT OF ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LTD.
TO>


ABORIGINALITIES
“Belgrave”: The mine-boss and
Boardy, who possessed a lisp and not
much intelligence, were tying some
timber into a cage to be sent below. Said
the boss: “Hop round to the smithy,
Boardy, and bring me the rope you see
there.” Boardy was absent for about
five minutes, but returned empty-handed.
“Which wope d’yer mean,” he asked—
“wire wope or wope wope?”
* * * *
“Turoar”: The owners, who knew
naught of mining, employed Jabez Tre-
leaven to inspect the innards of their in-
vestment. Jabez went below and, on his
return to the surface, delivered his verdict.
“There be two things wrong with th’
reef,” he said. “She ain’t wide enough,
fer one thing.” “And what’s the other?”
demanded the financiers. “T’other?” re-
peated Jabez. “Why, damme, she be too
narrer! ”
jfc He He
“Granite”: Twenty-five years ago I was
in India. Went there with horses. One
day I’m having a little stroll near the
jungle when there comes out right in
front of me a young elephant! I’m just
going to leg it when I pipes he’s on three
legs, and looking imploring-like at me.
So I stands me ground, and when he
comes up I notice he’s got a big thorn in
his foot. I yanks it out for him and
away he goes back to his jungles, look-
ing happy and thoughtful. I never ex-
pected to see him again, but last Cup
night me and some cobbers went to see
the winning jockey get his whip at
Wirth’s circus. The place was packed.
Presently a mob of elephants comes into
the ring and starts doing tricks. I’m in
the bob seats. All of a sudden I finds
“Didn’t I tell you that bloke wasn’t to get any more goods without cash?”
“He’s got cash, boss. Showed me his bankbook with a whoppin’ ‘gibbit’ balance."
a trunk round me waist —and I’m lifted
gently right across the ring and politely
perched in the five-bob section. It
was me old jungle friend. He knew me
easy. I haven’t altered much this long
time. Well, horses are all right, but,
when it comes to gratitude and memory,
give me elephants.
“G.G.”: During a recent storm, many
tall pine-trees at Waingate, Poverty Bay
(M.L.), were uprooted or broken. At
the height of the storm, late at night, it
was seen that a big tree in a shelter belt
30ft. from a homestead was cracking and
was likely at any moment to fall on the
roof. One of the sons of the occupier
focussed a spotlight on the trunk some
30ft. from the top, while his brother
blazed away at the leeward side with a
.303 rifle. Most of the shots found their
mark; the wind snapped off the weak-
ened upper portion, and the remainder
of the tree weathered the storm.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: That bright and
chatty periodical the N.S.W. “Govern-
ment Gazette” has issued a warning to
fishermen to be more careful with the
names of the fish they catch. For in-
stance, the slender Long Tom must in
future be known as Lewinichthys ferox
instead of Tylosurus ferox. On the other
hand, the stout Long Tom is to be styled
Lhotskia macleayana and not Tylosurus
macleayanus. The change of name is
sponsored by Sir Philip Game, so Society,
if Society ever wanders forth with a line
and a jar of worms, should have no
qualms about applying the new moni-
kers to fishes which the caps fit.
* * * *
“Goburra”: Murphy’s pig was truly
pig-headed. It set its mind on breaking
into a certain paddock, concentrating its
energies on one spot, and in spite of
various devices to prevent its entrance it
generally succeeded. Chance, however,
came to Murphy’s rescue. He one day
found a hollow log shaped like a U. This
he hauled to the spot and inserted the
elbow in piggie’s latest hole. There was
no more trouble. The pig would come
along, scramble into the hollow at one
end with a grunt of joy and come out
at the other end, back into the same
paddock, with a still louder grunt of joy,
after which he would go on feeding in
perfect happiness.
* * * *
“Matani”: “Emsworth” (B. 12/7/’33)
is too sweeping when he says that the
Maoris were the only people in the
Pacific who wore woven cloth at the
time of Fernandez. In the Nugaria
Taku, Leueneua and Sikiana groups of
the western Pacific, to name just a few,
the women have always worn, and still
wear, loincloths ( te maro or te mefau),
woven on looms on the sword-and-
shuttle principle.
* * % *
“Goomeri”: Ear-cutting as a cure for
poisoning is a Binghi remedy, probably
nearly as old as scrub-ticks and snakes.
I saw a demonstration of it while mus-
tering on the Balonne (Q.). A poisoner
had just gone ahead of us throwing out
the baits. Hearing a wailing we looked
back and saw it came from a small mob
of blacks following us. A kangaroo dog
was staggering about. A gin picked him
up, cut an ear off and catching hold of
him by the hind legs swung him round
and round until she dropped. The dog
speedily recovered.
“Dai R.”: Of Australian ducks the
musk is easily the long-distance under-
water swimming champion, as well as
the trickiest aquatic acrobat. A black,
wood, teal or whistling duck can cover
at the most 30 to 40 yards submerged,
but to the musk 150 yards is a mere
frivol, and I’ve known them do over a
quarter of a mile. All ducks except the
musk do their under-water travelling in
a straight line. The musk turns, re-
appearing where you couldn’t guess he
could. In the old days a diversion of
the crews of the Murray and Darling
“That’s a dry old chap I’ve been talking to.”
“I’d feel party dry, maister, if y’d been talking to me.”
river steamers was betting on the dura-
tion of a musk’s stay under water or the
point of his return, an amusement known
as “musk loo.” On nearing port a whole
pay was often wagered on a single
plunge. So learned in musk-duck lore
were many of the contestants that often
seconds and inches only separated the
winner and runner-up.
* * * *
“Billy P.”: Folk from the city who
stalk turkeys and pigeons amid the pine
scrubs at Killarney (Q.) find creeping and
crawling through thorny and vine-hung
undergrowth hot, dry work, and often
it’s a disgruntled lot that plods back to
the car, cursing the waterless condition
of the district. But there is water all
round them, if they only knew it. The
vines they curse for tripping them are
water-vines. They attain a diameter of
five inches, and when a length of five or
six feet is cut off a brisk flow of water
comes from the end. Three or four of
such lengths provide enough clear, cold
water to quench the longest thirst.
* * *
“E.H.M.”: My fowls roost in the
branches of a peach-tree at the bottom of
my garden. Hearing a
commotion early one
morning I looked out and
saw a fox chasing his tail
under the tree. A few
seconds of these antics was
sufficient to produce a ver-
tigo in two of the fowls,
which obligingly fell out
of the tree. One escaped,
but the other supplied the
fox with breakfast. I
reckoned his cleverness
deserved it, and, anyway, I
hadn’t a gun handy.
“Mundowie”: Sunday Island, in King
Sound, was chosen as a hermitage by a
university man when the North was little
known. He loaded a small schooner with
provisions and other necessaries, and with
an abo. who had worked for him on a
station he sailed from Derby for the palm-
girt island. There this cultured Crusoe and
his Friday lived alone for a considerable
time. Then a number of abos. was
attracted to the settlement and formed a
colony on Sunday and the surrounding
smaller islands. Under the guidance of
the white man they supported themselves
by the cultivation of fruit and vegetables,
cocoanuts, sago palms, sisal hemp, cotton
and tobacco, and by beche-de-mer-, turtle-
and shark-fishing. The sharks provided
oil and leather. With the increase of
population, the founder established a
church and a school, and he was pastor
and school-teacher, as well as director-
general, of the settlement.
“Pulex”: The occurrence of the flea in
millions under most unexpected condi-
tions as told by Yamagi (B. 10/1 / ’34)
is one of the puzzles of the outback. -Not
only are many old and deserted buildings
filled with them, but some drovers’ camps,
especially in western Queensland, are
noted for the hordes of hoppers which
greet new arrivals. The queer part of it
is that they are human fleas, which, the
scientist tells us, can subsist on no other
host. How they get over the long, tucker-
less spells, no one knows. The same
phenomenon occurs in other countries.
During the Palestine campaign the Light
Horse found that Tiberias, on the Sea
of Galilee, enjoyed a well-deserved repu-
tation as the world’s capital of fleadom.
The Arabs called it Kasr el Baragheit —
the Palace of the Fleas.
A. J. Marshall: Whilst cruising on
the Great Barrier Reef, I was surprised
to read in The Bulletin that I was on
the MacPherson Ranges searching for
the “extinct” Albert lyrebird. Far from
being extinct, this wonder bird of our
northern jungles is common in most parts
of its habitat. Near O’Reilly’s bird-
haunted guesthouse, amid the cloudlands
of the MaePhersons, the birds are found
in every ravine and gully, and further
out towards the Kyogle country a settler
friend tells me he has them feeding
in his scrubby back paddock. Contrary
to “Avis’s” inference (B. 27 /12/ ’33),
there has never been any suggestion in
ornithological circles that the famous
mocker is extinct. Neither is the ground
parrot thought to be extinct —there are
at least six fairly well known localities
where the species may still be found.
The same, unfortunately, cannot be said
of either the night or paradise parrots;
and it seems that the noisy scrub-bird
of Westralia has also gone the way of
the dodo.
* * . * tf
“Haggin”: “Walkabout” (B. 10/1 /’34)
offers the opinion that owing to the slump
in camel transport in the far outback
brumby camels will soon be in evidence.
They have been nuisances for years in
some parts of Australia, notably in north-
western South Australia, where they are
nowadays being shot like dingoes or
brumby horses. There are wild camels in
southern Spain, in the wild, marshy coun-
try of the upper Guadalquiver. How
they got there no one knows, though
some consider them descendants of those
abandoned by the Moors. You have to
go east round the globe to the Mon-
golian desert before you will happen on
wild camels again.
* * * *
“Soso”: Four friends were fishing in
Cowan Creek (N.S.W.), and late in the
evening the last bottle was produced. A
slight rock of the boat sent the precious
article overboard. The most heroic mem-
ber of the band stripped off and dived in ;
he bobbed up again with a bottle, and
once more they were happy. There was
a yell of delight as they realised that the
trophy was not the lager which had gone
overboard but a full bottle of whisky!
Later, the lager was recovered too, but
accounts of the fishing from that stage
onwards not only do not tally, but are
quite incredible.
THE PUB PIANO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a lorn wind whimpers in the treetops
and, a wild heart-hunger in its cry.
The far, faint calling of a curlew, and a white
moon-blossom in the sky;
There’s the din of the dancing and the drink-
mg in the old bush pub across the way;
then silence, and the wind, and the curlew, and
someone has begun to play
On the battered pub piano olden songs that
are milestones on the Road to Yesterday.
There’s the gay tap-tap of feet a-dancing, and
a call for drinks within the bar;
And the stars in the sky seem lanterns, and
the big pub lantern seems a star.
But the murmur of the talking and the laughter,
the clamor of the whole gay scene
Is muted by the keening of a curlew, and the
wind, and the music in between—
And a battered, beer-bespattered pub piano is
waking up the Might Have Been.
N.S.W.
W. M. B. LAYCOCK.


“Jerry”: The old-timer got on thq
train at Dirranbandi. At Inglewood into
our carriage stepped a Salvarmy officer.
Interest flickered in the old chap’s eyes.
“I suppose you fight the Devil?” he said
to the man with the red hat-ribbon. The
captain squared his shoulders. “I do,” he
said. “I am on my way to fight a few
rounds with him at Warwick, then at
Armidale, then at Newcastle and yet again
at Sydney.” “Don’t y’ ever lay him out,
mister?” queried old Prickly-Pear with a
twinkle in his eye. “Can’t say I do,”
responded the captain with an answering
twinkle. “But Ido my best to keep him
moving.” “Good lad,” said the oldster,
“and you’ve evidently got him on the run.
Have another go at him when you get
to Hobart, and keep him headed south.
That’ll do Australia! ”
* * % *
“Pat Bushie”: A N.S.W. police magis-
trate escaped some of the discomforts of
the summer outback by discarding his
pants while on the Bench. He would
shed boots, socks and trousers, after
which court would be opened. To all
“So that’s the film where the ape captures the flapper.”
“Dashed insult, l call it! No ape that I know would be bothered with them ”
appearances he was fully clothed; only
the officers were aware of the miss-
ing garments. The habit had an
abrupt ending. One day a rather deaf
lady was a party to a case. Her repeated
“What’s that you say?” to every ques-
tion asked so irritated the P.M. that at
*ast, in desperation, he said “Come up
closer and you’ll hear better—come up
here.” And he waved to a place in front
of the Bench. The lady misunderstood
the command, and before anyone realised
what was happening she was beside his
Worship on the Bench. A close-up of
bare, hairy legs was all she saw ere she
screamed and fled. The sergeant saved
the situation by clearing the court.
* * * *
“Exul”: In the early years of the cen-
tury a Maorilander who has since become
eminent as a mining geologist made an
excursion from Burma into China, taking
with him a gramophone. Calling on the
Viceroy of the first district he visited, a
mandarin of high caste, he asked permis-
sion to entertain his host. The record
chosen was the Mad Scene from “Lucia.”
The Viceroy heard it through without
flinching. At the finish he spoke volubly.
“What does his Excellency say?” the visi-
tor asked the interpreter. “His Excel-
lency wishes to remark,” was the suave
reply, “that the little dog inside the box
appears to be in pain.”
* * * *
“T.D.T.”: The cocoanut planters of
Fiji are thankful that the outsize in crabs
that have acquired the cocoanut-eating
habit are not prolific breeders. Some of
them scale up to 41b., and the grip of
their claws is correspondingly powerful,
enabling them to climb, in a perfectly-
spaced spiral, to the top of the highest
tree. Only ripe nuts are plucked and
the husks torn from them, and then the
crab drops his potential supper to the
rocky ground to crack the shell. Because
of his bulk his journey down the tree has
to be made backwards, and on a more
or less straight route. The natives ex-
ploit this peculiarity by fastening around
the trees, very high up, leather
bands studded with short, extremely
sharp nails, points outward. On his
upward trek the crab, having no vulner-
able points for’ard, takes these obstacles
in his stride, but on his slow downward
trip his very susceptible hinder part re-
ceives a full issue of needle-pointed
spikes. As a rule he lets go his hold
and tumbles backward to join his night’s
harvest —to become an easy victim for
the natives on their morning rounds.
* * * *
“Bundalinga”: Wattle-trees in southern
N. S. Wales are behaving strangely. They
bloomed as usual, from late in August
until late in September, but now many of
them have again burst into blossom.
The blossoms are not so deep in color as
those produced in the normal season.
* * * *
“FY7”: Not only did the belles of
the backblocks and their beaux affect
quandong jewellery in the long ago (B.
3/l/’34), but the haughty aristocrats of
the cities did likewise. A collection of
ancient albums in my possession shows
several ladies of high social tonnage
wearing necklaces of the things set in
silver or gold, and they look quite as
well as the cut-glass chandeliers the
modern female is fond of hanging on her
person. As “Homfrey Beale” says, the
bushmen of those days were great
carvers. Many a ring I have had
made for me from sheepshanks, also
tie-rings, which have vanished off the
earth. But the great artists of those
days specialised in stockwhip handles.
These to-day are mere plain wood or
plaited with leather from the city shops.
In other years they were made from
myall, dead finish, ringed gidya and
other fancy woods, and the carving was
marvellous. The flash stockman would
no more have a plain handle to his whip
than he would have a plain forehead-
DAD: “A kiss, eh? Thought it was the horse pullin’ his foot out o’ the bog.”
band to his bridle when cutting a dash
at the annual show and race week in
Blackall or Tambo.
* * * *
“George”: In B. 20/12/’33 “Wandi”
praises the wild apple-tree ( Angophora)
for bullock-yokes and wheel work. I
agree. The timber will stand water and
damp well; it make good fuel in spite
of popular prejudices against it in this
respect; it is a good famine fodder tree
for cattle, and stands lopping well. Also
it’s a great shade tree, and, for the man
with bees, one of the best, being very
free-flowering.
* * * *
“Emeller”: Nothing like the M.L.
mountain air to give you an appetite,
A chap named E. Hill was lost for a
couple of days in the Tararua Ranges,
and, after his rescue, at the first available
eating-house he devoured a dozen sand-
wiches, a meat pie, a sponge cake and
some apple-tarts. An hour later he
started off again, eating a large quantity
of vegetables, chops, a tart and cream
and four cups of tea. While returning
home by train, the same day, he drank
three cups of Ovaltine and ate a sponge
cake. A little later he had some poached
eggs, scones, bread and butter, and
several cups of coffee. He slept well that
night, and next morning arose early and
ate a hearty breakfast, rising with the
wistful complaint that he had still an
empty feeling.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Crayfish appear to have a
superfluity of limbs, composed of jointed
tubes with the muscles inside, but they
are all needed by their owner. There
are the whip-like antennae or “feelers”;
the large claws for defence or food grab-
bing ; four pairs of legs for ordinary
strolling round and a back pair which, in
conjunction with the flapping of the ab-
domen, help him to retire with backward
kicks when alarmed. There are also
smaller appendages round the mouth,
used for smelling, tearing up and sorting
food. Cray’s table manners are some-
what different from our own. The food is
seized with the large claws and handed to
one of the front pairs of legs, which in
turn pass it on to the last pair of mouth
appendages or maxillipedes, which tear
it to shreds with their rows of sharp
teeth. It is then passed through a whole
string of small saws until it reaches the
mandibles, which give it further mastica-
tion. Finally it enters the mouth, and
the grinding process is completed by
muscles in the stomach which contrive
the gnashing of three powerful teeth.
* * * He
“Cotter”: Just out of Jindabyne, on the
Kosciusko-road, I was asked by a store-
keeper whether I had been to the house
of “the Man from .Snowy River.” I went
on for about five miles to a place called
Waste Point, and there on the banks of
the Snowy itself discovered a shack which
is fast becoming a tourist show-place. It
was built 70-odd years ago by a stockman
named Spencer, photographs of whom
adorn the walls. Visitors are shown the
smoke-blackened rafters as evidence of
the fact that the M. from S.R. smoked
very dark plug. “Banjo” Paterson, who
has visited the shack, says the hero of
his ballad was made up from half a
dozen characters, but that doesn’t dis-
courage pilgrims.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: When hibernating animals
are preparing to curl up for their winter
sleep, a suitable condition of fatness and
languor is brought about by the reduced
action of both the thyroid and pituitary
glands. The thyroid is a U-shaped body
lying in the neck containing vesicles full
of yellowish fluid which supplies the
vitalising energy found in the higher ani-
mals. The pituitary gland is a small egg-
shaped body about half-inch across
which lies in the base of the skull and
is divided into two halves. One half,
among other things, regulates the assimi-
lation of sugar into the system. When
both these glands reduce their daily dose,
the temperature becomes sub-normal, the
animal grows somnolent and lays on fat,
and finally succumbs to its long sleep.
The unhappy hedgehog who is given a
single thyroid injection will at once perk
up and awake to the fact that the winter
world is a cold and inhospitable region.
ijc sfc
“Gilbulla”: The majority of spiders
appear to be deaf, despite their alleged
appreciation of musical sounds ; though
the barking-spider of Central Australia
and other stridulating species can prob-
ably hear quite well. Many species are
also very short-sighted ; but the jumping-
spiders ( Attidce ) are noted for their
power of vision. Their most valuable
nervous faculty is undoubtedly the pecu-
liar sensitiveness which enables them to
detect the direction of vibrations. Ex-
periments I have made with several large
species show that they readily detect
sudden air-currents, and side-step them
with celerity. They take no notice of
a slowly-moving object until it has
approached very closely to them.
* * * *
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides): The other
day Tommy Tanna showed me a piece
of paper on which were pencilled the
figures 655, and blandly inquired, “How
many furlong he stop along that, master?
You savee, furlong belong mile?” In-
quiry as to whether the figures repre-
sented inches, feet or yards brought forth
the explanation: “Me pfeller killum bul-
lock to-day. Scale he speak 6551 b. alto-
gether. Me want to savee how many fur-
longs he stop along that.” Patiently
I informed him that if the figures had
been feet the total would have been just
sft. short of one furlong, but that, cir-
cumstances being as they were, the
answer was scwt. 3qr. 111 b. Tommy de-
parted, filled with scorn at my inability
to convert a large quantity of dead bul-
lock into furlongs.
THRILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It makes me tired,” the old man said, “to
’ear these youngsters spout
Of all their thrillin’ doin’s in them things they
drive about,
These airyplanes an’ racin’ cars. Why, starve
the flamin’ crows!
Such buzzin’, stinkin’ fakaloos would give a
man the Joes.
They oughter been on Dingo Creek” —his old
eyes shone with pride—
“ When Long Bill Jones an’ me ploughed off
for fifty pounds a side.
“Such things, I know, are out of date, an’
folks are different now,
But in them days they’d travel miles to see a
champion plough.
An’ crikey! ’ow the people cheered when I
brought out me team,
A pair of fine upstahdin’ bays, their blood-
red ’ides agleam.
My oath! I could ’a’ ’ad the pick o’ dozens
for a bride
When Long Bill Jones an’ me ploughed off for
fifty pounds a side.
“But ’ushed was all the barrackin’ an’ not a
sound was ’eard
As, wheelin’ round, we straightened up an’
waited for the word.
No mug was Bill, but cripes! I laid a furrow
straight as straight,
An’ turned the sods as evenly as pancakes on
a plate.
A bloke with ’alf an eye could see that I was
’ome an’ dried,
When Long Bill Jones an’ me ploughed off for
fifty pounds a side.
“A bonzer place was Dingo Creek, and there
was thrills,” he sighed,
“When Long Bill Jones an’ me ploughed off
for fifty pounds a side.”
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1674 of 1933.
BETWEEN GWENDOLINE IVY ARKIN-
STALL Petitioner
And THOMAS FRANK ARKINSTALL
Respondent
TO THOMAS FRANK ARKINSTALL
TAKE NOTICE that the said GWENDO-
LINE IVY ARKINSTALL has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Eighteenth day of April One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-four and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of January, a.d.
1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRANK GRAYSON PARKER, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MARY ANN MAINLAND LEWIS,
Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery
Division of the High Court of Justice dated
the 13th day of November 1933 and made in
an action In the Matter of the Trusts of the
Will and Codicil of MARY ANN MAINLAND
LEWIS Deceased (late of Stainmore, 113 Pem-
broke Road, Clifton, Bristol, who died on the
24th November 1925) Walford and another
against Lewis and Others 1933 L. No. 1753
whereby the following inquiry was directed
namely:
“1. An inquiry whether William Main-
land Lewis Wilson (the son of Mary Jane
Palmer now deceased a sister of the above-
named Testatrix Mary Ann Mainland Lewis)
was living at the death of the Testatrix on
24th November 1925 and if he was then
living whether he has since died and if so
when he died and who are his personal
representatives and if he was not then living
whether he left any children who were living
at the death of the Testatrix and if so
whether such children respectively are still
living and if any such children are still living
when they were respectively born and if any
such children are not now living whether
they respectively being sons attained the age
of 21 years or being daughters attained that
age' or married under that age and if so
who are their respective personal represen-
tatives.”
Notice is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry
are on or before the sth day of April 1934 to
send by post prepaid to Mr. Courtenay
Stevens (a member of the firm of Petch and
Co. Solicitors) of 42 Bedford Row London
W.C.I their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order
unless the Court or Judge on application other-
wise orders.
Claimants are to attend personally or by their
Solicitor before Master H. W. Jeff at the Cham-
bers of'the Judge Room No. 157 Royal Courts
of Justice Strand London on Thursday the
12th April 1934 at 12 o’clock noon being the
time appointed for adjudicating upon the claims.
A Claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the
name and address of a person in England or
Wales to whom notices to the Claimant can
be sent.
DATED this 19th day of December, 1933.
HERBERT W. JELF,
Master. _
Note. —The said William Mainland Lewis
Wilson left England in the year 1887 and went
to Australia. He stayed at Drummoyne
Sydney New South Wales until the year 1899.
Subsequently he went to Bathurst New South
Wales where he was married in the year 1903.
In the year 1908 he returned to England and
in the year 1912 was living at Leyton Essex
and is believed to have returned to Australia in
or about that year.
PETCH AND CO., of 42 Bedford Row,
London, W.C.I, Agents for FUSSELL AND
CO., 36 Corn Street, Bristol, Solicitors for
Plaintiffs.
Wanted to Buy.
NEW ZEALAND PERPETUAL FOREST
BONDS. First and Special Issues. Limited
number required for cash. Quote price, which
must be cheap.—Box 1699JJ, G.P.0., Sydney.
Patents.
PRINTING PRESS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
6080/27 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the in-
vention within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO THE MANUFACTURE OF CEMENT
CONCRETE AND APPARATUS FOR
USE THEREWITH.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
4994/26 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the in-
vention within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
7
ty
H
il
iMONARCH
Cigars-
Craig sAitken
■ Wholesale
Distributors
Sqdnetj N.5.W.
“The Barrier Miner,”
Broken Hill.
Published since 1888 and circulating
throughout Broken Hill, the West Darling
pastoral country and many of the north-
ern parts of South Australia, “The Barrier
Miner” offers an unequalled service for
readers and advertisers.
Representatives: F. E. Wilson, 30 Car-
rington Street, Sydney; H. J. C. Boyd,
MeEwan House, I.ittle Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; News, Etd., Adelaide.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
==r'. Tftv %
=
Pf
r „
■at=
iL
v*s
EBA. - --
%
a
i=
Bead
Books To
Good
“PAGEANT”
by G. B. Lancaster
Pageant is aptly named. It describes the
spectacle of life in the days of Queen
Victoria, in the stage-setting of Colonial
Tasmania. The characters have all the
glamor of actors in a brilliant mas-
querade. The pages are packed with
dramatic incidents, told in a masterly
style. Here is History in the making,
told as a dramatic story of individuals.
A book to read and keep and recommend.
Price, 6/6; postage 4 d.
“THE DOUGHMAN”
by Robert Desmond Tate
Sydney Morning Herald the
most strikingly original Australian novel
to appear for a long time. Mr. Tate
writes with vitality and conviction . . .
his relentless realism shocks the more
fastidious readers . . . the descriptive
work is uncommonly good.”
The Bulletin : “ . . . the novel is a
bold, dramatic conception, working up to
a spectacular climax . . . a novel with
the stuff of life in it.”
Price, 6/-; postage 3d.
O' 1 "',
mi,/,. /
F\
&K
“IN PURSUIT
OF PATRICK”
by Vera Dwyer
In Pursuit of Patrick was recently
accepted by John Lane (The Bodloy
Head) for publication in Great Britain.
A delightful romance with a background
of a comedy of errors. The story tells
of the vagaries of a young American
woman journalist whose impetuosity
takes her to Sydney and to the romantic.
South Sea Islands in her attempt to
locate a lost sweetheart. The descrip-
tions of life in Fiji are particularly vivid
and attractive. A most intriguing novel
of the lighter type.
Price, 6/-; postage 3d.
“JONAH”
by Louis Stone
Acknowledged to be one of the greatest
Australian works of fiction.
The late Mr. John Galsworthy said:
“I’ve lapped up .your novel, which I
think extraordinarily actual, vivid and
good.” This is an epic of the city’s back
streets. Jonah is an unforgettable
character, as truly Australian in his
way as any man from the Bush. The
book will surprise those who now read
it for the first time, by its dramatic
power in telling of a phase of Australian
life which has almost entirely vanished.
Price, 6/-; postage 3d.
I
V'//
BRING THE MONKEY
by Miles Franklin
Something quite different from the usual
mystery stories- —in plot, in character-
drawing and in its note of modern
sophistication. Gay social satire and
humor enliven the mystery of the stolen
jewels and the murder at Tattingwood
Hall. A surprise awaits Miss Franklin’s
many admirers, who expect from her
nothing but Australian “Bush” stories;
for in this novel she presents a picture
of English and American character in
an ultra-modern setting.
Price, 6/-; postage 2d.
“THE SOW’S EAR”
by Bernard Cronin
Told with a fierce sense of reality which
will provoke discussion. Its theme
has long awaited literary treatment
—the virtual enslavement of the gu ■
of the Outback by domineering an
fanatical parents who “arrange mar-
riages” for daughters still in their teen..
Much of the ignorance, cruelty anu
religious fanaticism which is < l e P l J tec l_„_
the book still exists throughout Aust . -
lia in the country districts. No woma
of the backblocks should miss reauin-,
this masterpiece.
Price, 6/-; postage 3d.
Endeavour Press publications can be purchased at
Newsagents, or direct from ‘-The Bulletin,” 252
all good Bookshops and
(ieorge Street, Sydney-
Endeavour
The Other Fellow’s Mind.
Sevenpence a Quart
The dairy-farmer on the North Coast
(N.S.W.) is getting 7d. a pound for his
butter. Average quantity of milk re-
quired for a pound of butter is between
2\ and 2\ gallons ; thus he is averaging
2 4-5d. to 3 l-9d. a gallon. Were he to
get 4d. to 5d. he would be on velvet.
Retail price of country milk in Sydney
is sevenpence a quart. Surely our
“statesmen” can devise a system of chill-
ing, transportation and delivery whereby
Sydney consumers may obtain high-
quality milk at Is. 3d. a gallon. — Moukau
(N.S.W.).
“Spooner Not Spineless”
I say an unwise precedent was estab-
lished by the N.S.W. Minister for Local
Government in insisting on the appoint-
ment of a municipal engineer at
Katoomba (B. 20/12/’33). Katoomba
already had an engineer in charge of
water and sewerage, and, for local works
in progress, an excellent overseer. The
council had no work for an engineer, and
yet is compelled to have one. The Minis-
ter declares that an engineer is neces-
sary because it owes the Government a
large amount of loan money. But it has
always met its interest charges and other
obligations on the due date. — Humphrey
M. Earl (N.S.W.).
The Hated Woolgrower
A considerable area of s.-w. Queens-
land is watered by artesian bores put
down by Government; liabilities have to
be paid off by the landowners benefiting,
the period being from 25 to 30 years.
In the case of men running 5000 sheep, or
thereabouts, water charges are £200 to
£300 p.a. The rate represented more than
one-fourth of their wool returns for one
recent year; naturally they fell into
arrears. During 1930-31 Government
interest and redemption were capitalised.
Now, consequent on the rise in wool
prices, bore trusts have been dissolved
and all arrears must be paid within 18
months, plus fresh rates for that period.
Inkerman irrigation farmers had their
principal, owing to the Treasury, written
down 22i p.c.; but such consideration is
not for us woolgrowers.— Artesian (Q.).
A Paltry Swindle
Manufacture of dud coins is not the
only form of counterfeiting practised. A
William-street (Sydney) cafe proprietor
has been experiencing trouble as a result
of printed imitations of his meal tickets.
The spurious tickets are easily detected
from the genuine ones, but when one of
the former is queried the usual excuse is
that the diner bought it from a stranger
in the street who, pleading need of medi-
cine for sick children, offered his “last
meal tickets” at knock-down prices. It
seems a paltry swindle, for the tickets are
sold at 10s. for 21, but the hash-house
man has found it necessary to placard his
shop with warnings against the purchase
of meal tickets from third parties.—
G. K. (N.S.W.).
Pigeonholed and Forgotten
A broadcast appeal to young men to
come forward in support of the Com-
monwealth militia reminded me of other
days. Twenty-five years ago the late
Colonel Le Messurier, of South Aus.,
and myself drew up a complete scheme
for Australian land defence ; an adapta-
tion of the Boer-commando principle.
Colonel Le Messurier was a distinguished
soldier who had seen active service n
many parts of the Empire. He was
thoroughly competent to deal with the
purely military parts of the scheme ; my
own part was the furnishing of details as
to travelling, maintenance, commissariat
—in short, the bushwork. Our joint pro-
duction was sent on to the Defence De-
partment. It was acknowledged, pigeon-
holed —and forgotten. We requested the
return of our manuscript; after a long
period of silence we were informed that
the matter was “under consideration,”
and that is all we ever heard of it.
It was a bitter disappointment to the
colonel; but, for myself, I never expected
any other outcome of the effort. The
plan was too simple and cheap to please
any Government. —C. H. Souter (S.A.).


The Richardson Chain Hotel
£s'!{{ li ** *1 ij!
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE'S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
xV,o v
JO eS
$y
, V
#
<v e
oV°/
' ,^>V
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
, oc L ean a " d harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their sprint
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Servi™*
not the slogan-—it is the practice.
ďf
IN PLAIN BLUE 6
BLUE WITH white
■STRIPE _
Itrip^!! h Black
OR PLAIN FAWN
EjDNGUCUD
A STURDY
SHIRT FOR A,
STURDY JOB!
three for
30-
OR,
EACH
10S
PIKE
brothers ltd.
- 11 X Cjnecri St. Brisbane
SMOKE-OH!
Mr. Lang is said to disapprove of
Garden parties.
* >{.
The Treasurer is often to be seen at Bondi.”
Inspecting the figures, as usual.
V’ v
A saucer-shaped depression, suitable for
pageants, has been found in the Domain.”
Melbourne Centenary Committee report.
Well, now we at least know what the
dam thing looks like.
* #
SAVING THE COUNTRY.
As the Superintendent of Gendarmes
was finishing his ninth aperitif there came
a knock on the door.
“Entrez! ” said the Superintendent,
disengaging his toothpick.
“Enfin, monsieur, the deed is done,”
said the gendarme. “Stavisky has—er—
shot himself.”
“Good. What are you waiting for?”
And the Superintendent poured out his
tenth aperitif.
“For my fee, monsieur. Voila! My
little account.
To saving La France:— '
T , , ■ . ' Francs.
Judges salaries at Stavisky's trial 100,000
Counsel’s fees .. ... 200,000
Cost of perjury and libel suits
arising from Stavisky’s trial .. 1,150,000
Cost of riots following on Sta-
visky’s trial and the resulting law-'
_ su , lts 20,000,000
Caoi expenses of Stavisky over
period of, say, 15 years .. . 7,500
Cost of my ammunition, 15 centimes
Total .. ... .. 21,457,500.15
“Sapristi!” cried the Superintendent.
“You are a true patriot” ; and he en-
dorsed the bill “Pay cash.”
S.
“I ask you, witness, to state on oath,
did you or did you not on the
date herein set down, or at any
time previous to or subsequent
to that date, convey or intimate
to the defendant, or to any one
of the previous witnesses, your opinion of the defamatory nature of the state-
ment imputed to you which forms the basis of this action, and as to whether
it was true or untrue, of no importance or the contrary. Tell the Court,
did you or did you not?”
“Did I or did I not wot ?”
“During the holiday which his wife asked
him to take he wrote: ‘l’ve fallen for a
blonde.’ ” —Divorce report.
Well, she sent him for a trip.
“MOST UNPLEASANT.”
“One scene from ‘Wild Boys of the Road’ is
not only irrelevant and unnecessary, but most
unpleasant.”— “S. M. Herald.”
It has happened before. This is what
“Guffe,” official organ of “Ye Better
Plaies Society,” had to say after the
grand de luxe premiere of
‘‘Romeo and Juliet”:
“Ye wanton scribbler-
mime Wm. Shakspeare
hath been atte it agayne.
Verily ye goings-on of his
latest hussy (‘heroine’ we
refuse to call her) will
bring hotte blushes to ye
genteel chekes of every
right-thinker in this oure
fayre realm of England.
Leap to these arms, untalk’d
of and unseen.
Lovers can see to do their
amorous rites
By their own beauties.
“Pretty sentiments,
i’faith, to issue from ye
lips of a prominent
Younger Set mayde of
scarce 13 summers! What
were ye Censors of oure
Virgin Queene (whom
God save!) doing when
they passed such vulgar,
aye, common language? A
murrain on ye varlets for
that they failed of their
bounden duty to polite
Society.
“Ye plotte—if plotte ye
thyng can be calledI—concerns 1 —con-
cerns ye love (Heaven
save ye mark!) of Juliet
for a boy-scholar or col-
legian hight Romeo. With
ye details of their disgusting liaison and
its most unpleasant sequel, we decline to
soil our pure quill.
“Master Jonson hath been unrefined,
betimes, alas! Master Dekker hath dis-
plaied commonness in his unnecessary
scenes of blood—his latest effort, we
grieve to saie, ending in the violent, hor-
rid deaths of all ye chief characters —but
Master Shakspeare, in ‘Romeo and
Juliet,’ taketh (an we may be permitted
a colloquialism) ye Bath Bunne.
“Oh, that this oure graycious, and
once respectable, England would but
emulate ye moralitie of that great Puri-
tan land of hope, of glory, of virtue and
of refinement, America!”
10-2-4.
“Slimming is ceasing to be fashionable.”
So we may expect to see fat girls get-
ting round again any day now.
. # *
Melbourne’s “Learn to Swim” cam-
paign hasn’t revealed more than a frac-
tion of the Victorians who are struggling
to keep their heads above water.
FOR LOYAL PARAGRAPHISTS.
Crack Golfer.
It may not be generally known that
Prince George is a champion golf-player.
Some of our notables of the putting-
“Ain’t 'e goin’ I’ say somethin’?”
“Aw, give ’im time — ’e’s clearin’ ’ees throat.”
green and divo ting-area are going to get
the shock of their lives when H.R.H.
transpires. Let Whitton and Ferrier look
to their laurels! The “Sun” disclosed
(17/1/’34) that the Prince can give Prince
George no more than half a stroke, and
the Prince’s handicap is but 16.
Splendid Rider.
Having spent a good deal of his time
at sea, H.R.H. has not had much chance
to practise riding. Nevertheless, Aus-
tralians are likely to be
amazed at his skill. It would
not surprise us if he seized
the occasion of the Mel-
bourne Cup being run dur-
ing his visit to accept a
mount in Australia’s classic
race. If so, punters can take
it from us that he is likely to
be there or thereabouts at
the finish.
Authority on Economics.
Heaven help poor Major
Douglas if he is still in Aus-
tralia when Prince George
arrives! The Prince did an
intensive course at the Lon-
don School of Economics,
and emerged with A.R.A.
and L.C.C. degrees. Noth-
ing delights him more than
to engage a dinner-partner
in a lightsome discussion
on the XY plus ÜBD
Theorem.
Here is one of his favorite brain-teasers.
Assuming that IXL = C2/a x b/r-O,
then what is the sum of CHo4 -62 b -
276 n.b.g—and, in any event, where’s the
point in finding the thing out?
See if you can get the answer to this
one quickly, girls. Those who are able
to may rely on being a success with our
Royal visitor.
D.
“Many a man who directs large industrial
concerns quails before a nagging wife.”
Would these be the so-called “shrew’d
business men”?
* *
“The average man takes 20,000 steps a day.”
But, then, the average man doesn’t get
hold of the s.c. bung, that was adver-
tised as being “lmin. tram.”
' # -v
“Rare indeed is the talkie capable of convert-
ing what has been an empty house into a full
one.” — “Sun.”
Many, on the other hand, make the
house so “full” that it becomes empty.
* *
PERFECT PEACE.
“A quiet country town is the scene of the
murder, which bears details of similarity to
another which occurred in the same town two
or three months ago.”— “Sun.”
Dear Bill, —Living in a Sleepy Hollow
like this, there is nothing much to write
about. Shortly after I arrived a gang
shot the stationmaster, and later the
cop. The real husband of the woman
who keeps this place came home last
night and stabbed the other cove. We
shall be ready for him if he returns with
a bomb, as he threatened. While we
were dealing with him someone set fire
to the home. Not at all a bad flare for
a country town. There’s nothing else,
really, except that the parson has bolted
with the doctor’s wife, and a bloke liv-
ing on the outskirts chopped up his wife
and family with an axe.
Of course, vegetating in a quiet hole
like this a man hasn’t got much to tell,
and I’m looking forward to a long,
newsy letter from you. Living as you
are in the centre of bustle and excite-
ment, you aren’t handicapped by a short-
age of news as I am. —Yours,
H. M.
* *
Our wool sales have certainly caught
the trade winds.
* *
“Exercise is the only thing to combat the
effects of soft living.”
What we would rather have is some-
thing to combat the effects of hard
living.
PARADISE REGAINED.
“Companionate marriages have gone out of
fashion in the U.S.A.”
The Dogworths, who celebrated a
companionate marriage last year, have
found bliss at last. No misunderstand-
ings, no naggings. They have arranged
a companionate separation, and the more
they aren’t together the happier they
are!
P.
“They expect a man to live on three o’
these biscuits a day, sir.”
“Well, my boy, you are certainly getting
three square meals.”
“Stavisky was known as the Big Shot by
his American friends.”
Some of the Paris papers prefer to
call him the Big Shot-at.
INCREDIBLE.
Feminine jawbones are growing smaller.”
—“Science Siftings.”
In women’s jaws experts detect
A tendency to narrow; yet
The claim I doubt when I reflect
Upon the exercise they get!
P. C.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Air Queen runs her best races at Rand-
wick. Her victory in the A.J.C. Chal-
lenge Stakes was her third at headquar-
ters. Considering her good form, it was
surprising that she was allowed to go
out at sixes, after sevens and eights had
been laid for good amounts. The Bul-
letin selected her on the strength of her
winning effort in Tatt.’s Flying Welter on
New Year’s Day, when she ran the six
furlongs in the smart time of lmin.
lOJsec. She showed her consistency by
getting over the six on Saturday a quarter
of a second faster.
Jamieson, who has gone to Maoriland
for the yearling sales, must have left
word that he thought Persian a good
thing. There was big money for the
Moorefield Cup winner, and the public
followed the lead, Persian starting a
clear-cut favorite at 5 to 2 after touching
twos. He surprised by taking the lead
at barrier rise. Leila Vale kept worrying
him, but it was evident a long way from
home that Air Queen had the measure
of the pair. When Winooka’s pilot, Edgar
Britt, let her head go it was all over.
Dame Moab, who had good backing at
long prices, had run a wonderful trial at
Warwick Farm. Trainer Bill was in
doubt as to how she would begin. She
was hopelessly placed to the turn, but
BECBt; "lM Not GOING w'
<S(ER.t: MOT YOULL BE.
SAPE ENOuqH t
BEP.T : You see the
NOTICE 1 VV-
<3eqt; "Veb , but that onit
to v\e»4 "
unwound a fine run in the straight to get
second, with little Vista, who was troubled
by his Bst. 111 b., third ; then came Leila
Vale, Persian and Some Boy.
Judging by Air Queen’s display she is
going to be hard to defeat in the Adrian
Knox Stakes. Leila Vale should run
better if ridden more patiently, but it is
difficult to see her beating the sister to
Flying Dave and Bronze Hawk. Air
Queen will not be troubled by her in-
creased weight in the fillies’ race on
Friday.
Five-year-old Satmoth is at the top of
his form, and the Tatt.’s Cup winner
looks like recording the hat trick by
annexing the Anniversary Handicap. His
victory in the January Flandicap, at
eights, was most impressive. Darby
Munro set him a severe task. He was
second-last at the six furlongs, but went
fast round the outside of the field to
take the lead turning for home. The
rest was easy; Clever Fox and Wicklow
followed him to the box. Milantheon had
every chance, but could only run fourth.
He drops four pounds in the Anniversary.
Cynical and Aussie’s Delight were both
well backed at sevens, but seemingly they
can’t run a mile and a quarter.
The Payten brothers, of Alfala,
Canowindra, have a fine galloper in the
two-year-old Bombus, a half-brother to
Maybe. He won at Moorefield at his
first start, and he took the Widden Han-
dicap after running wide at the turn and
almost finishing under the judge’s box.
Heavily backed at fours, Bombos showed
his class by running “five” in 59|.
Had he stayed on the course he may
have equalled the Australasian record of
58, held by Machine Gun since 1904.
The Veilantif party must consider
Buonarroti their hoodoo horse. He has
now beaten their filly twice. William
Kelso was in doubt about starting the
High Art colt in the Bondi Handicap, as
he had been tied up with rheumatism.
However, Buonarroti showed all the dash
required, as he jumped into the lead and
won easily from Veilantif and Kagal. He
started at 14 to 1. The favorite, Fleet,
came home well to get fourth after being
a long way out of her ground in the
early stages. A mile would suit her
better.
Prowler is a smart horse when he hits
the front. Starting at tens, he led after
the first couple of furlongs in the Pad-
dington Handicap, and battled on gamely
to defeat the outsider Havilah Belle, who
lost ground at the start, with Camargo
third. The last-named and Lionhearted
started equal favorites. Camargo’s
apprentice was not seen to advantage, as
he allowed Prowler to get away from him
at the turn when the mare was going
easily and could have run up to the
leader. Lionhearted showed no heart;
Knox had to stop riding him when pres-
sure was applied.
* * * *
“E.D.”: “All-up” wagering on the
place tote is not bad fun. You can’t
lose much, and if you are a good judge
of horses—or if you know a good judge
when you see one —you will show a
handsome profit now and then, provided
you don’t try to pick the card. For
example, one would have done well by
following The Bulletin’s tips for Rand-
wick. A 10s. ticket on Constantine (third)
would have yielded 18s. Naturally 2s.
would have been added to make it £1 on
Air Queen (first), the principal selection ;
return, £2 17s. With another 3s. you
would take out six tickets on Wicklow
(third); six Wicklow tickets returned
£1 10s. = £9. And £9 on Camargo (third)
in the last race would, at £1 2s. Carmargo,
have enabled the punter to bear away
£l9 16s. for an initial outlay of 10s. Of
course, six more tickets on Wicklow and
18 more on Camargo would have reduced
actual dividends a bit, but a substantial
profit would have remained.
* * * *
Jockey Phil Burn, who was apprenticed
to Randwick trainer Donohoe, and made
his first appearance at the same time as
Cook, is back in Sydney on a visit from
Brisbane. Burn has a high opinion of the
Spearfelt colt Soft Step, who, though
beaten in the Queensland Derby by
Waikare, showed in the Cup that he must
have been unlucky. He is a genuine
stayer. Though he is now spelling and
will miss the Sydney Cup, he is to come
south for the spring handicaps.
* * * *
Acceptances for Caulfield were so
numerous that divisions lengthened the
programme to nine races. Several noted
sprinters competed in the Tooronga
Handicap. Staghorn, trained by George
Jones for W. R. Kimball, of M.L., caused
a boil-over in the first division, for which
Sydney-owned Whittingham, third to
Chatham and Regal Son in the Epsom,
was a warm favorite. The Rosewing
gelding disappointed his mentor Holt
by finishing no nearer than fifth. Domi-
nant led to the straight entrance, where
Kalili (second favorite) loomed up
boldly. However, Staghorn, who had
been supported by some shrewd punters
and shortened from 20 to 1 to 12 to 1,
prevailed in a tough tussle by half a
length from Te Huon, latter being three-
quarters of a length in advance of Kalili.
Placegetters are engaged in the Oak-
leigh Plate, while Staghorn and Kalili
also have been nominated for the New-
market.
Calulu King, winner of the Standish
Handicap at Flemington on New Year’s
Day, started at 7 to 4 for the second
division, double those odds being on offer
against Foursome, an Adelaide nag in the
stable of J. Sing, who rode Haoma.
Spencer Brunton’s Woorak filly Mananna
set a cracking pace, but Foursome had
her settled at the distance. Coming with
a late run, Calulu King managed to make
a dead-heat with Foursome in the last
stride. Mananna tired and was more
than a length farther off. The six fur-
longs occupied only 1.11, which equals
the course record. Great Night lost a
great deal of ground at the start, but
came home so speedily that he headed
the unplaced division. Great Night
should play a part in the decision of the
Newmarket Handicap.
Having only his third outing with the
colors up, Dark Sky, a handsome black
colt knocked down for 200 guineas to
Frank Musgrave at the Sydney yearling
sales, proved his high galloping merit by
annexing the first division of the Holiday
Stakes. Nipper, who was sent across
from Randwick several weeks ago by
J. T. Jamieson, seemed unlucky to lose
the V. R. C. Stradbroke Stakes on New
Year’s Day. Caulfield punters regarded
any price a good one in the case of
Nipper, but he was left at the post. At
a subsequent inquiry evidence was given
that the colt was in line when the field
was dispatched but swung round. Ashley
Reed, the rider, was suspended for three
months on a charge of having used in-
sulting words to the starter.
Dark Sky stumbled through jumping
a crossing in the straight, and collided
with Tasty Pie. The pair swung out and
left the rails clear for Ronsant, a 100-to-
-1 chance. Daniels straightened Dark
Sky in time to defeat Ronsant by a
length, Tasty Pie being a long neck
farther off. Had Tasty Pie finished
second and a protest been lodged, she
probably would have got the race. Dark
Sky is raced by E. L. Baillieu, of the
V. committee, in conjunction with
W. S. Robinson, an Anglo-Australian
financier. Robinson spends most of his
time in London, but saw Dark Sky win
on Saturday. The colt is by Moabite
from Lumas Lumen (imp.).
Bardinet (5 to 4) was lucky to capture
the second division of the juvenile race.
She gave a lot of trouble at the post, but
got away on the fly. Pantrymaid (by
Pantheon) and Neuve Chapelle (by
Drake) led her into the straight, but the
Tippler filly was going strongest at the
end and won by three-quarters of a
length from Neuve Chapelle, with Pantry-
maid a close third. Sons of the late A. E.
Tyson own Bardinet. They came down
from Hay (N.S.W.) to see her win.
Ridden by W. Cook, the former
Sydney jockey, Croscon took charge a
furlong from home in the Anniversary
Handicap and lasted long enough to stall
off the favorite, Sea Rover, by a neck.
Both Croscon and Sea Rover are Aus-
tralian Cup candidates, while Sea Rover
is also a Sydney Cup aspirant. Sea Rover
inherits stamina from his sire, Sea
Prince.
The Rowena Welter fell to Prismatic,
who came over to Melbourne from
Sydney in the first instance as a hurdler.
Frank McGrath left him with Fred
Foulsham, but Prismatic paid a flying
visit to Sydney in December and regis-
tered two victories there —in a Jumpers’
Flat at Ascot and a Trial Stakes at Rand-
wick. Fie is too good a galloper to be
doing duty over the battens.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jimmy Clabby, reported dead of
starvation in the U.S.A., made heaps of
money in Australia fighting Dave Smith,
Darcy, Mick King and other fine boxers
of their period ; but lost it all at the
races. So did Eddie McGoorty, and
both had to be helped back to their
native country; but McGoorty had a
profitable second innings in the ring
which was denied to Jimmy. This is the
second report of Clabby’s decease that
has come out of America, and possibly,
like the first, it may prove to have been
exaggerated. Griffo’s passing was an-
nounced several times before it actually
occurred.
* * * *
At Newtown on Saturday Tom Lurich
lost to Walter Browning in the fifth
round, being disqualified for dropping his
man with a left swing. At Leichhardt
“Whiskers” Blake lost to Bill Beth in
the fifth round, failing to come to time
after a back-slam. The boys will have
to arrange things better than this if their
trade is to survive. It can’t stand two
shows on the same night.
Ins and Outs
“Five Ways”: One of the most inter-
esting aspects of Test-match selection is
the howl of indignation that periodically
goes up in the Sydney press whenever
the name of a Queensland player is men-
tioned. Special victims of these attacks
in the past have been Oxenham and
Hornibrook. When the latter was called
out of retirement recently by the Aus-
tralian selectors, anxious to take a really
good left-hander, the caterwauling became
deafening. The usual cry of “age” has
been reiterated so often that many think
of the Queenslander as approaching
senility. He is not yet 34 and as fit as
they make them. It is also claimed that
he has not played cricket since he was
with the 1930 Eleven in England. Last
season he took 28 wickets in Brisbane
grade cricket for 8 runs apiece, and in
one of his few matches early this season
captured 6 for 75. His 4 for 43 against
South Australia shows that the old skill
is there to be drawn on.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The monthly meet-
ing of the N.S.W.C.A. disclosed that
£1446 had been divided between the
beneficiaries of the match N.S.W. v. The
Rest played in Sydney, the lucky trio
being Tommy Andrews, Collins and Kel-
leway. The season has also been a profit-
able one to the association. The match
with Queensland, occasionally a losing
proposition, this time turned in a profit
of £1066. That with South Australia
panned out £641 to the good, and the
Victorian-N.S.W. game is yet to come.
The Westralian team will open in Syd-
ney, against what is left of N.S.W. after
the England and M.L. teams have been
picked, on February 23.
C Continued on next page.)
The first Rugby international of the
British season saw England beat Wales
at Cardiff before a crowd of 55,000 by
9-0. The English forwards outclassed the
opposition, while South African Owen-
Smith played an inspired game for Eng-
land at full-back.
FOR RANDWICK ON FRIDAY.
Kurnell Handicap: Dame Moab ;
next, Vista.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Air Queen ;
next, Veilantif.
Anniversary: Satmoth; next,
Magnetic.
Phillip Handicap: Canegrass;
next, Chemosh.
FOR CANTERBURY ON SATURDAY.
Park Stakes: Thaddeus; next,
Kagal.
Flying Handicap: Nardale ; next,
Havilah Belle.
Canterbury Handicap: Dango ;
next, Polette.
Campsie Handicap: Royal Tune ;
next, Mountain View.


Relywn BEDFORD
. .. for economical
Tracking . . .
(r-
-i
Four Capacities . . . Six Models
. . . ioi in, to 157 in. wheelbases
• There is a Bedford Truck for every type of
business ... a range of models from 8-cwt. with 101"
wheelbase to a 2-2J-tonner with 157" wheelbase.
Bedford is a built-in-England Truck with a
world-wide reputation for sound engineering, rugged
construction, long life, and economy.
The engine is of six cylinder valve-in-head type.
Cast-iron pistons, crankcase ventilator, full pressure
lubrication. Zenith carburettor with air cleaner.
The engine of the 30-cwt. and 2-2|-ton models is
26 h.p., and develops 57 h.p. at only 2,800 revolu-
tions per minute. Crankshaft is four-bearing, and
weighs 48 lbs. The 2-2 J ton models have full
floating rear axle, and are available with single or
dual rear wheels. General Motors - Holden’s Ltd.
Abridged Details of
Models Available
Six models: Utility 8 cwt.
101 wheelbase; 12—15 cwt.
107" wheelbase ; W.S. 30 cwt.
131" wheelbase; W.H.G. 2-2\
ton 131" wheelbase; W.L.G.
2-2-| ton 157" wheelbase; and
W.L.B. Bus Chassis 157*
wheelbase. Bodies for every
type of business are available,
Bedford dealers can give you
specifications and details of
the Bedford Truck range.
Chassisprice(B-cwt.)from£22o
. . . plus sales tax.
BRITISH BEDFORD
Consult your local authorised Bedford Dealer
AU44M
Ins and Outs
Queensland scored its second win of
the Sheffield season by defeating South
Australia in Brisbane by eight wickets.
The outstanding feature of the game was
the sustained bowling effort of Oxenham,
who took 10 for 104 in the match. The
bowling of Hornibrook, specially played
at the request of the Australian selec-
tors, was attentively watched. The wicket
was unsuited to left-hand trundling, and
he did no good in the first innings. In
the second he found his old arm and
took 4 for 43. Of the batsmen, Cook,
of Queensland (156), and Lonergan, of
South Australia (112), were the only cen-
turions. The most attractive batting ex-
hibition was Richardson’s double of 67
and 64. Wall had a bad match, but
Grimmett ended with 6 for 168 and Lee
gathered in 4 for 69.
* * * *
‘Tenth Slip”: Big cricket enters its
last phase this week-end, when Victoria
meets N.S.W. in Sydney. The posses-
of the Shield hangs on the result,
since the Cabbage Gardeners will have
to be ticked outright if Ma is to have a
hope. The N.S.W. side has been recon-
structed. Bradman reappears after his
spell, but most interest will be taken in
the performances of the left-hand slow
bowler Hill. He has an outside chance
of catching the Australian XI.
* * * *
. “Retired Urger”: I suppose it is impera-
tive that we all should give the Austra-
lian selectors the dinkum about the team
lor England. Here’s my shy at it: Wood-
full, Ponsford, Bradman, McCabe, Dar-
ling, Bromley, Lonergan, Brown, Oxen-
ham, Wall, Q’Reilly, Grimmett, Ebeling,
Hornibrook, Oldfield and Barnett.
There’s not a man in that lot who can be
called an absolute dud with the bat, save,
perhaps, O’Reilly. The fielding is first
class and the inclusion of Hornibrook
would give the side a badly-needed slip
fieldsman. The bowlers are all proved
and of varied types. The first eight
accredited batsmen on the list are good
enough for any company.
* * * *
‘Callan Park”: For the past few weeks
I have been reading the selections for
the next Australian XI as published by
some 50 press experts, and as a conse-
quence suffered a relapse. Having re-
covered somewhat I have resorted to an
old racing foible of mine and, putting
all the names of the candidates into a
hat, have drawn 16 players. The names
that came out —I give them in their
order—were: Lonergan, Bromley, Chip-
perfield, Lee, Wall, Grimmett, Chilvers,
Fleetwood-Smith, Barnett, Oxenham,
Nitschke, Brown, Tobin, Woodfull,
O’Reilly and Oldfield. I am sorry for
Bradman and one or two of the others,
but the luck was against them. Anyway,
the side is not a bit more fantastic than
some of those published by alleged
experts.
* * * *
“Bowen Terrace”: Queenslanders are
hoping that after his striking wind-up of
a successful bowling and batting season
in the match against South Australia the
merits of Oxenham will at last impress
the Australian selectors. He is only 39
and a typical wiry type who can bowl
all day. At this age and over, George
Giffen, Joe Darling, Armstrong, Trott,
Clem Hill, Syd Gregory and others were
still going strong in the big stuff. In
Sheffield games this season Oxenham has
taken 23 wickets for an average of 23.52
against the powerful batting of the
southern States. Batting, he has made
239 runs with a highest of 51 and an
average of 26.55. Still, the Banana-
landers realise that a player from the
North has to do something staggering to
be recognised.
* * * %
“Cash Amateur”: The usual squealers
are attacking the Board of Control for
the financial arrangements it is making
with the players selected to go to Eng-
land. . A hundred pounds is given to each
man in advance and £l5O is put on the
ice until the players are back again and
can prove that they have been good boys,
both these amounts being paid in Aus-
tralian currency. The balance of the
total sum of £6OO which these “amateurs”
are to receive is to be paid, if required,
in monthly instalments of £BO in Eng-
lish currency. The squealers are claim-
ing that the board will make a profit of
over £lOOO by the payments in Austra-
lian currency. They say nothing of the
profits the player will make on the Eng-
lish payment of £350.
* * * *
Shrewsbury”: English cricket seems
to be changing. A London cricket writer,
commenting on Larwood’s prospects in
the coming Tests, says that.if he is selected
ki v* M.C.C.—which means, presum-
ably, if he is recovered from his foot in-
jury—it will be “on the tacit understand-
that he must abandon bodyline tac-
tics. The critic adds that it is a question
whether Larwood will accept restriction
of any kind, he being “temperamentally
indisposed to do so.” A few years ago
the cricketer, professional or amateur,
who was “temperamentally indisposed”
to do what his club or skipper told him
could kiss the game good-bye as far as
the big stuff was concerned. To the pro-
fessional, conduct of this kind practically
meant ruin. With counties like York-
shire which maintain a pension fund, he
would forfeit all rights and his county
engagements would end. Public schools
and university colleges would be chary of
engaging him as a coach, he would be
kicked off the ground staff of the M.C.C.
and, lastly, he would have no chance
of gaining the safe haven of many famous
professionals—the job of official umpire
in county and other first-class cricket.
Racquet and Bawl
N.S.W. retained the Linton Cup trophy
by defeating Victoria. McGrath had a cap-
able assistant as unusual in his methods
as himself. This was J. Bromwich. A
left-hander naturally, this chap serves
right-handed, plays a left-hand forehand,
but uses a double-fisted forehand for any-
thing coming on his right side. He con-
trols this shot splendidly, as McGrath
does his backhand, and scored many
cross-court winners with it. It looks as if
the fashion for double-handed tennis is
fairly setting in, since these two are not
the only players among the young
brigade affecting something of the sort.
* * * *
“Blue Moon” : One of those glad sur-
prises which usually happen only in
dreams fell upon three members of our
last Davis Cup team last week. They
were notified from Paris that the French
tennis heads were making good the
money stolen from their pockets in the
dressing-rooms at Paris when the Aus-
tralians were playing Japan last year.
McGrath lost £l7, Turnbull £9 and Quist
£6. Crawford, who does not bear a
Scottish name for nothing, came out all
right—he took his money with him on to
the court.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Ellsworth Vines has
been making his .first appearances in pro-
fessional tennis during a tour of the
States with Tilden. To time of writing
the pair have played four matches, Tilden
winning three. All the same Vines has
given the elder player a great go in each
match, and has evidently regained much
of the form he dropped last year, 'tilden
is now 41, but seems to have lost none
of his old skill. The public evidently
appreciates the fact, for the gate on the
opening match of the series was £6OOO.
* * * *
“Bournemouth”: The next Davis Cup
team from this side will have an easier
trot, as far as its Cup engagements go,
than any of its predecessors. The
elimination of the weaker European
teams by the knock-out tourney last year
has been followed by the decision of
Japan to challenge in the American zone.
This will leave our men with France and
Germany as the only formidable oppo-
sition they are likely to encounter in
that zone, and they should qualify to meet
the winners from the American side in
the inter-zone final. Four players are to
go, but the selectors will make no move
until after the Australian champion-
ships, which close on January 27.
“Kelly”: Who says these tennis players
are sissy boys? One of them, Hodgens
by name and a citizen of Myrtleford
in Victoria, recently won the men’s
singles in the local championships. Then
he strolled over to a woodchopping com-
petition and won that also, returning in
time to help a friend to take the doubles
title.
* * *
“Frogskin”: The French tennis heads
have been ruefully counting up what the
loss of the Davis Cup will mean to their
exchequer in the days to come. During
the six years that France held the Cup
and staged the challenge rounds at Paris,
the takings were over eleven million
francs. This year the challenge round
will be at Wimbledon, which already rolls
in riches acquired from a long series of
All-England championships.
* * * *
“Rushy”: A notable performance was
the victory of Miss M. Wilson in the
N.S.W. countrywomen’s singles champion-
ship, this being the sixth year in succession
she has carried off the title. Last year the
lady took a trip to Europe as a free-
lance player carrying the imprimatur of
the A.L.T.A. She figured at many of
the country tournaments in England and
at Wimbledon, but without conspicuous
success. There was plenty of evidence
at the meeting in Sydney, however, that
the experience of the tour has added
greatly to the efficiency of her game.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The International
Tennis Federation, which meets in Paris
on March 16, is to consider an alteration
of the definition of an amateur. The old
rule said that amateurs could play with
(Continued on page 26.)


professionals and remain unsullied as
long as they received permission from
their own country. The new rule forbids
anything of the sort unless the I.F. gives
its consent. It is very much a matter of
Tweedledum and Tweedledee, save that
the power to grant the permit has been
shifted from the national organisations
to the federation. No attempt seems to
have been made to lay down some defi-
nite ruling on the question of the multi-
tudinous amateurs who subsist largely
by receiving under-the-lap dusturi from
makers of tennis material and tourna-
ment-promoters, but that is an old story.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Sydney’s public golf
courses are to be added to by one at
Northbridge, sponsored by the muni-
cipality. The course has been laid out
by the council’s engineer, H. D. Robb,
and gives many fine views of Middle
Harbor. What will interest golfers more
is that the yardage will exceed 6000,
and that the ground is undulating. The
fairways under construction are rough
and will call for a lot of attention for
some time to come. So far the
course is of nine holes and the yard-
age 2800 ; the shortest hole is
130 and the longest 460. Exten-
sion to 18 holes will follow. There is a
tram stop at the front door, and, if Wil-
loughby Council doesn’t make the green
fees too hot, as some of Sydney’s muni-
cipal courses have done, the public on
the North Shore should help the new
venture to success.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: There is a strong
impression in Victorian golf circles that
the refusal of the people running the
centenary golf tourney to grant travel-
ling expenses for a team of American
MEMBERS OF THE VICTORIAN RING.
BERT PAMPHILON.
G. H. LEVEY.
FRANK STRINGER.
BILL PHILLIPS.
TOM MCLAUGHLIN.
professionals has probably upset the
whole applecart. The Yanks asked offi-
cially for transport both ways for a team
of six leading players. They added that
they expected to make their profit, if
any, out of the cut of the purses offered
in Australia. The refusal of this reason-
able request will mean not only that the
Yankees will refuse to come over on
the chance of picking up a share of the
prize-money while paying their own
costs, but that their British opposite
numbers will also turn the proposition
down.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s next big
golfing show will be the annual scrap
for the A.N.A. cup on the Royal Queens-
land links on January 29. The competi-
tion is for the best net score over 18
holes stroke, and all members of recog-
nised golf clubs in Queensland are eligible
to have a shy for the pot. Conditions
provide that no player receives more
than 20 strokes handicap. The cup is
not permanently held by the winner, but
he gets a small replica of it, and his name
is engraved on the big pot. The winner’s
club takes care of it for the year.
* *
“Nicker”: When Leslie Gannon, of
Bonnie Doon (N.S.W.), saw his partner
take the long 18 th hole in 2 he posted
a tenner, to be the property of anyone
repeating the feat. Just a week later,
L. J. Scott landed the tenner. In the
same week another member just missed
doing the same thing by a couple of
inches.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: E. A. Gill, a former
amateur champion of Australia and now-
adays secretary of Indooroopilly, returned
recently to his native Queensland after a
long golfing tour of Britain. He saw Brit-
ish courses in the height of the excep-
tional dry summer of last year and was
amazed to find they were as flinty as
anything he had experienced in Austra-
lia. Another surprise was that the fair-
ways were not nearly so well grassed as
in Australia, English players apparently
preferring a flat lie through the green.
One thing that struck him especially was
that most of the clubs in laying out their
courses made them enjoyable for the
long-handicap men, who form the bulk
of club members and supply most of the
sinews of war. Here in Australia the
modern tendency is to take the opposite
direction, and some club committees
might do worse than note.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Some time ago the
writer pointed out that when club mem-
bers rallied round and drank the whisky
of the man who had holed in one they
were robbing the caddies. In the old
days in Scotland, when all caddies were
elderly and bibulous men, the player who
holed in one was bound by custom to
give his caddie a bottle of whisky. With
the coming of boy caddies the old cus-
tom has lost its original significance, and
the caddie is left out in the cold. A mem-
ber of one of the Sydney clubs has sug-
gested that, instead of the “shout,” the
player should fork out a fixed sum, this
to be paid into a fund from which prizes
for a caddies’ competition could be
awarded. It is a sane idea and fair to
all parties.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The latest news of Malcolm
Campbell is that he has been conducting
wind-tunnel tests with a view to redesign-
ing the chassis of his Bluebird car, and
is now busy on the refashioning. He
claims that a pattern has been evolved
which reduces wind resistance at more
than 320 m.p.h. to less than that experi-
enced with the old design at 270 m.p.h.
Nothing has been made public as yet as
to where the champion is going to chance
his luck with the new machine, though it
may be the dry lakebed lately tested in
Utah (U.S.A.). It is certain that Daytona
is off the map because there is insufficient
room for the speeds Campbell is aim-
ing at.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Australian Grand Prix
races for the puffing billies on Phillip
Island on January 29 have drawn a big
entry. There are four events: the senior,
junior and lightweight G.Ps. and the
side-car race. As the Australian T.T.
races on the Goulburn (N.S.W.) circuit
will not be held until June, the selection
of a candidate for the Isle of Man T.T.
will have to be made after the Victorian
event. Selectors Moore (S.A.), Yott (Vic.)
and Goodwin (N.S.W.) will therefore see
the Phillip Island show before picking
the pea for the overseas meeting. Most
of the entrants are Victorians, 10 coming
from N.S.W. and three from South Aus-
tralia. Queensland is not bothering, and
will hold a G.P. event all on its own on
the same day as the Cabbage Garden
show.
* * * #
“Kick Starter”: The N.S.W. motor-
cycle heads will have the ordering of the
Australian Tourist Trophy races, which
will be held on the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
road circuit on Easter Saturday. Mel-
bourne centenary demands made the
venue a bit uncertain for a time, but Ma
won the argument eventually. In addi-
tion to the usual programme of senior
and junior T.T., solo handicap and side-
car events, there is to be this year a
special class for 250 c.c. machines. This
will be run off in conjunction with the
junior T.T.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: In spite of his monetary
demands (B. 17 /1 / ’34) it is more than
likely that the Continental pedal-pusher
Ledocq will be in Melbourne for the cen-
tenary racing. Anxious to come along
also is Josef Mauclair, who was out here
in 1930 and won the special Sydney-
Melbourne road race that year, pouching
one of the fattest purses up to then
offered for a road race in Australia. He
also may be regarded as a certain visitor,
and will team up with Ledocq.
“Clincher”: E. A. Pearson was one of
Australia’s greatest .champion cyclists 40
years ago, and to this day holds the ama-
teur record for the Sydney-Melbourne
ride, while he also rowed for N S W
He still sticks to his cycling, but of late
years specialises in Alpine rides. 1 his
season he starts on his fourth trip of the
kind, with T. Richmond as a companion.
The ride this time will include the top ot
Mt. Kosciusko and the St. Bernard Hos-
pice on the top of the Victorian Alps, tak-
ing all the many hillocks on the way.
At 66 Pearson feels more than equal to
the job, and one of these days he may be
persuaded to ride up Mt. Everest.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight”: Australian riflemen will
be interested in the news that Bisley has
decided to increase the size of the bull s-
eye at 300, 500 and 600 yards. The rea-
son is said to be the new short rifle with
its “whippy” barrel, which is affecting
accurate shooting at the smaller bulls.
As has been pointed out (B. 10/l/’34)
Australia has characteristically solved the
problem by making a heavier barrel and
bedding it more firmly.
* * * *
“Spike”: The crowd running amateur
athletics in N.S.W. has a chronic habit
of tumbling into the soup. At a meeting
just before the departure of the Ma team
for the Australian championships in Adel-
aide, an official admitted that two of the
men chosen had agreed to go only on the
condition they started in events of their
own nomination. This.sort of thing is be-
coming too common in Australia. Promi-
nent performers, puffed up by press
adulation, try to call the tune instead of
following that decided on by the authori-
ties of the sport involved. It is destruc-
tive of all that is best in amateur sport.
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union —which stands for those in the
other States as well —is this year making
the earliest start in its history, grade
matches beginning on April 14. The in-
clusion of Parramatta as a first-grade club
calls for extra playing days, and, in addi-
tiqn, there will be a full inter-State and
inter-Dominion programme to be packed
in. The All Blacks will play in N.S.W.,
Victoria and Queensland, while Ma will
entertain Victoria twice in Sydney, in
addition to two matches there with
Queensland. Two games will also be
played with Bananaland in Brisbane.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League Kangaroos
have some compensation for their lack of
success in their Test matches with the
Northern Union —a profit of over £9OOO.
In addition to their weekly wages of £lO,
the players will receive a bonus of over
£2OO apiece. It is to the credit of the
management and players that the share
which would have come to Ray Morris,
who died on the journey to England,
has been set aside for his executors.
* * * *
“Bobstay”: The N.S.W. 18-footer
championship was won in great style by
the Queensland-built craft Tangalooma,
an ex-Australian champion in this class.
The breeze was patchy and shifty during
most of the race, but, capably handled
by W. Dunn and an expert crew of kite-
setters, ’ Tangalooma never looked like
a loser. Ma will be in Brisbane shortly
for the Australian 18 championships, and
will find two or three hot new proposi-
tions from the same stable as Tanga-
looma waiting for her there.
* * *
“Blade”: This season’s N.S.W. rowing
and sculling championships, which take
place on the Nepean on February 3, have
additional interest in the appearance of
a couple of new competitors, of whom
much is hoped. In the sculls, Herb
Turner, Australian champion, will be
opposed by Max Fisher and Cliff Pearce of
the famous sculling clan. Pearce has won
several handicaps in good style. He is one
of the scullers who have taken advantage
of the rowing association’s amended rule
which permits the lone-handers to
affiliate directly with the association in-
stead of taking the more costly path of
club membership. The appearance of the
police crew in the eights is also attract-
ing attention. They are an immensely
heavy lot, and when they were first
boated, in a craft specially built for
them which is three feet longer than the
average, it is averred that the water in
Sydney Harbor rose several inches.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Adelaide is more or less
apprehensively awaiting the onrush of
the bowlers of Australasia which is ex-
pected to start in mid-February. The
occasion is the All-Australia bowling
tournament, which begins in the Holy
City on March 5, and continues its
orgies until the 17th. For months special
preparations to receive the invading hosts
have been made. There are over 500
bowling clubs in Australia, to say no-
thing of M.L., and Adelaide expects to
see a considerable percentage of their
50,000 members. Travelling concessions
have been fixed up for players and their
families, and there is a special commit-
tee to see that everyone is adequately
accommodated. Note that entries for
singles, pairs and rinks must be received
in Adelaide by January 26.
* * * *
“Splash”: The N.S.W. swimming
championships produced some fine per-
formances by both sexes, including a
couple of new records. Among the men
Noel Ryan was in a class by himself in
the free-style races, taking the 110, the
220 and the 880 off the reel, the first in
lmin. 2 l-ssec., beating A. Hooper's
Australian-born record by four-fifths of
a second. Among the flappers the appear-
ance of the English lass Joyce Cooper
was the star turn. The lady won the
100 yards title by a touch in 63 4-ssec.,
a State record, after a desperate race
with 15-year-old Pat Norton, of Bondi.
In the 100 yards backstroke, the visitor
struck a champion in Bonnie Mealing,
who beat her narrowly. In the 440
Joyce failed to outstay Edna Davey, and
is evidently still short of a gallop. Claire
Dennis, the Olympian, hoisted a new
State record in the 220 breaststroke with
3min. 10 l-ssec.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Walter Lindrum’s attempt
to launch the Yankee game of “pool
billiards on the Australian public is
being watched with much interest by the
heads, as it is described as unexcelled
as a medium for a little flutter. The
table is 10ft. by sft., with the usual
pockets. The balls are numbered from
1 to 16 and the players score according
to the number of the ball potted. The
champion intends to invite leading ama-
teurs to watch demonstrations, and is
fixing up a special competition for them.
* * * *
“Quarter Butt”: The bodyline barge
has now invaded billiards. When Waltei
Lindrum won the championship of Eng-
land last year he was handed the famous
Gold Cup, which had never previously
been won by an outlander. Walter brought
this to Australia with him and was asked
recently by the billiard authorities on
the other side to have it sent back in time
to be competed for this season. Walter
staggered the Britons by replying that he
intended to hang on to the pot until some-
one came to Australia and won it bac j
from him, and there is now a feartu
argument in progress. Lindrum base>
his claim, apparently, on the fact tha
the challengers for the Empire billiar s
title must play in the homeland or tn
defender. There used to be a convention
of the kind obtaining in connection witn
the world’s professional sculling cham-
pionship. Outside these, writer knows oi
no precedent backing up Lindrum. How
ever, he has possession of the pot, an
that gives him a decided advantage.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 22.
Some Seaton Celebrities.
Royal Adelaide is the oldest of South
Australian golf clubs. Its splendidly
appointed links at Seaton have been the
scene of many thrilling games. It is the
only official Australian championship
course in the State.
H. A. Cook walks first out of the wings
in the Royal Adelaide panto, as Frith
presents it. He is a retired banker
and a brother of the late Morcom Cook,
of the “Australasian,” whose racing com-
ment over the pen-name of “Terlinga”
was read throughout Australia. He is a
keen judge of racing form himself, and
as a golfer is a first-class w.f.a. per-
former.
In spite of the somewhat desolate
expression Frith has wished on him,
A. M. Pettinger is one of the most popu-
lar of R.A.’s identities. He spent his
whole business life with D. and W.
Murray, retiring after 50 years’ service.
In between he has represented his State
at football, cricket, lacrosse and bowls.
Third is S. H. (Stan) Skipper, brother of
a Bulletin man. He boasts the Struwel-
peter coiffure that marks the family, but
his handicap of 10 suggests that it doesn’t
hinder him much in golf. When not fill-
ing in a card he turns his attention to the
costs book in his firm of Hardy, Scam-
mel and Skipper, solicitors.
Tony Hunter, sitting at his ease while
sardonically watching the efforts of a
rival to get out of a bunker, is a keen
golfer, and an improving one by all
accounts. He is a sharebroker in busi-
ness hours. Lindsay Toms, with the bat-
tered panama and the full swing, is one
of the club’s mightiest hitters. Mashie
seconds are customary with him—withal
he is a wonderful putter and, naturally, a
low-marker. He is an assurance man
with Commercial Union. Pat Morice,
of the corrugated-iron brow, gets a lot
of fun out of his week-end four-baller.
Insurance provides him with a crust. He
was one of the Riley light-car party which
some time ago crossed from Australia
through Asia and Europe to attend the
Monte Carlo Rally.
Number 7 is E. W. Marryat, ex-
master of St. Peter’s, Adelaide, and of
Melbourne and Geelong Grammar
Schools. He loves the game, but ill-health
does not permit him more than a half-
round nowadays. Dr. T. G. Wilson, of
the convincing smile and the chesty car-
riage, has been skipper of R.A. for the
past three years. A devoted worker for
the club, he is a much better player than
his 12 handicap would indicate. Follow-
ing the skipper is J. T. Gordon, a direc-
tor of D. and W. Murray and a son of
the hon. sec. of the first golf club founded
in Adelaide. That was in 1870. An
assiduous golfer, he prefers the sociable
four-baller to the strenuous and often
argumentative single.
M. G. Anderson, tenth on the list, is
president of R.A. and donor of the cham-
pionship cup. He was the first captain
and the first champion, and his devotion
to the club’s interests ever since 1892
puts every present-day member deeply
in his debt. Incidentally, he was one of
the conveners of the meeting which re-
sulted in the foundation of Royal
Melbourne. He still extracts a lot of
enjoyment out of several rounds during
the week.
H. M. Linklater is that most dreaded
of golfing personages—if one excepts the
handicapper—the secretary. A ruthless
golfer—he is actually a player off 3,
and often gets away with it —he is equally
efficient and inexorable as a secretary.
The immaculate lad with the complete
golf suit, as illustrated in the advertise-
ments, is C. W- Brebner. He is a retired
banker and a regular attendant on the
link s .
Keith Wilkinson, who is No. 13, dearly
loves his four-ball and any argument that
may arise therefrom. He is a land and
estate agent and auctioneer, and his grin
in the picture does not belie his tempera-
ment. The incisive visage which comes
after the smiling Wilkinson is that of W.
J Isbister, K.C. This eminent wig when
in practice was one of the Common-
wealth’s foremost Equity lawyers. His
membership dates back to the club’s be-
ginnings, and he holds the most valuable
trophy ever presented to it for an out-
right win. His story of how he won it is
considered a stone better than Gordon’s
How We Beat the Favorite.” Dr. F. H.
Makin, next on the list, is a cheery and
well-liked member. Yet he nurses a
gnevance against the handicappers. They
will not reduce his handicap of 18.
Waiting, alert to pounce on a point, is
C. R. Cudmore. He is an Adelaide soli-
citor and his golf is largely confined to
the sociable four-baller. The stem but
not unbending presence who follows is
Dr. Guy Lendon. Dr. Guy has a fine
record in the Simpson Cup pennant
matches, and is the present holder of the
club’s star trophy—the Seaton Cup.
Harold Bickford, better known as
“Tup” to his many friends, is liberally
handicapped and therefore much in re-
quest as a partner in four-ball games. He
is managing director of Bickford’s, manu-
factoring chemists, and was for some
years judge for the metropolitan racing
clubs. Tailing the mob, we have W. D.
Taylor, remarkable for his wide stance
when addressing. He gets a lot of fun
out of his golf, as do those playing with
him, for he is a general favorite.
It is regrettable that Frith’s gallery
does not include several of R.A.’s most
notable members. Among the missing is
Legh Winser, club and State champion
on innumerable occasions; and Tom
Cheadle, whose record in these events
rivals that of Winser. There is also Dr.
W. A. Giles, a pioneer member and
generous benefactor. He was an office-
bearer for many years, retiring from the
presidency last year.
“Cheltenham”: Kingston Heath, Vic.,
G.C. (B. 3/1 / ’34) is spreading itself on
still further improvements. An interest-
ing sidelight on the habits of mem-
bers was afforded when K.H. applied
to the Licensing Court for permission,
among other things, to extend the size
of its bar. The chairman sternly asked
if provision had been made for a steel
roller shutter which could be pulled
down to isolate the bar from the mem-
bers immediately 6 p.m. chimed. The
club said it wasn’t necessary. K.H.
members had been so well trained that
none of them was ever in the vicinity
of the bar at .that hour.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Golf has seen many
variations of its basic principles—Cana-
dian and eclectic, to name only two.
Both are excrescences and shunned
by the faithful. It has been left to
America to introduce “contract golf.”
In this players, either as individuals or in
partnership, forecast at the beginning of
each hole the number of strokes they will
require to play it. As in contract bridge
there are premiums for filling the con-
tract and penalties for falling down, and
provision is made for doubling and re-
doubling. It is a typically Yankee night-
mare, and the writer would give a lot
to be listening in when the new game is
first brought to the notice of the Rules
Committee at St. Andrews—in the ordi
nary course of things, about 20 years
hence.


A RISK
Too Grave io 1 aAe/
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you—or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this rislc of hardship hanging
over you. And you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
Write now for details of this P. & C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself without delay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
„ .. Chairman of Directors:
Managing Director: Holli A K TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
H. r LLL.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
Hotel Grand Central, Ltd.,
15t Clarence Street
{Looking down Barrack St. and Martin Place)
Just about one minute from the
G.P.O. and about the same distance
from the big underground Wynyard
Square Railway Station. The Hotel
will be found most comfortable in all
detail for tourists and their families
and friends to lunch and dine. Lux-
urious Lounges and Dining Room.
The management assures you of
every comfort and service. Where
you pay for your room only: Single
Rooms from 4/6; Double Rooms
from 9/- per night. All Meals a la
carte. Garage adjacent. Complete
Sample Rooms available.
Centrally Situated and
in the Heart of the
City.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
PREVENTING BLOAT.
“Spring”: In B. 27 /12 / ’33 “Bahb
Dwyer” gives us the main causes and
cures for bloat; but there is a way of
preventing it amongst cattle or sheep
which we have extensively proved a good
method.
For years, in conjunction with sheep,
we have run cattle as a fattening proposi-
tion as a sideline. They are depastured
during fattening on 300-odd acres of the
richest of lucerne flats. These are the
“rules” we observe:
(1) Put the newly-purchased mob into a rich
grass paddock for a week. Make the time
longer if the stock are really poor, and get
stamina into them.
(2) Drive them on to the lucerne with- a full
belly. This is most important.
(3) Have a rough stack in the paddock if
possible, though it is not essential.
(4) Have a good supply of water in the pad-
dock. Having to water cattle in a lucerne
paddock is the surest method of blowing them
that I know of. It is essential that they wander
off to water when they want it and not when
it is convenient to take them. They get very
thirsty and drink too much. The result is
bloat. A neighbor, failing on water technique
last year, lost a beast nearly every other day,
not counting those caught in time and saved.
(5) Once on the paddock leave the stock
alone, even though they appear to be blowing
up. One side is safe, or moderately so. Shift-
ing them on and off as you think they are
too full nearly always proves fatal. If left
alone they gradually get used to the lucerne,
and can blow up on one side without serious
consequences. Buyers have often remarked
on this point, and said what a risk we are
taking. It is nothing compared with the risk
in putting the stock off lucerne and back again.
We have proved this definitely by experience.
(6) Frosted lucerne is dangerous, also clover
or trefoil, but rough hay fed out at these times
seems largely to counteract evil effects.
In the last 10 years we have turned
off as many as 300 head of fat cattle
in one year; but during that time we
have only lost five beasts from bloat, and
have never once used a trocar. These
figures prove conclusively the effective-
ness of our method, which I cannot too
strongly recommend.
BEATING THE BLOWFLY.
“512”: “Lion” (B. 3/1f34) says:
“Flies give most trouble in the hot
weather,” etc. I don’t agree. Both ex-
cessive heat and cold put the fly off his
dirty work. The worst times in many
districts are spring and autumn, espe-
cially in moist weather. Fly-breeding
carcasses must be destroyed, but the
number of sheep struck is determined
more by physical condition than by the
numbers of flies about. If sheep are
attacked wholesale, it usually is due to
internal parasites, overstocking, or lack
of some necessary mineral in the diet.
I have used traps, but have given them
up. We don’t know enough of ths blow-
fly, its habits and its natural controls
yet. I have formed a theory, however, on
which I would like other opinion. The
large, brown, common blowfly always
strikes first when its maggots are well
established. Then the metallic-green fly
strikes (live maggots). I believe the green
fly maggots destroy those of the brown
fly and are its natural control. This is
borne out in trapping. While the bait
is fresh, brown flies only will be caught.
After a couple of days the bait will not
attract brown flies, but green flies then
come in swarms. In about a week’s time,
if the bait is turned out, very few mag-
gots (alive) remain. I am convinced that
if the live maggots were carefully hatched
they would be green flies, not brown. If
this theory is correct, then trapping, un-
less the bait be changed every 24 hours,
is worse than useless.
It is obvious that some sheep attract
flies and others don’t; if it was not so, in
a flush year like this every sheep would
be struck in a week. We must find the
reason for that attraction and treat for it.
DORSET HORN SHEEP.
“Anti-Dorset”: “W.D.Mc.” tells the
truth (B. 20/12/’33) when he writes that
the Dorset Horn is a coarse animal —this
despite Mr. Elliot’s view. There have been
many complaints lately re crossbred wool
deteriorating, and no wonder. The
blame up to 80 p.c. can be traced to the
D.H. and his crosses. No doubt the D.H.
has an advantage in that he will mate at
any old time and, provided one gets the
lambs off as fats before they get too big,
all’s well. But if the season turns out dry,
and green feed such as lucerne is scarce,
and the owner has to hold and shear,
then the trouble begins. There is a pad-
dock full of staggy brutes that a wise
owner will sell to the first buyer in order
to make room for more profitable sheep.
“W.D.Mc.,” in fact, does not go far
enough. The “buffalo-like” horns Dorsets
have get caught up in fences, etc.,
and they have to be constantly watched to
... T ,
release them and save their lives, ine
D.H. is also a rogue. The neighbor s
paddock is always a better one than his
own. Of the crosses the least said in print
the better. In my experience—it may be
different under other conditions they
are on a par with goats as fence-jumpers
and -breakers.
Why people still go in for this class of
so-called export sheep beats me, when so
many good rams of other breeds are
available. I had D.H. for two seasons to
my sorrow, and threw up my hat when
j at i ong i as t got rid of them.
SHEARING TECHNIQUE,
„ „ m
Deeahree : Keeta (B. 13/12/ 3 )
evidently has not gripped my_illustration
of shearing at Hawkesbury The student,
just starting to barber the hind leg was
still astride his patients neck. It will
surprise most sheepmen to hear that dil-
ferent breeds and sizes of sheep require
separate treatment in shearing Keeta
reckons that a jumbuck s head naturally
tends to slip between right
but if you succumb to the temptation to
let him go where he wants to you 11
strike trouble. When starting on the
“whipping side ? you have just completed
the “long blow and your sheep is lying
on his right side m front of you. The
average shearer continues the last blow
of the “long blow” round behind the
ears and up the jaw on the right side,
meanwhile pulling the head towards him
and continuing transverse “blows across
the neck down towards the shoulder.
Then he pulls the sheep on to his tail
and continues down to the hind leg, doub-
ling the sheep’s head towards his right
leg But—most definitely—he never gets
the head between his legs.
aberdeen-angus sires.
“Lion” • I would like to back up Go-
lightly” (B. 27/12/’33).
I managed an Aberdeen-Angus s^u j
whilst in S. Africa, nearly 2000 head, and
so had first-class experience of this breed
They are rich in butter-fat, and I think
that is why they hardly ever rear a weedy
calf. You seldom see ungainly teats on
well-bred cows either, and the calves can
suck from birth easily.
Their stock kill heavier than the same
sized beast of any other breed, a con-
sideration from a beef point of view.
Being hornless, they cannot damage
each other very much in yards, etc. This
is an especial advantage when trucking
long distances. Incidentally, it saves the
cruelty of dehorning as in other breeds.
“Golightly” mentions the prepotence of
the breed. As an example of it, I re-
member one of our young bulls breaking
out among a neighbor’s stud Shorthorn
cows. Out of 12 calves, 11 appeared pure-
bred Aberdeen with the exception of a
few with horns. The odd one was mostly
black, but had patches of white over it.
One cannot enter a beast in the South
African stud book without giving the pedi-
gree of its sire and dam. If a beast is
sold on the run or in a yard, its regis-
tered certificate goes with it.
STOCK “REMEDIES.”
“Curlew”: Queensland has shown an
excellent example by passing a Veterinary
Medicines Act. There are so-called stock
remedies on the market that have little
or no value. The Queensland Agricul-
tural Minister exhibited a 6s. package
to cure cancer in horses. It contained
sulphuric acid and some sweet-smelling
substance. Another consisted of a con-
dition powder” and a little bluestone.
Another was made of linseed oil to the
value of a few pence.
In M.L. more attention has been given
to these “remedies.” A specific for
mammitis was analysed —cow dung
flavored with peppermint. Another was
lard incorporated with kerosene, vinegar,
water, salt and sugar—price, £1 per
gallon. An abortion cure was 90 p.c.
crude cane sugar, 10 p.c. pollard and
bran—£l per block. A very special
mixture of bluestone, potash, alum and
pot. permang. was sold at £2 17s. 6d. a
tin. Turpentine in pine oil with a little
boric acid cost 30s. a bottle.
The sooner Governments in the other
States follow Queensland’s lead the better.
THAT MEDICINE CHEST.
“Cincirr”: The stock doctor should
have available a drenching bit, a milking
tube, a milk-fever outfit and six feet of
fine cord for bad presentations.
Keep your chest regularly stocked with:
A gallon of raw linseed oil; bicar-
bonate of soda ; ginger; brandy, and a
colic drench that will keep (namely, three
to six drachms of compound tincture of
chloroform and morphia; mix with two
ounces of turpentine and a pint of skim
milk when wanted for use). For disin-
fectant, use a standard brand like cyllin.
If your patient is down for any length
of time, is conscious and won’t eat, feed
with a bottle when you know food is
necessary. Give eggs, milk and pollard —
and oil if constipated.
DEALING WITH POLL-EVIL.
“The Breaker”: Badly fitting bridles
adorned with a lot of unnecessary con-
traptions, or allowing collars to fall
heavily on the poll when putting on or
taking off will cause bruising and injury.
Poll-evil is often the result.
Touchiness about the head, followed
by a swelling, which may take a long
time to mature, is a certain sign of the
complaint. If noticed in time, the swell-
ing can be lanced, but generally the
abscess has formed and burst before
anything is thought to be seriously wrong.
It’s a risky job for an amateur to treat
a horse affected with poll-evil. A vet.
should be called in, but where the ser-
vices of one are not available the horse
should be thrown and the wound opened
well with a sterilised instrument and
syringed out with a 10 per cent, solution
of chloride of zinc. Good draining is
essential, and for this reason the wound
must be opened in such a manner that
the draining out of the foreign matter
will not be interfered with. Careful treat-
ment will allow healing by granulation.
If any dead tissues remain, recurrence of
the trouble is likely.
WHEAT-POISONING.
“W.D.”: I cannot agree with “T.P.C.”
(B. 13/12/’33) and his endorsement of
“W.J.’s” method of treating wheat-
poisoning by letting affected animals
drink water freely. My experience (a
long and painfully expensive one) has been
quite the reverse. If a horse gorged with
wheat gets to water there is very often a
job for the bonemills carter: the wheat
in the stomach quickly swells, causing
rupture of stomach or bowels and speedy
death. I never lost a case after I adopted
the carbonate-of-soda treatment at fre-
quent intervals, coupled with copious
injections of warm soap and water.
Of course, there are exceptions. I
know of a horse who became so used to
wheat that he could eat his fill and drink
all the water he wanted without suffering.
His owner got rid of him before the next
harvest, as he was always afraid he might
do it once too often, and he was a valu-
able animal. I once lost a mare through
her having a gorge of ground wheat.
In that case, I did not know what was
the matter till it was too late to do any-
thing.
Farmers need to be doubly careful
at harvest time to see that all gates and
fences are in good order. All my losses
from wheat were caused by careless em-
ployees not closing gates and openings
properly. The price of safety is eternal
vigilance on a wheat farm.
PIG PROBLEMS.
“Large White”: No one kind of feed
is suitable for pigs. Best results are got
from a judicious mixture of grazing and
cereal concentrates, enriched with protein
of animal origin, especially milk and
meat-meal.
A sow’s milk has the narrow nutritive
ratio of 1: 2\, and the art of rapid and
o Continued on page 30.)
A WEEKLY PRIZE FOR A HINT.
Hints for farmers have always been a popular feature of the on
the Land Page, and the little volume of them published by The Bulletm
has had a wide sale.
Lately, the supply appears to have dried up somewhat, and in order to
encourage a renewal of the flow “The Bulletin” has decided to offer a regular
weekly prize.
In addition to space rates, which will be paid for all hints published,
£l/1/. w iU be paid for the best hint of the week.
Hints should not exceed 100 words in length.
Every land man has some method or contrivance about his place calcu-
lated to make work easier or farming more profitable. Give the other chap
a chance to benefit by your experience through the Man on the Land Page.


COVERS 120 FEET WITH
LIFE-GIVING RAIN
m
m
The “Spectacular”
is the most effective sprinkler. It covers from 100 to 120 feet
without trouble. It avoids flooding in parts and 4? C/I C /
puddling, and requires little attention. Price .. ©CO/IO^"
THE SPECTACULAR TRAVELLING SPRINKLER
COVERS A CIRCLE OF 180 FEET DIAMETER.
This unique spray travels under water pressure, and will circum-
navigate and water a circle of 180 ft. diameter _£* £• j<* p* I
without attention. Price oL-O/10/™
SOME SATISFIED USERS ARE:
Goulburn Golf Club, Kensington Racecourse, Tamworth Bowling Club,
Petersham Bowling Club, Kempsey Bowling Club, Chatswood Bowling
Club, etc. 5
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE LEAFLET.
&
391-403 BOURKE STREET MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
Hlfyr
CUs
v £Nt
C OI D
HIBISCUS
VENTILATED
COLD SAFES.
No ice Required .
Inside Safe Measurements.
Small .. 14in. x 14in. x 20in., 42/6
Medium 16in. x 16in. x 25in., 607-
Large .. 28in. x 24in. x 32in., 90/-
GALV. CORR. IRON. Grade A. Best British Crown, 26 -gauge, slightly
cloudy, guaranteed equal to new. Price, £23/10/- TON, OR BY THE
SHEET:—
sft. 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft. sheets
2/2 2/6 2/11 3/4 3/11 4/5
Also Grade B. Reject, only recommended for cheap buildings, sheds,
etc. Price, 2/- sheet 6ft., 2/6 sheet' Bft.
BUILDERS’ LlNES. —Three-ply Wood, 2/- sheet 6ft. x 3ft. Galv. Roll-top
Bath on legs, sft. 6in., 30/-. Pine Doors, M. and T., 20/-. Oak
Sashes, 3ft. 1 Oin., 15/- pair. Oak Casements, 4ft. x 3ft., 20/- pair.
Tank Material, 1000 gallon, 70/-; ready made up, 95/-. 26g. Gutter,
sin., 1/-; and 26g. Ridging, 15in., 1/6. Cement, in single bags, 4/9
bag, or £5/12/6 ton. Remember we do not charge Sales Tax on any
of our goods.
WIRE AND NETTING. We are the largest distributors in Queensland. Sole
Agents for Genuine Hibiscus. No other firm can supply.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL WIRE PRICE LIST.
We Pay Freight Free to Main Northern Ports on Wire.
BARB WIRE, as manufactured by us—you get Direct Factory Prices,
from 17/6 coil 440 yards. Write for full list of wire.
HIBISCUS COTTONSEED MEAL.— Government analysis proves this to be
the cheapest dairy cattle food; also suitable for other stock. Price,
£6/1 7/6 ton, or 15/- bag of 2001 b. Write for special feeding booklet.
Our Stock Foods Department gives free advice on all feeding problems.
LOWEST ALSO FOR All Groceries; Men’s Clothing; Arsenic, 45/- cwt.;
Arzeen, 1 Od. lb.; Hibiscus Blowfly Oil, 5/- gallon; Imperial Sheep
Dip, 59/- case 10 x 1 0 lb. pkts.; Hibiscus Double Strength Cattle Dip
(1 gal. makes 300 gals.), 45/- drum 5 gallons, or 10/- per gallon tin;
Galv. Piping, less 40 p.c. and 10 p.c.; New Era Separators; Cream
Cans; Stoves, Dover No. 7, 67/6 No. 8, 77/6; Tents; Tarpaulins;
Blinds, etc.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE—It Will Save You Pounds.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
BOWEN ST., off Ann St. ( Be *’3 BRISBANE.
’PHONE: 83131 (7 lines). Address Letters Box 768 K, G.P.0., BRISBANE.
KIDNEY TROUBLE
Ca uses Untold Agonies
LOSS OF VIGOUR WEAK KIDNEYS
SWOLLEN JOINTS LUMBAGO
BLADDER TROUBLE RHEUMATISM
WORN-OUT, feeling too-old, hating work, no zest
for pleasure, strength just giving out, bad nights,
rheumatic twinges, bladder disorder, it is certain
that kidney trouble is the cause of your serious condition,
The kidneys are not carrying out their work properly,
and poisons such as uric acid in excess and other impurities,
instead of passing out of the body, accumulate in the system.
This harmful waste, carried to joints and muscles, causes
agonising pains day and night. No wonder you feel
irritable, weak and worn-out.
“Kidney trouble is the
of that pain.”
There is a remedy that will
act quickly and surely. It is De
Witt s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
The very young, the weakest
and the oldest, men, women at
all times, can take De Witt’s
Pills. No dangerous drugs or
purgatives, but a scientific pre-
paration that will do you good
from the very first dose.
Why should you suffer when
hosts of men and women have
passed from the torture of
kidney trouble to splendid health
and vitality simply by taking
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills for a little while?
.
■
m
wz
, m
tm
m
m
mm
This safe, always reliable remedy is invaluable in all cases
of pains in the back, kidney trouble, joint pains, uric acid
trouble, depressed or tired feeling, rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago,
sleepless nights and bladder weakness.
Relief in 24 Hours
We make no extravagant claims, but the evidence of thousands
of one-time sufferers tells us that you cannot do better than start
at once a short course with this 45-year-old remedy. Its quick,
sure action you will see in 24 hours. That is why we ask you
to start taking these wonderful pills to-day. If you will only
persevere your troubles will disappear. No more pain; you feel and
look years younger, healthier, ready to enjoy work and pleasure.
Don t put off until to-morrow the health you can have to-day.
Sold by chemists everywhere. Ask for and see you obtain
the genuine De Witt's Kidney and Bladder Pills, sold only in
the white, blue and gold boxes.
De Witt’s
Kidney and
Bladder
Pills


A rugged all-leather
sole
Golfers find this stout Abbey
Brogue a splendid shoe. . .it s
so easy-fitting and flexible for
all its strength of build, The
Abbey Brogue, too, is extra
smart, with a beautifully finished
upper that is shaped to the
natural arching of the instep.
Three widths per size.
Ensuring exact fit. . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size and ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF .... . . 43/6
WRITE FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 369
HAMILTON
VACCINE for
MAMMITIS
Tried, Tested and Proved
during the past ten years. It
has proved beyond criticism its
superiority over everything else
for the prevention of Mam-
mi tis.
Write for a free copy of 16-pp.
Booklet describing the different
types and methods of treat-
ment of this disease.
HAMILTON PTY. LTD.
608 Harris Street, Sydney.
Postal Address : Box 225, Haymarket.
Mining.
WANTED. —Mining and Metallurgical Engineer
with initiative required by sound and well-
established Gold-mining Company in the East.
Applications are invited from competent men
available to accept offer of appointment. Appli-
cants must be well experienced in lode mining,
and supply full information supported by testi-
monials and personal references. Liberal salary
to suitable applicant. Address reply to “GOLD
MINE,” Cl o GORDON AND GOTCH
(A’SIA), LTD., Brisbane.
MICK SIMMONS
“Firearms and Ammunition
Specialists.’’
A .303 Rifle
d
for 50/-
A further purchase
from the Federal
Government!
.303 MARTINI-ENFIELD
SINGLE SHOT RIFLES
guaranteed in perfect mechani-
cal order and fitted with
BRAND - NEW ENGLISH
BARRELS.
A limited number only at 50/-
These rifles are extremely accu-
rate; the strength, reliability and
speed of the Martini “falling
block” action are too well known
amongst well-informed riflemen
to need our endorsement.
Chambered and regulated for
the .303 British MARK VI
Cartridge. The Military Back-
sight is marked in ranges up to
1800 yards.
.303 CAL. MARK VI
CARTRIDGES
12/0 Per 100
(Freight extra on Cartridges)
Representative Lines of
SPORTING RIFLES
from Mick Simmons' Great Stocks!
ď
No. 2—T HE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT ACTION
RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; 21in. round
barrel ; weight, about
3JIb 37/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 12—WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short,
long or long-rifle rimfire cart-
ridges; 23in. round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, bolt
action, ladder rear- and gold
bead front-sight; weight,
4±lb 45/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 47-
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE, MODEL
51A, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front-
and ladder rear-sight;
weight, about 4|lb. .. 35/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
Write for Mick Simmons’ comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MickSimmonsltd
HAYMARKET. SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports Organisation of Australia”
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
■will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
26th MARCH to 4th APRIL, 1934—NINE DAYS, SIX NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CEOSE:
HORSES (inducing Trotting Events) February 17
STEER RIDING COMPETITION February 17
CATTEE AND PIGS February 19
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES ami CAGE BIRDS February 24
DOGS AND CATS February 26
AGRICULTURE (other than Wheat), including FRUIT and
APICULTURE February 23
WINE February 26
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) February 23
DAIRY PRODUCE, EXPORT CLASSES (See Schedule for Classes) ... January 15
to February 23
STUDENTS’ JUDGING COMPETITION February 16
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS March 5
HORTICULTURE (Separate Schedule to be Issued).
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
Endeavour House, G. C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
payable gains lies in gradually widening
this ratio until, at the topping-off stage,
it is 1: 5. It won’t do, however, merely
to balance the ration. The protein must
also be balanced, as vegetable proteins
lack certain elements essential for flesh-
formation. The absolute necessity for
minerals and vitamins, too, must nevei
be overlooked.
Grazing should form a substantial por-
tion of the feed, but remember that a
pig’s digestive tract can’t handle much
roughage. Hence concentrate supple-
ments are vital. Barley is the almost
perfect cereal. It should be but coarsely
crushed and blended with a rich animal
protein food —e.g., skim-milk or meat-
meal —which serves the dual purpose of
correcting and evening up vegetable pro-
tein balance and making it more palat-
Wheat may be used instead of barley,
and it, too, should be only coarsely
ground. Maize gives best results fed on
the cob, but when forming the only
cereal concentrate it is almost sure to
produce soft pork and excess fat. Peas
are good, finely ground, and rice and
rice-bran all right in limited amounts
only. Molasses may be included, and
will give almost as good results pound
for pound as maize.
Lime, phosphorus and salt are essen-
tials, and iodine may or may not justify
its additional cost in the mineral mixture.
Both lime and phosphorus are best fur-
nished by adding sterilised bonemeal to
the cereal mixture. ,
Exercise is needed. The belief tha
you can’t fatten Dennis without locking
him up in a filthy sty is a myth.
Pigs are notoriously subject to mala-
dies due to vitamin deficiency, and the
best source of supply for these is also
the cheapest, viz., the sun. Exposure to
sunlight makes and develops body vita-
mins, as well as killing germs and acting
as a vermin controller.
Leaving export out of the question,
there is room for at least double the
present local consumption of pig pro-
ducts, which stands at less than 171 b. per
head annually. Maoriland gets through
271 b., U.K. 461 b., U.S.A. 731 b. and
Canada 821 b. Proper feeding and
management will enable a profit to be
made from the right type of pigs, even
at present prices, and once the public
gets the habit of eating more pork and
bacon it will probably continue to do so
when prices go higher and show pro-
ducers a better return.
DRAINAGE FIRST.
“Swan H.”: Once more Vic. lucerne-
growers have been taught that an irriga-
tion system without a good storm and
flood drainage system is futile.
Thousands of acres of fine lucerne
stands were drowned out on the Mur-
ray flats above and below Swan Hill less
than three years ago, and the year just
closed has shown further serious losses
which could have been provided against
at small cost. A small pumping plant
alongside one of the irrigation channels,
set down in the lowest place available
and fed with storm-water drains, will do
the trick.
My sole outlay as flood insurance was
on a second-hand oil-engine at £2O and a
three-inch pump and piping costing £l2
12s. new. It saved more than treble its
cost the first year.
Heavy rains after watering often come
on very suddenly, and without previous
warning. In such cases it is urgent to
start the pump as soon as the water
accumulates and continue, without inter-
mission, as long as there s any to draw.
The cyclonic storms of last December
could only be effectively countered by
such means.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Carben”: Brown leatherwork can be
readily polished with beeswax dissolved
in turpentine and applied with soft cloth.
Then comes the elbow grease.
“B.”: If jam shows signs of fermenting
remove the top layer, tip the remainder
into a preserving-pan and boil until it is
reduced by a quarter ', then rebottle in
clean, dry jars, seal and put away in cool
place.
“Candle”: Black spot in tomatoes is
attributed to irregular watering. It can
be easily prevented by passing, before
the fruit has set, a piece of copper-wire
through the base of the stem and turning
the ends into the ground. This blocks
the causal organism’s progress through
the centre of the stem. It should be noted
that this is a preventive and not a cure.
“Dimon”: Horsehair makes first-rate
binding or reinforcing material for
cementing and concreting. The short
hairs that are brushed off Dobbin are
particularly useful in mending cracks in
cement floors, while the long hairs from
the mane and tail are best for bigger
jobs. Both should otherwise be saved
for stuffing collars.
“Gumblegubbin”: An ordinary slide
may be used for running out barbea
wire along a fence. Affix a strong upright
to the centre on each side, and cut slots
in the top for the spindle that goes
through the coil to turn in. The wire
will run off as the horse pulls the slide
along.
“Bill R”: To repair a broken rain-
water or tank overflow downpipe, get an
empty cocoa- or jam-tin that will neatly
fit the. outside of the piping. If no suit-
able tin is to be had bend a sheet of
flat metal around the piping and solder
the seam of it. By tapping with a mallet
over a piece of rounded timber held in-
side the piping, beat out the dents, and
shear off ragged edges with the snips.
Give each end of the broken parts and
the inside of the cylinder coats of paint.
Slide the cylinder over the break until
distances are equal above and below.
Cover the work with two outside coats
of paint.
“Wrash”: To make a handy petrol-
tin bucket carrier, rivet a length of rib-
bon-iron into a square that nearly fits
the tin. With the square half-way up
the sides rivet centrally another length,
passing squarely underneath. Then, after
beating out a rounded handgrip in the
middle of a third strip, fit it for a handle
that will swing loosely over the upper
edges when hung to the central square
with roofing screw-bolts.
“George Icks”: There’s a good deal
in the warning of N.S.W. silos’ manager
not to allow millers to pick the eyes out of
the crops. My wheat varies from 581 b. to
641 b., chrondrometer weight. Even if
I get 3d. premium for the 60 and over
and send the other to the silo I am not
going to be any better off. If the prac-
tice extends, exporters will be compelled
to reduce limits, and the local millers,
having got their supplies, will sit back.
We must not lower our export-quality
standard.
“Orchardist”: Spraying and fly-traps
for the fruit-fly are waste of time and
money. I tested a few late peaches —green
and hard; round the stone the maggots
were at work. They’ve got the late peach
crop diddled in N.S.W., and this year I
found they had even attacked the middle
crop of figs.
“Eureka”: Every farmer could do with
at least one hive of bees. Apart from
the part they play in the pollination of
pumpkins, melons, etc., they should keep
a family well supplied with honey at
practically no cost and very little trouble.
Bees can be robbed without receiving
a single sting. Apart from a properly
constructed hive, all that is necessary is
a smoker and a veil. If ants are bad it
is advisable to put the hive on legs stand-
ing in tins of water.
SYDNEY’S EASTER SHOW
The prize schedule for this year’s R.A.S.
Show provides for a number of new classes.
An additional class for a brood mare has been
included in the stud-pony section, and there
are many new prizes in the other horse sec-
tions. The beef-cattle section, too, has been
well catered for, there being five more classes
for Red Polls. In the pig section there has
been an increase of awards for Large York-
shires.
A new district, the Hunter River and Liver-
pool Plains, will be competing in the district
exhibits of the agricultural section, and it is
intended to make this year’s display the finest
ever.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
/ have an Excelsior plum-tree growing at
Boonah (Q.) which bears prolifically, but the
skin is always bitter. Plums of different
varieties near it have not this defect. It is
growing in red volcanic soil in heavily timbered
forest country. Is there any remedy for this ?
—9717. . . ■ ,
In certain districts it is a peculiarity of the
Excelsior plum-tree that the skin of the fruit
is bitter. There is no known remedy.
(1) Can loans again be obtained from the
N.S.W. Rural Bank? (2) Present rate of in-
terest ? (3) For how long can loans be
obtained ? (4) Whom to interview with a view
to getting a loan on the security of a farm ?
—9852.
(1) Yes. (2) 5 p.c. (3) 31 years. (4) The
local manager of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, who will supply you with a form
of application for advance and otherwise assist
you in the matter.
(1) Method of testing milking cows for
tuberculosis ? (2) Can test be made from
samples of their milk? If so, method to be
adopted ? (3) Would milk from a cow suffer-
ing from tuberculosis be dangerous to use ?
—9667.
(1) The subcutaneous test with tuberculin,
the ophthalmic test in conjunction with the
former, the intradermal test, and the interder-
mal test. (2) No. Not satisfactory unless udder
is affected, and then probably not be able to
detect it. (3) Yes. Very much so.
Lucerne growers in the Rerang (Vic!) district
are experiencing much trouble with the growth
of wild millet in their plots. It also injuri-
ously affects broom millet. Is there any means
of minimising the trouble ? —9722.
Rigorous cultivation of the stand after the
first cut in early November would help to sup-
press wild millet; but a better plan is to give
the lucerne liberal top-dressing with super. If
the lucerne is dense and encouraged to grow
vigorously it will dominate most weeds. Extra
care in the preparation of the seed-bed and
inter-row cultivation are the best means of
reducing wild millet in broom-millet crops.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Going Ahead
During the 1932-33 season one out of
every ten bales of wool grown in Aus-
tralia was processed in Australian fac-
tories and worn by Australian people.
Actually, we ourselves are our fifth-best
customer as far as wool is concerned.
Australian mills last year bought 283,839
bales in the market, nearly double the
amount of two years earlier. And these
local men have the reputation of making
the bidding warm for whatever line they
fancy.
Victoria has so far been more go-ahead
in textile-manufacturing than N. S. Wales,
mainly on account of favorable labor
conditions. But the new Federal award,
which was followed by strikes in the Ma
State, puts manufacturers on both sides
of the Murray on a more even footing.
Since exchange and the tariff guaranteed
them a local market, the Victorian mills
in particular have been turning out pro-
ducts never before attempted—marocains,
georgettes and many other fine dress
materials in city shops are now mainly
the products of Australian mills. It all
goes to show what could be done in
normal times if our costs would assure
us our own market.
Switching away from the looms and
spindles of Abbotsford and Marrickville,
let us look at the ovens and furnaces of
Newcastle. During its financial year to
the end of May last the great Broken
Hill Proprietary steel undertaking turned
out 262,714 tons of pig-iron, an increase
of 71 p.c. over the preceding year, though
only one blast furnace was in operation.
In October No. 2 blast furnace was blown
in, and there was an immediate increase
of 10,000 tons a month in the pig-iron
output. Production for the 32 weeks to
December 24 last amounted to 202,521
tons, an increase of 46,157 tons (30 p.c.)
compared with the same period of 1932.
The present monthly output of iron and
steel ingots at Newcastle is greater than
at any time during B.H.P.’s history, boom
years included. In conjunction with
Stewarts and Lloyds, of Glasgow, it is
intended to erect new works for turning
out steel pipes and tubes, and manufac-
ture of tinplate is to commence soon.
B.H.P. in this way continues its policy of
sponsoring new industries that will absorb
its basic product, and so creates further
employment.
Turning now to Westralia, the gold-
mining industry is prospering to an extent
that would astonish many easterners.
Take Lake View and Star. For the term
to June 30 last bullion sales, etc.,
amounted to £882,411, and net profit
totalled £439,305 sterling. Converted into
Australian money, that was equal to
more than the combined profit of the two
largest Broken Hill mines over the same
period, and more than the profit disclosed
by B. H. South in any year. With Lake
View and Star and similar cos. it is a
matter of making hay while the favorable
exchange position lasts. They are doing it.
Douglas Credit
Major Douglas has arrived in Aus-
tralia on a whirlwind tour. He has
spoken at Melbourne, and Sydney is to
h. ear him at the Stadium. The price of
ringside seats is advertised.
Douglas as a destructive critic of
present-day money systems is on safe
enough ground ; and it is at this point
that he collects most of his followers.
Even Montagu Norman, of the Bank of
England, will admit that the gold
standard leaves much to be desired. From
the destructive to the constructive, how-
ever, there is a wide gap, and Douglas
does not bridge it. His theory becomes
more or less coherent only after several
separate works have been studied to the
bitter end, and, though that may be good
business for Douglas and his publisher,
it is very hard on the reader who is look-
ing for guidance.
Douglas’s scheme visualises a State
where manufacturers will sell their goods
at a price below the cost of production
and yet show a profit, which sounds like
one of the hallucinations of the March
Hare. The selling price of all goods is to
be based on the volume of purchasing-
power in the hands of the public,
and as (if we give ear to the A + B
theorem) purchasing-power in the hands
of the public is never, on an aver-
age, equal to the cost price of goods
manufactured for sale, selling price is
reduced by the State to the index of
purchasing-power. The manufacturers’
loss is converted into a profit by
the payment of a subsidy out of
public credit” ; this is sound practice in
Douglas’s eyes by virtue of the A + B
theorem, which is to the effect that indus-
tries collectively do not distribute suffi-
cient purchasing-power to enable their
goods to be bought.
The A + B theorem is the keystone of
the Douglas structure, and that is the
main reason why it crashes. In the inter-
change of purchasingrpower, as a result
of ordinary business dealings, the natural
law of “nothing for nothing” applies. It
is not because there is insufficient pur-
chasing-power generally that we have
slumps. It is because purchasing-power
becomes badly distributed and sterilised
after booms, with their attendant exces-
sive profits and costs.
All we can ask of a money system is
that it should allow the free interchange
of goods and services. Anything with a
“something-for-nothing” lure about it is
unnatural and pernicious. It is encourag-
ing to find people anxious to get at the
root of the evils of our money system,
because it is by education in its short-
comings that it may be made more work-
able. But it is a great pity they aren’t
following someone sounder than Douglas.
Until recently vessels carrying cargo
through the Suez Canal were charged the
equivalent of Bs. 3d. a ton in canal dues,
whereas those voyaging via Panama—a
shorter route from Australia to London
—were stung only ss. 7d. The British
“How’s business, Sam?”
“Putrid; even the people who never pay have stopped buying."
Government, thanks to Disraeli, is the
largest shareholder in the Suez Canal Co.,
whereas the Panama short-cut is owned
by the U.S.A. There was lately a reduc-
tion in charges by the Suez Co., but
British shippers contend that it is not
enough to enable them to compete with
American vessels in the Far East. So they
are asking for a further cut of 75 cen-
times a ton. The co. can well afford to
lighten the burdens of British shipping.
During the last few years only about a
third of the revenue has gone out in ex-
penses, and profits have been swelling
lately owing to Japan’s increased foreign
trade.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: The reopening of the wol-
fram mine at Frogmore (N.S.W.) is a
reminder that Australia grows all
the minerals and vegetables necessary for
munition-making, especially iron, lead,
the grass-tree, the sugarcane and maize.
The importance of maize in this connec-
tion was a Great War discovery. Lloyd
George tells the story in his memoirs.
When Minister of Munitions he was told
that his cordite factories were short of
acetone. Scott of the Manchester
“Guardian” advised him to send for a
Dr. Weizmann, describing him as a
genius. Weizmann set to work and ex-
tracted acetone from maize ; and to-day
this discovery is the centre of an impor-
tant industry.
* * * *
The depression should be over as far
as growers of raisins and currants are
concerned, though it was never so hard
on them as it has been on other land
industries. Exports of raisins for the first
five months of the financial year were
valued at £1,062,700 Australian, and ex-
ports of currants at £161,900 ; figures for
the corresponding months of last year
were £362,400 and £76,200. Victoria,
South Aus., N. S. Wales and Westralia
benefit. British preferences have helped
greatly, and Canada is also buying more.
It took 15,000 tons of Australian dried-
fruits last year.
* * * *
“Stapler”: Yorkshire “Observer,”
championing the superiority of woollen
fabrics, lately drew attention to the Wool
Industries Research Association’s “ten
scientific reasons why wool should be
worn.” They are: Elasticity, strength,
lightness; heat-retaining, moisture-ab-
sorbing and heat-producing powers; its
transmission of ultra-violet rays; a
natural covering for the body ; lustre and
softness; durability. “Once the public
is educated to appreciate these things,”
says the paper, “the rest will be
simple.... One of the main arguments
in this matter is that lustre linings can be
made as cheaply as those of rayon, and
the general adoption of such fabrics
would, therefore, add nothing to the exist-
ing cost of the garments.” Let’s hope the
public soon becomes educated.
* * * *
Recent British trade figures help
to explain the strong demand in Brad-
ford for Australia’s wool. Exports (or
re-exports) of wool from England during
the first ten months of 1933 totalled
57,280,0001 b., as against 30,537,0001 b. in
the corresponding period of 1932. The
customer to make the most striking in-
crease in its purchases was the U.S.A.,
which took 14,800,0001 b., as against
2,250,0001 b. the previous term ; this per-
haps helps to explain why- Uncle Sam is
in such a hurry to depreciate the dollar.
During the ten months wool-tops and
woollen yarns sent out of England
totalled 74,000,0001 b. (up 10,000,0001 b.),
while exports of woollen and worsted
tissues were 10,000,000 yards greater at
78,554,000 yards.
“D.E.”: Sydney Harbor Bridge has
dealt a felon blow to “business” between
Bridge-street and Circular Quay. Shop-
keepers and the like hung on in the first
year hoping that Bradfield’s city-railway
plans would be completed and that the
Quay station would become an accom-
plished fact; when it dawned on them
that there was to be no move in that
direction the rot set in. Almost every
week sees the “To Let” sign go up in
some former hive of industry. Towards
the end of the loan boom you could have
bought almost any goldmine in Australia,
outside two or three Golden Mile shows,
for less than the price asked for one of
the Quay pubs. There has been a great
fall since. Still, the stagnation may not
be permanent. The Quay neighborhood
used to be reckoned the dearest part of
Sydney to shop in. For certain lines it
is now about the cheapest.
* * * *
“C.M.J.L.”: Recent suggestions in the
cables that Australian wool should be
sold in London instead of on the home
market should not find support amongst
woolgrowers. At present exchange and
the closer proximity to Japan ensure
the grower a reliable and profitable
market. It is estimated that the higher
prices at the recent sales have meant an
additional £19,000,000 to the industry,
which should go into circulation during
the next 12 months. Australia’s most
unorthodox customer is the Soviet, which
pays for its wool in furs —generally sables
and foxskins. Traders made good profits
out of these skins by holding and resell-
ing six months later, when there was a
shortage. The sables are accepted
because they are believed to be more
stable than the currency value of the
rouble.
* * * *
“El V.”: Australia is doing a tidy
little export trade in railway sleepers.
Between Jan. 1 and Nov. 30 last year
we sent away 589,000, valued at £146,575.
Most of them went to Persia and Iraq,
Ceylon, the East, and S’Africa. Some
are going to build Persia’s first trans-
country railway and the Iraqian link
which will connect Teheran with the sea.
There is a great market for wood pro-
ducts in the Near East. Those who have
not seen Persia, Mespot., Euphratian
Syria and Asia Minor can little imagine
how timberless those countries are; and
as they are all fast becoming railway-
minded, and Asiatic timbers mostly come
from the wetter sections of the continent,
it should be easy to establish a strong
connection, seeing that we possess the
best sleeper woods in the world.
* * * *
Britain has embarked on an immense
programme of building cottages for £350,
and is getting the timber from Russia. A
combine acts for 200 British importers,
who have stated their immediate require-
ments at 450,000 standards —a standard
is 880 feet (lineal). Basic price is £l3 ss.
per standard, so the Reds will get
£5,850,000 sterling for timber they seized
from, among other owners, many Brit-
ish people, and produce and freight
across to London and Hull by impressed
labor. This new deal has incensed Brit-
ish Columbia sawmillers, who regard it
as a serious breach of the Ottawa agree-
ments. The Australian sawmiller can-
not compete with the Soviet for general
building scantlings and the common
dimensional timbers, and must continue
to do a little peddling trade in special
lines for furniture, flooring and orna-
mental work.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Government
wanted to buy a corner block in a subur-
ban street in order to enlarge its school.
The owner demanded £720. Govern-
ernment bought elsewhere, and when
our friend’s land-tax assessment came
along the block was taxed at his own
valuation. Nowadays that sort of thing
has been brought to an end in S.A. by any
land repurchased by the Crown being
valued at land-taxation valuation, plus 10
per cent. If this regulation had been
brought in 50 years sooner the public debt
would be a lot lighter, especially as re-
gards the purchase of land for railways.
* * * *
“Fitz”: Came across an issue of the
“Manning River News” dated 1866. It
was printed on paper manufactured at
Liverpool (N.S.W.), thicker than used
these days. J. C. L. Fitzpatrick wrote in
his reminiscences:
Mr. Murray, of the Liverpool paper mills,
has for several years supplied the whole of
the paper used in printing the “Echo.” Mel-
bourne “Age” has accepted a quantity exceed-
ing 500 miles long.
If newsprint could be manufactured so
successfully in those days, what’s wrong
with the same success being achieved
to-day?


In N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania,
Duck Season
Opens Feb.ls-’
In South Australia, February 14.
Use“Duxbac
and
“ICIL SPECIAL
■
...
SSs^A
OBQj
ICI
S' d The NEW “Neoflak” POWDER
A heavy shot charge, high velocity and hard hitting at long range.
The New “Neoflak” Powder
makes a definite step in the pro-
gress of propellants for shotguns.
liozs. of Shot in a 2iin. Cartridge
<2
o
Si
without any jarring sensation of recoil.
“Duxbac” or “iCIL SPECIAL”
Are Best for the Duck Shooting Season.
Sold at Popular Prices
By All Dealers Throughout Australia
British Made.
f
d
Choose the Right Hotel
■ ■
I
mm
m
: m
BBBm
■ BHH
wsw
ROYAL HOTEL, LLANGOLLEN, WALES.
England, Scotland and Wales all have their Trust Houses,
where those who visit the Old Country may feel perfectly
at home. Though Trust Houses represent much of the
TRADITIONAL HISTORY OF BRITAIN,
every Hotel and Inn is made ready to ensure comfort,
service and spotless cleanliness.
There are over 200 Hotels carrying the Trust Houses
sign of satisfaction, and full particulars may be obtained
from: —
AUSTRALIAN AND OVERSEAS TRAVEL SERVICE PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE 334 Collins Street (F 3752)
SYDNEY- - -- -- -- - 135 Pitt Street (BW6880)
AUSTRALIAN TRAVEL SERVICE, 414 Australia House, LONDON.
TRUST HOUSES, LTD.
All over
Britain.
Of TWE AUSTRALIAN
W I IV£ L E 5 S
I N D U S T KV
s
ACTIVITIES
m
KSRj
Beam Wireless
Wireless Telephony
Broadcasting
Coastal Radio
Marine Wireless
Pacific Islands Radio
World-wide Communications
Wireless Research
Radio Manufacture
The Fisk Radiola
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Diamonds and Gold
“Pn a farm at Elandsfontein, three miles
from where the Cullinan diamond was found,
a flawless gem of 726 carats, valued at more
than £lOO a carat, and another of 500 carats,
have been discovered.”
WHEN, after the big flood of 1935,
Peter Harlow picked up in one
afternoon in the blue-clay bed of
Dingo Creek sixty-three pounds’ weight of
fine diamonds, the news fell on Israel with
a louder thud than the invasion of Sen-
nacherib had caused. South Africa was
shaken to its centre; the last diamond-
bearing strata of Brazil looked like mere
mud; and the British Prime Minister
was able to congratulate the King on his
success in pawning the Crown jewels be-
fore the news of file catastrophe reached
the evening papers.
For sixty-three pounds’ weight of
diamonds did not represent the full force
of the discovery. Eight miles on either
side of Dingo Creek the blue ground
proved to be studded with the precious
crystals; and when a gem weighing
seventeen hundredweight was unearthed
Canberra politicians talked of building
another Parliament House entirely of the
no longer precious material. Hawkers
offered fine diamonds in the streets of
London and Paris at a shilling each, and
Rachel wept amid the pledges of ten
thousand pawnshops, refusing absolutely
to be comforted.
The tumult created was so great that
the discoveries on the Jenkins goldfield in
Central Australia were for a time almost
unnoticed ; yet those discoveries were in
their way quite as remarkable as the
findings at Dingo Creek. In the Abo-
riginal mine a vein of almost pure gold
three feet wide could be traced for
several hundred feet.
Unlike the diamond discovery, the
secret was well kept, and it was only when
enormous weights of the precious metal
began to pour into Adelaide that alarm
spread to countries still clinging to the
gold standard and to the U.S.A., where
two-fifths of the world’s known supply
was in the Treasury vaults. The financial
world gaped, choked, and looked again
at the figures; then the prices of all
utilities soared and money values came
down with a run.
There was a rush on a huge scale to
the country beyond Oodnadatta. Other
reefs were discovered —a dozen of them
quite as remarkable as that of the Abo-
riginal mine—and the Dingo Creek sen-
sation was forgotten. Within six months
London was in danger of starvation.
What was the use of sending a sheep to
England when locally it was worth its
weight in gold?
To meet the disastrous situation most
of the European nations forbade the im-
portation of gold; but the result was
not what might have been expected. The
knowledge of countless tons of the metal
overseas could not be ignored ; and every
Government that had prohibited its im-
portation fell with a crash.
Australia rose with a whoop to the
great occasion. Everything that was in
any way desirable in any other land was
freely purchased. Goods poured in more
rapidly than they could be handled by
wharf-laborers working under an arbitra-
tion award of £lOOO per hour. Local pro-
duction came to a standstill. Little
wheat was sown; most of the sheep an
cattle became wild and ownerless. 1 tnne
delicacies from Britain and America be-
came the food of the people, until the
supplies failed and they had to return
to the purchase of local edibles at enor-
mous cost. At first the general wealth
seemed incredible ; then the extent of the
growing poverty alarmed politicians.
The goldmines had almost ceased
working ; but their output had been such
during their brief period of activity as
to make the average gold-holding of each
citizen in the Commonwealth greater
than that of any millionaire the world
had known before the discovery in the
Aboriginal mine. Yet the poverty was
fearful; for the unusual situation had
been exploited to the full and the distri-
bution of wealth was worse than ever.
The Federal Government sought to
save the people from the worst evils of
the new gold-accumulations by issuing
paper money representing vast sums. The
move proved effective, though not in
the way the members of the Cabinet ex-
pected. Everywhere the people refused
the paper currency and would accept no-
thing but minted coin. The gold habit
had become too strong. Even ordinary
cheques drawn on perfectly sound banks
were useless. Nobody would look at
them. Gold or nothing was the univer-
sal demand, and the large six-ounce coins
were the lowest in general use, except
the half-ounce tokens which were issued
to pay tram-fares and purchase daily
newspapers.
Then the weight began to tell. Only
the very strongest men were able to carry
enough money for serious extravagance.
It was all very well for Bill Jones to
walk home from his wharf-lumping with
the 150 pounds or so of gold that he
had earned by his day’s toil; but the
rich soon failed under the burden of their
wealth. When Mrs. Darling Point bought a
really smart frock she had to call to her
assistance more than fifty of her friends to
help her to carry the money necessary to
pay for the article. Soon the once-idle
rich were working like porters, toiling
up and down the streets with their sacks
of coin, either in their own interests or
those of friends.
Such a condition could not last long.
A demand for real gold-porters made
the business of carrying money the most
lucrative in the State. The balance of
wealth distribution swung back. Any
man, woman or child who would carry
gold could earn a competence; the
strongest and most active among the poor
became rapidly rich. Money-carrying
was, in fact, the leading industry of Aus-
tralia. At a rough average of £5OOO to
the hundredweight, Australia was soon
shifting about from place to place some-
thing like two tons a week per head of
population. “The amazing height of
our adolescents” had been remarked on
by a speaker at the Hobart Medical Con-
gress. He predicted that “doorways in
trams and trains would become too low
for many people.” They became too
narrow also. The exercise of carrying
gold gave the people great strength, to-
gether with a certain slowness of move-
ment.
Herbert Frost broke away from his
dream with a start. “Friday,” he said.
“I’ll have to toddle along for my dole.”


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Troubles in the Solomons
“Solomonoo”: Pioneering planters and
traders of the Solomons are in a sorry
plight. Their staple product, copra,
which costs in the vicinity of £7 per ton
to produce and land at a port, is being
credited to them in the books of the ex-
porting firms at about £2 10s., and a child
could figure out what the end will be.
Practically nothing has been done by
the authorities to avert the catastrophe
which is fast overtaking these men;
Application was made some time ago to
reduce the native wage rate —the biggest
item in cost of production—to a point
nearer the ruling rates of other copra-
producing countries. So far there has
been no result. Rents, licenses, taxes
and duties are demanded as though boom
days still prevailed.
Trading with the natives would cer-
tainly have kept the wolf from the doors
of some of us, but years ago an insane
policy of encouraging Chinese traders
was put into operation, with woeful re-
sults to the whites. British goods cannot
hope to compete with those of Chinese
and Japanese, which now predominate.
Officialdom argues that the Solomons
are a native Protectorate and that the
natives are entitled to buy in the cheapest
market, so that, if the white trader is un-
able to sell as cheaply as the Oriental, he
must go under. What officialdom doesn’t,
or cannot, see is that the white trader sold,
not so much British goods as British
labor, the sale of which is all-im-
portant these days. The point is that the
official also sells his labor to the natives,
so, if his argument is consistent, the native
might well ask “Why not Chinese offi-
cials?” They would certainly do the
work much cheaper.
It is much to be deplored that there
is a decided lack of sympathy between
the official and the non-official white
residents. Officials have not yet been
asked to pull, their weight in the general
reduction of income, and they are aware
that non-officials think they should.
They argue that they have been re-
duced, since, when they want to go home
on leave, they lose 25 per cent, in ex-
change. The non-official doesn’t lose
this, of course, since he cannot afford to
go home at all. Another point is that,
but for this 25 per cent, exchange, the
copra industry would have closed down
long ago, when sheer lack of revenue
would have resulted in considerable re-
duction of staff. However, not even the
25 per cent, can save the industry at
present market price, so reduction and
economy will soon become imperative.
Meanwhile, not a finger is being raised
to prevent the extermination of a type of
pioneer so profoundly necessary in the
upholding of British trade.
Running the Mandate
“Gain”: All the Mandate is a-flutter
about the conference of Administrators
to be held at Canberra, and to be fol-
lowed by the appointment of new Gov-
ernors of the Territories. Public opinion
generally agrees with The Bulletin
about the type of Administrator neces-
sary. The “Rabaul Times,” the Man-
date’s only newspaper, in particular,
backs The Bulletin’s condemnation of
the possible appointment of a medical
man as Administrator and asks why the
British Government has not set a pre-
cedent, if the idea is sound, in Nigeria,
Kenya, Tanganyika, Uganda and Ceylon.
It further demands to be told what the
need is for a medical man in a country
thoroughly well staffed already with
official doctors.
It will, of course, be difficult to get
the right man, but there is a way to do it.
The salary of the Territory Administrator
is to be reduced by £3OO to £l5OO p.a.
This is only £250 more than the salary
of the man in charge of the tiny island
of Nauru and less per day than State
Premiers pay to the accountants whom
they brief to investigate the affairs of
their departments.
The work of this Administrator is
more arduous and important than that of
any State Governor. He lives in a health-
wrecking climate. If he does his job
properly he is in constant danger of
contracting mortal fever and horrible
tropical diseases. The Council which
assists him has limited powers, so that all
the responsibility is on him ; and the man
who does the job in any case must be
strong indeed if he comes out of five
years in office without injured health
and loss of contacts which make it hard
for him to resume a profitable business
life in Australia. If an expert is to be
appointed, he should be one capable of
putting the Territory laws, particularly
those relating to land and mining, on a
stable and unified basis and of exercising
a strong hand over the service and link-
ing his administration with commercial
progress. Without advocating him —-
since he could not be got —I suggest, as
the right type, W. P. Payne, head of the
Queensland Land Administration Board,
who, besides being Australia’s best land-
administration expert, is a barrister with
the status of a Supreme Court Judge, a
born handler of staff and a master of
routine.
Such an Administrator at £3OOO a year
would, even if he stayed for only a year
or two, be worth more to the Territory
than all the eloquent medical anthropo-
logists in Australia put together at £l5OO
a year. His economies would save his
salary in a few months. There must be
men of the type who could be had.
“N.X.T.”: Somebody should say a
word to Mr. Perkins, Minister for the In-
terior, about Territory railway charges.
Goods can be sent as cheaply from Mel-
“ Well, the new calf's a heifer, Dad."
“ Yairs. It’d have bin a fair cow if it’d bin a bull.”
bourne to Darwin by sea as from Dar-
win to the Katherine by rail. The hand-
ling charge imposed by the department to
take goods from Darwin wharf to the
railway station, a distance of about half
a mile, is 18s. 6d. per ton! It isn’t as if
the revenue were enough to matter to
the Government. If it made the line
free to freight, as well it might, seeing
the struggle settlers are having and their
disabilities by comparison with those suf-
fered by farmers in the South, it would
lose only £9OOO a year on the last figures
available.
“Vic”: Land is coming into its own
again in Queensland. The price of wool
has re-created the demand for sheep coun-
try, and everywhere are signs of activity
and new settlement. Big things in clear-
ing are being done round Cooktown. In
the Gulf Country, cattlemen who have
been so disheartened for years that they
have let the scrub bull look after their
interests are thinking of the early-matur-
ing beef. Stud Aberdeen-Angus for the
first time have been imported into the
Gulf Country and are doing well under
the influence of a tender spring of grass
which has followed recent rains. At the
Roma Land Commissioner’s Court alone
the other day there were 184 applications
for pastoral developmental leases and
selections, and the prjces paid showed the
eagerness of the applicants. One pastoral
block, upset at 15s. per square mile
rental, realised £3 14s. lOd. per square
mile. The land revenue reflects the better
trend. It was £43,000 better for the last
half-year of 1933 than for the same
period of 1932 —an 8 p.c. improvement.
* * * *
“Dajarra”: Cloncurry is in the throes
of a fine row over its hospital. The
medical officer, who has been in charge
for 12 months, says it is
the worst hospital I have ever seen; the worst-
looking, worst-repaired and worst-equipped in
Queensland.
The resultant hubbub made tourists
who judged it by ear believe that the
Kalkadoon had come in on a raid.
While the committee admits that the
place needs painting, it pronounces it the
pride of the countryside and in a state of
modern efficiency. It isn’t, probably, but
the committee cannot be blamed. Clon-
curry is a clearing point for illness and
casualty for many leagues round. Serious
cases from Mt. Isa come thither, and
John Flynn’s flying doctor has his head-
quarters there. The upkeep costs £5OOO
a year, and it is a big burden for a small
town to manage. The hospital is a case
for special treatment by Dr. Forgan
Smith, the well-known financial special-
ist of Brisbane.
* * * *
“Cubbie”: They are getting highly
civilised beyond the prickly-pear country.
Mitchell (Q.), where a conscription advo-
cate was once hit with a bit of blue metal
as he surveyed the countryside from the
railway platform, has a local paper which
decorates its cover with the motto: “Kind
in manner but resolute in deed.” it
seems to me, knowing what the local
cocky has suffered during the last three
years, that a better one would be: “We
shoot first —you might be a taxation
official.” However, I suppose courtesy
pays even in the West.
* * * *
“Exile”: Why doesn’t the Common-
wealth Government find somebody to
advise it who knows something about the
North? For six months shell-poachers
have been playing old Harry around the
Arnhem, Bathurst Island and other coasts,
and The Bulletin and other papers have
been urging Canberra to take action.
With the new year, the monsoon came
down like 15 tigers. All the poachers
scuttled for home, and so soon as there was
not an illicit lugger at sea somebody in
the fastnesses of Molonglo stood on his
hind legs to remark pompously that an
aerial patrol would be sent to deal with
the invaders. Probably, by the time the
next thieving season comes along, when
the ten modern boats operating this year
have been increased to 20, as it is ex-
pected they will be from information re-
ceived at Darwin, the patrol will have
gone south to say that poaching is a
myth. There is a bit more self-govern-
ment needed on the Indian Ocean coasts
line. We might be better off if our
affairs were handed over to the poachers.
They at least are up-to-date and progres-
sive men who have shown that they have
their eyes open and know how to make
the most of a chance. That is a lot more
than can be said for some Canberrans..
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
One of the most interesting visitors Brisbane
has had for sgjne time is Miss Bertha Culpin,
London, who is visiting her brother and sister-
in-law, Dr. and Mrs. Millice Culpin, at Tar-
inga. Dr. Culpin retired some years ago, after
40-odd years of feeling Brisbane’s pulse. He
was one of the old brigade of physicians
to whom one told all the family secrets. At
87 the doctor still takes long walks, although
his usual constitutional, “to town and back”
(at least 10 miles), has had to be moderated.
Of Dr. Culpin’s two sons, Dr. Ernest (an A.I.F.
colonel) shares with Dr. Graham Butler the
soldiers’ veneration for his work in the trenches.
In civvies he is one of Brisbane’s specialists
in “Pill Box” Row. Dr. Millice Culpin, the
younger, is a professor at the London Univer-
sity, and psycho-analysis is his hobby. Both
saw much war service, but one wonders if they
worked any harder than the frail little mother
who led one of the most harmonious and suc-
cessful of the branches of the Red Cross.
Somewhere in the near future Dr. and Mrs. Cul-
pin—he, by the way, was one of the first Fed-
eral members we sent south —will celebrate a
wedding anniversary. The 65th, I think. Are
there many couples left to beat that record?
In these days one steps into an aero-
plane as casually as our grandmothers hailed
an omnibus, but there are still many children in
Queensland who never have seen the sea. The
Bush Brotherhood (a C. of E. body) are hold-
ing their eleventh annual camp at Rainbow
Bay, Coolangatta, and over 50 children from
the West are there with them. The boys are
encamped in tents; the girls, who are under the
care of womenfolk from St. George, Surat,
Charleville and Taroom, live in a near-by house.
W. P. B. Miles, of the Anglican Mission, is
looking after the camp side of the business.
Byrne Hart, who, with his brother, owns
a valuable slice of Queen-street, is holidaying
at Southport with his wife (she was Jean Cram-
mond, of Toowoomba, the first secretary of
the Toowoomba branch of the C.W.A.). Her
sister, Mrs. A. A. Plane, of Melbourne, is with
her.
Aboard the Mongolia, berthed at Hamilton
last week, were Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Gill and
their sons Burnage and Ivor. E.A. was once
Australian amateur golf champion, and is now
secretary of the Indooroopilly club. Laurel
Gill, the daughter, js left behind in London to
study stage dancing with Phyllis Bedells, and
music with Madame d’Hardelot. As a small
child in Toowoomba, when E.A. guided the
destinies of the Boys’ Prep. School in that
town, Laurel showed distinct genius as a dancer.
Mrs. Gill was one of the well-known Griffith
family of Toowoomba.
Every Queenslander football follower has
heard of “Tibbie” Lissner, a famous half-
back in the days before League football was
heard of. His widow, who has been abroad for
some months, returned home in the Mongolia.
She is a dainty, dark-eyed lady, and does not
look in the least grandmotherly. But her first
grandchild arrived in town about a month be-
fore she got here.
Winifred Ponder, whose Life of Clara Butt
set the whole world rowing—in consequence of
Melba having told the deep-voiced Clara to
“sing ’em muck” in Australia—returns to Bris-
bane in the Ormonde. Winifred, though English
by birth, is a dinkum Queenslander by adoption
and choice. She came out to us first because
her voice, a golden contralto, had been lost
to her. In Dalby, where she made her home,
she ran a mail service for some months. Then
she got herself a job on one of the two papers
in that township, and not only wrote the
copy, but gathered in the ads. and set type.
J. W. Robinspn, who has guided the destinies
of 4QG ever since its inception, has resigned
his job so that he may pay a little attention
to his own affairs. “Robbie” came here in 1925,
and set about the construction and equipment of
the station. Originally a member of the literary
staff of the “5.M.H.,” he had a passion for
wireless which he studied in his spare time, and
later was made assistant-manager of 2FC. One
of his most spectacular feats was the trip in the
Atalanta with L. J. Brain when Moir and Owen
were rescued. Incidentally, he saw active ser-
vice with the 17th Battalion and the sth Div.
Cyclist Corps, A.I.F.
John Howie Isles, jun., did more to cure
his dad, who has been ill in hospital, than
any of the doctors. He managed it by winning
the Byrnes medal for the highest pass in the
junior public examination. John Howie, jun.,
was 15 last December. He was 13 when he
won the Lilley and Ryan medals for passing
top for Queensland in the State scholarship.
Freda Bage, principal of the Brisbane
Women’s College, who motored to Adelaide to
be present at the conference of the Australian
Federation of University Women, took nine
days to do the journey instead of the seven
on which she had counted. She left in wild
rain, and before she reached Cootamundra had
experienced a blowout and a skid. Also, the
Lizzie sat down on a railway line and refused
to go any further. Staying at a hotel for the
night, Ursula McConnell, the authority on
anthropology, had her suitcase stolen, which
is enough to annoy even a scientist. She had
to go on by train to keep an appointment to
speak on her pet subject, but Miss Bage clung
to the wheel, and was rewarded by perfect
weather and a good view of some interesting
country. Miss Bage has motored to Melbourne
several times.
Margaret Mary, the pretty daughter of
Attorney-General and Mrs. Johnnie Mulian,
wore her travelling frock of French-blue ribbed
matelasse and a straw hat when she said “I will”
at St. Ignatius’s Church, Toowong, to David
Fowler. Mr. Mullan gave his daughter away,
and sister Olive ’maided in petal pink. B. J.
Mullan, the son of the house, acted as offi-
sider to the ’groom. The treacle moon is shin-
ing over Southport.
Two interesting visitors stepped off the Mon-
golia—Mrs. and Miss Rallia Ram, both gradu-
ates of the Lucknow University, who are on
their way to the Barrier Reef to see the corals.
The daughter has a kindergarten diploma, and
hopes to start a Montessori school. Her mother
was the first woman in the Punjab to go for a
higher degree. In spite of being distinctly
“advanced,” this dark-eyed daughter of India
never has worn European clothing, a fact for
which at least one jaded press female was thank-
ful as she rested her eyes on the deftly-draped
sari with its ornamental border. On her return
from the North Miss Rallia Ram will visit
several southern schools, to whose principals
she has letters of introduction.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
The service is entirely free. All you I have t° js
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover
Bulletin to hand. . , ,
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inqui y
must be confined to one subject. . . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Jackeroo (19), N.S.W., exp. sheep and cattle,
good horseman, seeks position. Refs. —9802.
Old-age pensioner (68), N.S.W., respectable
and fairly active, would give services to profes-
sional man for board and lodgings.—9Bo7.
Certificated electrical engineer, Sydney, car-
and lorry-driver, can do general machinery
repairs, wants employment city or country,
anywhere.—97B3.
Married couple, Sydney, long exp. small-
goods, confectionery and mixed shops, want
employment as managers or caretakers. —9782.
Young man (25), 10 years’ exp. in metal-
lurgy, wants employment. Refs. —9776.
Man (29), N.S.W., wants position as work-
ing manager or overseer on mixed farm or
grazing property. Knows crops, stock, farm
machinery, carpentry and book-keeping.—9773.
Returned soldier, Sydney, exp. manufactur-
ing, costing and publicity, seeks secretarial or
similar position. Refs.—977l.
Maorilander, ex-student Lincoln College, at
present employed on sheep farm, paying special
attention to pure-bred and show sheep, wants
position on Australian station. —9819.
Widower (39), N.S.W., cook and house-
keeper, requires position in Melbourne. —9816.
Young man (22), Sydney, exp. with sheep
in S. Africa, wants job on station. Refs. —
9833.
To exchange Official History A.I.F. (1917),
Vol. IV, for Vol. 11l for three months. —9780.
Words of poem containing the line “But
poverty, poverty keeps me pure.” —9770.
Permission to inspect, in or near Sydney, the
series of Letters to Conrad, published by the
First Edition Club of L0nd0n.—9749.
To buy set each of Bulletin postcards “The
Heathen in His Blindness,” by “Hop,” and
“Australian Types,” by Norman Lindsay.—
9745.
To buy book on construction of Pellon and
other waterwheels for power purposes.—97s9.
To buy “The History and Development of
Sheep Farming,” by G. Mclvor (1893), pub-
lished by Tilghman and Barnett, Sydney.—
9795.
To buy auto-card camera for while-you-
wait photographs. —9788.
Producer of amateur revues desires to get
in touch with other producers with view to
exchange of ideas. —9827.
Words of verse “A Skeleton ip Armor.”—
9817. . . , T , u
Words of verse beginning Oh! Ive been
there, you needn’t skite, I’ve been in Sydney.”
—9842.
Information Supplied.
9491. —To keep paspalum out of a tennis
court catch the plant young, cut across crown
with penknife and deposit three drops of sul-
phuric acid in the centre with an eye-dropper.
—D.M.S.
Information Sought.
(1) Is Brisbane the largest city in area in the
world ? (2) Population of Greater Brisbane ?
(3) From what sources does the Brisbane City
Council derive its revenue? (4) What taxes
is the council allowed to impose ? —9825.
(1) Los Angeles claims to have a slightly
larger area. (2) Latest official estimate is
299,732. (3) Rates, general and special; cleans-
ing dues, general section; rents of properties,
dues from baths, lavatories, fees for petrol-
pump licenses, proportion of heavy vehicles
tax levied by the State Government, sale of
burial plots, burial fees, sales of electricity,
tramway fares, tramway-advertising receipts and
sales of water. (4) The levies authorised by the
Act constituting the Greater City of Brisbane
are for general and cleansing purposes, and
under the former Water Supply and Sewerage
Acts for water supply and sewerage purposes.
Maoriland is held up as an example to Aus-
tralia because its population is not compressed
into cities. Has the depression altered that
condition of affairs?— 1 9695. .
Not materially. Latest census estimate (1932-
33) shows that, with a population of 1,468,833,
the four cities accounted for 583,700, the ten
large provincial towns for 197,250, and the
farm lands and villages for 788,083.
(1) Who is the Poet Laureate of England ?
(2) A few details concerning his career ? (3) In
what form of verse is he most notable, and
what are the distinguishing characteristics of
his work ? —9687.
(1) John Masefield. (2) He was born in
1875 at Liverpool (Eng.). He was trained for
the sea in the Conway, and made many voy-
ages; worked on farms and as a barman
in U.S.A., and on returning to England settled
near London and began writing. (3) He is
notable as the reviver of the long narrative
poem. Characteristics of Masefield’s verse are
verbal inventiveness, glorification of physical
effort and a belief in the brotherhood of man.
/ wish to commence business as a motor-
garage proprietor. To obtain trade discount on
tools and stock, have I to register as a dealer ?
Trade discounts should be available without
registration as a dealer. Consult Motor Traders
Association of N.S.W., 57 William-street, Syd-
ney, as to other matters on which very helpful
advice could be given.
Simple method of frosting glass windows ?
—9840.
The correct method involves the use of a
sand blast or the application of hydrofluoric
acid, but a frosting effect may be obtained by
the use of flat white paint. Apply to the
inside of the window in little dabs with a
flat-ended or stipple brush, using the smallest
possible quantity of paint. A decorative pre-
paration, “Frostolac,” is on the market for
this purpose.
Names of Sydney firms dealing in second-
hand motor parts? I require part for G.M.C.
truck 9713« ,
Sydney Towing Station, 98 Enmore-road;
Sydney Spare Parts Co., 134 Enmore-road; A.
F. Hoare, 23 Addison-road; Kellion Bros., 195
Victoria-road, all Marrickville; Car Wrecker^,
Ltd., 193 Parramatta-road, Camperdown; Wat-
son Bros., 217 Elizabeth-street, Sydney. Larke,
Neave and Carter, 11 Australia-street, Cam-
perdown, are agents for G.M.C. trucks, and
may be able to supply parts.
Are the rifles used by cadet corps in Q land
schools (Warwick especially) of a type used in
the Great War ? —9566. , , ,
Standard type of rifle issued to _ cadets is
the .303 in. service rifle used by British troops
in the Great War. Where the physique of the
boys does not allow of the use of .303 in., rifles
with a bore of .210 in. are issued. These are
of a type never used on service.
(1) 1 was recently asked 2s. 6d. per sheet
(16in. x lOin.) for Bristol board in Melbourne
Is this the current standard price ? (2) What
is minimum size of drawing accepted by lHfc.
Bulletin? Margin necessary ? (3) Is ttristoi
board absolutely indispensable ? If not, what
surfaces can be used ? (4) What is wash .
How is it mixed and applied ?—' 9791.
(1) It is sold by weight, so the one ottered
you was possibly a very heavy one. Light
qualities are equally suitable for newspaper
drawings. (2) A suitable size is about 12in.
x 15in., including about a 2in. margin. (3)
No. Ivory board, scraper board, mounted
water-color paper or any board with a sur-
face that will take a pen easily is acceptable.
(4) Wash is a tint made by mixing with water,
lampblack, water-color or process black. When
white is added it becomes body color, it is
applied with a camel-hair brush in the same
way as ordinary iyater-color.
(1) Who was Old Crome, the painter? (2)
Was there more than one Crome, and, if so,
were they related ? (3) What school did Old
Crome found, and who were the outstanding
members ? —9843. .
(1) John Crome, landscape painter of Nor-
wich. (21 Yes, there were his children: John
Berney Crome, who showed much , promise
when young, and carried on his father’s school;
Frederick, who painted when young but after-
wards gave it up to go into a bank; Emily,
who painted still-life, taught in a school, and
compiled with her sister Hannah a New
Pocket Dictionary,” published in 1812; Wil-
liam Henry, who exhibited at the Academy;
and Joseph, who was known as a good copy-
ist and had a public appointment as such.
None of them achieved the distinction of the
father. (3) Founded the Norwich School, fol-
lowed by John Sell Cotman, Ladbrookc, James
Stark, Michael Sharp, Coppin, the elder Free-
man, Joseph Stannard, Thirtle, and, for a
while, Elizabeth Fry.
Particulars concerning the work of Lucien
Henry, a teacher of sculpture in Sydney many
years ago ? —9623.
Henry, a native of Provence (France), and a
pupil of Viollet-le-Duc, fled from Pans in 1871
after an unfortunate connection with the Com-
mune of that year, and became a member of
the teaching staff of the Sydney Technical Col-
lege. There he developed the use of the Aus-
tralian flora and fauna as a base for decorative
architectural design, employing the lyre-bird to
adorn capitals, the seahorse for bowls and vari-
ous foliage plants for panels. In this direction
he has had few followers, if any, but his influ-
ence on Australian sculpture was definite and
good- , ,
Who was the mediceval painter known by
the nickname “Masaccio” ? For what works
is he celebrated , and is there any of his
paintings still in existence ? —9692. .
“Masaccio” means “shiftless,” and it was
tagged to Thomas Guido (1401-28), a Floren-
tine painter, born in the Arno Valley. He is
sometimes called the “father of modern art,
and is celebrated for his frescoes in the Bran-
cacci chapel and in the church of Santa_ Maria
Novella, which have been a fount of instruc-
tion for succeeding generations of painters.
Some of his pictures are in the Berlin Museum.
(1) What is a picaresque novel ? (2) Meaning
of picaro ? —9668.
(1) The autobiography of a real or fictitious
personage who describes his experiences as a
wandering parasite, and who satirises the society
which he has exploited. The type is Spanish,
but the most widely-known example is the
French “Gil Bias.” (2) Spanish for vagabond.
What is the usage in modern English of the
word “verily" ? —9677.
Modern usage is confined to the phrase, 1
verily believe,” which implies that what is
believed may seem incredible.
Whence does Japan import (1) iron ore and
(2) pig iron ? —9786.
(1) Imports in 1932 were: China, 552,650
tons; Straits Settlements, 868,500 tons; other
sources negligible. (2) Imports in 1932 were:
Manchukuo, 139,490 tons; Kwantung Pro-
vince, 180,390 tons; British India, 116,660 tons;
other sources negligible. Japan buys scrap
iron and old tinned iron wherever available;
quantities not recorded.
(1) To whom do the Marquesas Islands be-
long ? (2) Number of islands in the group ?
(3) Location ? (4) Names of islands, area and
population? (5) Why has the group so few
white planters? —9831. _ . .
(1) France. (2) Eleven. (3) About S. lat.
10 and E. long. 140, 800 miles north-east of
Tahiti. (4) Principal islands are Hiva-oa,
Nukahiva, Fatuhiva and Tahuata. The total
area is about 250 square miles, and the popu-
lation about 2500. (5) Owing to the group’s
isolation.
/ have an aneroid barometer by Short and
Mason, London, which, on the average, gives
readings about .13 of an inch higher than
Sydney Observatory. Is it set too high? How
can I tell if my barometer is set to a sea-level
reading ? —9655.
Barometric readings published by the Sydney
Weather Bureau are all reduced to sea level.
Your barometer can be adjusted by turning
the small screw at the back of the instrument.
Correct sea-level readings can be obtained
from the Weather Bureau, ’phone 8W1791. All
aneroid barometers frequently need adjustment
by comparison with a mercurial barometer.
Who was Meleager, whose statue is in the
Sydney Botanic Gardens 3—9812.
The son of the Calydoman King GEneus, he
took part in the Argonautic expedition, and
was the leader of the heroes who slew the boar
which laid waste the fields of Calydon. He
gave the hide to Atalanta, but his mother s
brothers, the sons of Thestius, seized it, where-
upon Meleager slew them. When he was seven
days old the Fates declared that he would die
as soon as the piece of wood which was burn-
ing on the hearth should be consumed. Althaea
then extinguished the firebrand and concealed
it in a chest; but now, to revenge the death
of her brothers, she threw the wood into the
fire, whereupon Meleager expired. Althaea put
an end to her life, and the sisters of Meleager
wept for him until Artemis changed them into
guinea-hens.
(1) Tenor of the Behring Sea arbitration
award of 1893? (2) Books on the subject.
—9673. ... , .
(1) That the U.S.A.’s rights in seals did not
extend more than three miles from the shore;
that a close season must be observed between
May 1 and July 31; that vessels engaged
in sealing must be licensed; and that the
U.S.A. Government- must pay £92,700 to the
Canadian Government as compensation for
ships seized or damaged. (2) Stanton s The
Behring Sea Controversy,” Henderson s Ameri-
can Diplomatic Questions” and the report ot
the Behring Sea Commission.
How can I destroy grubs and caterpillars
which riddle the flowers on snapdragons and
destroy the buds on dahlias? —9768.
Spray with arsenate of lead mixture QJb.
to lOgal. water), getting well around the plants.
All infected flowers and buds should first be
removed and burnt. Stir a little rotted manure
into the soil about the plants, and fresh-flower-
ing laterals will soon make fresh blooms.
My roses are badly infested with mildew.
(1) What is an antidote for the trouble, and
when to apply it? (2) Names of red mildew-
proof roses suitable for fairly heavy soil ?
9777. , ,
(1) Remove affected foliage and branches,
and spray the bushes with lime-and-sulphur
solution (strength indicated on package). Wait
until the weather is fine and the foliage free
from dew. Another remedy is to dig about
the plants plenty of wood ashes. Unless the
land is thoroughly drained the mildew trouble
will recur with every prolonged spell of wet
or humid weather. (2) General Macarthur,
K. of K., Lady Maureen Stewart, Hadley,
Hoosier Beauty and Etoile de Hollande are
regarded as good resisters of mildew.
What were the circumstances of the murder
charge brought against Lieut. Nathaniel Lowe
in the early days of N. S. Wales ? —9576.
Lowe was transferred from the 40th Regi-
ment to the mounted police. At Wallis Plains
he was sent in June, 1826, with a detachment
of police to apprehend aboriginals suspected
of murdering white men in the Upper Hunter
district. Afterwards he was charged with hav-
ing (a) allowed his men to shoot three natives
while in custody, (b) ordered the shooting of
a native prisoner, Jackey Jackey, who was sup-
posed to have committed a murder. Lowe’s
answer to the first charge was accepted. On
the second charge he had to stand his trial, but
was acquitted on the ground that the testimony
of the Crown witnesses was unreliable.
lam making a grandfather’s clock. (1)
What length of pendulum will give a beat of
exactly one second ? (2) What is the formula
for computation of time occupied by the beat
of a pendulum of given length ? (3) What is
length measured from, extreme length of pen-
dulum or pivot to centre of bob ? —9689.
(1) If by beat you mean one swing in one
direction, 38 9-10 in. approximately. Give the
bob -}in. screw adjustment up and down.
(2) Formula is Pi (ratio of circumference to
diameter) multiplied by the square root of
the length of the pendulum in feet divided by
the gravity constant (a shade over 32 in this
latitude). For practical purposes the length
of pendulum can be ascertained by dividing
0.5554 into the period of beat (expressed in
seconds) and squaring the result, which gives
length of pendulum in feet. (3) Pivot to centre
of gravity of entire pendulum —in practice a
little higher than the centre of the bob.
In the “Ladies’ Diary” ( an annual) for 1794
it is stated that in the palace of the Persian
king there was a triangular figure enclosing an
area of 10,000 sq. ft. The base of this figure-
was 200 ft. in length. The sum of the cubes
of its two other sides was equal to three times
the cube of the base. Readers were invited
to calculate the lengths of the other sides, and
a solution was promised in next volume, but
that I cannot obtain. Is it possible to do
the sum algebraically, and what is the answei .
(D B fhere are various algebraic methods of
solution, producing the answer that the height
of the triangle is 100 ft., that one side is
118 37ft. (approx.), and the other 281.631 t.
(approx.). The sides are surds. The equation
for such problems where the perpendicular ot
the triangle is one-half the base is that one
side equals perpendicular multiplied by 2 plus
square root of 2-3, and the other equals per-
pendicular multiplied by 2 minus square root
of 2-3.
I have a collection of foreign and Australian
postage stamps. (1) Best method of sale ? (2)
Should they be sold singly or as a collection ?
(1) Depends on their yalue and demand. If
they are of value and in good condition, by
auction; if of small value, you will get very little
for them by any method. For sale by auction
write C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney. (2)
Depends upon the stamps; rarities may be. sold
singly; collection, by countries; small general
collections, as a whole.
Value of aerial postcard, Hendon to Wind-
sor, dated 19117—9604. i ,
Depends upon color of card; yellow-brown,
olive-green and brown-rose, about 10s.; bright
rose and bright green, about 755.; violet, about
£5.
(1) Value of a Queensland 2d. postage stamp
bearing the head of King VII. ? (2)
Of a German stamp inscribed “Feldposte” ?
—9643.
(1) This is a duty stamp, not a postage stamp,
and is of no special value. (2) These stamps
were first issued in 1915, and are catalogued
at from Id. each, depending upon their face
value. They are Austrian military postage
stamps, not German.
Brief Answers.
W. 8.5.: As Canberra florins (1927) are still in
circulation, and can be got from the banks at
their face value, they’ve no collector value....
G M.: Mrs. Bonney left on April 15, 1933, in
a DH(>O (“Moth”), was delayed by weather,
and reached England on June 21 T.H.: Cos.
operating aerial services from Salamaua and Lae
to the goldfields: Guinea Airways; Pacific Aerial
Transport; Holden’s Air Transport Services;
and W. R. Carpenter and Co J.G.: 1 Ham-
mond, with 67.81, topped the averages in the
1933 English cricket season; Mead, 67.78;
Hobbs, 61.38; Wyatt, 59.47; Mitchell, 58.97;
and Ames, 58.80, were ne*t W.N.: “Paddy
the Next Best Thing” was written by W. Gayer-
Mackay and Robert Ord, and was first pro-
duced at the Savoy Theatre, London, on April
5 ; 1920 C.K.: Gilbert Emery, the American
screen actor, is not an Australian. His real
name is Pottle, and he was born at Naples,
N.Y., U.S.A., in 1875... .A.L.: Kipling was
awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in
1907 R.M.P.: The World Economic Confer-
ence was held in London June 12-July 27,
1933, and was attended by representatives ot
66 nations. The cost was estimated to be about
£lBO,OOO A.C.: The N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
published in 1912 a book of theatrical cari-
catures by Harry Julius from the Poverty Point
columns of The Bulletin, with marginal anec-
dotes by Claude McKay... .F. 8.: Yes, there
are many fine birds of paradise in Papua, but
these are not as numerous as in the Mandated
Territory and Dutch New Guinea F.E.K.:
Coggeshall’s “The Modern Electroplater” (215.),
Ibbetson’s “Accumulator Charging, Mainten-
ance and Repair” (6s. 3d.), and Maycocks
“Electrical Wiring, Fittings, Switches and
Lamps” (135.) C.J.: Knickerbocker families
is the term applied to people of New York who
are descended from Dutch settlers. The name
arose from Washington Irving’s “History of
New York” (1809), written under the pen-
name “Diedrich Knickerbocker” F.F.:
Marie Galante is one of the islands of the West
Indies, belonging to the French, 18 miles south-
east of Guadeloupe, of which it is a depen-
dency. The island’s chief products are coffee,
cotton and sugar. "Its area is about 58 sq. m.,
and its chief town Grand-Bourg. Pop., about
15,000... .A.D.C.: Write to Missing Friends
Bureau, Police Department, Sydney... .C.F.:
Apply a ligature as tightly as possible above
the part bitten, between the bite and the heart;
scarify the part bitten so that blood nows,
and rub Condy’s fluid in the open wound. Give
a stimulant, such as brandy or sal volatile, the
latter well diluted with water H.C.: lhe
verse by Dr. Erasmus Darwin which you seek
will be found on page 317 of Henmker Heaton s
“Australian Dictionary of Dates .. ..M.8..
The case was that of H. J. O’Ferrell, a clerk
in the Lands Office, Melbourne. He absconded
in 1873, and a deficiency of £14,000 was dis-
covered in his accounts. Arrested at Singapore
in 1874, he was brought back to Melbourne,
tried, convicted and sentenced to 14 years
imprisonment... .8.E.: The Creswick (Vic.)
mine flood happened in 1882, and caused the
death of 22 miners... .U.S.: N.S.W. Cremation
Co., 19 Bligh-st., Sydney 8.M.8. : (1) There
are over 40 grades and designations. oee
N.S.W. Public Service Regulations, Nos. 171 and
332. (2) Consult Miss Evans, sec., A.T.N.A.,
185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.. . .J.J..: If an in-
valid or old-age pensioner resides m her own
home and has no income or other property
she is eligible to receive the maximum rate
of pension... .G.M.D.: Federal Constitution is
not involved. The matter is a domestic one
for the State....C.H.N.: The population of
N. S. Wales at Sept. 30, 1933, was 2,606,899.
B.P.: She could apply to the Public
Library of N. S. Wales, the Sydney Municipal
Library, or to Dymock’s, Angus and Robert-
son, and N.S.W. Bookstall Co., who main-
tain circulating libraries G.A.0.: Snail
would have been better than either may or
“will” in this context, and the meaning would
have been made equally clear had the sentence
been shortened to read “So that the large set
of casement windows faces the south ....
M.J.: Every birth in N.S.W. must be registeiea
within 60 days by the parent of the child, t
the parent cannot attend personally at the Dis-
trict Registrar’s office, an information form
should be obtained, signed, witnessed and re-
turned.. . .G.L.: Write sec., Pastel Society 195
Piccadilly, London, W.l J.R.L.: (1), (2) an d
(3) White Star-Aberdeen service (Gilchrist, Wall
and Sanderson, or Dalgetys, Sydney), from
£6l first, £47 cabin and £2l third. (4) £126
17 S . 6d N.F.: The “Woman Journalist
(alternate months), 10 Norfolk-street, Strand,
London. Outside contributions are considered,
but not invited... .J.L.J.: Where an old-ag
pensioner’s house is destroyed by fire insurance
payments go to rebuilding and furnishing
new home J.G.: The Customs Dept.
no mailing list for tariff charges, but will make
early reply to any written request for infor-
mation in regard to the tariff... .G.E.H.. corn
municate with the Dept, of Taxation Savings
Bank Bldg., 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, set
ting out your claims E AT.: The b °ok h*
no commercial value A.S.: A. E. Smi ,
68 Hunter-street, Sydney... -M.C.:
Book Arcade, Sydney, will show you a cop>
of “Canoes, Dinghies and Sailing Punts .....
P.K.: Ashley’s “Drawing for Reproduction
(12s. 6d.), Seaby’s “Drawing Tor Art Student,
and Reproductions” (175.) and Furrow s H
to Draw Humorous Illustrations (7s. 6d.).
M.A.H.: Send specimens, wrapped in a damp
cloth, to the Dept, of Agriculture Melbourne
which will advise.... .Write general
secretary, British Legion, Haig Hous, -
Eccleston-square, London, S.W. t .. . .J.r.n.-
“N.Z. Best Poems of 1933, chosen by C. ■
Morris (2s. 9d.), obtainable from Harry H-
Tombs, 22 Wingfield-street, Wellington (M.L.t
... .E.P.: English boxing champions are Jaclue
Brown (flyweight), Johnny hJvFred
weight), Seaman Watson (feather weigh )>
Webster (lightweight), Jack Hood (welterweigh t
Jock McAvoy (middleweight), Len Harve)
(light-heavyweight) and Jack Peterson (
weight)....W.G.Y.: In criminal law the word
“accessory” is used consistently. . Say
in “Principles of the Criminal •
“Accessories are those who are n
the chief actors in the offence, nor (
present at its performance, but are some
concerned therein,” thus following P
cedent of Blackstone. In
“Lexicon” the words “accessary, an
sory” are treated as interchangeable o y
mous. The Oxford Dictionary comments ini
two spellings are often confused .. • • • • u
Yes, by deed. Such cases rarely occur i
Australia, and you would require a . £ ’
who might in the exceptional c •,
refer the matter to counsel, involving conside
able expense.... (Many others mailed. )


BUY TANKS
THE UFE OF WHICH
is
GUARANTEE
f
d
HE N you
* " are ordering
a new tank of any size, specify Lysaght’s
TANK-MAKING Galvanized Iron. It costs only
a few pence per sheet more, but it is very heavily
galvanized and the extra thick coating of zinc
more than compensates for the slightly higher
initial cost.
LYSAGHT’S
SPECIAL
ORB
TANK-MAKING SHEETS
Made by John Lysaght (Aust.) Ltd., on whose manufacture of Galvanized
Iron depend 3,000 men with their wives and families, all of whom are
consumers of primary produce.
COMMON CAUSE
of High
PETROL CONSUMPTION
The most common cause of high petrol
consumption, hard starting, and slug-
gish performance is defective ignition,
due to spark plugs which have been
in use too long.
The best of plugs cannot function for
ever. Fit new spark plugs every 10,000
miles. Fit Leggetts
Dynamic Spark
Plugs. The “hotter
spark” principle,
exclusive to
“Leggetts,” ensures
more perfect fuel
combustion, more
miles per gallon,
easier starting,
quicker accelera-
tion Dynamic
Power.
Ask your garage-
man for Leggetts
Dynamic Spark
Plugs, the choice of
experts, and enjoy
downright motor-
ing economy.
34/1-5
♦ LEGGETTS t
m
#
ďf
A.poy/ER (glliiaii
England via New York
by the most varied and colorful route, em-
bracing New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Van-
couver, across Canada or U.S.A. to Montreal
and New York.
Next Sailings from Sydney:
February Ist S.S. Niagara
February 7th S.S. Mariposa
February 15th S.S. Maunganui
March Ist 31. V. Aorangi
connecting with
THE CUNARD BIG THREE.
Berengaria Aquitania 31auretania
51,000 tons 46,000 tons 30,000 tons
which give a weekly express service from
New York to England. The Cunard Line also
offers the choice of the largest Cabin Class
Fleet in the World.
Specially reduced Round the World Tickets
available one way via S'uez or the aCpe.
Write for full information, or call and
discuss with us the plans of your trip. We
can effect your reservations throughout.
C. & D. Line, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., 34 Queen St., Melbourne;
Brisbane Adelaide Perth.
Cunard
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world—the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ’.. ’ £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739 012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DABVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd. ; National Provincial Bank, Ltd. ’
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
From China to Peru.
Edmond De Pury, a former Melbourne
“Herald” special writer, went olf to New
York a few years ago and soon won a
reputation. In time he secured a roving
commission to write travel impressions
for a powerful American news syndicate.
With a pal, Noel Adams, also a Vic-
torian, he is now firmly established in
the Argentine, where the pair were re-
cently appointed joint editors of the
Buenos Ayres “Standard.”
=N * * *
“Mahadeo”: Not content with running
about the country discovering buried
bells, the Sydney “Herald” has set about
reconstructing the Hindu pantheon. A
recent cable told us how the ancient idol
of Siva, “the Hindu goddess of destruc-
tion,” had been stolen from a temple,
with all its jewelled regalia. Like the
cardinal in the “Ingoldsby Legends,” the
priests at once launched a terrible curse,
and next morning Siva was found at the
old address without having a single valu-
able missing. Siva is, of course, a he-man
god.
* Jfc % %
The two best-known features of Christ-
church (M.L.) are the town clock and
Nurse Maude. The lady fluttered about
the level streets on a bicycle, her blue
gown streaming in the wind, for more
than 30 years. Before that she had a term
as matron of the general hospital. She
is head of the District Nursing Associa-
tion, and started the Christchurch branch
single-handed. A member of one of the
oldest Canterbury families, she has ad-
ministered health to the poor for close on
half a century, personally collecting most
of the money needed for the job. In re-
cent years she has found cycling too
slow; nowadays she careers about
in a small car. A patient whom she
advised to eat plenty of cabbage stam-
mered “But I don’t like cabbage.” “In
that case you’d be a fool to eat it—there
are plenty of other vegetables,” was the
brisk retort. George Rex found an
0.8. E. for the lady, who is 71 and was
still going as strong as ever at the New
Year.
* * * *
“Fleet-street” (London): The disarm-
ing candor of Melbourne’s new evening
daily in giving front-page prominence to
the times of its editions struck Australians
here as one of the most arresting features
of the sheet. Only by experience can one
tell in London which is actually the last
of the late special extra finals ; one Fleet-
street evening paper, branded as the 6.30,
may be bought 100 miles from London
by 5.30 ; actually, it appears on the streets
of the metropolis at a little after two.
Illogical England is, of course, blandly in-
different to the deception. There is,
however, a legitimate form of beating the
clock ; there are small printing plants in
the newspaper vans travelling in suburbs
15 or 20 miles from Fleet-street which
“fudge” late sporting results received by
telephone into earlier editions and catch
returning race and football crowds with
the same.
* * * *
“Oh Yeah”: Some newspaper cuttings
forwarded from America refer rather
quaintly to the appearance of the Eng-
lish and Australian players in the
Yankee national championships. Perry
is “the son of a London M.P. who
dresses as well as he makes his shots.”
Quist is a “white-toothed young Aus-
tralian known mainly as a competent
doubles player.” Crawford—hold on
to something—is “a sedate, somewhat
portly young man looking much older
than his 25 years."
“Forest Hills”: Bill Tilden, who seems
to have developed a liver of late, has
made a vitriolic attack on the officials who
were in charge of the last Yankee Davis
Cup team. Bill says their meddling and
interference were responsible for the de-
feat of Uncle Sam’s side. Among in-
stances quoted is the insistence of the
Yank captain last year that Vines shou 1
play Perry, though the issue had been de-
cided and Vines was palpably a sick
man. Vines obeyed orders, but fainted
during the game. Worth noting that
some time ago Vines anticipated Tilden
in blaming the officials for the American
defeat.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: That par. about Opper-
man’s designs on the Land’s End-John o’
Groats bike record (B. 17/1/’34) reminds
the writer of a ride done over the same
route for a wager quite recently. The
bet hinged on whether a complete mug
on a bike could do the 866 miles in 10
days. The taker set off and completed
his trip in 9 days 19 hours. His name
is Stead and he abides in South Nor-
wood, London. He took 235 hours to
do what champions have done in a little
over 61, but he got there just the same
and collected his money. Whether he or
the perfect British roads of to-day are
most to be commended is beside the
question.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H J.L.: We can’t quite swallow it. But
you ve some facility for rhyme, even if you’ve
very little for easy-running narrative C.E.H.:
Dull-as-ditchwater verse. Can find no record
ot previous contribution you refer to
G.D.M.: A shade too artificial M.G.S.:
Pungent, but we can’t find a niche for it here.
N.D.: You’re the first bard in all our
experience who ever included “husky laughter”
among his girl’s charms J.W.H.: It sets
us wondering whether you get your idea of
gipsies from grand opera S.N.M.: Your
friends must be as easily amused as Mr. Peter
Magnus’s....K.J.M.: Tolerable album verse.
... . V.T.: Very elementary J.T.E.: The
sentiment may be there, but we shouldn’t call
it poetry; it’s just jerky prose.... .E.H.: Read
it through several times painstakingly without
discovering what it was about C.C.C.: The
refrain seems to have been dragged in by the
scruff of the heck... .J.J.H.: Rich in banali-
ties. .. .W.C.: Nothing tuneful in that pipe
of yours... .W.C.N.: They failed to get past.
. ...G.E.H.: It embodies an old grievance, but
whatever space rates were adopted for verse
somebody would conceive himself ill-treated.
. ...J.T.8.: Enter the Tuneful Swagman:—
Havel you even had the fortune to he out upon the
track,
With your swag upon the back and with a song?
You go singing through the trees, and the fragrant
mountain breeze
Fills your system as you proudly tramp along.
But somehow we doubt his reality A J. 8.:
Very ragged, rugged verse, and the exasperat-
ing unicorn line settles it T. 5.8.: There’s
a deal too much of the conventional pastoral
in it....5.M.: It’s a long time since we en-
countered anything quite so bald and un-
appetising... .G.G.: The verse is workmanlike
enough, but it would fit lots of harbors beside
Sydney’s, and some it would fit much better.
F.P.: Refrain isn’t strong enough to carry
three verses M.A.8.: Juvenile G.C.0.D.:
Ended where all such manuscripts end....
M.F.C.: Old fellow’s yarn not gripping enough.
A.J.C.: Came a cropper... .R.H.M.:
Presume the moral is that flappers who wear
red slacks deserve to become shark-bait.
I.D.: Take away the scenery and there
is nothing left J.W.: Make the open-
ing more pithy.... R.M.: Daily-paper material.
.... .1.N.C.: Found the last lap obscure
and feeble... .W.E.8.: Slipped on this
visit a 150... .A.E.E.: The fishing yarn is the
better; polished up it might pass G.H.G.:
Nothing to boast about M.M.: Didn’t
we warn off Henry months ag0?....
D.N.L.: Doesn’t ring true J.H.W.: Old
plot F.0.D.: Would stand a chance if
condensed F.O.D. (Gunnedah): Fair, but
we’ve been swamped with prospecting yarns
lately G.A.L.: Idea mauled in the tell-
ing J.C.J.: No merit T.G.W.: Not
keen on yarns about idiots, though yours
is good in its way.... Mil: Madame passed
from our office without regrets... .P.D C •
Too long-winded... .H.C.W.: There’s ' music
in it, but you thump the loud pedal too hard
and too 10ng... .A.D.C.: Muddy stuff and
you’ve got your mythology mixed. It was
Icarus, and not his dad Daedalus, who fell into
the sea when the sun melted the wax that fast-
ened his wings.... P.L.G.: There’s a machine-
hke quality about those sonnets that queers
their pitch.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.R.: A little trimming and pruning would do
a world of g00d... .F.W.: Didn’t inspire us to
go on a jag F. 8.: Commonplace jests and
down-at-heels drawings S.T.: Joke too
wordy, and drawing looks like the work of a
five-year-old trying to imitate Phil May
A. : Shows care but lack of training
R.H.: The spectacle of the Digger in the harem
left us c01d... .W.C.R.: Scratchy and out of
proportion A.L.T.: Unpleasing little efforts.
....R.D.: Drawings tightly rolled and much
folded are severely handicapped before they
reach u5....A.M.: Both gags past their prime.
... .E.N.: Hovered on the acceptance line before
falling back among the flaps W.8.J.: Too
immature...,S.J.S.: Very poor sketch of ordi-
nary-looking couple exchanging small talk
J.D.: Fair, but the Bd. postal fine damped our
enthusiasm... .G.K.: Wooden R.J.G.: There
are about 99 reasons for rejection.... C.W.:
Indifferent workmanship N.E.P.: The un-
evenness in merit suggests that some are copies.
....R.M.L.: You have a sense of humor, but
your execution is inartistic M.C.: Couldn’t
find the point.... W.F.: Apart from the correctly
drawn straw-boater, there’s nothing in it
B. : A very ugly gathering of crocks
W.T.S.: Why are cactus plants sprouting from
various parts of Dad’s body A.R.C.:
There’s a cartoon in it, but it needed a defter
hand... .0.J.: Crude and humorless... .S.P.:
It bristles with blunders M.J.: No issue
will contain that atrocity R.H.W.: Not good
enough, but they show promise... .L.C.K.:
You draw badly in violet ink what has
been drawn tolerably in black ink
C. : You can’t draw Stevens, Lyons or Lang
—which leaves a doubt of your ability to draw
anyone J.A.: With more study you should
do good work C.8.N.: Drawing feeble, and
letterpress futile R.H.M.: Unredeemed by
the few good touches P.S.D.: The best of
the bad lot received was the crayon sketch.
M.E.: Thanks for the five pages telling
us what class of drawings we should publish.
... .A.W.: Legs, bodies, arms, faces, clothes —
in fact, everything—wretchedly drawn T.M.:
Subject stale D.M.K.: Get more dash and
vigor into your work H. 8.: Has no dis-
coverable humor or artistic merit... .P.M.Q.:
You grievously misuse a nice sheet of Bristol
board G.N.: A neat little sketch, but the
wheeze has whiskers on it.


Silver Threads
They tell the tale of advancing years
and rob you of the youthful appear-
ance that care and attention to the
skin and figure have preserved. Let
Dr. Allen’s Stain help you. By
following the simple directions, you
can, in the privacy of your own home,
restore the natural shade of your hair
in a way that will defy detection.
Thousands of women are using Dr.
Allen’s Stain in brown or black
shade, the most effective reviver for
grey hair it is possible to use.
All chemists, 4/- per bottle
D?AUEN'S
VMNUT--STAIN
l S
FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won’t provide
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one weeks
salary will provide education for your children, heavy medical
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
savings service—all the time.
tSbmmoiTWcattb Savinas JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Your home is . . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Lunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write the Manager, E. HYNDMAN, for full
information.
d
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
We have gone all Georgian since the
news arrived that the end of the year will
bring the youngest Royal Prince to these
shores. Young men are already noting
his hair-parting and his style in collars,
and the girls are feverishly making dates
with dancing-teachers. Prince George
seems to be fonder of dancing than of
any other recreation, and every young
thing craves the distinction of being “the
Prince’s partner.” Though this State is
having the young man with the bright
smile for only nine days, Sydney butter-
flies will refuse to remain outside the
Royal orbit, and there will be a crossing
of the Victorian border on a large scale.
It is curious the way in which these
Royal visits touch off the fuse of human
vanity. This Letter was told the other
day of a 1920 deb. who was not satis-
fied with intensive treatment to her hair
and face before the Prince of Wales’s
visit, but insisted on having her back
massaged for five weeks before he set
foot in Australia. And, after all that, he
never even asked her for one dance!
Squash-rackets girls and golf girls
may get a bright and intimate flash of
the smile, for George is keen on both
these sports.
Judging from the first night of “The Du-
barry,” Sydney likes its musical comedy
set in Louis Quinze furnishings. The
Theatre Royal was crowded, and the
stalls were reserved even to the last
row; at any rate, they were occupied by
tails and evening frocks. The dressing
on the stage was one glittering procession
of rich-hued satins and brocades. The
enchanting Sylvia Welling, as the little
milliner and the poet’s love, contrasted
her red hair and fair skin with lobelia
blues ; when she has risen in the world,
and developed a taste in bedroom fur-
nishings, she delivers a few home truths
to her protector from the folds of an
eye-ravishing peacock-blue wrap, with
a champagne lace edging to its train. In
the scene where the royal favor falls on
her she wears white. This is made with
the tight bodice and the outstanding pan-
niers of the period. The cobweb-light
fabric is caught with rosy garlands and
rucked and shirred to the hoops, after
which it billows and swirls in a tumul-
tuous wash whenever the human pro-
peller of love, hate or ambition gets into
top gear. In the last scene a frock of
the deep rose to which the Du Barry has
given her name, hooped, brocaded and
sewn with jewels, turned Sylvia’s fair
good looks into beauty and brought the
curtain down on a bang of applause.
Mrs. Sep Levy lived up to her repu-
tation as a well-dressed first-nighter. She
was in sapphire blues of perfect cut and
finish. Surgeon McKelvey’s lady, just
back from holidays, wore a shimmering
sheath of white satin; another good-
looker in white was Mrs. Herbert Doug-
lass, who carried a lush silver fox for
wrap. Florence Bennett’s black and white
caught the gaze, and Elsie Lundgren
added white frocking to the front rows.
Dot Brunton (Mrs. Ben Dawson) wore
an unusual blue chiffon wrap with her
white frock. Mrs. E. J. Tait was there
and Mrs. Jimmy Bancks ; Mrs. Harold
Bowden, the Ramaciottis and John Tait
were others; but Charlie Westmacott,
the suave and urbane, was no longer
hovering like a mellow host in front of
the house, for C.B. retired from his
general managership last week.
The waters of the Coogee baths were
jade-green in their setting of gleaming
white tiles, and all around were girls—
eager girls, bright-eyed girls, sun-browned
girls. They were there mostly to see the
100 yards backstroke and the 440 yards
championships. English swimmer Joyce
Cooper and Bonnie Mealing sped through
the tumbled waters on a roar of cheers
and exhortations in the first, and when
Bonnie won by a few inches local pride
nearly split the eardrums. Later Joyce
in her black slacks and Edna Davey in her
red-and-white striped wrap were followed
with unwavering gaze, and when, slacks
and wrap discarded, the two fine young
bodies struck the water, they were the
only two in the race for most of the
spectators. Up and down their respective
laneways they surged, turning magnifi-
cently, while the tumult and the shouting
rose to cyclone force and nearly blew
Gwen Varley, who was broadcasting the
affair, up to the new moon. The Sydney
girl held the lead from start to finish,
and finally got home ten yards ahead.
Then she made her way slowly, because
of the congratulations that rushed like
a tidal wave to greet her, up to the micro-
phone, and said nice things about Joyce
Cooper, who certainly is a game fighter
and as graceful a swimmer as one is ever
likely to see.
Here is a Sydney girl who fills a
unique job in San Francisco. Mavis
Grove went to America ten years ago,
and after spending some time in pub-
licity work became historian to the Wells-
Fargo Bank and Union Trust Company.
The backbone of her work is a history of
the bank, which was founded in 1852 by
Wells and Fargo, who came from New
York around the Horn in a sailing
vessel. Tied up with the romance of the
bank are many stories of early settlers
who followed the gold trail from the far
East and sometimes took as long as six
months to negotiate it in covered
waggons. This has brought a collection
of portraits of other days and interesting
data as to costumes, ways of living and
the rise and (too often) decline of
numerous towns. Film producers and
novelists are very glad to make use of
the information so carefully harvested in
the unostentatious bank building—l 2
storeys in a city where buildings often
rear a haughty 32 storeys are modest.
There were 68 apologies for non-
attendance at the yearly meeting of the
Mission to Seamen last week. The
powers were merciful to the panting
faithful and refrained from reading them
separately, merely stating the grand total.
But quite a nobby crowd passed under
the sign of the Flying Angel and made
its way to the downstairs room by a stair-
way festooned with flags. The room is
long and bright, and there’s nothing
against it except that, just as the speakers
got to the climax of their jokes, a tram
or motor-lorry would roar past and
carry the point away on its thunder.
Stuart Knox (he’s the secretary to the
Seamen’s Mission in London and has de-
voted 40 years to the work) and his wife
were the feted ones. John Sandeman
Allen, M. P., ran them a close second.
Notwithstanding that he has been making
speeches ever since his arrival, he.made
yet another—quite a good one. Bishop
Kirkby, shipping magnate Mackay
Sim and Stuart Knox were others who
dropped words of cheer and hope, and
Mrs. Knox, in flowered chiffons and
holding her presentation roses firmly,
made one of the brightest vocal efforts.
Near by sat Mrs. Evans, wife of the
institute’s padre, and she likewise was
chiffon-clad. Lots of shipowners and
such helped hand round the tea, though
none of them did it with such a manner
as Ernest Watt, one of the mission s best
friends. „ , r ,
Just about a week after her fathers
dramatic aeroplane flight across the con-
tinent to his daughter’s bedside, Margot
Mackay died in St. Luke’s Hospital. Mar-
got was only 19, and her sudden illness
evoked a tremendous wave of public sym-
pathy, now, unfortunately, turned to con-
dolence with the bereaved parents.
Sydney has two new Chevaliers of the
Legion of Honor. One is Alfred Wun-
derlich, of the ornamental ceilings and
tiles firm; the other is Professor G. G.
Nicholson. Mr. Wunderlich has been for
six years president of the French Alli-
ance in Sydney. Music is his pet hobby,
as it is with all the Wunderlichs.
These shipboard romances! Two or
three months ago Nancy Vautier, a girl
from Wellington (M.L.), spent a few days
in Sydney, where she has friends. She
was on her way to Colombo to marry
a man who had bought a house and
furnished it, even to linen and cutlery,
and had arranged to meet her at the boat
and take her straight from the steamer to
the church. But she fell headlong in
love with a fellow-passenger who said
his name was Paul Lukas, and his father
had been a director of London’s latest
fashionable hotel the Cumberland, and
he himself was to manage it. At Adel-
aide —yes, Adelaide —they were married ;
and at Colombo, well The sequel
was told in a cablegram last week.
“Lukas” was an impostor, a wife-de-
serter, for whom the police were looking
with a warrant. He had left his real wife
without maintenance, and apparently he
took most of Nancy’s money. The ruf-
fian is now serving a sentence of three
months and awaiting trial for bigamy.
Even if you didn’t care for the story
of “The Squatter’s Daughter” you must
have liked the daughter herself. She was
Joy Howarth, a Sydney girl who has all
the makings of a film star: good looks,
a sunny freshness that shines through her
work, and a talent for wearing clothes.
Jocelyn (to give her her name in full)
graduated through the school of amateur
theatricals —so that’s another feather in
the little theatre’s cap. At present she is
playing the part of the Dean’s artist
daughter, Alma Gray, in “The Silence
of Dean Maitland.” She was married
the other day, too, but only in one of
the final shots of the fruity old melo-
drama. St. Michael’s at Vaucluse was
the scene of this talkie wedding.
Trix Tange at her piano, with a soul-
ful expression that wouldn’t be amiss on
St. Cecilia and her red-gold head rising
from diaphanous green shoulder ruffles,
makes a striking debut among the Archi-
bald portraits. Near by Mrs. Norman
Brookes displays in detail an Arctic fox
of great price; along the line Mrs. Eric
Campbell pulls on dark gauntlet gloves
with a smiling but purposeful expression.
The turn-down collar of her workman-
like blue blouse is finished off with a
darker blue tie. Fred Leist’s girl in
chalk-white with the pomegranate mouth
and willowy figure is strikingly posed
against a light-blue background. Blue
appears over and over again in the
entries ; the lean, somewhat Shakspearean
face of “Lyrebird” Ambrose. Pratt (this
portrait, by Charles Wheeler, is the prize-
winner) rises above a blue shirt and blue
tie; Norman Carter’s Margaret wears a
sports dress of deep azure, and Mary
Edwards shows a self-portrait all blue
eyes and cornflower-blue cape. Ethel
Turner Curlewis, however, though equally
blue-eyed, wears a green frock. Grace
Crowley’s girl in the grey dress with the
white muslin Puritan collar is a pretty
creature not to be overlooked.
White washing frocks, the uncrushable
voiles and linens that have been the joy of
the business girl this summer, and printed
silks patterned the stands at Randwick
last Saturday. Crisped out by the breeze,
they bloomed between the ring and the
totes and gave the Anniversary meeting
a blithesome, carefree air. Among the
white-clad Mrs. Jimmy Burns held her
own in linen, her large white hat banded
in black velvet; Mrs. Malcolm Mackel-
lar walked tall and handsome in white
pebble crepe ; Mrs. R. A. Eakin was an-
other of the white sisterhood, though she
livened up her outfit with a cherry-red
handbag; Mrs. Oliver Osborne’s pretty
coloring was at its best above a suit of
silk pique in cool blue tones. Organdie
again got a great airing. In bows and
hats it bobbed along, it positively swag-
gered in gauntlet gloves, and after count-
ing several dozen pairs you found them
a bit monotonous. Philippa Stephen’s
navy-blue hat and Claudia Beazley’s blue-
and-white outfit were among the admir-
able things of a sunlit afternoon.
The Reggie Staffords almost put off
their trip to Europe to get settled into
their new home, Merton, Muswellbrook
way. This old grey stone homestead with
its four miles of frontage on the Hunter
River promises to eclipse the charms of
Llangollen, the Cassilis station which the
Staffords have sold. Merton has a sunken
garden, in the middle of which is a foun-
tain, its basin thick with lily pads. There
is a very ancient sundial in the garden,
and a porch with a stone bench in it
which is a joy to the artist. The Mon-
terey takes the Staffords to America, and
the Aquitania will waft them from New
York to London.
The McDonagh sisters are at last to see
their “Two Minutes’ Silence” released at
the Civic Theatre. The picture has been
made from the play by Les Haylen. Katie
Towers and Marie Lorraine are the
women in this post-war drama, Marie
being one of the three clever McDonagh
sisters, who have already produced
several Australian films.
Travellers from this continent will
now have a particular interest in Kew
Gardens, for among its botanical
treasures is a collection of the flowers of
the Balearic Isles painted by Australian
Annie Huntley (Mrs. D’Aflallo). The
artist, who, by the way, had not touched
her brushes since, as a girl, she painted
the wild flowers of Australia, had been
in Mallorca, where the horticulture fas-
cinated her. When she returned to
London she took her flowers to Kew, as
she wanted to know the botanical names
for them. Somebody said: “Leave them
and we’ll tell you when to call for them.”
But instead she received an invitation
bidding her come out and meet the prin-
cipal and all the heads. Then they asked
her to let them have a collection of her
flowers because they were not only
beautiful but were done as botanists re-
quire.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
Lokdon Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ď
f
Wolaroi College
Orange
Day and Boarding
School for Boys.
Preparatory to Leaving Certificate
Standard, SPECIAL AGRICUL-
TURAL COURSE, Commercial
Subjects, Woolclassing.
Excellent climate, 3000 feet above sea
level. Grounds, 50 acres.
Prospectus, etc., from—
STANLEY G. BROWN, M.A., B.Sc.,
Principal.
mii
• ' 'i• 15 If*:
imltl I
Conducted by
Mis
WIN. 1 OWL.ES.
CABIiYON’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 65/- week, b.otti net., free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. Tlease write
the Manager for quotations and detailed tariff
card.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Prince George is coming, and everyone
is pleased. This year’s debs, will mark
time till 1934 is nearly ended, and the
1935 flock will probably leave school
earlier. Money should flow in Melbourne,
and we hope for a large influx of visitors.
Coats and furs went to Caulfield, for
a strong cold wind came at the heels of
our heat-wave. The tunic threatens to
become popular, but it must have a
nipped-in waist and a widened shoulder
or the elongated effect gives its wearer a
half-starved look. One walked the lawns
in patterned linen, its success depending
upon stiffened shoulder wings. Mrs.
Harold Newbigin and Pat came up from
the beach to do some punting, both tall
and trim in navy blue. Miss “Tacky”
Fenner and her lorgnette were there;
they never miss a meeting. Mrs. A. K.
Johnson wore one of her favorite small
hats. A black velvet tarn, with just a
pull to the right as a variation on its
north of the Tweed origin, looked smart
above a spiral of cigarette smoke. One
young miss was attractive in a meek
little striped dress and a black slit-in-the-
crown hat to disclose more fair cur is
(youth does the trick, and a beautifully
waved head). Mrs. Chas. Wenman’s black
cartwheel spun above pink and black.
Iris Smith had the protection of a blue
coat, and two organdie flowers bloomed
on the blue hat which suited her auburn
locks.
It was bad luck for Warrnambool’s
summer meeting that the mercury chose
that week to go soaring over the cen-
tury. Attendances on the first two days
were sparse, for a swim seemed prefer-
able to trying to pick winners from small
fields, and the thought of bushfires was
never far away. Surrounding hills burnt
and shimmered under a heat haze. The
Keith Urquharts, of Hexham, were
on the course, Mrs. Urquhart in black-
and-white checks and daughter Mirri in
blue. Mrs. J. S. Tait mingled navy and
russet; Mrs. Norman Whitehead was
spotted with black and white, and daugh-
ter Dorothy wore that useful acquisition
of every smart wardrobe the linen-tweed
suit. Nan Russell mixed white-and-
chocolate checks ; Mrs. G. M. Russell, of
Port Fairy, was mostly blue ; Marjorie
Mack’s wide-brimmed millinery proved a
temptation to even a wisp of breeze;
Betty Littlewood stuck to black and
white.
As a wind-up to Amateur Day the
Peterborough Golf Club gave a dance in
the local hall, to which all the young
things staying in the district came along.
There was a bit more zip about the
Lindsay Cup. Members rose to the
occasion and swelled the attendance,
though it was tempting to do betting by
proxy and get the results over the air.
Club’s president William Lindsay
brought along his sister, Mrs. A. A.
White, of Melbourne. Mrs. Archie
McDonald went in for blues, her coat
being of a paler shade than the dress
beneath. From Horsham came Mrs.
Frank Young, her sulphur hat going suc-
cessfully with her lipstick-red frock.
Betty Young was in blue. The fashion
for dark blouses with pastel suits is new
and therefore intriguing—Mrs. Cyril
Baulch, of Port Fairy, wore hers in
brown satin and sand linen-tweed. Betty
Kelsall, of Hamilton, knotted a sailor’s
whistle-cord round her white panama.
The L.G.U. makes a practice of ignor-
ing social events, but it came off its
perch for Susie Tolhurst. In addition
to plucking laurels in Victorian and
Australian open events and doing notably
in the 1932 British championships, Susie
is one of our most popular short-markers.
On behalf of the union’s council, the
president, Mrs. Gatehouse, handed the
bride-to-be a silver salver. Bells tinkle
on the 30th, when Miss Tolhurst becomes
the bride of another golf champion,
Sloan Morpeth.
That a commander in the Royal Navy
should choose a voyage to England via
Cape Horn and a windjammer is not
very extraordinary; but it’s an excep-
tional woman who from choice em-
barks upon such a long, monotonous
stretch at sea. Mrs. Percy Grainger is
one of them; she and her long-haired
pianist arrived lately in S.A., and were
enthusiastic about their trip. Mrs. C. M.
Butlin is another. She and Commander
Butlin, who were married last year in
Sydney, begin their long voyage from an
S.A. port.
Victoria is being visited by the erudite
Edith Stoney. In Miss Stoney’s student
days at Newnham, girls were considered
nitwits at fractions and decimals and those
horrible sums about A and B who filled
tanks with water. But Miss Stoney was
endowed with a mathematical brain.
At Cambridge she became a wrangler
(and, incidentally, a tennis champion),
and she was a lecturer in physics
at King’s College and the London School
of Medicine for Women. Research work
took her into mazes of figures and for-
mula for the improvement of a marine
turbine invention, searchlights used dur-
ing the war and a patent powdered- and
condensed-milk. In these three jobs her
brains and patience were rewarded with
success. A Croix de Guerre came her
way for her brilliance as a radiologist
during the war. Miss Stoney is daughter
of the distinguished physicist who
christened the electron, the infra-red and
the ultra-violet. His highly technical
books forestalled those of Jeans written
for the layman. Another sister, Dr.
Florence Stoney, did brilliant war work
as medical officer and radiologist. She
got together her own portable X-ray
apparatus near the front, and afterwards
ran the electrical department of a large
hospital.
Broothorn caught this likeness of the
wife of Vice-Admiral Hyde, who was
knighted at the New Year. While the
Admiral is conferring upon matters of
naval importance in Singapore the Hyde
lady’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Robertson,
of Manly, are visiting their daughter and
small granddaughter Deirdre at Heying-
ton-place, Toorak. Lady Hyde keeps a
benevolent eye upon the Friendly Union
of Sailors’ Wives and Mothers.
Women bowlers are conservative. They
don’t admit the hussies who prance round
the beaches in little pants and a hankie,
who wear shorts for tennis, slacks for
golf and a layer of satin for dancing.
Bowling-greens are sacred to the long
sleeve and ankles looking their very worst
in dead-white hosiery. At a recent match
Mrs. O’Connor, of Alphington, caused a
panic by disclosing six inches of back.
A skirmish was avoided by the offender
(who, fortunately, has a sense of humor)
playing her semi-finals in a borrowed car-
digan. Later a meeting was called and
the feminine bowlers decided that Mrs.
O’Connor must put a patch in her un-
conventional garment.
Cupid’s straight shooting brought down
a youthful pair, Harry Thompson and
Peggy Cresswell. The important decision
was announced at the party given by the
F. W. Thompsons for the twenty-first
birthday of their only son. Within the
portals of No. 9 the hostess in a trained
creation of sherry romaine presented her
future daughter-in-law. The maiden’s
fancy lit upon corn-colored tulle, frills
and wings emphasising the importance
of hem and shoulders. Commander
Cresswell is sailing Singaporewards, but
his wife was there in a dress and cape
of peach-blossom lace. Guests, mostly of
the deb. and sub-deb. species, included
Ruth and Prudence Timmins, Mary and
Jean Syme, Isabel Cartwright and Gwen
Weir; K. and M. Wilson, G. and C.
Edgerton, Colin McKay and Colin
Meares ; Commander and Mrs. Nicholl
and the L. E. Vance and the Gordon
Blanche couples.
This is Dorothy Dash, eldest of the three
daughters of Queensland’s Minister for
Transport. Dorothy is enjoying her first
visit to Victoria, which includes motor
trips far and wide, races and parties. While
at home in Brisbane she pursues dramatic
art and trains young hopefuls in the
correct manner of speech. A Dickinson-
Monteath camera produced the picture.
Prattle from Perth:
Guests at the McKinnon-Bunning wedding
squeezed into St. Columba’s and slid into pews
tied up with white satin ribbon and fern, along
an aisle which led to a panoply of palms,
hydrangeas and roses. Angie’s magnolia laces
clung sheathlike to the knees, flowed under
a ruffle of deep-cream tulle and then trailed for
yards under a floating cloud of tulle, which
was captured at the head by a twist of silver
and fell over her face to the tips of the gladioli
sheaf. Joy Hill’s and sister Jane’s mermaid trap-
pings of oyster flamisol sprouted dorsal fins
of .pink satin and square-cut ruched caplets,
disclosing deep V backs with vertebrae cover-
ing widening at the shoulders.
The weathervane gave some half-hearted little
turns, then made up its mind to stay in line
with the cooling breeze which blew fitfully over
headquarters for the January race meeting. Mrs.
Arthur Francis was a bright spot in scarlet and
white draperies; Nell Stewart shielded greeny-
black florals with a wide transparency of black
crin.; newly-wed Mrs. Harry Blake had a sun-
and-sky color scheme in marocain and a pro-
tective white ballibuntal; Mrs. Geoffrey Hear-
man’s favorite nut-brown patterned her silk
crepes and crowned her marcel; Betty Smith’s
goffered white frills trimmed aquamarine sand
crepe, and Dorothy Balston’s white muslin was
pricked with turquoise spots.
The Kerr Pearse family sailed off in the
Orama after an exhausting round of farewell
parties. The Victoria League executive com-
mittee said good-bye over morning tea at the
Karrakatta Club; Mrs. Frank Davies floated
golden water-lilies on tables at the Palace Hotel
and served adieus with the luncheon; Mrs.
Griffiths-Bowen, girt with Lido-blue georgette
and lace, poured a stirrup-cup in the rose-
decked drawing-room of the same hotel. Eliza-
beth Kerr Pearse shared farewell honors with
Helen Vincent at Ngaere Purser’s bridge-and-
dance affair.
Dr. E. W. Byron and offsider Joe O’Halloran
supported the greater comfort movement by
donning white tropical mess jackets to meet
Marjorie Ham at St. Mary’s Cathedral. The
green of a string of jade hanging on classic-
cut ivory peau d’ange was glimpsed again in
the sheen of her slippers and in the airy tex-
ture of ’maid Moya O’Halloran’s head cover-
ing, which shaded a picture frock of daffodil
organdie.
Instead of an after-the-ceremony reception
the Hilton Woods put on a pre-nuptial cock-
tail party in honor of daughter Peggy’s mar-
riage to Geoffrey Everett. Mrs. Pat Trouchet
marked the event with a bridge party and a
black-and-white figured gown, and Mrs. Oliver
Vincent brewed a pot of tea for the bride-to-be.
Mrs. FI. C. F. Keall combined oatmeal and
burnt-bread georgette to welcome Mrs. P. U.
Henn at a luncheon party in the Karrakatta
Club’s wintergarden. Mrs. Henn’s floral silk
crepes and flat-feathered hat looked well against
the carnations and scabious, and daughter
Mary’s blush-rose marocains had a seat of
honor at the table.
Lady Margaret Shaw, wife of the Hon. Alex-
ander Shaw, and daughter Jean were the lions
of the party given by the P. and O. Co. in the
Maloja during its brief stay at Fremantle. A
welcome breeze fanned the palms and flags on
the decks, and carried the strains of the band
to the cocked ears of the stevedores.
Bananaland’s Mary Littledike has plighted her
troth to Mrs. R. J. Lynn’s younger son Theo.
Adelaide swelters:
We have been in the throes of a heat-wave:
one of the good old sort that pioneers talk
about. For days the thermometer made excur-
sions above the century. Those who could
manage it rushed down to Victor Harbor,
where smart caravans and motor-cars rub
elbows with tiny tents. To put the coolth-
seekers right back to nature there was a
Sunday-afternoon fire that wiped out the Har-
bor’s only picture-palace.
Dr. and Mrs. A. S. Randell, who occupy one
of the Harbor’s big houses, entertained a num-
ber of young people at a summer dance on a
breathless, baker’s-oven night. The guests were
friends of young Michael. Dancing was in the
drawing-room, supper in the dining-room, and
ices were served on the verandah, which nearly
had its floor worn out.
The Uni. Women Graduates’ Union gave a
farewell luncheon in the refectory to the inter-
state visitors who had attended their confer-
ence. One of the Sydney visitors, Mrs. Ber-
nard Muscio, was entertained later at the Went-
worth by members of the infantile paralysis
committee.
In spite of the intense heat many friends
motored down to the Outer Harbor to wave
farewells to Rosemary Fleischmann when she
departed in the Ascanius for South Africa. She
will spend some weeks in Durban before con-
tinuing her journey home to England.
There was a large crowd to cheer the polo-
players at Birkalla. The heat was awful, and
the spectators, gasping like fishes, were with
difficulty resuscitated by tea. Among the noble
souls present were Cecil Bray and his daughter
Phyllis, Mr. and Mrs. George Braund, Mrs.
Kenneth Bakewell and her daughter Helen, Mr.
and Mrs. L. M. Darby, Mrs. Eric Murray and
Mrs. Malcolm Reid.
Percy Grainger has been visiting his relations
in Adelaide. Accompanied by his wife he
arrived in the windjammer L’Avenir.
Harold Tideman, just returned after a trip
overseas, where he studied music and dramatic
art, has announced his engagement to pianist
Jean Barbour.
Mrs.. Van Andel is the guest of Dr. and Mrs.
Milo Sprod at Glenelg. She arrived in the
much-advertised L’Avenir.
The Speck has many medical visitors:
Two hundred and fifty, with wives and
families, arrived by various steamers (a plan
to bring them all in the Cathay went agley),
with a programme of nine days’ work and play
mapped out.
The Town Hall was packed for the opening
of the Medical Congress. President Dr.
D. H. E. Lines gave an address, after which
a move was made across the street to the
Museum, where the presidential at-home was
staged among the fossils. Orchestral music
mitigated the solemnity of the surroundings.
Mrs. Lines’s black uncrushable velvet frock,
severely cut, was caught at the shoulder by a
jewelled buckle. Mrs. Ransome, Dr. Lines’s
married daughter, helped her mother in enter-
taining, wearing beige lace with a brown velvet
waistband. Academic robes, orders and decora-
tions furbished the dress of the majority of the
men, and there was some attractive frocking
on the distaff side. Supper was served in the
Art Gallery upstairs, where table decorations
were all pink. His Ex. and Lady Clark attended
both functions.
The second garden party at Government
House was a bigger affair than the first, owing
to the number of medical and other conference
people invited. Academic robes made splashes
of purple, crimson and yellow against the green
lawns. The day was hot, giving the women
a chance to wear organdies and other trifles
light as air without risking blue noses. The
Clark lady wore brown lace and a small hat
with an encircling band of iridescent feathers.
Refreshments were served in the ballroom, and
ices nestled coyly in the shade of the shrub-
beries. Bands played at discreet intervals.
Medical Congress delegates were accorded a
reception at the City Hall, followed by a ball.
Mayor and Mayoress Wignall gave the welcom-
ing hand to over 1000 guests. One side of the
hall was turned into a garden with green baize
for lawn and flowerbeds of lobelia and antir-
rhinum, deck-chairs and small tables. The
orchestra sat in a grotto of greenery hung with
colored lights, and enormous tree-ferns gave the
typical Tasmanian touch to the scenic effect.
Lady Clark was in deep-blue georgette with
short shoulder cape. The Mayoress was in
black with touches of pink, Mrs. Lines wore
black ripple chiffon velvet, and Mrs. W.
W. Giblin’s slender height was draped in
brown crinkled satin with train.
Priminister Lyons and his wife came to
town from Devonport for a few days and at-
tended the Government House garden party.
The morale of Tasmania rose very high at
the wool sales, and town was full of jubilant
farmers and their feminine belongings, while
the air was thick with mutual congratulations.
The Summer Cup meeting of the Newnham
Racing Club was lucky with the weather, and
there was a big crowd. President A. E.
Pepper and his better half did the honors ; the
latter’s frock in two shades of blue being
topped with a blue hat. In the throng were
the Frank Youls, the R. C. Fields, the Rupert
Agnews, the Frank Lakins, the Allan
Stewarts, Miss Elvie Quigley, Mr. Tulloch
Scott, the Jack Archers, the Andrew Raeburns,
Mrs. V. C. Hall, the H. P. Harrissons, the C. N.
Gunns and hosts of other well-known punters.
Dr. John Grove, superintendent of the Laun-
ceston Hospital, was presented by the board
with a clock on his marriage to Helen Rex.
The wedding came off at Queen’s College
chapel, Melb. Uni. The bride is the daughter
of the late Cyril and Mrs. Rex, formerly of
New Norfolk, and the newlyweds will live in
Launceston. Nancy Brain went across to act
as chief bridesmaid, Mollie Grove being the
second. The bride’s frock was of heavy ivory
satin, and her hand-made lace veil was lent by
Eva Rex. The bride’s mother and her son,
Dr. Rex, entertained the guests at the Windsor
after the ceremony.
The Graeme Bisdees have flitted to the Cold
Country in the Ascanius, intending to spend
half a year abroad.


✓
N?
x ox
v \ X
i «\V
says Major PLIIME
V
1 ' :%
Why, you’ll take 'em
at the double
with your tank full of
PLUME”
Unsurpassed anti-knock quality, giving
steady, knock-proof, power-full com-
bustion ... that’s the open secret of
Plume’s hill-climbing power. If it be
mere habit that keeps you to that fuel
you use to-day—try ONE tankfull of
Plume. , You’ll sense the increased
power at the first steep hill —and the
full driving satisfaction that only
PLUME can give.
AUSTRALIA’S Highest Quality Motor Spirit
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER
who will quote you price for the original.
Lottery LucK.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
LIKE a southerly burster came Tom
Biggar into my life again. I was
drinking the second whisky for
which he had paid before I fully realised
the change in his appearance.
The pockets of his coat might be
worked outward already by his habit of
thrusting into them parcels he wished to
carry home ; but his clothes were good,
and almost brand-new.
“Seaside Sites must be looking up,” I
remarked.
“Seaside Sites be blowed!” returned
Biggar heartily. “I’m my own boss now,
and I intend to remain so.”
My heart fell slightly. Biggar had had
so many lucky strikes which petered out,
leaving him a desperate borrower of his
friends’ spare silver, that it sounded like
disaster to hear that he had again aban-
doned the assured four pounds a week
dear to the heart of Mrs. Biggar and the
commission that was the breath of his
own nostrils. Seaside Sites at least
yielded him that.
I waited for him to explain his new
road to fortune, as he usually did with-
out prompting. But he was more reticent
than usual.
“I’m going to shout you a lottery
share,” he vociferated. Although I told
I had no vtotent hunger for any
such thing, it is hard to resist Biggar
when he is in his boisterous mood. He
guided me to an office where people
movec [ j n an d ou t as bees do about a
hive.
it a fl came as a surprise. There was
young Tom Biggar, promoted from the
lar se. El™ collars that used to be one
of his features, grinning at me ; there
was MilUe Big ’ ga * gro * n into flapper .
hood, attending from behind her desk
to the rush of clients for shares, but
sparing time to give me a smile. Signs
indicated that we stood within the office
°f (e Lucky Tom ’ s Lo,tery Shares Syndi *
„ So Lucky Tom , „ j exclaimed .
jj le a dvertisements in some of the papers
had hit my eye, but it had never occurred
to me that Lucky Tom was Tom Biggar.
“And you’ve been amongst the big
money, I see,” pointing to signs which
set forth that Lucky Tom syndicates
had won a first and a third,
“My oath, yes,” he said, lifting his
voice. “And in the next few weeks the
Lucky Tom syndicates will be scooping
all the big prizes.”
“Hear, hear! Hope you do, Mr. Big-
gar!” This came from amongst the
jostling crowd that filled the office.
“Already we have a larger percentage
of wins than any other shares syndi-
cate in the business,” said Biggar, address-
ing me, but still regarding himself as a
loudspeaker. , ,
I found myself talking to others 1
knew slightly—old acquaintances of
Lucky Tom’s impecunious days. Biggar
gathered us together, and soon he was
getting Milly to make out the dockets
by which each of us, including himself,
had a share in a lottery ticket in the
name of “Lucky Tom’s Old Pals.’
It was Tom’s shout; but he was not
content with that. He took us out to
the nearest hotel.
“Why, the money’s rolling in,” he said
in reply to my. protest that the drinks
were mine. “All you chaps were damned
good to me when I needed it; and it’s
my turn now.” •
“I hope the good times’ll last, Tom,]’ I
said. “Government’s talking of closing
down these shares syndicates.”
“They’ll never do it,” he replied cheer-
fully. “All damned foolishness. It’s the
personal factor that counts. Look at me
with my subscribers. I’m their friend as
well as their agent. That’s what matters.
Fancy them rushing to have their shares
passed out to them by mere civil ser-
vants! We people are performing a
service to the public; and even if the
Government tries to stop us they’ll never
succeed. We’ll find a way of carrying
on in spite of them.”
Biggar finished rather warmly.
“And how’s Mrs. Biggar? What does
she think of it all?”
“What should she think of it?” he re-
torted. “I’ve bought her a house ; it’s
hers for keeps.”
It rather took my breath away. Tom,
who had not taken me as fully into his
confidence as he had usually done, had
somehow burgeoned into the lottery busi-
ness in a big way ; his newspaper adver-
tisements were huge, and office rent must
be considerable. I knew the profits such
a business made were large, but that they
should have enabled him already to
shelve his incessant war with the land-
lord astonished me. It pleased me, too.
My own interest in the lotteries is
slight; but what business I had in that
direction I naturally did in Tom’s office.
Tom himself was often out; when he was
not he always came out with me. His
philanthropic attitude to the people who
thronged into the place struck me as
rather absurd ; but there was no doubt that
Tom was enjoying not only his affluence
but his sense of being a public benefac-
tor.
Of the affluence I had another proof
when I was bidden to a feast to celebrate
the anniversary of the Biggar wedding.
In other days the occasion might have
been honored in prawns and beer, with
a special outing to the pictures. And
somehow, when I met again the devoted
Mrs. Biggar, I had an impression that she
would have enjoyed the simpler form of
entertainment better, although this affair
was held with full circumstance at a lead-
ing hotel and the M.P. who, in strange
circumstances, had become a friend of
Biggar made the speech of the evening,
complimenting the couple on their long
union and their happiness.
Mrs. Biggar certainly looked pleased
as Tom replied. “I owe everything to
my wife,” he declared ; it was as natural
for Tom to say a thing like that as it
was in the old days to talk about letting
people in on the ground floor. And that
was not to say that Tom himself did not
feel that he was sincere. As for Mrs.
Biggar, her eyes glowed over her flushed
cheeks as she looked adoringly at the
man whose chequered fortunes she had
shared.
“You haven’t been to see us at our
new house,” she said reproachfully when
I spoke to her. “It’s our own, you know ;
Tom bought it.”
“I promised Tom 1 would run out one
Sunday,” I said. “I’m glad Tom is doing
so well.”
There came into her face a slightly
wistful look.
“It’s splendid, isn’t it?” she said. “But
I wish it didn’t occupy so much of Tom’s
time. He’s very seldom at home now. I
suppose he’s right in thinking that it’s the
proper thing for him to take an interest
in municipal politics. Of course, Tom’s
just the- sort of man they want on the
council; the rates are so high, and all
that sort of thing, with the men they
have there now. Tom would soon alter
that. But I’d rather have him at home
more.”
So that was the way of it? Biggar had
developed a feeling that his public bene-
factions should not end with the mere
buying of lottery tickets for those who
wanted shares. During a previous burst
of affluence, the devotion that always
existed in adversity between the Biggars
had been temporarily impaired. For a
moment 1 felt almost sorry that Biggar
was so prosperous.
That feeling changed when I spoke to
Greenlees, who managed Seaside Sites. It
was a curiously mixed gathering. Biggar
had evidently determined to entertain his
friends and to impress guests who were
not so friendly.
“How long is it going to last?” de-
manded Greenlees, rather sourly, in re-
sponse to a remark about Biggar’s altered
circumstances. “When this lottery-share
business is stopped, what is Biggar going
to do? He’ll be glad enough of his old
job—if he can get it.”
“You’d be glad enough to have him,”
I suggested with a laugh.
“I don’t know about that,” he retorted.
“It’s not the first time he’s thrown in
his job to go after something else. I
like a man who settles to his work.
Biggar’s too erratic.”
“He’s a good salesman.”
“He’s a good salesman, of course. Yet
a stunt like this comes along and away
goes the job he is fitted for!”
“Well, he’s making money, and he’s
happy. He believes he is doing a public
good,” I said.
“That’s what makes him a salesman.
He’s able to convince himself that every-,
thing he touches is the right thing—it’s
simply a benevolence to pass it on to
others.”
It was an illuminating commentary
upon our friend, which made me almost
forgive Greenlees for his sourness. Had
I wished I could have given as illuminat-
ing a commentary about himself. He is
one of those persons who think salesmen
are sent into this world to do their work
for them, and grudge them any success
(>Continued on next page.)


J44ute£ ~ht Enaicmct
P&O
TOURIST
' *, '44
mwm*
81
!SHL
CLASS
"T HE Tourist Class accommodation In P. & O. Royal Mail Liners
1 affords a high standard of comfort at moderate passage rates.
The cuisine is excellent, Public Rooms are tastefully furnished and
ample deck space permits the full enjoyment of sports or quiet,
restful days at sea.
1° the "Strathnaver" and "Strathaird" (First Saloon and Tourist Class)
and "Moldavia" and "Mongolia" (Tourist Class only), there are a
number of single and two-berth cabins.
List of fares and booklet will be sent on application.
RMS. "STRATHNAVER"
leaves Sydney Mar. 24
R.M.S. "STRATHAIRD"
leaves Sydney April 21
R.M.S. "MONGOLIA"
'V. leaves Sydney May 16
Fares to
England
from
£39
Subject to
Exchange
Principal Agents .*
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
Union House, George Street,
Sydney.
Tel. B 7511
Joint Passenger Agents:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Tel. B 6701
\
'V
"TV. K
'Nv
< W . %
ki^
k'
'•Vv.
N «
*
L
m-.
*s
ROYAL MAIL
i -
; i \
Xs
“ “PR
LINERS
(the salesmen, I mean) that raises them
above helotry.
Biggar’s prosperity seemed solid
enough, in spite of threats of Govern-
mental interference, which was a long
time in coming. Suddenly it fell to the
ground like a pack of cards.
I had spent a lazy holiday aboard a
Murray-river steamer. Returning to the
city, I went to Biggar’s offices. Gone
were the bustling crowds; gone the
youthful Biggars ; gone was Biggar him-
self.
Lucky Tom’s” was closed. There
We J e "To Tot” notices in the window.
. "They went broke, and the bailiffs came
in,” said a man lounging near. “You got
a share in any of the prizes they won?”
‘What’s that to do with you?” I re-
joined.
“Aw, nothing,” said the man. He
seemed malicious; he may have been
associated with one of the rival concerns.
They simply had to go broke—shout-
ing drinks for customers and all that,”
he sneered. “A business can’t carry on
that way.”
In my concern, I recalled my
promise to go out to see the Biggars.
I did it that evening. The new house, I
found, was a comfortable-looking bunga-
low.
It was a subdued Biggar who greeted
me, although he seemed glad of my
coming.
“How did it all happen?” I asked.
I spent too much. I thought spend-
ing would establish the business, and once
established I could cut down; but L
found that hard. However,” he added
with a laugh, “it’s over now. It was
good while it lasted. I’ll find a job, I
suppose ; it’s a bit of a comedown hav-
ing to look for one.”
“Anyway, you got this house out of it,”
I said.
He looked around nervously. Mrs.
Biggar was busy clearing the table in
the room beyond the lounge, where we
were sitting.
“The instalments are a bit overdue,”
he acknowledged. “It’ll be all right if I
can get a job without delay, but”
“Seaside Sites,” I suggested. Remem-
bering Greenlees, I was far from hopeful.
“No! ” Biggar spoke forcefully. “No ;
I can’t go back, cap in hand, to them.
There’s beer in the ice-chest. I’ll get it.”
While he was gone Mrs. Biggar came
forward. She had heard my remark.
“Seaside Sites,” she said. “Don’t tell
him, but I went to see them to-day. I
said the offer would have to come from
them. They’ll want him, don’t you
think?” Her query was full of anxiety.
“They ought to,” I answered, as con-
fidently as I could.
Biggar came in, swinging a bottle of
beer with an assumption of his usual
jauntiness. His arm went affectionately
about his wife.
“You’ve no idea what a Briton she
is!” he exclaimed.
The doubtful encouragement I had just
given had brightened her face ; at this
moment it was all happiness. Un-
doubtedly affliction seemed to suit the
Biggars best.
“A regular Briton!” Biggar repeated,
opening the beer. His wife had gone to
answer a tinkle which told that Biggar
had had the telephone installed.
“You know we won a first in the lot-
tery,” he said.
“The Lucky Tom Syndicate did?”
“No; we won it —the share-syndicate
business wasn’t started then. The wife
put in a shilling with four others, and l
got the ticket —called it the ‘Lucky Tom.’
It was the wife’s thousand really. We
used it in the syndicate business, and all
she’s got out of it is the hundred or so
we’ve spent on the house. Yet she doesn’t
say a word about it! ”
“You mean to say you got through
the thousand your wife won?” I ex-
claimed.
Tom stood with the bottle in his hand,
a shamed grin on his face. He could see
the absurdity of the situation, humiliated
as he was.
“It’s Mr. Greenlees, of Seaside Sites,”
cut in the voice of Mrs. Biggar. The good
lady was flustered. “He asked if you
were in, and when I hesitated he said
would you be sure and call to-morrow
and”
“I’m in!” said Biggar cheerfully.
Troth.
Come out and walk. The wind is surging cold
And clamorous around the hills to-night;
Against the fading streaks of thin, grey light
The dark tops of the trees are tossed and rolled
And buffeted and whipped. The smell of mould
Arises underfoot. In crowded flight
Black clouds are rolling madly out of sight
Or huddling on the skyline, fold on fold.
Come out and walk, so let us never say
We were enamored by a languorous night,
Bewitched by silver moonlight, music gay, ’
Drugging our senses, arms and shoulders
white....
Plight we our troth out here upon the hill—
Where through the trees the wind is surging
chill.
maoriland.
CHISTINE COMBER.
The Murderer.
BY NORA McAULIFFE.
stands a man with the
shadow of the gallows resting on
A him.”
The words cut through the overcharged
atmosphere of the court like a jagged
streak of lightning. The youngest jury-
man gasped.
Counsel for the defence stood mag-
netic, compelling. With a phrase he had
subdued this mass of humanity, and now
he continued to play with master hand
on its still-quivering nerves, its sensibility
and its imagination. One by one he drew
the threads of the evidence asunder, till
what had seemed in the hands of the
Crown Prosecutor a closely-woven web
in which the accused was hopelessly en-
tangled was now but a mass of incom-
plete and confused strands.
He showed that the accused and his
wife had known each other from child-
hood. Had grown up in the same town,
had married, and for eight years had
lived in agreement. Then one morning
the woman is found dead by the maid, in
the sitting-room. There is blood on the
knob of the fender. The husband is in
bed asleep, and when the maid runs
screaming to him with the news he starts
up crying “My God, and I have done
it!” The police are informed, and the
man is charged with murder.
Now counsel urged that the “My God,
and I have done it!” referred not to the
fact that the man in the dock had
struck his wife a fatal blow with the
poker, but to the fact that on the evening
before the tragedy he had come home
half-drunk, thus causing his wife, who
suffered from a weak heart, to become
unduly excited. Angry words had passed
between them (for the first time, the
maid had admitted), and the accused had
gone upstairs, calling over his shoulder
that she could follow him when she liked.
Cleverly, then, the lawyer painted the
scene of what followed. He showed the
room, with its chintz-covered easy-chairs,
its old-fashioned fender and fire-irons. He
showed the woman sitting in an easy-
chair before the fire. He described her
movements as she rose to follow her
husband. Related how the weakness of
her heart overpowered her, how she had
fallen, striking the side of her head
against the knob of the fender. In de-
ciding the fate of the prisoner they must
bear in mind that the knob of the fender
and the knob of the poker were exactly
the same size and design.
He spoke in touching terms of the
dead woman —of her beauty, of her
accomplishments, of her charm of
manner. Was it credible that her hus-
band would take her life in a fashion so
brutal?
His speech was brilliant, dramatic and
convincing, and he concluded with the
words: “After you have weighed all the
evidence, you will agree with me that
it would be criminal, inhuman, to con-
demn a man to a disgraceful death for a
crime of which he is no more guilty
than I am.”
The jury retired. At the end of thirty
vibrant minutes they returned. “Not
guilty,” the foreman said ; and his voice
shook on a note of relief.
An hour later John Tempest, counsel
for the defence, sat in his room, high
above the city din, and reviewed the
sordid tragedy in which he had played so
large a part.
Of course Neilson had murdered his
wife. In his own mind from the first
there had never been the slightest doubt
of it, and yet something had compelled
him to work his hardest for the man’s
acquittal. Never had he put such force
into his pleading.
Lying back in his easy-chair, he re-
cast the whole scene. The drunken
quarrel (for the woman, too, had been
drinking), the sudden blow with the
poker. He saw Neilson, sobered in a
moment and cunning, lift the body from
the chair and place it so that the fore-
head rested on the fender. He saw him
walk quietly across the floor and call over
his shoulder to the lifeless mass for the
(Continued on next page.)


Ti£m GOT IT
Caution: To save lovely
teeth —fight film
/"\NCE this tooth sparkled in a fas-
cinating smile. To-day its place is
vacant. Film attacked it. . . covered it
with germs which slowly, steadily
destroyed it. Poor neglected molar!
No use to resist against such odds. At
last it had to be taken out.
What is film ?
Film is ever present—in every mouth—
on every tooth —constantly accumu-
lating. Sometimes it is invisible —more
often it forms a yellow, ugly mask.
Film is soft and sticky. Food par-
ticles cling to it. The mineral salts in
saliva combine with film to form hard,
irritating tartar. This makes gums
sore and causes them to bleed.
But film’s greatest damage is done
through tooth decay. In film are tiny,
rod-shaped germs . . . Lactobacilli. This
germs throws off enzymes which, in
turn, produce strong acid. This acid
eats away tooth enamel just as other
acids burn holes in cloth or wood.
Deeper and deeper goes the acid.
Bigger and bigger grows the cavity.
Finally the nerve is reached ... the root
canal infected . . . and unless repaired
in time, results may well prove tragic.
“ What can I do to fight decay V*
Remember this : a clean tooth never
decays. To keep teeth clean and free
from film use Pepsodent instead of
ordinary tooth pastes. Why ? Because
Pepsodent contains a special film-
removing substance.
This film-removing material in Pep-
sodent is one of the great discoveries
of the day. Its power to remove every
trace of film-stain is revolutionary 1 Its
notable distinction of being twice as
soft as other materials in common use
has gained wide recognition. And so,
when tempted to try cheap and ineffec-
tive tooth pastes, rememberthe one safe
way to fight film is to use the special
film-removing tooth paste—Pepsodent.
See how rapidly film
forms on teeth
:v: ->
■m
These teeth were
absolutely free of
film at 8 a.m.
At noon —the film
detector* solution
was applied and
this is how they
looked.
At 8 p.m. —the film
detector* shows
still heavier de-
posits of film.
Two-thirds of the
tooth’s surface is
covered.
At 10 p.m. —these
same teeth were
brushed with
Pepsodent. Note
how thoroughly
film has been re-
moved.
*A harmless fluid,
used by dentists,
which stains film so
that the naked eye
can see it.
vnvyisnv ni aovn
juaposdaj
the special film-removing tooth paste
M9B3M
©ldentifies the
more impor-
tant centres requir-
ing specialized lu-
brication such as is
offered by Alemite.
m
►t.
ALEMITE”
these
parts
"JLLEMITE"
Recognizing a higher knowledge ©f lubrication, as exem-
plified by Alemite, saves motor vehicle owners of the
world millions annually. Never ”grease,” always”Alemite.”
d
S hcLCK-lcS and other miscel-
laneous parts of the chassis
want Alemite Chassis Lubricant
for resistance to frictional wear,
freedom from clogging and
lubricating efficiency at all tem-
peratures. Lubrication at 500
mile periods is best to prevent
squeaks and minimize wear.
ALEMITE CORPORATION
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT . . . Chicago
Full particulars front
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident
Manager, 554 George St., Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Ktt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SCII I £ S cm?;’I Perth
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—9-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
benefit of the maid that “she could come
up when she liked.”
He recalled the bloated face of the
dead Catherine Neilson, with the look
of horror frozen on it. But between it
and him there arose the vision of the
girl he had known as Kate Connelly,
years before, when he was a struggling
junior, and she was a slip of a girl from
a convent school.
As he sat musing in the deepening twi-
light, through the opening windows of
the building opposite came the strains
of a violin —Gounod’s “Ave Maria.”
John Tempest bent forward to listen.
Kate used to sing that in that long-ago
summer. Kate of the blue, blue eyes.
Kate, whose hair held all the shades of
a ripening apple.
He thought of the country public-
house where he had gone to regain his
strength. Of the long, long, wearisome
days; of old Connelly’s still more weari-
some tales. He remembered the evening
of Kate’s homecoming, when her blue
eyes had smiled into his. The meeting
of flint and steel had never struck readier
spark.
What a glorious girl she had been!
Beautiful in mind as in body! She had
ambition, too. Her singing teacher spoke
of a future; and indeed she had a
wonderful voice. The night before he
left they had been to a concert and
dance outside the township, and in the
early-morning hours they had walked
homewards, hand in hand. A few stars
were still faintly shining, and the mystery
of the hour before dawn wrapped the
earth.
He had led her into the heart of
the orchard, and there they sat hushed,
expectant, the air about them rich
with the odor of mellowing apples. Pre-
sently he had drawn her close, and after
a first long sigh she had lain pensive
in his embrace.
Only once she spoke, and that was
when the sky began to grow bright. She
stirred in his arms and he heard her
whisper: “Ah, God! Ah, God, that
day should be so soon! ” He kissed her
on the mouth, and as the sky grew rosy
with the dawning she had sung, her eyes
full of the glory that was upon her, while
the notes rose —at once a prayer and a
thanksgiving:
Ora pro nobis —Nobis peccatoribus
Nunc et in hora mortis nostra. Amen!
Swinburne and Gounod, with Con-
nelly’s pub for a background!
He had left for town that day, but
before he set out he had asked Kate to
be his wife.
That had been the end of the idyll.
On coming back to town he had told his
brother about Kate, her beauty, her
talent. His brother told him of Kate’s
father —his roguery, his convictions for
sly-grog selling and assault. The name
was a byword.
Commonsense had pointed out that no
amount of brilliance could ever sweeten
the bad odor of such an alliance.
Kate had written to him, a wild letter.
She thought he must be ill again ; begged
him to send her some sign. He had not
answered it.
For fifteen years he had heard nothing
of her, and then Fate suddenly lifted
the veil of silence and he had looked
upon the battered face of Catherine
Neilson.
Now a strange thing happens to John
Tempest. He is back once more in that
country hotel. It is the day of his return
to town. Kate moves about, a dream in
her eyes and a song on her lips. Two
days pass, four days ; the song has died
and her eyes have begun to look fright-
ened.
He sees her creep into the orchard,
sees her lying there shaken with sobs.
He knows she thinks he is ill. He sees
her praying for him with a force that
leaves her a spent and quivering thing.
He leans across her shoulder as she
writes that heart-broken, tear-blotted
letter. He sees her watching day by day
for the answer that never came. Ambi-
tion is gone; one cannot sing with a
gaping wound in one’s heart.
He can hear the blood oozing drop by
drop from that wound during the long
sleepless nights. He sees the gradual
weakening of her will. He sees her drug-
ging herself to forgetfulness with the
raw poison her father sells for whisky.
Gradually she loses hold on everything
that counts, and finally Fate spins her
final strand of her tragic web when Kate
Connelly becomes Neilson’s wife.
The room is thick with the shadowy
forms. They press against John Tem-
pest. One smiles close to his face, and
then he finds himself staring horror-
stricken at a crushed temple. With a
shaking hand he tries to brush it away ;
but the hand he raises is spattered with
blood.
“God! ” he moaned; “the killing of
Catherine Neilson is a matter o : no
moment, but the man who killed Kate
Connelly is the murderer. And I killed
her.”
He swayed on his feet. His heart
was surging, dropping a beat, surging
again. The doctor had warned him.
“I am guilty, as guilty as hell!” And
he fell forward dead across the’ table.
Sheathe Your Sharp Talons.
Sheathe your sharp talons, Sleep!
Tear me with dreams no more.
Now when I toss in my bed, desiring the day,
Those demons, your eyes, flicker yellow and
green till they play
Murderous games with my senses. Your
sinuous grace
Is a menace beside me, I feel your breath on
my face
As your soft paws ripple with steel. You purr,
you gloat
And savagely tear at shoulder and thigh and
white throat.
Why must I wake and weep?
Let it be as it was before.
In the olden days you were furry and warm
at my side;
I would go to my bed and nestle beside you
and glide
Imperceptibly into oblivion; silky to stroke
You were, a sensuous joy in the darkness. Last
night I awoke
And my flesh was bleeding. Lithe in the mid-
night, and king
Of the jungle of night, you triumphed, a
tigerish thing.
Sheathe your sharp talons, Sleep!
Tear me with dreams no more.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
The Hang-See-Loo.
’Twas in the May time of the years
When tall ships trpd the sea
With cargoes full of wine or wool,
Or tallow, teak or tea,
And near or far ’neath sun or star
Sail, only sail, would be.
Few steamers wrote their inky lines
Across sea-pages blue
When, bound away for green Cathay
With captain, cook and crew,
She took the tide by Plymouth side,
The clipper Hang-See-Loo.
Now say farewell to Poll and Nell,
And bid good-bye to Dinah;
And wear away and bear away.
All outward bound for China !
’Twas in the heyday of the years
When ships, still brave and fine,
On sweet lines built, from sharp bows spilt
The fresh, cascading brine,
As swept and swayed the great sails laid
On swinging yards of pine.
I met him as I marked the time,
From Pyrmont to the ’Loo,
Of British, Dutch and Swedes and such
As wharfside labor knew—
A grey old mate who mourned her fate,
The long-lost Hang-See-Loo.
She made the Cape, and past the Strait
Of steamy Singapore
Their luck held well; then, hatched in hell,
A typhoon struck them sore.
From stern to stem it battered them
Eight awful hours and more.
The Old Man carried on too long—
They raced for cargoes then.
With roar and rent all-standing went,
And, in the storm’s lull, when
They gained a breath, they found swift death
Had claimed a dozen men.
A doomed, dismasted hulk she rolled,
A leaking, lurching log;
A total wreck, and on the deck,
In tragic epilogue,
Her master mad, a ’prentice lad,
Ten daft hands —and the dog!
They left her at the second sun
In hopes to make Siam,
With junk unclean and but between
Their throats and thirst a dram;
And as they slept or cursed or wept.
The sharks beside them swam.
Her master —out of Hartlepool—
Was one among the best;
But, daft and dazed, come noon he raised
His arms above his breast,
And leaping wide found overside
Forgetfulness and rest.
Their foul provision failed them soon —
They kept nor watch nor log;
With burning days, chill nights their ways
Of misery to flog,
And then at length, with failing strength,
Sore-driven, killed the dog.
The poor ship’s pet, who licked the hand
That stabbed it in despair!
Still red that hand when “Land, land, land!
Sobbed out the steersman spare.
In Bin-Kang Bay that night they lay
With plenty ev’rywhere.
’Twas in the heyday of the years,
This yarn I’ve spun to you,
Was told to me by Sydney Quay
Between a drink or two
By that grey mate who mourned her fate,
The luckless Hang-See-Loo.
Now they who sailed in ships forebye
When seas were wide and wild,
Beneath their tough hides oft enough
In gentle hearts and mild
Nursed soft regard for messmates hard,
Or woman, dog, or child.
So toll the bell for Poll and Nell,
For skipper, dog and Dinah,
And bid adieu the Hang-See-Loo,
Still outward bound for China.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


m
m
Y\V
N y-w
At your request vie
shall be pleased to
forward illustrated
folder No. 25.
J A\/A
SINGAPORE
Peopled by a picturesque race,
highly cultured, gifted in dancing,
music and art —these Eastern won-
derlands of colour and exotic charm
call irresistibly.
Care in choosing your ship and
route will add to the joys of this
holiday trip. The t.s.s. “MARELLA”
sails regularly from Australian ports
by way of the Great Barrier Reef,
Thursday Is.; Darwin, Sourabaya,
Samarang and Batavia to Singapore.
Comfort, service and cuisine are ex-
cellent.
The whole tour need only occupy
seven weeks, and fares are free of
exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST. - SYDNEY
TELEPHONE - B 7 9 O I
312 Collins St., Melbourne; 128 Adelaide St., Brisbane; and at Adelaide, Townsville, etc.
HOWARD HOTEL
NORFOLK 3T.
STRAND
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
in the centre of London, close to all Theatres. Cable: “Howdotel,” London.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
LONDON
star
reap** °f 3 nark T a *
9 Thave b% their S PPer spe r \
i vbtcb tn orw n &‘ Or»»«-
vfluil-**"W,S}*»-
fef Watson s »
R-
e Kiwi Black and Tan Polish will make a good
• shoe last . . . and give a good shine to boot.
• It preserves and waterproofs the leather.
"BLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
FHE EXAMINER,
The Newspaper of Northern
NOW
IN ITS
92nd YEAR.
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Sir Josh and Lady.
BY M. FORREST.
££ A NGELICA,” said Miss Vickery,
“you must not forget to ring up
the wireless station and ask them
to broadcast my birthday call and men-
tion that Sir Joshua and Lady Robinson
will be among the guests.”
“I wouldn’t forget it for the world,
Miss Vickery.”
Angelica was an immigrant and a
Roman Catholic; she believed in giving
honor where honor was due. She had
already told the general at the Harro-
ways’ next door about the coming party
and the distinguished guests.
Miss Vickery—Monica to her intimates
—had always had a strong social sense.
She had once shaken hands with a Gov-
ernor, and she spelt society with a capital
“S.”
When she was a schoolgirl she had
taken her mother to task for not calling at
a certain house in the little country town
where they lived. When her harassed
parent, the meek widow of a man who
had been in trade, explained that she
hadn’t been asked, Monica Vickery re-
plied “But you should call, because it is a
good house to be seen coming out of.”
The first part of the paper to attract
Monica’s eyes was always the social
columns. She would say across the morn-
ing bacon to her mother: “Clarice Mor-
ton is in town, and the Byth-Parkinsons
are taking a house at the seaside for the
summer.” Monica’s rude brother Wil-
liam, down from the bush, was apt to
laugh loudly and mimic his sister ; but
fortunately William —really Bill by
nature —seldom came to town.
The last time William had come to
town was to go to his mother’s funeral.
Monica’s grief had been tempered by
the fact that the Byth-Parkinsons sent
flowers. She had met them at a charity
bazaar, and Gerald Byth-Parkinson, who
was open-handed and a good fellow, had
said to his sister as he cut a cigar, “Send
along a wreath—she wasn’t a bad old
girl, though I can’t stand the prancing
daughter.”
At forty Monica didn’t prance much,
but she had a permanent wave (the stiff
sort), and creams and cosmetics prevented
her looking her age. In sending out in-
vitations to her birthday party, she, of
course, had not mentioned what it was.
She invited the Byth-Parkinsons, not be-
cause she believed for even a most opti-
mistic moment that they would come, but
because it would look well in the society
columns.
But the halo surrounding the name of
Byth-Parkinson was dimmed when Miss
Vickery found she could capture a real
baronet and his lady for her party.
Emmie Smyth had met them on the
steamer coming from a trip to the
Barrier Reef. They would only be in
the northern town for a day or two, but
Lady Joshua Robinson would like to see
a little social life, and Emmie did not
know anyone worthier to give them a
glimpse of it than Miss Vickery. A kind
soul was Emmie; besides, she owed
Monica a little money.
“I wonder how many people hear the
wireless at night,” said Monica thought-
fully, giving a finishing touch to the pink
birthday cake on the night of the party.
“Hundreds of thousands I should be
after saying, Miss Vickery,” said Angelica.
“Well, something near that when you
take the stations out west, the steamers in
the bay and on the sea —even to the
Solomon Islands,” Miss Vickery observed
hopefully. She wondered if William, in
one of his peculiarly Bill-ish moods,
would be listening-in in his far-away
homestead, or at the bush pub. More
like Bill, that.
Miss Vickery was in pink and blue.
She called it a Pompadour mixture. Her
permanent wave was more brassy and
corrugated than ever. She had considered
having her nails enamelled, but decided
that she would wait until she had a
chance of seeing how the Governor’s
daughter wore them. She had looked up
the last newspaper picture of the
Duchess of York, but as it wasn’t colored
one couldn’t tell.
There was a reason for the birthday
party which even Emmie didn’t know.
It had been one of the major causes of
Miss Vickery’s joy at the knowledge that
Sir Joshua and Lady Robinson would be
present.
At a tennis club to which she belonged
for the sake of the social prestige—she
disliked games —Miss Vickery had met
an Englishman. He had few brains and
not much of a chin, and he liked to talk
about himself; but Miss Vickery could
always listen when blue blood talked.
She had hopes, dreams! He was coming
to her party.
In fact, he was one of the first arrivals.
He had mistaken the hour on the invita-
tion card, which he had lost; he nearly
committed the faux pas of coming to tea
—to-night a scrambling meal on a tray
in Miss Vickery’s room.
“Sir Joshua and Lady Robinson are
sure to be a little late,” she explained to
him several times.
Percy Rambler didn’t care; he had
found Bill’s collection of native weapons
behind the sofa. In between telling
Monica “that’s the kind of chap / am”
he was really interested in examining
them.
Emmie Smyth, and two or three young
girls who giggled, and young men from
the tennis club, and an old family friend
who had to be occasionally suppressed
were all gathered together before Sir
Joshua and Lady Robinson rang the bell.
As they arrived the wireless was an-
nouncing in thunderous tones that they
were to be present at Miss Vickery’s
birthday party. It was a little embar-
rassing, and Monica signalled to Angelica,
whose cap had become slightly crooked
in the excitement, to turn it off.
Sir Joshua and Lady Robinson had
come in walking clothes —that was the
first shock their hostess received. They
were both very short, red-faced and
stout. A ribald youth whispered to a
giggling girl “What’s the price of prize
pork to-day?” She nudged him in the
ribs and besought him to “behave like
a genelman if you know how.”
Sir Joshua had been a Lancashire mill-
hand in his youth ; so had his wife. His
was a war-work decoration; it went
barely skin-deep. They felt themselves —
quite mistakenly—in a homely atmo-
sphere. They relaxed.
Lady Robinson asked Miss Vickery
whether she might take off the coat of her
coat-and-skirt costume. The good lady
sat in her creased chiffon blouse with the
half sleeves showing her sturdy red
arms. Presently, feeling more and more at
home, she slipped off her tight walking
shoes and tucked her feet under her
tweed skirt, explaining, in a loud aside
to Emmie, that she “ ’ad a bunion.”
Emmie had made the initial mistake of
telling the distinguished guests that they
could make themselves as free and easy
as they liked at Monica’s. It fitted in
with their preconceived notion that there
was “no side about the Awstralians.”
Lady Robinson had added to her coat
and skirt a large string of pink artificial
pearls.
They were really frank and simple folk,
but Miss Vickery didn’t want that.
She was wondering what Mr. Rambler
could possibly think of them—synthetic
pearls with a coat and skirt for an even-
ing party!
It was a summer night, and it became
very hot in the overcrowded, over-fur-
nished suburban drawing-room. By
supper-time Sir Josh —no one could call
him Sir Joshua —had taken off his collar
and unbuttoned his waistcoat. He ex-
plained that it would give his dinner a
better chance. Dinner!
Miss Vickery had provided caviare
sandwiches and cocktails, to be followed
by champagne cup and whisky for the
men. She had read somewhere that titled
Englishmen liked whisky and soda.
Sir Josh certainly liked it. He applied
himself energetically to the bottle, and
became more boisterous with every glass.
He chucked Monica under the chin;
he sat with his arm round Emmie, and
invited his “old Dutch” to look. She
pretended to be jealous and shook
with laughter; then she lost one of her
shoes and had to hop across on one foot
to the supper table.
Sir Josh enjoyed that. So did the rest
of the company, Monica excepted. Even
the monocled Percy Rambler seemed to
enter into the spirit of the fun.
But the Harroways came out on their
side verandah and said bitter things about
“noise” and “disorderly behavior.” They
hadn’t been invited to the party.
What was Percy Rambler really think-
ing? Those aristocrats had a way of
concealing their feelings. Monica remem-
bered in stories of the French Revolution
how they went to the guillotine with a
smile and taking snuff. That blonde,
chinless face might be merely a mask
hiding a tragic disillusionment.
The party became uproarious. The
wireless —Sir Josh had switched it on
himself —was screaming “Shuffle Off to
(i Continued, on next page.)


C. BRANDAUER & Co.'s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS,
ď
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; 1L J. Ryan,
F E. Loxton, Esq., Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G,
GeneraL mlnager-M. G. HAYMEN
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, andl W
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers N S. Wales, abo
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
Last Sailings
under reduced
rates:
February 1 ,
February 15.
o
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
• •
# •
/ /
» •
» •
• *
• •
Sydney
?■
via
New Zealand
and the
Lovely South Sea Islands
Specially
Reduced
Fares
First Class Return £99
Cabin „ „ £7O
No Exchange Charges
Usual Fares £125-10 and £B7 respectively
Reductions apply to December, January
and February sailings only
INES
AND
Full details from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
59 WILLIAM STREET.
MELBOURNE
If any illustration in “THE BULLEI IN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Plum Razor Guard
f
d
ďfd
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARJL>, easily adjusted, tits Sin., fin. and iin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
Uhe PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle ..... 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widtM
—tin. and Jin.
a# oh nr ere.
Each razor
et ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of cnarg
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Only Morning Newspaper in
Queensland’s Capital City,
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt ST., ’Phone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, Newspaper House,
Collins St. ’Phone F 3906.
•bureau op-
CIRCULATION!
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
*A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bdlietin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—-Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
Buffalo” ; the carpet was up; they were
dancing.
Caustic remarks from the neighbors’
side verandah became more audible.
Something was said about “police.” What
if, instead of a nice piece in the social
columns, there should be a few damning
lines in another part of the paper? She
had only Emmie’s word for it that the
man was really a baronet.
It was one o’clock when they dis-
persed. Sir Josh insisted on cakewalking
down the road. Scandalised inhabitants
gathered to take notes A voice was
heard saying the old bloke sas full as a
little egg.”
Percy Rambler lingered, smoking a
last cigarette on the doorstep The light
from the hall streamed on his hostess s
Pmk and blue frock and brassy hair, the
wave less disturbed than her feelings
He wondered again whether she had
money. His constricted mmd was com-
fortably lazy ; he had shared the last of
the whisky with Sir Josh.
He looked hard at Miss Vickery s im-
mobile permanent wave. He thought
she looked terribly washed-out in the
strong light.
“Leavin’ for Sydney day after t’-mor-
row,” he said thickly. “Don’t expec’ to
come back. Glad t’ have met you, an’
all that, what? Cap’tal party.”
Leaving for Sydney! Monica was too
dazed to renlv -
“Goo’ old pot that,” he went on,
pointing uncertainly in the direction the
departing guests had taken.
“Oh! ” said Monica. A tear crept
down her powdered cheek. “Oh!”
She wanted to weep. She had had
champagne cup, but her ambitious heart
felt broken Her select party!
“Amongst those present are Sir Joshua
and Lady Robinson, who are touring
Australia.” How many hundreds of
thousands of people listened-in to the
wireless?
Muttering a hasty “Goo’-night, thanks
ever so much—awf’lly jolly,” Percy
Rambler, his monocle swinging, departed,
jje had decided against the permanency
c f her wave in his life,
Miss vicker y went back into the silent
house
She heard the Harroways emphatically
, God they could go to bed at
“ k | h e looked at the remnants of
. birthday cak e. Life seemed like
P Thank goodness none of those hun-
f tbo * sands G f listeners-in could
possibly seen Sir Josh! They
£ nl k * now of him as Sir Joshua
Robinson ' nd h i s lady who had honored
b er birthday party .
to foC us on the corn-
. f for the social
P<f ”S ° £ that P ara « raph tor me soclal
co | t u . ml ! s : , . . .
A birthday party was given at he
residence on Tuesday night by Miss
Monica Vickery. The guests included
N° ! “Among the invited guests were
that would bring in the names of halt
the people who had refused invitations.
They couldn’t object; as Hilda Byth-
Parkinson said they had no remedy
anyone can invite you.
Social hope rose again from the ashes
of humiliation.
Drowseville Idyll.
BY LES ROBINSON.
DROWSEVILLE is not the real name
of this particular outback town, but
it is far more suitable than the
meaningless half-aboriginal, half-Irish
one you search for in the railway time-
table when you, want to go there.
The baker’s horse limps slightly. The
baker says he doesn’t mind. Does he
mean that he doesn’t mind or that the
horse doesn’t ? It might be injudicious
to ask him —the baker, not the horse. The
baker is a large man and rather bad-
tempered.
The butcher has a habit of slaughtering
dogs. When their owners complain he
tells them more forcibly than politely
that it was because he caught the dogs
worrying some sheep he is trying to
fatten in the back garden. What be-
comes of the dogs after he has slaugh-
tered them ? He raffled what he, said
was a dingo-skin rug a few months ago.
But no one has ever seen him burying
anything.
When I complained about the thin-
ness of the milk, the dairyman said it
was caused by the cows getting down to
the crick and eating watercrease. The
council, according to him, won’t give
the unemployed the job of clearing it
out. The Mayor is a vegetarian.
Blackberry has been declared a
noxious weed in this district. To the
lively concern of the youth of Drowse-
ville, who make a few shillings every
year by gathering the berries and selling
them to city motorists (a frugal lot,
who invariably beat them down to half
the price first asked), council employees
are at work in the blackberry forests.
They are spraying the vines, slashing them
with cavalry sabres and tearing them out
with the various other weapons at their
disposal. Will the berries be declared
noxious, too? I am assured by expert
adult pickers that when, a few months
hence, the slashed, mangled and chemi-
cally-blasted vines grow up again the
fruit will be bigger and better than ever.
A mob of unemployed is at work clear-
ing weeds off a large vacant block of no-
man’s land. The council doesn’t intend
to do anything with the block when it
is cleared. The unemployed don’t in-
tend to do anything with it either.
Covered with weeds it was less of an
eyesore than it will be when cleared. It
provided rabbits and bandicoots with a
good lurking-place, and, as both are
trapped and devoured by residents who
can’t afford much butcher’s meat, every-
body is wondering, especially the weed-
severers themselves, why some other
potentially useful area was not allowed
them instead.
They are not, however, damaging the
verdure irretrievably. They know just
how to sever weeds so that in a very
short time they will all grow up again
thicker and more rankly than ever, thus
providing the severers with several more
weeks of gentle and unhurried, if only
slightly rewarded, exercise.
The noise I heard while strolling down
Drone-street yesterday came, I have
now ascertained, from the lock-up. The
lock-up is a slab and galvanised-iron shed,
fastened with a massive, rusty and pre-
historic-looking padlock and chain, in
the backyard of Sergeant Phutkin’s cot-
tage. The sergeant lost the key somehow
and the prisoner hadn’t had anything to
eat for a couple of days.
His Second Self.
I have a friend who is two in one:
He tends a ledger in office hours,
But gives his mind, when his work is done,
To thoughts of winds and of waves and
flowers.
Hour after hour in the selfsame way,
With heart and mind on his labors set,
He meets the cares of the busy day
With no rebellion and no regret.
To what fate orders, to what must be—
Since he must labor if he would live —
In calm submission he bends his knee,
And gives the best that he has to give.
But, patient ever, the while he works,
Through summer’s ardor and winter’s chill,
A second self at his elbow lurks
Till he be ready to do its will.
A ray creeps on o’er his dusty floor,
A gold gleam telling of spaces large;
And then, as he steps from his office door,
His second self with a leap takes charge.
With feet that swing in a rhythmic tread,
As though he moved to a marching tune,
And eyes new-kindled and lifted head
He speeds through the late, gold afternoon.
He bares his brows to the cooling breeze,
And smiles a greeting on those he meets;
He hears the voice of the rolling seas,
And takes his way from the crowded streets
Thereafter, free of/the thorns and briars
That hedged him in for so long a time,
He gives fair field to his fond desires,
And soars, free-winged, to a realm sublime.
His thoughts go winging through spaces wide;
No longer trammelled by toil and town,
He hearkens the wind and notes the tide,
And watches the red sun sinking down.
For him, alone on the sounding shore,
The breakers break on the sands, pearl-white,
The sunset reddens, and evermore
The moments shine with some new delight.
With white gulls winging through purple skies
He speeds, exalted, o’er reefs and dunes;
With black swans under the stars he hies
To distant rivers and lone lagoons.
He watches the loom of some far-off cape
Grow dim and dimmer and slowly die,
And sees it again take ghostly shape—
Drawn back from night by a moon on high.
He walks unlettered on shining trails;
His soul, enlarged from its prison bars,
All wonder welcomes, all beauty hails,
And drinks the light of the midnight stars.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


Bring The Voice of Europe
DIRECT TO YOUR HOME!
New two-valve short-wave receiver
revolutionises oversea reception!
• This efficient little receiver is suitable for city or
country homes.
® It can he used with either batteries or alternating-
current power supply.
• The receiver will operate with equal efficiency for
International Broadcast reception and from Ex-
perimental Transmitters.
® London, Paris, Berlin, Moscow and Amsterdam
are only a few of the centres which can be directly
raised.
• No blaring loudspeaker—comfortable and sensitive
earphones give perfect reception at all hours of the
night.
• This “Wide-World” two-valve short -wave receiver
was specially designed for Australian conditions
by Mr. Don B. Knock, Technical Editor of “Aus-
tralian Radio News.”
Read page 41 of the January 26 issue of “AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS” and learn how you can cheaply and
easily instal this wonderful Short-wave Set.
Remember— page 41 of the January 26 issue of “AUS-
TRALIAN RADIO NEWS.” If you cannot obtain a copy
from your local newsagent, then send 3d. in stamps to
“THE BULLETIN,” 252 George Street, Sydney, and a copy
of the magazine will be sent you direct.
“THE BOUGH MAN”
By Robert Desmond Tate.
The Literary Sensation of the Year.
I his is the Author’s brilliant first novel; it is the first of its kind among our
novelists. It translates, in terms of the sharpest realism, an aspect of life in the raw
—in the sweat and steam, the stealth and sinister dealings that may form the
atmosphere of industrial workers. It shows the reaction of a girl of clean character
and a man who, in other circumstances, might have been an inspiration to men.
The Press Gave Unstinted Praise to “The Dougliman.”
“SYJONkv MORNING HERALD”:....“the most strikingly original Australian
novel to appear for a long time. Mr. Tate writes with vitality and conviction....
ms relentless realism shocks the more fastidious readers. The descriptive work
is uncommonly good.”
“THE BIILLBTIN”:.... "the novel is a bold, dramatic conception, working up to
a spectacular climax a novel with the stuff of life in it.”
“THE TELEGRAPH” (Sydney): “the most distinctive piece of writing
evolved in Australia for many a long day....lt contains one of the most magnificent
portraits of a nagging wife....l don't remember anything so good in any book
....such a book as this would be a sure liook-of-the-Month in England.”
“THE DOUGHMAN,”
By Robert Desmond Tate.
An Endeavour Press Publication 6/- net (Postage 3d.)
Obtainable from All Booksellers and Newsagents, or Direct from All “ Bulletin” Offices.
d
G°'V^
5*
j**2r **>4T \
N.'*
*• <?»v
(C
A\ e
*
0°
.0^
a')
■g o,' 0 ,'
W 4
6 0^> 6, .
tf*-’
C*V^
'> V V
#*•


i\%S£
'.f f
W.
it
i
n
V
*M
X >!
mx;
■k
vj
M
4, '/i
&
$Pw
4f$#>
S&
**
M
m
m,
*<
•„/ 1 a#1
•J;
i&'*,
£$
IS
d
v - .-.'<»y
*t.<'. •*,*?-£
iv?
X-
iS
f$r
<r>
;■£& w ;•:
%
V^STTfi
»■*?>** '*K?ri"’i. .* '■'•;*
• .’
i-.v v-'*:,
,.; mv‘.: •‘•,-
T’' - ’-'i .
ix _*i?
• m
<♦<*» i
'V-?.;••*■ - 1
I
‘••Si
% 1
* /*
,;• c*
V. • *■ f
[I.*';.y-V^VVJ
S; X'l&S
«»?
, •^'T-
f< <£
2*T-
■4
m wm'
■ a
.... w&k
xY :'•*<: ? * jj{;• *% SA.vf* ,L
if *
25
* ;l£
**g
v. ■; w
Ph!
■_ :M V
P
>>2n, :
;!
jdpsiv;
m
■■;>:,•'5-
#«
S'JKflsiK MwWBM?-: Jfc
(i i
vmHewwVa -.Jv-.
o'V
k-'V:
• •..,v4«y..; v 4fyf .. •' ... .v,- — ■ ; :M; •-• wj
vs
t/
s~>**-lruV- ■}.'
:*?**<!* Sr&iViJ}; j:
.' , V I
W v ' V,T4
r«
Pil
.:»*.v}A»i ,
- 1 fi*S ■’?/ -&M
r ■ ••
t ifc» *■ \, •■0
rilo
M
SwaiJm? x. 7x1oggJrfr"fi'ft{iiii«r ’
v*iSPs^3£,"i^’V 1 jtfftbx* ' ' . ‘ \* .' '.'•* .
ix w*Wj»'iir'7'’a'ViWlil '•■•'• •V»'-;1t-- '••i'i-
R *i% K
4
' • ,;^P: ; •
f>v :
i > . . •?
if. ’>
;.v 5 .? •••^vK&x ; . ■.:’•>•*(
.. ..... . ... .;f^A*«if;.
1 *A?
LiiA^V*V'»
*/
~^mmv
*.•
;Vs
.va^krASig
S
pap
• lb. •%*.. ; VaW . . J/*t T ' y7
hJV . X. A A.'/ ' .•*•“’WBl
;Xlf
m.
!'»'-- ‘.^v••'
W-sBIsSf
'WiSMP''2
r-^
i*A*:
r »
... aA-M
.-tessiSiPikti,.,. .vc^mTS
*r-
ivl’Y
Mi
,s l y
r *
ssa»
i|»r
iiM.
it"
7*L'»■**>«,!
WHATEVER THE ROAD.
.... be it red dust or wood
blocks we tread along the
highroad of life, Tooheys
Pilsener will smooth the bumps
and give joy to our journey.
A delightful light lager that
sponsors radiant health and
mental alertness.
i A
w
rpOHEYS
'■y
TOOHEYS
PILSENER
IN THE BOTTLE WITH
THE YELLOW LABEL
ABSQLUT ELY PURE NO PRESERVATIVES WHATEVER /
