

m
ass
mm
&
■
m
m
m
m
■ 1
•m
/
'
Plli
M ■
: \ Jlr-
W'J
a
.l/.K I
VIRGINI/m
CIGARETm
r
r milts II
CIGARETTES
e on
UJR-fIPP-ED BRAND of
IO /or 6. Ciflfvit'tbts..
Cigarettes definitely need protective wrapping
to keep them fresh and pure. Climatic changes,
and the odour of cardboard and printed surfaces, very
quickly affect the quality of the tobacco.
B.D.V. “Everfresh” wrapping is climate-proof. It
guarantees that the pure imported Virginia tobacco
which is used exclusively in manufacture reaches you
—wherever or whenever you buy B.D.V’s—in the same
perfect condition as when it left the factory.
lOG-2QI-
Guaranteed made SOLELY from 100% imported
Virginia Tobacco.
CORK TIPS OR PLAIN
The Bulletin
t/rv ckaaMi^&lckmjcl
Vol. 55.—N0. 2820.
Wednesday, February 28, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o UR New Library Catalogue is now
ready! and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
itm
>iijk
This Book FREE to YOU!
* ..... SEND THIS COUPON! *
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advei'tised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Kame .
My Address
S.B, 334 ...
(irticui-4
m . Soap
V Ointment
Talcum Powder
rin
UR
,We
ream anoujeaUi
TO YOUR SKIN
k
Daily use of this jmre, medi-
cated Soap, containing emol-
lient and cleansing properties,
protects, as well as cleanses,
the skin. The Ointment
quickly relieves and heals any
rash or pimple that may ap-
pear. The Talcum over-
comes excessive perspiration
and adds a finishing touch to
the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum ls.3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age’’ has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
l VuiXwie * Science,
*s6oz£ Sicxi&j, Stdie,
?Sc*&esn 7Urts4, rtijeeS f*%
■CAe. v&rusrip
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
N— -m- >*<r
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test "THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Cbc Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
Cbc mercury
(TASMANIA'S NATIONAL DAILY)
is ths first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
"The Mercury" is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulas adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address • “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L, Wilson, Lisgar
House, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 15 W 5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and a
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
agree
X
i
;
V
That the Soundest State
is
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity -and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGPADH
L BJWBANEf LEADING HOME NEWiPAPER -
£>/<* 5 C*
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Ancient and Modernist
Tne sexual behavior of human beings
seems to be much the same in every age.
Yet the lapse of a very few years may
disclose surprising differences in the atti-
tude of the articulate races towards sex.
One of the characters in Eric Linklater’s
Magnus Merriman (Cape ; Dymock’s ;
7s. 6d.) quotes an aphorism of Lord
Acton, who was Regius Professor of
Modern History at Cambridge at the
end of Queen Victoria’s reign: “Happily
for society the supposition that women
possess sexual feelings can be dismissed
as a vile aspersion,” By the time the
World War arrived the English had
begun to doubt this, but most of their
successful novelists were still assuming
that if good women were not frigid they
ought to be.
Gilbert Frankau is a throwback in this
respect; he writes best-sellers whose
heroines sin with difficulty, and, however
low they may fall, retain a Victorian
reticence of speech. He is an oddity
in another respect; he still thinks of
soldiers in terms of the war years. His
nqw novel, Everywoman (Hutchinson;
Efymock’s ; 7s. 6d.), will cause hoots of
derision among the Bright Young People
who are catered for so efficiently by Mr.
Linklater.
This witty writer belongs to a school
whose principal inspirations are dis-
illusionment and scatology. He revels
in unlovely words, dragging them in as
schoolboys drag in their private slang.
The initiates will understand and the
others don’t matter. He regards the
world and its incurable rottenness with
a twisted grin of despair. Like Frankau,
he served in the war, but he isn’t proud
of it; his soldiers are morons. If his
women aren’t plain they are promiscu-
ous, and if they aren’t stupid they are
facetious about their promiscuities. Life
offers nothing better than whisky and
idleness to one who won’t fight the world
with the only weapons that count —vil-
lainy and cant.
“Story of Me Life”
Olivia, Mr. Frankau’s latest heroine,
is one of those tiresome women who
won’t go straight and can’t stop moaning
about it. Married at 20 in pre-war days
to Sir James Alistair (an elderly baronet
with a mansion in Carlton House Ter-
race and a castle in Scotland) she suffers
a rude awakening, for she has not been
taught the Facts of Life. And now she
meets Richard Darnborough (“eyes the
real Saxon blue, the broad forehead of
the intellectual, the broad shoulders of
the athlete, but a shallow dimple belying
the strength of his big chin”), and sees
him play polo. They fall in love, but
keep their yearnings to themselves. He
is engaged.
“You wrong me if you imagine that I don’t
care for the young lady I am going to marry.
I do, ana sincerely. What is more, I have
a tremendous respect for her. And with me
to respect a woman, to care for her character,
is the nearest thing to loving her,”
She has the lacerating experience of
seeing him married. Then she leaves
James (“Marriage without love,” she
sobs to her mother, “is just—just beastli-
ness”), and starts on the downward path
with one Garfield Lanchester, an Ameri-
can.
“I was so tempted to give myself to Gar-
field—and not only because of the money but
because of the yacht. I used to dream about
being on that yacht, and sailing over the
tropic seas to Richard. Even if it were only
to see Richard”....
After Garfield’s death she takes up
with Charlie Strohmenger, of New York ;
with a “man on Wall-street”; with
Hervey (“just a ‘pretty boy,’ rather tall,
with crinkly gold hair; he reminded me
of Richard”) and so on. She never ceases
to worship Richard, and they come to-
gether again after she has passed through
many tribulations.
She tells her lamentable story in a con-
vent. The only material difference
between it and the life-stories which sin-
ful females are continually telling in bars
all over the world
is that her words
are carefully
chosen and her
grammar is
sound. She is also
sorry for her mis-
deeds, whereas the others often take a
vinous pride in theirs.
Among the Exhibitionists
Magnus Merriman and his friends
are clamantly post-war; they disdain
masks and alibis. The plainer the
language, the less restrained the con-
duct, the more they approve. They don’t
believe in the Creator, who is invoked so
busily by Olivia, or, indeed, in anybody
or anything but the wisdom of getting as
much out of the dismal swindle Life as
possible ; and sentiment makes them sick.
That there may be something wrong with
their philosophy is suggested by the fact
that they get little but miseries and humi-
liations out of life.
Magnus is a brilliant failure. He goes
after a decoration during the war and
nearly gets cashiered ; is appointed to a
lectureship at the United Churches Col-
lege, Bombay, and is sacked when the
president discovers some bawdy verses
he has written. Then he writes a best-
seller, and sets out to enjoy himself. He
has no intention of getting married, and,
though he lives with Margaret —an idol
of his youth, and now an attractive
widow—Frieda, an alluring American,
and others, he evades their efforts to trap
him. In the end he is landed on the
oldest of lines by an illiterate little Scot-
tish shrew. He settles down with her
and the bottle on a small farm in the
Orkneys.
Mr. Linklater has no great gift for tell-
ing a story. On the other hand, he has
a wonderful eye for debased types, and
a sensitive ear for dialect and dialogue.
In the brasserie of the Cafe Royal he
brings together Magnus; the two dis-
carded mistresses, Margaret and Frieda ;
a supercilious Guards officer who is sup-
porting Frieda, and a presswoman. All
are of different classes, and none is out
of stock, as most of Mr. Frankau’s char-
acters are; they come sharply before
the reader’s eye every time they open
their mouths. So do the Edinburgh sol-
diers. The Frankau soldier is a glorious
fellow; a successful city man who “was
G.5.0.l with our division at Wipers,”
the man the G.5.0.l “got a Military Cross
for in T 6.” Not so the warriors who
delight the ironical spirit of Mr. Link-
later.
Here in the lively squalor of a lousy tavern
were the comrades who had survived.... Here,
with foul shirts and fouler breaths, were Mars’s
heroes. Kings had fallen and nations perished,
armies had withered and cities been ruined,
for this and this alone: that poor men in
stinking pubs might have great wealth of
memory.
The scenes in Edinburgh are as sordidly
comic as any in “Juan in America’; but
perhaps the best parts of the book are
the subdued passages towards the end, in
which the wretched Magnus is shown
being slowly beaten to his knees. Only
two ethical actions are recorded of him.
He refuses to write against his political
convictions, and lojses his job on a Lon-
don newspaper ; and he marries the girl
he has seduced, and completes the ruin
of his life.
Though the book seethes and burns
with bitterness, there is a laugh on almost
every page. Some of the effects, though
neat, are obvious. Of Philadelphia, for
example : “A charming city whose cul-
tured urbanity was securely established
on a solid foundation of political cor-
ruption.” But most of the humor derives
from the author’s cosmopolitan know-
ledge of mankind, and he writes superbly
at times.
RED PAGE.
Through German Eyes
Professor Dibelius wrote his England
(Cape; 10s. 6d.) nearly 17 years ago,
though it has only recenfly been trans-
lated by Mrs. Mary Hamilton, M.P. No
better estimate of the British has been
done by a foreigner. Almost every aspect
of modern English life is examined :
politics, industry, the press, religion and
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Shop where ‘‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” protects you. “THE SENIOR STORE”
WOOL PRICES RISE BY LEAPS AND BOUNDS
%
m
A
JX
V
vs
itA
y
>£
'iM
&
£
“JUMBUK”
Registered
Trade Name.
The mighty “JUMBUK” symbolical
of Fleecy Warmth, Strength and
Endurance.
But ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SELL AT LAST YEAR’S LOW PRICES.
“JUMBUK
UNDERWEAR
It’s Australian through and through.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’. Made of selected long staple
Pure 'Woollen Yam. . . the soft clown-like surface of the fabric is flawless and will not irritate
the tenderest skin. “Jumbuk” provides the right protection against the ravages of winter and
its native warmth is a safeguard to health.
Although the price of wool has recently advanced by leaps and bounds, Anthony Horderns
will continue to sell the famous “Jumbuk” Underwear at last year s prices while present
stocks last.
“Jumbuk” Underwear is guaranteed unshrinkable, and the wide range of sizes stocked
enable every man to obtain a comfortable fit.
The Ideal Winter Wear FOR MEN
No. 220.—“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Light Weight.
“Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets, in Cream All Wool Sleeveless Style, bound braid round neck and
armhole. Sizes 34- to 44-inch chest. Price, each 4/1 1
“Jumbuk” Combinations, Natural All Wool. Winter Weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48
Short sleeves, long legs . 18/6 19/- 20/- 21/- 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6
Long sleeves, long legs 19/6 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/6 24/6 25/6 26/6
# Men's Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations
in N.SW.
e
Buy Fleecy “JUMBUK” UNDERWEAR for BOYS
No. 220. — “Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half Sleeves,
Light Weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Prices 3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/6 6/-
No. 330.—“Jumbuk” Boys’ Natural All Wool Underwear. Winter
Weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 6/- 7/- 7/9
Trunk Drawers 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 6/- 7/- 7/9
Combinations—Half sleeves 6/9 7/- 7/6 8/6 9/3 9/1 1
Long sleeves 7/3 7/6 8/- 9/- 9/9 10/6
No. 35.— “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves,
Light Weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Prices 3/3 3/6 3/9 4/- 4/3 /4/6 5/3
No. 25. — “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half Sleeves,
Winter Weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Prices . 3/6 3/9 4/- 4/6 4/9 5/3 6/-
# Boys’ Mercery—Second Floor. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401
SYDNEY
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


What else could Mr. Viner say but
“I’M CONVINCED!”
1
■■
<\V* r
<P
c$
&
&
m
MR. C. E. VINER
Viner Transport Company,
Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
Mr. B. N. EDWARDS,
Goodyear Representative,
demonstrating.
m
The dramatic test which
Mr. C. E. Viner witnessed in
Adelaide shows what road wear
does to the inside of a tyre —-
the part you can’t see.
Supertwist Cord, used only in
Goodyear Tyres, and the best
cord used in ordinary tyres weie
repeatedly stretched and relaxed
in the little machine.
The strain was terrific—just as
it is when your tyres are in use.
SNAP! The ordinary cord broke.
But the Goodyear Superiwist
Cord kept on stretching . . .
stretching ... up to 61 per cent,
more than its fagged-out com-
petitor.
You can SEE tread wear, but
you CAN’T see the inside body
wear. When the cords break,
the tyre goes out of service or
needs an expensive repair.
In Goodyear Truck and Bus
Tyres, underneath the famous
All-Weather Tread, there are
thousands of these extra-elastic,
shock-absorbing, long-life Super-
twist Cords. That is why Good-
year Tyres can better resist
Blowout and Shoulder Breaks ...
last longer —and also is why you
can expect to get more mileage
from Goodyear Truck and Bus
Tyres.
At the Lowest Prices in his-
tory, you can now buy Good-
year Truck and Bus Tyres of
positively the highest quality
ever offered in Australia.
TRUCK AND BUS TYRES
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA


LONDON
Its most modern hotel
GROSVENOR HOUSE
Park Lane
The best that hotel life offers is enjoyed at Grosvenor House.
Its situation is both central and charming. Theatres, shops,
places of historic interest all are at hand. London’s great
garden, Hyde Park, is just across the way.
Every bedroom has a private bathroom with shower and running
iced drinking water. Rooms are light and airy. Restaurant and
Tudor Grill where the choicest food in Town is served.
MODERATE RATES: From li guineas daily for a double room,
1 guinea for a single room, or 2 guineas for a suite.
Under the same roof are self-contained service flats, furnished
and unfurnished, for any period at attractive rentals.
r
'h
Hi
SB!
Hi
T4J
Hi
32
i? u --
m
m
tsi
Cables: Grovhows , Audley , London
GROSVENOR HOUSE • PARK LANE ■ LONDON
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
the universities, the schools, sport all pass
under the microscope.
Politics interest the British, he says,
because they are cast in the mould of a
fight. It is the possibility of great prizes
and the dangers of utter failure that have
attracted and still attract the essential
Englishman to politics.
He says of our own country:
“The Commonwealth” is a workman’s para-
dise without analogue elsewhere, whose darker
side is a universal drab uniformity that pre-
sents real obstacles to progress. There is a
dead level of average comfort, no proletariate,
no great wealth; a democratic population hos-
tile to any deviation from the mean, whose
interests are bounded, by the universal Anglo-
Saxon passion for sport, without a literature
or any other form of higher intellectual life;
a dull stagnation in the comfortable averag'e.
He insists on the essentially hostile
attitude of the Englishman to State con-
trol. It is let in by the back door ; in
Seeley’s classical phrase, admitted “in a
fit of absence of mind.” State authori-
ties “advise,” “suggest,” “provide facili-
ties”—they rarely compel. There is no
escaping the contrast with Australia.
What does it mean? Are we developing
a social attitude almost totally distinct
from Great Britain or has Dibelius
missed the mark? It is a provocative
question for our social thinkers. No one
can read this fascinating survey of the
growth of the English educational sys-
tem, springing almost entirely from
voluntary private effort, fathered by long-
visioned optimists and solitary enthu-
siasts, without being impressed with the
essentially different methods of this sub-
stantially British community. Nor is the
problem confined to the substance of
education. Dibelius finds the same
characteristics in criminal law and
religion.
Further contrast is provided by the
author’s insistence upon the essentially
aristocratic features of all English life,
political, industrial and social. Every-
where behind the facade of democratic
control he finds a dominating “few.”
This trend is the great cement of British
civilisation. Its significant feature, Dibe-
lius finds, is the capacity of aristocratic
sections to assimilate into themselves
their strongest critics and rivals. If the
public schools are harried as the hotbeds
of an aristocratic ideal, the remedy is
not to reform them, but to build other
schools which shall copy their very
character; to maintain the aristocracy,
but reduce its exclusiveness. It is the age-
old story of that curious social absorp-
tion which has given England a peerage
but never a nobility. Dibelius himself
does not fail to notice that the eldest son
of a peer is himself a commoner.
The most subtle of his examinations is
concerned with a description of the
ethical details of English civilisation in
a multitude of aspects. He sums this up
as the ideal of the gentleman, but he is
far from dazzled by the reflected bril-
liance of that term. He understands its
strength and its weakness. His descrip-
tion should help us to understand the
corresponding but distinguishable views
of France and Germany. So much of all
this British communities take for granted
that the mere examination and descrip-
tion serve an invaluable function. We
accept the idea of the gentleman so
readily that we forget he is not either an
eternal or unchallengeable type.
England was written as a war book,
because Dibelius would have his country-
men understand their foe. We are some-
times prone to monopolise the virtue of
generosity. That encyclopaedic professor
from Berlin drives home to us, by the
impartiality of his scholarship and the
vividness of his imagination, the unescap-
able fact that this is no British monopolv
at all.
P. D. P.
Where Cider Apples Grow
A memorial edition of the works of
Walter Raymond, the Somersetshire
author, who died three years ago at the
age of 79, has just been issued by Dent
and Son at ss. a volume. The first instal-
ment consists of a life of Raymond and
a review of his work by Evelyn Clark.
Then come “Gentleman Upcott’s Daugh-
ter” and “In the Smoke of War,” “Young
Sam and Sabina” and “Tryphena in
Love,” “Two Men o’ Mendip” and “The
Book of Simple Delights.”
The author’s father left him a glove
factory at Yeovil, which he abandoned
at 40 for a literary career. He was
steeped in Somersetshire traditions and
folklore ; his passionate love of the coun-
tryside is abundantly evident. He seems
to have been one of the most likeable
of men, and his books had a considerable
vogue outside of his own county. Never-
theless, some of the praise given him by
his enthusiastic admirers strikes one as
high-flown. A local prelate—the Bishop
of Bath and Wells —dubbed him “Somer-
set’s Hardy,” and there have been critics
who were ready to set him in the line of
J. M. Barrie.
He might more accurately be described
as a faithful disciple of Hardy in his
studies of rural life. The very best of his
work, as shown in “Gentleman Upcott’s
Daughter” and “Two Men o’ Mendip,”
is pleasantly reminiscent of Hardy, but
he was uneven and often disappointing.
He will have at the best a niche in the
temple where Hardy has a pedestal. With
that reservation, Somersetshire men, the
world over, will find him engrossing. The
Somerset he mostly deals with —though
he knew the county from end to end —
is that in and around the Mendips, not
the more glamorous Exmoor into which
Blackmore and Whyte-Melville have in-
fused so much romance. His tales rarely
have a modern setting, but the West-
countryman will find there words and
quaint turns of speech that he dimly re-
members in childhood, and has perhaps
never heard since.
Walter Raymond has an easy narrative
style, but one is not sure that he is not
at his best in his sketches, for he was a
keen and observant nature student, and
some of the charm of Richard Jeffries
is in his treatment of the moor and
woodland.
H.
Who Compiled the Recipe?
If the trend of Australian literary
thought is in the direction so luridly
described by “El Verdugo” (R.P.
31/1/’34) there would seem to be little
hope for our fiction. But isn’t it pos-
sible that some at least of the authors
whom he criticises suffered as much in the
writing as he did in the reading of their
works?
I suspect so, and the suspicion comes
to me as the fruit of twelve years’ writ-
ing in Australia —writing of things I
know (which don’t include sheep, cattle-
duffers or Barcoo rot), only to be told
with monotonous regularity that, while all
very nice and worthy and so on, my work
lacks an essential —“'‘Australian atmo-
sphere.”
It’s no good saying that Australian
atmosphere doesn’t necessarily mean an
atmosphere of Barcoo rot. If it means
anything subtler than that I do not see
how a native-born Australian who has
never been outside his own country can
fail to reproduce it in any sincere and
competent work he may produce. It is
the only atmosphere he knows.
I suggest that Australia’s literary need
is, not a supply of literary geniuses, but
more editors and publishers who will
say: “Give me stories about Australia,
Monte Carlo or Timbuctoo ; give me
long stories or short stories, cheery
stories, or stories of abysmal gloom ; give
me anything —so long as it is good!”
What most of them do say is: “This is
splendid—but much too long.” “This
is charming—but much too short.” “This
is magnififcent—but right off our track.”
“Very powerfully written—but our
readers don’t like gloom.”
I realise that from here we pass
straight to that fearsome problem The
Great General Public: What Does It
Want? I don’t know what it wants, and
I don’t greatly care. But I should like
“El Verdugo” to consider charitably for
one moment the position of a native-born
writer who is constantly urged to be Aus-
traliap. The writer is, not unnaturally,
bewildered, and says: “But I am Aus-
tralian ; what do they mean?”
The writer can only conclude that what
is expected of him is Barcoo rot.
E. D.
A Yiddish Classic
In Three Cities (Gollancz ; Dymock’s ;
Bs. 6d.), Sholem Asch reveals more
vileness than Felix Ossendowski even
hinted at in “Beasts, Gods and
Men,” and he reveals it with greater
power and skill. This celebrated wo'rk is
divided into three volumes of two books
each. They deal respectively with Peters-
burg just before the war, Warsaw on the
eve of the upheaval, and Moscow as the
final rallying-spot of the revolution. No
matter whether one is in a proletarian
kitchen, a Czarist’s boudoir, a manufac-
turer’s office, an advocate’s palatial
“chambers,” the Governor’s workroom,
the frightful slums of Warsaw, the snow-
clogged streets, the reception hall of the
Residence, the grim prisons, the
plundered mansions, on the roof of the
Opera House with the hidden machine-
guns, in the steel safe-deposit vaults,
where massacres take place daily, or in
the beleaguered Hotel Metropole in Mos-
cow, always and everywhere Sholem
Asch is stressing the century-long oppres-
sion of the Chosen People in the grip of
the anti-Semites of Eastern Europe.
Loud as the revolutionists shriek death
and defiance to the rulers and aristo-
crats of Russia, still more loudly and in-
sistently do we hear the wailings, the im-
precations, the supplications, and the
ferocious outcries of the ghettos and the
uprisen slums of Jewry. All through the
book the Old Faith shines out: “He,
watching over Israel, slumbers not nor
sleeps!” Whatever the turn of events,
it becomes inevitable that Jahweh is
working in His mysterious way to balance
the long/ account against Holy Russia.
Every true Hebrew in the book not only
believes it, but declares it.
The heroines are all Jewesses, or of
Jewish extraction, and their manners are
as unconventional as their morals. There
is not one really virtuous girl in the gal-
lery. Contrasted with the Russian aristo-
crats, officials, bourgeois and servitors
of the Romanov regime, there are the
forceful, ruthless Bolshevik chiefs and
commissars—including Lenin himself,
“the man with the Mongol eyes.” The
Bolshevik women are, if anything, more
/cruel and purposeful than their menfolk.
They rally the waverers when even their
own commissars are silent or doubting ;
pistol a hated official when the men are
disposed to relent. Three Cities is not
easy reading, which may be why it has
not yet been banned by Canberra. But
it is magnificently conceived and written,
and admirably translated by Edwin and
Willa Muir.
O. C. C.
A Satchel of Books
Dent and Co. are issuing the first cheap
edition of Conrad’s works at 3s. 6d. each.
The books are beyond criticism as regards
format and binding. The first three to
reach Australia are Notes on Life and
Letters, A Personal Record and Last
Essays, which includes some of his war
writings such as “The Dover Patrol.”
Jacob Wassermann, whose The Jews of
Zirndorf (Allen and Unwin ; 7s. 6d.) has
been admirably translated by Cyrus
Brooks, is Germany’s greatest novelist.
He has suffered at the hands of the Nazis
—his books were formally burnt the other
day—and this grim story helps to explain
why. It describes some of the outrages
perpetrated on German Jews of the
Ghetto half a century ago. Wassermann
is a loyal Jew, but he has the detach-
ment of an artist, and under his touch
a well-known type of Jew stands out as
a formidable menace to the peace and
good government of primitive communi-
ties. A long prelude deals with one of
those journeys into the wilderness which
Jews are always making or trying to
make, and there the story proper begins
with young Agathon Geyer as its central
figure. He personifies a type of Jew who
in his highest development is perhaps the
highest type that the human race pro-
duces.
A ustrcilia's Government Bank, by L. C.
Jauncey (Cranley and Day; 7s. 6d.). A
history of the Commonwealth Bank from
its inception by King O’Malley’s “Tor-
pedo Brigade” in 1910 to the present
time, when, as banker of The Common-
wealth Government and of most of the
States, it is the foundation of Australia’s
financial system and (following amal-
gamation with the N. S. Wales Savings
Bank) the possessor of more than 250
branches. There are interesting chapte’rs
on the trading banks of the Common-
wealth and on the part played by them
and the Commonwealth Bank during the
depression. A thesis on which this work
is based earned Dr. Jauncey his Ph.D.
degree at Harvard in 1929.
The Last of the Taboos, by Isabel
Emslie Hutton, M.D. (Heinemann ; 55.).
A short history of insanity by a member
of the staff of the British Hospital for
Functional, Mental and Nervous Dis-
orders. She begins with a message of
hope: in most cases “mental illness is
definitely a curable complaint.” Follow
an analysis of insanity and chapters on
its cause and prevention, care of the
insane and so on. She has a clear, simple
style and she never uses a technical term
if she can think of another.
Robberies in a twentieth-century
museum in New York and in Elizabethan
England are linked by Barnaby Ross in
Drury Lane’s Last Case (Cassell;
Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). This mystery story
should appeal to highbrows. It contains
no welter of gore, and there is a pro-
blem with a solution that takes the reader
into the higher realms of literature. A
forthright Yankee detective, his pretty
daughter who assists in the sleuthing, and,
of course, the amazing Mr. Drury Lane
are the principals.
Wilson’s Sydney and Suburban Street
Directory, 1934 (Wilson’s Publishing Co.,
Sydney; 4s. 6d.), shows the whereabouts
of the thousands of streets from Cronulla
to Palm Beach, and from the coast to
beyond Parramatta. There is also a Blue
Mountains section.


9
lIH
m
9
I
m
'
, •• : ;
m
v I'll
■
II
,5.-
«
Hi
H |
/ -
N,:
H
m
■ 1
PltftLVSf
i
m
M
■
18
H
.
I § I
■ : 'i : ■
JI
■
■
BMM
H
11
U
m
:
■
1
m :
■kj
H
PH


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2820.
February 28, 1934.
DANGEROUS CUSTOMER.
"Britain has concluded a most-favored-nation treaty with the U.S.S.R."
JUNIOR PARTNER: “Where’s the point in buying cheap when the customer’ll use the proceeds to ruin your business?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4. ’Phone
Central 5170.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
.To any address Overseas: 12 months.
£t 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
P ostage on This Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE MELBOURNE WRANGLE.
The conference of Premiers, Cabinet
Ministers and civil servants which has
been swelling the receipts of Melbourne
hotelkeepers will have served a useful
purpose if it shows the people of Aus-
tralia exactly where they are drifting, and
moves them to put a sudden curb on Gov-
ernments whose only policy is one of
grab, and some of which are willing to
throw any principle overboard so long
as they may keep in office. Certain of
the gentlemen at the conference sounded
as if they had been reading the speeches
of Patrick Henry in the Yankee school-
books. Others hurled threats at the Com-
monwealth like small, angry boys throw-
ing pebbles at an elephant. The milder
sort flaunted overdressed Budgets with the
air of the bedizened gold-diggers of Mr.
Stuart Doyle’s talkies, and shrieked un-
convincingly that they had not a thing to
wear.
It was evident from the outset that no
Premier had come to the feast unpre-
pared. Mr. Forgan Smith, who won his
last ■ election largely through preaching
against the alleged extravagance of
Moore, has been able to detach himself
from real financial cares because the
Commonwealth has financed his deficits
to the extent of £3,400,000 in a couple of
years; so he has been campaigning
throughout the State against the Com-
monwealth’s use of taxing power. Mr.
Menzies, whose Government has not
turned a hand to cut taxation this year,
has obviously spent a lot of time in
polishing his oratory. Mr. Butler has
been organising the small States into a
sort of anti-Commonwealth cabal, in-
stead of profiting by the reports of his
own Auditor-General on the unproduc-
tive loan expenditure of South Aus. Gov-
ernments. Mr. Collier has been leading
a poodle-dog life on the leash of cir-
cumstance, retiring behind the secession
vote to bark out his threats whenever
his position has been assailed.
Secure in the knowledge that Mr.
Lyons was perfectly tame, they blamed
the Commonwealth for the sins of State
politicians. They came agreed that they
would not relinquish a jot of their exces-
sive powers and must have more sources
of revenue. They were at one that
economy on their part was impossible.
Mr. Stevens was the least unreason-
able. He wanted relief from portion of
the annual interest and sinking-fund
charges in respect of soldier-settlement
and “development.” He asked for fur-
ther grants for the smaller States and the
transfer of road taxes —petrol imposts—
to all the States.
Mr. Menzies’s brilliant idea was that
the Commonwealth, whose income tax
barely suffices to pay old-age and invalid
pensions, should evacuate the income-tax
field, thus giving N. S. Wales the chance
of collecting another £4,500,000, Vic-
toria another £3,000,000 and the rest of
the States £3,000,000 p.a. among them.
Mr. Butler wanted ten millions p.a.
from customs and excise. He talked
of possible default and secession, and
raved of unification as if it were the black
plague, and of the continuance of the
present muddled system as if it had been
sealed with the approval of the angels.
His outburst was a fit jumping-off place
for the utterance of Mr. Collier, who
spoke of the happy future when West-
ralia should have Dominion status, and
be in a position to assist its neighbors
when they “tired of going to the Com-
monwealth year after year begging for
assistance.” He treated the Common-
wealth with an air of scornful detach-
ment as if its expenditures on defence
and postal facilities were not for the
people of Australia at all, but for some
alien land. Mr. Lee, of Tasmania, wanted
an examination of all Governments’ needs
and adjustment of finances accordingly.
Mr. Forgan Smith, after reminding the
Prime Minister that he once advocated
as a Tasmanian that Federal surpluses
should be handed over to the States, pro-
nounced himself a unificationist with a
lingering prejudice in favor of a vast ex-
tension of State rights.
It was a sorry performance, and the
side expeditions from the main plans into
such questions as to whether States might
not get power to levy local excise added
to the muddle. Mr. Lyons was, as usual,
weak. He was full of excuses. .He had
“no desire to quarrel.” He was “frankly
doubtful whether this was the time for a
general revision of the Constitution —it
would be a mistake to make far-reaching
constitutional amendments on account of
temporary financial difficulties not due to
the Federal system.”
The overgoverned, thrice-taxed people
of Australia have no doubts. They are
sick and tired of their extravagant mush-
room Legislatures ; bored stiff with all
the log-rolling, the special pleading, the
perpetual fighting over bones, the abuse;
fed to the teeth with an outworn system
under which they are the prey of poli-
ticians and tax-gatherers, and the “pre-
dominant partner” is so palsied as to let
tinpot Clodiuses like Lang forcibly lock
up its offices and defy its law with
scarcely more than a futile squeak of
protest.
If the Commonwealth is to live—and
for defence reasons alone, if for nothing
else, it must continue to live—the present
state of affairs cannot go on. Since this
herd of Ministers is incapable of
forming a composite opinion, the people
should be asked to do it.
The word “referendum” was mentioned
a dozen times during the Melbourne
wrangle. It represents the road to the
ideal of single-purpose government—one
authority with one taxing power for one
specific job. The Bulletin last week
suggested that the electors should be
asked to say whether they are willing to
vest in the Commonwealth all power of
law over trade and commerce, corpora-
tions, industrial matters, income taxing
and the control of railways and the edu-
cation system, leaving land and succes-
sion taxes to the States. The best that
can be wished for Australia’s future is
that somebody will give Mr. Lyons suffi-
cient backbone to take such a vote, or
that he will be replaced at an early date
by somebody with more stomach for
fighting a ruinous provincialism and
facing facts.
THEY DON’T HANG IN
QUEENSLAND.
In common with Laborites in other
States, Westralian Labor once had sloppy
ideas about the iniquity of capital pun-
ishment. It abandoned them precipitately
a few years ago, when two unarmed Kal-
goorlie detectives were butchered in cold
blood by receivers of stolen gold, whom
they had caught in the act, and their
comrades made it plain that saving the
necks of murderers of officers of the law
was a policy no police force could
tolerate.
A ferocious Queensland crime has now
shaken the faith of Laborites in that
State in the “sacredness of human life”
(i.e., the lives of ruffians who take life);
and where it hasn’t it ought to have.
Capital punishment has been abolished
in Queensland for many years. This
“humanitarianism” has led to its be-
coming the scene of what the Crown
Prosecutor, H. T. O’Driscoll, aptly de-
scribed as “not a mere murder but an
atrocity.”
The victim was a woman, 30 years of
age, Clarice Margaret Murphy. She had
married in Sydney at 17 and been de-
serted with her child, and had contracted
another alliance with a man who divorced
her. Going to Taree, she worked as a
domestic for the mother of a Kingaroy
(Q.) farmer, John Wyatt Noon, who had
himself been a party to a divorce. Selling
his farm. Noon arrived at Taree and be-
came intimate with Mrs. Murphy, whom
he “got into trouble.” With two other
men, one a certain “John William Bur-
gorst Smith, aged 23, laborer,” he en-
gaged in a nomadic boot-repairing ven-
ture.
The party found its way to Kerqp-
sey, where it was joined by Clarice
Murphy. Thereupon the third man, who
seems to have been a decent fellow, re-
fused to go any further. Together,
Noon, Smith and the woman wandered
from town to town along the Northern
Rivers, eventually reaching Casino.
There, it was stated in evidence,
A woman, Mrs. Plummer, spoke to Noon
about Mrs. Murphy’s pregnancy, and asked
him whether he was going to do the right
thing by the girl. She added that if he would
not do so she would see the sergeant of police.
Noon replied: “She will be all right; we are
going to a farm at Murwillumbah.”
He had already conceived the frightful
idea of destroying the poor creature who
was carrying his child. To Smith, accord-
to that worthy, he said: “I’m going to
do away with her. I can't take her to
Kingaroy, because I have a girl there to
whom I am engaged.” At Casino strych-
nine arrived for him from his daughter
at Taree, whom he had asked to send him
“the bottle containing the pink crystals
in the garage.”
With this and the rest of their
belongings, the three motored across the
Queensland border to Rathdowney, in
the Beaudesert district, and thence to a
place called Glenore Grove. There Noon
in Smith’s presence, put the strychnine in
a mug of stout, which Smith had bought,
and offered it to his victim. She refused
to drink it, saying it was too bitter.
The three slept in the same tent. That
night one of the fiends (Smith says it was
Noon, and Noon that it was Smith)
throttled her. When her cries and
struggles had ceased, they tied a big stone
round her neck, and, after two attempts,
threw the body into a billabong. One of
the witnesses at the trial was J. B.
Duhig, the highly competent Govern-
ment pathologist. “Death was due to
drowning,” he said. “The woman was
quite definitely alive when she entered
the water.”
The jury found Noon guilty of wilful
murder, and Smith of murder “with a
strong recommendation to mercy.”
Having no alternative, Justice Macrossan
sentenced them to imprisonment for
life, adding that he would “forward the
recommendation to the proper authori-
ties.” He had summed up strongly
against Smith, as well as his partner,
stressing the point that “the callous young
ruffian” made no protest when told that
Noon had got strychnine through the
post, had bought the stout in which it
was mixed, and when told at Rathdowney
that Noon “had a good mind to throw
her into the waterhole,” had said that the
water was “too shallow.” Then his
Honor made these pregnant remarks:
The victim was deliberately brought to
Queensland, where there is no capital pun-
ishment. Had the murder been committed in
New South Wales it would be very difficult to
find any satisfactory ground on which to recom-
mend you, Smith, to mercy. It may be a
matter for the Legislature to consider whether
there should be an amendment to the law.
That has nothing to do with me.
But it has a great deal to do with the
Queensland public.
An amendment of the law is so plainly
necessary that the people of Queensland
should insist on it if the Legislature fails
to take his Honor’s hint. Hitherto they
have acquiesced in the abolition of capi-
tal punishment on the mushy grounds
advanced by their rulers, but the thing
wears a very different aspect in the light
of this dreadful case. If not a positive en-
couragement to the murderers of Clarice
Murphy, it was an incentive to them to
make Queensland the theatre of one of
the foulest crimes ever committed, and
it is no satisfaction to the people of
Queensland to reflect that they will have
to bear the cost of preserving the vile
pair from the fate they so richly deserve.
Nor can the people of Queensland be
certain that even the ferocious Noon will
not be set free when the memory of his
frightful crime has grown dim. A soft-
headed or sticky-fingered Minister or
one responding to political pressure may
let him loose, with results possibly worse
than those which followed the liberation
of Bennett in Westralia. Awarded a life
sentence for an outrage on a child, Ben-
nett—thanks to a Labor Attorney-
General who believed that criminals
could be cured with kindness —was out
so soon that within six years he had
served a stretch in N. S. Wales and was
entering upon another in Victoria —15
years for robbery under arms. When
the prison gates opened he continued his
career of crime. No child was safe when
Bennett was about, and he found a help-
less victim in a four-year-old girl. In
the end he was hanged by a matter-of-
fact Victorian Government.
THE ANTI-FOREIGN FEELING.
[This comes from North Queensland. Of
course, The Bulletin did not “prejudge” the
goldfields rioters, nor did it “brand the whole
with the sins of the few”; but because of
passages which are vigorous and pertinent it
lets the writer have his fling.]
The Bulletin has fallen into the same
error as Archbishop Duhig in prejudg-
ing the Kalgoorlie miners. According to
rules of British justice one is innocent
until proven guilty. This “condemn-first-
and-inquire-after” attitude might be suit-
able for Hitler, Mussolini or Stalin, but
not for Australians.
Perhaps even the Kalgoorlie miners
erred a little in that particular manner,
but we can rest assured that the recent
demonstration of lack of confidence in
the authorities was only the culminating
point of a long list of officially-evaded
responsibilities and neglected grievances.
The Bulletin at least has the decency
to point out at the end of its tirade the
exact cause of official incompetence, but
that does not excuse the unnecessary
branding of the whole with the sins of the
few.
I served on Gallipoli, in Sinai and in
France in a division that was rich with
Westralians. In the ranks and as brother
officers they invariably impressed me
with their rugged sense of justice. Red-
tape was curtailed to a minimum and a
wrong was more quickly righted than
elsewhere, but with much less ceremony.
As a junior officer on field general
court-martial cases, I often picked out a
Westralian by his effective questioning of
the prosecution witnesses, and his imme-
diate detection of perjury to bolster up
unnecessarily an otherwise strong case.
Murray, Black, Pope, Aarons, Mc-
Carthy, Francesco and Smith, of the 16th,
all rubbed shoulders with me. Tough
and competent, they were essentially just
men and looked always for the cause of
the crime before condemning the party
charged. It is from men of their calibre
that we must learn the truth about the
Kalgoorlie business.
This broadcasting to the world of our
alleged intolerance of foreigners classes
us as very poor diplomats. These people
when they come here must sink their
original nationalities and accept ours with
all its failings, for better or worse, with-
out reserve. The fact that they appeal to
their Consuls shows clearly that they have
only accepted our nationality condi-
tionally.
Like the alleged British colony I
visited in Florence, they must learn the
language of their adopted country
and comply with its standards of living,
and, above all, obey its laws 100 per
cent. No party of foreigners in Australia
who have done this have ever been
molested in any way. It is when they
attempt to retain their own languages
and customs and form ghettos within
our boundaries that they fall foul of us.
When Australia becomes just a temporary
residence from which they hope to win
a fortune and then leave, it is time we
treated them as unwelcome guests.
The Italians in the sugar industry of
North Queensland are just this type. We
are not jealous of their success. We
know how it is attained in 60 per cent,
of cases.
There are amongst them a percentage
of genuine settlers who, if not harassed
by their own, will fhake good Australians.
They at least try to learn our history and
share our ambitions, and are not for ever
turning to Italy for guidance or for a
place to deposit their surplus cash.
Illiterate Italians of whom nothing was
known were given land on ridiculously
low deposits in preference to Australians.
Now, Australians are compelled to stand
back with only small tonnage assign-
ments while foreigners haul their thou-
sands of tons of cane to the mills, hence
producing considerably more than is re-
quired, to the detriment of the whole of
the original Australian growers. They
employ only Italians, and in some dis-
tricts —Halifax, Ingham, Tully, Innisfail
—have ousted good Australians in nearly
every branch of business. Not because
the Australian business man is inefficient,
but because these foreigners only want to
deal with foreigners.
The white men in the sugar industry
are alleged to be our corps de couvert.
God help us if anyone should attack
North Queensland!
Archbishop Duhig asks for Fair Play
for the Foreigner. His “peaceful citizens' 5
in one small area last year staged four
brutal murders, and that in a district
which has to go back 30 years for a
previous murder. Certainly it was only
four Italians killing four others, but
“Italy for the Italians” who indulge in
this form of sport.
I am not a dog-in-the-manger and have
always advocated the introduction of
European population to Australia. We
cannot get too many Germans of the
type that built up our great agricultural
industries. To-day, 99.9 per cent, of the
original German settlers and their de-
scendants are respected Australian citi-
zens. Finns of the type to be met with
in North Queensland, Swedes, Danes and
the Italian who is with us 100 per cent.
—these are welcome, but not so is the
unclean, corrupt schemer who partakes of
our benefits and money but evades his
responsibilities and our laws.
My motto would be “Welcome, if you
want to be an Australian.” We have
sufficient bad Australians to advertise our
failings without importing any more.
BULLOCK BELL.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New States Commission.
The N. S. Wales New States Commis-
sioner sits on —and on and on. He is
nearing his thirtieth sitting, and the evi-
dence before him is counted in millions
of words. One witness for the Riverina
alone produced 200,000 words, which
cover 127 foolscap pages of small print.
Nobody seems to know when the thing
will end. The scope seems to be un-
limited. Facts of geography which can
be found in any schoolbook are dished
up and put into evidence. Every now
and then, when things get monotonous,
somebody starts an abstruse argument on
some such subject as what is to become
of Canberra (which under the Constitu-
tion had to be carved out of N. S. Wales)
if there should be no N. S. Wales for it
to remain carved out of. The Riverina
representatives at once fall on him in a
pack, and Mr. Murray Prior or Dr. Louat,
who represents a mysterious body called
the N.S.W. Unity League (it is somehow
connected with the Golden Jest Art Union
promotion office), drops a weighty re-
mark which starts 1600 words of con-
tention.
Then somebody wants to withdraw evi-
dence. The Commissioner will not let
him. You may submit any evidence —
clippings from the “S. M. Herald,” views
of politicians, bits of yearbooks, copies
of Acts, summaries of “broad lines of
political thought” as interpreted by wit-
nesses ; but once in shorthand the Com-
missioner will not part with it. About
the only thing so far not admitted was the
opinion of James Edmond defining the
requirements of an ideal capital site.
It is a shocking waste of public money
which should be stopped at once. The
commission is merely a machine for pro-
ducing hot air. The only commission
which might do any real good would be
a Commonwealth one composed of terse-
minded and practical persons who would
find a mode by which a given minimum
number of electors residing in a given
area might secure local self-government,
under strict conditions of economy and
with strict regard to their share of
already established responsibilities and
defined duties, by a simple process of
voting for withdrawal from a larger State.
* .
Relief and Settlement.
Large areas of fertile land which are not
being put to the best use should play an im-
portant part in the rehabilitation of Australia
and the reduction of unemployment. The
Government could make small farms available
for 15s. to 25s. a week. Near many large
towns in N.S.W. there are areas of fertile land
which are overrun with inferior grasses.— J. E.
Jelbart, president of the N.S.W. Shires’ Asso-
ciation.
Mr. Stevens’s latest contribution to
the solution of the “colossal unemploy-
ment problem” is a plan for building
Government villas, chiefly villas in Syd-
ney and its suburbs. Hitherto, it would
seem, the most crying need of the N.S.W.
unemployed has been for gutters and
sewers, more and better public buildings.
Out of £5,800,000 allocated for unemploy-
ment last year £1,768,000 was put into
cement water-and-drainage jobs, and a
lot of the rest went into public buildings.
About £2,500,000 of it is supposed to be
repayable to the Treasury.
The housing scheme is a work of
genius. Anybody who wants a £1000
dwelling can plank down £150 and the
Government will lend him the rest at the
taxpayers’ risk. He is to repay it at the
rate of £1 3s. 6d. per week (it will be
greatly reduced at the end of 10 years),
which includes principal and interest at
5 p.c. In 30 years he will own the home.
There is nominal security for repayment
in the houses; but let Mr. Lang get into
power once more and no elector occupant
of one of the new dwellings need worry
about liabilities. Even if the State Rural
Bank is allowed to manage its own affairs
and enforce payment of instalments in
cases where they fall into arrear, it will
not be overanxious to resume properties
which will be difficult to let or sell.
At the end of 1931-32 40.6 p.c. of re-
ceivers of home advances under the old
Savings Bank scheme were in arrears for
an amount equal to 36 per cent, of the
annual gross earnings of the department
for that year. Now, as then, many
private landlords cannot get rent from
their tenants and many private house-
owners cannot pay their rates. As Gov-
ernment homes increase more private
owners will be left with liabilities on their
hands and with power to employ re-
stricted.
This is not the ideal way in which to
spend large sums of public capital at a
time when tens of thousands are still
either on the dole or living on Govern-
ment relief works. Permanency of work
should be the essential of every plan put
forward. Land settlement is the ideal
direction in which Governments should
look—not the kind in which the settler
is half a speculator, but the kind in
which he is content with little and satis-
fied to work for more.
Several N.S.W. State members of Par-
liament have been fostering a bill to place
some of the workers in distressed in-
dustries, such as coal-mining, on small
holdings under a scheme administered by
shires. They argue that a man with
10 to 20 acres and a cottage, some poultry
and a cow, at least has a basis which
will leave him with some means of pro-
viding for himself, even when he is out
of work. This plan has been received
with scant consideration; the bill which
embodied its main outlines was emas-
culated last session. But its supporters are
still advocating their idea.
Unity in Adelaide.
Mr. Jock Garden left secretly for Adel-
aide the other day. He has some sense
of humor (though incapable of laughing
at himself), and the Labor regions of
Adelaide are amusing places to be in
just now. Most of the gaiety is being
provided by Mr. Scullin, though Mr.
Forde contributes a bit now and then
and Senator Joseph Silver Collings, who
would have shrunk a couple of decades
ago from being seen in the company of
the Scullidores, is sometimes positively
funny. Especially when he slang-whangs
“renegades” in the language in which
he used to castigate his present friends.
The humor of Mr. Scullin is acrobatic.
He is engaged in the task of bringing
one Federal Labor party, one detached
A.W.U., several Lang parties and some
odds and ends to Unity. In the process
he has had to make it clear that, though
he implemented the Premiers’ plan, he
“abhors it as now operated.” For if he
loved the Premiers’ plan no Langite
would be seen dead on his doormat.
Then, since the original Premiers’ plan
must have his approval, if he is to hold
the support of consistent Federal Labor
and not show himself in the light of a
man prepared to sell his principles, he
has to reconcile Mr. Lang’s position with
his own and show that noisy person as a
Scullin-planner to the moderates. So
he must explain that Mr. Lang “made
no reservations to the plan,” had
“passed legislation to give effect to the
cuts in it, and had never denied these
things, although his supporters, some of
whom were ignorant of the position, had
done so.”
At the same time, wicked people are
asking Jimmy whether he is not a little
inconsistent. To which Jimmy replies
“that his attitude is the same now as it
has been for years and that he has never
been an inflationist or a deflationist.”
Mr. Forde’s humor consists mainly in
his reiterated statements that Labor
is the “only party which because of its
freedom from embarrassing alliances can
give effect to .a policy of reform.” The
party must have a great heart if it doesn’t
find parallel alliances with Mr. Lang and
Mr. Willis embarrassing, and embarras-
sing also the certainty that unity will
mean the absorption of Moscow-linked
Minority Movement coal unions and the
bright red socialisation group and sub-
Communist anti-war leagues into the
same sorority with the sober A.W.U. If
unity is achieved it will be of the kind
arranged between a detective and a
burglar shipwrecked on the same raft.
The New Transport.
The Commonwealth Government pro-
poses to experiment with road trains for
Central Australia. Whether there is
enough traffic to justify them there is a
moot question, but they have one advan-
tage —if they are taken off they leave no
legacy of frozen assets such as rails and
stations behind them.
Australia is peculiarly adaptable for
this form of transport. Between Damas-
cus and Bagdad, where the terrain re-
sembles that of Central Queensland, the
Maoriland brothers Nairn are now run-
ning a ’bus 68 feet long with a detach-
able engine cabin, buffet, freezing-room
and sleeping compartment for shift-
drivers. There is no reason in the world
why many Australian rural towns and
stations should not be served by similar
vehicles capable of carrying passengers
and freights.
Some districts, too, especially those
lying in the electrified areas, are ripe for
the introduction of trolley-’buses, which
already are running in Sydney. All these
new types of vehicle should prove good
feeders for the railways and kill for
ever the agitation for political lines which
every now and then become overwhelm-
ing temptations to weak Ministries.
Combined with modem streamlined
trains after the model of those which
are going into service on the English
and U.S.A. systems, and some of which
are run at Id. a mile for crude oil, they
should help to make Australian travel
easier and more popular.
Clashes in Spain.
There are fashions in politics as in
everything else, and it looks as if the land
of Sancho Panza and Cervantes will be
the next country to go berserk, in the
manner of Germany, France and Austria.
The Spaniard is inured to anarchy.
His history is mainly a matter of lucid
intervals between periods of sanguinary
rage. The Roman power withdrew only
to be replaced by a flood of Visigoths and
other barbarians. No sooner had these
invaders settled down to a comparatively
peaceful life than the Mohammedans
erupted over them, and there began a
long and bloody struggle between the
Crescent and the Cross.
The Christian reconquest brought no
peace to the land, except the sullen pas-
sivity of subjection to the Inquisition.
The fierce anti-clericalism which shows
its head whenever the status quo is upset
is due more to bitter memories of
Torquemada and his friends than to any
present disabilities. The separation of
Church and State has been the aim of
nearly every Spanish party, and it was
the principal motive behind the butting
of King Alfonso off the throne.
With the establishment of a republic
Utopia was supposed to be on hand, but,
although the republican Government
secured the required divorce in 1931, the
millennium inexplicably failed to turn
up. Instead there developed a fierce con-
test between the Republicans and Com-
munists, with the Royalists in their cus-
tomary role of creating as much trouble
as possible for all hands.
Barcelona is and always has been the
hotbed of revolutionary unrest. A Com-
munist State was set up there, and was
only dissolved after much Spanish blood
had been spilt. Then the distracted Re-
publican democrats had to face a
Monarchist uprising, in which more vital
fluid flowed. It is an interesting fact that
the strength of the Communists lies not
so much in their numbers as in the
support they get from the Royalists.
Behind the whole complicated argu-
ment is the economic crisis, which has
reduced Spain to virtual bankruptcy. It
is an illustration of the all-pervading
nature of the depression that Spain is
suffering as much as anyone else,
although she is mainly an agricultural
country and doesn’t depend on outside
markets for her’ small manufacturing
industry.
A World Police.
A Mr. Noel Baker, of the New Com-
monwealth Society, presented an inter-
national peace congress at Brussels with
a brand-new scheme for saving the world.
He proposes a squadron of 400 or 500 in-
terceptor ’planes, internationally manned,
with headquarters at Geneva and
branches here and there. In the begin-
ning the force is only to be used for
policing Europe. Presumably, when
any country or countries disagree with
the ideals of good behavior held by Mr.
Baker and his friends it will fall on them
like a million tons of bricks.
Something like the Baker scheme has
been tried before. A company of British
merchants conquered and policed India
with a handful of regulars and native
auxiliaries. A Dutch company did the
same in the Netherlands East Indies. A
more or less international police force
has bossed China for the past 50 years.
Mr. Baker is sure that thousands of
youths of all nationalities would apply
for membership, which is quite possible,
since there are millions of youths who
would do anything for a job. He also
thinks that the force, despite its mixture
of races, could rely on their loyalty. This
is also possible, on the analogy of the
French Foreign Legion.
The trouble with the Baker scheme is
that it presupposes that all the countries
to be policed will have disbanded their
own forces, demolished their anti-aircraft
defences and handed the keys of their for-
tications to the New Commonwealth
Society. In short, we get back to the
hoary old problem of voluntary dis-
armament. Since the League of Nations
started to disarm the world the world
has well-nigh doubled its armaments.
The Human Stud Farm.
The Russians are establishing an expen-
sive Human stud farm to improve the
Soviet breed of men. The idea is refresh-
ing, and if it ever is applied universally
it will brighten biography and tell us
exactly what we are getting for our
money in the way of manhood. In a
few generations The Bulletin, if the
scheme matures, will probably be print-
ing something like this:
Fitz-Foozle 29th of Collarenebri (274), who
has been chosen as Prime Minister, comes of
one of the most blue-blooded political strains
in the Commonwealth. Bred according to
Bruce Lowe and Bates, his family have been
in the U.A.P. Stud Book for 16 generations.
Mr. Fitz-Foozle has in his veins every kind
of blood necessary to a first-class politician.
His pedigree is based on some of the best
early twentieth-century families, his ancestry
including such well-known names as North
Sydney Demon (imp.), Duke of Wilmot (Tas.
(11) and Pride of Auburn (L. 13,500). Douglas
(0.K.), a strong stayer on the platform and
renowned for his high-stepping caution and
his nerve, was line-bred into his pedigree at
four stages, and there is in him a considerable
infusion of Bank of N. S. Wales stock to
stabilise his outlook on exchange.
Exhibited at the last Sydney Show, he won
the Grand Championship and class for Junior
Ministers under 90, and the Judge, Mr. B. S. B.
Stevens, who is now 160 years old, having
been retired from public service a century ago,
remarked on the magnificent thickness of his
hide, his confident outlook, showiness of car
riage and amenable disposition. A slight weak-
ness in his backline, combined with a lack of
width above the eyes, was, in the judge’s
opinion, compensated for by his extraordinary
lung development and breadth of muzzle. His
clear eye betokened a first-class digestive sys-»
tem, and it is obvious that he will make a
good doer on an average Parliamentary ration.
His heart room is little deficient in spite of
an otherwise satisfactory girth, and he makes
a nice showing of fine hard bone from the
chine forward, a merit which more than bal-
ances a certain bandiness of gait and thickness
about the hocks. He is a little lacking in hair,
but the judge believes that this can be reme-
died in his offspring by a judicious infusion of
Conservatorium blood.
Mr. Scorfield, a well-known • fancier of poli-
ticians, told our representative that he would
have liked the exhibit a little more rugged
in character. The State Farm, with this in
view, has consented to combine the blood of
the distinguished champion with that of Parkes’s
O’Malley the 997th (N.T. 468,392), which
has always been celebrated for the whiskers and
bumps which it has produced. Bred with a
strain more noted for its bloom and good
color, it is hoped that the distinguished
family which will be perpetuated through the
honorable gentleman will be prolific in Post-
masters-General, movie stars and taxation com-
missioners of unprecedented solidity and
smoothness in action.
Demos, the King.
“Lord Luvus” regards him as the king
of grafters:
By confining himself to an excessively limited
extension of the word, “D.” (“Democracy and
Graft,” B. 7/2/’34) proves to his own satis-
faction that there is less graft under a demo-
cracy than under any other form of government.
By graft he merely means official peculation.
This form of public robbery can admittedly be
reduced by means of an efficient system of
book-keeping.
Before the Chinese Empire indulged in such
Western luxuries as annual Budgets peculation
reached gigantic figures. It was estimated that
before the provincial revenues reached the
Peking cashbox 85 p.c. of them disappeared in
one direction or another. With the Republic
valiant attempts were made by successive Trea-
surers to balance the national accounts, but
it was 15 years before a Budget was presented,
and even that had a discrepancy of several
millions unaccounted for. The customs re-
venue under the Emperors similarly vanished
into holes and corners, until Sir Robert Hart
introduced the principles of simple arithmetic,
after which a shortage of twopence was a
matter for official investigation.
Graft under a democracy like Australia, where
the accounts are kept by competent mathe-
maticians, is obliged to take other forms; and
they are protean. For instance, in my muni-
cipality the heeler for a candidate in a shire
election touted for my vote on the ground
that if Mr. Kafoozle got in he would agitate
for the block adjoining my house to be set
aside as a public garden. I built a house once
in a Sydney suburb, and the contractor was
a local alderman. When any question arose
about the specifications not fulfilling the build-
ing regulations, he brushed the difficulty on
one side by remarking, “ I’ll fix- that all right.”
A Sydney man told me of his experience.,
Being the agent for an expensive gadget
which the council wanted, he went to
the permanent official concerned, and was told
that there would be nothing doing unless he
could square Alderman So-and-so, who in his
turn would square his colleagues. My friend
had romantic scruples, so he lost the contract.
But these instances are minor. Every Fed-
eral or State election is a vast orgy of graft
which is so customary as to be scarcely noticed.
I remember one politician who promised his
constituents four bridges over the Swan River
and another who proposed to turn the Yarra
into a lake by damming it at the public ex-
pense for the benefit of his supporters. It is
true that when Cornucopia, M.P., gets into
Parliament his fancy projects are apt to come
in violent competition with the schemes of
other Fairy Bountifuls and end in nothing, but
no Government can afford to alienate the
individual members of its party. Moreover,
the party itself depends on graft for its exist-
ence. If its supporters don’t believe that,. if
returned to power, it will give them something
at somebody else’s expense, they won’t vote
for it.
If it were possible to get the figures of
private peculation of officials in a non-demo-
cratic country and put them alongside figures
representing Australian money wasted on non-
paying railways built for political purposes and
the cost of concessions made to greedy interests,
I think “D.” would find that Demos is the
most Gargantuan grafter in the world’s history.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Black Crow”: Some months after the
Armistice, my cobber and self drifted
into Ypres from Poperinghe. To our
surprise we found Ypres, that place of
desolation and death, en fete, and
crowded with American troops. Presi-
dent Wilson was there and King Albert
and his Queen were doing the honors.
We seemed to be the only Aussies in
Ypres that day; we barged, how-
ever, into the centre of things, and as
Queen Elizabeth was about to re-enter
her car we threw the royal lady the
snappiest salute of which we were cap-
able. The Queen rewarded us with a
most gracious smile and a quite audible
“Les bons Australiens!” The President
never noticed us, but I can swear to a
welcoming glance from Albert as he saw
the old Diggers in the front seats. The
Yanks seemed rather to resent our in-
trusion, so we felt that it was a good
idea to move along.
* * *
“Avec Palmes”: The other day a
Frenchwoman, famous in the war, sent
a bronze trophy to be laid on the Sydney
cenotaph. A newspaper described it as
a “bronze laurel wreath.” It is not a
wreath and is not made of laurel, as the
illustration showed just a branch of palm
such as that with which France decorates
orders and rewards for valor.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: Eyelash-cutting (B.
21/2/’34) sometimes becomes a job for
the doctor, and more than one beauteous
“So you want a separation allowance of five hundred a year. What does your
husband earn?”
“Oh, he's making about three hundred; but I’m sure he could do better if he
were pushed.”
damsel has tearfully submitted to the
operation in order to save her vision,
Two main methods are employed for the
darkening of brows and lashes. The hairs
may be coated with lampblack (or soot),
which is an ocular irritant, or they may
be dyed with a preparation containing
aniline and magnesium. This stuff causes
reddening and swelling of the eyelids ;
it may cause ulceration of the eye itself,
and sometimes even a permanent impair-
ment of sight. There is only one cure —
a pair of scissors. Once the lawnmower
has done its work, the worst is over, but
the next crop of herbage is never so silky
as the old. Such are the perils which
our sisters endure to charm the impres-
sionable male, such the disadvantages
of what the Americans call “Lash Lure.”
* * * *
“Kerys”: A young woman who had
to interview a Sydney lawyer on a family
business matter hoped to make an appeal
to his kindness of heart, if any. So she
went forth dressed in her gladdest kit,
and on leaving the lift hastily produced
her lipstick for a final dab. The lipstick
was contained in a gadget that mas-
queraded as a pencil, a duplicate being
owned by a sister whose pencil contained
an eyebrow crayon. In her haste the girl
did not notice she had the black one,
though she did observe the startled
glances of the office staff as she passed
through. Her mission was successful,
the lawyer apparently being dazed into
acquiescence. He said afterwards that
damsels with magenta nails and jet-black
lips were entirely beyond his ambit.
SJ; * * *
“Eunice”: A seaside camp. Voice of
small boy in tent: “What’s tripe, mum?”
Mother (anxious to maintain her repu-
tation as family encyclopaedia): “Tripe,
my son, is the lining of the stomach of
an animal.” Father, outside cooking the
breakfast bacon, thinks up a Shavianism
about the disgusting practice of eating
the putrefying tissues of dead and pro-
bably diseased fellow-creatures, but boy’s
voice interrupts his cogitations. “No,
it’s not, mum. It’s the stuff that comes
over the wireless.”
* * * *
“Idle Imp”: The curious thing about
the English inquiry into the conversa-
tional topics of factory janes (B. 14/2/’34)
is that the winner of the 2.5 finds no
place. It may be that English factory
girls never gamble or discuss the mokes,
but I’ll guarantee that in this country 75
per cent, of factory girls have their regu-
lar sixpenny and shilling bets, and ani-
mated discussion on the gee-gees is a
frequent topic. In every industrial suburb
there are small s.-p. merchants whose
clients are principally working women.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: N.S.W. prison inmates
were given something to leave pleasant
recollections of the visits of the Prince oi
Wales and the Duke of York, but it was
not a remission of sentences (B. 14/2/’34).
The N.S.W. authorities’ method of letting
prisoners join in a general rejoicing is to
proclaim a prison holiday, with a special
dinner; on such joyful occasions food
can be sent to inmates by their friends
outside. When Darlinghurst was a
prison a near-by hotel did a brisk busi-
ness in this catering ; apart from “special
occasions” men awaiting trial are, of
course, always entitled to meals from
outside. I once went in to order a dinner
for a friend who was lying ill in an
adjacent apartment house, and the first
question asked was “Is it a cut-up?
Prisoners are not allowed knives, so “cut-
ilfto TerT are
*‘* * *
“Lord Luvus”: After surveying the
Defence rally in Melbourne from various
positions I am obliged to confess, as a
“I was all set to propose to you after supper and I lost my nerve.”
“What happened?”
“I saw the wife.”
congenital pacifist, that the methods of
the anti-war enthusiasts are hopelessly
out-of-date. If I had anything to do
with it I would agitate for a law compel-
ling civilians to wear military uniform
and for soldiers to go about in sac suits,
I came to this conclusion after observing
a Light Horseman and a citizen sil-
houetted against the searchlights at the
Exhibition. The Light Horseman’s
turned-up hat was set at a rakish angle
and he looked as grand and noble as a
seventeenth-century cavalier. The civi-
lian alongside him, possibly his brother,
looked as aestheticaly beautiful as a wet
hen and as physically insignificant as
a lame dog. I would be surprised if his
mind didn’t reflect the melancholy sad-
ness of his miserable hat. Then there
were Garrison Artillery men, R.A.N.R.
lads, R.A.A.F. boys and infantrymen in
smart blue tunics, all looking as full of
male self-confidence as so many birds of
paradise. If the Act I envisage became
law there would be a rush to get into
civilian uniform and enlistments for the
army would fall to vanishing point.
* * T *ti +*. a AA *
Youngest Inhabitant : Add to th
attractions of Pinchgut (B. 14/2/ 34) the
large ancient brass gong which for many
years guided harbor traffic when thick
fogs descended. Its clarion voice carried
an astonishing distance. The tower itself
is the only martello remaining in Aus-
tralia. Originally it was to have been
65ft. tall, but such a height was con-
sidered dangerous for the discharge of
cannon. Pinchgut, in the days of Phillip,
is generally pictured as a large, low-lying
rock, but actually it was a rocky, conical
peak, rising 70ft. above the water and
studded with stunted shrubs and rank
grasses.
* * * *
“Koopartoo”: There were some queer
escapes from the old St. Helena prison,
down the river from Brisbane. One
unsuccessful bid for freedom was made
by a man who had been a butcher, a
vocation which gave him considerable
freedom on the island, for he looked
after the milkers, too. One night he led
the Jersey bull off the beach into the
water When he got the animal swim-
ming he hopped aboard, and by judi-
cious splashes steered his mount for the
mainland. He was going strong when the
warders missed him, but a searchlight
picked him up and a motor-boat soon
overhauled him. He took his recapture
philosophically, but when the warders
suggested that’ he should ride the bull
back he demurred. “No fear,” he told
them ; “I got him this far— you take him
back.”
* * * *
“J. 8.”: I think I may claim the largest
private collection of Emden souvenirs
in Australia (B . 14/2/’34). Besides those
“Kantine Emden” chits mentioned, I have
several of the same tokens issued in Ger-
man ships sunk in the war, such as the
Gneisenau and Scharnhorst. Among
other relics are hatbands, a bayonet, an
officer’s pistol (dented by gunfire), a
boatswain’s Whistle, a thermometer and
a silver plate—belonging to a silver salver
service—bearing the inscription in Ger-
man “To the Officer Corps of the Emden,
Presentation from the State of Emden,
1909.” Chinese traders of Singapore
bought up Emden relics and sold them
to Englishmen, who took a great deal
more interest in them than Australians,
• •••••
“Barangkali”: I have my doubts about
seamen from a cargo steamer pulling
over to the Emden. After the action
the re ]j e f h oat f rom the Sydney had the
greatest difficulty in coming alongside the
E mden; two days later a strong south-
erly gale blew up and the working party
Governor Ross was forced to cease
operations from the sea. For the next six
weebs WO rk was carried out by means
of a fl y j ng _f ox from the Emden’s bows to
shore, approach by boat being im-
possjhle. Malays, directed by one of the
Q un i es _R o ss family, were camped on the
island handy to the Emden and would
certainly have prevented any visit from
the crew of a passing steamer. In Janu-
ary, jj.M.S. Cadmus arrived. Anything
j e ft would have required a ten-ton
crane remove .
*
* * *
“Simon”: During his visit to these
parts Edward P. got on very good terms
with one of the Australian journalists
who recorded his doings. When their
ways were on the verge of parting the
Prince said, “Will you. do something for
me, Smith?” “Certainly,” said Smith,
“only too pleased.” “Well, it’s this way,
said the Prince. “I know you wouldn’t do
such a thing, but I want you to do what
you can to discourage other people writ-
ing things about me which aren’t true,
and which, however kind in intention,
make intelligent people say: ‘Poor
chap!’” I suppose Smith did his best to
pass on the plea ; but it is time it was
repeated on behalf of Prince George. In
a column of slush I read that the Prince
(who was then six) attempted to tickle his
sister while riding in a State coach at the
coronation of his father; that he had to
leave the navy because he was chronically
seasick, and that he smashed up Edward
P. s Rolls-Royce through bad driving,
How would the chap who retailed those
silly things like to have his own life
examined with the same sort of micro-
scope and spread out on the leader page
of a widely circulated newspaper tor all
the world to read?
KING ALBERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A king, and that by more than royal right
Or aught that lineage to a throne may bring,
In name and deed, aye, and in all men's sight,
Always and ever a king.
A king, alike in crown or battle helm,
In loyal tears he earns a tribute just,
Loyal, through good and evil, to his realm
And faithful to his trust.
He saw the land he loved made desolate,
Ravaged and seamed and torn by shot and
steel,
Battered and bathed in blood and trod prostrate
Beneath an alien heel.
The smoke of war lay thick on city and town ;
Implacable and grim the cannon spake
Till, one by one, the iron forts went down—
But him they could not break.
His country's stay and staff —what kinglier part
In years like those or what more royal
role? —•
Its torch unquenchable, its resolute heart,
Its undefeated soul!
A king, upon his scroll the sovereign stamp
Of high resolve and faith unfaltering;
A king in peace or war, in court or camp,
Always and ever a king.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Cotter”: Compulsory sex segregation
of a large part of the youth of Canberra
is being abandoned. It has persisted in
the Federal Capital ever since 100-odd
girl typists were herded by the Commis-
sion into Gorman House, and 200 eligible
males were more or less compelled to
seek shelter in the Hotel Kurrajong,
which was delicensed and turned into a
special “bachelors’ quarters.” The two
buildings are three miles apart —with an
hourly ’bus service, shutting down at 11
p.m.—so here was an effective check to
romantic associations. Now, however,
both houses have been declared open to
either sex. Last week half a dozen girls
broke the ice by transferring to the
“It doesn’t take much to turn a woman’s head”
“No, it doesn’t. That one over there turned and had a good look at you.”
Kurrajong, and numbers of the lads have
been inspecting the few vacant rooms at
Gorman House. Swearing and the plac-
ing of feet on the mantelpiece have been
declared taboo at the Kurrajong. New
supplies of lipstick are coming into Gor-
man. Nature will look after the rest.
“A. de G.”: It is predicted that Prince
George, before his visit to Australia, will
be created Duke of Sussex, the title, it
is added, “being one of those reserved
for members of the royal family.” Still,
the associations that it holds are hardly
such as should make royalty cling to it.
The last Duke of Sussex was one of that
galaxy of disreputable Germanic uncles
which embittered the earlier years of
Queen Victoria. Popularly known as
“Silly Billy” he lived up to his nickname.
He got into a mess by an illicit marriage
in Rome with an English member of the
minor peerage, and his endeavors to get
out of this cost him a lot of time and a
long-suffering country much money. He
also had himself, a very fat Germanic
figure, painted in full Highland cos-
tume, and it is only the occasional re-
production of this ridiculous portrait in
books of memoirs that ever reminds one
of his existence.
* * * *
“Xot”: Why should a man weighing
nine stone pay as much for a suit of
clothes as a man
weighing 18 stone?
I remember getting
a suit for five
guineas, and a man
double my weight
got one from the
same material at
the same price. If
it took six yards to
make me an outfit,
it would take 12
yards to cover the
other man. Putting
down the material
at 10s. a yard the
tailor would make £2 ss. from my deal.
The big man’s 12 yards would cost £6—
a loss of 15s. to the tailor. Is the cor-
pulent person made a present of part
of his suit?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: You don’t have to talk
Shakspeare about “the law’s delays” in
Port Adelaide. The chief officer of the
American ship City of Dalhart appeared
before the local Bench with a young man
in handcuffs. He said “Caught him
stealing in my cabin. Have to sail at day-
break to-morrow.” The prisoner said
“Guilty. But I’ve given him back the
money.” The police said “Three previous
convictions.” The Bench said “Six
months.” Time, from crime to sentence,
24 minutes 30 seconds.
* * * *
“Cheshire Cat”: Sydney “Sun” has dis-
tributed over £lOOO of prize-money
among a number of persons whose
grins were adjudged particularly engag-
\
ing, a device which enabled it to
publish whole pages of smiling Lalages,
chaps displaying excellent teeth to
their best advantage, and young-
sters of both sexes in their sunniest
moods. It is perhaps the first instance
on record where a “lateral upward ex-
tension of the lips” has been shown to
contain a money value per se, apart from
being a mere incidental in a beauty com-
petition or an actor’s outfit. On second
thoughts, though, I can recall through
the mist of years grins that proved lucra-
“Did Peggy’s father follow you when you eloped with her?”
“Yes, and he’s been living with us ever since.”
tive to their possessors. These were dis-
played through horse-collars at English
county fairs when I was a lad—and
maybe they are still if the supply of
horse-collars holds out; the grin with-
out the collar would obviously be a pic-
ture without a frame. The contests were
immensely popular and the prizes often
substantial. But in those days it was the
ugliest grimace that brought home the
bacon.
* * * *
“Rummer”: I’m open to correction,
having never breasted a bar where beer
was dispensed in “butchers” (B. 21/2/’34),
but I had a fixed idea that this particu-
lar measure was favored by persons
whose thirst was below pint-size. David
Christie Murray, who visited these shores
in the early ’nineties and wrote a book
about us, depicted the Sydney larrikin
of the period voicing his discontent with
things in general over his butcher or his
“long-sleever.” A “long-sleever” conveys
its own meaning picturesquely enough;
hence the inference that the “butcher”
was a sort of younger brother of the full-
size thirst-quencher. Still, maybe Christie
Murray picked up some misinformation
on his travels, being a frequenter of Gov-
ernment House and clubs rather than
taverns.
“Vil N.”: Sydney Hebes may be
stumped when asked for a “schooner,”
but ever since the Harbor Bridge was
opened they know what is meant by a
“De G-oot.” The term signifies a mug
with a -.ash.
* * * *
“Petronel”: It is announced that the
N.S.W. police are being “issued with the
latest type of automatic pistol.” This, it
is asserted, contains a new device, sug-
gested by Commissioner Childs, in the
shape of a safety catch which prevents
the pistol from being fired accidentally.
Writer’s acquaintance with automatic
pistols began 30 years ago with the
Mauser. Later experiences were with the
Leuger, the Colt, the Brownings and the
Westley-Richards. All these and every
other brand writer ever heard of had
safety catches—indeed, they were essen-
tial. It would delight me to know what
sort of automatic Mr. Childs has hit upon
which calls for the addition of a safety
catch. There was an automatic revolver
once put on the market under the name
of the Webley-Scott, and this may be the
new police weapon ; if memory serves,
it had no safety appliance. Yet, after
all, there is a much simpler method
of rendering any loaded revolver safe
to carry in pocket or holster. It is to
remove one of the six cartridges and to
let the hammer-point rest in the empty
chamber. That leaves five shots, which
should be plenty.
* * * #
“Gentle Joe”: If ever I am appointed
chief of police in Sydney I will instruct
my staff to study the felt hat worn by
90 p.c. of the male population. The thing
originated, I think, in the Austrian Tyrol,
where it was associated with mountain-
eering, and, more often than not, sported
a feather. Somewhere in the ’nineties
it percolated to Australia, and was
adopted as a headgear by the Australians
and Maorilanders who attended the Boer
War. Those hardy Australasians wore it
with an air—brim on one side cocked
high, on the other low, and a bunch
of plumes on the up-side. That cocked
brim is still the hall-mark of the lad, what-
ever his age, profession or social status,
who cherishes in his bosom the spirit of
adventure. The sober ones who wear
the brim curled up all round (this in-
cludes most parsons and Sunday-school
teachers) don’t gamble. The callow
youths who wear the brim turned down
all the way round (they’ve nearly van-
ished, by the way, since the depression
set in) don’t need to gamble. They boast
papas with many sheep. The chap who
sets his brim up at the back, down at
the front, not a waver one side to the
other, is the stuff of which saints and
devils are made—beware of him, either
way! But the curve in the front of the
brim —how eloquent it is! I’ve seen it
sitting over the brows of kings, arch-
bishops, premiers and editors. It means
to me the brotherhood of sinful man,
and when I see it in George-street (where
it is worn by three out of every five) I
say to myself, “Adam is not dead. We
humans have a kick left in us.”
* ' * * *
“Grenade”: Australian journals have
been publishing a sensational article on
the long-range gun with which the Ger-
mans shelled Paris. The yarn —accom-
panied by evidently faked pictures —told
how the Allies never found out the calibre
or other details of the “secret” gun, which
was removed to Germany and there
hidden. In cold fact the gun had to be
blown up and abandoned by the Ger-
mans in its emplacement. The remains
easily showed what manner of weapon it
was. As for the calibre, it was Biin.,
as shown by the shells which fell in
Paris, many of which were unexploded
duds. Even had there been no complete
shells, measurements of the inner or outer
curvature of the fragments would have
told a dabbler in elementary maths, what
the calibre was.
* * * *
“A.H.S.”: Long-lived malt liquor (B.
8/2/’34)? When the Cape Verde foun-
dered off Williamstown (Vic.) following
a collision with another windjammer, she
took with her a big consignment of
stout. As she lay in the fairway it
was decided to shift her, but three years
elapsed before her cargo was removed
and she was blown up. I grabbed half a
dozen bottles at the auction. The long
immersion in the sea had an extraordi-
nary effect on that stout. It poured out
like treacle, but a single teaspoonful in
a glass of beer made a drink that the
gods in Olympus would have appreciated.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
FORGET IT!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lyons asked the State Premiers to abandon
the idea that the Commonwealth was revelling in
riches. On the contrary, it had an accumulated
deficit of seventeen millions.”
You mustn’t think on hills we’re set
While you are down in ditches,
Or deem because you’re stiff with debt
That vre are choked with riches.
If this is the prevailing view
I Very much regret it;
It’s wildly, palpably untrue —
Forget it, chaps, forget it!
You’re gone a million, in effect,
A thing that makes you chew hard;
But, none the less, you might reflect
We’re seventeen to leeward.
We played the fairy-godma part
When things were bright and sunny,
But now ’tis dilf’rent —have a heart!
How can we find the money?
We know the curse of empty shelves
In cupboard and in larder;
We’re up against the same ourselves
As hard as you—or harder.
Around your doors you say you’ve got
A wolf that’s ever present;
He hangs about ours, too—a lot
Too handy to be pleasant.
In short, compulsion stern we’ve found
To keep, howe’er unwilling,
A rigid watch on ev’ry pound,
An eye on ev’ry shilling.
To all who hint we’ve quantum sufj.
I give the lie explicit.
It’s unadulterated guff.
Dismiss it, chaps; dismiss it!
What’s that? Was this the time to choose
And seize then, last November,
To rocket up our little screws
By seventy-five per member?
It sort of clashes with my plea,
And didn’t I abet it?
Well, yes, perhaps and possibly.
But come, let bygones bygones be,
Forget it, chaps, forget it!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The moisture-proof
“Cellophane” Pack is
exclusive to Craven
“A” Cigarettes and is
your only guarantee
of getting a really
factory - fresh smoke.
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
u
I've smoked them for years
and they never vary"
CRAVENS
in tne new meiituhe-pUrcf
'CELLOPHAN E'.PACK
I
#1
TM
\
. IS
"ife/
POLITICAL POINTS
The Premiers’ conference was just an-
other noisy dud. It mightn’t have been
so had Earle Page been there. The
Cocky leader is not destitute of ideas,
as were the gentlemen present. Also he
would have been less tardy and more
spirited than Lyons in defending the
financial agreement when it was attacked.
“It was obtained at the point of the
pistol,” said Menzies. “No, with machine-
guns,” interposed Collier. That agree-
ment was ratified by the electors of Col-
lier’s and Menzies’s States, and by Aus-
tralia as a whole by just on three to one.
Which shows that the people are more
liberal-minded and have a much keener
appreciation of the need to press forward
towards nationhood than State politicians.
It has been suggested in Melbourne
that the U.A.P. may depose Lyons in
favor of Menzies, so it was generous of
Joseph, speaking to Melbourne’s Young
Nats., to describe the Vic. Attorney-
General’s address at the Premiers’ con-
ference as “worthy to rank amongst the
greatest efforts of the statesmen who have
built up the Commonwealth.” It was
anything but that on the constructive side,
though a very able piece of destructive
criticism. There is no jealousy in Joseph’s
composition, and he has the good temper
which Disraeli described as an essential
of statesmanship. Pity he is so lacking
in other ingredients.
Before leaving London Bruce saw to
the conversion of another lot of high-
priced loans, £21,636,500 altogether, the
issue price being £97 and the term
25 years. Excluding the renewal of
£9,600,000 of four per cents., he has
arranged the conversion of a little over
£100,000,000 with a saving to Australia
of £2,280,000 in interest and exchange.
He has done well for his country, and
would have done better but for Lang
and his tribe.
Hitherto Queensland has not shared as
a State in the benefits of the Bruce con-
versions. The Labor Governments with
which it was blessed during the 14 years
1915-1929 paid high rates of interest for
long-term loans, leaving their successors
to worry about redemption. The Com-
monwealth has the option of converting
£4,274,000 of Queensland three per cents,
maturing in 1947, but the operation
would not pay. However, it is converting
£3,781,700 floated at p.c. (though the
optional period does not actually begin
till July 1), and that will mean a sub-
stantial saving to Queensland.
It would be a good thing if somebody
in authority somewhere, a person to
whom everybody looks up—President
Roosevelt, for instance, or Prime Minister
MacDonald, or even Stevens of N.S.W.
—were to announce that he did not know
what was wrong with the world. It
would clear the air like a thunderstorm.
Stevens, who is an accountant and has
an accountant as Assistant-Treasurer,
put another accountant at the head of
the N.S.W. Government railways, and
was so delighted with the results as to
give him a 25 p.c. rise to £5OOO p.a.,
less financial-emergency reductions. Now
Auditor-General Spence drily reports
that “the estimated railway deficiency of
£1,976,300 was exceeded by £1,384,100,”
and even the £3,360,400 set down
“cannot be accepted without reserva-
tions, as showing the true position.” But
can any Government railway balance
sheet? Queensland announced a “profit”
of £57,600. It was arrived at by wiping
£28,000,000 off capital indebtedness, in
effect transferring the obligation to find
interest on that amount from the railways
to consolidated revenue.
Mackay (Q.) City Council was recently
dissolved by the Government because it
couldn’t agree on the choice of a Mayor.
The election has resulted in the return
of a Labor Mayor and a council made up
of three Labor aldermen and five with
the “anti” brand. Mackay is Forgan
Smith’s own electorate, and as the former
council consisted almost entirely of Labor
aldermen with a Labor Mayor the poli-
tical augurs are busy.
There is no dock on the western side
of the continent, and Fremantle is ask-
ing for one again. Long ago, when loan
money was cheap and plentiful, the Gov-
ernment started work on a graving dock
there —a floating dock would have suf-
ficed, but then there would have been
no electorate-dazzling distribution of dirt-
money—and scooped up huge quantities
of sand and water regardless of expense.
Then one day it woke up and found that
its dock had literally gone west and
£200,000 or so with it. This is presum-
ably one of the “public works not now
returning interest” for which Collier
wants the Federal Octopus to undertake
the liability.
“Learning that it was proposed to invite Sir Philip Game to visit the district, militant
Cessnock miners declared him ‘black.’”
“Gam! Why ain’t yer white like us?”
A cablegram dated February 19 men-
tioned that Lyons’s offsider Parkhill was
“satisfied with the work of the Postal
Congress which he attended,” and was
making a “leisurely” progress overland,
“visiting Budapest, Vienna, Berlin and
Paris,” being due at London on March
20. The average taxpayer would give a
year of his life to have a month s
“leisurely” progress on the same terms —
salary, fares and hotel expenses paid,
together with those of a retinue—but he
never has the chance.
A stranger might imagine from the
wails of the Premiers at Melbourne that
the States get a mere pittance from the
Commonwealth. Last year’s payments
from the Canberra Treasury to its six
little brothers consisted of £7,580,000 in
interest on State debts, £1,188,000
towards State sinking funds, £1,830,000
in special grants and £1,922,000 in
Federal road grants, as well as £2,000,000
for wheatgrowers’ relief. Exclusive of
the wheat grant, they will get £12,981,000
this year —approximately 30 p.c. more
than the whole of the revenue collected
by S.A., W.A. and Tasmania in 1914-15
inclusive of the Commonwealth per capita
grants!
Next to Lang, Garden is the greatest
asset the N. S. Wales U.A.P. has. Being
in Melbourne, on his way to Adelaide
to see one of the several Lang factions
there, he announced the decisions of the
“unity conference” before it met. Lang
Labor is to be recognised as the official
N.S.W. branch of Federal Labor, and
members of the present Fed. Lab. organi-
sation are to be admitted “with full privi-
leges” ; but not Willis, McDicken and the
rest who have joined it since they were
expelled. Lang Laborites are so wild
with the clumsy fellow for spilling the
beans that they are talking of trying to
get him expelled.
The Government of India is about to
try to soothe the savage breast of the
Pathan with wireless music. From a
station at Peshawar, villages where snip-
ing is now the principal recreation are to
have their ears assailed by jazz bands and
crooners. Meanwhile, the army is oiling
its gun.
Russia has got the confiding Mac-
Donald’s signature to a new trade agree-
menh one article of which provides that
the Red propaganda factory in London
is to enjoy diplomatic privileges. The
victory was celebrated in the Bolshie
fashion by a hunger march to London,
organised by Communists with the bless-
ing of the Third Internationale ; and it
is recorded that 5000 regular constables
had to be withdrawn from their beats
(specials were substituted) to prevent
riots. Previous agreements weren’t worth
a row of pins to Britain, though they
gave the Reds a convenient centre for
stirring up seditious movements all over
the Empire ; but the hope that the robber
republic will reform springs ever in the
MacDonald breast.
Commenting on Lands Minister Troy’s
report that, according to local opinion,
50 per cent, of the men remaining on the
south-west group settlements will never
succeed, Westralia’s “Primary Producer”
reminds him that from first to last “4900
settlers have passed through the groups
and 3500 have gone to other avocations.”
Still, they did not pass without leaving
traces of their passage. The Government
has the mortgages.
Taxpayers in all States complain that
taxation departments have too much
power, but the shiftless Commonwealth
Government evidently considers that they
haven’t enough. It has virtually left it to
the Deputy Commissioners to decide
whether the wheat bounty should or
should not be paid to individual appli-
cants ; as a State Minister put it to a
deputation, “the Deputy Commissioner
will have to O.K. all claims.” Farmers
are fo be paid so much an acre
—4s. to ss. perhaps—and they have
to send certificates of acreage and
declarations that they had no taxable
income in 1932-33 to their Agricultural
Department, which will pass the papers
on to the tax-gatherers. In the choicest
spirit of red tape, even farmers who are
to be denied the bounty because they
paid tax must comply with these formali-
ties.
Although Hamilton ought to be one
of the safest of Labor seats, the Lang-
sters were strangely nervous about the
Assembly by-election. For one thing,
their concern owes the northern miners
£3250, apart from what they have sunk
in the newspaper over which Lang holds
a first mortgage. Then its executive —
overriding, as at Bulli, the principle of
local selection —gave the nomination to
an elderly gentleman named Brennan,
who does not live in the electorate,
whereas the U.A.P. put up G. R. Skelton,
a local alderman, who stood as an Inde-
pendent last time. He did very well to
score 7315 against Brennan’s 9282 ; and
evidently in Hamilton, as elsewhere, many
former Labor supporters have sworn off
Langism for life.
In two States university graduates are
admitted to the Leg. Council franchise
without any other qualification. Profes-
sor Whitfield, of Perth, now suggests that
after each State election
two graduates under 30, who have studied
political and constitutional history and econo-
mics, should be selected by the Govern-
ment, from several nominations by the Uni-
versity, to sit in Parliament, with the right to
speak but not to vote.
The House of Reps, has a member of that
sort. He talks heaps of bosh, but at
least he is no prig. Young graduate
members placed in the same relation to
a House of older men could scarcely help
being priggish. Professors give birth to
some idiotic ideas.
“Offsider” to The Bulletin:
“Old enemies” may “speak with honeyed
tongues” at Sydney meetings of the Fed. Lab.
organisation (B. 21/2/’34) but the executive is
no happy band of brothers. It is divided into
three groups: (1) the Bailey-Catts clique, which
try to run the show; (2) old stalwarts of the
movement, such as Arthur Griffith, “Jupp” Gar-
diner and Ted Riley, M.H.R., who have no
time for the Bailey-Catts faction; and (3) a
set of novices known as “the Speakers’ Class,”
without any outstanding personality amongst
them. These more or less discordant elements
are held together by their desire to maintain
the A.L.P. against the Garden-Grant break-
away section, and by their determination that
Lang shall not become Federal Labor leader.
And also, no doubt, by the reflection
that if the seven make a Donnybrook of
it they will cease to be a party.


ANYWAY, HE HAD HIS DAY!


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The Worlds Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 150,541 ACRES-OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales ar d Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building;, 58 Margaret Stree*, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Fine Diamonds
£55
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£3O
e
Fine Diamonds
£3O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£35
Fine Diamonds
£22
Fine Diamonds
£2B
Fine Diamonds
£l7
""THE diamonds used in the rings illustrated are
guaranteed finest quality Blue White Gems —the
illustrations representing actual size. Hand-made
throughout with Pure Platinum Settings these rings
represent the best value in
Australia. Write for selection
on approval. A Catalogue of
Rings, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Silver and
Wedding
Presents
sent post
free on re-
quest.
HARDY EROS
SYDNEY BRISBANE
13 Hunter St. 116 Queen St.
, LTD.
MELBOURNE
338 Collins Street
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays:
A. C. C. Holtz (Melb. “Argus”), 60, on Ist;
ex-N.S.W. Customs Collector W. H. Barkley,
65, J. B. Cramsie (meat expert), 63, Eric
Spooner (N.S.W. Local Govt. Min.), 43, and
ex-Q’land Senator Brig.-Gen. Thompson, 71,
on 2nd; author Rev. Dr. Frank Boreham, 63,
and S.A. C.P. leader Malcolm Mclntosh, 46,
on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 70, and A. K.
Dein, M.H.R. for Lang, 45, on 4th; Vic.
Senator-knight Lawson, 59, and Col. Spain
(Syd.), 66, on sth; Major-Gen. Bruche, 61, and
naturalist David Stead (N.S.W.), 57, on 6th;
Dr. /Eneas McDonnell (Toowoomba), 70, on
7th; Lieut. Wm. Dunstan, V.C., 39, and Prof.
R. C. Mills, 48, on Bth; medico-knight Colin
Mackenzie (Aus. Inst, of Anatomy, Canberra),
57, on 9th; artist-knight John Longstaff, 72,
Lieut.-Col. J. P. Fry (Bris.), 54, and A. G.
Ogilvie, M.H.A. (Tas.), 43, on 10th; Walter
Bennett, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 70, on 11th; knight
Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 55,
medico-knight Richard Stawell (Melb.), 70, G.
S. Knowles (Federal Solicitor-General), 52,
Prof. F. A. Todd (Syd.), 54, and N.S.W. Sena-
tor Arthur Rae, 74, on 14th; Archbishop
Hayden (Hobart), 66, knight Wm. Goodman
(Adel. Tramways Trust), 62, Mat Charlton (ex-
Federal Labor leader), 68, and Prof. W. R. B.
Gibson (Melb.), 65, on 15th; N.S.W. Govt.
Geologist L. F. Harper, 61, on 17th; Prof. E.
R. Holme (Syd.), 63, novelist Bernard Cronin,
50, artist Louis McCubbin, 43, and Alex. Mel-
rose (Adel.), 45, on 18th; Capt. W. D. Joynt,
V.C., 45, on 19th; Vic. ex-Governor Somers,
47, poet Arthur Bayldon, 69, Federal Speaker
Mackay, 62, Ben Fuller, 59, and Rev. John
Armour (Q.), 45, on 20th; E. A. Atherton (ex-
Q’land Min. for Mines), 55, and Monsignor
Lonergan (Administrator, St. Patrick’s Cathe-
dral, Melb.), 46, on 22nd; Minister C. W. C.
Marr, M.H.R., 54, Vic. ex-Agent-Gen. Geo.
Fairbairn, 79, E. W. Parkes (Clerk of House
of Reps.), 61, and novelist Roy Bridges, 49,
on 23rd; Vice-Admiral Ernest Gaunt, 69, and
N.S.W. Minister Bruxner, 52, on 25tli; knight
Harry Gullett, M.H.R., 56, ex-W.A. Senator
de Largie, 75, Prof. Melville (Adel.), 32, J. G.
Baylev (ex-M.H.R. for Oxley, now Q’land
M.L.A.), 52, on 26th; Vic. Minister John Allan,
68, Peter Board (ex-Director of Educ., N.S.W.),
76, Federal Public Service Commissioner W. J.
Clemens, 61, and Prof .-knight Wm. Mitchell
(Adel.), 73, on 27th; former W.A. Premier
Walter James, 71, J. S. Macdonald (director
of N.S.W. Art Gallery), 56, Assist.-Defence
Minister Josiah Francis, 44, N.S.W. Solicitor-
Gen. C. E. Weigall, 64, and author Alex. Chis-
holm, 44, on 28th; Prof. T. G. Tucker (Melb.),
75, G. V. Brooks (Speck’s Director of Educ.),
57, W.A. Agent-Gen. knight Hal Colebatch,
62, and L. V. Biggs (Melb. “Age”), 61, on
29th; N.S.W. Gov. Philip Game, 58, and Speck
Senator Sampson, 52, on 30th; Bishop O’Col-
lins (Geraldton), 42, S.A. Premier Butler, 49,
Bishop-Coadjutor Wylde (Bathurst), 54, Adel.-
born Prof. W. Lawrence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel
Prize winner), 44, N.S.W. Chief Sec. Chaffey,
46, Hon. W. L. R. Clarke, M.L.C. (Vic.), 58,
and ex-Federal Speaker Norman Makin
(M.H.R. for Hindmarsh), 45, on 31st.
PETER TAIT, grazier and banker.
Peter Tait and A. F. Bell, who have
joined the Commonwealth Bank Board,
are wide as the poles apart in nature and
in training. Tait is tall, lean, and has
the self-reliant and silent manner of the
bushman. When he speaks, however, he
usually has a good deal to say in a very
few words. He knows the pastoral in-
dustry as very few men know it, and
long coping with seasonal vagaries has
made him equable and level-headed in
both good and bad times. Bell, on the
other hand, is the type of Scotchman
who does not let commerce dim his in-
terest in everyday things. His tastes are
catholic. He is bright, frank and un-
assuming, but underneath a pleasant and
often light-hearted exterior he hides a
A. F. BELL, new Commonwealth Bank
Board member.
sound and well-docketed knowledge of
business conditions and a strong will.
The pair will strengthen the board.
“Brogi”: Few can boast, like Jbhn
Sonnerdale, who soon will have stamped
his brand on a million Australian-made
motor gears, that they landed in Aus-
tralia hanging to the tail of a pig. In the
’seventies a Swedish vessel with young
Sonnerdale as an apprentice was wrecked
on King Island, Bass Strait. In the
struggle towards shore he and the ship’s
pig were thrown together ; and thus they
landed. Since little other foodstuff swam
ashore, pork was on the menu for days
and days and days.
John Sloane Gordon, of Glen Alpine,
Werris Creek (N.S.W.), a noted pastoral-
ist and judge of sheep, is dead at 80. He
pioneered sheep in the Walgett district
and built up the Brewon and Guiseley
merino stud. His early life was one of
droving, jackerooing and station oversee-
ing in the Riverina and Tumut districts,
and from 1881 to 1916 he was manager
for J. K. and W. H. Mackay. Through his
foresight over 80,000 sheep on Brewon
station were saved in the ’9O floods by
the building of earthwork enclosures and
rafts.
It is no secret that Melbourne’s Cen-
tenary Committee has had difficulty in
finding distinguished guests for the city to
be nice to, but it hasn’t drawn a total
blank. Former South Australian Maurice
Hankey, erstwhile secretary to the British
Cabinet, has said “I will.” Lord Lloyd,
once High Commissioner for Egypt and
Governor of Bombay, is another Empire-
builder. The star exhibits, however, will
be Malcolm Campbell and Marconi.
Phillips, Queensland’s Government
Printer, who is retiring after 47 years of
service among official types, has been a
good servant to many Governments. He
was an unassuming man, and the office
found him something of a rest after the
boundless energy of Anthony Cumming,
who was ever involved in war for some
cause or principle, and who cared so little
for man or demon that he decorated the
present G.P. Office, which was built under
his supervision, with two hideous gar-
goyle caricatures of a Minister with
whom he had had a difference. On State
occasions he used to put a green wink-
ing lamp in the right eye of one effigy
and a red winking lamp in the left eye
of the other, and the effect was such
that the contumacious honorable wished
that he had never seen Anthony.
The last of Victoria’s full-blooded abos.
are at least going to enjoy a sort of im-
mortality. An expedition lately went to
Lake Tyers, where the remnants of the
stone-age man linger. Prof. Wood Jones
dealt with their anatomy, Dr. Edward
Ford and Donald Thomson with general
measurements, and Percy Leason painted
their facial physiognomy. This is the
first comprehensive record that has been
attempted. There are only half a dozen
full-bloods left.
“Hunter Grubb”: The 28-year-old Earl
of Suffolk, who first came to Australia
as a deckhand on a windjammer and
later took up a Darling Downs sheep pro-
perty, is to be married in London to
a pretty blonde actress. The future
Countess is a niece of a former Governor
of Ceylon (Lord Chalmers). The Earl
himself is the head of the Protestant
Howards. His father was killed in France
in 1917. His mother was one of the
American Leiters, of canned-meat fame,
a daughter of Levi Leiter, whose other
daughter became the first wife of the
late Lord Curzon of Kedleston.
Frank Milner was one of the brilliant
students who made Nelson College
famous in the ’eighties—he went there
about the time that Rutherford left,
floated through the school on a substan-
tial raft of scholarships, took his M.A. at
the Maoriland University in 1896 with
first-class honors, plunged into school-
mastering at his old school, and, after
ten years there, became headmaster at
Waitaki High School, Oamaru. There
after 28 years he seems as permanent
as the buildings. He is an ardent pub-
licist, was president of the Secondary
Schools Association, M.L. representative
at the Pan-Pacific Educational Conference
FRANK MILNER, headmaster, Waitaki
High School, Oamaru, M.L.
of 1921 and at the Canadian Educational
Conference at Vancouver eight years
later. He was a senator of the Dominion’s
University for a couple of years, and is a
vice-president of its League of Nations
Union. He is a keen tennis player in
his spare time. A C.M.G. was hung on
his name a few years ago.
Queensland has several country-town
men who have made themselves felt
outside their towns and State. Walter
Darker, with Ipswich (Q.) coal interests,
and a finger in many an Ipswichian pie,
is one of them. Two years ago he was
president of the Associated Chambers of
WALTER DARKER, a major prophet of
Rotary.
Commerce of Australia, and last year he
journeyed to America to receive appoint-
ment as governor of the 76th district
of Rotary. This puts him in charge of
all the Rotary clubs from Sydney to
Cairns. He is a bachelor in his early
fifties.
For the first time in Australian history
a Chinese boy has been elected dux of
one of the great public schools. He is
Maurice Gooey, a Melbourne-born boy,
and the school is Scotch College. Maurice
was head probationer last year, has won
his double blue and a senior scholarship
to Ormond College. His specialty is pure
mathematics. A crowd of young white
Australians cheered the announcement
enthusiastically.
Prof. Otto Sobell, lately dead in Mel-
bourne, had a busy career. A Tanunda
(S.A.) boy, he was the very first winner
of the Thomas Elder scholarship for
music, and left at 17 for Europe and a
training at the Royal College. He sang
“Tannhauser” and other roles at Covent
Garden and all about Europe. In
1914 he came back, at Marshall Hall’s
invitation, to the staff of Melbourne Con-
servatorium. He was reputed to speak
14 languages.
The Australian Forces will lose their
Chief of the General Staff when Major-
General Bruche retires in April. Bruche
had an early love for the sea, which he
has continued by making sailing a hobby
and an interest in sailing clippers' one of
his recreations ; and he is a member of
the Old Salts’ Club. He is also a
barrister; but he joined the Victorian
Permanent Forces as a young man, and,
after volunteering for the Boer War and
seeing service in it, returned to a job in
the Commonwealth Defence Forces. In
the Big War he rose to be Q.M. General
of the sth Division. He was command-
ant in turn in several of the States.
Central Queensland has lost a pioneer
cattle-breeder in Lawrence Bauman.
His father, Henry Bauman, settled
on Bauhinia Downs in the ’fifties and
held country on the Dawson in the wild-
black days. The old man lost everything
in ’75, but immediately took up Try-
phinia Vale in the Dingo district. Law-
rence was associated with Tryphinia
from the beginning. After the big
drought a generation ago he selected
part of the station and turned it into a
thoroughly organised and well-improved
grazing farm. Black Polls were his
specialty, and he often exhibited at Rock-
hampton Show. A numerous progeny
survives him —three sons, six daughters,
24 grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.


%
9
9
m
s
\
■i
B
Die
IS
i
52S
m
m
m
■
m
1 f§
H
1 he story of a 50-year-old firm which has developed into the
largest organisation of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere
Fifty years ago, before the crack of whip and the beat
of hoofs gave way to the toot of horns and the purr
of powerful cars, Holden’s Wholesale Leather and
Saddlery business was started at Adelaide. In 1917,
when the firm was then engaged in making horse-
drawn coaches, the first motor car body was built at the
request of a conference of motor distributors in Sydney.
In that first year of production, 100 bodies were
built. In recent years production has swelled to over
45,000 bodies for one year.
Holden’s always has been, and is today, a British
Company ; the enormous body building plant uses
Australian material wherever possible; it provides
employment for thousands of Australians directly
and in a number of allied industries; and its profits are
distributed entirely to its shareholders, most of
whom are Australians.
To possess the largest motor body building organ-
isation in the Southern Hemisphere's an achievement
in the development of secondary industry of which
Australians might be justly proud . . .
Subsidiary Activities:
In addition to the manufacture of motor car bodies,
Holden’s Woodville plant fabricates many spare parts
and motor fittings as well as Holdex Filing Cabinets
and modern Posture Chairs.
At Woodville, Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, there is a Holden Repair and
Service Branch, each of which is com-
pletely equipped to render any motor
car service for any make of car.
And in Australia,every good
Australian should show
interest in the development
of secondary industries, par-
ticularly those that have
earned a name for quality in
other parts of the world.
In this direction Holden’s
have won a proud reputa-
tion. Their meticulous care
and sound organisation have
engendered a world of sig-
nificant meaning into the
phrase—“Body by Holden.”
Holden’s Body Building Plant at Woodville, South
Australia, covers an area of 40 acres, giving over
1,000,000 square feet of factory floor space. In normal
times over 3,000 men and women are employed;but this
figure has reached as high as 5,500 in the peak periods.
The plant has over 20 departments. These include
the Designing and Drawing Office, Pattern and Die
Making Department, Press Shop, Panel Fabricating
Department, Upholstery Fabrication Department,
Assembly Line, on which Framing, Panelling, Up-
holstering and Painting are carried out, Spare Parts
Manufacturing, Timber Mill with modern Season-
ing Kilns, etc.
Every Holden body passes through each of these
departments under the constant care of highly skilled
operators. Every Holden body is carefully designed
and built to conform in every detail to even the most
exacting of specifications. Holden coach work carries
the stamp of quality, and is guaranteed to be correct
in material and measurement, for it must pass no less
than 1,213 progress inspections before it is finally
ok’d for delivery.
To progressive Australian motor car distributors
“Body by Holden’’ is regarded as the finest com-
plement to accompany a good chassis. A
“Body by Holden” is on the latest
models of Austin 10, Buick, Chevrolet,
Standard, Plymouth, Oldsmobile, Vaux-
hall Senior, Vauxhall Light Six, Willys
“77,” and Pontiac, as well as on
many of the most popular trucks.
HOLD E N ’ S
Holden's Motor Body Builders Division of General Motors - Holdens Limited
WOODVILLE . . . MELBOURNE . . . SYDNEY . . . BRISBANE
81233M/A


“What an Executive
Should Know”
The most famous little hook
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
(Division of Hemingway & Robertson),
Executive Training for Business Men.
38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney;
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
GOLD - BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight) by post. We will assay and report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY.LD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street, Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vic.).
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors:
0 E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD THOS. BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman', J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
L
é
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton Brewery, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 94,602 5 p.c. a 2,392 92,210 948,338
Cash distribution, 4s. per share, £79,906 868,432
Unexplained additions, £10,786 .. 879,218
Reserves capitalised, £770,017 . . .. 109,201
1924.. 97,485 * = 86,083 11,402 120,603
Unexplained additions, £20,786 . . 141,389
1925.. 112,060 12 p.c. = 98,038 14,022 155,411
1926.. 121,010 14 „ ~114,379 6,631 162,042
1927.. 130,616 14 „ „ 114,379 16,237 178,279
1928.. 131,188 14 „ ~ 114,379 16,809 195,088
1929.. 130,021 14 „ ~114,379 15,642 210,730
1930.. 102,022 10J „ „ 85,784 16,238 226,968
1931.. 73,925 8 „ „ 65,359 8,566 235,534
1932.. 71,102 8 „ „ 65,359 5,743 241,277
1933.. 73,799 8 „ „ 65,359 8,440 247,717
*Div. at rate of 5 p.c. p.a. with 2s. bonus paid in
first half ; 11 p.c. p.a. paid on increased capital
in second half.
It led the way in the big Carlton and
United merger in 1907, and is the chief
of half a dozen holding concerns through
which the public is interested in the big
operating concern which now supplies
Victoria with most of its beer. The
actively-traded pound shares reached
their highest point (545. 6d.) in 1929. As
the outlook darkened the price fell
rapidly, touching 19s. on a nervous and
oversold market in September, 1930.
Then, as conditions became more settled
and money cheapened, the figure
advanced steadily, reaching 455. 6d. last
week-end, an improvement of 9s. over the
last twelve months. At 455. 6d. the return
is 3i p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis ; so the
investor who looks for a shade under
4% p.c. on his money counts on a 10 p.c.
distribution.
The holdings of the co. and its sub-
sidiary in the C.U.B. are as follows:
C.U.R. Shares. Book Value.
Carlton .. .. 400,000 ords. £400,000
36,203 prefs. 45,254
Victoria .. . - 167,500 ords. 167,500
15,160 prefs. 18,950
At the end of Dec. the old brewery pre-
mises figured at £90,000 ; other freeholds,
£58,189; amounts due under contract,
£10,360 ; loans, cash, etc., £259,717. There
was only £10,092 coming to creditors.
C.U.B. paid 10 p.c. for the year to
June 30 last as against 10, 11| and 15 p.c.
for the three preceding years, and 17| p.c.
for the three years before that. There
was thus little variation in Carlton’s
income for the 12 months of 1933:
C.U.B. Vic. Co.’s
and Vic. Rents, Surplus
Dec., Cos.’ Divs. Interest, etc. Profits.
1926.. £100,883 £27,821 £2366
1927.. 106,336 26,985 5446
1928.. 106,336 28,638 5493
1929.. 106,336 28,310 5121
1930.. 89,430 30,910 3532
1931.. 67,073 24,564 599
1932.. 61,620 20,765 339
1933.. 61,620 20,742 1493
Exes. (£10,056) were £1227 lighter, leav-
ing the net result at 9 p.c. on the £816,992
of capital as against 8.7, 9, 12.5 and 15.9
p.c. back to 1929.
For the 12 months to the middle of
1933 C.U.B.’s declared net earnings were
12.2 p.c. on its £1,950,000 of capital com-
pared with 12.2, 11.4, 12.3, 17, 21.6 and
22.8 p.c. back to 1928. With employment
on the increase, spending a little less re-
stricted than it was, real-estate values
steadier, a 40 p.c. cut in the special tax on
income from property and bits taken off
land and other taxes, prospects of the
board being able to distribute a little
more if it wants to are encouraging.
Also, Melbourne’s centenary celebrations
and the visit of Prince George should
mean much to the breweries and hotels.
On the basis of last year’s figures, an
extra 1 p.c. from the C.U.B. would raise
Carlton’s net result to a shade under 10
p.c. on its capital.
Australian Stock Breeders
r Dividends N To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. , —Pref. —Ord. serves, serves.
1924.. 17,687 8 p.c. = 6355* Nil 11,332 3,122
1925.. 9,029 8 „ ~ 7920 Nil 1,109 4,231
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 29,152 Nil Nil 24,921
1927.. 31,370 Nil Nil 56,291
1928.. 1,778 Nil Nil 58,069
1929.. 5,089 Nil Nil 63,158
1930.. 3,499 Nil Nil 66,657
1931.. 8,865 Nil Nil 75,522
1932.. 143,585 f Nil Nil —219,107
Loss on sale property, £4125 .. 223,232
Accrued pref. divs., £68,597 291,829
1933.. 7,202 Nil Nil 299,031
*Tvvo years, flncludes writing-down of properties, etc.
Since Europe turned to baby beef
from S. America, the story of the run-
owner outback in Queensland, where un-
certain rains, dry Mitchell grass, saltbush,
gidya and mulga produce slow-maturing
beasts, has been one of lost markets,
drought, falling prices and rigid costs.
Thus this co. has not balanced on the
right side since 1925. Including the writ-
ing-down of properties and livestock (it
was mainly responsible for the big loss
in 1932), and £68,597 of accrued pref.
divs., losses over the last eight years
aggregate no less than £303,262, leaving
the deficit on shareholders’ account at
£299,031.
There is £325,597 of share capital in
218,330 ords. and 107,249 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. To put the business on a more
or less even keel, it was proposed to wipe
out the whole of the ord. capital, cancel
the arrears of pref. divs., convert the
existing pref. shares into ords., and issue
£70,000 of new 5 p.c. prefs. in satisfac-
tion of a debt to the Q.M.E. of a like
amount. Permission was sought from the
Court to do this, but the co.’s memoran-
dum barred the way to sanction of the
scheme, and there the matter stands until
the memorandum is either altered or com-
plied with. Excluding accrued divs., the
whole of the ord. and £12,104 of the pref.
capital was unrepresented by tangibles
when the books closed.
Last year Tarbrax, the co.’s sheep
station, showed satisfactory results ; but
these and £7202 besides were swallowed
by losses on the cattle-runs. Also, there
was a loss of £4125 on the sale of Spring-
field,, to help buy which the pref. capital
was got in about 10 years ago. The fat-
tening of stock, bred on the co.’s other
stations, will now be concentrated at
Lyndhurst, which is one of the finest
cattle properties in Queensland.
Good rains have improved the imme-
diate outlook, and development of the
chilled-beef trade with Britain holds pos-
sibilities for the industry. Still, N.Q. pro-
perties are unlikely ever to provide
regular supplies of suitable beasts for any
length of time, the chairman says. It is
up to the Government, therefore, to take
the long view, and assist both itself and
the industry by adjusting Crown rentals
on the basis of values in the Smithfield
(Eng.) market, where the beef is sold.
The lumping of freehold, leasehold,
plant and livestock in one untidy entry
at £291,629 (down £17,217, mainly on
account of the sale already referred to)
obscures a clear view of the co.’s posi-
tion: —
1926. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Capital .. £325,579 £325,579 £325,579 £325,579
Creditors .. 89,951 222,673 210,376 275,565*
Property,
plant and
livestock. . 383,919 436,004 308,846 291,629
Stores, etc... 2,972 2,358 2,310 3,623
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 3,717 4,367 5,692 6,861
* Includes £68,296 of accrued divs. •
The growth of £65,189 in liabilities is
due to the inclusion of accrued divs. The
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£206,969, including the bank) was re-
duced by £3407.
The market, hoping that the board will
realise that the ords. are at least entitled
to a deferred claim upon the future (it
doesn’t matter whether their token of
ownership is a penny or a pound) prices
them at lid. For the prefs. 2s. is offered.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Bee.. Net Profit. serves, serves.
lews 12 478 7 p.c. = 15,750 24,332
1094 3 " 21 725 7J„ „ 16,875 4850 29,182
1924.. ‘3 »» ” , . -ten _ 97 214
1925.. 13,882 7 „ „ 15,750 - 27,314
1927 23S t ::BJS - ?IS
1928.. 8,030 5 „ „ 11.250 15,038
W 29.. 3,082 21 .. ,
Provision for doubtful debts, £lO 226 1 60> 801
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 )
1930.. 8?199. Nil - WOO
1931.. 30,021* Nil Ig’ooO
1932.. 16,474* W Zfßo
1933.. 18,011* Nil 7o,uui
* Debited to contingency reserve.
This old-established wholesale dry-goods
house —the business was set on its feet
by David Mitchell in the sixties of last
century with money he had made store-
keeping at Ipswich (Q.)—has wide con-
nections in the country, and its funds
are used largely in carrying stocks tor
clients. It has never yielded much in
the way of profits: for the 10 generally
flush years to the end of 1929, reserves
had to be tapped for £21,324 in order
to pay divs. averaging 6.5 p.c. Then,
owing to the plight of wheat and other
farmers, the small storekeeper has been
unable to meet the wholesaler’s bill in
full, while demand has been restricted
to the cheaper lines, carrying margins
too narrow to support costs, including
the cost of distribution, on their .present
basis. Trading has thus resulted in a
loss for each of the last four years,
while bad debts have exceeded expec-
tations and the Kent- and Clarence-
street properties have been a drag.
These figures show precisely what has
happened: —
f Losses \
Property
Trading. Upkeep. Bad Debts. Total.
1930.. £8,189 £10,226 £18,415
1931.. 8,542 £3708 17,771 30,021
1932.. 5,579 3223 7,672 16,474
1933.. 3,932 2968 11,111 18,011
£26J242 ' £9899 £46,780 £82,921
At the close of accounts in 1930 £69,070
was set aside for contingencies ; there is
£4564 of it left, and it is deducted from
debtors’ balances in the sheet.
Whether the £75,000 (= 6s. Bd. per
share) of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles at the end of Dec. will increase
depends upon what the co.’s experience
in respect of bad debts in the future will
be. Here is the position so far as
balance-sheet figures show it:
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages, etc. 55,633 42,557 42,546 42,478
Overdraft . . 51,540 70,376 68,933 74,341
Sundry creditors 29,653 26,209 30,423 28,557
Freeholds .. 47,850 47,850 46,650 46,650
Plant .. 4,935 5,280 5,089 6,072
Stocks . . 78,175 51,777 59,060 51,386
Investments.. 22,398 27,968 28,491 28,781
Book debts.. 194,379 187,046 152,537* 162,413*
Cash . . 8,159 8,270 75 74
*After deducting contingency reserve.
The net growth of £9876 in debtors’
balances, notwithstanding the amount
written off for bad debts, suggests that
whatever trade the co. lost through com-
petition on the N. S. Wales North Coast
and in the Riverina was more than made
Up by gains in other centres. Still, the
more or less liquid surplus (£68,497, in-
cluding stocks but not . investments)
slipped £1273. Much depends upon the
success of new lines the co. has intro-
duced, and when the spare properties
can be sold—they are expected to fetch
more than their book value.
The market prices the scrip at 4s. 6d.
Allowing for the reduction of capital by
6s. Bd. per share, the return at 4s. 6d.
would be 5.9 p.c. on a 2 p.c. div. basis.
Australian Soaps, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Net , Dividends — , Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Amt. serves. Deficit.
£ £> £> ' ' £
1931.. 12,405 8 p.c. 5 p.c. = 7687 4718 11,946
Unexplained reduction reserves, £10,282.. 22,282
1932.. 3,314 6.65 p.c. Nil 2660 654 21,574
Loss.
1933.. 23,872 Nil Nil 45,446
After having made a more or less
promising start about 4\ years ago, this
co. now finds itself in deep water.
Strenuous efforts are being made to
rescue it, and the work is proceeding
along the right lines, though some of the
ord. capital may have to be amputated
if the co. is to be left without any in-
herent weakness. It is an amalgamation
of Uptons, Ltd., M. O’Riordan and
Sons and the Alston Soap and Candle
Co. The public put up £40,000 of 8 p.c.
pref. money, which has priority as to
capital and dividends, making paid capi-
tal £179,509. The earnings of the old
cos. were not disclosed, but this Austra-
lian co. netted £4718 more than the
pref. div. and 5 p.c. to the ords. called
for in 1931. The expense of setting up
a factory in Melbourne, where the
co. linked up with the Anglis interests,
is said to have been responsible for the
leanness in 1932, when the ords. were
shown an empty basket.
Actually, the management was not as
efficient as it might have been. This and
price-cutting, which was due partly to
the growth of one-man or family soap-
making concerns, with lighter overhead
than the larger cos., account for most
of the co.’s troubles. However, there
have been changes in the control, fol-
lowed by an overhaul of the organisa-
tion and the accounts. After a revalua-
tion of stocks, gross earnings for the year
to June 30 last (£56,649) show a slip of
£6343. But exes. (£80,521, including pro-
vision for bad debts, etc.) sprang £20,843.
The balance was thus £23,872 on the
wrong side, leaving £45,446 of the capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books
—goodwill figures at £13,351 and pre-
liminary exes, at £9129. That is leaving
out of the reckoning £19,793 (up £3520)
set aside for depreciation, etc. Also, the
figures are subject to Du Menier Labora-
tories, Ltd., carrying out its obligations
under a settlement arrived at out of
court, though exactly what this amounts
to is not mentioned.
This comparison of balance-sheet
figures further reflects the co.’s stormy
passage: —-
1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £219,509 £219,509 £219,509
Overdraft . . . . 13,427 12,565 23,253
Sundry creditors .. 6,717 14,424 16,025
Freehold and plant . . 120,296 121,184 124,145
Shares other cos. . . 5,000 9,900 6,500
Stocks . . . . . . 50,541 64,761 64,329
Book debts, etc. .. 57,958 48,012 38,160
While £10,688 was tacked on to the
overdraft and £l6Ol to the amount com-
ing to trade creditors, £2961 was added
to fixed assets (in at cost), shareholdings
were reduced by £3400 and debtors’
balances, etc., by £9852. The contrac-
tion in the more or less liquid surplus
(£63,211, including stocks) was £22,573.
Now that differences in the trade have
been patched up, temporarily, at any
rate, much will depend upon the savings
the management is able to make and
the thoroughness with which the accounts
were overhauled. The market prices
the pound prefs. at 15s. 3d. They carry
a fixed cumulative 8 p.c. less statutory
cut, which means that there will be £4960
coming to them at next balance. The
cover is £4 7s. in net tangibles. The
ords. are not listed.
Australian Mont de Piete (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 3348 10 p.c. = 3296 52 4,050
Net Depreciation Fund, £719 .. 4,769
1924.. 4346 10 p.c. = 3934 412 5,181
Property reserve, £9907 .. 15,088
1925.. 4580 10 p.c. = 3996 584 15,672
1926.. 5808 12* „ „ 4995 813 16,485
1927.. 5504 12* „ „ 4995 509 16,994
1928.. 5626 12* „ „ 4995 631 17,625
Added property reserve, £14,281. . 31,906
1929.. 4618 111 p.c. = 4495 123 32,029
1930.. 2487 9} „ „ 3796 30,720
Written off stocks, £3148 ■■ 27,572
1931.. 4230 10 p.c. = 3996 234 27,806
1932.. 5360 12* „ „ 4995 365 28,171
1933.. 4263 12* „ „ 4995 27,439
This little co. has been in the three-ball
business in and around Melbourne for
55 years, and for the last 20 of them
divs. have averaged a shade over 11 p.c.
Of recent years it widened and strength-
ened its lending connections by the pur-
chase of several well-established con-
cerns, and earnings have shown remark-
ably little variation, considering the
obstacles which slump, unemployment


Patents.-— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colmson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.- I Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
ulus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc..
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEC
I
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
naaoN
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. AV.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARAVIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: AV. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
fIOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
AVELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
and moratorium legislation have placed
in the way of redemption of pledges and
sale of securities.
Last year gross earnings (£20,473) fell
away £1216, but exes. (£16,215) were got
back £ll9, notwithstanding the move into
new premises—the co. had bought part
of the old Colonial Bank’s freehold on
the corner of Elizabeth and Little Collins
streets. Thus the net result was £1097
lighter at 10.6 p.c. on capital as against
13.7, 10.5, 6.2, 11.5 and 14 p.c. back to
1928. The div. was kept at 12} p.c.,
though reserves were raided for £732 to
do it. The co. obviously has a snug little
business, and the pound shares paid to
17s. 6d, seldom come on to the market.
The net tangible cover is 335. 9d. per
pound of paid capital.
During the boom the co. did very well
out of city real-estate. To help finance
its property purchases the board had
supplemented the share capital (£39,960)
with £51,320 from mortgagees and de-
positors when the books closed in 1928.
Through good luck or good management,
it got out before the break, repaid the
mortgages and most of the deposits, and
sent £14,281 to reserves from profits on
the deals. Last year £11,074 was added
to the freeholds, etc:
1924. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Deposits . . .. £14,810 £4,240 £9,040 £14,790
Mortgages . . 34,390 35,400 34,200
Other liabilities .. 15,233 701 793 6,025
Total liabilities £64,433 £4,941 £45,233 £55,015
Advances, stocks, etc. 40,554 59,022 54,523 55,343
Freeholds, etc. .. 62,084 8,283 52,655 63,729
Liquid assets .. 8,935 7,400 8,683 5,839
To finance the outlay the co. went to
its bankers for £5031, and gathered an
extra £5750 of deposits. At the end of
October the floating debt (£20,815) was
nearly three times covered by liquids,
advances, etc.
Reserve Bank of N.Z.
The 100,000 shares of £5 each in
Maoriland’s Reserve Bank were quickly
snapped, of course. As a sound invest-
ment carrying a cumulative 5 p.c., which
is a shade more than the market looks
for from first-class fixed-interest-bearing
securities at the moment, it would be diffi-
cult to find better, notwithstanding that
shareholders will have very little say in
the policy and the management of the
bank. The maximum individual holding
is limited to 500 shares (= £2500), and
no shareholder, whether in his own right
or by proxy or both, shall be entitled to
more than 500 votes.
The institution, whose primary duty
will be to control currency and credit
with a view to the economic welfare of
the Dominion, kicks off with a reserve
fund of a million, advanced by the State
and to be repaid out of profits. Thus
capital and reserves combined need net
only 1.6 p.c. to pay 5 p.c. on capital alone.
Control is vested in a board of direc-
tors, consisting of a governor, deputy-
governor and seven others, together with
the Secretary to the Treasury, who has
no vote. The Government is to appoint
the whole of the first set of directors,
and will always be entitled to a majority
on the board, thus ensuring that the new
bank “carries Out such monetary policy
as Parliament may enact,” as Finance
Minister Coates puts it. Later, as some
of the directors’ terms of office expire,
shareholders are to elect four of them—
two actively engaged in primary industry
and two in industrial or commercial
pursuits.
It is too early yet to say precisely what
influence the bank will have upon eco-
nomic developments in the Dominion—
that is so far as money policy shapes
such conditions, and it is by no means the
only nor always the most powerful factor
determining them. Much will depend
upon the men the Government appoints
and the policy they adopt. One thing
essential is that there should be genuine
co-operation between the trading banks
and the central bank, whose prestige
should rest upon respect rather than legis-
lative sanction. In this connection the
Government, by seizing the trading
bank’s gold at the statutory, instead of the
market, price of the metal, has not shown
the judgment that might have been ex-
pected of it. However, the appointment
of Leslie Lefeaux, who was assistant to
the governor of the Bank of England,
should mean much so far as the technical
conduct of the new bank is concerned,
and his hands will be strengthened if his
deputy is a man of wide local experience.
Amongst the thorny problems which the
new bank will have to handle. are the
exchange and Treasury-bill questions.
Kandos Cement
Since the co. has more money than
can be employed in the business, it pro-
poses to return £168,465 (= 20 p.c.) of
the capital in cash —4s. per fully-paid
pound share and 2s. per lOs.-paid share.
That will reduce paid capital to £673,863
in 935,920 shares of 16s. each, of which
187,184 will be paid to Bs. On the basis
of last year’s figures, and assuming that
the money to be returned (it was invested
mostly in Consols) netted 4 p.c., the re-
duction would lift the rate of net earn-
ings to capital from 4.8 p.c. to 5.3 p.c.
Following the announcement the fully-
paids, which fetched 19s. 6d. in Septem-
ber last, advanced sharply from 21s. to
235. in the market; it had anticipated a
return of only 10 p.c. of the capital—the
amount mentioned by the board as far
back as 1931. At 235. the net price would
be 19s. for a 16s. share, and the return
4.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
operating co., Australian Portland, in
which Australian Cement (Vic.) also holds
a half interest, may be able to send along
a bit more at the end of the current
term; but the industry remains over-
crowded, and its future is uncertain.
The January gold yield for Queens-
land was 6731 fine ounces, which exceeds
the corresponding yield for 1933 by
27260 z. This is a good start, as 1933
made a decided recovery in gold pro-
duction.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon’s No. 1 bore stopped at
444 ft. without adding anything to the
payable ore reserves of the mine. From
the academic angle it had one point of
great interest: the intersecting of a 2ft.
quartz body, carrying 4dwt. of gold, at
a depth of 366 ft., i.e., below the main
quartz body of commercial ore. From
the point of view of silicification of the
country rock or the formation of ore-
bodies in the Coolon area, it opens up
prospects of deeper bodies somewhere
along the line of lode.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia has decided
not to go ahead with operations on the
Great Northern area at Gympie (Q.)
for the present. This area had the back-
ing of C. G. Gibson. The latest decision
looks like a waiting policy to see how the
other cos. now operating get on. The co.
has joined with Mt. Coolon G.M. in
taking up 18,000 acres of alluvial along
the Burdekin in the Charters Towers dis-
trict. Ex-g.m. Coldham has been in
charge of preliminary investigations.
* * * *
The Queensland Agent-General re-
cently advised his Premier that Imperial
Chemical Industries had agreed to test
samples of Queensland coals for the re-
covery of oils. A snag in the way of
commercial recovery is the high price of
coal at the pit-mouth. It averages
between 16s. and 17s. In Europe coal
prices are 50 p.c. lower.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: Enterprise of New
Guinea, a Melbourne flotation, has
attracted attention. Issued capital is
£8750 in £lO shares —1250 paid to £5 and
250 f.-p. vendors’ shares. Last week
quotes for the contribs. ranged from £25
to £3O on ’Change. The rise followed an
announcement by the directors that they
have conferred with their representative,
just returned from New Guinea, and are
completely satisfied with the arrangements
he has made.. The services of a leading
engineer with New Guinea experience
have been secured, and extensive auri-
ferous areas are being investigated. In
our day we demanded more precise in-
formation, but others besides the directors
seem “satisfied.”
* * * *
Something like a jeweller’s shop has
been met with in the old Beaconsfield
mine (Tas.). The management says “the
shoot of stone at the 140 ft. level has
widened to 3ft., and is carrying coarse
and flour gold up to lOOoz. to the ton.”
The stone is in disturbed country, and the
Beaconsfield crowd may have struck the
missing leg of the western extension of
the Tasmania lode. The old Tasmania
mine, about half a mile away, produced
over £3,000,000 worth of gold. In
Brandy Creek, 250 yards below where the
present formation was struck, large quan-
tities of alluvial gold were won some
years' ago. A 10-ton parcel is being got
out for treatment.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Enterprise, a subsidiary of
B. H. Prop., has made its debut on the
Golden Mile (W.A.), where the parent
has been testing the Enterprise leases,
which adjoin the Boulder Perseverance
and South Kalgurli blocks, for the last
two years. The vendor, Enterprise Syndi-
cate, in which Boulder Perseverance
holds a one-fourth interest, has taken
fully-paids in payment. Portion of the
Enterprise leases was held for years by
the Boulder No. 1. When the area was
abandoned in 1923, the Enterprise Syn-
dicate stepped in and extracted several
thousand ounces of gold before passing
it on to the present owner.
* * *
Claude de Bernales, John Waddington
(chairman of Great Boulder), ex-Gov-
ernor Campion, Protheroe Jones (direc-
tor of Boulder Perseverance) and L. C.
Gutbill (stockbroker) have formed a co.
in London with a nominal capital of
£300,000 in ss. shares to take over 95
acres and some plant on the northern
fringe of the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
Years ago portion of the area produced
about 130,0000 z. of gold, and was then
abandoned owing to high costs and in-
sufficient capital. It is proposed to issue
480,000 6f the shares, and subscribers
will have the right, till June, 1935, to take
up another at par for every two now
allotted. A quarter of the issue has been
reserved for Australian investors.
* * * *
According to cables from London
Associated Northern Blocks has sold the
Iron Duke, Kalgoorlie, to Goldfields
Australian Development, which has also
taken an option over the Gimlet, Ora
Banda. Both properties were good pro-
ducers in the past. At Ora Banda water
was a handicap, but extension of gold-
fields supply has removed that difficulty.
The Iron Duke contained one of the
richest tributes on the Golden Mile—
the Hmchcliffe.
$ * * *
New Venture is raising more capital
to finish testing a number of shows at
Coolgardie (W.A.) and elsewhere. Holders
of the first 100,000 shares, paid to Is.,
are to receive one new share paid to Is.
for each share now held. Another
100,000 shares have been underwritten
by Adelaide, Melbourne, Perth, Sydney
and Singapore brokers.
* * * *
There are indications that all the rich
ore has not yet been taken out of the
Lady Gladys, Mulline (W.A.). In
Kozul’s shaft, rich specimen stone is
being bagged, while a patch of over 3oz.
stuff is reported in Mullin’s shaft; and
good values are being stoped in Moyes’s
shaft. The battery plates are looking
well.
#' * * *
Enterprise Gold’s Callion mine (W.A.),
which C. M. Harris recently suggested
should be abandoned, is still being
worked. On the Eastern lode, 840 ft.
north, the co. struck a reef 27in. wide,
carrying 15dwt. at a depth of 26ft.
Another belt of lOdwt. stuff, 66in. wide,
was cut in No. 2 north winze.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance is expected to
pay another div. presently. After hand-
ing noteholders 50 p.c. of the profits, it
distributed 30s. lOd. per 100 shares of
Is. each in July last. The market thinks
it will do the same again.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(1) Any data regarding the market for smoke-
less fuel (not coke) derived from coal distilla-
tion ? (2) Is it true that smokeless fuel has
ousted raw coal in England from popular
favor for domestic and industrial purposes ?
(3) Present sales of briquettes made at Yal-
lourn, Vic. ? (4) The quantity of coal for all
purposes at present consumed in Australia and
in N.S.W. ?— 309.
(1) Not so far as Australia is concerned.
Smokeless fuel is a more desirable material in
very densely populated areas, such as London,
than it is in the less dense cities of Australia.
(2) No. The production in England of smoke-
less fuel is still but a very small proportion of
the total domestic fuel annually used. (3) About
300,000 tons per annum. (4) Between seven
and eight million tons for Australia, as a whole,
of which N.S.W. accounts for about five million
tons.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.E.8.: (1) Get in touch with Common-
wealth Fertilizers and Chemicals, Ltd., 65 Wil-
liam-street, Melbourne. (2) Most manufac-
turers of super, in Australia obtain their acid
from the roasting of zinc concentrates from
the Barrier. (3) There is a large deposit of
sulphur in New Guinea, the working of which
is under consideration C.H.A.: The co. has
a shore factory to treat whales, but no fleet
with which to catch one; and with the price
of whale oil and costs as they are it is doubt-
ful whether purchase of a fleet is worth while.
Efforts are being made to induce overseas in-
terests to come in. The scrip is not listed:
put it away; it might be worth something some
day R.M.K.: (1) It looks like a good spec.
The ords., which were passed by in ’3l, got
H p.c. in ’32 and 3 p.c. last year. Prospects
of a better showing at June 30 are encourag-
ing. Cannot say definitely what interim div.
will be. (2) The declared aim is to build up
reserves, which might mean that the div. will
be kept down, and the market price of the
scrip therefore fluctuate within narrow limits.
F.L.: Berlei 8 p.c. cum. prefs. at 295. 6d.
return 5.4 p.c. Hordern Bros, and F. T.
Wimble prefs. are also well worth considera-
tion.., .L.S.G.: See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
January, 1934 Wondering: The shares may
turn out to be a better proposition than the
so-called debentures, returns on which may
diminish in the future... .A.8.C.: (1) and (2)
Hold. (3) Walkerville Co-op. Brewing, Castle-
maine-Perkins, McWhirters and Hordern Bros,
prefs. Australian Soap prefs. are a reasonable
spec.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“By Candlelight”
Now and again the Regent, which
changes its films every week, turns on one
that deserves to stay for many weeks.
“By Candlelight” is an example. It might
be taken as an attack on the marriage
tie if it were not an obvious joke, and
treated as such by all concerned. There
isn’t a trace of movie sentiment, much
less movie pashun, in it.
Paul Lukas is butler-valet to Nils
Asther, a philandering prince. When the
prince entertains ladies Lukas has orders
to stage an electric-light failure after leav-
ing the refreshments. The prince likes
to do his lovemaking by candlelight. The
butler admires his master’s technique, and
tries it on Elissa Landi, who thinks he is
the prince. He doesn’t know she is a
lady’s maid. It is awkward for her when
the jealous husband of her mistress arrives
at the prince’s flat, where she is being
entertained by Lukas, and, mistaking
Lukas for the prince, derides him for get-
ting off with a lady’s maid ; and it is
awkward for Lukas when Asther arrives
with the wife of the jealous nobleman
abovementioned, and the lady’s maid
learns that he is a menial. The next
sequence shows the husband, no longer
jealous, telling some men friends the
joke about the prince and his wife’s maid,
in ignorance of the fact that his wife
is at the prince’s flat, where the electric
light has just failed. The whole thing is
composed of cynical situations of that
kind.
The casting is the outstanding feature,
though the photography runs it close.
Lukas has precisely the right voice for
the part he plays; his intonation and
Asther’s are classes apart. No one in
Hollywood could have played the maid
so well as Elissa Landi. Where she differs
from exotics like Garbo and Dietrich is
in the possession of a comedy sense. She
looks beautiful, and at the same time she
is a complete vulgarian and fool of the
refained type. The hearty smack which
the prince gives her towards the end is
an adequate commentary on her behavior.
“Havana Widows”
“Havana Widows” is a joke, too. Joan
Blondell and Glenda Farrell are gum-
chewing, wise-cracking adventuresses. A
degraded being with a lacerating Bowery
twang, and a bowler which he wears on
all occasions practically on the back of
his neck, raises some dough for them
from a gangster, and is put on the spart
when they leave for Havana. Guy
Kibbee appears on the Havana scene
—mostly in his underclothes —and after
the ladies have tried to blackmail him,
and the gangster has chased the dough-
raiser over most of Cuba, Love comes
into its own. It didn’t amuse this critic
much, but farce, like beauty, is in the eye
of the beholder. It certainly amused the
Regent audience on Saturday night.
Elsa Stralia got a great reception in
“Softly Awakes My Heart” and other
numbers.
“Cinderella’s Fella”
The new show at the St. James has
for its hero Bing Crosby, one of America’s
leading radio crooners. A crooner is one
who gives utterance to sentimental
thoughts in a low continuous moan. Mr.
Crosby does this indefatigably while pur-
sued by a French actress (Fifi d’Orsay)
and a romantic maiden (Marion Davies)
who has thrown up school-teaching for
the purpose. The actress, a splenetic,
hysterical creature, takes the lead early in
the picture, but she is soon overhauled
and passed by her rival, who finishes up
as a movie star.
There are some bright patches other-
wise. Ned Sparks, as a poker-faced
movie director, Stuart Erwin, as the
author and financial backer of a film, and
Patsy Kelly, as a caustic young woman,
are all funny; and the ballet scenes are
fine.
“To the Last Man”
Zane Grey provides the heart-throb.
The heroine, who has only one frock to
her back and no shoes and stockings, and
who wears her brother’s pants for indoor
scenes, is not allowed by the kind-hearted
producers to appear at a disadvantage
through those circumstances. The frock
would be a stunner in any ballroom, and
the cut of the pants —well, the Americans
can tailor women’s trousers. The lady
(Esther Ralston) looks nice in every
scene. But it is the not-so-picturesque
Muriel Kirkland who redeems the
oft-told story of the mountain feud by
giving a credible picture of a quiet little
woman stirred into plain-speaking by the
spectacle of her husband, shot through
the heart and sent home trussed on a
horse with a sapling strapped to the
saddle to keep him upright. For a few
moments she transmutes well-worn melo-
drama into tragedy.
“Ace of Aces”
In this —like “To the Last Man,” at
the Capitol—Richard Dix is the hero.
He shoots down 42 German ’planes
and becomes the admired of all admirers,
though somewhat handicapped by a
superior offiber (Ralph Bellamy) who re-
proves him severely for killing Germans.
Mr. Dix has been driven into these
deeds of derring-do (though he started
out as a conscientious objector) by the
heroine (Elizabeth Allen), who said he
was yellow when he refused to join up.
He evolves the idea, thencebefore un-
thought of, of sailing higher than the
opposing ’planes, dazzling them by forc-
ing them to look at the sun, and then
zooming down behind to kill them with
two machine-guns. Apparently the writer
of the scenario is too young to have read
the report of the commission that in-
quired into the horrible scandals attach-
GLIMMERS FROM SYDNEY FLICKS.
(Top to bottom, left to right% From “By Candlelight,” at the Regent: (I)
Elissa Landi, (2) Paul Lukas, (5) Nils Asther. From ‘‘Havana Widows”
(also at the Regent ); (4) Guy Kibbee, (5) Joan Blondell.
ing to the U.S.A.’s failure to give the
Allies any worth-while support in the air.
“Ace of Aces” winds up with Mr. Dix
regretting that he has no further interest
in his job as a sculptor, this having been
killed by his war experiences, but regard-
ing with a kindling eye the promise of
his sweetheart to present him (when they
are married, of course) with seven sons
and five daughters.
“Flaming Gold”
All about an honest young engineer (Bill
Boyd) who marries a lady with a past
(Mae Clarke) and takes her to the tropics,
to the disgust of his partner (Pat
O’Brien), who recognises the lady and
tells her off during the absence of Boyd.
Miss Clarke states that she married Mr.
Boyd because she loved him, and, im-
pressed by this avowal, Mr. O’Brien
thenceforth treats her as a well-loved
sister. Misunderstanding this sudden
change of front, Mr. Boyd is meditating
homicide when oil is struck. This some-
how allays the demons of jealousy and
suspicion, and the piece fades out with
the three principals, their faces bespat-
tered with oil, clinging joyously to one
another’s necks.
But that’s only half the story. The
censor has improved on the studio’s
notions by cutting out references to Miss
Clarke’s previous career and making it
appear that Mr. O’Brien’s objections to
her presence were merely due to pique at
his bosom pal acquiring a closer friend.
So much better does this hypothesis suit
the behavior of the principals that what
was intended to be spicy melodrama is
turned into quite good comedy.
“Murders in the Zoo”
A .thriller in which there isn’t a
single probable, or indeed possible, inci-
dent. Lionel Atwill is a millionaire
who, as a hobby, collects wild animals
and murders people who make love to
his wife. Charles Ruggles, as press-
agent for a zoo, is always drunk. Props
that were engaged in a dozen other zoo
and circus fantasias are used. Broadly
speaking, the picture is funny where it
seeks to be tragic, and vice versa.
Sundry Shows
“The Runaway Wife,” presented by
E. W. Morrison’s new company at Melb.
Comedy on Saturday, concerns a dear
old German music-master whose wife
has bolted from him 19 years previously
with his baby and a wealthy man. The
old gentleman teaches Beethoven to his
pupils for nothing in the daytime and
secretly earns his bread-and-butter at
night by playing in London dance caba-
rets. His piano is taken by bailiffs. He
gets the post of director of the London
Symphony Orchestra when he is on the
point of starvation ; gives a dinner to
celebrate the triumph, and is visited by
the secretaries of the musicians’ and
bricklayers’ unions, who inform him that
as a good unionist he must refuse the
appointment, because the musicians and
bricklayers are out on strike over the
new concert chamber. Up to this point
Malcolm MacArthur gives a plausible
picture. The characters are natural,
especially the young German ’cellist
(done by R. L. Atholwood); an Italian
violinist (played by a native —Paul
Magi); a landlady (Dora Mostyn) and
the music-master (E. W. Morrison).
Thereupon, however, a charity worker
comes in with a waif whom she wants to
be given musical tuition, and it becomes
disquietingly apparent that she is the
leetle long-lost daughter of the old music-
master. One begins to smell molasses.
In the second act there are barrels of it,
and the old musician is standing chin-
high in the liquid sugar before the por-
trait of his dear dead wife in the ornate
Mayfair mansion of the wicked banker,
begging her, for the sake of their joint
offspring, not to let his worser side
triumph over his better to the extent of
committing murder.
* * *
The Second City of the Empire paid a
tribute to the memory of Elgar on the
day on which news of the composer’s
death was received in Australia. At Mos-
man Town Hall on Saturday night in
the course of a concert by the local musi-
cal society, Raymond Beatty sang “Land
of Hope and Glory” with orchestral
accompaniment while the audience stood.
Musically superior to the National
Anthem, and ranking with Haydn’s
“Austria” and the “Marseillaise” as an
expression of patriotism, the music, which
has been familiar for thirty years and
more, was, as every musician knows,
written not to be sung, but as a movement
in the suite of marches entitled “Pomp
and Circumstance.” Its instantaneous-
success when made into a song surprised
the composer, whose modesty was deep-
rooted.
* * ¥
A buckshee show that Sydney music-
lovers enjoy during lunch-hours is given
by Arnold Mote, whose little concert-hall
lives under the roof-tree of Anthony
Hordern and Sons. The Bulletin
dropped in recently, and enjoyed a piano-
forte recital of a kind that recalled
memories of Grainger and legends of
Pachmann. Mr. Mote talks about what
he is going to play; explains what it
means or what the composer intended
it to mean. That’s courageous. More
courageous still is the pianist’s catholicity
of taste (which in this instance doesn’t
mean bad taste). Chaminade, Percy Pitt,
Moskowski, Ketterer, Gurlitt and Lange
figured on the programme, represented by
excerpts that, though neither classical nor
precious to any school, were worth play-
ing well. Mr. Mote played them admir-
ably, and his comments were well-
informed.
« v v
Helmuth Hoffman, who gave his first
Australian recital over 2FC the other
night, is a very competent pianist. He is
not a Backhaus or a Paderewski, but he
played the Chopin E Minor Etude (Op.
25) and A Flat Ballade (Op. 47) and the
Brahms Rhapsody (Op. 29) very intelli-
gently. Phrasing and dynamics were all
that could be asked for.
* * *
“The Case of the Frightened Lady,”
unleashed by the Power House Dramatic
Club at Melb. Palace three nights last
week, is a posthumous horrordrama by
the late Edgar Wallace. Its five leisurely
scenes unfold the grim mystery of Mark’s
Priory, the seat of the Lebanon family,
where visitors who wander about the
grounds at night are liable to be found
next morning with Red Indian scarves
twisted round their necks. An audience
is compensated for the gradual develop-
ment of the theme by the smashing
climax, wherein it is divulged that the
young Lord Lebanon has inherited the
homicidal mania of the family and has
given it a new turn through having wit-
nessed the gentle Hindu thug at work
on his native heath. Garry Armstrong’s
sadistic earl could not have been bettered
on the professional stage, and the same
might be said of Keith McDonald’s
Inspector Trotter, Desmond Connor’s
Sergeant Totty and Ken Tuckfield’s
Gilder. Betty Tait ably seconded the
Power House boys with an intelligent
presentation of Lady Lebanon, an aris-
tocrat whose passion for perpetuating a
family of pathological freaks ought to be
good propaganda for the sterilisation
advocates.
* * *
E. J. Tait has returned from abroad with
a fresh sheaf of attractions and the im-
pression that a new boom in the tradi-
tional theatre is pending. He found
more theatres open in London than there
were three years ago, and the vogue of
period plays started by Phillip Lindsay’s
venture into the domestic affairs of
Henry the Horrible so strong that almost
every monarch in English history is hav-
ing his dirty linen washed in public for
the benefit of theatregoers. Tait com-
plains that, although costs of productions
in Australia are the same as in London,
prices of seats here are half what they
are in the Great Smoke. There is a big
difference in ground rents, however —
and in taxation, which hits the British
theatre unusually hard.


PT
\
\
\
-■
X
m
■
%? < V |%<v
>’ *,3 , 4
« \a
r J?
f .
••:A
op? /** ':
"-s.- ' % i'T
1111
£ V{ RY V-H-E R-E
THE POPULAR CHOICE...
S^3wooJ^ >I S
wd
m
s^|§
m
m %
IN THE BOTTLE WITH
The Yellow Label
J4e / l£
go e&
cation Continued
men meet over a glass of Tooheys,
you are sure to hear someone say:
“I always enjoy this —there’s something
delightfully different about it.”
You try it; and you’ll confirm the remark.
TOOHEYS
PILSENER


ABORIGINALITIES
“W.P.T.”: He was staggering about
George-street late at night. “Tell me
where you live, old man, and I’ll take
you home,” I said. “You’ll take me
home?” he asked. “Right to your front
door,” I assured him. “All right,” he
said, “carry on. I live at Bourke.”
* * * *
“Frigid”: Joe said he could boil a pud-
ding in the Paroo River. Some of his
“Hitler is to tax childless couples.”
“See der tagsation I haf you gesaved.”
“Ach, der veekly bills! Schoost like a
voman —neffer knows ven to schdop."
cobbers said it was impossible. A wager
was made and Joe won it. He enclosed
his pudding in a large tin pan, and this
he placed in a bag of quicklime. The
sack was lowered 10 feet down into
the waters of the flooded river. The
water slaked the quicklime, which gave
out sufficient heat. The pudding was
taken up after after it had been in the
water about two hours and a half, and it
was eaten and enjoyed. If anything, it
was a little overdone.
:Jc
“W.G.H.”: A stranger strolled into a
Mildura (Vic.) bar, called for a whisky,
tendered a £5 note, collected his change
and strolled out. A few minutes later
another stranger walked in, called for a
beer and paid for it with a £1 -note. Upon
receiving his change he protested in a
loud voice that he had been robbed. The
manager and an arm of the law were
jointly appealed to for jurisdiction. “I
gave him a fiver,” howled stranger
No. 2, “and he gave me change
of a quid. My fiver is in the till and
I’ve got the number of it,” he added
triumphantly, flourishing a notebook.
But a search of the till by John Hop
failed to reveal any fiver. “That little
game cost me four quid last year,” re-
marked the manager later, when the Law
had departed, “so we’ve given up park-
ing fivers in the till. They go straight to
my pocket.”
“Lado”: That story of an elephant’s
gratitude (B. 24/1/’34) recalls a personal
experience in the Belgian enclave across
the Nile from Uganda. I had been on
some private business there and went
down with a bad dose of fever. While 1
was down my boys bolted, a rumor getting
about that a Belgian official with a party
of askaris was hunting for a white ivory
poacher. My entourage took my arms
and food, leaving me with a suit of
pyjamas and a black oilskin raincoat.
I never was keen on Belgians myself, so
decided to give the party a miss and make
for the river again. But the fever came
back, and I was making very bad weather
of it when I spotted a cow elephant in
a small clearing at the end of my second
day’s stagger. The creature was weaving
about the clearing and moaning. Hav-
ing been reared in cow country, I
instantly diagnosed her trouble. She had
lost her calf, and her milk-distended
udder was causing her pain. A brilliant
idea flashed upon me. Donning the black
oilskin, I approached the distracted cow
on all fours, waving one arm in the air
to simulate a trunk and squealing faintly
like a famished elephant calf. Though
apparently doubtful, the cow permitted
me to approach. Soon I was removing the
cause of her agony and satisfying my
ravening hunger at the same time, the
cow meanwhile gratefully stroking my
oilskinned back with her trunk. But I
was to find out that the sagacious animal
had not been deceived by my imper-
sonation. On the second day, when I was
becoming fed up with a milk diet and with
going on all fours and stuffing grass
down the front of my coat, the cow sud-
denly grabbed me in her trunk and set off,
hot-foot, in an easterly direction. In a
surprisingly short time she reached the
Belgian bank of the Nile opposite a
Uganda Government station. Breasting
the current, she finally deposited me ten-
derly on the front lawn of the District
Commissioner and, with a final caress
from her trunk, swam the river again and
plunged into the forest.
H* % *
“Cabbage T.”: There are some hard
citizens still remaining in outback Aus-
tralia. Surgeons in a Sydney hospital
operated on one such the other day and
removed from his interior a quantity of
wool, some horsehair and a paper-fastener.
The patient, an ex-chemist, was seized
“I’m very sorry, Mr. McPhairson, but I’m afraid your wife has double
pneumonia."
“And wull I hae tae get twa prescriptions?”
with wfiat he recognised as appendicitis
when isolated in Centralia. A mate who
had been a vet. operated successfully with
a razor, and after applying a dressing of
wool sewed up the wound with horse-
hair, finally making all fast with the
paper-clip. The patient recovered suffi-
ciently to make his way at last to Syd-
ney, where he thought it might be as well
to have the job overhauled by profes-
sionals.
* * *
“Kariah”: Following enormous mor-
tality amongst oysters as a result of a
heat-wave, N.S.W. Fisheries Department
advised oyster-farmers to watch the
weather reports and, when high tempera-
tures are expected on days when it
is low-water about
midday, to put cul-
tivation below the
low-water mark.
Suggestion has
been received with
snorts of derision.
Trays (to mention
the easiest type of
cultivation to move)
are set on posts at
the right growing
level. Apart from
damage, such as
split posts,
wrenched nails, etc.,
the job of moving
trays from four
hundred posts
which have be-
come firmly stuck
in the mud is one
which would take
me a week. And
when it was done the oysters would have
become so brown and barnacle-encrusted
and so preyed upon by all known and
unknown pests that it would have been
better to let the sun do its worst.
* * =H *
“Bogaduck”: Everyone in our South
Aus. district knew Old Joe. Every even-
ing he would ride out, his bullocks fol-
lowing behind, like Brown’s cows, and
when he came to a good patch of green
feed in a cocky’s paddocks he would un-
roll the big tarpaulin he carried on the
pommel and lay it over the fence. Then
he would stand to one side and say “Up,
Brindle!” , The beast addressed would
walk along the canvas, blunder over the
fence, and start on the crop. Then it was
“Up, Yellowman!” and so on, right
through the team, which crossed the
fence without leaving tracks or getting
barbed-wire cuts. Joe would then roll
up in the tarp., sleep till midnight, get
his team out of the crop in the same
way and take them home. A suspicious
farmer followed Joe one evening when
he set out, but Joe knew he was being
watched. He drove his beasts past
the cocky’s holding and on to a
water reserve, where he belled the
leaders. The cocky went home, satisfied
that his crop was in no danger as long
as he could hear those bells down on
the reserve. But as soon as his back was
turned Joe put the beasts into the crop
and walked around the reserve for the
next four hours, a bell in each hand.
When the cocky saw his crop next morn-
ing and guessed how he had been fooled,
his language nearly melted the fence
wires.
* * *
“Awbeca”: At Herberton, centre of
tin-mining activities in N.Q., mules are
used to transport ore from outlying mines
to the battery in the township. The
arrival of one of these “trains” —made up
usually of from 15 to 20 animals —is
exciting. The final descent into the town-
ship is taken at a run, bells jangling and
hoofs clattering. The mules are sensible
enough to realise that the first on the
weighbridge is the first to lose the pack-
saddle, and they save their speed for the
last lap.
* * * *
“Fre-san”: Paul the Python, child of
the Far North, sulked. Since his capture
six weeks before, he had persistently re-
fused food. The daintiest morsels, from
squawking little frogs to blood-dripping
bullocks’ hearts, tempted in vain. At last
in desperation (for he was a humane man,
though a showman), Paul’s owner pur-
chased Roger the Rooster, an eight-week-
old, and let him go into the cage. Paul
took no interest. Two months later
Roger was still in the cage, had grown
into a fine bird, and had become Paul’s
firm friend. Paul was undemonstrative,
having, in fact, never abandoned his imi-
tation of a huge coiled rope, but one
likes to think that his heart warmed to
this trusting mite perching on his top-
most coil and crowing with joy of life.
There was never a doubt of Roger’s love
for the big python. When Paul was
moved to a smaller cage and attended
the Agricultural Show for a week, Roger
was disconsolate. He moved restlessly
about the cage, refusing food and cack-
ling pitifully for his absent friend, and
when Paul returned the rooster’s joy
was pathetic. This beautiful friendship
between so opposite natures was known
far and wide. It was even used by an
earnest gentleman (in the course of a
street-corner oration) to illustrate the
meaning of millennium. It grieves me,
therefore, to report that yesterday morn-
ing Roger had disappeared, and . a small
bulge in Paul’s middle coil showed where
he had gone.
DROVING IN THE DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We drafted them from dawning,
Till the sun and heat were high,
Then took the best —and left the rest
In scattered groups to die.
In scattered groups, poor stricken brutes,
Foredoomed to perish there;
We cursed to see them standing
In stony-eyed despair;
The very thought their anguish brought
Was all that we could bear.
We drove the others dourly
Through a parching pall of dust;
It choked our throats and caked our coats
From every swirling gust
That lured the weary leaders
To a sudden, weak stampede,
And thinned the ranks of heaving flanks
Too frail for sudden speed:
We drove them where their questing mouths
Were mocked by poison weed.
We checked them, shrilly cursing
The lagging, panting dogs,
That wheeled the mobs with gasping sobs
And fell, to lie like logs,
Where we had sought in scanty shade
The vestige of a breeze.
The stench of death was on its breath
As it reached the drooping trees;
It passed before the cramp had left
Our saddle-twisted knees.
We drove them from the dawning
Till our eyes were red and sore
From the white-hot heat of the rays that beat
On the track we must struggle o’er.
We tailed them through the twilight
Till the night was in the sky,
And an evening star, now near, now far,
Sent light to steer us by,
While we made our camp by a foetid swamp
That keened to the night birds’ cry.
There, sunk in sodden slumber,
We dreamed that sudden rains
Had broke and burst to quench the thirst
Of the parched and aching plains.
But we had only need to stir
To know our dream was fled,
For ere it topped the mulga scrub
The dawn was fiery-red.
And so began another day
Of damnable despair,
For Drought had loaded dice to play,
And Death was in the air.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.
A GUINEA A WEEK.
The experiment of offering a
weekly prize, in addition to space
rates, for the best Farm Hint
received has been so successful that
it is to be extended to “Aborigi-
nalities.”
Beginning on March 14, to give
outback writers a chance, a guinea
will be added to the office cheque
for the par. placed first by the
editor.
Don’t vamp up matter that has
appeared in other papers. Send
something you have observed your-
self, or draw on your experience or
your imagination. And keep it
short.
Lies must be new and good.


“O. W. Waireki”: Hot and dusty,
Henare entered our local garage and
angrily informed the owner that, after
trying for four hours to induce motion in
a second-hand car recently sold to him,
he had tramped 20 miles home. Re-
marked the car-seller with a feeble grin,
“I reckon you’ve got blistered heels.”
“I’m not a prurry horse,” Henare
snapped. “I kick with my toes.”
* * * *
‘Cam El Liar”: I suppose my papa
sold as many camels as anyone on the
principle of pumping them up before
sale. At a very early stage, he discarded
corks smeared with pitch to retain the air,
and had his camels fitted with valves. The
mob used to be inflated (on sale days)
with a power-driven air-pump. Papa
also installed a vulcanising plant, camels
being apt to recline on broken beer-
“Changed yer baker, ’ave yer?”
“Yes —’e never give me a winner fer munce.”
bottles in the saleyard. Dunlop-Perdriau
made him a special line of patches with
camel-hair on one side, which provided
an “invisible mend”—papa’s partner, an
American, was rather inclined to blow
the camels up too much. The only pres-
sure gauge on the market in those days
wasn’t suited to camels. Partner and
papa had a bust-up, and the Yank went
back to the States with the parting re-
mark “You know nothing about inflation
over here ; I’ll darn soon show yer.” He
called himself Smith, but I’ve been won-
dering lately if his real name wasn’t
Franklin Roosevelt.
“Plankton”: Green blood, though rare,
is characteristic of some aquatic worms.
The blood of cuttlefishes and other mol-
luscs when oxidised is actually blue, due
to the presence of copper in the haemo-
cyanin. This substance has only a quar-
ter of the oxygen-absorbing capacity of
haemoglobin, the coloring matter of red
blood, which contains iron. The blood
of certain shrimps has a faint blue tint,
but that of most crustaceans is quite
colorless.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Recent shark trage-
dies remind me that in no instance has
anyone been attacked who went to the
rescue of a victim. In several cases off
Sydney beaches the man-eater had to be
beaten off, but the rescuers were not
touched. Another
peculiarity is that,
though many sharks
might be in the vici-
nity, no swimmer in
N.S.W. waters has
been attacked by
more than one. The
sea lawyers seem to
have an etiquette in
that respect. It is the
lone swimmer that
mostly attracts the
man-eater ; when the
brute attacks one of a
rrfob, the victim is
nearly always one
who is swimming a
little way behind the
others. In that respect
the shark resembles
the crocodile. When
abos. are swimming
c r o c o and i 1 e-infested
rivers they make the
old gins go last, arid
the old gins try to
make the dogs keep
behind. Another
thing that the two brutes have in com-
mon is that they are most dangerous on
dull or overcast afternoons.
* * * *
“Youngest Inhabitant”: The old gun-
boat Gayundah, affectionately remem-
bered by old-time Queenslanders, is still
afloat, being employed as a sand-barge
in the Brisbane River. One of the flat-
iron type, with her deck cut very low
at the bow, she was dubbed by the
coastal abos. “Broken-nose,” and it was
an apt nickname. When she was com-
missioned in 1884 she was the last word
in naval architecture, and it was proudly
claimed that for her size she was the
most heavily armed vessel in the world.
When a half-charge was fired from the
8in. gun in her turret all aboard had to
lie down full length, and the 360-ton
vessel heaved convulsively from stem to
stern. What would happen if a full
charge were fired was a matter of awe-
some speculation amongst her crew. But
it never came to that. Early in 1914 the
Gayundah was rebuilt at Cockatoo
Dock, her bow being raised and her 8in.
gun replaced by a 4.7in. She was one of
the lame ducks which guarded Australia’s
coastline during the war, but after the
Armistice, with over 35 years’ service to
her credit, she was sold out of the ser-
vice. It says much for her engines that
at the last she' could do 10£ knots, al-
though on her speed trials, when first
built, she only attained 10 knots.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: “El V.” makes a slip
when he says (B. 11/1/ ’34) that Harry
Bracker would go dancing while Jimmy
Tyson “smoked his pipe in the quiet by
the creek.” Tyson never smoked,
neither did he ever take a glass of
wine or spirits. But he often car-
ried tobacco, which he gave to
blacks. He was always kind and
“Whom do you want to be with you in the darkest hour?”
“The youngest night nurse.”
considerate to the abos., whether work-
ing on his runs or not. An old darky on
the Eastern Prairie (Darling Downs) said
to me, “Jimmy Tyson very good pfeller ;
plenty other pfeller plurry cow.” Sid
Kidman resembles Tyson in that he does
not smoke, swear or drink intoxicants.
* * * *
“Sailor”: An abo.’s tummy is about
the toughest piece of human mechanism
imaginable. Running a length with the
ganger on a motor quad, near the
Katherine (N.T.), we picked up an old
abo. to give him a lift down the line, and
to keep him quiet we gave him a stick of
“nicki-nicki” (the darkest of dark
tobacco). We’d been running about half
an hour when we looked round to see
how the old Binghi was faring, but he
was gone. We ran back up the track a
few miles and found him sitting on the
butt-end of a sleeper gazing dreamily
about him. Asked how he came to fall
off, he said: “Me eatum dat one nicki-
nicki ; me go shleep.” There he’d gone
and swallowed enough nicotine to put a
civilised man in the morgue, and it only
made him sleepy!
* =l= * . *
“El V.” considers the Australian snake:
One did an unusual thing when it bit a
young schoolgirl at Goulburn (N.S.W.) the
other day. As a rule, the tribe doesn’t hurt
the fair sex, and, though ten males were killed
in the Commonwealth during the last year for
which there are figures, this would be looked
on as a mere bagatelle in any country where
snakes are really snakes. The Australian ser-
pent has a bad reputation overseas —I once
saw the Admiral and officers of a large British
squadron come ashore at a sizable Australian
port armed with sticks and armored in leggings
against him. I have shaken him out of my
riding boots, tripped over yards of him in long
grass, trodden on him in the dark, found him
in the water-bucket and the camp, blankets and
dug him up in the garden, but I have never
known him to do anything more offensive than
leave for the horizon,at about a mile a minute —
unless somebody got between him and his hole
or his lady-love, or opened hostilities. The
Asiatic and African snakes are a different
breed. They don’t flee from civilisation —a
few years ago 200 were taken from under the
ballroom floor of a leading hotel in Delhi at
one go. They are mostly aggressive—when
you have seen the giant hamadryad rise up
about ten feet long you have a private night-
mare of your own for the rest of your life.
While some of our snak'es are satanically beau-
tiful, most Asiatic snakes, except the cobra, are
loathsome. India loses enough people through
snakebite every year to populate the city of Too-
woomba, while on the Australian snakebite rate
it should lose only about 500 per annum. It is
time Mr. Bruce said a word for our serpents.
It is astonishing to a visitor to London to dis-
cover that old English ladies help Mussolini’s
Budget simply because they are afraid to face
the twelve-feet reptiles that chase politicians
through the long grass in Macquarie-street and
coil round the trees in dozens in Alexandra-
avenue.
* * * *
“Haggin”: Some excitement was
caused in the vicinity of Sydney recently
by a prospective bridegroom who
brought from western Queensland a team
of riding camels whereon to take his
bride and her belongings back over the
border. Wherever the camels went, the
other beasts of the field, not excepting
the cows, fled before them. The horses,
as every war-time Light Horseman can
believe, disappeared over the horizon, and
many are still going. I can recall a simi-
lar riot when Ernest Favenf, on an ex-
ploring trip to Centralia, brought to the
Barcoo the first team of camels that
classic stream had known. My first meet-
ing with creatures I was to see much of
later was on Blackall town common,
about a mile out of the town. I was
riding in a four-in-hand waggonette
driven by my father, a noted whip in
days when everyone drove his team as a
matter of course. All the same, the four
well-fed nags took command, covering
the mile into Blackall’s main street in
lmin. 36sec. (it seemed to be about that,
anyhow). The pace was continued up
the sandy street, and in spite of all the
driver could do the leaders swung into
the none-too-wide gate of Raper’s Hotel,
then the urban haven of the squattocracy.
The violent wrench as the wheelers fol-
lowed took the fore under-carriage off at
the turntable, and the spectacle of my
revered parent volplaning through the
air behind them and still clutching the
ribbons and whip was the last thing I
recall before I dived head first into a
gatepost.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A pearl brought to Mel-
bourne the other day is claimed to be
the first fresh-water specimen discovered
in Australia. It is a handsome bauble
and was found by a mussel-hunting lady
in the Murray River.
* * * *
“Avis”: A cockatoo maintained the
reputation of his tribe for casualness
when he held up an electric-train
service in Victoria for some time with-
out himself suffering any inconveni-
ence beyond, perhaps, a slight head-
ache from hanging upside down for a
time. The fowl got away with a brass
chain attached to one leg and flew over
two power cables carrying 6600 volts.
As he crossed, the chain came in contact
with the two cables simultaneously and
coiled round one of them. This
anchored cocky, who hung by one end
for 25 minutes. The brass chain short-
circuited the current and held up under
the terrific volume of power. When a
linesman took a hand and released cocky
the bird flew away, unharmed but blas-
phemous.
* * * *
“Piscator”: Some of these tourist-
bureau pamphlets paint things in over-
bright colors. I recently applied to one
of them for “literature.” A folder deal-
ing with fly-fishing in N.S.W. was parti-
cularly fascinating. Dwelling on the good
qualities of the rainbow trout, the lyric-
ist responsible refers to “the reckless
dash with which it leaps from the water
to meet the descending fly.” Interesting,
if true ; but I have had a pretty wide ex-
perience of fly-fishing in many lands, and
never have I met such ardent and acro-
batic trout. Possibly the proximity of
the warm Pacific seas has developed a
flying-fish complex. In that case there
seems to be no necessity for casting a
fly, dry or wet. One could just sit on
the bank with a landing-net and make a
noise like a Black Doctor.
THE CORDUROY ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It curved by the foot of the cloud-crested
mountain,
It climbed by the edge of the tussock-grass
plain,
By glens where the clematis fell like a fountain
Of stars to the fern-gullies’ fairy domain;
Through a wedge in the range where the wara-
tahs blossomed,
And the platypus shy had his watery abode,
Where the broken stream raced through a valley,
deep-bosomed
With myrtle and musk, ran the corduroy
road.
The silver-white road, where the hoar frost was
sprinkled
Like diamond dust over culvert and crown,
When every archway with emeralds twinkled,
And every fern-frond with crystal dripped
down;
The green-bowered road, in the blue of the
summer,
When bright parrakeets in the gum-blossom
glowed,
And the eaglehawk circled, a kingly far-comer,
High over the heights of the corduroy road.
The corduroy road is a long-banished byway,
For Progress, that spins at the wheel of a
car,
Has turned the lone track to a rolling broad
highway,
That’s reeking of petrol and smelling of tar.
Though the young saplings lift where the
summer lies sorest
On bare, ringbarked paddocks where giants
corrode,
They are not the old kings of the eucalypt forest
That rose by the curve of the corduroy road.
Though the silver-white clouds are as kindly
as ever,
The blue of the morning as mistily deep.
xT more s^y Pl^ypu B, plays in the river,
No more the red waratah flames on the steep.
Long, long it is now since enchantment would
take me
By the hand to adventure the fern-trees’
abode,
Yet memory stirs from her silence to make me
A rhyme of regret for the corduroy road.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Human Rust
primary
cause of 95°/o of
present-day sickness
. . explains Consulting Physician
of Buda Pesth
Dr. EMIL LEVAI
JUST as rust coats a water pipe, so
through faulty bowel action fragments
of food waste become encrusted on the
walls of the intestine. This waste matter is
“human rust.” In it breed germs and
poisons which enter the blood stream, leading
to dreaded self-poisoning (autoxima). Self-
poisoning, the result of “human rust,” is
responsible for most of the ill-health which
afflicts modern men and women.
Clear out “Human Rust ” with
Coloseptic
You can clear from your system the virulent
poisons that undermine health and sap
vitality. You can banish constipation, head-
ache, gas in the bowels and stomach, catarrh,
backache, rheumatism, neuritis, and all the
hosts of ailments that come from self-poison-
ing. Take COLOSEPTIC. It first loosens
and dissolves, then smoothly washes out the
decaying waste. It rids the body of all
poisons and blood impurities through
Nature’s four outlets—the large intestine —
the kidneys—the pores of the skin —and the
respiratory organs.
Regain Your Youthful Vigour
Every morning take COLOSEPTIC
in hot water. COLOSEPTIC actually
“tones” and cleanses your entire digestive
tract —helps your body throw off its waste
matter regularly. No longer are you
depressed, tired without cause, subject to
headaches and colds. Your pulse leaps to
the thrills of life- —your old vim and vigour
return. Aches, pains, and ailments vanish
for ever.
m
mi
m
.; ::¥S
y '\
II
' so-
immmrni;
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL. -
Influenza Relieved.
“Tewkesbury, Tasmania.
“I have to tell you that I felt great benefit from
Colo septic. 1 was suffering from ‘flu.’ I had been ill
for a month. After taking but a few doses I felt much
better. The dry cough left me entirely. Am telling my
neighbors about it now.
“A E T
The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.
COLOSEPTIC Regular full-sized jars
from all chemists. Sufficient for several
weeks’ regular use. Test COLOSEPTIC
for yourself. . . . Fill in the coupon and send
it in, together with postal note or stamps for
1 /and receive an interesting booklet on
your health and a Special Demonstration
Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney
I COUPON. i
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
24 , amieson Street, Sydney.
I I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find |
1/- (stamps or postal note). Send me
one SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION JAR and !
I “AUTOXIMA” Booklet. I
I NAME : |
! ADDRESS ■ |
I , .! D „ 1


Miscellaneous.
APPOINTMENTS. —Those who are desirous of
improving their prospects in their own or
another country should write for full particulars
and terms of a service with 25 years’, world-
wide reputation.—PEßCY COUTTS & CO.,
LTD. (Dept. S 2), 325 High Holborn, London,
England.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; Al. J. Rvan. Esc •
F. E. Lost on, Esq.; Wm. A. Joilv, Esq, C.M.Q, "'
General Manager —M. G. BAYAiEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia' and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general Innkino- business
2
AT THE HEART
OF LONDON
v
7>g£iftore7
i£:Si;
ft*
gbam
TO {
KSIW//VOTOI
QVAI • •*
PARK LANE HOTEL, PICCADILLY, W.l
(’Gram.?: Keighbracc, Audley, London.)
Equidistant from Lord’s and Kennington Oval
Cricket Grounds on direct route, and close
to Theatre-land and the finest shopping centres.
400 modern bedrooms, each with
telephone and fully-equipped private
bathroom. 40 suites.
SINGLE from 14/6. DOUBLE from
25/-. SUITES from 42/-.
Garage for 200 cars. Sandler’s Orchestra.
Illustrated topical tariff from “The Bulletin.”
ẁ
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
SMOKE-OH!
The Prince will register Sus-sex appeal
anyhow.
* H-
“Oysters must not sunbathe: —that is the im-
portant lesson learnt from the Sydney heat-
wave.’ ’ —‘ ‘A rgus.”
Those who do will probably find them-
selves in the soup.
REPRESENTATIONALIST : “Why are you altering it?”
MODERNIST: “The buyer says it’s too pretty-pretty.”
“Although it had been stated that the Public
Library would close for a time, it has now
been decided that it will remain open.”
■ —Melbourne "Herald.”
And there are people with the nerve
to call Melbourne dull!
THE POULTRY-HOUSE HUNT.
“Wanted to lease house, suitable poultry
farm.” —Townsville "Bulletin.”
Several residences inspected on a recent
house-hunting expedition would have
made first-rate dog kennels. A few
could, without any suggestion of imposi-
tion, have been let as pigsties. My own
place, after 'the kids have "spent a wet
afternoon there, resembles an up-to-date
monkey-house, and the so-called hive of
industry where I work might serve as
an apiary. But few agents seem to have
poultry-houses to let. Still you never
know your luck.
t * ’ H.J.
'* ■ *
Apparently Major Douglas only has a
minor appeal.
OUR SO-CALLED EDUCATION
: SYSTEM!
Mary Slummock, a 15-year-old resi-
dent of Darling Point, after a succession
of American college films, became filled
with a divine discontent.
“Say, pop,” she
drawled, “I’m not
gonner attend that
bum high-school no
more, see. They
cram a dame’s head
with English an’ jom-
metry, an’ all that
sort of boloney, an’
neglect the most im-
portant thing in life.
Lissenere, I was out
necking with a boy
friend last night, an’
he reckoned my tech-
nique was simply
frightful! ”
N.
* *
THE WHATS-
THISSER.
My friend Glubb
was an incurable
whatsthisser. He also
had the whadyercall-
it habit in an ad-
vanced form. We
were in the bush one
day when I heard
his cry of distress.
There he was hang-
ing to a sapling
which jutted over a
precipice.
“Get the whats-
this, quick,” he
yelled.
“The rope?”
“Yes.”
“Where is it?”
“Underneath the
whadyercallit,” he
shrieked. “You know, alongside those
gadgets that whosthis lent me. Hurry up! ”
“ What’s it under?”
“Dammit —you know. An’ be quick
or this dam’ thingummyjig’ll break.”
Eventually I discovered the rope ; but
just as I threw it the sapling cracked.
As poor Glubb went hurtling down his
voice surged up: “I’m a goner, Bill. Give
my thingummies to whatsername”....
K. S.
“The Metropolitan Labor Conference car-
ried a. motion urging the next Federal Labor
Government to abolish bonus work, piecework
and taskwork.”
Asa preliminary, no doubt, to the
abolition of all work.
ELIMINATING THE CLASS
COMPLEX.
“In Russia a peasant cannot allow his family
to use metal tableware because of the jealousy
of neighbors whose tableware is of wood. If
he.does he is “Kuluk”.(upstart) and liable to
be persecuted.” —Returned traveller.
“What is it that is the matter,” sobbed
Madame Slashitoffski, “that you cannot
get for your family what other husbands
can get? Is it you are too lazy? Let
me tell you, dolt, that the Wypoffs have
a best lead fork. I, too,
would like a best lead
fork.”
Ivan was horrified.
“Speak low, woman.
Suppose anyone should
hear! I will go now-and
denounce the Wypoffs as
aristos; I will rouse the
mob, and destroy them.”
“I will go with you,”
cried Madame, rising.
“Spoken like a true
daughter of Russia!” en-
thused Ivan. “Come!” .
“An and the n,” cried
Madame, “it may be that
I shall be able to loot their
fork ” H. M.
slight
MISAPPREHENSION.
The drunk glared tri-
umphantly around the
Sydney trolley-’bus.
“Sho the revolution’s
’ere! ” he hiccupped. “I
knoo it’d come—hie. Good
ole Jack! Three cheers
fer Jock. ’lp! ’lp”
A fellow passenger
touched the revolution-
ary’s arm and drew sym-
pathetic attention to the
newspaper headings.
Austria, not Australia! ” he mur-
mured.
T. W.
DUELLING CONVENTIONS.
“Billiard cues and cricket bats were used as
weapons in a Melbourne brawl.”— “Telegraph.”
Sportsmen are to be congratulated on
the revival of a good old form of duel-
ling. How much manlier it is than the
modern method of passing hints such as
He tried to pot me,” said in a loud
voice! Cricket fuelling, too, has under-
gone changes. Once cricketers used to
hit one another for sixers. Came an
age when the ball was employed as a
missile. Now cricketers use deadlier
weapons—typewriters. Footballers, tennis
champions and others have followed the
cricketers’ lead, though chess-players still
resort to the ruthless old device of starv-
ing their opponents out.
C.
if if
“Generally speaking, spinsters live longer
than married women.”
While there’s hope there’s life.
if if
AMONG OUR RECORD-BREAKERS.
By crashing the Social Sidelights page
of the Sunday “Sun” for the fifth succes-
sive Sabbath Miss Lovie Gargoil, Dar-
ling Point’s “indefatigable charity
worker,” passed the record previously
held by Miss Zoe Climber, who has been
three times described as “vivacious” in
the “S.M.H.’s” Women’s Throng.
Bill Pickslow has set new figures
for a single full-length overarm swing
with the “banjo.” Getting off the mark
with four spits to the hands, which he
reeled off in 2min. 23sec., Mr. Pickslow
went on to shatter the long-standing
figures for biting off the corner of a
tobacco-plug, taking 3min. lOsec. The
cruciform lift to the waistline was done
in 27 3-ssec., the apex being reached in
554-sec., adding 12sec. to the previous
best. The downward swing to the impact
under its own momentum completed a
fine effort.
Last Saturday Bert Bonedome, the
system punter, cracked all metropolitan
course records when for the 36th succes-
sive week he lost his wages. He also
created a minor record by failing to land
“Sorry! Didn’t know anyone was at home or
I’d have knocked .”
one winner for the eighth successive meet-
ing. Mr. Bonedome will make an attempt
on his own record next Saturday.
The acquisition of one or more tickets
in each of N.S.W.’s 183 lotteries without
getting within a hundred of a fiver is the
record held by Alf (“Nil Desperandum”)
Mugsey. Though he has invested in
Lucky Bill’s Four-leaved Clovers, Lucky
Ned’s Lucky Swastikas and Madame
Bella’s Lucky Signs, it is expected that
the record-holder will go on to create
new figures this year.
S. W. K.
# *
Those Viennese films seem to have
given us the wrong impression.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
<4 The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
MYSTERY OF ROOM 17.
One room of the dwelling in which 1
reside
Has a mystery—Room 17.
To solve it the lodgers have frequently
tried,
But vain their endeavors have been.
In that room lives a passionate lover of
beer,
Of pinky and port {red or white ) ;
And often the clinking of glassware we
hear
As we thirstily listen at night.
He’ll sometimes rejoice, and anon he will
grieve
In songs that with anguish are keen.
His eerie communings have made us
believe *
There are spirits in Room 17.
But still in the darkness the mystery’s hid.
We know not the scheme he employs
Which enables him every time to get rid
Of his bottles without any noise.
T. N.
FINAL INSTRUCTIONS.
“I think that men ought to be buried in silk
pyjamas of soft colors.” —Gertrude Atherton.
When 1 am dead, let lilac hose
Of silk adorn my upturned toes.
Consign me to eternal ease
Decked in a shirt of milanese,
Complete with toning collar, too,
And necktie of a pleasing hue.
I fancy that rounds off the list.
Ah, no, remember I insist
When Charon gets me in his boat
I’m wearing trousers and a coat.
P. O. M. C.
IN REVERSE.
/ drove her here, / drove her there
For drink: I drove her everywhere
Ah % me! How little did I think
She’d soon be driving me to drink !
T.
SAYING SOMETHING NEW.
A three-faced moon hung crazily
In a pink sky split in twain,
While a huge blue cow grazed lazily
In the horizontal rain.
The surrounding hills of a garish red
Were studded with things like knobs,
And a saffron river flowed up instead
Of down, in vermilion blobs.
An ultramarine-leaved gum fell back
’Gainst a bowser, roots in air,
While an unattached eye of deepest black
Gazed out with a grisly stare.
This isn’t what seems the senses to stun
When the dreaded d.ts. start.
No —simply a few ideas for one
Who has taken to Modernised Art!
S. W. K.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Waltzing Lily (Beau Fils —Robecq) is
only the fifth mare to win the Caulfield
Futurity Stakes in the 37 years of its
history, her predecessors being Aurous,
Playaway, Gladsome (twice) and Brattle.
Up to seven furlongs Waltzing Lily is
well worthy of comparison with those by-
gone stars. Her record in landing both
the Standish Handicap and Newmarket
Handicap as a three-year-old was unique.
This season Waltzing Lily has been vic-
torious in the William Reid Stakes at
Moonee Valley, the V.A.T.C. Memsie
Stakes (beating Hall Mark) and the
Futurity.
S. Smith, who races Waltzing Lily on
lease from a Gippsland dealer in blood-
stock, was a cab proprietor at Caulfield
when he got hold of a juvenile of un-
fashionable breeding that had cost only
40gns. at auction. Waltzing Lily now has
won £6780 in first money, apart from
minor placings. She is a beautiful mare,
tall and strongly built but graceful in
action, something after the stamp of
Desert Gold, whom Wedge vanquished in
the Futurity Stakes of 1918.
At her first meeting since the spring
Waltzing Lily finished third to Heros and
Airkloof in the William Reid Stakes at
Moonee Valley. She was practically left
at the post in the St. George Stakes on
Bert: wish you wouldmt oo
that T
Gieksti^But,Bert, theres something,
ABOUT YOU I CANT RESIST''
Bert : " a.qout -me ? "
<=iert', " Yes, vour. ’•"
Oakleigh Plate day, and W. Cook made
the tactical error of rushing her up near
the leaders before the journey was half
over.
Always wayward at the barrier,
Waltzing Lily lost some ground at the
start of the Futurity Stakes and was
second-last going up the hill. But on this
occasion Cook had the good sense to
make haste slowly. She appeared to be
out of the race until half a mile from
home. “Tich” Wilson, on L’Elite, who
can gallop like greased lightning, but does
not always do so in public, had em-
barrassed the favorite, Closing Time, by
sweeping past that rival and drawing out
for more than a length’s lead. Bartle
must have sighed with relief when L’Elite
shot his bolt near the home turn. How-
ever, his troubles were not at an end, for
at the furlong post Waltzing Lily threw
out a challenge which Closing Time was
powerless to resist. The mare won by
a length and a half in only half a second
slower time than the course record estab-
lished by Winooka last year. Kuvera,
who took even longer than Waltzing Lily
to find his legs, did exceptionally well to
finish third.
It may be within the compass of Waltz-
ing Lily to capture the Newmarket Han-
dicap for the second year in succession.
Gothic accomplished this feat, carrying
Bst. 101 b. and 9st. 101 b. respectively.
Waltzing Lily has been raised from Bst.
91b. to 9st. 71b. Twelve months ago she
vanquished Jacko by a head, conceding
him 101 b. There will be only 91b. be-
tween them next Saturday, but the
weights are on a much higher scale.
Jacko is favorite for the Newmarket, and,
judged on his form in the second division
of the Hawksburn Handicap, he ought to
win. The Magpie gelding showed in that
race that he was in urgent need of a
public outing. Far out of his ground at
the half-way stage, he came home with
an amazing burst of speed to finish less
than a length behind Care Free, who is
the fastest pony seen on the Australian
turf for many a day. Calulu King did
not run nearly up to expectations.
Bailey Payten, of Randwick, is doing
well with the team that he took to Mel-
bourne. He landed the Bond Cup with
Mince Pie, and on Futurity Stakes day
scored with Bombus and Care Free.
There is no question of Bombus being a
juvenile flyer, but he was tiring at the
end of six furlongs in the Alma Stakes
and had to be ridden out to beat Spartan
by half a length. Spartan is a grey son
of Heroic ; he takes his color from the
dam, Fairy Elf, by Chrysolaus from a
member of the famous Black Swan
family. Spartan was considered to be
backward in condition. He will have to
be reckoned with in the important juve-
nile events that lie ahead. However, as
matters stand, Sir John looks to have an
outstanding* chance in the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes at the week-end.
Racing against horses of all ages in the
first division of the Hawksburn Handi-
cap, Sir John went out a pronounced
favorite. He appeared to have the race
at his mercy until Press Gang made a
late appearance on the scene to score by
\\ lengths in record time. Press Gang is
trained by Holt, who most unexpectedly
landed the Woodcliff Handicap with
Man-at-Arms, owned by W. J. Winter-
bottom, of Perth (W.A.). Man-at-Arms
started at 50 to 1 and returned a dividend
of £32 13s. 6d. for ss.
Another rank outsider to score was
Woodbine in the Stanley Plate. This
filly is jointly owned by E. L. Baillieu and
his Sydney friend Mr. “Constable.” Jim
Pike sustained a fall in the second event,
and was ordered not to ride again during
the afternoon.
* * * *
Lough Neagh was a failure in the
spring, but he may be a different propo-
sition in the autumn. Very impressive
was the style in which he won the first
division of the Flying Handicap at Rose-
bery. Buonarroti, receiving 251 b., made
the Queenslander carry his 9st. 61b. up
the long straight, and when the pace-
maker slipped away at the turn the 6-to-4-
on favorite looked beaten. However,
Lough Neagh responded gamely, and, set-
tling Kelso’s horse, he ran the 6| fur-
longs in lmin. 2l^sec. —a quarter of a
second outside the track record.
Lough Neagh is in excellent trim. It
is doubtful whether he can be improved,
and his trainer is evidently keen on catch-
ing Chatham and Peter Pan a little
below their best form. The test will take
place in the Randwick Stakes on Satur-
day. The Queensland chestnut was badly
ridden on his last visit to Sydney ; Darcy
Webb was up on Saturday.
Warwick Farm trainer C. O. Battye
has hopes of Tremayne (Treclare—Lina-
citia) turning out as good as Tregilla. He
won the Trial Stakes at 5 to 4 from
Copious and Chiefava, finishing on at the
end of ten furlongs. He also was ridden
by Webb.
Pytheus likes the Rosebery track.
Backed from sixes to 7 to 2 for the Rose-
bery Handicap, and ridden a fine race by
the apprentice Fellows, he beat Fame on
the post, with Bawn-na-Glas a fair third.
Fame was unlucky, as she was stripped
on the hind leg, and when Pytheus made
his run over the last furlong he did not
give her much room. Young Fellows is
riding in great form. He has now piloted
16 winners.
Old Royal Tune and Babili shaped so
disappointingly at Warwick Farm that
backers did not consider them for the
first division of the Flying Welter. How-
ever, they ran first and second, Hall
Mark’s brother, Some Hero, being third
—his best race since coming from Vic-
toria. Somebody backed Burwood. He
failed badly, and Red Shadow, who
started favorite, ran last.
The second division went to the con-
sistent Earlminster (4 to 1), who carries
the colors of the Randwick sportsman
W. B. Manning. The third heat was won
in runaway fashion by Broad Arrow’s
stable-mate, Cool Spell (5 to 4); early
backers got threes. A three-year-old by
Spelthorne—Coolante, Cool Spell is pretty
certain to win again.
. . . • • • *
Sunny Wit is another good performer
at Rosebery. McShortodds always keeps
him on the safe side. In the second
division of the Flying Handicap he had
too much pace for Treepac and High Sun.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Clark is the best of the American
wrestlers now in Australia. At Leich-
hardt on Saturday he tied Beth up in
holds that would surely have scored falls
if Beth had not crawled under the ropes
on many occasions. But after each had
gained a fall, Clark could only get a draw.
Joe Dawson, for his part, outspeeded
Walter Browning at Newtown. Here,
also, it was a fall each at the finish ;
then the referee (Lurich) rightly decided
that the Australian was entitled to the
decision.
* * * *
The 1934 “Australian Boxing Annual,”
edited by that fine lightweight of other
days Jack Read (now a pressman in Syd-
ney), will be welcomed by all followers of
the game looking for an up-to-date com-
pilation of boxing records in Australia and
abroad. The performances of the great
Australian boxers since the days of Jack-
son and Griffo have been meticulously
set out, and there are many photographs.
Ins and Outs
Jardine’s bad luck still pursues him.
In a match with Ceylon at Colombo
his fast bowlers roused the ire of the
usually inoffensive Cingalee to such an
extent that the English skipper called the
police in to weed a few barrackers out.
Then came a match with combined India
and Ceylon, which Jardine handed over
to the vice-captain, Valentine. Clark, the
Northants fast bowler, was seen while
batting to dig a hole in the pitch at a
good length on the leg side. It seems
almost unbelievable, but there is evi-
dence in plenty. Valentine apologised
and told Clark to do likewise. He
refused, and is likely to hear from the
M.C.C. when he gets back to England.
* * * *
The Westralians had bad luck with the
weather in their three-day match in Syd-
ney against a N.S.W. team, and did not
make a fair start until the Saturday. Ma
then scored 332, Marks topping with
110 ; Francis five for 94. Westralia made
a good start —two for 146.
* * * *
An extraordinary bowling feat was
brought off in Brisbane club cricket last
week by Leo O’Connor and his son.
Playing for Valley, the pair dismissed
South Brisbane in both innings without
assistance. “Pop” took eight for 43, and
his offspring 12 for 25.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: An aspect of the
coming visit to Britain of the Australian
Eleven which gives me pause is the
apprehension among the chaps down
under and the buoyant hopes among the
lads up above that Larwood will have
recovered from his foot injury and will
repeat in England the deeds he did
in Australia with the Chapman and Jar-
dine teams. It is the fashion nowadays
to scoff at averages. Old hands like my-
self ask what are to be substituted for
them as a guide to performance. In Aus-
tralia Larwood has proved himself one
of the best fast bowlers we have seen on
this side. In England, his two Test
seasons indicate that he is in the near-dud
class. In 1926 he took 9 for an average
of 28 ; in 1930, 4 for an average of 74.
Yet in between those flops he sandwiched
probably the best performance of his
career from a sportsman’s point of view
—the winning to all intents and purposes
of the Test rubber in 1928-29 under a
skipper (the popular Chapman) who did
not descend to bodyline and leg-theory
fielding.
(Continued on next page.)
Noel Ryan cracked yet another Aus-
tralian swimming record in Sydney when
he covered the 300 yards in 3min. 17sec.
This is seven seconds better than the
record by Arne Borg, put up at Lismore
(N.S.W.) in 1929, and equalled last year
by Vockier, of Victoria.
The dirt-track motor-cycle match in
Sydney between N.S.W. and The Rest
was won by N.S.W., scoring 29-25. The
English riders appeared with The Rest,
and once more Stevenson outclassed the
opposition. This was his last appearance
in this country, and his win in the first
heat of the international handicap
brought his Australian record to 49 wins
in 53 starts. He also beat the only Aus-
tralian track record not already placed to
his credit. This was the mile standing
start of 68 l-ssec., which he cut to 67
2-ssec. from 10 yards behind scratch.
* * * *
“Glen”: Closing of entries for the bowl-
ing which breaks out in Adelaide on
March 5 and continues for a fortnight, if
any of the competitors can stand up to it
so long, shows that 1024 bowlers will be
playing, apart from their womenfolk and
the barrackers. There are 618 aspirants
for the singles, 512 pairs, and 250 fours
for the rink events. A local journal
announces that already every face in
Adelaide wears a smile. This joviality
should be particularly evident among
licensed victuallers and shareholders in
the breweries.
* * * *
The Victorian sprinter-jumper Hors-
fall was not long making his presence
felt at Cambridge. In the finals of the
inter-collegiate sports he won the 100
in 10 2-ssec., the quarter in 50 l-ssec.,
and the long jump with 22ft. 2in. Hors-
fall has a jump record of 23ft. 6in. to his
credit in Australia, and his defeat of the
Cambridge and English crack Rathbone
in the quarter has made the critics sit up.
Horsfall will be available for the Aus-
tralian team at the Empire Games in
August, and is pretty certain to be called
on.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
FOR FLEMINGTON ON SATURDAY.
Sires’ Produce Stakes ; Sir John.
Essendon Stakes: Deputy Ruler ;
next, Heroic Prince.
Newmarket: Jacko, 1; Waltzing
Lily, 2 ; Dame Moab, 3.
St. Leger: Hall Mark; next,
Danilo.
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Rand wick Stakes: Lough Neagh ;
next, Chatham.
Denman Stakes: Tom Pinch;
next, Gold Digger.
City Tatt.’s Cup: Tingalba ; next,
Roxburgh.
Club Welter: Celebrate; next,
Camargo.


Dynamic Power
For All Cars
♦ LEGGETTS *
ẃ
Whatever the make
of car or condition of
engine the “hotter
spark” principle, ex-
clusive to “Leggetts,”
ensures the maximum
power output, by
more perfect fuel
combustion, resulting
in easier starting,
quicker acceleration,
sweeter running,more
miles per gallon—
Dynamic Power.
Motorists through-
out Australia are
unanimous in their
praise of Leggetts
Spark Plugs.
Give your car
Dynamic Power.. Fit
Leggetts Spark Plugs.
Your garageman can
supply.
34/2-4
ẅ
The Premiers’ Conference
and the Market
Should Treasury Bills Be
Funded?
The Exchange Question
Stocks Worth Watching
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments. „_ lr ,
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
MARCH ISSUE
ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
Legal Notices.
TO ERNEST MILNE (also known as ERNST
WILLY or WILLIAM MILNE) nephew of
Elizabeth Anne Gard’ner who died intes-
tate at Christchurch in New Zealand on the
sth June 1926.
TO his children and to all persons claiming
by through or under him or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
called upon to send to me on or before the
Ist day of July 1934 your claims to the estate
of the abovenamed Elizabeth Anne Gard’ner
failing which such estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 10th day of
February, 1934.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
NOTICE
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY & RESIDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts.
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas tires in all bedrooms. Bridge, Bil-
liards, Table Tennis and Dancing.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
1-9 Inverness Terrace., Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas.
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Bath
and Breakfast from 8/6. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single,
6J guineas Double. Bedroom, Bath and
Breakfast from 7/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
BERKELEY COLJRT HOTEL
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Telephone: Padd. 8022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
25-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Telephone: Padd. 9712.
Accommodation for 90 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as bed-sitting rooms. Owing to
their popularity you are advised to secure
accommodation—if possible—in advance.
Terms: Single from 3 guineas. Double
from 5 guineas. Bedroom, Bath and
Breakfast from 6/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
«v
re
m
m
o
m
ss#*
w
All States
(Queensland
Excepted)
•iS
OM2
£
1 Joz. shot
in a 21in. cartridge
“NEOFLAK”
A New &
Better
POWDER
with freedom from excessive pressure or recoil
Use Duxbae VIOL SPECIAL
Waterproof Cartridges
These are loaded with “Neoflak,” assuring long
range with high velocity and hard hitting.
There are no “lost” birds when “Duxbac” or
“Icil Special” are used and no water-spoiled cart-
ridges, for both these brands are effectively water-
proofed, making them impervious to moisture or
even immersion in water itself.
Obtainable at Popular Prices from Store-
keepers and Gunsmiths throughout Australia.
icr
3
British
Made.
to
A Product of the Famous “ NOBEL ” Factories
The Only National Daily
Newspaper in Queensland.
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt St. ’Phone 555007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Newspaper House, Collins
St. ’Phone F 3906.
■AUDIT
•BUREAU »
.CIRCULATIONS.
ins and Outs
“Trent Bridge”: In view of the com-
ing war between Australia and England
I can report with confidence that there
will be nothing lacking in the Notts
supply of projectiles to the Test front.
The county is down nearly £BOO this
year, but most of that was for justifiable
defence purposes, including the operation
on Larwood’s toe and similar items. The
county report bemoans the loss of the
services of Larwood and Voce in the
Australian theatre of war last season, and
there is a good deal in the contention
that this was responsible for the falling
off in attendance. There’s no doubt we
lacemakers do like to watch a bit of the
rough stuff. But the brass is likely to
come back and a bit over when the
first Test stoush opens here in June.
* * * *
“Vehmgericht”: This bodyline business
takes on a deeper atmosphere of murky
mystery every moment. The very latest
development is a report from Brisbane, a
place always ready to tread on the tail
of anyone’s bodyline coat, to the effect
that “a secret committee” has been
appointed by the Board of Misrule to
collaborate with Bill Woodfull and
manager Bushby in England in case of
any dirty work at the creases by the
Englishmen. The report adds that the
committee is to ensure immediate assist-
ance from Australia if necessary. No
wonder George Pearce has promised to
increase the Defence Force!
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: J. C. Watson, one of
the trustees of Sydney Cricket Ground,
has written a memo, to his fellow-
members pointing out that the ground
is shockingly ill-equipped for the crowds
it professes to accommodate. The
trust has a considerable sum of money
in hand, but it has been hanging
back for a long while in an attempt
to urge the Government into giving a
heavy subsidy to an improvement scheme.
There now being no hope of that, Watson
suggests that his mates should do what
they can with the money they have in
hand and borrow a further sum from
private sources, as he says they could
easily do. The combined funds should
provide at least a couple more stands, and
would bring in an additional number of
subscribing members for whom there is
now no room.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Queensland cricket
authorities are to move that Rule 1 of
the constitution of the Board of Control
be altered to allow the State to have
the same representation on the board as
the original three. The Queenslanders also
want a representative on the selection
committee, as was the case a couple of
years ago. No doubt the -treatment of
Oxenham has roused the Bananalanders
to action. At the same time it must be
said that, in spite of their small represen-
taion, they have roused more trouble than
the weight they pull justifies. But for a
Queensland-Victorian cabal, the bodyline
trouble, which all thought and hoped was
buried for ever, would not have been
resuscitated, with results that are not de-
termined yet.
* * * *
“Second Slip”: The dashing century
recorded by the ex-N.S.W. colt Arthur
Allsopp for a second eleven of Victoria
against the Westralians reminds me that
here is another of the many budding
cricket champions who have been chucked
into the discard by State selectors or forced
to take engagements abroad. Allsopp
was a natural batsman with a fast-scoring
complex. In eight Sheffield matches for
N.S.W. he scored 555 runs, with an
average of 46.5, and a highest score of
136 in his first season. Further, he was
a most promising wicket-keeper. The
boy, coming friendless from the country,
had no backing by influential people in
Sydney. He faded back to the country,
and later found his way to a Victorian
pennant club.
* * * *
“Square Leg”: As expected, Bill Wood-
full’s inexplicable action in ordering
Fingleton back to bat in the closing Shef-
field match between N.S.W. and Vic-
toria (B. 31/1/ ’34) is to be inquired into
by the N.S.W.C.A., the body immediately
concerned. The first step will be a call
for a report from the executive of the
association. This will probably be fol-
lowed by the report of the umpire whose
decision was overridden by the Victorian
captain. That done, comes the question
of when the batsman concerned was, out
and what score should be credited to
him. Also the averages of the bowlers
who suffered at his bat after his reprieve
may have to be considered. Fingleton,
after being absent “hurt,” came back
to reach 86, when umpire Borwick gave
him out stumped. Sent back by Wood-
full, he ran his score to 145.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Wisden’s best five
cricketers of the year include two known
in Australia. The first is M. S. Nicholls.
He was here with the M.C.C. team led
by A. H. Gilligan in 1929-30, the side
subsequently passing on to M.L. A big,
rather clumsy trundler who occasionally
developed pace, he took 21 wickets in
this country for an average of 19.66. As
a batsman he averaged 28.14 for seven
innings. The 1930 Australian team met
him in the fourth Test, when he took 2
for 33. He plays for Essex, and last year
took 120 wickets and scored 1311 runs.
A. H. Bakewell, of Northants, just missed
the last Test series in England. He scored
1952 for the county last year and a century
in one of the West Indian Tests. He is an
attacking batsman and a splendid field.
C. F. Walters is skipper of Worcestershire
and is freely tipped as England’s next
captain. He is a very high-class batsman,
and last season scored 2229 in all first-
class matches, with nine centuries and an
average of 53.30. L. F. Townsend, of
Derbyshire, is one of the best all-rounders
in English cricket. Last year he headed
the county batting with a 1966 aggregate
and topped the bowling with 90 wickets,
costing 17.18 each. The fifth man is the
West Indian Headley.
Racquet and Baw?
“Gate”: The Australian and State
tennis organisations will cut up some
good money as the result of the English
tour. In spite of protesting yelps, especi-
ally from Ma, 55 per cent, of the Test
takings were pouched by the Federal
body, while the Australian and Victorian
championships takings were docked 25
per cent, by the people at h.q. Final
figures are not available yet, but N.S.W.
had to hand over £1750 for the Sydney
Test and £BOO for the Australian cham-
pionships played in the same town. Vic-
toria was docked £BOO for the Test and
£4OO for the State championships. The
Adelaide Test brought £9OO to the Aus-
tralian coffers, while Brisbane and Perth
would bring the bag to about £5500. A
liberal allowance for expenses would be
£2OOO, which leaves a profit of £3500.
This will be distributed equally among
the States, and Ma is already weeping
bitter tears because little Tassie, which
only saw the tourists in exhibition
matches, will share equally with her.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: As tipped, the Japan-
ese have picked five men for their Davis
Cup team, with a manager. One is in-
clined to rank Satoh as a veteran. He is
the oldest of the five at 26, though he has
figured for Nippon in the Cup for the
last three years. In the last series he beat
Crawford, though McGrath accounted
for him. Nunoi, second string in the last
Cup team, is only 22. Crawford beat
him in Paris but he outed McGrath.
Nishimura is one of the new three. Only
22, he cleaned up all before him in the
Japanese championships. Has a red-hot
forehand and is doubles as well as singles
champion, his partner being Yamagishi.
Yamagishi ranks third this year in Japan.
He is 21 and a notable doubles player I
with a killing volley. Fujikura is the pup
of the side at 20. Graded second last
year, he gave Nishimura the go of his
life in the national singles. He has great
speed on the court and is a solid player
on both hands.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Touring his native
country with Tilden, Vines seems to be
right back to the form which made him
world’s champion a couple of years ago.
His whack already is rated at 50,000 iron
men. Now Bill O’Brien, Tilden’s prin-
cipal, has bluntly announced that Perry
will go over to the paid ranks if Britain
loses the Davis Cup this year.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The meeting of the
International Tennis Federation in Paris
on March 16 will determine whether open
tournaments are to be allowed, as in golf.
Tilden says open tournaments will draw
crowds hitherto unknown and popularise '
the game out of sight. Perry has told an
interviewer that he sees no reason why
amateur and professional should not meet
on equal terms in tennis as in other
games. One desirable result of such a
change would be the extinction of the
present ridiculous conventions under the
cover of which comparatively indigent
amateurs of no acknowledged profession
are able to make costly world tours with
no ostensible incentive, apart from win-
ning their matches, beyond the payment
of their travelling and housing expenses
by their hosts.
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: Amurrica has tabbed
the blue-eagle badge on the Yank tennis
players who are considered to have a
sporting chance of selection for the next
Davis Cup team. Special courts have
been fixed up for the elect, and on these
they will practise all the remainder of
the winter under the vigilant eyes of
former champion and _ professional
coaches. Special attention is being paid
to the youngsters, among whom Frank
Parker and Bryant Grant—who outed
C Continued on next page.)


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
HIGH-GRADE
SECOND-HAND ENGLISH
SHOTGUNS
These were specially selected by me
whilst in England recently. From
some hundreds of guns offered, only
those suited to Australian conditions
were purchased.
Makers: Purdey, Jeffery, Lang,
Greener, Boswell, Powell, Evans,
Cashmore.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL LIST.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“'FISHING tackle to TACKLE FISHING.”
\J\C
\tv
Hot
VJYtf
Travel!
See Victoria’s
beauties unusual mountain
scenery, picturesque rivers, bush
and pastoral country, attractive seaside
resorts, Melbourne’s historic buildings and other
attractions —enjoy your vacation to the full.
Make sure, too, of real comfort
in holiday headquarters.
Stay at -
Reasonable
Tariff:
Inclusive, or
Room only
%
*
$
m
te[
1W
rtifi
Collins St.
Telegrams: “Scottsdtel,” Melbourne.
For Comfort
and Service
w
The Prontac
o Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation....
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your han s.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
Box 98cc, G.P.0., Sydney.
Vines in the national championship
singles last year —have been particularly
earmarked.
* * * *
“Black Out”: Helen Wills-Moody is
the latest to find that fame is a fleeting
ember and championships a story told.
For ten years she was the idol of her
people, and abroad acclaimed the best
since Suzanne Lenglen. Recently _ 179
American sports “experts” joined in a
ballot to determine the outstanding
woman athlete of the blue eagle’s country.
Helen Jacobs got 64 votes, Virginia van
Wie, a golferette unheard of outside her
own country, coming second with 48.
Helen received three votes! Sic transit
gloria Moodi, so to speak.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I put up a plea for the stern
cutting-down of the growing practice in
tennis of banging across the net before
each match starts. A couple of hits are
well enough, but not the continuous ping-
pong business. Nobody gets any good
out of it, for nobody dreams of playing
the real strokes that will be used in the
match. Ask the players, and they say
they are waiting for the umpire. Ask
the umpire, and he says he doesn’t like
to interfere with their “practice.” Not
so long ago, it was much the same at
cricket. Every change bowler claimed to
send down a few balls to loosen his arm.
That time-wasting business was sum-
marily abolished at last, and so should
this other be.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Corvus”: The Australian crow, the
first bird on record to show a practical
interest in golf, now has imitators all
round the world. Writer has recorded
his ball-stealing activities in India, Africa
and China. Now comes news that the
birds have taken up the game in Mexico.
In this case an American doctor played
a shot into a bad hazard. The crow flew
down, picked up the ball and, flitting over
to the green, dropped it close to the pin.
The story goes on to say that the doctor
holed out a “birdie,” which somehow
seems to fasten the real Yankee stamp on
the yarn even if the happening is blamed
on Mexico.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: I have often animad-
verted on the pernicious custom requir-
ing a golfer who has holed in one to
shout for all those present in the bar
when he arrives there. Though on the
last occasion the misfortune befel me I
abandoned the game and ran at top
speed to the clubhouse—thereby sacri-
ficing half my caddie-fee for the round —
the ill news had spread at such a rate
that the place was crammed to suffoca-
tion. I am glad to see that an overseas
player, and he an Englisher, has taken
steps to protect himself against this form
of victimisation. At his club the feat
recently cost him £SO for a champagne
supper, that being the ungodly usage of
the establishment. Now he has taken
out an insurance policy and can hole in
one every day in the week if he chooses —
it will be the insurance company’s pidgin.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian Golf
Association has dispatched a formal in-
vitation to St. Andrews for a team of
four leading British amateurs and a
manager to play in the centenary inter-
national golf tourney. Negotiations with
leading American professionals are
also on foot, the association being
willing to allow them to share in the
gates received from the international
matches. In addition to these men,
Sarazen and Kirkwood will definitely
come along. General opinion in Mel-
bourne is that the G.A. has left its
official invitations far too late, especially
in the case of the British amateurs. In
any case the big British tourneys will be
under way in May and June, and none
of the leading players is likely to give
these a miss in favor of the Melbourne
show. If they decide to come on after-
wards, they won’t have much time left
to strike form after getting off the ship.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Bobby Jones, who has
been out of the golfing limelight for some
time, has come out again, and is playing
all the better for his spell, as is the case
with many a lesser light. Bobby’s golfing
future is full of interrogation marks. The
amendment by America and St. Andrews
of the amateur-status rules has definitely
put the American, with his movie and
writing-on-golf activities, out of the lily-
whaite class. The world’s championship,
the British open, is still available to him,
and there are great expectations as to
whether he will be seen at Sandwich this
year to pick up from Shute the title he
dropped by default in 1930.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: It looks as if N.S.W.
will be poorly represented in the Kirk-
Windeyer Cup matches in Auckland, and,
as none of the other States is sending a
team, M.L. should have a great chance
of getting the pot back. In addition to
Ferrier, held up by injury, Drs. Betting-
ton and Lee Brown and several others of
the leading Welshmen, including amateur
champion Hattersley, are not available.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The British golf cham-
pionships committee has altered the dates
for the big events this coming season.
The Walker Cup match between teams
of American and British amateurs will
be played on May 11 and 12. The ama-
teur title will begin on May 21 and the
open on June 25. Most of the European
“This bloke’s a bit of a surprise, ain’t he?"
“Surprise ? He’s a flamin’ eye-opener."
and American cracks have entered, but
so far there is no mention of any Aus-
tralian trying his luck.
Car and Cycle
“Fitzcray”: If he isn’t eaten by lions
in the Kalahari Desert, where he is at
present searching for a lost gold reel,
motorist Malcolm Campbell has con-
sented to sacrifice himself to make a
Melbourne centenary holiday. He is sure
to be urged into taking part in some of
the car races being organised, and alto-
gether one imagines he has a sticky
time ahead of him, what with the advo-
cates of various speedways scattered
between the Leeuwin and Cape York and
the swarming inventors with new motor
ideas.
“Whizz”: It comes as a shock to read
that Malcolm Campbell has thrown oyer
the British designers who have served him
so well in the past and adopted a German
body for the new 2000-h.p. car with
which he hopes to raise his record to 300
m.p.h. at least. The new body is of fan-
tastic appearance, but it is claimed it
shows 33 per cent, improvement in wind
resistance on the British body first
adopted. The car will be ready in July
and will have a twin-wheel rear drive to
eliminate wheel-spin as much as possible.
* * * *
“Formula”: The Daimler fluid fly-
wheel now fitted to various types of the
later car models is one of the greatest
advances made in motor-engine design
for years. There is neither gear lever nor
clutch, the driver turning the pre-selection
lever to the desired gear and pressing the
gear-engaging pedal. To get the idea,
imagine the driving shaft broken at one
point and the space intervening filled
with oil. Without solid connection of
any kind the oil transmits motion from
one part of the shaft to the other. It is
a modified version of the old mill-wheel
turned by water, with two wheels instead
of one. The first wheel is power-driven
and imparts energy to the water (oil in
this case). The second wheel is driven
by the flow set up by the first—that is a
brief outline of the principle of the
fluid flywheel.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The promoters of the
T.T. motor-cycle races to be held on
the Bathurst (N.S.W.) circuit on March
31 have announced that this time they
will be run “widdershins” —that is, with
the clock against the sun and not with
the latter, as of yore. The reason given
is that spectators will have a better view,
but riders, even those knowing the course
intimately, will have to learn it all over
again, the other way round.
* * * *
“Douglas”: This year the Isle of Man
T.T. promoters have provided the cash
for only one Australian motor-cyclist.
Pringle is not available this time. Don
Bain and Art Senior are fancied candi-
dates, but Potts, of Adelaide, or Weather-
by, who was Australia’s second string last
year, may beat them for the job.
* * * *
“Bywoner”: A great motor-cycling
feat by Joe Sarkis was recently recorded
in the South African T.T. races. He
cleaned up the bill of fare, taking all four
events. In the 250 c.c. (140 miles) he
averaged 69.9 m.p.h.; in the 350 c.c. (200
miles), 73 m.p.h.; in the 500 c.c. (200
miles), 79.1 m.p.h.; while his fourth win
was in the 10-mile handicap, in which he
averaged 72.1 m.p.h. from scratch.
Miscellaneous
“Peh Lung”: I note with disgust that
the Chinese Republic has set itself to
abolish the ancient and manly sport of
cricket fighting—not the Australian body-
line variety, but the matching of the
insects of that name. The game has as
great a hold on the Chinese as horse-
racing on the Australians, and a number
of the population do well by maintaining
breeding studs for crickets, some of the
“yearlings” at the equivalent to our
annual sales fetching as high as £B.
Wagering is tremendously heavy, and so
many punters have taken the knock that
the authorities swear they will wipe it out
at all costs. The crickets are kept in
cages, and, after the wagers have been
set and covered, a champion is shoved in
at each end of a narrow bamboo tube.
The sounds of invisible battle surging
backward and forward in the tube pro-
duces tremendous excitement, and the
betting on the running is deafening. Pre-
sently the beaten cricket backs out of
his end of the tube, and the bets are paid
over to the usual accompaniment of
rejoicings and blasphemy.
v * * *
“Slide”: With the Oxford-Cambridge
boatrace looming, it looks as if this
country will have no representatives in
the Dark Blue boat this year, though a
Maorilander named Lascelles is a strong
candidate. Cambridge has definitely
selected two men
from down under,
both Victorians and
Melbourne Grammar
School oarsmen, Sam-
bell and Wilson. Cam-
bridge has won the
race for nine years in
succession.
* *
“Blade”: This year
will see a new version
of the Oxford-Cam-
bridge boatrace —a
mile spin between
crews made up from
girls in residence at
the two universities.
It is to be rowed on
the Cam, and, as that
historic ditch is hardly
as wide as the Nepean
or the Brisbane, will
have to be decided by
bumping or by a time spin. The papers
are publishing full details of training and
diet, fags being cut out and all abed at
10.30. Whether Blues are to be given is
not stated.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Australian Universi-
ties’ Rugby side wound up its Japanese
tour with a second Test, in which it was
beaten. The Japanese R.U. has cabled its
appreciation of the splendid spirit of
sportsmanship displayed by the tourists
on and off the field.
*** * .
“Bowen Bridge”: The Rugby Union
game in southern Queensland is losing
one of its bright particular stars in Jack
Steggall, who played in all five Tests in
Africa at every position except forward.
He is a solicitor and goes to practise in
Cairns, now given over to the Rugby
League. It is unlikely that Steggall will be
invited south to play for inter-State Union
sides in Brisbane, so he will be faced
with the alternative of giving up footer
altogether—which is most improbable—
or joining the professional code.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls an
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.


HIHSCOS
FENCING Wife*
FENCE STANDARDS
WIRE STRAINERS
Autoscrew Droppers
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIED LIMITED^.
HIBISCUS FAMOUS
FENCING WIRE
Both Plain and Barb. No other
firm can supply, so protect your-
self by ordering direct from us.
All Hibiscus Wire is made from a
High-grade Wire, and is specially
Galvanised, ensuring long life.
Every coil carries a guarantee or
money back.
Genuine Hibiscus Tested Plain High Tension Wire, in coils
of 1 cwt. There are about 1500 yards in a coil—
-27- per cwt; or £26 per ton.
1 2£g. Australian High Tension Wire—£2o per ton; or 2 1/- per cwt.
We manufacture Hibiscus Barb Wire—you therefore get direct
factory prices, from 17/6 coil of 440 yards. Write for full price
list. On K Wire we sell single rolls at maker’s factory prices. Pig
Fencing Hibiscus 32 inches high, 45/- roll of 110 yards, that is
5 chains.
BUILDERS’ LlNES. —Galvanised Roll Top Baths, on legs, full
size, 30/-; Oregon Doors, 20/-; Three-ply, 11/- per
100 square feet, or 2/- per sheet; Crown Paint, 11/6
gallon; White Lead, 13/- keg of 281 b.; Linseed Oil, 4/8
gallon; Cement Red Roof Paint, 17/9 gallon; Dover
Stoves, No. 7 67/6, No. 8 77/6 with 4ft. piping free;
Tank Material for 1000 gallon, 70/-; and No Sales Tax
to pay on any of our goods.
Furniture and Household Goods. At last Our Special Catalogue
of furniture and household goods, lampware, kitchenware, etc., is
ready and will be posted free on application. Prices will
astonish you.
Our Men’s Clothing Catalogue is also ready. A unique opportunity
to secure single articles at Wholesale Prices. We pay postage on
all men’s clothing.
LOWEST ALSO FOR All Groceries, Joinery, Gates, Paints and
Oils, Stoves and Ranges, Cold Safes, Telephone Material,
Fruit Bottling Outfits, Plows, Pumps, Farm Machinery,
Tools, Forges, Chains, Tents, Tarpaulins, Roofing,
Arsenic, Saddlery, Cattle Dip, Cream Cans, Spray Pumps,
etc. Galv. Iron, 6ft., 2/-; Bft., 2/6 sheet.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE—It Will Save You Pounds.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen Street (Off Ann Street, near Fire Brigade), BRISBANE.
GILGO 32-VOLT WIND-DRIVEN
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
A Thoroughly Re!iahle,
Slow-speed, Waterproof
and OiJess Machine.
4-Blade Aluminium Propeller geared
to Generator.
Bright light and fully charged bat-
tery at all times with an ordinary
breeze.
Speed is automatically controlled.
Has every modern feature, including
Wireless Interference Eliminator, etc.
Costs Nothing to Run
*
m
ŵ
WE ALSO CARRY A COMPLETE
RANGE OF
Battery, Semi-Automatic
or Full Automatic Light Sets,
the most popular of which is the
NEW RONALDSON TIPPETT
H-h.p. Semi-Automatic Plant,
as it brings Electric Light within easy
reach of the average householder.
LET US QUOTE YOU.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
€§(?*
N-Q-Bmnch
STURT ST
TOWNSVILLE
ENCINEERINC Supply c?cf MJSTRAHA L T . D |
AUSTRALIANS AS HORSEMEN.
“Second Divvy” answers his critics:
I might have known when I demurred to the
silly claim that Australians are “the world’s
best horsemen” that I would give our leading
equestrian mugs another chance to make a fool
“ g[ eat country. Consider “Sixth B.” (B.
21/2/34): —
Our jockeys may be a poor lot, but what’s race-
course riding l , anyway ? I’ve seen wonderful cavalrv
displays on the Continent and in Britain, but my
admiration was given to the horses, not to the
guys on top.
He is so ignorant of the first principles of
horsemanship that he thinks lightly of a man
who can win, say, an Aintree G.N., and when
he sees a wonderful cavalry display” he im-
agines that “the guys on top” have nothing
to do with it! It is because one or two Aus-
tralians who talk similar rubbish may be found
m every bar of any consequence from Perth
to Brisbane nowadays that overseas experts are
tiff to that none of us knows
•■"C first thing about horsemanship.
Circle Dot” began his efforts to prove we
are the world’s best horsemen” by reference
to rough-riding feats which every cattle country
claims tor its cowboys; went on to refer to
some cross-country riders of 30 years ago, and
finally put forward Pike as “the equal of any
since Hales. Asked if he meant that Pike was
better than Richards, he shut up. Asked to
name some local horsemen who are better
K n TTc e * eq f estrian Bradmans of Europe and
him m - on shutting . L, P- His latest
ciaim (B. 21/2/ 34) is comparatively modest.
M\ argument, boiled down, is that the percentage
of bush riders to population here is greater than the
percentage of cavalrymen and hunting men in
main and Ireland, and any man who computes
the numbers must agree.
I have computed the numbers, and I don’t
agree. Two-thirds of our people live in cities
ana towns, and, save in the capacity of punters,
bookies, tipsters, urgers and the like, have no-
thing to do with horses. The only riding two-
thirds of the other third ever do con-
susts in hacking about sheep-station paddocks
on dead-quiet mokes (“It is a continuous moan
ot the, drovers-in-charge,” to quote “Never
Again, a Q. border station manager with 28
years experience of the back country, “that
rough”) 6 Una^le to get men to r^e anything
Tcm e ooj» nsh f F ',s e , State has a Population of
2,971,992, of which about 800,000 live in cities
and towns. It has nine first-class packs of hounds,
which are followed by people of all classes; 12
nrst-class steeplechase courses, over which land-
owners and their employees compete all through
every winter, and innumerable horse shows, in-
cluding the Dublin one, at which a professional
is rarely seen in the saddle. N. S. Wales, with
V a jL nrm ™. lllon . fewer People, has over
1,600 000 living in cities and towns. So little
fu 6 * inhabitants interested in horsemanship
that it hasn t a single pack of hounds, and it has
no squatters, farmers or other country-dwellers,
other than pros., who ride over the jumps at a
racecourse or show.
In short, the Free State gets as many chances
to produce horsemen as Australia does to pro-
uuce cricketers. No wonder it sends as many
horsemen abroad as we do cricketers, and no
wonder we send as few horsemen to the coun-
tries where there is money in horsemanship as
the Free State sends cricketers.
William Hatfield, also:
The horsemanship claims are sensibly tailing
off at last to pleas for worthy mention of
Australians with the rest. Even “Circle Dot”
boils down his claim to the reasonable assump-
tion that we have more bush riders pro rata
than Britain and Ireland. But if he didn’t
imply that any stockman could toss bulls while
they leapt four-foot logs his quiet satisfaction
that the feat aroused no comment beyond that
or the jumping ability of the horse means
nothing.
“Viator” is incensed because I am an Eng-
lishman, am not a bushman, can never become
one, am a journalist, in fact. Those are hardly
points at issue. I, for instance, am not moved
to scorn because he is an Australian, a bush-
man, is not a journalist, nor ever will be. It
irritates him beyond measure that I ride in a
car these days. The means of locomotion he
favors does not anger me, and he can deli-
berately choose the most awkward way round
instead of using the mail tracks which have
existed between all the stations in Australia
since before his birth. He tries to prove that
throwing and tying cattle is a common feat, as
“Circle pot” did originally.
Our difficulty was not the camera-shyness of
the bushmen, nor their unwillingness to stunt.
Two camps combined and went miles out of
their way to help us. They drafted cattle
especially for us, cattle they did not need to
cut out, and then put them back in the mob.
Big, long-horned pikers that hated to face the
open, and gave them a go for it. They did a
gruelling day’s open camp branding in the heat
within two miles of the shaded yard they would
have used had we not been there.
Mr. Hughes drove out 60 miles with the
broncho hook —these days more or less a relic —
so that we should have pictures of lasso work.
They swam cattle through water they could
have gone round. Mr. Spinks (or Jack, as he
demanded to be called) found a horse for one
of our stunt riders to be thrown from. Mr.
Albert Muller found another outlaw for an-
other of our men. Mr. Conrick said it didn’t
matter if we broke a beast’s neck. (Save a
cartridge. We’d need beef, anyway. No one
in the Corner would take payment for beef for
our outfit the whole time we were there.) Mr.
Muller, in spite. of many patched limbs from
rough-riding accidents, grabbed hefty beasts on
foot and half-Nelsoned them. He would have
thrown and tied for us from the saddle despite
the risk of an old fracture giving way, if we
had allowed it. At least, he would have seen
if any of the horses in his plant could be made
to do the trick offhand.
Our own team of stunt merchants (who live
the year round on prize-money from gym-
khanas, shows and rodeos) found no horses
schooled to do that essential spurt past the
steer when the tail is grabbed. A good shoul-
dering camp horse stays glued on to his beast
once he connects. A touch of the spur he
reads as a nasty demand for closer work, and
bores in the harder. Go past? No! That
isn’t the job. It never was work, anyway. We
used to fool around at it whenever a few tail-
enders broke at a yard. We used to make a
few break so that we could.
Pastoralists don’t want their stock thrown
on their ears. They breed them to sell without
blemish. Throwing and tying steers is a spec-
tacular and costly waste of time. I wanted a
shot of it, among other things, merely to prove
to the world when the film goes abroad that
we have horsemen here equal to the world’s
best. All those cattlemen who co-operated so
willingly with me were actuated by the same
motive. They did something about it, rather
than burst into print and baldly claim to be
the “finest horsemen in the world.” I asked
our stunt team, who this year are engaged to
try out all the buckjumpers submitted for the
Centenary Rodeo, and who will also compete
in the world’s championship rough-riding event,
how they fancied their chance. “Well,” said
the spokesman (they are a quiet, modest lot,
and looked at each other for a while before
one spoke up), “the States will send some
good men over, you can bet, but we’ll give ’em
a go for it.”
Australians? Yes, the kind of Australians for
whom my admiration shows in all my writings.
Do you hear them or the Hugheses, Spinkses,
Normans, Conricks and Mullers saying offhand
they’re the finest horsemen in the world? You
do not. Their spirit, the spirit that one warms
to, is epitomised in that remark. “Well wf’ll
give ’em a go for it.” They skite not, on plat-
form nor in print.
THE PALETTE
In Anthony Horderns’ Gallery (Syd-
ney) there are many mansions, and to
wander through them all is to realise that
the ways of painting a picture are infinite.
The European impressionists are not
neglected—there’s a section devoted to
reproductions of the work of Cezanne,
Yan Gogh, Matisse, Monet and lesser
lights. The quality of these prints is very
high; present critic has seen some of
them side by side with the originals, and
the difference is less than that between
a first- and a hundredth-impression etch-
ing. The examples have been well chosen ;
confined in almost every case to instances
where the artist saw something that
pleased him and expressed the idea of it
with enough simple vigor to impress the
common man —the motion of a wheat-
field ; the effervescence of a little stream
running in a series of tiny Niagaras ; the
sedateness of a quiet pool fringed with
alders; the morning joyousness of a
landscape made genial by many farms
and little houses. That it isn’t possible
to achieve such tours de force without
exhibiting the most utter unconcern for
details of form and the elements of
pencil- and brush-craft hasn’t been
proved, but neither has it been disproved.
Possibly as an antithesis to the im-
pressionist prints, Horderns’ show cheek
by jowl with them the sculptures of
Barbara Tribe, a Sydney modeller who
sticks to the Grecian theory that the
human body is inherently beautiful and
that full justice can be done to it only
in three dimensions. Like her preceptor
Rayner Hoff, Miss Tribe is not afraid
to tackle groups of many figures, nor to
make the man in khaki a hero.
Howard Barron, who had a show in
Sydney 18 months ago, paints landscapes
recognising that a cliff is a cliff, a tree a
tree, and a hill a hill, and doing his
darnedest to emphasise its cliffiness, treei-
ness or hilliness. This week he has a
show in Rubery Bennett’s atelier in
George-street. The pictures show that
he has roamed round N. S. Wales looking
at things and expressing them in oils. His
eyesight has wonderfully improved in a
year and a half. Even if he is excluded
from the art galleries of the near future
his pictures such as “Megalong Cliffs and
the Hydro,” “Blue Distances,” “Foothills,
Burragorang” and “Nepean River, After-
noon,” should be used as illustrations to
future geography books to show that
once upon a time ignorant people loved
the Australian landscape and could con-
template it without repressing as illusory
such concepts as a mystery of distance
and a gracefulness of earth and vegeta-
tion. Also that once upon a time some-
body saw gum-trees swept by a wind
from a windy sky and painted both trees
and sky—and the wind! —so that they
were recognisable by children. In short,
Barron isn’t a stunter, an “impressionist,”
a “realist” or a “futurist,” but a painter
with a conscience.
“F.S.”: Melbourne “Age” recently re-
ported, as a unique discovery, that a
gallery at Bournemouth, England, had
initiated a lending “library” of pictures,
the work of Lord Leighton, Sir Edward
Poynter, Sir David Murray and other
eminent past Academicians being taken
out like works of fiction from a book
library. The Meldrum Gallery in the
“Age’s” own city has had a similar
scheme running for a year past, the dif-
ference being that it is a private concern
and the works are by contemporary
painters. Extending the idea to public
galleries in Australia is not likely to catch
on, as most of them have very stringent
regulations governing the custody of their
pictures.


LYSAGHTTS
rji
m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
M6*to
jf^ MW ■'•.•:
ytf', ■ ■" v 'H< ■>, ~*;
....
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY guaranteed.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
KEEPING PASTURES CLEAN.
“Golightly”: While good seasons con-
tinue in N.S.W., wormy pastures are in-
evitable. Few sheepmen realise the
thoroughness and work entailed in keep-
ing pastures clean. Some believe that
if their sheep are infected all that is
needed is to dose them once with some
well-known physic. Then they wonder
why their sheep still die, and blame the
medicine.
My experience suggests that, while rain
is about or above the ayerage, sheep pas-
tures are worm-infested ; and, as most
stockmen expect to carry more sheep
during good seasons, the results are that
the pastures infect the sheep and vice
versa at an increasing ratio. While these
conditions last, sheep should be dosed
regularly once every 14 days. It is a
laborious job ; but it pays for itself.
The ordinary dose of bluestone and
mustard (7oz. bluestone and 7oz. mus-
tard to 3gals. of water will treat 480
lambs or 360 two-tooths or 240 aged
sheep) will kill the worms present but
not the eggs; nor can physic destroy
worms taken in from the pastures after
dosing. _ The condition of pastures that
gave the sheep worms will continue to
infect them, unless seasonal conditions
change.
I find that bluestone and mustard has
no deleterious effect on the growing
sheep or wool, and that it is all to the
good to keep it up until all signs of
worm-infestment have disappeared and
the pastures have become sweet.
Neglected wormy sheep eat earth to
relieve the pain. This results in black
scours, and, notwithstanding later dosing,
the sheep may die from the amount of
earth swallowed.
THE PROFITS OF SHEEP-DEALING.
“Blazeaway”: There is a lot of “the
sport of kings” (B. 7/2/’34) about the
reported dealing in sheep since the rise
in wool.
A report given much publicity is of a
dealer who made anything from £24,000
to £60,000 —the amount varies in different
districts. He bought a mob of full-
woolled ewes just prior to the rise. He
shore them. He got a drop of lambs from
them. He shore the lambs and sold
them. He did the same and repeated
with the ewes. He did the lot in the
few months which have passed since
wool rose, and he cleared £60,000. At
least, he shifted the money from one
pocket to the other.
Before one gambler can win, some
other must lose. What of the fellow who
sold those ewes for 45.? How much did
he lose? We never hear anything about
the poor cuss.
Instead of dealing in chimerical sales
of fictitious sheep let us have a look at
some real cases. Prior to the cattle slump
an Adelaide dealer bought 1000 steers
from a Georgina station at £7 2s. 6d. a
head. The day he took delivery, about
May, ’2l, he could not have got 7s.
for them. About the end of ’25 a station
in the Richmond (Q.) district bought
10,000 ewes from a C.Q. run, giving 30s.
a head. The purchaser of that line of
ewes never got enough out of them or
their progeny to pay half the droving
expenses.
Some time during ’24 a large pastoral
firm gave £200,000 for a big western
station. Up to the end of ’25 it might
have netted £25,000, though I doubt it.
Since then, if I had only one quarter of
what they have lost on that station, it
would put me in the position to hobnob
with Ben Shashoua. About the end of
’24 a Central Queensland grazier gave
£BO,OOO for a western property, paying a
£20,000 deposit. At the end of ’26 he
forfeited his deposit and walked out with
nothing.
BEATING THE BLOWFLY.
“Lion”: Tell “G.H.H.” (B. 14/2/’34)
that if he were a practical grazier he
would find no “fancies” in my article
(B. 3/1 / ’34). His contribution is interest-
ing, but until “the light of researches
now proceeding” lights the way more
clearly carcass destruction will remain
the most important check on blowflies.
I advise him to allow an infested car-
cass to run its normal course “just to
experiment.” Then dig in the ground
underneath. He will find thousands of
chrysalises. All will soon be thousands
of flies ready to strike and breed again.
In spite of this, “G.H.H.” expects us
to belieVe that “carcass destruction so
beloved of the layman” is antiquated.
Again, “512” (B. 24/l/’34) miscon-
strued what I meant-by “hot weather.”
I should have written “hot, sultry
weather,” which often occurs when the
grass is like tinder.
PREPARING A HIDE FOR AUCTION.
“M.S.”: It is important that hides and
calfskins should be carefully taken off,
free from cuts or sores. If hides become
dirty or tainted they are apt to be
neglected by the buyers.
To salt a hide, lay it out on a clean
floor, flesh side up, and salt thoroughly
with 101 b. or 121 b. of fairly fine salt,
according to size. Then fold it in half,
belly to belly, so that the hair does not
come in contact with the flesh side. Then
fold the belly into the middle of the
back, and salt any points or cheek pieces
showing. It is also a good plan to throw
a handful of salt on the hair side before
rolling.
The best method of rolling a hide is
to turn the head in once and roll the
tail up until they meet. Then fold the
two together, place in a bag or secure
with a piece of rope. If this is done, the
hide will retain its brine and be much
more attractive when opened up.
It is always wise to consign hides to
auction within a reasonable time after
they have been taken off the beasts —to
retain as much weight as possible. If
hides become dry they not only lose a
lot of weight, but very often become
weevil-eaten or damaged.
DEHORNING DAIRY CATTLE.
“Bahb Dwyer”: The Queensland A.I.S.
Society has been hotly debating the ques-
tion of dehorning. One section says
horns are useless and the cows are better
without them. The opposition holds that
with the removal of the horns a breed
characteristic disappears, that identifica-
tion would be rendered more difficult, and
that some “ringtails” might find their way
into the herd book. Surely the Illawarra
is typical enough without its horns.
It has been pointed out on the M.O.L.
Page many times that horns cause loss
and damage, and even the stock argu-
ment that they help in foraging in
drought time doesn’t hold water.
The question is to be referred to the
annual conference of the A.IJS. Society
to be held in Sydney at Easter.
The Illawarra is purely a utility breed
and there isn’t room for the “fancier”
who would let a pair of horns count for
more than outstanding productive per-
formance.
The shapely horns of the Ayrshire have
become so much of a breed character-
istic that this point has been allowed to
get right out of its true perspective.
MANURING THE MANGOLD.
“Hatter”: “Tumbe Munda’s” experi-
ments with mangolds confirm the ex-
perience of others. The crop responds
best to nitrogen and potash (B. 17/1/’34).
Where available, stable manure is largely
used, but it pays in most cases to add
artificials to this.
In a recent experiment at Rotham-
sted (Eng.) a good yield was obtained,
averaging 23 tons all over and ranging
from 15£ tons to the acre (unmanured)
to tons with stable manure, amm.
sulph. and potash salts. The fertilisers
were tried in every possible combination,
and the results showed that, while 14
tons stable manure per acre raised the
crop by 10 tons per acre, 3|cwt. amm.
sulph. and pot. salt per acre to-
gether raised the yield by 18 tons to the
gether raised it 18 tons to the acre. Each
fertiliser is much more effective in the
presence of the other.
The mangold is a native of the sea-
shore and requires salt.
MOISTURE AND THE SOIL.
“Ambor”: According to the old theory
capillary water kept the whole mass
moist, just as the oil in a lamp keeps the
wick moist. The capillary films were sup-
posed to surround the soil particles and
to lift the water from below. So long
as the films were intact the lifting could
go on, but it ceased as soon as they be-
came broken. The protective effect of a
soil mulch was explained as the breaking
the water films in the surface layer,
thereby causing the water to stop its up-
ward rise just below the surface, so that
it remained safe from the drying actions
of the sun and wind.
The modern investigators have blown
this theory Out of existence. They believe
that capillarity is related to the pore
spaces between the soil particles, and not
to the particles themselves.
They recognise that the soil is not com-
posed of hard, inert particles, but in-
cludes substances having colloidal proper-
ties, one of the most important of which
is the power of absorbing water. For
holding water up in a soil against loss of
gravity capillarity is still recognised as
a force, but not as a means of moving
water about in a soil upwards, sidewards
or in any other direction. In no natural
soil yet studied has capillary movement
been found to proceed far or to play
any important part in supplying water
‘to the crop, or in bringing water to the
surface to make good the loss caused by
drying out.
The moderns appear to have robbed
us of all simple reasons why we cultivate
a fallow and preserve as far as possible
a loose mulch. However, the Russians
have come to our help with a simple
explanation.
They point out that in districts of low
rainfall there is in the soil not very far
below the surface, a dry or dead layer
which the rain-water never reaches and
through which the ground-water never
rises; it remains permanently dry or
dead. Plant-roots cannot penetrate it, so
that they cannot reach the sub-soil water
and are, therefore, dependent on the sur-
face moisture, which is very apt to fail.
This dry or dead layer is attributed to
the air in the soil which becomes im-
prisoned by the rapid rainfall usual in
arid regions, and so prevents the water
flowing down too far. The Russians have
found that this dry or dead layer is re-
duced in amount by a cultivated bare
fallow carried on for a year. This forms
a loose surface layer which absorbs the
rain and easily allows the air to escape.
This layer is more pronounced, however,
when the surface is left compact, because
this itself holds up the water and tends
more effectively to imprison the air.
A FARM SMOKEHOUSE.
“Tanty-Tyga”: A good smokehouse for
the farm can be made from an old gal-
vanised tank. Cut a doorway about 2ft.
wide with a cold chisel or old saw, just
missing the seam, and leaving a band at
the top of the tank to prevent it spreading.
See that the doorway is plumb. Fasten a
piece of timber 3 x 2 at each side of
the opening to fasten the door to. Put,
also, a piece of 3 x 2 top and bottom
of doorway; 2 x l£in. stuff will make
rafters and should be cut for a 45-degree
pitch, bevelled at the lower end to fit
the edge of the tank.
Put in the joists to hang the meat on
before fixing the roof, for it will be
more easily done then. Any plain or
corrugated iron or motor-sides flattened
out will do for the roof. The door can be
made of half-inch matchboard.
If the holes in the tank are too big
to keep the smoke in, clean the iron and
plaster up with 3-to-l cement.
A house this size will accommodate
the bacon of several pigs conveniently.
The same plant will make a convenient
woodhouse, and, if the smokehouse is
placed handy to the house, it will answer
the dual purpose after the bacon-making
season. Being upright it will last as a
woodhouse longer and be more con-
venient than the old tank lying on its side.
BELT HINTS.
“Dune”: Cold weather is hard on belts.
When first starting, run your plant with-
out the load until the belts have
warmed up.
Old belts which have been saturated
with grease or oil are difficult to keep
the load on. They may be partially
restored by sprinkling with fuller’s earth
or ground chalk. Leave that on to absorb
the grease and then scrape off with a
piece of board.
Never overload a hidden belt, as there
is always the risk of fire, through friction,
which is caused by the slight but constant
slipping.
The pulling power of a large belt may
be increased considerably and the strain
on bearings reduced by running it very
loose, and running a small binding belt
outside of it. The binding belt must be
drawn tight. Thus the only strain on
the bearings is that actually imposed by
the binding belt, whilst the pull is taken
by the wider belt.
“Poddy”: Several mornings a stud
Friesian heifer came in apparently weak
in two of her quarters, and we couldn’t
make out the cause of the trouble.
However, one evening I noticed this
heifer lying down quite contentedly with
a young Berkshire pig sucking away at
her teats for all he was worth. We found
that he used to go down to the yard
when the milkers arrived and waited
around until one lay down, when he
would immediately try to suck her. This
heifer was apparently the only one that
would let him.
“Hatter”: In spite of a widespread
campaign against them, tar, pitch, var-
nish, etc., are still frequently used for
branding. After exhaustive tests the fol-
lowing formula has been compiled by the
Wool Industries Research Assoc, for
use overseas:
Wool tat 30 parts by weight
Resin .. .. • • 20 „ „ „
Carnauba wax .. .. 3 „ „
Kieselguhr .. .. .. 18 „ „ »
Ignited iron oxide ... .. 6 „ „
Emco spirit to consistency.
With few exceptions, red is considered
the best color for legibility, but soil
moisture varies the results.
(Land page continued on page 30.)


■
§#s:
OUTSTAN DING
PRODUCTS
of an All-Australian Industry
'i&t
} I
m m
ioo7. Australian
ioo7. Pure
The Wortk
oh
MEGGITT
Products
is proved
by
25 years
oh
MEGGITT
Progress
Sales
Sales
1908
CO
CO
0>
LINSEED OILS
° • • Raw > Boiled and Specially Refined, used for paints, varnishes, lino-
leums, tarpaulins, etc., and, in addition, Medicinal Raw Linseed Oil for the
drenching of farm animals.
LINSEED OIL CAKE
• • • from which Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal, Meggitt’s Sheep Nuts, and
Meggitt’s Kibbled Nuts are manufactured, contains 30 p.c. digestible protein
and approximately 7 p.c. of laxative medicinal Linseed Oil.
LINSEED OIL MEAL
• • • In competitions and tests conducted throughout Australia, this protein
rich concentrate has proved itself the most economical source of protein avail-
able. Not only is production stimulated by its use, but the general health and
condition of stock is considerably improved.
LINSEED SHEEP NUTS , _ ,
• • • Not only are practically all stud sheep in the Commonwealth fed
Meggitt s Linseed Sheep Nuts, but during drought periods this valuable con-
centrate has maintained hundreds of thousands of flock sheep during some
of the worst droughts on record. Fed broadcast, labor costs are reduced.
ED KIBBLED NUTS
• • • Another form of Sheep Nuts, particularly suited to the purposes of
graziers who do not broadcast feed. Kibbled Nuts have certain advantages
over Meal, as there is practically no waste from wind and weather.
&
EGGI
m
"'6«fiirrLt?
Australia
The boy on the baa
guarantees quality"
cSlfjeggM .UlLmitejcL
Head Office: Asbestos House, York Street, Sydney. Box 1555 E, G.P.o.
Works: Parramatta, N.S.W.; Melbourne, Vic.; Port Adelaide, S.A.
/K
EGGIriS
m
"'PCGITTIt;
Australia
The bov on the baq
guarantees quality


At Least Twice the
Usual Wear
This is an Abbey Hand-sewn
Shoe which, because of special
workmanship and finish, out-
lasts at the very least two ordi-
nary pairs. It fits more easily
.... is comfortable right from
the start, without any “break-
ing-in.” Wear hand-made
shoes. . . .you save in the long
run.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length, and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 374
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsurancesefftcted on all classes of
■"■Build’jngs, Stocks, t arm-
tore, &c. Rents also assured.
Marina Ricks on Wool, Merchandise,
IVianne KISKS Hnl]g of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
FOR LIFELONG SERVICE
-- -
No. 138
“TUMBA”
STOCK
SADDLE,
EVERY
STITCH
HAND-
SEWN.
£l2/15/-
WITH LEATHERS
GIRTH & GOOD
X.P. STIRRUPS
Before deciding on a Saddle, write for our
IMI-page Saddlery Catalogue No. o3S—
crammed full of Good Saddles and Horsey
Things.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CHEAP POWER
AT 2? AN HOUR.
w
DIESEL
b TYPE
CRUDE OIL
ENGINE
Starts, runs and re-starts on
Crude Oil.
Send for illustrated literature to the
Sole Distributors:
N.S.W.: The Purifier Dairying Equip-
ment Co., Ltd., 113 Pitt St., Sydney.
VIC.: Webb Bros. Pty., Ltd., 284-294
City Road, South Melbourne.
Q'LAND : Motors Pty., Ltd., Wickham
Street. Brisbane.
S. AUS.: Adelaide Car & Tractor Co.,
Ltd., Cnr. Morphett and Waymouth
Streets, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY -
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY. LTD.
B R I S BANE
“The Barrier Miner,”
Broken Hill.
- Published since 1888 and circulating
throughout Broken Hill, the West Darling
pastoral country and many of the north-
ern parts of South Australia, “The Barrier
Miner” offers an unequalled service for
readers and advertisers.
Representatives: F. li. Wilson, 30 Car-
rington Street, Sydney; H. J. C. »oy«i,
MeEwan House, Eittle Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; News, Ltd., Adelaide.
Patents.
BURNER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
6319/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Patents.
BOILER CLEANER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
6007/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
uj
I 1 UJ
9
personal
attention
HINTS FOR THE FARM
“O. W. Waireki'’: A sardine-tin key
can easily be turned into a needle for
sewing woolpacks, etc. Simply straighten
out the loop and file the end sharp. Any
projecting flange about the eyelet-hole
should also be smoothed off.
“Tenrag”: Don’t wash eggs intended
for the market. Water removes their
bloom, and, once it is in the pores of
the shell, mould and bacteria can enter.
Just wipe the egg with a slightly moist-
ened cloth.
“Parry”: Tell “L. R. Russ” (B.
10/1 /’34).his recipe for curing dogs of
scrub ticks is good as far as it goes ; but
he must add an enema injection. In 99
cases out of 100 the hound under this
complete treatment will spark again in
all cylinders.
“Valerin”: Sheep caught in a bushfire
cannot be moved. If on their regular
camp, leave them alone. If in the open,
bunch them close together and burn
round them. Get into the middle of the
bunch to prevent smothering from close
packing. After the fire has passed don’t
move them until the ground has cooled.
“Wrash”: To fill cracks in metal, glass
or wood, mix dry white lead with orange
shellac varnish. Using a sheet of plate
glass as a mixing table, work the varnish
into the lead with a putty-knife till a
thick paste is made. If colored cement
is desired add a little dry color of the
required tint. When applied, the cement
will harden in a short time. Then file
or sandpaper the joint to a level surface.
“Curlew”: Kerosene is a versatile oil.
Mosquitoes won’t breed on a pond
with one ounce poured on for each fifteen
square feet of surface of stagnant water.
A half-pound of hard soap dissolved in
lgal. of boiling water to which 2gals.
kerosene has been added makes 30 gallons
of emulsion to destroy aphis, scale insects,
ticks or lice in poultry-houses ; also fleas
on floors or animals. Ten p.c. added to
neatsfoot oil with 10 p.c. sulphur is good
for mange in dogs, cures ringworm and
is an excellent dressing for sores.
“Marsh”: When an earthern tank or
dam goes dry through the bottom not
holding, wait until the next rain falls, and
drive a few hundred sheep backwards
and forwards over the bottom till it is
well puddled. That tank’ll usually hold
then as well as if the bottom were
cemented.
“Tarqua”: To cure quickly pigs in-
fested with tick, smear some waste oil
from the car sump, or old mutton-fat
with a little kerosene added, thickly along
their backs and round their jowls.
“Poddy”: A roaming and rooting pig
is a continual nuisance. To euchre him
take about 4ft. of round stick about 2in.
in diameter (an old shovel-handle is just
the thing), bore a iin. auger hole about
2in. from one end and through this
thread a piece of sash-cord or greenhide
rope about 18in. long. Knot this so as
to make a loop to drop over the pig s
nose, then twist the handle quickly so
as to get a twitch grip on the snout,
which will hold it steady and secure.
Have two or three pieces of galv. case tie-
wire about 3in. long ready sharpened at
one end with a file. Shove one or two
through the tip of the nose and twist
the ends to make secure, cutting off the
extra bits short with the pincers. Grunter
will do no more fence-breaking or rooting.
“Babbler”: An excellent way to stretch
sheepskins and make them pack well is
to set them on a frame of rabbit netting
and 4in. by 2in. timber. Lay the fresh
skin on the frame, wool downwards, and
attach bale-fasteners to it about 6m
apart The fasteners can now be pulled
and hooked between the mesh of the net-
ting. If dried in the shade and off the
ground, skins will be greatly improved by
this treatment.
“Scone”: When you discover a pin
hole in it, empty your tank. Don’t dis-
turb the inside coating. Get enough cheap
calico to line the inside of the tank and
mix a quantity of cement wash (say half-
bag cement to lOOOgal. tank) to a creamy
paste. Place the calico against the inside
of the top sheet, working round the
tank, and with a whitewash brush stick
it to the iron. The calico sheets are
in convenient widths to handle easily,
Let this set and you will have a clean,
cool, almost everlasting tank.
“Aseed”: To make a holder for sew-
ing harness take a couple of solid staves
from an old cask, cut both ends below
grooves, make a hinge out of a piece of
leather for the bottom end and fit a
decent-sized bolt in the middle, with a
wing nut. Then taper off top ends. This
also makes a portable handy sort of vyce
for travellers.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
('Transferred from Service Department.)
Can brigalow grass seed be procured from
any of the leading seed merchants ? If not,
why not ? —lBB.
Brigalow grass is not on the market. It
does well where nature has already placed it,
provided it is not seriously overstocked. Most
of the»e native sorts, however, are very shy
in establishing themselves where they are not
already growing, unless, of course, they have
been driven out by overstocking. In that case
they usually come back after the cause of
their depletion is remedied. The saving of
some of these grasses is extremely difficult.
They do not seed evenly, and the seed drops as
soon as ripe.
(1) When horses are found to have eaten
wheat, how long is it before they show symp-
toms of pain ? (2) What drench and quanti-
ties should be given ? Any information that
may be handy to know ? —lB9.
(1) Usually five to seven hours elapse before
symptoms of colic become evident. The
amount of wheat engorged will modify this. If
excessive quantities are taken so that the actual
swelling of the wheat causes discomfort before
actual fermentation, some colic symptoms may
be shown in one to two hours after engorging.
(2) Suitable home remedies are as follows: Oil
of turpentine, 20z.; linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits
of aromatic ammonia (sal volatile), 20z.; and
bicarbonate of soda, 2oz. If chloral hydrate
is on hand, loz. should be given dissolved in
a pint of gruel. This alleviates pain and
checks fermentation. Baking soda given in
repeated doses of loz. in i-pint of water is
helpful where nothing else is to hand —up to
four doses (maximum) over three or four hours.
The first dose should be followed by a saline
purgative, such as Epsom salts, 6oz. to Boz.
Ground ginger, loz. to loz. in a pint of water,
is also useful. The animal should be kept
moving and allowed free access to water. None
of the suggested measures is as effective as
those available to a veterinary practitioner, who
should be consulted where possible.
Cause of a litter of pigs being unable to
stand on hind legs ? When not lying down
they are twitchy and palsied. Some died. Is
there any treatment or cure ? What feed
should a sow have previously ? This had
wheat and water. —164.
Your pigs may be suffering from acute
mineral deficiency, one of the symptoms of
which is loss of muscular control and so-
called “paralysis” of the hindquarters. Wheat
and water alone are unsuitable for a pregnant
or suckling sow. Some protein-rich food,
green feed and mineral supplement should be
added to balance the ration. Mineral supple-
ment can be provided as sterilised bonemeal
placed out as a lick, and a moderate supply of
salt, l-soz. per day, is also required if the
ration is poor in this constituent (as is wheat).
Pigs are very susceptible. to salt, poisoning
should it be fed in excessive quantities. Pro-
tein-rich food could be supplied by a green
legume crop, e.g., lucerne or skim milk, or by
feeding some protein-rich concentrate, such as
linseed-oil cake. On amending the diet (par-
ticularly supplying bonemeal) the trouble
should clear up.
I can dispose of eggs preserved in kero.-tins
by sending them to a market 28 miles distant by
motor road. But the splashing of the liquid pre-
servative and rattling of the eggs will damage
them. How can I repack them in a dry preser-
vative so that they will carry and keep for
about three weeks after arrival at their market ?
“9691. ,
When the eggs are removed from liquid
they should be used as soon as possible; any
variation in temperature may mean a loss.
Eggs could be dried and dispatched in cases
containing egg filler; but do not recommend a
preservative, as preserved eggs should be
marketed as such, and are suitable for pastry-
cooks only
HINTS FOR HINTERS.
ln addition to space rates, which will be
paid for all published, £1 Is. will be paid
for the best hint of the week.
Don’t send a covering letter.
Write your name, pen-name and address on
the top of the first page. Then fire away,
writing on every second line. Don’t waste
words or trouble to begin: “This is a hint
which I have used for 20 years.” Remem-
ber that 100 words is about the limit of length.
Don’t take hints out of other papers. Some-
body else is almost sure to send them, too.
Seven people have sent one hint this week in
almost the same words. If that hint had won
a prize arid we had unwittingly published it,
we should have heard some hard language
from the newspaper in which competitors found
it.
Don’t send the hint which begins: ‘To move
a jibbing horse, light a fire, etc.” We have
a large an.d assorted stock already. The same
with home-made cures for cancer and con-
sumption. The most likely to win a prize is
the one which is useful to the greatest propor-
tion of farmers and graziers.
Don’t send two copies of the hint in sepa-
rate mails in the hope that if one isn’t read
the other will be. Everything is carefully read.
And if you don’t win, have another try.
THIS WEEK’S PRIZE HINT.
This week’s prize of one guinea
for a hint lias been won by
JOHN A. GREEN, Walsall, Bus-
selton, W.A.:
This is a quick method of unloading
silage. Take about 30ft. of rope,
and tie an end to each rear corner
of the cart. Pass the slack forward
along the cart bottom in shape of a
“V,” allowing the remainder to hang
loose over the centre of t‘he cart
front. Load the material on this. To
unload, back the cart to stack or
pit, pass the loose rope over the load.
A pull on the bight of the rope from
the rear tips the load easily and
neatly into the pit or stack.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, Etc.
How to Lose Population
One of the recommendations of the
Commonwealth Taxation Commission is
that income derived by a resident in one
State from property situated in another
should only be taxed once —in the case
of rents and mortgage interest, in the
State where the property is situated. Fair
enough. But where income is derived
by a resident from property situated out-
side Australia it is proposed that he
should be taxed on this with his other
income, and a rebate of taxes paid to
Governments outside Australia allowed.
There is no warrant for taxing income
from ex-Australian sources at all. It is
based on the British custom, but the
ethics of the two cases differ widely.
Britain has to maintain a large army and
a great navy to protect her overseas in-
vestments, which are mainly private.
Australia’s army and navy, what there is
of either, are not adequate for home
defence.
This taxation of ex-Australian income
means a considerable loss in overseas in-
come. Pick up a copy of London
“Times” or “Punch” and you will find
advts. of the S’African Government en-
couraging retired British army officers
and the like to come and live in the
Union “for cheap living and light taxa-
tion.” We, too, used to have our share
of this type of citizen that brought in-
come into the country. Retired planters
from the Malay States were an example.
Since 1931, when the Federal authorities
first began to tax ex-Australian income,
and State unemployment-relief taxes were
added, there has been an exodus.
The recommendations of the Taxation
Commission on this point would actually
make the position worse.
The Butter Scheme
“R.G.R.” sees trouble ahead:
The butter stabilisation scheme, about to be-
come operative, provides for a poll of pro-
ducers after a trial of six months to determine
whether a majority of them want it to remain
in • operation. Like most polls that are con-
ducted on the “one man, one vote” plan, it is
already foredoomed to become a farce.
In Australia there are almost 70,000 regis-
tered dairymen, and every one of these will
be entitled to a vote. If 35,000 voters 01-
more are in accord with the scheme it will con-
tinue; if they say no, out it goes. This looks
fair until one begins to inquire who these “regis-
tered dairymen” are.
South Australia has 20,000. But of these
there are 9397 with under five cows, 6495 with
five and under nine, and only 106 with 30
or more cows. Which means, in effect, that of
the 20,000 entitled to vote nearly 16,000 are
so situated that it doesn’t matter twopence to
them whether the market is stabilised or not.
More than half the whole polling strength
is embraced in South Aus., W.A. and Tas.
Yet the Norco Co-op., which confines its
activities to the North Coast of N.S.W., pro-
duces more butter than these three States com-
bined.
If the small men who only carry on dairy-
ing as a sideline are permitted to vote,
some system more equitable than the present
should be introduced if a true indication of
the wishes of the men most actively concerned
is to be received. The most reasonable way
is to determine voting strength on the basis
of “one cow, one vote,” or, at least, some
modified system using this ratio as a foundation.
There is no reason why the men who will
not benefit by stabilisation should vote against
it, particularly since its introduction cannot
harm them in any way; but there are certain
financial interests winch the scheme would in-
jure, and there is always the danger that pro-
paganda scattered by them might fall on
fruitful ground.
Wreckers
The world’s largest gamblers are not
to be found at places like Randwick and
Monte Carlo. They gamble in grain,
cotton, wool, shares, land, influencing
the price of nearly everything the pro-
ducer and consumer have to buy or sell.
The effect for the bad has heavily out-
weighed any effect for the good.
Granted that a speculator in raw
materials, by anticipating a shortage or
a surplus of a certain commodity, tends
to adjust the supply to the demand. He
deals in “futures.” A Bradford wool-
dealer studies the Australian climatic
conditions and is prepared to deliver
wool to the spinner in six months at a
price determined now. The spinner can
then quote for forward delivery of yarns
without risk of loss through fluctuations
in the wool market. If the dealer in
futures anticipated a shortage of wool in
the coming season his quotes for forward
delivery would be higher than for imme-
diate delivery; the tendency would be
to encourage woolgrowing, say, six
months before the actual shortage of the
product was realised, thus tending to
bring the supply up to the demand.
Henry Clay, the British economist,
classes as legitimate speculation forward
dealings in commodities which actually
anticipate supply and demand, because
the effect is to smooth out sudden rises'
and falls in prices. The expert speculator
in this case is of real service to the manu-
facturer and the public. But Clay con-
demns the “mug” speculator and the un-
financial one, both of whom usually go
broke and drag those in legitimate busi-
ness down with them.
The most disastrous kind of specula-
tion is that which creates artificial prices.
Every country in the world and every
section of the community have been in-
volved in the wreckage of Stock-Exchange
booms and busts in recent years. America
produced the largest bubble of artificial
prosperity that the world has ever seen.
It is not surprising that Roosevelt is tak-
ing the first step towards curbing the
activities of Wall-street gentlemen who
live on the game.
Roosevelt’s bill provides for “drastic
supervision of the Stock Exchanges, out-
laws all manipulative devices, and for-
bids speculation or short-selling by cor-
poration officials in the stock of their
corporation.” Instead of putting up
“What with the little we get for eggs an’ the lot we pay for fowl-feed, there’s
nothin’ in poultry-farmin’.”
“We don’t worry. Our fowls feed on their eggs.”
little or no cash of his own the specu-
lator will have to provide a margin of at
least 60 p.c. No doubt American
ingenuity will devise means of bootleg-
ging the system, but it is an excellent
move towards stable prices, and towards
the elimination of a horde of parasites.
“Tovalea” has a suggestion that should
interest afforestation concerns:
I am a user of a considerable number of
handles —axe, hammer and pick—and of late
find it difficult to get the old familiar hickory.
The various Australian woods are not any-
where near as good. It should be possible
to grow hickory at home. The tree is a slow-
grower, but will reach a size suitable for
handles in about 15 years, and attains maturity
at 30. It will stand heavy frosts and. being a
deep-rooter, considerable drought. After the
first cutting the stump suckers freely, and
second-growth hickory is considered superior to
first-growth, while further growths are obtain-
able. The shell-bark variety is the best for
industrial purposes. The pecan is another type.
The tree grows best on low-lying land with
plenty of moisture, such as river flats. Shell-
bark hickory, like the pecan, produces edible
nuts.
* * * *
“Sach”: The Mungana (formerly
Eurelia), which had a writ nailed to her
mast in the Yellow Sea because of dam-
age done in a collision, was built for the
Government in the days of the Common-
wealth line for the Dutch East Indies
trade. The vessels were on Australian
articles; hence work done in the
Indies on Sundays and after 5 p.m.
meant double time and overtime. Profits
soon vanished, and the tubs (3000-odd
tonners) were too small for the world
tramp trade. The A.U.S.N. Co. was a
buyer; it renamed the Eurelia the
Mungana. The correct way to pronounce
the first cognomen was never decided.
Some said “You-relia,” others “You’re -
a-liar,” and still others “You-really-are.”
On the waterfront when the name was
changed she was known simply as “Ted
Theodore.”
* * * *
Mussolini has no time for inflation—
or reflation, as many prefer to call it.
He looks upon the depression as a con-
stitutional disease, and not a passing sick-
ness. The whole country is under a sys-
tem of rigid discipline and economy,
but every effort is made to encourage
production. For the first time in Italian
history the bank rate is down to 3 p.c.,
and though appropriations for public-
works expenditure are being reduced
liberal measures have been taken to safe-
guard and assist productive enterprises.
The Budget is still unbalanced; there
was a deficit of 3867 million lire in
1931-32 ; that for 1933-34 is put at 2397
million, and the 1934-35 estimate is 2974
million. But budgetary figures include
railway deficits, and there has been “no
resort to book-keeping devices to dis-
guise real facts.” Italy remains on a
gold or gold-exchange standard, notwith-
standing an adverse trade balance, and is
proud of it.
“Mug”: I bought a pair of butter-pats
which cost tenpence. They were made in
Germany from oak. Surely there are
wood-spoilers in this country who could
build a butter-pat of better material and
make a living at tenpence?
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: While Melbourne, Ballarat,
Bendigo, Geelong and Warrnambool and
a few other places have their meat killed
and distributed under supervision, the
rest of Victoria is still a hundred years
behind the times. At towns where there
are freezing works central abattoirs could
be established by co-operation and
meat carried in refrigerated vans north,
south, east and west; also ice could be
distributed.
* * * *
“Uncle Ned”: Queensland cotton-
growers, who were looking forward to a
gloomy year, have been heartened by the
news that the State Cotton Board and
the spinners have entered into agreements
whereby the latter will buy from the
board all their requirements up to Decem-
ber 31. This means that half the antici-
pated crop for this year will be moved
off. If conditions warrant greater manu-
facturing activities further supplies of raw
cotton will be taken up.
* * * *
“Ararat”: When the Commonwealth
notes were first issued, thousand-pounders
were released for public circulation, the
same as “Fisher’s flimsies.” It was decided
to reserve the big fellows for daily ex-
change transactions between banks.
Efforts were then made to recall the few
that had got into private hands, but one
wealthy old shire chairman with a name
like Mulligan proudly held on to one,
and it was his treasured possession for
years. When explained to him by a friend
that, calculated at 5 p.c., he was losing
practically £1 per week interest, he replied
that if it suited an English duke to keep
a £lO,OOO picture to look at —which
meant £lO per week lost —then why
couldn’t he, a son of Erin, please himself
by keeping a £lOOO Commonwealth note
to look at, adding that it was “a very
much more beautiful picture, for sure'”
* * * *
“Quarters”: Chilled beef (Bt 21/2/’34)7
The first to leave Bananaland for
England was loaded from the Q.M.E.
wharves at Pinkenba on to the 8.1.
liner Gulf of Carpentaria. That was
in 1892, and the meat was hung in
the lower hold, with wooden blocks
between each quarter to prevent touch-
ing. The shipment went to England via
Torres Strait, a route likely to be re-
opened in the near future for this trade.
* * * *
“Freight”: S’Africa is finding out what
N.S.W. and Queensland have already
realised—that legislation restricting motor
transport in the interests of the State rail-
ways has had a boomerang effect. The
chief result has been the return to older
transport means which cannot be touched
by the law. In some cases the traffic has
ceased altogether ; in none has it benefited
the railways. The Union authorities, who
control the entire rail system of S’Africa,
have had the sense to recognise facts
when they see them, and so are to amend
their Transport Act.
* * * *
The Italian Under-Secretary for Guilds,
Asquini, has been questioning whether
“most-favored-nation” benefits should be
granted to countries which don’t reci-
procate. He said (in December):
If negotiations with India and Australia
have not a satisfactory issue we shall have
to see whether our purchases from those coun-
tries can continue to enjoy the same condi-
tions offered to such a tried customer as Argen-
tina.
In 1931 Italy bought five times as much
from us as we bought from her. Inciden-
tally, she is becoming more independent of
our wheat supplies ; during a five-month
period of 1933 imports of this grain
totalled only 20,249 metric tons, as
against 123,907 in the 1932 period. And
before 1932 they were much higher still.
* * * *
“Jarble”: She works for a catering
firm which “rations” one week in four.
As a member of the staff she can get
meat, vegetables and groceries at whole-
sale rates, less 15 per cent, discount. Dur-
ing the three weeks of toil, she buys a
stock which she retails to the tenants of
her own and neighboring residentials at
wholesale prices. Her customers are
eager, and the 15 per cent, she clears on
the three weeks’ transactions tides her
over her monthly holiday.
* * * *
“Cairncross”: Now that beef export
looks like becoming a practicable pro-
position again why not do away with
the selling of cattle on the hoof in favor
of on the hooks? In the past a grower
sent his fats to the works and had them
treated on his own account, grading being
carefully attended to. The agent then
sold the beef as it hung in the cooling-
rooms instead of milling about alive in
the yards.
* * * *
“Eureka”: I have been taking pot. cit.
for a weak kidney and paying three
shillings a bottle. A friend told me
that I was foolish to buy it like that, and
on his advice I got from the same chemist
an ounce of citrate of potash (the same
thing) and mixed it with water. It was
sufficient to make two bottles and cost
4|d. Doctors should be made to write
their prescriptions in plain English, and
people would know what they were
paying for.
* * * *
Sp. Sawbones”: Professor Haber has
died, a Nazi exile at Basle. He con-
quered the problem of fixing atmospheric
nitrogen, and enabled Germany to pro-
long the war for a couple of years. His
discovery was the foundation of prac-
tical gas warfare, and he was director
of that branch of the German army.
Since the war, synthetic nitrates have
ruined Chile’s exports, dislocated a big
shipping trade to and from its ports and
enabled Europe to become practically
self-supporting in respect of wheat. So
that the invention has been in no small
measure responsible for the present
world agricultural overproduction, re-
cognised as one of the factors in the
depression. However good this Nobel-
prize winner’s intentions may have been,
his inventions have had some drastic
effects.


IN THE FAMOUS FORBES-PARKES DISTRICT.
SILVER ROW,
FOR. PUBLIC AUCTION,
Saturday, 24th March, 1934 at 11 a.m.,
At the Office of Edward Weaver & Co., Forbes.
The Australian Wool Brokers & Produce Co., Ltd., Sydney, associated with Messrs.
Edward Weaver & Co., Forbes, will offer by public auction under instructions from
the Executors of the Will of Thomas F. Cannon, Senior, deceased, the well and
favorably known property “Silver Row.”
To be offered as a whole —if not sold, then will be submitted in two portions.
Area —29902 acres .Freehold and C.P., in two portions, viz.:—
A —1420 acres Freehold and C.P., on which is erected a comfortable weatherboard
homestead of nine rooms and woolshed.
8—1570 acres 3 roods, Freehold and C.P., on which is erected a good Pise home
of seven rooms with all necessary outbuildings.
The property is situated 10 miles from Forbes and 10 miles from Parkes, o miles
from Tichborne Railway Station, Silos within six miles of Duroobalgie Meat Works,
where 20,000 lambs are treated per week in the Spring of the year. Watered by
six tanks —four of 3000 yards and two of 1000 yards—never-failing supply. About
1600 acres cleared for plough; 300 to 400 acres of fallow. Timber on_ balance lias
been dead for years, excepting belts for shade purposes. Boundaries wirenetted and
subdivided into about 15 paddocks, most of which are netted separately. Good
garden, orchard, sheep yards, woolshed of four stands. .
Silver Row was held by the late T. F. Cannon for many years and is now being
offered to wind up the estate.
TERMS —will be announced at sale.
Solicitors to Estate: Messrs. Broderick & Hunter, Forbes.
For further particulars and arrangements to inspect, apply to
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BROKERS & PRODUCE CO., LTD.,
Edward Weaver & Co.. Forbes. sfi YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
WILL any person who can supply information
as to the names and addresses of the nephews
and nieces living on 10/2/1933 of EDWIN
FOX, late of Yarroweyah, Farmer, Deceased,
and his wife, whose maiden name was Mary
McKernon or McKearnen, kindly communi-
cate with THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS &
AGENCY CO., of 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
BOLDINI, JOHN, formerly of Carlton, Vic-
toria, Australia (a son of Mary and Peter Bol-
dini and nephew of Bridget Lynch). Informa-
tion as to his death or whereabouts is required.
He is entitled to money in the intestate estate
of ‘his uncle John Flynn, Deceased.
MESSRS. McCAY & THWAITES,
Solicitors, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
JAMES MURRAY HULL
(Possibly known by the name of “Murphy ).
IF the abovenamed, the son of the late James
Hull, of Western Australia, will communicate
with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney, he
will learn something to his advantage.
Will anyone knowing his whereabouts kindly
communicate with the said Company.
Personal and Missing Friends.
JOHN TURNER, son of Colin Turner, last
heard of at Bathurst, N.S.W. Information is
required of his present whereabouts. Any
person knowing his address is requested to
communicate with
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED,
P.O. Box 43,
Toowoomba, Queensland.
WILL the legal representative of the late
ALFRED LAY, who was a stationmaster at
Albury, N.S.W., and who died on or about
October 24, 1907, communicate with MR.
E. A. SMITH, 143 Above Bar, Southampton,
England.
On your next visit to LONDON
TRY
QUEEN’S COURT
HOTEL
25-27 EARL’S COURT SQUARE, 5.W.5
(Overlooking Gardens)
LONDON—ENGLAND
Hot and cold water and gas fires all bedrooms,
telephones, passenger lift. Central heating.
Spacious public rooms. Also rooms for recep-
tions. Excellent cuisine and service from 3
guineas weekly, or daily terms. Central Tubes
and ’buses.
MODERNISED BY NEW RESIDENT
PROPRIETOR.
CABLES: EDREXHAMS, FULROAD, LONDON
“Australia’s Premier Sports Organisation.”
MICK SIMMONS
Dependable, Lower-Priced
Sporting Rifles
No. I—THE1 — THE MAINE RIEEE, 22 cal., bolt
action, V back-sight; for short, long or
long rifle cartridges. Round barrel, loin,
long, bored and rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight, about 3Jlb.
Postage,'2/-;' Other States, 3/6.
22/6
ŵ
No. IA—THE MAINE DE
LUXE RIFLE., 22 cal., bolt
action similar to No. 1,
24iu. barrel, pistol grip,
adjustable r ear-sight;
weight, about
Postage, 2/3; Other States,
4/-
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINO-
FIELD S.S. RIFLE, 310 DEL
51A, 22 cal., bolt action.
22in. round barrel, gold
bead front- and ladder rear-
sight ; weight,
about 4flb .
Postage, 2/3; Other States,
4 J-
N O . 12—VV INCHES TER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
3IODEL GO, for 22 short,
long, or long rifle rimfire
cartridges; 23in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip
stock, bolt action, ladder
rear- and gold bead front-
sight ; weight,
about 4jlb .
Postage, 2/3; Other States,
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 3,
22 cal., 24in. round steel
barrel, bolt action; handles
short, long or long rifle
cartridges; gold bead front-
and adjustable rear-
sight, pistol grip stock;
weight, about
4flb ~
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
30/-
35/-
45/.
4216
Write for elaborate new detailed Shooting
Catalogue. Post free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
GOLD MINING IN THE
GOLDEN WEST IS
BOOMING!
80
Of Australia’s Gold for 1933 was
mined in the West.
The total production in Australia last
year was 805,000 oz.; of this total
Western mines produced £637,2070z.,
the value in Australian money being
£4,909,149
THERE IS WEALTH IN THE WEST!
ANOTHER GOLDEN INVESTMENT
IS THE PERTH
Advertising in this big weekly is
always a payable proposition.
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Melbourne Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins St.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
An Explosion of Idle Youth
I have no brief for the Kalgoorlie
rioters, but their violent proceedings were
the outcome of an always smouldering
grievance which needs remedying. There
is an appalling amount of semi-employ-
ment among youths on the goldfields.
Nothing causes a youth to degenerate
like semi-employment, and that is all
many of these lads get. Foreigners, who
arrive in the pink of condition, are given
surface jobs till they learn the language.
Then they are transferred underground at
higher wages ; another foreigner gets the
surface job, and the process goes on. You
hear on all hands that money passes, but
proof is lacking. In any case there are
mine managers who think that Italians
and Slavs are less given to beer, to job
control and to frivolous strikes than
British miners, so miners’ sons find it
harder and harder to get put on.
After 1919, when the last riot occurred,
a lot was done to transfer goldfields boys
to the wheat belt. This drain has been
blocked owing to the slump in wheat,
and the stagnant pool of goldfields labor
grows more and more stagnant. Idle and
semi-employed youth with a grievance is
dangerous. That is the lesson of Kalgoor-
lie, and all our Governments should
profit by it. —R. V. R. (W.A.).
The Bracey Plan
Congratulations on giving publicity to
the Bracey plan (B. 7/2/’34), which is
a simple way out of our difficulties as
well as the right way. All proposals for
altering our present system are bad, as,
despite its so-called shortcomings, it acts.
The idea put forth by Bracey only means
altering the base of the system. It can
be altered, as was proved when we
changed from gold to sterling. Bracey
is so sure he is right that he is prepared
to back his method with hard cash to
the tune of £5OO. —A. H. (N.S.W.).
Let It Cut Both Ways
An Australian who has been running
a motor-cycle racing track in Germany
has come home ruined. Because he is
not a Teuton, Mr. Hitler closed his track,
took over his affairs and shooed him out
of the Reich.
One can admire that sort of national
spirit. Germany for the Germans —it is
a grand ideal. Let us imitate it and have
Australia for the Australians rigidly en-
forced where Mr. Hitler is concerned.
Low-price trades—toys, clothes-pegs,
mouse-traps, und so weiter —are riddled
in Australia with German agents under-
cutting blind and maimed Diggers and
pushing Australian girls out of work.
The nucleus of one such combination
arrived a year or so ago carrying its
swag and without a brass farthing.
To-day it has swelled by the addition to
the firm of imported relatives. Some of
them, as well as running their agencies,
which are seasonal, hold down jobs in
Australian firms, and the show has grown
so much that it is now able to send a
buyer abroad.
There should be a swift end to this
sort of thing while Mr. Hitler maintains
his attitude of arrogant nationalism. A
Government \vhich puts embargoes on
staple products of countries like Belgium,
friendly allies, can afford to do the same
against unfriendly ones which make out-
casts of our citizens. —E. H. M. (Vic.).
Will the Exchange Rate Hold?
No, it can’t. Examining the records
from 1877 to 1931, I find that for 38
years the cost of remitting funds to Lon-
don ranged from par to 20s. per cent. For
15 years (broken periods) the bonus to
remitters alternated between 2s. 6d. and
70s. per cent. Neither the bank failures
of 1892-93 nor the Great War affected the
rate to any appreciable extent.
Normally, previous to 1931, the amount
of funds in Australian banks in London
was the main factor in deciding the rate.
If London held large surpluses the banks
encouraged remittances thither; that is,
the remitter was paid a premium to
lodge his money here, to be paid out in
London and so reduce the surplus there.
This seems an anomaly, but it is logical.
Conversely a shortage of funds in London
meant that banks here charged remitters
a percentage because every pound put in
here reduced London’s funds. As the
Commonwealth had to meet very heavy
interest charges after the war, the
Treasury made arrangements with our
banks to keep sufficient funds in London
to meet some £32,000,000 of annual in-
terest. As that sum was threatened, the
banks here and the Treasury discouraged
remitters from sending money to
London ; in effect, fined them £25 per
cent.
Increased prices for wool mean a
piling up of funds in London. And now
that many millions of our London loans
have been converted, interest require-
ments have been greatly reduced. Aus-
tralians pay 25 per cent, on the added
cost of goods coming in (much of which
are necessities), and pay 25 p.c. on
exports to help our primary producers.
Our wheatgrowers and our butter-pro-
ducers must have assistance, but it should
not be through the medium of exchange.
The latter should be allowed to adjust
itself through the good old law of demand
and supply. Some people think the rate
should come down gradually, as other-
wise it would be too upsetting. I recall,
however, that in 1924-25 the rate was
70s. against the London remitter. An out-
sider offered 265., whereupon Australian
banks at once reduced the rate to 15s.
and shortly after to ss. per cent. No bad
effects resulted. We can —and we should
—reduce the rate at once. Trade would
quickly adjust itself, to the advantage of
us all.—F. W. S. (N.S.W.).
“Bivouacs Are to Go”
The youth of Australia is being urged
to take an interest in the voluntary mili-
tary movement. In N. S. Wales it is
doing so, with the result that most units
now hold their full quota. But no sooner
do they fill than the plan of economy
adopted in the Defence Department is ex-
tended. A short while back two days
were knocked off the pay list. Another
two days were chopped off the camp of
continuous training and set aside for
bivouacs. The change (in our case, at
least) proved a sad one as far as effi-
ciency went. Too much of our bivouac
time was spent in folding or erecting tents
and silently stealing hither and thither.
Now bivouacs are to go. The only
camp remaining is a six-day continuous
under canvas at Glenfield in March. In
our particular unit, the only opportunity
we get for practical field work is during
camp, for it is next to impossible to carry
it out in barracks. So, actually we now
have six days out of 365 to learn our
field work. Undoubtedly camp is the
time when everyone learns. There should
be at least two camps a year and one
parade a month. But the boys grow
whiskers waiting for the next camp to
come around.
The lack of sufficient opportunity to
train has driven many groups in other
units to form their own voluntary week-
end bivouacs, which they conduct as
though they were on the programme.
Such groups have to bear their own ex-
penses, of course. But the question is
this: Why go to the trouble of filling up
all units and proudly announcing the
fact that they have verily been filled if
the entrapped individuals cannot be sup-
ported?—C. Q. M. S. (N.S.W.).
Crisis in the Solomons
Chinese traders and civil servants are
doing well in the Solomons (more Chinese
are getting boat and store licenses), but
no one else is. The immediate outlook for
white planters and traders is hopeless.
The price of copra has fallen to a point
which renders further production almost
a crime. The native has given up pro-
duction, so his spending power has been
considerably reduced. Therefore the line
of reasoning which argues that he now
requires a much better trading service
than he enjoyed in his affluent days is
impossible to follow.
Every bit of Solomons trade wrested
by Chinese from British and Australians
in the Solomons, thanks to the supine
authorities, means so much more white
unemployment in British countries. The
Chinaman leans to his own and to cheap-
ness, and the white man has no hope of
competing with him in trade.
In the Solomons there are 90,000
natives and 500 whites ; many of the latter
came out in days when they took their
lives in their hands. We are told they live
in a Protectorate, and that the natives are
entitled to buy in the cheapest market.
Why, then, a host of highly-paid officials
when a few Chinese clerks could do
the work ever so much cheaper?—
Solomonoo.
All for the City
While many country policemen have
been drawn into Sydney to swell the
ranks of the army enforcing the anti-
jay-walking regulations, pastoralists in
the Far West of N. S. Wales have been
refused assistance to track down cases of
sheep- and cattle-stealing. The West
Darling Pastoralists’ Association asked
the officer in charge of the district for
one policeman to patrol an area in
which thieves have been active for some
time. Request refused, on the ground
of shortage of men. In some N.S.W.
country districts nowadays, the police
are so busy acting as gatherers of statis-
tics and taxes and issuing doles and regis-
tering cars that they would not know a
real criminal if they met one- face to face.
—Far West.
Wine with Meals
The bulk of our table wines are good,
but they are too dear. For this I blame
(1) the prohibitionist, (2) Bung, with his
closely guarded monopoly, and (3)
muddling, spendthrift politicians who
always want revenue and votes.
In ten years in the French Pacific
Islands I drank more wine in any one
week than I did in 30 years in Australia.
Wine was always taken with meals, and
it is better for the appetite and the health
than tea or coffee. Vint ordinaire from
France and Algeria costs 4.50 francs a
litre (about 4\ to the gallon), equivalent
to 9d. in Australian money; here
the same quantity of a similar wine costs
2s. 6d. to 3s. Most of the wine we drink
is consumed in the pub or the wine-saloon
without meals-»-to a Frenchman a bar-
barism.
Let the Australian wine industry
organise and build up a fighting fund.
Let it produce a wine with a low alcoholic
content, and educate Australians in the
art of titillating their palates and jaded
appetites with wine, and see that they can
get it at the grocer’s and in restaurants
at any hour. Then we shall keep in the
country most of the millions sent abroad
annually for tea —mostly to bad cus-
tomers. — Senojed (N.S.W.).
Posers
I hazard some guesses about the new
world. It may arrive only to commit
suicide, some unsuspected defect driving
it along the path to destruction, or it may
be completely successful. In that case
we shall all have a terrific amount of
leisure and the vast majority of us won’t
know how to spend it any better than
“fortunate” people know how to spend
their leisure now. We shall have to be
taught how to spend it. Who are going
to be our teachers? If we are all eco-
nomically free and thus able to select our
teachers, how are we to know which are
the good teachers and which the bad?
And if we find a good teacher, will we
not revolt as soon as his discipline be-
conies too severe? As someone said,
people have an almost infinite capacity for
being mediocre. On the other hand, free-
dom from economic necessity will also
tend to free the good teachers, and they
may be able to function more effectively.
I should like to balance all these contra-
dictions in a nice little scale and take the
reading, but I feel far from competent.
Pawang (Vic.).


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Man for N.G.
“Fi. Fa.” won’t give way:
Sorry to have made “Gain” (B. 14/2/’34)
all hot and bothered, but even now his Man-
dated Territory Governor is made by him to
appear as the kind of person who will need
the whole 17 Territory doctors to “drum a
lew simple precautions into the head of the
local Governor, and tend him when sick ” If
they can’t they are to be sacked. It doesn’t
seem fair.
When “Gain” knew Sir William MacGregor
that dour Scottish man of science must have
changed greatly from the MacGregor whom I
knew and worked under and admired. It
may not, as Gain” says, have been “his medi-
cine which made him a great Administrator,”
but he repeatedly said that it had been of im-
mense help to him. For example, when he
cleared Samarai of epidemic malaria. Also in
a thousand instances when establishing contact
with the wilder peoples in Papua.
■c £- s r Leonard Wood, it will surprise me
il his g*iost does not haunt “Gain” in revenge
for accusing him of having “completely for-
gptten his medical days.” When I last met
him in Manila, he was vigorously handling a
dangerous cholera outbreak which his Health
Department had tried to hush up while he was
away on tour, and doing it like the master
he was in such matters. Any need for military
leadership in the Philippines had disappeared
years before.
Nearer home, the 1928 Conference in the
British Solomons recommended two new Dis-
trict Officers, both to be medical men. But
there is no need to multiply instances—let us
look at the underlying position in the Territory.
The future of the Mandated Territory is
bound up in the native, who is its only econo-
mic I( , cann ot develop while 600 out of
every 1000 native babies born die, as at present
in infancy.
Even an ideal Governor, an economic miracle,
would find it impossible to make the Territory
carry on without native population and plenty
of it.
More land is already alienated than the whole
present native population could work, even if
they all worked. Which they don’t. The onlv
real workers are the inland natives. The coastal
population is dying out, and is kept going only
by immigration from outback. It is dving out
Jrom preventable diseases, largely those dietetic
deficiencies in respect of which no allowance
is made, no understanding possessed or desired,
by the sort of Administrator whom “Gain”
wants to see perpetuated. For 13 years past
and more, most of the “11 Administration
doctors have been trying to get the real facts
and necessities of such a situation, and its
inevitable results, past or through the conser-
vative resistance of Administrators and their
Rabaul advisers.
“Gain’s” viewpoint is evidently bounded by
a two- or three-year period of reconstruction,
those who really know the job realise that
h means a generation of work to save the race.
Ihe inevitable results of his policy are already
in full bloom in Fiji, with the Indian situation
mere, and the Chinese menace in the Malay
states is on the verge of unfederating the Fed-
eration. We in Australia do not want Asiatic
colonies on our doorstep. Moreover, we hold
tne territory in trust to the League of Nations,
in the interest of its natives, when it comes
down to what we really undertook.
Io sum up, the essential thing needed in the
territory is a flourishing, healthy native race.
At present it is dying fast. Unless skilled
medical knowledge—public health —is applied
right now, it will be too late. This is not-
numanitarianism, only commercial common-
sense. It can be done, is being done elsewhere,
it involves no “spoiling the native.” It might
involve some drastic operations here and there
amongst Territory officialdom. The alternative
early of Territory commerce; later,
maybe, the establishment of an Asiatic colony
at our front door.
nJ m ol w£° b [ ie ? for an yone, but it appears to
me that the obvious man for the present stage
ffhe pr ?bJ e m—that of saving the only avail-
able locat labor from disappearing entirely—
nnhlv. n bo thoroughly trained in tropical
public health; widely familiar with the Terri-
nat'je P e °P les - their habits, customs,
nllv a . n< ? mentality; physically and men-
nhJr. aC /- IVe -’*^ ear ess office-babus and other
admU m° n * ISt r and familiar with their tricks. I
ahffi L ba 1 U,? 1 no judge of Dr. Cilento’s
navf™ if i? ub 1C s P, e . akin g» to which “Gain”
high a compliment, but, from his per-
tralf J nH m responsible jobs in Aus-
rlrfiif Territory, he may be regarded
“r,a?n” • w f U qualified to hold wha<
reasons y - descr ibfs— though for other
[mnnrtLf“ mme-as “the most difficult and
important gubernatorial job in Oceania.”
Reported Dead
Isee : Staniforth Smith was not
tne only Papuan official to read his
own obituary notice (B. 31/1 /’34).
pp Capt. A. Liston-Blyth,
F.R.A.I., has seen his own on
three separate occasions.
™ J hG fi J st Was * n 1905 in Sierra Leone,
when he was stricken with fever,
funeral orders were issued, a firing
party detailed, even his coffin-plate made.
Jhe second was in Papua in 1918. Sur-
E? 8 a vd J a ge where two murderer
sne/r T re hl . din g, he ran his knee on a
to ho l n the lon & § rass and had
tains tr . arned f - 0r three days over m°un-
woimd a mi . s . sion - In the meantime two
Erf d pobce were se nt back with a
Domcrri °!u dl ? d en route on board the
g > the other reached Moresby with
a gasping report of the Taubada dead.
A month later a search party met the
ghostlike captain limping down a wild
mountain track with a triumphant look
in his eye —plus two prisoners—the mur-
derer chiefs. “Good Lor’, man, you’re
dead! ” was the greeting of the astonished
P.O. “Sorry, I’m still here,” was the
casual reply.
The third obituary was written in
Torres Strait in 1931. The captain
was swept out to sea in a disabled
30-foot open launch and buffeted for 16
days. Thrown across a reef, he and the
two native boys managed to scramble
aboard again. One boy swam ashore as
they swept past an island; the other
boy went demented with terror. The
last five days they were without food
or water, and the leader arrived in P.M.
in a sinking boat to read of his own
demise in a local paper (8., Feb., 1931).
Blyth was wounded in the Boer War,
and went on collecting wounds till his
retirement a short time ago. He was
shot, speared several times, wrecked,
slashed by a prisoner with a 16in. knife ;
he has had three bones broken ; he fell
oyer a 50ft. cliff with prisoner and had
his eyelid split open—2l mishaps all
told. Though his body carries many
deep scars, he now appears as healthy as
ever, and lives in a quiet N.S.W. country
town.
“Dungeness”: North Queensland is
becoming actively interested in a £50,000
company which proposes to establish a
palatial hotel on Hinchinbrook Island.
The scheme has received the benisons of
the tourist shipping firms, overseas and
"What name you killum that one hen, Jacky?”
“Me bin smellum egg along political meeting —she layum bad pfeller.”
Australian. The site of the proposed pub
is 45 miles north of Townsville by shel-
tered sea route, or a couple of miles
across the channel from Dungeness
(Lucinda Point) at the end of the short
spur-line from Ingham on the Brisbane-
Cairns railway. The slopes of Mt.
Straloch or Mt. Diamantina, both over
3000 ft. high, provide any number of ex-
cellent situations, open to the breeze and
furnishing wonderful views of sea and
coast, as well as lots of room for golf,
tennis, swimming baths (there is an un-
limited supply of fresh water, as well as
salt) and palm-grove dalliance. There
are deer and pigs to shoot on the island,
crocodile-shooting in the 20-mile chan-
nel (itself one of the scenic beauties of
the world) which winds north past Card-
well, and illimitable fishing. The main
coral mass of the Barrier Reef is within
a 20-mile run in sheltered waters, the
picturesque Palm Islands within five
miles.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “They tell me the cyclone
hit your place,” I said to a Bowen (N.Q.)
man. “It did that,” he replied, “but I
didn’t mind much because it saved me a
lot of work. You see I had an old shed
that I wanted pullin’ down, and near it
there was a bull-oak tree that I intended
cuttin’ up. In the blow the old shed
came down and the flyin’ sheets of iron
cut the tree up into boards, so that all
I have to do when I want some mango
cases is ter cut the boards into lengths
and nail ’em together.”
* * * #
“Susu”: Office-wallahdom in Rabaul
is awaiting on tiptoe the outcome of the
meeting of Administrators to be held in
March. Local opinion forecasts the
nearly simultaneous retirement of Grif-
fiths and Murray, leaving the field open
for a joint governing job over both Paci-
fic dependencies, to be filled by Marr
after a knighthood for his services in
showing Prince George round Australia.
Marr’s recent bland denial of any in-
tentions is regarded as clinching the
matter, political denials being what they
are. For filling the two local jobs,
Rabaul cognoscenti are divided between
Land-Judge Phillips and Earle Page’s
brother, another local office-magnate.
Melbourne Club and the Canberra mili-
tary party are for General Brand. Dr.
Cilento, of course, also is discussed.
Otherwise local feeling is divided between
Ashleigh, of the British Solomons, as a
person with no nonsensical ideas about
uplifting the native, and Kingsford Smith.
* * * *
“NXT”: Van der Cook, the American
traveller who wrote “Tom Tom,” says
that one of his outstanding impressions
of New Guinea is the “seeming entire
lack of knowledge which officials have of
native languages.” He points out that
in West Africa it is compulsory for
officials to have command of at least one
native dialect. So it is in most other
foreign stations which employ British
civil servants. New Guinea, of course,
presents special difficulties in view of the
localised nature of the languages, but
Papua has done a great deal with Motuan ;
and even Malay, which South Sea
Islanders pick up easily, and Chinese,
which any old nigger will acquire in a
matter of months, are more appropriate
as channels for expressing native thought
than the barbarous pidgin, which few
inhabitants of the islands, either white or
Kanaka, speak effectively.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The clerk of the weather turned on all the
taps last week. On Wednesday it poured so
heavily that roofs regarded as weather-proof
became porous, and many of Brisbane’s stately
homes found themselves with a very new deco-
rative scheme, in which tubs and basins, set
about the carpets in a degage manner, were
used to catch the drips from the ancestral
ceilings.
In the worst of the weather Jean Tynan enter-
tained a party of guests at a bon voyage party
in honor of Paddy Bergin, who sailed for Asiatic
parts at the end of the week with Mrs Neil
O’Sullivan and Mrs. J. R. S. Lahz. The guests
arrived in raincoats, but when the outer cover-
ing was peeled off some delightful party frocks
W’ere revealed.
The same afternoon Mrs. Grant Thomson
entertained a group of guests at McKimmin’s
in honor of her sister, Mrs. Arthur Tilbury, who
is off to Sydney to live. The great posy of
red roses that the guest of honor bore away
with her showed no signs of having been
bruised by the heavy rain.
Mrs. M. C. Earl and her daughter, Mrs.
Ruby Adams, will have left for Fiji before
this letter sees print. They entertained a big
party of guests at McWhirter’s before quitting
Brisbane, and as the guests were nearly all
just-returned travellers, or about-to-be travel-
lers, how to get to various places and where
to stay when one got there formed the main
part of the conversation.
Senior Puisne Judge Hugh Macrossan has
just celebrated his 53rd birthday. Whether
it is his sense of humor or his passion for
golf, which keeps him much in the open air,
that mflkes him appear so much younger, de-
ponent knoweth not. Anyway, he does look
young, even in a poodle-dog wig.
The latest engagement heralds the uniting
of two old and well-known Brisbane families.
The lady is Mary Stanley, pretty daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Stanley, and the lucky
man Ernest Jessup, son of the late A. W.
Jessup and of Mrs. Jessup.
Miss Edith Stoney, a graduate of Cambridge
and a British delegate to the recent conference
of the Australian Federation of University
Women in Brisbane. She is an Inkywayfarer,
and, besides being a skilled engineer and lecturer
in physics at -King’s College for Women, Lon-
don, she saw active service in Salonika with
the Scottish Women’s Hospital. Miss Stoney is
a walking contradiction of the too-frequent mas-
culine idea that a really clever woman neces-
sarily must be a frump.
Paula Fitzgerald, one of the pretty daugh-
ters of the late J. J. Fitzgerald, who some
years ago published a delightful book of child-
ren’s stories with the help of a sister —one wrote
the stories and the other illustrated them —•
has started on a new venture. With Mrs.
Chas. Harding she is opening a Children’s Rest
Room where mothers may leave their offspring
while they shop or bridge. As Paula is a
trained nurse, no one need be afraid of little
John or Annie swallowing a rocking-horse dur-
ing mamma’s absence.
Nobody will admit having any spare cash
these days, but there must be oodles of it
judging by the number of round-the-world
trippers who burst in on us for a few days,
entertain and are entertained, and blow away
again, to say nothing of the fact that a good
third of the population seems to be just pack-
ing its trunks for a trip or unpacking them
after having tripped. By the Otranto came Lt.-
Col. Abbott, head serang of the F.T.D.A.C.,
an organisation which includes among its mem-
bers eight million old soldiers of the Allied
nations. With the Lt.-Col. are his wife and
baronet Carne Rasch, president of the Paris
branch of the British Legion. They were enter-
tained by the R.S.S.I.L.A. and found time to
put a wreath on the Anzac Memorial.
The wedding day of Dorothy Dixon and Dr.
Charles Sippe draws nearer, and Ruth Sippe
has arrived in Sydney in plenty of time for the
event. She and Joan Warner are to be the
bridesmaids.
Mrs. Charles Stirling and daughter Elsie de-
parted by the Otranto for Colombo. Eileen
Moore, daughter of the Isaac Moores, tra-
velled aboard the same ship bound for London.
Mr. J. A. Walsh, with daughter Cecile, and
Mary Luya also waved farewell to Brisbane
from the decks.
John Shearer, a prominent figure in agri-
cultural circles, crossed the Big Divide last
week. About 25 years ago, with his three
brothers, he took up land at Oakey. He was
the first secretary of the Queensland Farmers’
Union and one of the main movers in establish-
ing Australian Co-operative Farmers, Ltd., of
which, with his brother Bruce, he was joint
managing director at the time of his death.
Two sons survive him.
Two croquet enthusiasts have arrived here
from England—Mr. and Mrs. Godfrey Turner.
The male half of the partnership is one of the
keenest players in England. Mrs. F. R. Hall,
president of the Windsor Croquet Club, ar-
ranged a party for them, but as the weather
was doing its worst the croquet mallets re-
mained untouched, and bridge had to be the
medium of entertaining the guests.
John Provan, of Toowoomba,
who is the mainspring of the Tennis
Association in that city and a very
popular citizen, will add two sons-
in-law and a daughter-in-law to his
family this year. Alex, in March
marries Daphne Sinclair, of
Coogee, Sydney; Peggy is engaged
to James Robertson, of Glencoe;
and Mearon, who only a few
months ago was a schoolgirl, wears
a ring provided by Ernest Reeves,
of Balgowan.
Luckily we have had some of
the nobility of Europe visit-
ing Brisbane, so that by the
time Prince George arrives we
will know exactly how things should
be done. Count Cronstedt, Cham-
berlain to the King of Sweden,
and his Countess were on board
the Mirrabooka. The ship came
via the North of Scotland, through
the Panama Canal, and touched
at San Francisco. Count and
Countess Lewenhaupt (the Count
is Master of the Hounds to the King of
Sweden) also were on board. The lady speaks
French but has no English, so her husband had
to interpret for her. They live in the country,
and the Countess’s hobby is teaching cooking
to the local girls. She also likes bridge, and
was once an ardent horsewoman. They will
spend six weeks in Australia, and are return-
ing home via the Suez Canal.
Also on the Swedish ship were Mrs A. B.
McClelland, a Melbourne girl who has made
her home in Africa, England and the United
States in the nearly 30 years since she left Aus-
tralia, and Jean Arbuckle. another Melbourne
girl. The latter has been in Europe studying
the art of interior decoration.
Mr. and Mrs. Les Edye staged a party for
the three musical Nelson sisters Sara, Anna
and Ida, who broadcast through 4QG. Les
Edye is president of the Q’land Musical Asso-
ciation, and after he had said nice things to
the guests they were cheered by a musical
programme.
For 17 years Joan Lang declared that she
wanted to be an actress. She is 22 now, and
her childish threat has been fulfilled. She is
in “Waltzing Matilda” with Pat Hanna. Joan
is a Brisbane girl. Her grandfather was the
late H. H. Hopkins, of Warwick; her father
was Andrew Lang, the aviator, who once
held the altitude record, and after doing aerial
survey work in Central Australia and Papua
was killed in a car accident ten years ago.
Joan then was adopted by her uncle, J. L.
Currie, a Victorian pastoralist. She was a
nurse ip the Melbourne Children's Hospital
for a little v/hile, but the determination to go
on the stage persisted. Pat Hanna regards her
as a find, and predicts a big future for her.
Commander F. L. Cavaye, R.N., and his
pretty wife, Joan Taylor that was, daughter of
the late Mrs. Lumley Hill, and sister of Mrs. A.
H. Whittingham and Mrs. E. J. Watt, have
arrived in Fremantle. They will spend some
months in Sydney before coming on to Bris-
bane. Bellevue, the beautiful station home of
Mrs. Lumley Hill, was willed to Mrs. Cavaye,
but as a life on the rolling main was more in
her husband’s line she sold the property to
her brother-in-law, E. J. Watt.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service ot Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. . . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy “Beyond the City Gates,” by Jack
Moses. —271.
Qualified accountant, N.S.W., F.1.C.A., good
mechanic, three years’ country exp., wants posi-
ion in country store. —269.
To buy manual of the 1927 Buick six.—27s.
To buy Nos. 1, 2 and 4 of “New Britain.”
—278.
Man, 38, Vic., educated, offers regular blood
transfusions to anasmic patient in return for a
job. Blood type, No. 4 (universal donor). Go
anywhere.—264.
To hear from persons in possession of abori-
ginal stone implements. (Reply to K. A.
Edwards, Aboriginal Research Association,
Leeton, N. S. Wales.)
Middle-aged nurse, Sydney, exp. nursing
mental patients, wants employment.—3ss.
Carpenter and joiner, Vic., exp. with brick-
laying, plumbing, painting, concrete and fibro-
plaster work, seeks position anywhere. Refs.
—352.
Returned soldier (39), Q’land, 12£ years last
position as timekeeper and storekeeper, wants
job anywhere.—342.
Youth (19), S.A., 3 years’ commercial educa-
tion, wants job as book-keeper or storekeeper
on sheep station anywhere.—32B.
Choristers wanted, particularly tenors and
young sopranos, to complete choir of 300 now
rehearsing “Stabat Mater,” to be rendered at
Sydney Town Hall. (Reply to Miss Ruby
McDonald, 2nd Floor, 305 Pitt-street, Sydney.)
Address of Robert Johnson, Sydney artist.
—272.
To buy R. B. Suthers’s “Mind Your Own
Business.” —297.
Lady desires to join another in business,
sheep or fruit farm preferred, view to partner-
ship.—2BB.
Information Sought.
(1) Has boxer Nel Tarleton had any contests
sir.pe returning to England from Australia ?
(2) Did he meet Tom Watson at London
Olympia last year ? (3) Does Tarleton intend
to return to Australia? —286.
(1) At Liverpool on Feb. 1 he defeated
Frenchman Nick Bensa in 11 rounds. (2) No.
(3) At present uncertain.
(1) Who originated boxing in Great Britain ?
(2) Who framed the London Prize Ring Rules ?
(3) When were they introduced, and how long
did they function ? —293.
(1) James Figg, who opened the first “Aca-
demy of Boxing” in the world in 1719. (2)
John Broughton. Under these rules a round
ended when one of the contestants fell, was
thrown or was knocked to the floor, and the
fallen fighter lost if he could not toe the line
in 30 seconds. (3) In 1743. They functioned
122 years, being superseded by the Marquis
of Queensberry Rules in 1865.
(1) How many places for human cremation
are there in Sydney ? Where situated ? (2)
Cost of cremation ? (3) Which is cheaper —
cremation or earth burial ? —251.
(1) Two; one at Rookwood and the other
at Chatswood. (2) £7 75., to which must be
added charges made by undertakers. (3)
Cremation eliminates cost of ground in a ceme-
tery, erection of headstone and upkeep of grave.
A repository for ashes may be obtained from
£2 2s. upwards.
My niece, who was recently married in Wales,
has written to say that the whole service, in-
cluding the portion spoken by her, was in
Welsh. Is this permissible under the English
Marriage Act ? —93.
Yes, in Wales, and in places where the Welsh
tongue is used, the declaration and contracting
words may be said in Welsh, under Section 23
of the English Marriages and Registration Act,
1837.
Nature and results of recent investigations with
a view of determining the electrical conditions
of the upper Polar atmosphere which make-
radio transmitting difficult ? —lBO.
Investigations were carried out by project-
ing wireless waves of varying frequency verti-
cally upwards. These were reflected back to
earth by an electrified layer in the upper atmo-
sphere, and by timing the return of the wave
and observing its characteristics it was possible
to deduce the density of the electrification and
its height. Experiments in temperate regions
show an electrified layer at a constant height
of about 60 miles, known as the Kennelly-
Heaviside layer. That reflects long and medium
wave-lengths, but allows short waves to pass to
a layer about 120 miles above the surface,
known as the Appleton layer,' which reflects
them. It is believed that these layers are made
conductive by something that comes from the
sun, but whether it is ultra-violet light, elec-
trical particles emitted or cosmic rays is not
yet known.
(1) What is the history of the old gaol at
Trial Bay, near Kempsey, N. S. Wales ? (2)
Any books dealing with the history of this part
of N. S. Wales in convict times ? —195.
(1) The first wing of the prison at Trial Bay
was completed in 1879, and the first batch of
prisoners arrived in 1886. It was closed in
1903. During the seven years intervening
between the completion of the first wing con-
taining 64 cells and the arrival of the prisoners,
various additional works were carried out and
a very strong outer wall built. In 1886 a
scheme was developed for building a break-
water by convict labor, the convicts being long-
sentence men who were coming near the end
of their terms. Prisoners worked for years
piling huge granite boulders into the sea, mak-
ing a wall 1000 feet long, and then the break-
water scheme and the convict-reform scheme
were abandoned. (2) Rudder’s “History of the
Macleay,” published in 1887. contains some
references to early settlement in the vicinity.
In the “Australian Encyclopcedia” mention
is made of Governor Gipps sending seven men
to the gallows for participation in the mas-
sacre of a number of friendly blacks; date ana
place not mentioned. Can you supply the
missing details ? —298. .
Eleven men were charged with and tried tor
the murder of aboriginals at a station called
Myall Creek, belonging to Henry Dangar. About
30 men, women and children were killed, ihe
accused were assigned servants and laborers
to various settlers. Seven of them were con-
victed and were executed on December 18,
1838. The others were acquitted.
Did the Tasmanian aborigines cross from
the mainland by land or by sea ? —295.
The Tasmanian aborigines probably crossed
Bass Strait by an almost (if not quite) con-
tinuous land bridge, as they were ignorant of
the art of making seagoing canoes. They
were satisfied to construct their canoes from
the bark of trees stripped off in long sheets,
sewn up at the end and plugged with clay. In
such frail craft they navigated rivers and lakes.
/ have always understood that Gregory Blax-
land was the originator and leader of the ex-
pedition that first crossed the Blue Mountains.
Lately, however, I have heard it said that the
honor belongs to William Lawson. What is
the evidence on Lawson’s behalf ? —3OO.
The weight of evidence still favors the
assumption that Blaxland was the originator
and leader, but notice must be taken of a claim,
put forward in 1827, that Lawson devised the
method of penetrating the tableland by keep-
ing along its highest , points. The anonymous
author of “A Ride to Bathurst,” in the “Aus-
tralian” for March 13, 1827, asserts that Law-
son frequently discussed the problem with his
unsuccessful precursor George Cayley, and in
the end made up his mind to attempt a cross-
ing along the summit levels. So, the anony-
mous author continues, Lawson “secured an
agreeable companion in Mr. William Went-
worth, and a persevering assistant in Mr.
Gregory Blaxland,” and achieved the passage.
Although several other assertions in the “Ride
to Bathurst” were promptly challenged, this
was not. But Gregory Blaxland had left for
England a month earlier, and it was no one’s
business to interfere on his behalf. Lawson,
who was living at Prospect Hill, did not trouble
to disclaim the assertion. Blaxland himself
states positively that he devised the plan, was
asked by Macquarie to carry it out, and in-
vited Lawson and Wentworth to join lpm. The
“Sydney Gazette” of May, 1813, mentions Law-
son first in its paragraph relating to the ex-
pedition : on the other hand, Macquarie, in
his general order and dispatch, invariably men-
tions Lawson last of the three.
A tennis match is being played on a court
on which the net does not reach to the ground.
A player, in recovering a short drop shot, places
his foot under the net. Does he lose the stroke ?
Yes. He has invaded his opponent’s court.
(1) Depth of the deepest coalmine in the
world ? (2) Where situated ? (3) Any other
mine (other than coal) deeper ? —9948.
(1) and (2) Charleroi, Belgium, reaches a
depth of 3600 ft. (3) The Morro Venlo Gold-
mine in Brazil is 805ift. deep; the Robinson
Deep, Transvaal (S. Africa), 8000 ft., and the
Champion Reef, Kolar, Mysore, 7580 ft. There
are several other goldmines over 3000 ft., includ-
ing the Victoria Quartz on the New Chum line
of reef, Bendigo, 5400 ft.
What age must applicants be for (1) police
and (2) prison employment in N.S.W., and
what are the chances of securing positions in
these departments ? —64.
(1) 20 to 27. (2) 23 to 35. No vacan-
cies, and long waiting lists in both departments.
Qualifications of members of Sydney Fire
Brigade ? Chances of securing a position ?
209.
Candidates must be between the age of 21
and 30, sft. 7in. in height without boots, and
36in. unexpanded chest measurement. They
are required to pass a preliminary educational
test and a strict medical examination. No
vacancies at present, and a long waiting list
of applicants.
Under what conditions are trainees accepted
at the Women’s Hospital, Sydney ? —169.
They may be between the ages of 20 and
40. The term of training for an applicant
holding a general training certificate is nine
months, for a mental-trained nurse 15 months,
and for an untrained applicant 18 months. For
an 18 months’ course applicant must hold an
intermediate or leaving certificate, or sit for
an examination for intending trainees held four
times yearly by the N.S.W. Nurses’ Registra-
tion Board, Winchcombe House, Bridge-street,
Sydney. No salary is paid to trainees, board
and laundry being free. Application forms
may be obtained from the secretary of the
hospital.
What are the powers and duties of the Presi-
dent of the United States of America ? —l7O.
Briefly, he is Commander-in-Chief of the
Army and of the Navy (and of the Militias
when they are in Federal service), and he com-
missions "all officers therein. With the consent
of the Senate he appoints the Cabinet officers
and all the chief (and many minor) Federal
officials. He exercises a general supervision
over the whole Federal Administration, and
sees that the Federal laws are duly carried out.
Should disorder arise in any State which the
authorities thereof are unable to suppress, the
aid of the President may be invoked. He con-
ducts the foreign policy of the Republic, and
has power “by and with the advice and con-
sent of the Senate,” to make treaties, provided
two-thirds of the Senators present concur. The
declaration of war rests with Congress. The
President makes recommendations of a general
nature to Congress, and when laws are passed
by Congress he may veto them. But if a
measure so vetoed is again passed by both
Houses of Congress by a two-thirds majority
in each House, it becomes law, notwithstand-
ing the objections of the President.
Origin and meaning of the term “warming
the bell” 3—173.
It is a nautical term. Time on board ship
is kept by means of a bell, which is struck
every half-hour. Anyone who, in an effort
to terminate his watch prematurely, strikes the
bell early is accused of “warming the bell,
an expression which has grown to include the
doing of anything before the appointed time.
What is the tenor of the judgment of the
High Court in the case Stephen v. Federal
Commissioner of Taxation, heard towards the
end of 1930, so far as it relates to tjie liability
of racecourses to rating under the Queensland
Local Authorities Acts? —112.
The Court found that land granted by the
Crown to trustees for public recreation pur-
poses which can be leased as a racecourse is
not exempt from taxation under the Land
Tax Assessment Acts, 1910-30. The value to
be placed on the property for taxation purposes
is the value of the fee simple subject to the
conditions and restrictions contained in the
Crown grant. The case is fully reported in
45 C.L.R., p. 122. How far the principle
embodied in the decision would affect the
liability to rating of racecourses under the
Local Authorities Act (Q.) is a matter for coun-
sel’s opinion—which it would be wise to take.
I have been painting a cement path fairly
frequently, and it is now slippery. Remedy ?
Give the path a weekly application of a
very weak solution of spirits of salts, say about
1 eggeupful in a bucket of water. The path
should be mopped with this solution and
allowed to stand for half an hour, then
thoroughly sluiced with clean water.
(1) Was the interest rate' payable on deben-
tures of the S.A. Municipal Tramways Trust
subjected to the full 22| p.c. emergency cut?
(2) Who increased interest from 3£ p.c. in 1928
to p.c. in 1930, and why? —9B7l.
(1) No. The Trust obtains its money for
construction purposes from the S. Aus. Govern-
ment, and consequently only obtains a reduc-
tion in interest rates when such is obtained by
the Government on the particular loan from
which the advance has been made, and then
only to the extent to which the Government
receives a decrease. (2) Cannot trace such an
increase. Among the debentures scheduled in
1928 were two issues at 67 p.c. These were
redeemed in 1930, with debentures at lower
rate of interest.
(1) Is the statue of Burns in the Sydney
Domain a good likeness ? Who made it, and,
if it is a copy, where is the original ? (2)
Has the sculptor done other works of note, and,
if so, what are they ? —239.
(1) It is a copy of a statue designed by F. W.
Pomeroy, erected at Paisley (Scotland) in 1895.
It was the winning design in a competition, 'and
satisfied local critics. (2) He designed the metal
work for Welbeck Abbey and the bronzes for
Holy Trinity Church in Sloan-square, London,
and carved the stone panels and friezes for the
Sheffield Town Hall. He is well represented
in leading galleries.
(1) How is it that a crocodile can drown its
prey under water without drowning itself ? (2)
What animals can they devour? (3) Do they
make any noise when aroused ? —279.
(1) A crocodile’s nostrils are on’ the tip of
the snout, and air passages are prolonged to
the back of the lengthy mouth. The reptile is
thus able to hold its prey under water, itself
being able to breathe. (2) Crocodiles will
devour almost any animal they can secure, in-
cluding young cattle, marsupials, reptiles, water-
fowl and occasionally human beings. (3)
Although usually silent, there is evidence that
they can emit a hoarse bellow which has been
compared with that of an ajigry bull.
On the work of what scientists is our know-
ledge of the formation of coral reefs and coral
islands based ? —284.
Mainly on the work of Darwin, who con-
ceived and expounded the subsidence theory,
and on the researches of Edgeworth David on
Funafuti in the Ellice Group, where a successful
boring was made to a depth of 1114 ft. Supple-
mentary work has been carried out by Charles
Hedley, Griffith Taylor and E. C. Andrews
on the Great Barrier Reef of Australia, and
by Mayer on the reefs of Murray Island in
Torres Strait.
My ten-month-old springer spaniel is always
sneezing and vomiting. He has had this com-
plaint since a pup. Cause and cure ? —167.
He is either suffering from the effects of
distemper, which has left gastritis and chronic
inflammation of the larynx, or is affected with
a worm which causes tumors in gullet and
stomach. Try three-grain doses of subnitrate
of bismuth whisked with white of egg twice a
day. In addition give a small piece of raw
meat (not minced) each day. Feed only twice
a day.
(1) Brief biography of Robert Keable ? (2)
What are his best-known novels ? (3) What are
the characteristics distinguishing his works ? (4)
Are any of his books classical ? —2Ol.
(1) Born in England, took holy orders and
went to S. Africa. Served in the Great War
as a regimental chaplain, developed changed
views and gave up the ministry. Died in
Tahiti of t.b. a few years ago. (2) “Simon
Called Peter” and “The Mother of All Living.”
(3) Emotional sincerity and a graceful, sensi-
tive style expressing a romantic theory of life.
(4) No.
(1) Where was I. M. Cohen, the Australian
painter, born ? (2) What were his diploma pic-
tures ? (3) Any other information ? —l6O.
(1) Ballarat (Vic.). (2) They are not diploma
pieces, but in accordance with the rules of the
travelling scholarship three works had to be
presented to the Melbourne Gallery. They were
a portrait of General Monash, “The Purple
Hat” and a copy of the “Vision of St. Helena,”
by Paul Veronese. (3) He settled permanently
in London and became a regular exhibitor at
the Royal Academy. He is also an R. 0.1.
and a member of the Royal Society of Por-
trait Painters.
(1) What was encaustic painting ? (2) Is it
practised nowadays ? (3) What nations em-
ployed the method ? —B4.
(1) An ancient method" in which the final
process consisted of an application of heated
wax to the picture. (2) No, but some people
consider it is the most permanent of all methods
and regret that it is one of the lost arts. (3)
Ancient Greece and Egypt.
Proper treatment of garden hose when not
in use ? —l5O.
After use any water remaining in the hose
should be drained away. The hose may then
be placed on a hose-reel or coiled and placed
well away from the sun and light. Avoid un-
due dragging over wet surface or rough ground.
Information Supplied.
119. —“Yandilla” means bark stripped from
a tree. —J.
Brief Answers.
E.C.: From D. J. Latham, 41 Burwood-
road, Hawthorn, Vic A. 8.: Write secretary,
Rivers and Water Supply Commission, Trea-
sury Gardens, Melbourne N.T.: The 1932
A.J.C. Derby was won by Peter Pan, with
Oro second and Kuvera third G.J.H.C.:
Ordinarily, the lessee pays the legal costs of
drawing up the lease, but if you can show
there was an agreement that the lessor should
pay, and the solicitor was aware of it, and
acquiesced, you can repudiate responsibility
F.J.L.: It has its origin in a poem by Jack
Moses entitled “Nine Miles from Gundagai,”
wherein a dog sits on a tucker-box at the spot.
The monument is designed as a memorial to
the pioneers of the district H.H.R.8.:
Black’s “Queensland Pioneers,” obtainable from
the Q’land Country Women’s Assoc., Stanley-
street, Townsville; 7s. 6d., postage, 5d
L.S.R.: Translation of Vincit qui patitur is
“He conquers who endures”... .E.M.6.: Write
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Sydney E.E.H.:
•There are no standard fees. It is a matter of
negotiation M. 8.: The artist and his pic-
tures are unknown to us. Could not determine
value without inspection... .R.C.: Depends on
size and quality. Conrad Martens’s work brings
good prices now., and this sounds as if it would
be acceptable to collectors of his stuff or to
the Mitchell Library, Sydney... .W.T.: No. It
is sometimes called “deaf adder” from its dis-
inclination to move when approached
A H.L.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of Edu-
cation, Sydney R.S.R.: (1) The club meets
first Wednesday every month at Temperance
Hall, Russell-street, Melbourne. Secretary, Mr.
Senior. (2) The “Model Engineer,” an Eng-
lish publication, obtainable from Gordon and
Gotch, Melbourne F.H.: Write State Fish-
eries, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney, for
pamphlet H.H.W.: We know of only one
—the British-Australian Tobacco Co., Raleigh
Park, Kensington, Sydney J.F.: Seven full
days H.D.P.: “Writing for the Screen, by
Arrar Jackson, and “How to Write a Film
Story,” by Gertrude M. Allen D.S.: Com-
municate with leading shipping lines.. . .P.M.:
The best precaution is to expose yourself gradu-
ally—a little each day until your skin gets
toughened. Rubbing vinegar on the skin will
help to prevent sunburn, and will ease the pain
if you do get burned. .. .J.F.0.N.: L. Passim,
a Viennese, 1832-1903, was fairly highly rated
in his day, and it is unlikely that he would
work on white satin. Probably your picture
is a print M.J.A.: The “remedy” is the
amount of variation from standard permitted
in fineness and weight of coins when first issued
from the Mint... .P. 8.: The Torres Strait islands
are under the administration of the Queensland
Government, and come within the defined boun-
daries of that State, although some of them
are within a couple of miles of New Guinea
itself T. 8.: New Caledonia has a popula-
tion of 57,165, made up of 17,215 whites,
28,502 natives and 11,448 indentured laborers.
T.J.: Where a pensioner becomes the
owner of property (other than his home) of a
value exceeding £4OO (£BOO in the case of hus-
band and wife), he is required to repay amount
of pension paid to him (and wife if both are
pensioners) after Oct. 12, 1932, to the extent
by which the value of the property exceeds
£4OO (or £BOO in the case of husband and wife).
H.H.: “The Girl Who Took the Wrong
Turning” was written by Walter Melville, agd
was first produced at the Standard Theatre,
London, on October 1, 1906... .J.W.: Claude
Rains toured Australia in 1911-12 as stage
manager with “The Blue Bird,” and at Mel-
bourne and Sydney played Bohun in You
Never Can Te 11”... .H.R.S.: “Authors and
the Book Trade,” by Frank Swmnerton
(3s. 6d.), “Books from the MS. to
the Bookseller,” by John L. Young (35.);
M.P.: “How to Write Serial Fiction,
by Michael Joseph and Marten Cumber-
land (3s. 6d.) E.M.: “Australasian Chess
Review” (edited by C. J. S. Purdy), obtainable
from 55 Bulkara-road, Woollahra, Sydney....
G.S.: A. E. Stoddart, 485, for Hampstead v.
Stoics, 1886; in first-class cricket in England,
A. Ci Maclaren, 424, for Lancashire v. Somer-
set, at Taunton, 1895; in Australia, D. G.
Bradman, 452, not out, for N.S.W. v\Queens-
land, at Sydney, 1929-30 season.. ..H.R.: Pei -
cival Serle has edited a privately printed edition
of Christopher Smart’s “A Song to David,
and has had published “A Bibliography of Aus-
tralasian Poetry and Verse,” and, with F. Wu-
mot, an anthology L.Y.: “Courier, pub-
fished at Kingscote, Kangaroo Island. • • -tJ.K. .
“Limited company” is short for limited lia-
bility company,” and implies not that the num-
ber of members is limited, but that then
liability for its debts is F.J.W.: Con-
cise Radio Handbook,” White Bros, and
Parsons, Wingello House, Angel-place, Syd-
ney, 3s. 9d. posted... .W.C.J.: . N 0....
A.P.: Bygalorie is a N.S.W. aboriginal word
meaning “red kangaroo” C.C.: Australasian
Pioneers’ Club, 169 Phillip-street, Sydney....
A.W.: You may separate by mutual agree-
ment, but if you wish to give legal form to the
separation a deed is necessary. Cost about five
guineas... .T.P.: You cannot avoid your contract
by simply walking out. You could, however,
sell the property subject to all the condition:
under which you hold it, and free from al.
indebtedness or claims, but only by consent o
the department... .A.0.C.: If he is 15 or under
he has to be paid 13s. per week.... D-L-•
Cannot trace a firm of that name m Sydney.
J.S.: “Cape Barren tea” is made from tne
leaves of Correa alba, a coastal sand-dune shruD
with creamy flowers. The plant is especially
adapted to withstand harsh conditions, an
valuable as a sand-binder... .H.L.: Presum
you refer to Coprosma billardieri. It has a
small, round fruit, which the early Tasmanian
settlers made into puddings. C. hirtella has ■
small edible fruit with a disagreeable flavor....
C.F.: Impossible to diagnose without examina-
tion. Frequently cases due to muscular weaK-
ness return to normal. At the age ot pup
it is extremely likely that this will occur, ree
raw meat every second day. Watch careful
for any enlargement of joints (symptoms o
rickets), and write again if necessary "
Have never heard of Muirhead Bone doin-
colored etchings, and cannot assess value wit -
out inspection. Some of Bone’s monochrom
etchings bring up to £2OO H.M.: A dinn
suit is permissible, but not correct. With tnis
is worn a black tie and white kid gloves, r
evening weddings a dress suit is correct, wor
with a white tie and white kid gloves, and t
a morning wedding a morning coat and trouse :
with a grey or shepherd check tie, grey glo\
and spats... .M.R.: Present collector value, it
in mint condition, is two shillings, it otne-
wise, face value, as it is still legal currency....
(Many others mailed.)


The deposit is the
only cost!
To own a Healing Electric Refrigerator, to know that the
food in your house is always protected, actually costs you no
more than the low deposit of £6-10-0.
The repayments on a Healing Refrigerator are extended
over two years, and, consequently, are so low that, combined
with the savings in food, they do not exceed the cost of the
daily ice for your ice chest.
You should see the Healing Refrigerator because it gives
you a quarter as much space again as any other refrigerator
at its price. In addition to this extra space, you get the
highest quality in materials, construction and finish.
For quiet operation, faster freezing, and economical
upkeep, you need a Healing. See them in operation at our
Showrooms or write us for a descriptive booklet.
«
Specifications:
Porcelain lined, choice of white or colour finish, chromium-plated
lock and hinges, compressor unit of extreme simplicity and low
consumption. Silent and economical running with 9 point tem-
perature control and automatic cut-out, ribbon-type shelves and
capacity for freezing 84 ice cubes.
HEALING
REFRIGERATORS
MELBOURNE: A.G.Healing Pty.Ltd.
261-3 Swanston Street
SYDNEY - A. G. Healing Limited
162-170 Goulburn Street
ADELAIDE - A. G. Healing Limited
Cor. Pirie and Pulteney Streets
BRISBANE - - - - R. J. Rose
Fairfield Road, Yeerongpilly
. A1147M
From China to Peru.
“Si Anu”: Britishers in Malaya were
somewhat staggered when a distinguished
native magnate, Mr. Sarwar, printed this
New Year message in a newspaper:
The year 1933 has been full of blessings
to us—those who are living under the protec-
tion of the British flag with His Almighty’s
favor. We have had no wars, no plagues and
no famines to complain of. All commodities
have been cheap, and, thanks to Japan, we
can buy a great many of our requirements
at below cost prices. May the Empire of the
Rising Sun continue to sweat its own popula-
tion lor our benefit! We can buy a new
Japanese bicycle for $lO in Singapore, and I
would not .mind buying a new motor-car in
good working order for $lOO or an aeroplane
* or ?150. The French are going to construct
a Diesel engine which will run an aeroplane
at about a cent a mile. So the year 1934 pro-
mises to be full of agreeable surprises, and I
lor one would wish the slump in the price of
Japanese goods to last for ever so that, dear
readers, one dollar of your income may be
worth ten.
The pained comment of the editor was
that the protection of the British flag
would not be worth much to Mr. Sarwar
if everybody bought Japanese goods.
* H* * #
Never was Europe busier staging up-
heavals. Revolutions purely local or in
the grand manner occur constantly. A
friend in Spain sends artist Mrs. Jimmy
Jackson a pen sketch of Barcelona last
December when the residents were crack-
ing their nuts in an unexpected manner:
The transport _ strike spread into a general
s Tikc, and then into a revolution. There were
soldiers with machine-guns and sometimes tanks
on the principal street corners. Terrorists placed
bombs in all the power plants, in factories,
even in moving-picture theatres. They threw
bottles of liquid fire on trams and ’buses which
soldiers tried to run during the strike. Tear-
ing up railroad tracks, blowing up bridges and
throwing liquid fire on trains, they caused many
train wrecks. Aeroplanes zoomed low over the
city continually. Citizens were forbidden to
torrn groups of more than two in the street,
an “ were warned not to go out between 5 p.m.
and 8 a.m. The Civil Guard surprised terror-
ists trying to enter the city by way of the
sewers. The soldiers opened manholes and shot
down them. Many of the terrorists were cap-
tured, their innocent-looking suitcases full of
bombs.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: The appointment of
three native Indian subjects as temporary
Governors of Bengal, the Punjab and
Madras is significant in its way of the
attitude of the sirkar towards Indianisa-
tion of the services, the appointees being
all Moslems. The first experiment of the
kind was made some years ago, when a
Hindu was appointed Acting-Governor
of Bihar, one of the districts recently
ravaged by the earthquake. This time the
Government has evidently decided to pin
its faith to the race which imposed itself
by force of arms on the Hindus of
northern India, and has generally proved
more loyal to its salt than the Hindu.
Of the three, Mohamed Usman will rule
in Madras—Hindu but well-inclined.
The toughest job goes to Ali Khan Ghuz-
navi, who takes over Bengal—Hindu and
seething with sedition. More than one
British Governor of Bengal has had his
life attempted, while minor white officials
have been murdered by the dozen. The
Punjab goes to Sikander Hyat Khan,
who, if he isn’t a Pathan and therefore
well fitted to deal with the mixed Pun-
jabis, is belied by his monniker.
* * * *
“Runa”: When climbers are making
their way up Mt. Egmont, the glorious
snow-capped peak of Taranaki (M.L.),
it is usual for those who ascend the north
face to halt at a huge boulder at the
6000 ft. mark. In the hollowed top of
the boulder is a perpetual supply of
water, clear and intensely cold. Tourists
drink it eagerly, but at times it has a
curious, bitter taste which puzzles old
mountaineers. As the hollow must be
flushed out frequently by the terrific
storms that rage on Egmont, and as the
bitterness can come neither from snow
nor from the rock, its origin remains a
mystery.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: That a Japanese Minis-
ter of Industry should have to resign his
portfolio because he wrote an article ten
years ago praising a shogun who ill-
treated the emperors of his period sug-
gests that history is not a subject of in-
tensive study in Japan. Until the restora-
tion 70 years ago the Mikados were con-
stantly ill-treated. The Japanese have a
passion for shadow Governments, and
for centuries the real rulers of the coun-
try were the usurping shoguns, heads of
the great clans, while the Emperor was a
mere hanger about the court. One
shogun treated his Emperor so shabbily
that he had to go about the streets of his
own capital and beg for bread. When
Europeans first penetrated to the country
and for centuries afterwards they were
unaware even of the existence of the
Emperor, and treaties were made in the
shoguns’ name.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.R.: Nothing striking in it except the
desperate attempt to rhyme “water” with
“hauteur”... .E.C.W.: We’re not much of a
judge of music, but the words could scarcely
be more drab.... J.S.: If a good Bridge poem
has yet been written we haven’t seen it....
G. :
On Sahara’s burning desert,
Where one sees nought but sand,
You’ll always find an Australian
To take you by the hand.
We doubt it; anyhow we don’t propose to go
looking for him....L.H.: For a start, what
does “faraginous” mean, and how does one
become a “man of artistic cognition”?....
N.D.: Too much fog about it G.M.L.:
Heart up! You’ll probably meet her long
before the pair of you qualify for paradise
A.E.W.:, Yes, unquestionably some people can
see no beauty in what others regard as gems;
we often find ourselves in that category....
H. : Fish-and-chips party crudely de-
scribed... .F.M.D.: Carries no conviction....
E.R.M.: You apparently belong to the kill-’em-
otf-in-the-last-line school L.0.C.: Come
down to earth and write about something
you know... .G.R.M.8.: You’re getting near.
. . ..S.E.P.: Worthless... .T.R.: You say no-
thing, or nothing worth saying, quite musi-
cally ... .G. 8.: A pleasant enough trifle, but
how many people know what happened to
Rameses? ... .T.K.: “Song of Electricity” lacks
the brisk and cheerful melody of a vacuum-
cleaner... .J.K.: Not quite. The last verse is
a descent... .L.W.: Stick to droving... .C.S.:
You make a very poor fist of that ancient
anecdote about a Chinaman K. 8.: Quite a
long way from being passable A. 8.: The
prospector’s lonely grave under the stunted tree
begins to grow monotonous T.R.D.: Origi-
nal, we haven’t the slightest difficulty in believ-
ing, but it isn’t poetry, or anything resembling
it... .L.P.G.: Scant promise, but paper is
mercifully cheap D.L.: It missed the ’bus.
L.B.H.: A tangle of words, and some of it
is quite unintelligible W.S.L.: Cobwebs 'of
verse... .A. 8.: Mere echoes and high-sounding
platitudes... .E.C.M.: Outside our scope....
J.C.: Didn’t care for the coincidence in the
shark yarn H.V.P.: Treacle-tart story
might tempt a woman’s paper L.J.D.:
Absurd... .D.H.: No doctor would be-
have in such a fashion M.S.: Con-
fessions of a typist lack brightness
R. : Unmoved by the kind-hearted
mechanic’s sacrifice L.M.C.: Shows promise
—but was it necessary to kill off the young
fellow?... .F.H.P.: Want them with an Aus-
tralian setting H. 8.: It doesn’t begin until
nearly the last paragraph F.J.8.: Have run
across too many turtle-catching yarns
A.C.W.: Started promisingly but ended on an
unreal note... .W.G.: The echoes are faint....
F.M.R.: Not worth all that space....
S. : Reads more like a pub-corner
loafer’s daydream C.H.: Condensed, it
might make an Abo. par M.A.: Pig
yarn humorless, the other far too long.
....R.M.W.: Trite.... F.T.8.: Treated as
a truthful episode and better written it
might suit a daily D. 8.: Autobiography
of china cabinet was dreary stuff; the other was
obscure and rambling 8.G.: The opening
paragraph gave us a headache LJ.S.: No
more serials; completed, it might interest the
Endeavour Press A.F.: Might pass with a
stronger plot W.T.M.: Almost a winner.
You made your run too soon E.M.L.:
Shortened and brightened it would have a
chance... .N.W.8.: Note your yearning to
“rest on crispen couch beside a gurgling
stream,” but what in thunder is a “self-
idolitary mind”? G.H.: It only needs
onions to make a palatable dish....
WJ.M.: None of them rises out of medi-
ocrity V.N.W.: Very near the limit in
fatuity... .P.H.: It’s hardly worth getting up
at sunrise to transfer thoughts like those to
paper L.G.: They’re not in our style
R.S.L.: Sugary, but there’s not enough of it
to make a caramel R.M.: It didn’t grip
J.W.H.: There’s no conceivable interest in your
collection of Joe Millerisms E.V.8.: Don’t
know what on earth you’re driving at.
L.W.: There’s a touch of feeling in the
prose sketch, but it’s too vague and fragmen-
tary. No promise in the verse M.T.: Might
suit a flapper’s journal A.N.M.: Victory
too easy for story-telling purposes J.8.C.:
It struck the rocks early in its journey
0.L.: The coincidences take too much swal-
lowing... .J.S.M.D.: Not bad nonsense stuff.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.H.: Why give your lopsided giant the
arms of a dwarf? A.D.: Disagree with your
description of yourself as an artist N. 8.:
Wedding-feast wheeze is a little too raw....
A.C.: What is the object in the water—bather
or driftwood? L.V.: Your patriotism is
unquestionable, but not your art... .S.H.T.:
Your girls belong to a bygone period, and so
do your jokes T.M.: Make the central
figures stand out more plainly E.D.S.; You
might have told us why Dad was turning somer-
saults on the roof of the cowshed M.R.:
Faint signs of promise here and there... .F.G.:
Not a laugh in the six of them... .L.S.F.:
Don’t want architectural studies... . R.H.; Well,
we can compliment you on the lettering
W.G.: Request for leniency granted
J.L.; You haven’t learned your trade C. 8.;
The poses are quite good, but you slip badly
on the little details L.A.G.: Took the two
walking skeletons out and gave them counter-
lunch before returning them M.D.: Not
bad considering her age, but nothing to war-
rant enthusiasm. Cannot say what she might
do in another ten years K.C.G.: At least,
you’ve discovered a new way of smoking cigars.
F.C.H.: Legs of sitting figure far too short.
M.E.M.: Have a look at some of Syd
Miller’s monkeys and see how much you have
to learn 8.L.D.: One of George Reid’s re-
torts A.G.: Attempt to depict a two-up raid
ambitious but disastrous H.R.H.: Sorry we
cannot satisfy your “uncontrollable craving to
get into print”....D.J.: You possess a slick
line but little sense of humor... .P.R.: None of
them amused M.S.: Those bony flappers
would look better with their clothes on.


Conducted by WIN. TOWLES.
CARLTON'S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rate’s for conferences, clubs, etc. Please write
the Manager for quotations and detailed tariff
card.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Bunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Manager: E. HYNDMAN.
■■
GRIP FACTS.
For
Examinations, Business,
Public Speaking, Lodge,
etc., etc.
Bool:let Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
DONOHUE, THOMAS, formerly of Sydney,
son of Thomas and Bridget Donohue, was last
heard of in Sydney in 1902. Information as to
his death or whereabouts is required by the
Public Trustee in connection with the distribu-
tion of the intestate estate of his mother, Brid-
get Donohue.—W. J. KESSELL, Public Trus-
tee, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions —they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
SCPCUbms (.MimAN)
VkUnut StoJbn
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Albert, King of the Belgians, held his
first and last levee in Sydney on Friday.
To St. Mary’s Basilica there came to his
Requiem Mass all the Consuls, wearing
in his honor their gold- and silv.er-braided
uniforms aglitter with medals. Came also
the State Governor and Commander Gif-
ford, both in the blue of the R.A.F.;
Commander E. C. Rhodes, representing
the Governor-General, and Captain
Francis, representing the Prime Minister.
The basilica was crowded with men and
women, many of whom spared time from
business to do honor to the man whom
Europe and all the world respected for
his courage and understanding.
In the middle of the sanctuary stood
the high catafalque, surrounded by
candles and covered with black, over which
the red, yellow and black of Belgium
flowed as bravely as its King faced life.
It drew all eyes, and before it in homage
all bowed while Father Piquet read the
words of the Requiem. Monsignor King
and Father McAuliffe, who had been with
the A.I.F. forces in Belgium and France,
were deacon and subdeacon. Apostolic
Delegate Bernardini, exchanging his
amethystine vestments for the sombre-
ness of black, gave the absolution. From
a pulpit hung with the Belgian colors
Archbishop Duhig spoke of the man who
had known the soldier sons of Australia
so well. With his country’s flag above
him, looking up at the pulpit, sat Henri
Segaert, Consul-General for Belgium.
Across the aisle sat Sir Philip Game. All
the judiciary, including Chief Justice F.
R. Jordan, were in the pews, the faces of
ex-Premiers Holman and Bavin standing
out sharply against the dim background.
Boldly gleamed the white of the Austra-
lian Navy; melting into the shadows
knelt a group of black-clad nuns. Mellow
rays came from the great rose window,
and through the cathedral Gregorian
cadences rose and fell.
Never in its wildest dreams had the
C.W.A. visioned such a gift as the
R. M. Pitts handed to them last week.
Coorah, the Pitt family’s Wentworth
Falls home, from which for innumerable
springs great cargoes of daffodils have
been sent to the city by the kindly
owners to be disposed of for charity,
is surrounded by 42 acres of flower- and
bushlands. Its daffodils are famous ; so
are its lilacs and irises and roses. Its
verandahs are thousands of feet above
sea-level; and it will be turned by the
C.W.A. into a holiday home. State pre-
sident Mrs. Matt Sawyer, vice-president
Mrs. J. W. C. Beveridge and treasurer
Miss Warby took over the gift in person
last week, and found everything in the
roomy, fully furnished house in perfect
condition.
The floods at Camden kept Mrs. Mac-
arthur Onslow from coming to town to
the quarterly meeting of the Red
Crossers. However, the lady, who not
long ago returned from Europe, is being
asked to give the speech she had pre-
pared for it at the annual meeting to-
wards the end of March. Friday’s rally
was held in the Australia and was
marked by what might almost be termed
mirth and merriment. There were bowls
of red roses on the official table, where
Mayoress Parker bloomed in blue-and-
white diagonal stripes and snow-white
millinery. Red Cross chairman R. J.
Hawkes, Miss Kate Egan, the Cook and
Hughes ladies and vice-chairman Langer
Owen were among her neighbors. Justice
Owen and his wife leave on March 14
for a jaunt “north about.” He was fare-
welled ; Mrs. Parker was welcomed with
feathery pink dahlias, and words of
praise were breathed over Mrs. A. C.
White, one of the society’s generous
friends.
Eleanor Hill, of Manly, is engaged to
Frank Davies. Eleanor’s dad is Captain
Hill, of the Niagara, and Frank is a sort
of institution of the village. She is very
fair'; he is very dark, and is one of the
pillars of the Australian Mercantile
Land and Finance Co.
Newcastle girl Marie Valda Arnold
changed her name and address last week
in St. Mary’s and became Mrs. Wilbur
Cowled, of Junee. The long-sleeved and
-trained bridal satins, the orange buds and
the floating mist of tulle veil were fixed
into position at the home of Metropolitan
Police Superintendent Mackay. ’Maid
Eileen Hewett, a fluff of pink tulle and
marocain, was demure behind an early-
Victorian posy of pink carnations, mig-
nonette and delphiniums. Father Mark
Carlton came from Singleton to forge
the link, and bride’s parents received the
guests at Romano’s.
“Give me Randwick for the race itself,
Rosehill for the beauty of its blooms
and Warwick Farm for the Arcadian
qualities of its setting and its spreading
English trees, now in the first glory of
autumn.” That was the summing up
last week of a persistent racegoer who
has had his bit on the gees on race-
courses the world around.
Mrs. Forster Heddle, eldest daughter
of the late W. H. Traill, of The Bulletin,
was, when Millie Traill, one of Sydney’s
most brilliant pianists. She married
when in London Forster Heddle, uncle
of the skipper of the s.s. Katoomba, E.
Moodie Heddle. Mrs. Heddle was lately
widowed, and is at present visiting her
married daughter in Jamaica.
Poetess Dorothea Mackellar, just back
after a fortnight’s motoring along the
South Coast, has taken a couple of bag-
fuls of its blue and gold (she struck it
rich before the recent deluge) and is
installing them and herself in her new
home at Darling Point. Dorothea’s two
cockers and her Scotch terrier are settling
down beautifully in their new surround-
ings. The old Mackellar home has re-
cently been bought by the Charles Lloyd
Jones couple. Dorothea, besides being a
writer, possesses the gift of tongues ; she
can speak fluently in seven languages.
Here is a pretty Roseville girl, Isabel
Blanche, who returned to Sydney re-
cently after four years in Paris. Already
a noted linguist before she left Australia,
Miss Blanche added four years’ study at
the Sorbonne to her home-grown know-
ledge, and comes back with her diploma
for university studies in Languages. The
photograph is from Dayne.
Maoriland’s widely known and bril-
liant Rose Kane is no more. She died
after a short illness last week in Welling-
ton, where her husband, E. W. Kane, is
Clerk of Parliaments. Mrs. Kane was the
Dominion’s first woman doctor of philo-
sophy, and ran very close to being its
first woman M.P. She was actively in-
terested in all the welfare movements of
the Dominion, was a member of several
prominent clubs, was interested in edu-
cational questions and recently gave
a remarkable series of broadcast talks
on the school child from the time of the
Phoenicians. Her first husband was an
Auckland K.C. Two of her sons, Eric
and Alan Baume, are on Australia’s Inky
Way: Eric is editor of the Sunday “Sun/’
and Alan is in Tasmania. Another son,
Sydney Baume, is well known to radio
audiences.
Mrs. Sterling Levis, wife of the Vau-
cluse medical man, has struck a vein of
broadcast talks all her own. She has a
store of Irish fairy stories, some of them
as old as the Book of Kells, and she re-
counts them in a soft voice and with a
rich vocabulary; for, when Mrs. Levis
isn’t being a musician or an artist, she is
a maker of poetry. Much of her verse
has appeared in the “Mirror.” She is
a great gardener, as the grounds of her
home testify, and she probably knows as
much about old English china as any
expert in Sydney. She is to broadcast on
the eve of St. Patrick’s Day.
You would hardly think there could
be any connecting link between King
Albert’s death and a bunch of Sydney
debs. Yet, now that court mourning has
been declared, the ladies of the cricketers
ball committee are wondering whom they
will present their sweet-and-eighteens to.
Pondering over this problem pretty Mrs.
Jack Gregory, who is president of the ball
committee, was threatened with a furrow
in her smooth brow. Still, Mark Foy’s
ballroom is booked out for the flutter,
which is a farewell to the departing team.
Mrs. Gregory is a Tasmanian with hedge-
rose-pink cheeks and sunlit hair. Photo-
graph from Dorothy Welding.
A note from London tells that actress
Mary Macgregor, of the red-gold hair,
made her first London appearance in
“Charley’s Aunt,” and looked dazzlingly
pretty. Mary has had a wonderful time,
has been abroad and had a month in
Switzerland. She has also seen every
production in London and has had some
tempting offers to tour South Africa.
Tennis player Joan Hartigan will take
to help her conquer Wimbledon a travel-
ling clock presented to her by the group
of business girls who lunch weekly at
David Jones’s. The gift, wrapped about
with the usual complimentary speeches,
was given to Joan at last Wednesday’s
gathering, when many of the lasses got
their first close-up of the young tennis
star. These luncheons, which are being
featured by several of the big department
stores, have, with the hundred-word-a-
minute girl and the book-keeping girl,
taken the place of the matinee-idol wor-
ship indulged by the pre-war miss.
Sometimes the stores throw in a fashion
parade, and at Christmastime there’s a
Santa Claus with more jokes than gifts
in his pack.
The Rupert Scammells, of Clifton
Gardens, were two of the hundreds of
Australians who went out through the
Heads in the Otranto last week, facing
Europe and the exchange with intrepid
gaze. Mrs. Scammell, who as Dagmar
Thomson was one of the noted violinists
of our concert platforms, has been the
joyous subject of innumerable farewells.
On Saturday her own people took a
hand, and the result was a party of great
dimensions on which a bright moon
looked down from a windless sky. Danc-
ing on the wide and roofless sun-veran-
dahs was the chief attraction, though
gazing out across the deep-blue velvet
waters of the harbor to Cremorne ran
it a close' second. Mrs. Scammell, tall
and slim in her flowered and ruched
organdies, suggested a pink carnation.
Sister Nell’s dryad greens were softly
lustrous, and Mrs. Thomson’s crepes
were sapphire under the moonlight which
lit up the diamente and silver on Mrs.
Keith Fisher’s white chiffons.
These days every dweller in Neutral
Bay feels himself or herself a potential
winner of the State Lottery. So many
first prizes have been drawn by residents
of the old-established little waterside
suburb that girls walking down to the
ferries in company say to each other, not
“if I win the Lottery,” but “when I win
the Lottery.” Four of the first-prize
winners live within a stone’s throw of
one another.
Former Abbotsleigh girl Marjorie
Hambridge, now studying the violin at
the Royal Academy, drops a line home
about Edgar Bainton, the Conserva-
torium’s new director in succession to Dr.
Orchard. He travelled from India to
Marseilles on the Maloja with the Sydney
girl and her mother, and the two
some sonatas together. She says: “He
is a really fine pianist and it was inspiring
to play with him. He was surprised to
hear that Arundel Orchard was retiring.
1 think we are very lucky to get
such a musician (he is well known as a
composer), and cannot think why he is
giving up his job at Newcastle, as the
salary there is larger than the Sydney
Con. director’s. I know he dislikes New-
castle as a town and loves our climate, so
perhaps the sunny shores of the South are
calling. He has a very musical and
talented daughter, Helen, who is at the
Royal College of Music studying the
piano under Herbert Fryer.”
Artist Ethel Stephens’s show at her
own home has been drawing a steady
trickle of artists out to Vaucluse since
Monday. There are wide-reaching and
beautiful views from the house on the
hill, and there’s something to be said
(though not from the gallery-proprietor’s
point of view) for this display of one’s
art within the creator’s own four walls.
Miss Stephens, whose radiant flower
pieces and good drawing have been
features of many Sydney exhibitions, was
for some years president of the Society
of Women Painters. She was one of
Julian Ashton’s first pupils.
If you want to be up to the minute
you’ll have a nice little green frog or
two or three of him for a pet. There’s
one flatite up Darlinghurst way who has
made a home for several of them amid
her balcony fernery and hanging greens.
When their owner gets under way at
bridge her little green friends hop on to
the table and squat on a corner near
the hostess, and murmur the frogs’
equivalent to purring at the petting they
receive. They live on crumbs and water,
are happy and quite sociable.
To Sydney from Wellington (M.L.),
where she is one of the little artistic colony
in Rona Bay, comes Mrs. Fuller, whose
husband, before his sudden death a
year ago, had planned an exhibition of
contemporary English artists. Mrs.
Fuller, who knows intimately most of
the artists in her collection, from the late
Orpen himself, is arranging this art show,
which will open at the Blaxland Gal-
leries on March 6.
Doon, the fashionable finishing school
for girls, has outgrown Ernest Watt’s old
home at Edgecliff, and a week or so ago
Greville Mount in Darling Point-road,
once the property of one of the jewellery
firm of Saunders, became the home of
principal Jean Cheriton and her pupils.
The old house is roomy ; it was built in
the times when every family of property
thought a roof tree should look capable
of sheltering a regiment. The rooms and
corridors are very attractive and there’s
a full-size ballroom.
The Hugh Denison home is among
those bitten with the travel craze, and
to speed on her European travels the
lady who has been chairman of its hos-
pitality committee the Victoria League
will be at home in a large way at 11
Onslow-avenue, Elizabeth Bay, on the
afternoon of Tuesday, March 6.


2SM BLACK &
WHITE CLUB
MEMBERSHIP FORM
NAME
ADDRESS
Melbourne
Chatter
Captain Takahata exhibited Japanese
prints, the spoil of a lifetime’s collecting,
during a day of the Kamo Maru’s visit
here. After sauntering round the display
on the starboard deck, one attacked the
portside, feeling dazed with so much
color, meticulous detail, bloodthirsty
weapons and contorted limbs, for Japan-
ese artists love to personify the dramatic.
The Bill Mclnneses and Blamire Young
were early visitors. Senator and Mrs.
R. D. Elliott were among those who
endeavored to read allegories and sym-
bols lurking in each gesture. The ex-
quisite linework of a number of heads
of actors in the guise of actresses re-
ceived great attention ; they are among
the collection’s most valuable pieces.
Mrs. Monty Grover wrinkled her brow
over the hidden meaning of what could
have been called a seaside scene: coy
ladies being carried on rafts across
shallow water. Harper Bell was among
the interested. Harry Fern divided his
time between the blue dragons of a
Buddhist hell and modern pieces of
ladies with unpinned, flowing tresses. A
young artist called Hume was among the
most appreciative of Japanese satire.
Lord Petre was guest of honor at a
small and merry party given by Wing-
Commander and Mrs. Harrison. The
young peer, who is 20 and the seven-
teenth of his line, is travelling alone, his
three months’ leave from the Coldstream
Guards being just sufficient for a speedy
trip round the world. He succeeded to
the title when an infant, for his father
was killed in the war. Mrs. Harrison
directed the traffic to her dinner party in
a gown of nut-brown tulle, the shoulders
stressed with stiffened ruffles. Greta
Harrison, with a cameo brooch pinned
to the corsage of her “dusty” pink
ffamisol; Pat Henry, very young and
lovely in her starched white organdie ;
and June Dyson, with dropped shoulders
to her slinky rust-red frock, were
a . few misses who entertained the
aristocratic visitor. They found him very
natural and not at all overwhelmed with
his long line of ancestors. He has a
country house, a flat in Berkeley-square,
a yacht and a sincere interest in Empire
problems. His cousin Henry Petre and
Wing-Commander Harrison brought out
the first ’planes for the Australian Air
Force 20 years ago. Henry Petre was
best man at the Harrison couple’s wed-
ding.
Sherry corks were drawn at the
Domain-road flat of Mr. and Mrs. J. H.
Keating. Lissome daughter Tulla was
the reason for the party. She left her
journalistic pen on her office desk in
Adelaide and sailed last week on the
Talleyrand to absorb the color and his-
tory of the Northern Hemisphere. Mrs.
Keating sifted her guests between
lounge and dining-room in black with
a white upper attachment and a small
black toque. Tulla’s ciel-blue laces swept
imperceptibly into fulness from the knee-
line. Her bother John unobtrusively
kept glasses filled and savories on the
move. The white head of Priminister
Lyons was visible. Dr. Loftus Hills
brought his wife, most attractive in her
spring-meadow georgettes and summery
hat. The up-to-the-moment throat cover-
ing made entry with Mrs. W. Foster :
very elegant was her black garment with
its precise white reliefs. Daughter Helen’s
black beret stood an invasion of white
flowers at regular intervals. Mrs. Steinle
brought her attractive and accomplished
Lorie, who is fluent in three languages.
Lorie wore one of the new blouses in
turquoise. Mrs. Noel Monk’s checks
were diminutive and neatly tailored. Mrs.
T. J. Mclnerney was there with son Tom.
Grace Graham, back only one day from
the other side of the world, made her call
minus a hat; she was on her way to
another party.
This Letter made its way one visiting
day to the Animal Welfare League’s hos-
pital. There it saw the new green and
glittering ambulance, bought from the
£lOOO anonymous donation; saw also
many patients. Out of cardboard boxes
peeped black eyes like currants ; whiskers
rubbed the tops of shopping bags; a
powerful curved beak was languid in a
rush basket; inanimate furry bundles lay
in perambulators. For the tramways
frown upon four-footed passengers even
though owners would pay fares for them.
In the rotunda men, women, small boys
and girls wait patiently for their pets’ turn
of the discerning eye and capable hand of
the vet. There are a good lab., an operat-
ing theatre, and cubicles for the painless
destruction of incurables. The hospital
treats only animals of the poor ; thus it
takes no bread from the mouths of prac-
tising vets. One shilling is the fee
charged, and medicines are proportion-
ately cheap, but in cases of necessity ser-
vices are free. The hospital is open twice
a week.
Bernard Hall, off for two years to
choose Felton Bequest pictures, was given
a farewell dinner at the Lyceum by his
past pupils of the National Gallery.
From soup to coffee conversation was
flavored with “Do you remembers” and
memory-ticklers of 30 years ago. After-
wards present-day gallery students came
along to swell the crowd to large propor-
tions. Knight John Longstaff and Charlie
Wheeler presented the traveller with a
pearl stud on behalf of past students and
a fountain pert from boys and girls of
to-day. Longstaff had his spot of fun
by murmuring that he had pleasure in
handing over a glittering diamond. Mr.
Hall would gallop in horror from such
a bauble, whereas he loves pearls. As
well as practically every artist in Mel-
bourne, there were representatives at the
party from all walks of life.
Dr. J. E. Nihill hadn’t far to walk to
his cocktail party at No. 9, for his home
ls No. 7 - It; was one of those jolly
affairs that start in the late afternoon and
no one bothers about the time or dinner
getting spoilt at home. Of the 120 guests
quite a bunch couldn’t tear themselves
away from banter and dancing with kin-
dred spirits, and the host gathered them
up for final good-byes on the other side
of the fence. Guests of honor were Dr.
and Mrs. J. L. Jona and their pretty
twins Merrie and Gwynneth, who are
off to England for a final rub to their
education. A goodly sprinkling of medi-
coes were among those who filled Dar-
ling-street with cars. Dr. K. Hadley
brought his attractive wife, who sported
tobacco-brown lace and a pair of gor-
geous silver foxes. Mrs. Officer Brown
clad her slimness with a tubular white
frock. Dr. Clendinnen’s better half wore
her suit in almond-green. Mrs. A. E. V.
Richardson clasped a toque of pansies
on her head and looked thrilled to be
in Melbourne. Adelaide is now her
home; her husband, Director of the
Waite Research Institute, is lingering in
the Apple Isle. The Fleming Dunstan
girls Valerie and Lesley displayed their
sun-tan through intriguing slits in their
dresses. Drs. John and Michael Niall
escorted better-halves in cherry and
black respectively. Mrs. Stanley Lewis
wore a pulled-forward beret of stone
color. Mrs. J. M. B. Connor’s choice was
floral ninon. In her lipstick marocain
Myra Marsh had sectional sleeves with
slits here and there.
Here is a Broothorn picture of Helene,
twin daughter of Robert Best and his
lady. She is a young miss for whom
the footlights twinkle glamorously
(there’s talent in the family; sister
Phyllis was married while she was here
with the Thorndike-Casson Co.). Miss
Best has had repertory experience with
Gregan McMahon and some acting for
the films. Her latest success was the
trembling heroine in “The Case of the
Frightened Lady.” The Edgar Wallace
thriller, produced by the Power House
Dramatic Club, ran for three nights last
week at the Palace. Betty Tait, elegant
in Lady Lebanon’s trained black velvets
and sprays of glittering jewels, shared
footlight bouquets with Miss Best. Des-
mond Connor enjoyed himself as Ser-
geant Totty, Garry Armstrong was a
pink-and-white young (mad) lord, and
Ken Tuckfield added a macabre mouth
and eye movement to his successful in-
terpretation of Gilder.
T. B. Robinson and his lady arrived
this week for a visit which may be pro-
longed to the end of the year. Knight
Thomas was Agent-General for Queens-
land, and his lady did her bit of war work
as a V.A.D. Commandant. A daughter
Phyllis, married a nephew of General
Birdwood. Olive has become a daughter-
in-law of Newton Moore. Son Allan
had a cursory look at Melbourne before
hurrying off to Sydney and a job behind
the seductive South Sea posters of Burns
Philp.
On her father’s arm Jean Mcßae
entered the Wattletree-road kirk to
emerge later at the side of Richard
Vivian Trembath. Fluted net gave full-
ness to the tubular gown of ivory lace.
\From a cap attachment the tulle veil
crept over a length of train and a sheaf
of roses and gladioli. Sashes in several
shades of pink burst into butterfly bows
round the “dusty”-pink georgettes which
clad ’maids Leila Holding and Gwen
Mitchell. On their arms rested
hydrangeas interspersed with gladioli
spikes.
This short-cropped head belongs to
Constance Duncan, newly-appointed sec-
retary of the Bureau of International
Affairs. The united secretariat covers
the League of Nations Union, the Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations, the Royal In-
stitute of International Affairs, the Round
Table and the youngest and only
frivolous member of the family, the In-
ternational Club, a lustily-growing infant
of barely a year old. From the exten-
sive material which penetrates the bureau
it has collected an excellent library,
accessible to members. Miss Duncan
lately undertook her job after having
spent 10 years in Japan (with a break for
study and travel in Europe and America),
where she was secretary of the Y.W.C.A.
In such a position only perseverance,
good balance and an above-average brain
can achieve success. There’s no “pick-
ing-up” Japanese ; the first two or three
years must be spent in an all-day lan-
guage school. So colossal are the diffi-
culties of the language that many stu-
dents give it up in despair. Miss Duncan
has a soft spot for Nippon and hopes to
return there some day.
A screed from the West:
For three sweltering days all roads in Perth
led to King’s Park tennis courts for the fifth
Test. W.A.L.T.A. president McGibbon’s lady
parked her opening-day pinky florals ’neath the
sun-brolly shading the official rotunda, with
daughters Molly and Rita hovering in the rear.
Harry Hopman’s Mickey Mouse footwear pro-
vided terminals for legs encased in shorts im-
maculate as Adrian Quist’s; but the rest of
the players stuck to long ’uns. Feminine
racquet-wielders fell heavily for cool green
shades in which to watch the play. Margaret
Officer’s leaf tones were in tiny checks; Mrs.
Douglas Gawler’s pleated apple-green sand
crepes were ventilated at the yoke with cream-
piped openings; Mrs. Frank Manford flung
a giant aquamarine bow at the throat of her
soft dove greys; Mollie McGrath’s florals were
autumn-tinted, and Betty Wood’s white Mer-
cury fell winged over pale crust crepes.
An impromptu dance in the club pavilion
rounded off the final day’s play, with gumtips
and carnations doing decorative duty in the
dance-room and supper marquee. Rita McGib-
bon buzzed about with scarlet flowerlets
splashed on parchment georgette; Betty Smith
whirled windmill sleeves on floral chiffons; May
Oakley and Mrs. Don Chipper followed the
black-and-silver scheme; Pauline Woodroffe’s
dark eyes shone above lily-white crepes; Mary
Burt enhanced her fairness with ebony ninon,
and juvenile Deborah Ambrose wafted white
georgette.
No counter-attractions or climbing mercury
could keep the regulars from rolling up at
headquarters for the February race meeting,
though several punters wisely watched the gee-
gees through smoked glasses. Mrs. Ernest Lee
Steere’s candy and liquid honey silks flanked
daughter Muriel’s orange and black stripes;
Mrs. Everett made modest pilgrimages to the
place tote in figured mimosa green; Mary Pad-
bury clung to her favorite blue, and Mrs. Geoff
Hearman was loyal to brown in patterned crepe
de Chine. Eileen and Sheila Hayes, Lesley
Vincent and Grace Baker had their eyes on
family horses.
Pre-nuptial shivoos for Ena Cockram are
still rampant. Marjorie Tindale served a huge
basket of flowers with tea at the Palace; Phyllis
Kearns put on bridge; Greta Cockram booked
a block of seats at the flicks; Betty Smith,
Lillias Flemming, Cath Cumpston and Lesley
Vincent brewed individual pots of tea; Allison
Abbott featured cards; Mrs. R. B. Campbell
gave a “shrub” afternoon, and Esme and May
Oakley’s function followed the bridesmaids’
trousseau party.
One of S.A.’s pioneer woman medicoes, Dr.
Violet Plummer, and her sister, Miss Lily
Plummer, were morning-tea-ed at the Women’s
Service Guild by ex-scholars of the Advanced
School for Girls, Adelaide. Mrs. James With-
nell, president of the Perth branch, did the
honors, and then accompanied the guests to
Cottesloe, where they were lunched by Mrs.
Rischbieth before being whisked back to their
ship to continue the journey to England.
Olive Keightley gathered a host of grads,
and undergrads, at her home in Peppermint-
grove for the dual speeding of Sheila Rowley,
who went a-sailing to England in the Themis-
tocles, and Russell Allen, whose research work
takes him to Melbourne. Clues for a treasure
hunt appeared with the supper.
A trip to Melbourne, forerunner of a Con-
tinental tour, was Mrs. Horace Foster’s excuse
for giving a good-bye luncheon at her view-of-
the-river home. Golden gladioli marked the
route to the dining-room and lounge, where
music and teacup-reading followed the feed.
The Roland Smiths donned their yachting out-
fits and unfurled the canvas on the Polyanna
to farewell the visiting tennis players with a
cruise on the Swan. The McGibbon family, the
Gordon Smiths and an eightsome of young
things manned the decks.
A few lines from Adelaide:
The women’s singles bowling championship
of S.A. wqs won by Mrs. W. E. Richards, of
the Kensington Gardens Club. About 400
watched the final, and Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon presented the trophy. Mrs. Richards is a
keen golf-player at Kooyonga, and has many
trophies.
Mrs. H. Rischbieth organised an all-day
tennis tournament on the Oval courts to assist
the unemployed sales depot. Seven courts were
in use, and about 50 women took part. There
were more married than single players, and
bare legs predominated.
One of South Australia’s first women
medicoes, Dr. Ethel Ambrose, has died in India.
She graduated from the Adelaide Uni. in 1903,
and took up work at the Perth Hospital. In
1905 she went to India, where she spent
28 years in medical work for missions, return-
ing to Adelaide every five years for a rest.
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Le Messurier, who leave
shortly for England, were given a farewell
dinner party at the Oriental by a large number
of friends.
Miss Peacock, of Brougham-place, North
Adelaide, has been in a whirl of parties since
her return from England. Dorothy Lendon
gave a luncheon in her honor, Mrs. Guy Makin
a dinner party, and Mrs. Stanley Skipper was
hostess of a bridge party at her home. North
Adelaide.
Social annals of the Speck:
A committee of 31 young matrons (with a
few maidens thrown in) ran a ball at the Con-
tinental, where palms and ferns gave a cool
effect, and masses of dahlias, delphiniums and
gladioli made glorious splashes of color. Mrs.
Arndell Lewis and Mrs. Charlie Wolfhagen
were the joint organisers of the show. Supper
was served upstairs.
Mrs. Arndell Lewis’s garden party became
an indoor one by force of circumstance, a hot
gale making the green lawns under the spread-
ing walnut-trees impossible. The hostess wore
a long frock of pale beige and a big green
picture hat. Lady Clark was present, and quite
a number of mainland and overseas folk, among
them Mrs. Claude Macdonald, Mrs. de la Salle
and Miss Stephen.
The Lieut.-Governor opened the Antique
Exhibition, held in the City Hall in aid of the
Child Welfare Assoc, and other deserving
bodies. The CJ.’s lady heads the committee,
and Mrs. Alan Walker organised the thing.
Some modern art work was shown, and it was
interesting to compare it with the antique speci-
mens.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell was hostess of an after-
noon party at the Queen Mary Club the other
day. All the decorations were in shades of
pink, and the hostess sported black georgette
and lace. The Clark lady wore brown lace with
a brown hat. The throng was big enough to
justify the recent enlargement of the club’s
premises.
Dulcie Lilian, daughter of the Belmont
Clarks, Koonya, and Rupert Milton Taylor,
Brighton, were tied for life at the Congrega-
tional Church. The bride’s friends had deco-
rated the church with belladonna lilies, mag-
nolias and pink hydrangeas, with very good
effect. The wedding garment was of pale-pink
lace and pink georgette, and the pink tulle
veil fell from a coronet of orange blossoms
and pearl ornaments. The ’maids, Nancy Clerk
and Nell Taylor, wore pink organdie and pic-
ture hats of straw in the same shade. Festi-
vities followed at the Continental.
When Launceston’s very pretty Betty Cuff
was married to J. S. Millen, son of Senator
Millen, Newstead, the church was ablaze with
flowers. The bride’s frock of heavy magnolia
satin had cute little side panniers on the hips,
and the bodice, cross-over in style, was of
hand-made lace. The veil of Carrickmacross,
falling from a halo of tiny orange-blossom
buds, extended over the satin train. Alison
Lamb (Sydney), Jean Beveridge (Gilgandra,
N.S.W.) and Marion Harrisson attended the
bride. Their frocks were pale shell-pink satin,
hand-painted in a floral design and worn over
apricot slips, which gave a charming effect, and
they wore bandeaux of twisted pink and blue
tulle.
Dr. Grimwade, in his yacht Stradbroke, paid
a holiday visit to Tasmanian waters, and enter-
tained members of the Tas. Royal Yacht Club
and other guests on board while in Hobart.
The Stradbroke left for Melbourne via the
Furneaux Grgup.


est
%
TO ENGLAND
Fortnightly
Two charming routes at your choice —
go by Auckland (N.Z.)> Suva and Hono-
lulu to Vancouver, or by Wellington
(N.Z.), Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco—thence to England across
Canada or U.S.A. by luxury trains and
modern liners.
See picturesque New Zealand. ...enjoy
the charm of the South Seas. . . .explore
the wonders of Canada and U.S.A. on
the most picturesque routes to England.
Tickets are interchangeable on both
routes, thus giving opportunity for a mag-
nificent round trip. Stopovers arranged
for any port of call.
Moderate fares, comfortable ships, modern
accommodation, faultless service.
AHD UNIONLiNES
Let us quote you
the most economical
rates for your trip.
UNION 5.5. CO.,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
328 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
29C Queen Street,
Brisbane.
4*
Wo
'VQ
i-u
as:
f 3
C/7
<§&£
S 3
iiiiMhU
l'ww}-, .. —tmb; ijoray
SIL.
s sißwr
&
• r»
V ' V
is
-X
5 Y Orvfc y
P. & O.
YACHTING CRUISE
CIRCUMNAVIGATING AUSTRALIA
The P. & O. R.M.S. CATHAY, 15,000 tons, leaves
Sydney on the 21st March on what may be suitably
described as a YACHTING CRUISE. The whole of the
accommodation will be set aside for First-class passengers,
and the number will be limited to 300.
Accommodation will consist exclusively of one- and two-berth
window and porthole cabins and cabins-de-luxe. The whole ettorts
of the ship’s company will be devoted to the comfort of passengers,
and as no cargo will be carried the time of arrival at the ports ot
call will be arranged to the best advantage.
Ports of call are: Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Batavia,
Sourabaya, Island of Bali, Kalabahi, to Brisbane via Torres
Straits, thence Sydney. The cruise will occupy about 37 days.
Passengers booked at Australian ports beyond Sydney will be
returned to those ports on the vessel’s homeward voyage to bnglano.
FARES FROM £7O
Free of Exchange.
Early registration is desirable to avoid disappointment.
Agents:
MACDONALD HAMILTON & CO., 247 <se o rge Street, Sydney.
VISIT THE -
Electrical and Radio Exhibition
SYDNEY TOWN HALL, FEBRUARY 28 TO MARCH
Out of the Past.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
HONEST JOHN.
THE fifty-ton cutter Toongabbie, from
Port Stephens, sailed round Cape
Three Points before a gentle nor’-
easterly breeze, passed the high seaward
bluff of Lion Island, and stood across to
the southern shore, where she dropped
anchor as the dusk was gathering round
the steep and forest-clad coastline of
Broken Bay.
When night settled down she lay on
the placid waters of the pretty cove
known as American Bay. No riding-light
glimmered in her rigging. She merged
into the black background of the wooded
hills and became indistinguishable against
the loom of the land.
About eight o’clock the door of the
booby-hatch leading to the cabin below
flashed a momentary gleam of light as
it opened to allow two men to emerge on
deck. They sat down close together abaft
the wheel on the grating that covered
the tiller, and began to converse in low
tones. Another figure rose dimly from
the hatch-cover amidships, and walked
silently aft to where they were sitting.
“Everything all right, Cap’n?” —it was
the mate, keeping an anchor watch. “I do
believe, a’most, as we’ve got Broken Bay
to ourselves.”
“Looks like it, Jimmy,” responded one
of the seated figures out of the dark-
ness ; “but don’t talk too loud. You were
saying, Mr. Montgomery?”
“Just this, Captain Holt —that I dont
know how far I can trust your ‘Honest
John.’ You know what it means if they
catch me —for me, I mean.”
“Aye,” responded the master with a
sort of grim relish. “ ’Tis piracy you’ll
stand charged with. An’ piracy ain’t no
joke, more especially when it’s a Govern-
ment vessel’s been pirated.”
“If your ‘Honest John’ fails me, I’m
done. Mightn’t he be wanting to make
a scapegoat of me?”
“Tut, tut, Mr. Montgomery, you don’t
know ‘Honest John.’ John Hereford’s
never been known to let one of his men
down. He can see ’twasn’t your fault you
acted as you did with regard to the Mac-
quarie. And it costs him nothing. A pas-
sage in one of his whalers that was com-
ing across to th’ fishing-grounds over
here. A passage from Port Stephens in
the Toongabbie that’s got a cargo of
shell for the lime-burning from up there.
Where’s the cost to him? If he can get
you away in a ship bound for England,
you’ll be paying your own passage. All
he’s doing is to see to it that a faithful
servant don’t suffer for faithfulness to
his interests. He’s always been like that.
That’s why he’s so well served —why he’s
become a rich man. That’s all. But listen.
I can hear oars off th’ point. This’ll be
the boat from Pittwater. You go along
with her, and you’ll be safely hidden in
Sydney before daylight.”
“I suppose I must. A man would starve
in these wild forests. Oh, well, Captain
—I thank you for your friendliness. I’ll
have to believe in Mr. Hereford.”
A few minutes later a long, white boat
pulled round the Toongabbie’s stern,
someone in it hailing the cutter in a
low voice as the crew rested on their
oars close to.
“Hello, there! Is that the Toongabbie?
Have ye anybody aboard for Sydney?”
“Aye,” responded Captain Holt. “The
gemmen’s all ready an’ waitin’. Now,
then, Mr. Montgomery. Good luck to
ye, sir, an’ a safe escape from all y’r
troubles.”
* * * *
John Hereford, Esq., M.C., leaned back
in his chair, as he sat in the study of his
country house on the Parramatta-road,
and talked benevolently to the travel-
stained and weary sailor sitting in front
of his writing-table.
“Well, then, Mr. Montgomery, it would
seem —I mean, it would seem so to any-
one who had not your own point of view
—that you took possession of the Gov-
ernment brig Macquarie by force of arms.
Also, that you removed her cargo of seal-
skins, and then set fire to the ship, after
handing her master over to the Maoris,
and permitting them to kill and eat the
unfortunate man. That is the way in
which all the world must regard what was
done by the master of the Fanny—the
way his Excellency Sir Richard Bourke,
as I happen to be aware, does himself
regard it.” . ,
Mr. Montgomery drew himself up and
shook his head.
“Well, not quite, sir—not quite,” he
said doubtfully. “The Maoris had col-
lected a shipload of skins, for which
already they’d been partly paid, to be
called for by one of your vessels. The
Fanny comes to the bay ; she drops her
anchor, and I find that this drunken ruf-
fian, this ex-convict Thomas Makepeace,
who commands the Macquarie, has
trumped up a charge of robbery against
the Maoris and turned his guns upon their
village—their pah, as they call it—and has
seized the sealskins, putting them aboard
his ship. When I come into the bay, most
of his crew are ashore fighting with the
natives —and not a single man of ’em
escapes. They were all killed and put
into the ovens, except Tom Makepeace,
his second mate and the cook, who were
lying drunk aboard the brig. What was
I to do? I ask you that.”
“Proceed, Mr. Montgomery.”
“I couldn’t stand by and see the
brig looted by the Maoris, and the seal-
skins were your property. I had to take
charge of the Macquarie—l was bound
to protect your interests and take pos-
session of the sealskins. I did all that.
Was it my fault that Tom Makepeace, in
his drunken delirium, jumps overboard
and swims ashore and gets knocked on
the head for his trouble? You.tell me
that Makepeace’s mate and the cook are
in Sydney. Well, they can bear out my
story —if they’re honest men. As for the
brig taking fire, I don’t know how that
happened, but I had naught to do with it.”
“The mate and the cook, Mr. Mont-
gomery? They do not bear out your
story. And. the fact that you left the
schooner and went to Foveaux, Strait
would seem to indicate that you were not
altogether unconscious of some misbe-
havior on your part.”
Mr. Montgomery sat up in his chair
with wide-open eyes, and stared at
“Honest John” in unfeigned amazement.
“But I had your orders to go there,
sir—verbal orders transmitted to me by
Captain Derry, of the whaler Highway-
man, the same ship that recently carried
me to Port Stephens. You sent instruc-
tions through him, as commodore of your
fleet of whalers and sealers, that I was to
go there and establish a sealing station
as a base from which the sounds of the
west coast were to be tvorked. Your
own orders, Mr. Hereford. There was
no flight about that.”
“Pray, Mr. Montgomery, have you my
orders in writing?”
“Of course I haven’t. Jock Derry con-
veyed them to me by word of mouth, as
coming directly from yourself.”
“Then I aim afraid, Mr. Montgomery,
that, at your trial, you will experience
some difficulty”— —
Montgomery jumped to his feet and
stood glaring down at the suave old man
who sat at the other side of the big,
baize-covered table, the look of benevo-
lence still in his face, though the lines
of the handsome lips seemed to be a
little straighter and a little more firmly set.
“Good God! D’ye mean to tell me,
sir, that you’re going to deny your
orders? You, the man they call ‘Honest
John’! My trial ? Am Ito be brought
to trial, then?”
“I regret to say, Mr. Montgomery,Jhat
his Excellency the Governor insists.”
“Upon what charge?”
“Piracy.”
“But you know well that I’ve done
nothing piratical.”
“That, Mr. Montgomery, will be for
the Court to decide. Have you a good
lawyer in view? If not, I can recommend
Mr. William Wentworth. I think, Mr.
Mont”
“But I have not been arrested, sir. How
do vou know I am to be brought to
trial?”
“You will be arrested, I fear, so soon
as you leave my door. I shall be glad to
go bail for you, of course. And,
further”
But no further in this life went “Honest
John.” Montgomery banged a heavy
fist upon the writing-table as he exploded
in wrath, and with a startled gasp the
old man leaned back in his chair and
stared in fear at what he had never seen
before—a murderously angry man.
“You lying humbug!” shouted the
sailor. “You infernal old rogue! You
knew well enough that I acted in a
proper manner at the Bay of Islands,
and in your interests. And now you
have set this trap for me! By God, I
could knock your brains out!”
He picked up a heavy ebony ruler
from the table and shook it at the ship-
owner, continuing to roar curses and
maledictions at that startled personage.
Suddenly he stopped and stood staring
at the old man, whose head had fallen
forward on the breast of his flowered silk
waistcoat. His body was sagged down
in the chair, and one arm had dropped
to hang limply by his side, whilst the
other hand had the fingers sprawled out
on the table in a crooked fashion, as it
they were clutching at the baize.
“Lud! ” whispered Mr. Montgomery.
“There’s the end of ‘Honest John’! I
must find a back way out of the house.”


MOTORISTS . . . Specify “SILVER EDGE”
BRAKE LlNlNG—British and Best
f^ Ye£S
HA* tggf
Ensures Service, Satisfaction and Safety
Your Garageman Knows It Meets
Ail Motoring Conditions
THE RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Representative: J. Arnold, G.P.0., Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
Prices Reduced
Bedford
Trdcks
Bedford, Australia's most economi-
cal and most reliable transport,
now offers still further inducement
in the new reduced prices just
announced.
•
The new reduced prices apply to all of these
Bedford Models: A.S.X.C. 8 cwt. 101 inch
wheelbase . . . W.S. 30 cwt. 131 inch wheel-
base ... W.H.G. 2-2| ton 131 inch wheelbase,
Single Rear Wheels . . . W.H.G., Dual Rear
Wheels . . . W.L.G. 2-2| ton 157 inch wheel-
base, Single Rear Wheels . . . W.L.G., Dual
Rear Wheels . . . W.L.B. Bus Chassis 157 inch
wheelbase. General Motors-Holden’s Limited.
British
BEDFORD
TRUCKS
Consult your local authorised
Bedford Truck Dealer
AI2OOM/B
Love Scene.
BY MAURICE LEE.
KICKING open the door of his hut,
Sorley walked heavily across to the
open fireplace and showered an
armful of firewood on the floor beside
the wide chimney of corrugated iron.
Brushing the soft wood-dust from his
arms, he straightened up and glanced at
the alarm-clock on the roughly-made
mantelpiece. Nearly seven-thirty. Only
half an hour to go!
The early autumn dusk had fallen on
this strange miniature town, the Moko-
hau railway-construction camp. Lights
shone in the windows of the huts, blazed
brightly through the doorway of the
compressor-shed, flickered weirdly on the
rolling steam cloud from the smokestack
of the tiny locomotive. A group of
tunnellers strolled down towards the yards.
They were the first night-shift for No. 4
tunnel, and, watching them, Sorley smiled
faintly. Still smiling, he drew the cur-
tains close over the little window, hung
a thick blanket over them from two nails
driven in the bare timber of the walls,
and, sprawling on his back on the low
wooden bed, smoked a cigarette.
He felt there was something, even in
his manner of smoking a cigarette, that
showed the sort of man he was. A
sort of languorous grace the way
that film-star had smoked one, while tell-
ing his mistress he didn’t want her, in the
picture Saturday night.
Unlike most other chaps, he knew how
to dress, what to do ; he had some style,
some.... some—aw, it was hard to
know how to put it, but he was different
from the general run of men. Above all,
he knew how to deal with women.
Women! He glanced again at the
clock. Twenty-five minutes left! A
thrilling shiver of excitement rippled over
his body. Adventure! That’s what he
brought to women! Romance of pas-
sion!
He hiccupped suddenly, and en-
joyed a ruminative flavor of roast beef
and parsnips, mingled with the odor of
home-brewed beer, which he had rather
thoughtlessly drunk on his way up from
the cookhouse after dinner.
Shouldn’t have drunk that, really.
Should have kept to whisky for this
evening. A man could spark better on
spirits. And for her —his glance fell with
satisfaction on a flask of violet-colored
liqueur which he had brought back to
camp from his last holiday in Auckland.
Parfait Amour —could he have chosen
anything more appropriate? “Perfect
Love,” the barman reckoned it was. Other
chaps in the camp, he reflected, would
offer a woman beer or stout, or possibly
gin. He alone would have thought of
the liquor of Perfect Love.
Twenty minutes to go. He got up,
throwing away the cigarette, and gazed
earnestly at his face in the mirror. It
came to him again that, over and above
his sophistication, his daring, his flair for
romance, he had the advantage of a fas-
cinating appearance. Blue eyes, a
straight nose and full lips (that stuck-up
schoolmistress had described the eyes as
pale and shifty, the nose as broad and
coarse, the lips as too thick) were features
over which he had no control; but they
needed no control.
It was in his oiled hair —the “side-
boards” carefully developed in front
of his ears—his flowered shirts and
unusually-wide trousers that his rich
personality was able to show through.
Also, there were his hands. It was true
that careless handling of a detonator had
left him with a finger less, yet, except
for the Public Works staff and the two
teachers, there was no one here with the
opportunity to keep his hands in such
condition.
Just at present Sorley was particularly
pleased with the task allotted to him.
It was to sit on an empty gelignite-box
up at No. 5 bridge, and keep a tally of
the number of blows required to drive
each of the great pencil-shaped ferro-
concrete piles. It was day work, and
easy. Jock Bates happened to be on
night-shift in No. 4 tunnel for a month,
and, because of that, to-night’s adventure
was possible.
Only twelve minutes to go! It might
be best, he thought, passing his fingers
down his cheeks and up, to shave again
quickly, and to shave against the grain.
There would just be time to do that, and
to tidy up some of the litter in his hut.
Everything must be perfect. He had
been so astute in this affair and had gone
to so much trouble over it that no for-
gotten detail must mar it now.
It hadn’t taken him so long, he re-
flected, lathering his chin. Not much
more than a week since they had first
taken an interest in one another. Jock
Bates didn’t understand her in the least.
She should never have married him. He
wasn’t her type. And in that Sorley
wasn’t far wrong. A big, dull, obtuse chap
was Bates, unimaginative, unintelligent
and phlegmatic. But she —she was a
creature of another order. She was small
and slight. Great dark eyes in her pale
face, and her mouth passionate and fever-
red. Her mass of dark hair gave, by con-
trast, an ivory lustre to the skin of her
face and body.
Sorley had been to a somewhat
alcoholic party given by Bates in their
small camp cottage. When Sorley
arrived Mrs. Bates was perched on the
edge of the table, drinking beer. She had
continued to perch on the table and drink
beer for so long that she had derived a
certain inspiration from it, and looked
about for someone to interest her. Her
glance fell on Sorley. Patting his new-
shaven chin before the mirror, he could
not help a glow of satisfaction When he
remembered how surely she had selected
him out of all those present. Somehow
or other (he couldn’t recollect all the
ciicumstances, since things were a bit
hazy in the latter half of that evening)
she had slid into his arms as he was
Zigzagging through the tangled grass.
“Bernard 1” she breathed.
No man in the Mokohau camp knew
better hoW to deal with such a situation.
Sorley responded with his most enthral-
ling technique.
Up till then, he reflected, his personal
attraction had done everything. To make
further progress in the affair his unusual
capacity for planning and carrying out
romantic adventure had to be brought
into play. It had been no trouble. Just
a word With the overseer and Jock Bates
was booked that month for night-shift
in the tunnel. At precisely eight (he had
impressed on her the need for strict punc-
tuality) she would creep into his hut.
Bates would, just at that moment, be
checking over some gear for his gang
down at the yards. A bit later he would
clatter on a jigger past the very walls of
Sorley’s hut, on his way to the tunnel,
while within the hut she and Sorley, lying
in each other’s arms, would listen to him
passing.
Well, it was almost eight. Ripping a
match along the underside of the mantel-
piece, he stooped to the fire, laid ready
in the great open fireplace of corrugated
iron. He would turn out the lamp, and
make love to her in the flickering light of
the flames. The totara kindling wood
burst into crackling fire. He tossed on
some scraps of tunnel timber, watching
the bright tongues lick round them. Then
he grasped a solid slab of black maire,
and stood wating till it should be time
to lay it on.
He wondered idly who had cut it.
Some person unknown was making an
unintended contribution to his evening’s
pleasure. It would be a laugh if it had
happened to be Bates. Sorley himself
never indulged in bush-whacking. It
was quite easy to pick the best logs at
night from the several heaps which
various workmen would leave in the
yards, until a dray could be borrowed to
get the wood home. This one had
seemed almost to demand confiscation —
convenient in size and position.
Stirring the blaze a little, he dropped
the maire log across it. As he straight-
ened, he noticed his soapy shaving-brUsh
and the mug of water still on the edge of
the mantelpiece. Soft footsteps passed
the wall of his hut! Just time to push
the shaving things behind a photograph.
The door opened, and she came in.
She wore a velour coat wrapped loosely
round her. As she entered she closed the
door gently behihd her and, spreading her
arms a little, leaned back against it, half-
wearily. The coat fell open, and the fire-
light shone on her primrose frock, giving
a polished smoothness to her neck and
throat and a dark lustre to her thick,
black hair. In the shifting glow of the
flames something shabby and sordid
seemed to vanish from her. She seemed
for an instant clean and pure.
“Give us a spot, Berney, for God’s
sake,” she said.
“Why, sure!” he answered.
Carelessly he grasped the violet-colored
bottle, pouring a little of the liqueur into
the only small glass he had. For himself,
an inch of whisky in the bottom of a
beer glass. And now for one of those
utterances which gave the glamor to his
affairs with women.
“To your lovely eyes, honey!” he
said, slowly and clearly, and with the
(Continued on next page.)


Wool Yarns No. 4.
....The shuttle merrily goes
flashing through the loom
IN the earliest vertical looms, the weft (crossing)
threads had to be laboriously woven by hand
through the warp threads, which were hung
vertically from a beam. It was a slow and painful
process. To-day, in Yarra Falls Mills, the great
horizontal weaving looms clatter and thunder day in
and day out as the warp threads rise and fall, and
between them the fly-shuttle bearing the weft spindle
“merrily goes flashing through the loom.”
DEMAND......AND SUPPLY
It is the old story. Demand and supply. The demand
for more and better woven materials, and the inventive
faculty of man to supply that demand. In Aus-
tralia, that demand first evidenced its results in the
perfection of the merino sheep for the production of
high-class merino wool, and Australia rapidly leaped
to the forefront as the world’s premier wool-produc-
ing country. To-day, Australia has gone ahead in
the secondary wool industry also—the transforming
of that raw merino wool into yarn and woven fabrics.
And the demand for Australian-made woollens has
resulted in Yarra Falls, the largest and most up-to-date
textile mills in the Southern Hemisphere, equipped
with the latest evidence of man’s ingenuity in spinning
and weaving machinery.
FROM THE SHEEP TO YOU
Here, in Australia, Yarra Falls brings the wool direct
from the sheep—18,000 bales yearly—to you in the
shape of yarn—2,500,0001b. yearly—and woven
fabrics—1,750,000 yards yearly. The raw, greasy
wool is scoured, carded, combed, spun, woven and
dyed at the Company’s mills at Abbotsford, Victoria.
With a mill floor-space of eight acres, with plant and
buildings representing a capital investment of over
£800,000, with 1250 skilled operatives working the
machines, Yarra Falls—in the 1 4 years since its incep-
tion—has built up a great Australian Secondary
Industry.
Yarra Falls is keeping pace with the demands made
for Australian yarns and worsteds. Day in and day
.ij * s*' i
■H
m
mi
i
it
i
■
%
tty Shuttle in Loom.
9
Weaving in Ancient Egypt.
out the spinning machines in the Spinning Mill whirr,
and the magic of raw wool being scoured, carded,
combed and spun into fine, silky thread is to be seen.
Day in and day out the looms in the Weaving Mill
steadily deliver the products of the designers and
weavers’ arts. Twills and Fancy Worsteds... .Ven-
etians. . . .Baratheas. . . .Covert Coatings. . . .Wool
Crepes. . . .Wool Georgettes and other dress materials.
And colours? Yarra Falls offers you 700 solid
shades and 4070 tonings in yarn5....440 shades in
piece-dyed fabrics.... dyed in fast colours with
British dyes.
Specify YARRA FALLS Materials
Specify “Yarra Falls” when ordering your next suit-
ing or dress material. Take value! Yarra Falls has
the pick of Australia’s finest merino wool. It is
processed, here in Australia, by Australians under
expert guidance on machines chosen by one of
Yorkshire’s leading spinners. Every piece of material
is pre-shrunk. . . .fast-dyed. . . .perfectly finished. . . .
But the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Demand
makes the supply, which is why, at Yarra Falls, ‘ The
shuttle merrily goes flashing through the loom .. . •
and why more and more Australians say to theijr
tailors and dressmakers: “Yes, please. Yarra Falls!
YARRA FALLS
Limited
Worsted, Spinning and Weaving Mills,
ABBOTSFORD, N 9, VICTORIA.
slightest of bows (a touch of gallantry
observed in a picture he’d seen, dealing
with old Vienna).
He was, however, a little late with the
toast. The lady had already swallowed
the purple liqueur, and set the glass down
with a shudder that drew the corners of
her mouth down and made the sinews
stand out on her throat.
“Gee, that’s awful muck! Where’d
you pick it up? Got any more of that
whisky? Well, give us some. No ; a
good spot —I’m about done in.”
She swallowed half a glass without a
tremor.
Sorley was silent. It was annoy-
ing, but his throat continued the motions
of swallowing, though it was some time
since he had downed the last gulp of
whisky. He felt a suggestion of tears in
his eyes. Shouldn’t have taken it neat
like that. Most of them down here did,
but he had never accustomed himself to
do so. In a few moments, however, it
began to loosen his tongue. He sat
down on the bed beside her, clasping his
hands round one knee.
“Gee, honey,” he said, giving his voice
a low and thrilling modulation—“ Gee,
honey, it’s great to find a little woman
like you in a place like this, among all
these hicks. You’re just a little breath of
romance to me. When I seen you at {
the party the other night I couldn’t think
of nothink else afterwards.”
“Couldn’t you, Berney? It’s nice to
hear that. I thought the same about
you.”
“Did you, sweetheart? Aw, there’s
nothink special about me. What I mean
to say, you know I’m not just one of
these country bumpkins. All these sods
here, they haven’t got no taste. They
wouldn’t ’ardly ’predate a little lady like
you. But as soon as I seen you I knew
what you could be like. I can always
tell. And I knew I could love you madly.
Oh, gee, darling”—he dropped on his
knees, his back to the dancing fire —“oh,
gee, darling, give us a kiss!”
With the sure touch of the master,
Sorley slid his arms about the slender
body, bringing his face above hers. Just
as Bates rattled on his jigger out of the
dim-lit yards, the lover prepared to de-
liver the kiss, the kiss of all kisses, the
kiss of which he alone held the secret.
Tech —neek !
To this day, Sorley has had the feel-
ing, unreasonable though it may be,
that if only he hadn’t closed his eyes
in performing that kiss the subsequent
events would not have happened. But
he did close them. There was a certain
sacred formula for achieving. that soul-
tearing kiss. No one had ever told him
about it —it just tame naturally to a
man so gifted as he was in love-making.
A certain way of holding the lips, a cer-
tain space between the slightly-open
teeth and a certain delicate control of
the breath; and the eyes must be closed.
Flickering his eyelids ecstatically a
couple of times, he closed them like a
devotee at prayer, and then his lips met
hers.
There was a sudden, rending crash, an
instant of blinding light.
The air was full of drifting sparks
and settling grey ash, and there was a
shrill, ringing drone in his ears.
Part of the wall in which the fire-
place had been built lay flat across the
rails outside. Here, too, lay one half
of the maire log. The other half lay
across the calves of Sorley’s legs as he
knelt, gaping, by the equally bewildered
Mrs. Bates. In both halves of the log
showed a section of a neatly-drilled hole,
from whose blackened edges the smell of
explosive drifted faintly into the hut.
Among the debris on the rails, sitting
paralysed on the motionless jigger, his
mouth open and his eyes staring
through the gap in the wall, was Jock
Bates.
For a moment a stunned silence
reigned over all. It was broken by a
wild, exultant shout from the scrub on
the other side of the track. Down the
slight slope danced Campbell, a small
and hairy Scot, pretty well incoherent
with excitement.
“Ah gottim!” he yelled deliriously.
“Ah gottim! D’ye no see, Jock? Tak’
a luik at his bluidy hut! Luik at the
chimney! See? An’ here’s a wee bit o’
the maire! Ah’ve lang bin wonderin’
wha’s bin gettin’ awey wi’ ma firewid,
an’ the night Ah pit oot yon bit o’
maire wi’ a detonator in it, an’ a wee bit
jelly! An’ Ah watchet here in the scrub,
tae see wha’s chimney wud blaw oot!
An’ Ah’ve gottim— gottim /”
“Yeah!” said Bates, getting off his
jigger and taking off his coat, but not
moving his eyes from the tableau pre-
sented in the hut.
Then she who had been lately kissed
arose. On her pale, passionate features
was spattered carelessly the aftermath of
Sorley’s last shave. A foamy blob of
it, speckled with tiny fragments of beard,
hung modishly over her right brow. In
her hand she grasped unconsciously the
soapy brush which, in that dynamic
moment, had vaulted into her lap.
“You, Bates, is it?” she said wearily.
“You would butt in! I’m blasted-well
fed up with you!”
She turned her burning, soapy glance
upon the partly comatose Sorley.
“You-u-u stupid hump!” she said,
growling the first word like a dog defend-
ing a bone, and laying terrific emphasis
on the first syllable of the second.
“You-u-u jelly-brained IDIOT!”
With a sweeping downward gesture
she flung the shaving-brush at his feet,
and was gone.
Bates and Campbell, their hands clutch-
ing spasmodically before them, and their
faces contorted into masks of fiendish
rage, were advancing in a kind of crouch
over the flattened wall.
Saunders’s Friends.
BY CHAS. H. SHAW.
IT was late afternoon when Saunders
mLe a camo TL coancHank
, ... 1 ? , . , ’
halt a mile Irom Weedalong. The
air had the dry, salty, dust-laden quality
of drought. All along the roads from
the Lachlan to Weedalong the miles had
told Saunders the grim tale. Bare pas-
tures, baked and barren crop lands, dead
and dying stock, lines of goiged black
crows on the fences and still trees.
In the town he found that he had been
forgotten and he did not publish his
identity. Twenty years of prison had
changed him from a stocky, broad-
chested boundary-rider to a flabby,
sallow, old nondescript. Only his slightly
bowed legs remained to tell of the man
who had spent years in the saddle.
There was company for Saunders at
the camp by the tank. Every night, after
the fiery sun dropped below the horizon
and the west gasped in relief, a string
of hopeless horses dragged their starved
frames to the water. Saunders was glad
tha * a fu * i,ive thundershower-one of
those short and disappointing downpours
tkat occur during drought—had par-
tially filled the tank about a week before
h e arrived. It was bad enough that the
horses starved \ it would have been much
worse to see them nose over the dry tank-
bed in bewildered search for water.
At q rs t Saunders was unable to com-
prehend the fact that the horses had
been turned out to starve on the roads,
j n his day a man’s horses were his first
consideration. Then he remembered that
twenty years had passed, remembered
that the roads over which he had
travelled on his journey back to the west
had been populated with motor-vehicles,
an d he understood. The machine age
that had reached into the back country
had changed men’s outlook. He had
been shut away for twenty years and
he had emerged with his outlook un-
changed. To him, a horse was still a
personality, still —like his dog—a man’s
good servant and friend.
Fondling strange, starved horses in the
darkness each night, Saunders recalled
the days that were gone and lived in a
world of his own. Inevitably, he came
to regard the horses as his property. He
gave them names and was glad when
they learned to respond to him. He
counted them each night and, as the
number was reduced by the toll of the
drought, he felt the losses keenly. Once
he caught one of two boys whom he saw
throwing stones at an emaciated scare-
crow of a mare, and what he did to the
boy cost him a £2 fine before the local
Bench and a warning to keep the peace.
Day after day he watched the leering
sky for a break. Night after night he
mumbled to and caressed the starving
animals. Often he cursed their unknown
owners. In imagination he felt the
hunger pangs and suffered with the
horses, knowing that they could not
understand why they hungered.
One night, a youngish brown horse
that had come to be a particular favorite
of his sank down a few yards from his
camp. Saunders carried water to the
prone thing, but it was too far gone to
drink. The great brown eyes, shining
from the drawn head, watched the ex-
convict with a pathetic intensity that
made him catch his breath. When the
death rattle had died away, he sat and
stared into the night for a long time.
With the first rollicking reveille of the
kookaburras behind the town next morn-
ing, Saunders had his billy boiling over
a fire of dried box sticks. High in the
south hung the Cross, its points already
( Continued on next paged


YOU'LL NEED A
JAR IN ENCLAND
ŵ
ẁ
Free Booklet
Obtainable
from Any
Office of “The
Bulletin.”
Make up your mind to have the use of a car on your
next visit to England ; it is the best and cheapest
way to enjoy your holiday.
Our service covers every possible motoring require-
ment, including repurchase guarantees at fixed
percentages, special terms for export, and all details
m connection with registration, insurance, driving
licences, etc., and saves you money, too !
INWANEASTERN
CAR AGENCY
49, Old Bond St., London, W. 1
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
NORFOLK ST.
STRAND
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
m the centre of London, close to all Theatres. Cable: “Howdotel,” London.
Send Jot Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
The most complete Banking
Service in Australasia
The Bank of New South Wales, the oldest
and largest bank in Australia, has over 700
branches throughout the Commonwealth,
New Zealand, Pacific Islands and London.
Through this network of branches the Bank
provides every facility for financing internal
and inter-dominion trade and at each one of
its branches it transacts all customary bank-
ing business.
The Bank maintains a highly efficient British
and Foreign Exchange Department under the
i direction of experienced officers, who are
prepared at all times to advise on exchange
matters—including the buying and selling of
forward exchange and the opening of cur-
rency accounts in all principal currencies of
the world.
EciiL of New Seutii Yteles
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
68a
mm
The Razor that Really Shaves
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6; with guard. 16/-
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Keal Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLU3I RAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
/-(lay sets, (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo. 100/-
lvory 140/-
Ali post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, jin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
THE OLDEST DAILY IN TASMANIA!
(Est. 1842), 92
years’ service.
“The Examiner’’ is the only daily
paper now published in Launceston, in
which city it reaches 90 per cent, of
the homes. It is delivered also in 332
centres throughout Northern Tas-
mania. It is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM THAT REACHES THE HOMES
IN THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Doug-an, Kem'bla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
dulling before the steely light of the
summer dawn. A pert wagtail danced
around the camp, its claim to be a
“sweet, pretty little creature —creature”
bubbling through the high chorus of the
soldier birds in the needlewoods above
the tank. Harsh on the morning came
the cries of crows. The sun was a red
disc in the drought haze as Saunders, his
movements full of purpose, hung the
tucker-bag to the ridge pole, tied his tent
flaps and set out for the town. He did
not worry about the fire, as dust will
not burn. A haggard grey mare eyed
him as he strode across the common
land to the town.
He called at the Weedalong store,
transacted some business, and then went
to the hotel, where he spent the day,
drinking sparingly. Like other towns,
Weedalong had its “hums,” but these
soon gave up trying to approach
Saunders. In the afternoon, word passed
around that he had bought a rifle, and
the town, which had suspected his sanity,
experienced a tremor of excitement.
About four o’clock that same after-
noon, John Simmonds Cutts, owner of
Weedalong station, rode up from the
scrub-cutters’ camp on the belar flat and
topped a sandhill about a mile west of
the town. His companion was a lean,
swarthy man with very bright eyes. They
paused on the crest to “blow” their
horses, and Cutts stared out at the
barren waste that stretched into the
leaden distance.
“You know, Webster,” he said, “this
drought is the daddy of them all.”
“My word.”
A solitary, ragged, hopeless wether
wobbled across the flat below on uncer-
tain legs. From the hot shade of a
needlewood clump cama the weak,
despairing bleat of starving sheep. The
heat seemed to beat up from the barren
earth in waves. Even the harsh crow
cries had ceased as though the scaven-
gers were exhausted. Cutts’s troubled
eyes roved the plain and picked out the
grey spot that was Saunders’s camp by
the council tank.
“So they think the old feller’s mad?”
he said.
“My word,” drawled the other man.
“He was in the bar mutterin’ t’ himself;
an’ they reckon he’s got a rifle. He
looked crook t’ me, I tell y’; y’ should
’a’ seen his eyes! Half the town’s dead
scared o’ him.”
“Hjm! What’s he like?”
The bright-eyed man briefly described
Saunders.
“I once knew a fellow a bit like that,”
Cutts said ; “but it can scarcely be the
same.”
He shook the reins and they started
down the slope.
Sitting in the dusk on the homestead
verandah, Cutts pulled at his pipe.
He stood up abruptly as the flat report
of a rifle shot echoed through the still-
ness. It came from the direction of the
council tank.
Three more shots rapped across the
silence and Cutts went at a lumbering
run to the garage. Two of his men
were standing on the hut verandah ; he
ordered them into the car. Two more
reports cracked across the hum of the
engine as the headlights cut a swathe of
light across the plain.
It was a strange scene revealed by the
lights in cameo clearness against the
night. Laid out in a rough semicircle
were about a dozen heaps of lucerne
hay, obviously broken out of the truss
which stood to one side. Beside several
of these heaps lay the forms of drought-
stricken horses. The experienced eyes in
the car knew that they were dead.
Over where his tent had been, Saunders,
a rifle across his knees, sat on his rolled
swag, his head resting on one hand, star-
ing at the dead animals. He did not look
at the car.
Cutts got out.
Careful, boss,” one of the men whis-
pered. “That bloke isn’t all there.”
Cutts inclined his head but went on
towards Saunders.
The old boundary rider looked up.
“Hullo, boss,” he said, and his eyes
were calm in the car lights.
Sandy! jerked out Cutts. Those eyes
relieved him tremendously. “Sandy
Saunders. Where did you spring from?
And what’s the game? What have you
done to the neddies?”
Saunders stood up. “What have I
done to them,” he repeated. “What have
you done to them? That’s more like it.
Letting them die of starvation! Them
poor prads sufferin’ like that. Why?”
Cutts looked thoughtfully at the ex-
convict. “Well, it can’t be helped,” he
said. Horses ain t worth anything now
since s the motors came. Not worth
teedin. Things have changed since—
since you went away.”
Saunders was smiling at the dead
horses. “They’re all right now,” he
said softly.
<( “But what’s the idea?” asked Cutts.
You can’t go round shootin’ people’s
horses like that. You’re liable to get
pinched.”
“Go on!” Saunders was sarcastic —
there was a strange timbre in his voice
‘I suppose it’s better to let ’em starve
to death, eh? People who’d let a prad
suffer like that ought to be shot, too. Mr.
Cutts, I been here nearly six weeks now,
and every night I’ve watched them poor
prads cornin’ in to the tank. Every night,
nearly, I’ve seen some of ’em go out in
starvation. And I wonder what things
is cornin’ to. I know what they suffered,
poor devils, ’cause I’ve been here with
’em.” He paused, then added, “Any-
how, they’re all right now, eh?”
Cutts looked at Saunders —at the
lucerne hay— -at the rifle—at the dead.
“I don’t get it,” he mumbled, confused.
“You don’t? Well, I’ll tell you. The
drought wouldn’t break and didn’t look
like breakin’. The ants are still on the
flats. So I broke it for them, poor
devils. I got that bloke at the corn
store to bring a truss of hay down here
this afternoon and break it out around
the tank. I stayed up the town. I knew
the prads would come in for water and
find the hay and go for it. And I knew,
of course, that when they’d eat all they
couls they’d drink and go to sleep. I
bought this gun an’ some bullets, loaded
her up, an’ crept down here after dark.
They was all asleep as I tipped they
would be. Then” he waved an ex-
pressive hand.
“They thought the drought must be
over,” he went on. “An’ they lay down
on full bellies. That’s why I did it. I
kidded ’em to believe good feed had
come again and then I killed ’em so they
would never know I was foolin’ them.
It’s crook to see horses starve to death.”
“Well, I’m damned! ” was Cutts’s reply.
The stars were fading the next morn-
ing when old Cutts stood by what had
been Saunders’s camp and gazed at the
dead bodies of seven horses. The kooka-
burras vociferously announced another
heat-crazed day. In the darkened west
a star hung low above the plodding
figure of a man who tramped to the far
outback —a man who travelled in search
of a place where horses were still worth
feeding, still regarded as something more
than machines, to be discarded when
better machines were brought to light.
At the camp Cutts gave orders to two
of his men to burn the carcasses. “Old
man,” they heard him mutter, “I’ll see
the job’s finished. The crows won’t get
at them.”
“Seems as if Saunders ain’t the only
mad cove round here,” observed one man
in an undertone to his mate. The speaker
had very bright eyes.
Swiftly Night gathered her robes about
her and fled from the desert’s edge. The
east erupted a blazing-red ball that lit
up Saunders’s camp and the bodies of
his friends. Black crows teetered on a
dry box limb, their cold, red eyes peering
through the dry air while the spectre of
drought and death stalked abroad.
But the spectre had no terrors for
Saunders’s' friends, who slept “on full
bellies” by the council tank of Weeda-
long.
Sounds in the Silence.
Silence now, the word is silence and again
Silence. Bury your face in the leaves and
hear
The shrill cries of the ferns in agony growing,
The thin, dry crackle of hate from leaves
grown sere,
The groans of great totara-trees urged up to
the sun;
And hear from the strongest trees a sob of
fear
As the rata’s fangs draw blood and their day
is done.
All women are here, and the thoughts that are
born of women,
The thoughts that are glittering leaves, and
the ancient pain
That is fashioned of mould and returns to
mould in the end.
Hear the taut sinews of roots as they pierce
and strain
Downwards, down in the mould; and the
scratching sound
As the fern-roots search for home and search
again,
And bury themselves in the womb of the moist
black ground.
Creaking and rustling growth and the grinding
of girth
Are filling this pale-green dusk. Though
silence drips
Like beads of black rain from the spongy moss
and the air
With its odor of earth is a finger laid on
the. lips,
The treetops in sunlight are wilder than manv
flutes
And see! there is a fire, a hissing of flames
like whips,
Green fire in the branches, black fire in thp
thrusting roots.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.


THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for Hie transaction of Aus*
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778.025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank. Ltd..; .
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
\ r
TO “THE BULLETIN,’*
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(,Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
A GOOD SIGN
THIS TRUST HOUSE SIGN
is carried with pride by over 200 comfortable Hotels and Inns
of varying size, which represent each the best of its kind.
Whether it is your desire to stay in a large Hotel or in just a
country inn, or to enjoy the happy medium, you will be given
the same welcome.
The Best of English Fare,
cooked in the most appetising way, awaits the visitor to any
of the Trust Houses.
When you go to Britain always choose a Trust House, where
you are sure of perfect cleanliness and the best service.
Particulars of tariffs and full information may be obtained from
AUSTRALIAN AND OVERSEAS TRAVEL SERVICE PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY 135 Pitt Street (BW$880)
MELBOURNE ...... 334 Collins Street (F 3752)
TRUST HOUSES, LTD.
All over
Britain.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original,
Beauty.
BY ANNA LEE.
DARK eyes flashing, arms out-
stretched to protect the child who
cowered behind her skirts, she
stood facing him.
“Don’t touch ’er,” she screamed. “You
shan’t take ’er.”
Her husband, leaning against the deal
table that was all the furniture the living-
room possessed, folded his arms and spat,
thoughtfully, deliberately.
“That kid’s goin’ to a ’ome, one o’
them instichutions. Bad enough fer me
to ’ave a lazy good-fer-nothing like you
ter support”....
“Support! ” she rapped back. “Where’d
the food ’ave come from if I ’adn’t got
that day’s charin’?”
He continued, taking no notice other
than a threatening lift of his thick hand:
“But ter be expected ter keep someone
else’s brat—and a half-blind, dopey kid
at that”....
The child bit her pendulous lip and
threw up a skinny arm to hide the havoc
of her face. She crept closer to her
mother, her only anchor in a world of
fear.
“ ’Ose fault is it that she got burnt?
’Ose fault was it that Alf got killed tryin’
ter get ’er out? ’Course it was my picnic
that I went an’ tied meself up to you.
Cornin’ round all sorft an’ blarneyin’
with Alfie ’ardly cold You bully!”
“Bully, eh! Right-oh, me lady!”
Down came the heavy hand, on her
thin shoulders, on her face —harder,
faster, like a flail, till her breath came in
choking sobs. She screamed for mercy.
The child crouched in a corner of the
room, watching almost disinterestedly
just another variation of the scene she
knew so well. The man, seing the trickle
of blood that dripped on the once-white
apron,laughed.
“A beauty, aren’t you? What a
beauty! Fair sick of you, I am. You
an’ yer brat. I’m off fer good this time
—off fer good, damn yer! See how yer
get along.”
Suddenly, unexpectedly, the woman
came to life. He dodged just in time
to avoid a swinging blow on the side of
his heavy jaw.
“Yer would, would yer!” he snarled,
grabbing at her wrist. But, before he
could fathom her intention, her hand
had reached his pocket, and she had
darted out into the street, waving in
frenzied triumph a crumpled banknote.
“I thought you had it,” she screamed.
“You sneak, you!”
Down the street she rushed, into the
little corner grocery.
“Mr. Smithers,” she panted. “Mr.
Smithers. Quick. Lock this in yer safe.
Oh, hurry. He’s on ter me again-
cornin’ after me now.” There was a
strange glitter in her eye as she closed
the little door and sauntered out into
the street, just as her husband appeared
at the door of the house, a heavy paling
in his hand.
The neighbors, by ones and twos,
gathered round to see “the fun” ; and by
the time the man had finished his act of
retribution, and had decamped, leaving
a bloodstained, crushed bit of humanity
lying in the gutter, there was a large and
interested crowd to be dispersed by the
tardily appearing policeman.
The psychology of slum folk is hard
to comprehend. Not one of the on-
lookers would have dreamed of lifting
a finger to protect the female of the
species, yet for the next few days the
little woman was nursed and fed and
cosseted by a score of willing neighbors.
But, even when she was able to drag
her bruised body from the bed, hard
and blanketless, there was a listlessness,
a stolid misery, about her that touched
the heart of the district visitor when she
did her round the following week.
“You must buck up, Mrs. Bailey,”
she said. “Everything is going to be all
right. Mr. Johnson down the street
knows where your husband’s working—
he got a job on Monday—and I’m going
to fix everything up so that you’ll get
maintenance. My brother’s a solicitor,
and”
“Get the law on ’im!” The little
woman’s eyes were wide with horror.
“Oh, no, no, I couldn’t do that.”
“Of course yo\i can, my dear. It’s
quite an easy procedure.”
“But I couldn’t get the law on ’im,”
she repeated. “Why, if I did ’e wouldn’t
ever come back.”
“Come back! ” The visitor eyed her in
amaze. “You wouldn’t have him back!”
“He’ll come, some time.” The dark
eyes were soft with wistful, happy re-
miniscence.
“When yer reely love a man, that’s all
that matters. I’ve only got ter wait,
keep on waitin’, an’ he’ll come.... some
time”....
Old Coonabarabran
BY C. H. SOUTER.
WHEN I first went there in 1879
kangaroos, wallabies, ’possums and
native bears played about up to the
town boundary, and the wild birds took
very little notice of us. There was
scarcely any cleared land or ringbarked
country about the township. The Cleared
Line (the common name we had for any
main road) ran straight through the
beautiful untouched white-gum, ironbark
and box forests from the end of the
main street.
Our mails came bi-weekly, from Mud-
gee and Gunnedah, by coach. We ate
our dinners and read by the light of
kerosene lamps. All the kerosene was
made from Australian shale, and distri-
buted—mostly by bullock-team —in Aus-
tralian-made tins and cases. It cost us
round about sevenpence a gallon retail;
and it had to come from Sydney via
Mudgee, Gunnedah or Qpirindi. What
does it cost now that it all comes from
America?
Peaches were a shilling a bucket;
grapes, twopence a pound; melons,
weighing half a hundredweight or so, a
shilling each. Tomatoes grew on the road-
side, where the seeds had been scattered
by the birds. The basic wage, as it would
now be called, was “a pound and found”
(per week, not per day). And there was
not a single indigent person in or around
“C’Bran” that ever I heard of in those
days.
No foodstuffs, except groceries, ever
came into the district; we rolled our own,
flour included. Motor-cars, telephones,
domestic electricity, wireless, tin-hares and
talkies were, of course, unknown, and
mostly unthought-of. As for aviation,
Gladesville and Parramatta were waiting
for anyone who might have started talk-
ing about that.
And yet we were happy in Coonabara-
bran! Our hands were full of honest
work, our minds full of quiet thoughts,
our stomachs full of good cheap food.
We had no District Council; a Progress
Committee was good enough for us, and
although I was still in my teens I was a
member of it. We didn’t see our local
member once in a blue moon. Most of us
didn’t know his name. There was nothing
he could do for us that we couldn’t do
for ourselves. We didn’t pay him any-
thing, either; we paid for the children’s
schooling, instead.
Yes, you are right (B. 7/2/’34). If we
could cut up our dropsical cities and send
the people Back to Coonabarabran we
would not want so many futile Premiers’
Conferences and things.
The Gracious River.
There is a gracious stream
That seems to wend for ever
iCewT’asfSeff?
And know it as a river,
baby waters speed
Through ferny wildernesses;
But w j iere jt s waves expand
Broad-bosomed through the land,
The willows glass their tresses,
. . . , , .
Have cSved aclfff-walled alley;
And there, with time to aid,
Its ceaseless toil has made
A broad and smiling valley,
By roc|( and smg md rOM
its ripples pause to prattle,
While ’neath its bankside trees,
Lush grasses to their knees,
Cud-chewing, group the cattle.
A beetle, bee or fly
The leaping mullet rouses ;
And through the sleepy noon,
hs purple flowers aswoon,
r,!xned lucerne drows,:s -
Upon the furrowed slopes
Above the lucerne’s lustres,
By bluff and rugged cape,
KiackTnd ambeTduster®,
From Farmer Orchard’s house,
When all the land is buried
BrowarSto s^edit'on”'’
A ce dar boat is ferried,
Above the river’s song,
The murmur of its flowing,
A rusty rowlock creaks —
oh> wba t is it he seeks
Across the river rowing?
se ® ks thc Lovers’ Walk,
KceT strays,
The sweetest of all ways
That ever went a-winding!
TT . ....... -
His oar-blades break the calm
with foamy flakes and billows;
In dewy dusk unseen
She waits for him, his queen,
Beneath the tressy willows,
* * :
I loved it as a creek,
xhe mossy’Ss and “sands,
The purp f e i ucerne -iands,
The willow trees above it.
And evermore I bathe
5Sd“52SZrf I 1^"* 1 Y ’
To scent, as in a dream,
Its odors, fresh and fruity.
_ „ . , , .
Tall mountain, lake and sea,
all are gen erous givers;
For what that river gave,
Green bank and gleaming wave,
I hold it first of rivers.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


(T^Gxlliim’s
(JOA/sAt
is
o
L
£k
33
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. G.BBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE EROS. & CO.. Hobart.
JUST PUBLISHED
“MEMORIES MAINLY MERRY”
By MARCUS MARKS.
Mr Marcus Marks is the late Supervisor of “Hansard” of the
Parliament of New Zealand and Government Printer. In the
Dominion, Mr. Marks has the reputation of being one of the
finest raconteurs of after-dinner stories.
Many well-known Australian and New Zealand political per-
sonalities are mentioned in this delightful collection of Memoirs.
There s a smile on every page.
"MEMORIES—MAINLY MERRY," by Marcus Marks. Now
on Sale at all bookstalls and newsagents, or direct from “THE
BULLETIN” offices all Australian States, and Sussex Chambers,
14 Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.
t ' .
AN ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOK. Price 5/- (postage 4d.).
X
VO
O A
v>e
o
s*>>* CO-’o^
V . .. C>«° ~*.
rv & •<& „G* -
t
P*
2vi
«V . .
VC
$ Jr
<F
yp
o
, w\3>
O' V) V -
N v
**
s e \ &
0%
\\e
«? V v


tm. ..
X
w
Vim 3
v
Miss SYLVIA
WELLING,
the brilliant
musical - comedy
star,
uses and recommends
HEENZO
SAVE MONEY by making
your own family remedy for
COUGHS-COLDS
CROUP BRONCHITIS and INFLUENZA
HEENZO costs 2/- and saves £’s.
Here’s a wonderful money - saving recipe for a family cough
mixture that is equally good for children and adults, and is tar
better than any made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO. Add the HEENZO to sweetened water, according to
the easy directions on the bottle, and you will haYe a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the iisttal ready - nriixed cough
remedies that would cost up to £l. HEENZO does NOT contain
any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be gl 7 e ”.i' V 1 u
perfect safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the
speedy way HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest, and
banishes coughs, co’ds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have HEENZO ready in the home for the first
sign of a cough or cold. Remember, an ounce of prevention is
better than a ton of cure.
should be used in every home
