

BATTERI
*
ft
FOR CARS - MOTOR CYCLES - RADIO - HOME LIGHTING
From good garages everywhere, or from these central distributors:
r-
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co.\(Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Rhodes Motor Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland ...... Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
West Australia . . Airzone (1931), Ltd., Murray Street, Perth
NEW ZEALAND:
e
e
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST:
Malaya—Philippine Islands Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co„ Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands ............ Marlows, Ltd., Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
V 143. VESTA BATTERIES are
VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., Leichhardt, New S
The Bulletin
Worfy for Twenty-five Thousand Men
Vol. 55.—N0. 2825.
Wednesday, April 4, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o UR New Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Learn
Wl Writing
tjlW VI at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. 3
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 134
(ll til'll I*2l
For the Daily Care
of Your Hands
Prolong the youthful appearance
of your hands by giving them the
same care you give your face.
Use Cuticjura Soap every
time you wash your hands; it
will do much to prevent redness
and roughness caused by daily
tasks and to keep the hands soft,
smooth and lovely.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business.
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The
Australian
Art Exhibition
The Macleod Gallery,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Bridge Street),
G. V. F. MANN (Director).
The leading Exhibition of' Australian Art
—latest works by the most prominent ot
Australian Artists always on view and
for sale.
Collection includes new works by Norman
Lindsay, Will Ashton, Robert Johnson,
James R. Jackson, etc.
Selected works by the late E. Phillips Fox.
Best etchings by the best etchers.
Admission Free
Telephone: 87971.
X 9
7uUutes''Sci&riee,
IfAvid S&XU4, stZupe.
s'Sc\e&n 7urCe4, faj&es fvt
t&e vfrxcn# ZPurd&S.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
.ON SALE ALL STATES
Cbe mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY-,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE *" OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.-
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues. to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagli Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
LARGEST
NEWSPAPER
IN THE WEST
THE PERTH
UNEQUALLED FOR
READERS
AND
ADVERTISERS
A DAILY AND WEEKLY COM-
BINED AT THE PRE-WAR PRICE
OF 3d. PER COPY.
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan 271, Collins Street
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don’t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
“Tales of Mystery and Imagination”
Poe invented the mystery story as the
English-speaking races know it (“Mur-
ders in the Rue Morgue”), and the
thriller which relies for its effects on the
mechanics of terror (“Pit and the Pen-
dulum”). His imitators sought for
something to give their readers in place
of the concentrated ghoulishness which
was an inimitable side of Poe’s humor-
less nature ; and they introduced farce to
murder. Conan Doyle’s obtuse Scotland
Yard chief, Dr. Watson, the detectives
and policemen of the Edgar Wallace
school, the dogs who are addressed by
whimsical heroes, fulfil the functions of
Moliere’s campagnards and Shakspeare’s
fools ; they enable the author to clarify
or confuse his plot at will.
In recent years thrillers have become
to millions of British and American
readers what mock trials, mythological
problems and mental gymnastics gener-
ally were to the Greeks of Plato’s day.
A blend of joke and crossword. puzzle.
Bodies are still discovered on floors,
mysterious beings still career about eerie
old houses to the accompaniment of weird
noises, but they have grown as familiar
as nudity. No one shudders ; the ex-
planation’s the thing, and laughter
follows the revelation in the last chapter
that the assassin was not the prog-
nathous-jawed thug with the blood-
stained knife but the nervous police-
doctor. The latest novel by George
Dilnot, who, according to Edgar Wallace,
is' England’s highest authority on crime
and the underworld, exemplifies the
method. ,
Comedy
Sister Satan (Geoffrey Bles ; 7s. 6d.)
is about a jewel robbery. Andy Mc-
Govern, of the C.LD., is deputed to find
Sister Satan and Weasel Jim. He catches
Weasel in a Soho night club, and then:
“You fool,” hissed a low voice.
The curtains that shrouded the wall
furthest from them had parted and in their
opening stood a slender woman, a green
mask hiding the upper part of her face,
and a small automatic levelled in her right
hand.
They leave him tied up, but he escapes
and sets out after them again. He calls
on Isidore Socrates, a crook whom he
suspects of being in league with them,
turns his back, and “all goes black.”
Lady Malchester, who is assisting him,
finds Jim and Sister Satan, and is tied up
and taken in a car to a lonely house in
the country, where she is attached to a
steel chain in a cellar. Andy rescues her.
Jim and Sister Satan escape. So it goes
on till page 282, when Sister Satan is
caught, and
A bottle tinkled as it touched the floor.
Sister Satan smiled up at them. “I win
after all,” she said as if in triumph.
“Poison! ” exclaimed Andy, picking up
a small phial and sniffing at it.
It is easy to understand why eminent
Judges and other hard-working people
should be habitual readers of these
works. The reader knows restfully
from the beginning that, however
black things may look for the right-
thinkers, all will come right in the end.
Meanwhile, there is the mild, intellectual
pleasure of speculating as««»to hovy the
author will make things come right.
There isn’t a nightmare in a bushel of
them.
Honor
Wdlkie Collins, Zola and Le Fanu
were different. Their thrillers were horri-
fying because they dealt with dan-
gerous people who, the reader feels,
were not only real but might be
encountered anywhere at any time.
A few later writers, such as Mrs. Belloc
Lowndes (“The Lodger”), have been
similarly realistic, and there are indica-
tions that the vogue for stories which
take murder seriously—as a whole-time
theme rather than as an adjunct to an
amjising love-story—is coming in again.
Readers who enjoy this type of novel
should get hold of Frank Wafford’s
Twisted Clay (T.
Werner Laurie;
7s. 6dl). It is a
masterpiece in its
ghastly line. The
scene is laid in
Sydney, but no
local color, either in speech or scenic de-
scriptions, is introduced. This may make
for dulness, but it is, good art. The nar-
rator is a homicidal girl—one who would
be too preoccupied with her teeming prob-
lems to pay much attention to other things.
Her murders have no sex basis, and they
are not for gain. She begins by killing
her father, and the other crimes follow
naturally. She is the ward of a doctor
who has a dim inkling of her trouble.
She gets rid of the doctor by ruining
his reputation. Enter a couple of
men—real-life policemen. One is taken
in by her, as any man might be; the
other isn’t. O’Flanagan is just the kind
of quiet, civil, unspectacular and fairly
shrewd detective who may be encoun-
tered in any Australian city. He never
makes a bright remark; on the other
hand, he never makes a silly one. She
tries to convince him that the doctor
killed her father, but it won’t do. He
is beginning to get on her nerves, already
upset by her father’s habit of leaving
his grave at night to visit her, when her
Voice sounds.
“Tell him, Jean. Tell him why you did
it. There is no danger in confessing to a
single witness. Mock him.”
She obeys.
• “You have never heard bells chiming at
night, or the Voice murmuring in your ear.
You are an ignoramus. I sneer at you,
I despise you. When next daddy comes
and sits on my bed, he’ll roar with laugh-
ter at your futility—roar till the bandage
slips, ffom his wound, and his brains bob
in and out like a jack-in-the-box.... I’ve
told you everything because I know you
lack the intelligence to utilise the know-
ledge.”
She is put in an asylum, escapes and goes
on the streets in disguise. She hears the
Voice again.
“The world is leagued against you, Jean,
There is a universal conspiracy to destroy
you. Kill, child! Kill the brutes who
prey on your youth and beauty. Strike
them down in the heat of their lusts,”
The community is appalled by the mur-
ders that follow; they baffle the police
by their pointlessness. Suddenly she
changes her way of life, moves about and
is lost again, till one day O’Flanagan
walks into her shop.
The horror of the story lies almost en-
tirely in its naturalism, and the natural-
ism is enhanced by the flat yet highly
articulate style. Jean is as ferocious and
cunning as the sadist in “La Bete
Humaine,” yet outwardly she is no dif-
ferent from any other pretty girl. She
is a, living person whom any of us
might get to know, and she operates
for the most part against a com-
monplace background. The whole drama
derives from her raging brain. Here is
where works like Twisted Clay differ
from conventional thrillers, whose char-
acters have no brains and behave accord-
ingly.
Red Page.
The Growing Commonwealth
The late Professor G. Arnold Wood,
of Sydney University, was one of the
best teachers of history of his day, and.
his “Discovery of Australia” and “The
Voyage of the Endeavour” have value
as both history and literature. Now F.
L. W. Wood has written The Con-
stitutional Development of Australia
(Harrap), a book that is worthy of a
place beside his father’s writings. He
also teaches history at Sydney Univer-
sity, and he has the balance, the sense
of justice and the passion for accuracy
that distinguished his father.
One thing he stresses in the beginning
—“the fact that New South Wales was
founded as a convict colony has con-
siderable significance for the constitu-
tional historian. Only through the reali-
sation of this is it possible to understand
the form of government at first set up,
and to follow the line of development in
constitutional matters.”
At first the country was drastically
ruled by a series of absolute monarchs—
the first four Governors at least, and
Macquarie also, were kings. Their
lightest word was law, down to the most
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Highest Ideal.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
p»tt r.QIH RIIRN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
'PHONE: M 2401.
CASTE k BARGAINS
WELL-MADE STATION SUPPLIES—YOUR MONEY’S WORTH
£22 Orchard and
Universal Cultivator
No. 41 Planet Jr.
Orchard and Uni-
versal Cultivator
is built to combine
strength, lightness, adjustability and efficiency
to the fullest extent in one tool.
Cut shows machine with two-tooth extensions.
Regular Equipment: Eleven 2| x 10 in. steels.
Wheel Adjustments, 30 to 40 inches.
With two-tooth extensions. Width of Cut, 6ft.
6in. Packed Weight, 4741 b. Price, £27/107-
Special Easter Price 2 ®
Without extensions. Width of Cut, 4ft. Packed
Weight, 3841 b. Price £22
Special Easter Price £l9/10/-
£l9/10/
UTIHLLLI
£lB Windmill
Towers - - - at
“Challenge” Four-
Post Steel Towers
are made in 10ft. *
jr% 4 O
sections with girths sft. apart, in all heights
up to 40ft., which makes it convenient to
build up from the ground, one section at a
time, in places where trees or buildings
prevent or make difficult to put togethei
on the ground and erect in the usual way.
Spread of Towers is as follows: 201 t. x
4ft. 3in.; 30ft. x 6ft. 2in.; 40ft. x Bft. These
Towers are rustproof and do not require
painting.
Towers only.
Height, 20ft. Price
Special Easter Price
Height, 30ft. Price £23/10/-
Special Easter Price £l7/10/-
WINDMILLS.
No. 2 MILL, 8 FEET. —Back geared 3 to 1
Gross weight, 5851 b.; net weight, 4601 b
Has 6in. stroke, six arms, six sections and
eighteen fans. Develops 3/10 horse-power
in 15-mile wind, and is the Standard Farm
Mill for wells 35 to 100 feet deep.
Price, £25. Special Easter Price £l7 Head on y
No. 3 MILL, 10 FEET.—Back geared 3to 1. Gross weight, 6601 b.;
net weight, 4851 b. Regular crank gives 6in. stroke. Mill has six
arms, six sections and twenty-four fans. Develops 3/5 horse-power
in 15-mile wind, and is our heavy-duty Farm Mill f °r w j; lls 76 to
150 feet deep. Price, £32. Special Easter Price .. £2l Head only
• Agricultural Department-Fourth Floor. Free delivery city and suburbs only.
BEST PATENT GALVANISED WIRE NETTING
~ *» - *—--a?iri'car.-sr«if - -* *“'—
EACH ROLL CONTAINS
Quality Light Med. Light Light
Mesh 1 in. 1
Gauge 22 20 20 19
50 YARDS.
Med. Light Med.
1 2in. 2in.
18 19 18
Width, 1 2 in.
. . -/3§
Roll ..12/-
Width, 1 Bin.
Yard . . -/ 5
Roll ..17/4
Width, 24in.
Yard .. -/6i -/4i
Roll .. 22/6 16/9
Width, 30in.
Yard .. -n\ -/5i
Roll .. 27/4 20/4
EACH ROLL CONTAINS
50 YARDS.
Med. Light Med.
Hin. 2in. 2in.
18 19 18
-/5 -/3 -/3|
17/2 10/2 13/2
-/6i
22/11
-/4 -/5
13/6 17/6
-/8 -/5 -/6
28/8 16/1121/11
-m
34/5
-/5i -/7
20/4 26/3
Free delivery city and suburbs only.
Builders’ Hardware— Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street
RELIABLE HARNESS AND RUCS FOR HORSES
Strong Winter Horse Rugs
Horse Rugs, fitted with Cross Web Belly Straps and Fillet Rope
and Breast Strap.
“The Universal." Heavy Jute Canvas, lined with Grey check.
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft 6m. Vn/Q
16/6 17/6 18/6 18/9 19/6 20/- 20/9
“The Guardian.” Navy Canvas, lined Grey check.
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft 6in. ,“/*
19/6 20/9 22/- 22/9 23/3 24/- 25/-
“The Hordernia.” Extra Heavy Navy Canvas, lined with Grey check.
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6m. m.
21/- 22/6 23/9 24/6 25/3 26/- 26/9
‘The Dreadnought.” Special Heavy Flax Canvas, lined with Grey check.
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
26/3 28/6 30/6 31/6 32/6 33/9 35/-
Birkmyre ‘‘Genuine” O.M. Green Waterproof, lined with Grey check.
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6m. 7ft.
25/- 27/- 28/9 29/6 30/6 31/9 33/-
Birkmyre “Genuine” O.M. Khaki Waterproof, lined with Grey check.
4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in. 7ft.
26/3 28/6 30/6 31/6 32/6 33/9 35/-
Leather Cross Belly or Leg Straps. Price, each 5/6 extra
Extra Breast Straps. Price, each extra
Kersey lined. Price, each J extra
Felt lined. Price, each ...... ex * rcl
• Saddlery—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery city and
suburbs only.
Plough Harness Parts
Plough Harness Parts.
Block. Price, per pair 11/o
Collar and Strap. Price, up to 2 hn. . . 24/b
1/6 per inch over.
Kangaroo Hames. Price, per pair .. 17/9
Hame Straps. Price, each l/o
Plough Chains, P. & W. Tested Links.
Price, per lb ® '
Kangaroo Unbreakable Pit Hames, 19 to
22in. Price, per pair 17/-
Winkers, Blocked Eye. Price, each .. 11/6
Scotch Eye. Price, each .••••••••• J 1 /j*
Leading Strapping, including Backhand,
Bellyband, Hip Strap and Crupper.
Price, each 50/-
Leading Spiders with Bellyband.
Price, per pair 20/-
Plough Harness, Black or Brown Leather;
Blocked Eye Winkers; Rope Reins; Pipe
Collar, Hames and Strap; Trace Chains and
Plough Backhand, complete with Scotch
Winkers. Price, per set 63/-
Take Advantage of Our
D. P. S.
Deposit-Purchase System.
It is for your benefit and
enables you to purchase at
your convenience.
PORTABLE FORGE
A first-class Port-
able Forge, defi-
nitely superior to
£3/10/-
many low-priced F orges. Machine-cut
gear wheels of 40 to 1 ratio, 7-16in.
wide; 6|in. fan case gives a powerful blast.
Legs are strong, and the forge altogether is
a sturdy, compact production, and unusu-
ally good value for the money. Has been
designed for simplicity and high efficiency.
Fire pans made of 16-gauge iron, 18in.
and 22in. square, and 3in. deep.
Prices £3/10/-, £4/5/-
£5/12/6 Planet Jr.
Horse Cultivator
No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator
Combined. The Planet Jr. No. 8
Horse Hoe and Cultivator is one
£5
of the most valuable time- and
labour-saving tools available for the use of
the farmer. Has a steel wheel that does
not clog; a frame that is longer and higher
than others; steel standards that are so
attached as to both brace the cultivator and
withstand strain; levers that operate quickly
and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment
includes four 3 x 8 in. cultivator steels, one
4xB in. cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers,
one 7in. shovel, all especially hardened; will
give long service.
Price, £5/12/6. Special Easter Price . . £5
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, same as
No. 8, but without depth gauge.
Price, £5/2/6. Special Easter Price, £4/8/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phones M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


e
è
é
Miss SYLVIA
WELLING,
the brilliant
musical - comedy
star,
uses and recommends
HEENZO
SA VE MONEY by making
your own family remedy for
COUGHSCOLDS
CROUP BRONCHITIS and INFLUENZA
HEENZO costs 2/- and saves £’s.
Here’s a wonderful money-saving recipe for a family cough
mixture that is equally good for children and adults, and is far
better than any made-up cough mixture you could buy. Order
from your chemist or store a two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO. Add the HEENZO to sweetened water, according to
the easy directions on the bottle, and you will have a supply equal
to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the usual ready-mixed cough
remedies that would cost up to £l. HEENZO does NOT contain
any poisons or harmful drugs. Therefore, it can be given with
perfect safety to the youngest baby. You will be delighted with the
speedy way HEENZO soothes sore throats, eases the chest, and
banishes coughs, co ds, croup, influenza, bronchitis, and whooping
cough. Always have HEENZO ready in the home for the first
sign of a cough or cold. Remember, an ounce of prevention is
better than a ton of cure.
should be used in every home


Never tight!
Both ways this shoe fits you
perfectly. .. .in width as well as
length. And, the special design
of the upper adapts it snugly to
the foot without unevenness or
strain over the instep arch. It
is an exclusive Abbey model,
with a sole of the toughest
leather obtainable.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full
and half size.... narrow, medium,
wide and extra-wide. When ordering,
state which you need, and ask, also,
for the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 379.
e
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non»stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH/’
393 miles in hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOB LUXI'BY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
trivial details —such as where pigsties
might be situated, or where people might
sea-bathe at Newcastle.
The opening struggle was between the
local monarchs and the officers of the
garrison, who were also the merchants
and pastoralists of the settlement behind
Port Jackson. It led to the Bligh rebel-
lion and the appointment of Bigge as
Royal Commissioner. His report to the
House of Commons led to the granting,
in 1823, of a small measure of represen-
tative government, a few trifling judicial
reforms and the autonomy of Tasmania.
Incessant agitation followed, and by 1840
the penal system had been abolished,
trial by jury had been substituted and
the beginnings of political equality had
obtained recognition.
Then came the struggles between the
Tory squatters, who wanted cheap con-
vict labor, and the Radicals, led by
Robert Lowe, Charles Cowper and
Henry Parkes. The book traces the
story of the Federal movement, outlines
the question of Commonwealth and State
powers, and ends with a discussion of
the relationship between Australia and
the rest of the Empire.
“The unity of the Empire is not merely
a sentiment; it rests on solid achievement
of co-operation more valuable than is
generally realised. In short, Australia
has a twofold status in world affairs.
On the one hand, she is an independent
nation ; a member of the League who
has undertaken the responsibilities of
nationhood. On the other hand, she is
a Dominion; a member of the British
family of nations.”
A valuable work which should long
remain the textbook of its subject.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Art Criticism in Australia
It doesn’t take an artist to realise that
there is something gravely wrong with
it. I have lived among artists in London,
Paris, Sydney and elsewhere for most of
my life, and I know how they argue ;
yet I have noticed that fundamentally
the best of them agree, however the
journalists differ. It has always been so.
A writer in the “New Statesman”
(10/2/’34) remarked: “When Constable’s
‘Hay Wain’ was first shown in the
Academy not one of the daily papers
mentioned it.” When Delacroix saw his
first Constable he realised at once that
he was looking at the work of a master.
The impression made on Delacroix by
Constable’s “Hay Wain” and “The Bridge”
remained with him all his life. He never
missed an opportunity of studying Con-
stable’s work.
Some weeks ago Mrs. Murray Fuller
held an exhibition of contemporary
British art in Sydney. Some comparisons
between the criticisms of the two chief
dailies are interesting.
The exhibition is particularly rich in
still-life painting.— “S. M. Herald.”
One good feature about the exhibition is
the small proportion of still-life subjects.—
“Sun.”
Looked at in passing [John’s] “The Girl
in the Yellow Jacket” appears distinctly
weak-minded. But after a moment or
two’s scrutiny, the whole thing leaps to life.
One realises with what intensity John has
searched for and laid bare the hidden re-
cesses of a feminine personality.— ‘‘S. M.
Herald.”
Mr. John is represented by a very
feebly-drawn head.— “ Sun.”
Dame Laura Knight’s little group of
yellow-clad ballet dancers can almost be
seen to move, so clearly does the pattern
suggest their lilting poise.— ‘‘S. M. Herald.”
Dame Laura Knight has a ballet subject
very much d la Degas, though not so well
drawn. — "Sun.”
Extraordinary zest of characterisation in
the Orpen war canvas.— "S. M. Herald.”
A war picture by Sir William Orpen
in the manner of some of the illustrators of
heavy German jokes in “Jiigend.”— "Sun.”
Three months ago the pictures bought
by the trustees of the N. S. Wales
National Gallery in England arrived, and
the “S. M. Herald” critic examined them.
Mrs. Murray Fuller followed suit the
other day.
A splendid collection. —“ S. M. Herald.”
Inoffensive. — Mrs. Murray Fuller.
The trustees have got good value for
their money.—' "S. M. Herald.”
It would have been better if many of
the pictures had not been bought.— Mrs..
Murray Fuller.
“Marguerite,” by Alan Beeton, will de-
light the hearts of practical portrait-
painters.—“S. M. Herald.”
The Beeton must have been painted
many years ago. This would not count if
it had quality, but quality is just what it
lacks.— Mrs. Murray Fuller.
If the sporting critic of an important
daily wrote that a feeble exhibition of,
say, batting would delight the hearts of
all practical cricketers, or, conversely,
that the art of Bradman was lacking in
quality, he would be liable to lose his
job. Of course, the best critics never make
such mistakes. An almost unknown boy
steps into the ring at the Stadium, or on
to the Sydney Cricket Ground or a
court at Rushcutter Bay, and if he is an
artist, however crude, the critics say so
and give detailed reasons, unanimously,
and almost in the same terms. There
are two explanations: (1) The sporting
critics are artists themselves ; (2) tens of
thousands of daily-paper readers know
almost as much as they do. Almost;
but not quite. A man might be a
supremely good writer and an enthusias-
tic sport-watcher, and yet be a comic
failure as a critic of his sport. Jack
London was an example. In his flowery
report of the Burns-Johnson fight he
missed practically all the material points,
and made the Sydney paper that em-
ployed him a laughing-stock in the box-
ing world. It is the one and only reason
why sporting critics like Mailey and
Crav/ford are employed, and quoted the
world over: they know.
Australian art-criticism is a joke among
artists of any consequence, but the joke
is on the Australians. They are getting
what they deserve, and they will continue
to get it till they begin to take an interest
in art which is in some degree compar-
able to the interest they take in sport.
H. S.
Civilisation and Isobars
The latest discovery of the scientists,
who are always making discoveries, is
that climate is the most important factor
controlling the growth of civilisation in
any part of the world. The experts who
have devoted themselves to this engag-
ing theory have proved to their own
satisfaction that the most suitable climate
for civilisation is one which varies be-
tween 70-80 degrees humidity and round
about 66 degrees Fahrenheit. Says one
of them:
Climate is thus seen to determine the degree
of civilisation. The greater energy left over
after the struggle for existence is turned to
account in advancing the stage of civilisation,
and this, in turn, improves health by applying
knowledge. Thus, the gap between the stage
of civilisation in optimal climatic zones and
those outside the optima is widened.
The trouble about this theory is that the
scientists never define what civilisation,
in their opinion, is. Is it the creation of
huge mass-production factories in which
“hands” mechanically assist in the
manufacture of uninteresting articles for
export to other lands, their reward being
the price of admission to a picture show?
If such is the criterion, the climatic
theory is more or less correct. This kind
of civilisation is, in general, confined to
places with the approved temperatures,
such as Leeds, Chicago, Osaka, Shang-
hai and Melbourne. Yet even this is
not strictly true. The all-powerful Soviet
has erected mass-production plants in
colder regions. There is plenty of
such civilisation in hot places like
Singapore. In fact, it may safely be
said that, given the necessary cash, a
reservoir of cheap labor, suitable trans-
port facilities and demand, a manufac-
turer could get things made in the Arctic
Circle or on the Equator to his heart’s
content. But this is not civilisation at all.
The measure of a civilisation is the
degree to which it can devote itself to the
creation of something that is permanent;
the degree to which it can give value to,
not take value away from, life. Apply-
ing this criterion, the climatic theory
once more falls to the ground. It would
require to be explained how it came
about that the Khmers of Indo-China
created the majestic fane of Angkor Wat,
and the Javanese the delicate lacelike
stonework and frescoes of Burubudur and
Prambanan and the almost-Grecian
loveliness of the shrine at Mendut. These
vestiges of a vanished race of artists are
situated near the Equator, in dense tropi-
cal jungle, and they presuppose a people
some of whom had leisure to give to the
making of beautiful things. Seven cen-
turies of decay have wiped out all ves-
tiges of their literature, poetry, drama
and other creative works, but we are
bound to suppose that they were on the
same level as their architecture. We don’t
even know who stimulated the indigenes
to produce such titanic works. They
may have been immigrant Hindoos or
they may have been a local school in-
spired by some native Sir Christopher
Wren who had been to India.
The civilisation of Hindoo Java was
submerged by the iconoclastic Moham-
medan, whose Semitic Puritanism urged
him to destroy what he could not under-
stand. The Dutchman finished the Mos-
lem’s work. He has certainly preserved
the remnants of the Hindoo art, but only
as tourist attractions and as scientific and
museum curiosities. He has proved him-
self incapable of doing anything but cover
the land with tin sheds, where copra is
turned into oil, and sugar, coffee and rice
are prepared for export overseas.
So it seems that civilisation in the
higher sense is not so much bound by
climatic conditions as by far more fun-
damental factors that transcend national
boundaries, frontiers of race and isobars.
If the people who brought civilisation
from India to Java 700 years ago had
come from a land where production for
profit and consumption for its own sake
were the twin gods, where a Henry Ford
was the patron saint, where the accepted
philosophers were .Elbert Hubbards,
Frank Cranes, Arthur Brisbanes and
Marxes, they would not have built
temples—they would have built automo-
bile factories and boiling-down works.
So there is no climatic reason, as far
as I can see, why North Queensland
should not have glorious temples, beauti-
ful statuary and lovely pictures instead
of good roads, reliable flivvers and
mechanics’ institutes. She would have the
roads, flivvers and institutes if her winter
was as bitter as New York’s.
NAKH.
A Satchel of Books
May Tilton’s The Grey Battalion
(Angus and Robertson; 65.) is an
account of the experiences of a war
nurse. She left Melbourne in August,
1915, and had a year in Egypt treating
casualties from Gallipoli. Then she
served in England, France —during the
third battle of Ypres she was at No. 3
A.C.C.S., a few miles behind the lines —
and Belgium. Her simply-told story pays
a tribute to the courage of the nurses
as well as the men.
It must have taken some pluck to
launch Art in New Zealand. However,
it keeps on coming out every quarter,
reminding Australians that the funny-
looking little islands down in the south-
east produce not only horses and foot-
ballers, but painters. The current issue
records successes of M.L. artists abroad,
and contains an article by J. S. Mac-
Donald on the work of Maud Sherwood.
An excerpt: —•
The Sydney Gallery, whose sole bequest
comes from Auckland, would gladly own
any one of many fine legacies which several
Maoriland cities have received. In sixty
years the rich of the richest State of Aus-
tralia have not left the Gallery of their
capital one farthing. This is, probably, a
world’s record; and one of the least envi-
able.
Murder, torture, intrigue, love, lust
and most of the other things that go to
make life worth while in a South Ameri-
can republic are present in approxi-
mately equal quantities in Thomas
Rourke’s The Scarlet Flower (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson; 7s. 6d.). An
American engineer gets entangled with a
senorita, and, through her, with a revolu-
tionary party. He escapes with a murder
on his soul, leaving her to serve a five-
year sentence. What a serial for a gore-
conscious Sunday newspaper!
The Fugitive, by Andre Chamson (John
Lane ; 7s. 6d.). A dramatic story, well
translated by Edwin Granberry, of
France in the days that immediately fol-
lowed the Napoleonic wars. The Grand
Army has dissolved, and the officers and
men are straggling homewards through
country districts that have learned to hate
soldiers. A lieutenant of Dragoons is
put up for the night by a farmer whose
two sons have avoided being conscribed,
and he has the misfortune to kill one
while they are trying to kill him. The
rest of the book deals with his efforts
to escape from the infuriated peasants. A
tense atmosphere of horror pervades the
story almost from the beginning, and
there is a grim ending.
The Disappearance of Martha Penny,
by H. A. Vachell (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), is a tale of
village life in modern England. There
is a manly young doctor-hero who gets
his old pipe going and talks things over
with his terrier.
Leander encouraged explanation by put-
ting his head on one side. A quiver of his
tail seemed to say: “I’m all attention.
Carry on.” , ,
“SOS signal, old fellow. Your father
feels that he ought to do something. What?
Just so. That was a whimper of interroga-
tion.”
The seducer of the village maid, an over-
dressed outsider who has persuaded the
daughter of a pukka sahib (an Old
Etonian, no less) to become engaged to
him, is tackled by the doctor after the
port has been brought in. The degraded
creature, who hasn’t even been to a
minor public school, shows his lack of
breeding at once. He turns pale.
Beneath the convulsive pressure of the
fingers of his right hand the stem of the
wineglass snapped, and the wine spilled
itself on the mahogany table.
The rest is easy. Mr. Vachell in this
one is even more sentimental and right-
thinking than usual; but, as always, he
tells his story well.
Henry Alvarez Smith, of Mrs. Haden
Guest’s third novel, Scent of Magnolia
(Harrap’s ; 7s. 6d.), fits in nowhere. Sent
from the Argentine to an English school,
he hates the life ; and his companions
regard him as a foreigner. Grown to
manhood, he returns to Buenos Ayres
and again finds himself out of step. His
outlook is now more English than Argen-
tinian. He meets a mysterious beauty and
falls in love, only to discover that she is
the notorious Lilas—the wife of a dod-
dering old profligate, and until recently
one of the main attractions of a casita.
Henry still wants to marry her, but Mrs.
Guest won’t have it. The background
of life in Buenos Ayres may be accu-
rate, but it’s an uninspiring yarn.
Mrs. Frieda Das writes about Hindu
life from the inside. Her latest novel,
Into the Sun (Dent; 7s. 6d.), describes
the life of a Brahmin household. The
womenfolk confine themselves to domes-
tic duties, never leave their quarters
except on festival occasions, and see no
strangers. Ramadevi, widowed at the age
of 12, can’t even join in the religious
ceremonies. She has no rights at all
and is taught that her husband died as a
result of her sins.
The greater Rarriadevi’s self-abnegation,
renunciation and atonement in the present
life, the more certain would she be of a
new chance of happy wifehood in her next.
Whatever might betide the other members
of the Mishra family, no change whatever
seemed possible for Ramadevi from now
until the distant day of her death.
The younger members of the family re-
volt. The women break purdah, join
Gandhi’s national movement and take
part in the non-co-operation campaign
and the boycott of British goods. Rama-
devi devotes herself to the untouchables.
A propaganda novel, but interesting
because of it.


è
J3/cce
iA A '■/,
sSfef
tr t? v
rr**‘' y?* M **>*f
A
: l ! or
hk
■Met
s * SONS UMFT
South Australia
■
*
é
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2825.
April 4, 1934.
HARD OF HEARING.
“The Westralian secessionists’ petition to the King suggests ‘the undertaking of coastal defence by Imperial forces.'"
" We've 4350 miles of coastline, your Majesty, and we want the Royal Navy to patrol it, if your Majesty pleases, and we expect you to pay the whole cost.”
Can't hear you, Mr, Collier. Come and see me again some time—say, in forty or fifty years.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WORK FOR 25,000 MEN.
The advent of new chilling processes has
at last put Australia on the meat map
of the world. Hitherto she has been
compelled to send her products to Europe
frozen, where Argentina has sent them
chilled. Propagandists have told us from
time to time that frozen meat “compares
favorably with chilled” ; but the English
don’t think so. Hence the occasional
spectacle of British butchers being pro-
secuted for selling our meat labelled as
chilled.
The revolution which is imminent is
important to all Australia—not merely to
the cattle industry. It means, if we take
advantage of it, that we can challenge
Argentina and Uruguay, and snatch at
least some large share of their exports
of about £27,000,000 worth of meat p.a.,
a business which must expand consider-
ably as Asiatic countries turn to a meat
diet.
It is, however, a mistake to believe that
the job is easy. Australia has the main
essentials—country and a good base of
cattle. But it has no organisation that is
worth a dump for the task, and its whole
meat business is cluttered with ignorance,
sloth and prejudice. The gentlemen who
manage graziers’ associations seem to
have a wholly political outlook, and the
politicians’ viewpoint is clogged with the
fear of offending somebody. Every now
and then a prophet arises and forms a
Meat Council, which is to make regula-
tions governing export and enter on a
national advertising and marketing pro-
gramme—there is one such body in the
chrysalis stage at the moment. But when
graziers hear that the effort is to cost
them a penny a beast or so every year
they vote against it, being convinced that
they ought to be able to get the trade as
a gift of God, and without any exertion
or investment on their part.
Similarly, when somebody suggests that
it is just as important to wipe out
scrub bulls as it is to destroy noxious
weeds, owners of bovine atrocities
burst into yells of anguish. Then the
muddleheads have their say—the parish-
pump persons who want local killing, the
politicians and would-be politicians
who shout that Australia produces the
best meat in the world (it doesn’t, though
it could) and that the overseas
buyer must take it or leave it or be for
ever cursed by the cattle-grower. And
in each rallying period the voices of
operating meatworks men who are mak-
ing a nice profit out of present condi-
tions are heard, backing up the reaction-
aries and praying that the industry will
not be compelled to modernise, and that
they may not be swallowed up in the
large-scale operations necessary to the
entry of Australia into world competition
on a serious scale.
If Australia is to compete with Argen-
tina, she must begin at the bottom and
aim at running the industry as an im-
mense factory. She must turn out
the long runs of exactly uniform bodies
which are the material of the South
American trade, so that she may sell on
sample and brand. A first essential is
standard pastures and local feeds for
early-maturity production. The next
essential is cattle, and this is a simple
problem if national thought can be bri-
gaded about it. All sorts of cranks are
busy urging the throwing over of stand-
ard breeds, but the main thing is to pro-
duce a carcass which the British butcher
wants.
The greatest compliment which a Brit-
ish butcher can pay a joint is to label it
“Scotch Beef.” That implies Shorthorn,
Angus or Angus-Shorthorn cross; but
the Hereford carcass shares the popularity
of the others. About 80 p.c. of all cattle
in Australia have not only a Shorthorn
base but the best Shorthorn base in the
world—the sturdy Van Diemen’s Land
tribes topped with McDougall’s Booth
tribes ; the rich-milking, splendid-breed-
ing Bates lines, such as the Angas
Charming Oxfords, Waterloos and
Duchesses; the Derrimuts, bred from the
unsurpassed Summertons, and the modern
topping of Hordern Masterkey blood
which has permeated Australian studs in
the last decade or two, but the influence
of which is only beginning to be felt
at station level.
There is nothing better than this in
the world as a starting-point. If our
present nucleus is moulded to Scottish
shape in accordance with the Argentine
policy of stripping the British market of
bulls every year and using them in con-
junction with the excellent stud blood
already here, Australia need bow to no
country in the race for the overseas
market. But in the process every scrub
bull in the country must be wiped out —
if need be by legislative action—and re-
placed by good blood.
J. B. Cramsie said the other day
that in Argentina he did not see a bull
in use which would not bring 50 guineas
in Australia. Thousands of breeders in
Australia are using rubbishy sires which
pull down the quality of the cattle at
every mating. The Commonwealth
should concentrate on the Shorthorn, the
Hereford and the Angus sires and outbid
Argentina for the best of the English and
Scottish bulls, so as to maintain the form
of carcass which the British market most
favors.
Last, the country needs modern chilling
works. Not one of the existing plants is
suitable for export chilling purposes. All
the big South American works are
situated at the wharf, and they are
all specially fitted. Carcasses pass
through as quickly as possible and are
carried to the ships’ holds under a
canvas-covered way—never more than
200 yards from factory to hold. In the
ship, they are maintained at a tempera-
ture which varies never more than three
degrees on a two-hourly inspection
throughout the voyage. Organisation in
London is such that meat which arrives
in the morning is already wholesaled and
is in butchers’ shops in provincial towns
next morning.
Australia has only one or two meat-
works near a wharf. Suitable plants
and ships on an adequate scale and Lon-
don forward markets are still in the
womb of the future. Men with chilling
experience are scarce. But the meat busi-
ness can and must be put on a chilling
export basis, and in the process work
will be found for 25,000 Australians at
good wages. There is a big organising
job waiting for somebody, and there are
parts to be played by Governments,
by pasture experts, by graziers’ asso-
ciations and particularly by the mori-
bund pure-bred cattle societies, which
should be in the van of developmental
work, but which, outside the Aberdeen
Angus Society, are mainly content to
leave most of the load on the shoulders
of enterprising private enthusiasts. They
have a task ahead of them which calls
for the support of ten thousand active
members..
But most of them seem to prefer sleep
to propaganda and organisation.
ALAN CASEY, R.A.N. (RET.).
The Sydney City' Coroner, who inquired
into the death of Lieut.-Commander
Alan Casey, R.A.N. (retired), aged 31,
found that he “committed suicide while
of unsound mind.” Alan Casey’s only
reason for destroying himself was, in
the words of a fellow-officer, “heart-
break ; the service had scrapped him
after he had given his life to it.”
Dr. Collins, a specialist, testified that
he had “treated Lieut.-Commander Casey
for neurasthenia in 1933.”
I recommended that he should be given
light duty for at least a month. An
examination in November that year indi-
cated that he had completely recovered.
Three weeks later the doctor was
surprised to hear that Casey had been
scrapped. The Coroner added a tragi-
comic touch to the proceedings by
announcing that, though Alan Casey had
“received a severe shock as a naval offi-
cer” (a shock which was admittedly re-
sponsible for his temporary insanity),
“he should have been man enough to
stand up to it”! It takes a civil servant,
loyally determined to see that another
branch of the service isn’t let down, to
argue that manliness can avert the conse-
quences of insanity.
According to the evidence, Alan Casey
was chosen to undergo a special course
in wireless and signals in 1927. He did
so well that he was selected for a further
course at the R.N. College, Greenwich.
It was overwork during this period that
caused his breakdown. His fellow-offi-
cers were sympathetic, but the active-
service branch has no say in such mat-
ters. Diggers will remember what hap-
pened when the war was won, and civi-
lians of one kind and another got orders
from Melbourne to keep the pensions bill
down. The scrapping of Casey repre-
sented political economising of the sort.
In every navy about 75 per cent, of
the officers must expect to be retired
on reaching a certain age ; there is no
room at the top. It is recognised as a
principle in the Royal Navy that one
who has served his country well has
rights ; also that to throw on the rubbish-
tip a man who has been trained as a
specialist at great expense is bad busi-
ness from the nation’s standpoint. So
the Admiralty not only gives those who
are “axed” generous gratuities, but helps
them to the best of its ability afterwards.
It doesn’t want them to become unem-
ployed, much less suffer from “severe
shock” which may lead to temporary
insanity and suicide, if only because there
is always the possibility that their ser-
vices may be needed in war-time. The
World War could not have been won by
the R.N. (as, in the last resort, it was)
without the help of its retired ranks and
ratings.
There are no gratuities and no pen,*
sions for the active-service branch of the
Royal Australian Navy. Lieut.-Com-
mander Casey went out at a moment’s
notice without a farthing (other than de-
ferred pay, his own money) from the
country to whose service he had devoted
his life from the age of 14. The tra-
gedies involved in this state of affairs
are only just beginning to be realised.
The R.N. is able to get a steady supply
of first-class material because it has been
realised for generations in the U.K. that
retirement doesn’t mean the end of every-
thing. Enthusiasm for the R.A.N. is
waning fast because it is now generally
understood that retirement means, if not
ruin, at least the necessity of facing
heavy handicaps in civilian life ; and also
that the harder the man retired has con-
centrated on his work the less chance
he will have when he leaves that work.
Australia should look after these men,
for its own sake if not for- theirs. An
obvious way would be to follow the
example of Britain, France, Italy and
other countries whose national lives may
depend at any moment on the loyalty of
their fighting services, and employ ex-
soldiers, -sailors and -airmen in the
Defence Department, wherever possible.
At present nearly all the holders of im-
portant Defence jobs at headquarters,
Maribyrnong, Lithgow, Garden Island,
Spectacle Island, are members of the
civil service who have never heard a shot
fired. For obvious reasons, they are out
of sympathy with the fighting services,
and the older they get the wider the
breach grows. For equally obvious
reasons, the fighting services resent them.
Members of the R.A.N., for example,
fail to see why these civilians should not
be retired till 65, and should be given
pensions, while most R.A.N. officers are
retired at 45, and all R.A.N. ratings at
40, without either pensions or gratuities.
If the Government ever means to have
an efficient and a contented service, one
that will be a bulwark equally in war
and in times of civil disorder, it will
waste no time in replacing the civil ser-
vants who are now doing Defence De-
partment work all over Australia with
retired soldiers, sailors and airmen. The
reform would save at least some ex-
service men from the dole, suicide or
Bolshevism.
A NOTE ON GARDENING.
Years ago, in Singapore, a Maorilander
and I —“griffins,” we were called, on the
analogy of the two-year-olds that used
to be imported from Australia for the
horseraces —used to solace each other
in our ostracism from English society by
hunting diversion together. That ostra-
cism was the normal fate of Australians
and Maorilanders because English
society would have nothing to do with
“colonials.” On our return to our hotel
in the small hours of the morning we
would pass the Chinese clothing fac-
tories, and would be righteously indig-
nant at seeing the lights still on and
sweated workmen bending over their
tables and working like the devil.
The Maorilander stood six-feet-four in
his boots. He looked the beau-ideal
of a white policeman. We would tramp
up the rickety stairs of a factory, and
my friend would twist his wooden face
about as if it were on a swivel and
drop remarks which I would affect to
write down in a notebook. In a few
minutes all the workmen would have
scuttled away and the factory would be
in darkness. Then we would go on to
the next one. (We became so well known
that the lights would start to go out as
soon as we appeared.) Then we would
go home to bed feeling we had done
something for the cause of Australian
social ideals. I never learnt whether the
proprietors of the factories knew that
they were breaking the law or if they
thought that discretion was the better
part of valor.
Later, in Shanghai, I used to prowl
around the hideous industrial district of
Chapei. The Japanese cotton-spinners
invariably refused to let me in, but
I got into some of the English mills
by becoming acquainted with the
Lancashire foremen. Women, often with
child, hobbled about in dust-laden air
on their toothpick legs, tending the
machinery. Children, their feet already
bound, tottered about on errands. Babies
lay asleep on the floor in cardboard
boxes. At the end of the ten-hour shifts
the transport coolies would commence
to arrive at the gates, trundling barrows
loaded with fresh relays of these workers,
unable to walk from their squalid huts
and sampans to the factory because of
their crumpled extremities. And I used
to wonder why Englishmen were so
painstakingly, with so much skill and
with such holy zeal, planting this queer
garden in China.
Later I went to Japan. In Kobe I saw
Japanese, in slavish imitation of the
English, busily engaged in planting a
garden of their own, as horrible, as
stunted and diseased as the ones I had
seen in China. Then I went to England,
the home of the gardeners I had seen
at work in China. England, I thought,
was not a garden that any Englishman
could be proud of. I doubt if any true
Englishman could be proud of it.
In London undersized men scurried to
and fro or slept on the Embankment or
loafed about the public-houses. Under
the pall of smoke that hung over the
Black Country I saw a garden as ugly,
as cruel, as unnatural as Chapei.
In those days everybody believed in
this business of making the world a
garden. Thousands of young English-
men were drafted out every year to over-
see the plantations of Egypt, Persia, India,
Malaya and China. Thousands more
went into the army and the navy, whose
chief purpose was the policing of the
gardens.
It seemed to me then, as it seems to
me now, that the making of gardens is
a noble occupation. The gardeners I
knew, in Borneo, in Java, in French
Cochin-China, all believed in the worthi-
ness of their mission. If the result of their
labors was misery at home and misery
abroad, at least they could not be
accused of wishing it. One does not go
rotten with malaria or die obscurely in
a border scrimmage unless one believes
in the value and importance of what one
is doing. Why, then, I wondered, were
the consequences so dismal? Why was
England’s home garden visibly decaying
as her foreign plantations grew larger and
larger? Why, with her example before
their eyes, did Frenchmen and Germans
want to tread in her footsteps?
I know a man who has very strong
ideas about everything. He holds that
women are fundamentally inferior to
men, that disobedient children should be
flogged, that the divorce laws should be
tightened up, that the rising generation
is full of original sin and requires the
sternest measures of repression, that
society is going to the dogs, that human
beings are inherently evil. He writes
letters to the papers expressing these
convictions. He would go to the stake
for them if it were demanded of him.
His wife left him after 20 years of con-
tinual misunderstanding, and his children
followed her as soon as they were old
enough to do so. He has been unable
to cultivate his own garden, but he has
complete faith in his ability to cultivate
the gardens of his neighbors.
It is a good thing that people should
want to cultivate the gardens of their
neighbors, but a good deal of the muddle
in the world to-day is due to people who
want to cultivate their neighbor’s gardens
because they have failed to cultivate
their own.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bruce and Leadership.
S. M. Bruce returned to Australia un-
obtrusively and spoke of his work
modestly. Mr. Lyons had to be on hand
with praise, but his utterances about the
High Commissioner’s work have a
slightly patronising ring and his ideas are
sifted through the usual fog of platitude.
In any other country there would have
been a State reception for the returning
emissary. However, a more trustworthy
indication of public opinion was given at
the Sydney Show luncheon; Mr. Lyons
had only a “cordial reception”; Mr.
Bruce “received an ovation.”
It is refreshing to hear a voice
uttering clear-cut and simple truths in
the higher spheres of politics, instead of
the bluster and ballyhoo to which we
have become accustomed. While the
Lyonses and the Scullins were still bick-
ering about inflation and various other
nostrums in the centre of a ring of
kapok-minded economists over two years
ago, Mr. Bruce was saying clearly that
the cure for the world’s ills lay in a
general increase in wholesale prices. His
lonely prophecy has come true in Aus-
tralia—as he has since pointed out, our
improved economic condition is due
almost entirely to the rise in the price
of wool and gold. Our improved finan-
cial condition is due largely to his own
achievements in London in the most try-
ing situation with which a representative
of Australia ever had to grapple there.
Mr. Bruce has come back convinced
that Australia can find ample markets
overseas, provided she grows and makes
only the highest-grade goods—lines
which will secure preference by reason
of their quality. He has no use for “re-
striction of production, on which the
whole world has gone mad” ; it is “a
policy opposed to our every interest.”
Let other countries pull up their crops
and destroy their beasts and pay their
farmers for doing it; we must range our-
selves behind an. anti-restriction policy.
True, but such a policy requires leader-
ship, and in the political field leadership
is thrice necessary to compose the differ-
ences between the U.A.P. and the C.P.,
to prevent the Cockies being baited into
hostility to Protection, to modernise an
outworn Constitution and redress such
State grievances as are legitimate ; and
leadership we haven’t got. Nor will we
get it from Canberra if Bruce goes back
to London and stays there.
4
The Sydney Show.
Sydney Show is a sure index to the state
of public confidence. This year’s has had
none of the forced gaiety of outlook
which marked those of the past three
seasons. Exhibits were never greater in
number, and cattle prices were much
improved. Still, bulls such as the Here-
ford champion are a gift at £750. On
the British market he would be worth a
couple of thousand guineas to Argentine
and Canadian buyers. The Australian
who desires to improve his stock and who
can find the finance should get in early.
For if meat-trade development goes
ahead fast enough to bring us into im-
mediate competition with the Argentine,
stud stock prices are likely to boom both
in Australia and in England, where the
rich Americans will do everything in
their power to shut us out of the bull
market.
If anything is wanted in the Show —
in common with other Royal Shows—
it is the instructional touch. One of the
things required is an extensive meat pavi-
lion which would amplify the work now
being done in the splendid Meat Industry
Department display. It should illustrate
meat types, body types and the points of
the export game as they need to be un-
derstood by the meat producer. Allied
with this, all showgrounds need better
herd-book-society organisation. Bris-
bane, with its Affleck House, is fairly
well off; but purebred centres in Sydney
scarcely exist, except through private
effort. An exhibition yard is necessary
for regular instruction in cattle points,
pasture improvement and meat handling
on the hoof—even in the Show meat
exhibit one or two prize carcasses show
the mark of the stick.
The Show is a magnificent organising
job, but on these points'it can be im-
proved.
♦
Philip Russell Wins.
Although no precise record is available,
it would seem that the tax-gatherers lose
most of the cases in which their arbi-
trary decisions are challenged in the
th UrtS u ta W ers a^e to see the thing
through. This, of course, rarely happens.
Nine times out of ten the aggrieved party
submits to assessments which he feels
are inequitable and probably lawless,
because he cannot face the cost of a
Supreme Court trial with, if he wins, an
appeal to the Full or the High Court, and
possibly an appeal to the Privy Council.
His poverty, though not his will, consents
to extortion. But now and then the over-
weening jack-in-office encounters a tax-
payer in a position to counter all his
moves, and retires from the field dis-
comfited.
The latest Tartar he struck was Philip
Russell, the Victorian woolgrower, owner
of Carngham station. When Carngham
wool was selling at less than cost the
Commonwealth and State taxation
authorities put what Mr. Russell con-
sidered an outrageous value on his pro-
perty. He fought both and has beaten
them separately.
The State Government agreed to let
the matter go to a special tribunal, which
fixed the unimproved value at £3 10s. an
acre. His struggle with the Common-
wealth department was carried into the
High Court. There Stark, J., reduced the
tax-gatherer’s valuation of £4 4s. an acre
to £4—£69,000 altogether. But his Honor
included in this valuation £lO,OOO for
stock and plant. The owner contended
that this was wrong, and, on appeal, the
Full Court and the High Court decided
that it was wrong, reducing the valua-
tion to £60,120, or £3 10s. an acre. Mr.
Russell valued his land at £3 10s. an
acre in the first place.
The costs of both appeals were given
against the department, and will amount
to nearly £4OOO. Of course, the bill will
be added to the already prodigious
amounts the public pays to the army of
tax-gatherers for separating it from its
own money. Taxpayers are punished for
infringing one or other of the multi-
tudinous regulations issued under the
many taxation enactments, but tax-
gatherers are not punished for putting the
country to needless expense by abusing
their inordinate powers.
4
For the N.S.W. Public Servant.
T. Hodge-Smith, president of the P.S.A.,
in reply:
It is pleasing to note in B. 28/3/’34 that, it
I have living proofs of cases of injustice in
the public .service, at least some public servants
have cause for smarting. 1 could fill a whole
issue with such proofs, but an extract from a
report of the Museums Association, London,
which sent an officer to investigate museums
in Australia, may be taken as quite indepen-
dent evidence : “In one most important museum
the salaries of the five principal officers aver-
age about £365 p.a According to official
figures issued by the New South Wales Gov-
ernment the yearly wages of plasterers,
plumbers and bricklayers are higher than three
of the above-mentioned officers.”
The great majority of public servants in
New South Wales are paid under industrial
awards, and those not covered by awards are
paid in relation to existing service awards.
While one may or may not agree with indus-
trial arbitration, nevertheless it is the law of
the land, and therefore it is not correct to single
out public servants as being overpaid. Their
wages and salaries are fixed by the same
Court that determines the wages of bank clerks,
bricklayers and any other employee working
under an award.
While most businesses have suffered a de-
crease in output owing to the depression, the
public service, as a whole, has been called
upon to increase its work. Although some
branches may have suffered a falling-off of
work the increase of social services has in-
creased the work in a far greater proportion.
Reference to the Official Year-Book will show
that, while in 1926 there was one public ser-
vant to every 23 of the total population in N.
S. Wales, in 1932 the ratio was reduced to one
in 25.
The Salaries Reduction Act was conceived
as part of the Premiers’ Plan, and was there-
fore endorsed by all political parties. It
was a three-years’ plan, and the three years
end in June. The public servant is at all times
willing to bear his share of sacrifice, and,
although he disliked intensely salary cuts, my
association displayed no great active opposition
until the basic-wage drop of 12s. 6d. per week
was applied to all salaries on top of the heavy
salary cuts.
To-day the average loss of salary on account
of salary cuts and basic-wage drops amounts
to ss. in the pound; in addition, the public ser-
vant pays unemployment-relief tax and ordinary
taxation like every other citizen. An officer
who before the salary cuts was receiving £6 11s.
per week has since been reduced to £5 15s.
by reason of basic-wage adjustments; this has
further been reduced under the Premiers’ Plan
to £4 17s. In seeking the non-re-enactment of
the Act we are merely saying that his salary
should be reduced to £5 15s. and no further.
The present N.S.W. Government has re-
mitted taxation to the tune of £6,500,000, and
has given relief to primary producers amount-
ing to millions. With this record, is it fair to
the Premier or the public service to talk of
political expediency when the Premier says that
“readjustment will be possible during the 1934-
35 financial year”?
Wage reduction can easily go to such a limit
that it will defeat the very purpose it is de-
signed to serve. To-day the trend is toward
increasing wages. Whatever the Government
gives back to public servants will help to in-
crease the market of our primary products.
Every shilling given back means an increase of
purchasing-power of over £3OOO. The public
servant spends all his salary, in spite of the
example quoted in the leader. Surely public
servants are not to be denied rich uncles and
State lotteries.
A perusal of the Curlewis judgment in the
first service arbitration case will show how
unjust is any comparison with war-time public-
service salaries.
All very interesting, if not altogether
convincing. But does Mr. Hodge-Smith
really believe that the actual wages of
“plasterers, plumbers and bricklayers”
have been “higher” than those of his
three museum officers during the depres-
sion?
4
Youth Must Be Kidded.
J. T. Lang, who is rising 58, whose
Inner Group is composed of men in the
fifties, who gives Labor nominations to
old stagers like Brennan and Sweeney
and State appointments to septuagen-
arian Piddingtons and Whiddons —J. T.
Lang has made a plea for the boys and
girls. “This ever-widening generation of
youth,” he told the A.L.P. annual con-
ference, “must be served.”
The insistent cry of the young Austra-
lian is barred by the dead hands of the
old men who control —old men who may
be young in years, but who are living in
the past.
Nobody could have said it better, for
confession is always more pointed than
criticism, and if the reference to living
in the past isn’t a confession of Mr.
Lang’s own failings it is hard to know
what it is.
The Lang party still dwells in the 1924-
31 era. It is a little like the last straggler
in a street fight who, dazed from the
blow of the policeman’s baton, staggers
along in the rear of the rout still yelling
blue murder when everyone else has gone
home.
In one thing, however, Mr. Lang spoke
the truth. The new age has become
“tired of the old men,” tired of the
Gardens, Langs, Baddeleys and Scullins,
who are so conservative that they want
to drag it into socialism —a state which
has been abandoned by all the peoples
of the world except those who, like the
Australian aborigines, are completely
primitive.
4
“Honors.”
“T.N.T.”: The Canberra correspondents
already are busy forecasting the “honors”
which are to fall on various people as
for their services when Prince
George is here. It is a laughable busi-
ness. Equerries and aides and other
dignitaries circulate round princes by the
half-dozen in London, and nobody ever
thinks of hanging gauds on them because
the royal pants are properly pressed and
the red carpet was out for the visit to
Stow-on-the-Wold.
But so soon as a prince crosses the
water, knights bloom like flowers in
spring, and the jingle of gauds frightens
the local cabhorse. A week’s royal
sojourn in any Government House in
Australia leaves a running fight in pro-
gress among offsiders who have been
placed in the sleeve-link class when they
feel that their services demanded
cigarette-cases. There are civil servants
in Australia whose long string of
C.M.Gs., C.B.Es. and other glories, which
look like the products of gallant cam-
paigns and many wounds, are merely the
scars of several royal visits.
Although Prince George is not yet
due for several months, the agents of
one of the most authoritative news-
agencies in Canberra is able to report
that “a special honors list will be an-
nounced,” and that Mr. Marr, Minister in
charge of the arrangements (which will
be carried out entirely by civil servants),
will receive “the K.C.V.O. honor, a rare
decoration, reserved for those who have
personally served the royal family”—
about a dozen to 25 are doled out every
year, chiefly to flunkeydom.
Then, the Speaker, Mr. Mackay, is
tipped for a knighthood, so that he may
rank with Alderman Walder, of Sydney,
and Vangal Thiruvenkatachari Krishna-
machari Avargal Rao Bahadur, whose
names appeared side by side in the last
honors list. And Senator Lynch will be
made the peer of Senator Kingsmill and
of Konkoth Ramunni Menon Avargal
Diwan Bahadur —their monikers are
bracketed together in the “Indian and
Colonial List,” which fences off the goat
section of West Indian negroes, half-
naked African chiefs, Hindustani poten-
tates and Australian politicians from the
“home” merinos. And we learn also
that “one of the Prime Minister’s staff
will be mentioned,” and some others. The
only pity is that the forecast does not
also contain a record of sleeve-link and
cigarette-case brigades, so that they
might fight out their cases before, instead
of after, the event, thus allowing the visit
to end in harmony.
4
Grandiose Schemes and Slums.
The schemes are thrust upon us; the
slums we have always with us. All
the lunacies that have been happen-
ing in Sydney of late years have
happened before, and are still happen-
ing, in other cities, notably in London.
The Great Fire gave Wren a chance
in a thousand lifetimes. It was not
his fault, but the politicians’, that it was
only half taken. His complete plan
would have involved the destruction of
some slums which the fire had spared,
and the politicians of his day don’t seem
to have been able to face it. All the
great architects and builders of succeed-
ing generations—the Adam brothers, who
designed the Adelphi, Nash, the creator
of Regent-street, and Cubitt, who built
the best part of Belgravia—went where
there were no slums ; and the present-
day rebuilders of London are following
suit.
Regent-street and the Adelphi have been
torn down and reconstructed at immense
cost. Further millions have been spent
on new buildings in Piccadilly, Park-lane
and so on. No one thinks of disturbing
the rat-holes of Soho, which are as close
to the proud buildings of Regent-street
as the Cairo Wazzir is to Shepheard’s.
Sydney has worse slums in Surry Hills
and Paddington than those in the neigh-
borhood of Buckingham Palace, West-
minster Abbey and the National Gal-
lery ; but it is not proposed to do
anything in the matter except en-
courage them to get worse. Meanwhile
grandiose schemes are being advanced
by all sorts of interests to spend millions,
billions, in the neighborhood of Martin-
place.
An influential section wants the
Anglican Cathedral in George-street to
be torn down and rebuilt in Macquarie-
street at a cost of about £1,250,000 all
told. Other proposals are to tear down
the Sydney Hospital, which, so it is
alleged, would go bankrupt but for the
lottery, and rebuild it on another site ;
to tear down and rebuild the Houses of
Parliament, though there may be no
State Parliament inside ten years; to run
a speedway from Woolloomooloo Bay
through the Domain, connecting in
Macquarie-street with Martin-place ex-
tended ; and to widen Martin-place so
as to admit of the construction of an
ornate raised pavement for public meet-
ings. Last week a civic patriot came for-
ward with a plea that something should
be done “in the name of justice” for
Campbell-street, a near-slum in the neigh-*
borhood of St. Andrew’s Cathedral. His
suggestion was that its name should be
changed!
Such is town-planning, as “influen-
tial” people see it. Burden the rate-
payers and posterity with colossal
debts for monster bridges, State-aided
cathedrals and Government Savings
Banks that resemble vulgarised Roman
palaces, and when the poor complain of
their insanitary hovels offer to change
the name of the street they live in.
4
Lengthening Lives.
“Il Vecchio” : Except to us ancients
who have lived long and virtuous lives,
eschewing beer, politics, work and argu-
ment, the Commonwealth’s latest lot of
vital statistics is not cheerful.
The increase in population for 1933
was 52,152 ; the annual average for the
previous decade was 72,430. There has
been a grand slide in the birth-rate, so
that, whereas in 1921 the natural increase,
allowing for deaths, was 15.1 per 1000
of population, last year it was only 7.9.
It looks bad against Canada’s 12.5,
though a lot bigger than the British
figure, 3.3.
However, we have done a little more
than was expected of us in the last
generation. On the rate which prevailed
between 1901 and 1906, the population
on Dec. 31, 1930, should have been
5,902,000. Actually it was 6,501,000, in
spite of losses sustained in and through
the war. It reached its 1930 quota five
years ahead of time.
The most satisfactory feature of the
returns, from my senile point of view, is
the way Australian lives are lengthening
out. When the Commonwealth was
founded in 1901, out of a total popula-
tion of 3,775,000 there were only 4237
nonagenarians. In 1932 there were
11,684 out of 6,605,000 people. Last
year, again, 219,399 of us old jossers over
70 survived —3.3 p.c. of the population ;
when Lord Hopetoun first listened to the
“better nots” of his aides, there were
81,890 alive—2.l p.c. In other words,
there has been a 57 p.c. improvement in
the survival rate over three-score years
and ten. Thirty-two years ago only 11.8
p.c. of Australians were over 50. To-day,
the figure is i 8.2 p.c. —a 54.2 p.c. im-
provement in rate. More than two mil-
lions in the country are over 40 —30.7
p.c.; in 1901 there were only 21.8. The
rate-improvement is over 40 p.c.
This is encouraging. If it goes on the
population problem will solve itself.
Everybody will live to be over 100.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Lord Luvus”: An irreconcilable
difference of opinion appears to exist
as to the propriety or otherwise of send-
ing a chaperon to London with Claire
Dennis and Lesley Thompson, the swim-
mers. Claire’s mother thinks they ought
to have one. Lesley’s mother is quite
prepared to trust her daughter to
find her own way through a wicked
world, and Lesley agrees with her.
Mrs. Buckle, chairwoman of the N. S.
“How about a souveneer to take back to the bush? It blows up to life-size.”
Wales Women’s Swimming Associa-
tion, regards the decision not to send a
guardian of the young ladies as nothing
short of an insult, though to whom isn’t
stated. Mrs. Mott, the Victorian chair-
woman, says this is 1934, not 1834, and
that the modern girl knows how to look
after herself. The only solution of the
difficulty seems to be for one of the
girls to have a chaperon and the other
not to have one, so that we may see
which gets on better. This would be an
invaluable guide for future occasions.
* * * *
“Wandana”: A woman entered a Vic.
country post office the other day and
asked for some relief-tax stamps. “What
denomination?” inquired the young per-
son behind the counter. The customer
thought for a moment. “My husband is
Church of England, but I’m a Catholic,
she announced. “Which stamps will I
want?”
* * * *
“Raorut”: One of the strangest stories
in the history of Bendigo was that of an
Englishman who was
doing fairly well as
a miner till he had
both eyes blown out.
Nothing daunted, he
carried on. Usually
someone would
choose a likely situa-
tion for him ; then
he would set to
work, bore holes,
charge and fire
them, and bucket
out the dirt, entirely
on his own bat. He
would timber the
shaft and put in lad-
ders as good as the
next man. A novel
would have ended
with the old chap striking it rich in the
last chapter. Actually finis was written
in the Benevolent Asylum.
* * * *
“Gunner”: Watching one of the series
of propaganda films boosting Uncle
Sam’s army recently, I was astonished at
the fine shooting accomplished by an
anti-aircraft battery firing on a' flying
target at long range. Personally, I never
saw a ’plane hit by an “anti’s” shell, and
I have yet to meet the man who did,
though thousands of shrapnel and high-
explosive shells went skyward daily in
France for this purpose. Still, I can
recall one shot which achieved its object,
if not its objective. It was on a bright
moonlight night, the eve of a big stunt,
with miles of transport and marching in-
fantry well and truly jammed on the
roads threading the city of Ypres. Along
the lines of packed horses and men came
a low-flying German bomber, dropping
his deadly cargo. The sound of nerve-
racking crashes came steadily along the
packed road, and it looked as if the next
discharge would fall amongst our shell-
laden mules, when an “anti” battery cut
loose with its double bang-bang. The
shells burst so close under Fritz’s pro-
peller that he pulled his ’bus up, did a
risky vertical bank and struck out for
home “at the toot.”
* * * *
“Jabez”: Samuel Insull, who is badly
wanted in the U.S.A. on charges of
fraud, seems to be giving his would-be
extraditers a more sensational run for
their money than most absconders do.
After dodging about Greece for a bit,
Samuel at latest was “cruising in the
/Egean Sea while his lawyers are seeking
“Is my nerve tonic doing you good?”
“My oath, doc.! I poked my tongue out at the missus yesterday ."
a safe refuge for him and raising money
by the sale of his objects of art.” Query:
Could a fugitive like this one be appre-
hended if he remained indeterminately
at sea? An extradition warrant must
be addressed to the Courts of some
nation; Neptune doesn’t count. And
if the wanted man had sufficient funds at
his call and could keep outside territorial
waters he might be transferred from one
craft to another when occasion arose.
It’s a situation that never seems to have
been explored by the fictionists.
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: Mussolini has not killed
all Italian freedom of speech. Some of it
is practised in Australia in the journals
which are published in la lingua del si,
as witness this bit of social news in one
of them last week:
The extensive mortality among fish, noted
in the waters of Western Port, may be defi-
nitely attributed to the presence of Signor
—— L on the vessel which carried an intrepid
gathering of Italian amateur fishermen
across the bay. To arrive at this deduction,
it is enough to consider the effects attain-
able from mal de mer combined with the
fermentation of the acid products of alco-
hol in the human stomach.
When last heard of, the editor was still
above ground.
* * * *
“Me”: It happened at Sydney’s Lyric
during the performance of “This World
Changes.” Some very early Californian
settlers are attending a wedding-feast,
when Colonel Custer breezes in with his
merry men. “Folks,” he announces in
an emotional voice, “the war is over.”
“What war?” asks one of the party. The
worthy colonel can hardly believe his
own ears. “Do you mean to tell me,”
he queries, “that you didn’t know there
was a war? Woman,” he continues,
“have you never heard of General
Grant?” “No!” she says, slowly and
deliberately. “Abraham Lincoln?” per-
sists the colonel. “No!” she drawls.
Then, clear and distinct, came a voice
not from the stage. “Or A 1 Capone?”
it demanded. It was the hit of the
evening.
* * * *
“F.R.”: The Melbourne centenary will
no doubt be the occasion for reviewing
some of Victoria’s constitutional achieve-
ments. One of them is that it first gave
the world manhood suffrage. Vote by
ballot was another of its gifts to the
Empire, though it took dubious England
over 30 years to follow Victoria’s lead
by adopting the same device instead of
the clumsy and intimidating hustings.
S Aus., however, disputes with Vic. the
honor of introducing voting by ballot,
which was an old Chartist ideal. I
believe the facts are that S. Aus. first
introduced a bill, but Vic. passed a
measure while its neighbor was still
thinking about it.
* * * *
“Arcturus”: Andy Lennon, a French-
Canadian, who secured the contract for
furnishing Hannan-street, Kalgoorlie,
with granolithic pavements some 35 years
ago, could tell how the gold got there.
Andy looked about for metal to mix
with the concrete (a composition of his
own), found that most of the ores on
the Golden Mile contained too much
graphite and were too soft for his pur-
pose, and decided that the stuff in a
dump of the Golden Zone, at the ex-
treme north end of the field, was more
suitable. He bought 1000 tons of it at
a shilling a ton. While the metal was
being treated Andy made some secret
dolly-pot tests, and found that it aver-
aged 2dwt. to the ton. The knowledge
was withheld from the men on the job
for fear they would spend more time
looking for gold than laying paths. The
wear and tear of countless feet is now
bringing the gold to light.
* * * *
“Tukan Kaban”: Mention of H.M.S.
Cadmus (B. 28/2/’34) recalls some
memories, mostly unpleasant. In Feb-
ruary, 1915, the sth Light Infantry
(Sepoys) kicked over the traces at Singa-
pore. They released German prisoners
from the Tanglin compound and over-
whelmed the guard-room and No. 1
post (European volunteers) and the hos-
pital, in which were a few invalid
K.0.Y.L.1. men left behind by the regi-
ment. The mutineers would soon have
been to Singapore itself but for the 80
members of the Cadmus crew, helped
by the Singapore Volunteers and shortly
after by the F.M.S.V.R. The city will
never forget those 80 men, with their one
bit of a gun, butting in and holding up
a highly-trained Sepoy regiment until
relief arrived in the form of four cruisers,
one French and three Japanese. I have
often wondered why that magnificent
stand by the Cadmus men has been
barely mentioned in war histories.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: A foolhardy young man went
up in a glider in Albert Park, Melbourne,
on a recent Saturday. On Saturday after-
noons Albert Park recalls a famous
sketch by H. M. Bateman, entitled “An
Open Space.” It is packed with foot-
ballers or cricketers, tennis-players,
hockeyites, lacrosse fans and yachtsmen,
and often a detachment of the civilian
forces will be practising manoeuvres. The
young man was towed by a motor-car
until the rope broke, and then he crashed
from a height of 50 feet, injuring a
young woman and narrowly missing
other people. Gliders are exempt from
the provisions of the Air Navigation
Act governing flights in streets, cafes,
churches, concert halls and other con-
fined places.
* * * *
“Topsman”: I agree with “El V.” (B.
28 / 3 /’34) that hanging does not seem
to be painful—where a drop is provided,
at any rate. Having supervised several
functions of the kind, I have never
noticed any signs of suffering in my
clients. The operation as conducted in
British New Guinea was quite orderly
and all in a day’s work. The condemned
native went cheerfully to the scaffold,
recognising that it was all only another
white-man fashion, and not in the least
understanding what he was to be turned
off for. His fellow-countrymen looking
on regarded the ceremony as an agree-
able diversion. To white officials it was
only one more beastly job among the
daily dozen- with which they battled
between intervals of malaria and dysen-
tery.
ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Professor Holme, of Sydney University, lecturing
on the extravagant romanticism of the eighteenth
century, remarked that even to-day there were men
so romantic that they could see beauty in women
attired in trousers.”
“Farewell, Romance!” A needless wail.
All change despite, ’twill never go.
What Kipling wrote of steam and sail
Applies as much to woman’s do’.
Just as in furbelow and frill,
Beauty in pants is beauty still.
“Farewell, Romance!” our grand-dads sighed
When billowy crinolines went out
And contours were again descried.
And some aesthetic souls no doubt
Experienced a sim’lar shock
When dress-improvers took the knock.
“Farewell, Romance!” The cry was heard
(I doubt, however, if it hurt)
When dull propriety was stirred
By the engaging harem skirt,
A subtle hint, at any rate,
The form it clad was bifurcate.
“Farewell, Romance!” In accents shrill
It rose and echoed on the breeze,
When frocks grew short and shorter still
Until they barely hid the knees,
And comely calf and shapely shin
Obtained an unimpeded spin.
“Farewell, Romance!” Unfounded fear.
When wild in woods our race would range
’Twas there, and ’twill be alv/ays here,
However fashion’s modes may change.
Behold, impervious to attacks,
Scorning the professorial axe,
Romance glides down the floor—in slacks!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Olew”: “How much have you got in
the bank?” the applicant for relief was
asked by the examining police officer.
Easing down his swag, he coolly
answered, “Ten thousand pounds.”
“Don’t be silly,” snapped the sergeant.
“Well, you started it,” retorted the other.
* * * *
“Durra Mut”: Why pick on the
Shiahs and Sunnis (B. 28 /3 / ’34) because
they choose to celebrate the Mohurrum
in a differing spirit? In Australia we
have arrived at very much the same con-
dition of things in regard to the observ-
ance of Anzac Day. From its very
nature this anniversary should be one
of national mourning for a heroic
sacrifice, and that was what it was ori-
ginally intended to be. To-day we find
one small and fast-dwindling section of
the community which regards Anzac
Day as one for solemn and seemly
observance. The other and much larger
section has adopted it as just one more
holiday in the liberal allowance already
sprinkled through the Australian calendar.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Tests will shortly be made
by the engineers to see the effect of
flood-lighting the Vic. Shrine of Remem-
brance. The monument has a curiously
squat appearance when seen from points
in the city like Lonsdale-street, which
forms a sort of avenue to it, but, illumi-
nated, it will be clearly visible from
“The stage-manager told me I looked nice enough to eat.”
“Since when has he liked plain food?”
the Heads and from elevated places
•, r ..
within a 30-mile radius of the city. Four
towers are to be erected, each equipped
with four lamps, and the total candle-
power of all the beams will be 1,600,000.
There will also be color combinations
to give point to the architectural fea-
tures. The city electrical engineer and
L D. Wright, the display officer of the
State Commission, will be responsible
for what is expected to be one of the
most artistic productions of the cen-
tenary.
* * * *
“Coif”: Participants in the recent Bul-
letin argument as to tests for drunks are
hereby referred to a recent decision of
Mr. Justice Swift at Liverpool (England)
Assizes, a motorist’s sobriety being in
question. The Judge ruled that, while
the police had the right to ask a doctor
to observe a confinee in the cells, they
had none to make him submit to tests
of his condition, unless he consented.
His Lordship summed up: “If the police
say a man is so drunk that he does not
know what he is doing, they have no
right to compel him to tests ; if they say
he is able to give consent, they have no
right to say he is drunk, because drunken-
ness destroys consent.” An admirable
ruling, but one which would revolu-
tionise police procedure in Australia if
applied here.
* sic * *
“W.H.M.”: Seasickness and air-
sickness are well enough known, but
travellers in the Otway forest of Vic-
toria complain of another form of
stomach-upset. On the Apollo Bay-to-
Colac road the turns and twists are so
numerous and sharp that motorists are
frequently affected ; it is no uncommon
experience to see a whole carload leaning
over the side and vomiting. Even ex-
perienced drivers are not immune.
st: sf * sf=
“Lord Luvus”: The marvellous memory
women have for what other women wear
was well exemplified in a recent corre-
spondence in the “Argus.” A writer
started the ball rolling by asking if any-
body remembered a woman who paraded
the lawn—or the dirt, as it was then —at
Flemington one Cup Day over 50 years
ago in an unusual costume, accom-
panied by a girl dressed as closely to look
like a boy as the law permitted. Promptly
dozens of sexa-, septua- and octogenarians
wrote in to say that they remembered
the couple quite well, and each and all
supplied descriptions of what they wore
which agreed with one another almost to
the last button. One of them is sufficient:
It was Cup Day 58 years ago, and 104
in the shade. A fine-looking woman paraded
the lawn at Flemington. Her dress was of
corded white silk with large white feathers
round the hem caught here and there with
real small diamonds. Two well-known
detectives kept well in view. Her daugh-
ter, dark and slight and young, had her
hair cut close to the head and wore a light
coat an d skirt. As you can imagine, this
caused a lot of excitement at the time.
From that time on Miss J. was known as
the boy-girl. She never altered her style of
her dress.
Supplementary details are that the boy-
girl used to do the Block with a fat
cigar in her mouth and a cane under her
arm, and that her mother used to be
driven along Collins-street in a carriage
with gold-mounted harness. Yet it is
popularly imagined that the Victorian
era was so strait-laced that anybody who
broke the rules would have been torn to
pieces.
“George, can’t you be content with looking like a parrot?”
“General Prac.”: There’s a snug job
waiting to be picked up by somebody in
England—that of Coroner to the King’s
Household. Probably few
people knew that George V.
owned a private coroner, yet the
office is an ancient one, of much
former consequence. In the
fourteenth century the “verge”
(or area of jurisdiction) ex-
tended for 12 miles from the
King’s lodging, wherever that
might be. It gradually shrank
till it ended with the boun-
daries of the courts and gar-
dens within the palace “curtil-
age.” Early this year there
was a frightful motor smash
almost on the very railings of
Buckingham Palace. Several
unfortunates, killed outright,
were rushed off to the nearest
public morgue. They had died
outside the palace curtilage,
and the law would not permit
the old official just inside the
fence to be called. The just-
deceased Coroner of the
Household had held office for
45 years and conducted three
inquests.
* £ ❖
“Strict Veg.”: A member of
a leading Australian yacht
club took a friend on to the
premises after hours to see
if he could get him a drink,
warning him that if he should
meet a high club official noted
for strictness he must use the
utmost cunning. They duly
encountered the h.o. as they
were making their way to-
wards the bar. He eyed them
hard. The member breezily
introduced his friend as “Mr.
X, from Perth, sir—a fellow-
yachtsman ! ” “Ah,” said the
elevated functionary with sus-
picious friendliness, “a mem-
ber of the Royals?” “Oh, yes,
sir.” “Then you will know
Jackson?” “Well, sir, I just
know him and that’s all.” “Still, you
would know his boat—a 21-footer?”
“Oh, yes, sir—now I know whom you
mean! It’s a three-master, isn’t it?”
if * * *
“Effectual Calling”: The annual pro-
test against the holding of the Sydney
Show on Good Friday went unheeded
as usual. In Scotland the day is not
recognised in any way by kirk or people.
Yet I would say that there are few fol-
lowers of Christianity who outdo the
Presbyterians in the matter of Sabbath
observance and insistence on strict reli-
gious conduct.
* * * *
“Petronel”: Commenting on a pre-
vious par. by the writer on the subject of
safety catches in firearms, “Dead Shot”
says (B. 28/3/’34) that the new Sydney
police pistol has a catch on the side to
be worked with the thumb, whereas “in
the old type of automatic the gun has
to be held in one hand while the catch
is pulled back and off with the other.”
His experience must have comprised
some weird weapons. In all the makes
I mentioned the safety catch is worked
by the thumb from the pistol-grip. In
the Mauser, to quote only one instance,
it is pushed upwards, but in the many
others writer has used the push is for-
ward and back. In all double-barrelled
sporting guns and rifles of the hammer-
less type the safety catch is also placed
so that the thumb of the right hand can
manipulate from the grip.
* V * *
“Ajmer”: Those who still attach im-
portance to unimpeachable pedigree in
human beings, as well as in horses or
pigs, will approve of the recent action
of the de facto ruler of Nepal, who has
purged the country of the “C” class, or
illegitimate members, of the royal family,
whose activities have been threatening
the pure line of descent. The Gurkha
is by descent a Rajput, one of the
proudest races in the world, whose bards
sing their pedigrees for days on end at
public festivals. Furthermore, they went
to Nepal two hundred years ago from
Udaipore, the purest-bred and proudest
of the people of Rajasthan. Intermixture
with the aborigines has altered the Rajput
cast of countenance and physique, but
the pride of blood and breeding is as
strong as ever.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: S. M. Bruce, 1 fancy, is
the first High Commissioner who has
returned to Australia during his term of
office. Also he differs from his pre-
decessors in that the job has already
increased his political stature and doesn’t
look in the least like ending his public
life. George Reid, it is true, won a
seat in the Commons when his term
was up, but he didn’t live long enough
to make as much as a ripple in English
politics. Fisher took a flying trip to
Australia after his job had finished, only
to find that his place had been filled
in Labor politics—a new generation had
risen up that knew not Andy or possibly
set no store by its old leader. Cook,
though English by birth, returned to his
adopted country, but if he ever had a
thought of re-entering politics the de-
sirability of his doing so apparently
occurred to nobody else. Ryrie, too,
came back to his own, but little has
been heard of him since. It used to be
said that the Agent-General’s billet was
the grave of public careers and political
ambitions, and the High Commissioner-
ship has so far proved an even more
effective extinguisher. Bruce looks like
furnishing an exception.
WANING LIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With restless heart I watch the sunset staining
The Yarra’s muddy tide.
And idly note the busy winches straining
Great bundles o’er the side.
The gangway, free of restless feet, is lifting;
The crowd sings “Auld Lang Syne”;
As from the wharf the motor-ship is drifting
How many hearts repine?
I find I’m holding ends of broken streamers
And toss the things away;
We’re slipping down the stream past other
steamers;
We're gliding down the bay.
I stand astern and watch the flashing medley
Across the waters dark.
Ah, there’s the Palais.... near it, glowing redly,
The lights of Luna Park!
Out there somewhere (now city lights have
faded)
Where cliffs and breakers meet,
There is a nook by tea-trees overshaded
With memories clinging sweet.
A storm springs up; then comes a heaving
motion;
A strong wind drives the rain;
We’re through the Heads and on the open
ocean,
Bound for the West again!
W.A.
CYRIL E. GOODE.


2 ' ■ !
1
:
a ■
mmm
A World of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
“CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH —SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 10 0% VIRGINIA
G635M
(yiau&i CC cute made, to exUxwLu to twuML Sore CmotUd
POLITICAL POINTS
Without putting down anything for
the American debt, the British Chancel-
lor of the Exchequer anticipated a sur-
plus of £1,291,000. He wound up the
financial year, which closes on March
31, with a surplus of £31,147,000 —this,
after paying the Americans. £3,304,300
and putting away £7,749,800 in a special
sinking fund. An unexpected wind-
fall from the Ellerman estate helped
greatly ; but it is a notable achievement
all the same. In the previous year there
was a deficit of £32,273,000, and in 1930-
31 one of £23,266,000; the intervening
year produced a surplus of £364,000.
Bruce, at Adelaide:
I don’t think Australia will ever be called
upon to resume the annual payment of
£5,000,000 on the war debt.
He means, of course, the war debt to
the British Government, which was
funded at £92,480,000 in 1921, and had
been reduced to £79,724,000 by June 30,
1931, when the Hoover moratorium
arrived. Roughly £207,000,000 of war
debt is owing to private creditors in Aus-
tralia and Britain; and that’s another
pair of sleeves.
The Commonwealth Government was
accused by the States of deliberately
delaying the issue of income-tax assess-
ments last year so as to prevent its sur-
plus looking too large. It protested that
the charge was baseless; but it had
£6,163,900 of income-tax revenue out-
standing at June 30, an increase of
£827,800 for the year. Now, taxpayers
who did not get their 1933 assess-
ments till September or thereabouts are
required to pay their 1934 tax in March
or April. Taking the mildest view it is
an idiotic way of doing business, but it
is characteristic of “the Government
that saved Australia.”
Instead of building a lot more Gov-
ernment houses in overpopulated Sydney
the Stevens Government might arrange to
borrow some from the War Service
Homes Commission. There are heaps
available. On June 30 “the number of
reverted, unsold homes on hand” was
1765, of which 390 were vacant. These
figures were exclusive of South Aus. In
that State the war-service homes business
was handed over to the Adelaide Govern-
ment, which, according to Commonwealth
Auditor-General Cerutty, has made an
egregious mess of it on the financial side.
The Americans are beginning to leap
heavily on their late idol, Roosevelt. The
President vetoed a crazy measure pro-
viding for vastly-increased expenditure
on Federal officials and ex-soldiers, ex-
plaining that it would make a hash of
his Budget and spoil his emergency-relief
plans (the Federation of Labor reports
there are still 11,137,500 unemployed).
Amid loud jeers his veto was overridden
in both Houses.
The Langsters have had a Sydney con-
ference at which they defied the Scullin
faction and declared for a 30-hour week,
endowment of marriage, nationalisation
of banking, socialisation of “credits,”
“regional” tariffs, an industrial dictator-
ship and an “honorary” defence force.
If this scheme goes through, Russia will
go out of fashion and Australia will be-
come the Mecca of the Reds. But it
won’t go through. The great J.T. has
had his tongue in his cheek so long that
his face must be getting lopsided.
At the Adelaide Botanic Park of a
Sunday afternoon, as a “Worker” corre-
spondent drily puts it, it is the custom to
see “three of the factions of the Labor
party on as many stumps, each saying
nasty things about the other two.”
Yarra Bank is likely to present as ani-
mated a scene presently. The State
A.L.P. executive is for unity under
Scullin, and the Metropolitan Council of
the party for unity under Lang ; and if
Lang’s show does not split into two or
three parts it will be a miracle. Lang’s
“parties” always split. He is the very
Adam’s apple of discord.
An A.W.U. organiser visiting the
State Electricity works at Yallourn (Vic.),
which were built because of coal strikes
in N. S. Wales, saw a “machine that is
lifting more brown coal in an hour than
100 men could lift in a week.” Yet over
at Wonthaggi the Government coalmine
has been idle for a month because a
brace-boy was sacked for giving cheek.
King Coal is very sick. If he dies, it will
be mainly his courtiers’ fault.
The proposed boundary readjustments
of the 10 Queensland Federal electorates
have all parties scratching their heads.
In 1921 the average number of voters
in the three metropolitan electorates was
40,109 —it is 56,232 this year. In the
country electorates, the average has
jumped from 38,769 to 49,396. Herbert,
Li I ley and Oxley have over 60,000 on the
rolls; Kennedy has 34,951, Maranoa
36,405, and Brisbane 44,849. The new
MAKING A PROPER JOB OF IT.
“Youth must be served. It is impatient of the old men." — Mr. Lang, whose associates
and proteges are all elderly, like himself.
“Now, altogether, little ones —‘Here we go round the jolly old plum-tree.’”
plan will give each electorate an average
of just under 51,500 voters apiece:
Oxley (54,502) tops the list, Maranoa
(48,313) bottoms it. The job has pretty
well pulled the former electorates to
pieces.
De Valera, whose policy so greatly re-
sembles Lang’s, is now trying to do what
Australian Labor has often threatened to
do —abolish the Senate. He has intro-
duced a bill to put an end to it. This
is a vital amendment of the Free State
Constitution, and it is written that
“amendments” of that instrument “made
after eight years from the date of its
first operation” (December, 1922) “can
only become law after submission to a
referendum.” But, presumably, De
Valera regards himself as entitled to snap
his fingers at this provision, as he has
done at the provisions relating to the
oath of allegiance, the powers of the
Crown’s representative, the initiative and
appeals to the Privy Council.
The Commonwealth Government re-
porting branch has a bad name among
Sydney typists for giving preference of
employment to married women whose
husbands are working. Being engaged in
Sydney recently on royal-commission
work and the like, it sent for three of
these ladies —two are wives of State civil
servants. Meantime, the State Govern-
ment maintains a room equipped with
machines so that workless typists, single
and widowed, may retain their profi-
ciency while waiting for jobs such as
these Commonwealth public servants
give to wives of State public servants.
If the Vic. Federal electoral map as
redrawn by the redistribution commis-
sioners is accepted by Parliament,
Corangamite will go. Except for the
two years 1929-31 it has been repre-
sented since 1918 by Gibson, of the
Country party, who defeated Scullin in
the first place. Corangamite is an elec-
torate of the 1901 vintage, and its disap-
pearance will be rough on Gibson ; but
he may not have to travel far for
another seat. The new boundaries give
his party good chances in Ballarat and
Flinders.
Some thought-provoking evidence was
given at the trial of Mahomet Bux, who
went to the Westralian police with a
story that he had shot an Afghan 15
years before, retracted it and was
acquitted. His mother, a white woman,
died a lunatic ; his sister is an inmate of
an asylum ; he himself “gets turns.” No
doubt the good man who performed the
ceremony which had these consequences
was a sturdy opponent of the White
Australia policy.
President Roosevelt has signed the bill
to grant independence to the Philippines
and there were public rejoicings in
Manila. Possibly some of the rejoicings
were due to appreciation of the fact that
independence won’t actually arrive for
10 or 12 years. The Filipino has the
misfortune to occupy a buffer archi-
pelago midway between the possessions
of Britain, France, America and Nippon.
His passion for freedom is no more
likely to be respected than was the pas-
sion for freedom of the Javanese, the
Buginese, the Burmese, the Cambodian,
the Annamite and the Formosan.
Disraeli’s political novels have gone
out of fashion, but some of them might
be read with profit, especially by the
Country-party section which blames the
tariff for all the ills from which land
men are suffering, and by people who
imagine that depression never smote the
world before. This is from “Endymion”:
No doubt a tariff may aggravate or may
mitigate such a condition of commercial
depression as periodically visits a state of
society like that of England, but it does
not produce it.... It was produced in 1842
by an abuse of capital and credit and by
a degree of production which the wants of
the world have not warranted.
Dizzy was 76 when he wrote that, but his
head was as clear as ever.
De Valera’s attempt to do away with
his Senate will doubtless encourage
“Good Ole Piddo” in his mission to
destroy the N.S.W. Leg. Council —he is
to argue the case for destruction before
the Privy Council next month. To a
large extent, Stevens’s second Chamber
is modelled on Cosgrave’s. Each con-
sists of 60 members, one-fourth holding
office for 12 years, and one-fourth re-
tiring every three years. A point of
difference is that members of the Senate
are required to be
citizens who have done honor to the
nation by reason of useful public service,
or who represent important aspects of the
nation’s life.
In N. S. Wales election may go to a
reckless speculator who doesn’t mind
losing a large sum of money in wagering
fancy prices (£lOO to 6d., perhaps)
against his chance.
Among the shoal of Federal emergency
taxes which President Roosevelt has in-
troduced are taxes on sweetmeats and
soft drinks. Corresponding * imposts
might be worth trying in Australia,
especially if the revenue from them were
applied to reducing the excise on beer,
which is far too dear. For 17 years beer
has been carrying a fearful burden of
special taxation, while chocolates, chew-
ing-gum and fizzy drinks have escaped.
Incidentally, two of the richest men in
Australia at the moment are a gentle-
man who makes the lollies with which
Gerty stuffs her tummy, and a gentle-
man who makes headache tablets to
remove the effects.
Members of the Commonwealth Par-
liament cost a good deal more than their
salaries. Tfre Auditor-General’s report
shows a little matter of £5200 for post-
ages and telegrams—equal to 180 shilling
’grams and 4864 letters per member per
annum. Then it takes £5OO a month to
provide Ms.P. with a library (which con-
tains a lot of light reading) to feed their
legislative brains, and the recording of
their wisdom —sittings totalled not more
than five months in terms of working
days in the very busy year 1932-33 —
costs £lOO per man per annum. But there
is economy in at least one Parliament
House department. A country’s tradi-
tions are bred out of its history. There-
fore : “Australian Historical Records,
£5.”


grand CHAMPION PLAGWAGGER
(65 YEARS & OVER CLASS )
PENNED BY EMPIRE LEAGUES LTP
GRAND RESERVE CHAMPION GO-GETTER*.
MB £ MIM ROLLING - MAIN .
JOINT-WINNERS OF 27 BLUE
RIBBONS FOR LARGEST AGGREGATE
PERIOD SPENT OUTSIDE
1 THEIR NATIVE COUNTRY. £
i PENNED BY THE TOURIST CB\
Bureau in conjunction
'ft WITH THE TAXDOD G ERS ' 111 M
® ASSOC (OPEN CLASS) !
A WINNER IN “IKE EASTERN SUBURBS
PRESS PUBLICITY- CHASING SECTION
(NOVICE CLASS^
PAST GRAND CHAMPION SEX-APPEAL CLASS.
WHY OVERLOOK THE HIGHER CREATION?


\\ v '
m
Ml'
I don’t know anything
about petrol bat I do
know my car runs best
on SHELL
SHELL
The Quality Spirit of Australia
... and of the World
S 1523
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Shorter, who has been Doultons’
Australasian director for over 45 years,
is leaving for England on the Narkunda.
He wants to be in London for the birth-
day of John Doulton Hooper, the new-
generation director of the concern.
This remarkable old man, who will cele-
brate his 81st birthday at sea, comes of
a family of Staffordshire potters. He has
a fine collection of pottery and china at
his old stone pioneer house in Parra-
matta.
The retirement of A. E. Harte breaks
a long-standing link in Queensland com-
merce. The quiet Somersetshire man
went north in the ’eighties and opened
a sharebroking business in Charters
Towers, where he was associated with
many famous floats. When gold shares
began to languish, he emigrated to Bris-
bane. He was secretary of the Stock
Exchange and National Agricultural
Association before reopening his own
business.
The death of Tom Brown, ex-M.H.R.,
calls to mind the fight he waged in Calare
(N.S.W.) 28 years ago against J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick. Fitz. came in only three
weeks before the polling, the original
anti-Labor candidate having suddenly re-
tired. Tom Brown hiked where he
couldn’t travel by train, and Fitz. drove.
George Reid, Joe Cook and their kind
helped Fitz. ; Brown had such spell-
binders as Jupp Gardiner and Donald
Macdonell. Fitz. didn’t win, but in a
poll of 13,717 there was only 194 between
them. Now they are both gone.
R. W. G. Mackay was an original
leader of the U.A.P. intellectuals whose
Summer Schools have released so many
flocks of ideas and produced so little in
the way of results. He got so sick of this
state of affairs that he left Sydney last
week to join the British Labor party.
He proposes to try to wrest Frome
R. W. G. MACKAY, Sydney solicitor,
who will enter British politics as a
Laborite.
from Lord Weymouth, who has a Tory
majority there of 5000-odd. His friend
Sir Stafford Cripps, who recently made
a tactless reference to Buckingham
Palace, will sponsor him. Mr. Mackay,
though born in England, was educated at
Sydney Grammar and University. He
has succeeded at everything so far (St.
Paul’s has had no abler lecturer in his-
tory and philosophy), and he was a
valued member of the conservative old
Sydney firm of Sly and Russell.
Lord Novar, who has died of pneu-
monia in London, aged 74, was a most
conscientious war Governor-General as
Sir Ronald Munro-Ferguson. There
were few training camps in the Com-
monwealth that failed to get at least one
glimpse of his smooth, smiling Scotch
face between 1914 and the Armistice. He
had no constitutional problems to cope
with during his term of office. Billy
Hughes settled everything for him as a
War Precautions Act dictator. He was
one of the few Gs.-G. who have left Aus-
tralia richer than on their arrival ; his
investments were made on the advice of
his friend Owen Cox.
Fashion note from “Jeames”:
The real name of the Mr. Holland Martin
who, according to a cable, has “placed the fate
of Ranelagh, the world’s most exclusive sport-
ing club, in the balance by insisting that it
must earn dividends,” is not Martin. He is the
son of a parson named Holland. He married
the chief proprietress of Martin’s Bank, became
chairman of the London board and took her
surname by royal license during the war. The
resignation of the royalties and titled persons
on the Ranelagh committee was due to the
arrival of a sort of Board of Control designed
to make the club pay. It has been losing
money faster than ever of late years owing to
the competition of golf clubs. The Prince,
for example, never goes near it: he much pre-
fers Sunningdale, which, in addition to the best
golf within 25 miles of London, provides as
good food and tennis as Ranelagh. Hurlingham
is in the same financial plight as Ranelagh.
(Incidentally, it is just as exclusive: that is to
say, a would-be member has to be approved by
a royalty.) Roehampton, which is in the same
part of the world, would also be in a bad way
if it hadn’t an excellent golf course.
Josiah Symon, of Adelaide, was the
perfect citizen. He married young, had
a family of 10 (five boys and five girls),
and lived to be 88. He brought to the
Federal Convention of 37 years ago,
as S. Aus. representative, a clear head
and a wealth of legal knowledge: he
had been A.-G. of his State 10 years
before. An original Senator, he was
Commonwealth A.-G. (1904-05); and,
without obtruding his immense store of
constitutional learning, he was able, in the;
13 years he served in Parliament, to get
a good deal of it into his colleagues’
heads. He was a Shakspearean autho-
rity, a collector of books and pictures,
a viticulturist and orchardist, a lover of
Scotland, where he was born and edu-
cated, and a most unpretentious, kindly
and lovable man.
There was no more respected padre in
the A.I.F. than James Green, senior
Methodist chaplain, who preached his
farewell sermon in Wesley Church, Syd-
ney, on Sunday night. He began with
two assets: he was a veteran, having
served with both the N.S.W, Bushmen
and the Commonwealth Horse in the S.
African War, and he was brave. Wher-
ever duty called there Green was to be
found, irrespective of danger. Later
Diggers of-all denominations got to like
and admire him for his unselfish readi-
ness to help anybody and everybody,
materially as well as spiritually. He was
an exceptionally good preacher of the
direct, hard-hitting type, and a writer of
first-class English ; his war books have
the simple, easy quality of his sermons.
Mr. Green’s services have earned him a
Queen’s Medal, King’s Medal, C.M.G.
and the three war medals, and he also
holds the V.D. decoration. The fact that
he has left Wesley Church doesn’t mean
that he means to stop working. His mind
is as young as ever.
Sir Charles Belcher, Chief Justice of
Trinidad, is one of many Austra-
lians in high positions abroad. He was
born at Geelong in 1876, became a
Victorian barrister in 1902 and was called
to the London Bar at Gray’s Inn seven
years later. Since then he has been
a magistrate in Uganda, an assistant-
judge in Zanzibar, an acting-puisne in
Kenya, Attorney-General and Judge of
the High Court of Nyasaland, Chief Jus-
tice of Cyprus and president of the
Egyptian Appeal Court. He speaks an
amazing number of languages and dia-
lects and can be amusing in all of them.
J. J. Kennedy has dropped his anchor
in S.A. for a while as Collector of
Customs. He began work in Sydney in
1900, served there for 16 years, then had
eight years in London and two in Japan,
with interludes in Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Canberra.
Fire Chief T. P. Nance, of Sydney,
who is about to lay down the bucket
and the axe, figuratively speaking, has
a hobby which bespeaks the man. He
puts in his spare time making toys for
children who can’t afford such luxuries ;
and very good toys he makes, too. Born
at Kempsey, on the Macleay, when
His hobby is making toys for hard-up
children.
Parkes was in his prime, he joined the
service nearly 40 years ago. Lismore,
Kogarah, Randwick and Paddington all
knew him, and he reached headquarters
in 1921. He moved steadily up the
promotion ladder, and in 1929 became
Chief. He is the first Australian native
to hold the big job.
“El Verdugo” on a veteran:
The Queensland Assembly will not seem the
same without G. P. Barnes, M.L.A., who has
decided to retire at the end of the present
Parliament. The little man, whose beard is
one of the few left in Australian Legislatures,
is nearly 78 years old, but still full of vigor
and a good advertiserfient for a religious and
temperate life. Like his brother, the late W.H.,
who was one of the most frugal Treasurers
Queensland ever had, he looks anything but a
political fighter and anything but a produce
merchant, but he was highly successful in both
roles. He and his two brothers began life
with few advantages—their father was a driver
for Cobb and Co. in the roaring days—but they
built their prosperity on a regimen of long
days and hard work. Even when W.H. was
Treasurer and G.P. had sat all night they would
be on view at the Roma-street markets in the
early morning selling their produce in their
shirt-sleeves like any other agent. G.P. never
aspired to the Ministry, but he had a talent
for finance, and his knowledge of wheat —
he controls a big milling organisation with
roots in half a dozen towns —made him a for-
midable critic of pools. His native Darling
Downs is his debtor for many of its railway
and other facilities for which he and the late
Arthur Morgan were the arch-agitators.
Arthur Lynch, who has died in Lon-
don after an operation at 73, had as
varied a life as any man of his time.
Born at Smythesdale (Vic.), he took de-
grees at Melbourne and Berlin Univer-
sities, qualified as a civil engineer in
Melbourne, as an electrical engineer in
Paris and as a surgeon and physician in
London. He published several books of
literary criticism and many scientific
articles ; and at the time of his last ill-
ness he was busy controverting the
Einstein theory in the intervals of dic-
tating his biography to two typists. He
fought with the Boers as a lieut.-colonel
against the British and with the British
against the Germans as a full colonel.
Elected M.P. for Galway after the Boer
War, while in Paris, he was arrested and
sentenced to death for high treason when
he came to England to take his seat.
After three years in gaol he was given a
free pardon and elected M.P. for West
Clare —a seat he held till 1918. A quick-
tempered, cheery and charming men, he
never forgot a friend or Australia, and
his loyalty and courage were admired
even by his enemies, of whom he pos-
sessed a full issue. He had been a
Bulletin contributor for the past
quarter of a century.
Jack Cameron has retired from the
British Consular Service and will re-
present the “British Australasian” and
other papers at Geneva. He was
born at Wagga, joined the “Coolgardie
Miner” 38 years ago, and went to the
Boer War for the “West Australian.” He
was attached to the British Foreign
Office during the World War, and was
appointed to several important Consul-
ships after the Armistice. Mary Gilmore,
the poetess, is his sister.
“Threadneedle”:
Otto Kahn, who has died suddenly in N.
York, aged 67, was a war-casualty of sorts.
Though bom in Germany his sympathies were
English; he had spent several years in London
in the service of King Edward’s friend Sir
Edgar Speyer, the international banker, and
he held several English distinctions. He went
to the N. York branch of the firm at 26, and
later joined Kuhn, Loeb and Co. When the
war began he and Jacob Schiff, another Ger-
man Jew, were the predominant partners.
Schiff, though he was eventually to lead a pro-
cession of anti-German bankers along Fifth-
avenue, hesitated about coming in on the side
of the Allies, and this gave the Christian firm,
Morgans, its chance. Morgans had been very
hard hit over the New York, New Haven and
Hartford railway disaster. It declared whole-
heartedly for the Allies. If Germany had won
America wouldn’t have collected a single war
debt and Morgans would have been ruined. As
things turned but J. Pierpoint Morgan made
most of the war-money and got all the pres-
tige, while Otto Kahn, who, financial authori-
ties agree, was the bigger man of the two,
had to take second place for the rest of his
life.
Theodore Fink is here shown without
the hat which has been admired in most
of the world’s capitals and in, the in-
numerable country centres to which he
has hiked. He was in politics for 10
years (M.L.A. for Jolimont and West
Richmond, and an assistant-Minister)
but resigned to concentrate on the law
business, art and literature over a quarter
of a century ago. Since then he has been
president or chairman of every kind of
council, board and conference in his
native city, and of many outside it. A
steady job which he holds in this line
THEODORE FINK, Victoria’s G.O.M.
is the chairmanship of directors of Mel-
bourne “Herald and Weekly Times.” An
original member of the Press Union, he
has attended every London press con-
ference since 1909. He has a fine library,
a valuable collection of mostly Austra-
lian pictures and an enormous store of
good stories. Among -other services to
art, he supplied the funds which enabled
his friend Phil May to study in Paris.


u
Uou Pay
o'Your Money
and i
i
YOU TAKE YOUR CHOICE-”
So little money to pay, so remarkable
choice in return!
Three separate pocket-packet sizes of Three-
Threes nines, eighteens, twenty-sevens all
at the rate of NINE for sixpence.
You're in excellent company smoking Three-
Threes. Wherever you go you see the hand-
some scarlet and gold Ardath packets in the
hand of keen smokers.
Ardath’s famous blend, cork-tipped or plain,
fourfold wrapped for perpetual freshness
Three-Threes represent quality and value !
The Secret
is the
3 33’s BLEND
STQTEfxPIIESf
C IGA
RETTES
5.5 J
i m
Vi
m
Pi
t
IT
C/GA
ETTES
R
N
333
m
1
l
m
■
ill
SfyTBfXPIIESS
m
TES
C
GA
R
E
T
t
1
NINE
fcrr 6°
WHAT VALUE
EIGHTEEN
■fair V-
A HANDY. HANDSOME PACK
/TWENTY-SEVEN
/-fcrr |/6 |
IMAGINE! 27 333 s IN ONE PACKET !
THE IDEAL PACKET FOR THE BIG SMOKER
Also flat fifties, flat hundreds, and round
airtight fifties.
CORK TIPPED and PLAIN
6914 8—3.4.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividenas s
Pref. To Re-
Jan.. Profit. (10 p.c.) Ovd. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
41,314
1929.. 22.817 1271 25 p.c. = 15,791 5,755 35,559
Premiums on new shares, £33,288.. 2,271
Reserves.
1930.. 38,693 3050 30 p.c. = 24,249 11,394 9,123
Share premiums, etc., £6598 .. 15,721
1931.. 41,736 4952 25 p.c. = 20,688 16,096 31,817
Unexplained reductions, £1460.. .. 30,357
Deficit.
Assets written up and £83,894 of
bonus scrip issued; added goodwill,
£37,495 7.13 S
Reserves.
1932.. 62,407 7500 17* p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 221,, ~ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to Staff Provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
1934.. 86,552 7500 £4579 41.947 31,526 71,525
The attractiveness or otherwise of the
shop means much to traders these days.
Recognising this, Woolworths have set
up more or less alluring displays in the
busiest shopping centres. Also lighter
purses have forced discrimination in
favor of cheaper goods. A large and
quick turnover for cash is the chief pillar
upon which the business rests, and small
personal service—-salesmanship is re-
duced to a minimum, there are no deli-
veries and few book debts —means low
overhead. Thus far, cos. working closely
to these principles have enjoyed a rapid
growth of turnover, and exhibited some
very juicy results, despite generally de-
pressing conditions. Whether they will
escape restrictive legislation is another
matter.
This concern, formed in Sydney at the
end of 1924, immediately spread to Bris-
bane. Also subsidiaries have been formed
in Maoriland, Westralia and Victoria,
and another was registered in London to
do the foreign buying, though imports
now account for a smaller proportion
of sales than they used to. Last year
the co.’s new building at the corner of
Pitt and Liverpool streets, Sydney, was
completed—the freehold was bought
from the railway authorities for £171,000
—and new branches were opened at
Leichhardt (N.S.W.) and at Rockhampton
and Townsville (Q.), raising the number
of stores in the chain to 27 ; another
one has been opened since the close of
accounts in new premises erected on part
of Her Majesty’s Theatre block, Sydney.
All the pups are a vigorous lot, though
the Vic. one, which took a lease of the
old Britannia Theatre site in Bourke-
street, Melbourne, didn’t begin trading
until the end of November last.
After setting aside something for de-
preciation, and £40,000 (the same as in
the previous term) for the taxgatherer,
the year’s net result sprang £16,707. The
pref. divs. took £12,079, leaving enough
to show 43.8 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 36.5 p.c. and 32.6 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. A 5 p.c. bonus
was again added to the div. (20 p.c., up
24 points), making 25 p.c. for the year,
and that was sweetened with a one-for-
one gift issue in 1931. Still, part of the
cash-paid capital brought with it a
premium of 200 p.c. ; which takes some
of the gilt off the gingerbread.
To help finance the year’s outlay
£lOO,OOO of 7 p.c. second pref. money
was gathered. This and the quick de-
velopment of the business are seen in
the next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1929. 1932 1933 1934
Paid capital.. £93,764 £242,788 £242,788 £342,788
Liabilities .. 127,525 127,170 274,911 272,188
Freeholds . . 51,667 118,697 302,819 340,989
Leaseholds . . 6,095 9,083 19,852 86,421
Plant . . .. 37,196 51,629 98,828 130,903
Shares other cos.,
etc 9,450 103,100 102,901 116,651
Stocks.. .. 100,551 121,556 143,476 190,968
Debtors . . 4,159 4,044 21,957 26,710
Cash .. . . 929 65,703 41,629 1,186
The trade debt (£74,526) is well covered ;
the other £197,662 is secured by mort-
gages, etc. The new capital, together with
the cash holding (£41,629 at the previous
balance) and surplus earnings, enabled
£38,071 to be added to the book value
of freeholds, £66,569 to leaseholds,
£32,075 to plant, £13,750 to shares in
other cos. and £47,492 to stocks.
What effect competition will have on
the future of this class of business
remains to be seen. Big stores are
opening up new departments embody-
ing chain principles. The market
prices the firsts at 355. 6d. and the sec-
onds at 255. lOd. Allowing for the
statutory cut on the firsts, the return is
4.3 p.c. and 4.6 p.c. respectively. Ex-
cluding the depreciation reserve (£59,985),
and taking shareholdings at their book
value, the net tangible cover is £5 10s.
sd. firsts and £3 7s. lOd. seconds. The
ords. are not listed.
Union Theatres Investments, Ltd. (Syd.)
r Dividends ■, Towards
Dec., Profit. Pref. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £
1927.. 16,717 16,717 Nil 4,649
1928.. 13,815 27,557 Nil 18,391
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £6505.. 11,886
1929.. 23,850 27,980 Nil 16,016
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £16,032 nQ-
-1930.. 15,887 28,000 Nil j
Over-provision for taxation, £2692.. 9,405
Reserves.
Union Theatres’ div. guarantee, £9308 \
1931.. 15,590 Nil Nil 15,590 j 10 ’*
Written off parent’s debt, £9308. . 6,185
Over-provision for taxation, £1741.. 7,926
1932.. 3,845 Nil Nil 3,845 11,771
5 p.c.
1933.. 15,964 17,500 Nil 10,235
For the most part, the figures in the
table reflect the overcapitalisation of the
showing side of the picture industry.
The co., which is one of the Union
group, put up the State Theatre and a
shopping block of 11 floors on the old
“Evening News” site in Market-street,
Sydney. The land, together with an
adjoining property fronting George-
street, was taken over from the old
Union Co. (now in liquidation) for
£273,500 (cost) —£128,500 in ords., and
the transfer of a mortgage covered the
balance. The building and equipment,
etc., originally estimated to cost £397,000,
ran off with over £729,000. Union, which
took half a million ords. altogether,
found the extra money, which in turn
was subscribed by shareholders in the
various holding cos. The public directly
put up £350,000 in 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
largely on the strength of a guarantee
as to capital and dividend by Union and
Australasian Films. Liquidation of the
guarantors, however, wiped out the
guarantee, leaving the Investment Co.’s
pref. div. dependent upon net rentals
from the theatre, shops, etc.
Before the co. could get into its stride
slump strewed the path with obstacles,
and the guarantors had to find £22,537
to cover payments to the prefs. for the
two years to the close of accounts in
1930. Then the guarantors themselves
got into difficulties ; cuts in rentals and
growth of taxation dried up earnings,
and the pref. div. fell into arrears, not-
withstanding that practically the whole of
the building had been let. Early in the
last term, however, General Theatres
Corp. (the concern which amalgamated
the city houses of U.T. and Hoyt’s)
leased the theatre for five years at
£31,200 p.a. The net result benefited by
£12,119, reaching £15,964, or £1536 less
than a full year’s pref. div. called for.
During the term, the pref. div. was re-
duced from 8 p.c. to 5 p.c., with the
right to advance with the ords. after the
latter have received 1 p.c.
What the future holds for the over-
crowded industry it is difficult to say at
the moment. It is chiefly to better
rentals and lighter taxes that share-
holders in this co. have to look for im-
proved returns. An item likely to take
a larger bite in the future is the charge
for renovation and repairs.
The market, which does not think the
participating rights are likely to be worth
much, for a while at any rate, prices
the prefs. at 16s. 9d. as against 11s.
a year ago. The return at 16s. 9d. is
6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£,£-£>£, £,
1925.. 69,425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
♦lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458 ;
1923, £3708; 1926. £5208; 1929, £8333; 1930,
£3958; 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375; 1933, £4375.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 38,465 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Staff Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301.566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48,268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
*lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £1480; 1924, £1966 ; 1925, £3473;
1926-34, £7500 p.a.
Takings are on the up grade again.
Combining the figures of the two depart-
ments, the spring in last vear’s income
(£268,481) was £8540, of which £3945
was on account of premiums (£213,687)
and £4595 in respect of interest, etc.
(£54,794). But the amount added to
funds (£68,112) was £2117 lighter, due
mainly to a growth of £7214 in claims
(£96,225), which include surrenders
(£28,359, up £3043). But bonuses to policy-
holders have been maintained at a steady
rate for the last five years —they range
from 30s. per cent, to £3 per cent, on
the sum assured according to the age of
the policy—and are more likely to be
increased than reduced in the future,
thanks to the extra protection given to
policy contracts by lowering the basis
of valuation and by the provision made
for contingencies other than liabilities
under policies. When the books closed,
in addition to assurance funds totalling
£1,174,501, there were other reserves
aggregating £84,981.
Also, in addition to the usual provi-
sion for liabilities under policies, an
extra £43,992 has been added to the
Assurance fund during the last three years.
This enabled the co. to lower the basis of
valuation in the Ordinary department
from 3j p.c. to 3 p.c., and to strengthen
the margin for loading in the Indus-
trial section. The aim is to provide
for satisfactory bonuses in the future.
After deducting taxes, last year’s net
return on mean funds was 3.6 p.c. in
the Ordinary and 4.1 p.c. in the Indus-
trial branch. Now that the taxation of
life offices has been put on a better foot-
ing, the margin available for bonuses
from this source can be expected to
widen a little.
In the Ordinary department £71,172 of
new business was put on the books:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
New policies. . 1,911 1,009 1,316 1,976
Assuring . . £476,786 £198,787 £221,176 £292,348
First premiums 15,024 5,032 6,966 9,076
R e n e w a 1
premiums . . 62,343 68,545 68,005 69,163
After deducting taxes, and assuming that
consideration for annuities cost 3 p.c.,
the balance of the year’s exes, took 22.2
p.c. of the net premiums as against 20.2
p.c. in the previous term and 25.7 p.c.
in 1929. The new business cost 109 p.c.
as against 110.5 p.c. in 1932; that is
assuming that first premiums are 10
times more expensive than renewals.
An extra £73,394 of new business was
written in the Industrial section:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Policies .. 13,511 8,381 10,538 13,038
Assuring . . £661,230 £341,375 £384,860 £458,254
Net premiums 143,646 134,185 132,039 135,448
Interest, etc.. . 27,525 26,462 23,994 26,198
Again excluding taxes, exes, got off with
47.5 p.c. of the net premiums (£135,448,
up £3409) as against 47, 44.7; 48 and
48.9 p.c. back to 1929.
The protection for policy-holders is in
this form:
1932 1933
Freeholds, etc. £259,821 20.6 p.c. £259,564 19.7 p.c.
Govt, securities 534,009 42.7 „ 595,767 45.2 „
Shares other cos. 19,000 1.5 „ 19,151 1.4 „
Mortgages . . 290,102 23.2 „ 284,609 21.6 „
Loans on policies 92,371 7.4 ~ 97,405 7.4 ~
Bpok debts .. 43,025 3.4 ~ 41,425 3.1 „
Cash . . . . 12,922 1.2 „ 21,815 1.6 „
More attention is now being given to
Government securities, up £61,760 last
year. Mortgages now account for 21.6
p.c. of the balance-sheet totals compared
with 30.9 p.c. three years ago. ,
Automobile Finance Co. (Melb.)
To Re- De-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, fieit.
£ £ £
1924.. 244 Nil . 244 4,964
Added preliminary exes., £7594.. 12,558
Dec.,
1925*. 2,679 Nil 2679 9.879
Forfeited shares, £lO .. .. 9,869
Pref. Ord. £
1926.. 14,565 S p.c. 10 p.c. = 9,746 4819 5,050
Reserves.
1927.. 19,651 8 „ 8 „ „ 13,131 6520 1,470
1928.. 20,616 8 ~ 8 „ „ 13,480 7136 8,606
1929.. 18,731 8 ~ 8 „ ~13,480 5251 13,857
1930.. 7,596 8 „ 4 „ „ 7,728 13,725
To bad debts reserve, £8500.. .. 5,225
1931.. 854- 8 p.c. Nil 1,970 4,103
To bad debts reserve, £4OOO .. .. 103
1932.. 2,261 8 p.c. Nil 1,976 285 388
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 29,440 4 „ Nil 988 30,040
*l3 months.
It is hard to say exactly where the ords.
stand. The co. set up in the motor hire-
purchase trade in 1923, and later threw
off a subsidiary, General Investments
and Discounts (paid capital, £25,000), to
handle other t.-p. business. For the five
years to the close of accounts in 1930
divs. averaged 7.6 p.c. But hard times
brought a change in the nature of the
business—less than 30 p.c. of the co.’s
funds is now employed in the motor
trade—and a heavy crop of bad debts.
So, a year ago, the board decided to put
up the shutters. Meanwhile the outlook
improved, a new set of directors was
appointed, and it is now proposed to
return the £24,700 of pref. capital, and
to review the co.’s position at June 30,
when shareholders will be asked to say
whether the co. should shut up shop or
continue in business. At the moment
the latter alternative appears to offer the
best prospects.
Most of the trouble occurred in con-
nection with second mortgages and the
discounting of bills for a jewellery con-
cern which failed. Including the subsi-
diary’s figures, the amount written off
since the inception on account of mort-
gages, etc., was £50,250. Bills discounted
for H. Lewis and Co. (the jewellers just
referred to) figure at £40,524. These, or
some of them, are the subject of an
appeal to the Privy Council. Whatever
the result of the appeal may be the co.
must sustain a heavy loss, for which full
provision has not yet been made, the
chairman says. Much depends upon the
extent of this loss, and upon the board’s
success in realising the freehold and
mortgage investments, etc., and in find-
ing employment for the money in the
motor trade.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £108,573 £168,545 £168,545 £168,495
Overdraft . . 78,050 25,767 15,246
Sundry creditors 9,325 10,595 2,681 1,979
Plant, etc. . . 700 500 796 1,150
Shares in other
cos 25,000 25,000 25,000 4,000
Rook debts . . 274,838 149,848 153,101 103,787
Foreclosures, etc. 41,651 15,287 13,039
Cash . . . . 19,805
A reduction of £49,314 in debtors’
balances enabled the overdraft (£15,246
at the previous balance) to be wiped out
and £19,805 to be put in the bank. Of
the £103,787 of book debts, only £20,037
was in respect of the motor trade.
The year’s loss of £29,440 was due
almost entirely to the adjustment of asset
values in the books —£21,000 was struck
off the holding in the subsidiary (now
£4000) and £6425 net off debtors’
balances, etc. —and to legal expenses
.(£3922). After handing the prefs. 4 p.c.,
£30,040 of the ord. capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles at the end of Dec.
The market, doubtful of the extent of
further losses, prices the lOs.-paid ords.
at 3s. 4d.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
f -Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1923.. 9,428 720 5 p.c. = 9,060 1,412
1 ,oss.
1924.. 2,211 720 Nil 4.343
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.c. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 ' .. .. 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 2,509
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. • - 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 . . ■ .. 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ ~ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Trans, to bad debts reserve, £ll,OOO. . 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 2* p.c. = 4,651 952
When this co. took over the then 19-
year-old business of McDonnell and East
in 1920 it looked like becoming a steady
8 percenter. But stock values had to be
twice readjusted following the sharp post-
war slump. This misadventure past, the
board decided to build the co. a home
worthy of what it hoped the future would
be ; and it went outside for most of the
money. Meanwhile drought laid a heavy
hand on the west of Queensland, and
affected city merchants’ turnovers. Thus
the ords. averaged only 4.5 p.c. for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1930.
Then slump lightened purses, and
brought trouble with stocks and debtors’
balances, and the ords. had a dry spell
for the next three years. Certainly the
appearance of Coles and Woolworths
and the revival of Finneys brought a lot
of trade back to Queen-street; but for
this co., which is in George-street, it
has meant keener competition.
Last year turnover further improved,
and, including £155 transferred from re-
serves, gross earnings (£65,543) sprang
£1629 ; but they were still over £30,000
below the 1930 figure. Exes. (£61,633,
including £lOOO for bad debts as against
£6091 in the previous term) were £3959
lighter, leaving enough profit to pay the
pref. div. (£720) and show 2.2 p.c. on the
£172,027 of ord. capital. That is dis-
regarding £ll,OOO transferred direct from
the general to the bad debts reserve.
Still, 2\ p.c. was distributed, though
reserves had to be tapped for a further
£1461 to do it, reducing them to £952 in
excess of the goodwill item (£11,000).
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages . . 53,000 51,750 51,000 50,250
Overdraft . . 77.343 66,296 65,000 65,000
Sundry creditors 38,336 15,356 12,538 8,440
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 131,730 129,828 128,869 128,204
Stocks. . . . 120,079 101,211 99,006 86,282
Book debts, _
cash, etc. .. 117,216 100,624 95,972 9/,038
Debtors’ balances (£68,070) were re-
duced by £15,475, mainly on account of
the allowance for bad debts, already re-
ferred to. Much depends upon whether
the provision proves to be adequate, and
upon the stocks item, down £12,724.
The more or less liquid surplus (£60,052,
including stocks) slipped £6388.
The market, which thinks that share-
holders’ prospects will look a lot better
when the outside debt is substantially
reduced, prices the pound ords. at 9s.
as against 6s. a year ago. The return
at 9s. would be 5.5 p.c. on a 2 j p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 20s. Id. in net
tangibles. The prefs. rarely appear on
’Change.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies. & Coluson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAy” Preformed
wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & ,CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House; Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. — Advt.
* * t. *
WOLFRAM ORES.—We are anxious to purchase
Large and Regular Tonnages. Write, with samples,
Norman Hill & Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers all classes ores, including gold ore and
concentrates. — Advt.
C* {"'ll Pi
UWL,iy
The Metallurgical Works of
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you write and post a sample of the
Ore or Concentrate which you have for
sale, it will be assayed for Gold content
free of cost, and price submitted.
4M.fi
The husband who plays
THE CAME
BEHIND every wife is the man who has promised
to protect her. Happy the wife whose husband
“plays the game,” who gives her the life that
his means permit, and who has become a member
of the A.M.P., to provide for her comfort in the
event of his death.
Such a wife penned this tribute to her man recently:
“When we were married my husband had a small
income, and his first policy was for only £2OO.
A year later he took out one for £3OO. Three years
later we felt that a third policy for £l,OOO was
within our means and that it would bring us con-
tentment. We have never looked back since then.
We feel that we have the backing of the great
A.M.P. in all we do. We feel secure, and it is a
lovely feeling as we get older.”
The Society has a book called “Investing in Happi-
ness,” which shows how easy it is for all men and
women to have this feeling of security. A copy will
be sent free to any enquirer. Better still, ask that
a representative of the Society be sent to tell you
the advantages of membership in “the greatest
mutual life office in the Empire.”
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., Chief Inspector & Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
Assets: £92,000,000
Lead
Over the last three years Australia has
stepped up from third to second place
amongst the world’s lead-producers, as
the following table, compiled by
Branders, Goldschmidt and Co., the Lon-
don bullion merchants, shows:
Tons, Tons, Tons,
1931 1932. 1933.
United States .. 3<W,ud() 248,000 266,000
Mexico .. .. 208,000 129,000 115,000
Spain .. .. 108,000 108,000 99,000
Australia .. 156,000 187,000 214,000
Burma .. ~ 75,000 71,000 72,000
Canada .. .. 127,000 116,000 119,000
Germany & Polish
Silesia .. .. 132,000 117,000 113,000
Belgium . . . . 61,000 61,000 60,000
Other countries .. 145,000 111,000 103,000
Total 1,379,000 1,148,000 1,161,000
So far as increase in output is concerned,
Australia led the field with an extra
27,000 tons, followed by the U.S.A.,
Canada and Burma. In all other coun-
tries there was a shrinkage in produc-
tion. The increase in the Australian
figure was due mainly to activities at
Mt. Isa, and partly to the larger extrac-
tion of crudes at the Barrier, and to im-
proved recoveries there and at the
smelters at Port Pirie.
The London spot price of the metal
fluctuated between £lO 2s. 6d. and £l3 16s.
3d., the average for the year being £ll 16s.
Id. as against £l2 os. 9d., £l3 os. 7d.,
£lB os. Id. and £23 4s. lid. back to 1929.
Last week-end the figure was £ll 12s.
6d. ; it was £l3 7s. 7d. for the four years
to the end of 1911. Although costs have
been substantially reduced, local silver-
lead producers depend mainly upon the
exchange premium for mining profits,
and then only the high-grade mines are
showing satisfactory results.
The future of the metal remains
obscure. Last year consumption in-
creased, but it was still 20,000 tons short
of recorded world production, and
world stocks at the end of Dec. (515,000
tons) were 20,000 tons heavier than they
were a year earlier. The increase, how-
ever, was wholly in respect of the
U.S.A. ; there was a slight reduction in
European and other stocks.
At the annual meeting of New Guinea
Goldfields, Ltd., the chairman, Frank
Hambridge, stated that the co.’s con-
sulting engineers—Mining Trust, Ltd.,
London—had estimated the profits in
sight at £1,152,000 (Aust.). Gold had
been taken as worth £7 10s. per ounce in
Australian currency, and the ore reserves
as follows:
Golden Ridges .. 100,000 tons, assaying 20.0 dwt.
Edic Creek
(oxidised) .. 118,500 tons, assaying 12.4 dwt.
Golden Peaks .. 400,000 tons, assaying 3.6 dwt.
Bulolo Gravels .. 658,000 yds., averaging 19.4 d.
Since the rich Edie Creek gravels had
not been systematically tested ahead of
the present workings, only one year’s
profit on the same scale as 1933 was
included in the estimate. In calculating
the tonnage of Edie Creek ore the figures
are confined to the two veins most fully
developed—Edie No. 1 and Edie No. 2.
No ore below the adit level was included,
although the drive from the shaft 200 ft.
below the adit level had already proved
a length of 280 ft. of 12.4dwt. ore for a
width of 30 inches.
* * * *
Drillers, Ltd., an offshoot of Oil
Search, Ltd., has been formed to carry
out a deep-drilling test of the dome on
the Warooby Creek area between Blyth-
dale and Roma (Q.). The venture is
based on the detailed work of F. Moss
and E. A. Rudd and the data accumu-
lated from scout-drilling by Builders,
Ltd. In a solid little report, all the essen-
tials are disclosed, notably the set of
marker beds, consistently cut in the
scout bores. Topographical and struc-
tural contours,.representing the most de-
tailed work of its kind yet undertaken in
the Roma district, are followed by the
pronouncement of a “closed structure”
of approximately 16ft. The closure is
small, but it is hoped that it will increase
with depth. Bedrock is anticipated in
the vicinity of 3900 ft., and all oil and
gas showings of any importance have in
the past been confined to near bedrock.
* * * *
Golden Junction (Cracow), N.L.,
crushed 40,000 tons from Zapopan,
Northern Territory, for an average of
14dwt. of gold, and there is another 3dwt.
in the tailings. The reefs are reported
strong and persistent to a depth of
225 ft., where both water and sulphides
came in and work was abandoned over
30 years ago. The position of the old
main shaft is said to be the worst pos-
sible for dealing with the water difficulty.
Much will depend upon the result of the
diamond-drilling campaign recom-
mended by W. J. Turner. About ly miles
nor’-west of the main workings are the
Crocodile and Alligator leases, over
which the co. has taken an option. Flere
some alluvial and shallow-reefing work
was done in the past. The co. has also
secured prospecting rights over two
square miles of country on the Wandi
field, and over a square mile on the Cos-
mopolitan-Howley field, where there is
40,000 tons of tailing, assaying 2dwt., or
17s. per ton, with gold at its present
price. An option has also been taken
over the Great Western at Tennant’s
Creek, Centralia, and a subsidiary will
be formed presently to take it over.
* * * *
Ginger is being put into development
work on the amalgamated leases of the
Golden Surprise Co., North Arm (Q.), and,
without values being made available, the
reports are consistently favorable. These
are supported by additions to the treat-
ment plant, including an extra five head
of heavy stamps. The adit level on the
Coolum reef is now 512 ft. to the face,
carrying a 2ft. lode, and on Quincey and
Corvi’s leases developments have come
up to expectations. The field should
make its weight felt when production
figures are posted in the later months of
the year.
* * * *
Hawkwood Gold Mines (C.Q.) is slop-
ing ore on its Narayen lease, and about
300 tons of stone is at grass awaiting
tests as to treatment. Bulk lots have
been sent to Cracow and Port Kembla,
and returns from the latter show 49dwt.
per ton.
* * * *
Industrial Metal Deposits Pty., a Mel-
bourne concern which has been testing
the mineral-bearing sands at Byron Bay,
on the N. S. Wales North Coast, is con-
sidering the formation of a £lOO,OOO con-
cern to work the deposits. The co. has
discovered a process for separating
zircon, rutile and ilmenite from the
black-sand deposits on the beach. The
intention is to concentrate upon the pro-
duction of zircon, which it hopes to
recover for less than half its present
market price of about £l4 per ton. It
is a heat-resisting material, used in the
manufacture of firebricks, rust-resisting
paint, etc. The manufacture of zir-
conium oxide, used in making crucibles,
retorts, furnace linings and in the glass
trade, etc., may also be undertaken.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia has taken a
two-month working option over the New
Morning Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.), as
from March 22. In the past the mine,
worked on a small scale, was profitable
to a depth of 1000 ft., the gold being
found in shoots in a number of flat,
dipping veins in a diorite dyke. Two
diamond drills now at work are expected
to disclose further veins above and below
the present bottom level. If results are
considered good enough, a co. will be
formed to work the show —capital
£40,000 in 4s. shares, of which 50,000
paids are to go to the vendor. The
parent will guarantee payment in full of
the remaining 150,000 shares, of which
Mt. Coolon has agreed to take 50,000.
Also, £9737 of the vendors’ debts will be
passed to the new co.
* * * *
The Maud and Yellow Girl (Vic.),
which has about 10,000 tons of \oz.
stone ready, intends to build up the
quantity of feed to 25,000 tons, and then
cyanide the lot; only a fraction of the
gold would be won by crushing. But
if there is much of the l|oz. stone, 2ft.
wide, recently disclosed on No. 4 level,
the board is likely to adopt a more
vigorous policy.
* * * *
Consistently good returns from shallow
workings at Gordon, about 20 miles from
Ballarat (Vic.), are beginning to attract
attention. Over the last two years about
£BOOO worth of gold has been taken from
Corbett Bros.’ claim. Next door is
Toohey’s claim, from which nine tons of
stone has just been crushed at the Eger-
ton State battery for 150 oz. of gold,
worth approximately £ll5O.
* * * *
The output of gold in Westralia for
1933 was 637,207 fine ounces, valued at
£4,886,254, or £ll 2s. per head of popu-
lation, which is more than either the
State’s wool or wheat turned in. The
average grade of ore treated was B.l6dwt.
per ton, the lowest on record. Dick
Hamilton, "president of the Westralian
Chamber of Mines, says that 4dwt. stone
has become profitable with gold at its
present price and costs as they are, pro-
vided the ore is in sufficient quantity,
easily accessible and in a properly
equipped mine.
* * * *
On its property at Cue (W.A.) the
Triton Co. has stripped and repaired the
two shafts and carried out some explora-
tory work on a lode at about the 150 ft.
horizon in the Emu North section.
Assays over widths of from 53 inches to
63 inches go from sdwt. to Bdwt. Much
depends upon the result of the drill hole,
now down 300 ft., 1200 ft. south of the
Emu shaft.
* * * *
Paringa’s No. 6 bore at the northern
end of the Golden Mile stopped at a
depth of 310 ft. The average assay from
252 ft. to 260 ft. was 17dwt. No. 7 bore,
which has been commenced 905 ft. north
and 356 ft. west, is being sunk at a de-
pressed angle of 85 degrees eastward.
“Hints to Prospectors and Owners of
Treatment Plants,” which can be had on
application to the Royal Mint, Perth
(W.A.), has proved to be so popular that
it has just gone into its fifth edition. It
is a little 52-page booklet, full of just
the kind of information wanted by pros-
pectors and others in remote mining dis-
tricts, where facilities are few and con-
ditions difficult.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.F.C.: (1) This co. is doing more than it
originally promised to do for its bondholders.
Impossible to say what they will get out of the
venture; they are entitled to the net proceeds
from the sale of forest products. (2) Ask the
secretary; the bonds have no open market....
Bacon: The co. does not broadcast its figures.
R.W.B.: Unless it can find something
outside Cracow, its prospects are not very
alluring D.T.: It is an Auckland-controlled
concern, which owns 4833 acres on the
Mamaku plateau, near Rotorua. It is growing
principally Californian redwoods. Pulping is
expected to begin in 1939. At Dec. 18, 1931,
75,950 shares had been sold, on which £59,453
had been paid. There are no bondholders.
F.K.B.: Not recommended.


WH
ANNE CREy
The Sprightly Story of a
Philanderer who chose the
Wrong Year in which to
Make Love.
*l9
m
D
>n
A
£
cc
m
o
CO
Z
*
m
m
w
in,
TOM WALLS’S FIRST STARRING PRODUCTION, IN
WHICH HE DWARFS ALL PREVIOUS SUCCESSES.
HE DOMINATES EVERY SCENE.
ITS A BRITISH & DOMIHIOHf
PRODUCTION
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Alice in Wonderland”
The mechanical effects of the English
classic which is being shown as a film
at the Plaza are wonderful, with one or
two exceptions. Oddly enough, the
storm scene in which Alice is dragged
through the wood is a failure. On the
other hand, she shoots up, and becomes
as small as the caterpillar, in a com-
pletely satisfying manner. Charlotte
Henry is lovely as Alice ; lovelier than
any exotic, though the average chorine
could no doubt give her points and a
beating in a beauty contest. She doesn’t
mouth her words, or throw her eyes or
features about; just behaves and looks
like a simple, well-bred little girl. Some
of the scenery is also charming. Most
of the characters of the two books—for
this is a medley of “Wonderland” and
the “Looking-glass”—are there, but the
glamorous atmosphere is missing.
It is characteristic of the brainlessness
which is often to be found in expensive
Hollywood productions that the director
should have chosen American stars to
ruin parts such as Tweedledum and
Tweedledee, Humpty-Dumpty and the
Mock Turtle, in preference to obscuri-
ties with English voices who couldn’t
have helped doing well. Eddie Horton,
as the Hatter, and Gary Cooper, as the
White Knight, look so realistic and act so
fascinatingly that they almost get away
with their voices. So does the delightful
youngster who plays Alice. The others
are awful, and some, such as the White
Queen and the Duchess, aren’t even well
made up.
“Duck Soup”
The local highbrow often registers con-
fusion when convicted of laughing at
the Marx Brothers, yet he is in good
company. Their antics were roared at by
the Elizabethans, and were embodied
later in pantomime harlequinades. In
“Duck Soup” the idiot of the family
plays tricks on a large, solemn man-
sets fire to his hat, ruins the lemonade
he is trying to sell—similar to those
played by Pantaloon on policemen. The
talkative cigar-smoker is a kind of Harle-
quin ; brilliant, swift and graceful in
movement, a favorite with the ladies.
In “Duck Soup” his gyrations are
executed against a gorgeous background
which makes them all the more startling.
“Damaged Lives”
A screen version of “Damaged Goods,”
which has been on a world tour for some
years, reached Sydney Lyric on Satur-
day. It begins like a thousand other
American society films. Then the young
man strays, after an evening’s revelry,
and presently gets married. A quack
doctor, whom he consults after his part-
ner in sin has shot herself, tells him he
is all right, and he doesn’t realise the
truth till his wife has a baby. His wife’s
doctor not only assures him gloweringly
that he, the wife and child are infected,
but goes on: “And now I will show you
some of the consequences of this fell
disease”—a most improbable proceed-
ing. A locomotor victim had just stag-
gered across the screen, and an even
more revolting sufferer was being ex-
hibited when the critic decided to call it
an evening. There is little to be said for
“Damaged Lives” as a film, though the
hero and heroine act with touching sin-
cerity in the early sequences ; it may be
useful as propaganda. The Lyric was
packed on Saturday night, and most of
those in sight were young.
“I Believed in You”
A Regent film in which Victor Jory
is disclosed as a Labor agitator fleeing
from angry miners. Rosemary Ames —
demure, idealistic, an orphan—shelters
him, and he persuades her to go to New
York with him.
There she becomes a member of a
group of Greenwich Village poets and
painters who are unkindly presented as
unwashed humbugs. At the height of an
eviction disturbance Miss Ames slaps the
cheek of John Boles, a wealthy loafer.
She is given ten days for the assault, and
when she comes out Boles makes one
of those propositions which are common
to screendom. He will finance her group
for six months, and let them prove
whether or not they are frauds. If they
prove to be what he thinks they are
But enough. Of course he is right, and
of course he wins her at the fade-out.
“The Mystery of the Wax Museum”
In this horror film Glenda Farrell
(crime reporter) and Frank McHugh
(editor) shout insults at each other at a
speed which allows only about one
“RED WAGON," AT SYDNEY CIVIC.
(1) Greta Nissen, (2) Paul Graetz,
(3) Anthony Bushell, (4) Charles Bick-
ford, (5) Raquel Torres.
insult in three to be heard. So much for
the comedy. At the opposite pole we
find Lionel Atwill, a modeller of wax
figures and part-owner of a London
museum in which they are exhibited. His
colleague, who is bankrupt, sets fire to
the museum for the insurance money,
and Atwill is disfigured and partly
paralysed.
Ten years later Atwill is seen in New
York organising another museum.
Unable to work at his old trade, he steals
bodies from morgues and graves, dips
them in boiling wax, allows them to
cool and uses them as exhibits. Miss
Farrell, while investigating the mysterious
disappearance of the corpse of an actress,
finds her way to Atwill’s laboratory.
How she saves Fay Wray from being
boiled alive in wax and unmasks Atwill
is excitingly set forth. The acting,
photography (in subdued technicolor) and
settings are remarkably effective.
“This Is the Life”
A British-Lion production, at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum. It begins promisingly
in an English wayside restaurant —the
sort that advertise “Teas” as if there were
more than one variety. Binnie Hale, as
the proprietress, sends husband Gordon
Harker out to intercept custom on the
highway amongst speeding motorists,
racing cyclists and walking clubs. Enter
Charles Heslop with the news that the
couple have been left a fortune by an
uncle who has sheep stations in Woolloo-
mooloo and Sydney.
The action now shifts to Mayfair,
where the ex-cafeteers are discovered
entertaining dukes and duchesses. Two
bootleggers turn up after a while and
prove that the uncle’s fortune was made
by battery and murder in America.
Scotland Yard confiscates the fortune and
the principals return to their teahouse.
There is a sketchy love tale between
Betty Astell and Ray Milland, a painter
of abominable and successful landscapes.
As farce the film has some merits, but
its joints creak badly in places.
“Only Yesterday”
Margaret Sullavan is the star at the
Liberty, Sydney’s latest talkie-hcuse. She
has many of the physical and mental
qualities of an exotic, and she is still a
girl. John Boles doesn’t sing, and he is
Warner Baxterish in acting and appear-
ance. He has had better parts.
The story is the one about the young
soldier (Boles) who meets and loves a
girl (Margaret Sullavan) the night before
he leaves for the front. When he gets
back he has forgotten her. He doesn’t
know she has had a son as a result of
their affair, and she doesn’t tell him.
Twice in the next ten years she meets
him, but he never remembers, and she
never tells. Then she takes to her death-
bed, and the impressionable section of
the audience is overwhelmed by sweet
sorrow.
The minor parts are well done, Billie
Burke being particularly good as the
girl’s aunt.
The new theatre—one of the smallest
in Australia —is a gem of its kind. Bruce
Dellit designed it, and Rayner Hoff did
the decorations.
Sundry Shows
The Noels and Ivors who write those
comedies of English social life—scenes
are always in drawing-rooms, boudoirs
or expensive hotels—divide humanity
usually into two parts distinguished by
their accents—Oxford or Cockney. Ivor
Novello in a recent Imperial-minded
moment devised “Fresh Fields,” in which
a Brisbane Mrs. Public House and her
daughter, visiting London, provide by
their gaucheries an evening’s entertain-
ment. Mr. Novello draws these two
Australian characters as female Sam
Wellers—good-hearted, of course, but so
quaint!
The Firm, engaging Gregan McMahon
as producer, placed Mr. Novello’s con-
tribution to the cause of Imperial good-
fellowship before an audience at Sydney
Cri. last Wednesday night. Katie Towers,
as Mrs. Pidgeon, the lady who held a
victualler’s license in Queensland, and
Agnes Doyle, as Mrs. Pidgeon’s daughter,
did their best to give the thing a real
Australian flavor, but their reproductions
of the Sydney accent (so near Cockney
that the difference is negligible) spoilt
the theory that they came from Brisbane,
and their dialogue—a mixture of Ginger
Meggs and Mutt-and-Jeff—never rang
true. These two, however, were on a
better wicket than Harvey Adams, who,
after years of being an English gentle-
man, was expected to transform himself
into a rough diamond.
Two ladies “direct from leading Lon-
don theatres,” Jane Wood and Grace
Lane, made their debut. Miss Lane
forgot her lines and asked the prompter
for her cue in a loud, clear voice. She
explained in a speech that the piece had
only been rehearsed for ten days. The
ghosts of Dampier, Coppin, Rignold,
Maggie Moore, Nellie Stewart and Essie
Jenyns, who frequent the Cri. on first
nights, looked at each other and whistled
eerily. They’ll never come back again.
* * *
“White Horse Inn,” presented at Syd-
ney Royal on Saturday night, is the sort
of songandance extravaganza that the
Firm can do really well. It has no plot;
its music, though pleasant, is of the sort
that sinks without a trace. But sceni-
cally it is magnificent—so many pretty
pictures have never before been crowded
on to a Sydney stage in one evening.
Settings represent the Austrian Tyrol—
mountain peaks, quaint peasants in
quaint beer gardens, public baths, town
hall, the woods, and one scene in which
the bewhiskered and bewildered old
Emperor Franz Josef appears with all his
glittering suite.
l Continued on next page.)


CJh
m
m
/ . / *
i • A:-
-r .-, P '<*// ;
ii
<?s
X
r
7
y
110 HilM. NOUVN V
9NIAH3S
PAGE 5
FROM THE VACUUM
HISTORY BOOK.
OUTBACK WITH VACUUM
“Wyalkatchem” “Gundagai” “Pmnaroo” “Coonabarabran”
To many these are merely “ aboriginal
names,” to others “out-back towns.”
But to those who know Australia well
they mean “square miles” of waving
wheat, and the flocks and herds that
represent Australia’s real wealth.
Just “places on the map”—hardly to be
seen upon the vast and moving canvas
of the world’s affairs yet to us
significant indeed.
In each of one hundred and seventy-two
such “places on the map” a Vacuum Oil
Company Pty. Ltd., in miniature yet
completely equipped, serves the com-
munity with petrol, kerosene, oil and
other petroleum products.
At each of these outback VACUUM
‘ Depots ’ as they are known the
whole equipment of supply—rail tank-
cars, bulk supply-tanks, great road-
tankers, and stock of oils, greases, and
other products—anticipates the needs
of the community in both quantity
and type.
So, in every community engaged in prim-
ary production Vacuum products and
service are maintained at its very back
door; a veritable “pantry” of petroleum
products for farmers, fruit-growers,
pastoralists, or poultry-raisers to draw
upon at will as needs arise.
No longer is there any need for primary
producers to have any of their precious
capital tied up in a season’s stocks of
necessary petroleum products the
Vacuum depot has changed all that.
They are as easily available to country
user as to the city dweller.
All Vacuum depots are in charge of
Vacuum trained men, imbued with the
spirit of service for which, over the
years, the name of Vacuum has become
synonymous. The service they render is
more than merely selling fuel and oil
they are thoroughly equipped to give
authoritative advice on the proper use of
these products.
STRIKING FACTS
172 Vacuum Country Depots at a cost of £700,000, built with
Australian-made material; 597 Vacuum Agency Depots; 423
Tank waggons and trucks; 151 Australian-made rail tank cars.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. Ltd
Marketers of Plume Motor Spirit , Voco Petrol ' Mobiloil[ Laurel Kerosene ; Fora Power Kerosene,
Gargoyle Lubricants ; famous products.
A revolving stage facilitates the many
changes of scenery, and the ballet-
dancers appear so often, and each time
in such new and beautiful dresses, that
it seems as if some dressing mechanism
were at their disposal.
Strella Wilson is principal singer. Her
voice, always beautiful, has improved
since she was last in Sydney, and her best
solo, Novello s Lend Me a Dream,
earned her a great ovation. Mad
Arthur Qttl Jn
Charles Norman and Arthur Stigant do
most ot the tun-making, and an octett
of real Tyrolean dancers contributes to
atmosphere show, as a spectacle,
has Rose Mane beaten out of sight,
and it should have a long and prosperous
Australian career.
* * *
Marguerita Zelanda, a M.L. girl who
got her vocal training in Italy, brought
her fresh soprano notes to 2FC studio
on Saturday night and demonstrated in
Benedict’s “Gipsy Bird” and Arditi’s
“Parla” that she can sing very happily
and freely no matter how difficult the
score. Associated with her was Carl
Budden Morris, pianist, who played
Thalberg’s “Don Juan” minuet vana-
tions—a surging river of scales and
arpeggios in which the simple melody
usually drowns. Morns kept it
phantly afloat, and m Carreno s lit e
waltz and the Liszt Campanella gave
further evidences of outstanding piamstic
talent.
Melbourne continues to be not indif-
ferent to “Something Different” at the
Palace, where Alfred Frith is the life and
Jeanne ’ Battfe the soul of an an.Aus-
trajian mus i C al-comedy extravaganza,
Jjm Gerald Qpened a show of the same
order the xivoli on Saturday, though
- t lacks th touc h of originality given to
the Palace enterprise by t he local settings
G f p ret j Ward, the lyrics of Leo Raphael,
Alice Wren’s ballets and Barbara’s
remarkable dressings,
* * *
Mendelssohn’s “Elijah” has more meat
in it than there is in most grand operas.
There is a drought. Elijah challenges
witch-doctors of the Baal denomination
to a trial of necromancy. There’s a bul-
lock on the altar. Can Baal roast it? Baal
can’t, and Elijah proves that Jehovah
can. But the drought does not break and
Elijah is in a difficult position. He has
the priests of Baal slaughtered, but still
nothing happens. There is a note of dis-
* f • .l a wi a Hie
content m the redoubled prayersof.his
adherents. Then a cloud no bigger than
a man’s hand appears on the horizon,
the heavens become black and fill with
wind and the storm rushes louder and
louder Elijah’s expression of thanks-
giving is the most heartfelt thing in
musical literature. How many Govern-
ment meteorologists must have felt the
same in similar circumstances! Horace
Stevens established his claim to be a
great singer of oratorio beyond cavil at
Melbourne Town Hall last week when
this dramatic tale was told by the Phil-
harmonics and full orchestra under the
Heinze baton. Stevens was magnificent
—by turns bumptious, brutal, super-
cilious and savagely triumphant. He
needed only a white beard to make him
the very image of the prophet. All these
virtues combined made his dishing of the
opposition something to be remembered,
John Dudley’s sweet tenor expressed the
views of Ahab, and Carrie Cairnduff was
as artless as a bird in the part of the
youth who announces the breaking of the
drought. The choir, well drilled, and
Posing in soft parts, crashed the gates
of song too heartily when the lid was
§ orchestra's brasses,
’ v
..... „ „
Adelaide Repertory Theatre s first
production for 1934 is a complete break-
away, in running “Faust” (dramatic, not
operatic) for a full week instead of the
usual three nights, t and in having pro-
fessional aid. Theo wShall is a skilled
producer, and with the limited resources
available he has built up witches kitchen
(complete with magical effects), church
with stained glass and old-world
approaches in front of the curtain. Also
he plays Mephistopheles brilliantly.
Gunnell is always sound as the Jekyll-
and-Hyde hero, and Iris Hart accentuates
the schoolgirl innocence of Margaret,
with Mimi Mattin in the one bright spot
of comic relief. But the powerful legend
has been done into English in cheap
rhymed couplets, with an inevitable sug-
gestion of pantomime.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Cooie-Bird”: Old Dick, the station
rouseabout, had a notion that the new
manager was going to sack him on
account of his age. To show the boss
that he could still stick it, he arranged
that Mary, his gin, should stand behind
a tree down the track when, riding bare-
backed, he came cantering up to the
stockyards on his pony, and should jump
out and cry “Shoo!” to frighten the
horse. Either old Dick was so busy show-
ing off that he forgot about the ambus-
cade, or Mary got behind the wrong tree.
Anyway, when she sprang out with a
clap of her hands and a loud “Shoo! ” the
startled pony wheeled so abruptly that
old Dick stood on his head on the track.
Scrambling to his feet, he remonstrated
with his spouse. “Mary,” he said re-
proachfully, “you shoo too hard. You
shoo aller same for a plurry draught
horse, an’ dis only little pfeller pony.
Have to havum all over agen now.”
But Dick didn’t get the sack after all.
* * * *
“A.H.S.”: Bill Nolt, after 50 years in
the swamp country north of Wonthaggi
(Vic.), decided to give Melbourne the
once-over, and we took him to St. Kilda.
“I suppose you get plenty of roast pork here?”
“Pork! W’y, the boss threatened me with the sack ’cos I used a pig’s tail
fer a shavin’-brush!”
He gazed long and earnestly at Port
Phillip. “What a bonzer swamp!” he
murmured ; then, spotting the old Edina,
hull-down on the horizon—“and only
nn p ctnmn too ”
*’* * *
“Jills Two”: Old Joe’s fox-terrier
Larry settles a difficult legal point every
Saturday afternoon. He sits patiently in
the car outside the corner pub all the
afternoon while Joe fills up inside. At
closing-time Larry jumps out and takes
a quick glance at Joe as he staggers across
the footpath. If he is sober enough to
drive the car Larry jumps back and
shows no further interest in the proceed-
ings; if Joe is too far gone, Larry
trots off home and returns in about 20
minutes with Young Joe. Old Joe
wouldn’t dream of driving home himselt
without Larry’s approval.
* * * *
“Flip-feather”: I noticed some emus
drinking. The hole was low, the banks
were boggy, the birds were thirsty. It
was obvious that if they broke through
the crust they were doomed —there is
nothing more helpless and
hopeless than a bogged emu
or a bogged ’roo. My fel-
lows didn’t break through.
They came warily, testing
each stride before they put
weight on it. They arrived
at a point where they couldn’t
go any further without break-
ing through. The water was
still out of reach. Did that
upset ’em? It did not. After
it had selected its position
each bird folded its stilts
under and sank to its brisket.
In that position its weight
was distributed over a greater
area of surface and its long
legs served to corduroy the
mud. From there, too, they
could reach forward, un-
folding yards of neck in the
process, and, leisurely and at
ease, each dipped its man-
dible and scooped up that fill
of water. In its own way
it was the same thing exactly
as a man placing a couple of sticks on
soft ground, standing on them and lean-
ing forward to dip his quart.
* * * *
“Ferae Naturae”: Reading the English
papers it would almost seem that the
country is returning to the day when
wolves fought with stone-age man, and
the sabre-toothed tiger had an open go.
Recent editions tell of wombats escaping
from Whipsnade Zoo and being run into
by a pack of hounds, muskrats playing
the deuce with railway and canal em-
bankments, and of the invasion of Wol-
verhampton by savage coatimundis.
These tree bears are natives of the
South American jungles, and anything
less unlike their home than the Black
Country manufacturing town would be
impossible to imagine. Slums are being
pulled down and the coatis, come from
Heaven knows where, are living in the
ruins and the cellars under them and
breeding freely. Carnivorous night
animals, they have been attacking young
children in their beds, and the municipal
ratcatcher, who has been turned on to
the tough job of getting rid of the in-
vasion, is the most unpopular citizen in
Staffordshire.
**, * *
Curea : While shepherding on our
far-west N.S.W. station, I lost the
poisoner. A newchum wanting a job
called at the camp ; I gave him a start
in spite of his admission that he knew
little about cooking. His first damper
was just eatable, and I suggested that
he should try his hand at a brownie,
and told him to mix it the same as a
damper, adding fat, sugar, currants and
raisins. On returning to the camp that
night I inquired how he had got on.
“I tipped it out of the camp-oven, boss,”
he replied, “but thought it wasn’t quite
cooked, so I’ve just poured it back
again.”
* * * *
“Beta”: “Walkabout” (B. 21/3/’34)
reminds me. When the governor-
belt broke in a big N. S. Wales
timber-mill I led the almost unani-
mous stampede for safety. The cor-
rugated-iron building started on a mad
jazz: the machines seemed to be trying
to throw themselves off their foundations.
But our breaking-down sawyer, who had
been in a similar performance, stuck it.
“Hoo much did ye fecht for?"
“Juist naethin’ ava.”
“Mon, it was gr-r-and value for the money."
He immediately jammed a huge log he
had ready on the bench into the saw,
and that steadied things. He didn’t chide
us for stampeding. “Me main thought,”
he said, “was which way I’d run if the
flamin’ engine-driver didn’t come back and
turn orf the steam before I’d finished the
cut.”
* * * *
“Bloss”: March flies are a terror in
the Mudgee (N.S.W.) district this autumn,
and horses, kept on the move all day
with them, rapidly lose condition despite
hoggins of feed. Having had to scrape
two foals out of the river, I fitted my
horses out in leggings made out of old
motor-tubes. Rubber is an effective
death-trap. The insect punches his pro-
boscis in so viciously he can’t remove it
again. We scrape off the day’s catch
nightly when the leggings come off, and
it’s hard to fit a pin’s point between the
trapped flies.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: I watched Hone,
the owner of two useless dogs, muster
sheep out of his 30-acre hill pad-
dock. He dashed wildly about,
throwing sticks and stones and
whistling, while all the time the
sound of dogs barking furiously
came from the top of the pad-
dock. When he was near enough
I asked why the tykes had not
followed him down. “Ho,” he
puffed, “t’ey can’t. T’ey fast on
te chain. It te onry way to make t’em
bark.”
* * * *
“Mho”: I was driving along a smooth-
gravelled Tasmanian road when, without
warning and with a noise like a dozen
machine-guns in action, the road suddenly
stood up on end and fell on the car.
About 20 seconds later the highway sub-
sided and I got out to investigate—and
curse. Apparently a local hurricane had
lifted gravel from the road in a solid
wall and driven it against the car. The
windscreen was rendered opaque and
most of the paintwork was gone.
* * * *
“Swallower”: From England comes a
yarn that a countryman caught a swal-
low on the eve of its southern migration
and found that under its wings it had
stuck numerous flies, having first plucked
off their wings to prevent them escaping.
One Thomas, described as an eminent
writer on natural history, has capped the
tale with the conviction that the swallow
was carrying the flies for food on the
long journey. Comparisons with our
Australian swallows will show how
much the effete fowls of Europe are lack-
ing in initiative. Here, before their
annual migration—northwards in their
case—the swallows may be seen hawk-
ing the fast-flying blowflies in the pastures
of the outback. These they attach to
themselves in the same fashion as their
European relatives, but not beneath their
wings. Also, the blowfly wings are care-
fully left intact. The result is that when
an Australian swallow takes off from
the Leeuwin for the first hop to Timor
he is covered with buzzing blowflies
frantically working their wings just as
the numerous engines on one of Kings-
ford Smith’s big ’planes work their pro-
pellers. Until the blowflies perish of
malnutrition, the swallow has simply to
use his open wings as ’planes, and let
the flies do all the flying. As they peg
out, the swallow eats them, and when
the last one is disposed of he goes on re-
freshed to cover the rest of his journey
under his own power.
* * * *
“King T.”: Why do otherwise intel-
ligent birds build their nests so as to
overstrain the branches of trees? The
metallic starlings, a case in particular,
have a habit of cramming their nests
together on the fragile outer limbs of the
Moreton Bay ash-tree, and eventually the
whole caboodle comes crashing to the
ground. The peewit, too, though it does
not build in groups, often places its heavy
mud nest in so precarious a position that
the first boisterous wind gives the finish-
ing touch.
ANOTHER BEER MEASURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You may tell the glories of many a vessel
That has done brisk business, now or erst,
At the bars where Bung and his Hebes wrestle
With the pumps for quenching our Austral
thirst.
It’s strange there’s one that has had no mention
When the pints and pots were in order placed,
The last and the aptliest-named invention:
What price a stave to a lady’s waist?
The sleever long and the Wanganui
Are never likely to lose their grips
For the sweating swagman who’s humping bluey
Or the lusty fettler who’s spitting chips;
The butcher, schooner and various others
Have a pleasant sound and a lure that’s based
Upon sound foundations, but, hark ye, brothers,
I pin my faith to a lady’s waist!
I have dipped my beak in all sorts of flagons,
Slender and shapely, or thick and squat;
Let who will ride upon water waggons,
I tell you frankly, I like them not.
Where beer flows freely full oft I’ve lingered,
What time with tankards my frame I braced,
But a daintier goblet I never fingered
Then the hourglass shape of a lady’s waist.
You may tell of dreadnoughts and mugs and
rummers,
Of jacks and pewters, white foam atop,
As boons to lighten our fiercest summers
With the fragrant juice of the malt and hop;
You may reckon the sinker bigger and bolder,
And therefore better —each to his taste.
But, say, for an ideal swanky-holder,
I cast my vote for a lady’s waist!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
THE WEEKLY GUINEA.
J. Winton, “On Track, S.A.,’’ will
get it (with space rates added) when he
sends an address to which the post-office
will deliver. Here’s his par.:
Crossing the Coorong (S.A.) dur-
ing the last heat-wave I met the
dream of all overlanders. I was
half-way across the ten-mile salt-
pan when the approaching cloud
of dust came to a standstill, dis-
closing a super-sedan ; in it were
an American businessman, his wife
and four nice daughters. He
opened bubbly wine for me (it
may not have been champagne,
but it tasted good), and after
two goes at it I posed for their
cameras —four Cine-Kodaks, no
less—with my bike and all accou-
trements. I even supplied a sub-
title: “‘Mucker’ Molloy, Overland-
ing to the W.A. Goldfields.” “Are
you half- or quarter-caste?” asked
the not-so-tired businessman’s wife.
“Me?” I said. “I’m a full-blooded
Maori.” This made a hit, and the
head of the party expressed ad-
miration for my race and deplored
the fact that we had not conquered
Australia before Cook took it.
They gave me another drink, a
package of sandwiches assembled
by the daughters, a card with a
pencilled invitation to write, and
money—never mind how much ;
and we moved on. The meeting
will always make me think kindly
of Uncle Sam.


“Talex”: Rounding off a lesson on
Sheffield and its industries recently,
teacher referred to the manufacture of
cutlery, and directed the pupils to inspect
their knives at home to discover where
manufactured. Next day every pupil
except Jimmy gave the expected answer.
Jimmy’s honest and innocent reply was:
“Please, sir, I looked at ours, and they
had ‘Victorian Railways’ on them.”
* * * *
“Wagga”: One of the old landmarks
of the Western District (Vic.) is the
Frenchman’s Inn at Cressy, the second
hotel to be licensed in the colony. It
got its name from a Frenchman named
Duvernay, one of the pioneers of the dis-
trict. Until a few years ago visitors to
“Let me take you on a moonbeam to
the topmost peaks of heavenly bliss.”
“Rats! What about one of them Island cruises?”
“The Frenchman’s” could always rely, at
certain seasons of the year, on getting
a good haul of whitebait from the old
ford in the stream near by; but the
little fish now seem to have forsaken this
locality for a spot higher up.
t ** * *
Hadene”: Cheon, the happy Chinese
who cooked for The Maluka’s party in
Mrs. Gunn’s “We of the Never Never,”
is stdl catering for the inner works of
Mi 1 rnen ‘ After th e death of The
MaluKa Cheon cooked for a friend of
mine, and in his droll but sincere way
tKk to br ’§ hten fare by coaxing a
StU k° rn en t 0 Each evening after
work was done the hopeful and per-
severing Cheon would have to answer a
flood of chaffing inquiries regarding the
prospect of eggs. Special feeding and
inviting nests in shady positions were
tried without result, and at last he
announced the end of his patience. He
sorrowfully explained his feelings about
the strutting bird, whose cackling had
promised much but delivered nothing.
“Him fella plentee walkabout, him
plentee talkee talkee, him ruddy liar.”
* * * *
“W.G.H.”: Geologists are not infal-
lible in finding the location of a water
supply, as “Pawang” (B. 7/3/’34) would
have us believe. Take Patchawarra bore,
5400 ft. in depth, and as dry as a Recha-
bite’s cellar. Situation. 25 miles nor’-
west of Innamincka (S.A.), on the track
to Cordillo Downs. Site was recom-
mended by a geological survey of the
artesian strata many years ago.
* * * *
“Paumotu”: The reference to the Gil-
bert Island crab (B. 28 /3 / ’34) that is
poisonous on atolls north of the Line
and safe to eat on others south of it
reminds me that many fish in Pacific
waters vary in edibility in the same way.
In the Low Archipelago this is parti-
cularly notable, with the peculiarity that,
while at one season a species of fish will
be deadly poison to anyone eating it, at
another it will be harmless, Some atoll
lagoons are more noted than others in
this respect, but similar conditions can
be found in other parts of the Pacific,
many of them far removed from the
coral atolls. What the reason is exactly
no one has ever been able to explain
satisfactorily. Many of the reef fishes,
particularly the parrots, which feed on
young coral shoots for the most part, are
always regarded with suspicion, the
theory being that at certain seasons some
poison in the young coral infects the
flesh of the fish. Against that is the fact
that many fish caught in deep water off
rocky coasts where there is no coral,
and other varieties which do not browse
on the stuff, have been found to be
poisonous, either permanently or at cer-
tain times of the year.
* * =N *
“Bumpk”: Probably the queerest
traffic stoppage on record was caused
by a platypus at Ballarat. Harried out
of Lake Wendouree by a
dog, it was holding the
animal at bay in the middle
of the tram track, when a
tram came along. The extra-
ordinary spectacle brought
the vehicle up all standing while the
oviparous mammal was being rescued.
* * * *
“Moturoa”: Requiring assistance with
haymaking, I rode across to Maori Jack’s
whare. Jack was sprawled on the grass
in front of his shack. f ‘What you want?”
he inquired, rubbing his eyes and stretch-
ing his long limbs. “I want a man for
haymaking,” I replied. “What about
coming over for a few days?” “Can’t,”
he said. “Why not?” I asked. “Oh, too
busy,” he replied. “Busy doing what?”
I inquired. “Oh, too busy waiting for
shearing,” said Jack.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: The preserved foods of the
white man are apt to puzzle Binghi. On
the Diamantina (Q.) I had a half-savage
old buck as batman, and, among other
things, taught him to load cartridges for
duck shooting. One day I surprised him
loading with blue boiling-peas from a bag
I’d just got, the first he’d ever seen.
When I told him they were for eating he
laughed boisterously. An old gin of the
“ ’Oo taught you to smoke?”
“Mum.”
same locality, nosing round my camp,
found an enamel plate containing half a
tin of preserved peaches, and began
applying them as a poultice to a leg cut.
Tinned meat the blacks of that region
regarded as embalmed man. It was an
American brand, so possibly they were
right.
* * sfc 4e
“Kali”: The Malays of Banjoewangie
have evolved a simple but effective
method of capturing sharks. A foot-long
piece of stout bamboo is sharpened at
both ends and bent horseshoe-
shape before it is held into a
mould of warm fat. When the
fat has set sufficiently to take
the strain of the bamboo, a
piece of piano wire is passed
through the loop projecting
from the lump and fastened to
a length of coir rope. A bundle of
dried cocoanut husks is used for
floats, and the baits are dropped
at likely spots. Usually they
are taken within a few minutes,
and the heat of the shark’s in-
nards soon melts the fat. The
bamboo, released, springs back
into a horizontal position, securely hook-
ing the monster.
* * *- *
“W.P.T.”: Being on the far South
Coast (N.S.W.), I asked an old farmer if
he could direct me to McGuinness’s.
“ ’Course I can,” he replied. “Keep goin’
along this road till y’ pass old What’sis-
name’s place. Then turn to the left,
keepin’ the crick on yer right hand until
y’ come ter the white gate where I
broke me leg last summer. Don’t
go through the gate, but bear away
a bit to the right until y’ come to
another crick. It’s good water here, and
yer better give the old nag a drink, as
it’ll be the last he’ll get until y’ reach
McGuinness’s place. Follow the blind
gully right along, and in about half an
hour y’ll see McGuinness’s house on the
brow of the hill. If Mac isn’t at home
y’ll find him behind the next ridge, as
he’ll be diggin’ his potatoes this time
o’ year.” His directions were better than
any road map.
* * * *
“Isee”: A feature of the Lakatoi fleets
of Papua (B. 21 /3 / ’34) is that the boats
which sail away on the trading expedi-
tions in September do not return. During
their sojourn in the west, the Lakatois
make new craft, for the old boats are
buffeted with big seas on the voyage out.
After landing the pottery wares are
placed in rows on the beach. The natives
of the sago district then come along with
bundles of sticks. For every pot chosen
they hand the owner a stick, then off
they go. into the bush and make bundles
of sago. These are later exchanged for
the sticks. While the sago is being pre-
pared the visitors make their new boats.
They do not wait for “the monsoon to
blow itself out,” for they could not return
on a flat sea, but tarry till the n.-w. mon-
soon commences to blow; then they
come back with sails set, sometimes doing
the trip in a third of the customary 14
days with a favoring wind. The return
is an event of great importance, parties
going out in boats to formally welcome
them back.
“6Q.J.”: Perhaps the drastic cures
adopted by Binghi for snakebite make
him careful. Anyway, he seldom gets
bitten. One treatment usually applied
to piccaninnies is to hang the patient
over a slow fire and keep turning him
for an hour or two till he is as nearly
cooked as it is possible for a pic. to he
and still be alive. The patient hasn’t
much chance of going into a fatal sleep.
Another method is to scarify the flesh
around the bite, and cauterise the wound
with a burning stick. A mud poultice
and dressing are then applied, and
although a ligature is never used the cure
is usually effective.
* * * *
“Kisimu”: That yarn of “Lado’s”
about relieving the distressed lady ele-
phant of excess milk (B. 28/ 2/ ’34)
doesn’t ring true to me. He’s the sort
that gets East Africa into disrepute with
such manifest long-bow work. The
female elephant carries her udder be-
tween her forelegs, and could milk her-
self, if necessary, with her trunk. Recog-
nition of this fact once promised to
bring me a fortune which, owing to the
villainy of unscrupulous competitors, was
never realised. In the early days of
Kenya I was down at Mombasa from
Nairobi, where typhoid was raging.
Milk, the essential food for the afflicted,
could only be got in tins sold at mur-
derous prices by the storekeepers. At
Mombasa I stumbled on a bankrupt
Italian circus, and for a song got two
female elephants, whose calves, together
with the circus monkeys and per-
forming dogs, had been eaten by the
company. Back at Nairobi, the in-
telligent creatures soon learned to
deliver their own milk at every door at
one rupee a pint—no rupee, no pint. I
soon had a contract with the hospital,
and an inspired article in the Nairobi
“Banner” describing the effect of ele-
phant’s milk on the growing infant
brought every mother in the town and
the outlying farms—to which an after-
noon delivery had now been instituted—-
into the fold. But disturbing complaints
began to drift in. The elephants were
showing a tendency to be unsteady on
their feet, and to hiccup shockingly in
front of lady customers. The climax
came when the wife of the District Com-
missioner sent in a furious chit saying
one of the elephants had snorted a quan-
tity of rum over her when she bought
a pint of milk and tendered a Bank of
England five-pound note for changing.
Of course, that tore it, as anyone with
a knowledge of East Africa will realise.
My business dried up in a night. The
snakes in the grass were the storekeepers,
whose tinned-milk trade I had ruined.
They hired a native miscreant to fill my
milk delivery-vans up with rum as they
came into town from the farm in the
very early morning. To those familiar
with elephants, the rest needs no
stressing.
SNOW GUMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They rise where the white clouds rest, and
higher.
The pyramid peaks they know,
The flash of the lightning’s wicked fire,
The thunder’s bellow below,
The harsh white hail with its puritan ire,
The weight of the winter snow;
When winter rallies the great storms under
Thickening skies, and staunch
Boughs are broken and split asunder,
Levelling bole and branch,
Till the great snows gather themselves and
thunder
Into the avalanche;
Where the nest of the kingly eaglehawk is
High in the castled stone,
And the path that the screaming blizzards
walk is
Splintered through scrubs unknown,
And the rain’s wild talk and the wind’s talk is
Known to the stars alone.
But, oh! when the red sun’s arrowy showers
On the parched brown plains are hurled,
The snow gums stand amid bridal bowers,
Thickets of bloom empearled;
A knee-deep forest of bright wild flowers
On top of the cool green world.
For all of the frowning ways are fair ways
When the Colorful summer comes,
And the eagle circles the azure airways
And ever the sweet wind thrums,
Where beauty climbs by the crowded stairways
Under the green snow gums....
They rise where the white mists rise, and higher.
And blizzard and bloom they know,
The summer moon with its silver fire,
The blossoming slopes below,
The harsh white hail with its puritan ire,
The weight of the winter snow.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


QUALITY
JM
»WII
SUPREME.
Tlie best value In Sydney! Heavy Solid
Silverplated PYREX STAND
and Dish complete.
Bargain Price
18/6
GUARANTEED LIFETIME WEAR.
Heavy A.l Quality Sheffield Solid
Silverplated SPOONS AND FORKS.
Soup Spoons, each 27-
Table Spoons, each 2/0
Table Forks 2/6
Dessert Forks 2/-
Dessert Spoons 27-
Tea and Coffee Spoons 1/-
Superior English Sheffield Firth STAIN-
LESS KNIVES, Scimitar Shape
Blades.
Usually 3/6.
KEDUCED TO, EACH
2/-
WE SEND
C.O.D.
TO COUNTRY
AND
INTERSTATE
The
Treasure
Store
AMAZING EASTER SPECIAL
MAKE A
LAY-BY.
65
Market St.,
Sydney
Quality A.l Stamped Solid Silverplated. on each piece.
SJJ4PE tea SET, guaranteed lifetime wear. Worth £4/10/-.
THE 3 PIECES COMPLETE FOE
SQUAT
65/-
G Best Quality Sheffield
BEAN COFFEE
SPOONS in satin-lined
ease. Wonderful n let
value, AT SET */ u
TROPHY CUP
Best A.l Quality
TROPHY CUP on
Black Plintlie.
Height, Sin.
PRICE
12/6
Solid Silver-plated A.l
Quality PEPPER and
SAET SHAKERS, With
screw tops.
ONLV, each,
3/6
Handsome Jacobean CANTEEN OF
CUTLERY. Spoons and forks
stamped A.l solid silverplated;
Sheffield make. Also Firth stainless
mirror-finished quality knives.
Canteen comprises 42 pieces of
cutlery, including latest bowl-shape
soup spoons.
Worth £7/5/-.
SPECIAL, PRICE
fC/1 ft/-
Best A.l Quality Solid Silverplated
Tall CAKE COMPORT with 6
Knife-edge Ebonite-handled Cake
Forks
Worth 03/-.
A Useful Gift at
AO /.
C Best Quality Sheffield
Solid, Silverplated Knife-
edge CAKE FORKS ill
nice satin-lined case.
SPECIAL, AT SET 7/6
Best A.l Quality Solid
Silverplated HOT
WATER-COFFEE POT
COMBINATION, as illus-
trated. 25 /-
A.l Quality Solid Silver-
plated, useful size TEA-
POT, reduced
from 35A
TO
25/-
The Treasure Store China Dept,
A useful Gift! PYREX DISH, complete
with solid Silverplated oval
Stand.
SPECIAL
19/6
Genuine Sheffield Firth Stainless Mirror-
finished CARVING SET, with well-
balanced strong Ivory grained handles,
in beautiful satin-lined presentation
case Always 32/0.
NOW, SET
15/6
SUGAR
A.l Quality . Solid
plated SUGAR &
Value at
Silver-
SPOON.
12/6
Many other designs in Sugars kept in
stock.
Heavy A.l Quality Solid Silver-plated
CAKE DISH, with
Ebonite Handled Cake
A SPECIAL AT
Black
Fork.
12/6
as?
ROYAL ENGLISH PARAGON CHINA
21-Piece Tea Set, Specially Reduced to
45/-
(Royal Paragon China have been appointed Potters to Her Majesty the v^ueen.)
Easter
i SB)
mm
Special
STOCK
PATTERNS.
42
PIECES
This exqxiisite 42-piece English China Hand-painted
Combination DINNER
AND TEA SET, Lilac Time.
Usually £4/10/-.
THE COMPLETE SET
REDUCED TO
£3/5/-
2
m
English China hand-painted complete
SET, 16 pieces. Lilac Time design
A Special Offer
COFFEE
17/6
T.isten in to Station 2GB,
Darby and Joan
breakfast, 7.45 a.m. daily.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
Hand-painted Pot-
t e r y, exauisite
HONEY OR JAM
JARS, a special
Easter offer. Any
of these four
designs, At,
each
f jg%
the
TREASURE
STORE
65 MARKET ST SYDNEY
«
s - J-
r.
a.
s£!
Si
:: ' 1 '■;
0*
Magnificent hand-painted Blue and Gold Genuine China COFFEE SET 18
pieces. Complete with Tray, as illustrated. Rembrandt reproduction painted
on each piece. Interior of Cups completely lined with gold, also
gold handles. A work of art and a most beautiful Easter Gift. £5/15/“
COMPLETE SET ' '
50-PIECE
Breakfast
UTILITY SET in England Decoration suitable for Dinner, Tea,
and SuDDer in exauisite Orange, Black and Blue Tonings on tbe
latest ivuo g.ia/.c , . . . ...
Every piece a necessity. You are not paying for pieces you will
never use. SPECIAL. PRICE
£4/10/-
<SL W'
Exquisite hand-painted Art Moderne design
FLORAL BASKET.
Usually 4/6
EASTER SPECIAL
2/6


The Richardson Chain Hotel
r m
W
i : tr
(f
*1
ihf
3.3
f f
4 3!
Ml
111
il
»t‘U
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122 ®P enc * ! >' Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
,p hone: F 4141 (10 lines).
>V 4^
O rtf , n^
A'- .»«•>“
G%-
o* x*
\N e ’
>&*
<. v . \ i w
: r A l feijs»- t -
>V x
-•»<>%'-'' v
V'. '
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
.holiday M-AKERS.
< Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
.ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. . Gorgeous gardens
- and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
-and, picture and other-pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. ■ Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: Castlereagh St., Sydney.
'.Vic. Office:- 360 Collins St.. Melbourne.
mm
Head Office,
Brisbane.
Tlie Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
End owment, Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire,- Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits,
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
•oog -U3D "S TVM
■'VTii'ii ‘xiiohs ’a - a
SMOKE-OH!
“Girls are more susceptible to colds than
boys.”— “Herald.”
The office flapper is the exception,
being more susceptible to boys.
x x
“Love in a cottage is out of date.”
— Woman's journal.
It has become a little flat.
x x
“ ‘Talkies with beer plots are coming,’ says
a film writer.”
The boozies?
X X
“I have a great liking’ for: stories of the
Wild West.”— Prof. Wood Jones.
Has he heard the one about secession?
“After his marriage he found himself with a
houseful of his in-laws, with a mother-in-law to
boot.” — “Truth.”
A mother-in-law to boot! Then his
marriage wasn’t altogether a failure.
“Is it true the Flying Wizard is going to marry the girl
in his trapeze act?”
“No; he dropped her.”
“Pending trial, he was released so that he
could cart wool.”— “Herald ” .. T t , „
Out on bale.
x x
“Mussolini says Italy looks to Africa and
Asia for expansion.”
Innisfail will breathe a sigh of relief.
NATIONAL HUMOR.
When a Frenchman is told a joke he
laughs once ; he catches on immediately.
When a German is told a joke he
laughs twice: first, to be polite, and,
second, when the joke is explained ; but
he doesn’t catch on. :• i
When an Englishman is told a joke
he laughs three times: first, to be polite ;
second, when the joke is explained ; and,
third (some time later), when he catches
on.
When an American is told a joke he
doesn’t laugh at all: he’s heard it before.
R. G. C.
PRINCE GEORGE’S ADVANCE
AGENT SENDS HIS IMPRESSIONS
TO THE FIFTH EQUERRY.
. I. —Sydney. V
His Highness will like this town. It
is quiet and orderly, yet not entirely
devoid of the means of gaiety. There are
lottery drawings at regular intervals, and
1 am arranging for him to meet Lucky
Ned and Madame, Belladonna, so he
should be on a good thing.
The racecourse is at Randwick, and
the golf links at Moore Park—both
within easy reach of King’s Cross, where
his Highness will doubtless stay. I am
quite at home at King’s Cross, and know
most of the girls of the village already.
All classes will give the Prince a hearty
welcome. The Communists and the New
Guard are organising a melee in the
Domain for the first Sunday of his visit,
and there should be no difficulty in
arranging for him to be right in the
midst of it.
I have also heard that the leading
members of society in Surry Hills (a
pleasure resort in the Blue Mountains,
which I have not visited, but of which
my friend Mr. Mackay speaks very
highly) are arranging a special demonstra-
tion of their favorite pastime, “Felling
the Cop.”
His Highness must not miss this.
The Prince will admire the layout of
the city; its wide thoroughfares striking
boldly through its busy heart, and the
way in which the trams endeavor to
prove that all roads lead to Circular
Quay. This is the place where all the
fruit - stalls and
fish-carts are situ-
ated. A ferryboat
leaves regularly
from the Quay,
connecting with
one of the out-
lying suburbs —
Brisbane, I fancy. >
He mustn’t miss
this, either.
The fleet (both
vessels) is stationed
at Garden Island.
I am arranging a
visit there, al-
though the Prince
is bound to meet
them in Mel-
bourne ; on the
first Tuesday in
November.
There will be
plenty of amuse-
ment for his even-
ings. The B.Y.Ts.
will probably ar-
range a dance for
him, and there’s
bound to be some-
thing on at the theatre, unless it’s gone'
to Maoriland by then.
And, of course, there are a harbor and
a bridge.
His Highness will like this town.
Jasby.
x x
REFORMED.
Pugsley is a reformed character. In-
stead of going about as if it were his
business to make the city more untidy,
he carefully, on alighting from a tram,
places his tram ticket in the waste recep-
tacle ; he no longer J-walks, but proceeds
sedately to the authorised street-crossing
and waits for the constable’s signal.
When he drives a motor-car he meticu-
lously observes every rule. If he comes
to a public place where the “No Smoking”
sign is up, out goes his cigarette.
His acceptance of order seems to have
benefited him materially. His new suit
and generally smart appearance show
that that last burglary job of his was
successful.
H. M.
x x
FREAK SUICIDES.
“There is usually a story of peculiar depres-
sions behind ‘freak’ suicides.” — Medical writer.
Two strange cases were reported re-
cently. In the sad affair of lan Mc-
Whusky it was revealed that he had been
greatly depressed since a visit to a Sydney
beach on a recent
Sunday. Hiring a
surfoplane, which
cost him 6d. for an
hour, he was just
about to enter the
water when the
shark bell rang,
and he had only
six minutes’ use of
it. Continued
* brooding over his
tragic loss un-
balanced his mind,
and in a moment
of madness he de-
cided to take his
revenge on his old
enemy the Gas Co.
Swallowing a. rub-
ber tube leading
from the gas main,
he turned it full
on.
An even stranger
case was that of
Arthur Snoozer, a
chess player, who
was found dead
sitting opposite his
opponent. His fel-
low-player stated
at the, inquest that
for the first 14
hours he didn’t
suspect that any-
thing was amiss. He merely thought
his opponent was thinking out a
move. He admitted that he had check-
mated the dead man on eight occa-
sions previously. The Coroner found
that Snoozer, in a fit of black despair,
had deliberately thought himself to death.
S. W. K.
REAL ESTATE. t -
“In connection with the extension of Martin-
place, the sale of; the residue blocks ;has been
placed in the hands of four estate agents.”
My friend Con. Trixter is rather an-
noyed at being passed over. He knows
these blocks better than any one in Syd-
ney, having disposed of them three or
four times every Easter since 1910. He
has handled even bigger jobs with an
ease born of long experience, and he
still remembers with pride the first time
he sold the Town Hall. - The G.P.0.,
too, has often passed through his hands,
while he sells its clock so often that he
declares he really should be a watch-
maker.
Many a visitor has purchased from
him at a reasonable price the right ;to
collect tolls on the Harbor Bridge.
As a sideline he often auctions the pic-
tures at the National Art Gallery, and on
many occasions he has sold footwarmers
to passengers on the Brisbane express.
His biggest land deal was when he
sold most of Botany Bay to American
tourists. “Fine sites,” he told them.
“Sheltered from the cold winds, and with
water laid on. When the boom comes
they’ll rise like one thing.” They’ll have to
rise something like 20 feet before they
reach the surface.
He was only sold once himself. That
was when he tried to change the five-
pound note a Scotch farmer had given
him as a deposit on the Manly ferry.
He got five years for it. On leaving
he sold the governor a duplicate set of
the gaol keys. They never found the
originals. Uco.
x- x
THE CURE.
“Y’ can always cure a jib,” said Dad
Riley, “provided y’ go the right way
about it. See that old horse over there?
“I’ve got a gag that hasn’t been used.”
“Then try it on yourself.”
Well, that’s Tubby. He jibbed on me
once.
“We was cartin’, an’ got stuck in the
bottom of the creek. Didn’t bog, y’ know,
it bein’ a stony bottom. I got an ideer.
‘Look here, Bill,’ sez I to the pommy
lad, ‘get a mouthful o’ water an’ blow
it inter his ear while I shove the cart.’
“Bill got a mouthful, an’ blows when
I gives the word. Whiz! The cart
nearly pulled me over. Good old Tubby!
He broke a leg doin’ it, but the cart
went up the bank like a rocket, and
he’s never jibbed since.”
“How did you cure Tubby’s broken
leg?”
“Tubby’s? It was the pommy’s!”
Braith.
TRAGIC DISAPPOINTMENT.
Times are getting better —worse luck!
That may sound contradictory, but it’s
exactly how I feel. You see, the general
improvement has crushed one of my
dearest hopes.
It’s not that I have any grudge against
mankind. I like prosperity as much as
any man. But prosperity means that the
people next door will be able to pay up
their back instalments and won’t have
their radio taken from them after all.
T. W. N.
REPRIEVE.
“As she swept into the room Phillip was
stricken inarticulate. The hair, those lips
Bill was chatting easily with her.... In April
they (Bill and she) were married.”— Short story.
Seated alone in the dismal gloom
Of an urban railway waiting-room,
I saw her come. I could only stare.
Silverly shone her platinum hair—
The sort of vision that’s always apt
To render susceptible persons rapt.
But stricken suddenly glumly dumb,
Respited, I did not quite succumb.
And when, soon after, the knot was tied,
’Twas Bill who made her an A pril bride.
J. B. C.
GOING TO THE DOGS.
He rode to hounds! And yet no fiery
hunter .
Answered his spur. His clothes bore
. not the mark
Of huntsman in the chase. ’Twas just a
punter
Taking an early tram to Harold J*ark.
S. K.
SEVEN AGES OF A CAR.
The agent’s private car.
The new car.
. The old car.
The worn-out car.
The traded-in car.
The repainted car.
The new car.
CED.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Racing history was made at Randwick
on Saturday, when A. E. Blair’s wonder-
ful Windbag horse Chatham (6 to 1)
won the Doncaster with lOst. 41b. on a
track so sodden that in the previous race
it had taken the smartest two-year-olds
in Australia lmin. 29|sec. to run seven
furlongs. Chatham’s time was lmin.
40|sec. He equalled the weight-carrying
record of Marvel in 1892, and put up
a finer performance. He will go down
in history as Australia’s greatest miler.
Chatham, Rogilla (6 to 4), Rapsonia
(10 to 1) and Paddy McKy were so slow
to leave the barrier that it seemed to
observers accounted shrewd that none of
the four had the ghost of a chance.
However, Chatham had soon joined the
main bunch, and at the half-mile he was
seventh in the field of 14; Leila Vale
and Golden Wings (33 to 1) had cut out
the running. With Pike riding one of
his best races, the topweight joined
Golden Wings in front with half a fur-
long to go. Whittingham on the outside
came into the picture ; so did Lightning
March on the rails. It was a grand
finish. Chatham made a supreme effort,
and got the verdict over Golden Wings
by half a head, with Whittingham a
head away and Lightning March, Kuvera
and Bill Wedgewood close up. Then
came Rogilla ; Rapsonia was last.
AJ?E you so KEEN ON GOING
YD -THE GOVERNORS GM-L ? "
Gepct.'There's going to be a pageant,
"TRe Dreaih of fair women *
Bert *. /; Oh, Im not going* to bother
TO DRESS upT
GERT '.“You don't need to ; - Youb BE
THE MI&HTMARE !?
There was tremendous cheering for
Pike and Chatham, who is to be sent to
the stud at the end of the year. He has
won two Epsoms and the Doncaster in
two seasons.
Weight-for-age form has been hard to
follow. Another favorite in Silver Scorn
let her backers down in the Autumn
Plate. Peter Pan was backed from fours
to 6 to 4. After his poor display at
Warwick Farm the support was rather
surprising, but the public followed the
lead. Galloping nearly in his best style
the big chestnut easily accounted for
Silver Scorn and Peter Jackson. Silver
Scorn was not ridden with judgment.
Her rider had her outside of two horses
for over a mile, covering a lot of un-
necessary ground, and turning for home
she was on the rails in the heavy going.
In the circumstances her performance
was not at all bad, but with everything
favoring her she could not have beaten
Peter Pan.
Hall Mark and Limarch delighted the
Victorians with their battles at Flem-
ington, and their meeting in the A.J.C.
St. Leger was every bit as exciting. Hall
Mark firmed from evens to 7 to 4 on;
Limarch went to 5 to 2; Blixten, the
only other starter, was backed from
fives to threes. Darby Munro took the
favorite to the front, and when he swung
into the straight it looked any odds on
him. However, Limarch had him beaten
at the Leger ; then Blixten put in a run
which took him to the front. Bartle got
Limarch balanced again, and the Maori-
land three-year-old defeated Blixten by
a head, with Hall Mark —who tired and
curled up under the whip—half a length
away. Limarch was bred in the Domi-
nion by E. R. Davis, and is raced in
partnership by Davis and O. Nicholson,
who was not present. Both sportsmen
are well known in the Auckland district,
and before racing Limarch had Tidal
and King March, both well-known per-
formers on Sydney tracks.
Sir John went out at evens for the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, but the Victorians
were fairly confident that the Moabite
colt Dark Sky would prove too good
for him and the rest. They backed him
down to 7 to 2. After chasing The
Marne, Dark Sky took control at the
Leger, and the rest was easy. Myra Tip,
who was unlucky at barrier-rise, was
second, Subsidy third and Pasha next.
Sir John is a big fellow, and appeared
to be troubled by the going. Dark Sky’s
dam, Lunae Lumen, is an imported mare
by Galloper Light, and traces back to
Tracery. Frank Musgrave trains the
winner for V.R.C. committeeman E. L.
Baillieu and W. S. Robinson.
Since joining Bailey Payten’s stable,
Baltimore has galloped so well that there
was a rush to support him for the first
division of the Vaucluse Handicap. With
Windbird out of the way, backers
accepted fours, but he closed at 5 to 2.
The result was not in doubt after he hit
the front soon after turning for home.
Burwood and Milantheon —now trained
by Brennan —followed him home. Balti-
more, who was once trained by George
Young, will win again.
North-western N.S.W. pastoralist V.
M. White saw his colors carried to vic-
tory by High in the second division.
Starting at sixes, after tens had been
laid, the High Force colt, excellently
ridden by Ross, beat Dromos by a neck,
with the outsider Carmlee third. Kagal,
the favorite, never worked into a favor-
able position, and beat few home. The
second fancy, Veilantif, did no better,
but Captain Rado and High Degree are
worth keeping in mind.
Whittingham’s sojourn in Victoria has
improved him. With 21b. less than his
Doncaster weight (Bst. 31b.), he had a
decisive victory in the La Perouse Han-
dicap on Easter Monday, being followed
home by Vista and Persian. Golden
Wings was one of the starters, but he
did not reproduce his Doncaster form.
McCarten’s style of riding suited Whit-
tingham, who went out at 9 to 2 and ran
the “six” in lmin. 12fsec.
Arachne (5 to 2 on) met her mistress in
the Easter Plate. In receipt of 71b. from
the daughter of Corban —Welkin Queen,
Queen Helen (5 to 1) downed her by
half a length, with Artful Clare third.
Bred in Maoriland, being by Chief
Ruler —Helen, Queen Helen has done all
her racing in Melbourne. Her form
there has been respectable, but it did not
point to her defeating Arachne. Darby
Munro rode the winner.
The best crowd for years saw the
Sydney Cup run, for it looked open and
the weather was perfect. There was
no Rogilla to demoralise the betting—
odd how this horse regularly fails when
he is favorite and is thought to have a
mortgage on the race —and there was
spirited support for eight of the 15
runners. Oro made most of the running,
with Silver Scorn and Limarch following
him. Silver Scorn led into the straight
but failed to stay, and at the Leger
Broad Arrow shot to the front. Out-
staying the opposition, he won by two
lengths from the challenging Gippsland,
with Limarch the same distance away
third. Time was slow—3min. 28sec.
Broad Arrow is a lathy six-year-old
chestnut gelding, owned by “M. Brooks”
and trained by McGee. He is by Tre-
clare —Bowstring, and carried 7st. lib.
—on form he deserved no more. He
was ridden by Britt, who had been suc-
cessful in the two preceding races on
Mafoota (Biraganbil Handicap) and Tur-
bulent (Wentworth Handicap). Broad
Arrow was well in the market at sevens
and eights.
* * * *
Rufus Naylor, who headed the party
that took Winooka to the U.S.A., was
disqualified at the week-end under A.J.C.
Rule 171 ( h ), which empowers the A.J.C.
committee to disqualify a person held to
have given evidence “misleading in any
particular” at an inquiry held by com-
mittee or stewards. He secured an in-
terim injunction against the committee
and was at Randwick on Saturday. Nay-
lor figured on the Westralian turf before
the war, and then went to South Africa.
He is a big bettor, and has powerful
political friends.
* * * *
E. J. Watt is the new member of the
A.J.C. committee. He contested several
elections and succeeded in the end,
though his victory over Colonel Rutledge
was something of a surprise. He is a
pastoralist in a big way, and has owned
many good horses.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Apparently the Heroics don’t
like heavy going. On Saturday, The
Marne, Leila Vale and Hall Mark cut
up badly after leading in their respec-
tive races ; and it will be a long time
before the public lays odds on Hall Mark
again when there is anything wrong with
the track. It has been an accepted fact
for years that the Magpies are not wet-
weather horses. Oddly enough, the
Windbags—notably Chatham and Win-
ooka —are. Yet Windbag is a son of
Magpie.
* * * *
Telford has speculated extensively at
yearling sales in the hope of getting
another Phar Lap, but he lacks a star
galloper. At Williamstown he put a
packet on the queerly named Musstte
for a division of the Maiden Two-year-
old Handicap. Backed down to 3 to
1, this Windbag colt (Lutra, his dam,
is a half-sister to Manfred) went out next
in demand to Tijiro, the favorite. He
came home strongly, but could make no
impression on Tijiro, who won, pulling
up, by three-quarters of a length. Tijiro
is by Pantheon, the sire of Peter Pan.
In the second division Pantry Maid,
another Pantheon, tried to lead all the
way, but found 9st. a prohibitive bur-
den. De Graves, a 50-to-l chance, car-
ried the A. G. Hunter colors notably.
It was only his second public outing, and
the Burnewang colt tried to run off the
course at the home turn, taking Devon-
court with him. This appeared to make
the race a gift for Poultry, who had a
clear passage on the rails; but Devon-
court, straightened, put in powerful
strides and beat the Drake filly by half
a length, De Graves being third. Devon-
court, who possesses immense size, is
by Devonshire from Traquette, the
fastest mare on the Australian turf in
her day.
McShortodds had a great turn-up in
the Easter Stakes. The event, run over
a mile on a handicap basis, highest im-
post being 9st. 71b., attracted 11 starters ;
favoritism was shared by Viol d’Amour,
Yellowstead and Break Up (5 to 1), with
strong support for Brave Boy, Polly
Speck and Middle Watch. Odds of 16
to 1 went begging about Watchful
(Drake —Tampa Bay), who, being very
small, realised only 35 guineas as a year-
ling. Watchful took control at the
straight entrance and scored nicely from
Eastern Chief, with the fast-finishing
Break Up only half a head farther off.
Dr. A. E. Syme, of the Williamstown
R.C. committee, bred Watchful. He im-
ported the dam from England.
Another outsider to win was Lauda-
tion, in the Point Cook Trial. This three-
year-old colt was bred by A. T. Cres-
wick, and is trained by Joe Cripps,
nephew and namesake of the man who
won a Caulfield Cup with Boz and a
Melbourne Cup with Tarcoola. Many
persons have handled Creswick’s horses:
his association with Cripps, just revived,
extends back over several decades. Suc-
cess in better company should await
Laudation. In a journey of 11 furlongs
he took charge half a mile from home
and never gave the opposition a chance
from that stage. Kitty O’Shea, the Werri-
bee Welter winner, is one of the best of
the Wolarois. She unwound a pheno-
menal run from the straight entrance to
beat the Maorilander Chief Light by a
head.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wesley Ramey is clever but not aggres-
sive. Bobby Delaney is aggressive (while
his strength lasts) but not clever. So the
American had much the better of their
bout at Rushcutter Bay on Easter Satur-
day night. Still, having secured open-
ings by feinting, he often failed to take
advantage of them. Sometimes Delaney
did the same thing. The Sydneysider,
fighting furiously as the bell let him
loose, made the first minutes of the sixth,
seventh and eighth rounds exciting, but
he could not sustain his attack, and
Ramey won by such a margin that no
hooting was heard when he received the
decision. Before the mill Delaney had
a notion of visiting the U.S.A. He would
be wise to remain where the opposition
is less formidable.
The North Queensland League foot-
ballers easily defeated Balmain club at
Sydney Sports Ground by 25-9, a feat all
the more creditable since the side had
been drawn from half a dozen widely-
separated centres and was playing as a
team for the first time. In Brisbane, a
match between a Queensland League side
and one made up of Queensland mem-
bers of the League Kangaroos recently
in England was won 20-6 by the ex-
tourists.
* * * *
The Australian Tourist Trophy races
for motor-cycles on the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
circuit saw Queenslander Anderson win
the Senior in lhr. 35min. 12 3-ssec. for
the 101 miles. He rode a 490-o.h.c.
Norton and averaged 63£ m.p.h. —a
record for the event. A. Senior, of N.S.W.,
won the Junior over the same course in
lhr. 41min. 11 l-ssec. and an average of
60 m.p.h. The Lightweight was taken
by T. Jemiso, who covered the 72-mile
run in lhr. 16min. 58isec.
* * * *
“Old Boy”: Sydney High School is
gaining an international name in sport.
McGrath, of the Davis Cup team, and
Clark and Metcalfe, of the Empire
Gamesters, were school champions.
Clark (“Bluey,” of course) is ranked as
the best all-rounder High has produced.
* * * *
“Toowong”: Queensland rowing heads
are finding it very hard to get the money
to finance the State crew for Hobart.
When the last day for parting up dawned
not ‘a club had come across with the cash.
Then one Brisbane lot tardily paid up,
and a country club paid half of its con-
tribution on account. The time was ex-
tended for a week, and clubs were noti-
fied that the sliprails would go up
promptly at the zero hour, all those not
parting by that time to be suspended
until they found the cash.
FOR RANDWICK.
All-Aged Plate: Chatham ; next,
Rogilla.
Champagne Stakes: Arachne;
next, Dark Sky.
Coogee Handicap: Celebrate;
next, Roman Spear.
Cumberland Plate: Peter Pan;
next, Blixten.
City Handicap: Frescade ; next,
Tremayne.
King’s Cup: Roxburgh, 1; Peter
Pan, 2 ; Hall Mark, 3.


»
m
w®
m
m&m
i
I*
H
ill
if
... A
Sssi&lss
■
liiii
;>.V
. ' 1 ;;
|f|§;
x : >8
x :
%
V ,***
WHEN HOURS OE DANCING FOLLOW THIRTY SIX HOLES OF GOLF
AS ONLY FINE SCOTCH WHISKY CAN!
W HKN it’s a case of out of
dinner-jacket .... with dancing till dawn ahead . . . .
you’ll find true refreshment in the mild stimulus of DEWAR’S.
Pour yourself a measure proportionate to your need .... add
a finger or two of ice-cold water or bubbling soda. Feel how
your spirits revive. (Note : repeat at judicious intervals
throughout the evening).
DEWAR’S is the whisky of whiskies., the very doyen of Scotch.
DEWAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
your pullover and into your
i. Ji
Per^
FINE
Qal f‘
v: « lir i.filn
*tocsr£r/l># U fy
J^r\'DewarG§>
lsf| Uprs PfBTH Scorn'd «.»
PERTH.Scon*'"' 0 /»


BLACK AND
WHITE CLUB
MEMBERSHIP FORM
NAME
ADDRESS
FOUND Vour F amity's
For!ifft« NOW !
STABLISH that safest, surest kind of fortune, and one that
never stints. Found it on the solid rock of life assurance.
There is no substitute for life assurance. Only through life
assurance can you get immediate and complete protection to the
full amount of your policy. And because the P. & C., through
its co-operative principles, provides the utmost in return and
benefits, increasing thousands of thinking people are taking
advantage of the remarkable P. & C. opportunity. The wide range
of P. & C. policies is designed to take care of your every need.
Let us advise YOU; no obligation whatever would be incurred.
Write now ivhile you are thinking about it.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Directors :
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
The
STANLEY
Unbreakable
VACUUM
BOTTLE
A super vac. that is warranted
unbreakable. Made from steei,
is insulated, and always keeps
liquid piping hot or icy cold.
Will last a lifetime. Ait ideal
present.
Pint Size 42/-, Quart Size 57/6,
2 Quart 4 Guineas
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PI KE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at Longreach, Toowoomba. Townsville.
Ins and Outs
Westralia followed the Tasmanians’
example and treated the Australian
bowling with a good deal of contempt
in the farewell match at Perth. F. Bryant
followed up his series of fine scores
made during the Westerners’ recent trip
to the Eastern States with one of 76, and
the methodical Taaffe came along with
79. After R. Bryant and Lovelock had
helped with 45 and 42, the lot reached
305. Grimmett’s five for 90 was the best
of the Australian side’s bowling averages.
The tourists ran up 274 for five wickets
when rain made a draw of it, Bromley
topping the score with 67 not out.
* * * *
“Cottesloe”: One interesting indi-
vidual in the Westralian team which gave
the Australian Eleven such a good go
in Perth was a Greek, Tony Zimbulis.
Cricket is about the last game in which
one expects to find a descendant of Alci-
biades or one of those old birds, but we
must not forget Balaskas, the Kimberley
slow bowler, who was in Australia with
the South African team of 1931-32. He
didn’t figure in a Test, but in the general
games averaged 16.44 with the bat and
took 11 wickets for 29.44 apiece.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: C. L. Badcock, the
Tassie batsman, has definitely signed up
to play with the Adelaide C. C. for 12
months, and is to be resident in Adelaide
by July 1 so that he can qualify for the
Sheffield Shield matches. He has been
given a job by a firm of furniture
makers in Adelaide. Whatever his
capacity as a furniture maker, there is
no doubt the lad is keen on cricket. In
Tasmania for the past five seasons he
has travelled 60 miles every Saturday to
play in club matches. In Adelaide he
will be within a tram ride of his job,
which should prove restful.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: In spite of denials and
pious professions, it is evident from the
cables that the bodyline question will be
a burning one in England this season
when the Australian tour starts. Last
week disarmament and every other ques-
tion was shelved while the nation eagerly
discussed the truth of a statement in the
London “Telegraph” that Jardine had
written the M.C.C. saying he did not
wish to be considered for the captaincy.
Nothing official will be known until
April 9, but since it is an open secret that
Stanley Jackson will lead the selectors
it is confidently expected that the pacifists
will win the day.
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: Australian Rugby Union-
ists got a knock-back last week when the
South African Union refused the Aus-
tralian request that the ’Boks would join
with this country and the All Blacks in
asking that the kick-into-touch rule be
amended so as to ban booting out on the
full except in one’s own 25. The Afri-
kanders voted 11-4 against the proposal,
in spite of the fact that they fell head
over heels in love with the tactics of the
Wallabies, who ignored the old rule in
practice and served up brighter foot-
ball as a consequence than South Africa
had seen for years. The African attitude
follows on that so long maintained by
the British Unions, and for the same pig-
headed reason —that the newer method
originated years ago with the breakaway
League, and must, like everything else
connected with that heretical body, be
damned for ever by the.R.U. faithful.
* * * *
“Flag”: The revival of the old Parra-
matta Club has given the Rugby Union
a chance to initiate a scheme which
should improve the game’s standard
throughout the State. One club will now
have a bye every Saturday. It will either
go to the country to meet a local side or
tackle one down in Sydney. In the first
round, beginning April 14, for instance,
Parramatta will take on the Merewether-
Carlton team from Newcastle at Parra-
matta. A special Wednesday-afternoon
competition for clubs outside the grade
games has also been formed.
* * * *
“Niggerphile”: The absurdity of
attempting to rear a virile white race in
the enervating tropic northlands of Aus-
tralia, where it can only encumber
ground that could be worked much more
profitably by colored labor, is evidenced
by weaklings who journeyed 1700 miles
from North Queensland to play a foot-
ball match in Sydney. The heaviest man
in the team, J. Culhane, is a mere 14st.
Roberts, from the Innisfail sugar swamps,
is 13st. 61b., and 10 others range from
13st. 41b. to 12st.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: The latest meeting of the
A.L.T. council disclosed that some of the
people from whom money is due in con-
nection with the last Davis Cup tour are
long-winded enough to win a marathon.
Though returns are still incomplete,
treasurer Treloar told the meeting that
£5OO clear profit could be counted on,
while the very satisfactory bag of £3OOO
would be the profit from the tour of
Perry and his offsiders. Also the joyous
news was released that the Britons would
pay £750 for the appearance of the Aus-
tralians at Bournemouth hard-court
championships and at Wimbledon.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: After considerable hesi-
tation, three of the overseas tennis coun-
tries invited to send each a couple of
players for a centenary tourney in Mel-
bourne have replied. Japan has accepted
“Keep goin’; ’e might land on one o’
them bung eyes an’ open it agin.”
without any qualification. Britain says
she will oblige, “provided representative
players are available.” South Africa is
willing, but cannot give a definite answer
until it is found out what leading players
will be able to make the trip. The
invitation to a British women’s team is
being answered by letter, which sounds
mysterious.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: When the Davis
Cup team left Fremantle last week the
players were forbidden to burble fare-
wells through the mike. Manager You-
dale spoke a short piece on their behalf
and prophesied that they would return
with the cup. About the same time Perry
was giving England reasons why England
must overwhelm all opposition, and Mr.
Lott, of N’Yark, was telling America
and the world that Yankeedom was
already home and dried. The only
lot that haven’t said anything yet about
their chances are the Japs. With some
£5OOO set aside to finance a campaign
to collect and train a team to lift the
pot they can fairly claim to have done
something.
* * * *
“Ho Tei”: Melbourne centenary
tennis will have an added attraction in
the presence of Miss Gen Ho King—-
that’s how the cables have it, anyway
—a Chinese prodigy of only 13. As
the young lady is said to have recently
partnered the Lenglen in exhibition
matches in Paris, she can be no mug,
with all respect. She will be chaperoned
by her mother, who is an M.D. and a
noted tennis player herself in the Flowery
Land. Some years ago Victoria had a
very capable player in S’. G. Lum, who
was in the first class as a doubles ex-
ponent, and later played for China in
the Davis Cup. Sydney has a Chinese
tennis club, but so far the race has not
bulked largely in Australian sport, though
occasionally a Chinese pug pops up.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Carnoustie”: The golfing world has
been shaken to its marrow by the news
that Bobby Jones, after three years’
absence from big golf, made a doughy
exhibition of himself when he essayed a
comeback. Robert was so disgusted with
his performance that he will not play in
the big stuff again this year. He is only
32, and to some it may seem curious
that, after beating the best of the world’s
amateur and professional players consis-
tently for several years, he should flop
as he has done. One or two of the
experts are saying that the loss of form is
only a flash in the pan, and they quote
experiences of their own in proof. All
oi them are professionals, and overlook
the fact that, day and night, they are
playing and thinking the difficult game,
usually subconsciously. It is a fair guess
to say that the odds against Jones coming
back to his world-beating form of five
years ago are fairly long, even if he
devotes the remainder of his days to it.
* * * *
“Baffy”: N.S.W. professional golfers
have this year opened their competition,
hitherto confined to State players, to all
from any part of Australia who carry
the necessary qualifications—membership
of the A.P.G.U. The trouble will be
fitting in this competition between the
many that now threaten to crowd up the
Australian season —the usual date is
sometime in November, but this year it
will have to fall earlier if clashing is to
be avoided. However, the P.Gs. want,
above all else, to have a smack at their
brethren from overseas who are expected
to be swarming about the golfing land-
scape about that time, and are willing to
edge in somewhere. Dates already fixed
and irrevocable are the N.S.W. cham-
pion of champions on September 29, the
open, amateur and professional cham-
pionships of Australia from October 9-19,
the Ma State close championship on
November 2-3, and then, of course, the
great centenary tamasha in Melbourne,
which opens November 12.
* * * *
“Come Across”: American profes-
sional golfers have laid down very defi-
nitely the terms on which they will come
to Australia for the 1934 season. Tommy
Howard, chairman of the Australian
P.G.A., has been worded by cable to
the effect that six 100 per cent. Yank
golfers, all of ’em Ryder Cup players,
will come along for the centenary or any
old thing that is going provided that
£l5OO is guaranteed. The cable suggests
a two-day match in Melbourne —four-
somes and singles—a warming-up match
in Sydney before going to Melbourne
and perhaps a go at Adelaide or Bris-
bane. They propose to pay back the
guarantee and promotion expenses. That
done, they offer 75 per cent, of further
credits to the Australian organisations
concerned, and will take the balance
themselves. There is a proviso that there
shall be no clash between fixture dates.
It is a very sporting offer, and if the
Americans can be landed in Sydney in
time for the Australian open champion-
ship early in October they will have every
chance for a good clean-up.
* * * *
“Prospect”: In these days when golf
balls and gold are commanding com-
paratively analogous prices, Virginia
club, near Brisbane, is seriously
thinking of taking out a golf-ball
mining lease, if such a thing is
available. Recently an infuriated
golfer who had hurled his iron
into a creek which runs through
the links disturbed some gravel
when he repented and went down
to retrieve his property. This dis-
closed a shoot of seven balls
which had been buried in the
sand of the creek bank by the
floods during recent heavy rains.
Search for the mother reef is in
progress.
* * *
“Oatlands”: Victoria, being
chiefly inhabited by Scots and
their offspring, has always looked
sourly on the Southron custom
of compelling the unfortunate
who has holed in one to buy drinks for
the mob. It was probably this senti-
ment which lately inspired the players
competing in a foursomes at Common-
wealth links to insure themselves against
the always imminent calamity. It is true
that immunity cost them saxpence each,
but considering that recently one of the
members had to part up five pounds —
ma conscience! —everyone thocht it was
weel wor-r-th th’ extr-r-avagance.
Car and Cycle
“Cowes”: Thompson, who had the bad
luck to run second in the Phillip Island
Grand Prix in a car specially imported
to win it again, had the satisfaction of
once more recording fastest time and a
new record for the 203.6-mile run.
Though six minutes were lost through
stops, Thompson was clocked at 2hr.
37min. 21 sec., close on 3min. better than
his previous record put up in 1932. The
super-charged six-cylinder Magnette he
drove was a machine similar to that in
which Tuovalari won the British T.T. in
1933. It is fitted with a Wilson pre-selec-
tive gear, enabling quick changing when
cornering. The weight is 17cwt.
(Continued on next page.)


g£JLB
utti-
into'
besi^ n^
the
* hoo ting° y ° Ur
P ut tiif!? ean s
pest ca?/- toe
h lnto Von m^
barrel Ur gun
' <?oes°°j «T a „ nd a
c^tri dge des ei-ve a “Mr
ŵ
can
for
‘Strata,
a faulty f e>er >tifj c 1° be th e „
P «*<*t fc'aoa ”*?. tor,
Million
yel 0
*?. s »lt
city „
s re^o st
S in “yJ ’
not
Pattern j gni tio n u-
st andinL loxv ?ecoii hlgh
gam? ? g advant 1 and i"
"Pen y gj are %***, s 0 °» g ge cm ark Hb}
& K tte 'youV 4l' te 7 e ««
>»CS S - yBOCh *
have £ o , l! dge s
thatl lOo* Su Pr e^ yn ° c h r
r ®^
tor
iej*e
Qf'&weteeqfU/
tike
Unfortunately, money is not to be
picked up in old age as flowers in a
garden are gathered.
Without systematic planning while earn-
ing power is at its best, the eventide of
life of most is almost inevitably a time
of anxiety, of complete dependence
upon others and of the deprivation of
accustomed comforts.
And when needs are greatest the
capacity to supply them is least.
The solution is Life Assurance, giving
complete independence, peace of mind
and a priceless sense of personal
security. And the Company best able to
provide the policy exactly suited to your
needs is the Prudential.
ASSETS:
£277,000,000
CUL mould
be well
PRUDENTIAL
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HERALD BUILDING PITT ST
ps SYDNEY
m-h:
Price,
Grist Your Own Meal
Here’s a Mill that’s ALWAYS ready to
provide the household with supplies of whole-
some meal foods, because wheat, barley,
corn, and other grains can be freshly ground,
just when required.
The
“Macson” Miniature
Gristing Mill
is strong, reliable and economical. Its
grinding plates are easily adjustable for
varying degrees of fine or coarse porridge
meals, wholemeal flour, etc.
Have you ever had to waste time and labour with
makeshift fastenings, because no bolts were handy?
Visitors to Sydney
are cordially
invited to visit
ourExhibit.No.lo2,
Suttor Avenue,
Royal Easter Show i
A
AJAX
m
m
31
h©
85*
Then you will welcome our set of assorted Bolts and Nuts. This
useful set is made up of the following 36 carefully chosen sizes:
CARRIAGE BOLTS AND NUTS.
Two sin. by fin.; four 4in. by fin.; four 3in. by Jin.; four 2 Jin. by fin.;
four 2in. by Jin.; two 2in. by fin.; four 1-Jin. by Jin.
ENGINE BOLTS AND NUTS.
Four 1 Jin. by Jin.; two 2in. by Jin.; two 2in. by fin.; four 2Jin. by fin.
Packed weight 3Jib. Pric; 2/11
ierson£
Proprietary limited
51 Bathurst Street SYDNEY
582 Collins Street .... MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth Street ~ ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street PERTH
“Fire Piston”: The Diesel engine
seems to have definitely arrived as far
as motor-cars are concerned —it has been
in everyday use in commercial vehicles
for some years past. At Montlhery the
other day English-driver Eyston sent a
six-cylinder Diesel job round the course
for an average of 116 m.p.h. The chassis
carried a streamline four-seater body,
and Eyston tips that when his machine is
properly tuned up a good deal higher
speed will be reeled off.
* n- * *
“Whizz”: A couple of new motor re-
cords went up recently, the perpetrators
being the inevitable Eyston, partnered
by his usual offsider, Denley. A time
run for 5000 miles was the objective
and the Montlhery track the venue ;
the car was a Hotchkiss. After 48 hours
it had covered 4578 miles, and the 5000
was completed in 52hr. 46min.
* * * *
“Voerlooper”: South Africa has so far
proved a profitable field for American
and British cars and British motor-
cycles. Japan has hopped into the field,
and is offering a two-seater car for £BO
landed. Motor-cycles are quoted at £l5
each and pushbikes at 355. One Japanese
firm alone is turning out 1000 cars a year,
and hopes to increase that out of sight.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Australia’s solitary
representative in the Isle of Man T.T.
motor-cycle races (B. 14/3/’34) will pro-
bably be Don Bain, of Sydney, the very
inadequate sub. of £20 —not £25 even —
allowed this year by the Isle of Man pro-
moters choking off many hopeful aspir-
ants. Bain is well known in England.
He has already been offered machines
for the senior and junior events by more
than one British factory, and this will
probably influence his selection.
Miscellaneous
The Australian team selected for the
Empire Games caused the usual heart-
burnings among the discards and their
backers, but the general opinion is that
it is a good one which will bring back
quite a lot of bacon. The swimmers bulk
large on the list, as is fitting. They are
R. Clark (backstroke), Claire Dennis
(women’s breaststroke Olympic cham-
pion) and Noel Ryan (Australian free-
style champion) from N.S.W., with
Lesley Thompson (diver) and A. Higgin-
son (breaststroke) from Victoria. Field
and track athletes are J. Metcalfe
(jumps), F. Woodhouse (pole vault) and
H. Yates (sprints), the first from N.S.W.
and the other two from Vic. Both the
cyclists, H. Pethybridge and Duncan
Gray, hail from the Ma State. L. Cook,
a lightweight boxer, is a Queenslander,
and R. Gerrard, a lightweight wrestler,
comes from Victoria. If funds permit,
D. L. Maclardy, the Victorian hurdler,
will be sent. J. C. Horsfall, the Vic-
torian sprinter-jumper, will join the team
in England, where he is at Cambridge,
and H. W. Lander, a Victorian distance
runner who is in England on business,
will also be available if required.
“Grundy”: For years the dispatch of
Australian teams containing young
women athletes overseas has been ren-
dered unnecessarily costly by the sending
of chaperons. Having in view the strait-
ened finances, the Empire Games selec-
tion committee this year decided to omit
the superfluous duenna. The resulting
shriek has been deafening, but the com-
mittee is sticking to its guns. Arrange-
ments have been made for an honorary
chaperon on board ship and in England.
Mrs. Cooper will look after the two young
women members of the team, both of
whom, like most Australiennes, are
eminently capable of looking after them-
selves. The arrangement provoked a
characteristically sportsmanlike objec-
tion from one Sydney paper, which
pointed out that Mrs. Cooper was the
mother of Joyce Cooper and her sister,
“both of whom will be competitors of
our girls in England.”
* * * *
“Topping Lift”: Sydney yachtsmen are
rejoicing in the news that the Fife-
designed eight-metre yacht Vanessa, built
in Sydney in 1928 by Hayes and Sons,
will be returning next season from Mel-
bourne, whither she was taken after being
bought by a Victorian owner. Vanessa
won the inter-State Sayonara Cup for
N.S.W. in 1929-30-31. Next year she
returned to Sydney as a Victorian repre-
sentative and took the cup back to Mel-
bourne after an absence of 22 years.
She is one of the most Weatherly craft
ever seen in Australian waters, and has
no peer in beating to windward in a sea-
way.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia recently
saw its first women’s inter-State polo
match—probably the first representative
game of its kind to be played in Aus-
tralia. Those who came to scoff went
away rather glad they had not been
playing in the game. The girls showed
fearless horsemanship and fine stickwork,
while their exclamations in tight corners
showed they fiad thoroughly imbibed
the essentials of the game from their
menfolk. The Victorians went down,
scoring three goals to the home side’s
four, but there was not much between
the teams.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Someone must have
been putting ginger in Ted Hampson’s
porridge during his recent tour of M.L.
with Jack Metcalfe. All through the
trip he put up times for the sprints
far better than most of his per-
formances on this side the Tasman. He
wound up at Auckland by taking the 100
in 9 4-ssec. and the 220 in 21 4-ssec.
The M.L. officials know the track game
by heart, and the figures can be taken
as authentic. The 100 equals Slip Carr’s
Australian record, standing since 1923,
and the 220 time has only been beaten in
Australia by a fifth of a second, Carlton
and Grehan, of Queensland, being the
record-holders.


m
m&SSBSR
-comz-io>3:
i* MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
lonr-zouw*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
• Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane _
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
COMPLETE SAMPLE ROOMS
AVAILABLE,
-eMSH't i
■a h'szinfx
Telephone IYVYIS3I.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,”
SYDNEY.
Barrier Reef Island
Tourist Resort
FOR LEASE
PERFECT
SITUATION
SELF-SUPPORTING
450 pawpaws, 1500 tomatoes, 60C
pines, 120 bananas, 20 kinds veget-
ables, goats, poultry, fish, oysters
etc.
4 Furnished Shacks —4 more
building.
28ft. Motor Launch and I Oft
Sharpie.
Owner, unable finance Tourist busi-
ness, will sublet on
REASONABLE TERMS.
Apply immediately to —
GRANT—Eox 115, Proserpine, N.Q.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
SCIENTIFIC PASTURAGE.
“R.S.M.”: There seems to be no general
realisation that the growing and fattening
of cattle call for different qualities of
feed or pastures. At different ages
cattle want their proteins and carbo-
hydrates (starches) in different propor-
tions, but many graziers give them all
the same menu. A young beast never
does so well as when it is on its dam.
Milk has proteins and carbohydrates
in the proportion 1 : 4. This teaches us
that all young cattle should have feed
similar to milk in composition, i.e., rich
in protein and mineral matter; young,
short pasture with a large proportion of
clover or lucerne. As the steers grow,
and their skeletons are built up, the pur-
pose of their feed changes, and so the
feed should change. It should have a
higher proportion of carbohydrates for
the making of flesh and fat. The ratio
should be broadened to 1 : 7. When a year
old (if the steers are to dress at 6001 b.
at two years) the ratio can be broadened
to 1 : 8, and this means a pasture rich in
succulent grass but one not so short as
previously, and not carrying much clover.
English and Scotch feeders have
applied this knowledge for generations,
and we shall have to apply it if we want
to turn off prime steers for chilling at
two years. Moreover, we shall have to
learn that salt, shade and good water
are necessary if the highest profits are
to be made.
“Spring”: Pasture improvement by
sowing mixtures suitable to local condi-
tions must pay if properly carried out
under fair seasonal conditions. Besides
this, less valuable and harmful grasses
can be choked out— e.g., barley grass,
for which most fat-lamb breeders have
very little use because of the seeds.
Eat the paddock as bare as possible
and then harrow it. Next sow (in
N.S.W., anyway) 51b. Wimmera rye
grass, 3 jib. subterranean clover and |lb.
of early-strain clover mixed with lcwt.
of super to the acre. Broadcast during
March and April (the earlier the better)
from a drill or a broadcaster, and then
harrow.
This mixture has the great advantage
of being fit to feed off as soon as it has
grown beyond the stage when it can be
pulled out by the stock. It should choke
out barley grass, however thick, and
give a good return quicker than most
other mixtures.
HOW TO USE LUCERNE.
“Lion”: The best and quickest method
of fattening on lucerne country is as
follows:
Don’t keep stock continually on the
lucerne alone. Let them have a chance
to get at some grass. Observation of
both sheep and cattle shows that, left
to themselves, they will spend the early
morning on the lucerne, go for a drink,
stroll off to the grass, perhaps camp in
the shade during the heat of the day, and
graze their way back to the lucerne via
the tank. Stock so treated fatten quicker
than those shut into a lucerne paddock
only, and they seem much more con-
tented.
If you cannot let the stock go to grass,
have an old, rough stack in the paddock
instead. The first cuts, so often burned
as rubbish by all who don’t realise their
value, are very suitable for roughage
purposes. Horses do much better if
allowed a week on this stuff occasion-
ally, as it cleans them out, revitalises
their whole system, and, incidentally,
gives their coats a wonderful glossy
appearance.
Don’t feed half-cured lucerne to any
animal, especially horses. It gripes them.
1 nearly lost a good mare this way.
OVINE ARTHRITIS.
“W.J.”: Arthritis in sheep and lambs
is responsible for more freezing-works
rejections than any other disease —it
costs tens of thousands of head yearly.
It may not be eliminated entirely, but
can be considerably minimised.
The disease is due to an organism with
a special propensity for settling in the
joint of a newly-born animal, where it
sets up an inflammation with pus forma-
tion. The infection may gain entrance
through the navel at or after birth, but
more often through wounds following
tailing or castration.
All carcasses of animals dying from
any disease should be either burned or
buried deeply in lime to prevent con-
tamination of the soil or pastures. Lambs
should be marked and tailed in tem-
porary yards erected in clean paddocks
as free as possible from contamination.
All instruments used at marking should
be sterilised by boiling, and reliable anti-
septics should be freely used during the
operation. The tailings should not be
left to spread over the pastures, but
should be burned or buried.
Footrot may be responsible for
arthritis. It also may lead to atrophy
of the leg—a fatal flaw to a carcass.
THE RICHNESS OF MILK.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Generally butter-fat
percentage in a cow’s milk derives from
breeding. Feeding can effect at most a
temporary change. The percentages of
other solids—casein, sugar and minerals
—are readily influenced by feeding,
casein being the most variable.
On a properly balanced summer ration
water ratio in the milk decreases as com-
pared with less nutritious or unbalanced
winter feed. The decrease is almost
wholly due to an increase in the casein
content. Slight increases in sugar, fat
and minerals are also usual.
As the quantity of milk yielded on a
balanced ration is also much greater —
increases of 50 per cent, are not un-
common in carefully conducted experi-
ments —the wisdom of balancing the
ration is obvious. Radical changes in the
class of feed, even though only for short
periods, affect greatly both the quantity
and composition of milk. Even though
quantity may fall off only a trifle, the
sudden change in the milk’s composition
is enough to cause digestive disorders in
the calves or other animals to which the
skim-milk is fed.
Casein from cow’s milk coagulates in a
solid mass not easily penetrated by the
gastric juices of young calf or pig, so
that a sudden increase may be disastrous.
Cows on soured or fermented feeds,
notably ensilage made from immature
growth, yield milk which very quickly
sours.
Where the period between milkings
is equal, the quantity and richness of
milk should show little variation. Where
such periods are uneven, the smaller
quantity given after the shorter period is
somewhat richer. The first milk drawn
contains much less fat than the last —
in an actual test where a cow was milked
in four stages and the milk analysed, the
first portion contained only 0.76 per cent,
of fat, the second portion 2.60 per cent.,
the third 5.35 per cent, and the final
strippings 9.80 per cent. The percent-
age of other constituents remained un-
changed.
Most cows reach their maximum pro-
duction when about eight years old. The
butter-fat percentage varies slightly with
age. A U.S.A. inquirer has concluded
from the records of nearly 20,000 herd-
book cows that the richest milk is given
at the first lactation, and that thereafter
the fat content declines very slowly ; but
he admits that individual cows showed
such frequent variations that the rule was
uncertain in operation.
The milk of a good-conditioned cow
at calving often proves very rich for a
short period, and then declines until her
normal test figure is reached. This tem-
porary richness is simply due to a natural
drawing on bodily reserves of fat stored
up during the dry period.
MAIZE FOR PIGS.
“Grunter”: There is nothing better
than maize for topping off market pigs.
It is best sown in small pig-proof
paddocks. The drills may be closer
than for usual commercial purposes, and
the corn —after early cultivation —is
left until the grain is mature. The
pigs are then turned in, and need
only a portable shed and liquid feeding.
Knock a few stalks down and the
grunters do the rest. They quickly break
the stalks, rip and open the husks and
consume all the grain and part of the
cob. , f
Much of the stalk is eaten, too, as well
as the usual weed growth between rows,
and the whole of the vegetable matter is
crushed and trampled down —a process
which, plus manure deposit, enriches the
soil.
Sows in pig as well as with litters
do better on the grain in the field than
with direct feeding of cobs or shelled
grain. Be careful to let the corn mature
before grazing, as immature crops cause
overheating and stomach and blood
trouble.
AXLE-GREASE RECIPES.
“B.B.”: We always use these home-
made axle greases: —
(1) Take the best plumbago (blacklead)
finely powdered and sift free of grit, and
gradually add it through a sieve to five
times its weight of good lard, rendered
semi-fluid in an iron pan by gentle heat.
The mixture must be continuously and
vigorously stirred until the composition
is smooth and uniform. Gradually raise
the heat until the stuff becomes liquid,
when it should be removed from the fire
to cool. The stirring must be continued
until the mixture is quite cold. Apply
in cold state with a brush. If it is to
be exposed to warmth a little beeswax
may be added, or hard, strained tallow
used instead of lard.
(2) Mix 80 parts of fat and 20 parts
of very fine blacklead. Melt the fat
in a varnished earthen vessel and add the
blaaklead while constantly stirring until
it is cold. Otherwise the blacklead will
not remain in suspension in the melted
fat.
FARMING WITH TREES.
“J.A.M.”: The U.S.A. has a “national
nut-tree planting project,” the object being
to restore native nut-trees to the Ameri-
can countryside.
Last spring at least 10,000 Americans
applied for walnut trees to plant. These
trees had been raised from seeds col-
lected by the Boy Scouts from historic
locations in the States and forwarded to
the Department of Agriculture for dis-
tribution.
We also could plant trees that would
yield a handsome profit, even if the
number was only small. If the right
species were grown the timber could be
sold when the tree had matured suffi-
ciently, and there is always the shade
and shelter value to be considered.
The time is coming when the farmer
will grow a tree crop for profit as he now
handles other crops. There must be
hundreds of varieties of native and im-
ported trees which could be grown use-
luily on farms and around homes with a
minimum of trouble.
It is a chance for the Canberra nur-
series to do something useful.
A RAGWORT TRAGEDY.
“J.’s Ass”: To-day much of Maoriland
covered by the Taupo and Kaharoa
showers and the Waikato and King
country suffers under the hoodoo of
ragwort, which seems incurable. The
effect of its alkaloidal poison takes so
many forms that farmers and veterinar-
ians are in despair. Aussie farmers should
saturate themselves in the tragic story.
On sound country ragwort is serious,
but on unsound country it is a thousand
times worse. It spreads with amazing
rapidity. There are no cures.
Take sodium chlorate. As a spray it
must be used when the ragwort is start-
ing to grow (so is the grass); it cer-
tainly kills the growing ragwort, but it
makes the grass uneatable for six weeks
in the early spring. If mixed with super,
the sodium action is killed; then
ragwort loves super, and any other
manure. Mixed with lime it is better,
but useless on sick country. One man
I know has a power sprayer specially
built for the job, and he has spent 17s.
6d. per acre on his 300 acres three years
in succession. Next year he will have
to do it again. You can only prevent
ragwort by a ruthless and never-ending
war on every plant you see, and on your
neighbor and his plants, too. Once it gets
established you may as well give up.
In the Waikato and King country all
stock are now sold guaranteed (a) free
from ragwort, (b) from clean country, or
(c) with no guarantee at all. The latter
class are almost unsaleable.
Aged ewes develop an appetite for rag-
wort, especially the flowers. They reach
a stage when they will eat nothing else.
If fat, they may be killed at once. Rag-
wort sheep die easily during drafting and
trucking. When put on to clean country
they die like flies. It takes mighty little
ragwort to finish them.
So there you are. Take your lesson.
FIXING THE GRINDSTONE.
“5.8. P.”: No more out-of-circle,
hollow-faced grindstones, which mean
dull axes and adzes. Mount your stone
on a proper rigid stand —-it’ll last four
times as long as one stuck in an old fork
without bearings. To recondition a stone
get someone to turn it slowly while you
hold a wood or shoeing rasp flat against
the stone face. Keep on till you have ie-
ground a, true circle and flat face. Then
if you want to have a really good stone
which won’t hollow out:
(1) Hold a pencil-point dead centre on
the face of the stone and turn one full
revolution to make a line right round and
exactly in the middle of the face.
(2) In like manner, draw two other circles
on the side of the stone jin. each from
the edges.
(3) Work the rasp to cut the stone down
carefully to the pencil lines and finish it
up with a ridge-centred face. When grind-
ing on this face, use both sides of it as
evenly as possible.
Yes ; your grinding surface is naturally
halved, but you’ll always have a nice
true stone, as it is almost impossible to
hollow it out.
When grinding on any shaped stone,
always keep the blade of the tool square
on the face —never turn it lengthwise. It
you do, one small particle of sand can
get under the edge, roll the full length
of the blade and destroy the whole edge
which you have just put on. This is a
very common end to an almost-finished
keen edge. , - ,
If you must finish off the edge finely,
do it on an oilstone.
{Land, page continued on page 30.)


Chilled Beef Challenge!
QusVuxfia Dfanmce.
R
JLJEFORE the end of this year at least eleven shipping
lines will have vessels available for the carriage of chilled beef
from Australia. “This,” says the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
“should encourage graziers to proceed with confidence in develop-
ing plans for the production of beef suitable for chilling.”
Beef of the quality usually exported
frozen from Australia—range-fed cattle
which do not reach maturity until the
age of 4 or 5 years—will not do for the
chilled beef market.
Other countries, such as the Argentine,
with which our product will have to
compete, produce beef which is mature
at the age of 2 to 3 years and is almost
invariably of prime quality. This is
due largely to feeding methods.
If Australia is to take full advantage of
the profitable opportunities of this
great new industry, radical improve-
ment in feeding methods will be neces-
sary. Better pastures, cultivation of
suitable crops, and hand feeding with
concentrates when “topping off” stock
before slaughtering are of the utmost
importance.
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal, so rich in
protein, is the most valuable concen-
trate for use in completing this condi-
tioning for market. Used in a properly
balanced diet, its rapid effect in im-
proving the animals within the few
final weeks is truly remarkable.
Meggitt’s Advisory Department has
available the fullest and most up-to-
date information, culled from world-
wide sources, on the feeding of stock,
and will be pleased to advise, without
obligation, on ail feeding questions.
ẁ
Tne boy on the boo
%'Joroncees qualify*
?*CfiITTL'
LINSEED OIL
LINSEED OIL MEAL
KIBBLED NUTS
LINSEED OIL CAKE
SHEEP NUTS
And other Products of Linseed
HEAD OFFICE: Asbestos House , 67 York St.. Sydney. BRANCHES OR DISTRIBUTORS in all States. WORKS: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.


ff^fy'alleiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
0
eat#
P
1884
(Jo Jlujs
an
) ?krmei*o
1934
implements
THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating
Plough for Summer Fallowing
Light in draught. Makes a splendid tilth. Deals
effectively with paddymelon, stinkwort and heavy
weed growth.
Sizes: 10-Disc, sft. Cut. 14-Disc, 7ft. Cut.
w
1934
Sunshine's Jubilee
It is just fifty years since Hugh Victor McKay
invented and successfully built the first Sunshine
Harvester.
To-day the works at Sunshine manufacture a
complete range of modern labor-saving machines
and implements for orchard, vineyard and farm.
SUNTYNE” Combined Grain and Fertilizer Drill and Spring Tyne Cultivator
SIZES:
8-Row—l7 Tynes Cultivating sft.
12-Row—2s Tynes Cultivating 7^ft.
14-Row—29 Tynes Cultivating B£ft.
SIZES:
16-Row—33 Tynes
20-Row—4l Tynes
24-Row—49 Tynes
Cultivating 9£ft.
Cultivating 12ft.
Cultivating 14ft.
The “Suntyne” sows shallow or deep, on a level, compacted seed bed, where full advantage is secured
from the stored moisture in the soil.
ŵ
Write for 96-pctge General Catalogue of all Sunshine Manufactures,
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
Branches: 664-666 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. 27-39 Broadway, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HINTS FOR THE FARM
“Louden”: When Dobbin is hot after
work, leave the bit in his mouth when
he goes to water, and there will be no
danger of his contracting colic pains, as
he cannot rush his drink.
“Ahdoo”: Try this against soil ero-
sion : When ploughing out the headlands
fill in the last furrow with the plough’s
front mould-boards only in the ground.
This can be done on most ploughs, and
does not spoil the look of your work.
“T.J.”: A good idea for “top and
tailing” seed maize is to drive a dozen
2jin. nails firmly into a solid piece of
timber in a circle with a diameter a
little greater than a corn core. The cobs
are relieved of small and uneven end
grains by twisting each end in this im-
provised tool.
“Armita”: Old bore piping makes a
good frame for a small shearing shed,
Four-inch for the posts and three-inch
for the rafters. The front line of posts
should be 51ft. apart along the shearing-
board. Four are enough for the middle
line and back line. The middle line
should be higher to allow for a gabled
roof. Be careful to get the tops of each
post in each line level. When you have
rammed the posts, which should be at
least 3/ft. in the ground, pour a little
cement in at the top. Belt two sides of
the top of each pipe in to make a rest
for the rafters. Screw these together on
the ground and hoist on top of the posts
with a winch and gin-poles. When in
position, secure them with a strip of hoop-
iron and a bolt. The rest of the building
can be done with timber.
“Damper”: To mend cracks in iron
boilers or kettles or camp ovens, take
steel filings and mix them with flowers
of sulphur, using a little more sulphur
than filings. Put this in the crack to be
mended, and heat the vessel over a fire
until the crack is filled. The vessel may
be used after a few hours, and the mend
will last indefinitely.
“The Breaker”: Oil-soaked rag round
the necks of horses in country where bot-
flies abound is of little value. The female
fly lays its eggs about the sides and fore
limbs of horses, and invariably the eggs
are licked by the horse and conveyed to
the stomach. The best precaution is to
rub all likely places with a rag dipped in
paraffin as soon as the flies are noticed.
“Louden”: The quickest and best way
to eradicate stinkwort is to use the fire-
stick. Burn towards the end of summer
before the pest has seeded, and make
sure the fire reaches every infested part.
A badly-infested area of approximately
1600 acres, portion of an eastern River-
ina sheep property that I managed, was
thus successfully treated in 1927.
“Hazard”: When .laying out farm or
station buildings consider them as a “fire
risk.” Any building within 100 ft. of a
hayshed or -stack is insured only at the
highest farm rate. Woolsheds should
not be used to store hay, straw or maize-
in-husk, otherwise they are rated as hay-
sheds. Motor garages should not be
used to store petrol except in the vehicle
tanks. Petrol stores and dumps should
be isolated at least 30ft. from other build-
ings and have proper firebreaks around
them.
“Whitihana”: To make stubborn ewes
mother or foster lambs, couple them with
Bfl. of rope and let them have the run
of a fairly clear small padock. Ewes
should be fairly even in weight and
lambs strong enough to walk. I have
found the treatment successful in from
three to eight hours.
“T.J.G.”: In farm buildings where
caps cannot be used as a preventive
against white ants, mix refuse oil from
the engine or car oil with white arsenic
(the oil dissolves the arsenic), and thor-
oughly paint the whole of the post put
in the ground. I have a milking shed
that has been up 10 years treated in this
way, and although the old posts on the
previous shed were eaten out with white
ants there has been no sign of them in
the treated posts.
“Namoli”: To remove fence posts
single-handed double an ordinary trace-
chain and make a loop in it a little larger
than the post. Slip this over the post
down to the ground. Through this loop
pass a bar or lever —under the chain
nearest you and over the chain farthest
away. A good lift on the lever will shift
the post.
“Lintot”: Don’t put a windmill cen-
trally over a well. Place it so that the
suction pipe hangs close to one corner
of the box which goes into the drift. This
gives plenty of room to use long-handled
wrenches and for operating a windlass.
The pipe need not be disturbed for clean-
ing or deepening jobs ; in fact, on a
windy day the mill will lower the water
level and facilitate the work. To avoid
silting pump water from the well at the
lowest rate consistent with farm needs.
t , ... , , t( . ,
L.B. : Try this bush ice-chest :
Dig a hole about 4ft. deep and 2ft.
square. Fill this with water after the sun
goes down, and cover with a sheet of
?’,. , £ ,
iron or wood, topped with turf or loose
dirt mixed with charcoal. In the morn-
ing all the water will have soaked away,
lpnvincr thp nit as cool as an ice-chest
leavmg tne pit as coot as an ice cnest
All that is necessary to keep the pit cool
is to wet the turf or soil on top each
night. To keep ants or any insects from
getting in the pit, make a ring of lime
£in. thick around it and about 2ft. away.
Food put in the pit must be well covered,
or the pit may be lined with tin or wood.
“Deekay”: When bagging wheat for
the silo do not sew or tie the bag mouths.
Use skewers of No. 14 steel wire about
13in. long, pointed at one end and bent
to a ring at the other. Hold the mouth
of the bag together and insert two
skewers, one from each ear, threading
them towards the centre as you would a
needle. Push the point of each skewer
well down into the wheat to prevent
damage to clothes or hands. This method
saves time and twine both in bagging
and at the silo, where the skewers can be
removed for re-use.
“Duke of Derrimut”: Graziers will
have to brush up their arithmetic if we
are to develop an export trade in chilled
meat. Producing chillers is a factory
job. A man must think in pounds of
beef per acre, and our graziers will have
to work out their costs to two places of
decimals. They have never done it
in the past. I have rarely met a
grazier who could quote offhand so
fundamental a cost item as the annual
cost of his land per pound of beef pro-
duced. Hit-or-miss methods will not have
a chance in the future. While graziers
are brushing up their arithmetic it will
do them no harm to study production
costs in other countries ; not those costs
imposed by benevolent Legislatures, but
costs within the graziers’ own control.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Best varieties of walnuts to plant in
W.A. ? (2) Insect pests and diseases ? (3)
Sprays required and seasons of application ?
(4) Literature obtainable ? (5) Any other hints ?
—440.
(1) The varieties now being planted in West-
ralia are Franquette, Mayette, Chaberte and
English and a new variety, raised by L. I.
Wicks, the S.A. nurseryman, named “Wilsons
Wonder.” (2) In W.A. the walnut is little sub-
ject to insect pests, but occasionally is affected
by walnut blight, a bacterial disease for which
there is no definite specific. (3) and (4) Provided
the trees are clean and healthy at time of
planting there will be no need to spray for
many years. If the trees appear unthrifty, write
to the W.A. Agricultural Department. (5) For
the orchard site choose a deep friable loam or
gravel, provided it has a good mixture of loani
with it. The soil must not be water-logged m
winter or too dry during summer.
THE LAST PRIZE HINT.
The following, contributed by
J. W. GORDON, of Leeton,
N.S.W., has been awarded the
guinea prize. Hereafter the
competition will be discontinued.
When skim milk is scarce a good
substitute can be had by pouring
boiling water over a small quan-
tity of oaten or wheaten chaff—
say, 5 gal. to 31b. of chaff. When the
“tea” cools, strain off. If a little
molasses or sugar is added pigs and
poddies soon acquire a taste for it,
and it 1 helps to make healthy, sleek-
coated animals which do not suffer
from the scouring that usually fol-
lows too much separated milk.


2
AT THE HEART
W
OF LONDON
LORDS
NHE;
OTe7
is
gbam
PAIA<4
r
KLMMGTOI
OVAL
PARK LANE HOTEL, PICCADILLY, W.l.
, (’Grams: Keighbrace, Audley, London .)
Equidistant from Lord’s and Kennington Oval
Cricket Grounds on direct route, and close
to Theatre-land and the finest shopping centres.
400 modern bedrooms, each with
telephone and fully-equipped private
bathroom. 40 suites.
SINGLE from 14/6. DOUBLE from
25/-. SUITES from 42/-.
Garage for 200 cars. Sandler’s Orchestra.
Illustrated topical tariff from “The Bulletin.”
PARK LANE HOTEL
The History of Melbourne in 6000 Words
Can you present the History of the Victorian Capital in a vivid, arresting
essay that will present a concise yet accurate story of the growth of
Melbourne from the date of its founding until the present day?
“Truth,” Victoria’s most important weekly newspaper, offers a prize of
£l5O
for such a story, in connection with “Truth’s” Special Centenary Issue,
which will be published later in the year.
Full particulars of this remarkable competition can be obtained on
application to
“TRUTH” OFFICE, Kippax and Holt Sts., Sydney
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The World’s Wool
During the first five months of the
current wool season Japan took 20 p.c.
of Australia’s shipments, as against 1.5
p.c. of S’Africa’s. Nippon as a buyer in
other exporting countries is insignificant.
France, however, is a large purchaser of
wools ; during the period under
discussion she took 22,000,0001 b., as
against 33,100,0001 b. from Australia.
France has been a better customer of
the African Union than the U.K. lately.
Wool imports from all sources for the
first ten months of 1933 were: France,
525,000,0001 b.; Germany, 315,000,0001 b.;
Belgium, 173,000,0001 b. ; Italy,
171,000,0001 b.; and Japan, 179,000,0001 b.
Latterly, Belgium and the Netherlands
and Germany and Austria have been
better customers of ours than France,
which is the world’s second-largest im-
porter. The U.S.A., always a poor cus-
tomer, is buying a little more merino
lately, but still not much. Uncle Sam’s
country is one of the few which place
more than a nominal tariff on the staple,
and when the domestic supply is short it
buys mostly from Latin America.
Figures issued by the Imperial Econo-
mic Committee make it possible to get a
line on world activity and consumption.
The U.S.A. was the largest manufacturer
of woollens for many years after the
war, but a steady decline set in after
1923 ; lighter fabrics became the fashion,
and there was competition from other
fibres. Britain recently regained the lead,
and then Roosevelt’s New Deal began
to stimulate American looms, which
attained an output equal to 1923 level in
June and July last, after which there was
a relapse. U.S.A. is a greater importer
than exporter of woollen tissues.
Taking 1926 as 100, the index for em-
ployment in the British woollen textile
industry was 85.8 in 1931 and 88.7 in
1932. In November, 1933, it was up to
94 p.c. The trend of prices in tops
(taking the 1926-28 average as represent-
ing 100) was a rise from 46.8 in January,
1933, to 82.5 in January, 1934. All of
which looks healthy as far as steadiness
in prices is concerned.
Wool was allowed to find its own level
in the world’s markets during the slump ;
it became so cheap that there was no
encouragement to turn to substitutes. It
gained in popularity as wearing apparel,
and there was no accumulation of stocks.
The statistical position is heartening.
General Motors-Holden’s works at
Marrickville (Sydney) were reopened last
week after being closed for three years.
E W. Holden, who relinquishes the job
of managing director in favor of L. J.
Hartnett, but retains the position of chair-
man, expects that the Brisbane works
will soon be in commission again. The
Adelaide factory has kept open all
through the slump. Mr. Holden men-
tioned that 90 p.c. of the amount ex-
pended on motor-cars remains in the
country. Other figures quoted at the
opening ceremony showed that there
were now 225,718 motor vehicles in N. S.
Wales, an increase of 18,000 on the total
of June, 1932.
* * * *
Evidently as a preliminary to bargain-
ing with producing countries, Germany
has prohibited imports of wool, cotton
and other fibres, so representatives from
the Vaterland have not been bidding at
Australian or Maoriland wool sales. At
the closing Geelong wool auction 6200
bales were offered, and, though com-
petition between France, Italy and Brad-
ford was keen for most lines, the lack
of German support and the fact that
Japan was not rushing fine crossbreds
led to an easing of between 5 and 10
p.c. in prices.
Mcllwraith, McEacharns have bagged
Australian Gas Light Co.’s big coal con-
tract ; J. and A. Brown-Abermain Sea-
ham had held it for nearly 30 years. The
agreement is for five years, and calls for
approximately 370,000 tons p.a. The
new contractors will get their supplies
from the Bellbird pits on the Greta seam,
which produce some of the finest gas-
making coal in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
“J.W.L.”: I own property in Sydney
—some of the tenants pay; others don’t
—and have got behind in my water-rates.
At least, Sydney Water Board says I’m
behind because I'haven’t paid 12 months
in advance. All past years’ rates had
been paid, and in February last I had
reduced the amount outstanding to £6O,
which is approximately half the year’s
bill. The last day in February I received
a letter from one of my tenants, a firm
of chemists, stating that unless arrears
of rates were paid, or unless rents were
diverted to the board in liquidation of
rates, the water was to be cut off. The
chemist’s shop was selected as being the
most vulnerable. Whatever services the
“Stop growling! Your income would keep us in comfort
if you hadn’t such expensive habits
“Expensive habits? What are they?”
“Well, I’m one.”
board renders to me in return for exorbi-
tant rates will not be complete until
June 30.
* * * *
Australian Drop Forging Co., Ltd., in
which Sydney investors are interested
through John McGrath, Ltd., has begun
the manufacture of refrigerator parts,
motor axles, crankshafts, edged tools,
golf clubs and agricultural machinery
parts at Alexandria. Plant was bought
following a visit of the co.’s managing
director to Europe and America. It is
proposed to produce forged pistons of
hiduminium, a new aluminium alloy.
Various English interests are associated
with the co. on the technical side.
“E.V.”: In relation to a 1927-1929 index
of 100, Australia’s wholesale prices for
1933 were the third-highest among the
major countries of the world —78.1
against 72.3 in Britain (Board of Trade
figures), 62.5 in France, 68.8 in U.S.A.,
69.5 in Canada. The highest countries
were N.Z., 88.5, and Japan, 80.6.
Moreover, while Britain’s figure rose
only 1.4 during the year and France’s
and Japan’s declined slightly, we
were blessed with the biggest point in-
crease, except U.S.A., which cannot fairly
be compared with us because of the
special effect on values of the Roosevelt
plan. But higher wholesale prices are
all to the good. Their table is a baro-
meter of world recovery.
Preparations for the Melbourne cen-
tenary celebrations have cost £79,350
already, including £14,000 for publicity,
£9750 for decorations, £lO,OOO for
pageantry and £5500 for air-race organ-
isation. Opinion in the Caledonian
Society is that it is an awfu’ lot o’ siller
for naethin’ mickle.
* * * *
I. K. Berman, of Hemingway and
Robertson, back from Europe, is
interested in the Angora-rabbit in-
dustry. Australian Angora wool, he
says, is the finest in the world; but
Continental demand is for coarser quali-
ties, used for trimmings and not for
materials. He does not recommend
breeding for coarser wools in Australia,
however. Experiments in processing fine
qualities have been going on, and the
Australian quality brings 21s. a pound, as
against 11s. for coarse Continental.
* * * *
The Emu Wine Co. recently got off
the stocks in London. It acquired the
largest Australian-wine importing busi-
ness in the United Kingdom for
£150,000, all but £6OO of which is to be
taken out in ordinary shares. The public
was offered £150,000 of 5| p.c. redeem-
able' cumulative pref. shares at 21s.
After discharging a loan, this issue should
provide additional working capital of
£124,000 to carry on the good work
of distributing Australian vintages. Pro-
fits of the old business had been rising
during its last four years, and averaged
nearly three times the pref. div. and sink-
ing-fund requirements.
* * * *
“Top Side”: When the new wool sales
open in Sydney in August, the funny
men who annually write up the circus
for the daily papers will have a new
comedy turn to fasten on. This will be
the first appearance of Chinese buyers.
In the past China has taken an
appreciable quantity of certain qualities
of our wool, but the buying had been
done through agents —usually Japanese.
Chinese are being instructed in the mys-
teries of the game in France and Ger-
many, the curriculum including classing
and buying at auction. Direct buying
for the Chinese market may improve con-
ditions for the marketers of the inferior
wools, which generally go at bargain
prices at the end of a season —This is the
type of stuff China has been getting for
a long time. All the same, there is no
keener or more astute dealer in the world
than the Chinaman.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The Queensland Trans-
port Board is proving an expensive luxury
to Brisbane business interests and to the
Northern Rivers of N.S.W. It is killing
road transport by fantastic taxation, and
has revoked exemption to inter-State
carriers operating between Brisbane and
the Tweed. The alternative offered is
to haul goods by rail from Brisbane
to Kyogle, thence to Casino, thence
to Murwillumbah; in other words,
to take them for 200 miles round
three-quarters of a circle, instead of
80 miles or so by road. Any loss in-
curred is charged up to the taxpayers
of N.S.W. and Queensland ; road trans-
port costs the taxpayer nothing extra.
The natural result is a heavy falling off
in the Northern Rivers-Brisbane trade, a
matter of half a million or more
yearly. My tip is that the board will
be dumped well before the next State
elections in Queensland. Not on account
of the displaced, ruined carriers—they
are small fry. But half a million is a lot
of business to risk, and it carries a
number of votes, one way and another.
* * * *
“Gentle Joe”: I posted in a pillar-box a
letter, containing a crossed cheque, to the
Sydney Municipal Electrical Department.
Ten days later I received a letter from
Mr. Mackay to say he’d cut me off if I
didn’t pay my account. I sent him
another cheque, at the same time stop-
ping the first one. Mr. Mackay replied
that he’d just received my first cheque.
About the same time as I (as I thought)
paid my electricity account, I sent a
cheque to the Gas Co. Dated 20 days
later I received a demand for the sum
due. It was posted in a pillar-box at
3 p.m. on March 17 and reached me in
a suburb seven miles distant from the
G.P.O. at 11 a.m. on March 20. I
haven’t sent another cheque. I’m hoping
that in due course, when it has gone
the round of the world in search of
another Sydney, another Pitt-street and
another Australian Gas Light Co., that
first one will come back.
* * * *
“Kariah”: Attempts are being made
to revive the fur-seal industry on the
Vic. coast. It is claimed that there are
15,000 seals in the several known colo-
nies, and that they are fur-bearing, as
distinct from the hair-seals found in
other parts. Between 1800 and 1900
240,000 seals were destroyed. Game and
Fisheries Department is not convinced
that the skins can be treated locally, and
say even first-class skins (which the locals
are not) have passed out of fashion.
* * * *
Rowntrees, the chocolate people, are
to amalgamate their Australian business
with that of R. S. Murray and Co., of
Brunswick (Vic.). New plant and fresh
capital are to be brought into the organ-
isation, but Rowntree and Murray lines
will be marketed separately.
* * * *
“King D.”: Re the exhaustion of the
“Million Fund” for British industrial
research (B. 28 /3 / ’34), Stanley Baldwin
is considering a compulsory levy on in-
dustries to keep the good work going.
Many manufacturers themselves are in
favor of it.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: On all N.D.L. steamers
there is a monthly ceremony of a one-
pot meal, the saving in body fuel going
to support the unemployed in the Vater-
land. On the Maltby, which recently
arrived in Melbourne, the crew volun-
tarily instituted a weekly one pot. There
are 400 seamen unemployed in the
N.D.L. service alone.


M& h )
GRIP FACTS.
For
Examinations, Business,
Public Speaking, Lodge,
etc., etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
ẁ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying anil
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union.
National Planning:
Is It the Way Out?
Should the Banks be
Nationalised?
Position of the Railways
Trend of the Market
What is Ahead of the
U.S.A.?
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments. THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
APRIL ISSUE ON SALE NEXT
SATURDAY.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
THESE LAST FEW
YEARS
These last few years have, in a marked or lesser degree,
proved to all the wisdom of making some provision for the
future. All of us have experienced the unexpected financial
calls of everyday life, and, while it is impossible to gauge
accurately the needs of the future, it is possible to provide
for them.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open, and can be
opened nearly anywhere in Australia. With it and the regular
saving of money, however small the amounts, adequate pro-
vision for the unexpected calls will be made.
(£bmtitomltl) Savings JBankof Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Patents.
AUTOMATIC CUP PASTRY MAKING
MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
26631/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attor-
neys, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO STEPHEN JOHN HAYWOOD, tormeny
of Frankford, in Tasmania, but last heard
of at Darwin, Northern Territory.
TAKE NOTICE that unless you com-
municate with the Equity Trustees Company,
of Tasmania, Limited, Launceston, Tasmania,
to its satisfaction within the period of 12
months from the date of the publication hereof,
the said Company, as Trustees of the Will and
Estate of your father, James Haywood, de-
ceased, will formally wind up the affairs of the
said estate and distribute the assets of the
said estate amongst the children of John Wade
and Mary Evans named in the said Will.
DATED at Launceston this Twenty-fourth
day of March, 1934.
WILFRED HUTCHINS,
Solicitor to the said Estate.
ANY persons knowing the whereabouts of
PETER MICHAEL COOKE, son of James
Cooke, late of Louth Park, West Maitland,
New South Wales, are requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned, who wish to pay him
his share of his late father’s estate.
T. A. HILL and SON, Solicitors,
West Maitland.
Public Notices.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD MINES, NO
LIABILITY.
Collins House,
Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend
of One shilling and sixpence (1/6) per share
has been declared on all the issued shares in
the capital of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Friday,
the 25th day of May, 1934.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 26th day of April,
and reopen at 10 a.m. on Saturday, the 28th
day of April, 1934, and the dividend will be
payable to shareholders registered in the books
of the Company on Friday, the 27th day ot
April, 1934.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
HUGH G. BRAIN,
Manager.
23rd March, 1934.
TOWN OF DARWIN.
SALE OF TOWN SECTIONS.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court, under the provisions of the Darwin
Town Council Ordinance, 100 sections, each
2 roods in area, in the Town of Darwin,
Northern Territory of Australia, will be sold
without reserve by public auction in Darwm on
the following dates:
28th April, 1934.
12th May, 1934.
2nd June, 1934.
9th June, 1934.
Further information may be obtained from the
undersigned.
Town Hall,
Darwin.
R. LEYDIN,
Town Clerk.
Legal Notices.
ESTATE of ADA IRENE EMMA LUFF
(known as Nurse Clarkson), late of Enmore,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales,
nurse, deceased, intestate. TAKE NOTICE
that the Public Trustee is the Administrator ot
the estate of the abovenamed deceased, who
died at Enmore intestate on the 17th day ot
July, 1933. The intestate was born at New-
town, Sydney, about 1867, and was the
daughter of William Thomas Clarkson and
Phoebe Rebecca Wilson. The said deceased
was married to Thomas Luff, of St. Peters,
Sydney, Brickmaker, on the 29th day of March,
1884. The said THOMAS LUFF was last
heard of in Sydney in 1902, and at that date
followed the occupation of carter. The said
Thomas Luff, if alive on the 17th day ot
July, 1933, would be entitled to the estate
of the said intestate. Claims to the estate ot
the said deceased have been received from the
sisters, half-sister, brother of the intestate
and the children of (1) a deceased brother, (2)
a deceased sister, and (3) a deceased half-sister.
LET the said Thomas Luff or his legal personal
representative take notice that unless a claim
by either of them is received by the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
within two months after the publication hereof
the Public Trustee will distribute the said
estate of the said intestate amongst the next-
of-kin of whose claims he then has notice.—
W. J. KESSELL, PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TO JOHN MOFFATT, a brother of Patrick
Moffatt (otherwise Moffit), and his children,
if any, and to WILLIAM MOFFATT, a
nephew of said Patrick Moffatt (other-
wise Moffit), formerly of Co. Westmeath,
Ireland. .
PURSUANT to an order of the High
Court of Justice, Irish Free State, made in
the matter of the Estate of Patrick Moffatt
(otherwise Moffit), Patrick Moffatt Plaintiff,
Bridget Moffatt Defendant, all persons claiming
to be next-of-kin of the said Patrick Moffatt
(otherwise Moffit), and in particular the above-
named John Moffatt and his children, if any,
and the abovenamed William Moffatt, are on oi;
before the 28th day of May, 1934, to come in
and prove their claims at the Central Office,
High Court of Justice, Four Courts, Dublin,
or in default they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of said order.
Friday, the Ist day of June, 1934, at the
Examiner’s Office, High Court of Justice, Four
Courts, Dublin, is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the claims.
DATED this 10th day of February, 1934.
JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
JOHN D. ROSS, Solicitor for Plaintiff, 19
Upper Ormond Quay, Dublin.
At Moore Park.
BY THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
Sydney Show does not change very
much. Bulls die and their sons, a little
larger and a little glossier, take their
places. Hurdy-gurdies give way to ampli-
fiers, which are even noisier and more
abominable. The samples trade waxes
and wanes with prosperity. Jumpers
break their legs and their progeny come
along with prodigious leaps such as their
ancestors never imagined. But the car-
nival remains essentially the same —which
is as it should be, since the populace
prefers its shows ordered. It likes to
know that the feature it enjoyed last year
will be there again in the same place.
And it doesn’t take its exhibits very
seriously. More people see the wood-
chopping than the Jerseys and the rodeo
events are twice as popular as the cattle.
* * * *
This year’s cattle were a revelation. It
speaks wonders for the country that, after
three years of depression, they are so
much bettered. The Herefords, in par-
ticular, were improved out of sight. Mrs.
Biddlecombe’s champion bull would win
a prize in any show in the world. It
would not be much exaggeration to say
that he is the best Hereford bull on
earth at the moment. It shows what
competition will do. Twenty years ago,
the reds and whites were a poor-to-
medium lot in Australia, but, thanks to
the influence of Hobartville in particular
and the keenness of young breeders like
Lecturers would stand by.
Raymond Reynolds, Australian stud-
masters have difficulty in finding sires in
England to-day good enough to match
with their studs. The Shorthorns, too,
were a good lot, but there have been
better showings. Still, public interest was
great in them because of the feat of that
amazing man Scrymgeour, of Netherby,
who so little has allowed the bullet which
blinded him at the war to interfere with
his life that he has made himself one
of the soundest cattle judges in .Aus-
tralia and has raised a stud now without
superior on the Darling Downs. For
once, there was no growling about the
championship award when his white M.L.
cow carried off the sash.
* * * *
There is something lacking about the
educational aspects of the cattle arrange-
ments which makes an organiser burn
to get at the business. The judging is
carried out with the solemnity of a
funeral service, and no attempt is made
to follow the classes with explanations
“My God, what legs!”
or to drive home to the large ringside
which always attends the advantages
of breeding the classes of animals which
are paraded. Take the sad case of
Wagga Gladys. She is the world’s lead-
ing butter-fat cow at the moment, but
who would know it? She lies in an
ordinary stall among ordinary high-
qUality cattle with a modest first-prize
certificate over her head. In the U.S.A.
she would have a special cubicle. Notices
would blazon her performances ; lecturers
would stand by to educate the young
farmer in her points; students would
come in droves to find out what makes
her different from other cows. Here, she
lies on straw, unguarded, and strange old
ladies prod her with umbrellas. Ninety-
nine out of every hundred who come to
the show never hear about Wagga
Gladys.
* * * *
Even Frith, who is an intelligent sort
of fellow, though an artist, brightened up
considerably when we left the cattle and
pig stalls for the pashometer. At the
dog-judging ring, he showed a glimmer
of interest in animal life when he sud-
A gauge measures his palpitations.
denly exclaimed: “My God, what legs!”
But, alas, the exhibit to which he referred
so enthusiastically was a blonde, and
was not in the competition. It stirred
him to far greater emotion than did the
politician whom we discovered earnestly
contemplating a large lump of dried noo-
goora burr, no doubt moralising on how
sins stick to the transgressor. However,
the pashometer, which is an innovation,
was a great success. This insidious in-
strument was managed by a gentleman
arrayed in a Turkish fez, a Circassian
lady’s pants and the tunic of a Stamboul
hall-porter. It consists of a couple of
speaking trumpets or something and a
sheet of copper on which the victim
stands, while a gauge measures his pal-
pitations. Frith registered 68 marks,
which is 24 more than the Commissioner
of Police did the other day. For me, the
gauge refused to budge even when the
operator opened my waistcoat and ex-
posed a manly singlet to the glare. He
said something about a blue suit being a
damper. From this experiment, valu-
able scientific data may be deduced, such
as that all nice girls should prefer a
quiet life with religious editors to a 68-
grade life with artists, and that it is
never wise to go walking with your best
girl in a blue suit. (Anyway, apart from
damping your sex appeal, the powder
shows on it.)
* * * *
And so to the flea circus. All medi-
tative citizens like this because it is not
only an epitome of all shows but of all
humanity. An amazing fellow the flea,
but his life is just as hard as that of a
wage-plug. He can lift five thousand
times his own weight and juggle a ball
20 times*his circumference on his toes,
A place where fleas and bulls are
strictly barred.
but for all that he'spends his life chained
to a large cable weighing about seven
thousand flea tons or so in a sort of
candle-snuffer, only being released from
his duties to burrow for a few moments
into the hairy arm of his proprietor, who
provides him with a monotonous diet of
blood for breakfast, dinner and tea.
What a summary of the mortal existence
common to bulls, woodchoppers and
artists alike —all chained to a task, all
on show and all ground under the iron
heel of circumstance! The symbolism of
the thing made us sad, and, feeling that
all human effort was vain, we adjourned
to a place where all assets are liquid, and
where artists and religious editors may
meet on a common ground, but from
which fleas and bulls are strictly barred.
We had seen as much of the Show as
most people do.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
New Guinea Murders
“Kaloa”: It is difficult to understand
the Commonwealth’s attitude towards
events in uncontrolled regions of N.G.
recently. Since a little before Christ-
mas over 40 natives have been killed
and wounded in Papua and the Mandate
as the result of attacks on white men
and native police, combined with one or
two accidents—one at least apparently
due to native-police hysteria.
The last murder of a white man was
that of Bernard McGrath, a pros-
pector. He was killed on the Upper
Ramu by Karmantinas during the ab-
sence from the district of the A.D.0.,
who was on patrol on the Upper Mark-
ham, having left a cadet in charge of
his station. The situation seems to
require explanation. It was in this dis-
trict that lan Mack, a patrol officer, was
killed last June, and a little to the south
of the site of the last murder Patrol
Officer McCarthy was severely wounded,
while another party under Cadet Black
was on the defensive for weeks some
months ago against hordes of hostiles.
The McGrath murder has been avenged
by the killing of nearly 20 natives and
the wounding of several others, and a
Government official was wounded while
on the punitive expedition.
Had these events occurred in the
Northern Territory instead of in the
Mandate, the whole place would have
been in an uproar. The sensational press
would have been screaming that “there
must be no punitive expeditions,” and
any white residents of the area would
have been ordered to leave hurriedly.
Mr. Marr and his friends, however,
are apparently too busy deciding how the
plums of office are to be split up to think
out an effective plan for handling the
situation, in dealing with which they
are just as jellyfish-like as they are in
most things connected with the Terri-
tories. Either all forces and white resi-
dents should be ordered to leave these
districts or the natives should be brought
under control in such a way as to ensure
the safety of white residents. A continu-
ance of the status quo merely means that
the dribble of killings on both sides will
go on, until either the deaths on the
native side are numbered in hundreds, or
some inexperienced cadet gets into an
ambush and is wiped out with a large
section of the Mandate police.
Sorcerers at Work
“Dibatau”: I have no desire to lock
horns with “Pourri Pourri” (B. 28/3/’34)
about sorcerers, but “Isee” is not so
wide of the mark. In a lengthy experi-
ence on the Papuan Bench, I found that
where the Government was able to prove
that a death or other disaster attributed
to sorcery had been brought about by
material means the sorcerer lost caste.
Years ago in the Pudawana, which I
first brought under control, a sorcerer
was in the habit of levying toll on out-
lying villages. Where this was not pro-
duced, the death of the head man of the
group on whom the toll was levied
followed.
Inquiry produced the fact that the
sorcerer had always seen and spoken to
the deceased shortly before and touched
him. After that it was easy to find the
modus operandi. A needle-point splinter
of bone was held between the operator’s
fingers so as to be invisible. It carried a
virulent poison. Stroking the victim with
the open hand, the sorcerer scratched—
exit victim, in agony. That sorcerer had
no influence when he got out of gaol.
We saw to it that the population under-
stood his methods.
However, except where means can be
proved, it has been my experience that
to convict a man for sorcery and gaol
him is apt to enhance his reputation,
tor, as he argues: “Of course I am a
great sorcerer—even the Government
thinks I am. Otherwise why should they
put me in gaol?”
S.N. : I don’t know what is going
to happen to the Papuan outstation if
copra keeps sinking as it is doing. This
month planters are getting £2 12s. 6d.
per ton at their own wharves in bags,
e cost of the bags being about 12s. 6d.
some of them. One pioneer whose
S= ures . 1 have seen got £2432 for his
5°J c ra "l ? 2 ?T- 126 i tons. In 1933 113
kirn £666 (which includes
iBe and this year’s return will be
lower. The only thing that keeps
some planters going is their proximity
to the coast, which allows them to turn
an honest penny or two out of the shell
industry. Many a Papuan and Man-
dater has had cause to remember
trochus, which has reached £7O per ton,
in his prayers.
* * * *
“Calcite”: Judging by the names of
shows around Chillagoe (N.Q.), it pays
mineowners to be animated by patriotic
feelings. Coxhall’s New Zealand Flag
produced gold valued at £4OOO. Aus-
tralian Flag was also successful. Schaf-
fert’s Federal Flag has been the most
consistent show on the field, and Blue
Ensign has produced £3OOO this past
year. On the other hand, the Soviet and
the Red Flag, both of which gave rich
surface indications, failed to become pro-
ducers and have been abandoned.
* * * *
“Hickory Pryor”: The Eureka Syndi-
cate, Chillagoe line, the largest and most
efficient tobacco-producer in N.Q., has
proved the ability of that area to supply
bright cigarette leaf equal in quality to
that imported from America. In 1932,
“bright leaf” (i.e., bright mahogany and
better) formed 88.5 p.c. of the company’s
total output. In 1933 the percentage
was 86.7. The committee, led by Fed-
“I don’t believe a word of it, and I can’t let you in.”
"Aw, have a heart! You were a fisherman yourself once.”
eral accountant Townsend, which in-
quired into the tobacco industry in 1933
found that average production of “bright”
leaf in N.Q. in 1932 was 68.1 p.c. of the
total, and in the rest of Australia 26.83
p.c. The success of this company is
attributed to large-scale operation, suit-
able land, efficient control and central-
ised handling.
* * * *
“D.H.0.”: If “Endeadere” is interested
in the wreck of the St. Paul on Rossel
Island, he should refer to Armstrong’s
book (“Rossel Island”). On page 203 he
will find:
On September 30, 1858, the ship St.
Paul, bound from Hong Kong to Sydney
with 327 Chinese passengers on board,
was totally wrecked on the island, and
all hands reached the shore. The captain
and eight of the crew then left in a boat
to obtain assistance, and on the French
steamer Styx arriving at the spot from New
Caledonia early in January, 1859, it was
found that the whole of the passengers and
remainder of the crew, with the exception
of one Chinese, had been horribly mas-
sacred by the natives. The survivor stated
that the natives feasted upon the bodies
of their victims.
Armstrong also refers to William Mac-
Gregor’s report, and others. Rossel
Island natives practised cannibalism
until 1908.
* * * *
“H.”: About the nearer pearling
grounds, Japanese and Malayan divers
are now making their first bid for for-
tune this new season. The chief diver
brings from his cabin, with great rever-
ence, the fox-headed “god of Luck,”
and places him on the for’ard deck.
Then, with incantation and obeisance,
he pours before or over the god a liba-
tion of red wine. The crew joins in.
Then what wine is left is divided. Toasts
are drunk, and, the god being replaced
on his shrine (below decks), the diver
makes his first dive.
The Luck god has been irresponsive
for some time, but the market for pearl-
shell is reviving somewhat, though
trochus, much less costly, is taking the
place of the large shell.
Trepang-fishing will begin in April
or May, according to weather, and the
malodorous sea snail is still a fine pro-
position. If films could be made of tre-
panging on the Rowley Shoals, those
lovely lagoon stretches of the Indian
Ocean, like lapis lazuli and pearl, set
about with richer gems, we might hope
for luxury liners to make the tour of
those scarcely known islets and coasts of
the north-west. The Indian is the most
feminine of the oceans, given to tan-
trums and passions, but possessed of a
haunting beauty and a mysterious melan-
choly. From Cape Leveque, n.-w. and w.
to Darwin, is a coastline which has a
wilder beauty even than the Solomons.
* * * *
Queensland’s Macrossan, J., continues
on his outspoken way. Sentencing four
men for stealing with violence, the Judge
noted that all four had the Crystal
Palace, a Brisbane hostel for men on the
dole, as their place of residence, and
added that other persons who had en-
gaged his attention of late hailed from
the same address. The hostel manage-
ment replied by inviting the Judge to
bring his blankets and billy and camp at
the place during Easter to get first-hand
knowledge of the conditions. Invitation
declined.
* * * *
During the first seven months of the
present financial year pearlshell exports
amounted to 1202 tons, valued at
£145,754, as compared with 1035 tons,
valued at £150,129, for the corresponding
period last year. Trochus exports for
the seven months of 1932-33 totalled 255
tons, valued at £22,113, against 303 tons,
valued at £22,659, for the same period in
1931-32.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Nervous old ladies had very little sleep on
the night when squads of Light Horse from
various country centres held a tattoo at the
Exhibition Ground. The parade of troops, with
Col. Christie at the head, was a fine spectacle.
Considering that some of the boys only learned
to ride three months ago, they made a won-
derful showing.
Rupert Gray marries Marjorie Pace early in
May. There will be only one bridesmaid,
Eileen Mullin, and the wedding will be an
evening affair at St. Andrew’s Church, Creek-
street. The usual round of teas was opened
for the bdde-to-be by Mrs. A. H. Stirrat, who
welcomed her guests at Rowe’s Cafe.
Mrs. Charlie Gall is down from Blackall,
and is spending Easter with her mother, the
Cowley lady, at Silky Oaks, Toowong. Mrs.
Gall has her two pretty daughters, Margaret
and Doreen, with her.
Harry Cupples, who for many years was one
of the leading bank managers in Brisbane, has
gone on the land; he has a place at Pine-
dale, outside Chinchilla. Mrs. Cupples, who
was one of the Horton girls, has been staying
with her sisters, but last week she packed her
trunks and, with son Maurice, left for Chin-
chilla.
Lud Mayor and Mayoress Greene, with most
of their family, spent Easter at Caloundra.
Judith Greene stayed in town, as she was one of
the contestants at the Eisteddfod. Judith is a
very able pianist, having inherited a goodly
share of her mother’s talent in that respect.
Lena Hammond, who has been in bed
between giving lessons for the last three weeks,
was considerably bucked when the results of
the soprano and contralto solos at the Eistedd-
fod were published. In each case her pupils
topped the list. Lena has guided so many
notable singers that her name is a household
word in Queensland. No promising voice ever
heard in her studio was turned away, whether
fees were forthcoming or not.
Ercil Kelly, one of Queensland’s prettiest
girls, will wed C. B. Freeman at St. John’s
Cathedral on April 11. Evie Logan is to be
bridesmaid, and to-day she is staging a big
party in honor of the bride-to-be.
Catherine Williams, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. M. C. Stephens, of Mayne House,
Mayne, has announced her engagement to A. L.
Ebbott, only son of Mr. and Mrs. P. H.
Ebbott, of Wooloowin.
Elspeth Salkeld leaves at an early date for
England. Shirley and Deirdre Crommelin
tea’d her last week, and round the rose-
decked table were grouped a bevy of Bris-
bane’s nicest girls.
Beatrice Pugh, the soprano, who in private
life is Mrs. W. A. Blake, was the guest of
honor at a party last week at which Mrs. T.
Hossack was the hostess. Beatrice is off to
England by the Largs Bay to continue her
musical education. Boomerang place cards
marked the guest places, and a floral boom-
erang was bestowed on the guest of honor.
Ever since the Country Women’s Association
came into being, Mrs. Charles Elliott has been
associated with the Toowong branch, either
as president or in some official capacity. Last
week she entertained the members of her
branch to say thank you (for their loyal sup-
port) and good-bye, as she is leaving with her
family to reside at Sunnybank. Mrs. Lawrence,
who has done excellent work for the branch
for over nine years as secretary, was given a
chair as a token of appreciation.
The Mabel Forrest Fund is growing slowly
—rather too slowly. A play is to be staged
shortly as a help to the fund. Incidentally,
the South Brisbane School is calling one of
its houses after Mrs. Forrest, and has arranged
to include her work in its curriculum. A some-
what tardy recognition, but better than noth-
ing. In the meantime, the woman whose work
has delighted a continent, and who has re-
ceived recognition in England and America, is
lying on a bed of pain, still gallantly driving
her pen.
Before this letter sees print, Mabelle Tregea,
youngest daughter of Mrs. J. Tregea, of Too-
wong, will have changed her name to Holmes.
The lucky man is Eric, younger son of Mr.
and Mrs. Jonas Holmes, of Pittsworth. Jonas
Holmes breeds the finest Ayrshire cattle in the
State.
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Benjamin Barnard cele-
brated the fiftieth anniversary of their wed-
ding day last week. Seventy-two years ago
the bridegroom was born in a cottage on Grace-
mere station. The bride was born at Stanwell.
They had four sons —two of them served with
the A.1.F., one being killed in action —and two
daughters; and now can claim 20 grand-
children and one great-grandchild.
Miss M. Kemp, the splendid horsewoman
whose prowess is known all over Queensland
and in several other States, is the leading spirit
of the newly formed Queensland Riding Club.
Her string of hunters usually carries away the
giant’s share of the blue ribbons and trophies
at the Queensland shows, and her riding school
at Camp Hill is very well known. The new
club will meet once or twice a month, and
already the membership list has exceeded ex-
pectations.
In June the Methodist Women’s Foreign
Mission Auxiliary will celebrate its twenty-first
anniversary. Mrs. A. Douglas for some time
has been in charge, and brown-eyed Marion
Powell—daughter of the late William Powell,
after whom the Home for Discharged Prisoners
is named—is secretary. A number of enter-
tainments are being planned to celebrate the
coming-of-age.
Marjorie Grosvenor, who accompanies the
goodwill mission to Asia, has been secre-
tary to three Prime Ministers. She is a
capable girl, and her complexion, hair and
frocking would cause even a debutante to
register envy and all uncharitableness.
Canon Warner, father of Mrs. A. E. Moore,
who for many years was rector of St. James’s
Anglican Church in Toowoomba, has celebrated
his 86th birthday. The Canon is a mine of
information regarding the early days of
Queensland, and it has been a disappointment
to his many friends that he never has been
persuaded to put some of his experiences on
paper.
Most of Brisbane packed up its bathing suits,
beach coats, ball frocks, etc., and departed
with great unanimity for. Southport over Easter.
Since Sir Leslie and Lady Wilson settled on
Southport as their holiday home, the place
has had a renaissance, as did Toowoomba in
the good old days when Sir Henry Norman
spent his summers there.
Talking of Toowoomba and the old days
reminds one of a story. Sir Henry Norman
was to open the new police barracks in Too-
woomba —now a boarding-house. An eminent
citizen had lent his horses and carriage to
the v.-r. party during their visit, but, having
had one over the eight, he forgot this and,
advancing to the waiting carriage, climbed in
and said “ ’Ome, John,” or something similar.
A shocked A.D.C. interfered, pointing out that
the carriage had been lent to his Ex. The
eminent citizen, planting his elbow in the
A.D.C.’s ribs, swept him from the path, and
climbed in saying “ ’ls Ex. can go to the
devil.” Then was Toowoomba enlivened by
the spectacle of top-hatted men scurrying hither
and yon to find a conveyance for the Gov-
ernor, who finally returned to Gabbinbar (the
old Nelson home on the Range, where he
always stayed) in a humble one-horse cab.
Died last week Mrs. Mary Sutton, widow
of Dr. Alfred Sutton. This Dresden-
china little lady was an Englishwoman. Her
husband and both medico sons served with
the A.M.C. during the war, and she and her
daughter—Mrs. Willis, wife of another medico
now—were pillars of the Red Cross Society.
She was in her early twenties when she came
to Queensland with her husband, and in the
almost half-century that has elapsed since then
she made a host of friends.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. , . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young short-story writer wants to get in
touch with a capable literary critic prepared
to assist him. —855.
To buy picture of ship Ellora, which arrived
in Sydney in 1883. —850.
To buy Checkley’s “Natural Method of
Physical Training.”—B3o.
To buy “The Roads of Queensland,” 1923
ed., published by Yates and Jones. —836.
To buy Black’s “Veterinary Dictionary and
Animal Management,” 1923 edition; also other
reliable veterinary books dealing with horses.
—BO9.
Words of old song “After the Ball.” —824.
Words of “The Shooting of Dan McGrew”
and “The Little Green Eye of the Yellow God.”
—833.
Words of verses “The Pub of the Promised
Land.”—B4s.
Zulu war-cries, with pronunciation and de-
scription of gestures.—697.
Information Sought.
U) (a) World swimming records for 50, 100
and 880 yards ? (b) Australian swimming records
for 100 and 880 yards ? (c) N.S.W. swimming
records for 50 and 100 yards ? (2) Is it advis-
able when training to swim before breakfast
on an empty stomach ? (3) Is a person who
has swum for money debarred from entering
amateur contests ? —854.
(1) (a) No 50yds. record; 100yds. 51sec., J.
Weissmuller* 1924; 880yds., lOmin. 20 2-ssec.,
C Crabbe, 1930. ( b ) 100yds., 53 4-ssec., M.
Kalili, 1933; 880yds., lOmin. 22sec., A. M.
Charlton, 1932. (c) 50yds., 24 4-ssec., W.
Cameron, 1930, A. Besomo and P. Hooper,
1932, joint titleholders; 100yds., 54sec., M.
Kalili, 1933. (2) Ideal time for training is
about 11 a.m. (3) A person who has at any
time swum for monetary consideration is de-
barred from entering contests as an amateur,
except in cases like those of State school-teachers
who teach swimming as part of their ordinary
duties, or persons who have been given
authority as employees of Government of muni-
cipal bodies to teach swimming, or those
who have been permitted by the N.S.W.A.S.A.
to accept out-of-pocket expenses in connection
with the teaching of swimming.
In the British talkie “l Was a Spy,” the
British National Anthem is played when the
Kaiser of Germany enters the Brussels Opera
House during the war. The whole house —
comprising Germans —stands to attention. What
is the explanation ? —Bl7.
The air “God Save the King,” wedded to
words commencing “Heil dir im Siegerkranz,”
was, up till 1914, the German national anthem.
Since the Great War “Deutschland liber Alles”
has superseded it. The air commands respect
in the U.S.A. where, to words commencing
“My country, ’tis of thee,” it is often per-
formed as a National Anthem under the title
“America.”
(1) My five-valve radio set, latest pattern by
reputable Sydney maker, has a dial with 100
divisions. Sydney stations are indicated by
dots on the dial, requiring reference to a card.
There is no rational mathematical ratio that l
can discover between wave-length of station , and
its place on the dial. Dealer told me set would
give me Melbourne and Adelaide, but how do
I get them ? (2) When a station goes dead in
the middle of an item and thenceforward is
represented by intermittent cracklings, what’s
the cause ? (3) On a recent 2FC programme a
baritone, singing from the studio, appeared to
be singing through his nose and jumping from
pp to ff every two or three seconds. Other
vocalists in the same hour from the same sta-
tion were free of these defects. Was the singer
to blame, or could it have been due to irre-
gularities in transmission ? Every care was
taken by me to adjust volume. — 125.
(1) Ratio depends on factors not available
to you. Communicate with makers of your set.
(2) Almost certainly due to a faulty connec-
tion somewhere in the set, or to some fault in
the house wiring. Have both tested. (3) Pro-
bably due to one of the causes mentioned. To
test for transmitter faults tune into another
station. If reception there is normal, trans-
mitter is to blame.
(1) Birth and death dates and nationality of
Tosti ? (2) Station in life ? (3) How high
does he rank as a composer ? (4) What was
the tragedy in his life that caused him to write
such sad music ? (5) Whom was his “Good-
bye” written to ? —756.
(1) Born in Italy, April 9, 1846; died, 1916.
Italian. (2) Commenced his musical career as
a pupil-teacher of violin and composition in
Naples. A long illness ended this phase. He
became a composer of songs and sang them
himself. After a very successful concert in
Rome he was appointed keeper of the musical
archives of the Italian Court. In his later years
he paid an annual visit to London and was
engaged by Queen Victoria as tutor in singing
to the royal family. (3) Third-rate. (4) No
particular tragedy ; it was the fashion of his
time for song-writers to wallow in gloom. (4)
Not recorded; probably an impersonal inspira-
tion.
The Commonwealth Year Book places the
first arrival of Chinese as later than 1840.
What do census returns of N. S. Wales in 1831
and in 1841 show ? — l2l.
Census reports prior to 1861 did not dis-
tinguish the nationality of foreigners. The
“Australian Encyclopredia” gives 1848 as the
year in which Chinese laborers were first im-
ported. In 1856 a statement in Parliament gave
the number of Chinese then in N. S. Wales
as 1806.
If a tenant were injured through falling down
steps in need of repair could damages be re-
covered from landlord ? —B2l.
There is no implied guarantee on the part of
a landlord that the property is in a safe con-
dition. He is not bound to repair in the
absence of an express contract to do so. The
tenant is held responsible, for the law implies
a promise by him to prevent the property tail-
ing into decay and becoming ruinous.
(1) My dictionary defines “Aryan” as “an
Indo-European; a member of that division oftne
human race which includes the Hindus and Pei -
sians and most Europeans (except Turks, Hun-
garians, Finns, etc.).” How can people of such
widely different characteristics as Germans and
Hindus be classed as one race? (2) Is there
any part of the British Isles where the inhabi-
tants can be classed as aboriginal of the > race
that existed at the time of Julius Ccesar s in-
vasion ? —791.
(1) The term Aryan refers broadly to Indo-
European races, and Aryans are identified by
the roots of their languages. The inference is
that all races whose languages are based on
Aryan roots are descended from the original
Aryan tribe or tribes, which lived somewhere
between the Caspian Sea and Afghanistan and
spread east and west. (2) Can’t speak as to
whole localities, but there are English
families which can trace a pure line of descent
from the Saxons, without Roman, Norman or
other mixture.
(1) Names of Australian firms manufacturing
Diesel engines? (2) Prospects of employment
with them for a young man who is about to
terminate his apprenticeship in one of the lead-
ing shops on the Tyne, England ? —757.
(1) A. H. McDonald and Co., 6 McEvoy-
street, Alexandria; Kelly and Lewis, 85 Pitt-
street; Neptune Slip and Engineering Co.,
Lavender Bay—all Sydney. Also Walkers, Ltd.,
Marvborough (Q.), and Ronald Bros, and Tip-
pett,' Ballarat (Vic.). (2) It would not be advis-
able to leave England unless there are defi-
nite prospects of employment.
Nature and treatment of tic douloureux ?
—594.
It is a neuralgia of the fifth cranial nerve.
Pain is usually spontaneous but intermittent
according to the cause. Some swelling and
redness of the face (one side) may be noted.
Treatment involves the removal of any local
disease in the teeth, bones of the face or jaw—
the toxic focus must be determined. Under
medical supervision sedatives and the like may
be prescribed for relief of pain. In many cases
surgical treatment is the one means of effecting
a permanent cure.
What causes vertigo ? —786.
It is a sense of lack of equilibrium. It may
be connected with ear or eye disturbances or
caused by disease or injury in the brain, by
digestive disturbances, or due to the introduc-
tion of toxic substances, such as alcohol,
tobacco, etc., in the blood. The chief form of
aural vertigo is that associated with Meniere’s
disease, which usually involves haemorrhage in
the labyrinth, leading to deafness and staggering.
Ocular vertigo may be caused by squint or such
experiences as looking from a height, observ-
ing rapidly-moving objects, etc. Bodily disease
of a debilitating tendency is always liable to
produce vertigo. Treatment must depend on
cause.
I am erecting a sundial at Mosman, Sydney.
I have the dial in its correct position , I now
want to know how to adjust pointer ? —785.
There are three essentials in erecting a hori-
zontal sundial; the dial plate must be perfectly
level (use a spirit level); the noon line must
be on the meridian of the place (obtainable by
communicating with Sydney Observatory by
’phone and getting correct noon); and the
gnomon must be cut equal to the angle of the
latitude and when placed on the dial plate must
point to the south celestial pole; also the
dial must be graduated for the latitude.
The gnomon angle can be obtained with a pro-
tractor, and the correct graduated hour angles
for Mosman can be supplied by the N.S.W.
Government Astronomer.
(1) Why is it that even on a very clear night
one can see very few stars near the horizon ?
(2) What is the significance of the dark patch
in the sky near the Milky Way ? (3) A t what
speed does the sun travel? —771.
(1) Our atmosphere is charged with a great
amount of dust particles, and this dust is
thickest near the earth’s surface. When we
look at the stars overhead we are looking
through only a few miles of this dust-charged
atmosphere. When we look towards the hori-
zon we are looking through hundreds of miles
of dust. (2) It is assumed to be a body of
non-illuminativC gas, called by astronomers a
dark nebula. (3) The speed of the sun in
space has not been ascertained. There are two
methods of approaching the subject—by reckon-
ing change of position with regard to other
stars, and by spectroscopic observation. The
first method gives a motion of 13 to 15 miles
per second, the second a motion of 11 miles
per second. As nothing in the universe stands
still absolute motion cannot be measured.
My dahlias have made extensive growth and
few blooms this year. (1) What’s the trouble ?
(2) Is it too late to get a show of blooms ?
834.
(1) You have evidently given them too much
manure and fertiliser, thus unduly forcing leaf-
growth. (2) Cut the stems back to two “eyes”
near the base; laterals will push out and make
growth. It is the only way to get another
flowering, but it may be too late now to expect
success.
Names of plants or creepers suitable for
brightening a stone wall, 14 ft. by 20 ft., in an
exposed easterly position in a hot climate ?
841.
Since the heat from the stone wall is likely
to wither plants it is advisable to erect a lattice-
frame (with, say, 12in. squares) and place it
against the wall. Place a box of soil at the
top of the wall for the creepers to hang down
and at the bottom prepare bed or box from
which the plants may grow up. As they grow
all shoots should be fastened to the lattice.
Suitable evergreen creepers include ivy and ficus
(both non-flowering); bignonias (yellow,
golden, lavender, white, cream and brown);
dolichos (pink and white); cobaea (purple);
lathyrus or everlasting pea (white, pink, red
and blue); lonicera or honeysuckle (various
colors); manettia bicolor (red and yellow
flowers); native clematis (white flowers); Har-
denbergia ( Monophylla, purple flowers); nas-
turtium (all colors) and convolvulus (all colors).
Shrubs which can be grown at the base and
trained up the frame include bougainvillaeas
(.Magnified trailli, bright purple; Laterita, brick
red and Rosea, rich pink) and climbing roses
(various colors). Tall-growing annuals which
will make a bright showing at the lower part
of the frame are sweet peas (all colors), sun-
flowers, hollyhocks, amaranthus (leaf plants) and
cosmos. An excellent effect can be made with
window-boxes fastened on the wall in which can
be grown ivy-geraniums and staghorn and
elkhorn ferns.
(1) I have some old water-color paintings
marked with yellowish-brown spots. How can
/ remove stains ? (2) Method of removing rust
and other stains from white verandah tiles?—
359
(1) Delicate nature of water-color painting
makes treatment very difficult. If the pictures
are valuable, call on and consult the director
of the National Art Gallery, the Domain, Syd-
ney. (2) If the stains have penetrated the glaze
owing to its having cracked, nothing can be
done; examine with a magnifier to determine
this. To remove surface stains, wash well with
hot, soapy water and scrub lightly with Bon
Ami or similar cleaner.
(1) I wish to light a small building about
half a mile distant from the homestead by
electricity. What voltage would be most suit-
able, 12, 32 or 110? (2) What factors deter-
mine the size of the two conductors ? y 3)
Would the voltage at the distant end be of the
same value as the dynamo voltage? —sl9.
(1) 110 volts would be the most economical,
as less power would be lost in the conductors.
(2) The current taken by each lamp; the
number of lamps actually in use; the total
length of the two conductors, and the strain
imposed upon them due to windage may have
to be taken into consideration. (3) No. There
will be a slight loss of voltage, which, for a
conductor of given resistance, will increase as
the current increases through it.
A few details concerning the career of Wil-
liam Walker, of Nicaragua ?—15 4.
He was born at Nashville, Tennessee, m 1824,
studied medicine in Germany, drifted into
journalism in New Orleans and San Francisco,
and practised as a barrister in California. In
1853 he got together an expedition and in-
vaded the State of Sonora in Mexico. He
proclaimed himself “President of the Pacific
Republic,” but after a while he was compelled
to surrender to the Sonora army. He next
came into fame as President of Nicaragua;
stirred up trouble with neighboring States,
and was deposed and taken to New Orleans as
the result of U.S.A. intervention. Went back
to Central America, where, after other adven-
tures, he was tried by court-martial at Hon-
duras in 1860 and shot.
Size and shape of diamond on devil-fishes ?
How do they capture their prey ? Are they hard
to capture and is it true that they are capable
of smashing small boats ? What Australian
waters do they frequent ? —733.
They are rays of the family Mobulidce, some
of which are the largest of their kind, attain-
ing a width of over 20ft. The disc is expanded
laterally into two angular wings, producing a
somewhat diamond-shaped body from which is
derived the name under which these huge rays
are known in Queensland. They are sometimes
observed in schools of eight or ten, surround-
ing a shoal of small fish; they raise the ends
of their pointed pectoral fins to beat the water
with resounding splashes and thereby scare
their prey into a huddled mass, so that it can
be readily swept into their capacious mouths by
means of a pair of armlike lobes projecting
forward on each side of the head. The capture
of devil-fishes with harpoons provides exciting
sport and a little danger. When harpooned, a
large ray will tow a small launch behind it at
great speed until it becomes tired out, but may
then be hauled alongside and dispatched. Some-
times, however, the fish turns on its enemy,
throws itself clear of the water and casts its
whole weight upon the boat, which is either
smashed or swamped. These fish are not un-
common on the coast of Queensland, and stray
individuals occasionally wander as far south-
ward as Port Jackson.
(1) Type of lamp (not arc ) suitable for use
with a magic lantern, for projecting a 6 ft. pic-
ture ? (2) Would you recommend a condenser
lens or a reflector for the lamp ? (3) Cost, and
where obtainable ? (4) Would a 2\in. diameter
magnifying glass be suitable for this purpose ?
—789.
(1) A Philips 240-volt 500-watt lamp, price
375. (2) A condenser comprising two 4in.
plano-convex lenses, 6jin. focal length, is re-
commended. (3) 10s. 6d., from Harrington’s,
386 George-street, Sydney. (4) No.
What were the hair pictures done by the
Misses Lane about 1770 ? There is some
mention of Garrick having patronised them. —
856.
Anne Louisa Lane and Mary Lane were
miniature painters. Their portraits in hair were
needlework pictures of the sitter worked with his
or her own hair. One old catalogue shows that,
besides “portraits of noblemen,” these young
women also exhibited landscapes after Hollar
and Claude, and a “Storm at Sea,” presumably
worked in their own hair. Garrick was. a great
patron of the young women and their queer
craft; there are letters extant in which he men-
tions that he has received tresses from Countess
Spencer and the famous Duchess of Devonshire
to hand to the Lanes to make portraits with.
They did several portraits of Garrick. Not long
before his death he wrote to the elder Miss Lane
saying that he was sending a lock of his own
hair supplemented by one of his wife’s as he
himself had but one lock behind and could
spare no more.
What is the reason for the following condi-
tion ? In subtropical areas insolation is more
active over the eastern half than over the
western during the early summer months, and
more active over parts of the western coastal
districts during the late summer months— s 66.
Rising temperatures over the cpntinent induce
a monsoonal inflow of winds in a clockwise
direction, bringing warm air from the tropics
(north-west to north-east winds) over the eastern
districts and cooler air from southern waters
(south-west to south-east winds) over western
areas. The effect of these winds is seen in the
warmer spring temperatures in the east, where
the maximum is often reached in December,
while in W.A. the maximum is delayed till
January. In southern Queensland and northern
N.S.W. the bushfire season extends through the
warm spring, September to December. With
increasing cloud accompanying monsoonal rains
in the east, temperatures fall from December
to January near the tropics, but are still rising
at the same latitude in W.A. at places where
there is less cloud in January than in December.
Brief Answers.
E.D.: Is. 6d. from Dymock’s, Sydney
A JI.S.: Write Accountant-General, Supreme
Court Pay Office, Law Offices, London
M.A.W.: Under the Commonwealth Flour Tax
Acts a tax of £4 ss. per ton is imposed upon
all flour manufactured in or imported into
Australia after December 4, 1933, and prior to
July 1, 1934. The N.S.W. State Act imposing
a tax on flour terminated from December 4,
1933 J.K.: (1) Mount Rennie outrage
occurred on September 9, 1886. (2) The sale
of Toft Monks occurred on September 23, 1886.
. ...P.J.8.: The introduction of the silver fox
into Australia is prohibited H.W.G.: For-
ward a sample of the water to the Dept, of
Public Health, Sydney, together with a cover-
ing letter containing full particulars.. . .C.C.:
Perth Town Hall was used for dramatic enter-
tainments until the opening of the Cremorne
Theatre in 1896, and of the Royal in 1897.
G.E.B.: Manufacture of such drugs in
Australia is done under license. Consult the
nearest Collector of Customs... .J.0.M.:
Unless you don’t care how much it ciasts you
it isn’t worth while. Any reputable importer
could get you a new machine for not very much
more than it would cost you to import a second-
hand one W.A.L.: Obtainable from The
Bulletin office at published price per copy for
one' year back, thereafter at small additional
cost per copy. State your exact requirements
when writing... .J.L.: (1) Write 'Navigation
Dept., Perth. (2), (3) and (4) Write Techno-
logical Museum, Harris-street, Sydney... .E.D.:
Ihe Vocational Guidance Bureau does not ordi-
narily give advice, unless the subject has first
undergone the psychological and vocational tests
regarded as necessary. If you arc likely
to visit Sydney in the near future apply to the
bureau for a test and an interview. Vocational
advice and testing are free of charge and can
be completed in one day 8.T.D.: Write
Lindeman, Ltd., Q.V. Bldgs., George-strect,
Sydney, for booklet “The Art of Serving
Wine” D.C.H.8.: Clean and polish with
pure white vaseline; this is not only free from
acid, but does not oxidise or resinify. A little
emery powder or graphite may be used m the
first cleaning if very dull or dirty. Acids should
not be used... .H.C.T.: Cannot trace an Eng-
lish painter of that name, but there are three
French painters, viz., Francois Elie Vincent
(b. 1706), painter of miniatures; Fran?ois
Andre Vincent (b. 1746), painter of historical
pictures, who has pictures in French provincial
galleries; and Francois Philibert (b. 1763). None
of these is now very highly rated R.E.W.:
Not aware that horses suffer from the com-
plaint, nor that any cure has been devised....
W.M.8.: Toolijooa is a N.S.W. aboriginal
place-name meaning “home of the emus ..
E.S.D.: (1) It is gossip that Lowell Thomas s
book annoyed Lawrence. (2) Frances Hodgson
Burnett was English, born in Manchester,
emigrated to U.S.A. at °f Thvil War....
F W.F.: Subscription 18s. 9d. through Gordon
and Gotch... .P.A.: Both Major-Gen. Sir C.
Brudenell White and Senator George Pearce
are Knight Commanders of the Royal Victorian
Order . W.W.: Coloring matter used in
cookery and buttermaking (procurable from
any grocer) will be suitable. Use a deep-orange
or saffron shade, sprinkle a few drops into the
warm soap and note results after stirring, ad
more if required... .H.H.R.8.: Work of tha
nature is being carried on in connection with
health and agriculture and in other spheres,
both under State and Federal control. Make
your requirements clearer.. . .N.FI.: The British
tea-clipper Thermopylae sailed in 1854 from
Liverpool, England, to Hobson s Bay, Mel-
bourne, in 63 days 18 hours 15 minutes....
C.K.: There are no firms in Sydney at present
willing to accept them G.A.: Wife may peti-
tion for divorce in Vic. if at the time of the
alleged desertion husband was domiciled there.
The domicile must have existed for two years
at least. Husband must be served with a copy
of the citation and petition if address is
known to wife; if not, reasonable efforts must
be made to find him by advertisement or other-
wise. Should these fail, the Court has power
to dispense with service W.N.S.: Not aware
of any certificated conveyancers in. Vic. similar
to the practice in N. S. Wales. Write to La
Institute of Victoria, 382 Little Colhns-street,
Melbourne... .H.L.: The Dividing Fences Act
(N.S.W.) provides that the owner ot adjmmng
property may require neighbor to assist in
equal proportions towards repairing the divid-
ing fence. If he refuses or neglects tor
six months after receipt of notice, owner
may carry out the work himself and sue
a Court of Petty Sessions for half cost.. ..
J.H.: (1) A. M. Heath and Co., 188 Piccadilly,
W.l; A. P. Watt and Son, Hastings House,
Norfolk-street, Strand, W.C. —both London. (2)
Brandt and Brandt, 101 Park-avenue; Hughes
Massie and Co., 485 Madison-avenue— both
New York ..W.H.L.: Cannot trace article.
Radium and X-ray (deep therapy) have re-
placed serum treatment as suggested. Men-
tion of latter has been made from time to time,
but nothing definite is known. Wnte Cancer
Research Dept., Sydney Uni.....E.1J.u-
Remove skin and adhering flesh with a sharp
knife, then macerate for several days in se-
quent changes of water till any remaining sub-
stance can be removed with a soft scraper or
piece of wood. Alternatively the bones mas
be boiled until the flesh disintegrates. lo
bleach, wash or boil the bones in soap ana
water, using plenty of soda. Then place in a
weak solution of chloride of lime (loz. to UK
pint), and leave exposed to sun until bleached.
. .C.H.: To correct milk dyspepsia, add from
i to 2 grains of citrate of soda (powder) to
each ounce of undiluted milk (approx, level
saltspoon to large cup). This precipitates the
casein as a flocculent curd which is more
readily digested and assimilated. The addition
of limewater to milk is also of value in this
respect... .P.R.: Evidently he was a painter who
lived in Victoria in the ’eighties. Nothing
known about him... .H.G.L.: (1) It stands for
“peso.” The Philippine peso is equivalent to
fifty cents of U.S.A. currency or in British cur-
rency (at par) 2s. 0.66 d. (2) A kilometre con-
tains 1093.6143 yards, or 0.62137 miles. (3)
You have confused the terms. _ A kdogram is
a measure of weight and contains
A kilowatt is a measure of energy and equals
737.59 foot-pounds per second M.G.: Ihe
Victoria Racing Club advises that as far as
penalties are concerned Hall Mark and Limarch
were both regarded as winners of the StLeger.
A case involving a ruling could only be decided
by the committee if the matter came before it
as a disputed bet between bookmaker and
backer.... J.K.: Hova, a five-year-old, carry-
ing Bst. 101 b., ran second to Aurana in the IStu
Melbourne Cup... .W.G.P.: Prospects of em-
ployment are poor. Don’t go there unless you
have a job to go t 0... .P. 5.0.: Get in touch
with Burns, Philp and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney,
(Many others mailed.)


mmm
a
a
11
11111:1111111
ga
v
1?
ssssss
i*
>»V
m
M
O
ill
fi"
i
! W
K
«
a »
!l'*
■I # "
- A
-
s
RIC
TRAVELLERS to England by P. & O. Royal Mail Liners are assured
of every individual comfort and personal service.
The accommodation on these large and modern passenger vessels
includes First Saloon, Second Saloon and Tourist Class cabins at
passage rates which have been arranged to suit present-day
conditions.
FARES, SYDNEY TO LONDON:
First Saloon from Single, £85 Return, £149
Second Saloon from Single, £65 Return, £113
Tourist Class from Single, £39 Return, £70
Fares are subject to Exchange.
Principal Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
nion House, George Street, Sydney.
Tel. B 7511
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class :
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.
5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Tel. B 6701
Aai r! In FnglnniJ
PtO LINERS
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.J.M.: Alter your style by all means; at
present it’s a deal too involved and artificial.
. ...McF.: Wasted ingenuity... .A. B.: Picture
of the Orb of Day
Like a golden disc in an ocherous red
Gliding tranquilly into his pelagian bed
awakens no answering glow here... .1.G.:
Descriptive verse is assuredly not your forte.
... .J.S.P.: After a slight motoring mishap you
“stood guiltily awaiting the approaching con-
stable, miserably anticipating a loud-voiced
abusing with all its accompanying embarrass-
ment, while visions of a court summons in the
immediate future served to increase my trepida-
tion.” Dreadful example of how not to write.
. ...T.V.S.: Horse fell dead, so did verse
recording its fate J. 0.: Stodgy as a cold
doughboy R.B.J.C. and R.H.: Not suit-
able... .T. A. W.: “Beach Worms” wriggle
back. The animal sketch fairly good.
... .A.M.G.: We could forgive your poisoning
Df Rupert, but can’t approve your meeting Bert
behind the hoarding... .H.L.G.: Sketch of
drunk’s homecoming crude and humorless....
E.K.: Brevity was its only redeeming feature.
.... J.H.W.C.: Not quite good enough....
D. : Long quotations spoil it, and the story
isn’t convincing M.G.L.: Perhaps it is
just as well to get your adolescent emotions off
your chest, but what on earth is a “whalf”?
J.F.K.: N 0... .Caveman : Doesn’t make
a story E.R.R.: Dance-hall brawl of no
interest... .C.E.D.: Impossible characters
P.C.G.: Thanks for good wishes, but the record
of the daily grind is not exhilarating
H.L.W.: A laborious and rather drab sonnet.
....T.H.D.: Prosy verse... .J.C.: Good philo-
sophy ; poor poesy... .J.M.F.: A piffling
parody from any point 8.W.C.: The baldest
of doggerel... .N. 8.: Lines “To a Wife” are
execrable enough to deter anyone from matri-
mony... .T. 8.: No anthem material in that.
.. . .T.T.S.: Much too prolix and stodgy for a
political satire... .J.T.R.: “The Clerk” came
very close for its simple appeal. Cultivate that
vein... .A.E.G.: There are some good lines but
they don’t redeem it from heaviness... .N.N.:
When you take 800 words to describe the death
of a mosquito, it must be done very we 11....
Heyden: No g00d... .T.W.S.: Not funny
enough... .H.G.L. and C.L.C.S.: Not accept-
ing serials at present... .C.H.F.: When we
commit murders we never go back.... Jean
R. : Sound commonsense, but not a story....
M.F.G.: Too grandiloquent... .R.M.W.: “The
Owl”—too long and not the type... .Jay Mart.:
Misses... .N.McF.: Be more cheerful... .R.P.:
Ghosts not admitted... .E.W.: “Eyes” left....
W.R.F.: Very true, but that’s not everything....
L. : “The Tough Guy” fell too easily.
... .R.S.C.: Doesn’t get there... .S.B. (Melb.):
Unreal and stilted... .J.R.R.: Still below stan-
dard... .W.M.8.L.: Dream story misses
S. : You write with power but haven’t struck
the right themes yet A.J.S.: Far too long
for the point... .M.C.V.: Has the ring of truth,
but we want more than that... .F.H.W.: Relief-
work story falls short A.G.W.: A fair
attempt, but Nature stories have to be very well
done... .8.M.G.: Unreal. You don’t get the at-
mosphere .... J.C.C.: It lacks body.... W.C.S.:
Verse nearly as discordant as the subject of it.
.. ..M.S.J.: Fair to middling, but without dis-
tinctiveness P.R.: There’s a good idea in
it; pity it’s so raggedly treated... .E.M.:
Schoolboy stuff... .J.W.: There’s no account-
ing for local papers’ tastes... .P. 8.: You rhyme
abominably... .Hesperian : You’ve nothing to
say, and you persist in saying it
A.V.: Not interested in Woodrow Wilson’s
favorite limericks... .G.P.: It doesn’t quite
click C.V.D.: Strikes us as a bit over-
drawn. And a phrase like “impressive shops”
comes with a jar in a serious poem H.D.:
Your valedictory lines to the Australian cricket
team might put even Bradman off his stroke.
... .J. 8.: Stick to clearing land and give up
spoiling good paper C.C.: Wishy-washy
platitudes... .S.L.R.: A very tinny sonnet....
R.M.: At a pinch you might rhyme “lover”
with “chauffeur,” but not with “shower”
R.S.: Not a glimmer of promise in it.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.T.: No use sending us jests that date
back to the dawn of history... ,G. 8.: You
haven’t learned to draw... .H.S.: Well in-
tended, but the task is beyond you K.C.:
Old American joke; Mark Twain started it on
its rounds... .W.S.T.: We couldn’t dig any
meaning out of any of them G.A.L.: Shape-
less figures and wordy humor... .JJ.: A tame
little picture... .N. 8.: Fair idea but poor artis-
tic treatment... .L.S.: The crowd in the draw-
ing-room look as if they had crawled out of a
mud-bath... .J.A.: Caricatures should be of
persons of public interest, and in the case of
those outside N.S.W. the likeness must be
vouched for by our local representative
C. 8.: The good not new; and the new not
good 0.F.: Plump girl hanging from win-
dow-sill fell into the basket... .A.C.J.: Draw-
ing dead when we received it but killed it again
to make sure J.P.: Creditable, considering
the age, but none of them merits printing..."
T. : Joke has no connection with the
drawing P.A.: Clumsy and overdone
M. : Oh, yes; there’s something in them,
but not enough R.H.C.: Tame handling of
an idea with possibilities J.P.: Attend an
art school and draw from life J.V.: Radio
church service joke is already an antique
E. : Dog’s tail fairly well drawn
J.F.: Picture of intoxicated member of
R.A.0.8. being confronted by his wife firmly,
rejected... .A.R.: There’s something wrong
with the gentleman’s left arm, and the
garage looks as if it would hardly house a
scooter H.M.: Individual figures not bad
but the ensemble is an eyesore C.P.T •
Sample submitted is hopeless F. 8.: Yes, it
is a. “creation of the imagination”: stick’to
what you have observed A.G.: Unoriginal
jokes and drawings without merit 1.M.: The
best features are the nice white margins....
Fta \ P 0 whether you’ll make an artist
H Promising... .J.H.: Stiff and scratchy.
fi;.‘Vr MD P n A c ° urse of training would be
ne.prm....R.B, Show drawings received t-oo
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
In London Edward P. viewed the first
screening of the film version of Lady
Eleanor Smith’s novel “Red Wagon,”
profits to Toe H. The proceeds of the
first screening in Sydney, about £2OO,
were also handed over to the institution
founded by Queensland’s Philip Thomas
Byard (“Tubby”) Clayton which has the
noble motto: “To think fairly ; to love
widely; to witness humbly; to build
bravely.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Our local Fascists are all
ardent royalists, so it would be interesting
to know what they think of the new
oath prescribed by Mussolini for all high
State officials. It speaks of loyalty to
“II Duce and the cause of the Fascist
Revolution,” but omits all mention of
King Victor Emmanuel and the royal
family. Surely Mr. Kent Hughes
wouldn’t stand for that sort of thing.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Hard-up Portugal would pro-
bably be prepared to part with its portion
of Timor for a consideration, but Holland,
which owns the other half, is a likelier
buyer than Britain. It has always re-
sented having its ancient rival as a sort
of tenant, and wouldn’t regard the sub-
stitution of another lodger as any im-
provement. Timor has never been any
advantage to the homeland. Even the
official jobs go to Eurasians manufac-
tured locally.
* * * *
“Vaal Kranz”: “S. M. Herald” re-
ported a visit of Prince George to Spion
Kop and other battlefields in Natal,
“where Australian soldiers fought des-
perately to relieve Ladysmith.” No Aus-
tralian troops took part as such in the
Natal fighting, though regiments like the
South African and Imperial Light Horse
and Thorneycroft’s included a good many
Australians. The part that Australian
troops took in the relief of Ladysmith
was not in Natal but in the Free State,
at the raising of the Kimberley siege and
the capture of Cronje at Paardeberg.
The British motor industry is one of
the few that have gone from strength to
strength during the depression. Total
chassis, including lorries, turned out in
1933 were 286,283 —an increase of 54,000.
The output of cars (220,775) was 28.6 p.c.
higher than in 1932. In U.S.A., on the
other hand, automobile production for
1933 was about a third of that for 1929.
Exports of chassis from Britain have
more than doubled over the past two
years, thanks largely to the popularity of
the light car which British manufacturers
have concentrated upon.
* * * *
“Green Room”; Charles Laughton,
whom England is beginning to compare
with Garrick, is freer of artiness than
any theatrical star in living memory. In
the street he might be mistaken for a
barrister or stockbroker, and he scorns
to use the patter of the profession. A
gusher talked to him of the “exquisite
artistry” that might be put into one of
his parts. “I’ll be satisfied if I make a
fairly decent job of it,” said Laughton.
Yet he makes sacrifices for art, as he
conceives it, without emotionalising on
the subject. As a businessman, he
appears in films at huge salaries ; as an
artist he plays Shakspeare with Sybil
Thorndike for a few pounds a week.
He was intended for the army, when his
parents first sent him to Stonyhurst, the
great Catholic public school. However,
nothing interested him but the stage, and
he has never looked back since he won
the gold medal of the Royal Academy
of Dramatic Art shortly after leaving
school.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: As an inveterate smoker I
find a deal of human interest in the
cablegram printed the other day about
the Derbyshire coroner who scornfully
refused to accept a police surgeon’s
opinion that a person who smoked a
mere 30 cigarettes a day had succumbed
to nicotine poisoning. “I am 84 and I
smoke from 15 to 20 cigars a day,”
declared his Worship sturdily, and he
challenged the doctor to find there was
anything wrong with his organs. The
coroner further added that he had been
smoking steadily ever since breakfast that
morning, which suggests that ordinary
magisterial etiquette is disregarded in one
Derbyshire court at any rate. A dozen
and a half cigars per diem would pro-
bably have satisfied even O. Henry’s
Martin Burney, also the Fleet “first-
rater” in the “Pickwick Papers” who
never stopped smoking even at his meals.
And at 84, too! Some enterprising
tobacco firm might surely put this hefty
veteran’s picture on the newest brand
of Flor de Perfectos; it would be a
welcome change from the presentments
of South American Presidents and by-
gone celebrities like Henry Clay and
Victor Hugo.


ITT
m
pr
rr
n
u"
(Will
£ ■iii
as
FB
mr
■t—T
ffii
m
I
COMING TO SYDNEY?
—LET US SEND YOU THIS BOOKLET.
“The Australia” Rate-card now takes the form of a handsome brochure,
with cover as illustrated on the right, beautifully produced in gravure.
All the famous social life of the hotel has been captured in a series
of glamorous and intriguing photographs. Your copy awaits you
write to-day.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF:
Single Rooms from 10/6
Double Rooms from 20/-
‘THE AUSTRALIA’
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney,
“After all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’"
n
m
m
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,”
Sydney.
A WOMAN'A
LETTER
Sir Philip Game was billed to open
the Show at 3.30, and did so very punc-
tually from a flag-hung dais fenced about
with glittering silver trophies right in
front of the members’ stand, after knight
Sam Hordern had spoken in his straight-
to-the-point way. Among those who sat
in chairs and applauded speeches and
speakers and the winners as they carried
away the coveted cups were the Hordern
lady, in blue marocains, and daughter
Doreen, in one of the new wine tones.
Priminister Lyons, Premier Stevens and
his wife, and knight Frederick McMaster
were close at hand. S. M. Bruce had the
reception of a king returned from exile.
Men hung about the official gate to shake
his hand, and women craned their necks
over the stands to catch a glimpse of
him as he passed from the luncheon to
the grandstand and back again to drink
tea in company with the importants in
the council’s room, gay with pink dahlias
and Easter lilies.
Show weather was showery at the be-
ginning, and again at the week-end; but
the ceremonial opening-day was blue and
sunny, with just sufficient breeze to chill
the backbones of those sitting in the
council’s stand. In the beauty parade
polished hooves and horns and satin-
smooth hides flashed as, slowly and
solemnly, one by one, the beeves and fat-
lings, the horses and oxen marched
tethered by a rope to a human escort.
Here came prideful hack and pony and
stallion. Circle within circle they paced,
the cattle forming a living fence for the
horse. A thrill went through the crowds
when a bull broke away from its keeper,
but the frisky heifers got the laughs. The
stands were packed ; so were the lawns ;
it seemed as though all the work of the
show stood still while man paid homage
to these four-footed aristocrats.
The girl riders were a delight to the
eye, so straight their backs, so sure their
jumps. Then came the mounted police,
their blue-and-white trappings and the
scarlet coats of the stewards adding still
more color to the moving pageant.
All the fruits of the earth seemed to
be gathered in the Hall of Agriculture.
Pyramids of apples, the green of Granny
Smith jowl to jowl with King David, red
as a pomegranate, crowned at the top
with palms or beribboned baskets filled
with the temptation of Eve. There were
pears by the thousand ; honey prisoned
in bottle and jar. Queensland showed
what it could do in the way of feeding
the nation, so did the Ma State’s North,
Central, South Coast and Tablelands
and a new competitor from the Hunter
River and Liverpool Plains. These ex-
hibits ran to the ceilings. All the fruits
Sydneysiders know were here, as well as
the tropical jack-fruit with its coat nearly
as spiky as a porcupine. There were
hams, pumpkins of a size you only
meet in dreams, potatoes, butter, cheese
and eggs, onions (not easily recognised
under such names as James’s Keeping
and White Queen), tobacco, marrows and
cauliflowers, crystallised fruits and nuts.
Is it any wonder woman was fascinated
and came back time and again, while
their men, equally fascinated, gazed on
the Government’s exhibits, and noted the
best way to pack apples. In the Hall
of Industries The Bulletin’s sister
“Mirror” and brother Endeavour Press
held court.
If the ring and the food exhibits
offered romance, the sideshows offered
adventure. You could go for a ride on the
Devil’s Saucer or spend a Night in Hell.
Then there were the bodyless woman and
the headless man to have a word with,
to say nothing of the performing fleas.
According to the poster the mermaid and
her bonny baby were well worth a few
minutes —they were captured by Cuban
fishermen in the Gulf of Mexico.
Nearly everyone found time to slip
into the new Horticulture Hall. Here
you found dahlias, bewildering in their
size and the glory of their colorings—
mauves, reds and yellows—sending
stiffly at attention, without aid of wire,
like so many sentinels keeping guard
over the roses, gerberas and flaming
zinnias.
The ambition of every sailor, they say,
is to leave the sea and become a farmer.
Commander Oscar Ireland, just retired
from the R.A.N., has achieved the next-
best thing; he has taken over the job
of secretary to the Bowral Golf Club.
This is an Alan Rowe photograph of
Mrs. Ireland- who was one of the navy’s
most popular young hostesses, and who
goes to add her gaiety and friendliness to
the very social mountain resort.
The A.J.C. hatched its Easter egg,
and the result was as fine a brood
of horseshoes as Randwick has seen.
But the first day was a delusion
and a snare as far as dressing was
concerned. Silks and tweeds jostled
each other on the lawns and on the
stands, the wearers of the former raiment
jubilant in between showers; of the
latter, jubilant during showers. Zinnia
and salvia lifted rain-drenched faces to
the gee-gees. The stands were full of
humans ; so was the flat; and deafening
cheers rose as Peter Pan and Chatham
swept by to victory.
Bright spots on the landscape were
the gaily-striped, tentlike umbrellas under
which the bookies cheerfully took your
money ; otherwise brollies were too uni-
versal to be popular—your neighbor
saved her hat at the expense of your
shoulders. When worn, macs, were white.
Furs—worn mostly two at a time —
added to the heat and burden of every-
one’s day. Shoes were usually Oxford,
so wore their laces high. Hats were
decidedly Continental, being of the Alpine
or Tyrolean variety. The former goes up
into sheer heights at the sides, and from
the cavity between sprout feathers,
feathery tufts or quills; while the Tyro-
lean has all its height at the back, and
from one or other of its angles juts a
quill. Generations of berets were
present, from the original Basque to the
fancy and beshirred affair of to-day.
Anne Gordon demonstrated how attrac-
tive a halo hat can be; hers was of
velvet and matched her dress of del-
phinium Angora. Knight McKelvey’s
lady looked at the rain from under the
wide brim of a white Angora hat, lined
with blue, the same shade as her dress,
which was sapphire, and which had a
collar and side frill of white pique.
Catherine Garvan wore a Gainsborough-
ish hat of black velvet, a notable feature
of which was its cascade of white ostrich
plumes at the side. Silver lame was used
in collar, tie and sometimes in blouse ;
one girl achieved a rather Joan of Arc
effect with a tunic of this gleaming fabric
under a dark-blue costume. Gold lame
also appeared in accessories, while bril-
liant brooches, buckles and colored
bangles put a sparkle into the day.
Black, browns and blues were worn in
such numbers that it is hard to say which
was the favorite. Nearly all the cos-
tumes and coats were of the hairy Angora
family. Enid Hull wore this material
brown-flecked under a full-length beige
coat lined and collared with natural fox.
Mrs. Noel Heath also chose this
fabric in brown for her hat and her
cowl-necked frock. Mrs. Harry Budge
wore squirrel furs with her deep-blue
dress and velvet hat; daughter Saidie’s
furs were stone-marten. Mrs. Joseph
Coen, in black velvets, kept an eye on
school-daughter Marie. The dress of Mrs.
Randall Munro (Joan Kater who was)
was all green and white spots, and a
white-kilted frill bordered her white halo
hat. A bright-red leather belt brightened
up Enid Bayley’s black wool georgettes.
Mrs. Colin Venn’s small velvet hat was
tailored ; so was her costume ; both were
black. Mrs. Pat Osborne walked with
Mrs. Lachlan Mackinnon. Mrs. Hal
Capper topped her frock of brown
ribbed silk with a smart beret of the
same shade. Mrs. Roy Furley kept
mother Mrs. R. C. Hagon company, both
being in brown tweeds ; at intervals the
John Collins couple made up a quartette,
she in black, her elbow-length sleeves
ruched, slung over her shoulder two huge
natural fox furs. Mrs. Harry Drans-
field’s coat and skirt were of Robin Hood
green; so was her small, tight-fitting hat.
Mrs. Eric Sheller brightened up the
front of her felt mortar-board head-
covering with a brilliant buckle ; other-
wise she was in black jersey. George
Fuller’s lady wore brown allied to beige ;
daughter Mrs. Gwen Wharton’s brown
velvet hat wore an ostrich plume.
Thelma McMaster brought her father,
the McMaster knight; Melbourne’s Mrs.
M. L. Baillieu’s black crepes had Per-
sian-red sleeves. The Spencer Bruntons
were there, and Dinah Hordern was a
study in browns. Mrs. Ellis Fielding
Jones’s long coat was navy ; so was her
hat. Mrs. Anthony Hordern wore black
crepes, a small velvet hat and gorgeous
silver-fox furs. Janet, Barbara and
Elizabeth Knox came to have a look at
the horses ; so did Mrs. Ted O’Hare. The
Lud Mayor’s lady chose navy and relieved
it with white. Mrs. Richard Allen’s
small hat, worn on the side of her head,
gave an air of sophistication to her
friar’s-brown two-piece.
The Australian woman interested in
stagecraft has had her ambition stimu-
lated by the arrival of the lady pictured
here. She is Miss Ruby Morriss, and her
work as assistant-producer of “White
Horse Inn” points out a new avenue of
occupation to the sex. Before her pre-
sent job, Miss Morriss was an actor and
a dancer. She was Wanda in “Rose
Marie” and Azuri in “The Desert Song”
in the original productions at Drury-
lane. Photograph by Falk.
The little church of St. Peter’s, Vau-
cluse, was crowded on Saturday when
Benjamin J. Dunn, a young Melbourne
barrister, and Hilda, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. R. A. Crockett, were made one.
.The bride’s parents are old residents of
Vaucluse, and the bride is one of the sub-
bub’s most popular girls. Her frock was
of embossed georgette, with peach-pink
velvet sash falling from the shoulders to
the end of the train ; pink carnations and
fairy roses formed her bouquet. Sister
Marjorie ’maided in lemon panne velvet.
The reception was at the Waldorf, where
the bride’s mother, gowned handsomely
in burgundy panne velvet and carrying
dark-red roses, welcomed close on a
hundred guests. The ’groom’s mother,
from Victoria, lent a hand.
Good-looking Joan Osborne Wilkinson
has announced her engagement to Len-
nox Bode. Joan is the only child of the
E S. Osborne Wilkinsons, of Hampton
Court, and Lennox the only son of the
R. H. Bodes, of Wahroonga. And news
comes that Jane MacDonald, daughter
of the Charles MacDonalds, of Walla-
roy-road, Edgecliff, has said “yes” to
Harold Cowles, boss of Vacuum Oil in
Sydney.
This year, according to the N.R.M.A.,
there was a record number of cars on
the roads, far more than at Christmas.
Now campers think nothing of going 600
miles to find the beauty-spot they are
after —whereas a little time ago 400 miles
was the limit. The cabins at Gosford
are always booked months ahead.
The big-game fishing at Montague
Island attracted many south with the pro-
mise of outsize swordfish and sharks
umpteen feet long, and the opening of
the Oxley Highway has done much to
lure people north. The scenery is very
beautiful, and the road —a good one —
runs through sub-tropical forest and fer-
tile dairying country. But whether they
went north, south, east or west, the
campers came back happy, each con-
vinced that his choice had been the right
one.
There’s a bit of everything in “White
Horse Inn.” There are fir-trees and
snow-topped mountains ; there are Swiss-
looking chalets that light up at night
time, goats and pigeons that might have
come out of the R.A.S. Show, and cows
that might get prizes if put in the Show.
The Royal itself is given a place in the
picture ; the boxes on the right are made
up as annexes of the inn—those on the
left as chalets, elaborate enough to belong
to some beer-garden king (if they grow in
the Tyrol). The galleries are garlanded
about with green and gold leaves, and
hung with pictures of weird-looking fish
and animals that, one presumes, are native
to the lake and the green slopes of the
mountain. There are a children’s swing
and a meeting of the City Councillors,
with Mayor complete, and a royal visit.
And everything is of the frosted bril-
liancy that we associate with the old-
fashioned Christmas-card.
The Tyrolese spreading skirts and tight
little bodices finished off with crossed
kerchief suited Strella Wilson. They were
of gleaming satin and all showed peasant
embroidery. Particularly effective was
the one of magnolia satin on which grew
little posies of roses, carrying bands of
emerald green and deep silver fringe
about the shoulders. Ruby Morriss, who
helped produce the show, looked her best
in soft powder-blue laces, with which she
wore a large blue hat.
All this met with the approval of
Saturday’s well-dressed audience, among
the members of which was Mrs. Spencer
Brunton in black laces lit up with a
floral silk coat. Mrs. Roy Buckland wore
one of the new haloes on her head ; it
was of cherry velvet. Mrs. Phillip Park-
inson’s Roman silk shawl caught the eye,
and Mrs. Frank Genge’s amethyst velvet
cloak fell to the hem of her frock.


fli
Conducted by WIN. FOWLEB.
Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
from 1 l/6 R dav® d T? Ot Ki 1 V f lues >- Single Rooms
Double from 7/6. All meals
or cafe- 1 Rnlfm at * e< i ucecl rates), in tearooms
or ii/fi’nmfh?’ br eakfast, from 6/6 Single
AU less 10 Per cent, if staying
dav 65/ k Com Plete board from 10/6
rates for r.5 1 bo *b net - Fr ee garage. Special
the Manager f erenceS ’ clubs ’ etc. Please write
card S for potations and detailed tariff
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY’S FINEST HOTFI
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from .. 10/6
Meals, ala carte, from ... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager for full information.
Educational.
TAMWORTH
CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GIRLS’ SCHOOL
Complete Course from Kindergarten to Leaving
Certificate.
Write to Miss A. M. Parr, 8.A., Principal.
On the very top of the glorious
BLUE MOUNTAINS, N.S.YV.
“OSBORNE” LADIES’ COLLEGE,
Paradise Hill, Blackheath.
Fine mansion amidst lovely scenery. Efficient
teaching staff. Pupils prepared for Honours,
Leaving Certificate Examination. Solely a
resident school of fifty pupils. Sport includes
golf, tennis, etc. Religion Undenominational.
For Prospectus, apply Lady Principal.
QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions —they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
&CUl&n!s CMEXICAN)
Walnut Stain
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne ate its hot cross buns in
the hills, on the beaches, within sight of
the links, or merely at home with the
usual eggs and bacon. A few people
stayed at home because they wanted to,
but quite a number remained because
they had sore throats from licking
stamps on inquiring letters to booked-up
hostelries. Managements of popular
boarding establishments could say truth-
fully three months ago that there wasn’t
an inch of space left. Stawell was par-
ticularly crowded, even private families
of inhabitants moving round among
themselves to accommodate visitors. A
score of country tennis tournaments
started off in fine weather, and swim-
ming was mixed with open golf at Sor-
rento, Barwon Heads, Flinders and
Woodend. Hundreds challenged our
fickle climate by going camping, and
country roads were thick with hikers
whose Easter eggs were hatched in the
company of slacks and knapsacks.
While country districts were being
giddy in the sporting manner, Mel-
bourne’s sole Easter excitement was “The
Dubarry.” For the opening on Easter
Saturday even the despised side pews
were thankfully occupied by late-bookers.
It was a prosperous audience, too, judg-
ing by the thoroughbred cars purring
through six rows of traffic in Russell-
street and the jamb in all the hotels for
supper. Halo hairbands were so plenti-
ful that our smartest women will doubt-
less try the vagary of a glittering path-
way athwart the parting in their locks,
or scatter little odd clips like the ultra-
smart in Paris. One rising sun spiked in
abnormal proportions was transparent,
fortunately for the person sitting behind
its wearer. Another sprouted gold
baubles on the ends of green stalks, and
a third was serrated into tortoiseshell
teeth. Grace Graham’s was plain and
silver, and went with a black frock and
a twinkling corsage. Mrs. Phil Finkel-
stein and Peggy never miss a first night.
Neither does Mrs. Frank Tait; she was in
mouse-velvet. Betty Tait wore halo hair
and her black velvet garment of “The
Frightened Lady.” Mr. and Mrs. Leo
Meagher were in the circle, she in pastel
taffetas. Mrs. F. Mollard, in a short fur
coat, chaperoned an all-white daughter.
Glass was the secret of Mrs. Ivan Gut-
mann’s dress, but to the touch and the ear
it was fine Japanese paper. A little
ermine cape dangled over Mrs. Norman
Price’s gentian-blues. Edith Hore chose
tomato with a slit back, and Merri Hart
was jet black and crimped as to curls,
eyelashes and tulle ruffles.
It may not require so much experience
for an animal expert to choose his stars
as for an entrepreneur to discern per-
sonality in the chorus, but it’s certainly
more uncomfortable. The musical-comedy
man makes his selection while chewing
a big cigar, and. if he’s American he
keeps his hat and overcoat on. The
animal hunter who pursued leading
ladies among the seals frolicking in Wes-
tern Port Bay got wet through and badly
scratched by barnacles before he engaged
his performers. The selected ones have
been taken from their favorite rocks to
the aquarium.
When the Director of Native Affairs
in New Guinea heard that he had been
chosen to attend the League of Nations’
Conference in Geneva, Mrs. Chinnery
hurried off on the first boat to Rabaul.
A long way to go for only a few days,
but she had important gear to pack,
cameras, photographs and other impedi-
menta of her hobby. The couple had a
few days here before saying good-bye for
six months to their four daughters at
“Grammar.”
While Phyllis Vaughan and Peter de
Peterson, of The Hague, were being made
one in London and eating their wedding
luncheon at the Park Lane Hotel, the
bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. P. W.
Vaughan, of Toorak, celebrated the event
with a party at a corresponding hour.
Phyllis telephoned her wedding plans to
her parents half-way across the world a
few days before the event. She chose
pink for the important hat and gown,
and her mother in Melbourne received
guests in white ripple crepe with orna-
mental flowers round the decollete back.
The Consul for Norway and Mrs.
Sverre Lie lent their home in Hawthorn
for the marriage of Mrs. Lie’s sister
Phyllis Jacobs to John Capie Thomson,
of Glasgow. Mrs. Lie only arrived home
from abroad the evening before the wed-
ding, and the afternoon after it she was
waving good-bye to the honeymooners
on the Strathnaver. The bride, who is
the second daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Jacobs, wore a flung-back sil-
houette in ivory satin and a nonchalant
bow in the vicinity of the waistline. The
beige crepe of sole attendant Mrs. H.
Watt threw into relief her bouquet of
deep red roses. Among the presents was
something wrapped in many layers of
tissue paper from G.H., Canberra, for
the bride is a niece of Lady Isaacs.
Dr. and Mrs. Barry Thomson have a
daughter-in-law. Only son Jack writes
enthusiastic letters by every mail, and
there have been letters, too, from
Marion ; but so eager have the young
scribes been to describe each other’s
sterling qualities that they both forgot
to mention Marion’s surname. However,
when they said that she was a 1932
Wampas Baby (which means one of the
dozen most promising young stars of
that year), Mrs. Thomson telephoned her
friend Louise Lovely, who immediately
fastened the identity upon a pretty bru-
nette, Marion Shockley. Jack Thomson
decided upon a stage career when a very
small schoolboy. At 16 he went to
London and the Royal Academy of Dra-
matic Art; at 17 he got his first juvenile-
lead engagement. Then came engage-
ments in America, Australia, and film
work in Hollywood, which does not
appeal to this young actor like the legit.
He and his bride are now playing oppo-
site each other in a series of comedy-
dramas at the Vancouver Theatre. It’s
probable that the co. will tour the Orient
and Australia ; if so, there will be a mar-
vellous welcome here for Jack and his
little American wife.
This is Mauricette MacGillicuddy, who,
wearing the becoming lilac of music
upon her hood, became a Mus. Bac. at
the conferring of degrees. Mauricette
(intimate friends call her “Bill”) earned
her musical education with scholarships
all the way. Since entering the Con. she
has every year topped the first-class
honors list, and such things as the Wright
Prize, the Bursary League Prize and the
Maud Harrington Prize for accompany-
ing have been hers for the plucking.
She is tall and slim, and music does
not oust other interests from her young
life. She loves to read, and among her
treasures are a set of heavy volumes
filled with the wonders of ancient Egypt.
She’s the elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Maurice MacGillicuddy. Schoolgirl Joan
is progressing well with the violin. Jack
Cato took this photo.
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Lansell ex--
pressed their appreciation at having
daughter Beverley home again by coming
to Melbourne to meet her, rounding off
with cocktails the next day. Beverley,
who has spent a year away from Moula-
mein (N.S.W.), returned in the society
of Major George Landale and Janet
Landale. For the Menzies party she
wore something brown and imported and
a chic eye-veil. Miss Landale combated
the nip of our first real autumn day with
lynx fur upon a beige coat. Lots of
young things dashed to and fro between
this welcoming and the Ernest Pool-
mans’ late-afternoon cocktails mixed
before a glowing fire.
This is Mrs. Barbara McKewan, who
has been claimed by Centenary Films,
Ltd., and Centenary Stage Productions as
fashion adviser. Mrs. McKewan had
scope for her originality in “Something
Different,” in which she dressed her
models on the rise of fashion rather than
the crest. When hkr husband was trans-
ferred from Seymour to Melbourne this
energetic designer was so excited at living
once more in a city that she immediately
plunged into the job of persuading
women to wear clothes according to type,
and has made a great success of the ven-
ture. There are two small daughters,
the elder of whom takes her satchel every
day to St. Catherine’s. Photo, by
Lafayette.
The D. W. Reddan couple chose the
Mariposa and the U.S. route for their
trip overseas. Mrs. E. H. Shackell is off
in the Orsova. Handsome Sandra accom-
panies her, but she’ll be back for the
tail-end of the hunting season.
Perth’s round of gaieties:
The Little Theatre cast the “Long Shadows”
of Philip Johnson on their small but well
equipped stage for a two-night season. The
farm setting was prologued by a tropical scene
with palms waving realistically in the back-
ground and dusky maidens weaving spells
around the seafaring Andy, played by Clem
Kennedy. Mary Gibbons, under the name of
Ida Mari, gave a charming and convincing in-
terpretation of the part of Andy’s faith-broken
wife, and Verna Jones and Howard Bagnail
were well chosen as her parents.
Lud Mayor Franklin’s daughter, Mrs. E. B
Sinclair, draped the Town Hall with flags,
deposited pot plants hither and thither and
spread carpets underfoot for the tea-sipping at
the rose- and dahlia-decked tables. Mrs. Ker-
shaw, Ethel Crisp and Miss Gray gave instru-
and vocal items while the sleeve of
milady’s beige lace-yoked black marocains was
extended for the greetings.
W.A. Elocution Teachers opened their year’s
activities with a social at the Methodist
Lounge, where president Anita Fitz Gerald and
secretary Ethel Gordon received. Muriel Bird
arranged the programme, which included a one-
act play and an aftermath of supper.
Dora Bolton’s century-old lace veil floated
over a snowy confection of satin and lace when
she stepped the aisle of St. Mary’s Church to
become Mrs. William Jennings. Brown velvet
flowers adhered mossily to Mrs. K. McKay
Eena Young and Dorothy Cole’s gold satins’
with their matching mittens, shoes and tip-tilted
hats. Flower girls Rhonda and Marie McKay
carried their blossoms in Kate Greenaway white
georgettes sashed with gold.
Pleiades Club members rallied to hear Mrs.
C. Evans dissertate on Lewis Carroll. Presi-
dent Mrs. Norton made the introduction and
Margaret Giles produced “Alice in Wonder-
land” excerpts with Queenie Lynn, Betty Smith
Jean Hemy and Lorna Booth.
A blonde and a brunette became eligible for
the electoral roll within 24 hours of each other
The C. P. Smiths’ fair Betty danced her way
into citizenship at the parental home in Clare-
mont with a riot of white organdie flanked by
windmill sleeves; Helen Inkpen’s ebony locks,
topping scarlet-flowered white flat crepes, were
sleekily smooth as she stood with Mr. and Mrs.
Wesley Inkpen at the Karrakatta Club Hall,
which resounded to her coming-of-age dance.
Molly and Rita McGibbon booked last-
minute berths on the Orford, packed their
grips and sailed away for the Cold Country.
Mrs. Harry Vincent hastily donned blue-and-
white patterned marocains and farewelled them
with tea at the Palace Hotel; Joyce Burridge
slipped on diagonal stripes to shuffle cards at
her home in honor of Rita, and a host of
kindergarten graduates whisked Molly off to
the flicks.
Before returning to England by the Nestor
Mrs. Lionel Wills wound up a month’s orgy
of renewing friendships with a mammoth
bridge party at the Esplanade, where her
Ascotty green organdies swept from one
gladioli-decked room to another. Mrs. Ken
Cameron, on honeymoon bent, missed the
party, so she marked her return by serving a
round of pre-luncheon cocktails at the Palace,
where Mrs. Wills said good-bye in autumnal
brown matelasse inlet with blue.
While the Port Auckland was alongside at
Fremantle, S.A.’s Master of Science, Mrs. C. E.
Dolling, took her brick wool de Chine to
Perth and the Pleiades Club to sip an informal
cup of tea with a large collection of Univer-
sity women.
Frank Hardie came down from Port Hed-
land, snooped into a jeweller’s and handed his
purchase to Barbara Haly, who wears the
trinket on her third finger.
Adelaide’s budget:
The Polo Carnival finished with a cabaret
dance at Mount Osmond Country Club. The
rooms were gay with phlox, petunias and
zinnias. Many smart frocks were worn. Mrs.
Fred Porter’s black ring velvet toilette had
knife-pleated angel sleeves of crepe de Chine.
Among the inter-State visitors were Miss
Lynette Dunston in primrose georgette, Mrs. L.
Lefroy in pale grey chiffon, Peggy McComas in
flame georgette, Mary Hope-Campbell in cream
chiffon with a brown velvet shoulder-cape.
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Cave and their daughter
Mary left in the Nestor for England. They
will be away for about nine months. Dr. and
Mrs. Alan Lendon have taken their house on
South Terrace during their absence.
A dance was given by Mr. and Mrs. Fulton
Salter at their residence, Prospect, for their
young daughters, with gorgeous flowers in
every room. The hostess received the guests
gowned in fine black lace. Patricia, who stood
with her parents to welcome her friends, wore
dull white satin relieved with silver tissue.
About 80 were present.
Betty, daughter of Wallace Bruce and his
lady, was hostess at a gift tea for Mary
Muecke, who is to marry Dr. Gilbert Jose
to-day. The young hostess was in a leaf-
brown crepe de Chine, with beige collar and
cuffs. Afternoon tea was served in the dining-
room, beautifully decorated. Miss Bruce will
be one of Miss Muecke’s bridesmaids.
Prof, and Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson gave a
large farewell party at Urrbrae for Prof, and
Mrs. J. A. Prescott and Mr. and Mrs. Geof-
frey Samuel, who will leave for England to-
morrow. The guests included members of the
staff of the Waite Institute and their friends.
Mr. Samuel is going to England to study at
Rothamsted. Mrs. Richardson was gowned in
pale blue marocain. Yvonne Richardson wore
a frock of white satin, beaded. Mrs. Pres-
cott chose rust-red chiffon velvet, and Mrs.
Samuel was in white-and-black-figured ninon.
The hostess and Mrs. J. E. Davidson con-
tributed French and Norwegian songs, and
there was dancing in the ballroom. At supper
Prof. Richardson wished the departing mem-
bers of his staff bon voyage.
The Speck sends a few lines:
Promoters of the long-worked-for Fairyland
Market in Launceston had a good reward.
Knight John Evans went up to inaugurate the
affair, which ran for several days in the Albert
Hall. Country districts were well represented
in various money-making enterprises, and the
Nursery Rhyme stalls were cleverly got up.
Funds go to the Tas. Sanatorium.
Mrs. Wilfrid Giblin and Mrs. Nares went off
to Africa in the Ceramic, Mrs. Giblin to stay
with her daughter Mrs. Roy Lethbridge at
Simonstown, and Mrs. Nares to visit an old
friend, Mrs. Hayes, who in her young days
was Ruby Guesdon, of Hobart. The Edwin
Websters were fellow-passengers as far as Mel-
bourne, where they stay for a while after say-
ing good-bye to their youngest son, Donald,
bound for England.
Hostesses who gave parties for Mrs. Giblin
and Mrs. Nares included Mrs. Thos. Lyons,
Mrs. Norman Ferguson and Mrs. C. M. Max-
well, all of whom entertained in their own
homes. At the Queen Mary Club six ladies—
Mrs. E. H. Webster, Mrs. Minett Lucas, Mrs.
C. E. Davies, Mrs. James Murray, Mrs. Moser
and Miss Webster—set out bridge tables in
honor of the prospective travellers.
Matron Godwin, who made a bright spot
in the gloom for many patients at Stowell Hos-
pital, has resigned her job after 12 years, and
starts for a voyage to Asia on the Tanda before
settling down. The nursing staff put their
regrets at her departure into the form of a
gold wristlet watch.
Mrs. W. B. Barnard (Q.), formerly of Tas-
mania, came back to her native isle with a
show of water-colors. There was a good roll-
up on the opening day, and several pictures
were sold. Most distinctive were the views on
Dunk and Magnetic islands, with some soft-
toned glimpses of English scenery.


■r-
mmmm
m
if
:\
\
m& m
' \
m'shHf-' ;
/
Mm
I've changed
my name—
from
Can't to Can.!
You'd, never think to look at me now that only a month or two
ago I was a regular Mr. Can't, would you? And yet it's a fact.
And everything that's happened to me since was due to a chance
conversation with a doctor friend of mine.
'Wilson/ he said to me, 'do you know what's the cause of all
those headaches of yours, your indigestion, your irritability?'
'No/ I replied, 'unless it is that I'm getting old.'
'Rubbish/ he said. 'Anyone with half an eye can see you're
poisoned! How can you expect to be fit—if you forget to take a
regular corrective. You've been missing your Eno—thats whats
the matter with you!'
Missing my Eno! Why, I'd never taken Eno. And yet here s
a funny thing—every day I'd been reading those darn advertise-
ments about Can and Can't, and never once did it occur to me
that Mr. Can't was me!
Well, He was a doctor—so on his advice I started taking Eno.
And believe it or not—it's been a turning point in my life. Look
at me now. I've changed my name from Can't to Can!
ENO r S 'JFRUIT SALT 1
TRADE MARK
The words Eno and "Fruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: The British Harold F. Ritchie Co. Ltd., .Sydney,, N.S.W. Au.4o
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home! Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at; the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
National
Advertisers:
det
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.,
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from I l ’. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
' Street, Sydney; D- Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Dtil., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
The Art of Eating.
BY J. B. BLAIR.
EATING is perhaps the most widely
practised of all the arts. From
earliest infancy to doddering old
age it exercises a powerful influence upon
its devotees, fashioning their, lives, deter-
mining their habits and revealing their
souls.
Nor is it less an art because it comes
naturally to all mankind. All art is
natural. Hunger-striking may be heroic,
but it is decidedly inartistic.
As a poet has written, “music and
gastronomy agree.”
Everyone, of course, knows that the
enjoyment of soup is not necessarily in
direct ratio to its audibility, but it is
rather a significant fact that all properly
conducted dinner - music programmes
commence with loud, stirring, martial
strains. They should fade into soft,
dreamy airs during the fish and entree,
rise to a triumphant crescendo when the
joint is served, and switch over to the
latest jazz airs with the sweets.
I do not refer to wireless dinner music,
which either concludes just as the cock-
tails are being handed round or com-
mences after the coffee has gone cold.
A word on the international language
—menu-French. It is difficult to say
which is the more unpleasant experience
—to give your order in a throaty attempt
at French and have the waiter repeat it
in correct Parisian, loud enough for all
around to hear, or, after ordering your
meal with a perfect Gallic accent, to be
corrected by him in Darlinghurst French.
The system is ridiculous. Admittedly
France is, the home of the entree, but
that is no reason >yhy Irish stew should
be so disguised on the menu that Mrs.
Flanagan' is unable to recognise it. Away
with this kerflummery, and let us call
a spud a spud!
Vegetarianism calls for my passing
condemnation. The vegetarian may get
a certain amount of satisfaction from be-
ing able to look a sheep in* the eye with-
out embarrassment, but to be completely
consistent he should wear garments of
woodpulp and wooden sabots when he
confronts it. t '
Yet if he were to have his way, and
all the sheep in Australia were granted
freedom from human servitude, what a
terrible future would loom up before the
genus sheep!
Preyed upon by dingoes, drought,
thirst, heat and blowflies, he might well
sigh for a return to the good old sys-
tem, under which he was at least valued
and well-cared for, and at the end met
euthanasia per medium of the abattoirs.
It is even possible that in adapting him-
self to changed conditions he might
develop into a carnivorous animal, and
it is pleasing to picture the plight of a
hapless vegetarian of the future, cor-
nered in the Nullarbor Plain by a tusky
old ram which had had nothing to eat
for a fortnight, but a sickly emu and a
couple of kangaroo-rats.
But all this is merely a digression from
the subject, as vegetarians do not eat —
they merely take into their system a cer-
tain quantity of proteins and vitamins in
carefully calculated proportions. They
apparently do this from a sense of duty,
imagining that for some reason it is
essential that they keep alive —for what
purpose I have no idea, unless it is in
order that they may promulgate their
nauseous doctrines until the whole world
is peopled with morons, munching
cabbage-leaves and broccoli —a world in
which the words “sirloin” ' and “silver-
side” have become terms of abuse,) and
from which steak-and-kidney pudding
has been banished for ever.
I always feel that there is something
wrong with the person who cannot eat
steak-and-kidney pudding. He may not
be the type of man who would try to
duplicate the Australian Note- Issue or
steal the Lady Mayoress’s diamond tiara,
but if he happened to be staying at my
hotel when my sterling-silver sleevelinks
mysteriously, vanished he would be the
first person I should like to see searched.
> I do not want it to be thought that I
have anything to say against vegetables,
as such. I am fond of them-in their
proper place, particularly the* nimble
varieties, such as peas.. The new
grooved knives should be , a boon
to those whose tender hearts revolt at
the thought of impaling their peas upon
the brutal prongs of a fork, as well as
to those, not so tender-hearted, who have
had the humiliating experience of seeing
their peas jump suddenly on to their
neighbor’s plate at the approach of the
fork.
One of the most brilliant thinkers of
modern times has suggested that a law
be passed making it a penal offence to
serve peas unless accompanied by mashed
potatoes. This is a measure I should like
to see placed on the statute books of
every civilised country.
Also to be included in the nimble class
are spaghetti and asparagus. The former
should be eaten in private. In Italy it is
usually eaten with the left hand, leaving
the right free to cope with the constantly
recurring necessity for giving the Fascist
salute. This also applies to macaroni,
vermicelli, garlic, Bologna sausage and
other Italian dishes, as well as to all
non-Italian dishes consumed in Italy. In
Nazi society, too, the same phenomenon
is noticed ; but in Australia, outside the
inner circle of the New Guard, the neces-
sity has not yet arisen, and the task is
not quite so much of a struggle.
Asparagus, despite the aristocratic air
which surrounds it, has not yet quite
found its place in society. The fashion
changes from fingers to forks and back
to fingers again, and even in the most
exclusive circles conversation languishes
and a peculiar feeling of nervous tension
pervades the company when the aspara-
gus appears.
Canned “pork and beans” is a dish
that appeals greatly to the man of sport-
ing instincts. It is customary when
several are sharing a tin for each to
place a shilling in the pool, the fortunate
one who finds the pork among his beans
collecting the lot. Unfortunately, nowa-
days, however, the pork too often seems
to be in the other tin.
The staider vegetables—the turnip, the
trombone and the potato —need little
mention. They are decorous and trust-
worthy and present few pitfalls for the
inexperienced. The potato confronts us
everywhere. Baked, he smiles at us
golden-brown beside the roast beef; or,
boiled in his jacket, grins reassuringly
across our doubtful corned-round.
Chipped, he is the inevitable partner of
our fried-fish. The Prince of Vegetables!
Even though his price was the discovery
of America, we feel that he was not too
dearly bought.
Cabbage is eaten mainly from a sense
of duty.
But let us turn to joints. Roast
beef, famed in story and tradition; roast
pork, immortalised by Lamb; roast
lamb, etherealised by mint sauce. Piping
hot, done to a turn, surrounded by atten-
dant vegetables and bathed in taste-
tickling gravy, they create the very appe-
tites they are destined to allay, and bring
about feelings of restful contentment and
good : fellowship which lead one to pity
the sombre vegetarian, nibbling his
cereal pie in the corner.
The best chefs, of course, are always
men, despite the fact that most of the
world’s food is cooked by women. In
culinary operations, as in most things,
women lack creative imagination.
A friend of mine, travelling outback,
recently came across some Southern
Europeans wood-cutting. They invited
him to share their meal —a huge pie. It
was a most appetising dish, and he thor-
oughly enjoyed his generous portion.
After the meal he asked what the pie
contained. The recipe was quite simple —
“One pussy-dog, two willy-tails and a
ha-ha bird:”
Now, in such circumstances a woman
would have been absolutely lost, for out-
side China no cookery book gives in-
structions as to the proper method of
cooking a cat (or dog), while, as for the
wagtails and kookaburra—well, even the
Chinese authorities are discreetly silent.
Yet where a woman would still have
been trying to decide whether the prey
should be braised or junketed, fricasseed
or filigreed, these untaught laborers had
prepared the only possible dish —and
such a dish.
The explanation of woman’s inferiority
in this regard is not hard to find. Her
heart, is not in her work. Ruled by her
mirror and the weighing-machine, she
seldom has sufficient independence to eat
her fill. Her desire for good foods is
as strong as man’s, but when she prepares
a meal she does not seriously try to
make it particularly appetising, fearing
to put temptation in her own way. A
weak, cowardly attitude for which man
too often suffers.
Watch a woman travelling at sea or
staying at a hotel. Her appetite often
outstrips that of her male companion.
Did space permit I would wax eloquent
on the widely differing tastes of the
various peoples of the earth —outward
forms expressive of the universal inward
urge towards the most natural of arts.
But space does not permit.... More-
over, it is lunch-time.


»*r"
Mm
JftWN
V
SOUTH SEA
HO LI DAYS
What a difference between just
an ordinary holiday and a cruise
to the Solomon Islands. About
five weeks of novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a
sea voyage under the best con-
ditions. Numerous ports
coral lagoons—colourful native
life —wonderful scenes. There
are no hotel expenses on the trip
and the fares from Australia
are free of exchange. .
Next Sailings from Sydney, Apr. 7—May 19,
by the new motor vessel “MALAITA.”
At your request toe shall I
be pleased to forward I
illustrated folder No. 22 I
Bums.Philp
&-CO.LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . . . TELEPHONE
8790 I
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
* Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G,
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business.
;
i?
WsSm
mm
m
■X -
m&m
■ xixxxxxx: ; :;-
*
:-: ; Xv>-'v
: : :’x : : :
m
m
tidcne
"How can I fight film
and save my teeth?"
nPHE story of a lost tooth is brief.
Film attacks. The tooth resists.
New film forms constantly. In it are
living germs which cause decay—yes,
millions of them. Day by day this
invisible war goes on until at last film
wins. And one more tooth is lost.
What is film ? Film is ever present
—on every tooth—constantly accumu-
lating. Sometimes it is invisible—more
often it forms a yellow, ugly mask.
Film is soft and sticky. Food parti-
cles cling to it. The mineral salts in
saliva combine with it to form hard,
irritating tartar. This causes gums
to bleed and lays them open to infection.
But film’s greatest damage is done
through tooth decay. In film are tiny,
rod-shaped germs . . . Lactobacilli.
These germs throw off enzymes which,
in turn, produce strong acid. This acid
eats away tooth enamel just as other
acids burn holes in cloth or wood.
Deeper and deeper goes the acid. Bigger
and bigger grows the cavity. Finally
the nerve is reached . . . the root canal
infected . . . and unless repaired in
time, results may well prove tragic.
“ What can I do to fight decay VI
Remember: a dean tooth never decays.
To keep teeth free from film use Pepso-
dent instead of ordinary tooth pastes.
Why ? Because Pepsodent contains a
special film-removing substance.
This film-removing material in
Pepsodent is one of the great discov-
eries of the day. Its power to remove
every trace of film-stain is revolution-
ary ! Its notable distinction of being
twice as soft as other materials in com-
mon use has gained wide recognition.
And so, when tempted to try cheap
and ineffective tooth pastes, remember
the one safe way to fight film is to use
the special film-removing tooth paste
—Pepsodent. Use it twice a day and
see your dentist at least twice a year.
See how rapidly film
forms on teeth
!|r
These teeth were
absolutely free of
film at 8 a.m.
At noon —the film
detector* solution
was applied and
this is how they
looked.
At 8 p.m.— the film
detector* shows
still heavier de-
posits of film.
Two-thirds of the
tooth’s surface is
covered.
At 10 p.m. —these
same teeth were
brushed with
Pepsodent. Note
how thoroughly
film has been re-
moved.
*A harmless fluid,
used by dentists,
which stains film so
that the naked eye
can see it.
Pepsodent
■ MADE IN AUSTRALIA
M9B4M
—is the special film-removing tooth paste
The Thing That Was Not.
BY BASIL HALL.
££T~'v ’YOU mind if I sit here?”
I 1 Looking up from the envelope
I had been idly studying, I saw
a tall fellow standing over me. I had
noticed him before, when I followed my
baggage down the gangway, and then
only because his height placed him head
and shoulders above the crowd upon the
wharf.
There seemed no reason why he
should choose my table, for a glance
along the terrace showed several others
vacant. Being familiar with the type, I
waved a non-committal hand.
I had just landed in Noumea, where
I had been engaged to inspect some tim-
ber interests for an Australian firm. I
knew no one, but I had been given a
letter of introduction to a man who had
told me on the telephone that he would
pick me up within the hour. It was too
hot to go exploring, and the palm-shaded
garden of the Hotel l’Universe s:emed a
good place in which to wait.
“Your first visit?” inquired the
pleasant voice.
My answer was adequate if a little
frosty. In hotels all over the world one
meets this sort of people.
“A great place, Noumea. I always
liked the French.... fought alongside ’em
in the war.”
The same old story ; not even a novel
twist to make it interesting. I was on
the point of seeking quieter haunts, when
his next remark stung me into reluctant
interest.
“Surely you were in the Bat-
talion?”
That was my unit, and I looked more
closely at the man, who had seated him-
self and was giving an order to the
waiter.
“I don’t remember your face,” I
answered.
“Perhaps not. It was hard to keep
track of everyone in those days. I’m
Saunders of ‘D’ company. You were in
‘A,’ I think.”
Right again! The fellow might be
down on his luck, and, after all, the old
crowd still stands for something. I watched
the thin fingers dripping the colorless
liquor through its lump of sugar.
The stranger swallowed his drink and
beckoned to the waiter.
“This is your own party,” I said.
“My dear fellow!” His eyebrows shot
up in pained surprise. “I can still pay
for my drinks, thank God, and for those
of an old Digger when I meet one.”
This time the entire bottle made its
appearance. Whisky for me ; absinthe
for himself. The drink seemed to revive
him. His hand shook less noticeably,
and there was a twinkle in his eye as he
lit the cigarette I offered.
“What are you doing here?” I asked.
“That’s a long story,” he began.
My glance sought the clock.
“It was while we were in Amiens,” he
hurried on. “I got to know a family
who were good to me. I was able to do
them some small service, you under-
stand.” His tone suggested all the actions
of knight-errantry. “It was there I met
Louise....
“Louise! ” He faltered, and was silent.
“We were married in 1917, but not until
the Armistice could I claim her as my
wife. By that time a doctor son had
come home, and with him a cousin. A
tall, handsome fellow.”
He hesitated a moment, while his eyes
travelled casually along the terrace.
“Georges Dudonnet,” he went on.
“His family were colonial French, and
lived in New Caledonia. I’ve told you
that I always liked the French, and
amongst them I’d still put Georges as
one of the finest examples that I have
come across. Louise seemed to like him
also. I suppose he suggested to her —as
I had probably done —something totally
different from the drabness of a French
town. His tales of some palm-fringed
Pacific island, the natives, the wealth and
freedom of the life kept us all entranced.
But it was Louise who listened with
parted lips and a far-away look of delight
to every word he said.
“Georges was the first to leave. As
Louise was going to have a child, our
own start could not be delayed much
longer. It was a wrench for her, while
even for me, who had been away from
home so long, it seemed like the com-
mencement of anew life.
“Luck met us when we landed in
Australia. An uncle had died, and I
found I had inherited a farm in Queens-
land.”
“What part?” I asked. I am Queens-
land-born.
Oh, out from Rockhampton.... Help
yourself.” My glass was empty.
“It was there the baby was born. Poor
little Annette She died and then
a change occurred in Louise. The heat,
the flies, even me, she complained about.
I sold the farm and moved to Brisbane.
The doctors examined her and shook
their heads. ‘Slight heart strain,’ they
said, and spoke of a change; a sea
voyage, or something of the sort. I was
worried, and when Georges Dudonnet
arrived suddenly I welcomed him.
“‘A sea voyage,’ he said. ‘What could
be more simple? Come to New Cale-
donia. The house, with only Pauline
and me in it, is much too large since my
parents died. Louise will be among her
own people, and you, my friend, can help
me with the plantation.’
“He came back to New Caledonia. We
followed.
“From the moment the old Moeraki
passed the Isle of Pines the color re-
turned to Louise’s cheeks. She became
the gayest thing on board. People turned
to stare at her as she passed, smiling to
themselves as they would at the antics
of some charming child. She flung her-
self into the comfortable arms of Georges
on the quay. I wrung his hand in grati-
tude.
“The plantation lay beyond La Foa, at
the head of a valley from which one
caught a glimpse of the sea. The house
was a large one, as Georges had said, and
occupied a natural shelf in the hill above
the sloping coffee-fields.
“It was here we met Pauline.
“Out of the cool shadow of the house
she came to meet us. A wonderful
daughter of France. You’ve been there —
need I say more?
“They gave us rooms in the long palm-
thatched bungalow, and in a few days
we had fallen into the plantation routine.
Coffee on the bougainvillaea-hung veran-
dah in the cool of the morning; some
hours amongst the Kanakas in the fields ;
then luncheon and the siesta. As the sun
went down we formed the habit of bath-
ing together in one of the natural pools
that the mountain stream behind the
house had hollowed out.
“This was Pauline’s domain. Swim-
ming with effortless grace, she was an
enchanting thing, and 1.... But she was
so sure of herself. And there was always
Jules Boyeau.”
“What name?” I broke in.
“Jules Boyeau. Didn’t I mention him
before?”
My hand closed instinctively over the
envelope upon the table. Jules Boyeau
was the name of the man to whom my
letter was addressed.
The last of his drink was being treated
to the concentration that its preparation
demands, and he merely nodded his
thanks for the cigarette I pushed over.
Jules Boyeau, eh? I was likely to
have business dealings with him if things
went according to plan. In such cases
a little knowledge is a useful thing.
“Jules,” he continued from behind the
smoke-screen of his cigarette, “owned a
plantation in a neighboring valley. Two
or three nights a week he would ride over
and sit silently just outside the lamp-lit
circle. A fat little man who, in spite of
his reputation for shrewdness, must have
been a dull lover.
“A deal of Georges’s work took him to
outlying portions of the estate. Upon
these trips Louise would accompany him.
By this time I was getting the hang of
things, so the smaller jobs were left to
me.
“Louise appeared to be definitely bet-
ter, though she still showed signs of her
illness. The Island doctors said the same
thing: ‘Nerves... .slight heart strain....
complete absence of worry’; and between
us we combined to carry out their
instructions.
“ ‘Let her be,’ Georges used to say
when I complained about the slowness
of her recovery. ‘The less you see of
her the better. Leave Louise to me.
After all, we are cousins and I under-
stand her.’
“Pauline said the same thing. At first
she had treated me merely as one of her
brother’s friends; but her manner
gradually changed. There were times
when some word or tiny action would
show me that under her serene exterior
fires were burning. I was lonely and we
may have been too much together. Per-
haps the servants talked amongst them-
selves. Whatever it was, some vague
whisper must have reached Jules Boyeau.
“The first I heard about it was when
Georges mentioned quite casually that
he was pressing for an immediate mar-
riage. Pauline showed, too, that she was
under a strain. One morning I surprised
her crying.
0 Continued on next page.)


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE UFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY FRIDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
252 George Street, Sydney.
A POWER of Difference
The “Hotter Spark” principle of the Leg-
f 5
♦ LEGGETTS ♦
f
a povy e r qg
§lll3lllll
gett Spark Plug en-
sures maximum
engine efficiency. It
means easier starting
—sweeter running—
more miles per gallon
—Dynamic Poiver.
Don’t wait for plug
trouble, enjoy this
Power of Difference
today. Get a set of
Leggetts Spark Plugs
and experience the
utmost in motoring
satisfaction. Popu-
larly priced at all
garages.
*«/«•«
Dynamic,
SPARK
PLUGS
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
A Safeguard for Travellers
The safety and security of a Letter of Credit which enables the traveller
to draw on his account in any part of the world is only one of the many
services and advantages which The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
offers. The Bank also establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable.
It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or by telegraph. It transacts
all classes of general Banking and Exchange business. The Manager of any
Branch will gladly explain these facilities to intending travellers and place
at their disposal the information on current conditions of Exchange, etc.
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID UP . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank,
Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South
Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world.
Cable Address: “Thermostat,” Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
E [
C-
m
L
oboleine
°PPENHnMER.SON&Ca LTD.
BRIMFUL OF FUN AND ENERGY
— thanks to Roboleine!
High spirits in children are a sure sign of vital health —
the birthright of every child. If your child is listless or
out of sorts, give him a short course of Roboleine. You
will be amazed how quickly the good red blood which
Roboleine makes will transform him into a lusty, energetic
child. There are no drugs in Roboleine — only Nature’s
foods concentrated in a special way. Doctors have
prescribed it for over twenty years for both young and old.
It’s just as good for adults who are run down or out of sorts.
12oz. jars only 4/6d. or 36oz. 12/- at all chemists and stores.
%
L
THE FOOD THAT BUILDS THE BODY j
SEND COUPON
FOR SAMPLE
Muir & Neil Ltd.. Box 1562 E. C.P.0., Sydney
I enclose 3d. in stamps for Sample of Roboleine
Nome
Address t
S.B. 3.
“ ‘You say the matter has been settled
for years, Pauline?’
“She nodded through her tears.
“ ‘Then why are you so sad? Jules
will make a good husband. You will not
be far from your brother, and the life
will be no different from the one you
lead now.
“ ‘Men are such fools,' was all the
answer she would make. I left her more
puzzled than ever.
“Two days before the date fixed for
the wedding a black bank of clouds in
the west drove me towards the house. It
was stifling. Louise had retired to her
room with a headache, and even Pauline
was stretched out on a long chair on the
verandah, with nothing on but the native
sarong that was her usual summer dress.
She fetched me a drink and perched her-
self on the arm of my chair.
“ ‘There is something I want you to
do for me,’ she said.
“ ‘Give it a name,’ I grinned up at her.
“ ‘I want to have our last swim to-
gether before the others return.’
“ ‘There’s nothing I’d sooner do. Let’s
get away before the storm breaks.’
“White-faced and motionless, Louise
was lying on her bed when I went to get
my bathing things. There were lines of
pain about her mouth, and her breathing
was irregular and fast. 1 gave her a dose
of the medicine that the doctor had left.
“ ‘lt’s the heat,’ she complained ; ‘this
awful heat.’
“ ‘l’m going to have a swim with
Pauline,’ I told her. ‘Sure you’ll be all
right?’
“‘Yes, I can rest now Enjoy
yourself while you can.... Georges
will be back soon’
“Her voice trailed off into a sleepy
murmur, and I slipped quietly from the
room. Pauline was waiting, and together
we hurried towards our favorite haunt.
“I was sitting on a rock waiting for
Pauline to change, when a voice cut
across the silence that precedes the
storm. It was just a whisper, but the
sound of my name made me turn to see
her poised upon a rock above the pool.
She had cast aside her sarong, and at
that moment some wandering sunbeam
peeped through the velvet darkness of the
cloud and played upon her. Like some
beautiful statue she stood there, a tender
smile upon her lips.
“ ‘Catch me! ’ she cried as she dived
like a silver arrow into the little pond.
“It was madness. The height was too
great for the depth of water, and before
the echo of the splash had died away I
was groping along the bottom for what
I knew must lie there. But she was not
dead. As I carried her out and laid
her on the soft tangle of the ferns, her
eyes opened.
“ ‘Take me in your arms! ’ she whis-
pered. “It will not be for long.’
“It could not be for long, I knew that.
Together we lay, the damp masses of her
hair spread out around us. Every now
a.nd then her lids would flicker up and
she would whisper a few words.
“ ‘You know that I loved you,’ she
breathed. ‘That I could not marry any-
one else.’
“I had not the heart to tell her that
the thought had never crossed my mind.
A silent nod seemed to satisfy her, and a
smile broke the corners of her mouth.
1 “How long we lay there I don’t
i know, but the creeping coldness of her
body told me what I had already guessed.
| “Putting her gently down, I turned to
fetch the sarong that was now her
j shroud ; and there was Louise!
“She clung for support to a sapling in
the rising wind. Her eyes held such a
look of concentrated hatred as I hope I
never see again. Before I could speak
she broke into peals of shrill hysterical
laughter.
“‘lt is over, my dear!’ I said in
explanation.
; “ ‘lf only I had known! ’ she gasped
I between the spasms.
“I tried to quieten her, but she fought
me off.
“ ‘Go to your woman! ’ she panted,
and with a last convulsive burst of sound
fell forward at my feet.
“ ‘My little Louise, it was all a mis-
take ! ’ I cried.
“But as she lay still I gathered her to
my wet bathing-gown and stumbled down
the path towards the house.
“I shall never forget the stricken look
of Georges as he helped me lay her on
the bed.
“The doctor’s examination was brief.
“ ‘She has had a shock of some kind?’
he inquired.
“What could I tell them? With some
idea of thinking things out I wandered
on to the verandah, where the rain was
now coming down with a roar that
drowned all other sound.
“It must have been hours later when
a hand pressed my shoulder, and from
j the doctor’s look I knew what he was
'about to tell me. Georges lifted an
agonised face from the pillow of the
woman who had been my wife,
“‘Go away!’ he snarled. ‘You have
no place here.’
“He must have read the amazement
in my face.
“ ‘Go away before I kill you! ’ he
roared. ‘Do you think you ever counted
here?.... From the moment of her
arrival she was mine Was mine, you
f 001.... We were lovers.... Now leave
me with her for the last time.’ ”
The stranger relapsed into a brooding
silence. His story had held me, and I
was silent, too.
“What happened to Jules Boyeau?”
I asked at length.
His eyes travelled behind my shoulder
to where a confused medley of sound
was rapidly approaching.
“Even now I cannot meet him”....
The next instant I seemed to be the
centre of an excited ring of Frenchmen,
all explaining why they had not been
there to meet me.
“I have been well entertained,” I told
them as soon as I could get a word in.
“Let me introduce you to”
I looked round, but the chair was
empty. With a shrug at what I imagined
to be delicacy of feeling, I handed M.
Boyeau the letter and asked his son a
question.
“That idler!” he laughed. “He makes
a hobby of meeting new arrivals in
Noumea. I hope you did not lend him
money?”
“On the contrary,” I replied, “he paid
for my drinks.... What’s this?” I said
to the waiter, who handed me a piece of
paper.
“Monsieur’s bill.”
“But the gentleman who was with me
paid for these.”
“Pardon, monsieur,” the man smiled ;
“he told me you would settle the ac-
count .... I have added the bottle to
it.”
A glance showed me that there was
nothing but our glasses on the table. The
bottle had vanished.
“Then you do not know Georges
Dudonnet?” I ventured rather cautiously.
They exchanged questioning glances,
and one of the sons pointed to a printed
card behind my head.
“Georges Dudonnet,” I read. “Vins
Bieres... .Aperitifs.”
I had been properly stung! For all
that, I was still a little mystified when I
finally found my room and fumbled for
the light-switch.
“How on earth did the beggar know
my battalion?” I was thinking.
The explanation lay in front of me.
In fact, I fell over it, and when I sat up
cursing and rubbed my shin the faded
letters on my old army valise seemed to
be dancing some derisive jig of their
own. Perhaps they were also amused!
Triumphant After Battle.
Not the harsh mountain whose iron peak spurns
the white spears and the swords;
Not the black stallion that screams in his
triumph, master of thunderous hordes;
Not the dark terror that sweeps from the heights
to the target of crouching fur —
Not one of these is stronger than I, prouder
or lonelier.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
Miss Jones.
Her trunks are harlequin affairs,
Blotched bright with rampant greens and reds,
Like summer-blooming dahlia-beds;
And labelled, too,
In gold and blue.
Her meanest bags,
As gay as flags,
Show all the world where she has been,
And shout aloud the changing scene.
Grey castles high above the Rhine,
Entangled in the fig and vine;
Dim cities, dreaming through a maze
Of dark and sunless waterways;
Red-gabled Alpine roofs, that frown
On flowery slopes
Where, up and down,
The herdsman and his cattle pass;
And palaces of ancient Popes,
Where lizards scamper in the grass.
Her feet
(Size eight, with square-built toes)
Have trod the brittle Kashmir snows,
And trampled on the purple moss
Beside some ruined, towered Schloss
That glistened sinister and wet
And yet,
Miss Jones —vivacious, lean —
Miss Jones, much-travelled, has not seen
One single thing!
She has not felt
The blood within her rise and sing
Among the shapes of Tuscan spring,
Nor smelt
The cold, sad smells that cling
In forests where the Old Gods dwelt.
No leaping fountain flung her words;
She heard no legends from the birds!
“The food was good,” she says, “in Maine:
“But how they cheated us in Spain!”
“I always eat a lot at sea.”
“Oh, yes, the Browns did Brittany!”
A travelled fool —a bag of bones
Tied up with labels, poor Miss Jones!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


YOU'LL NEED A
(AR IN ENGLAND
ŵ
ẁ
Free Booklet
Obtainable
from Any
Office of “The
Bulletin.”
Make up your mind to have the use of a car on your
next visit to England; it is the best and cheapest
way to enjoy your holiday.
Our service covers every possible motoring require-
ment, including repurchase guarantees at fixed
percentages, special terms for export, and all details
in connection with registration, insurance, driving
licences, etc., and saves you money, too !
INDiANoEASTERN
CAR AGENCY
49, Old Bond St., London, W. 1
COMPLETE
BANKING SERVICES
For seventy-five years the resources of the
National Bank have been actively em-
ployed in the development of Australian
industry. During that period the Bank
has provided essential financial facilities,
covering the varied needs of customers in
all branches of production, trade and
commerce.
To-day its services are fully available
through 430 offices in Australia and two
branches in London, with which a world-
wide chain of agents is closely linked.
The Bank’s officers are at all times pre-
pared to answer inquiries and assist cus-
tomers to make full use of the many
services provided.
Facilities are provided for all classes of
Foreign Exchange business, including
prompt and forward settlements.
c Uhe
NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
ESTABLISHED 1858
%0iew L
sfrokij m
This remarkable pump works
on a quadruple compression
principle. The main barrel,
being double-acting, draws in
air both at the up and down
stroke, thereby rendering the
total capacity almost double
that of the large barrel.
Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER AND
BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
ẃ
f with the
"RENRUT"
QUADRUPLE
TYRE PUMP
Thoroughly reliable and built
to give years of service, the
“Renrut Quadruple” makes
pumping so easy. With it a
child can inflate a tyre with-
out fatigue. I
PRICE - - - DU/-
(With gauge, 5/- extra.)
British Manufacture.
Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
386 Post Office Place,
Melbourne.
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements—conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expert advice is your 3 free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.
Chipping Paint.
BY CAPTAIN JACK HAMILTON.
a move on wi’ your chippin’,
I 1 ye lazy young imps o’ the De’il,
or I’ll drop doon amang ye and
gie ye a hand ye’ll nae forget in a hurry! ”
Half a dozen apprentices on a stage
beneath the ship’s counter in the vicinity
of the rudder gaped up in astonishment,
obediently belted the hull for reply, and
inwardly cursed “Tiger” Johnston, the
mate.
For several hours in a broiling sun they
had been chipping and scaling rust and
corroded paint, hoping to enjoy a little
leisure when the stages were fleeted right
aft and out of range, as they thought, cf
his all-seeing eye. None of them had
dreamed that he would descend to im-
provising a bowline and lowering himself
over the poop rail to catch them on the
hop.
“Tiger” Johnston had never been
known to lift a hand to anyone, man or
boy. With both he commanded so much
respect and awe that brute force was
unnecessary. His name was a byword
from Tidal Basin to the Golden Gate,
from Sandy Hook to Callao and Wool-
loomooloo and back, as a glutton for
work, tough as goats’ knees, with the
strength of an ox.
Never did he allow any afternoon
watch below in the Tropics. Often, too,
he was known to extend work-up jobs
into the second dog-watch for all hands.
And in nine cases out of ten the work-up
job would be that greatest of all sea-
faring bugbears chipping paint.
The good ship Cedarbrae, of Glasgow,
had probably the most elaborate and
comprehensive set of chipping gear on
the high seas: hammers, slices and heavy
three-cornered scrapers.
“Naethin’ like chippin’,” the mate was
wont to §ay whenever he hauled out or
replaced the set in a special locker under
his bunk. “Keeps a ship smairt and trim
and her crew out o’ mischeef, ye ken.”
No skipper had to haze a crew out of
a ship when “Tiger” was about. In-
variably they quitted gladly of their own
accord, leaving the owners, passage after
passage, no bill to pay for their labor
other than what the skipper cared to
charge in the way of incidental expenses.
The second mate of the Cedarbrae had
deserted at Sydney with the rest of the
crew. She had been towed to Newcastle.
When the runners had left and a cargo of
gas-coal had been loaded for a New York
syndicate experimenting in mineral by-
products, difficulty was experienced in
getting substitutes.
One “Shanghai Jack” had supplied
the forward-hands at blood-money rates,
shared with the skipper fifty-fifty. A
second mate, unversed in the hell-ship
reputation of the Cedarbrae, or careless
of it, was picked up at the nautical school
with the ink barely dry on his foreign-
going certificate. They were tolerated
rather than approved by “Tiger” John-
ston.
The forecastle contingent comprised
four sailors, worthy (on shaking off the
effects of the shanghaier’s dope) of the
title of A. 8., two young lads with ambi-
tions in that direction, and a miscel-
laneous lot of landlubbers. Among them
was a little lawyer, wiped off the rolls
for some years, who had been pooled by
the crimp with whom he was working
on equal shares. Like the rest, he made
a brisk move for the forecastle-doorway
when “Tiger” Johnston poked his bull-
head into it and ordered everybody to
make the deck at the double. With them,
too, he subsequently ran, jumped and
scurried as if possessed of the devil.
The new second was the reverse of the
mate in every way. Where the one was
all for hurry and endless toil the other
was an easy-going young man with a
carefree grin. He was a clean-limbed
youth, whereas his superior officer was
nuggety and over-developed.
Once round the Horn, the chipping
paraphernalia was brought out. A start
was made on the bulwarks. The rust
and paint scaled and chipped by the crew
were trimmed off by mate, apprentices
and second with a sharp scraper, oiled
and covered with a priming coat of red
lead prior to being repainted.
Bulwarks done, stages were rigged
overside for chipping and painting as
much as possible of the topsides. Then
masts and yards received attention, even
to the clip-hooks of the footropes and
block strops sent down from aloft for
overhaul. Only once for twenty-four
hours was the dreary drone of the chip-
hammers silent. That was in the
Doldrums, when the men were kept hard
at Jj- around the yards at every
nckle catspaw between the Trades and
n wk the tan^s rainwater.
When Sandy Hook was sighted both
watches were hammering the rust from
one of the anchor cables flaked along the
deck.
The drudgery and monotony of it had
eaten into them. In their brief respites
hammer-taps beat into their brains ; the
scrunch of scrapers disturbed their sleep.
But two remained unruffled: the smil-
ing second mate and the little lawyer.
He had not been heard to complain once.
Not until the pilot was aboard with
the tug ahead did the lawyer make the
slightest pretence of asserting himself.
Then he said something which made the
skipper look serious.
He had chosen his time well. The
mate was forward preparing the anchor.
Second was attending to the gear of the
mizzen topsail, which apprentices were
furling. The skipper could see that he
was cornered. He beckoned the little
man into the chartroom.
“I intend to expose all this trafficking
in human flesh and blood,” the lawyer
began, “unless”
“Unless what, eh?”
“Unless you hand me over a hundred
pounds now and lend me the key of the
mate’s room.”
“A hundred!” gasped the crestfallen
master. “I have no money here.”
“What about your perks from ‘Shang-
hai Jack,’ the ship-chandler and the
agent, eh? They were paid in gold, I’ll
warrant.”
The skipper was cornered. Growling
horribly, he handed over the money
demanded.
The little man took it, and the bag
into which he counted it, but refused to
leave until the skeleton-key which opened
all the cabin-doors was handed to him.
The lads on the topsail yard could
scarcely believe their eyes when they be-
held the sacred chipping-hammers and
scrapers being dumped over the side.
They longed to shriek their acclamation
and tell the lawyer that there was one
more in the hen-coop. The second mate
busied himself.
“Tiger” Johnston did not discover the
loss until the ship, flying light with top-
gallant masts lowered and royals and
upper-topgallant yards sent down, was
proceeding under Brooklyn Bridge to the
Newport oil-works to load kerosene for
Sydney.
Relieved forward temporarily by the
second mate, he went aft to get the
chipping gear ready for the apprentices to
begin work on the lower portion of the
hull. Everybody had been too busy pre-
paring the vessel for her up-river jour-
ney during the cargo discharge to give a
thought to anything else. The crew had
deserted, as usual,.and all the prepara-
tion had to be made by the boys and the
two mates.
On the mate’s return to the forecastle-
head it was plain to everybody that some-
thing was wrong.
“They’ve gone, meester, all except one.”
“Gone, sir? Who? What?” asked the
second mate.
“The chippin’-hammers and scrapers,”
replied the mate as one would speak of
the dead.
The second smiled. There seemed to
be nothing else to do.
“It’s nae laughin’ matter, meester;
and mebbe if ye hadna been sae saft wi’
your watch it wadna have happened.
Your spoon-feedin’ of ’em was respon-
seeble for it.”
Further discussion was waived at that
moment. An order came from the poop
for the hands to take up mooring
stations.
Late at night, when the ship was safely
moored alongside the wharf, the mate
turned in with his spirits at zero. His fit-
ful slumbers were interrupted by a vivid
vision of the Flying Dutchman and hun-
dreds of evilly-disposed sirens playing
with chipping-hammers and scrapers at
the bottom of the sea.
At daybreak, after reassuring himself
that the one surviving heavy three-
cornered scraper had not vanished in the
night, he felt better. Shortly before they
arrived portion of the oil-works had gone
up in smoke and been gutted to save the
rest. The ruins remained, strewn about
incongruously as the firemen had left
them. Charred bits of planking, great
girders bent in all directions, remnants
of galvanised iron sheeting, broken glass,
begrimed machinery parts and hundreds
of bolts with everything burned off them
except the nuts at their ends. The very
thing for makeshift chippers!
In a trice “Tiger” had the apprentices
out collecting enough iron debris to keep
the ship’s indent forms free of chipping
gear during her existence. With as little
delay as possible he had them over the
('Continued on next page.)


CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
dfgdfg
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON N °STRAND ST ‘
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
in the centre of London, close to all Theatres. Cable : ‘ Howdotel, London.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to "The Bulletin” Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
If any illustration in **THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
X,
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
8
TO ENGLAND
Fortnightly
Two charming routes at your choice—
go by Auckland (N.Z.), Suva and Hono-
lulu to Vancouver, or by Wellington
(N.Z.), Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco—thence to England across
Canada or U.S.A. by luxury trains and
modern liners.
Tickets are interchangeable on both
routes, thus giving opportunity for a mag-
nificent round trip. Stopovers arranged
for any port of call.
Passengers travelling to England by these
or any other routes may book their return
passage —via Canada or U.S.A., the South
Sea Islands and New Zealand—before
leaving Australia.
Moderate fares, comfortable ships, modern
accommodation, faultless service.
Let us quote you the most
economical rates for your trip.
and Union Lines
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
328 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
29G Queen Street.
Brisbane.
i -
°Lu
40
m
THE EXAMINER
LAUNCESTON.
NOW
IN ITS
92nd YEAR.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston,
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
side, supervising the work himself while
the second mate looked after cargo
requirements. None knew better than
he what their little game was when they
went like scalded cats to get under the
counter. “Tiger” smirked knowingly as
he assisted them in guying frapping in and
getting the after stage to the correct angle
to keep it level and secure. And, so that
they and he would have easy access to it
from the shore instead of shinning up
and down the stage ropes, wasting good
chipping time, he selected a lon£ solid
plank from the charred ruins and had it
placed on the stage to form an impro-
vised bridge
The day was hot and sultry. A scorch-
ing wind which seemed to smell of fire
and brimstone made the chipping-dust
fly and intermingle with the grime it
stirred up from the debris on the wharf,
The chippers got specks in their ears and
in their eyes. When they stopped to re-
move bits of rust or charcoal from be-
neath their eyelids, they were reviled for
l 0^ ng ; J^m iVer V th -? U 8- u u C ° VC f 5
With a thick him of off which had mingled
with the wind-blown grit, looked par-
ticulaily inviting.
Three of the lads fell in, “by accident.”
As the nearest steps were two or three
hundred yards down stream they man-
aged to get a good cooler. Others were
about to follow their example when the
mate appeared in a bowline above them.
f • • . ~. x ,
The wo senior apprentices had divested
themselves of shirts and pants and were
securing them to the stage ropes. They
dressed hurriedly, annoyed at being
caught
Youth has a sense of justice in such
matters that will not be denied. The mate
had not played cricket. He had stooped
. ~1 r
could not let that pass PP Y
could not let that pass.
They would be avenged on the brute!
An idea struck one lad. He whispered
to the other. They laughed outright at
the thought of it as soon as the mate
clambered back over the poop rail.
Pushing their feet against the ship s
side from their posture on either side of
' h H e . makesklft , br l d f\K hey , B radually
edged the big plunk to the extreme edge
of the stage, leaving it only margin
enough to stay there without any weight
on it. They then chipped away, patiently
awaiting the next stage appearance of the
mate. He could swim, but that was
about all.
They listened intently for the sound of
footsteps, too scared to look around to
see them. At last it came.
A shrill cry accompanied the splash,
The heavy plank had gone down end-
on, come up with a swift rebound and
caught the unfortunate in the water a
fearful blow in the ribs,
Not the mate but t he second mate,
m w not swim a stroke and sank
t
, ' .• H t
1 P j: na ctpnc thev^never
get him to e Jup -A
a f - t , • h t
Visions of
dltted through their terr fied minds
Vastly relieved were they when the
patient began to show signs of life.
Incoherently the partially-revived one
murmuied something about the mate
relieving him down the hold and hand-
ing him the sacred scraper to trim off
their chipping efforts. In his right hand
he still grasped that scraper, holding it
behind his back as if he were afraid that
somebody would try to rob him of the
thing
The lads and companions, now
returned had just hel p ed him from the
gangwa y to the deck when the astonished
f ace tbe ma t e showed up above the
m i ds hip hatchway.
« What the hell > s this, meester?” he
roared « Hae taken to swimmin ’ wi ’
the loafin’ brats the noo?”
,
second mate stood his groun as
one dazed. One of the lads began to
stutter a scared explanation,
tl „. , , • , .
,/ F "l 1 ™ y ? *5 gang '" t >, ?
the stage. chipped in the ma e,
fiendish scowl. “Did ye lose the scraper,
A~ * 0
ea \ n , . . Cl ?jrlpnlv
caused the second mate to start suddenly
For the first time since his rescue he
withdrew his ri S ht hand from behind bis
back . For a moment he gazed intently
at the scra per. Then, lifting it swiftly to
arm ’ s _i e ngth, he hurled it with all his
might at the mate ’ s head .
~, , ,
Th f, "“I? ducked ’ and “ Went dean
wi h murder in his the second mate ,
thoroughly revived, advanced on his
superior with clenched fist and set teeth.
P baclted and circ i ed towards
tb " „ nn „ wav
® ° -J , _ T ,
“Get! Get before I kill you, you
swine! ” spat out the attacker.
Without further ado, with the appren-
tices and wharf-laborers gaping in aston-
ishment, “Tiger” Johnston made the
gangway and bolted down it like a
whipped dog.
The Most Beautiful Harbor in the World.
BY PAUL WENZ.
MAURICE had been washed off the
walls and Marlene Dietrich had
, i v.ilrar
been cleared f ®
hoardings of Sydney when a huge poster
the size of a billiard-room hall sprang up
during one night in all parts of the city,
Its enormous letters attracted so much
.. <-• cWhqllv wme
attention that they actually made some
pedestrians jay-walk in spite of the tm
posing police force. '
The Most Beautiful Harbor in the
World.
Nature’s Masterpiece.
For One Night Only.
. . , . filT „
This was quite enough to fill the Palace
de Luxe ; the queue started to foim at
five-thirty. Patiently the people waited
for hours, under the supervision of the
Admiral-General, six-foot-four in his
mended socks, who handled his lithe
cane like a drum-major and encouiaged
the passers-by to “come right in.” When
the doors opened, the crowd poured
through like a river. in flood—past the
ticket office, then past two girls dressed
in costumes of the Hollywood period,
who directed the people right and left.
The Palace de Luxe was an expensive
experiment in architecture, built in a
Graco-Chicago style; the ceiling was a
perfect imitation of a star-spangled sky.
The walls were honeycombed with
niches, and statues made by a new pro-
cess filled them like larvas of a monstrous
wasn\ nest
XT ' (
No programmes were distributed that
mght: the packed house was delighted
to hear the first strains of a very power-
ful orchestra. The music itself was
n ® gr ° ld , ’ .^. t a m an hidden at the top
of the building lent it color and variety
by flooding the violins and the brasses
successively with beetroot red, vivid blue
and cadaverous green. Suddenly, in a
ray of dying mauve specially prepared,
a man emerged from nowhere, sitting at
an organ; he stopped his lift at the
ground floor with remarkable precision
and made his bow to an enthusiastic
audience. He was the well-known
Stopovski, who played the Leberwurtz-
lich organ with such mastery. The Leber-
wurtzlich plant was indeed a marvellous
instrument and contained in its Louis
XVI. woodwork frame every noise
created by Nature, man or beast,
Stopovski played a jazz symphony that
sounded like a funeral march and ex-
tracted a foxtrot out of Parsifal,
He worked with hands and feet: to
one ] ookblg from the third balcony he
a ppeared to be swimming ahead of a
grey nurse. The last chords ended in an
earthquake, and a thunder of applause
fell on him while he was blessed from
fey a ray q£ fresh buttercup yellow .
jjjg brst p art 0 j tbe programme was
essentially instructive. It dealt with the
American Army, the American Navy,
American police, American prisons and
American baseball. At last the screen
announced that the most beautiful har-
bor in the world was to be shown.
Qne could hear the humming of voices,
j be coughing and nose-blowing which
precede a much-expected event. Then
there was a silence: a box of chocolates
dropped and a voice told Bert to stop it
j\j abire ’ s m ost precious jewels, and dis-
closed the name of the film director, the
photographers, the tripod-bearers and
other members of the staff,
Suddenly the film exhibited in all its
marvellous splendor the Corcovado and
the Pan de Asucar towering majestically
ab ° ve ? e °the world
talkie began to roar - , ,
knows,, the most beautiful harbor on
f; artb . * s Rl ° de ’ P
, , , . ,
What followed showed clearly that
some of the world did not know and was
n ot anxious to learn. There was an up-
roar through the house. Most spectators
f j ± h J d be£n hoaxed the rest were
n / n insulted . yells and catcalls
y dvowned \ h& talkie> a bott le of ginger
evidently thrown by a good
cidcketer went r i gbt through the Corco-
yado and &n ice cream dived into the
Inv . lv Whr . r
y '. , ,
( There was a pzmc as '£»«*>>'£
/ ;l, cc ’. 1e crowc g , children
the exits; some women and ch.ldren
were a m ost smothered,
I n the regal vestibule of the Palace de
Luxe much of the expensive imitation
furniture was ruined by an infuriated
mob: the box office was wrecked,
The poster had told the truth ; there
was only one performance. It cost the
directors of the Palace a considerable
sum to repair the damage, but the bet
made the experiment worth while.


Training
Courses
in
English
and in
Writing
for
Publication
THE WELFORD COURSE
IN ENGLISH.
By E. H. Welford and A. W. 8.,
Welford, M.A. (Cantab.) This
course deals adequately with
common errors, with business and
social correspondence, with' brevity,
emphasis, vocabulary and the man-
agement of sentences, ft corrects
errors both in speech and in writ-
ing. 12 lessons.
THE BERNARD CRONIN
Story Writing Course
(Writing to Win).
Prepared and •conducted by Mr.
Bernard Cronin himself. Its foun-
dation is the pupil’s own work, bis
or her thought, expression and pre-
sentation. 10 lessons with 3 sup-
plements.
PARAGRAPHS
and ARTICLES
A .complete training, including in-
struction not only in the writing of
articles and paragraphs but also in
the selection of subjects and in
methods of treatment for different
kinds of publications.
CRITICISM OF MSS.
A critical service by Mr. Cronin of
MSS. —Stories, Articles, Novels,
Scenarios. It has helped many
writers.
We shall be glad to send full
particulars of all the training ser-
vices described above, but we be-
lieve that your purpose and ours
will be best served if you tell us
where your interest particularly lies.
Please address your inquiry to
E. H. Welford, 398 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, C.l.
PELMANISM-Mental Training
A Practical Course for
Practical Men and Women
pELMANISM teaches the Science of
Living.
Nature has given you a brain. The
education you have received in the
ordinary way has given you know-
ledge of certain subjects, and the ex-
perience you have gained in after
life has added to that knowledge.
Pelmanism will train your brain
and show you how to apply that
knowledge and experience in the best
possible way.
Practical Psychology
strides have been made in
recent years in the science of
Psychology. The mind—its nature, its
actions, its weaknesses, its impulses
—is being studied as never before.
The results of these studies are to be
fotind in Pelmanism, which is a work-
ing course in Practical Psychology
directed to the needs of the average
man and woman.
The present Pelman Course is
based on 30 years’ intensive study
and practical experience. The experi-
ence embodied in the Course has been
gained as the result of dealing with
the difficulties, failings, fears, aspira-
tions and ambitions of many thou-
sands of men and women belonging
to practically every known Profes-
sion, Trade or form of business —in-
cluding the important business
(housewives, note!) of the Home.
Great pains have been taken to
keep the Course as simple as pos-
sible, and in this aim the Institute
has been entirely successful. The
Course is what it is intended to be—
a practical Course for practical men
and women who, in the majority of
cases, have to earn their own living.
These Defects Conquered
JT is necessary for everyone who
wishes to get on in life to keep
in mental training. When your tnind
rs “out of training,” all sorts of
symptoms appear. Here are a few
of them: —
Forgetfulness
Inability to
Concentrate
Procrastination
Depression
Timidity and
Shyness
Mind-wandering
Brain Fag
Indecision
Lost Confidence
Pessimism
Boredom
Unfounded Fears
And there are others. They are
not permanent defects, but if
neglected they will become more
serious and more deeply rooted, with
very mischievous consequences to
your business and social life and to
your prospects and happiness. They
are signs that your brain wants train-
ing and toning up. Pelmanism will
give you this training and this toning
up. The defects and weaknesses will
disappear. You will find them “fading
out,” and after quite a short time
your mind will recover its normal
strength and natural tone.
Qualities Developed
p>ELMANISM npt only helps you to
overcome these defects, but it de-
velops what might be called the Plus
(+ ) qualities of the mind. That is to
say, it' strengthens those faculties
which are "characteristic of the scien-
tifically trained mind and which are
of the greatest value in all the affairs
of life.
Some of the qualities which Pel-
manism develops are:—
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Initiative
* Self-confidence
Organising Power
Resourcefulness
Determination
Strength of Will Self-control
and a Reliable Memory
It is the possession of these qualities
that gives to any man or woman what
is known as Personality.
You need not devote a long time
to Pelmanism—say half an hour
every evening for the next three
months. You will find at the end of
that time that you have increased
your mental stature, that you can do
better work, that your brain is clear,
that you can master difficulties which
formerly baffled you, that you are
more efficient, that you have qualified
yourself for better things, that you
are much happier in yourself *md that
you will be living a fuller, more in-,
teresting, more eventful and more
creative life..
Pelmanism is a sure way to suc-
cess if you will give it your loyal
effort, your honest endeavor, and
a regular and definite amount of
time until you have completed the
Course. A sustained effort over a
period of but a few weeks will yield
you dividends that will last you your
whole life through.
The Key to the Magic Door
“JpELMANISM,” says Dame Sybil
Thorndike, “gives mind-exercise
scientifically, and because its prin-
ciples are scientifically based it not
only improves,
but actually
d i s c o v ers,
qualities that
would other-
wise have re-
mained dor-
mant, We all
wish for Suc-
cess, to be up-
lifted from the
mediocre, but
many never
find the key to
open the magic
door. Pelman-
#*■-
Dorothy Wilding.
I)ame Sybil Thorndike.
ism, I am con-
vinced, is the ‘Open Sesame’ that
smooths away all difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and alertness that
sees opportunities and uses them
rightly.”
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
Dr. Norwood, of the City Temple,
London, now visiting Australia, says:
“Pelmanism is sound Psychology and
an admirable system of Mind-
training. It re-
duces to a cohe-
rent system what
every person
who lives intel-
ligently and
strongly must at
least partly
carve out for
himself . ... A
proper grasp of
Pelmanism
would save any
life from futility
and would cause
many to discover
powers latent
within themselves of the existence
of which they had not dreamed.
Pelmanism teaches that man has the
key to his own career and enables
many to find the key itself, which, for
want of self-knowledge, had lain un-
discovered.”
Write for this Free Book To-day
IN “The Efficient Mind you will find
a full explanation of the Pelman
Course and much
'
vandyk
THE EFFICIENT MIND
S.co
of th
py
m
?°k
m
°AV-
interesting informa-
tion on the subject
of Mental Training.
This book will be
sent you free on
application to the
Pelman Institute, 3
Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne. Write for it to-day and
it will be in your hands by return
of post. All correspondence is re-
garded as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives.
Readers who can call at the Institute will
be welcomed. The Director of Instruc-
tion will have a talk with them, and no
fee will be charged for his advice.
FREE ENQUIRY FORM
To the Telman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
FATHERS WITH SONS!
If your boy is old enough to understand if he is starting
a career in trade or commerce —if he has already had
a reverse —then give him a copy of The Magic Story*
by Frederic Dey. This remarkable book has reclaimed
men and women from mistaken lives arid has started
many lads on the rbad to success.
“THE MAGIC STORY,"
By FREDERIC DEY.
At all bookshops, or direct
from “The Bulletin.”
Price 2/- (Postage, lid.)
cr j>\ 0
. (*o''
s*
❖
S*
3
O
A' m >“>'>*%
&**y*y.*
o v
f*
N OC^
oi 00
0^
o
0°
o
«' io v o'
Cjj^


1
V
DRY GIN
33.12
w
GILBEY'S, the STRONGEST
gin, not the minimum proof
strength allowed by law.
Gilbey's, therefore, completely
fulfils its most important
objectives.
Its well-known medicinal
value is immediately benefi-
cial owing to the essential
properties having been pre-
served. Thus you use less in
cocktails and retain the full
flavour. Cheap, inferior gins
cannot be considered in the
same category.
Always consider your health
and pocket by purchasing
only gin from the famous
house of Gilbey.
