

-««555
m
HSU
IHi?
<o
A,
B.Z)K
K
k'
&
<V
>
k>
u
**3
4:
0
AOS’
J4of
( \7Ae otijjk
UJR-fIPP-EDBRfIND of
Ciawictbcs...
Cigarettes definitely need protective wrapping
to keep them fresh and pure. Climatic changes,
and the odour of cardboard and printed surfaces, very
quickly affect the quality of the tobacco.
B.D.V. “Everfresh” wrapping is climate-proof. It
guarantees that the pure imported Virginia tobacco
which is used exclusively in manufacture reaches you
—wherever or whenever you buy B.D.V’s—in the same
perfect condition as when it left the factory.
IQ6-2QI-
Guaranteed made SOLELY from 100% imported
Virginia Tobacco.
CORK TIPS OR PL-fIIPI
—; / •. - ' - - -
B.D.V
Ejrejvfiits II
CIGARETTES
The Bulletin
c&n* (s&AejaAcfL d(aj£yQ .
Vol. 55.—N0. 2824.
Wednesday, March 28, 1934.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o UR New Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
SramllJ
LLliki
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STdTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Koohlet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 234
5
Why
Suffer with
Skin Troubles
when Cuticura Soap and
Ointment so effectively soothe
and heal pimples, rashes, and all
skin irritations. Form the habit of
using Cuticura Soap and
Ointment every day and pre-
vent skin troubles. Cllticnra
Talcum, medicated and sooth-
ing, is an ideal toilet powder for
every member of the family.
Soap Is. Ointment is. and 2s.
Talcum Is
Australian Depot:
R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick
la. 6d.
“THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business*
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
,
TuUwie j'&e<e#vce»
w JiiZcxC StcxieJ, SCcupe,
&S&uem, Juried, fe%
t&g. !F<rC%L<S.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
JON SALE ALL STATES ©2
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test ‘ THE
DOMINION" overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
tIK Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
"The Dominion" Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures o!
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
A
■N
m
That the Soundest State
is
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane "Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane "Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TE LEG PA PH
/ BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
PKhSO*' J —
The Red Page
The Provincial Touch
Overseas critics often accuse ds of
provincialism. There is something in it,
as witness the uproar in Melbourne over
what the “Argus” called the “blasphemy
and disloyalty” of a recent article in the
undergrads.’ paper “Farrago.” The items
which “dismayed and disgusted” Vic-
torian parents were quoted.
•' (l> The average fresher is not a simple-
sonled, clean-minded, fresh-faced public-
school boy. By your own experience you
know him to be foul in thought and word
if not in deed.
(2) Christianity to-day means to the
bulk of people exactly what beer means to
others. It is something to be imbibed on
Sundays, not Saturdays, giving a satisfac-
tion as vague, but a great deal more smug.
(3) When you have dissected the much-
lauded ideal of Patriotism you will see that
it is merely something used to stir up the
great bulk of the people to go out and
murder, and be murdered, for the business
interests of a few.
Thackeray offered the information, con-
tained in No. 1 to the mothers of mid-
Victorian England ; Dean Inge has made
charge No. 2 in almost the same
terms ; and Prime Minister Ramsay Mac-
Donald, Earl Russell, Fenner Brockway
(author of “The BJoody Traffic”) and
other eminent Britons have used the
arguments in No. 3. The films have been
making similar statements in more effec-
tive terms for years. So have Shaw,
Wells* Huxley, Haldane, Dreiser, Menc-
ken, Virginia Woolf and the Waughs.
Every provincial believes that the in-
habitants of other countries are his moral
inferiors. Tell an Australian provincial
that the average English youth has a
dirty mind ; or that religion means little
to the bulk of English people; or that
overseas armament firms misuse patriot-
ism to stir up and prolong wars, and he
will remain calm. There were no objec-
tions in Melbourne last year to Winifred
Holtby’s “The Astonishing Island,” in
which she said all these things directly
or indirectly, and there will be none to
Truth Is Not Sober (Collins; 7s. 6d.), in
which she says them again. Her sinners
don’t live in Melbourne.
A Realist
It seems right that Miss Holtby should
be M.A. (Oxon). There is nothing femi-
nine about her mind or style. Most of
these stories appeared originally in the
“New Statesman,” the “Nation and
Athenaeum” and the Manchester “Guar-
dian.” Yet mid- and even low-brows
should enjoy them. She looks at the
world through disillusioned eyes, but she
has plenty of humor, and she loves man-
kind. In “Truth Is Not Sober” the god-
dess arrives under the influence of wine
at the home of a Bradford novelist who
makes a good income by writing about
well-behaved people. She shows him
Life —a (Chinese general educated at Har-
vard stepping into an English ’plane to
inspect the damage done by French
bombs to the stronghold of a former
room-mate, a Japanese biologist. Also
500 villagers dying of starvation be-
cause “the rice which might have saved
them was being burned to keep up
prices” ; a New York theatre “erected at
expense adequate to run a second-rate
Power’s annual Budget, on an island over-
built with dismantled offices,” and other
insanities. She next shows him some of
the horrors that are occurring in holy
Bradford within 500 yards of his desk;
and hi writes about them, and his pub-
lisher refuses to have anything to do
with the book on the ground that such
goings-on are incredible —just as the
“Argus” refused to believe the home
truths of “Farrago.”
In “The Voice of God” London “Stand-
ard” gets hold of an invention which
reproduces the utterances of the Saviour.
Demonstrations against Jews and others
follow; the churches are thrown into a
turmoil; and the Stock Exchanges suffer
an unheard-of slump under the threat of
“sell all and give to the poor.” A World
War is imminent when the Dean (the
“Standard’s” chief contributor) smashes
the instrument, crying: “Your doctrine
is too much for
us, Lord! When-
ever You speak
we fall into
strange madness.
In Your name we
have slain, tor-
tured, burned and persecuted.” What a
fuss Melbourne would have made if a
Melbourne M.A. had written that about
Melbourne!
Englishmen on England
Evelyn Waugh says on the dust jacket
of Laurence Oliver’s Tadpoles and God
(Nicholson and Watson; 6s): “It de-
bunks a great deal that is shoddy in
modern ‘uplift,’ and judges tradition on
its merits.” Mr. Oliver is as sceptical of
the Victorian Law of Progress as Dean
Inge.
In that orgy ot destruction which began
in August, 1914, Progress was blown to
bits by a million shells. What had been
a faith, became a silly delusion, what had
been a law became a hideous lie.
The English, he says, “have ceased to
believe in the Christian faith, and are
rapidly discarding Christian morality.”
Some call themselves Christians while
disbelieving half the statements contained
in the Christian gospel. Some, like the
Bishop of Birmingham, are high officials of
the Church, and yet openly deny the faith
of that Church.
He writes in a white heat of indignation,
and such authors are not very satisfac-
tory witnesses.
Leave him for Cocktails at Six, by C.
Gordon Glover (Geoffrey Bles; 7s. 6d.).
Objective studies like it of middle-class
life in London appear by the hundred
every year. In this one all the characters
meet at a cocktail party. Peta, who has
left her husband in Hampshire'because
of his silly name and his habit of look-
ing at birds through a telescope. Simon,
a philanderer who “had held the hot
hands of nursemaids in suburban cinemas
and kissed the hands of Dukes’ daughters
at Hunt Balls.” Innocent little Monica,
whQ had met Simon at a dance for the
first time the night before, who had
decided “to go to him, even to become
his mistress,” if she was lucky enough to
be asked, and who had spent £3 on a
new set of underclothes in case she was
asked. Virginia, and Raymond her
gigolo. Malcolm, Monica’s callow
brother, and Mostyn his friend, a free-
lance journalist who roars that Fleet-
street has gone sex-crazy ; that if a girl
is murdered she’s got to be beautiful;
if a middle-aged woman joins a polar
expedition she’s got to be beautiful, too.
“Nobody would care a damn if a fat
old harridan went to the North Pole.”
Most of them get drunk. Simon—
having forgotten about Monica—turns
up with another girl whose face Monica
is goaded into slapping. Virginia’s
gigolo takes up with another girl. So
Virginia slaps his face, and turns him
down with the reflection, “Bloody fool
me. But perhaps bloody lucky this
time.” And so the party ends with
everybody relaxed and more or less
satisfied.
Such things are happening all over the
Empire. One of-the reasons why Aus-
tralian literature remains in the doldrums
is that papers like the “Argus” won’t
admit that they can happen here.
Red Page.
John Dos Passos
For some years he has been the darling
of the literary cliques, especially those
that subscribe to the Marxian aesthetic.
The proletarian aesthetic is a mystery I
have never been able quite to fathom. It
holds that because Velasquez spent a
great deal of his time painting a vSpanish
king, therefore he was a bourgeois
artist. Rembrandt was a good sound
proletarian, at least when he painted
beggars. When he painted beautiful
women and wealthy burghers with equal
regard for truth, he presumably lapsed
into bourgeois heresy.
This theory is capable of some comic
extensions. If a bad Russian painting of
a moujik hammering a nail is Marxist
art, then it follows that a good Aus-
tralian painting of a bowl of flowers
executed during the present political re-
gime is Joe Lyons art. This I am unable
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Highest Ideal.
ANTHONY
’Phone: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND
“THE SENIOR STORE”
HORDERNS
GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
\
\
soY
r\
Sjr \*j
&
•v.
?s
A&
BUY
NOW!
Anthony Horderns’ advise you to buy your Travelling Rugs NOW. To buy now is to
SAVE during the Winter Months, for, as you know, the price of Wool has risen considerably
and, inevitably, Woollen goods must rise also. These Rugs are now offering at last season s
prices while stocks last. Order without delay!
of Pure Wool for Wear and Warmth
now selling at unusually low prices,
FAWN AND BROWN TRAVELLING RUGS - - - ■
now at
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs, finished fringed ends and available in a range of Fawn
and Brown tonings, with contrasting check designs. Pattern is woven right through
Winter weight. Size 60 x 70 inches. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 13/6.
rug
13/6
PURE WOOL HEAVYWEIGHT TRAVELLING RUGS -
- - at
A group of Rugs showing in the newest designs. Heavyweight quality in an All
Pure Wool. Finished fringed ends. This rug would make an ideal bed covering.
The size is 60 x 72 inches. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 18/6.
18/6
BEAUTIFUL SOFT FINISH LIGHTWEIGHT WOOL RUGS,
A Lightweight Rug, with a warm, soft finish. All Pure Wool, with fringed ends.
This is a suitable rug for those who require warmth without weight. Newest
designs, including authentic Tartans. Size 60 xBO inches. Anthony Horderns
Price, 2 7/6.
27/6
BEAUTIFULLY COLOURED REVERSIBLE WOOL RUGS, at
*UGS, at
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs. Reversible, plain colour on one side and plaid effect
on the other. Many beautiful colourings for selection. Finished fringed ends.
Size 60 xBO inches. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 35/-.
35/-
REVERSIBLE MERINO WOOL TRAVELLING RUGS,
now at
Rugs that will give years of serviceable wearl Pure Merino Wool in a reversible
style, plain colour one side and overcheck design on the other. Beautiful colours
available. Fringed ends. Size 60 x 80 inches. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 45/-.
45/-
NEWEST DESIGNS IN MERINO WOOL RUGS - - - at
A Rug that will last a lifetime! Beautiful Pure Merino Wool Travelling Rugs.
Reversible and showing in a range of all the newest designs and colours. Finished
fringed ends. Size, 60 x 80 in. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 50/-.
50 1-
BEAUTIFUL NEW ZEALAND MERINO WOOL RUGS, at
New Zealand Rugs made by the Mosgiel Mills. They are reversible and made from
the highest grade Merino Wool. There is a wide range of beautiful colourings for
selection. Size, 56 x 78 in. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 70/-.
70/
SUPER GRADE NEW ZEALAND WOOL RUGS - - -at
Super grade New Zealand Rugs made by the Mosgiel Mills. Reversible... .so that
the utmost wear is assured. Very soft, fine texture in a range of the newest designs
and colours. Size, 60 x 80 in. Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 80/-.
© Travel Rugs Ground. Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.
80 r
23e
Band C
25
Footwear to give Genuine
Service under all Conditions
Serviceable “Hordura” Officers’ Boots.
A—“Hordura” Officers’ Boots in Tan Willow or Black
Box Calf. No toecaps and fitted genuine welted soles.
Available in full and half sizes. Anthony Horderns’ Price,
pair, 23/6.
Finest Leather Shoes.
B and C—“ Tree” Brand Shoes for Men
are made of finest-grade leathers by
expert craftsmen in Tan or Black Calf.
Brogues with extra stout soles for walk-
ing or golf. Also whole Golosh Be-
spoke Models in Tan, Havana Brown
or Black. Wide welts. Stitched heel seat.
Full and half sizes. Price, pair, 25/-.
“Tree” Brand Calf Riding Boots.
D—“ Tree” Brand Riding Boots in Tan Calf. Made with
genuine welted soles in full and half sizes. Also Lace style
with two buckles at top. Price, pair, 37/6. Tan Elastic-
side Riding Boots, light soles. Price, 18/6. Tan or Black
Calf, with welted soles. Price, pair, 27/6.
eu
0 Men’s Footwear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations h
NSW.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
r
Vi
The Season’s Smartest in
Chevron Overcoats
from
Featured in the model holding the style spot-
light for 1934... .superbly made Overcoats
specially designed for the well-dressed young
man. Featured in All Wool Navy Chevron
Coating in a double-breasted form-fitting style.
Lining throughout of Art. Silk imparts a
quality finish. Anthony Horderns’ Price, 39/6.
Better qualities. Prices, 59/6,79/6, 105/-, 126/-.
0 Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth
and railway stations ifi N.S.W.


A a
St
am is no oironaer
than its weakest hinkl!
m
m
m
m
1
1
.*55
i
1
8
YOUR SAFETY
is only as ;S "Seciirei^^Sl
as the Condition of
YOUR TYRES
Mechanically your car may be in perfect
order—but how far and how safely it will
go —largely depends on the condition of your
tyres.
Wise and prudent motorists are replacing
the "weak links" of their tyre equipment with
sturdy and safe New Goodyears—and doing
so at to-day's low prices—the lowest in
history.
Easter time touring is just ahead —be sure
it is free from tyre troubles —by replacing
every one of your worn tyres now —with
Dependable and Safe New Goodyears.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
CB-5-34


g 'll
tTTE
NO 77
Here’s value for
a first-class shaving set for 61-
Gillette maintains its leadership year by year by constantly
adding improvements to the world’s most famous safety razor.
In this, the latest Gillette achievement, not only has the razor
itself been still further improved, but an entirely new shaving
set has been produced. Here it is. The new razor in a neat,
hygienic case, together with three of the latest type Gillette
Slotted Blades and two blade-holders, for the amazingly low
price of 6/-.
Gillette Slotted Blades now cost only 2J - per packet .
you
d
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
to accept. It includes art in the order of
political cartooning.
Putting aside the proletarian aesthetic
as worthless for any critical purpose,
one can attempt to judge Dos Passos by
the only real criterion —how much he
gives you back of the thing he is trying
to depict. His works include “The 42nd
Parallel,” “Nineteen Nineteen,” “The
Garbage Man” and “Manhattan Trans-
fer.” All have the same general charac-
teristics, but the last-named is acclaimed
his masterpiece. It is, D. H. Lawrence
said, “an endless series of glimpses
of people in the vast scuffle of Man-
hattan Island a stream of different
things and different faces rushing along
in the consciousness, with no appa-
rent direction save that of time, from
past to present, from youth to age, from
birth to death, and no apparent goal
at all.”
This is an apt description. Hoboes,
bootleggers, easy women, millionaires,
dogs, cats, automobiles, surge through
the pages of Dos Passos. The din is
incessant. The children of the poor rush
across a street and get run over ; a stock-
broker who has just concluded a deal
catches the eye of a pretty woman in
the street and he, too, is run over. Illicit
love is immolated in a burning sky-
scraper. A steamboat captain is hurrying
into port to get married, and a passenger
throws himself overboard and drowns
himself. The jargon of every class is
reproduced with the fidelity of a gramo-
phone ; eyes, ears, noses, sunrises, sun-
sets, fogs and snowstorms are recorded
with photographic exactitude ; the per-
fume of pretty women, the stale smell of
cooking, the stench of back alleys are
painstakingly recorded.
It is, in short, a traffic cop’s-eye view
of a city—or, rather, a flea’s-eye view, for
Dos Passos, as the narrator, hops about
from one place to another, never stop-
ping more than a couple of pages any-
where. His technique is obviously in-
spired by Joyce’s “Ulysses,” but whereas
Joyce concentrated on a single problem
and never strayed a hairbreadth from
the task of elucidating that problem, de-
spite the enormous depth of his perspec-
tive, Dos Passos approaches a thousand
problems and never solves any of them.
His picture has no perspective. It is a
series of outline notes on a multitude
of events and no one event is fully
related to any other.
His- vogue is understandable. He
is the legitimate literary offspring
of the late Sir George Newnes, who was
the first journalist to realise that
the mass-educated masses want facts and
as many of them as possible. Newnes
created “Tit-Bits” and made a fortune.
“Tit-Bits” was merely the reflection of
the mental disintegration of its readers.
It told you how far all the toothpicks in
the world would reach towards the moon
if put end to end, told you that all the
beer consumed in Britain in a twelve-
month would float a dreadnought.
Dos Passos requires no more con-
centration than a news theatrette pro-
gramme. You can drop in on him any-
where and leave him anywhere. There
is no reason why “Manhattan Transfer”
should not have been extended into
eternity.
F. S.
Modernist Science
“Modernist” is a poor word, useful
only as a term of reproach. As such I
use it. By “science” I mean what the
universities mean when they use the term.
I have just read the latest exposition of
the philosophy and methods of modern
physicists— The New Background of
Science, by Sir James Jeans. Jeans is
a mathematician and astronomer of such
eminence that Cambridge, Oxford and
Princeton have allowed him to lecture to
their students, and the Royal Society
made him not only a Fellow but its sec-
retary, and gave him its Royal Medal.
He has peered at the stars through the
great telescopes at Mount Wilson; he is
a mighty authority on physics and dyna-
mics.
For everything that Sir James has to
say concerning modern conceptions of
the nature of matter I have the utmost
respect, and if I find some of his demon-
strations hazy and obscure I am pre-
pared to believe that my inability to com-
prehend is due to the insufficiency of my
studies in physics and mathematics. They
are subjects I have studied, however, so
I presume there are other laymen who
find Sir James even harder to follow
than I do.
However, I can swallow the “new quan-
tum theory” and the theory of the dual
particle-and-wave nature of light. Where
I get inextricably stuck in the bog is
when Sir James deals with the cosmic
concepts of Einstein. Introductory diffi-
culty is the theory, not mentioned by
Jeans, but implicit in some of his reason-
ings, that the speed of light is the maxi-
mum velocity at which anything can
move in this universe of ours, and that
it may be regarded as a constant.
As estimates of the speed of light vary
every time the tremendously difficult test
of determination is attempted, that seems
unwarrantable. The Einstein;’ans, further-
more, insist, and very rightly so., since
the effort to demonstrate the static qual-
ity of ether has failed, that there is no
fixed point in the universe, and that abso-
lute motion or speed of motion is impos-
sible of computation. So we are thrown
back on relative motion. Well, from that
point of view, Ptolemy may have been
right. The earth may be the centre of
the universe with every other heavenly
body swinging round it once every 24
hours, with comparatively slight retarda-
tions or accelerations. If so, those nebulae
135,000,000 light years distant must be
galloping round at a speed that would
send light dizzy. Silly argument, per-
haps, but it logically falls into the rela-
tivist frame.
When Sir James comes to consider
space and time, he dives deep into the
metaphysics of mathematics. Following
Einstein he postulates a “continuum” in
which, considered as a whole, there are
no such things as past, present and
future. The notion of time, in this view,
becomes merely a human illusion. And
this “continuum” —though most of the
four-dimensional equations dealing with
it seem to have their origin in a concep-
tion of space as infinite —has been given
limits. Jeans, unlike Sir Arthur Edding-
ton, who conceives the universe as a con-
tinually expanding balloon, suggests that
its shape may be like that of a bicycle
tyre tube which develops a blister now
and then, and then contracts, to bulge
forth once more at another stage in the
time-stream. If time is illusory, the poor
old universe must have the greatest diffi-
culty in ascertaining whether it is con-
tracting or expanding.
Possibly time isn’t illusory, or at least
the concept of it may be an essential to
human logic, and the concepts of the
limited universe, in which the lines of
least resistance are curved and not
straight, may have something to do with
those intellectual paradoxes of the mathe-
matician —the parallel lines that meet at
infinity and the straight line which is
a segment of an infinitely great circle.
Minkowski’s four-dimensional geometry
elaborated by Lorentz and Einstein has
given us a mathematician’s picture of the
universe that involves still greater para-
doxes. Possibly next year a five-dimen-
sion or six-dimension geometrist will
arise who will seek to convince us with
irrefragable equations that the universe
has no existence whatever in relation to
any of the senses we possess.
w.
The Fatal Retreat
Major Eardley-Simpson has come for-
ward “after many years of patient labor”
with Derby and the Forty-five (Philip
Allan; 155.). It offers a reasoned and
well-documented explanation of the
retreat of the Young Pretender, after he
had beaten Cope at Prestonpans and
had marched as far as Derby; which is
well within striking distance of London.
The chance was there ; the leader was
there; overcaution, says the author, de-
feated both. All through the book he
regrets the lost opportunities and the
“fatal swerving” which consistently frus-
trated the Stuarts both in battle and in
diplomacy.
In 1745 the Midlands, Wales, a large
part of Yorkshire and the Universities
were for the The people were
tired of the pro-German conduct of
George 11., and his personality contrasted
unfavorably with that of the Pretender.
The young man’s proclamations were
very attractive; they promised, among
other things, triennial Parliaments, a re-
duction of “placemen” in the Commons,
a national militia (instead of the standing
army which the King was using on the
Continent), freedom of the press and
toleration for dissenters. A curious point
about the proclamations of both King
and Pretender is that the one ended “God
Save the King” ; the other, “God Bless
King James!” A distinction of ill-omen.
The author points out that the Forty-
five was the sixth invasion of England
within 100 years. Only those of Monk
(1660) and Dutch William (1688) suc-
ceeded ; “they were backed by regular
troops.” Well received as far as
Derby, welcomed heartily at Derby
and with many sympathisers waiting
anxiously in every direction for his
rallying signal, Charles Stuart, though
supported only by volunteers, made a
fatal blunder in retreating. “Political
sense,” says Major Eardley-Simpson, “can
sometimes be superior to the rules of the
tacticians’ textbooks. It was madness to
advance, from the standpoint of the mili-
tary leader ; but the military leader forgot
that he was engaged in a civil war where
the politician can claim to be listened to
before the soldier.” .
John Buchan has written an able intro-
duction. He agrees that the decision to
retire was one of the strangest blunders
in history.
O. C.
A Satchel of Books
Tait’s Engineering Directory (Tait Pub-
lishing Co., Melb.; 55.), the 1934 edition
of which is just published, is a well-
known work of reference for buyers and
sellers of machinery and engineering
requisites. It is divided into three main
sections: an alphabetical list of Austra-
lian firms, a list of overseas firms repre-
sented in Australia, and a classified list
of specialties.
The Truth About My Father, by Paul
Martens (Collins ; 7s. 6d.), is an unusually
effective and original thriller. For
several chapters it seems to be no more
than a bald account of the career of a
brilliant London barrister. He is shown
winning cases, rising in the world, meet-
ing famous people, becoming Lord Chief
Justice of England. Gradually the reader
is made to feel that something horrible
is going on, has been going on all the
time. The denouement offers alternative
explanations of the great man’s case, and
both are equally plausible and hideous.
The Barber of Putney (Philip Allan;
2s. 6d.). It is fifteen years since
J. B. Morton, a prince of Eng-
lish humorists, wrote this story of a
young suburban barber who left his wife
for England’s sake at the beginning of
the World War, fought, survived and
returned to his shop in TB. It has plenty
of typical “Beachcomber” passages —pass-
ages in which laughter fights against boil-
ing rage —and there is a moral. In Tim’s
halting, self-conscious words, “What we
got to do is not just to whack the bastard.
That’s easy. We got to think of —future
generations. Get me? We got to leave
things all shipshape for them as comes
arter us.”
Lindy Lou, by Sophia Cleugh (Hodder
and Stoughton; Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), is
the romance of a nice American girl
who was 17 just 61 years ago. The
story doesn’t get fairly under way till
page 217 or thereabouts, when Lindy
(“Gainsborough would have known how
to place that elusive charm of hers on
canvas”) “comes out” and is sent flowers
by various admirers. Who will win her?
She finds the right man in highly dramatic
circumstances in the neighborhood of
p. 317, what time another worshipper
expires in a manner that will evoke a
tear from every reader of sensibility.
The Soulless Legion, by Ex-Legionnaire
1384 and W. J. Blackledge (Denis Archer;
7s. 6d.), will take a lot of beating in its
sadistic class. From Chapter I, in which
an officer goes cafard, orders his men to
throw babies into a river and takes pot-
shots at the infants as they drown, to
Chapter XVIII, and last, with its simple
caption “Stabbed!” the thing is murder,
murder all the way. The plot may have
come from Northern Africa, but the
style has been formed in the sensations
department of a Sunday newspaper.
This former employee of the Ministry of
War in Berlin still worshipped the beautiful
Madame Slesser in spite of the ruin she
had brought about. She was supremely
beautiful, fascinating to the point of intoxi-
cation, and as passionate as they make ’em.
She had a flat —a beautiful home. I had
no difficulty in picturing that delightful
bower.
The Commandant is chief villain, and
he gets his deserts in the end.
She Walked Into His Parlor, by
Maysie Greig (Hodder and Stoughton;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), is concerned exclu-
sively with Love. Kent Wilburn, the
famous racing driver, winner of the
10,000-metre class C speed record, winner
of the Monte Carlo rally, the Ulster T.T.,
etc., etc., looked ridiculously young to
have a grown-up son as he sat in his
informal dinner-jacket of dark-green
velvet braided in silken cord, which
seemed to accentuate the lazy grace of
his lean, well-proportioned figure. Bob,
his son, became estranged from dear little
Ann. Freda (“a wealth of rich auburn
hair framing a girl’s face with a halo of
beaten copper”) was responsible. Kent
proposed to Freda to save Bob, and she
was simply furious. And then Kent
found himself falling in love with Freda,
and she (fighting against the strange,
sweet emotion like a tigress) fell in love
with him. Ann had a car-accident, and
Bob (who had never ceased to love the
dear child) rushed to her bedside, and
Mason, Kent’s sentimental butler
Beautiful! Beautiful!


4
9
&
i
i
*»■■■:
HE
i '
m.y*m
i
mm
■
n
M -
wmm
■:
.
• ",•••••'
.fvV;
wmm
1* lP
llilii
imp
>..
i
■
id
11
Vi
■
i
m. -
■
H €i P$
•
f y


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2824.
March 28, 1934.
DATE WANTED.
“You don’t seem very chatty, Joe.”
“When did you say you were going back?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane-
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS - . 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“JUSTICE FOR THE PUBLIC
SERVANT.”
With the firming of wool prices and the
approach of general elections, the cries
of dissatisfied Government employees
have grown louder in the land. There
are so many of them about, and they are
thought to be so willing to give support
in return for concessions, that news-
papers find it expedient to pose as cham-
pions of the oppressed ; “Justice for the
Public Servant” is a cheap and probably
effective circulation stunt. And as elec-
tors they are so concentrated and well
organised that no city politician and no
country politician with a railway town
in his electorate can afford to be deaf to
their clamor.
Many Australian legislators graduated
in the departments. Premier Stevens is
one. Mr. Stevens has so lively a sense
of the power of the Government-
employee vote that he quitted the Trea-
sury one morning last week to “open”
the annual conference of the N.S.W.
Public Service Association, and to assure
the delegates that his Budget, now in pre-
paration, would not be completed “till
the policy in regard to the public service
. has been fully explored.” The “policy,”
he suggested, would satisfy all but the in-
satiable ; “if conditions continue to im-
prove the Government will be able to
give relief”; indeed, “readjustment will
be possible during the 1934-35 financial
year.”
Mr. Lyons .anticipated his Sydney
friend. The Lyons Budget provided for
pay “restorations” estimated at £550,000
in the first year. Cuts made in the Gov-
ernment’s contribution to the Common-
wealth superannuation and deferred-pay
funds have also been restored at an esti-
mated cost of £BO,OOO a year. Mr. Lyons
and his friends and friendly enemies used
these concessions as an excuse for the
Parliamentary salary grab ; civil-service
organisations are using the Parliamentary
salary grab as an excuse for their own
demands.
Considering its smaller scale of opera-
tions, the Westralian Labor Government
has been more lavish than the Lyons
combination. Towards the end of last
year it produced a plan for distributing
another £llB,OOO a year among State
Government employees. The Upper
House objected, but gave in at a special
session. In grants-in-aid from the Federal
octopus this Government is receiving
£600,000 this year, plus £473,400 towards
interest: £1,073,400 altogether. Without
providing for the £llB,OOO it budgeted
for a deficit of £748,400 ; all the same,
it is sure it can get the £llB,OOO from
somewhere. It has put in a claim for
the substantial balance left when the 4
p.c. Westralian loan which fell due in
January was repaid by the Common-
wealth out of Forrest’s sinking fund, and
has been charged with intending to apply
this money—chiefly the savings of West-
ralians in other years, with Common-
wealth contributions added—to the pay-
ment of a Labor election debt.
The chairman of the conference which
Mr. Stevens “opened” claimed that the
N. S. Wales public service had been “a
considerable factor in assisting the State
in its progress towards financial stability
and prosperity.” He described it, how-
ever, as “smarting under unjust burdens,”
and, if he has living proofs of cases he
alluded to in the Socratic manner, some
people have cause for smarting.
Will the fact that a man with the highest
accountancy qualifications gets very little
more than the basic wage, or that a scjen-
tist with an international reputation receives
a tradesman’s wage, attract the best brains
to the service? Will the best tradesmen
serve the State when they know that the
Government pays them a wage so low that
the law does not permit any other employer
to pay it.
N. S. Wales was in so desperate a
plight when Lang was kicked out of
office that economies had to be resorted
to in a hurry, and it may readily be
believed that they have borne harshly
on individuals, and even sections.
Stupidity came into the picture when
the Stevens Government gave substantial
increases to the accountant it put at the
head of the railways and other high offi-
cers, at the same time authorising the
accountant-Commissioner to apply to the
wage-fixing tribunals for fresh pay-cuts
at the expense of his staff. The treat-
ment of railwaymen, locomotive engine-
drivers especially, has moved even
U.A.P. branches and conferences to indig-
nant remonstrances. Where there has
been a denial of justice to Government
employees doing responsible and exhaust-
ing work, as is the case with these engine-
drivers, there should be no delay in
rectifying the matter, even if it means
that the salaries of accountant-Commis-
sioners and politicians will have to be
pared.
But if some Government employees
have received less than justice, others —
in N. S. Wales especially—have received
more. A tour through the Government
departments in Sydney leaves the visitor
wondering what many of the young
ladies and gentlemen he encounters do
for their salaries—which, incidentally,
if they have been reduced, are higher
than war-time pay for the same “work.”
There has been no overstaffing of private
concerns these last four years, but over-
staffing of Government departments has
gone on all the time. And while prac-
tically every employee in a private con-
cern is exposed to the risk of being put
off at a week’s notice, the public servant’s
position is safe. Again, the private em-
ployee has to provide his own superan-
nuation fund ; the Government employee
has a superannuation scheme maintained
for him. Certainly he contributes to the
cost, but so does the private employee.
In N. S. Wales, as Mr. Stevens told the
conference, superannuation cost the tax-
payers £700,000 last year. The reports
of the State Superannuation Board for
three years show that the number of con-
tributors -to the main scheme (the police
and the railwaymen and tramwaymen
have separate schemes, both heavily sub-
sidised) was 20,964 at June 30, 1929, and
21,502 at June 30, 1933. Except in cases
like those of the married-women teachers
dismissed in consequence of special legis-
lation, and of officers of the bank that
Jack burst for whom no room could
be found in the Commonwealth Savings
Bank (“retrenchment benefits” prin-
cipally paid to these few teachers and
bank clerks amounted to £34,044 last
year), they have been secured against the
sack. Moreover, they get annual leave,
“long” leave, sick leave with pay, all
public holidays, bank holidays and de-
partmental-picnic holidays; and many
add to their salaries by competing with
the public in various ways. One of the
sights of a Sydney suburb is a gentle-
man from one of the departments, by no
means highly placed, who can be seen
driving his car to the golf links on Satur-
day mornings while his flat-tenants plod
to work.
Badly as these civil servants conceive
themselves to have been treated, they
are in a better position than most people
not in Government employ. They are
better off than the wheatgrowers, whose
grain has been about 2s. a bushel at
siding for three years; better off than
the dairy-farmers, who see their butter
selling retail at Is. a pound ; better off
than the growers of apples and pears,
who last season lost 7s. on every bushel-
case sent overseas ; immeasurably better
off than the unemployed. They at least
have jobs and their future is provided
for; fully 200,000 of their fellow-
citizens have no jobs and nothing to look
forward to. They have a right to pro-
test against the greasing of fat hogs, and
to ask for more in cases where economy
has been carried too far ; but they will
be very unwise if they use their political
power to extort concessions which a
sorely-tried community is not yet in a
position to grant.
CANCER RESEARCH LAGS.
Deep X-ray therapy and radium are
making surgery obsolete in cancer treat-
ment, but there are still some fields in
which the knife is badly needed. For
instance, a surgeon who could lop off the
tumor of lethargy which afflicts Sydney
University Cancer Trust would deserve
a tungsten memorial tablet in the B.M.A.
building.
Effective cancer research, except by
private effort, is almost at a standstill in
Australia. Queensland is active, but it
has little money for the job. Victoria’s
main important work is done at Mel-
bourne University, where a young
physicist of world repute labors on
a salary so thin that it needs a barium
meal to make it visible in a strong light.
The Commonwealth maintains another
young man of rising fame who must be
as good a homoeopathist as he is a physi-
cist, since he survives on his minute
stipend. Other States do little in prac-
tical investigation at public cost, but,
except in N. S. Wales, there is some
excuse.
Research in Sydney is the function of
a University committee which, since
1926, has collected £170,000 in gifts, be-
quests and investment earnings. What
remains of this amount nobody knows
except itself. Its last balance sheet brings
its operations only up to December, 1932,
when it had spent £105,000, of which
£57,000 had gone in salaries—the highest
that of a research head, who gets £2500
p.a., and finds time occasionally to
engage in other occupations. Brigaded
with the research side is a treatment
effort under a director on £l5OO p.a.
These salaries are subject to usual
deductions.
The treatment side has done wonders.
It has installed deep-ray therapy plants
and fostered radium clinics in the big
hospitals on such a scale that Sydney is
the best-equipped city of its size in the
world; it owns plants of a power un-
equalled except in Berlin and New
York. So rapidly has the technique
of the work developed that the treatment
field, fighting a battle against more than
2000 deaths in a year, seems the natural
realm of inquiry for research workers ;
but apparently Sydney University does
not think so.
While honorary experts give 25,000
treatments p.a. with plants about the
higher voltage characteristics of which
there is still much to know, almost
all the research-salary expenditure goes
in laboratory effort of an almost
purely academic type. While the hospi-
tals would give their ears for a trained
X-ray pathologist and serologist or two
to point the way to them on the basis of
actual human cases, £BOO-a-year men sit
at the University hurling neutrons at
chloroform flasks. While the obvious
place for a physicist research worker is
beside the high-voltage hospital plants,
treatment and research seem entirely
separated, where the cancer fund is con-
cerned, and, so far from having physics
assistants, honoraries have not even effi-
cient equipment to enable them to experi-
ment with their own plants.
Accurate voltage measurement is an
obvious necessity to a scientific worker
in X-ray therapy. Any private research
worker who desires to calibrate his pre-
cisian instruments must, if he is lucky,
send them to Camperdown, a few miles
away ; if he is not, to the Commonwealth
Laboratory in Melbourne.
Over 6500 persons die in the Com-
monwealth of cancer every year. De-
spite the insistence of some public autho-
rities that “cancer may be cured by
expert treatment in the early stages of
the disease,” the rate of 74 deaths per
100,000 of mean population in 1911 has
risen to 101. This, however, does not
mean that no progress has been made.
The rapid development of electrical cura-
tive technique has brought treatment
inside 20 years to a point at which in
90 p.c. of all cases touched relief from
pain can be given. Cancers of the
tongue, skin and lips are now regularly
remedied without pain, hospital sojourns
or mutilation. Many deep-seated types of
growths which the knife cannot reach,
and which once spelt certain death for
patients, are now often successfully reme-
died without even a sojourn in bed. Dr.
Sandes, himself a distinguished surgeon,
told the Medical Congress in Hobart in
January that
the days are gone when cancer can be
regarded solely as a surgical disease. Its
treatment is no longer individualistic but a
matter of teamwork for the surgeon, speci-
ally trained in new techniques, the radio-
therapist, pathologist and serologist.
Dr. Sandes added that from the experi-
mental pathologists and therapists the
surgeon must “expect further assaults on
his position.” Yet a decade ago even
radiologists would have agreed that the
victims of the more serious cancer forms
had no hope except via the knife.
The stage has now been reached in
cancer research in Australia in which
three things might well happen. In the
first place, Sydney University might un-
bend sufficiently to tell the public exactly
what it has accomplished with its large
funds, and set before its subscribers a
definite plan of future research in which
all hospital resources may be utilised,
and in which there will be more practical
work and less theory. Secondly, the
Commonwealth and State Health Depart-
partments might consult with a com-
mittee of radiology workers as to
whether the time has not arrived
when all cancer cases —in convenient
centres, at least —should be compul-
sorily remitted to an expert team such
as Dr. Sandes describes to prescribe
treatment and allot research work.
Thirdly, a subscription might be taken
up to frame the recent words of Profes-
sor Hopwood, president of the British
Institute of Radiology, and present them
to all members of university faculties
which (as in the ornate Rockefeller Build-
ing at Sydney) provide padded seats for
undergrads., but have no money for
physicists and serologists exploring new
fields in the practical realm of treat-
ment : —•
Nowadays the boundaries of science are
no longer well defined. The apparatus and
technique of wireless telegraphy and recent
developments in physical science are invad-
ing the field of medical radiology. Never
have the potentialities of radiation for good
or been so great as at this moment.
Every day some new experiment adds
to the proof. Radio therapy is overflow-
ing from the realms of growths into
those of ordinary medicine. Australia,
a country with a fresh outlook and
conditions ideal for research in the prac-
tical field, should be leading the world
in investigation of the new line of
thought instead of hanging on the tail
of the older research centres.
THE SHAW PLAN.
“Maoriland must not thrust her butter down
our throats. She must eat it herself, and when
she finds she is producing more than she can
consume she must produce something dif-
ferent.” — Bernard Shaw.
This seems very sound advice, and it
is a wonder that the scheme has not been
adopted before. Each country should
produce everything for its own require-
ments, and just sufficient for its own
requirements —its own ice and its own
tropical fruits, its own pianos and its
own bull-roarers, its own silk pyjamas
and its own sackcloth, its own gold and
its own whale oil.
It will, of course, have to regulate its
production so that it produces the exact
quantity of each commodity required to
satisfy its own needs—there must be no
surplus. This, however, will be a very
simple matter to regulate.
There will no longer be any need for
a country to possess shipping, railways,
aeroplanes or other means of transport,
as there will be no need for transpor-
tation facilities, there being nothing to
transport. For, of course, the idea will
not be limited to making each country
self-supporting; each town and each
village must be an entirely self-contained
unit.
Nor will there be any desire or incen-
tive to travel and see the world, as each
village will produce its own scenery to
the complete and lasting satisfaction of
every one of its inhabitants.
The ultimate aim, of course, will be
to follow the Shaw Plan through to its
final objective, when every individual is
completely self-sufficing, the slogan being
“Every man his own general provider.”
We shall then see every man painting his
own pictures on canvas woven on his own
loom (manufactured by himself from his
own materials), with brushes of camel
hair from his own dromedary, and com-
posing his own music, and playing it on
home-made instruments of his own
design for his own delectation.
Art exhibitions, professional musicians
and opera houses will be no more. And,
of course, the theatre will be a thing of
the past when every man writes, pro-
duces and appears in his own plays,
written for his own private enjoyment,
and reads his own prefaces explaining to
himself why he wrote the plays.
But, of course, it will be difficult to
change human nature altogether, and
when he reaches the age of Mr. Shaw
each man will probably still produce his
own nostrum for the betterment of the
other man’s world.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Still Another Jest.
Mr. Stevens’s attitude to the Golden
Chest “art unions” is, to say the least,
extraordinary. The facts published in
The Bulletin from time to time about
the squandering methods of this business
and the unsatisfactory nature of financial
reports have not been challenged. The
concern has not said a single relevant
word in its own defence regarding
the last Golden Chest Art Union. Its
own accountants, Messrs. Smith and
Johnson reported:
.... Whilst the character of these “art
unions” remains as at present the collec-
tion of moneys from the public by such
means is to be deplored. There can be no
gainsaying the fact (indeed, the evidence is
overwhelming) that “art unions” in general
are dependent on the almost unbelievable
credulity of the public.
Yet permission has been granted for the
conduct of another “art union,” Golden
Chest No. 2. In breach of the regulations
of the Attorney-General’s Department,
books of tickets have been issued for sale
to persons who have not agreed to receive
them, and the issue is in the most un-
desirable form. The tickets, six of which
The Bulletin has rescued from some-
body’s wastepaper-basket, are attached to
a letter which is decorated to look like
scrip. It is headed “New South Wales,”
making it look official. Below the “New
South Wales” the words “Golden Chest
No. 2 Art Union” are partly obliterated
by the bold, brown figures “£6000.”
Then comes a letter which begins:
Dear Subscriber, —As Director of the
N.S.W. State Lottery for over two years,
it was my pleasure to pay out to people
three millian pounds I in prizes. I saw
hundreds made happy overnight by winning
a big prize.
The letter says that the writer is
able to offer my friends an even greater lot-
tery opportunity.... a chance to win a prize
valued at £4OOO for an investment of Is.
This is the first prize in the N.S.W.
Golden Chest, sanctioned by the Attorney-
General and offering the person who forms
a syndicate of six a free ticket.
The extraordinary document is signed
simply “W. H. Whiddon, Director,” and,
when it is read with the “New South
Wales” at the top and the first para-
graph quoted above, carries its own in-
ference. Any ordinary reader might be
pardoned for believing that it came from
an official State Lottery Director.
Regulation 13 of the Attorney-General’s
Department says:
Agents or persons who have agreed to
act as sellers of art union tickets shall
return to the promoter... .all other tickets
issued to them but unsold not later than
5 days prior to the date fixed for the draw-
ing for the prizes.
For all the promoters can know, the six
tickets in The Bulletin office might be
sold for the private profit of the person
who received them, and apparently stacks
of tickets might be so sold.
—4
Our Ultimate Rulers.
All sorts of complications are arising
from the Wheatgrowers’ Relief Bill,
which was passed when Parliament was
tired out after a series of all-night sittings
(during which the salary grab was con-
summated) —exhausted and nearly asleep.
The Senate, for example, received the
measure at 12.35 a.m. on the last day of
the session, December 7, debated it after
a fashion until the breakfast bells were
ringing, and then shoved it through all
the remaining stages before the bacon
and coffee got cold.
The Government had forgotten about
the wheat bounty in its Budget, and was
in a hurry. It commissioned the Parlia-
mentary draughtsmen to produce a bill
of some sort, and Parliament left it to
the Government, which in effect said to
the States: “Here’s three millions. Dis-
tribute it on the conditions we have laid
down, and if you can’t understand them
settle them for yourselves.”
So it comes about that State tax-
gatherers are to have the final say. It is
for them to decide whether or not bounty
shall be given to Farmer A because
he paid income-tax in 1933 ; to Farmer
B because he paid no income-tax; to
Farmer C, who sent in no income-tax
papers ; to Farmer D, who let a share-
farming contract but did not actually
grow wheat; or to Farmer E, who took
the contract and grew the wheat. .In
effect, money taken from a man in the
extreme north-east of N. S. Wales may
be distributed by a State employee at
Perth.
It is a step towards making tax-
gatherers our ultimate rulers. Already
they are permitted to fine citizens at their
own sweet will, and issue miles of regu-
lations having the force of law. The
Commonwealth Taxation Department
alone has put out upwards of a thousand
sales-tax rulings, and it has recently
demanded retroactive taxes on directors
of private companies “in reversal of the
ruling made in Income-tax Order 1111.”
No doubt it simplifies things for the
politicians to authorise tax-men to distri-
bute arbitrarily the proceeds of the im-
posts they collect; but it is rough on the
farmers who have to argue the point
with them, and on the people who have
to pay for the upkeep of seven Parlia-
ments and a Premiers’ conference.
4
Be a Pioneer, Young Man!
Every wise parent should read the Com-
monwealth Auditor-General’s report to
his young sons to encourage them to be
pioneers—in the civil service at Can-
berra. To point the moral he should
turn to the pages which deal with Fed-
eral Territories—Canberra F.C.T. and
the N.T.—and extract for his offspring
items like these:
1933.
N.T. Canberra
(523,000 (940
sq. miles), sq. miles).
Encouragement of pri-
mary production .. £403
Maintenance swimming
bath £672
Development of mining
industry, including
loans to prospectors
and others .. .. £lO5 15 11
Street cleaning and
watering .. .. £994
Eradication of noxious
weeds £4 8 0 £2123
Dingo destruction .. £179
Dingo and rabbit
destruction .. .. £4735
There is only one item in which the
N.T. beats the F.C.T. hollow. It reads:
“Destitutes —maintenance, passages and
burials, £10,456 7s. lid.,” which equals
nearly £4 per head of the Euro-
pean population of Australia’s greatest
incubus. Soon, however, the white
section of the N.T. won’t care. It
won’t be there to worry if the contrac-
tion of European population—seven-
ninths last year of what it was in 1919 —
goes on.
4
Blind, Ancient and Uncertain.
Somebody should call on the S.P.C.A.
and tell the secretary about the condi-
tion of “S. M. Herald.” She is
wandering round in the political sand-
storm like an ancient camel with
ophthalmia. Her articles on the Lyons-
Page situation have been the most
pathetic manifestations of senility seen
in the major press for a long time. Some-
times her memory goes and she imagines
that the C.P. is linked with the Govern-
ment, as when she opened a leader the
other day with:
It is getting time to ask whether the two
sections of the Federal Government have
any longer the will to work together for
the benefit of the country which they
represent.
Sometimes she wants Dr. Page to com-
bine with Mr. Bruce, and sometimes with
Mr. Lyons; sometimes she blames
them both, and sometimes only Dr. Page.
She girds at the doctor, sneering at his
ability to accomplish more than Mr.
Lyons, but tops off her diatribe with the
inconsistent statement that the Bruce-
Page Government was “the strongest
political force the Federal Parliament has
seen.” Waking with a start from the
mental cloudiness into which she is sink-
ing, she then suddenly shouts that “the
majority of the electors are not politi-
cally partisan,” and that “the work in
prospect at Canberra is beyond the
capacity of one party alone”; where-
after she calls for something very like
a fusion in which U.A.P. and C.P. “shall
work together in a common cause” and
“decide upon someone to lead them and
give him loyal support.”
The only consistent call she utters is
for a leader, and, though she is never
quite sure for two days together who
owns her allegiance, the need of clear
guidance is evident. Some kindly dis-
posed person should take hold of her
bridle gently and tie her up in the shade
of the nearest mulga while he sends for
the vet. and establishes her brand.
English Agriculture.
High Commissioner Bruce said in an
interview at Perth:
Our vital necessity is a market for our
exportable surplus production and the only
market that can meet our needs is the
British market.
It’s not an encouraging prospect.
Farming was allowed to slump in Britain
after the industrial revolution. The war.
and particularly. the lean days of T 7,
when foodstuffs were grown in tens of
thousands of backyards and vacant allot-
ments, reminded the British of the days
when Continental agriculturists used to
cross the Channel to take lessons in
farming from them. Latterly, unemploy-
ment and the Irish row have set millions
speculating on the possibilities of Eng-
land’s idle acres.
There are many roads out of Lon-
don and the great Midland cities
on which it is possible to travel for miles
and see nothing on either hand but graz-
ing areas (used largely for hunting over),
private parks, woods which harbor
pheasants and the like, golf-courses or
race-tracks. Two-thirds of the entire
cultivable area of England consists of
grassland. Much of it was regarded as
useless even in the golden age of Eng-
lish farming, but the nitrogenous fer-
tilisers of the late Fritz Haber altered
that. As a result of synthetic production
of nitrogen from the air most fertilisers
are now cheap in England.
When Lord Bledisloe, the present M.L.
Governor-General, was at the Ministry
of Agriculture he remarked:
At least 7 per cent, of the whole of our
land is in a water-logged condition. It is
growing steadily worse, and much farmer’s
surface drainage and arterial drainage will
have to be done.
Many thousands of acres have been re-
claimed since he said that seven years
ago, and agriculture is developing in the
direction of better grasslands and bigger
arable farms. Nothing is surer than that
a Labor Government independent of any
other party will eventually make its
appearance at Westminster, and when it
does many millions of acres which are
now waste land or land used for pleasure
purposes will be offered to cultivators.
It is a Labor policy, but patriotic Tories
won’t object. With a navy so weakened
that it is no longer capable of guarding
the Empire’s trade-routes, England will
have to be more or less self-supporting
by the time the next great war arrives, or
face the possibilities of a surrender
through starvation.
4
Justice Is Done.
The young editors of “Farrago,” the
Melbourne University publication, have
been adjudged guilty of “blasphemous and
disloyal expressions,” and it is to carry
on under new editors —if it can get any.
Doom was pronounced by the Profes-
sorial Board, presided over by the Pro-
fessor of Zoology. He came to Victoria
from Glasgow, which returns a member
who recently shouted untimely remarks
at the King himself in Parliament. Other
members of the board are from Oxford,
whose Union Debating Society decided
to refuse to fight for King and country,
and from Edinburgh, whose scholars
were not above killing a baillie in a
bicker in an older day.
The ancient “Argus” says that the
board’s decision “calls for approval,” and
was “necessary to preserve the good re-
pute of the University.” The words of
“Farrago,” it declares, “excited deep and
widespread public disgust, and it was
abundantly clear that the great body of
students are out of sympathy with the
opinions discussed.”
Nobody with a clear head may agree
with the “Farragans,” who don’t seem
to have taken themselves seriously any-
way ; but then nobody agreed with
Martin Luther, Mahomet or Socrates,
who was poisoned at the instance of a
professorial board whose names are for-
gotten.
After all, the whole basis of a univer-
sity’s usefulness is that it provides a
battlefield on which theories and ideas
may be thrashed out. The very heart
of its system should be debate, because
without debate young men cannot learn
to think, and there cannot be true debate
without some of the contenders being
enthusiastically wrong.
Members of the Professorial Board
itself are not all so orthodox that
they can afford to chide the young.
Among the names on the board, for in-
stance, is that of Professor Giblin. It
must be some comfort to the late editors
of “Farrago” to remember his heresies in
the Economic section of the British Asso-
ciation in Sydney a couple of years ago.
The things he said about his fellow-econo-
mists’ fixed concepts were such that the
onlookers expected the chairman, Cop-
land (another Professorial Board mem-
ber), to shout “Send for the Cross! ” But
he was too busy thinking up ideas which
other people considered heresies.
4
One Better Than the Greeks.
“Cantab”: Australians are as keen on
athletics as the inventors of the Olympic
Games, but, like the Greeks, they are
essentially city sportsmen. For a con-
tinent with a scattered population of 6\
millions the national record in sport is
amazing. Australia has exported world-
champions in almost every boxing class ;
in tennis, swimming, cricket and several
athletic classes. At present the Common-
wealth can claim the world’s finest bil-
liard-player, the tennis champion, the
sculling champion, the best batsman and
the best wicketkeeper. An Australian
football team has only just missed win-
ning the football “ashes” in England,
and Joe Kirkwood wrote the other day
that if England’s best team of amateur
golfers visited Australia he was “afraid
it would not win one match.”
Some Australians like to believe that
their nationals also excel in country
sports ; but if country cricket, tennis, foot-
ball and boxing are excepted they don’t.
No Australian game-shot has become
world-famous in the sense that Selous,
Walsingham and others, British and
American, have. Australia has produced
no rod-fisherman of the class, say, of the
American E. R. Hewitt, who catches
salmon of any weight on a six-ounce
rod, and is a renowned dry-fly fisherman.
No Australian pigeon-shot has got within
coo-ee of the best Italians at Monte
Carlo. There has been no Australian
whip in the class of the Wards or
Fowneses, and no Australian jockey has
won an Aintree G.N. or even a Grand
Prix d’Auteuil. Yet nearly half the Aus-
tralian population lives in the country.
Viewed objectively, the phenomenon
has a deep significance. Young Aus-
tralians are Hellenic in more than phy-
sique. They love the game, and its palm,
but they love audiences more. Nor are
the spectators’ plaudits enough. There
must be columns of adulation in the
papers. Mayors must meet the trains on
which the champions travel and proffer
civic welcomes; children must cheer
from trees and old folks wave from door-
ways. Sporting clubs and the editors of
sporting supplements must compete for
their services, until the time comes for
them to settle down as sellers of sporting
goods. Australians will no doubt begin
to excel at country sports when there is
seen to be money in it; they have all
the physical qualifications. Meanwhile
they are the best exponents of city sports,
for their numbers, that the world has
known.
4
Timor.
It is to be hoped that there is truth
behind the rumor that Britain contem-
plates buying Timor for £10,000,000 and
that Holland and Portugal are both will-
ing to sell their moieties. The sale would
be all to Holland’s advantage, seeing
that she leans on England for the defence
of the Dutch East Indies, and it would
be to Australia’s and Britain’s in that it
would make the facilities almost com-
plete for an all-British air route from the
Mediterranean to Australia.
Though the island has been settled for
a good many centuries its natural mineral
resources have never been scientifically
explored. A proper development of
them would at least pay interest on an
investment of ten millions.
Furthermore, security is a big factor.
Not long ago it was rumored that Japan
was trying to buy the Portuguese section
of the island. It is a key position and
it would be safer in British hands.
The story of Heligoland should not be
forgotten.
4
In Retreat.
H. W. Horsfjeld, the U.A.P. secretary in
N. S. Wales, told his Darlinghurst branch
last week not to be misled by statements
that there will not be an election for
12 months.
There may be an election at any time,
and the chances are that the Country party
will force it.
Exactly how the C.P. could force an
election, seeing that it is in a minority
and that the House does not meet for
months, it is difficult to say. Apparently
the idea was to frighten C.P. men who
are not anxious for an immediate fight
and newspapers which criticise the pre-
sent regime. Or perhaps Mr. Lyons
had decided to get into his political
bathing-suit so that, if the pressure be-
came too strong to allow him to stay in
the leadership, he might get a dissolu-
tion and swim for the bank on the other
side of an election.
But there was a noticeable change
of tune when the redistribution plans
were published. Redistribution will
place five or six U.A.P. seats in N. S.
Wales in jeopardy. It may work out to
the advantage of the U.A.P. in Victoria,
but will help it in no other State.
If there should be an election, Mr.
Lyons will have to take full responsibility
for it and its consequences, but an ever-
hardening public opinion devoutly hopes
that another fight under his leadership
will be avoided. Parliament should run
its full course, or at least long enough to
admit of unity being brought about be-
tween the U.A.P. and the C.P.


“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Ymar”: The prevalence of bad
language among the scholars induced the
teacher of a Mallee school to call a
special committee meeting. The question
of swearing was thoroughly discussed and
various remedies advocated. But, as the
meeting was on the point of breaking up,
one parent voiced the problem that still
exercised him. “Where in hell,” he
queried earnestly, “do the dam’ kids learn
to swear?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Australia gets the dubious
honor of a reference in the verse-ravings
of the much-boomed T. S. Eliot. “The
Fire Sermon,” with no word of either
sermon or fire, prattles of “bones cast in
a little, low, dry garret,” of the seduction
of a typist, and of “fishing in the canal
behind the gashouse,” with bits from
Spenser and Verlaine and “The Tempest,”
and then, suddenly:
O, the moon shone bright on Mrs. Porter,
And on her daughter;
They wash their feet in soda-water.
(and then a scrap of French). At the end
is a grave note: “I do not know the
origin of the ballad from which these
lines are taken ; it was reported to me
from Sydney, Australia.”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: East of Dover, until
you work round to San Francisco, the
money-changer is one of the features of
the landscape. His little tables set in
the streets and dotted with enticing little
piles of coin and paper currency increase
in frequency as one goes widdershins
“If you don’t drink, smoke or kiss, what DO you do ?”
“Tell fibs.”
until, past Suez, members of the profes-
sion are as plentiful as the bazaar fleas.
Australia has been, apparently, a virgin
land for these gentry, for the writer saw
the first of his kind he has ever spotted
occupying a fine “pitch” in a big Sydney
thoroughfare last week. A signboard
above the shop advertised its reason for
existence. The doorway was flanked on
each side by a long list of bizarre coin-
ages which the proprietary would change
into its British or Australian equivalent,
or vice versa. If any of you possesses a
talari, a boliviano, a stotinki or a leva, a
haikwan or a yuan, a drachma or a
gourd, a balboa or an annore, an escudo,
a bani, a leu or a dinar, or even a baht
or a dos, this looks like the place to turn
it in.
* * * *
“Wang”: The street vendor of foun-
tain-pens was putting over the usual
patter of his kind. Holding aloft a
sample of his wares, he declaimed at
some length on its merits, finishing with
the assurance “This pen, genelmen, is a
facksimiloo of that used by King George.
An’ on’y two shillin’s each.” Came
a voice: “Sounds all right, mate ; but
wot’s a facksimiloo?” The cheapjack
turned a red and angry face in the direc-
tion of the seeker after knowledge. “Spare
me days,” he cried, “y’re tough. Not
satisfied with the King’s pen fer a coupler
bob, yer want a lesson in Greek
chucked in.”
* * * *
“Balbus”: “This case,” said a Sydney
coroner the other day, “confirms the view
that the police and I have always held,
that in cases where fires occur in empty
houses, where nobody is seen about, and
where kerosene has been used, to find
the culprit one must look for the man
who is going to get the insurance.” An
unassailable view, doubtless, but what a
mouthful! I prefer the Roman magis-
trate’s “Cui bono?”
* * * *
“Quot”: One of the results of the
Kalgoorlie riots has been a language test
of foreigners employed on the Golden
Mile. The results are said to have been
satisfactory, very few of the outlanders
failing to pass the examiners. These
tests are taken periodically in compliance
with a salutary clause in the Westralian
Mining Act. Sometimes in the past they
have been complicated by the examinees
not grasping the questions properly. I
can recall one occasion, over 20 years
ago, when a Czech, or maybe a Dal-
matian, was asked, as a preliminary, for
his name and age. He gave the former
and the chief inspector of mines struggled
valiantly to commit it to paper. His
age? He was 1200. Invited to recon-
sider his tale of years, he stuck to it
stolidly. It might have gone hard with
him if some amicus curiae hadn’t found
the solution of the amazing answer; the
man was under the impression he was
being asked at what level in the mine
he was working at.
* * * *
“The Old ’Un”: Every time a Sydney
pub is remodelled or rebuilt another
brass footrail vanishes. The police ought
to protest. Years ago, when I was a
reporter in M.L., a chap was brought
into the watch-house on a charge of
attempted bag-snatching. He was a
nicely-spoken young fellow, in neat cleri-
cal attire, dog-collar, black felt hat and
all, and he said he was the Rev. John
Macfoozlum from Oamaru, and produced
letters and cards to prove it. Sergeant
Riley rubbed his chin. “Lift up your
foot,” he said. Sergeant inspected the
little area between sole and heel. “You
shouldn’t put your feet on the altar rails,”
he’ said mildly, and (to the watch-house
keeper) “Search him and sling him in
the cooler.”
* * * *
“4 x 2”: “Caveman’s” kit inspection
(B. 14/3/’33) caused me to list my war-
time gear. I still take my valise and
“fleabag” to holiday camps. An infantry
pack with many footslogging miles
behind comes in for motor-cycle jour-
neys and similar occasions, mostly
accompanied by the last pair of putties
and breeches. A “hoop-iron” razor
“What shall I do? I am engaged to a man who says he simply can’t bear
children.”
“Well, you can’t expect too much from a husband.”
sent to me in France in 1915 is still
in use. A jack-knife bought in 1912 is
often borrowed by the kids to shape
model boats, two new blades having re-
placed those ruined by bully tins. Daily
cleaning the family shoes is a boot-brush
issued in 1917. Medals, tin hat (shrapnel-
bashed), Sam Browne and compass are
reposing in a trunk with other relics. My
Webley and about 50 rounds are still
kept handy, but some cow stole my Brit-
ish “warm,” and the silverfish have de-
voured my service cap. ,
* * * *
“B-scale”: It is my experience that the
Digger down on his luck nowadays
doesn’t say much
about his war ser-
vice. I spent some
months among more
than a thousand re-
lief workers, and
discovered only one
ex-A.I.F. man. Ex-
Imperial service
men were there in
plenty, and some re-
lated with gusto
their experiences on
various fronts. To
their stories a man
who frequently
worked next to me
was always an inter-
ested listener. Then
one day, the ex-
plosion of a hefty
blasting charge hav-
ing drawn from him
a muttered “beau-
coup bombard !” he
went on to tell me
that he’d been
through the business
from start to finish,
collecting a bullet at
Gallipoli and a dose
of h.e. at Pozieres.
Were there other
Diggers on the job?
He supposed so ; he didn’t know. His
tone rather implied that he didn’t want
to know ; that a Digger badge and dole
work were things apart.
* * *
“Centurion”: That considerate C.O.
who restored their lost leave to the Dig-
gers wheeled up at Edinburgh for not
saluting (B. 21/3 /’34) recalls another
who put a lid on the caperings of offi-
cious A.P.Ms. This was L. C. Wilson,
then colonel of the sth A.L.H. and later
G.O.C. 3rd A.L.H. Bugade. It had long
been the practice of the Provost’s
people to return men arrested in Port
Said or Cairo to their regiments in Sinai
to be dea “ Wldl b Y their commanding
officers. The only testimony against them
forwarded was the familiar buff form
with the ex parte statements of the M.P.
witnesses thereon. Wilson, a lawyer of
tonnage in his native Queensland, pointed
out that this was utterly illegal, and in-
sisted on the actual witnesses against his
men coming out into the desert to give
evidence and submit to cross-examina-
tion. Practically unchecked enemy
’planes made the desert posts a very
unsafe proposition at that time, and the
innovation was not popular with the
red-capped lads from behind the line.
It became still more so when they dis-
covered it was necessary to ride some
miles from the railhead to Wilson’s iso-
lated post at Dueidar. Somehow or other
the horses provided for them to ride were
about the worst specimens that could be
picked out of the regimental lines. It
wasn’t long before Wilson’s men in Cairo
or Port Said walked in safety, like the
legendary lady of Hibernia.
* # * *
“Tiki”: N.S.W. Police Commissioner
Childs has been chiding motorists and
cyclists for leaving their possessions un-
guarded. Which reminds me of a
magistrate in a Maoriland city where
everyone over five and under 90 rode a
bicycle who used to declare that bicycle
thefts were purely due to the carelessness
of the owners. If a thief was pinched he
would fine him five bob and severely
censure the owner, winding up by saying
“I’ve ridden a bicycle for 20 years, and
it’s never been stolen.” The magistrate’s
bicycle used to stand in the court corridor
all day long, a stout steel chain tethered
round its back wheel. On a day in which
six prosecutions for bicycle theft had re-
sulted in six homilies on the carelessness
of cyclists, two five-bob fines and four
“convicted-and-dischargeds,” the chief
detective had a chat with the reporters,
all of whom had had bicycles stolen. Next
morning the magistrate’s umbrella was
missing. He said nothing, bought another
and took it into his room with him on
arrival at court. Day after that his lamp
was a.w.l. He bought another, and took
that into his room, along with the brolly,
at the same time requesting the court
orderly to keep a sharp eye on the cor-
ridor. But next day, though the orderly
swore he hadn’t had his eye off that
blessed bike for more than three minutes,
its mudguards vanished into thin air—
on a very wet afternoon, too. And the
day % after that the velocipede itself went
into the Ewigkeit. Three days later it
turned up on the magistrate’s own
verandah, complete with brolly, lamp
and mudguards, and a neat little type-
written note stating that remorse had
smitten the thief. But in the meantime
bike-thieves had been conscious of a
new atmosphere—one cove got a month's
hard—and thenceforward for years and
years it was reckoned safer in that local-
ity to steal a live horse than an iron one.
A DRAP O’ SCREECH.
[FOR THR BULLETIN.]
“In addition to the limited quantity of wine which
quota regulations permit, twenty thousand gallons
of Australian whisky are being dispatched to the
F.S.A.”
Now the bottom’s out of the Volstead notions
And the end has come of the long blockade,
Alike o’er eastern and western oceans
Relief ships scurry to Uncle’s aid.
There’s never a nation but’s ready, pronto,
His clay to moisten- —its task to each.
And we send, with a tithe of the wine we want
to,
Twenty thousand gallons o’ screech.
There is work galore for the Lowlands dwellers
To meet the call for their ryes and malts;
They are brisk as bees in the Rhenish cellars
And it’s double tides in old France’s vaults.
The Dago’s port and the Dutchman’s schiedam
A long-closed haven again will reach,
And we do our bit for the Bird o’ Freedom
With twenty thousand gallons o’ screech.
Here’s how! then, Uncle, and luck attend you
Now you’ve found the folly of Pussyfoot
cures,
Though a hundred times the tot we send you
Could only play with a thirst like yours.
Depresh has dealt you, ’twould seem, a facer,
But wholesome lessons it yet may teach,
And here, by way of a modest bracer,
Are twenty thousand gallons o’ screech.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Cauboy”: The case of an old gentle-
man of 81 who is alleged to have been
kidnapped by relatives on the day of
his proposed wedding to a widow of
47 with seven children has replaced
mystery wombats as a topic of public
interest in Gippsland. It seems that the
intended bride was about to step into
a car to accompany the veteran to the
church when the door slammed and the
vehicle drove off without her. A retired
grazier, the octogenarian owns half a
dozen large properties in various parts,
“And what did your aunt leave you after looking after her cats for years?”
“There’s what she left me. The cats.”
and it is alleged that he is being shifted
sc rapidly from one to another of them
that even the swiftest postman could not
keep up with him. In the meantime, the
widow and her seven are in residence in
the vanished bridegroom’s home, along
with his seven.
* * * *
“Erua”: Car-towing? We were at the
summit of Mt. Eden, Auckland (M.L.),
when a large car near the lip of the
crater developed engine trouble. It was
pushed off the fairway and a going-
down driver offered to send help from
the nearest garage. Presently a small
and perky-looking green car arrived and,
after a brief examination, took the big
car in tow. We looked on with interest
as the two started down the mountain
track. The big car’s activities began
with a playful bump, which speedily
developed into a charge, and as the two
passed from view at a goodly pace the
big car was standing on its hind tyres
and waving its radiator in the air. An
excited gallery, following their descent,
found both tower and towed reposing
in a gully round the bend. The small
car was matchwood, but the other was
worth repairs.
“C.Q.”: The guard on a Melbourne
suburban train stepped out at a station,
saw that all was clear, waved the green
light and was about to step back into
his van when he became involved
in an argument with a sozzled
gent, who had suddenly decided
ihat he had left the train in error.
Having more or less settled the
dispute, the guard turned to re-
join his train, only to discover
that it had vanished. He galloped off the
platform, stopped a motor-cyclist, and
tore off to the next station, to find the
bewildered driver wondering what had
happened to him.
"fc
“Adelaide”: A man’s kind heart has
got him into trouble in S.A. Chaplin,
who walked out of the Hospital Depart-
ment with £l6OO in a bag, and was not
found for months, was sentenced to three
years’ “hard.” After which a friend who
had harbored him came up as “accessory
after the fact.” “It was your duty,”
said the Court, “to give information
against him as soon as you became aware
of the offence.” Six months.
* ❖ * #
“El V.”: A lot of nonsense is written
about hanging as an unduly painful
punishment. I have seen nine human
beings sent west, several of them on the
old crude arrangement which served
Boggo-road Gaol in Brisbane, and none
of them showed any signs of suffering
other than a little muscular contraction.
Better still, I have been hanged myself.
A group of small boys who were carry-
ing a game of bushrangers to its natural
conclusion did that job in an amateur
fashion and got frightened when they
found they had been too thorough. I
have not the slightest memory of the pro-
cedure, which stands to reason, since it
doesn’t take long after the carotids are
blocked and the blood flow to the brain
is stopped for unconsciousness to arrive.
Outside of that adventure I have been
twice a subject for artificial respiration—
once after a sojourn for some time under
a log in 15ft. of water —and I have been
thrown off horses, heaved clean through
the wind-screen of a motor-car with a
broken radius rod, and twice chucked
out of somersaulting motors. The only
acute memories of the actual incidents
which remain with me are of watching
long streams of bubbles during one
drowning and of being in the air for
three-quarters of an hour in a turbulent
“Ostrilena, you embarrass me. Can't you possibly dress more modestly ?”
mental state during one motor-car toss.
The other adventures provided no pangs
which were not subsequent. Resuscita-
tion, in my experience, is far worse than
drowning, and the sore neck which fol-
lows arrested suspension is real anguish.
JR Jj: jfc
“Dead Shot”: True, the old pattern
N.S.W. police revolver possesses a safety-
catch (B. 28 /2 / ’34), but the new Webley-
Scott, now being introduced, carries an
improved catch, attached to the side of
the barrel, which can be worked by the
thumb as the gun is drawn from its
holster. When the catch is on, the
firing-pin does not project from the
breech and the trigger of the automatic
may be “clicked” indefinitely with no
danger of a cartridge exploding. In the
old type of automatic the gun has to be
held in one hand while the catch is
pulled back and off with the other.
* w *
“General Prac.”: When we were medi-
cal students the profs, used to tell us
that anti-fat drugs were a danger in
unskilled hands. We found out how
true this was when a barmaid in
a pub near the Medical School, think-
ing herself too portly (though she looked
like a gazelle to us), started a course of
self-treatment with thyroid. She used to
chuck those tablets about like confetti
at a wedding. And, despite all our warn-
ings, she did for herself inside six months.
And now there is a new drug for sale,
much vaunted as a bust-vanisher. Name,
dinitrophenol. After 1914, this stuff was
a constituent of most explosives, and it
wrecked thousands of munition-workers.
Those affected became weak, sweaty and
dizzy, queer rashes dappled their skins
and most of them lost weight by the
stone. Many died ; but the loss of weight
incited some bright lad to consider the
drug as a possible cure for obesity. In
some cases it has answered this purpose,
under skilled supervision. The trouble is,
thoqgh, to find a doctor who is skilled
in using such a powerful agent; one of
the involuntary suicides so far reported
was a stout medical man who was treat-
ing himself. I foresee a rapid increase
in the death-rate if quacks—or even
decent pharmacists—are permitted to sell
dinitrophenol without restraint.
“Pistol”: I take great delight in the
knowledge of our flapper press about
the habits and customs of civilised
mankind. There is always such an
air of determined superiority and cul-
ture about their pabulum that one is
apt to overlook an aroma of inexacti-
tude and a familiar smell of the encyclo-
paedia. One of the latest features is a
commentary on life written by a young
man who heaves Bacon and Camoens
round with the air of a rhef tossing a
pancake, and so hypnotises the reader
with his flow of adjectives that when the
latter reads of “naked Wahadis” he
pardons the fact that the writer means
“Wahabis” and that they. are about as
naked as a Commonwealth Bank director.
It is the office photographer who illus-
trates the work of the learned youngster,
however, who gives me most fun. He
brightened a disquisition on tips with a
picture of a head waiter serving a neat-
looking person with a glass off a tray,
“Your wine, Mr. Whoosit,” said the
menial. “I chose this for you, sir.”
Whereupon the “Daily Blurb’s” worldly-
wise young philosopher: “And how the
flattered diner loves it! Hence the tips
that make waiters rich.” I really must
buy a few dozen copies of that issue
to present to London clubs in aid of the
apoplexy specialists, who are having a
rather thin time.
* * * *
“Shabash Wallah”: The news that the
Agha Khan, head of the Ismaili Moslems,
has persuaded the antagonistic Moham-
medan sects of Hind to sink their differ-
ences suggests that he must be something
like a miracle-worker. The two out-
standing warring sects of Hind—and
throughout Islam, for that matter —are
the Shiah and Sunni divisions. Both
agreed, long ago, to fall out over an
anniversary sacred to both—the slaying
of the Prophet’s nephew Hussein at the
battle of Kerbela and the assassination of
his brother Hassein in Damascus. Every
year on the tenth day of the month of the
Mohurrum the memory of these is com-
memorated. The Shiahs treat the day as
one of mourning ; the Sunnis make a glori-
ous jamboree of it. That is why, in Luck-
now and other large cities in Northern
India where the Shiah sect is strong, troops
in garrison stand to arms when the anni-
versary approaches and civilian officials
get out their copies of the Indian equiva-
lent of the Riot Act. If the Mohurrum
passes peacefully, the Agha will have
done something more important than the
winning of many Derbies.
* * * *
“Avanti”: There is great fun in British
Fascism just now. Just when Oswald
Mosley had got the support of the Roth-
ermere press, a rival body arose shrieking
that his five-pointed star was “an emblem
of Bolshevism and a symbol of Judah,”
and referring to his organisation consis-
tently as a “Jewnion.” Waving the
swastika, the newcomers in loud, Saxon
accents urge Britons to be Nordic, and
proclaim themselves the only true mani-
festation of Mussolinism north of Calais.
Occasionally they pause to dot the enemy
a polite one like this in the eye:
Efficiency—in Fire Raising?
The Blank Business Exhibition was not
opened by a Christian but by the Jew .
Jews thoroughly understand business —on
Jewish lines.
To which the courteous Mosleyans reply
cryptically that, “anyway, poison gas was
not invented on the Eastern Mediter-
ranean littoral.” This gentle antagonism
has done one good thing: it has wakened
up some of the staff of Australia House.
One of them has written to The Bulle-
tin urging it to nail its brown shirt to
the flagpole and demand that Australia
awake, arise and follow Hitler.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Almost everywhere in
Maoriland the 14oz. mug with handle,
served only in public bars, or dives, is
called a pint. In the “private bar” —
“saloon bars” and “lounges” are un-
known —you may buy a “long beer,” in
a vessel containing about the same as a
mug, and that’s the maximum size of con-
tainers, save in pubs down near the
waterside, in ports and seaside villages.
In some of those places old-established
inns keep a few specimens of the
tall vases known as “Wanganuis,”
“schooners” or “real long-sleevers.” The
last of these whose contents I surrounded
appeared to contain about 240 z., and the
price was a bob.
THE VOICE OF THE CENSOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Alderman Mulcahy expressed the opinion in the
Sydney City Council that at least two of the figures
in the Archibald Memorial in Hyde Park were a
discredit to the city.”
They have fairly strong digestions
On the various other questions
Which supply them with materials for debate;
And there’s little, in particular,
On their faculties auricular
Or on their nerves olfactory would grate.
Their exchanges dialectic
When they’re waxing apoplectic
Are pretty sure to culminate in rude
Repartee and coarse aspersions.
But they have their pet aversions
And they jib at classic figures in the nude.
Ever-vigilant reviewers
Of the state of drains and sewers,
Our material needs to safeguard is their part,
But through all their arduous duties
They’ve an eye for Nature’s beauties
And strong views on what’s permissible in Art.
Naked Truth they’re never loath to
Welcome—that they’ll take their oath to
When any doubtful deal is being reviewed—
But it horrifies a Bumble
When he has to take a tumble
To a sculptor’s shameful essays in the nude.
In the jobs they needs must handle
They’re inured to spite and scandal,
With silent scorn they treat censorious yells;
And keeping tabs and tallies
On malodorous slums and alleys
Must have rendered them impervious to smells.
But our city dads, my brothers,
Have their feelings, same as others,
And righteous indignation they exude,
There are blushes on the features
Of these estimable creatures
When they get a glimpse of statues in thejiude.
Hark that anguished groan and hollow —
“Not a figleaf on Apollo!”
Is it any wonder modesty is hurt?
Can’t convention find a bodice
For a bold and brazen goddess
Or equip that bare Diana with a skirt?
When the glory that was Greece’s
Shatters decency in pieces
It seems time that Gallic artists were tabooed.
Here’s a heart that aches with pity
For a poor defenceless city
That’s defaced by classic figures in the nude.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The moisture - proof
“Cellophane” Pack is
exclusive to Craven
“A” Cigarettes and is
your only guarantee
of getting a really
factory-fresh smoke.
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
“ I've smoked them for years
and they never vary"
CRAVEN A
in the neu> nvci&tuhe-p\o<yf
I cellophanelpack ,
mmk
I
bbs.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Prime Minister complacently men-
tions that at the end of this month he
will have represented Wilmot for quarter
of a century. For 22 years he was a
Labor member, for a few months (as he
puts it) he was “in the wilderness,” and
for the rest of the term he has been
U.A.P., with the best job he ever had.
But not the safest.
Queensland’s Forgan Smith is off to
London. He is in poor health, and his
doctors have been pressing him to take
a sea voyage. The sugar organisations
have also been urging him to go—they
think he can do something to protect
their interests following on the failure
of the Chadbourne agreement. The Pre-
mier expects to be back by the middle
of August, in time for the opening of
the State Parliament. At least one
aspirant to the Federal Labor leadership
hopes he will stay longer.
Under an arrangement with the British
Government, approved of at Canberra,
Westralia is assuming control of the
Ashmore and Cartier Islands, 200 miles
or so off its north-west coast; they are
actually a bit closer to Timor than to
Australia. There is guano on x the Ash-
mores. One of the islands is described
as being “composed of sand, covered
with coarse grass, the top being de-
pressed.” Just like the top of a politician.
The number of registered betting joints
in South Aus. has now entered upon the
third hundred —it reached 203 last week.
But even Butler is becoming conscious of
the disgust this pandering to the gambling
craze has aroused, and he has asked his
Control Board to issue no more s.-p.
licenses to billiard saloons. Members of
the party are alarmed, and there will be
some plain speaking when the Govern-
ment next faces them.
There apparently being no suitable
local man willing to oppose Thorby, the
C.P. member for Calare, the U.A.P. has
fallen back on Dr. Nott, who lives in
Canberra. The only alternative seriously
suggested was Gibbons, inventor of the
Gibbons Plan, but apparently the Great
Minds of Bligh-street still have sufficient
sense of proportion to baulk at commis-
sioning the wildest Labor inflationist of
1931 to castigate the Labor inflationists
of 1934. However, Gibbons is a promis-
ing recruit to the U.A.P. Perhaps when
Lyons has gone the way of Hughes
Bligh-street will rally to Gibbons.
While the U.A.P. and C.P. fight in N.
S. Wales and Victoria, a united organi-
sation in Queensland is preparing to
contest every Federal seat. One plum
to be plucked will be Lilley, from which
G. H. Mackay, the Speaker, is to retire.
Whoever gets the official nomination will
be safer than the occupant of a Balkan
throne.
The N.S.W. Ministry of Local Gov-
ernment used to be a sinecure, but
Spooner is not finding it such. Stupid
Bumbles are keeping him busy. The
Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board
advertised for a medical officer, and,
although mature men with all the speci-
fied qualifications applied, its choice fell
on a young man. Now it proposes to
send him abroad to gain experience. A
progress association headed by the vigi-
lant Humphrey Earl has asked Spooner
to prevent this waste of the ratepayers’
money. Some people still seem to need
reminding that the boom burst at the
end of 1929.
The passing out of the Dalai Lama
means that Tibet is once more to be a
battleground between Soviet and British
interests. Tibet is almost surrounded by
Soviet States, and the parts of China it
comes most directly in contact with have
gone Communist. The struggle against
Sovietism will no doubt be all the bitterer
because one Tibetan in six is a lama and
priestcraft is the leading industry.
The redistribution of N.S.W. Federal
electorates has worked out badly for the
U.A.P., which thought it was going to
work out well. South Sydney has cer-
tainly been made safe for Jennings, and
Lamaro, who went after the Lang-Labor
nomination expecting that Redfern and
Waterloo would be left in, is now look-
ing for an easy way out. On the other
hand, East Sydney will become a cer-
tainty for Ward, and the odds have
swung against the sitting Ministerialists
in Martin (Holman’s seat), Lang, Barton
and Macquarie. Perkins’s hold on Eden-
Monaro is also endangered. Lyons had
a good look at the alterations and then
firmly announced that there would be no
general election this year if he could
help it.
LET LITTLE GIORDANO DO IT.
“Expansion in Africa and Asia is a task for future generations of Italians. There is
no question of territorial conquest, but the nations now in possession must not block
Italian expansion.”— Mussolini.
“We must fulfil our imperial mission. We must sweep aside hard-bitten
Turks and seven-foot Abyssinians if they get in the way. That is to say, fellow-
Blackshirts, YO U must. Conscious that other duties will occupy me for the rest
of my days, I reserve this honor for YOU.”
Government is said to be considering
handing over the control of N.T. abo-
rigines to the missions. It will be a
scandal if they do. Young men sent to
missionary jobs are, in many cases, in-
capable of understanding the native out-
look, and don’t want to understand it,
anyway. Their job is to put the heathen
into pants and to hear the Arnhem Land
equivalent of threepenny-bits rattling
in the plate. Any change in policy should
be towards segregating the half-caste
from both white and native, and isolat-
ing the tribes under the control of the old
men in their own exclusive territories.
Surely the poor devils are entitled to keep
for themselves a few bits of territory
which white men have shown no signs
of utilising.
Evidently because Bradman comes
from Bowral, the Stevens Government
readily agreed to provide unemployed-
relief money for a turf wicket in a muni-
cipal park there. The local council said
it would furnish £lBO, and that the job
would take 13 weeks. It has lasted nine
months already, and is expected to drag
on for another three months. The pro-
gressive cost is set down at £1454 ; Gov-
ernment’s share is £973, and it has been
asked for another £l5O. This crazy
extravagance has been paralleled a score
of times in the expenditure of relief
funds, yet people who ask only for the
means of fending for themselves on small
holdings are turned down cold.
Scullin, urging the boys
to pull together instead of
pulling one another’s coats
off, said that, “had the
workers given Labor a
majority in the Senate in
1928, my Government
would have been able to
carry out a number of its
proposals.” True, and by
the end of 1930 or there-
abouts Australia would
have been well in the
soup. By a happy acci-
dent there was no election
for the Senate in 1929.
There will be one next
year—or this year, if
Lyons and his new friends
decide to chance their
luck —and as the three
Queensland Labor Senators do not have
to retire till 1938 it will be possible for
the Labor factions to get a majority in
the House which at least one of them is
pledged to abolish. They have been sel-
dom in that position since the war ; for
years Jupp Gardiner was the only Labor
Senator.
In a letter published on its editorial
page “S. M. Herald” permitted former
Labor Minister Loughlin to express his
delight “at the decision of the Orange
electorate council of the U.A.P. to put
a man in the field against a rabid oppo-
nent of the party.” The “rabid opponent”
is Thorby, who was a colleague of
Stevens, now Premier, in the Nat.-C.P.
Ministry of 1927-30, and, earlier still, was
a member of the united Opposition when
Loughlin was Lang’s chief Minister.
Hitherto there has been nothing but good
feeling between the parties supporting
Stevens’s Government. Apparently this
veteran Labor faction fighter would like
to set them brawling, and the “Herald”
obligingly lets him use its columns for
the purpose.
Speaker Mackay, in announcing his
intention of retiring from politics at the
end of the present Parliament, awarded
himself the record for “continuous ser-
vice as a Natiohalist M.H.R.” Rather
invidious this, seeing that the Nationalist
party was formed before Mackay was
elected in 1917, and its first leader has
been in the House all along—since 1901,
in fact. Of course, he turned against
the Nats, in 1929, and tried to form what
he called the Australian party before re-
turning to his old —or rather his second —
love. He now calls himself. U.A.P., and
it was supposed that the Speaker did also.
Surely even a solemn Grants Commis-
sion • must have smiled when McCal-
lum, Collier’s understudy, demanded
that the Commonwealth should subsi-
dise his Government’s expenditure
(“which has been pruned in a most exact-
ing way”) to the tune of £1,500,000 p.a.
—£900,000 more than at present, ex-
clusive of the interest subvention,
£473,400. Another £2-odd per head of
population—£27l,soo more than the
total State revenue from taxation
last year, and nearly nine times the
amount of the State income tax. The
demand is made “without prejudice to
the action for secession.” If “the action
for secession” succeeded, Collier and
McCallum would be the most crestfallen
pair in Australia.
A Melbourne Court recently woke up
and contemplated the case of a man who
had a maintenance order out against him
14 years ago. He stopped paying 13
years ago. Eight years ago his wife had
a warrant issued. The man has been
out of a job for those eight years, his
income is now ten shillings a week, and
maintenance arrears amount to £7lO.
Remarking that it was a case in which
the law should take its course, the Court
ordered imprisonment until the arrears
were paid; then, wrapping its ears
closely about it, it went to sleep again.
Juggernauts and death duties seem to
do more than the Commonwealth land
tax to “burst up the big estates.” A
young Riverina grazier who died the
other day as the result of a car accident
is said to have “owned four stations,
worth £200,000.” If that was really their
value, 25 p.c. will go to the State and
15 p.c. of the balance ( less one-third if
the estate passes to a widow or children)
to the Commonwealth. It is recorded
that the young man’s father, from whom
he inherited the property, was also killed
by a car. Two or three more sudden
deaths in the family and there will be
scarcely any estate left.
Measures designed to make the Statute
of Westminster operative in South Africa
have been causing some trepidation
among Imperialists in that country and
even in Australia. Most of the provisions
embody minor alterations of the royal
powers and prerogatives, but there is a
clause providing that British subjects who
are not “Union nationals” must qualify
by two years’ residence. The queer thing
is that Smuts and his British-Afrikander
following are sponsoring the bills, as well
as Hertzog and his Dutchmen, and that
the “Cape Argus” sees no cause for
alarm.


''they’re as pretty
r\ AS PUGS, MY DEAR "
WHO WOULD BOWL. BODYLINE
AT THIS ?
brighter, bowls
THE NEW TENNIS-WISPIES
UNFORTUNATELY THE ©IRLS WOULD BE BOUND TO
RUSH TO THE OPPOSITE EXTREME, AS USUAL.
LET’S ALL LOOK ATTRACTIVE!
“Ralph Lenny made his bow at Sydney Stadium in a gaudily-colored red-and-white gown. His conqueror, Billy Townsend, entered the ring in a cream gown
with a crepe border. Both fighters looked attractive.”


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds 3,700,000
Reserves —
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds 900,000
AREA PLANTED: 150,541 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Fine Diamonds
£55
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£3O
Fine Diamonds
£3O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£35
Fine Diamonds
£22
Fine Diamonds
£2B
Fine Diamonds
£l7
nPHE diamonds used in the rings illustrated are
guaranteed finest quality Blue White Gems —the
illustrations representing actual size. Hand-made
throughout with Pure Platinum Settings these rings
represent the best value in
Australia. Write for selection
on approval. A Catalogue of
Rings, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Silver and
W e d ding
Presents
sent post
free on re-
quest.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
SYDNEY
13 Hunteff St.
BRISBANE
II 6 Queen St.
MELBOURNE
338 Collins Street
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some April birthdays:
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth), 64, and A. C.
Davidson (Bank of N.S.W.), 52, on Ist; Rabbi
Freedman (Perth), 60, and knight Walter Young
(Adel.), 62, on 2nd; Dean Aickin (Melb.), 65,
and E. C. Riddle (Commonwealth Bank), 61, on
3rd; Brig. Bourchier, M.L.A. (Vic.), 53, painter
James Ashton (S.A.), 75, and Wing-Commander
Frank McNamara (first Aus. airman to win
V. 40, on 4th; British Trade Commissioner
Dalton (Syd.), 52, on sth; T. J. Collins, M.FLR.
for Hume, 48, on 6th; Brig.-Gen. Mackay
(Syd.), 52, on 7th; artist Arthur Streeton, 67,
on Bth; Tom Trumble (late Australia House),
62, former Prime Minister J. C. Watson, 67,
R. M. King (ex-Min. Educ., Q’land), 65, C. A.
Bernays (former Clerk of Parliament, Q’land),
* 72, and John Stonham (Editor, “C’wealth Official
Year Book”), 64, on 9th; W.A. Senator Walter
Kingsmill, 70, on 10th; poet Bernard O’Dowd,
68, Brig.-Gen. McGlinn (Melb.), 65, and Freda
Bage (Q.), on 11th; Dr. Maloney, M.H.R., 80,
and S.A. Senator O’Halloran, 41, on 12th;
Justice Douglas (Q.), 51, and Tas. Gov. Ernest
Clark, 70, on 13th; W. C. Hill, M.H.R. for
Echuca, 68, on 14th; S. M. Bruce, 51, Maj.-
Gen. Gordon Bennett, 47, ex-Mayor Simpson
(Adel.), 59, and Q. Premier Forgan Smith, 47,
on 15th; Gen. Chauvel, 69, and Col. E. F.
Harrison, M.H.R. for Bendigo, 54, on 16th;
Rev. John Walker, 79, H. C. Brown (Sec.,
Dept, of the Interior, Canberra), 60, and author
Vernon Knowles, 35, on 17th; Wm. Dixson
(founder of Dixson Gallery, Syd.), 64, and
Archbishop Head (Melb.), 60, on 18th; Melb.
Uni. Chancellor MacFarland, 83, on 19th;
W. Premier Collier, 61, and Tas. Senator
Hayes, 66, on 21st; Littleton Groom, M.H.R.,
67, Prof. Charteris (Syd.), 60, W. L. Baillieu
(Melb.), 75, and Cliff Hay (N.S.W. Premier’s
Dept.), 56, on 22nd; ex-Q. Senator Cooper, 46,
knight Arthur Robinson (Vic.), 62, Capt. F. J.
Bayldon (Syd.), 62, Prof. W. J. Dakin (Syd.),
51, and Judge Macindoe (Vic.), 51, on 23rd;
medico-knight Maudsley (Melb.), 75, on 25th;
ex-Q. Senator Drake, 84, knight W. J. Sowden
(late Adel. “Register”), 76, Col. White (Min.
for Customs), 46, MacCallum Smith, M.L.A.
(W.A.), 66, H. J. Stewart, M.A. (Wesley Coll.,
Melb.), 58, and singer Florence Austral, on
26th; G. J. Cohen (Syd.), 92, knight Henry
Braddon (Syd.), 71, W.A. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell,
68, Prof. W. E. Agar (Melb.), 52, Howlett Ross
(Melb.), 77, and Premier Walter Lee (Speck),
60, on 27th; Justice Dixon (High Court), 48,
on 28th; knight Geo. Julius (Industrial Research
Council), 61, and Prof. E. G. Waterhouse
(Syd.), 53, on 29th; Justice Evatt (High Court),
40, Prof.-knight Harrison Moore (Melb.), 67,
Capt. Edgar Johnston (Controller of Civil
Aviation), 38 and Prof. Shann (Perth), 50, on
30th.
Since the first Skuthorpe settled in the
Moree (N.S.W.) district nearly 100 years
ago, the family has never been without
a champion rider. Lance, another of
them, will figure in the Melbourne cen-
tenary rough-riding contests. His father
and an uncle made reputations all over
the world in similar shows. Lance, who
is only 18 now, won an all-comers’ buck-
jump championship in the country when
he was 14.
Percy Cogger, while in Randwick Mili-
tary Hospital, received the news that
Cassell’s have accepted his first book,
“Flying Blind.” He was only 16 when
he enlisted in the R.F.A. at the begin-
ning of 1918. He was badly wounded
in Mespot. He claims to have been the
youngest soldier who fought in that un-
healthy sector.
Dr. St. Clair George Alfred Donald-
son, Bishop of Salisbury, who has been
appointed prelate of the order of St.
Michael and St. George in succession to
the Right Rev. H. H. Montgomery, is an
Australian. He was formerly Bishop of
Tasmania, Bishop of Brisbane, Arch-
bishop of Brisbane and Metropolitan of
Queensland. His father, Sir Stuart
Donaldson, was the first Premier of N. S.
Wales, and his grandfather was a pioneer
Australian merchant.
Octogenarian Thomas Robinson worked
with so many Australians of the Great
Age of Barton and Deakin that when
he dropped in on Australia the other day
it created the sort of feeling that might
have been engendered by the reappear-
ance of Governor Phillip. He is a
Rotherithe native; but Central Queens-
land, where he settled in 1881 and be-
came managing partner in Walter Reids,
made him. Eventually he became an
active force in Mcllwraith, McEacharn,
and in 1910 Kidston appointed him
Queensland Agent-General. From ’l4
to ’lB he was Director of Meat Supplies
for the Allied Armies.
Conor O’Brien (Mrs. William Mac-
leod), who died on Saturday, was one
of Archibald’s discoveries. He met her
in Melbourne in 1901 (she had recently
arrived from M.L. and was on the staff
of the Melbourne “Herald”), introduced
her to her future husband, and invited
her to join The Bulletin. A somewhat
acid touch had characterised the
Woman’s Letter under “Sappho Smith,”
and Conor O’Brien changed its character.
During the ten years she was in charge
of the letter (1901-11) she never wrote
an unkind thing; yet it had never been
wittier. She was a prolific writer of
short stories and graceful verse, and
when her last illness overtook her was
putting the final touches to a novel.
“Macleod of ‘The Bulletin,’ ” a short bio-
graphy, was published by Angus and
Robertson a year after her husband’s
death.
Fred Cutlack, who left on the Nieuw
Zeeland with the Latham expedition, is
one of the “S. M. Herald’s” key men.
Fleet-streeters of the standing of Tom
Clarke, ex-editor of the “Chronicle,” say
that his Defence articles are equal to any-
thing of the kind being done in England.
Cutlack was in London reading for
the Bar when the war began, so he joined
up with the R.F.A. He transferred to
the A.I.F. as soon as a chance offered,
and became a war correspondent to-
wards the end of the fighting. He was
called to the London Bar in 1919, re-
turned to Australia, joined the “S. M.
Herald” staff, wrote the volume on the
Flying Corps for Bean’s Australian His-
tory of the War, and accompanied S. M.
Bruce on one of his earlier missions. He
is a brilliant raconteur of stories that
wouldn’t bring the blush of confusion to
the cheek of an Australian censor, and a
pillar of strength to Sydney’s Imperial
Service Club.
Australiana has been the chief hobby
of Dr. G. H. Abbott, the new president
of the R.A. Historical Society, for the
best part of his life. He has one of the
best private libraries of Australian books
in the Commonwealth, and he was a
patron of Australian art when most
members of the Union Club, to which he
has belonged for quarter of a century,
were denying that there was any such
Dr. ABBOTT, president of the R.A.
Historical Society for 1934.
thing. He was president of the Aus-
tralian B.M.A. Congress in 1929 ; he is
president of the Australian Numismatic
Society, and he has written several works
on ancient and modern coinage. The
late Speaker Abbott—father of the pre-
sent owner of Wingen—was his uncle.
Sir Basil Thomson, who has been
engaged by “Le Soir” to look into the
Stavisky case, has had an odd career.
The son of an Archbishop of York, he
went into the Colonial Office, and his
career as Colonial Secretary of Fiji and
—for a time—Prime Minister of Tonga
gave him material for half a dozen de-
lightful books about Western Pacific
affairs. He transferred to the Home
Office, and was made Governor of Dart-
moor. During the war he was an
Assistant-Commissioner at Scotland
Yard. Anti-espionage was his job, and
he told some of his experiences after-
wards in “Queer People.”
G. H. Mackay, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, is getting out of
politics at the end of the present Par-
liament. Born at Copperfield (Q.) 62
years ago, he began public life in a
Speaker MACKAY, of the Reps., who
has decided to get out of politics.
municipal council. He took a step up
in 1912 when he was elected M.L.A. for
Gympie, and he held the State seat till
he entered the Reps, in 1917 as member
for Lilley. He has been there ever since,
and was unopposed at the last elec-
tion. Mackay was a member of the
Commonwealth delegation of the Empire
Parliamentary Assoc, that went to
Canada in 1928. Dignity and a concilia-
tory manner are his strong suits.
“Cantab”: W. A. Sambell, in the win-
ning Cambridge crew again, was No.
7. When his fellow-Melbournite Lux-
ton had to vacate the stroke seat last
year through illness Sambell took his
place; the stroke this year was J. L.
Ansell (Jesus). Sambell was captain of
boats at Melbourne Grammar in 1928-
29. At Cambridge he captains Pem-
broke. He has done as well in the schools
as in the boats. Another Melbournite,
D. J. Wilson, who rowed 5, filled the
same seat in the. Melbourne Grammar
boat in the winning Head-of-the-River
crews of 1930-31. In Australia he was
a swimmer and boxer, and when he first
went up to Cambridge he did some hot
work over the hurdles.
Dr. Walter Rosenhain, whose death in
London has been announced by cable,
had other distinctions besides that of
being a relative by marriage of John
Monash. He was the British Em-
pire’s greatest authority on metals. A
scholarship took him from Melbourne
to England in 1897, and he put in three
years at Cambridge. For 25 years he
superintended the metallurgy department
of the National Physical Laboratory
(Lond.). He was a past president of the
Institute of Medals and the Optical
Society of London, and at one period
was vice-president and British delegate
to the New International Association for
Testing Materials. The Royal Society
made him a special grant to. equip his
own laboratory. From this he built up
what has become the largest scientific
institution of its kind in Europe.
From “Jeames”:
Lady Eleanor Smith, whose “Red Wagon”
has arrived in Sydney as a film, is the only
Lord Chancellor’s daughter to become a gossip-
hound. When Lord Beaverbrook found Vis-
count Castlerosse, advertised him as England’s
greatest journalist and paid him lavishly to
write a weekly page in the “Sunday Express,”
it became necessary for Lord Rothermere to
find a counter-irritant for the “Sunday Dis-
patch.” (Of course, Castlerosse’s articles only
irritated the West Enders whom he gossiped
about; the suburbs revelled in them.) Lady
Eleanor was given the refusal of the job.
Though a better writer than Castlerosse she
wasn’t a success. She gossiped about the
wrong people, the drab and mostly well-
behaved artists and writers who interested her,
instead of the wealthy gamblers, racing folk
and divorce-court frequenters whom Castlerosse
consorted with. In any case she didn’t care
for gossip-chasing. She has done well as a
novelist and short-story writer since she re-
signed from the “Dispatch.”
South Australia gets an Irishman and
an A.D.C. to the King with long mili-
tary service as its new Governor in
Major-General Winston Dugan. He won
a D.S.O. and C.M.G. in the Great War,
in which he first commanded the 2nd
Royal Irish, then a brigade, and finally
became Assistant-Inspector-General of
Training. He was A.A.G. of the South-
ern British Command till 1930, and was
president of the court-martial which con-
victed Lieut. Baillie-Stewart of selling
military secrets to Germany.
“Holborn”: Norman Lindsay’s two
sons in Britain have both made names
for themselves there. Though Jack is old
enough to have done useful Intelligence
work in Brisbane during the war, he is
still under 40, and he has only had seven
or eight years to impress himself on
London. In that time he has established
himself as poet and essayist, and written
“Rome for Sale.” Phil has written
several successful novels about the
London of Shakspeare’s day; is a
literary critic of note; and he was
called in as expert adviser on sixteenth-
century furniture and costumes by the
producer of “Henry VIII.” Phil is the
youngest of Norman’s sons. Another,
Ray, paints and writes art criticisms in
Sydney.
Rev. F. W. Norwood was born in
Bendigo in 1875. He began earn-
ing his living as a factory hand, became
a lay preacher, and was ordained in
1909. He succeeded R. J. Campbell at
the City Temple —London’s Great White
Pulpit in Holborn, to which thousands
Rev. F. W. NORWOOD, the Australian-
born spellbinder of London City Temple.
of all denominations flock every Sunday
—in 1919. He has preached all over the
world, is the author of half a dozen
well-known religious works, and is an
honorary captain in the A.1.F., with
which he served as a Congregationalist
padre. Mr. Norwood has brought his
wife and family with him to Australia.
The League of Nations is his chief
hobby ; he is one of the few living stu-
dents of world affairs who still believes
in its capacity to avert another world
war.


• Mi
WHITE f
horse*
fr oo o H*ST PWK in
KY
181st. Lottery
first prize
WON BV
The flrst.prise * l °-fwon by «l e
went to Lvtbgo , gyndic ate _
-White H° rs ® dga te Street. Lit
Thompson. 2697 6. t 0
r°^ TlC ßeconT PH- went
188th. Lottery
first
PRIZE
“White
prize
WON BY
Hors£ ” %*T tte
First prw e was won M
pottery, Syndicate, e/
'Son, Oxford Hotel' Km
Street! Newtown.
’winner ot tire
(Ticket N O,
second P rize
O bfl
lor
'f
mi.
%
*v&
\v
«;
w'
% %
&
&0
r /
6
X,
*;
JSP
»
4
&
zs
fc>
m
URING last ’ e a
bottle of Whit. And
. Lucky Charm - » cha rms it -as
in the advertisemen ve al ways been
stated: “White Hor * ___ lr iumph --
associated with victory kn o-s but that this
with good fortune. it with you
.ill brlW *"• N 0« -.1 <*»
wherever you go-
lucky’- And whether
Truly White Horses you a y
you —in a Lottery in( ieed, to have this
“Here’s Luck:
Next time you say lucky drink-
„ it’s true hy calling tor
sure it s uw J „
t „ckv “White Horse.
*"!
ffHwx
SCOTCH
WHISKY
đ


JUST PUBLISHED —
New Booklet on
Executive Training
Wh *t„
T o-os°*
flit
If you would like to
have a copy of this
publication, instruct
your secretary to send
this advertisement
with your name on
your firm’s letterhead.
It will be posted to
you immediately.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
(Division of Hemingway & Robertson),
Executive Training for Business Men.
38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney ;
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Gold - Bearing 1
Ores and
Concentrates.
Purchased in any
quantity.
Write and send a representative sample
(about lib. weight) .by post. We will
assay and report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO PTY., LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches: 9 Phillip St., Sydney; 72 Albert 1 St., Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vic.).
Telegrams: Victor Teggo, Melbourne.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL U DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors;
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman’,
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
s.~ 1
..PUMPMOBIL
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic-
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 t 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20.586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., £83,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10,2G1t Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,87 S
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
♦Eight months.
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. J3i p.c.
The holding in the subsidiaries —Metters
and K.F.B. Foundry—turned in £5377
without straining anything; the parent
dropped £431. Hence the net profit of
£4946 shown in the table. Pref. divs.
are £59,273 in arrears, and, in addition,
there was an accumulated balance in p.
and 1. account of £155,290 on the - wrong
side at balance day.
Building activity is improving, and even
Metters’s products don’t last for ever, so
essential renewals in stoves, baths, etc.,
couldn’t be put off by householders in-
definitely. Trade last year showed en-
couraging recovery, and the directors
express gratification that the organisa-
tion “has emerged from the depression,”
and is now on a profit-earning basis.
But before shareholders can come into
the picture the damage done by slump
must be cleared out of the accounts;
there is to be a reduction of capital, the
extent of which has not yet been dis-
closed.
Ignoring differences between the
parent’s and the subsidiaries’ valuation of
the assets (a matter of £54,000-worth of
assets not disclosed in the subsidiaries'
book values was paid for by General
Industries when it took over their busi-
nesses in 1927), 3s. 7d. per G.I. ord.
share has vanished during the tribulations
of the past four years. Pref. div. arrears
are equal to another Is. sd.
The business of the subsidiaries spreads
all over the Commonwealth and Maori-
land. Turnover during the worst pinch
got down to a third of what it had been,
and the pups registered losses totalling
£77,381 in 1930, £68,466 in 1931, and
£17,348 in 1932, when the Metters Co.
recommenced earning profits. K.F.B.’s
Sydney showrooms were closed last year,
and the stock transferred to Metters.
The question now is: When will pay-
ment of divs. be resumed? The prefs.,
apart from arrears, will call for £15,989
a year. No compromise has yet been
suggested as regards the arrears. It would
take some time, even under favorable
circumstances, to wipe out this liability
from profits.
However, the business is on the road
to recovery, as a comparison of the com-
bined subsidiaries’ figures shows:
IQ9Q IQ3I 1939 1933
Paid capital.. £904,531 £904,531 £904,531 £904,531
Liabilities . . 227.483 207,016 215,485 185,843
Freehold . . 400,665 390,508 388,317 382,408
Plant, etc. . . 350,453 340,937 331,779 319,817
Stocks . . 420,039 323,176 314,373 300,021
Book debts . . 232,184 116,205 127,387 135,278
Shares other cos. 35,723 35,723 35,723 35,723
Gash .. . . 576 1,329 729 746
Freeholds (£382,408) showed a reduction
of £5809 last term, and plant (£319,817)
was down £11,962. Depreciation provi-
sion seems to have been more liberal
than usual, while stocks (£300,021) were
taken in at £14,352 less. The debt was
worked down £29,642, and finances were
£23,198 stronger. Debtors moved up
again. The plant—thoroughly efficient —
is capable of supplying most of Aus-
tralia’s requirements in the lines pro-
duced.
On the parent’s figures, net tangible
backing amounts to £3 7s. 4d. prefs. and
15s. ords. (after deducting pref. arrears).
The market pays 225. and 12s. 4d.
respectively.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
, Dividends , Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1923 .. 11,464 8 p.c. 71 p.c. 8,284 3,180 13,372
£26.100 of capital written off; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 . . 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 5,976 9,297
1925 . . 27,760 8 „ 12* „ 10,588 17,172 26,469
1926 . . 23,668 8 „ 12* ~ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 .. 40,127 8 „ 15 „ 27,539 12,588 43,823
1928 . . 48,207 8 „ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 .. .. 80,117
1929 .. 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 105,733
1930 .. 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 . . 25,911 8 „ 10 „ 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
1934 .. 25,484 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 457 126,147
Distributions to shareholders in this
drapery concern climbed from 5 p.c. in
1922 to 15 p.c. in 1930. Then came
slump, and 10, 7 and 10 p.c. followed up
to 1933.
There were no sensations when the
latest accounts were presented. After
taking stock at £4714 higher the year’s
profit was £l3O better, and the market
was satisfied. It now pays 425. 6d. for
the ords., at which figure the return is
4.7 p.c. on the basis of the year’s dis-
tribution, which left only £457 for re-
serves. However, stocks are a small item,
and the directors “have every confidence
in the values appearing in the balance
sheet.” The accounts openly claim to
a lay-by of £126,147.
Balance-sheet figures please the eye:
1925. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £252,272 £252,272 £252,272
Mortgages .. 163,500 145,000 110,000
Sundry creditors 456 24,920 18,312 19,868
Freeholds, fit-
InvSents 0 ".: S'jSS} 350 ’ 080 370 > 702 367 ’ 627
Stocks .. 58,800 145,359 96,465 101,179
Book debts . . 23,078 23,284 17,731 16,682
Cash, etc. . . 14,754 86,952 83,152 46,246
Cash was piling up, so a further £35,000
was wiped off the mortgage. It is less
than ten years since the co. decided to
anchor goodwill by buying its George-
street premises, together with the busi-
ness of its neighbor, W. T. Waters and
Co. Another adjoining freehold, Deni-
son House, was also bought. The lot,
together with fittings and unspecified in-
vestments, were valued at £367,629 in the
last accounts, £3075 less than a year ago.
The more or less liquid surplus (£34,239)
was practically unchanged.
Auckland Gas Co., Ltd.
To Re- To
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1927.. 88,327 8 p.c. = 87,373 954 40^273
1928.. 89,321 8 „ ~89,312 9 40,282
1929.. 89,899 8 ~ „ 89,756 143 40,425
1930.. 90,255 8 „ ~ 89,997 258 40,683
1931.. 78,815 7 „ ~78,747 68 40,751
1932.. 67,090 s|„ ~61,873 5,217 45,968 f
1933.. 71,979 5* „ ~61,873 10,106 66,074 f
*Apart from premium capital ( £3530).
flncludes taxation reserve.
Sales of gas, etc. (£390,847), dropped a
further £12,952 last term. There has been
a steady falling-off from the point at
which the table begins. But exes, are
under the searching eye of the manage-
ment, and last year’s net profit actually
improved £4889, being equal to 6.4 p.c.
on capital—after allowing £36,944 for
taxation and £30,175 for depreciation—
compared with a shade under 6 and then
7 p.c. in the two preceding years. Share-
holders received 5£ p.c. again, and re-
serves benefited by £10,106, including
£lO,OOO for the taxation lay-by, which
accounts for £55,000 of the total in the
introductory table.
Output of gas is still by far the largest
in Maoriland; competition from elec-
tricity is not so keen as in Welling-
ton. Economies in manufacture (£13,210
last year) have been helped by new plant
at Auckland and Devonport; less gas is
now lost in retorting. The co. has not
gone into debt much to finance expan-
sion ; shareholders have provided nearly
all the cash required at a small premium.
Premium reserve now figures at only
£3530; £102,984 out of this heap and
£105,780 of other reserves were capitalised
in 1921.
The debenture debt is no more than
£280,000. Other characteristics of the
finances are seen in this table:
1929. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital . . £1.123,123 £1,124,965 £1,124,965
Premium capital.. 3,154 3,530 3,530
Debentures .. 309,050 280,000 280,000
Other liabilities.. 91,219 72,150 56,190
Land, buildings and
plant .. .. 608,849 573,136 559,186
Mains, meters, etc. 754,188 752,073 745.984
Stock .. . 136,018 134,432 124,166
Debtors . . . . 67,159 53,020 51,656
Cash, investments.
etc 45,682 42,076 70,703
Much depends upon whether amounts
charged to revenue for renewals and
maintenance prove adequate. Visible
allowance for actual depreciation last
year was 2.3 p.c. on the book value of
the undertaking, the same as in the pre-
vious year. Notwithstanding additions
and improvements to plant, reticulation
activities, etc., fixed assets have shown a
steady reduction in the books since 1929.
Last year’s drop was £20,039.
Partly owing to the small amount of
cheap outside money in the business,
profits were comparatively low even in
the good years. Still, the div, rate
at present is only one-half per cent, lower
than the Australian statutory rate, and in
these days high divs. by a public utility
are an indiscretion. Aucklanders have
had the benefit of some price concessions
since slump came along.
The fully-paid £1 shares are widely
dealt in in Maoriland. They can be
picked up at 245. 9d., and return 4\ p.c.
Net tangibles are a shade over par.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
Nominal
Net r Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ •£ £
1923.. 79,540 6 p.c. 5 p.e. = 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 „ 6„ „ 89,274 4,568 102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6„ ~ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4„ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3„ ~ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5„ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil 55,544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil 675 56,219
1931.. 15,975 Nil 15,975 72,194
1932.. 12,585 Nil 12,585 84,779
1932.. 13,279 Nil 13,279 98,058
The coal trade in N. S. Wales has been
in the doldrums since 1928, and the in-
creased use of oil and electricity for
transport and other industrial purposes
doesn’t make the outlook bright. Even
inter-State shipping cos. which have in-
vested heavily in the industry are turning
to oil, and most of the export trade has
been lost despite the advantage which the
exchange position has conferred upon
exporters. Amalgamations on the basis
of lower capitalisations have begun, thus
permitting elimination of uneconomical
pits and lowering the charge for deprecia-
tion, etc.
Yet there are still too many in the
industry for the volume of trade avail-
able. So, although the demand for coal
improved last year, there was not much
profit in the bigger trading. Caledonian
showed an extra £694, but the lot
(£13,279) was little more than half a full
year’s pref. requirements, and for the
fifth time in succession shareholders were
passed by. The profit was written after
£36,132 more had been struck off than
was spent on fixed assets:
1923. 1929. 1932. 1933.
Pref. capital. . £464,295 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital. . 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors . . 188,930 219,972 159,961 109,899
Overdraft .. 16,671 98,365 62,203 63,803
Collieries, etc. 1,645,298 1,738,708 1,666,920 1,630,788
Stores . . 103,724 61,555 42,601 48,183
Coal stocks .. 6,306 758 21,208 9,958
Book debts .. 48,662 9,074 11,688 12,824
Shares .. 51,302 51,302 52,103 57,438
Cash, etc. .. 809 378 317 462
The allowance for depreciation, etc.,
together with a reduction of £11,250 in
coal stocks and of £5582 in stores, en-
abled the board to lop £50,062 off the
amount coming to 'sundry creditors and
add £5335 to the book value of share-
holdings. Including these and stores, the
year’s improvement in the financial posi-
tion was £44,837, making the total im-
provement over the last four years
£150,533 ; outside liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids by £44,837 when
the books closed.
The co. is Howard-Smith-controlled,
being thus favored so far as markets are
concerned, and it owns the four Aber-
dares (they are on the Greta seam, and
produce some of the best gas-coal in
the State, besides being the least ex-
pensive to work), the Waratah (Burwood
seam) and West Wallsend and Killing-
worth (Borehole seam). Still, from the
time the co. took over from the Glasgow
interests (these included the cotton
Coatses) in 1914 until the miners upset
the applecart in 1928, the ords. averaged
little more than 6 p.c., though it was
worth a lot more to the parent, owing
to a capitalisation at the beginning. The
position will look more attractive when
the debt is further reduced and capital
reorganised.
The market prices the prefs. at 7s. 6d.
and the ords. at 3s. 3d.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends \ /
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
XP23.. 40,G00 1200 124 p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,2,4
1924.. 49,464 1200 124,, ~ 31,805 16,459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14 „ „ 35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42,480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 „ „ 46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~ 46,292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 111,, ~ 34,837 3,37? 157,081
1931 . . 20,251 1200 6„ „ 18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 „ ~ 15,793 2,424 159,976
1933.. 22,998 —• 8 „ ~ 15,638 7,360 167,336
Cash-orders, furniture and shrewd man-
agement produced those figures. The
astonishingly juicy ones of the loan-
scattering era gave way to the less-
satisfying results of the slump period,
when unemployment and moratoriums
played havoc with trade ; but, considering
everything, shareholders have been well
looked after all through. The lowest the
ords. got was 6 p.c. in 1931-32; busi-
ness was better last term, net profits
mounting £2469 to £22,998, and share-
holders were handed 8 p.c., while £7360
was carried to reserves.
Taking the funds at work into account
—half the ord. and all of the pref.
capital has been returned over the past
two years —last year’s result looks better
still. It was equal to 11.7 p.c. on average
ord. capital, compared with 7.3 p.c. in
the preceding year. A 10 p.c. distribu-
tion this term would call for only slightly
more than was scattered in the last.
The cash-order business is picking up,
and there is more home-furnishing going
on. Earning is assisted by £184,857 of
investments outside the business —it has
been found convenient to lean on out-
siders to finance part of the capital re-
payment rather than disturb some of
these holdings. Reserves are £13,500
greater than the present share-register
total. It is an extremely snug position,
as balance-sheet figures bear out:
1924. 1932. 1933.
Paid capita] .. .. £275,005 £263,217 £154,834
Sundry creditors .. 40,815 66,804 72,782
Overdraft . . .. 19,182 14,784 8,163
Property and plant . . 14,152 119,385 118,176
Stock and hire agreements 107,376 94,305 96,035
Book debts .. •• 84,867 42,548 35,148
Shares, debentures and short
loans .. . . • • 123,046 ]
Mortgages . . . . 85,525 r 279,869 184,85 i
Government securities. . 19,744 J
Cash, etc 274 733 676
The property is in George-street; book
valuation is not high, and is being reduced
each year. It is hard to get an inkling
from the figures as to how much turn-
over improved during the term. Stocks
and hire-agreements, lumped together,
were £1730 higher at £96,035 ; ordinary
book debts (£35,148) were down £7400.


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
WOLFRAM ORES.—We are anxious to purchase
Large and Regular Tonnages. Write, with samples,
Norman Hill & Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers all classes ores, including gold ore and
concentrates.— Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
ulus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
' ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia*
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
I
naflON
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL!
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Eimited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Eimited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Clias. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
The outside debt was practically un-
changed.
It has been a great money-spinner in
the past, and it looks like a good thing
on a more modest scale for the future.
Gift scrip—£182,400 of reserves was
capitalised during the 14 years to 1926
—is not likely to be a feature for many
years, but divs. should be satisfactory.
At 40s. the return is half the div. rate.
Oil, Coal and Shale
Priminister Lyons and his Cabinet
assistant, Senator McLachlan, who is in
charge of development, were pretty close
to the mark when they said it was use-
less to look to the hydrogenation pro-
cess, or any other process, for extracting
oil from coal as a way out of the unem-
ployment problem on the coalfields. A
plant to treat 1000 tons of coal daily
would cost over £8,000,000 and provide
employment for about 2000 men, includ-
ing 500 miners, most of whom are
already employed, so far as the industry
can employ them. The cost of produc-
ing a gallon of oil by hydrogenation is
put at Is. 3d.—working cost, 6d., includ-
ing 2d. for coal; interest (6 p.c.) on capi-
tal, 4d. ; depreciation (life of plant about
12 years), sd. With distribution added,
the Government would have to find 3d.
subsidy to make the process payable.
Also, it would lose 7£d. petrol tax, making
the total cost to the taxpayer or
£1,250,000 on an annual output of
30,000,000 gallons, equal to about 40 p.c.
of the yearly consumption of petrol in
N. S. Wales. The Government, however,
is discussing the question of setting up
an experimental plant here with Imperial
Chemical Industries, Ltd., London ; but
it is not expected that anything much can
be done before the beginning of next
year.
Meanwhile, the Newnes Investiga-
tion Committee, whose report is due any
day now, is expected to revive the possi-
bilities of extracting oil from shale. The
big and rich deposit at Newnes—over
20,000,000 tons yielding 100 gallons or
more of oil per ton —was first worked
on a large scale by the Commonwealth
Oil Corp., an English concern, which
began in 1905. After about If millions
had been squandered, the business passed
to John Fell and Co., as mortgagees,
shortly before the war. But labor and
other troubles stood in the way, opera-
tions ceased altogether in 1922, and the
works have been idle since.
The last two annual reports of New
Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., show these re-
sults :
Year , —-Alluvial v Mill —^
Ended, Bullion. Profit. Bullion. Profit.
30/9/’32 ..£112,992 £84,907
30/9/’33 109,904 77,260 £90,250 £53,019
The alluvial ground, which is not very
extensive, has been worked by the co.
since February, 1932. The Golden Ridges
mill started in August, 1932. Since no
yardage is given for the alluvial opera-
tions, no cost can be calculated. During
the last term the mill treated 11,536 tons
of ore at a cost of 645. 6d. per ton. This
includes realisation, royalty and other
overhead charges. The fine gold ex-
tracted (slightly over loz. per ton) real-
ised 1525. 9d. an ounce. Ratio of gold
to silver was 3.4 to 1. Net earnings
for the two years totalled £215,186, from
which a 4 p.c. div. (£164,642) has been
paid. The expenditure on capital account
during the last term was £131,508, of
which £94,111 was for prospecting and
development and £37,396 for plant,
buildings, etc. To restore the cash spent
from revenue on account of capital,
Mining Trust, which dominates the share
list, is paying up 19s. each on 375,000
of the shares (previously paid to Is.) it
holds in the co. When all the money
is in, paid capital will be £4,472,300 in
fully-paid pound shares. The market
thinks the figure is a bit large, and prices
the scrip at 7s. lOd. A profit of £250,000
a year is estimated from the Golden
Ridges alone, whose mill has a monthly
capacity of 4500 tons. Metallurgical
problems at Edie Creek are holding up
mill construction there. Mine develop-
ments are encouraging.
* * * *
Holden’s Air Transport Services, Ltd.,
which took over the New Guinea assets
of the late Capt. Les Holden, finished
up its first 12 months’trading on Dec. 31
last with a profit of £5388, equal to 21.5
p.c. on its £25,000 capital. The co., which
holds the mail contract to the Morobe
goldfields, has half a dozen ’planes, and
will presently buy another of 40001 b.
carrying capacity. The year’s gross
earnings were £26,205, of which exes.,
including provision for depreciation, took
£20,815. Shareholders got 10 p.c.
(£2500), and preliminary exes. (£770)
were rubbed out, leaving £2llB to offset
£2500 of goodwill. Fixed assets figured
at £18,294; book debts, etc., £5916;
cash, £7196. There was £4BBB coming
to sundry creditors. The business is
expanding, fixed assets are reported in
first-class order, and “insurance has been
maintained,” presumably with outside
underwriters. The pound shares, covered
by 17s. 3d. in net tangibles, are to be
listed presently.
* * * *
Although the nature of the ore-body
at Mt. Coolon (Q.) makes exact estimates
difficult, Colin Fraser, the chairman, says
that, with gold at its present price, there
is enough ore blocked and broken in
the stopes to return the original capital
plus 30 p.c. profit. That is apart from
the possible sale of assets and new pros-
pecting developments. Diamond-drilling
is still in progress, but prospects of
favorable developments are not very en-
couraging. However, in conjunction with
Goldmines of Australia, the co. is
interested in prospecting 85 miles of allu-
vial on the Burdekin, and in some of the
old dumps, etc., at Ravenswood. It is
also proposed to take up 50,000 shares
at 4s. each in a new co. which is to
work the old Morning Star at Wood’s
Point (Vic.). The market, doubtful of
the cost and the result of the hunt for
new properties, etc., prices Coolon’s 10s.-
paid shares at 9s. lOd.
* * * *
Cliff Rutledge has made good progress
with the preliminary development of the
big Golden Hill lode, Ravenswood, for
the N.Q. Gold Development Co.; regu-
lar crushing and concentrating are now
under way. The Hill, locally known
as the “Big Buck,” carries values for at
least 700 ft. over an average width of
26ft. Past crushings range from sdwt.
to 13dwt., the highly-mineralised bodies
giving best results. Present operations
from the main shaft are confined to the
128 ft. level in sulphide ore. Values over
the 30ft. width in the crosscut are con-
sidered too low, but stoping over a width
of 6ft. on the southern wall is expected
to realise around lOdwt. To get Golden
Hill going has been the lifetime pur-
pose of A. L. Wilson, one-time g.m. of
the old English Ravenswood Co. With
gold worth Bs. a pennyweight, the co.’s
prospects are encouraging.
* * * *
The deepest oil test bore in Queens-
land is A.R.O. XIX, at Wallumbilla, about
24 miles east of Roma. It is down
4970 ft., and indications were reported at
intervals from 4475 ft. to 4900 ft. A
recent test of the weli failed to be con-
clusive through inflow of water. After
further sealing of water sands, however,
the hole should be ready for a fresh
test in several weeks. Small amounts of
petroliferous gas have been escaping, and
it is to be hoped that these have more
significance regarding liquid oil supplies
than was the case at Hospital Hill, Roma.
Between this bore and Roma, Oil Search,
Ltd., claims to have revealed the first
closed structure in the district, and a deep
test is recommended for the Warooby
Creek area, near Blythsdale.
* * * *
Lake View and Wiluna, Westralia’s
two biggest gold producers, each continue
to show large profits, and to benefit by
good ore exposures at depth. Lake
View’s working surplus for Feb. was
£39,316, and Wiluna’s £48,867. Lake
View has little to say about develop-
ments, some of which, especially at
depth in the Horseshoe, Chaffers and
Hannan’s Star sections, have lately been
impressive. Wiluna issues something
pithy along with its monthly gold return.
The latest report mentions exposure of
19ft. of 345. 6d. ore in a crosscut at
1351 ft. south on the 1000 ft. level, East
lode.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance and North Kal-
gurli’s joint treatment plant is tipped to
be running at full capacity (14,000 tons
a month) by May. Beyond the issue of
an occasional developmental report and
the monthly return, Perseverance is al-
most a closed book to the public. An
estimate of ore reserves, made some time
ago, placed the mine at least two years
ahead of the mill. At North Kalgurli
recent developments have added con-
siderably to the intrinsic value of the
mine. Next to Lake View, it appears
to offer better prospects than any other
show on the Golden Mile.
* * * *
“Lode Formation”: The calc-schist
theory has been attacked by Dr. Loftus
Hills in “Chemical Engineering and
Mining Review” for March, 1934. The
substance of this theory is that when
the lodes at Kalgoorlie and elsewhere
enter calc-schist the gold content falls
away. But recent developments beyond
the main lode channel on the Golden
Mile appear to disprove the idea. North
Kalgurli (1912), a regular producer, is a
case in point, and Paringa, a potential
producer, promises to be another. An
interesting and instructive discussion
should follow Dr. Hills’s attack,
a ® ® ®
Since the till is nearly empty, r'aringa
(W.A.) is increasing its capital from
£70,000 to £120,000 by the issue of addi-
tional Is. shares, one for two. The extra
money is needed to bring the Paringa
mine, Kalgoorlie, to the production
stage.
* * * *
Triton has issued a report indicating
big widths of gold-carrying rock in its
Murchison mine (W.A.), formerly held by
the now-liquidating Mararoa Co. Pend-
ing further developments, the co. is
marking time in respect of a site for a
new main shaft and suitable treatment
plant. It is also pursuing a go-slow
policy in respect of uncalled capital (6s.
a share).
* * * *
Adelaide interests are taking a 12
months’ option over the North Enter-
prise Development Syndicate’s leases (64
acres), which adjoin the Enterprise Cal-
lion ground, at Davyhurst (W.A.). Values
up to lOdwt. are reported, and a
trial crushing of 200 tons will be put
through the battery at Menzies shortly.
C. M. Harris recently recommended
abandonment of the Callion leases by the
Enterprise Co.
* " * * *
Princess Royal, which has just inter-
ested itself in a large acreage at Grant’s
Patch, near Ora Banda (W.A.), is still get-
ting capital returns from its old property
at Westonia. Here the co. treated 550 tons
for 2900 z. of gold, and cyanided 600 tons
of sands and slimes for 450 z. in February.
* * * *
Ives Prop., an Adelaide concern, has
taken a 12 months’ working option over
the Golden Horseshoe Extended, Golden
Horseshoe North and Golden Key leases,
Kalgoorlie.
* * * *
Bundi Tin, floated in Melbourne in
1922 to dredge a Malayan property, paid
good dividends with its two dredges at
Bundi and Cheneh, until the bottom fell
out of the tin market. Directors now
report that, the ground having been
worked out, the Bundi machine is to be
transferred to a gold-dredging property
at Greymouth, Maoriland. This property
is under option on the basis of 10£ p.c.
of the capital and 15 p.c. of the mine
profits of any co. formed to work it.
The proved area contains close on three
million cubic yards, averaging 4.5 grains
of gold. The ground would take about
25 months to dredge, and with gold at £6
a monthly return of £5037 is spoken of.
The rest of the area, if values are right,
should take another six years to turn
over. Preliminary expenditure is put at
£27,000 ; available funds, including un-
called capital, stand at £21,000.
* * * *
Takuapa Valley estimates that there is
still eight years’ work ahead of the two
dredges on the co.’s Siamese property.
The estimate is based on results from
129 bores, put down in the tailings
dredged from 1925 to 1931 inclusive.
These show 10,311,000 c.y., averaging
7.750 z. of 72 p.c. tin to the yard, and
there is still a considerable area of the
original ground undredged. There has
been further trouble with the Siamese
Government, which refused to grant a
quota for the four months ending June
30 to Ratrut Basin. This means that
Ratrut will have no quota to transfer to
Takuapa during that period at least,
though an appeal has been lodged.
*** * ,
Sunkissed Bananas (Tweed), Ltd., re-
ports that Professor E. J. Goddard, of the
C.5.1.R., has become technical adviser
to the co. E. J. Coghlan, formerly of
the Queensland Banana Committee, has
been appointed plantation administrator.
Preliminary work on the plantations is
now under way.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Widow: Concern named is doing more than
it originally promised to do for its bondholders.
Exactly what net return bondholders will get
from the sale of forest products, the directors
themselves cannot say at the moment. Share-
holders are in a comfortable position. To
ensure return of the whole of the share capital,
a special reserve hak been created V.J.G.:
Amalgamation with quicksilver is the cheapest
and most effective method of recovering the
gold in the circumstances you refer to
A. 5.0.: The co. is in a bad way; but if present
negotiations come to anything policy-holders
are not likely to lose. Pay the premium and
take the risk.


SHADOW SHOWS
“Red Wagon”
Whenever an English writer produces
a novel that is reckoned worth screening
somebody is employed to make a film of
it. If the promoters are affluent and
have an eye on Broadway, they buy the
services of Mr. Edward Knoblock, who
lives between London and Paris, for just
that purpose. So successfully has he lived
down his American birth and upbringing,
and so masterfully has he subdued the
authors with whom he has collaborated,
that the “S.M.H.” referred to him on
Monday as “the well-known English play-
wright who wrote ‘Milestones’”!
His hand is all over “Red Wagon,” at
Sydney Civic. The stars, Charles Bick-
ford, Raquel Torres, Greta Nissen and
Don Alvarado, have strong American
accents, and that’s all right because,
according to the synopsis, they belong
to a Yankee troupe. The only English
features of the picture are the rural set-
tings—glimpses of the caravan traversing
hedge-bordered lanes—and the fact that
it came from British International
Studios. But the story is interesting, and
its denouement has a twist that makes
it worth waiting for.
“Queen Christina”
Mamoulian’s picture at the St. James
is just another Greta Garbo sex film ;
yet it sticks closely to historical facts
up to a point. It is an explanation of
why the daughter of Gustavus Adol-
phus abandoned her Nordic kingdom at
the age of 27 and became a wanderer on
the face of Latin Europe ; and it is as
feasible as the next one, since, of all
modern queens, Christina is the most
inexplicable.
We see her ascending the throne at
the age of six; ending the Thirty Years’
War in defiance of Oxenstiern (superbly
played by Lewis Stone), and refusing to
marry her cousin Charles, or anybody
else. She dresses as a man, and a man
acts as her maid. (There was a touch
of genius in casting C. Aubrey Smith for
this part: his performance is one of the
triumphs of the production.) She runs
across the Spanish ambassador (John
Gilbert) in a rough tavern when they are
weatherbound. There is only one room ;
he thinks she is a young man; the cen-
sor’s scissors begin to function. The
night they spend together (he of course
being ignorant of her identity) feminises
her, and when he meets her, as queen,
she is the Garbo that the girls adore.
Court and people hate the Spaniard, and
he imbues her with the scorn of her bar-
baric country which she was to feel for
the rest of her life. She presents the
crown to her cousin and goes on her
travels.
Greta Garbo is better-looking than
Christina was, if critics of the Court of
Louis XIV. are to be believed; they
credited the Swede with no bust and a
humped shoulder. Her articulation is
hideous, as usual; and she wears her
clothes, moves and acts admirably—also
as usual. One or two of the episodes are
dramatic as well as naturalistic: notably
when the child-queen marches confidently
to the throne and, pushing Oxenstiern
aside, climbs on to it without assistance.
The crowds are brilliantly handled, and
some of the interiors are beautiful.
“Little Women”
Pigtailed maids, sophisticated flappers,
blase matrons and doddering grand-
mothers gave a reverential greeting at
Sydney State to the film version of Louisa
M. Alcott’s book. Girls in their teens have
been devouring this classic of home life
since the year Isabella 11. ran away from
Spain, and in their old-age recall the
adventures of the March family with tear-
dimmed eyes.
The story has been faithfully followed.
Jo’s double romance, first with Laurie,
the rich boy next door, and later with
the philosophic Fritz Bhaer, provides the
main plot, while the romances of Meg
and Amy and the untarnished life and
death of little Beth, the kindly deeds of
the mother, Marmee, the warm heart and
friendly actions of gruff old Mr. Lau-
rence and the grumblings of the ancient
aunt contribute the counterplots.
The producers have gone to seemingly
endless trouble and great expense to cap-
ture the life and the spirit of the place
and time of the book, and, if the male
section of the audience found the senti-
ment too cloying, they could at least
observe with satisfaction the reproduc-
tions of the old Alcott home at Concord
and the costumes displayed.
There is a star cast. Katharine Hep-
burn, as the central character, Joan
Bennett (Amy), Frances Dee (Meg) and
Jean Parker (Beth) are all charming.
“Once to Every Woman”
In this Capitol film the fine acting of
the stars —Walter Connolly, as a hospital
superintendent and chief surgeon ; Ralph
Bellamy, as his assistant; and Fay
Wray, as matron (in American, “super-
vising head nurse”) —supplies the back-
ground for a series of Dickensian
vignettes. Conversation in the female
ward, when nurses bring round the wash-
bowls at 6 a.m.; visitors’ day, filmed
without one false touch ; the gratitude
of the young husband who presents the
superintendent with a cigarette-case—a
cheap thing, but, at that, beyond his
means.
Connolly portrays, in his suave,
appealing way, the tragedy of a surgeon,
growing old, who has to hand over to
his assistant in the middle of an intricate
operation. An improbable happening ;
but it makes an effective situation. Hos-
pital and surgical details are sufficiently
convincing to satisfy a layman—and you
can’t ask much more of any art. The
feeblest thing about the film is its title.
“Sunset Pass”
A Zane Grey. Stern-faced men gallop
over canons, mesas and arroyos ; plunge
through chaparral, attired in chaps; reach
for revolvers, and behave almost always
as perfect gentlemen. As showing the
chivalry artd rectitude of the Far West
"QUEEN CHRISTINA." AT SYDNEY
ST. JAMES.
(1) Greta Garbo, (2) John Gilbert, (3) Lewis Stone and Aubrey Smith.
there is the spectacle of a Judge who con-
ducts a faked trial on a faked criminal,
and sentences him to 20 years’ imprison-
ment under a faked name so that he can
help the local cattlemen’s association to
trace a gang of rustlers.
Tom Keene is the hero who thus
worms his way into the secrets of the
enemies of society; Randolph Scott is
the rancher who is in the toils of the
cattle-thieves and only gets out'of them
when T., Keene fills him full of lead;
and Kathleen Burke is the lady who sup-
plies the very small amount of love-
interest which the producer has felt
justified in sparing from the horse-
interest.
“Long Lost Father”
The main item at the Regent this week
is a comedy which features John Barry-
more as an agreeable philanderer. He
left his wife when their daughter was a
baby. He couldn’t stand the sordid
smell of poverty-stricken cooking—boil-
ing cabbage being his particular aver-
sion. He meets his daughter in after
years. She is now a professional dancer
bent on having a good time. Knowing
the world and its naughtiness, he realises
that she must be saved from herself, so
he marries her off to a steady young
fellow. Barrymore is as smoothly effi-
cient as ever, and Helen Chandler sup-
plies a quiet study of the daughter.
“Master of Men”
Jack Holt is a section-boss in a steel
foundry; Fay Wray is the owner’s
wistful daughter. A lucky stock
gamble makes Jack owner of the
business. Fay first admires, then
loves, then marries him. Alas! Jack
can’t stand his oats, as" they say in the
racing world. He becomes so ruthless
that the blurb-writer is constrained to
spell it R-U-T-H-L-E-S-S. Fay has grave
fears for their happiness. Then Jack
providentially loses everything and they
start again. An old, old story, but it’s
slickly told, and admirers of the princi-
pals will find them just as entrancing as
in previous stories.
Sundry Shows
The show in Sydney this week is the
one that is taking place in the compact
little walled town over against Randwick.
It commenced on Monday with the judg-
ing of cattle and pigs, and goes on for
nine days and six nights. Among the
night attractions are exhibitions of cattle-
riding, -throwing and -tying, and steer-
riding, and there are camp-draft com-
petitions in which the ablest station
hands of N. S. Wales and Q’land (there
are some events for girls, too) will up-
hold the honor of their respective States.
Unlike most other great agricultural
shows of the Empire, the Sydney R.A.S.
doesn’t include sheep—the woollies have
their innings later in the year—but
everything else is represented: horses of
every sort, cattle, pigs, home cookery
and preserves, cereals, vegetables, wines
and, of course, the vast array of modern
mechanism that makes both work and
play pleasanter for land people. Turning
from serious things, both country visi-
tors and city folk can find amusement in
an array of sideshows. Old-fashioned,
some of these, but what would the Show
be without them?
In “La Forza del Destino,” broadcast
by the A.B.C. on Wednesday evening,
Verdi concentrated more on the expres-
sion of a central idea than on the pro-
duction of diverse melodic figures. He
was 49; he had given the world
“Ernani,” “Rigoletto,” “Trovatore,”
“Traviata” and “Un Ballo in Maschera.”
For five years his muse had slumbered.
In instrumentation and harmony “La
Forza” embodies great skill, but it is
largely an experiment, paving the way
to “Aida” (prized now mostly as a spec-
tacle) and to “Otello” and “Falstaff,”
fruits of old age which every musician
respects, but which have won neither
popularity nor affection. The perfor-
mance in 2FC studio found all the singers
at the top of their form. Signor Izal’s
baritone was perhaps most happily suited
to the sad music, but Miss Evans’s Dona
Leonora also revelled in tragedy, and
Lionello Cecil’s utterances seemed to
come bravely through a veil of tears and
sobs. There are passages in this opera
—none of them quoted nowadays, save
the tenor-baritone duet—which touch
Verdi’s supreme magic, and a cast which
included Alice Prowse and Oliver King,
supported by a capital chorus and an
adequate orchestra, made the perfor-
mance a worthy one. Wando Aldro-
vandi, who conducted, had the right to
go to bed a very happy man.
* # *
First chamber-music concert of this
season at Sydney Con. reintroduced the
audience to Boccherini, known to every
schoolgirl as the writer of a celebrated
minuet; to persons of riper musical ex-
perience as a graceful composer in many
forms, and to students of orchestration
as the author of a fine quintette. The
quintette was performed—violins, Cyril
Monk and Lloyd Davies ; viola, William
Krasmik; ’cellists, Gladstone Bell and
Rosamond Cornford. Not flawless —a
Con. quintette should do better with such
simple stuff. In Dvorak’s B Flat Major
trio—L. G. Smith, at the piano, Monk
and Bell —the effect was much better.-
Raymond Beatty sang German songs as
if he feared them more than he loved
them.
* * *
Pouishnoff’s second appearance with
the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra at
the Town Hall last week was distin-
guished by a good performance of some
indifferent music and an indifferent per-
formance of some good music. In the
Liszt Concerto in E Flat the Russian and
his collaborators enchanted the audience.
The pianist thoroughly enjoyed himself
amidst its wilderness of decoration, fully
indulged its manifest sentimentalities and
paddled merrily in its glittering shadows.
The sterner demands of Beethoven’s
“Emperor” found both orchestra and
soloist wanting. In this concerto pianist
and orchestra frequently agree to differ,
for that was the composer’s intention,
and each party to the argument is dis-
cussing the subject matter from a differ-
ent angle. In the actual performance,
however, neither threw much light on it
until they came to the final rondo, in
which there was some spirited playing.
A feature of the evening was the over-
ture of Smetana—a lovely piece of
music ; and a tribute to the pianist was
the demand for a repetition of his suc-
cess of the previous concert —the last
movement of the Rachmaninoff Concerto
in C Minor.
On Friday a large audience of ladies
went without their afternoon tea to listen
to Pouishnoff twist and twine his way
through a programme exclusively com-
posed of Chopin. Pouishnoff, who is a
good Chopin interpreter, showed that the
Pole had more sides to his character than
that of the everlasting self-pitier. The
philosophical-looking Russian and vocal-
ist Horace Stevens continued to share
programmes all last week, and one of
the longest seasons on local record will
extend into the Easter holidays, Stevens
appearing in “Elijah” with the Philhar-
monics on Good Friday.
Sir Frederick O’Connor, who was with
Younghusband in the first British mis-
sion to Tibet, appeared at Sydney Cri.
on Saturday night. Younghusband went
on to other tasks ; O’Connor stayed on
as first British Resident in the Forbidden
Land. Those who expected to hear
stories about the esoteric powers of the
Lamas were disappointed. What im-
pressed the visitor most was the variety
of large, fierce carnivorous animals wait-
ing to be shot behind the Himalayas. He
disclaims the title of lecturer, saying that
he never lectured anyone in his life, and
just chats modestly about his adven-
tures with abundant corroboration from
lantern slides. He probably thinks that
Sydney is a lot queerer than Tibet.
Someone ought to take him kangaroo-
hunting.
* * *
“Collits’ Inn” has survived its cen-
tury at Melbourne Princess, but the date
is soon expected when it will be clean-
bowled by the management.
* * *
“The Girl Friend” has faded from the
King’s in Melbourne, and on Easter
Saturday “The Dubarry” will make her
unparalleled appearance. “Something
Different” looks like a stayer at the
Palace.
{Continued on next page.)


' m m ms .' - i m
: •
S?****K
V
SSSssK
mm
tmmi
%
**?
v -c-
m-eJtw
( Mttv ike, ddlcaiv blooms of Rote. Pdald
LUSTRE DULBLOOM LINGERIE
can be laundered and washed
and cannot lose its soft dullness.
Man/ dainty styles may be had
from your favourite store created
from LUSTRE DULBLOOM.
The Kimono illustrated at side is DI6O6 in Dulbloom Fabric.
Smartly embroidered. Latest Tonings. All sizes 42/-.
i
From your favourite
store
484/1
D 1519 Dulbloom Pyjama. Tunic
type in two-tone effect. Delightful
shades. - SW. Vv. Z3/11.
Dll36—Dulbloom Brassiere Knicker.
A comfortable garment. Salmon,
White, Black. SW. 11/11. W. 12/11.
01306 Dulbloom Opera Top Slip.
Form-fitting garment. Colours same
as D 1154. All sizes 9/6.
D 1204— Dulbloom Opera Top Vest.
Tailored garment. Colours same as
D ||s4. SW. W. OS. 3/11.
Dlls4—Dulbloom Bloomer. Correct-
ly tailored. Apricot, Blue, Beige,
Black, Lemon, Nile, Salmon, White,
and Pearlglow. SW. W. OS. 3/11.
D 1332 Dulbloom Brassiere Slip.
Well fitting slip. Nile, Salmon, Blue,
White. SW. 13/11.
- ' '
_.. ;.v/V^\^...- \
V V>X*.W.V,*>'«.»: y
'.'■: :'. ’
y&jt |bL * *•$?£.
.006
p6
y^xrv
%&>>**>>"•
:^: T
?j>Xj;
• :^fev:";
'
...
»\v
•V**
m s:::;
-1
*»«¥««*
“V «' <
#M$^§
„ *.
V
’^iWO
EXCLUSIVE CREATIONS BY LUSTRE HOSIERY LTD. Makers of Fine Lingerie and Hosiery;
A Sydney show that should appeal
to this week’s visitors is housed in
the south-east pylon of the Harbor
Bridge. To reach it, it is impera-
tive to walk up endless tiers of
concrete stairs and to traverse the south-
ern end of the bridge footway. After
that, it is necessary to climb up more sets
of stairs inside the pylon ; but the atmo-
sphere is friendly. On every land-
ing there’s a seat with a legend beseech-
ing you to sit down. Eventually you
get to the top of the stairs and pass
a turnstile (adults Is. ; children 6d.).
A girl in a blue uniform takes
charge of you. She explains the fairly
obvious points of the foyer—vast ex-
panses of white-plastered wall on which
you are invited to inscribe your
name; millions of people seem to
have accepted the invitation. Should
you scorn to follow the hoi polloi
in this respect, for 3d. you can sign the
visitors’ book—name, address, remarks.
No? Well, what about writing home to
mother? Notices on the wall, in Swedish,
Danish, German, French, Dutch and
American, implore you to soften your
enmity towards the old lady and drop her
a line. You confess to the young woman
that, owing to early adverse circum-
stances, you never had a mother and
never learned to write. She looks at you
pityingly and waves you on to another
blue-clad damsel who directs your atten-
tion to the attractions of the second
salon.
There you can peep through little
spy-holes and see beautiful pictures. No?
You don’t want to peep? Well, do
you want to have yourself photographed
as Charles 1., a bathing beauty, a cow-
boy, a simple village maiden (with stile),
or a motorist at the wheel of a Hispano-
Mercedes ? Still no ? Well, there’s no
pleasing you. Carry on. Fresh worlds
await you.
You go through rooms and up
stairs. A whole wall is occupied with
legends indicating the things that women
do not like their husbands to do or be.
Exhibition of aboriginal weapons ; exhi-
bition of old photographs of Old Syd-
ney ; exhibition of ancient firearms.
Climbing more sets of stairs you
come at last to the summit of the
pylon and a battery of 100 telescopes.
Would you care for a peep? The
eye kindles ; the sixpence is handed over
eagerly. This is what you climbed for;
Sydney is at your feet!
The Palette,
Treania Smith’s show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, is timorously
modernist. There’s an array of pencil
drawings to show that Miss Smith isn’t
lacking in the essentials, and 15 pieces
in color, all of which contain some chal-
lenge to academic traditions. But such
a winsome challenge! There are at least
five landscapes in this collection that pull
themselves together and commence to
glow when you forget about them and
catch them again out of the corner of
an eye. They have the essence of good
verse. Their lines are in order; they
sing a tune. “Sylvan Dam” deliberately
intrudes a telegraph pole and three fence
posts into a scene which would have been
insipid without them. The verticals are
the mustard in the sandwich. “The Little
Orchard” has a contrast of springtime
pussy-willow and a scarlet roof which is
quite irrationally beautiful.
At Anthony Horderns’ Galleries, Syd-
ney, Lister Lister, mounted on a brisk-
moving palette and with a generously
filled brush as a lance, charges at the Aus-
tralian landscape. He’s been doing this
all down the years that have seen the
renaissance of primitive Italian art; the
rise of the impressionists; the revolt of
the expressionists ; the counter-revolt of
the crudists and cubists. He remains
Lister Lister. If he were not such a genial
soul that the most earnest of the young-
sters forbears to quarrel with his methods
he would now be signing himself Lister
Lister Lister, just to rub it in. He sees
Australia as a jolly good place to live
in, and his paintings reflect that belief.
His biggest pictures aren’t his best ones,
and some of the little things he put a
small price on are likely to prove a more
enduring memorial to his fame. But he’s
always the happy warrior of the brush,
and his pictures are regarded by good
Australians all over the Commonwealth
as standard tonics for dull rooms.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: The artificial-manure drum-
mer had just left the pub, and Larry the
Liar spoke scoffingly. “I s’pose they
want that stuff in some parts t’ make
crops grow; but that bloke wouldn’t
have sold a bag in a hundred years up
where I come from. Cripes! th’ soil’s
that fertile there they use stuff t’ keep
th’ crops from growin’ too quick. Put
a Y-yoke on a rogue cow once; cut
from a little sapling it was. A week
or two later ole Strorberry disappeared
—couldn’t find a trace of her anywhere.
’Bout a month later I’m pokin’ about in
a gully a coupler miles from th’ house,
when me dorg gets excited an’ starts
jumpin’ up th’ butt of th’ tree I’m stand-
in’ under. I looks up, an’, spare me days,
about 20ft. up is th’ dried carcass of a
cow, hangin’ by th’ neck in th’ fork of
th’ tree. No, Strorberry hadn’t been left
there by a flood. It was jist the soil.
Th’ end of her Y-yoke had taken root
when she was lying down chewin’ her
“I TOLD yer t’ mind yer
little brother; ’n’ ’e
was nearly run over
jist then.”
“ ’Sail right, Mum — I’M
mindin’ ’im. If e gits
run over w’ile I’m playin’ I’ll pop in an'tell yer right away.”
cud. It was wet weather, an’ before she
realised what’d happened she musta been
lifted up off her feet, and choked.”
He ♦
“Top-Rail”: “H.C.M.’s” par. (B.
14/3/’34) regarding the crossbred wether
used as a leader for yarding sheep re-
minds me of old Roany, a tough and
ancient beast used as a coacher at the
slaughteryards near a Queensland town.
Roany was missing, and we were trying
to yard about a. dozen head of bullocks
without his valued assistance. Each time
we pushed the mob up along the wings
of the yards a lean-quartered, staggy
brute would break away in a wild career,
all the others following. At dusk, the
cattle still remained unyarded, and
Jacky, the abo. stockman, decided he
would try riding ahead. Lying well down
over his horse’s neck and withers, the
black boy rode along the wing and into
the yards. The cattle followed, evidently
mistaking the apparently riderless horse
for one of themselves.
* * * *
“Sailor”: Charlie, a black N.T. pal
of mine, collected a fairly good khaki
uniform from me, together with a pair
of sandshoes and a topee. He set out
for town after lunch in this glad array,
coming first to me for a last admiring
once-over. About five o’clock I hap-
pened to see Charlie sneaking around
to the back of my bungalow, but a
remarkable change had come over him.
Instead of my gallantly-clothed Charlie,
there was a sneaking abo., clad only in
a pair of dirty, skin-tight shorts hooked
up with a case-nail. Crestfallen, he
answered my call. “Me bin go losum
’long two-up longa mission,” he dole-
fully explained. For the next few weeks
I watched the various portions of my
gift change hands many times among the
abo. population of Darwin.
* * * *
“Isharagi”: Probably the most exciting
of the gambling “loos” (B. 7/3/’34) is
beetle-100. A sft. circle is drawn on a
sandy patch and divided into six equal
sectors, each of which is separated by a
channel about l|in. wide running from
a hole dug in the centre. In this hole
the beetle (of a crawling species) is im-
prisoned under a cigarette-tin. Bettors
try to pick the sector in which the beetle
will pass out of the circle. All sectors
are usually well backed, with the excep-
tion of one, which is kept open for the
owner of the insect, who gets a skinner
if the line is crossed in his allotment.
When released the beetle can be relied on
to meander from one channel to an-
other, sometimes doubling on his tracks
when within an inch or two of the goal.
* * * *
“Porosus”: According to the papers,
this is the way they are feeding the new
Queensland crocodile at Sydney’s Zoo.
The poor devil’s jaws are held open and
“fresh meat and fish” shoved down his
gullet. In his native state the croc, never
dreams of touching food until it is high
enough to satisfy even a game-eating
English epicure. He carefully buries his
prey in the mud at the bottom or under
the banks of his home river or lagoon,
and pays periodical visits to it to see if
it has reached perfection. When at last
he is' satisfied, the game is eaten. My
fellow-countryman’s reason for this pro-
cedure is that, though his jaws have tre-
mendous gripping power, his dentition
does not permit of tearing tough flesh to
eatable sizes, as the teeth and claws of
a lion can do in a few minutes. It is
essential that a croc.’s food should be
soft and easily masticated, and, of course,
it is possible that he likes it as the Cock-
ney preferred his eggs, “wiv’ a bit of
flavor abart ’em.”
“Willeroo”: The 10-mile swim of three
black boys, only survivors of the
lugger Rudderfish in the disastrous
Queensland cyclone (B. 21 /3/’34), re-
calls the great swim of a West Indian
and his abo. wife in the same northern
waters. The two had been cruising near
the Howick Islands, when their cutter
capsized and sank. Both swam to the
nearest island, the woman having a child
to care for. Finding neither food nor
water there, they decided to tackle the
terrible swim to the mainland, a dis-
“You’ll never see a girl in the bush goin' about in shorts.”
“Too many fusspots, I suppose.”
“No, too many mosquitoes.”
tance of 12 miles. Both got over, but
the child, which the woman carried on
her back, was drowned.
“Liss”: “H.C.M.” (B. 14/3/’34) must
be a newchum never to have seen a
poddy leader at the woolshed before.
Here on Cambalong station there is a
crossbred wether
that has been do-
ing duty for some
years, and this year
a merino wether,
poddy-reared, is to
be broken in with
him. I have en-
countered these
aids up arid down
N. S. Wales for
years. North
Yanco, in the old
days, always had a
crossbred wether
for this job; he
was kept at the
shed and fed there,
and, like the one at
Cambalong, would
eat all the tobacco
he could get. They
were to be found
also, at one time or
another, at Uran-
geline, Yarrabee,
Brookong and
many other of the
big Riverina sheds. For some reason the
crossbred wether always makes a better
leader than a merino ; being quieter, I
suppose. If treated kindly and not
abused by being shut in under the shed
all night with the woollies, they are easily
broken in as a rule.
“Erua”: I’d like “H.C.M.” to meet
Rotokino Billy—if that sagacious animal
is still alive. Billy was the decoy .sheep kept
at Wellington by a shipping co., and his
duty was to lead flocks of his kind up
and off gangways, mainly on s.s. Roto-
kino. He was known to all sailormen
round the shores of M.L., and the story
goes that once when there was a
stop-work meeting to consider a rise in
wharf-workers’ pay Billy attended and
uplifted his voice in approval at exactly
the right moment.
“J.P.”: Motoring through northern
Victoria one thirsty Sunday I pulled up
at an obscure pub and asked for beer.
“I am a bona-fide traveller,” I said —
“I’ve come nearly 50 miles this morn-
ing.” “Doesn’t matter,” Bung replied—
“it ain’t Sunday.” “It is Sunday,” I
assured him. Bung looked perplexed.
“Well, I’m blowed! ” he exclaimed. “No
wonder the church was closed yester-
day.”
“W.P.T.”: A recent trip to the far
South Coast of N.S.W. convinced me
that the platypus is in no danger of dying
out in that locality. You will find plenty
in the upper reaches of the Bega, Tanta-
wanglo and Towamba rivers; above all,
in Matagana Creek. The platypus doesn t
like human company, but parts of the
South Coast country are so rough that
it’s not likely to be thrust upon him there.
AMBERGRIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On any goldfield you select, there’s nuggets
waiting to be found,
Atop the scorched and rugged earth, or p’r’aps
embedded in the ground.
But prospecting is strenuous work. Easier to
give the pick a miss
And amble ’long some pleasant beach with eyes
alert for ambergris.
Auriferous slugs are gladsome things. They’re
never like to lose their lure,
But those who dare the trackless wilds have got
to suffer and endure.
Hunger and thirst and heat and cold must all
be reckoned with, I wis,
And hostile, treach’rous blacks to boot —I’d
sooner hunt for ambergris.
For glitt’ring diamonds, pearls as well, mankind
will never cease to strive;
But for the one you have to dig and for the
other you must dive.
The opal-gougers dwell in caves —a troglodytish
racket, this,
Devoid of all the pleasant thrills insep’rable
from ambergris.
You’re not obliged to sweat and moil through
grime and Hies and dust and heat;
If you’re in luck the fickle waves will lay the
treasure at your feet.
It may be merely soap, of course. But other-
wise what earthly bliss
Compares with fastening your fists upon a
chunk of ambergris?
So much I’ve read of it of late that verily I’m
tempted sore
To go and quest from dawn to dark for flotsam
treasure on the shore.
The only thing that gives me pause before I pick
my beach is this:
They’re never looking for the stuff, the chaps
who hap on ambergris.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
PLUS SPACE RATES.
The guinea for the raciest par. goes
this week to D. Leithhead, of Royal-
street, Maroubra (N.S.W.), for the fol-
lowing: —
Count among the interesting
dwellers in the deep, dark gul-
lies the bright-eyed pilot-bird.
The little brown, mottled-throated
fossicker is very seldom seen
he is just one of the shadows
along the creek —but his call rings
to the treetops. And though he
doesn’t sing much his note is often
heard; it is a call beloved of the
lyrebird, and when Menura sets out
to make the gully ring the clear,
rich “Guinea-a-week” of the pilot-
bird has a prominent place in the
big fellow’s repertoire. Like most
birds of the undergrowth, this one
is usually of solitary habits, yet
writer recently witnessed a remark-
able instance of flocking. Return-
ing to camp I caught the almost
unbelievable sound of many pilot-
birds calling wildly up and down
the gully, the din reaching its
height just beside the camp. A
cautious approach revealed the
cause of it all. The Bulletin of
28/2/’34 had fallen from the read-
ing log and lay open at the Abo.
page, and pilot-birds in dozens
hopped, fluttered and shrieked
around. As birds were convinced
they would dash off into the scrub,
screaming the news, whilst dis-
believers arrived breathless from
all directions. The centre of the
hubbub was babel, but away up the
gullies, fading as heralds rushed on
their way, or growing louder as
sceptics approached, rang the call,
“Guinea-a-week! Guinea-a-week!
Guinea-a-week! ”


“G.C.”: A traveller overtaken by dark-
ness put up for the night at a homestead
in the Mallee (Vic.). He was awakened
by a strange commotion at midnight, and
on investigation came upon Dad, Mum,
the baby and a cow. Mum held baby
and a hurricane lantern ; baby yelled its
head off; Dad milked the cow. During
the hot spell, Mum explained, the milk
“kept better in the cow,” so they just
ran her in and milked her as required by
the offspring.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: That story of the galah
(B. 21/3/’34) recalls the history of one
that an aunt of mine took back to York-
shire after a visit to Queensland. Colo-
nials of any kind, with feathers or with-
out, were rare birds in the East Riding
in those days, and the fowl and his con-
versational powers soon became famous.
One spring day he felt the call of the
wild and disappeared. The news was
spread abroad, and a liberal offer of
reward sent every gamekeeper and
poacher in the countryside in search of
“My son left your firm because you called him a blithering idiot. Will you take
back the ‘blithering idiot’ ?”
“Righto. He can start again to-morrow.”
the absentee. Spinneys and coverts were
combed in vain, and hope was aban-
doned. That August my aunt joined a
house party for grouse-driving on the
Middleham moors, not far from her
home. She accompanied one of the guns
to his butt, and there awaited the first
drive with him. Birds were very thick,
and the cloud that bore down on them
astonished even those accustomed folk.
Astonishment changed to amazement
when from the middle of it came a dis-
cordant shriek. “Stop crowding me, you
hairy-legged blankards!” it yelled—“stop
crowding me! ” My aunt and the gun —
who had entirely forgotten to shoot—
looked at each other with a wild surmise
as the birds flew on. Of course, it was
the missing parrot, but that was the last
ever heard of him.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: I know where the
world’s finest whisky can be found
—not in Scotland, but down at
Cocos Island. When George Clunies-
Ross first settled there over a cen-
tury ago he brought with him a 50-gallon
cask of fine old whisky. It remained
untouched till at least 40 years old ; then
as liquor was drawn from the keg a
corresponding quantity was put in to re-
place it. The descendants of the original
Governor have religiously followed this
procedure, and the spirit now drawn from
the cask is beyond description. No one
ever desecrates its perfect mellowness by
the addition of water.
“Raeakiaki”: It’s a thousand
to one against the kiore or native
rat of Maoriland having survived
(B. 14/3/’34). Even though the
beastie seen in Edwards Valley
may resemble the specimen in the
Canterbury Museum, I’ll wager
he doesn’t belong to the species
brought by Henare from Poly-
nesia. Rooming in hollow trees,
tiny houses of fern leaves and
holes in the ground, the kiore was
never sighted in daytime ; he was
essentially a nocturnal prowler
who never ventured out until
night had properly fallen. Most
were brown, but there was a grey-
ish variety ; all were small, and
were not noted for a long snout.
They grew thin in summer, but
waxed fat in winter, and, being
fastidious eaters —not scavengers
like the European rat —they were
much prized for Henare’s table,
being regarded as much a deli-
cacy as dried koura or seaweed.
One characteristic was that they
could be plucked like a fowl.
“lan Joinerson”: I saw those fair-
haired abos. (B. 7/ 3 / ’34) over 30 years
ago, and my theory is that there is a bit
of Dutch in them. In 1629 Francois Pel-
sart hanged Jans Cornelis and his off-
siders for piracy after the wreck of the
Batavia on Houtman’s Abrolhos. All
except the two youngest of Cornelis’s fol-
lowers, lads of sixteen or thereabouts —•
them he marooned on the mainland,
north of the present site of Geraldton.
Being Dutch they would very likely have
had fair hair, and if the abos. spared
them they would have transmitted it.
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: Injurious qualities
exist in apparently edible fish as well as
mushrooms. Outstanding in that respect
is te manai of the equatorial Gilbert
Islands—a gigantic land-dwelling crab
whose near-circular body equals a dinner-
plate in circumference. It resides in
deep tunnels in the banks of swampy
mid-atoll babai patches, where, in stag-
nant, miry water, the brown people cul-
tivate the giant arum lily for its edible
root. On Makin atoll, three degrees
north of the Line, te manai is eagerly
sought as a delicious dish. Yet, on
“Have you seen any big game round here, my man ?”
“No, mister; but I ’eard a bloke say as ’is brother thought ’e ’eard ’is father
fancied ’e’d seen a toad one flight.”
Maiana atoll, nearly on the Equator, the
same crab is poisonous and shunned.
Some fishes are inedible because they
feed on marine organisms thriving on
submarine outcrops of copper and other
minerals; but there is no satisfactory
explanation for the difference in flesh of
the same crab in localities less than 200
miles apart. Topographically the atolls
are alike. So is the vegetation. Con-
sidering its habitat and diet, the really
remarkable thing is that the Makin te
manai is not poisonous.
* * * *
“Dilly”: Touching waterbags (B.
34/3/’34), the man who fathered the
canvas affair known to all bushmen was
Major Mitchell, who perished on an ex-
ploring trip with Allan Cunningham near
the Bogan River (N.S.W.) in 1835. Cun-
ningham is commemorated by a stone
obelisk in Sydney Botanic Gardens,
where he worked. There is no memorial
to Mitchell, although in his primitive
waterbag of sacking smeared with mutton-
fat he left as a legacy to posterity the con-
ception of something which has been the
means of saving countless lives in thirsty
regions.
* * * *
The subject is blackfish:
“J.N.L.”: The'fish “Larrapinta” (B. 21/2/’34)
refers to seldom reaches more than lib. in
weight; the largest I have ever seen turned
the scale at 18oz. But this fellow is the small-
est of his tribe. To my knowledge there are
three other members of the blackfish family
in Vic. waters: the Gippsland blackfish,
which grows to 41b. or 51b.; the sea black-
fish, about the same size, with large scales and
teeth; and a scaleless blackfish frequenting
waters north of the Divide.
“Vindex”: “Brown Trout” (B. 7/3/’34) is too
modest. Fifty years ago a few miles above
Warburton (Vic.) I assisted another lad to
weigh a blackfish which turned the scale at
6|lb. And you can still hook big ones in
virgin streams —there are a few left about
Croajingolong.
“Scran” : A Aj\b. blackfish was taken out of
the Flowerdale River, north-west Tas., by C.
E. Spotswood, of Burnie; it was weighed
cleaned, but with head attached. I saw the
fish weighed and measured; it was two feet
long. As a result of drought the north-west
rivers are lower than I have ever seen them
and big bags of blackfish have been taken. A
party removed sixteen dozen from Tobers Creek
in one night.
“Cass.”: Now for the record-breaker. The
Ringarooma River, n.-e. Tas., abounded in
blackfish before it became a sludge channel for
the tinmines. An hour’s fishing at nightfall
would half-fill a sugar-bag, and the catch would
include fish up to 61b., 71b., 81b. and 91b. The
biggest .was caught near Gladstone; it weighed
121 b. 2oz.
* * * *
“Lad”: The jackass in Sid Miller’s
drawing (B. 7/3/’34) obviously doesn’t
belong to the banana-growing districts of
southern Queensland. Mattocking some
blady grass recently, I unearthed a
bluish-red worm which measured a shade
over three feet. Two-foot worms are
quite common in our locality. Many
snakes are not that long ; they are no
fatter than the worms herfe either.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Frying Pan had become a
rigid teetotaller. Whenever he was
offered a glass of liquor by the station
hands he asked for a chew of tobacco
instead. “Grog makum too much
cranky here,” he said, tapping his fore-
head. “An’ I kick up a, row I know
nothin’ about. Then ’nother blackpfeller
crackum cobra with nulla nulla. When
1 get sober all about blackpfeller
gammon good friend belonga me, an’ I
don’t know which one been hit ’um. I
tellum that one dirty cow. But him too
cunnin’; him wait till I get drunk ’nother
time. So I keep sober now.”
* * * *
“Heresone”: An Australian has broken
a few records in the anti-jazz war. At
the start of shearing in a western Queens-
land shed one of the men bought, at
fancy prices, every gramophone record
in the shed. Then he carried the pile
outside and waded into it with a hammer.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: Remarkable the
immunity some people enjoy from biters.
Most outstanding case I know among
whites was that of George, a native of
Bourke (N.S.W.). Bulldog ants wouldn’t
touch George. To unbelievers he was
always willing to offer proof by stirring up
a nest with his hands or bare feet, always,
however, tying coat sleeves at the wrist
or pants legs at the ankles “to prevent
the cows getting out of bounds.” An old
Queensland full-blood abo. who worked
for years for J. McNamara, of Walgett
(N.S.W.), enjoyed similar immunity:
Snakes, when cornered, would spring
over his head and go for the lick of their
lives. A Motu (New Guinea) native I
once hobnobbed with would often, in
pure hilarity, disturb nests of wasps and
hornets, which would buzz excitedly
round but never touch him.
* * * *
“G.C.8.”: Bill had to be up by four
and had no alarm clock. He worried
over the problem for some time, and
then a bright idea struck him. He caught
an old hen after it had gone to roost and
tied a kerosene-tin to its leg. Then, being
uncertain whether an old hen would rise
as early as a young one, he harnessed a
pullet in the same way. All three were
up and awake in good time, and Bill
caught his train—after freeing his indig-
nant poultry.
* * * *
“Tootrue”: Recently a hen emerged
from under the floor of an old shed at
Young (N.S.W.) with a brood of 12
chickens, of which she seemed inordi-
nately proud. All her swagger, however,
could not hide the fact that hungry rats
had eaten most of her tail feathers to
the butt as she sat faithful to her task
of hatching the clutch. At the moment
she is the laugh of the fowlyard.
THE WAYWARD WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A breeze has come up with the break of day
• And over fhe land is blowing;
And I would follow its wayward way,
Wherever it may be going.
A topsail, tinted with rosy light,
Adown in the east is sinking,
And beach and headland are brave and bright;
But ’tisn’t of them I’m thinking.
The waves are singing their morning song,
But, somehow, they seem to tire me;
I've watched the way of the sea so long
No longer its moods inspire me.
I ve had enough of the rolling waves,
Enough of the streaming surges,
Enough of the wind that moans and raves,
Enough of the wind that dirges.
Across the water a seagull flies.
Dawn’s color its pinions pinking—
A pretty sight for a stranger’s eyes—
But ’tisn’t of it I’m thinking.
Though folk, come hither from far away,
, Would fancy the scene Elysian,
I'm out of tune with the sea to-day,
And yearn for another vision.
Too long have I ’neath its spell abode,
Too long has its witchcraft bound me—
Give me a horse on a country road
And the smell of the bush around me!
Its magic fails, and its splendors tire,
And stale it grows to my seeming;
Give me the glow of a red campfire
And trees in the darkness dreaming!
The sun soars high in a cloudless sky,
Grey headland and cliff adorning;
But oh for a ride where the wide plains lie
On a galloping horse in the morning!
A breeze has come with the break of day
And over the land ’tis blowing;
And I would follow its wayward way,
Wherever it may be going.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


f"
t i w *
ik it mi
* „
iliiiliilli
- sv<kv. ' vv :
N . ; % %j
*.
§P V ■
! .
’ /
t
£ : i
¥ '
r <: K
/ y-.......mi *V :
gfc&y:
■ P ■:
• s'-’-xN w w» .-•> •:• •
■
■§ -: \<
liiiaiiil
«*»
>;■.
>- \jT ,
/ ft
I 4
:.r
- M
WQ&Jfr'" 'JfML \~
: ~ <.
♦<- .
V:i.v;>'
I* SHBS
'
■
u
lUlii
• ■ ' >• :. ■ ' v
.-.„ "> -^*K ?
$K 8
■X<'.yV.& a-
-8 •■•:,
r
mws;<i?'& 9 z& '-*7j&t At >.. ■ , ,-a .
.. . - ■ - v
1
Ms S
*
inn
IQ
!
* e we
BOr-r w e
TOO
ltd
e y s
Slavic*
.. „ not
but...
FOR ALL OCCASIONS
When days are happy—or tinged with grey.
When guests are many—or the party small.
When the hour is early, or the day is old —
Tooheys Pilsener is the right drink for every
occasion.
HERE’S TOO’EE
TOOHEYS
IN THE BOTTLE WITH THE YELLOW LABEL


The Premiers’ Conference
and the Market
Should Treasury Bills Be
Funded?
The Exchange Question
Stocks Worth Watching
To be successful, the investor must
Keep one eye on economic and trade
developments.
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
march issue
NOW ON SALE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
, Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Halt, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F. E. Loxton/ Esq;; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Msnaoeb —M. G. BAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and- Northern Kivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers thp fullest facilities for-the transaction of ail general banking business
2
AT THE HEART
w
LONDON
OF
ore#
C«AM
ss
Ktm/yoroi
OVAI
PARK LANE HOTEL, PICCADILLY, W.l.
(.’Grams: Keighbrace, Audley, London .)
Equidistant from Lord’s and Kennington Oval
, Cricket- Grounds on direct route, and close
to Theatre-land and the finest shopping centres.
400 modern bedrooms, each with
telephone and fully-equipped private
bathroom. 40 suites.
SINGLE from 14/6. DOUBLE from
25/-. SUITES from 42/-.
Garage for 200 cars. Sandler’s Orchestra.
Illustrated topical tariff from “The Bulletin.’’
PARK LANE HOTEL
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
SMOKE-O H!
Apparently the work of the N.R.A.
will be complete when the salary of each
American citizen is paid out of his own
income tax.
* *
“An octette of dancing girls did much to
dispel the sailors’ discontentment.”
— “Telegraph."
Eight belles and all’s well.
* *
“Export Pears Put to Sleep for Voyage to
England.”
Potatoes have a hard job to keep their
eyes open, these days.
# *
“Stated that Melbourne City Watchhouse was
ten degrees lower than the city during the heat-
wave.”
The cooler!
“Would ’ee lend me a trowel, Richard? I’m goin’ to build
a ’ouse.”
“ ’Ave you got ’nough money to build a ’ouse?”
“’Coorse I ’ave.”
“Then thee canst afford to buy trowel.” [?]
“In America a knot was tied that has baffled
all experts.”— “Sun.”
Believe it or knot.
* #
SYMBOLS.
“It would be a good idea for sporting bodies
to have their own badges.”— “Telegraph.”
Surfing clubs, for instance, would have
a shark on a sea of blue, with a peeling
bather rampant.
The cricketer’s badge would consist of
four quarters divided by a red cross. A
typewriter and a microphone above ; Lar-
wood’s toe and an ambulance below.
The poker players might adopt a hand
of five aces, surmounted by a sleeve
sinister.
The most significant badge for wrest-
lers would be pieces of skin and
hair plastered in disorderly fashion
around a ring of rope ; and the punters
could have no better sign than three
black balls and an empty pocket.
And, of course, the Telegraph Mes-
sengers’ Athletic Club would be best
symbolised by a tortoise dormant in a
field of snails.
S. Esq.
MORE IMPROVEMENTS.
“Novelties at the British Industries Fair in-
clude golf clubs that will not remove divots.”
Other badly-needed inventions to im-
prove the sport are:
A ball which, when lost in the rough,
whistles on being sworn at.
Self-levelling bunkers for the assistance
of those whose explosive shots never
come off.
Drivers that can be used as walking-
sticks when the heads fly off.
Telescopic clubs, similar to those used
for drawing marbles from the lottery
barrel, to enable golfers to recover topped
shots with a minimum of effort.
Holes with false bottoms to ensure
secrecy for Scotsmen who hole out in
one.
S. W. K.
RUBBER STAMPS.
“Rot!” said Perkins. “The Minister’s
only a rubber stamp. Jones, the Perma-
nent Under-Secretary, does all the work.”
I asked Smithson: “Jones? He’s only
in the job because his wife is a cousin
of an ex-Premier. A hopeless ass. If
it wasn’t for his staff he’d be nowhere.”
1 approached a man in another depart-
ment.
“The Byways?” he snorted. “Useless
loafers. Incompetents from other depart-
ments. The only efficients there are a
couple of smart boys.”
It was 5 p.m. when I entered the
Byways Department. The Minister was
not in. The Under-Secretary had de-
POET (giving his first lecture ): “Er — isn’t there usually a sandwich or something
as well ?”
parted. The clerks had gone their ways.
Two grubby boys jostled past me with
letters.
“Excuse me,” I said, “I want to make
some inquiries.”
“Sorry,” called back one of the lads
as he followed the other out. “It’s after
5 o’clock. Ask the liftman!”
Uco.
FAIR EXCHANGE.
My job was raising pigs until
/ asked Pearl to be mine.
I said “Henceforth 1 swear 1 will
Put you before the swine.”
„ THE DOGS.
“There is a branch of the N.S.W. Police
Force known as ‘The Dogs’ who work un-
known personally to most of the force. They
disguise themselves as street loafers, swaggies,
inebriates, working men and sometimes even
as wealthy idlers.”
I suspect my friend Alfo Smithers of
being one of them. He often gets him-
self up as a
“wealthy idler.”
In his bowler hat,
M.C.C. blazer
and black patent
shoes with white
kid fringes, he
hangs about all
day “on the
trail.” Sometimes
he’s on the trail
of a girl; oftener
his objective is
the loan of a bob,
or a free drink.
He never reveals
his real identity
to his prey. Alfo
is a dog if ever
there was one.:
Then there’s
Bingo Stubbs. He
usually figures as
a dole - drawer.
He spends most
of his time trail-
ing s.-p. bookies.
But he never
catches them. They always catch him.
And he never reveals his identity. I
know him under at least three different
aliases.
Then there’s Happy Larry. The secret
of his identity is known only to Mr.
Mackay. He spends his time on the trail
of booze. Any Friday or Saturday night
you can see him lying in the gutter, and
he lets the constable carry him off with-
out a word. Nor has he a word to say
to the magistrate when he gets his month
without the option—except “I can do it
on me head.” Larry’s is a real dog’s
life.
S. H.
“It is expected that, after attending the Mel-
bourne Centenary, Prince George will be made
a duke.”
He deserves some compensation.
CROSSING THE BAR.
His face tanned to a deep mahogany
by many years of tropical sun and salt
wind, he stood gazing at the now
motionless schooner, his appreciative
eye conning its lovely, tapering lines.
With practised eye he judged that it
was loaded to its full capacity. Of an
engaging height, beautifully wide in the
beam, and of a deep draught. Was ever
a thing destined better to gladden the
heart of a real sailor? Truly it was a
glorious sight, not now so common—
alas! —as of yore.
“What about that bathing party to-night, Jim ?”
“It’s all off, I believe”
“Oh! Who’s going?”
With a sigh of contentment, he raised
it chest-high and, with a few gurgling
gulps, tossed off its foaming contents.
S. K;
# *
“Prince Starhemberg says he feels there is a
Fascist wave.”
But will it be a permanent one?
REFLECTIONS.
Sometimes / wish that I were back
1 n those good times (long gone, alack !)
Which grand-dad, hoary, bent and
grey,
Declares were prosperous and grand,
When there were only ten Command-
Ments men were called on to obey!
P. O. M. C.
SKEETERS.
“Gosh! ” said Shorty, “these city
skeeters are babes ’longside them at
Skeeter Creek, where old Mother Larkin
used to keep the shanty and fill them non-
refillable bottles
with ’er own stuff.
And what stuff it
was, too! One
nip of it and y’
couldn’t ’ave a
naked light within
ten yards of you,
and it was danger-
ous if them fire-
flies came flutter-
ing near you.
“The skeeters up
there was as big as
dingoes. Blokes
’ave been known
to be carried off in
the night an’ wake
up next mornin’
an’ find theirselves
miles away.
Though, to give
them skeeters their
due, they never
carried a chap off
without takin’ his
swag along, too.
“Cripes, if I ’ad
some of them
skeeters down here
in Sydney, I’d
make me fortune...
Here I am selling
this skeeter-killer,
and the stuff works
so darn well I’ve
got ’em all cleaned
out.
“When I call for repeat orders they
’ands me ’arf a bottle back and says
they don’t need any more. Twenty ’ouses
I’ve called at to-day, and nineteen ’arf-
bottles I’ve got back. Would’ve got the
twentieth, but the lady told me ’er old
man drunk it during ther night.
“Would it kill ’im? ’Course not! It’s
made from old Mother Larkin’s recipe.
That’s why I’d like to ’ave some Skeeter
Creek skeeters down here. I’d make me
fortune. The cows are used to the stuff.”
NERO.


SPO RTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Loud hooting was heard at Warwick
Farm when Silver Scorn won the Chip-
ping Norton Plate, loud cheering when
Rogilla, topweight in the Liverpool
Handicap, got up in the last stride. His
was one of the best efforts seen at the
Farm for many a' day. The Newcastle
chestnut was last at the half-mile ; and
they weren’t loafing on the journey. He
had to go round his field at the top of
the straight. As always, he responded
heroically when Darby Munro drove
him along on the outside, and, passing
horse after horse, he got the verdict by
a head from Vista, who was a length in
front of Care Free and Leila Vale. Whit-
tingham was fourth ; then came Jacko,
Bill Wedgewood and Celebrate. The last-
named got into a pocket from the turn.
He looks very well, and should pay his
way at Randwick, even if he misses the
Doncaster. It was fives Care Free, Jacko
and Vista ; rather surprisingly, Rogilla
eased from 7 to 2 to sevens. He ran the
“six” in 1.121.
Silver Scorn’s victory was a decided
reversal of form, especially as she left
the 10 furlongs behind in 2.4J —course
record time. She was well backed at
sevens, and, after beating off the pace-
maker Closing Time at the Leger, won
easily from the Dominion-owned but
Australian-bred son of Tippler. Blixten
Bert*. " Youc'e lucizv "
<3I=P?T " Hows THAT ?'*
HORSE HAS PICIZEO
Number. ONE" Position''
CUEIST: ''OH, 1 THOUGHT THEY HAD TO
RUN for: IT *
came home well to run third, followed
by Limarch and Peter Jackson, who is
going to be hard to beat in the Sydney
Cup —the race will do him a lot of good.
Peter Pan, favorite at evens, gave an
inglorious display. He was running
second to the turn, but as soon as Pike
asked him to go to Closing Time he
had had enough. Weight-for-age form
has now suffered two shocks as a result
of the defeats of Chatham and Peter Pan.
Possibly Warwick Farm does not suit
Peter, and he may do better over a longer
journey at Randwick.
Roxburgh (5 to 4) enhanced his pros-
pects for the Sydney Cup by taking the
Warwick Farm Cup under difficulties. The
little grey carried his Bst. in real trades-
manlike style. He was hemmed in turn-
ing for home owing to Pratt waiting too
long for a run on the rails which did not
come his way. At the Leger Roxburgh
literally fought his way through, and he
won, running away, by nearly a length
from Sassanides, with Confab a poor
third. Miss Nottava’s saddle shifted and
she was pulled up.
Le Legion has Bst. in the Doncaster.
He carried 9st. lib. in the Cabramatta
Mile, and his victory in that race gives
him an outside chance. Backed from
fives to threes, he came from a long way
back to beat Australia Fair (6 to 1) and
Touchit (14 to 1). The opening favorite,
Mr. Kerry, whose jockey drew the rails
position, jumped into the barrier when
it was released. He was thrown back
to last, and, as he finished fifth, may
have been troublesome. He is worth
keeping in mind for a race at Randwick.
Trainer Dan Lewis was fairly confi-
dent that Subsidy would shape well in the
Fairfield Handicap despite the appear-
ance of The Marne, Gladswood, Theo,
Fashion Star and the Victorians Great
Legend and The Raider, a son of Vali-
care. Subsidy was backed from twelves
to sevens, and finished well to beat The
Marne and Great Legend, who both
shaped respectably. Theo was a sad
disappointment. He looked to be a win-
ner at the turn, but put no heart into his
work in the straight. Gladswood was
another failure, but Robber’s fourth is
worth remembering. The Raider, who
looks rather like his dam, never got out
of the ruck.
Atucas and Caliphate, both trained at
Warwick Farm, won their respective divi-
sions of the Novice. The former went
out at twelves; he finished in fine
style to beat Samian King and Spear
Belle. Atucas is by Heroic, and his price
was a surprise. The favorite, African,
delayed the start and was badly away.
His trainer, Jack King, is now giving
him a course of schooling lessons at the
barrier. Caliphate, one of the best track
gallopers at the Farm, lived up to his
reputation when he annexed the second
division. The big son of Caledon was
laid early at sixes, but closed at threes.
He won easily from the Rosehill-trained
Strathroyal and Dark Bird. Imperil, a
stable-mate of Dame Moab, lost her
chance at the barrier.
* * * *
Rogilla is now a hot favorite for the
Doncaster, and on form he is entitled to
be in that position. At 9st. 51b. he is
favorably handicapped. But there are
some good lightweights, and the big
chestnut may conceivably be carried off
his legs in the early stages. One of the
best-handicapped candidates is the five-
year-old Magpie gelding Celebrate,
who has 7st. 91b. He has won two
races at Randwick, is at the top of
his form and can run the mile right
out. The Victorian three-year-old Rap-
sonia (Bst. 51b.) won two races at
Flemington in good style, and, if he can
handle the reverse way, is a possibility.
And Bill Wedgewood and Leila Vale (each
with 7st. 121 b.) should be in the picture.
Leila Vale is an improving three-year-
old, bred to go fast; and three-year-olds
have done famously this season. Chat-
ham (lOst. 41b.) will not run if the track
is heavy, and there is a doubt about
Silver Scorn (9st. lib.). On a fast track
these brilliant gallopers are not without
chances. But Jacko should be held safe
by Rogilla at a difference of 51b.
If Silver Scorn is reserved for the
Autumn Plate the mare will be at a
short price. Peter Pan, given time to
get balanced, may show that his War-
wick Farm form was all wrong; but
Silver Scorn looks the winner.
Sir John has done well since winning
at Flemington. He will be a popular
pick for the Sires’ Produce Stakes, seven
furlongs. The Victorian Dark Sky looks
the best of the others ; Arachne is not in
this- race.
The St. Leger is evidently going to be
another match between Hall Mark and
Limarch, who ran a dead-heat in the
Vic. race of that name. Both colts have
done well since, but, in view of Hall
Mark’s win in the A.J.C. Derby and his
liking for Randwick, he is chosen to beat
Limarch.
Raised 101 b. for his success on Satur-
day, Roxburgh is to carry 7st. 101 b.
in the Sydney Cup. This may not
stop the little grey, who is all wire and
whipcord, but Peter Jackson now
looks the better at the weights. The
Australian Cup winner Heroic Prince is
a genuine stayer, but he has Bst. 111 b.
Peter Jackson, who chased him home at
Flemington, is in with Bst. 51b., and should
turn the tables. Limarch has Bst. 31b.;
his form in the St. Leger will decide his
chance. Gippsland, a genuine stayer, is
well in with 7st. 31b.
With so many good horses engaged
and with the King’s Cup race to wind
up with, the A.J.C. committee and secre-
tary Rowe are warranted in anticipating
that the crowds and the tote figures will
be the best since 1929.
* * * *
Caledon’s son Havana followed up his
victory at Caulfield on March 17 by
taking the Hollymount Handicap at
Moonee Valley. It will be surprising if
Cecil Godby does not win good stakes
in open company with Havana next
season. The gelding finished strongly to
score by a neck from D. J. Price’s Son
o’ Mine colt Charles Fox, who also
shows promise.
Perseverance had its reward when E.
J. O’Dwyer captured the Moonee Ponds
Handicap of \\ miles with Viol d’Amour.
Two seasons ago, as a three-year-old,
Viol d’Amour vanquished Waterline (then
in his prime) in the V.R.C. October
Stakes and A.J.C. All-Aged Stakes, but
until Saturday he had not won a race
since May, 1933. O’Dwyer gave the chest-
nut a light season at the stud, and put him
into training again in December. It was
by only half a head that Viol d’Amour
squeezed home from Ruach on Saturday,
and he may have been lucky to gain
the judge’s verdict, as Dick Devon, the
favorite, received a bad passage and
could not get through on the rails when
making a late run.
Moonee Valley now is a network of
tracks. Horses engaged in this particular
race used the course proper for more
than a mile, finishing over an intersecting
loop. A gang of eight men, like scene-
shifters in a theatre, removed several
panels of the inner rails in front of the
stand after the field had swept past in the
first circuit. The track for middle-dis-
tance events is shaped somewhat like a
small “e.” Steeplechases used to be run
on the inside of the course proper
throughout, but now finish over the gal-
loping straight. Pinched for space, the
club has juggled cleverly with the avail-
able area; but if any more changes are
contemplated it may be necessary to
publish a diagram of each track in the
racebook.
Nauru, the Blairmount gelding that
conceded Precocious 161 b. and ran second
to that rival in the V.R.C. Grand
National Steeplechase of 1932, has since
had a chequered career. Originally
Claude Grice, the amateur jockey, raced
him on lease from two owners, one of
whom died. Later on Joseph Fell, of
the V.A.T.C. committee, bought Nauru
and sent him to F. W. Hoysted, of Men-
tone, to be trained. The horse went
amiss and was sold at auction for 25gns.,
F. Littlewood, son of a Warrnambool
medico, joining Hoysted in the purchase.
Benefited by a spell in the Western Dis-
trict, Nauru finished second in a handicap
at Garvoc on March 10. Rushed back
to Hoysted for a few schooling lessons,
the leg-bandaged bay was made a hot
favorite for the £3OO Rothwell Steeple-
chase. He made several spectacular
leaps, and had every rival with the ex-
ception of Drake settled at the conclud-
ing obstacle. Zealley allowed Nauru to
slow down at the half-distance, and was
compelled to use his hands and heels
with desperation to beat Drake by half
a length.
M. T. McGrath, who prepared
Simeon’s Fort for a Doncaster Handicap
victory in 1928, annexed the last two
events on the Moonee Valley programme
—the Knoll Handicap with Brave Boy,
and the Sherwood Highweight with
Araunah. Latter horse had not raced
since July, 1933, yet he was backed for
a packet of money and romped home.
Brave Boy had to be ridden right out
to win by a short head. In color and
conformation Brave Boy closely re-
sembles his sire Heroic.
* * * *
“Knavesmire”: The English flat-racing
season opened last week with the Lincoln-
shire Handicap, a run over a straight
mile which is always productive of heavy
wagering. Australians took special in-
terest by reason of the fact that
W. (“Togo”) Johnson was having his
first ride in England after a successful
year or two in India and France. His
mount, the French four-year-old Quartz,
went out favorite at fives, but could get
no farther up than third, though onl>
heads parted the first three horses. The
winner was Play On, 100 to 9, owned
by a South African, Simon, whose colors
got their first airing on an English course.
* * * *
Liverpool Grand National was won last
week by Dusty Miller, owned by Miss
Dorothy Paget and ridden by Stott, a
rider with little experience of the formid-
able Aintree course. Last year Dusty
Miller was favorite; this time he was
also the public fancy at eights. The
second horse, Delaneige, is owned by
American J. B. Snow, and another Yank,
in J. H. Whitney, saw his colors come
home third on Thomond 11.
Australia lost a proved sire when Ros-
sendale (imp.) died of blood-poisoning at
Cullengorai (N.S.W.) stud. He was
owned by J. F. Foster, who gave 9500
guineas for him when the Brien stud at
Kingsfield came under the hammer. By
the St. Simon horse St. Frusquin, who
won the Two Thousand for Leopold
Rothschild in 1896, from the Gallinule
mare Menda, Rossendale’s breeding was
exceptional on both sides. A few of the
fine performers sired by him were Ram-
pion (A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies), Wina-
lot (Sydney Cup), Jocelyn (Metrop.) and
Maple (1928 Caulfield Cup).
* H= * *
“Pardon”: April 18 will mark the
diamond jubilee of the Wagga Cup.
The Murrumbidgee T.C. has announced
that a 100-guinea gold cup, presented by
the Horsleys, of Yabtree, will be tagged
to the historic event, and the Riverina
is generally expected to celebrate the
occasion “high and wide and handsome.”
Among past winners of the Wagga
trophy was Glenloth, hero of the “mud
Cup” at Flemington in 1892.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The resumption of Saturday-night box-
ing at the Sydney Stadium is an omen
of ruin to the wrestlers ; but they have
had a great run. At Leichhardt on
Saturday, Joe Gotch, after knocking
Martin Bucht out with right swings, was
awarded a fall and the decision. At
Newtown, Joe Dawson and Walter
Browning each gained a fall, but Brown-
ing was declared winner on points. He
didn’t deserve to be.
Mosman and University crews rowed
a splendid race for the Riverview Chal-
lenge Eights over the school’s mile course
on Saturday. There was never more
than half a length between them, and
finally the Mosmaners got a decision by
four feet in smin. 32 3-ssec. The other
events, too, provided good finishes. The
only school crew to race, St. Joseph’s
second four, ran into third place in one
heat of the Maiden Fours.
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY
AND MONDAY.
Autumn Plate: Silver Scorn ; next,
Peter Pan.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Sir John ;
next, Dark Sky.
Doncaster: Celebrate, 1 ; Leila
Vale, 2 ; Rogilla, 3.
St. Leger: Hall Mark; next,
Limarch.
Sydney Cup: Peter Jackson, 1 ;
Roxburgh, 2 ; Limarch 3.


m
mm
(CT
rs
Wwmm
wm
M, ': Sw
mm
(7
mm
w
V 1
mm
W hat are the points of excellence
you feel your next car must have are they Independent
Front Wheel Springing, Air-cushion Tyres, Octane Selector
on the dash, strong low Girder-type Frame, No-draught
Ventilation, Sway Stabiliser, Tasteful Luxury of all appoint-
ments ? Do you want these? . . . Then you can enjoy
them all in the 1934 Buick. For in the three new models
—Coupe, 5-passenger Sedan, and 7-pass‘enger Sedan
you see a combination of unalloyed comfort and com-
petence, cars that are girded with attributes which
only Buick resources and experience can give.
u
Lcl^
GENERAL MOTORS-H OLDEN S LIMITED
Series 50 : Coupe and 5-passenger Sedan. Series go : 7-passenger Sedan
Consult your local authorised Buick Dealer
Some of the
New Features
Sway Stabiliser
eliminates body roll
when cornering.
Automatic Starting
from the accelerator
pedal or throttle.
Automatic Choke
and Idle Control,
Octane Selector,
Vacuum Power
Brakes, and Centre-
pointsteering control.
*
Buick's Knee-action
Front Wheel Spring-
ing irons out every
road shock before it
reaches the chassis.
CP
A 1063 M
ins and Outs
“Shore”: A Sydney grade match pro-
vided a minor umpiring puzzle the other
day. A bowler warned the batsman
that he was going to toss him up an
“underarm.” The batsman made no
objection, and up the sugar-doodle went.
The ump. called no-ball. There is noth-
ing to justify his verdict in the laws save
the discretion allowed in Rule 48 to call
“no-ball” if an ump. is not satisfied of
the absolute fairness of any delivery. In
this case the delivery was fair and the
batsman was forewarned, so the discre-
tion was strained.
* * * *
“Huon”: Holiday cricket though it
was, the bowling form of the Australian
Eleven in the Tasmanian matches, where
consistently good scores were made
against it, was not encouraging. There
were occasional successes, but these were
not such as to suggest the might of Eng-
land is going to crumble before the Aus-
tralian attack this year. Grimmett,
O’Reilly and Wall are the first line, with
the reserves a considerable distance back.
Neither Wall nor Grimmett is in his
first bloom, and the former was never
a world-beater when he was. O’Reilly
has disappointed of late. There are good
judges who fear that the tremendous
work he did against Jardine’s men may
have taken some of the old devil out of
his bowling.
* * * *
“Tadcaster”: To me the most sinister
part of the thirty-odd articles to which
the Australian Eleven was required to
subscribe (B. 21/3/’34) is that enjoining
that players desiring alcohol or tobacco
must pay for them themselves. This
iays the axe at once to the root of inter-
national comity, and, though the ban will
be highly popular during the team’s short
Scottish tour, it is not likely to prove
so in Merrie England, where the custom
of “treating” is even more ingrained than
that of “shouting” in Australia, unem-
ployment and the dole to the contrary
notwithstanding. Surely the Board of
Control has done enough to imperil the
team’s popularity in England with its
stubborn attitude over bodyline without
compelling our boys to become an in-
voluntary band of Jimmy Woodsers, with
none so poor as to do them reverence
outside the ranks of the Temperance
Alliance?
H* * * *
“John’s Wood”: Middlesex, one of the
few English cricket counties which can
claim to “hold it,” pays an involuntary
compliment to Australian cricket in its
annual report. This discloses a loss of
£122 over the West Indian games, on
top of one of £7OO-odd for the county
season of the year before. But there
is a cash balance of £13,000, largely due,
as is admitted, to receipts from matches
with Australian teams at home and
abroad. No wonder the counties at least
are anxious to bury all the cutlery in
sight and let bygones be has-beens.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: In recognition of his
services to Queensland cricket and by
way of a solatium for the bad spin he
has experienced for years past at the
hands of the Australian selectors, Ron
Oxenham was last week presented in
Brisbane with a cheque for £195 and a
valuable trophy. Just before the pre-
sentation one enthusiastic backer made
a suggestion of an interesting nature. It
was that Oxenham should be shipped to
England and arrangements made to have
him included in the several not actually
official sides the Australians will play.
About the only one for which Ron
would be eligible is Leveson Gower’s
team at Scarborough, the last match of
the tour in England, and that hardly
seems worth the trouble.
* * * *
“Time’s Revenge”: Some time ago
writer had a short cricket sketch basketed
by The Bulletin. It told of a Test
match being won by reason of the ball
being jammed in a water-tap trap on
the ground. In the excitement of trying
to prise the thing out, none of the fielding
side remembered to call “lost ball,” and
the batsmen ran off the runs to win. A
South African paper reports an almost
similar happening in a Capetown match.
Here again it was forgotten to claim
“lost ball,” and the batsmen, ran 22 runs
and walked six more before the pill
was recovered.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The centenary com-
mittee of the Victorian Golf Association
has published details of the prize-money
to be distributed for the open champion-
ship of Victoria, which will this year be
played over 72 holes. The first prize
for the professionals will be £lOOO, the
second £4OO and the third and fourth
£-00 and £lOO, the amounts being pro-
gressively reduced to £2O for tenth place.
.on* eleventh to sixteenth the handout
Will be £lO in each case. The Victorian
professional championship will also carry
good money. First here is £5OO, with
£2OO for second and £lOO each for third
and fourth. Fifth, sixth, seventh and
eighth places have £25 each hung on
them.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The Lakes golf club, one
of Sydney’s post-war organisations, has
hopped into the ring with the offer of
£5OO in prize-money for an international
competition during Sydney’s festival fort-
night when Prince George and other
notabilities will be with us. The cash is
intended as a lure for the profes-
sionals from other countries who are
expected to flock to the Melbourne cen-
tenary tourney. It is a sporting offer,
and if clubs wealthier than the Lakes
followed suit from time to time there
would be no need to complain of the
ignoring of Australia by the world’s lead-
ing exponents of the royal and blasphem-
ous game.
* 5jC * BjC
“Hoylake”: There has been a revival
in Britain of the agitation to abolish the
stymie from match play on the ground
that it is apt to make the result of a
game of skill hinge on a mere fluke. If
there was anything in the thing, it should
be allowed in stroke and bogey play.
Hundreds of matches are spoiled by the
stymie. Opponents are quoting an ex-
perience of Archie Compston, who is
expected to visit Australia during the
tour of Prince George. He had four
putts on the last green to win a match.
His first attempt missed the tin, and his
second laid him a stymie. His third
knocked his rival’s ball into the hole, with
the result that he lost it, and only halved
the match.
* * * :i>
“Divot Digger”: N.S.W. golfers got
a mild shock when it was announced that
this year’s Kirk-Windeyer Cup match, to
be held in Auckland next month, will
be the last —for some time, at any rate.
The home-and-home clauses have been a
stumbling-block, since the journey across
the Tasman is an expensive one. Indeed,
expense caused the postponement of the
fixture in 1931 and last year. Of the
five matches played, N.S.W. has won
three. A lot wiil depend on this year’s
go, since the winning side will probably
become permanent owners of the hand-
some trophy.
* * * *
“Speewah”: Bulletin paragraphists
have often contended for the honor of
naming the loneliest golf post. I nomi-
nate the course at Cook, which is in the
middle of the Nullarbor Plain. When
the Australian XI passed through the
other day Oldfield, a keen golfer, dis-
covered that the little rail station in the
vast plain not only ran a golf club, but
was extending the course. A notice
posted at the station announced that a
new “green” would be established near
the local piggery, and that members were
requested to bring their own picks and
rakes. The Cook club can give
Royal Sydney and its purse-proud con-
temporaries in effete eastern Australia
a few points on how to play golf with-
out tears. One of them is that the annual
subscription is a shilling.
* * * *
“Riversdale”: Victoria’s returned sol-
diers are thinking up details for a special
centenary tournament for Diggers in
November, apart from the annual A.I.F.
Cup. If it comes off the show is to be
open to all members or ex-members of
the Allied armies.
* * * *
“Oaklands”: The decision of the Vic-
torian golf heqds to split up the £3OOO
prize-money collected for the centenary
tourney in November into 24 bites has
roused a considerable amount of criti-
cism. The central idea was that a thump-
ing prize would bring along professionals
with their tongues out, and it is felt that
the proposed £lOOO first prize is hardly
likely to produce the desired effect, since
visitors will have to pay all their own
expenses to Australia and back. As far
{Continued on next page)


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
HIGH-GRADE
SECOND-HAND ENGLISH
SHOTGUNS
These were specially selected hy me
whilst in England recently. From
some hundreds of guns offered, only
those suited to Australian conditions
were purchased.
Makers: Purdey, Jeffery, Lang,
Greener, Boswell, Powell, Evans,
Cashmore. Firearms Exchanged.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL LIST.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
BLAZING-A NEW jnAIL;IN|
SydNeyS THEATRE Moderne
1 PITT ST, <C
rtiDWAy bejween & pAR^q
IN M ENT
i
ill/ Hum
w\\\
yPKrlv 1
Wide range reproduction
BY WESTERN ELECTRIC
Dollop latex seats bx r
A.M TLfOMSOM and CO. LTP
UNPARALLELED STANDARDS of
EFFICIENCY AND COMFORT INAN
ATMOSPHERE (^LUXURY
DIRECTION: IMPERIAL THEATRES LTD.
DAVID N. MAN.DIBE-CTQfL^—
m
yen'll I!
Conducted by WIN. FOWLES.
CARRYON’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne's
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or n/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10 G
dav, 65/- week, both net. Free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. Please write
the Manager for quotations and detailed tariff
card.
d
GRIP FACTS.
For
Examinations, Business,
Public Speaking, Lodge,
etc., etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
5.F.,8, Melbourne.
as British professionals are concerned,
it has already been stated by the secre-
tary of the British P.G.A. that there is
little hope of any of his members making
the trip without a guarantee for ex-
penses. They mostly hail from north of
the Tweed, ye ken. The Victorians have
already refused an American request for
exes., and are hardly likely to oblige the
Britons.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Melbourne centenary
frenzy has forced the date of the annual
Dunlop Cup and Purse for professional
golfers a long way forward this year, the
event coming off at Royal Melbourne on
April 10 and 11. There will be 72 holes
of stroke, 36 on the west course on the
first day, the balance on the east course
next day. H. Boorer, of Oaklands, will
be there to defend the pot he won last
year.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: Cables show that both
in America and Britain the selection for
the amateur Walker Cup contest has been
confined, for the most part, to veterans.
Michael .Scott will skipper the British
team at St. Andrews on May 11 and 12.
Ouimet is to lead the Americans. Among
the old hands on the British side are the
perennial Tolley, Torrance and Wethered.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur”: Bill Tilden, who
seems to retain all his old mastery of
the art of ballyhoo, launched a magni-
ficent ad. for self and partner Vines by
challenging Crawford and Perry for the
world’s championship. No one knows
better than the astute William that a
meeting of the kind is impossible as long
as the challenged men desire to be re-
garded as amateurs. Without the con-
sent of the International Tennis Federa-
tion —a consent which will certainly not
be given even if asked for —Crawford
and Perry would automatically take on
the professional mantle by meeting the
Yanks.
* * * *
The long-awaited report of the inter-
national committee which has been in-
quiring into the “amateur” status in
tennis will cause no surprises to the
sophisticated, though its conclusions and
comments are often blistering enough,
both sexes getting it in the eye impar-
tially. Its finding is that for years most
of the leading amateurs have been living
by the game and nothing else —“living at
someone else’s expense from January 1
to December 31, and touring the world
without putting their hands in their own
pockets.” There is a lot more to the
same effect, and the report generally
reads like a series of verbatim extracts
from the sporting columns of The Bul-
letin for years past.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Tennis players
with tears at command may prepare to
shed them over a recommendation made
by the international committee which has
been investigating the activities of tennis
amateurs. It is only one of many, but
it is a facer. If it is adopted, no touring
player will in future be allowed travelling
and living expenses for more than eight
weeks, including the time he is actually
travelling! This is an iniquity, and I
can see countless leading tennis amateurs
hunting for jobs of real work.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The N.S.W. “age” cham-
pionships in Sydney showed clearly how
keenly and capably the younger genera-
tion is taking to tennis. Bromwich, who
won the under-17 title, is a freak player
of the McGrath type, though he outdoes
the latter in eccentricity. He serves and
smashes with the right, but plays fore-
hand shots with his left, using a two-
handed grip for right-hand shots. He is
a very promising player who so far has
had most of his experience on hard
courts. Huxley and Lindo are two other
youngsters far above the average, though
both are in the pony class physically.
Huxley is a left-hander with a stroke
production reminiscent of Norman
Brookes. He is a fine volleyer and tac-
tician, with an imperturbable tempera-
ment. Lindo is almost as good, but his
volleying calls for improvement. The
star turn of the meeting from one point
of view was Dyke, who owns up to 11
winters. A good many grown-ups would
like to possess this nipper’s flair for the
game.
* * * *
“Hotham”: This tennis season has
been remarkable for the number of
young players of both sexes who have
shown unmistakable championship pos-
sibilities. One of these is the Victorian
lad Ewin, who figured for his country
in the fifth Test at Perth. After down-
ing Moon in the semi-finals of the Mel-
bourne C.C. tourney, which included
many of Australia’s leading players,
Ewin capped a great season by winning
the final from Hopman by three sets to
one. Miss Blick, Australian junior girl
champion, won the women’s senior
singles from Miss Toyne without losing
a set, though she was beaten in the
junior tussle by Miss Stevenson.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Viv McGrath and
Joan Hartigan are to partner in the mixed
doubles at Wimbledon. The lad’s un-
usual style and the fact that his partner
is the Australian champion should
make the pair a first-class gate attraction.
They have often played together, and in
“I’m not playing my usual game to-day, caddie.”
“Wot’s that, mister? Snakes ’n' ladders?”
1932 won the City of Sydney mixed
doubles, as well as the Upper Hunter
title. McGrath, by the way, added to
his reputation before embarking for
Britain by lifting the South Australian
singles championship.
Car and Cycle
“Bumpk”: R. A. Lea-Wright won this
year’s motor-car Grand Prix at Phillip
Island (Vic.) under unusually stiff con-
ditions. When he was 15 laps away
from the finishing-line the gearbox of
his Singer locked in top. He thus had
tc choose between retiring or taking Hell’s
Corner and other fancy angles without
changing down. He carried on and
passed the line at 90 m.p.h., hotly pur-
sued by W. B. Thompson driving a
Magnette at 100 m.p.h. Thompson, at
2h. 37min. 21 sec. for the 2GO miles,
logged the fastest time and established
a new speed record. Hell s Corner lived
up to its reputation, two cars providing
portion of the 10,000 watchers with a
gymnastic tumbling act, without serious
damage to the gladiators inside them,
however.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Lea-Wright, winner of the
200-mile Grand Prix in Victoria, had
an unusual experience prior to the spin.
The day before the line-up the engine
of his car blew up. He got a new engine
down from Melbourne and started to
drive round the Phillip Island course all
night with the idea of running it in. In-
habitants objected to the midnight noises
so strenuously that the police stopped the
stunt. There was nothing for it but to
borrow another car, and in this, which
had run only a few hundred miles, L.-W.
faced the starter.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian Auto-cycle
Union has got itself in the expected
tangle over its original idea of running
a Centenary Tourist Trophy race round
Albert Park. This is quite a large place,
with a lake in the middle which is occu-
pied by ducks and a rowing club for
the most part. There is also a golf club,
and the shades of the rather occasional
trees are popular with canoodling couples
and out-of-works. These and other in-
fluences have induced the V.A.C.U. to call
the bet off. For one thing, motor-cycle
racing round the unfenced circuit would
probably result in heavy casualties among
the spectators because of their crowding
in on the paths. If the show comes off
at all it will be at long-suffering Phillip
Island, which seems to get everything of
the sort wished on to it nowadays.
* * * *
“Differential”: Though the German
driver Stucke hoisted the world’s one-
hour motor-car record from 133.1 to
135.7 miles (B. 21/3/’34), he drove
under much more favorable conditions
than the previous holder, Eyston, could
command. The Englishman’s figures
were put up on the Montlhery track near
Paris, which is a trifle over a mile in
circuit. Stucke drove on the Avus cir-
cuit in Germany, which is 12 miles round.
Every motor-driver will recognise that he
had an advantage. All the same, the hour
record is the hardest to beat of all of
them, and for years the distances set have
only been added to bit by bit.
Miscellaneous
With the departure of the Australian
Eleven, Australia’s numerous football
codes are clearing for action —indeed, the
Soccer people have already made a start
in some of the States. The Australian
Rulers will be the last to take the field,
the official Victorian season opening on
May 5, the reason being that the semi-
finals may run on into the centenary
festivities during October. In N.S.W. the
Rugby Union opens its premiership tour-
ney on April 14, and the League kicks
off with an unofficial match between Bal-
main and a North Queensland team on
Easter Saturday, the regular games begin-
ning a month later.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: With Australia
right on the edge of the football season
the results of the British Rugby inter-
nationals may be worth noting. Eng-
land finished an unbeaten season by
downing Scotland at Twickenham 6-3
(two tries to one) before a 70,000 crowd,
the match also transferring the Calcutta
Cup to the south of the Tweed. Wales
beat Scotland and Ireland and the
Scots won their match with the Irish.
This means that poor ould Ireland will
have to hump the wooden spoon until
next season at least.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League dropped
some £4OOO over last season, which was
one of the worst experienced since the
professional code became established in
Sydney. The claim made at the annual
meeting that the falling off was due to
broadcasting of matches will not hold
water. The quality of the football shown
was the poorest seen for years.
* * * *
“Banzai”: That reference to the tour
of the Australian University Rugby foot-
ballers in Japan (B. 21 / 3 / ”34) omits men-
tion of what must be a unique experience
for any touring athletic team. Not the
receptions by leading politicians and
members of the Cabinet, nor even the
fact that the brother of the Emperor
gave them a special audience —the Wara-
tahs were entertained by King George
at Sandringham —but the cablegram from
the British Ambassador thanking the
team for the “splendid results of its tour,
which had done nothing but good to-
wards promoting harmony between the
British and Japanese nations.” It is a
compliment which none of the lads is
ever likely to forget.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: There was a teacup storm
in the N.S.W. rowing world last week
when E. E. Keary, coach of the King’s
Cup crew, threw in his marble. His
reason was that selector Williams would
not consent to the substitution of the
emergency man for one already in the
boat. The association refused to accept
the resignation, ruling, quite correctly,
that once the crew had been chosen it
passed entirely into the hands of the
coach. With the alteration, the crew is
the same as that which won in Bris-
bane last year, save that Raffan replaces
Lambert, out of the game through ill-
ness, as stroke.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Entries for the Ma State
baseball season close on April 5, and the
competitions commence three weeks
later. In addition to the visit of the two
American professional teams at the end
of the year, it is likely that next winter
the Wander club, from Hawaii, will spend
a month touring the Australian States
The club is an amateur one, and is said
to field a team equal to the best of the
American universities. Recalling the per-
formances of the Californian ’Varsity
players in this country a couple of years
or so ago, that argues a hot time for
our men. However, we shall never raise
our standards until we get plenty of
practice with high-class teams from out-
side ; so let ’em all come.


Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The zJM.acleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free
Some Brilliant Bygones,
BY RODERIC QUINN.
LAST Saturday when town was at its
busiest I strolled along George-
street, up King-street and down
Pitt-street. Though I could find my way
over every inch of it blindfold the round
T traversed appealed to me as strange and
unfamiliar. It was as though I walked
an alien city and among a foreign people,
knowing none of the passers-by and
known to none.
Thirty years ago or thereabouts, work
over for the week and care given the go-
by for an interval, it was the custom of
Sydney folk, clad, shod and hatted for the
occasion, to “do the Block” on Saturday
morning. “Doing the Block” was to stroll
at a leisured pace around that gaily-
windowed portion of the city frontiered
by George, King, Pitt and Market streets,
with a right to lounge against a post at
times and watch the passing show. There
to see or be seen for an hour or two of
bi illiant emergence from the humdrum
road of their weekly duties came young
and old and not so old.
Abroad amongst all was something
of fellowship, something of that atmo-
sphere which makes one feel that he
is at home and not amongst strangers.
Here and there, affinities at work, birds
of a feather, folk who followed the same
calling, would draw apart from the pro-
menaders and, grouping themselves on
kerb and corner, talk over themes that
mattered much to them, and little indeed
to the passers-by. To one of these groups,
made up of men of the brush and men
of the pen, I usually attached myself.
Some who belonged to it are past the
peradventure of meeting again, yet to
have met them was a worth-while
moment in life. These I like to think of
as Brilliant Bygones.
Foremost amongst them, one hand in
his pocket, the other serenely and gravely
stroking his beard, one might meet Victor
Daley, and be assured by Daley’s charm
of talk that it was indeed the poet him-
self. And one might be sure that, having
found Victor, he would not have to look
far for Billy Melville, the “Brilliant
Young Australian who wrote the ‘Land
of Light.’ ” To join the group at times,
carrying erect his six feet of manhood,
came Frank Mahony, featured like an
eagle—aquiline of eye and nose, a giver
of scornful words, but no meek recipient
of them.
When Henry Lawson made one of
the company, usually companioned by
some shy, bearded bard of the bush, the
group grew to such proportions that the
wayfaring public was forced to swirl
around it, as moving water swirls around
a rock in a rockhole. This happening,
Daley would suggest an adjournment to
some haunt where quietude and other
things no less desirable were to be had.
On our way there it oft befell that we met
Philip J. Holdsworth, frock-coated and
silk-hatted, who would stay his steps to
pass a word or two with us, then continue
on his way to the Athenaeum Club. Or
h might be that in the vicinity of the old
“Daily Telegraph” office we would come
upon John Farrell—find him lounging
against a verandah-post, and maybe
grinding tobacco to the nicety he desired
with the heel of one hand in the palm
of the other. Once a brewer, brewing
beer for the thirsty, he lived to brew
poetry, too, and poetry of a fine flavor.
Rounding the corner of Castlereagh-
street —for in Castlereagh-street stood the
sanctuary we sought—we often chanced
on Jack Brereton, best beloved of all the
Brilliant Bygones. Him we hailed as we
would have hailed something good be-
stowed by the gods in a genial mood,
and carried off to that “cool, dim parlor”
which he wrote of in “Swags Up.”
On reaching our objective, Saturday
being the witching day on which the
ghost walked for most of us, we made
a merry session of it in that city hostelry,
not without a full tankard now and anon to
speed the hours. That “cool, dim parlor,”
was not dim always,- for there on certain
afternoons a sunbeam slanted through a
western window, making visible elsewhere
invisible motes and setting ashine the long,
polished cedar table around which the
group seated themselves, laughing, scoff-
ing, jesting as their mood suggested.
Unforgettable was the picture they pre-
sented—Daley, rich in repartee, drawing
a grin or a good-natured growl at every
thrust of his rapier wit; Lawson, chuck-
ling to himself over some humorous
phrase or episode which he, keen of
observation always, had alone perceived ;
Le Gay Brereton, silent mostly, but thrill-
ing like a harp to the tune the moment
called ; and Mahony, eyes on fire, and
scoffing hugely at the alleged brains of
some brother artist who had dared to
draw a horse. But the star figure of all
was Billy Melville, the Brilliant Young
Australian, Billy on his feet sternly de-
termined to recite his one and only
poem—“ The Land of Light.”
Light-hearted, genial, with never an
acquaintance in the whole world who did
not wish him well, Melville, according to
J. F. Archibald, was the best political
paragraphist of his day, and as he wrote
he talked. With him all persons in whom
he discerned more than ordinary merit
were “brilliant.” At a meeting of sub-
urban ratepayers on one Qccasion I heard
him, when the question of electing a
chairman was being discussed, move
“that Mr. Kerry, the brilliant young
butcher from over the way, be chosen
for the position.”
“The Land of Light” he held dear as
the crown and roof of his achievement.
Not only in Australia, but also across
the seas, had he given it voice,
for it was his boast that on the
occasion of an after-the-war banquet
in South Africa he had recited it
before an august assemblage of statesmen
and soldiers. Present there as the re-
presentative of the London “Daily Ex-
press,” at what he judged to be the pro-
pitious moment he rose from his seat and,
advancing to the table of the mighty,
suavely and persuasively announced that
he would now favor them with a recita-
tion, a slight thing which he himself had
composed. Then, raising his hand to
command silence and attention, in ringing
tones he carried out to the last syllable
his bright and audacious item of enter-
tainment.
“And,” said Victor Daley, when Billy
first told him of his great feat, “how did
they take it? Was there much applause?”
No, they seemed too much impressed
to applaud.”
“No doubt —and Kipling was there,
you say. Did he, too, seem impressed?”
Well, Victor, Kipling’s a snob, you
know, a literary snob. He just toyed with
his wineglass and looked supercilious.”
Just so, commented Daley, gravely
stroking his trim beard. “How else would
you have him behave —seeing that his
laurels were imperilled?”
Sometimes as those afternoons wore on
“Narranghi Boori” or George Taylor or
Bert Stevens would happen into the “cool,
dim parlor” for a while of jovial talk and
a flagon of good-fellowship. Then as the
moted beam, slanting less and less, crept
up the papered wall of the room, one
or other of the party would take himself
off.
Lawson, having shaken hands with
each of the company, sometimes twice
and thrice, would visit the second-hand
bookshop over the way, there to turn
the leaves of some soiled volume,
or (what pleased him more) to listen
for a space to the bright chat of his
kindly little friend Mrs. McNamara,
who loved to see him entering her shop
swinging his stick, and with some whim-
sical tale to account for his presence
Never much of a reader, Lawson had yet
a strange habit of haunting the musty,
dusty vicinity of old bookstalls, drawn
there perhaps by that sympathy which he
always felt for the discard and the out-
cast. Missing him at The Bulletin
office on any day one would be almost
sure to sight him in Castlereagh-street,
mostly in the neighborhood of some
second-hand bookshop.
Then Mahony, becoming suddenly
aware that he had stayed overlong, would
take his departure, hail a ’bus in a near-
by street, mount the box-seat —always the
box-seat if it was available —and engage
in serious horse talk with the driver; for
Mahony was known to every driver and
knew every ’bus horse on the road to the
eastern suburbs. It was his custom to
spend long hours in the Paddington ’bus
stables, studying and sketching. His was
the high, bright peak of happiness when,
at lunch-time or at busy homing periods
of the late afternoon, he chanced to sit
beside the four groomed and stylish greys
which took up the running at such hours.
To the driver, skilled above all others on
the road, he said no word, but, eyes intent
on the team, watched the play of their
muscles and the rhythm of their motion
as they wound their way, sinuously yet
ceaselessly, through the spate of traffic
that roared down Pitt-street and up
Oxford-street—then known as “Suicide-
alley.”
Very resentful of the manner in which
Australia had treated him, Mahony said
to me on the day he took ship to Eng-
land :
“I never want to see Australia again.
And I never shall.”
He never did.
When Daley and Melville quitted the
“cool, dim parlor” usually it was to visit
the house or studio of some mutual
friend. Maybe the studio of Nelson
Illingworth would be their objective,
there to find the long-haired sculptor,
smocked and hands wet with clay, en-
gaged in giving shape and substance to
some dream. Maybe a tram would take
them to the house of Jack Delaney, where
they would perhaps light upon that
master musician at his keyboard. Thus
would they spend the hours till the day
ended and the home-call came to them.
Then, parting from Melville, and well
pleased with the day’s happenings, Daley
would saunter home to the old house in
Little Bourke-street.
The old house in Little Bourke-street!
It’s older now. So old is it that the Wise
Men of the city have condemned it as a
place uninhabitable, and, so that their
condemnation shall not be disregarded,
have barricaded its front with sheets of
rusty iron. To that old house, when
Daley dwelt there, flocked the freelance
fraternity of the period. Australians
mostly, but at times numbering also for-
tune-seeking and fortune-forsaken men
of the pen from far climes. There, for
instance, one might frequently chance
upon “Six-by-Eight” (Dick Holt) and
hear him discoursing with a quaintly
twisted tongue on the virtues of “wum”
and milk as a morning drink, or at un-
guarded moments hinting to “Wictor” of
the “wetter days” he had known in Eng-
land. There, too, when at long intervals
he left his tent in the bush to visit Syd-
ney, came “Scotty the Wrinkler” (Phil
Mowbray).
There, also, on occasion gravitated
Von Kotze, who, by right of birth, was
a count or a baron, and who sailed away
to Germany long before the Great War.
Such were Daley’s guests, many-countried
and many-charactered, and such was the
hospitality of his mind and manner that,
though his larder might be empty and
his decanter desert-dry, none quitted his
door without feeling that he had drunk
deeply and feasted to the full.
Visiting him one night I found him
entertaining a guest of quite a different
type.
As I entered the room Daley, without
a greeting word, nodded to me to take
a seat. The curtness of his reception
made me feel that I was an intruder and
not welcome at the moment, and that all
his attention was focussed on the gentle-
man at his right elbow. Never had I
seen Victor in such a captivating mood,
never so anxious to put a guest at his
ease. By the light of an oil lamp on the
table he read a sketch from the pen of
Robert Louis Stevenson. The sketch
dealt with a poet in a wild moment.
There and then Daley would pause in
his reading to ask his guest how he liked
this or that sentence, or to observe the
nicety of such-and-such a phrase. Or,
perhaps, indicating a passage with a tap-
ping finger, he would say:
“Hear, listen! Let me read this over
again for you so that you may get the
full beauty of it.”
But so far as I could see the man to
whom he addressed himself seemed in-
capable of observing beauty in anything.
Dressed in drab clothes, and seeming
drab right through to his inmost soul, he
listened to Daley without nod of recog-
nition or word of approval. Patient and
stolid he sat and smoked and listened,
with that look of dull contentment in
his eyes which one may see in the eyes
of a cow calmly chewing its cud.
At the door I said to Victor, “How
did you come by the taciturn genius
inside?”
“Hush,” answered Victor. “If he is
taciturn he is at least a good listener —
the best listener I ever met.”
“Who is he?”
“His name is Brown. He is going to
board with me for a while. His char-
acter is vouched for by a high official of
the Supreme Court.”
He parted with me then, saying, with
a grim smile: “He’s my new bailiff!”
A few days afterwards I met Victor
sauntering through town, and asked how
things fared.
“Well,” he replied gravely, “on the
whole, well; but my boarder is causing
me some concern. Because of something
that happened last night I had to speak
rather sternly to him. I told him on no
account to leave the house without my
permission.”
“But surely” I exclaimed.
“Listen. Yesterday when I left home
for town he accompanied me to the bar
at the corner and insisted on shouting for
me. We had two drinks. When 1 re-
turned home at night Mrs. Daley opened
the door.
“ ‘Oh, it’s you,’ she said, a trifle of dis-
appointment in her tone.
“ ‘Yes, why not?’ I asked in some per-
plexity. Before she could answer I
realised that our boarder was missing.
“ ‘He hasn’t been here since you took
him out this morning,’ the wife said,
somewhat accusingly.
“I spent long hours that night search-
ing for him; ransacked Darlinghurst,
Surry Hills and Woolloomooloo. Some
hours after midnight I struggled into the
water police station at the Quay. At
the desk was a nautical-minded sergeant
with whom I was on friendly terms, and
to him I confided my quandary.
“ ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘your description fits
the craft that was towed in here yester-
day afternoon. He was beer-logged to
the Plimsoll, and had an alarming list to
larboard. Come and inspect him.’ It
was the lost one. Joyously I took the
long track homeward, he at my side,
having bailed my bailiff out.”
Some days after, timely fortune com-
ing to his aid, Daley lost his guest.
“I was sorry to lose him,” he said—“he
had such a capacity for listening. And he
was sorry to leave. Over and over again
he asked me to instal him as a boarder.
It hurt me to part with him, but,” with
a shrug, “what was Ito do? The house
is small, I had no room for him, and so
I had to forego the unique privilege of
having a bailiff perpetually resident on
the premises.”
But the old house in Little Bourke-
street was to have its day of bright dis-
tinction too, for on a certain morning
one whom the neighborhood took to be
a “glorious policeman,” gaily uniformed
and mounted on a horse whose hide
shone like satin, rode into its squalid
precincts. At his coming all who lived
within sight of him crowded to their
doors and windows, whispering and
wondering.
Dismounting at Daley’s door, the rider
delivered a letter. No sheriff’s writ this,
but a message to the poet requesting him
to come to Government House and dis-
cuss high themes with a Governor grown
tired of wasting leisured moments in
petty talk and dull routine.
On the eve of Victor Daley’s death I
was with him at Waitara. Loyal to the
end, Melville was there also. The air
was charged with the scent of roses.
Standing at Daley’s bedside, he said:
“Victor, I have brought you a bottle of
medicine.”
Daley nodded, for even to whisper
hurt him.
“They think great things of it in South
Africa,” Melville continued.
Again Daley nodded.
“Now,” said Melville, “if you take it
it will cure you. I know it will. It’s
a sovereign remedy for your complaint.
For instance, there was Sir Gordon
Sprigg. They didn’t give him six
months”
“Well, Billy,” whispered Victor, “they
should have.”
Thus, on the Threshold jested the
brightest of the Brilliant Bygones.


ms
LYS
A
ROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
V
v:
4
■
■ m- . ' ■
w
msm
•:A .."?}.■
:.Y. ,v„ ®V%V. .••’yj- ’
,-iarf .^..,r
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
SELF-SUPPORTING FARMS.
“El V.”: If the depression has taught
us anything it is that Australia needs
more self-supporting farms. Our big ex-
port industries and American influence,
plus our abundance of land, have tended
to turn us into specialists. Many a
sheepman with thousands of acres round
him thinks it a trouble to grow his own
vegetables, and I know dairymen who
bring the family cabbages home in the
milkcart.
The days of butter at 2s. a pound and
wheat at ss. a bushel have gone for the
present, and even wool prices will be
partly governed henceforward by condi-
tions in the artificial wool and silk
trades. Therefore, the sooner the Aus-
tralian butter- and wheatmen in par-
ticular cease to consider the farms as
one-product factories, the better. If every
district could make itself self-contained,
feeding and clothing its people and ex-
porting only its surplus, there would be
less suffering in depression times and less
dependence on Governments and banks.
The Australian is apt to look with pity
and scorn on the Continental peasant,
but where the latter is hard up it is
usually because he works on an acreage
which would not keep a cattle-dog under
Australian conditions, or on country
which no Australian would regard as
producing land at all.
Yet the bulk of peasants on the better
class of country, even where the farms
are small, have survived not only the
current depression, but dozens of depres-
sions and waves of war. A length-of-
residence competition for peasant fami-
lies in France a few years ago was won
by people who had been on their land
for over 900 years. And a large section
of the Bavarian Bauerei has been so long
on its farms that, still living on the most
modest scale, it boasts pedigrees as long
as any extant English aristocratic family
and traditions as proud, while its wonder-
fully carved houses, with their pantries
and stores filled with home-grown and
-made products, are cherished as dearly
as any ancestral castle.
The posterity of a man who establishes
a family farming tradition in which a
beast to kill, dairy cows to milk, fowls,
home-grown fodders and family handi-
craftsmanship are ingrained is almost
certain to survive the most troublous
times.
SHEEP INSTEAD OF BONUS.
“Lanus”: “Valerin” (B. 7/3 / ’34) puts
his finger on the spot when he suggests
sheep on shares to reduce the area under
wheat and provide a profitable substitute.
But the share system will not meet all
cases.
Instead of paying a dole to needy
wheatgrowers, let the Government supply
them each with a suitable number of
breeders, and insist that a certain area
should be sown to fodder crops before
any wheat is planted for grain. Jt
would get its money back in time, and
the country would be the richer. Last,
but not least, the farmer would retain
his self-respect.
THE CORRIEDALE.
“Lanus”: “W.D.Mc.” (B. 14/3/’34)
says “too many breeds lead to mongrels.”
That is just the trouble with the Corrie-
dafes. We have two Corriedale Societies ;
one original, the other a breakaway
body. The latter insists on Lincoln and
merino blood only ; the former includes
flocks with Lincoln, merino, Border and
English Leicester and Romney blood.
“Sheepo” (B. 14/3/’34) should note that
the C tattoo mark belongs to the original
society. The breakaway society has a
different tattoo mark.
There is a wide variation in type,
quality and density of wool amongst
various registered flocks, and if the breed
is to emerge as a fixed and fairly uni-
form type we must look to the break-
away society, which countenances only
two breeds to bring about that result.
Corriedale wool lacks density ; yet it
is weight that swells the wool cheque. As
to early maturity, the Lincoln and merino
are about the slowest maturers of all the
breeds.
The present Corriedale position is
chaotic and the future of the breed un-
certain. It needs a Booth or a Bates or
a Peppin to take it up.
FLY-BLOW.
“G.H.H.”: Any blowfly will attack
sheep if luring qualities be right, and so
“B.B.” (B. 7/4/’34) overstates his case in
giving the popular but erroneous idea
published in the report he mentions.
“Primary” and “secondary” are relative
terms defined by normal conditions. In
known cases Chrysomyia leads in attack
on sheep, two species being involved,
C. rufifacies and C. micropogon. The
latter may be particularly damaging,
though cases are rare.
Hitherto water-rot in the fleece is the
only factor known to develop luring
qualities, but all cases of water-rot do
not induce a pabulum conducive to
maggot growth. Suitable pabulum for
primary maggots is, however, invariably
suitable for secondary maggots, too ; so
the ruling factor in fly-blow seems to be
in the difference in the lures which at-
tract the various flies. A secondary blow-
fly may become a primary one, but there
is doubt if those now classed as primary
can become secondary, because of the
difference in the luring factor.
C. micropogon is on the verge of being
both primary and secondary in its attack,
but it seems to need definite luring quali-
ties to induce it to strike. When the
animal is struck it is usually dead within
two days of discovery. The smooth
maggots are readily detected by their
habit of shivering, and a mass of them
gives a blurred effect.
MITCHELL GRASS.
“Bull Tosser”: Horses and cattle will
clean up Mitchell grass. After filling up
on grass they pack odd internal corners
with choice pickings of Mitchell seeds
as they walk. If the seed is all destroyed,
and with no young stuff coming on to
take its place, the Mitchell dies the death
after its allotted span.
Sheep relish the flag only. I have seen
paddocks of Mitchell which are clean
from the sheep’s point of view. Every
blade has gone, and only waving stems
with much seed remain.
Sheep actually renovate Mitchell lands.
I know of thirty thousand-odd acres
chopped out of Mitchell by heavy stock-
ing with cattle over a long number of
years. Only rubbish grew there —roly-
poly, etc. About 10,000 full-woolled
ewes were put in an area thick with seed-
ing Mitchell. After a month or so they
were put in the chopped-out paddock for
just as long as it would carry them—a
week or two only. That did the trick.
After the following wet, though there
wasn’t a full crop, there was enough
Mitchell in that paddock to start it on
the road to recovery.
PHOSPHATES AND SHEEP LICKS.
“Jass”: “E.D.” is fortunate indeed if
that lick comprising salt, sulphur, sul-
phate of iron and lime contains “all that
a sheep requires” in his locality (B.
7/3/’34).
Most of our pastures are naturally defi-
cient in phosphates, and a lick’s purpose
is to make this lack good.
Finely ground Nauru phosphates,
bonemeal or dicalcic phosphate are
usually employed. They, however, are
much more expensive than salt; hence
the tendency to include too much salt and
too little phosphates.
Soil, herbage, water and other vital
conditions vary so much that no lick will
serve a wide range of pastoral areas.
Ready-made licks should only be pur-
chased on a definite guarantee of con-
tents, with percentages of all ingredients
shown.
The local agricultural department is
the best judge.
THE ZEBUS SETTLING DOWN.
“Beefo”: The zebu bulls and heifers
recently imported from Texas to N.
Queensland have completed their quaran-
tine and inoculation. The bulls have
been distributed, two to a station, whilst
the heifers are held on a property of
Queensland Stations, Ltd., as a nucleus
of a stud.
Indiscriminate breeding will not be in-
dulged in. The C.S.I.R. will co-operate
with the syndicate. Only pure-breds will
be used for mating with zebu bulls, and
none of the first-cross bulls will be dis-
tributed amongst the herds until the
C.S.I.R. and the interested pastoralists
are convinced that the zebu strain will
benefit the industry.
The good results obtained from zebu-
cross stock from Christmas Creek (N.Q.)
and the favorable comment from Smith-
field butchers on the quality of the beef
have raised hopes that the zebu will prove
useful in the North.
The quality of some of the northern
Shorthorn and Hereford herds is fair,
but something is needed to impart hardi-
ness and immunity against droughts, tick
and buffalo-fly. The zebu may do it.
DISTEMPER CURES.
“Omoo”: These three from the back-
country: —(1) Take as much bluestone
(copper sulphate) as you place on a
threepenny-piece, pulverise and pour
down dog’s throat, and follow immedi-
ately with a small draught of water
This will cause dog to vomit and cleat
throat and stomach. Two or three days
later, give a moderate dose of castor oiL
(2) Hoof-raspings given in the preced-
ing manner, sometimes with the addition
of a little piece of cooked meat, will also
do the trick. Follow with oil.
(3) File lightly the edges of a penny,
put filings in meat, and proceed as above.
It may be necessary to keep the dog’s
mouth open with a stick while giving
the dose.
WHEAT-POISONING.
“W.M.”: With deference to “Bioko”
(B. 21/2/’34), I cannot recommend his
water cure for wheat-poisoning. In every
instance I have seen in 40 years, water ad
libitum has been fatal to Dobbin, and
the authorities he quotes fail to impress
me. Their theories may be all right, but
their practice is lamentable. Since I
adopted the bicarbonate of soda treat-
ment I have not lost a horse. My advice
is to stand Neddy in water, but don’t
let him drink—except via a drenching-
horn.
DOES DIGGING-OUT PAY?
“Albarmount”: To get reliable evi-
dence I kept a daily tally of the rabbits
dug out of two small paddocks. The
land is choice hilly grazing country,
otherwise well improved, and previous to
digging-out carried one sheep per acre.
The number of rabbits destroyed and the
cost of labor were as follows:
Area. No. of rabbits. Per ac. Cost. Per ac.
320 ac. 4487 14 £B6 5/41
236 ac. 4573 19.7 £llO 9/4
556 ac. 9060 16.3 £196 7/0*
Admittedly the number at the time of
eradication was abnormal ; but this is
partly offset by the wastage of grass
chewed off by rabbits in the flush season
—leaving the country bare for the cold
months. The area is now carrying
another 800 sheep, and I anticipate carry-
ing still another 600, as well as increas-
ing wool and breeding outputs.
TANKING MAIZE.
“Up North”: A good way to store
maize is to seal it up in tanks —a 1200-
gallon tank holds about four tons, or 60
bags.
It is important to have the tanks under
a roof to preclude the gathering of dew
inside. Choose a dry day and have the
maize quite dry and mature. The tank
is rammed as full as possible.
A tap lid is now put on firmly and the
joints of both lid and spout-cap sealed
with putty, which makes the tank
airtight, watertight and insect-proof.
Any weevils, etc., which may have been
in the grain are quickly smothered
by lack of fresh air. Maize stored
in this way will keep in perfect condition
for years. In the old days before the
maize pool, which uses concrete bins, as
much as 8000 tons used to be tanked
on the Atherton in a season.
SOW PROBLEMS.
“Jerry”: There are two cures for those
bugbears of the pigbreeder sows eating
their young and sows lying on their
young.
For the first evil the bacon factory is
best, but often a valuable producer is
the culprit, so one must adopt other
means.
When I caught a costly Tamworth in
the act, the piglet was taken from her
and put out of its misery. Then an in-
cision was made in the stomach, a half-
teaspoon of cayenne inserted and the car-
cass sewn up. This was given to the
sow while she had her head in the trough.
When she saw the pig she made a snap
and the subsequent proceedings were wild
and furious.
Next time she farrowed she made no
attempt to eat her young. I have found
the scheme successful in other cases.
Overlying occurs because the young
pile up one on the other against the
wall, and the sow just piles herself up,
leaving no room for them to wriggle out.
My plan is to place heavy poles four-
square in the pen, one foot from
walls, one foot high, low enough to
prevent the sow from getting under-
neath. This method keeps the sow from
the wall and so gives the young a chance
to scramble into safety.
“L.M;”: With wool at present prices
dead wool should get more attention. I
put mine by and went through it on a
wet day, taking out rubbish and with an
old pair of shears removing skin-pieces.
Out of 4871 b., 131 b. was returned as value-
less ; and 611 b. was sold as skin-pieces;
the rest, pooled, sold to 15d. for a line
branded “Plucked,” and averaged Bd. a
pound net. Allowing for rubbish which
the local dealer would buy and I dis-
carded, a day’s work returned a profit of
£4 ss. After the wool has been cleared
away I spray the spot where the dead
wool has been sorted with a 10 p.c.
solution of phenol or any good phenol
dip. It costs little and will prevent in-
fection.
{Land page continued on page 30.)


V a •:
tiP*
5$
m
&
m
m
08
V
%
<fc
*%acv*v(
«x.': :
XjS*'
Aas fAw bag of Meggitt’s Meal got to do with
An Englishman's Breakfast ?
A Frenchman's Clothes ?
or Australia's Prosperity ?
wu
ft
I.
7\
f/.lilA
-7
Ilk
A
as
in
H
THESE days, many an English breakfast
table is served with butter, eggs and
ham produced in Australia. Many a French
woollen mill draws largely on Australia for
the wool it uses in such vast quantities.
The use of Megaitt’s Linseed Oil Meal and
Sheep Nuts in the scientific feeding of
Australia’s stock, plays an important part in
improving the quantity and quality of these
Australian primary exports. Thus it helps to
increase the size of the cheque received for
Australian produce from overseas.
Meggitt’s assistance to the Australian on the
land goes much further than providing all
that is necessary for modern, scientific feeding
methods. For many years Meggitt’s have com
ducted wide and comprehensive educational
work on the feeding of stock, including the
promotion of competitions which have had
a valuable influence in raising production
standards.
Meggitt’s also maintain an Advisory Depart-
ment of experts to which the producer can
bring his feeding problems and be sure of
receiving an accurate and successful solution.,
This Department offers its services free and
invites enquiries on any matter that will help
raise the standard of Australia’s primary
exports.
'fit lil 1
/fl.uu.'i
' % II 171 »
LHS
B 5
4 >*,
eTO
-* u u U"ii
QDOQII
IliSKfi
TVS
wn
rx*
Meggitt Ltd
Tie boy cn the boo
(Ooro/icees quality’*'
LINSEED OIL
LINSEED OIL MEAL
KIBBLED NUTS
LINSEED OIL CAKE
SHEEP NUTS
And other Products of Linseed
HEAD OFFICE: Asbestos House , 67 York St., Sydney. BRANCHES OR DISTRIBUTORS in all States. WORKS: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.


WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Shoes that save
Spend less on footwear wear
Abbey Hand-sewn Shoes. They
outlast at least two ordinary pairs.
They fit smoothly and easily. Even
when new there’s no tightness or
strain. The fine leather of which
the supple upper is made preserves
its appearance and shape. Abbey
Hand-sewn Shoes save money in
the long run.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length, and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF .. 70/-
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 378
CHEAP POWER
AT 29 AN HOUR.
ď
DIESEL
to TYPE
CRUDE OIL
ENGINE
Starts, runs and re-starts on
Crude Oil.
Send for illustrated literature to
Sole Distributors:
N.S.W.: The Purifier Dairying Equip-
ment Co., Ltd., 113 Pitt S't., Sydney.
VIC.: Webb Bros. Pty., Ltd., 284-294
City Road, South Melbourne.
Q’LAND : Motors Pty., Ltd., Wickham
Street. Brisbane.
S. AUS.: Adelaide Car & Tractor Co.,
Ltd., Cnr. Morphett and Waymouth
Streets, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY -
RAPSON*DUTTON PTY. LTD.
B R I S BANE w-
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsurances« ffected on all clas s° s of
„ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marins Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
marine kishs Hul]g of Vessels> Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
t.
Vfijil*
f lrn>A
SEE US AT SHOW TIME—USE US ANY TIME
GOLDSBROUCH, MORT&Co.Ltd.
5 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY
EFFICIENT AND PROMPT SERVICE IS OUR AIM
Consult with us about your WOOL CLIP and the improvement
of your STOCK.
(i Office at Showground, opposite the Members’ Stand.)
OUR STATION SUPPLIES DEPT, can save you money and trouble.
LIBERAL ADVANCES AGAINST THE 1934-35 CLIP
AT THE REDUCED RATE OF 4\ PER CENT. INTEREST.
Our clients’ writing and rest room is at your disposal.
Telegrams:—GOLDSßßO Box 484 AA, G.P.O.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
.
SCHUTE
BELLe CSi
personal
attention
HINTS FOR THE FARM
“Yacca”: A good home-made imple-
ment for quickly cutting paddymelons
and such weeds on fallow can be made
from an old 13-tyne cultivator and a bar
of iron about Bft. x 4in. x Lin. To con-
struct, first remove all but the two rear
outside tynes. To these affix the cutting
bar, previously drawn to a tapered cut-
ting edge. This is a big job for a small
forge and better done by the local smith.
To affix the blade, drill two holes oppo-
site each tyne and fix with U-bolts. Set
the cutting edge of the blade slightly
down. On fallow three horses will make
light work with it and do a more effective
job than eight or ten in a cultivator.
“Henwife”: I can endorse all “Hatter”
says re milk for hens (B. 7/2/’34). I
have given my fowls separated milk for
years and have eggs when they are
scarce: I find, however, it is best to let
it get thick by standing the container
over the fire. The thicker it is, the more
the chooks enjoy it. Also the heating
sterilises the milk. But let it cool off
before giving it to the birds.
“F.C.”: When greasing heavy gear,
such as drays or waggons, place an axe-
head flat on the ground with the blade
outwards, and then run the wheel (with
the centre-cap removed) on to the axe-
head. The wheel will slip out, along the
head, exposing sufficient axle to enable
greasing. To get the wheel in original
position, reverse the axe-head and run
the wheel on again.
“Horsey”: Instead of curing saddle-
sores prevent them. As soon as you un-
saddle your prad, rough up the sweaty
hair either with the saddlecloth or your
hand. This allows the hair to sun-dry
without caking. The process also stops
the skin from scalding. To cure saddle-
sores use one pint of pure malt vinegar
with 4oz. of common salt and loz. of
powdered alum. Heat slowly, stir well
and apply warm. Wash the part first, and
don’t use the animal until cured.
“Louden”: A paste of flaked graphite
and vaseline (equal parts), applied occa-
sionally when the team is having a blow,
forms an excellent film on a collar sore
and does not dry it.
“Cow Cocky”: Arguments over break-
ing-in heifers are amusing. We bring
ours in with the milkers when about
three months off calving. After milking
they are fed in the bails —just a handful
—bailed, rubbed and handled, leg-roped,
and, when the udder is filling, well-oiled
each week and teats handled daily. When
they calve, the youngster is placed at the
back of the bail and they come in like
old-stagers with no fuss.
“Junee”: When the next consignment
of bag salt comes along, leave a few
bags exposed to the weather for 12
months. It will become as hard as rock-
salt, and can be laid out in the paddocks,
cutting away the bag. This saves the
expense of sheds and troughs, and the
salt lasts much longer.
“X.R.T.”: A simple tree-puller can be
made from a length of fin. steel rope,
three lengths of chain and a stout lever
about 16ft. long. Bore three holes at
one end along the lever about 9in. apart.
Through the middle hole pass a piece of
wire rope and make fast to anchor-tree.
In the other two holes fix two pieces of
chain about sft. long with small claw
hooks at ends. Make the puller-rope
about 80ft. long, with about 12ft. of chain
secure at end furthest from the tree to
be pulled. To pull tree, attach the wire
rope round it as high as possible to gain
leverage. Grub around and chop as
many roots as possible. Then get to
work with the lever and claw hooks in
conjunction with the chain on the wire
rope, after the principle of the chain
fence-strainer. Big logs can be rolled
anywhere with this simple and cheap
contrivance, costing about 30s.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Keep a tin of
case-hardening compound and a small
“Wafer” flat file on the farm. To put a
thread on a bolt, file four grooves inside
a nut of right size, heat to clear red-heat
in a fire, sprinkle the threads with the
case-hardening powder, heat to red-heat
again, and drop the nut into cold water.
Point the end of the bolt a little ; then
screw the nut on with a wrench, and it
will cut its own thread. To thread a
nut, file the grooves on the thread of a
bolt, harden in the same way, and screw
the nut on. The compound is poisonous
—be careful!
“Bibbo”: Keep the kerosene bottle full
because one-third of a cup of kerosene
with two-thirds of a cup new milk is a
good old remedy for distemper, pink-eye
in sheep and cattle, sore backs and
shoulders on horses. Also if hair around
the affected part is well damped with
cold water kerosene will not blister or
remove hair.
“Study”: Two good cures. For cow-
pox, mix loz. of sulphur, loz. of
baking soda and 2oz. of petroleum jelly
into a very smooth paste and apply night
and morning after milking. For warts
on horses, mix loz. of orpiment with
enough petroleum jelly to give it the con-
sistency of ointment. Apply every day
until the warts disappear.
“Dune”: Old sump oil liberally
painted on posts will preserve them from
weather and white ants. Pour the oil
thick on the nests of other ants and
they’ll soon leave homes.
“L6M”: To carry a small circular saw
slip an old motor tyre over it. This will
protect the teeth and keep them from
cutting or bruising other goods in transit.
If the saw has to be sent by rail, crate
it by cutting four pieces of softwood
about 4in. or sin. wide and lin. thick,
slightly longer than the diameter of the
saw. Place the saw on top of two of
these battens and nail the other two
across on top of the saw to form a
square.
“Fencer”: In sinking post holes in
sticky ground use two sets of tools, alter-
nately keeping them hot with an oil-drum
fire. The stickiest soil will fly off a hot
shovel.
“Valerin”: Some small sheep-dealers
are becoming adept at faking regis-
tered earmarks, though not with criminal
intent. No sheepowner cares to have a
number of earmarks about; so some-
times he tries to fill his requirements in
one line and is prepared to pay more for
the sheep. Mutilation of a registered
mark is an offence, but it is hard to get
a conviction. The number of registered
marks issued in a district is limited, and
there is much similarity about them.
Brands on the wool are not satisfactory,
as the branding is often put on any-
where and anyhow. A little more
originality in marks and more care in
branding are badly needed.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred, from Service Department.)
(1) Is there a sure cure for fistula on a horse’s
withers ? (2) Has scientific research been con-
ducted regarding fistula by the vet. branch of
the Vic. Department of Agriculture ? (3) Could
a person who is not a vet. and who has a re-
liable cure protect it by patent ? (4) Not being
a vet., would a person be actionable for selling
it ? —599.
(1) The treatment of fistulous withers is
mainly surgical, and in the hands of a com-
petent veterinarian treatment is quite reliable.
(2) No. The condition is already so well known
that there is no need for further research. (3)
Yes. (4) No.
(1) Is there any proof that a nail driven into
a fruit tree increases the yield ? (2) Has it any
scientific effect ? —561.
(1) Cases have been known where poor crop-
ping trees have improved after nails have been
driven into the trunk. Success, however, is not
regular. The restriction of the flow of sap to
over-vigorous trees by any means will sometimes
cause the tree to crop more heavily. (2) The
expedient will not succeed when the non-setting
of fruit is due to causes other than excessive
vigor.
How often is the "Government Gazette’’ re-
lating to N.S.W. western lands printed, ana
where could l obtain a copy? —sl3.
Every Friday. The “Gazette” is posted to any
part of the State for £1 15s. p.a. It does not
print details of areas available in the western
division every week, but persons desirous of
obtaining particulars of such land may obtain
information free of charge, together with plan
and application form, for a period of six months
from the Western Land Board—or longer by
special request.
THIS WEEK'S PRIZE HINT.
The guinea has been won by
WILLIAM RUM PH, 93 Norton-
street, Ashfield, N.S.W.:
This will save time for the dairyman
with a lot of poddies to hand-feed:
Bore a lin. smooth hardwood board
at foot intervals with a fin. bit. Slit
the lower ends of 4in. lengths of
rubber tubing—the discarded tubes
from milk machines will do for
about 1 fin. Then pull them through
the holes, bend over the flaps made
by the slits, and fasten them with
tacks. With the tubes uppermost, let
the batten float on the milk. The
calves will do the rest. Keep the
board clean. _


LONDON CALLING
Write to J. Ilott
(Aust.) Ltd., Turner
House, Jamieson St.,
Sydney, for the
Langham Tariff and
Brochure.
Of all the famous hotels of London, the Langham is most truly English. Quietude and
dignity abide both inside and around. The courteous service, so quickly conscious of
your needs, does not intrude upon your privacy. Even the most modern comforts
have acquired an “ old world ” air. Yet only a few moments distant is the busy whirl
of London life, the shops and shows, the tubes and buses. What a perfect centre for
your forthcoming visit, and what moderate terms for so much comfort and convenience!
Single Rooms from 12/6. Double Rooms from 25/-. Private Bathroom 5/- extra.
Write now to Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l, or cable
“ Langham, London.” '
Come and stay at the
p>
:¥ :
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Australian Economy
The Commonwealth Bank directors’
report is always interesting. A new man
(C. H. Reading) signs in place of Robert
Gibson. The usual bird’s-eye view of
Australia’s economy is given: the
troubles of the wheat-farmer with his
lighter crop and low prices; the interest
and anxiety with which Roosevelt’s price-
raising schemes are being followed here ;
the anticipated wool cheque of
£54,163,258 for 1933-34, as against
£37,851,321 for ’32-33. In addition,
prices have improved for mutton and lamb.
Seasonal prospects are, generally, excellent,
and the outlook for the pastoral industry
is most encouraging This improvement
in Australia’s premier industry has directly
or indirectly brought about relief in other
directions, but it does not justify any re-
laxation as regards national economy or
efforts to balance Budgets.
The ups and downs of our export
prices are shown:
Wool, Wheat, Butter, Mutton, Lamb,
Dec. lb. bus. cwt. lb. lb.
1927.. 19.1 d. 65.8 d. £8.21 5.0 d. 7.0 d.
1928.. 16.9 d. 55.5 d. 9.14 4.7 d. 7.6 d.
1929.. 11.7 d. 62.8 d. 8.13 6.4 d. 7.4 d.
1930.. 7.9 d. 28.9 d. 5.91 4.6 d. B.od.
1931 .. 8.7 d. 38.4 d. 6.72 3.7 d. 5.9 d.
1932 .. 8.3 d. 32.6 d. 5.26 4.0 d. 6.7 d.
1933.. 15.0 d. 31.5 d. 4.28 5.2 d. 7.5 d.
Wheat and butter are the worries. The
bank’s estimate of the favorable trade
balance for the 12 months to June 30
next is “not less than £35,000,000 ster-
ling,” out of which Australia’s external
interest bill and other invisible imports
have, of course, to be met.” The esti-
mate is on the conservative side, and the
delicate exchange question is allowed to
rest.
“Industrial activity—notably in textiles
—and the volume of retail trade have
shown definite improvement The
percentage of trade-union members un-
employed fell from 25.7 in the second
quarter of 1933 to 23 in the fourth quar-
ter.” State deficits should be within
Budget estimates, and next year we shall
get the full benefit of Bruce’s good work
in London —a saving of £1,744,136 p.a.
in interest, on which exchange costs must
be added.
The short-term debt question is
touched upon. “Although the arrange-
ment made with the Loan Council to
finance the deficits for 1933-34 has
necessitated some increase in Treasury
bills during the year, it is expected that
further funding before June, 1934, will
ensure that bi 115.... at the close of the
financial year will not exceed those cur-
rent at June 30, 1933.”
The average Stock Exchange yield on
Consols with up to 15 years to run was
down to £3 7s. 6d. per cent, on March 1,
as against £3 14s. at June, 1933. Over-
draft and deposit rates have remained
unchanged during the last six months.
The directors’ report, altogether, is a
heartening record of gradual recovery.
But while the great problem of unem-
ployment is still with us, it is a pity that
it is dismissed by quoting bare statistics.
Australia is looking for a lead in this
vital matter, and what authority should
be more capable of giving counsel than
the Commonwealth Bank?
Dominion Tobacco Corp.
Three men —J. V. Roberts (secretary),
W. J. Moran and Rupert Carrick
(directors) —were committed for trial in
Melbourne last week on a charge of hav-
ing conspired with Ralph H. Lane to
defraud people who might become share-
holders or bondholders in the Dominion
Tobacco Corp. of Australia Pty., Ltd.
Ernest A. Kent, of the Vic. Audit
Office, stated in evidence that no p. and
1. account or balance sheet had been sub-
mitted to him. An investigation of the
co.’s books revealed that the whole of the
financial dealings had been carried out by
Associated Brokers and Underwriters
Pty., which was incorporated on the same
date, with the same directors and secre-
tary, as the Dominion Co. This concern
sold the bonds, and charged 25 p.c. on
face value. The books showed that, out
of £7107 paid by bondholders, £4980 was
claimed as commission. Total amount
subscribed for bonds and shares was
£15,861.
Alleged statements by each of the
accused were read in court. According
to these, Carrick said he had resigned
from the co. after being told by Roberts
that Lane and Moran were receiving
money which was not being brought to
the office. Roberts’s statements were to
the effect that the only money spent on
a factory while he was secretary was £195
“Your wife wants to see you, sir.”
“Ask her for how much.”
for machinery, £250 for a trade name
and a small retainer to a man named
Cohen; and the only asset when he
quitted was tobacco leaf worth £l5OO, of
which £5OO worth had been lying at
Spencer-street station for two months.
According to Moran, there was now no
money in the bank. Tobacco had been
bought from growers, paid for in bonds.
Bail was fixed at £5OO each, with
sureties of £5OO.
London “Financial News” has been
delivering itself of an opinion on our
exchange position. Acknowledging that
sterling reserves in London must be
accumulating, the paper believes that the
rate will not drop until Maoriland is
prepared to follow—which will not be
for at least six months, it says. In the
opinion of the “News” there is a case
for indefinite devaluation of the £A;
which raises the question, Where are we
going to get buyers to take our surplus
sterling at £125 Australian if we don’t
manipulate the currency internally?
The answer is relatively simple, because
the export surplus does not represent to an
appreciable extent the increase in the in-
vestment resources of the Australian public.
There was, first, at June 30 last £34,000,000
of public oversea short-term debt; secondly,
there is about £80,000,000 of debt maturing
or becoming open to optional redemption
in London in 1935. Foreign debt redemp-
tion would require the equivalent of a
public domestic issue, and it is reliably be-
lieved that the Australian capital market
would take up substantial amounts.
The fly in the ointment is that Govern-
ments would have to borrow £125 Aus-
tralian to repay each £lOO sterling. Other-
wise the suggestion of turning our over-
seas debts into internal ones is excellent.
* * * *
The Mariposa will ship 20,000 gallons
of Australian whisky for the U.S.A. on
Easter Saturday. This is the first freight
of its kind to leave these shores for
Uncle Sam’s delectation, though Maori-
landers have sampled our whisky before
and found it good. Australia’s largest
whisky enterprise is the Federal Dis-
tilleries Pty., which bottles “Old Court” ;
it is associated with the Corio Distillery,
founded by the Distillers Corporation of
Edinburgh. The Corio Co. started off in
1929, and has been building up stocks
of the spirit, in the meantime marketing
Vickers’ and Burnett’s gins, both pro-
duced at the Geelong distillery.
* * * *
Tips are that the Newnes investigators
will recommend the establishment of a
plant in the Wolgan Valley capable of
supplying the Australian navy with its
liquid-fuel requirements. It isn’t likely
that the Commonwealth Government will
finance the scheme; private enterprise
will be looked to to do the job. Hydro-
genation of coal is also receiving con-
sideration ; any capable concern not in
the go-getting class ought to be fully en-
couraged. It would be stupid, however,
to burden either shale or coal by-pro-
ducts with the present excise tax.
* * * *
“Hoots, Mon!”: I am pleased to note
that, after verra cairfu’ conseederation,
the Scottish and Australian Investment
Co. has decided to give necessitous land-
purchasers in the Coolamon (N.S.W.) dis-
trict sympathetic treatment in regard to
their unpaid balances. Half the money
owing on March 31, 1933, is to be freed
from interest liability for three years ;
interest on the remaining half is to be
at 4 p.c.
* * * *
In 1917 the British Government made
a grant of £1,000,000 —known as the
“Million Fund” —for the encouragement
of industrial research. Industry sub-
scribed another £1,750,000. The fund is
now exhausted, but the good work goes
on under the wing of the D.5.1.R., Par-
liament voting £65,000 p.a., and sub-
scribers to the service £170,000 p.a. Last
annual report of the D.S.I.R. claims that
savings amounting to £1,000,000 a year
have resulted from £BO,OOO spent on re-
search in the electrical industry. Some
savings do not seem all for the good—
in the steel industry, for instance, where
research has resulted in coal-fuel econo-
mies of £1,340,000 a year. Science,
however, promises to make coal by-
products competitors with petroleum ; so
that King Coal may eventually more
than make up his lost ground. Industry
can’t stand still these days and live.
* * * *
At Dec. 31 last there was 331,541 tons
of merchant shipping building in Britain
and Ireland, an increase of 106,044 tons
during the year. This activity represents
43.8 p.c. of the world’s total, as against
29.4 p.c. 12 months earlier. The figures
do not reveal the full extent of the
recovery, either; several recent orders
have not yet been laid down.
* * * *
The Commonwealth A.-G. quotes the
case of an invalid pensioner, “certified
by three medical officers as permanently
incapacitated,” who toted his ruined
frame into a sawmill, where he worked
20 months for £5 Bs. a week. Friendly
societies and companies which sell acci-
dent insurance are familiar with the type,
but they are not so easily gulled as
Government.
* * * *
“Jobber”: In November last my spar-
ring partner ordered a case of Queens-
land products to be —nt to her sister in
the Old Country through the office of
a concern in the same building as
the Queensland Government Tourist
Agency. The price paid was £l. Goods
were to be delivered to the address before
Christmas Eve. They had not arrived
at the end of January. It looks like a
good scheme badly handled.
* * * *
“Tops”: Manchester “Guardian” has
been featuring a Japanese assertion that,
if the British Empire boycotts Japanese
cotton goods, Nippon will boycott Austra-
lian wool. No mention is made of Maori-
land or S’Africa, the only other Domi-
nions producing wool of any importance.
It is impossible for the Nipponese to get
wool of fine quality and in great quan-
tity from any other country but Australia.
American wools are not, and never will
be, suited to the bulk of Japan’s require-
ments. Maoriland crossbreds and the
inferior S’African product might fill some
needs. But Japan has been specialising
in fine woollen materials of the kind that
French manufacturers monopolised for
years, and is now producing an article
which comes very close in appearance
and quality to the French products. The
foundation of these goods is the super-
merino wool that only Australia can pro-
duce, and even that is confined to certain
territorial limits.
* * * *
“L'ewlo” again in conflict with the
postal service:
Sent a receipt to England in unsealed enve-
lope, prepaid one penny. Recipient had to
stump up fourpence for delivery. My violent
protestations to the Brisbane G.P.O. led to
this enlightenment: (a) That a receipt is a com-
mercial paper, ( b ) that the minimum rate over-
seas for a commercial paper is threepence.
That’s one up on the fact that a pound parcel
from Brisbane to Cape Town costs 9d. and
the same parcel Brisbane to Tweed Heads
(69 miles) costs a bob; and whereas 4s. lOd.
will carry 111 b. to France it needs 7s. 4d. to
take 111 b. to Melbourne. The P.M.G. can
have two buns at my expense. If you write
out your bill or receipt on a postcard it’ll
cost Perhaps Mr. Brown will explain that!


Legal Notice.
TO DANIEL COWLEY FLANAGAN, for-
merly of Christchurch New Zealand but
now address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Christchurch citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of NINA JESSIE
ALBERTA FLANAGAN of Christchurch
Married Woman wherein she prays for a dis-
solution of her marriage with you on the
ground of desertion and such Citation intimates
that in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and to
pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence NOW THEREFORE take notice
that for the purpose aforesaid you are on or
before the Thirtieth day of April 1934 to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Christchurch and there to enter
an appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Christchurch.
DATED this Nineteenth day of March, 1934.
W. PARKER,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
JOHN BURT CORBETT is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the office of MESSIEURS HOBBS & COR-
BETT, Solicitors, 95 Gloucester Street, in the
City of Christchurch, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN MOFFATT, a brother of Patrick
Moffatt (otherwise Moffit), and his children,
if any, and to WILLIAM MOFFATT, a
nephew of said Patrick Moffatt (other-
wise Moffit), formerly of Co. Westmeath,
Ireland.
PURSUANT to an order of the High
Court of Justice, Irish Free State, made in
the matter of the Estate of Patrick Moffatt
(otherwise Moffit), Patrick Moffatt Plaintiff,
Bridget Moffatt Defendant, all persons claiming
to be next-of-kin of the said Patrick Moffatt
(otherwise Moffit), and in particular the above-
named John Moffatt and his children, if any,
and the abovenamed William Moffatt, are on or
before the 28th day of May, 1934, to come in
and prove their claims at the Central Office,
High Court of Justice, Four Courts, Dublin,
or in default they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of said order.
Friday, the Ist day of June, 1934, at the
Examiner’s Office, High Court of Justice, Four
Courts, Dublin, is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the claims.
DATED this 10th day of February, 1934.
JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
JOHN D. P.OSS, Solicitor for Plaintiff, 19
Upper Ormond Quay, Dublin.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday
VE
3k
f£3-
Pk
TENNIS
RACQUETS
3 Flat-top Models
3 Oval Shape Models
Perfectly-balanced and
designed. Very little
duco. All high-grade
frames. AOkJNits
WANTED in country
towns, Tennis Clubs and
INTERSTATE.
WIMBLEDON
SPORTS GOODS CO.,
Dymock’s Buildings,
426 George St., Sydney.
Distributors of the
famous Wimbledon
Tennis Gut.
Australia’s Premier Sports Organisation.
MICK SIMMONS
Dependable, Lower-Priced
Sporting Rifles
đ
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE,
22 cal., bolt action, V bade
sight; for short, long or
long rifle cartridges. Hound
barrel, 18in. long, bored and
rifled with the same care
as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; weight,
about 3Jlb. 22/6
j>rice •■ /
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
g—STEVENS’ SPRING-
FIELD S.S. RU LE, MODEL
51A, 22 cal., bolt action,
22in. round barrel, gold
bead front- and ladder rear-
sight; weight, 351"
about 411 b
Postage 2/3 ; Other States, 4/-
No 12—W INCHES TEK
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short,
long, or long rifle nmfire
cartridges; 23in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip
stock, bolt aetion, ladder
rear- and gold bead front-
sight ; weight, 45/-
about 4:41b. ..... J
Postage 2/3 ; Other States, 4/-
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 3,
22 cal., 24in. round steel
barrel, bolt action; handles
short, long or long rifle
cartridges; gold bead front-
and adj ustable rear-
sight, pistol grip stock;
weight, about AO £
411 b
Postage 2/3 ; Other States, 4/-
Low-Price Quality
Single Barrel Shot Gun!
HARKINGTON & RICHARDSON’S
5.8.8.8. GUN, 12 G. Top action, auto-
matic ejecting, steel barrel, solid, case-
hardened. pistol grip, walnut stock.
Weight, about 041 b. S 5/“
Price '
(Carriage Paid)
Write for elaborate new detailed Shooting
Catalogue. Post free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
THE
LARGEST
NEWSPAPER
IN THE WEST
THE PERTH
UNEQUALLED FOR
READERS
AND
advertisers
a DAILY AND WEEKLY COM-
BINED AT THE PRE-WAR PRICE
OF 3d. PER COPY.
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan 271, Collins Street
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO BILL KETROOZ (sometimes known as Bill
Karooz or Karews) and RASSIL KEIROOZ
(sometimes known as Russell Karooz or Antony
Karews). You are requested to communicate
with the undersigned immediately, when you
will learn something to your advantage in
connection with the estate of your late father,
Romanus Keirooz. Friends of the said Bill
Keirooz and Rassil Keirooz are particularly
requested to bring this notice to their attention.
Their last known address was in Sydney, N.S.W.
COTTRELL & LOVELL,
Solicitors, Westport, New Zealand.
JOHN TURNER, son of Colin Turner, last
heard of at Bathurst, N.S.W. Information is
required of his present whereabouts. Any
person knowing his address is requested to
communicate with
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED,
P.O. Box 43,
Toowoomba, Queensland.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Italians in N.Q.
I live in North Queensland, and dur-
ing the last 20 years have come in con-
tact with almost every cane-farmer on
the Herbert River. Let me inform “Bul-
lock Bell” (B. 28/2/’34) that there is no
Italian in either Ingham or Halifax in
business as draper, grocer or butcher,
so it is hard to understand how the
Italians have “ousted good Australians
in nearly every branch of business.”
In my experience, Italian settlers are
on an equality with Germans; I have
found them hospitable, courteous and
ready to assist any Briton in need. The
Italians in N.Q. have gained ground,
not by assistance from any Government,
as stated by “Bullock Bell,” but by their
willingness, perseverance and capacity to
adapt themselves to the conditions. In
choosing The Bulletin for his diatribe,
“Bullock Bell” made sure of being heard
a long way off; but the sound of a bul-
lock bell becomes a nuisance unless kept
to the use it was intended for, and except
for its tongue it is a completely hollow
affair.— Fair Dinkum (Q.).
N.S.W. Labor Factions
The difficulty of achieving unity
between the warring sections of the Labor
party in N. S. Wales is not based on any
matter of principle, but is entirely owing
to the antipathies and ambitions of about
half a dozen men. The executives of the
Lang party and of the N.S.W. branch of
the A.L.P. are each dominated by a small
clique of men who are afraid that should
unity be restored they may lose their
controlling positions; consequently, they
manipulate the respective organisations to
prevent it. Though these groups detest
each other personally, they are both
actuated by the knowledge that the rank
and file would, in an honest open elec-
tion of a unified executive (if such could
be obtained), wipe them off the slate.
Consequently, they work the oracle so as
to keep the breach permanently open.
The only possible means of purging the
movement would be for the Federal
A.L.P. executive to dissolve both State
executives and itself control the election
of a new one representative of the whole
movement. —A. F. W. (N.S.W.).
Against Capital Punishment
As the Cabinet Minister who originally
introduced the legislation into the
Queensland Parliament —the only Brit-
ish Parliament so far to approve of the
innovation —I might be permitted a
word. I fail to see any one outstanding
argument in favor of capital punishment,
but more cleanly defined than ever I can
espouse its abolishment where it still
endures. Whether Judges and newspaper
editors agree or not is of little account.
Murder is, in 80 per cent, of cases,
committed in the heat of the moment
and. by the flaring up of passions. It is
rarely premeditated. Not once in a
thousand cases would the presumptive
murderer take or decoy his intended vic-
tim to another self-governing community
so that he would spend his life in gaol
instead of forthwith having it ended for
him on the gallows. That argument is
too juvenile for even the non-thinker,
and the editors or Judges who urge it
don’t add lustre to the responsible posi-
tions they hold.
Capital punishment, whether carried
out by the rope, the guillotine or the
bullet, is an offence against sanity and
civilisation. There is nothing that I can
see to justify it excepting the expense
of keeping an offender in gaol for a long
term; and we can dismiss that as being
of little account.
Surely human ingenuity, which has
been sufficiently keen and alert in the past
to stem or conquer most ills and meet
the most embarrassing contingencies, has
not become so bankrupt that it is incap-
able of devising fitting or adequate pun-
ishment in substitution for that of life-
taking, which in itself, if it is to operate,
means life-taking by some agency
directed by yet another human being. It
has been proven over and over again
throughout history that savage retaliation
on the individual or individuals con-
cerned has had little or no minimising
influence upon the perpetration of das-
tardly acts.—J. A. Fihelly (Q.).
No Australian Need Apply
London “Times” has an advertisement
calling applications for the appointment
of a sub-editor for a leading Australian
metropolitan daily newspaper. He will
be preferred with Australian experience
but it is not necessary. English experi-
ence, however, is essential.
The implication is that Australia can-
not produce the required article. If it
doesn’t, leading newspapers are to blame.
Those of the solemn sort which have
built up properties worth millions have
never paid large salaries except to share-
holders. The modern flapper press
doesn’t train journalists in the true sense
at all, its ideal being something between
a slick circus advance agent and a Stuart
Doyle ballyhoo artist. Stunts are the
objective.
When a Melbourne group stuck its
iron hand on Brisbane “Courier” —which
had flourished amazingly under Austra-
lian editorships for 85 years, making for-
tunes for absentees —about 50 Australian
journalists and newspaper workers were
thrown out of jobs. The new manage-
ment found itself compelled to go to
London to find a man to fill the chair
and show the North the art of newspaper
production. Other combines have done
likewise in bygone years.
Considering the fact that high execu-
tive positions, literary and otherwise, are
filled by Australians on most big Lon-
don papers, this importing policy re-
flects no credit on either the patriotism
or the commonsense of the proprietaries
that indulge in it.— Retrenched (Q.).
“The Best in the World”
We are letting national pride run
away with us. Australia has the “best
wool,” the “best wheat,” the “best
butter” in the world, and other countries
must buy. Why worry?
Japan’s threat of buying her wool else-
where leaves us stone-cold. Perhaps it’s
not all bluff. Her purchases have de-
clined this season by several thousand
bales. In December I met the principal
of one of the largest textile machinery
firms in Britain ; he Was on his way home
from a business trip to Japan. He told
me the Japs were installing the latest
machines regardless of cost, and could
do practically anything with wool. This
is a warning which should not be
More than 20 years ago that great
plant-breeder Hugh Pye, of Dookie
Agricultural College, forecast the loss
of our flour trade in Asia unless
we encouraged growing wheats of high
milling quality. In a report published
recently by S. R. Cowley (S.A.), it was
stated that the quality factor is losing
the trade with Japan and China. He
advises immediate action to strengthen
and standardise the gluten content of
our flour. t ...
Our butter quality has been steadily
deteriorating, and the Danish product is
ousting the Australian.
In these days of death-grip competi
tion we’ve simply got to have the best,
so let us scrap the skite and produce the
goods. — Valerin (N.S.W.).
Omniscience Questioned
Somewhat struck by the bravery of
the conclusion of your leading article
“Let Roosevelt Study Us” (B. 14/3/’34),
1 feel that I can reply in some similar
strain, and with temerity question your
omniscience. One would have no objec-
tion whatever to plain language convey-
ing fact, but it is certainly .mean to insinu-
ate untruth and ignore circumstances,
acknowledgment of which would destroy
a cherished argument.
The junior statistician who has gone
to study the Roosevelt Plan for years has
actually played a very important part in
the economic life of N. S. Wales, being
thoroughly qualified by his sustained and
intense application to the study of econo-
mic problems. Particularly has he fitted
himself for his work through a grand
sense of social and national service so
much appreciated by at least several
Prime Ministers and the Premier of this
State.—D. J. S. (N.S.W.).


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Northern Patrol
Kaloa”: I attended the meeting which
was held in T.I. in 1923 to take steps to
discover the lost Douglas Mawson.
J here was no ship within wireless call
which could be sent, and eventually the
pathetic little launch Melbidir set out with
a volunteer crew. She was so small and
low-powered that she could not leave
till the weather abated days after the
loss was reported. The local people
raised a cry for a Government patrol
vessel, which might have saved lives and
settled the mystery for ever. Ten years
later, they need to raise the cry again
after the Cooktown cyclone. One of
these days something even worse will
happen—a few dozen people who might
have been saved will die on a lonely
island, and the deaths will be at the
door of the Commonwealth Government.
There is need for a patrol for
another purpose—to stop the brazen
shell-poaching by the organised company
of luggers which are treating northern
authority with contempt and receiving
privileges, when they do come into port
to pay a ten-shilling fine, which are
denied to Australian airmen landing from
a London-Australia record. If the Gov-
ernment were to keep a vessel in the
North she could serve two purposes—
anti-cyclone and anti-poacher. What is
wanted is a ship of the type of the Sydney
pilot steamer, the Captain Cook, re-
fitted for the tropics, fast, built to go
into any weather, of shallow draft and
good handling qualities, with a light gun
of good range. She should carry a
sturdy utility aeroplane for lookout pur-
poses and a crew of ex-naval men, with
Oriental experience for preference.
The expense would be several thou-
sand pounds a year, but lives are worth
saving, and her activities against the
poachers would eliminate the risk that
some day an exasperated local resident
will pot a few Orientals with a rifle and
run Australia into a war. Furthermore,
a visit from her occasionally to spots like
Caledon Bay would be more effective
than the visits of missionaries.
Mataranka”: The Bulletin proved
a good prophet (21 / 3 /’34) when it sug-
gested that there might be doubts about
the Caledon missionary expedition hav-
ing caught the right men. Perkins,
Minister for the Interior, while de-
lighted with the success of the venture,
now shares them, and the position smacks
of comic opera, though it has serious im-
plications. While the clergymen were
negotiating, the Territory Police Expedi-
tionaries were a few miles away on
Groote Eylandt taking a breather after
several months of watching for a cap-
ture. They had not ventured to Caledon
Bay, apparently, since losing a member
of the original expedition. The position
is now this: Caledon Bay knows that
it has euchred the police, which represent
to it the might of the Government. Its
bucks have learnt that they can kill for
years and that the only consequences are
invitations to a pleasant and interest-
ing trip to Darwin. If they are the
right men and are tried, their sentences
will be equivalent to W. M. Hughes’s
£25,000 —the conferring of an ample pen-
sion for life. If they are the wrong men
and are tried, the victims of injustice
won t mind, and the tribe will interpret
the incident as meaning that the Govern-
ment can be treated with contempt and
easily bluffed. If I know my native,
two or three new corroborees will now
be added to the Caledon repertoire, en-
titled How We Beat the Cops”—funny
fellows, full of strange and contemp-
tible antics—and “Darwin Delights,” in
which civilisation will get the best laugh-
ing at that it has suffered since the first
explorer set foot in Arnhem Land.
* jj; jj,
“Pourri Pourri”: “Isee” (B. 7/3/’34) is
wide of the mark when she describes a
sorcerer returning from gaol to his village
and becoming a discredited laughing-stock.
Few who have not lived close to Papuans
realise the tremendous hold the sorcerer
as over his fellows, and the mere fact
of imprisonment for practising his lucra-
tive profession would not have the slight-
Sd5 eCt ?u hl i S presti S e - There is ample
h! Aat £ elief in the magician a "d
QEtv£° W - erS evil as remained un-
-1 rpfpr 1 h Sp J te c i v iiising influences,
stnrv in s ou^ters to Hubert Murray’s
naiive«fmrecent annual report. Certain
natives from Port Moresby had displayed
great heroism in saving life from a wreck
in the Gulf of Papua. Monetary reward
was to be granted them and supple-
mented by a private collection. The
sorcerers thereupon demanded their cut,
and the intended recipients were steeled
to refuse them. Soon after the refusal
the leading hero died, and the magicians
at once pointed the moral. Murray
tells very vividly how, when the presen-
tation of the rewards and the Royal
Humane Society’s medals to the surviv-
ing rescuers and to the dead man’s young
son was made, the recipients hung back
in obvious terror, while the widow
objected to her child going up to
receive his father’s medal and share of
the money. This all happened at Port
Moresby, where, for over 50 years, one
of the world’s great missions has had its
headquarters, and where every native of
the younger generation is a professing
Christian.
* * * *
“Oi Diba Lasi”: English is the official
language of Papua, as stated by “Diba-
tau” (B. 7/3/’34). That is to the credit
of William MacGregor. MacGregor laid
down at the very beginning of his rule
that his subordinates must not waste
time learning native languages in a coun-
try where the very structure of speech often
changes every ten miles, but that natives
should learn English. In the early days
“What’s in that bottle, Jacky? Give it to me!”
“Pick-me-up, boss! You need it, too?”
this proved a stiff job. The various mis-
sions compelled all pupils and proselytes
to speak native languages. At Moresby
the L.M.S. used Motuan. Miners
and traders helped by teaching their
laborers the crudest pidgin, and the
native constabulary evolved “Police
Motu,” a weird jargon which sprang out
of the gathering together at A.N.C. head-
quarters. The Royal Commission on
Papua reported over a generation ago its
surprise at finding a sergeant of police
drilling his command in unexceptionable
English, even to the necessary expletives.
The writer can modestly claim that that
was one of his unimportant contribu-
tions to the uplift of Papua. Old hands
from Papua tell me that English is now
spoken and understood from the Gira
round to the Fly.
* * * *
“Starfish”: Steamers engaged in those
Barrier Reef cruises (B. 7/ 3/ ’34) don’t
take trippers near the Reef —it would
be foolish and culpable if they did —but
to the islands inside the Barrier, and to
Bait Reef. Usually that visit to Bait is
about 9.30 a.m. No man living ever saw
the reef at that time in the morning, and
none ever will. Wintertime is the only
time to see the reef —those who make
their living on it only work during the
winter months. There are two distinct
tides—the summer and the winter tide.
The summer tide rises further during the
day, and goes out more at night. The
other does the other thing. Anyway,
the tourists are well enough served. No'
person can absorb all the wonders of
the islands or the Barrier during one life-
time.
* Jfe * *
“Gain”: “Amalgamation” is a blessed
word in equatorial Australia, where there
is little to argue about except the prices
of copra and beer ; and the Mandate and
Papua are at it hammer and tongs over
the proposed merging of their interests.
Rabaul’s new Parliament has adopted
burning words of protest, its fears being
not only for its dignity but that Port
Moresby might collar its trade and
become the Sydney of N.G. Meanwhile,
every sensible authority backs the change,
so long as it merely affects general policy
and does not interfere with local auto-
nomy in local things. The British Gov-
ernment thinks along the same lines as
the Commonwealth, and the High Com-
missioner in the western Pacific is busy
devising a scheme which will unify the
Solomons, Gilberts, Ellice Islands, Fiji,
New Hebrides and Tonga so as to free
himself of detail and allow him more
time for general policy matters. The
appointment of a supreme Administrator,
acting as a sort of inspector-general of
all Australian territories from Norfolk
Island upwards, might have a highly
salutary effect on service efficiency.
* * * *
“Isee”: A Papuan boy was badly
mauled by a crocodile, the flesh hanging
in threads from his leg. When the R.M.
wanted to bring the medical missionary
there was a loud yell from the victim for
his own medicine man. The latter
cauterised all round the edges of the
wound with burning sticks. It must have
been agony, but the boy never murmured.
Then freshly-dug wet clay packs were
put round the damaged flesh. We lost
sight of the lad for some weeks, then
were amazed to see him walking along
with the leg quite healed. New Guinea
anti-phlogistine apparently works as well
as the civilised kind.
* * * *
“Splodger”: As an old-timer myself, I
recognise “Haggin” (B. 28/2/’34) in his
description of the four-in-hand at Black-
all. One of the outstanding fours in the
early ’nineties, all flash station teams
given in, was the grey team with which
Cobb and Co. used to finish its mail
run from Jericho. There was no rail-
way in those days. It was a “four” only
in name, as it was a six-in-hand, yoked
two and two. Sergeant, who was the
postmaster in those times, used to fancy
himself as a whip, and he wanted to
show the lordly squatters that a pen-
pusher could tool a team as well as the
pure merino. He used to do it, too!
On mail days he would go out of town
two or three miles to wait for the coach.
Then, with the greys ahead of him, his
whip smashing thunder down the street,
the dot-and-dash artist would wheel his
team and pull ’em up all-standing out-
side the post office with half the town
watching him. Across the miles and
years I say “Here’s how” to “Haggin,”
and hope the years have treated him
better than they have me.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
When P. J. O’Shea and his sister Ella left
for Sydney on their way to America, so many
friends came along to bid them bon voyage
that the platform almost was blocked outside
their carriage. Beatrice Pottinger handed a
gift to Miss O’Shea before the train pulled out
—a token of appreciation from the members
of the ladies’ committee of the Brisbane District
Rowing Association. The O’Shea home is one
of the most hospitable in Brisbane, and the
younger folk especially will miss their kindly
host and hostess. Before leaving Queensland,
P.J. acquired a half-brother of the famous Mol-
lison to carry the family’s racing colors.
On April 17, Betty Anning will marry Tom
Brown at St. John’s Cathedral. Betty is a
member of a clan which took up land in
N.Q. in the early days. Her grandmother, Mrs.
Anning, was a Miss King, originally of Vic.,
and a sister of the late T. M. King, once
Commissioner for Railways in Queensland.
Tom’s mamma was a daughter bf the late
Samuel Griffith, and the picturesque old Grif-
fith home, Merthyr, on the banks of the river
at New Farm, will provide a setting for the
wedding reception. Beatrice Hart, Ray Moni
and Amy Anning will be bridesmaids.
Patricia Honor, who is a passenger in the
Oronsay, will make the Noumea trip before bid-
ding good-bye to the ship. Then she will park
her suitcases at Government House for a while,
and finally will do a round of visits in N. S.
Wales before returning to the Cold Country.
Margaret Elizabeth Freeman has just got a
job as reader in classics at the Uni. She won
first-class honors in classics when she took her
B.A. degree, and annexed the Woolcock
Memorial prize this year.
Gladys Powell, a member of the artistic
Hobday clan, is running an art exhibition in
sister Augusta Hobday’s studio. All the local
lights, such as Billy Bustard, Vida Lahey, Gwen
Grant and C. H. Lancaster, are represented, and
there are several delightful studies by Fred
Elliott, of Sydney.
By the death of Miss K. M. Armstrong the
Arts and Crafts Society has lost a founda-
tion member and Brisbane a creator of beauti-
ful things. She was a daughter of the late
J. J. Armstrong, P.M., and for many years
had supplied Brisbane society girls and women
with scarves which were a miracle of color.
Major and Mrs. Colvin Mac Fie, who have
been for some time in the southern States,
arrived in Brisbane last week,
and spent a few days visiting
relatives before leaving for Java,
en route to their home in Eng-
land. Mrs. F. North and her
sister, Mrs. C. Langberg (they are
daughters of the late Justice
Chubb), gathered up all the family
representatives in the city to
greet the English cousins, and
spread the buttered bun in their
honor at St. Malo, the old Chubb
home in South Brisbane.
Peggy Chauncey, the Brisbane
dancer who was a pupil of Pav-
lova, hostessed a party in honor
of Val Bell and Cyril Tritton, who
will marry next month. The
shivoo was staged at ' Peggy’s
studio, and after bridge and danc-
ing the party surged along to
Lennon’s and had some more
dancing there.
Peggy Warren and her cousin,
Marjorie Sword, of Toowoomba,
are off on the Bendigo early in
April for a trip abroad. Hostesses
have been vying with each other
in farewelling the departing
travellers.
A committee, headed by Mayor-
ess Greene, is gathering funds to
enable Dulcie Sampson to con-
tinue her musical studies. The
lass already has a good share of
the alphabet after her name, but
she hankers for the degree of
Mus. Bac., and wants to go to
Adelaide Uni. to get it.
Although the temperature is still
very summery, we are making pre-
parations for the winter, and most
of last week we watched willowy
mannequins wandering about in
tiny hats with their shouilders
swathed in furs. The “Use More
Wool” committee held a meeting
at the City Hall, with Mayoress Greene in the
chair, at which samples of wool were displayed
while members’ knitting needles clicked busily.
A lamb, filled with wool and wearing a gay
wool ribbon, which was made by Mrs. A. A.
Fullerton, was present in the capacity of mas-
cot, and added a touch of cosiness. A “Use
More Wool” exhibition is due in April, and
the details of this were discussed. By the way,
the Governor, Sir Leslie Wilson, sports a
woollen tie now, and most Brisbane men
possess two or three of them. The chief merits
of these ties are that they wash and do not
lose their shape.
Winifred Grainger, of West Ryde (Sydney),
is engaged to a Brisbane boy, David Leslie
Christie. Another Sydney-sider, Phyllis Atlee
Hunt, of Cremorne, is wearing a new ring, the
donor of which is Queenslander Lionel John-
son, son of Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Johnson, of
Greenslopes.
On April 4 old St. Andrew’s Church, South
Brisbane, will see the wedding of Kenneth
Robertson, elder son of Dr. W. N. and Mrs.
Robertson, to Blanche Somerset, youngest daugh-
ter of the Raglan Somersets, now of Sandgate
and formerly of Sydney. Joan Jennings, of
Texas, will be the only bridesmaid. Mrs.
Robertson and Mrs. St. John were two of the
handsome Pollard girls, members of an old
squatting family in this State.
Another new engagement is that of Paul
Boyce, youngest son of solicitor Frank Boyce
and Mrs. Boyce, and Lorna O’Neill, a pretty
Taroom girl. Paul is a young dentist, a
graduate of Sydney Uni. Two of his brothers,
also Sydney Uni. men and good all-round
athletes, took the medical course, and have
their brass plates out in Queensland country
towns.
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Jarvis and their
family, who have been for years in the north,
where Mr. Jarvis was Government entomologist
at Meringa experimental station, have come to
Brisbane, bringing with them cases of jewelled
butterflies and a collection of paintings, mostly
of northern flora. The Jarvis home was known
as “The Grubbery,” because the head of the
house was investigating the grub which is the
menace of the sugar industry. The eldest boy is
studying electrical engineering at the Mulgrave
Mill; the three younger ones, who accompanied
their parents, reel out thundering Latin names
for the butterflies, and seem almost as well up
in entomotogy as their father. In between catch-
ing butterflies they have developed their musical
talent, and can furnish forth a really excellent
trio —’cello, violin and piano. They also have
good voices, and the younger boy, Aldus, shows
talent as a painter.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inauir>
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reservca
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Plantation manager (29), Islands exp. and
several years’ jackerooing on sheep and cattle
stations, N.S.W. and Queensland, wants job
anywhere.—749.
Lad (18), N.S.W., passed leaving certificate,
English B, French L, mod. history B, maths. I
and II A, chemistry first-class honors, seeks
position as laboratory assistant.—7B3.
Young married man (20), employed by Syd-
ney hardware house, five years’ exp., can type,
quick at figures, wants job with prospects in
country store. —794.
Young lady, N.S.W., business exp., desires
position as secretary to doctor or dentist. Refs.
—722.
Experienced club steward, Sydney, requires
position of trust as caretaker of property or
steward. —716.
Two young Australians would appreciate and
acknowledge receipt of any old papers, maga-
zines or books. (To Frank Jones, c/o Prado,
336, La Paz, Bolivia, South America.)
Hungarian professor wants to correspond
with Australian professors or teachers of natural
science and geography. (To Orrodi Pal,
Teacher and Professor, Kiskunfelegy Haza,
Hungary).
Words of old song beginning:
“I am Roger Ruff, the ploughman,
A ploughman’s son am I! ”
—738.
To buy “Rowing Notes” and “Some Secrets
of Rowing,” by Steve Fairbairn. —795.
To buy “Nurses’ Enquire Within.” —796.
To buy “The Silver Key.”—769.
To buy “The Doctor’s Dilemma,” by Ber-
nard Shaw, and “The Hound of the Basker-
villes,” by Conan D0y1e.—772.
To buy book giving details of construction
of Canadian canvas canoe. —652.
Vic. school-teacher, collecting feathers of
Australian birds to forward to a European
school-teacher, would like to hear from any-
one who could supply one feather. —730.
To buy Vol. 2 “The Australian Medical
Guide,” by Muskett. —718.
To hear from war-time crew of H.M \.S.
Brisbane. Second reunion will be held April
14 at Miss Bishop’s, 117 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
at 7.30 p.m. (Replies to George Maraun, 46
Rawson-street, Waverley, Sydney.)
Words of poem beginning:
“He had his faults, what man has not?
Let each one try to mend his own.”
—670.
Information Sought.
How many times did Eugene Criqui visit
Australia ? Was Leon See Criqui’s manager in
this country, and was See his manager when
Criqui knocked out Johnny Kilbane for the
world’s featherweight championship in New
York in June, 1923 ? —7BO.
Criqui came to Australia only once, in 1920-
21. M. Eudeline was then his manager, and
Eudeline was his mentor when Criqui con-
quered Kilbane, as well as when Johnny Dun-
dee defeated him for the world’s featherweight
title in July, 1923. See is not known to have
ever been Criqui’s manager.
(1) Cost of a third-class passage to New
Guinea or Singapore? (2) Names of firms to
whom to write for employment in either place ?
—629.
(1) No third-class passengers are carried to
either New Guinea or Singapore. The cheap-
est rates by which it is possible to travel are:
Sydney to Rabaul, Ist class, £2O; Sydney to
Singapore, 2nd class, £33 10s. (2) Cannot sug-
gest anybody. It is very difficult to obtain work
in either of the territories mentioned.
Did the Bank of N. S. Wales close its doors
at any time between 1890 and 1895 ? —717.
The bank, which has been established for
117 years, has never had to close its doors.
It weathered the financial crisis of 1892-93 with-
out having to reconstruct.
When were the wages of employees working
under Federal awards reduced by 10 p.c. ?
667
Rates of wages for practically all employees
working under Federal awards were reduced by
10 p.c. as from February 1, 1931. This cut
was restored in part by the application of a
new system of wage adjustment, operating from
May 1, 1933, and applicable only to those
wage-earners who had suffered the full 10 p.c.
reduction.
Two South Australians desire to go for a trip
to Hawaii. (1) Where could a boat about 40ft.
long and 12ft. beam fitted with a wood stove
and cabin be obtained and at what cost ? (2)
Name of a reliable book on navigationj price
and where obtainable ? (3) Instruments neces-
sary, cost and where obtainable ? (4) Would
the vessel need to be registered ? If so, what
is the cost ? (5) Would a passport be hard to
get ? (6) Would port charges be payable at
any port on the route, and, if so, what are the
rates? —578.
(1) McFarlane and Son, Birkenhead, S.A.,
have boats for sale of the required dimensions,
approximate cost £635 to £7OO. (2) Nicholls’s
“Concise Guide,” Volumes I and 11, obtainable
from Turner and Henderson, Jamieson-street,
Sydney, price on application. (3) Barometer,
compass, sextant, chronometer and binoculars,
obtainable from nautical instrument makers at
principal Australian ports. Prices vary. (4)
Every British ship exceeding 15 tons net regis-
ter tonnage must be registered. Cost for a
vessel under 50 tons is £1 3s. 4d. (5) No dif-
ficulty in obtaining a passport, provided a
clearance is obtained from the taxation de-
partments and the fee of £1 has been paid.
In the case of a married man he requires the
approval of his wife. (6) If the boat
is used solely for pleasure and not for trading,
it would be exempt from port charges, and
also from payment of light dues, provided in
the latter case it is under 25 tons gross tonnage.
<1) When is used to clean brickwork prior
to luckpointing ? (2) After pan of the joint
is removed, what material is used to fill the
joint ? (3) What coloring matter is used ? (4)
What tools are used in pointing? (5) Any
books on the subject ? —356.
(1) Mix one part of spirits of salts with 1U
parts of water and scrub with a stiff brush.
Wash off with clean water. Reduce the water
if the mixture does not cleanse sufficiently.
Keep mixture clear of hands and clothes. (2)
Mortar and pigment. (3) Pigments usually used
are vegetable black, lampblack, manganese
dioxide, Spanish brown, Indian red, red oxide,
Venetian red and yellow oxide. Best effect
is obtained by using with the pigment a sand
of a somewhat similar color. (4) A jointer ; a
bevel-edged straight-edge to hold the point-
ing material, and serve as a guide to' the
jointer; a “Frenchman,” either single or double,
used to trim the joints; a small brush to brush
the surplus mortar froni the joint. (5) There
are chapters about it in most books dealing
with bricklaying and building construction.
Mitchell’s “Brickwork and Masonry” is a
standard textbook.
(1) Can a marriage contracted in England 16
years ago be annulled because one of the parties
was a minor? (2) What process follows after
a legal separation ? (3) What steps can be
taken for a divorce ? —647.
(1) No. English law directs that the consent
of parents or guardians shall be obtained to
the marriage of minors, but the marriage is
not invalidated by the want of such consent.
(2) In English law a husband or wife can obtain
a sentence of judicial separation on the ground
of adultery or cruelty, or desertion without
cause for two years and upward. It places the
wife in the position of an unmarried woman
with respect to property, contracts, etc. (3)
Depends on where you are domiciled. The
laws of countries and States differ in detail
but, speaking generally, adultery and deser-
tion without good cause are recognised univer-
sally.
(1) Does the South African Government pro-
hibit the consumption of alcoholic drinks by
natives ? (2) Does it permit the natives to
brew and drink certain native intoxicating
drinks such as Kaffir beer ? —530.
(1) Section 94 of the Liquor Act of 1928
prohibits the supply of liquor of more than 2
p.c. alcoholic content to aboriginal natives
throughout the Union. (2) Yes, but the beer
must not contain more than 2 p.c. of alcohol.
(1) What are the prospects of assaying as a
profession ? (2) Qualifications ? (3) Would it
be possible to do some of the subjects at
Queensland Uni. and complete the rest as a
pupil assayer at some mine ? If not, how could
I obtain qualifications in Queensland ? —527.
(1) Prospects are good; salary depends largely
upon experience and responsibility undertaken.
(2) Sound training in chemistry and mineralogy
and in both lire and wet assaying, on top of a
good general education—nothing lower than
the junior public examination of Queensland
Uni. (31 The Uni. could provide training in
chemistry and mineralogy, but you could receive
all the necessary training at the Central Tech-
nical College, Brisbane, where classes in assay-
ing were instituted early this year.
Cause and cure, if any, of the loss of enamel
on the teeth ? The process is slow, commencing
at the gum and working to the edge. —7ll.
Progressive loss of enamel may be due to
factors involving inheritance,' infective pro-
cesses and health in general. As a preliminary
to treatment, any cause of decalciffcation or
destruction of the enamel must be determined;
the normal care of the teeth should eliminate
further trouble. Pronounced mouth acidity,
pyorrhoea and deficiency of lime in the diet are
matters to be considered; there is usually a
marginal caries at the gum socket. Pending
examination, avoid a hard toothbrush and use
non-gritty cleansing agents to remove food par-
ticles.
How does nasal catarrh originate, and is there
a remedy ? —720.
Nasal catarrh originates in congestion of the
mucous membranes of the nose; a post-nasal
catarrh usually involves the passages of nose,
throat and the auditory canals. The condition
may develop as the result of recurrent head
colds, but irritative factors contribute to the
trouble where the subject is susceptible to
catarrhal lesions. There is no specific remedy;
treatment in all cases aims at correction of the
initial fault. In primary cases a saline nasal
wash or douche is of service in clearing the
mucous accumulation. Vaccine treatment is
useful in some cases.
How was the design for the British War
Medal, issued in July, 1919, selected, and who
was the designer ? —792.
A committee of representatives of the Royal
Academy, Royal Society of British Sculptors,
National Gallery and Royal Mint was appointed
to determine the best method of obtaining the
most artistic and suitable design for the medal.
It was decided to invite competitive designs
from prominent artists, and 51 were submitted.
The winning design was that of William McMil-
lan, a young Scottish sculptor, who also won
the prize for the Victory Medal.
Treatment required to preserve autumn leaves
from trees and vines for permanent decorative
purposes ? —696.
If leaves are picked when they are quite
dead but still well colored, and dried carefully
and loosely between sheets of tissue paper,
they will often require no other treatment.
Alternatively, dip the leaves in melted paraffin
wax or in a solution of 20 grains salicylic acid,
10 minims of formaldehyde, 2 fluid ounces
alcohol and 1 quart distilled water.
How and when tp plant seeds of Pinus
insignis ? —597.
If only a small quantity is required, seed
can be sown in ordinary seed-boxes filled with
light sandy loam and provided with drainage
holes. After the seedlings have grown to a
height of an inch or so, they can be pricked
off into pots or other containers and grown
until ready for transplanting to the permanent
site. For larger quantities seeds should be
sown in light sandy loam, in rows about lOin.
apart. The seedlings are usually big enough
for planting out 12 months after sowing. The
seed should be as fresh as possible, and covered
with soil to a depth equal to the diameter ot
the seed. Spring or early summer is best time
to sow where artificial waterings can be car-
ried out. Autumn sowing is best where the
naural rainfall is depended on.
How can l (1) rid a garden of snails ? (2)
Rid a house of bugs? —47o. .
(1) Go round at night, collect snails into a
newspaper, and dump them into a fire. Sprinkle
air-slaked lime freely in their haunts, or use
powdered tobacco leaf. Baits made of Bans
green and bran are very effective, but destruc-
tive to pets and birds; they should be placed
under pots or boxes slightly tilted, and gathered
up in the morning. (2) Kerosene should be
sprayed or slopped into all skirting boards, cup-
boards, bedsteads and furniture where they are
suspected. The work must be kept up, as the
eggs of the insects hatch at intervals of three
weeks, and all the hatchings must be destroyed
as they appear.
A retailer lias asked me to supply seedlings
in boxes. What is the approved method of
growing them and how should they be prepared
for marketing ? —790.
Sow the seed in large shallow boxes or trays
and when large enough to handle transplant
into smaller boxes holding from two to ten
dozen plants. Screw the sides of the smaller
boxes together so that they can be easily ie-
moved and the plants lifted out with a trowel
without disturbing the roots. Send only strong
plants to the retailer and label each with species
and color. Quality and attractiveness are im-
portant. Plants marketed in this manner are
sure to appeal to intelligent garden-lovers.
/ desire to make a one-color display of antir-
rhinums next spring. (1) Best way to go
about it ? (2) Any way of decreasing the usual
heavy loss of these plants ? —7Bl.
(1) Buy seed of the color desired and set the
seedlings out at once in the open garden. From
those which are true to label plant slips in sandy
loam in a glass frame. These should be ready
for the garden in August. (2) All that can be
done is to be sparing with water and manure,
and to stake plants established in windy places.
What was the decision of the League of
Nations Commission appointed to determine the
rival claims of Jews and Arabs to the Wailing
Wall in Jerusalem ? —798. .
The decision was that the Moslems have the
sole ownership of the Wailing Wall and the
adjoining pavement. The Jews are to have liee
access thereto for purposes of devotmn, but
their right to carry the Ark containing the
Scroll of the Law near the wall is limited to
certain special occasions.
(1) Means of destroying sparrows about a
home and sheds ? (2) Means of ridding house
and outhouses of rats? —383.
(1) Destroy all nests in roofs and attics;
leave no fowl feed or kitchen scraps lying
about; set a little seed or crumbs on a clear
open place in view of the house, and shoot the
mob with No. 8 shot occasionally. These tac-
tics will soon make a difference. Don’t lay
poison in any form, as this destroys useful
native birds and is not touched by the wily
sparrows. (2) Write to the Health Department,
Sydney, for booklet on rat destruction.
How to rid a fernery of mice, which riddle
the baskets and staghorns and destroy small
plants ? The mice will not look at bailed
trans. —510. . , ,
For a couple of nights throw pieces ot bread
about the fernery, miss a night and on the
fourth place baits of pollard and arsenic m
similar spots. A few drops of aniseed mixed
with the pollard is an excellent lure. All dead
rodents should be burnt.
How to remove tight and broken studs from
steel ? —5ll.
If enough thread shows, screw two nuts on
the stud and lock them, keeping the wrench on
the lower nut. Then unscrew. Alternatively,
saw a slot and use a screwdriver. Drilling out,
followed by a clearance of the thread with
a tap, is usual if there is no projection.
What airway services unassisted by Govern-
ment subsidies were in operation in Australia at
June 30, 1933 3—585.
Rockhampton-Brisbane, 360 miles, weekly in
each direction (Rockhampton Aerial Services
Co.) ; Brisbane-Sydney, 500 miles, daily in each
direction except Sundays (New England Airways
Co); Melbourne-Hobart, via Flinders Island,
356 miles, weekly in each direction (Hart Air-
craft Services Co.) ; Melbourne-Hobart, via
King Island, 396 miles, weekly in each direc-
tion (Matthews Aviation Co.) ; and Laun-
ceston-Flinders Island, 120 miles, bi-weekly in
each direction (Tasmanian Aerial Services Co.).
Surcharged air mail is carried on the Brisbane-
Sydney and the longer Melbourne-Hobart ser-
vice under arrangement with the P.M.G.’s Dept.
A few details about the present head of
London’s Metropolitan Police Force 7—797.
Lord Trenchard, Commissioner of the Metro-
politan Police, is 61. He entered the army at
20, and served in S. Africa. A pioneer in
military aviation, he became commandant at
the Central Flying School in 1914 and did
good work during the Great War. In 1919 he
received a baronetcy and a grant of £lO,OOO.
Chief of Royal Air Staff, 1918-1928; went to
Egypt with Winston Churchill, 1921; appointed
Marshal of the Royal Air Force, 1927; raised
to the peerage in 1930, and appointed to his
present position in 1931. In May, 1933, he
issued a much-discussed report on the London
Metropolitan Force.
Meaning and origin of “filibuster ? 750.
maintained themselves in the Caribbean seas
maintained themselves in the Carribbean seas
during the seventeenth century. The origin of the
term has been explained in two ways. Some de-
rive it from the English “flyboat,” French flibot,
Spanish flibote, a name given to a small vessel,
not exceeding 100 tons, which, on account of
its sailing qualities, was much used by pirates,
while others make it synonymous with the
Dutch vry baiter, German freibeuter, English
“freebooter,” the word changing first into fri-
bustier, and then into French flibustier, Spanish
filibustero. Flibustier has passed into French
and filibustero into Spanish as a general name
for a pirate. “Filibuster” was revived in
America to designate those adventurers who,
after the termination of the war between Mexico
and the United States, organised expeditions
within the U.S.A. against the Spanish West
Indies.
Uses of timber and bark of the Melaleuca
genus of plants ? —574. .
Timber of most species is exceptionally well-
suited for posts in wet ground, or for boat-
building, since it resists moisture. The papery
bark of several species has been used for bottle-
stoppers, for lining boots and shoes and for
packing fruit for export.
Brief Answers.
A.H.: Send a sample of milk from the quar-
ters affected to the Animal Health Station,
Yeerongpilly (Q.) 0.E.: Write H. C. Pan-
nifex and Co., 149 Stanley-street, West Mel-
bourne... .O.B.: “The Press in My Time, by
R. D. Blumenfeld (75.)... .K.W.: The book is
not available for consultation in pubn..
libraries. By advertising you may be able to
induce an owner of a copy to let you peruse
it A.R.T.: Write State Marketing Bureau.
Agricultural Dept., Sydney R-J-: No
reports have been received from any ° m ciat
body concerning its virtues... .H.M.P.: Boiled
oil and burnt umber would produce a good
wood-preserving stain. Exterior wood-preserv-
ing stains are also procurable under reputable
brands; these usually combine a percentage ol
creosote, which is a white-ant destroyer, fou
should not use a lubricating oil for house paint,
it won’t dry. Mineral oil is not used in the
manufacture of paint, varnish or stain... .J.Cj..
There is nothing in the rules of tennis to pre-
vent a player who has been serving right-handed
changing to left-handed serving during the pro-
gress of the match.... M.C.: Yes. The Earl
of Athlone, who was Alexander of Teck, mar-
ried in 1904 H.R.H. Princess Alice of Albany.
.8.W.: The retort was “I do not see the
necessity”... .G.G.: Any of the leading Syd-
ney retailers —Anthony Horderns’, Farmers,
David Jones’s, Grace Bros A.M.: Obtain-
able from this office (15.)... .S.C.: Write
Advances for Homes Dept., Rural Bank ot
N. S. Wales, 14 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
M.J.: Thirty-two Rhodes scholarships are as-
signed annually to the U.S.A., tenable for three
years... .J. 8.: World’s best—looyds., 9 2-ssec.,
Frank Wykoff (U.S.A.), Los Angeles 1930;
220yds., 20 3-ssec., Roland Locke (U.S.A.),
1926. and G. Simpson (U.S.A.), Vancouver,
1930; 440yds., 46 2-ssec., Ben Eastman
(U.S.A.), San Francisco, 1933; 880yds., lmin.
50 9-10 sec., Ben Eastman (U.S.A.), San Fran-
cisco, 1933; one mile, 4min. 7 3-ssec., J. E.
Lovelock (M.L.), Princeton, 1933 ; two miles.
Bmin. 59 3-ssec., Paavo Nurmi (Finland), Fin-
land, 1931; running high jump, 6ft. 84m.,
H. M. Osborne (U.S.A.), America, 1924; run-
ning broad jump, 26ft. 2|in., Chuhei Nambu
(Japan), Los Angeles, 1932... .M.A.: The five
by-elections held in N.S.W. since E>ec., 193_,
resulted as follows: R. D. Gorman (Lab.) won
Annandale, J. T. Sweeney (Lab.) won Bulli,
J. Lamaro (Lab.) won Leichhardt, W. Frith
(CP.) won Lismore, and W. Brennan (Lab.i
won Hamilton... .L.S.: The Norwegian motor-
freighter Tricolor did the trip between Sydney
and Dunkirk last year in 30 days 19 hours
2 minutes, or 18 hours faster than the record
of 31 days 13 hours 2 minutes established the
previous year by the Dutch motor-freighter
Tanimbar... .S.S.: Apart from the Tests, the
Englishmen in their 1932-33 tour here played
12 first-class matches, of which they won six
and lost none. Five games were drawn, and
one —the return with Victoria —ended in a tie.
W.J.K.: (1) Crayon on paper with a rough
surface. (2) Enclose in a roll-container if very
large; otherwise pack flat with stout sheets of
cardboard either side. (3) A water-color wash.
(4) Take a course of commercial art at the
nearest Technical College; study the methods
of the best illustrators and compare their treat-
ment of different classes of work. Edmund
Sullivan’s “Line” and Littlejohn’s “Art of
Water-color Painting” should help... .H.C.8.:
Robins and Perkins’s “Introduction to Rhe-
toric” (95.). Fowler’s “The King’s English
(95.), Nesfield’s “Aids to the Study and Com-
position of English” (95.)... .L.W.8.: Koz-
min’s “Flour Milling” (385.) and Amos s
cess of Flour Manufacture” (14s. 9d.) P-H.:
No market for the skins in Sydney; English
value unknown... .G.G.S.: You are taxable on
that portion of the annual payment made to
you which does not represent a return of capi-
tal. Particulars of this amount will be supplied
by the co. from which the annuity was pur-
chased W.M.8.L.: The conversion of a
novel into a dramatic work without the per-
mission of the novelist would be an infringe-
ment of copyright. Until you secure such
permission don’t attempt to market the play.
... .M.S.: Qualifications obtainable on reference
to secretary, Australian Pioneers’ Club, Phillip-
street, Sydney... .W.R.G.: Can trace no busi-
ness house in Sydney which stocks the
machine... .J.H.P.: The N.S.W. Family En
dowment Tax was repealed as from Jan. L
1934 D.J.: Kathleen Mannington Cattyn
was born in Tipperary, Ireland, and died Feb-
ruary 6, 1926 R. 8.: Try leading blood-stocx
salesmen in Sydney... .J.M.: .You may find
an opening by canvassing the shipping trade....
C.N.: Write Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-
street, Sydney... .J.S.: The “Tweed Daily is
published at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.)
A.J.: Frangipanni cuttings, six inches to one
foot long, should be taken when not in leaf.
Place the cuttings firmly in sandy soil half their
length deep. This plant is not propagated from
seed R.C.: A. and C. Black, Ltd., 4 Soho-
square, London, W.1....J.5.: A list of the
publications of the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture will be posted to you upon request....
5.8. R.: She is a mythical-historical character
in medkeval romance. Interpretation of the
song is to be found in “Pelleas et Melisande,
mystical piny by Maurice Maeterlinck....
J.H.8.: Resin is a gum taken from a tree, and
is the general chemical term for substances
having certain qualities. Rosin denotes the
distilled solid... .G.L.: The total amount in-
vested by the Commonwealth Superannuation
Fund at June 30, 1933, was £4,156,039 2s. 6d..
the face value of the corresponding security
being £4,241,252 6s. Bd. About 65 p.c. of this
amount was represented by Commonwealth
stock... .M.V.: (1) Short stories should not
exceed 3500 words. (2) Typed copy is pre-
ferred. but there is no objection to legible hand-
writing. .. .N.A.M. 1 There is no definite cure to:
asthma. The disease is essentially chronic; com-
plete recovery seldom occurs, except when due
to reflex causes that can be removed. The
paroxysms may be relieved by treatment under
medical supervision. In the initial stages potas-
sium iodide may be prescribed with an expec-
torant mixture. Residence in a dry climate is
usually beneficial....N.K.S.: Answers can only
be given with a full knowledge of the boy s
objective. Make representations to the depart-
ment on the subject... .A.A.: Each State is
responsible for its own system and standard:
the terms used to signify the various examma
tions do not necessarily imply that tests, ever
when known by the same name, are of equal
standard. The only way of comparing exami-
nations is to study the rules under which the}
are conducted, the range of subjects and the
time taken to prepare. In N.S.W. the Inte
mediate Certificate calls for three years stun
after the primary stage has been complete...
and in general is taken at the age of 15....
(Many others mailed.)


11l
“BIRKO-BEST” Razor Blades
THREE-HOLE TYPE
First quality at quarter the cost. Sydney's
greatest seller. Every blade guaranteed.
All Stores.
If unobtainable write
FRANK H. BEARDMORK,
270 Clarence St., Sydney, Sole Agent.
BALANCE SHEET
OP THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1933.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Capital Account 4*000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,003,458 0 10
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 190,886 1 4
Development Fund . . .. 68,250 2 11
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 64,055,651 7 0
Bills Payable and other Lia-
bilities 3,933,280 7 9
75,980,534 19 10
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 577,158 2 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . . .. 76,557,093 2 5
Note Issue Department . . .. 53,238,331 3 0
£129,790,024 5 11
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 705,418 17 3
Australian Notes 4,228,575 10 0
Money at Short Call in London 13,440,720 0 0
Funds held temporarily in Lon-
don on account of Conver-
sion Loan 99,000 0 O
Short Term Loans in Australia 9,543,388 8 8
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. 9,433,076 2 9
Commonwealth Government
Securities 27,384,212 6 7
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 1,285,839 12 5
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers and
other Assets 8,706,898 18 2
Bank Premises .. .. 1,147,398 15 O
75,980,534 19 10
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra 577,158 2 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. . . 76,557,693 2 5
Note Issue Department .. .. 53,238,331 3 6
£129,796,024 5 11
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
C'r.
£ s d
General Bank Department—
To Reserve Fund 99,030 7 9
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 99,030 7 9
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 14,404 19 11
„ Development Fund 14,404 19 ,11
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury . . 291,789 12 10
£519,872 8 2
£ s d
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1933 —
„ Banking Business l,j<-V!72 15 6
~ Rural Credits Department . . 28,'>>09 19 10
„ Note Issue Department .. .. 291,789 12 10
£519,872 8 2
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£
... 1,693,458
3 d
0 10
£1,693,458 0 10
£ s d
By Balance 1,593,821 13 1
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits of Banking
Business 99,63 G 7 9
£1,693,458 0 10
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Cliief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 27th February, 1934.
Note Issue Department
X LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Notes in Circulation . . 49,300,958 10 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 2,408 0 0
Special Reserve —
Premium on Gold Sold . . 3,894,904 13 6
Other Liabilities 40,000 0 0
£53,238,331 3 0
ASSETS.
£ s d
Gold and English Sterling .. 13,507,537 0 0
Money at Short Call in London 7,000,000 0 0
Debentures and other Securities 31,304,099 19 0
Other Assets 1,305,794 4 0
£53,238,331 3 6
Certified Correct,
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 27th February, 1934.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st December, 1933.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,858,423 11 4
Depositors’
Balances £118,930,660 18 4
With Interest
Accrued.. 1,361,289 0 4
* 120,291,949 18 8
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 4,178,749 8 8
£126,329,122 18 8
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Cash Balances and Money
at Short Call . > 13,372,523 3 6
Australian Notes 130,205 10 0
Government Securities 76,554,713 10 7
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities .. 31,010,656 0 5
Other Assets 3,813,650 2 4
Bank Premises 1,447,374 2 10
£126,329,122 18 S
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
£ s d
To National Debt Sinking Fund .. 64,783 12 3
„ Savings Bank Reserve Fund .. 64,783 12 3
£129,567 4 6
£
s d
Bv Profit for Half-year ended
31st December, 1933 .. .. 129,567 1 6
£129,567 4 6
Cr.
Dr. RESERVE FUND
To Balance
£ s d
1,858,423 11 4
*-
£1,858,423 11 4
£ S d
By Balance 1,793,639 19 1
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits . 64.753 12 3
£1,858,423 11 4
We certifv that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 27th February, 1934.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of
the above accounts have been given.
Answers to Correspondents.
A o notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J R.: The depression may be lifting, as you
manfully assert, but your doggerel is no gloom-
chaser.... Brim: We can’t credit that M.L.
bathing regulations are as wowserish as you
represent them... .D.S.M.: It would take a
foot of type and it isn’t worth an inch
E.K.F.: Beware of Cockney rhymes... .H.C.:
Doggerel is the right word... .L.D.: “Exile” is
the best, but that isn’t saying a great deal....
J.C.N.C.: No meat in it A.Q.: We’ve read
worse jingle, but what’s a “dusky bourrie”?....
A.S.P.: Picture of web-footed squamous mon-
sters crawling out of an apparently flooded hell
gave us jim-jams D.M.1.: It reads awk-
wardly, like most excursions into an unfamiliar
metre... .L.J.D.: A disorderly jazz of words.
.. ..L.W.L.: Drop the pen and get hold of a
shovel or an axe....C.T.: We’re right off free
verse... .G.F.McS.: There’s no music in your
wood-notes... .W.E.W.: A bit too imaginative.
. ...C.F.: For sheer banality that beats the
worst prose articles yet published about Prince
George J.M.G.:
Let us fly with the birds at morn.
When the eastern sky is gleaming red,
When the world lies sleeping in the dawn
As the sun peeps out of the river bed.
Off with you, then!... .T. 8.: By no stretch of
imagination can that be considered “a rousing
good song”.... R.D.N.: Over-fleshly, we are
afraid... .C.R.A.: Your “Tea” might taste all
right in a samovar, but not in a pannikin
P.C.: “Bill’s Grievance” is a frequent one;
pity he couldn’t express it more tunefully....
E.M. : It may be “good to be alive when it’s
shearing-time at five,” but your picture isn’t
convincing R.E.R.: H’m:
Wombats’ eyes that are green as gold
And look forever like the eyes of a dean
How green is gold, and is there something in
the eyes of a dean differing from that in the
eyes of a bishop or a minor canon? ... .D.R.C.:
“Bob and Bill and Me” dispatched on the
homeward track with a hearty kick..:.
W.G.: Don’t recall previous contributions,
but hope they weren’t as fearsome as your
latest batch... .H.U.: No musical setting
would make your verses tolerable D.A.R.:
A slovenly composition and there’s a
great deal too much of it... .1.G.: It carries
scant appeal and the metre needs a lot of
improvement... .W.: We don’t doubt it....
G.T.: There are too many links in the chain.
.. ..Y.G.: Unreal, melodramatic and pointless.
F.A.C.: “Unpaid Freight” is the nucleus
of an amusing yarn G.K.: A good sketch,
but not good enough... .H.E.0.: The facetious
vein suits you better than the serious, but you
are too wordy... .5.8. H.: No burglar of our
acquaintance has a conscience... .8.N.: Weak.
J.S.C.: Desert drought, starvation, gold
and madness have been strung together
too often... .R.C.: “Winged Justice” misses.
J.R.R.: We’ve no objection to the
scene, but the story still falls short....
C. : Ingenious... .A.8.G.: Of insufficient
general interest Anne Australienne: The sen-
timent may be all right, but even a Melbourne
alderman would hesitate to rhyme “centenary”
with “literary”... .F.J.W.: Story of secret
Chinese poppy farm in N.Q. doesn’t convince.
... .P.L.: “Marsh” is impossible, and “Brown
Brother” an old friend. The B.Y.T. yarn is
weak... .8.N.C.: It may be true, but that’s
not everything... .E.D.: We prefer your lighter
vein... .E.S.S.: Not enough in it... .8.H.: Not
far 0ff....J.A.: Conversation unreal....
T.P.8.: Don’t like the long talk with the dog;
and the sergeant gives in rather too easily....
V.A.L.: We broke down at the reconciliation.
J.M.C.: The explanation is simple. It
was a platypus calling to its young... .H.A.8.:
No bid... .Kirsty McT.: The office angler could
beat your “Unbeatable Fish Story” without try-
ing. .. .1.M.M.: A week later it probably started
all over again P.C.L.: Won’t do B.McC :
If he could fake the pack as described, he
deserved to win D.F.L.: Surely even Jes-
sica wouldn’t have done that? ... .R.S.:
Much too long. It’s really the same story
twice t01d... .R.G.H.: What is “the tender blue
of mystic’s haze” in English? D.E.D.: Pic-
ture of
The honest farming men
Gaily singing, at their ploughing, on the plain and
in the glen,
seems to carry poetic license a little far
0.R.: There’s a good moral in it, but very
little melody..J.R.R.: You’re no more
puzzled about what you write than we are,
after reading and re-reading it M.M.M.:
Ripples along but it’s a bit elementary.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.A.: Suggest that you take lessons. Plenty
of them... .T.M.: That wheeze must be
nearly as old as golf itself D.C.L.: Can’t
detect the slightest sign of merit in any of
them... .F.R.: They are not Australian bush
types nor has the jest a local flavor.... L.E.:
Remove the ornate border and attach heads
to bodies... .P.T.: You’ve never milked a cow.
M.H.D.: It achieved one honor —it
was the first to enter a new w.p.b G.W.:
Chances of acceptance are remote so
long as you persist in trying to foist those
freaks upon u5....H.A.: Line drawings show
promise; you’re not half so good at wash
D. : Lady appears to have lost portion of
her nose and half her chin M.C.K.: Work
is immature as yet, but keep on V.L.: Un-
tidy and there is no mirth in the jest F.D.:
Subject stale... .J.C.8.: Fairly well con-
ceived but lacks the vivifying artistic touch.
N.N.: Joke worn thin W.S.: Resembles
the scrawlings a man makes on his blotting
pad... .G.R.T.: It has a passable idea; try
to polish up the drawing... .J.L.M.: Too
microscopic and anaemic... .E.G.: No cheque
by “return mail”—or any other mail.
••• -S M.T.: Drawing has no movement and
the joke is as limp as a week-old let-
tuce-leaf ...R.n. ; Have long shut down on
the drunk who wants to present his overcoat
1° the statue in the park... .A. 8.: Faint pencil
scribblings on yellow paper automatically reject
themselves W.N.C.: Proclaims too loudly
the prentice hand.... J.K.: Not badly put
t?f e -t\ er ’ though the wheeze is lifeless....
u : ,^ ou , ma de a shocking hash of the little
you had to draw.... L.W.: Retort by the hen-
pecked husband is about due for a pension.
From China to Peru.
“Lond”: Tuer, of the Leadenhall
Press, Phil May’s publisher, kept every
letter and postcard the artist sent him,
and they have now come on the market.
They are worth from 10 to 25 shillings
apiece.
* * * *
Australia’s old friend Admiral Evans
(“Evans of the Broke”) has written a
book for boys, “The Ghostly Galleon”
—grandiloquent, swashbuckling, mysteri-
ous, with a central character very like
Evans. Few writers of such stories have
had such intimate personal acquaintance
with high adventure and deeds of der-
ring-do.
* * * *
President Roosevelt has followed a
U.S.A. tradition which was born when
Benjamin Franklin went as Minister to
France in sending a writer and journalist,
Richard Washburn Child, as his personal
commissioner to Europe. Child will meet
plenty more of the craft there. Mussolini
(whose autobiography he helped to write),
Ramsay MacDonald and Bullitt, the new
U.S.A. ambassador to the U.S.S.R., have
all been pressmen. In Australia this fruit-
ful field is ignored |?y Prime Ministers ;
they prefer grocers.
* * * *
“D.”: Some weeks ago Roosevelt
described Lindbergh as the greatest lime-
lighter in the U.S.A., or words to that
effect. Lindbergh brought off one stunt
flight seven years ago, and he has been
joy-flying here and there and getting into
the newspapers and film gazettes on the
strength of it ever since. Roosevelt caved
in when so many army ’planes crashed
while carrying mails, and offered the
young man a job on the committee
he has set up. Of course, Lind-
bergh, a master of the publicity business,
refused. Now Roosevelt looks small,
and Lindbergh looks several sizes bigger.
* * * *
Dr. Rubie, who has just resigned from
the literary staff of London “Times,” was
born in Sydney 78 years ago. He started
his working life on a farm, passed through
Sydney Uni., took a doctor’s degree at
Edinburgh (1883) and began practising at
Greenwich. Then he joined London
“Evening News” and eventually became
its editor. He helped to launch both the
“Daily Mail” and the “Daily Express,”
and he was the “Mail’s” first foreign
editor. Northcliffe sent him to the
“Times” in 1919. He could have stayed
on if he had liked—there are older men
on the huge staff, and he is young for his
age.
* * * *
Gustav Tischendorf, a Melbourne com-
mercial traveller, has associations with the
Codex Sinaiticus. He is a grandson of the
Tischendorf who stumbled on the MS.
while visiting St. Catherine’s monastery.
Grandfather was rummaging in the
monks’ library when he found a basket-
ful of old parchments which his trained
eye recognised as dating from near-
Scriptural times. He smuggled them
out, and, finding them incomplete, re-
turned for the rest. Czar Nicholas 11.
was so pleased that he rewarded the
enterprising old gentleman with a patent
of nobility. His son (Gustav’s father)
was on the staff of a German newspaper
in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Sisiquakwa”: The abandonment by
the British War Office of our old friend
the Lewis gun in favor of a French-
designed automatic rifle and an unnamed
gadget evolved by Czecho-Slovakia marks
the passing of American ascendancy in
accelerated shooting. It was the Win-
chester Co. which first produced an
effective repeating rifle at the end
of the Civil War. Gardner and
Gatling in due course contributed
their history-making inventions, but it
was not until Maxim came upon the
scene that civilisation found an even
more potent means of spreading its in-
fluence in dark places at the expense of
the Mahdists and the Matebele. Then
came Lewis to join forces with his
American predecessor, and the history of
the work their inventions did for all
parties in the last war is too familiar.
* * * *
“The Old ’Un”: The first orerry I saw
was in M.L. ; it obtruded itself on my
imagination when I was scarce six. It was
a lovely thing, enclosed in a stage hung
with black velvet, its mechanism invisible.
The heavenly bodies were illuminated by
the Sun, enormous and majestic, which
presided in the centre, exuding orange-
colored rays. The Earth was pale blue ;
Jupiter, lemon yellow; Mars, bright
scarlet; Mercury, a blushing pink;
Saturn, with a pair of golden hoops, had
a lilac tint. Various moons, clustered
round their respective planets, shone as
little pearls. All visibly moved save
Neptune, whose ponderous passage
through his wide orbit was as slow as the
hour-hand of a clock. In another black-
velvet compartment was a tellurion, on
a larger scale, and not interiorly illumi-
nated. The Earth, still pale blue as
regard seas, had the terrestrial posses-
sions of the British Empire picked out
in scarlet. The moon was a little pearl-
grey pill. The outfit was illumined by
a great yellow sphere. I have peered
through astronomical telescopes many a
time since, but never have I been able
to reproduce the thrill of seeing the whole
solar system. I suppose that orerry and
tellurion were but poor things, but when
I saw the latest examples in a Sydney
shop-window—they were described as
the only ones of their tribe in
Australia—l received a shock. The
orerry was all cluttered up with clock-
works. Extensible curtain-rods of brass
radiated from the Sun. Jupiter suffered
from a worn cog and slipped back six
inches or so every now and then. Uranus
had fallen off his perch and was repre-
sented by a flowerless stalk. The little
card which identified Mercury brushed
the bronze bosom of the Sun and occa-
sionally got entangled with the tag of
Venus. The moons of any planet could not
perform their orbits. As to the tellurion,
its central feature was an uncamouflaged
lamp, it that’s the way they teach science
nowadays I don’t blame its junior prac-
titioners for taking the purely mechanical
view of Nature.


BLACK AND
WHITE CLUB
MEMBERSHIP FORM
NAME
address
ROMANOFF-CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 20 Bridge St., Sydney.
Your home is . ..
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modem convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Lunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write the Manager, E. HYNDMANj jor full
information.
QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions —they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
SfcOJjLris CMEXICAN)
WelnuJt Stiwn,
The
Australian
Art Exhibition
The Macleod Gallery,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Bridge Street ).
G. V. F. MANN (Director).
The leading Exhibition of Australian Art
—latest works by the most prominent of
Australian Artists always on view and
for sale.
Collection includes new works by Norman
Lindsay, Will Ashton, Robert Johnson,
James R. Jackson, etc.
Selected works by the late E. Phillips Fox.
Best etchings by the best etchers.
Admission Free
Telephone: 87971.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Over three hundred of the thousand
members climbed the stairs of 170 King-
street to be in at the official opening by
Edgeworth David’s lady of the Electrical
Association for Women. The early-
comers got the chairs, the just-in-timers
the stairs, and the “late” sisters stood
first on one foot and then on the other
in the passages while amplifiers brought
them the words of such fervent speakers
as Mrs. Albert Littlejohn and architect
Ellice Nosworthy. The Trades Hall, the
City Council and Amalgamated Wireless
have set the seal of their approval on
the work, and director Mrs. F. V. Mc-
Kenzie —she’s a certificated electrical and
radio engineer—is going to find her hands
full teaching by word and demonstra-
tion the safe handling of electrical domes-
tic appliances, and arranging about the
training of girls wishing to qualify in
the science that most nearly touches the
pleasant sides of modern life. The new
organisation will be run on the same
lines as the British association which
has for its president Lady Moir.
And here’s a tip for homemakers —
the curtains on the windows of the club-
rooms are made of blue check oilcloth,
similar to that which covers pantry
shelves. It’s cool-looking, stays in its
folds and when it gets dusty all it needs
is a rub down with a damp cloth.
All the continents except Africa were
represented at the Dussaps’ “Soiree de
Musique Fran?aise” at the Royal Yacht
Squadron’s clubhouse. Here you spoke
French, or tried to. If your knowledge
was too kindergartenish, you listened-in
shamelessly, and patted yourself on the
back at each word and sentence under-
stood. But the success of the party was
not affected by linguistic lapses. You
enjoyed Elsa Corry’s singing of French
songs, and the beauty of the old and
modern French composers let loose into
the night by the fingers of Bertie Kelly,
Gladstone Bell and pianist Mary Charl-
ton. The programme was served on the
wide verandah, hung about with the Tri-
color and the Union Jack; just beyond
the trees rustled, and the moon threw
spearlike flashes of silver on the waters
of the harbor. You enjoyed the supper
in the billiard-room, the tables gay with
Easter daisies and faintly pink dahlias ;
the welcome given you beforehand in the
drawing-room by the Consul-General for
France and Madame Dussap, as you
registered in your mind that her frock
was of gold lame.
Knight Sam Hordern was a front-seater.
The Holmans were early arrivals. Among
black frocks worn, Mrs. C. L. Jones’s was
outstanding. Its almost backless bodice,
which left the top of the shoulders un-
covered, had a flat edging of white chif-
fon and about ten tiny black buttons at
the centre back of the waist. Mrs. Cald-
well, wife of the American Consul, wore
her white gloves short, their backs heavily
embroidered in blues and pinks. A
glimpse was caught of the Consul-
General for Italy and the Marchessa
Ferrante, she in a flowered black chif-
fon. Japan’s Consular couple was there,
she doll-like in fitting black valvet and
silver lame. Mrs. A. Brenac wore
fuchsia-red crepes. Sir Hugh Poynter and
his lady, she in burgundy threaded with
silver crepes, talked with Madame Kuraz,
wife of the Consul for Czecho-Slovakia.
The Red Cross conference is ended,
so the 300 women delegates who travelled
from the north, the south, the east and
the west —some from as far as Kyogle —•
are feeling more or less a sense of free-
dom, and such vexed questions as to
whether “each branch should be entitled
to add to its annual quota its takings
'»
on Red Cross Day, instead of giving the
money to the society to swell the receipts
of the day,” have ceased for the moment
to be of burning import. Friday they
spent at Camden Park as guests of Mrs.
Macarthur Onslow, and here, too, in be-
tween lunch and tea and visits to the
garden and to the model farm, ways and
means of raising money and of gener-
ally helping the work of the Red Cross
were discussed exhaustively and enthusi-
astically.
Friends throughout Australia are
mourning the loss of Mrs. William
Macleod, widow of The Bulletin’s one-
time chief, who died on Saturday at her
Mosman home, Dunvegan. Before
her marriage she was Conor O’Brien,
whose pen gave a flavor of wit and grace
to newspapers in Melbourne and Sydney.
But her best work was done on this Page
in the first decade of the century under
the pen-name “Akenehi.” Her eye was
keen, but her heart was kind. After
her marriage she became a leader in
various philanthropic movements and
was particularly interested in the
Prisoners’ Aid Society and the Sacred
Heart Hospice for the Dying. A Maori-
lander by birth, Mrs. Macleod always
retained a warm affection for her native
land and a strong interest in its affairs.
She wrote “Macleod of ‘The Bulletin,’ ’’
many short stories and articles and musi-
cal verse.
Where could an Esplin get married if
not in Shore chapel? Here Pat, second
son of the Donald Esplins, waited for
his Phillipa Niblett, who came to keep
her tryst in long-trained parchment
crepes, on her arm a sheaf of frangi-
panni, lily-of-the-valley and tuberoses,
on her head the 25-year-old Brussels veil
lent by Mrs. F. K. Vale. Under this was
a foam of cut tulle, and a coronet of
orange-blossom kept the whole in place.
Except for her pink flowers, sister Bar-
bara, who ’maided, was mist-blue from
the crown of her tulle hat to the hem of
her crepe frock. ’Groom’s brother Tom
was best man. Toasts were drunk at
Tattersall’s Club.
Well on their way to Europe to help
win the Davis Cup are the Harry Hop-
man couple. They were married at St.
Philip’s before an admiring crowd of
tennis players and Nell Hall’s old school
friends. Of ivory satin was the long-
trained, puffed-sleeved wedding garment.
The lace-and-tulle veil, lent by Mrs. W.
Welman, hung in graceful folds from a
coronet of orange-blossom, and lily-of-
the-valley and orchids brought the fra-
grance of growing things to the bridal
array. Three bridesmaids in shell-pink
crepe and tulle halo hats, and carrying
armfuls of carnations and delphiniums,
walked after the bride, and savories and
congratulatory drinks were served at Tat-
tersall’s Club.
From Muttaburra, Queensland, comes
news of the engagement of Dorothy,
daughter of the Frank Dowlings, of
Rosebery Downs, and Leo Haseler, of
Muttaburra and Pymble, on our own
North Shore line. The Frank Dowlings
were formerly of Sydney, where Dow-
ling, senior, has large interests in Rose-
bery Park. Writer Mary Kelaher is an
aunt of tall, slender Dorothy, who is not
long turned 17.
When this Letter dropped in at
Anthony Horderns’ Art Gallery on Wed-
nesday it found others there with the
same intent: to try to take in some of
the beauty that W. Lister Lister had hung
on the walls. On the opening day
librarian Ifould explained what the
painter had contributed to the develop-
ment of art in Australia. On one side
were the oils, on the other the water-
colors, and women visitors supplied
black-and-whites —many came in this
combination. Mrs. Lister, in black and
coral printed crepes, brought her daugh-
ter, Mrs. Caughley Atkinson, and Mrs.
Atkinson brought her husband. Jimmy
MacDonald was accompanied by his viva-
cious little wife. Howard Hinton was
kept busy greeting friends, and Tom Mar-
shall and his wife hobnobbed with J. M.
McNally. Pearl Sheldon, the Eric
Linkers and Ethel Stephens were amongst
those who did the round of the walls.
Ken Wilkinson opened Treania Smith’s
show at the Macquarie Galleries, and
referred with admiration to the adven-
turous style of painting adopted by the
young painter. The tall, slim Treania
wore a rose-pink dress and droopy hat.
Mother and father (he’s Evan Smith, the
city architect) looked with pride on their
daughter and on her works. Maud Sher-
wood, in sapphire-blue crepes and a white
hat, had a faraway look in her eyes when
Italy was mentioned, and wrinkled her
brow working out the rate of exchange.
Will Ashton was another who openly
longed to up sticks and away, and Mrs.
Ashton smiled quietly above a jumper
that was all yellow and brown diagonal
stripes. Helen Stewart had spots on her
black dress as large as florins. Artist
R. S. Wakelin was there, and sculptor
Beryl Young, whose prettily-shaped head
wore no hat. During the afternoon
hordes of just-beginning-to-feel-their-feet
artists popped in to see, to be seen and
to chat.
This is Olga Sangwell, winner of the
Rose Scott prize in International Law and
the first woman student to graduate
LL.B. with honors from Sydney Univer-
sity. Olga, who has just turned the corner
into the twenties, is an old girl of Fort-
street Girls’ High, and is fair and slim.
It is difficult to believe that such a wealth
of dry-as-dust knowledge lies behind her
laughing dark-blue eyes. Conveyancing
is her special line. Not yet being out of
her articles, she stays with the firm of
Charles A. Morgan and Stevens for the
next two years. Between lectures and
office she manages to work in an occa-
sional game of golf, but swimming is
her favorite sport.
There hasn’t an inch of space left in
the studio when Verdi’s “La Forza del
Destino” was broadcast the other night.
Seats were even put in the aisles. This
didn’t disturb slim artists much, as
they could easily wriggle through, but
it nearly proved disastrous to Franco
Izal and Cecil Sherwood as they edged
their way out to enjoy a much-needed
breather. Soprano Gwladys Evans, in
lime green, was a sympathetic Leonora,
and as the gipsy Preziosilla Alice Prowse
was as rhythmic and colorful as was her
sweeping dress of yellow flamisol.
Country and city folk alike have no-
thing but admiration for the alterations
at Horderns’. There are purrs of delight
from the women as they step from Pitt-
street into the big emporium, and
their gaze falls on the parquet floor,
then the fact that there are no
great spaces to traverse before they
can buy a pair of near-silk or real-
silk stockings pleases them. These
and gloves and all the fripperies that
women adore are before their eyes.
Kitchen utensils, though out of sight, are
just around the corner to the right. No
walking through archways or down the
whole length of the department to come
to the three new lifts. They are just
opposite the door, and serve the floors
dedicated to frocks, coats, furs and
luxury furs and china. Think how many
steps this rearrangement is going to save
feet that are tired after a day at the
Show! . .
The Hubert Fairfaxes lent Elaine, their
Double Bay home, to the heads of St.
Luke’s for their party of welcome to Arch-
gaiters Mowlls. Here, after the guests
had said “how do you do” to the nurses
and patients of the C. of E. healing estab-
lishment, they were received by Mrs.
Fairfax in the long drawing-room, whicn
wore flaming zinnias and cool-looking
blue daisies for the occasion. After-
wards there was tea in the beautiful
garden, and more hand-shaking by the
Archbishop and Mrs. Mowll. .
Thanks to the Mothers’ Association,
Barker College has now its swimming
pool. Of course, the Old Boys’ Union
helped, but it was the mothers who
started the ball rolling and kept it mov-
ing till it was sufficiently large to build
the pool—and not an ordinary one at
that, as they will tell you; it has a per-
fect filtration system. Governor Game
opened the pool on Saturday, when
mothers and sisters were there to admire
its limpid waters.
The farewell party by the women
members of the Royal Empire Society to
Hugh Denison’s lady took exactly 60
minutes. It started at a quarter to four,
and the notes of “God Save” rang out
just as the town clock chimed a quarter
to five. In that time there had been
speeches of welcome and of farewell by
the King and Storey ladies, and posies
and baskets of flowers had been handed
over to the principal guest. Sprays
of lily-of-the-valley illumined her black
crepe frocking, a notable feature of
which was the narrow band of cream
lace which separated, and at the same
time wedded, the puff of her sleeve to
the long, tight cuff. Alb this took place
in a room brightened with the guinea-gold
of marigolds and the red and pink of
gladioli.
The Arthur Cobcrofts, who spend a
good deal of time in Sydney, are among
those who have recently acquired famous
old up-country homes. They now own
Herbert Park, near Armidale, which used
to belong to Richard Jenkins, nephew
of Dr. Ted Jenkins. Herbert Park takes
its name from the family name of the
Pembroke earldom; a younger son of
that line was the original owner, and his
daughter married a Jenkins.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.


Melbourne
Chatter
There was a slightly bedraggled, tail-
end.-of-the-summer look about the dress-
ing for the holiday meeting at Moonee
Valley. But the trees were punctual with
their attire and gently shed autumn leaves
in the saddling paddock. The most in-
teresting personality was the Countess of
Shannon, who walked all in blue with
Mrs. Norman Falkiner, whose black was
sprinkled with pastel motifs. Mrs.
Richard Thomas chose patterned crepe,
and Mrs. Lennox Spiers was in mist-grey
and jade. Josie Melville, in a short
swagger-coat as part of her all-blue turn-
out, accompanied Mrs. D. W. Reddan,
who was in beige and brown with a
severe Eton crop. Elaine Jacoby was
one of the many all-black figures.
Alison Mein’s shepherd’s plaid was sauced
with a halo hat.
Commencement Week crammed dates
into the diaries of even the quietest
undergrads. There were a revue (filled
with skits and male ballet dancers in
comical green voile trousers), inter-col-
legiate cricket, dinners to be eaten, and
dances. On Saturday it was a rush be-
tween removing traces of the Block
parade—this took a lot of cold cream
and hot water —and the conferring of
degrees. The most amusing things about
the procession were the horses. The stu-
dents must have searched far and wide
for such queerly-hung-together beasts.
Lord Huntingpaddock sat on the back
seat of a vast and empty char-a-banc
saluting and nervously pulling petals from
his bouquet. A red devil “Farrago”
prowled arm-in-arm with Granny
“Argus,” the pair making great sales with
“Hotcha,” a magazine sold for charities.
For the formal ceremony, which
started off in the Wilson Hall, came a
colorful procession of grand professors,
so diverse in cut and hue is the plumage
of overseas seats of learning. Physics
Prof. Laby and his wife were there, the
prof.’s head-covering remarkable for its
tarn suggestion in black velvet. Prof, and
Mrs. Lodewyckx, his gown swooping
backwards into a fin of stiff gold cloth,
saw their son receive an arts degree.
Prof. Heinze’s gown was plain black, and
Prof. Skeats in a morning coat carried
coffee at the garden party. At the table of
honor sat Lieut.-Governor Irvine and his
lady, she wearing a black tulle ruffle,
Chancellor MacFarland, who massaged
his tired right hand, and Vice-Chancellor
Barrett. Among changing groups who
balanced cups and cakes were Prof, and
Dr. Ethel Osborne, Dr. and Mrs. Arnold
Richardson, she in a beautiful squirrel
coat and wearing silver foxes, and Mrs.
Belz, who practises as Dr. Marjorie Hall
The officers’ mess at Laverton lit a
beacon of welcome and threw out ten-
drils of colored globes along its half-
moon of pathway for the year’s first
dance. Sprung up like mushrooms over-
night were a stage for the band, a vol-
canic peak of hydrangeas and bunting,
and a marquee on the lawn containing
the ingredients for slaking thirst. Wing-
Commander and Mrs. McNamara, she in
wrap-over pink satin, had but a short
walk from their house on the other side
of the tennis court. Squadron-Leader
and Mrs. Lukis also stepped only a few
yards, but for the last time—this
week they are being transferred to town.
The Air-Commodore escorted Mrs.
Goble, who was clad in black and silver.
New arrival Squadron-Leader Banting
wore his arresting Royal Air Force uni-
form ; his wife had navy flippets upon
her pink satin. Mrs. Bertie Sims wound
herself into black velvet. Mrs. Chad-
wick was also in black; so was Mrs.
Clymer, whose georgettes showed a whim
for crisp tucks. Mrs. D. E. Williamson’s
gentian-blue was knotted into a cowl.
Barbara Syme had a train to remember
among her white and green sprigged
taffetas. Mrs. A. Charlesworth’s amber
showed a motif of brown suede. Greta
Harrison pinned a plait (of mother’s
hair) as a diadem to her tresses, and
hoisted a lace frock to a ribbon round
her neck. Isobel Gordon draped a
monk’s coat of jade velvet over her silver
lame gown.
The British Music Society caught in
its drag-net the Prockter Trio for a fare-
well to the society’s president, Thomas
Brentnall, who is off to revisit the scenes
of his youth. He’s 82, and declares this
is just the right age for a last leisurely
Pr° w l through England and Europe. The
Melbourne Music Club said its good-
byes at a come-together arranged by its
secretary, Muriel Campbell, one of those
energetic people who rise with the lark
to do the garden, work all day and are
never tired. Mrs. Fritz Hart was there ;
ner husband is still in Honolulu on his
third conducting tour. Among others
were Dr. and Mrs. Rudall, Lucy Rowe,
demure in blue-grey, Harold Smith and
Basil Murphy.
The “Ladder of Fame” exhibition kept
lifts in Elizabeth House on the hop
throughout the week. There was a re-
markable lack of humor about the
“Painters Courageous” section, most of
the exhibitors taking themselves very
seriously. An optimistic “S” in the
corner of some exhibits announced that
they were for sale. Prof. Bernard Heinze
a plain black square called
“Dawn,” which won a prize for origi-
nality. Legal-knight Robert Garran stared
out of a self-portrait, and James Scott’s
crude “Dame Melba” was easily recog-
nisable. Other contributors to the sec-
tion were knight David Masson, whose
messy yellow thing was named “World
Outlook,” and his lady, who had painted
an unhealthy-looking pansy. Prof. Lucas
exhibited and Louise Moran and Joan
Marschner sent studies of heads. A
youthful challenge was flung by Felicity
Syme, who entered among the children
and amateurs. She gets life and move-
ment into weird imaginative figures with
a one sweep of her pencil. The Outh-
waite family had a few offerings, and
Fay Robinson’s “Design for Living” was
a bright spot. Among the professionals
Mrs. Percy Grainger took up a good
deal of room with a solemn “L’Avenir.”
Gwen Walker (with her original freak),
Oswald Hall, Janet Melville and Nancy
Moffat contributed to the children’s sec-
tions, where most of the exhibition’s best
talent was gathered. Lady Isaacs, with a
sporting gesture, sent a snippet of Can-
berra, and Mrs. Charlie Lane-Poole
posted for fun some of Charlotte’s and
Mary’s efforts of several years ago. No
one was more surprised than she when
they won prizes.
For Mary Sharp, who leaves in the
middle of April for her marriage in
Egypt, Mrs. Corrie Gardner gave a party,
inviting friepds of her schooldays and
their daughters—Mary is the first of the
children to marry. Guests brought trifles
of linen which the bride will use when
she starts to wrestle with Arabic, for you
must acquire a smattering of that ancient
language if you want to run a flat
smoothly in Cairo. Nancy Gardner
arrived from Adelaide on the morning of
the party.
Margaret Raws has reason to smile
thus, for she’s going abroad in the Strath-
naver. Lennon Raws and his lady have
also younger daughter Dorothy under
their wing. The Archie Curries and
Marjorie Forbes will be fellow-passen-
gers ; also Marjorie and Dorothy Kin-
near and Nell Healy, whose good-bye
parties have been wedged closely together
during the last few weeks. Photo, by
Broothorn.
Tall, slender brunette Mrs. Wilfred
Brookes is entertaining for her mother
and sister English visitors who have
lately arrived in Melbourne. Mrs. A. H.
Heal, of Oxton Hall, Cheshire, hopes to
spend several months in Australia, but
her daughter, Mrs. Sandeman-Allen, is off
in the Strathnaver.
While she awaits the Strathnaver in
Melbourne, Mrs. Victor Sellheim is being
made much of by her old friends. She
is the widow of Major-General Sellheim
and lived on Norfolk Island while her
husband was Administrator of that spot
in the blue Pacific. A quiet life appeals
to Mrs. Sellheim. She was happy in her
island home, and is now setting forth for
the lonely mountains of Wales, where she
intends to live. The Friendly Union of
Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers booked a
date in Mrs. Sellheim’s engagement-book
for this week, for she’s a life member
and on one occasion acted as president.
The Chauvel lady (president), Mrs.
Coxen, Mrs. Forsyth and Mrs. J. H.
Bruche hovered round the queen bee of
the party. Grace Evans and Ida Park
did their bit with music.
The Rev. Dorothy Wilson is paying
another call upon Melbourne. In honor
of her visit, Mrs. Peter Tait gave an at-
home, her list of guests including many
who had met the distinguished preacher
on other occasions and were anxious to
follow up their acquaintance. Mrs. Tait
kept the chill of autumn at bay with a
jacket over her lace gown. Miss Wil-
son’s very feminine frock was pastel in
tint and chiffon in texture.
This is a Broothorn impression of Mrs.
I. H. Moss. Mrs. Moss, the only repre-
sentative of her sex on the Centenary
Council, is president of the N.C.W., and
as chairman of the Women’s Centenary
Committee has her eyes fixed on
Women’s Week (November 19-26). To
this conference prominent women are
being invited from many countries.
There is a scheme in the making for a
memorial to women pioneers. Of the 38
suggestions Mrs. Moss favors the garden
sanctuary, for it is symbolical and should
be a thing of restful beauty. Also its
cost is comparatively modest.
With such a glittering season planned
for the year’s tail-end, Melbourne women
are sifting odds and ends so old that
they are once more fashionable. Coming
out from layers of mothballs and laven-
der are gauzy stuffs of grandmother’s
day loaded with jet and sequins, plaid
shawls which make astonishingly smart
blouses, heavy jewellery and feathers.
The trinkets are being reset into clips
(so useful for bits and pieces of neck-
wear), as well as bracelets and adorn-
ments to be supported by modish coif-
fures. Feathers, aristocratic or merely a
good imitation, are lying low, for who
wants to be unceremoniously grabbed in
the middle of a beautiful dance by a sleuth
on the track of osprey? The Fisheries
and Game Department heard that the
forbidden plumes had been seen at a race
meeting, and is keeping all its eyes wide
open. The suspect is in hiding, and no
one knows if her feathers grew on a
white egret or are the product of rooster,
synthetically treated.
Another woman scientist who is sail-
ing away is Joan Norris. She’s a bio-
chemist and has spent most of the last
four years doing research on blood and
blood pressure and its relation to human
and animal ills. Joan will spend some
time working with Dr. Frank Apperly
in Virginia, U.S.A. (she was a member
of his Mt. Hotham expedition), and she
is planning a trip to Norway with that
contradictory young person, all fluffiness
and brains, Jean Gardner, now a bio-
chemist in America.
A breeze from the West:
Ken McGibbon and May Oakley paddled
their matrimonial canoe from St. Luke’s, Cot-
tesloe, with the Rev. H. E. King to guide the
launching. Bridal satins frothed lengthily in
the wake, bubbling from a wealth of tucks
at the shoulder, with an enveloping mist of
tulle caught over the ears with sprays of orange-
blossom. Esme Oakley and Rita McGibbon
held the barque steady in coral crepes, tucked
and trained, with beacons glittering on the cor-
sage. Winnie Oakley lent a hand which
emerged from Victorian frilled coral crepes and
a head-wreath of flowerlets. Guests’ cheers re-
verberated at the Oakleys’ town house in Pep-
permint Grove.
The wearin’ of the green was celebrated at
His Majesty’s with a presentation of Cecil
Clark’s musical comedy “Glanasheen.” Anita
Fitz Gerald, holding the reins of production,
drove the cheery gig-load to success, assisted by
Mr. Sydney-Smith, who arranged the musical
side of the show. Marcia Hodges’s soft soprano
and golden curls were popular in the part of
Eileen; Lorna Sydney-Smith made a tuneful
Molly; Pat Hannah scored a bull’s-eye as the
Widow Doran, and Fred Burke showed a
sparkling Irish wit as her son Tom.
The Royal Perth Yacht Club’s ladies’ day
saw women skippers, in nautical attire, steer-
ing their craft through the vagaries of a light
south-easter. Dot Oliver, with the Genevieve's
spinnakers bellying in the breeze, sailed home
to victory and the Morance Cup, which was
presented by the donor. Vice-Commodore
George Gwynne led off the dance which wound
up the festivities.
Dr. and Mrs. Ralph Crisp harmonised roses
and dahlias in their home and invited musical
friends to welcome Ariel Seeligson back to their
circle during her brief stay in Perth. A pre-
lude of solos by the gold-silk-crepe-clad guest
of honor, Flora Running, Gladys Cunliffe and
Marcia Hodges was followed by a fugue of
supper and chat.
Before joining the Nestor for their trip
abroad the Ernest Lee Steeres gave a party for
Mrs. Lee Steere’s sister, Mrs. C. Y. Simpson,
who came from England to direct the house-
hold affairs during their absence. As a daugh-
ter of W.A.’s famous C. Y. O’Connor, Mrs.
Simpson was well known here some time ago,
and many friends clustered round her navy
georgettes to murmur greetings.
Tawny dahlias and zinnias Mrs. Flor-
ence Dain’s Mt. Lawley home when her verse-
speaking choir congregated there to farewell
ex-member Mrs. William Hall before she set
off for her new home in the Kimberleys. There
were competitions and music, and the choir
spoke several of Mrs. Hall’s favorite poems.
The Kylie Music Club responded to president
Mrs. W. H. Vincent’s urge for modern music
with Ernest Bloch’s “Baal Schem” as an item
at their afternoon gathering at the Karrakatta
Club. David Powell wielded a dexterous bow
in its execution, and, in conjunction with Meg
Powell, gave Mozart’s violin and piano duet in
G major. Alice Mallon’s return to the plat-
form was welcomed, and Nora Cullen’s debut
found favor.
The S. M. Bruces, the lady with presenta-
tion dahlias held against calf-length black
marocains and satin, were welcomed by the
S. J. McGibbons and R. O. Laws at a garden
party. King’s Park pavilion, decked with roses,
housed 200 guests and oceans of tea and de-
lectables, which were consumed to orchestral
strains. Mrs. McGibbon’s cream laces, with
flame velvet flowers at the throat and a flame
sisal hat, flanked one side of the lions, while
Mrs. Law’s sandalwood Chantillies, worn with
a matching ballibuntal, guarded the other.
Adelaide’s social chronicles:
Mayor Chambers, of Henley and Grange,
entertained about 50 of the officers from the
Canberra and Australia at a reception and
dance in the Henley kiosk. Captain Bradley
thanked the Mayor for his hospitality, and, the
night being cool, tire dancing was much enjoyed.
The picnic arranged for the naval officers by
Mrs. Frank Harcus was a huge success. Twelve
carloads left the city at 11 a.m. and motored
to Long Gully. Twelve hostesses each took
luncheon and afternoon-tea sufficient for the
passengers in her car. In the afternoon the
party motored to Port Noarlunga. In the even-
ing the officers were entertained at different
homes, Mrs. Harcus having a very large party.
Inter-State matches between Adelaide and
Melbourne women polo players attracted a
large crowd to Birkalla. Among those who
came from Melbourne to look on were Mr.
and Mrs. Hope Campbell, Mr. and Mrs.
McComas and Miss Pennefeather, who motored
here, and Mrs. Dunstan and her daughter, who
came by boat. A dinner dance for the visitors
at the Apollo was a very cheery affair; Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Cornell gave a cocktail party at
their residence, Eastwood; Mrs. Edmund Bow-
man, of Norwood, put on a morning-tea for
the women players and Mrs. Kenneth Bakewell
was hostess at a dinner for all the women
visitors. Also there was a dance at the Cecil
Brays’ place, Glenelg, and another the follow-
ing night at Mount Osmond country clubhouse.
Norman Kater, of Sydney, is the guest of
Mrs. Clive Milne at Somerton. His fiancee,
Margot Milne, is taking aviation lessons at
Parafield so that she can enjoy flying Mr.
Kater’s ’plane. Their marriage will take place
in May.
Mrs. Walter Duncan and her sister, Mrs. Ken-
neth Milne, were joint hostesses at a farewell
party for Mrs. Dudley Turner, who left for
England with her husband in order to attend
the Test matches.
Misses Pat and Peg Stoddart, of Glenelg,
gave a blue kitchen-tea for Mary Muecke, who
is to marry Dr. Gilbert Jose on April 4. The
two young hostesses were frocked alike in
pale green crepe de Chine.
The weather was oppressive on the after-
noon on which an at-home was held on the
flagship Canberra. A thrill was provided by
the take-off of the seaplane from the top deck.
Afternoon-tea, cocktails and dancing made the
time pass quickly. Mrs. McCloud, wife of
Captain McCloud, of the Australia, who re-
cently arrived from England to join her hus-
band in Adelaide, was smartly gowned in
apricot-flowered chiffon, and wore a large
brown straw hat.
The ball in aid of the Queen’s Home, held
at the new Embassy, was a huge success; the
ballroom, decorated in pastel toning, with up
to date indirect lighting, is something new to
Adelaide. The floral scheme was carried out
in guinea gold marigolds. His Ex. and Lady
Hore-Ruthven were received by the president of
the women’s committee (Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon), Paul Goode (secretary) and Dudley
Matthews (organiser). There was a huge com-
mittee, mostly of girls, who sold the tickets so
well that the hall was packed.
The Speck has a word or two to say:
The president and Mrs. A. J. Miller fed a
big crowd in the Pavilion at the Doncaster
meeting of the T.R.C. The hostess sported
floral georgette in two shades of blue. Some
women ventured out in summer rig and others
put their faith in cloth, tweed and fur. Mrs.
Thos. Lyons was in green, the Jones lady in
black cloth and furs. On the lawn were the
Russell Ibbotts, Mrs. W. B. Propsting, Mrs.
Gordon Blew, the Ashbolt lady, Mrs. J.
Downie, the H. C. Ikins, the H. W. Strutts,
Dr. and Mrs. J. Sprent, Dr. and Mrs. Rogers,
the Huon Walkers, Mrs. L. F. Piesse and daugh-
ter Wanda, Mrs. Kathleen Hay and Mrs. Doug-
las Jones.
Queenie M. Belstead and T. H. Headlam
were made one at St. David’s, Coo-ee. The
bride’s frock of pale pink angel-skin was cut
on long tight-fitting lines, with a bustlish bow .
at the back and long sleeves. Pale pink tulle,
caught with orange-blossom and flowing to
form a train, was chosen for the veil. Sister
Maie ’maided in blue organdie with pale
yellow sprigs and a wee hat with an eye-veil.
Matron Jane Power has retired after half a
life-time of service at the New Norfolk Mental
Diseases Hospital. She has built a nest for
herself in the same town, so New Norfolk
won’t los'i her.
Miss Gummow’s tea-party at Hadley’s was
a gathering of. migrating birds, bound in the
next week or so for the Mainland or much
further afield. Among intending departees
were the hosttss, her aunt Miss Stratton, Mrs.
Moore and h;r daughter, Miss Massey, Mrs.
Leila Hazel, Mrs. Nares, Mrs. Bigge, Miss
Iceley and Miss Mabel Iceley. Small tables
were decorated with asters of ali shades and
Miss Gummow’s frock of deep wine soft
woollen was topped by a felt hat in the same
shade


COWBOY SADDLERY
'hr
CQ.
se
±d
m
as
1
m
No. 151
“TEXAS
RODEO”
We stand alone for
Cowboy Saddles.
Write for our Cata-
log No. 338 of Aus.
and Texas Saddlery.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDEEItS, 805 George Street. Sydney.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge,'
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide,
A POWER
OF DIFFERENCE-
-3E
FOR EASTER TOURING
At Easter, enjoy carefree touring:—easy
starting: more miles per gallon
DYNAMIC POWER! Change today to
>4/5-4
Popularly priced at all garages
Dynamic
SI’AIUi
PLUGS
On your next visit to LONDON
TRY
QUEEN’S COURT
HOTEL
25-27 EARL’S COURT SQUARE, 5.W.5
(Overlooking Gardens)
LONDON—ENGLAND
Ilot and cold water and gas fires all bedrooms,
telephones, passenger lift. Central heating.
Spacious public rooms. Also rooms for recep-
tions. Excellent cuisine and service from 3
guineas weekly, or daily terms. Central Tunes
and ’buses.
MODERNISED BY NEW RESIDENT
PROPRIETOR.
CABLES: EDREXHAMS, FULROAD, LONDON
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and r rble news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies ot the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne
dk
1
The Razor that Really Shaves
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6; with guard, 16/-
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle .. 15/6; with guard, Ift/-
Real Ivory Handle .... 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 651 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets, (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and fin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
c^t
TO ENGLAND
Fortnightly—
Two charming routes at your choice—
go by Auckland (N.Z.), Suva and Hono-
lulu to Vancouver, or by Wellington
(N.Z.), Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco—thence to England across
Canada or U.S.A. by luxury trains and
modern liners.
Tickets are interchangeable on both
routes, thus giving opportunity for a mag-
nificent round trip. Stopovers arranged
for any port of call.
Passengers travelling to England by these
or any other routes may book their return
passage —via Canada or U.S.A., the South
Sea Islands and New Zealand—before
leaving Australia.
Moderate fares, comfortable ships, modern
accommodation, faultless service.
Let us quote you the most
economical rates for your trip.
and Union Limes
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George
Sydney.
328 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
296 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
m
M/v 0
w
i ■
Oj
Out of the Past.
THE FOURTH ESTATE.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON a morning in February, 1830, Mr.
William Charles Wentworth, who
was accompanied by Dr. Robert
Wardell, knocked at the gate of the gaol
in George-street, Sydney. A small panel
in the bolt-studded door slid back, and
Turnkey Rafferty surveyed them through
the aperture.
“An’ what might y r Honors be
wantin’, if ye plase?”
“We’ve an order from the Sheritt,
addressed to the gaoler, to permit of our
visiting Mr. Edward Smith Hall, re-
plied Wentworth. .
“Come in, gintlemen, come in, said
Mr. Rafferty genially, unlocking the gate
and admitting them to the yard. “I’ll
have Mister Cooley sint for at wance.
The proprietor and editor of the
“Monitor” was resident in Mr. Timothy
Cooley’s establishment as the result of
a series of libels upon .General Darling
and sundry high officials of his
Administration. To Darling he was
a “revolutionary scribbler whose object
is to write down the Government
by representing the public as labor-
ing under grievances, which exist only
in his own diseased mind” —but he
was much more than that. The public
labored under real grievances, which had
their root in a tyrannical and inefficient
system of government, and “Monitor”
Hall was cheerfully ready to incur prose-
cutions for libel in seeking their redress
—ready indeed, as he declared, to remain
in gaol until General Darling’s Govern-
ment should have come to an end.
Mr. Cooley brought chairs for the two
callers ,and took himself away. Mr. Hall,
in his shirt-sleeves, stood up from a small
table littered with papers and proofs, and
received his visitors with enthusiasm.
“My dear Wentworth, and you, too,
Doctor! How are you both? And to
what do I owe the pleasure of this call?”
The door into the yard was open, and
sundry prisoners were lounging about in
the morning sunlight or were seated on
the ground with their backs to the high
outer wall of the gaol. It was the en-
closure where men awaiting trial spent
the weary days before they learned the
fate in store for them. For more than
one that day would mean the end of
the world.
As he seated himself, Wentworth
caught sight of a young man who was
walking up and down.
“Excuse me a moment, Hall,” he said.
“There’s a man here I’m interested in.
Woolaston, come here a moment —I’ve
a word to say to you.”
The young man started and turned.
When he recognised who had addressed
him he walked rapidly across the yard,
his battered cabbage-tree hat in his left
hand.
“Oh, Mr. Wentworth, y’r Honor,” he
began.
“In the name of Heaven, Wollaston,”
Wentworth asked, “what are you doing
in this place? I had supposed you to be
3it Belltrees.”
He stepped out into the yard and laid
his hand in a kindly fashion on the
prisoner’s shoulder.
“By God, Mr. Wentworth, ye’d never
believe it, sir!”
Ten minutes later Wentworth re-
entered the room, flushed and angry.
“There is no end —no end at all—to
the tyrannies this man and his precious
bureaucracy are inflicting upon New
South Wales. It is almost incredible such
a thing should happen. It is damnable!”
“What is it, Wentworth?” asked the
Doctor quietly.
“You saw that young fellow ' I was
talking to? Well, he’s a free emigrant
who came here a month since, with let-
ters of introduction to me from Sir
Anthony Wright, of Guildford, in Sur-
rey, with whom I was at Cambridge. A
fine young fellow, of the best yeoman
stock —the very sort we most need here.
Of course I found him employment im-
mediately—as a stockman at Belltrees,
my new station on the Upper Hunter.
A fortnight ago I started him off thither
—and, damme, if they haven’t brought
him back: on suspicion of being a run-
away convict! ”
“Ah,” remarked Hall drily. “Our old
friend the Bushranging Act, I suppose?”
“Exactly. That infamous enactmenl
that permits any blackguard of a trooper
or constable to arrest any man upon sus-
picion of being an absconder and send
him back to Sydney for identification.
He’s been here three days, and not the
slightest movement to take him to the
office of the Superintendent of Convicts,
where, of course, he would be set at
liberty—to find his way back as best he
may. Good God! Do we live in the
nineteenth century or in the Dark Ages?^
He walked to Newcastle from Chain o
Ponds, handcuffed to a trooper s stirrup,
and came down in the schooner chained
to a murderer. He had papers that ought
to have identified him, but some young
idiot of a lieutenant at Muswellbrook
swore he had forged my signature.
Mr. Hall laughed cynically.
“This man’s case brings it home to
you, eh, Wentworth? But ’tis really an
old story now. I know of one fellow who
has been brought back to Sydney three
times —from the Wellington Valley, from
Lake George and from Wallis Plains—
and he as free a man and as well entitled
to his liberty as any in the colony. The
officers of the mounted police always
back their men, and most of the magis-
trates back the officers. They would have
this splendid country always a prison, be-
cause assigned service suits their pockets.
“With the present Administration,’
observed Dr. Wardell, “it seems hopeless
to look for any change for the better.
New South Wales is nothing to them but
a penal settlement, wherein free men are
a nuisance. Can we change things?
“By God, we can! ” swore Mr. Went-
worth. “And we will!”
“Yes,” Mr. Hall went on, “we can, and
we will. ; It is because I feel confident
that we will that I am here in gaol. The
Fourth Estate will change it. It is the
Fourth Estate alone that can effect a
change without revolution and without
bloodshed. Hereafter, men who enjoy
the liberties that will surely come to this
fair land will bless the Fourth Estate for
them. And now, gentlemen, will you
please enlighten me as to the business
that brings you here this morning/ 1
am a little busy. We go .to press to-
night.”
On the 19th of October, 1831, Mr.
Wentworth sat upon his favorite rock in
the grounds of his estate of Vaucluse
and gazed across the waters towards dis-
tant Sydney. Down by the beach revels
were in progress, and shouts of laughter
and merrymaking echoed through the
trees. The many boats anchored in the
little bay were beflagged and decorated.
The owner of the beautiful property
had. issued a general invitation to the
inhabitants of Sydney to come down the
harbor and celebrate the day at his ex-
pense. An ox was to be roasted whole;
there were to be free beer and rum,
sports, footracing and games of cricket.
And he had been careful to state, quite
explicitly, the reason for this demonstra-
tion of joyfulness and relief.
The event was the impending departure
of Lieutenant-General Ralph Darling.
He had- been recalled, and was to sau
two days later. Wentworth had arrange*,
this demonstration so that his late Excel-
lency might carry its bitter memory to
sea with him. There was nothing mag-
nanimous about it, to be sure, and Went-
worth now felt as much himself as he
reclined on the grey slab of Hawkesbury
sandstone. . . ,
He was addressed by a voice behind
“Ah, my friend, ’tis a great day you
celebrate! We have won, and all our
trouble was worth while.”
Wentworth scrambled to his feet and
held out his hand.
“My dear Hall,” he said, “I had been
wondering where you were.”
“Business detained me in town all m e
morning, and I have only just ridden
out. Your guests are appreciating your
hospitality. Some of them, one would
think, had never eaten or drunk for a
twelvemonth.”
“Have you had anything to eat.
“Yes—before I left town, thank you
Let us sit here for a while. A beautiful
spot! ” T ,
“Ah, yes. I know no spot that 1 love
better. When my time comes I hope to
lie here. Hall, you had the faith that
moved mountains. What was it—faitn
in yourself, in God, or in the ultimate
triumph of reason?”
Mr. Hall slapped his riding-boot witft
his hunting-crop. “My faith, my dear
Wentworth, was in the judicious usage
of cases of type, my pen, my inkpot, m>
printing-press. Nothing can be done
without the Fourth Estate, no institution
stand without its approval. On the da}
after to-morrow, as his ship passes
through the Heads, even Governor Dar-
ling will realise that. ’Tis certain he ha>
cause to do so.” ,
“Ah, yes—poor man!” murmured
Wentworth. ~
“Poor man be d d! said Mr
Edward Hall Smith, of the “Monitor.


THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities foi the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey, it establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
Ihe Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778.025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
tranches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
MOTORISTS . . . Specify “SILVER EDGE '
BRAKE LlNlNG—British and Best
ď
- , «*«?S' s 5 Re °
TRA rHE R^ ys£S
Ensures Service, Satisfaction and Safety
Your Garageman Knows It Meets
All Motoring Conditions
THE RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Representative: J. Arnold., G.P.0., Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
5 Times Cheaper to Run than
a Petrol Engine!
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
CRUDE OIL ENGINES
with their
RUGGED STRENGTH AND
OVERSIZE WEARING PARTS
are the
“LIFETIME” POWER UNITS
.uaddll
nosht/mcm
Compare the 2J-3 H.P. Model
with its
2in. dia. Crankshaft, 2l'm. Crankpin, 4in. long Main Bearings, 4|in.
Bore, s|in. Stroke, Weight 6% cwt., with any Engine on the Market at
£69 10/- Brisbane
■
y|
THOMPSONS High Efficiency CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
Pump more water and take less power than any other ptftnp on the market.
Also Bulldozer and Hand Pumps, Windmills, Pump Cylinders, Automatic
Water Systems, Piping, Fittings, etc.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
đ
NQBranch
stUkts
TOWNSVILLE
FNIfiINEERINC Supply c? of AUSTRALIA IT-'l T -'
Success.
BY KURT OFFENBURG.
AS the initials of his Christian names
were S.T. and his business a coastal
shipping line, his club friends
called him “Steamer” Sunderfield, to dis-
tinguish him from another member of
the same name, “Milk” Sunderfield.
“Steamer” was a tall, heavy, broad-
shouldered, mighty-chested fellow. His
hands were the size of feet, and if you
said “Good-bye” to him you had a livid,
painfully soft mass of flesh between your
fingers, and wondered if the Maker had
forgotten to put bones in this monster of
a man.
His face was as white as his hands ;
an enormous mass of chin descended in
flights of terraces, and two drooping
cheeks bulged like yellow bags of rice.
His hardly medium-sized, pale-blue,
watery white-lashed eyes, faintly flecked
with specks of red, reminded you of
white mice.
Seeing him in his office behind the
large desk with the three ’phones, you
could not help being impressed for a
moment. You were tempted to take him
for one of the big Taipans, one of those
clever, far-seeing and amiable business
men who have made a success of their job.
But this opinion of him vanished rapidly
when “Steamer” opened his mouth;
all his utterances were painful common-
places, and his knowledge did not, reach
further than the members of his club
and a few Chinese ports, their imports
and exports, and the tonnage of coal his
steamers consumed per mile, the rates
for cargo and coolies.
Astonished and puzzled, you asked
yourself (and perhaps later, after dinner
and the second whisky, you asked an-
other Taipan) how “Steamer’s” ignorance
did not hinder his business success. You
learnt of his development from a run-
away second engineer to a Taipan.
In 1912, through successful opium-
smuggling, “Steamer” had accumu-
lated his first £l5OO and begun to trade
in all kinds of foodstuffs, which he
peddled on boats. His old connections
and former colleagues did not help him
very much. They had little regard for
“Steamer,” who never shouted a drink or
was ever one of a party; they talked of
him as being “no sport.”
Yet their loyalty enabled him to scrape
together small orders for foodstuffs, and
after a few months he extended his deal-
ings to marine stores.
“Steamer” discovered very soon that he
could do with some more money, so he
engaged a compradore who put up suf-
ficient security to guarantee the Chinese
part of the business. Then banks began
to give him credit.
Two months before war broke out
“Steamer” bought his first ship—on long-
term credit. The cash down was secured
by himself, a few friends, the compra-
dore and his vast chain of Chinese rela-
tives. Though she was only a two-thou-
sand-tonner, thirty years old and ripe for
the shipbreakers, she still did her seven
knots and could carry coolies from
Fukien to Indo-China.
The profits were small, competition
being very keen. Yet, better small pro-
fits than no profits at all. After her
second trip things suddenly changed;
the war came and freight-rates rose.
And the prices of foodstuffs, paints and
everything else rose, too. “Steamer,” by
shrewd buying and selling, made an im-
mediate profit and found that he could
afford, without any difficulty whatsoever,
to pay a due instalment on his ship.
Things still went well, but too slowly
for him ; the profits did not accumulate
quickly enough to risk the purchase of
a second boat. The banks, where great
changes in policy had taken place, were
more careful, and it was difficult to get
further credit.
Yet “Steamer” was impatient; he
longed to “go ahead,” though he did not
know in the slightest how he could turn
things to his advantage.
Weeks passed, and shortly before Christ-
mas, 1914, he received a request from
the Colonial Secretary to put the services
of his “steamers” at the disposal of the
Government, and to report tonnage,
speed and special feature of each.
At first he was alarmed. It seemed that
all his endeavors to build up and run
his own line were smashed. After a
worried, sleepless night he decided to see
the Second Assistant Secretary, the only
person he happened to know in the
department. “Steamer” told himself that
it would not be much use to see such
an underling, but he had no other choice.
Smiling and more than satisfied, he
left the long, low wooden building, and
while he mounted his rickshaw and
roared to the coolie “Fai-ti! Fai-tiJ”
he told himself that underlings could
be more useful than “heads.” The
second was quite a nice fellow—had
obligingly given him all official infor-
mation and a little more. The Govern-
ment would pay in advance for all ship-
ments, and for certain cargo even a pre-
mium!
While the rickshaw-coolie pulled fif-
teen stone of very solid flesh along the
noisy Bund, crowded with loading and
discharging freighters, “Steamer” calcu-
lated feverishly freight-rates and pre-
miums multiplied by the tonnage of his
fleet. Two thousand —not a scrap more.
What a pity!
Then an ingenious thought occurred
to him. He would raise the Plimsoll
line. Not very much, only a little;
just sufficient to gain a few hundred tons
more cargo without endangering the
boat.
When he arrived in his office he did
not mention a word to his compradore
about the new development, and when
the Chinese brought him a considerable
order for provisions “Steamer” was very
reluctant to accept it.
“We need the money otherwise,” he
said. “We can’t do any more business
which brings only twelve and a half per
cent. If you will finance it, Kwong, all
right.”
Yam Shi Kwong did. He financed this
business and the next transaction, and
the thirtieth and the fiftieth. Then one
morning, after an especially good deal
had been completed and paid for in cash,
Kwong ventured to ask “Steamer”
whether their arrangement could not be
altered so as to give him more than the
negligible commission he was getting. A
third of the profits seemed justified.
A third of the profits! How dared
the Chink come with such a suggestion?
But “Steamer” did not flare up ; he sel-
dom got excited. He sqid quietly:
“I don’t think we can do it, Kwong.”
“But, sir”- ventured the compra-
dore.
“I will let you know to-morrow.” And
he took his topi and saw his lawyer.
Next day Kwong was informed that
his compradore-agreement would be ter-
minated after the usual term of six
months. “Steamer,” who had paid him
his commission of one-half per cent, regu-
larly, had made sufficient money out of
Kwong to be able to meet the last three
instalments on his boat at once.
Yet he paid only one and utilised the
rest, together with the Government ad-
vance, to secure a second and third ship.
Yam Shi Kwong, who felt himself
deceived and his good faith betrayed,
thought of legal proceedings, but very
soon realised that his chief was legally
right though morally wrong.
“Moral points don’t count, Mr.
Kwong,” his lawyer told him. “Mr. Sun-
derfield acted within the law. Your con-
tract doesn’t say that you have to provide
the money for the business; it says only
that you have to guarantee the outstand-
ing accounts. Sorry, Mr. Kwong; these
are the facts.”
Certainly “Steamer” had “lost face” ;
but what does that matter for a white
man?
Shortly afterwards he was admitted
as a member of the club.
From this time “Steamer” really started
to prosper; and as the war went on and
on his fortune increased. He married
the only daughter of a successful ex-mis-
sionary who had received a call to the
business of real estate. Part of the dowry
consisted of a few hundred feet of water-
front.
Dying untimely, the ex-missionary left
his ricefields, tenement-houses and mort-
gages to his daughter and the business
to “Steamer,” who sold out to the
Chinese.
The war ended, but the boom went
on. He enlarged his fleet of eleven
boats, added a coal, ship-chandiery and
rope business to it, secured some interest
in leading firms, and bought a palatial
home in the best European quarter. He
was now a man of consequence.
Yet his marriage was childless, and
socially he was ignored as thoroughly as
one avoids an open drain. His ambition
increased with his social misfortune.
At last he wangled an appointment as
honorary representative to one of the
small colonial States. Once every year
he was now asked to attend an official
dinner at Government House. The news-
papers mentioned his name, and a few
chaps in the club listened to “Steamer’s”
description of the function.
He now felt secure. The hectic struggles
of the first two years before the war
seemed very far away and unreal. He
(i Continued on next page.)


‘New Rapid”
Centrifugal Pumps]
a!
* >■
•<
A Centrifugal has the greatest capacity of any Pump for its size,
and is generally used for lower heads and larger capacities than
Plunger Pumps. “New Rapid” Pumps are of the most modern design.
In Single Stage (for heads up to 50ft.), Two Stages (for heads up to
100 ft.), and Multi Stages. All sizes from |in. upwards.
Particulars on request .
mm
“APEX” High Capacity
Pump
In Two Sizes: No. 1, j|in.; No. 2,
The outstanding advantage of the
“APEX” is its very high capacity and
its ease of operation.
Having no rubber or leather fittings
inside to wear or perish, the “Apex”
will easily outlast ordinary pumps.
Although designed primarily for pump-
ing petrol and oils, it is also effective
under certain conditions for other
liquids. Prices on request.
ftopnetarn limited
“Dependable Goods Since 1860."
Send for a Free Copy
of our Large
Catalogue
Piping
and
Fittings
also
stocked.
A rl '- *nr
Quotation.
'wss.
Hydraulic Rams
Permit Continuous Automatic
Pumping.
Our “Reliance” Rams are self-acting
Pumps, which use the momentum of a
slight fall of water to an elevated
position. Cost nothing to run. Once
started need no further attention.
Obtainable in various sizes and
capacities.
Prices and full particulars on request.
51-65 Bathurst St. - - - SYDNEY
592 Collins St. - - MELBOURNE
116-130 Waymouth St. - ADELAIDE
532 Murray St. PERTH
HOWARD HOTEL
NORFOLK ST.
STRAND
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
in the centre of London, close to all Theatres Cable: “Howdotel,” London.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
LONDON
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The “WEEKLY COURIER”
(EST. 1901).
The
National
Weekly of
Tasmania.
Famed throughout Australia for its illus-
trations, which cover every part of beautiful
Tasmania; acknowledged to be the Social
Weekly of the Island; and recognised as the
journal of the Man on the Land. The
“Weekly Courier,” with its Tasmanian circu-
lation, is
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF THE STATE.
Full Information, Conies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
THE NATIONAL ADVERTISING MEDIUM OF TASMANIA.
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of "The Examiner” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. --S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W G Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSINC EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
m\ k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
looked forward to enjoying his wealth
and taking things quietly.
Then the catastrophe happened.
He had again reduced the wages of
his captains, officers and engineers. Most
of them took it silently, some protested
(it did not help them), and one went up
to “Steamer’s” office. He was commo-
dore of the fleet. When his ship came
back from Saigon he told “Steamer” of
his wife and five children; pleaded also
that he had to support his aged parents
in England.
“Steamer,” behind his desk with the
three telephones, listened without saying
a word. At last he rose.
“I will see what I can do, Brown. I’ll
let you know as soon as possible.” At
the same time he was considering replac-
ing him with a younger and cheaper man.
Brown replied: “I can’t work at a
lower wage, sir.”
“If you can’t, Brown, I’ll get someone
who can. Get out!”
“After fifteen years’ service, you tell
ne” . . .
“Steamer” interrupted: “Business is
business. Now go.”
The captain did not reply, but went
one step nearer. A hard and hairy fist
struck “Steamer’s” jaw. He swayed for a
moment, but before he could recover a
second blow turned him backwards over
the heavy blackwood chair, and he
dropped to the floor.
“Steamer’s” secretary screamed. Two
departmental managers, Europeans, and
several Chinese clerks rushed in. Dazed,
the big man got up.
“Get out!” he tried to roar, but his
voice faltered.
The captain had taken his cap and
gone away.
“Steamer,” his pride deeply hurt, com-
mitted the first big blunder in his life.
He took proceedings against Brown, who
was committed for assault.
Quicker than a bushfire the news
spread amongst the European and
Chinese community. Brown was in
crouble; “Steamer” was prosecuting the
eommodore of his fleet, to whom he
owed so much. Public feeling turned
igainst “Steamer.” When he rode in his
rickshaw through the streets he imagined
that people smiled contemptuously at
mm, that friends looked away. In the
club he felt an invisible wall around him.
Yet he consoled himself with the thought
that his nerves had played a trick on
iim and that he imagined things which
really did not exist.
When he returned to his office after
lunch the secretary informed him that the
captains and officers of the five steamers
which were in port had gone on strike.
“Steamer” cursed. “It’s that Bolshevik
Brown’s doings! ” he roared. “I hope he
gets twenty years!”
He offered to see a deputation from
the strikers. They sent two delegates
who declared bluntly that his other
ships along the coast would join in the
strike also.
“It is that dog Brown all right!”
screamed “Steamer.” “I’ll teach him!
I’ll sack you all together! Get out! Get
out!”
The men went smiling, not disturbed
in the slightest.
They hardly had shut the door behind
them when “Steamer” began railing at
himself for losing his self-control. He
thought of his cargo and the loss it meant
to him. Five boats not working! To
quieten his nerves he started to calculate.
The losses he worked out nearly caused
him heart-failure. The figures seemed to
dance before his eyes.
The telephone rang; he did not an-
swer. His head ached terribly; it was as
if an ever-increasing army of ants was
marching under his skull and slowly
advancing towards his forehead. He sat
brooding for some time, lost and hope-
less before the first obstacle he had
encountered in years. Then, following a
sudden impulse, he jumped up and ran
down to the wharf.
Four of his boats were alongside. To
his dismay he discovered that the officers
had left; only the Chinese crews were
on board. He boarded one vessel. Some
of the men knew him by sight.
They called the boatswain. He went
around the ship in search of the Taipan,
but “Steamer” was nowhere to be seen.
The sailor at the gangway swore that no-
body had gone down it.
Suddenly the ship trembled; the
engines started to work! One of the
Chinese rushed on deck, stammering in
a breathless manner:
“He’s turned the steam on! ”
The boatswain, realising the danger at
once, ordered the ropes to be thrown
clear. Before the crew could execute the
order, the propeller started to turn. The
ropes tightened, the ship trembled, and
faster and faster turned the propeller.
Two ropes broke. Others tore part of
!the wharf away! The ship ran clear.
“Go down! Stop him!” cried the
boatswain.
The crew stood pale and shaking.
Two stokers came up. The boatswain
pushed them below, trying to avoid
greater disaster. But before they could
reach the engine-room they were thrown
down —the bow of the ship must have
rammed another boat. The propeller still
turned at full speed.
When at last three of them entered
the room —the crew had rushed on deck,
where they screamed for help—they saw
“Steamer,” with his topi on, before the
engine. His right hand, was at the valve,
which was opened to “Full Steam.”
He did not hear the men enter. His
mind was a blank, except for the con-
sciousness of an army of ants which, he
imagined, was marching under his skull
and slowly advancing towards his fore-
head.
One of the stokers rushed forward to
shut off steam. “Steamer” pushed him
aside with all the weight of his heavy
body. The Chinese, slightly built, fell over
and banged his head against the bulk-
head. The boatswain seized a heavy
spanner and hurled it at “Steamer” ; it
hit him full in the face. The stoker
sprang forward and struck him with an
iron bar. A second stroke, quick and
furious, sent “Steamer” crashing to the
floor.
They shut off steam and ran upstairs.
A police-launch was already alongside.
To-day you can see “Steamer” sitting
quietly in his garden in the North of
England. You would not think anything
was the matter with him, unless the wind
should happen to blow a scrap of paper
across his way. Then he jumps up, runs
after it, and says if he cannot catch it:
“Damn it, you should keep these bills-
of-lading more carefully! Now I have to
calculate the whole cargo again.”
The Passing of Summer.
“Hist!” sighs the breeze through the red gum,
“Winter is long;
Summer so soft is a-dying,
Hark to my song:
“Summer is Life to ye mortals
(Low croon the leaves);'
Summer’s night winds bring ye heartsease;
Winter’s are thieves.
“Summer is life —she is dying
With the parched grass;
Summer is hope, and the sands run
Low in her glass.
“Summer brings faith to the living;
Winter brings death.
Now with Despair she is coming.
Ah! her fell breath!
“Summer lies dead in the grasses
(Loud moan the trees);
Calm and aloof, Summer passes
On her last breeze.”
W.A,
C. M. KASNER.
Windows.
I’ve seen them gleaming through the night,
With beckoning warmth of firelight;
I’ve seen them glare, hard-eyed and cold,
From empty houses, drear and old;
I’ve seen them like two hollow eyes,
Staring, haunted; sometimes wise;
I’ve heard them rattle, bang and shake;
I’ve seen white curtains round them make
A billowing softness in the wind;
I’ve seen them cruel, I’ve seen them kind:
But when the sunset in them springs
Then windows are immortal things.
N.S.W.
ANNE ASH.
To Autumn Trees.
A while ago your leafy deeps
Were cool as halls where Saturn sleeps,
And under them reflected shades
Drowned in the long cold-rooted blades.
Soon will this gorgeous pageant fade
To branches delicately laid
To the grey sky; then froth of spring
Will greenly to your young boughs cling;
But you are now most beautiful
Before the winds your dreams annul.
Autumn’s a spirit caught between
The life to come, the life that’s been;
He shakes old beauties from his hair
And leaps towards the distant fair
That gleams in the vast-clouded sky
Past where endurance and woe lie.
But as upon her course Earth veers
The straining spirit backward peers,
And you, O lovely autumn trees,
You are the vision that he sees.
You are the vision of all parting,
All happiness that nears its ending,
Bright with the shadows of the hours
That flee to where oblivion lours,
Sweet with lingering joys that are
Than their forerunners dearer far.
O vision, flaunting farewell, know
A spirit that is all aglow
To be away looks back and grieves,
Seeing such beauty as he leaves.
VICTORIA.
JEAN IREIN.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, KBE MLC (ViVe rhairmawi.
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd W H Mackay, R. M.
Manager: J. o. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
BANK
imifiti
WHAT ARE THESE
BIG FINANCIAL H
INSTITUTIONS ?
40C
THEY are the Banks, the Insurance and the
Executor Companies—trusted custodians of
the people's savings.
The Executor Companies administer estates
which represent life savings left for the support
of dependents.
Insurance Companies collect and invest the sav-
ings of the hundreds of thousands who are pro-
viding for old age or misadventure.
The Banks in addition to receiving deposits from
the thrifty of the community in every walk of
life, provide those essential banking facilities,
apart from which Insurance and Executor Com-
panies could not render their vital services to
the people.
These institutions are owned by thousands of
our citizens, the majority of whom are of moder-
ate means.
It is from the accumulated savings of the people
entrusted to financial institutions that producers
of all kinds obtain the funds to develop the
country's resources.
Bank of New South Wales .
hr (Einttiw-lltaU
The COURIER-MAIL 62,928 Copies Daily
THROUGH Brisbane flows the commerce of the
major portion of Queensland, a vast and
swiftly-growing market offering wonderful
opportunities to enterprising advertisers.
And, through Brisbane, this vast, wealthy market
can be effectively and economically influenced. The
Courier-Mail, with its circulation of 62,928 copies
daily, offers you a circulation at least 2\ times that
of any other Queensland daily, and the widest distri-
bution of your advertising message.
Advertisers, both national and local, have proved its
splendid result-pulling powers, ranking it one of
Australia’s foremost media.
QUEENSLAND NEWSPAPERS PTY. LTD.
QUEEN STRE ET—-BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON,
74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. FISHER,
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
■AUDIT
•bureau or
.CIRCULATIOHS.
Sentimentalists.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
IT was a terrible thing to Mrs. Parsley
to have to ask No. 7 to change his
quarters. He was a Permanent; in
fact, Mrs. Parsley had taken him over
with the Manly harborfront boarding-
house. John Harris had honeymooned
in No. 7, and had come back after
many years to live amongst the memories
of his “dear little girl,” of whom he
spoke in expansive moments.
Even though he only represented a
pound a week, the sentimental Mrs.
Parsley was touched by the faded little
man’s devotion to the wispy little crea-
ture, a thing of joy and brightness, to
whom his memories clung.
“I’m sorry, but I’m full,” she said with
all the satisfaction with which landladies
make such a statement. But the massive
and richly-dressed Mrs. Baldock stayed
on her doorstep. She had stepped back
to gain perspective, and pointed with her
parasol to the room she wanted ; and
when Mrs. Parsley, after the manner of
landladies, had said, in response to a
question, that she got 355. per week for
No. 7, Mrs. Baldock said majestically,
“I’ll give you three pounds ten.”
Such an announcement was over-
whelming to a woman used to having
to haggle over shillings. People who
offered three pounds ten could not be
lightly dismissed. Mrs. Parsley thought
the lady might be induced to take a
better room, entirely on the front. She
would not be sorry if No. 6, whose rent
and marriage status were both doubtful,
had to go.
But Mrs. Baldock wanted No. 7.
“There is a sentimental reason. I don’t
know if you will understand, dear Mrs.
Parsley,” she said, a shake in her voice.
“I have been all over the world, and had
a great many of its enjoyments, but the
greatest happiness in my life was when
I was living in that little room.”
“You spent your honeymoon there?”
hazarded Mrs. Parsley, caught by sym-
pathy.
' “Yes, that was it. If you had only
known my dear husband you would
know what it means to me. He was
such a fine man; so tall and strong and
—magnificent! Full of fun, too, but as
brave as a lion. My first husband—the
first man I loved. A woman never for-
gets the first man she loves.”
“Ah, no, indeed!” said Mrs. Parsley,
and felt moved to make some references
to Mr. Parsley, who had actually been
habitually a very late Mr. Parsley before
he became the late Mr. Parsley. But she
remembered No. 7. If the massive
woman had a fine, stalwart bridegroom
to remember, the faded Mr. Harris, with
his little girl of the long ago, was not
to be despised. She explained the case.
“But men never feel as women do
about these matters,” said Mrs. Baldock.
“And, after all, you have to consider
your own interests, Mrs. Parsley.”
That was the view taken by Mac-
pherson. Macpherson had grown to
regard Mrs. Parsley as his own special
housekeeper who cheapened matters for
him by running a boarding-house in
which he was the one person of real
importance. He was a Permanent of
Permanents. He had been with the land-
lady in four different establishments, and
Mrs. Parsley invariably sought Macpher-
son’s advice.
All along he had said that Harris was
paying too little. Although Mrs. Parsley
had agreed to think the matter over and
let Mrs. Baldock know, she was still con-
cerned about having to tell No. 7. Mac-
pherson, who loved authority, undertook
to do the telling.
Harris, after all, took it very quietly;
but a pained look came into his face.
“You know,” said Macpherson, “you
can’t expect Mrs. Parsley to lose money
over you. She’s very sorry to disturb
you and all that, but she is ready to
give up her own room—the one on the
upper floor, just over No. 7 —to oblige
you. And she won’t charge you any
rent this week. Of course, if you don’t
care about the arrangement, the only
thing will be to ask you to leave.”
So Mrs. Baldock paid her money, and
arranged to arrive the following night,
and Mrs. Parsley felt that a position of
difficulty had been nicely smoothed out
when, without any trouble, John Harris’s
belongings were removed to No. 12.
There was little sign that revolt was
smouldering in John Harris’s bosom that
morning; but Harris had a grievance to
discuss with his friends. He also had a
pound more than usual to spend. By
evening the smoulder had become a
name. When Macpherson reached
home it was to find an agitated Mrs.
Parsley, who told him that Harris had
re "«™, erec * and refused to leave it.
111 soon fix him,” said Macpherson
grimly.
“Go ’way! ” grunted Harris when Mac-
pherson, finding the door locked, rattled
the handle, demanding admission. Mac-
pherson continued to rattle the handle.
The door opened suddenly.
“You can go to hell!” Harris roared,
standing defiantly in his pyjamas in the
doorway. “This room is mine, and here
I’m going to stick. It’s only damnable
cheek that you should want to turn me
out, after all the years I’ve been here.”
“Now, look here, Harris,” began Mac-
pherson.
“Oh, Mr. Harris, you agreed to the
change,” pleaded Mrs. Parsley. “It’s not
like you to make a disturbance—such a
quiet gentleman as you’ve always been.”
“I can’t help it, Mrs. Parsley. I’ve got
to be loyal— to her! My little girl! To
think of a great fat Kosciusko of a
woman coming in here, spilling her
sloppy sentiment —why, it’s sacrilege!”
His belligerence faded, however, when
Mrs. Parsley burst into tears. She had
always done her best for him, she re-
minded him; and if he had said that he
objected so strongly she would have let
him stay on, money or no money. But
now, it was going to make all sorts of
trouble.
Harris gave way. He allowed himself
to be escorted upstairs by Macpherson
while Mrs. Parsley straightened the dis-
turbed bed.
“He’s decided to go for a walk; that
will cool him oft’,” said Macpherson,
coming down the stairs.
Harris, however, did not cool off. A
single drink awoke the feeling within
him that he had been too soft. The
place that he had kept sacred to the
memory of the dearest little woman in
the world was to be desecrated by a
mountain of flesh with a stupid remem-
brance of some hulking brute of a man
—he imagined the type a woman like that
would consider a fine man. She’d have
money ; people like that always did have
money. But it was damnable that money
should crush a memory as sweet as his.
He returned to the house and attempted
to re-enter his old room. Macpherson
was on the alert, and, despite his
struggles, he was taken up to No. 12,
a couple of boarders carrying his kicking
legs and Macpherson his shoulders, and
bundled unceremoniously into the room,
the door being locked.
Mrs. Parsley felt sorry for him. The
shabby little man, fighting for the dreams
of his “little girl,” seemed something of a
hero.
However, when Mrs. Baldock arrived
she greeted that lady with a smile and
assured her that No. 7 was all ready for
her to occupy.
Mrs. Baldock appeared agitated.
“Now it’s come to the point, I feel
afraid,” she said tremulously. “I’ve been
married three times, Mrs. Parsley, and
for years I’ve had the idea of coming
back here, where my happiest days were
spent. We were very poor then, but
oh, so happy!”
“Money isn’t everything,” said Mrs.
Parsley, a reproachful stab in her heart
as she uttered the triteness.
“And now I’m —I’m frightened” said
Mrs. Baldock.
“But you’ll like being there when
you’ve got over that,” said Mrs. Parsley,
beginning to lead the way.
Harris had not wasted much time in
futile assaults on the locked door, for
an idea had come to him. It was quite
an easy drop from the window of No. 12
on to the balcony of No. 7. Nothing in
in it at all. He’d show them!
“I almost feel,” said Mrs. Baldock as
Mrs. Parsley threw open the door for
her to enter, “as if I might come face
to face with my dear, dear husband
again.”
Then she uttered a shriek.
“There’s a man in the room! In the
bed!” she screamed.
Mrs. Parsley’s heart stood still; and
Harris, who had dozed off contentedly, sat
up abruptly at the sound of the turmoil.
In an instant he had leapt from the bed.
“Maria! It’s you! ”he shouted.
“My God, Jack! ”
Somewhat paralysing to Mrs. Parsley’s
mental faculties was this revelation that
the “dear little girl” of Harris’s memories,
supposed to be dead, was this massive
woman; that Mrs. Baldock’s stalwart
bridegroom was the shrunken John
Harris. It was hard to believe ; and Mrs.
Parsley took a long time to believe it.
By the time she had reached something
like normality, Mrs. Baldock and Harris
were engaged in an argument rapidly
gaining heat.
She heard Harris say, a touch of
emotion in his voice: “To think that we
should meet after all these years! And
in my room.”
o Continued on next page.)


“Human Rust -primary
cause of of
present-day sicßness
.. . explains Consulting Physician of
Buda Pesth
Dr. EMIL LEVAI
JUST as rust coats a water pipe, so through faulty
bowel action fragments of food waste become
encrusted on the walls of the intestine. This waste
matter is “human rust.” In it breed germs and
poisons which enter the blood stream, leading to
dreaded self-poisoning (autoxima). Self-poisoning,
the result of “human rust,” is responsible for most
of the ill-health which afflicts modern men and
women.
Clear out “Human Rust”
with Coloseptic
You can clear from your system the virulent poisons
that undermine health and sap vitality. You can
banish constipation, headache, gas in the bowels and
stomach, catarrh, backache, rheumatism, neuritis, and
all the hosts of ailments that come from self-poison-
ing. Take COLOSEPTIC. It first loosens and
dissolves, then smoothly washes out the decaying
waste. It rids the body of all poisons and blood
impurities through Nature’s four outlets —the large
intestine —the kidneys—the pores of the skin—and
the respiratory organs.
Regain Your Youthful Vigour.
Every morning take COLOSEPTIC in hot water.
COLOSEPTIC actually “ tones” and cleanses your
entire digestive tract —helps your body throw off
its waste matter regularly. No longer are you
depressed, tired without cause, subject to headaches
and colds. Your pulse leaps to the thrills of life—
your old vim and vigour return. Aches, pains, and
ailments vanish for ever.
KM
m
' N
m
SP* ■< -A
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
Influenza Relieved.
“Tewkesbury, Tasmania.
*7 have to tell you that I felt great benefit from Coloseptic.
I was suffering from ‘flu.’ I had been ill for a month.
After taking but a few doses I felt much better. The dry
cough left me entirely. Am telling my neighbors about it
The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of Coloseptic (Aust.), Ltd.
COLOSEPTIC —Regular full-sized jars from all
chemists. Sufficient for several weeks’ regular use.
Test COLOSEPTIC for yourself.... Fill m the
coupon and send it in, together with postal note or
stamps for 1 /-, and receive an interesting booklet on
your health and a Special Demonstration Jar ot
COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.), LTD., 24 Jamieson Street,
Sydney.
COUPON.
Coloseptic (Aust.), Ltd.,
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/-
or postal note). Send me one SPECIAL DEMON-
STRATION JAR and “AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
“It’s my room,” said Mrs. Baldock
firmly. “I’ve paid for it.”
“It’s my room!” Harris flared. “For
the last six years”-
“Yes, I heard! Of all the hypocrisy!”
cried Mrs. Baldock scornfully. “Pretend-
ing to be so fond of the memory of the
woman you married —pretending she was
dead! Do you remember how you
treated the dear little girl, as you used
to call me? Do you remember that —
you beast?”
Harris laughed with a hoarse bitterness.
“My dear little girl! ” he mocked. “Yes,
I remember the misery you made of my
life. It served that blackguard Brown
right when you divorced me and married
him.”
“Don’t you dare speak like that about
a better man than you ever knew how to
be!”
That hit Harris on the raw.
“Well, he couldn’t put up with you,
anyway! He died two years later ; pro-
bably he was glad to die. And your
name’s not Baldock ; it’s Brown. Thank
God, it isn’t Harris!”
“That’s none of your business; but, if
you like to know, I married Bill Baldock
after Brown died. I’m nothing to do with
you, now ; only I’d like to say a few
of the things I left unsaid before you ran
away from me like the coward you were
and are!”
“You left unsaid!” The exclamation
was full of devastating scorn.
“Before you get out of my room”
screamed Mrs. Baldock wrathfully.
“Before you get out of my room! It’s
mine! Now I know who”
It was at this stage that Mrs. Parsley
recovered her vocal faculties. She pleaded
for peace.
“Always remember you have found one
another again. You told me, Mrs.
Baldock, what a fine man your husband
was, and how you loved him”-; —
“Love him! That worm!” cried Mrs.
Baldock.
Harris put in a forced “Ha, ha, ha!
Dear little girl! That!” he jeered.
As Macpherson had gone out, there
was no one with the confidence of
authority to intervene. The boarders
became interested in the wrangle, which
rose from storm to gale ; the neighbors
became interested. So did a policeman
when he saw people standing opposite
the house, thrillingly hopeful, no doubt,
that they were listening to the prelude
to a murder. He was welcomed by a dis-
tracted Mrs. Parsley, and put an authori-
tative “What’s all this here?” into the dis-
turbance.
He was told.
“It’s twenty-four years since you two
lived here?” he asked. “You’re sure it
was here?”
“Yes; Number 57. I remember it
well.”
“I’ve still got old letters —ith ‘s7’ on
them,” verified Harris.
“Well, that’s where you’re both wrong.
This used to be Fifty-three until there was
a reallotment of numbers ten years ago.
What used to be Fifty-seven is a few
doors down.”
Harris went off with a hoarse laugh.
Mrs. Baldock departed in search of
the original No. 57 in a manner suggest-
ing that she regarded Mrs. Parsley as
guilty of false pretences.
Harris returned next evening. He
wanted No. 7 again ; and Mrs. Parsley
welcomed him emotionally.
“You see,” said Harris, “I’ve got used
to building my dreams about that room.
It doesn’t matter that it’s not the right
room ; I’ve made it mine. I’ll be able
to forget that fat old tart and think of the
dear little girl I once loved.”
“You shouldn’t speak of her like that,”
reproved Mrs. Parsley, feeling hurt. Her
sentimental mind could not grasp the
fact that these people were clinging to
ideals which were best divorced from
realities. “You loved each other once.
She’s living in the other house now; so
perhaps”
“Oh, I’ll be able to avoid meeting her,”
said Harris, almost fiercely.
Rabbitin’.
BY KYLIE TENNANT.
££ TIMMY, you little devil! ” the woman
I called from the door of the hut,
J “come and take the baby.”
She hitched the sprawling lump across
her arm while she vainly tried to button
her skirt. Finding it impossible, she
dumped him down on a pile of rabbit-
skins, where he lay bubbling at her and
kicking his naked, dirty legs.
“What are you all dressed up for?”
A freckled brat strolled across the clear-
ing with an axe nearly as big as himself.
A light came into his eyes, and he
shouted: “I know! Dad’s cornin’ home,
I bet! Dad’s cornin’ home!”
The woman’s face hardened.
“You take the baby,” she commanded.
“Don’t let him fall in the fire, an’ don’t
you play near the creek or worry Brow-
ser. I’Ve left your lunch ready, an’ a
tin of strawberry jam. You ain’t to
touch it till midday, mind. I’ve got to
go to Tiburon.”
The lie came uneasily to her lips as
she turned to harness the old horse to
the buggy.
“But why, mum? Isn’t dad cornin’
home to-day then?”
Jimmy’s questions followed her as she
moved about gathering her things.
“Maybe.” Jimmy turned a surprised
small face up for the unexpected kiss.
“If ’e does, tell ’im there’s a letter for
’im on the bed. An’ if you’re frightened,
or—if—if I ain’t back by dark, go down
to Grannie’s and tell her you’ve come for
the night. Take care of the baby.”
There were tears in her eyes. Jim,
puzzled, watched as the buggy creaked
away. Then he shouted:
“Hey, yer forgot the skins!”
But she did not come back.
Left alone, curiosity moved him to the
letter. But he could not read, and, after
smearing the scrap of paper in his hot,
greasy, little hands, he turned his atten-
tion to the jam, which already had
gathered a horde of flies. He and the
baby were soon coated in it, sticky and
happy, while the scrap of paper fluttered
along the mud floor, its secret naked to
the morning sunlight:
Dear Jim, —
I have stud it as long as I can, and
I have gone back to the old job at Paddy
Shane’s pub in Sydney. It’s no use fol-
lowing me, Jim. Your muther will be
good to the kids.
s Ada.
P.S. —There are three foxskins behind
the door. Don’t let Simmons have them ;
you can get a better price from Mack.
As she jolted down the uneven track
her heart was full of a fierce, bitter joy.
Back to Sydney and the roaring streets!
Away from this awful loneliness. Back
to the old bar with its bustling friend-
ship. The kids would be all right. They
forgot so soon, kids did. And Jim, he d
find another woman. He’d never been
much of a husband anyway. Maybe the
spell in gaol had done him good ; but,
anyway, good riddance to him!
Her eyes rested on the grotesque, jerk-
ing rump of the old horse as she brooded
on her life since that day of misery at
Jim’s trial. It had been a lonely fight
to keep herself and the kids alive. Like
a vixen with cubs, she had lived on
rabbits.
Every afternoon, with the two babies
packed among her traps and the sheep-
dogs running beside the buggy, she had
made her rounds, setting the steel jaws
skilfully at the mouths of the burrows
where incautious furry paws must pat.
At nine, when the mist was rising, at mid-
night and in the chill hours before dawn,
she patrolled the traps, fearful lest the
foxes should steal her rabbits from her,
resetting the traps with numb fingers.
They had lived on the flesh and sold
the skins. Little Jimmy was old enough
to help with the skinning now. Real
clever, he was. But she mustn’t think
of Jimmy. Her heart turned to an ach-
ing torment when she did.
She tried to think of the train thaf
would leave midday. It was decent of
Paddy to send her fare when he wrote.
She would have a good time in Sydney.
But her lips were set and her brown face
a shade paler as she hurried the horse
along the road.
It was eleven o’clock before she
reached Tiburon. She was dusty and
thirsty. Her small hoard would just
allow for a cup of tea. While the woman
was bringing it, her mind turned with a
steady persistence to Jim and the baby.
How would they get on with only their
father? And such a father! She pic-
tured them left alone in the camp; little
Jim drowned in the creek, her baby
the fire!
The woman set down the tray in front
of her and began unloading it. Tea, a
plate of scones, butter and strawberry
jam. The next minute her customer was
crying, not loudly or violently, but with
a kind of simple abandon. She had not
cried for a long time. The woman led
her into the cafe kitchen. “Just you sit
down there, my dear,” she said. You
be better soon.”
Those tears washed from her heart the
dream of Sydney.
She would go back to Jim, back to his
grumblings and the loneliness and the
forty rabbit-traps and the long nights.
Back to the kids!
Her heart jumped in agony to think
that they might have come to harm. Kids
were like a steel trap, she thought, the
way they gripped you and hurt you. It it
hadn’t been for the kids
She hurried to the past office intent
on sending back Paddy’s money. It she
didn’t, she might change her
“Letter for you, Mrs. Morgan. the
postal official flicked it across the counter.
It was in Jim’s sprawling hand.
No chance for a man in the bush... ■
I’m going back to Sydney / //send
for you and the kids if I get work. Don
know how long. Grandma will take care
of them.
A laugh, short and fierce. So that
was that. But she must get back to the
children. , . , , _
Funny, she thought as the tired horse
bumped into the clearing in the dusk
funny that men never seemed caught in
that trap, that queer, heartbreaking joy
of a child’s arms and a child’s ways.
“Mummy”—Jimmy flung himself upon
her —“dad didn’t come.”
She could taste the strawberry jam on
his face
“We waited and waited. An Browser
got off the chain, an’ I hurt my toe wiv
a log of wood. Bring me anything,
mum?” . , . •
“Come on!” She was lifting him m
with the baby and the rusty traps. We
may just have time to set them traps
before dark, if we hurry.”


lULJL 11
JUILJLI
Jk
ir
Y
5
-4
& JJ
7ZV7;
MMKm
■
WmWimm
y jf
P
g—«^»
IMI
wm.
W^M
'WmMm.
mm
Wm
Wtk
il
mmMmMmmMmmmmm
mm
p
■
1
«
in
■
mmrnm
m?/.
m
mm
wm
ma
m
WimmL
m
Vw
n
■
t
Wk
:
m
YL
m
m
(TKilWs
Scots (II hisky
warn
iy
wmmm,
m.
1
W
mm,
m
G
1
1
M
im
m
jfielL H
■u
■
■
Wsmm
■
■I
H
■
——
m
I:**
mm
m
wmm
mu
WMmm,
m
m
m
m
wm
u
wm.
H
■1
:
■
nHHHHH
«1J
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Adelaide.
FATHERS WITH SONS!
If your boy is old enough to understand —if he is starting
a career in trade or commerce—if he has already had
a reverse—then give him a copy of “The Magic Story,"
by Frederic Dey. This remarkable book has reclaimed
men and women from mistaken lives and has started
many lads on the road to success.
“THE MAGIC STORY,”
By FREDERIC DEY.
At all bookshops, or direct Price 2/- (Postage, l*d.)
from “The Bulletin/'
9
&
o
\o
•xipy c o ;’^
'*s^
w.rC
X
s*
❖
<>
O' V»'
a,V
0°
§p (
o
,o*‘
% &w\<
&


QUALITY
SUPREME.
The best value in Sydney! Heavy Solid
Silverplated PYREX STAND
and Dish complete. q ig%
Bargain Price AO/O
r
GUARANTEED UIFETIME WEAR.
Heavy A.l Quality Sheffield Solid
Silverplated SPOONS AND FORKS.
Soup Spoons, each 37-
Table Spoons,.each 8/6
Table Forks 2/6
Dessert Forks 37-
Dessert Spoons 27-
Tea and Coffee Spoons 17-
Superior English Sheffield Firth STAIN.
DESS KNIVES, Scimitar Shape
Blades.
Usually 376.
REDUCED TO, EACH ...
2/-
WE SEND
C.O.D.
TO COUNTRY
AND
INTERSTATE
MAKE A
LAY-BY.
The
Treasure
Store
M
65
Market St.,
Sydney
AMAZING EASTER SPECIAL
Finest Quality A.l Stamped Solid Silverplated, on eaci: piece.
SHAPE TEA SET, guaranteed lifetime wear, worth ti/io/-.
THE 3 PIECES COMPLETE FOB •
SQUAT
65/-
0 Best Quality Sheffield
15 BAN CO F FEE
SPOONS in satin-lined
case. Wonderful *7 /e
value, AT SET */ °
TROPHY CUP
Best A.l Quality
TROPHY CUP on
Black Blintho.
Height, sin. 1 o /(*
PRICE IA / U
m
1
Solid Silver-plated A.l
Quality PEPPER and
SAIiT SHAKERS, With
screw tops.
ONLY, each,
3/6
Handsome Jacobean CANTEEN OF
CUTLERY. Spoons and forks;
stamped A.l solid silverplated;
Sheffield make. Also Firth stainless
mirror-finished quality knives.
Canteen comprises 42 pieces of
cutlery, including latest bowl-shape
soup spoons.
Worth £7/5/-. fC/in/»
SPECIAL PRICE S’* 3 / lu /
Best A.l Quality Solid Silverplated
Tall CAKE COMPORT with 6
Knife-edge Ebonite-handled Cake
Forks
Worth 63/-. AO /
A Useful Gift at ”*“/
w&
6 Best Quality Sheffield
Solid Silverplated Knife-
edge CAKE FORKS in
nice satin-lined case.
SPECIAL, AX SEX 7/6
Best A.l Quality Solid
Silverplated HOX
WATER-COFFEE POT
COMBINATION, as illus-
trated.
4!
A.l Quality Solid Silver-
plated, useful size TEA-
POT, reduced
from 35/' 25/-
The Treasure Store China Dept.
K
A useful Gift! PYREX DISH, complete
with solid Silverplated oval
Stand. 1 q /c
SPECIAE 13/0
Genuine Sheffield Firth Stainless Mirror-
finished CARVING SEX, with well-
balanced strong Ivory grained handles,
in beautiful satin-lined 4 presentation
15/6
case Always 3276,
NOW, SET
SUGAR
A.l Quality Solid Silver-
plated SUGAR & SPOON. 19/fi
Value al I^/0
Many other designs in Sugars kept in
stock.
Heavy A.l Quality Solid Silver-plated
CAKE DISH, with Black
Ebonite Handled Cake Fork. 1 O /fi
A SPECIAE AT
mmm*
: *>
ROYAL ENGLISH PARAGON CHINA aC/
21-Piece Tea Set, Specially Reduced* to *^l”
(Royal Paragon China have been appointed Potters to Her Majesty the Queen.)
Easter
Special
STOCK
PATTERNS.
42
PIECES
This exquisite 42-piece 'English China Hand-painted
Combination DINNER ANI) TEA SET, Lilac Time.
Usually £4/10/-.
THE OOMPIETE SET
REDUCED TO
£3/5/-
y
English China hand-painted complete COFFEE
SEX, 16 pieces. Lilac Time design
A Special Offer
17/6
Listen in to Station 2GB,
Darby and Joan at
Breakfast, 7.45 a.m. daily.
2w/////
mm
-M
m
Hand-painted Pot-
tery, exauisite
HONEY OK JAM
JARS, a special
Easter offer. Any
of these four
designs, At,
each
1/6
e/~--r
M
(n
a
ft
?v
Magnificent hand-painted Blue and Gold Genuine China COII’EE SET, IS
pieces. Complete with Tray, as illustrated. Rembrandt reproduction painted
on each piece. Interior of Cups completely lined with gold, also
gold handles. A work of art and a most beautiful Easter Gift. £5/15/“
COMPIETE SET / '
50-PIECE UTILITY SET in England Decoration mu^on T the
Breakfast and Supper in exquisite Orange, Black and Blue Xomugs on the
®ry piece /necessity. You are not paying for pieces you will £4/10/-
nevcr use. SPECIAL PRICE
THE
TREASURE
STORE
65 MARKET ST SYDNEY
e
Exquisite hand-painted Art Moderne design
FEORAIi BASKET.
Usually 4/6
EASTER SPECIAL .
2/6
