

KODAK
MOST MODERN
MINIATURE MODELS
These Kodak
Miniature Cameras
De Luxe represent the
last word in camera design;
all the current trends of extreme
smallness, beauty of form and elegance
of finish have been ingeniously
combined with ease of operation,
true quality and reliability
Whatever your camera
hoice .K o d a
has it!
Model 48
KODAK
VOLLENDA
KODAK PUPILLE
■
Lens is brought into picture-making posi-
tion by a spiral mount. Precision
construction throughout ensures
superlative negatives. Range-
finder ensures sharpness. QfVT n
Price, with f/3.5 lens, UlA a ZU
Compur Shutter *n *
to 1/300th second, | J
£l7/10/- S. The last word in camera de-
v sign—combines the merits of
I'l s' regular and miniature styles. Fea- /
tures include fascinating compact- /
] ness, seif-erecting lens front, easy /
loading, while pressure plate ensures /
absolute flatness of film. Loads with /
V 620, making “Two-up” on 21 x3l in. I \Ti
film—l 6 at a loading. F/4.5 lens, Compuf / V *
Shutter to 1 /300th second. / jj ere » s
fl Price, £lO/2/6 . f and in
.15
&
/ Here’s extreme smallness
/ and ingenuity if you like!
/ matter how many cameras
/ you already have, you will be
/ charmed with the possession of
/ a Vollenda. Handsome in shape,
/ faultless in workmanship. Opens
/ or closes with one motion! Makes
f sixteen snaps 1| x 11 in. at a
loading. F/3.5 lens, Compur Shutter
to 1/300th second. Price, £9
Also with f/4.5 lens, £5/15/.
Pi
iSS
*
1
n
vskm
mi
i
life
®o
wm
»
wm
1
V"
V *•
■
ppK.xfeL * J
life-
■
&
1
■ . .vSvh. ...'
Model 52
KODAK
VOLLENDA'
The perfect notebook
camera. Opens or closes at a
touch, Vollenda 52 will always
be your constant companion,
giving continuous pleasure
through its ability to obtain un-
usual and interesting pictures.
Makes pictures of popular 2J x 1:
in. (V.P.K.) size which gives full
opportunity for enlargements of mag-
nificent definition. With f/3.5 lens in
Compur Shutter. Price, £ll/18/6.
With f/4.5 lens.
Price,
£5/15/-
OF ALL KODAK DEAI F'RS AND
KODAK
(AUSTRALASIA)
PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; "The Block," 284 Collins Street. Melbourne. Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street Brisbane-
-37 Rundle Street. Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart. 662 Hay Street, Perth ; Ruthven Street, Toowopmba ;
East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street, Townsville
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland ;40 Princes Street. Dunedin r
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
C&(HajqJLcu9 .
Vol. 55.—N0. 2816.
Price 6d.
Wednesday, January 31, 1934.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o uR New Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
na.gLQK.ij
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON —,
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
• 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 134
NS
£5
c#
&
V
im'
By using Cuticura Soap for daily
toilet purposes and Cuticura
Ointment at first signs of pimples,
eczema, rashes and all forms of itch-
ing, burning skin affections. Medici-
nal, antiseptic and emollient, they do
much to keep the 9kin clear and
healthy. Cuticura Talcum,
medicated with fragrant and refresh-
ing balsamic oils, cools and soothes
the skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum ls.3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return ou your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence iii the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE"
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street,. Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
X'JZIZ&UX/la/ ,
k TuiXute
3&<rz£ Sic%ie4 t Si
y S&teesTt ?urt&4, /5a
J&rttny Sun
TheAUSTRALASIAN
PN SALE ALL STATES ©2
***=
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 8524 X.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA'S NATIONAL DAILY)
is tha first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
'“The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hol»art.
Cable Address' “MEIICURV,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
J Iou»e, SO Carrington Street, Sydney.
•Phone: BW 5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
mt
1
That the Soundest State
is
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
’eads the way.
%
TELEGPAPH
/ BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
&(*'s&•>
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Where Australians Don’t Shine
There are mysteries associated with the
development of art and literature in this
country. Where are our painters of blood
horses, where our writers of sea stories?
Douglas Fry learned to paint thorough-
breds in England. Alan Villiers went
with his story of life on a windjammer
to a London publisher. Vance Palmer
is interested chiefly in fishermen. The
horse poets are all dead or silent, and
we have only one sea poet—E. J. Brady,
though C. H. Souter writes a rousing
chantey now and then.
Yet racing is Australia’s national sport,
and the sea is a natural element to a large
proportion of the three million and odd
Australians who live in coastal cities.
Whatever may be said about Australia
as a breeding-place of great horsemen,
it may be fairly claimed that it has as
many good swimmers and boat-sailers as
any country of its numerical size. Aus-
tralians are to be found as sailors on all
the oceans, and Australia owns one of the
world’s best coastal marines. Geography,
training and tastes have combined to make
most Australians seafarers ; yet to judge
by the national literature up to the pre-
sent they are no more interested in the
sea than the Swiss.
Few bother to write about the roman-
tic oceans that lie to the east and west of
the Commonwealth or about the stormy
Tasman, and little interest is taken in
the sinister, island-studded waters of the
north. Meanwhile thrilling, and some-
times beautiful, books are being written
about these and other seas by Britons and
Frenchmen, Poles, Norwegians and
Americans. Particularly Britons. Here
are two. One, anyhow, should have been
written by an Australian.
The R.N.
An additional reason for surprise at
the scarcity of Australian sea stories is
that sea stories offer no difficulties as
regards plot.
Some of the most exciting and in-
credible are accounts of events which
actually happened. Bligh’s epic journey
of 3600 miles through uncharted waters,
and past islands inhabited by cannibals,
is an example. Charles Nordhoff and
James Norman Hall have told it
supremely well in Men Against the Sea
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.). This book
inevitably lacks the color and variety of
“Mutiny.” It takes up the story of the
Bounty at the stage where the mutineers
dropped Bligh and his twelve loyalists
and turned back to Tahiti. Written up, as
it has been, from the log of the Bounty’s
launch, it is merely a day-by-day story of
the cruise, padded out by events which
may well have happened and conversa-
tions which may well have taken place.
Ledward, the surgeon, is the narrator,
and he tells a familiar tale. The limited
supplies of food and water. The moments
of joy when the store is added to, of
despair when chances are missed. The
food-stealer. The mutinous villains and
their half-hearted supporters who are
cowed by the resolution of the leader.
The storms. The triumphant end of the
voyage ; which, in this case, comes as
something of an anti-climax, since it
leaves Bligh with plenty of trouble before
him.
The feature of the book is its picture
of Bligh. In “Mutiny” the detestable
side of his nature was stressed ; it had
to be. Here he is sympathetic, which
is good psychology as well as good busi-
ness from a circulation standpoint.
Sadistic martinets of his type are only
endurable in times of extreme stress and
danger. Then, if they are as brave and
efficient as he was, they become almost
lovable —a lesson in human nature which
thousands of Australians learned in the
world war. Bligh must have had an amaz-
ing constitution, as well as a great heart.
He had less to eat and drink than the
others, if possible, and he slept less and
worked harder thati any of them, yet
he elected to walk to Captain Spiker-
man’s house when they reached Coupang.
He lost his temper
only once—when
they were near
their journey’s
end. Nelson says
to Ledward: “It
comforted me to
see him in a passion again. We’ll fetch
Timor. I did him a great injustice ever
to doubt it.”
I had the same feeling, and I thanked Goa.
inwardly, that he and no other was in com-
mand of the Bounty’s launch.
They knew all about him at last.
Merchant Seamen
John Masefield’s The Bird of Dawning
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.) has much the same
plot. Cruiser Trewsbury is a second
mate in the sixties of last century when
the Blackgauntlet, a homeward-boundj
China clipper, is sunk by a steamer in
mid-Atlantic. There are 16 men in the
open boat of which he takes command,
they are 700 miles from a port, and have
hardly any stores. They discover pre-
sently that the water in one of their
breakers is salt. After coping with the
customary hardships they come across
another clipper, the Bird of Dawning,
which has been disabled and deserted,
and win the China Race of the year with
her.
The members of the crew are much
more clearly outlined than in the other
book. Stratton and Efans, the ruffianly
trouble-makers; sensible old William
Kemble, with his warning reminiscences
of past escapes; Fairford, Cruiser’s
faithful mate, who resembles a disciplined
naval rating—all come to life after a few
pages, and remain alive and in charac-
ter to the end. Cruiser is almost too
good to be true ; he has no weaknesses
at all. But Masefield evidently means
him to be taken, not as an average
Englishman of 22, but as a personifica-
tion of all that is bravest, best and most
resourceful in Conway products.
In any case, it isn’t the men who bring
the Bird of Dawning to London against
great odds that make this novel a master-
piece in its line, but the simple, glowing
prose and the vast knowledge of ships
and the sea in all its moods with which
it is informed. Anyone with the eye and
soul of a poet might write as good a
story to-morrow. All that is needed in
addition to the qualifications already
mentioned are years at sea and a life-
time of hard work at the technique of
prose writing.
Red Page.
Recipe for Romance
After reading about a hundred MSS.
for a publisher in the last three months,
I pride myself on knowing the
trend of Australian literary thought. A
few hints to young writers may be valu-
able. Begin by having a good night out.
Let the neophyte start at the Levantine
Club, do a few sly-grog shops and a wine
saloon or two and finish up with a bottle
behind the fence.
Upon waking next morning and assur-
ing himself that the earth is in a state
of rotation and that his brain is still there
he at once should begin to write. Let
him select as his stage a large plain with-
out grass, preferably in Central Aus-
tralia. It should be populated by sheep,
flies, dingoes, curlews, crows and horses.
The plain will be yellow, with “one lone
tree in the distance.” Actually, Centra-
lian country is pink ; but no novelist has
found that out, except Kipling. Let
there be a dead camel under the lone
( tree, “stinking to high Heaven.” A dead
' animal is an essential appanage of
this kind of art.
Barcoo rot is another.
The humans who are to form the
mainstay of the story should all have
Barcoo rot. Most of them should be
dirty, and if they are greased w.ith goanna
fat so much the better. They may be
discovered successively in dejected atti-
tudes considering the crows, which, with
steady persistence, are engaged under a
molten sun in picking the eyes out of the
sheep.
Having set the surroundings take a
piece of paper and jot down
Drought, whiskers, purple scars, mysterious
woman, flood, bank overdraft, cattle duffer,
horse ditto, comic Afghan, old lag, bushfire,
daft station-hand, horse, ringing mob, Irish
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—An Invaluable Principle.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS
21/- Men’s Alpaca Coats - - now at
By far the most comfortable Coat one could wear during
the summer! These Alpaca Coats are made of best
British Cloths in our own workrooms. . . .so extra wear
and the most reliable workmanship are features. These
Coats are genuinely reduced. . . .they were great values
at the higher prices.
Prices
Anthony Horderns*
Sale Prices
21/- 30/- 39/6 45/-
19/6 28/6 37/6 42/-
1%
63/- Assam Silk Suits now at
You will feel many degrees cooler in one of these Real
Assam Silk Suits, and look many degrees smarter, too.
They are of a quality that will stand repeated washings,
and years of constant service is assured. Price . . 63/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 57/6
Trousers only. Price, 21/-. Sale Price 19/6
576
Genuine Reductions from Genuine Prices.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
The D.P.S.
Extends the Sale for You.
Simply leave a deposit of 4/- in
the £ and the goods will be set
aside for you. It’s a boon!
Write for Our Bumper
Sale Catalogue
Send for a copy NOW. You
can choose at your leisure and
then mail your order in complete
confidence.
cHaif VlaaJdAJj CpemjuUrie,
cc
The Sale of the Sale Season
IT is such values as these that earn for Anthony
Horderns’ an unchallengeable reputation for quality
Merchandise at Sale Prices. Over the breadth of Australia,
Anthony Horderns’ have the reputation of genuine value
merchandise.
MEN! Note these Trouser Bargains
Men’s Trousers that will give excellent wear and look well while doing it. Buttons
and seams will stand up under cleaning; that is because they have been made in our
own workrooms. The materials, of course, are our standard qualities.
7/11 Australian Cotton Tweed Trousers - - at
Strong Australian Cotton Tweed Trousers, in neat dark patterns.
Prices, pair 7/11 8/11 11/6 12/6 14/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, pair 7/3 7/11 10/6 11/6 13/6
7J
1
Ns
K
10/6 All Wool Tweeds at
All Wool Australian Tweed Trousers,
in neat dark patterns. The material is
specially woven for trousers, and is
exclusive to Anthony Horderns’.
Prices 10/6 12/9 16/6
Sale Prices, per pair 9/6 11/9 15/3
9 6
14/6 Tigertwist Trousers at
Our famous Tigertwist Trousers are
unshrinkable and the colour is fast
to boiling. Made in our own work-
rooms in our best style. In Fawn,
Olive or Dark Grey. Price, 14/6
Anthony Horderns'
Sale Price, pair 13/6
136
22/6 Fawn Riding Breeches
Men’s Riding Breeches, made of strong
Fawn Twists. Ideal for hard saddle
wear, as they are cut and made as a
riding garment should be. Price, 22/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . 21/-
21
Others 25/- 35/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices 22/6 32/6
19/6 Men’s Popular Jodhpurs
now at
Men’s Jodhpurs are gaining in popularity, as they dispense with leggings
and are comfortable for riding. Prices 19/6 22/6 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices 18/3 21/- 22/6
183
6/11 Strong, Neatly-finished Dust Coats now at
Men’s Motor Dust Coats. Strong, reliable. Stand repeated washing. Slip-on style,
finished with all-round belt. Strong Grey Cloth. Price, 6/11. Sale Price, 4/11
Neat Dark Grey Poplins. Prices 8/11 10/6 14/6
Sale Prices 7/11 9/6 13/6
Plain Grey, Navy or White Dust Coats, Extra Strong. Price 11/6
Sale Price 10/6
Navy Drill. Prices, 9/6, 14/6. Sale Prices 8/6, 13/6
English Poplin, in Fawn shades. Price, 13/6. Sale Price 12/6
Best quality English Poplins, silk-like finish. Price, 16/6. Sale Price .-. . 15/3
Plain Grey English “Cairo” Suiting. Price, 22/6. Sale Price 21/-
4H
16/6 Men’s High-quality Braided Blazers
Men’s Blazers. Our well-known qualities, cut and made in the best possible manner.
Navy Blue, corded. Price, 16/6. Sale Price 15/3
Braided Blazers, in best quality Flannel, in shades of Navy, Black, Marone, Myrtle
Green, Nigger Brown or Royal Blue. Price, 18/6. Sale Price 17/6
Latest Striped Blazers, in fashionable stripes. Prices 22/6 29/6
Sale Prices 21/- 27/6
Men’s Sports Coats. All Wool Tweeds. Smart Donegal effects. Price 21/-
Sale Price 18/6
Others. Prices 27/6 30/- 35/-
Sale Prices 25/- 27/6 32/6
153
Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401
SYDNEY
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
Combining Style and Quality
2-Piece Summer Suits
67/6 Worsted Suits at
Men s Two-piece Tropi-
cal Worsted Suits, light
in weight and comfort-
able in wear. Made
from the finest Wool
Worsteds. The Coat is
unlined and features
Patch Pockets. Trousers
ss-
incorporate all the latest style features and
can be worn with belt or braces. Fawn or
Grey shades. Price 67/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 55/-


WHAT MR. GIBSON SAW
You can see, too!
;fp^§
. .
m
IMll
l
:
osto >|
040 *>* jj
. oro iHA M
At right, Mr. A. Gibson,
Manager of Gamblings
Ltd., Master Carriers,
Adelaide, witnessing
Supertwist test. Mr. A.
Brandenburg, Goodyear
Dealer, demonstrating.
m
:~xx:-:'
What did we show Mr. Gibson? We
showed him what goes on inside a tyre
. . . at high speed when the cords are
being stretched and relaxed a thousand
times a minute. We showed him with a
little testing machine, in which a piece
of Supertwist Cord, used exclusively in
Goodyear Tyres, and a piece of cord
used in ordinary tyres were alternately
stretched and loosened.
Mr. Gibson saw the other cord sag and
finally snap; he saw the Goodyear
Supertwist Cord go on stretching,
stretching— up to 61 per cent, more
stretch and comeback. THAT’S what
happens in tyres. Every cord must bear
its share of the load —stretch and re-
cover, thousands of times an hour.
No wonder ordinary cords sag and sur-
render. No wonder Goodyears—with
Supertwist Cord built into every ply
from bead to bead —last longer, resist
heat and blowouts. No wonder Mr.
Gibson has Goodyears on his trucks.
YOU will be convinced when you see
this test. See it. Stop listening and look!
The Goodyear Truck and Bus Tyre line
is COMPLETE —it includes a tyre for
every truck or bus and every type of
service. Choose from the following:
Goodyear Heavy Duty Grooved and
All-Weather Truck and Bus Balloons,
Goodyear Heavy Duty Grooved and
All-Weather High Pressure Tyres, and
Heavy Duty Pathfinder.
TRUCK AND BUS TYRES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA


&
Sfc
iM
A light-soled
evening shoe
Made of the finest patent
leather, with welted sole, this
smooth-fitting Abbey Evening
Shoe is light and restful. . .
correct for all formal occasions.
45/- per pair.
Pump soles for dancing.
Low-heeled, light and supple,
with complete patent leather
uppers. Full and half sizes.
257-
order BY POST: State both
width and size. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Patent Leather Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy, new
cleaning outfit (2/6).
ABBEY
Established over 80years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
WRITE FOR FULL CATALOGUE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 370
KITZ’S
SPARKLING
CIDER
ZS
"ECIA
-fc’
A PLEASANT HEALTH DRINK
On a warm summer’s day there
is no beverage to compare with
Kitz’s cool, delicious, sparkling
Cider.
The “British Medical Gazette”
says: There is no drink more
beneficial to human beings than
Cider.
Drink Kitz’s Cider with your
meals as it aids digestion and
prevents acidity.
Obtainable at Stores and Hotels.
L. Kitz & Sons Pty., Ltd.
46-50 Haig Street,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
(or Scotch) woman, pubkeeper, haughty
squatter, faithful Binghi, savage tribes, well-
washed heroine.
These, with the crows and the sheep,
some Bathurst burr and bad liquor, are
all the necessary ingredients, but they
must be served raw.
Drink another bottle of plonk and go
to it. Don’t be deterred by the fact that
you wouldn’t know most of the stage
props of the picture on sight. Dive into
the narrative and, keeping a copy of the
“ ‘Bulletin’ Reciter” beside you to provide
local color, start like this:
The molten sun was sinking into the mirage
over the almost treeless plain. On the verandah
of the lonely western hut Mrs. De Montmor-
ency sat dejectedly. She had been sitting so
for 15 years.... On the horizon lay the camp
where the savage black Aruntas lurked —their
lean lubras dripping with grease—among their
half-starved and spawning yellow dogs. A
dingo howled at the coming night in the dis-
tance, and above, hovering over the newly-
dropped lambs which dotted the sun-drenched
plain, the merciless crows cawed monotonously.
Somewhere beyond the stony desert and the
leagues of sand and spinifex and scrub, the
teeming millions of the great cities were hom-
ing. Here it was lonely, 10ne1y....
Now introduce a little movement. Let
the figure of a man come —dejectedly, of
course —over the horizon. It doesn’t
matter how he comes. He may ride,
drive or crawl “with his swollen tongue
expanding his purple lips.” Nor does it
matter who he is. He may be the crazy
shepherd or the hero or the strong silent
policeman or the bank manager with
the foreclosure. Preferably, he should
be the villain, and he should have a
matted beard with grass seeds in it and a
purple scar stretching from chin to
temple. A gouged-out eye socket will
help in fixing his appearance in the
reader’s memory. He should dismount
or crawl in at about the sixteen thou-
sandth word of the description of the
scene.
The tyro usually tries to make him do
something when he arrives. This is
wrong. Delay action till the sex interest
has been introduced.
Put the gentleman in the icebox and,
beginning in the middle of the eighteenth
century, prove that the heroine (she on
the verandah with the Barcoo rot and
the gnarled, toil-worn hands) is the great-
granddaughter of a Botany Bay baronet,
breeder of an accursed offspring whose
mournful generations must be traced one
by one down to the lady. She may medi-
tate intimately on her celibate lot or she
may have a love scene with the gent with
the whiskers and scar, or they may both
philosophise about the fecundity of
nature “which breeds, teemingly, end-
lessly, only to destroy.” Or Whiskers,
who has been in retreat during the
genealogical chapter, may appear from
the woodheap with a grieved look on his
face to discuss his lack of an heir. Or
he may even bring a horse-thief with a
view to presenting the lady to him and
allowing him to talk of his unfortunate
heredity.
But the best sex-vehicle to use is a
small boy. He should be about 13 years
old and, like all small bush boys who
have been brought up near a blacks’
camp, with shearers and breeding sheep'
all round them, will naturally be per-
fectly devoid of information about the
facts of nature. This simple lad should
ask the lady censorable questions to her
great embarrassment. Ten thousand
words can be used profitably in settling
his curiosity.
After this, all that is necessary is to
return to the bottle at intervals for in-
spiration and to make sure that the full
list of ingredients here tabulated is in-
cluded in the tale and well washed with
blood and physiology. Some put them in
one order and some in another. But it
doesn’t matter very much so long as they
are served up with plenty of gore, star-
vation and gloom, curlews, cries and “lips
that drip saliva.”
Let Walpole produce masterpieces
about three old ladies in an attic.
Let Galsworthy win fame by writing of
commonplace events. Let O. Henry be
quaint about simple things. We Austra-
lian writers are no mere litterateurs; we
are the Sturmtruppen of authorship. Let
our motto ever be: “Blood, Entrails and
Misery, and Down with Hope!”
EL VERDUGO.
Robots and Chimeras
The genuine, which is to say creative,
critic must expect obloquy. Ruskin, as
the prophet of Turner; Shaw, as the
prophet of Wagner; Roger Fry, as the
prophet of the Post-Impressionists—these
are examples from recent history. Now
comes Herbert Read, who provides in
Art Now (Faber and Faber ; 18s. 6d.) a
sympathetic and intelligent introduction
to the theory of modern painting and
sculpture.
This is a book for “tough-minded”
readers only. The exhibition is austere,
even forbidding. The windows are
opened wide, and in the bracing air that
sweeps through the gallery one may be
visited with a sudden nostalgic longing
for the easeful company of those old
familiar masters Modigliani, Pascin,
Segonzac.
Read is the complete guide to the
modern art gallery. The field of his sur-
vey is packed with inconceivable confu-
sion and perplexity. Here are no
phalanxes and trim cohorts breasting
mechanically onward beneath banners
proclaiming a virtuous solidarity. In-
stead we see a rabble of self-determining
robots with each his own imperdurable
and battle-worn credo hoisted in desper-
ate higgledy-piggledy: Surrealiste, Ab-
stractionist, Subjective Realist, Subjective
Idealist, Expressionist, Constructivist. It
is a chastening spectacle. This is art now
—post-Freudian art. The cosmos is no
longer tied up in a neat parcel: we have
undone it and the beans are distinctly
spilt.
The artist, subjected like his more
merely human fellows to the deterministic
will of his glands, expresses in his work
a purely subjective phantasy. He draws,
as we used to say, upon his inner con-
sciousness. He is to that extent a law
unto himself. In this process he is ulti-
mately powerless to control either means
or end: all is conditioned for him by
function; and although the special glory
of art is to transcend functional limits
—for us others, the non-artists, that is
—the fact remains that the artist “can’t
help himself.” He is haunted ; and he is
creative. “I do not seek; I find,” as
Picasso profoundly says.
Now the critic does not empty his con-
scious mind as the artist does. The pro-
cessus in which his activities are involved
is exactly contrary to the creative pro-
cessus. He seeks with the utmost assidu-
ity—sometimes without finding at all!
It is, as it were, a feminine proclivity,
notwithstanding its ratiocinafive method ;
for it is wholly dependent upon the most
masculine thing in the world —creative
energy. But given so strange and difficult
a phenomenon as Surrealiste art, it is
certainly gratifying to learn that its
genetic relations, as discovered by Her-
bert Read, are as illustrious as they are
authentic. And still more so to find that
the best philosophical criticism, from
Plato to Bergson, provides a liberal
auspice for even the most extreme Ab-
stractionist experiment.
Here, then, is the most important Eng-
lish contribution to aesthetic criticism
since the publication of Roger Fry’s
“Vision and Design.” I should like to
think that directors of Australian
museums had sufficient intelligence to sus-
tain them during at least one reading of
it.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
Sunday Journalism
“J.L.” (R.P. 3 /1 / ’34), in his diatribe
against Sunday papers, asks: “Is there
not waiting for the newspaper that dares
a big sale on the basis of intelligence?”
Emphatically, no. And for at least two
reasons. Firstly, no daily or Sunday
paper with an eye to profit (and we have
yet to hear of one whose public-minded-
ness is stronger than its desire for divi-
dends) wants to see the receivers in.
Secondly, collective humanity doesn’t
want intelligence in its Sunday papers.
It wants tripe.
You only need to observe the effect of
the screamer headlines on the newspaper-
reading public travelling about any city
to realise this truth. Should the salient
features of the day’s journalistic interest
be, say, a sordid local murder and an
event of world importance you can safely
bet that the item in big type will be em-
bellished by a rush photo, showing the
spot marked X and that the public
will revel in it. Witness the almost hys-
terical public interest taken in the trials of
N.S.W.’s leading homicidal morons of
1933 ; recall, when interest in one of
them seemed to be flagging, the spirited
efforts made by the papers to revive it.
“J.L.” further asks: “What are we going
to do about it?” The answer is simplicity
itself. Nothing. The type of sensation-
mongering journal that “J.L.” complains
of—whether Sunday or daily—is a
growth which has long passed the oper-
able stage. The best we can hope for is
that our flapper press will not presently
plumb the depths to which the rags of
New York, Chicago and London have
sunk. And there are few grounds for
optimism. Undoubtedly the increased in-
terest displayed by women in daily and
Sunday journalism has led to the deepen-
ing of the saffron tint. The pages of
“society” rubbish, fashions, wedding
write-ups, beauty hints and competitions
and the chronicled doings of charity-
mongering limelighters and the members
of those two great London importations
the B.Y.Ts. and Younger Sets hold a
deep interest for the softer-brained sex.
There is, I fear, only one thing for
“J.L.” to do; i.e., spend a paperless Sab-
bath. If so, he may find consolation in
the knowledge that he won’t be missing
much. Two recent front-page items in a
Sydney Sabbath sheet concerned respec-
tively an Adelaide bull which menaced
one D. B. Jenkins and was beaten off
by a woman with a broom; and (in
box) a man who rang up South Head
signal station to say that his mother on
the outgoing Katoomba had left her lug-
gage on the wharf!
S. W. K.
A Satchel of Books
As in the case of most anthologies,
Marjorie Bowen’s Great Tales of Horror
(The Bodley Head ; 7s. 6d.) has its dis-
appointments. There is nothing by Poe,
and Le Fanu is represented by one of
his feebler efforts —“Sir Dominick Sars-
field.” On the other hand, there is an
admirable translation of Gogol’s “The
Witch,” and Wells and Conan Doyle sup-
ply two little gems which reflect their
respective attitudes towards the super-
natural.
Children and Gardens, by Gertrude
Jekyll (Country Life ; 55.). This is a new
edition of a book which has been popu-
lar in English country houses for a quar-
ter of a century. Practically all of it,
from the right way to make a fire in the
open to that of laying out a small garden,
is applicable to any of the settled parts of
Australia. The author provides innumer-
able odds and ends of information, many
of which will be found useful by adults.
Under “playhouse soups,” for example,
she gives some old-fashionpd soup recipes
that every soup-lover will want to experi-
ment with, and she throws in a splendid
Welsh rarebit recipe for good measure.
Contraband, by R. McKinley and E.
Rodwell (Falcon Books ; Bs. 6d.), affords
another proof that truth is stranger than
gangsters. If you encountered “The
Baron,” with his bodyguard of 12 dead
shots, or Carl, master mariner, rum-
runner and thug, in a talkie you wouldn’t
take them seriously. Yet they lived,
according to this book, and lived well
on the proceeds of every kind of villainy.
Like so many talkies it is excellent propa-
ganda for crime. It is hard for the reader,
however righteous, to avoid sympathis-
ing with the dauntless malefactors in
their escapades, and wishing them well
out of the perils that threaten them.
Cook Wanted, by Jane Oliver and Ann
Stafford (Collins ; 7s. 6d.), continues the
story of Hilary Grant {nee Fane) of
“Business as Usual.” Michael, the hus-
band, is away on a business trip, Adam,
the son, is just at an age to start school,
and Hilary has trouble with her cook.
Besides all this she gets mixed up with
the Federated Women Citizens and an
electioneering campaign and tries her
hand at matchmaking. It is an enter-
taining book, though the style—it is
written entirely as letters from Hilary to
her husband, extracts from a diary and
bits from the press, etc. —is exacting.
Quite half the laughs, and there are
plenty, come from Miss Stafford’s draw-
ings. We may expect to hear more of
Hilary ; there is any number of amus-
ing things left for her to do.
Halcott Glover, already known as a
playwright of parts, has written Morning
Pride (Dent; 7s. 6d. net). How it passed
our censor, or censors, is a matter for
wonder. However, here it is in all its
nakedness for the reading of innocent
grandparents as well as sophisticated
grandchildren—a painful revelation of
Manchester life and its stifling environ-
ment. Jimmy Medlock is the hero. He
suffers from a mid-Victorian bashfulness
which has to be stripped from him by
the minxes of the cotton mills. Jane, the
heroine, is a much better, braver and
more brainy character ; she not only rises
superior to her surroundings, but also
supplies the motive force that saves her
diffident lover from disaster. Another
outstanding and original person in the
story is old Herder, the “big business”
magnate, who secretly despises the riches
and the system which he himself typifies
and has done so much to inflict upon
Cottonopolis. Mancunians will read
Morning Pride with mixed feelings.
Joanna Cannan’s North Wall (Hodder
and Stoughton ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). The
railway in which Colonel Wayland has
his money fails, and he and his family are
forced to leave Ladiesgrove, with its
horses and dogs and flowers, for a second-
rate London boarding-house. Guy and
his sisters have to find work. Guy, who’d
been trained for soldiering, becomes a
gigolo and a kept man ; Janet falls in
love with a divorcee. Then Guy has a
fortune left him and Janet says she is to
be married:
“I wish you hadn’t sprung this on us, Janet,”
said the Colonel. “I don’t like, the idea at
all. And it’s got nothing whatever to do with
Guy.”
“Oh, but it has. You see, we’ve changed.
At Ladiesgrove I wouldn’t have dreamed of
marrying a divorced person, and Guy wouldn’t
have dreamed of being a gigolo and having
fortunes left to him. But we’ve been under the
weather. You can’t expect to grow peaches
on a north wall.”
An interesting lot, and you end by liking
them all.


fg
WAa/eas/s
7/1&Z714
«
' ■
S<. v
gsS
i*
B.SEPPEXT * SONS UMtTlt§
SOOTH AUSTRALIA
I
una/eaus
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2816.
January 31, 1934.
A LITTLE DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.
“My credit scheme is as simple as daylight-saving, but so technical that it can’t be explained in brief compass.” —Major Douglas.
“Say what I say, blast y’, or I’ll knock y’r block off 1”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4. ‘Phone
Central 5170.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
JAPAN AND RUSSIA.
There is nothing new in the declaration
of Koki Hirota, the Japanese Foreign
Minister, which daily newspapers of the
alarmist school would have us believe to
be a testament of repentance issued by a
reformed bully. It may portend a
moderating of the tone of international
politics in Asia, but both in expres-
sion and matter it is consistent with the
Japanese national attitude as maintained
during the last half-century.
In brief, what Mr. Hirota says is that
Japan wants peace and security all round.
She wants access to materials vital to
the industrial expansion which she must
enjoy if she is to feed her population.
She is nervous about Chinese turmoil,
and she does not intend to let Reds and
brigands endanger Japanese interests or
Japanese life and prosperity.
With great Western nations, particu-
larly with Great Britain and the U.S.A.,
she is anxious to maintain her historic
friendships and her growing trade on the
basis of her long-established international
aims—equality, which seeks to make her
nationals in any given country the peers
in privilege and status of other foreigners
in that country ; and security, which she
interprets to mean, not merely safety
from invasion, but freedom to develop
within her own sphere.
Where this issue of security is touched
in the Hirota manifesto, the tone of the
document is less urbane than elsewhere.
Perhaps it is natural. Japan had to fight
the Czar, and has had to resist the Bol-
shevists since Lenin’s enunciation of the
all-Asia Communist programme and his
call for “victory on a world scale.” Still,
when Bessedovsky, for a time Soviet
Ambassador in Tokio, tried to patch up
a non-aggression pact, no man showed
himself more willing than Debutchi, then
-in charge of Japanese Foreign Affairs.
It was desire to strengthen the wall
against Russia which largely was re-
sponsible for the creation of Manchukuo,
and fear is behind the Eastern Chinese
Railway business. So far from railing at
the Japanese for their attitude in these
matters, every other Pacific country
should admit that it owes Japan at least
some gratitude, even if petty war is to be
deprecated. A Russia with access to the
whole of the Pacific seaboard and with
control of Chinese materials and work-
men would be a far more uncomfort-
able neighbor than Japan has been.
Radek, who has helped to promote
U.S.S.R. policy since the formation of
the Seven Republics, asserts in “Foreign
Affairs” that the “objective of Soviet
diplomacy is peace.” It is hard to
take such statements at their face
value when it is remembered that four
years ago a conference at Vladivostok,
attended by the head of the official
Soviet trade-union organisation, was
urging by unanimous resolution “an im-
placable struggle against the Imperialistic
Powers of the Pacific” —meaning, of
course, Britain and Japan—and demand-
ing that the work of Communist organi-
sations in the Pacific should be per-
meated by the spirit of internationalism:
It is necessary to mobilise the masses of the
colonies and Imperialist countries for a deci-
sive and irreconcilable fight for national and
social liberation of exploited peoples and ex-
ploited classes in the countries of the Pacific.
Moreover, while Russian propaganda
for foreign consumption accuses Japan
of spoiling for a fight with Russia, there
is scarcely a Soviet publication which
does not stress the vastness and efficiency
of the Red Army and its permanent place
in the life of the country. The officially
recognised “Soviets To-day,” of which
there is an Australian edition, begins its
current issue with an article which
accuses Japan of “plans of war against
Russia” and urges the need for
every individual friendly to the Soviet to
explain the meaning of the Japanese plot, so
that every measure can be taken to support
and defend the U.S.S.R. in its fight for peace
against the aims of the Japanese—and other-
imperialists.
In the same issue of the journal, illus-
trated with a picture of a couple of dozen
young Bolshies being taught how to use
a big gun, it is written that the Red Army
is so big that it needs 1000 clubs and
10,000 newspapers, with “100,000 military
correspondents who send regular items
about the life and activities of the army,”
to cater _ for the warlike complexes of
the Russian youth.
We are told that Red Army graduates
who later take posts in the State enter-
prises make their cultural influence
generally felt and usually develop into
the best udarniki (shock-troop workers),
and every year train large numbers of
technical workers.
This kind of thing scarcely squares
with peace protestations. And if it may
be argued that Russia has real cause to
fear that Japan intends to seize her now
almost isolated Vladivostok, it must be
remembered that Russia’s aggressions of
the past few years and her intrusion into
the internal politics and industrialism of
China and Japan have engendered the be-
lief in Japanese minds that the little
island Empire will never be safe while
Russian territory faces it across a nar-
row sea.
The Hirota declaration makes the
Japanese position clear, but it does not
show any new step in Japanese-Soviet
relations. It will take the level heads of
the whole world to keep the two coun-
tries apart.
THE HUGE WENS.
At the end of 1899, according to T. A.
Coghlan’s calculations, there were 477,790
people in Melbourne, 438,300 in Sydney,
149,600 in Adelaide, 110,900 in Brisbane,
41,500 in Hobart and 34,610 in Perth.
Melbourne long ago lost its pre-eminence
to Sydney, and Hobart was outstripped
by Perth. The belated census taken on
June 30, 1933, shows that during the in-
tervening period the divisional population
grew from 1,356,600 to 2,601,100 in N. S.
Wales; from 1,163,400 to 1,820,300 in
Victoria; from 482,400 to 947,700 in
Queensland ; from 370,700 to 580,900 in
South Australia ; from 171,000 to 438,900
in Westralia, and from 182,300 to 227,600
in Tasmania. Percentage of metropolitan
population increased from 32.31 p.c. to
48 p.c. in Sydney; from 41.07 p.c. to
54.5 p.c. in Melbourne ; from 40.38 p.c.
to 53.8 p.c. in Adelaide ; from 23 p.c. to
31.6 p.c. in Brisbane ; from 20.24 p.c. to
47.2 p.c. in Perth, and from 22.81 p.c. to
26.5 p.c. in Hobart. AcfUally the Bris-
bane increase has not been so great;
outlying areas now part of Greater Bris-
bane were not included in the 1899 com-
putation.
To Coghlan, “the abnormal aggrega-
tion of population in the capital cities”
was “a most unfortunate element in the
progress of the colonies.” Still it had “one
satisfactory feature: .... such increase
has not taken place through absorption
of rural population.” E. T. McPhee, the
Commonwealth Statistician, would not
write in this consoling strain.
There has been a persistent drift of
people from the country to the city,
especially since the war. T. Waites, the
N.S.W. Statistician, has remarked on it
from time to time in his “Year-Book,”
and it is reflected in the distribution of
seats in the House of Representatves.
At every rearrangement of electoral boun-
daries since the Commonwealth was es-
tablished, the cities have gained seats at
the expense of the interior, and the size
of country electorates has swelled to such
an extent that many outback people never
see their member from one year’s end to
another. Kalgoorlie, for example, spreads
over more than 900,000 square miles.
Maranoa is three times the area of Vic-
toria. Maranoa is to be enlarged again,
and South Australia is about to lose a
country member. It is all an effect of
deliberate centralisation, which has taken
many forms.
Development of natural ports has been
stifled in the interests of One Big Port.
Movements towards local self-government
have been halted. Small-town manufac-
turers have been crippled by Government
railway charges evidently designed for
that purpose ; small-town transport sys-
tems which gave the land man cheap and
swift service, the woolgrowers especially,
have been put down by law. In the regu-
lation of industry and in the expenditure
of public money there has been an ex-
cessive concentration- of influence and
power. Branches of federated trade-
unions the width of a continent away
have been dragged into uncongenial
strikes at the bidding of executives in
Sydney. The future of country people
has been pawned so that the Big City
might raise such works as the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, for which there was no
economic warrant. The latest official re-
port on the Bridge mentions an annual
deficit of £160,000, which is expected to
increase.
So strong is the pull of the Big City that
even Country-party Ministers surrender to
it. Although the electrification of city and
suburban railways has notoriously been
a financial failure —figures are so bad that
they are never published —the N.S.W.
Government is coquetting with a crazy
plan for extending electrification to New-
castle. A small-holdings scheme fathered
by experienced men on the shire councils
which is capable of taking tens of thou-
sands of unemployed off the dole has
been tossed into the waste-paper basket;
but the Stevens Government has found
£2,500,000 for water and sewerage works
in over-built Sydney suburbs, where
about half the householders cannot pay
their rates, let alone pay for sewerage
connections. That is to say, the Govern-
ment is backing the bills of a moribund
concern which has wasted a mint of
money on bungled engineering works
and made the people pay the piper by
raising the rates. Even in the spending
of unemployed-relief funds the same in-
fluence is predominant. There is nothing
to spare in N. S. Wales for small hold-
ings, but anyone with a plan for shift-
ing sand in one of the Sydney suburbs,
or digging a swimming pool, or removing
timber from a bit of foreshore is sure of
a sympathetic hearing, and the Sydney
Cricket Ground trust, prosperous as it
is, has put in for its cut.
Something will have to be done about
this freakish distribution of population.
Tasmania may be left to its own devices ;
it has borrowed less per head than any
of the mainland States and will be the
first part of the Commonwealth to
balance its Budget. Queensland can also
look after itself ; in the worst days of the
depression, thanks very largely to the
wise decentralisation and land-settlement
policies of “Tory” Governments, its per-
centage of unemployed trade-unionists
was only about half of that reported in
the Big-City States. But it is idle to sup-
pose that Melbourne can support 54.5
per cent, of the people of Victoria, or
Adelaide 53.8 per cent, of the people of
South Australia, or Sydney 48 per cent,
of the people of N. S. Wales, or Perth
47.2 per cent, of the people of Westralia,
with its 975,000 square miles. They are
not doing it now, and they are incapable
of doing it even when better times come.
And every gain in city population at the
expense of the country makes Australia
more difficult‘to defend. The solution of
the probliem lies in decentralisation and
small holdings. We can learn from the
examples of Britain and the U.S.A. that
great back-to-the-land movements are
feasible, even where agriculture is tem-
porarily depressed. We know from our
experience with Canberra —sad example
of squandermania though it is—that
population will grow up about a new
centre of government. There is an un-
answerable case for the creation of more
Federal units with powers distinct from
those of the Commonwealth.
THE MILLENNIUM ARRIVES.
“Yes,” said the Old Gentleman, “I well
remember the Millennium Year of 1934
—the year in which St. Douglas came
to save Australia. St. Douglas was from
England, where he abandoned the profes-
sion of building motor-boats in order to
succor us ; and when he arrived in Syd-
ney he held a meeting in a stadium. Ring-
side seats were a guinea, because you
can’t make things too hot in a country
in which you are saving a starving popu-
lation from itself.
“It was a great meeting. St. Douglas
talked to us about the A plus B theorem
and national dividends, and we all
cheered and artists among us brandished
their unsold drawings and etchings. Then
our hero outlined his constructive scheme
for saving the country.
“(a) Value the whole capital assets of Aus-
tralia, making no distinction between public
and private property. Add the commercialised
value of the population—on the U.S.A. basis
of £lO,OOO per head at 25 years old.
“(h) On the basis of the nation’s capital, esti-
mated as above, give every family in the coun-
try £3OO a year for life, irrespective of what
they earn, cash to be paid monthly, and the
whole to be arranged without interfering with
existing jobs or ownership. Nobody who
earned more than £l2OO a year was to get
any dividend. Dividends, of course, were to
be tax-free for ever. (There were groans at
this from the direction of a place called
Auburn.)
“(c) A discount rate —25 per cent, minimum
for a start—was to be declared in place of the
bank rate, and whenever any of us paid an
account we were to be allowed to take the
receipt to . the bank and have 75 per cent, of
what we had paid out credited to us as deposits.
The Government, of course, was to back the
accounts and pay the bankers’ discounts.
“Then hours in Government offices
were to be reduced to four a day. Wage-
rates were to be cut 25 per cent, and
any trade-union kicking up a row —
shrieks from Goulburn-street —was to
lose its national dividend. Also, every-
body was to be compelled to work at
what he was put to and all taxes except
graduated income tax were to go.
“That was the idea. If you don’t be-
lieve that even a saint—they are usually
a bit impractical—could put it up read
the ‘New Economics’ and you will find
it all there in the ‘Scheme for Scotland.’
“There were other details, but we
didn’t hear them because a pleasant sort
of man who was sitting in a buckshee
front seat got up and said ‘Pardon me,
I suppose this thing would work in any
part of this wilting country?’ ‘Most cer-
tainly, sir,’ says Our Hero, always the
gentleman.
“Then the pleasant man —his name was
Joe —said ‘Well, I’ve got about 500,000
square miles and a lot of Chinamen I
could do without in a place called the
Northern Territory.’ And before we
knew what was happening we were on
the way North in droves to found the
Land of Douglas.”
“Yes,” said the Old Gentleman, with
a sigh, “it was a great scheme, and we
had every chance to make a success of
it, for Joe gave us all we wanted —the
land and the local civil service and the
Darwin Laborers’ Union ; the wharf and
the railway and the State Farm at
Batchelor (only we couldn’t find that, be-
cause it was buried in long grass);
the Baino alligator and the army and the
local branches of the Commonweajth
Bank and some overdrafts and a slice
of the national debt. He even offered
to present us with George Pearce.”
“How did it work?”
“Well, it worked all right for a time.
In order to estimate the national capital
we reckoned all land as worth £lO an
acre, and put in kangaroos at five bob a
time ; the railway and the debt and roads
at the investment cost; Chinamen at 2s.
6d. a dozen ; civil servants and goannas
at ninepence a gross, and King
Buck-Eye’s army at a couple of pounds
apiece. Then we declared unpaid income
tax to be an asset and calculated the
pastoral, mineral and agricultural wealth
on the basis of the latest company pro-
moters’ estimates, multiplied by the poli-
ticians’ computations. Thus we were able
to give everybody a dividend of £12,000 a
year.
“Even after every citizen joined the
note-printers’ union, things didn’t go
badly. Civil-service hours were reduced
from four to two, and the rest of us,
having no work to do, spent our days
watching the Australian Northern Army
drilling and marking pak-a-pu tickets. Of
course, we had our troubles —as when
the A.W.U. passed a resolution that all
dividends should be delivered in bales on
the wharf and that the handling charge
•for the first half-mile from delivery point
should be sixteen shillings an hour per
hundredweight. Then there was an agi-
tation to turn the discount bank-deposit
rate of 25 per cent, into a premium rate
of 200 per cent. —that happened just
after the whole population of Aberdeen
immigrated, and a few weeks before
Palestine was evacuated and Frankfort-
am-Main joined us. Even when the
world’s paper supply for dividend certifi-
cates failed and the Act was amended
to institute the peanut-shell standard
(‘one peanut-shell shall be reckoned as
the equal of five Douglas system pounds’)
we were doing quite well. The thing
would have been an immense success if
we hadn’t lost our leader and his execu-
tive.”
“Lost them?” said the Attentive
Listener. “How do you mean lost them?
“Cannibalism,” said the Old Gentle-
man sadly. “You see we unfortunately
got to a point where we had eaten every-
thing in the place except them and paper
and peanut-shells and the national debt.
We were producing nothing but currency,
and nobody would take the stuff in pay-
ment for provender. Besides, nobody
wanted to stay anywhere else and pro-
duce things. They wanted to live with
us and get £12,000 a year for nothing.
“And you know,” he added softly as
he reached for another fresh-filled pewter,
“what happens to even the best of well-
nourished leaders when that sort of thing
happens in a pampered democracy.”


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pacific Shipping.
Mr. Lyons informed an Anniversary
Day gathering that his Government is
“not yet in a position to make a state-
ment” about subsidised shipping, which
is driving British trade off the South
Pacific, but time will show that “there
is no conflict between the opinion of
Australian people and that of the Gov-
ernment” on the subject.
Time seems to be a slow person when
he mixes with people like Mr. Lyons.
Except, of course, when it comes to rais-
ing members’ salaries ; then he js cap-
able of giving a spectacular demonstration
between midnight and breakfast-time.
Last March—-ten months ago—the
Prime Minister told Mr. Beasley that it
had been arranged that the Common-
wealth representative should take up the
question of subsidised shipping with
Canada and Britain; but “circumstances
have prevented its final consideration.”
“We shall be killed in the process,” Mr.
Beasley commented. “I hope not,” said
Mr. Lyons, philosophically,... .“I assure
members that I am anxious to complete
this matter.”
On March 28 Mr. Beasley said that
Maoriland had made provision in its
Customs Act for settling the problem, and
added that he was pleading for Austra-
lians engaged in the maritime industry.
Mr. Latham replied that he was “glad to
be able to tell the House that consulta-
tions were actually taking place between
Mr. Bruce and the British Government.”
By October 11 the Minister for Com-
merce was able to say that the subject
was “being considered in conjunction
with the Maoriland Government.” A
fortnight later Messrs. Lyons and co.
were “awaiting replies to certain com-
munications from M.L.” Three months
later, nothing has been done.
The British attitude was defined at the
Economic Conference in June, and the
little Scandinavian countries, who should
need a shipping subsidy if anybody does,
supported British deprecation of the sub-
sidy system.
Sea transport is a vital factor in de-
fence. Britain nearly failed to win the
war, not because of naval and military
weakness, but because the submarines
weakened her power to import war
materials. Our first need in case of war
would be plenty of speedy, modern mer-
cantile ships under our own flag.
If the boot were on the other foot, the
U.S.A. would deal with the question as
a domestic matter. Canberra should do
the same. Let American ships compete
with our shipping—but let it be on equal
terms. • All that is needed to ensure this
is a small amendment to taxation legis-
lation admitting of the imposition of a
tax on all subsidised foreign shipping
equal to the subsidy. If there are any
subsidies going, Australia herself can do
with them.
■ + — :
The New St. Nicholas.
J. T. Lang can be benevolent. When he
begins campaigning he tries to please
almost everybody with a vote. His latest
earth-shaking conference has been held
at Bathurst, the only country district out-
side the coal areas where large numbers
of electors can be expected to shout
“Hooray” at him, and thus give the
Labor press a chance to cry “Country is
behind Great Democratic Leader.” Lang
conferences are never held at Armidale
or Kyogle.
Having retired to the sylvan glades
beyond the mountains, the Great Man
delivered a stirring message to his people,
in which he played the part of St.
Nicholas, the patron saint of boys. He
offered the boys political nuts and raisins
on a large scale, and in the true, brusque
Teutonic tone of voice which no doubt
marks the celebration of December 6 as
St. Nicholas’s Day in Prussia in these
Hitlerish times.
By way of furthering the anti-war pro-
paganda being poured out from Moscow
through semi-Communist channels within
the Labor party, he said he would not
permit any son of an Australian mother
to go abroad and fight in a sordid trade
war, or words to that effect. Then he
appeared in the guise of St. Nicholas of
Aberdeen, appealing to the acquisitive in-
stincts of his audience with a rousing
panegyric on socialisation. Finally, he
gave a very good combined imitation of
St. Nicholas, protector of sailors, allay-
ing the storm of public indignation which
has nearly wrecked his followers, and
switched into his clothes as the saint of
parish clerks, who naturally believe in
isolating their interests round the local
pump to the exclusion of all other parts
of the world and classes of society.
It was noticed, however, that the sym-
bols of St. Nicholas were not displayed
at the meeting. These, as they are repre-
sented in Christian art, are three golden
balls or. three purses or three children.
It was no doubt thought indelicate to
show the golden balls and the purses in
view of Santa Lang’s expressed financial
views and his known capacity as a news-
paper mortgagee (ex the Moratorium
Act). Equally it would have been a faux
pas to exhibit the three children in the
legend which associates them with the
saint, for they suffered something very
like the fate that Lang and his “unity”
friends in Victoria are reserving for the
faithful remnant of Scullin’s followers in
N. S. Wales.
*
Joy for Democrats.
Democrats who for ever rail against
the uneven distribution of wealth in Aus-
tralia should take some comfort from
figures published in Queensland. Only
one man in the population of that State,
just on a million, has an income which
brings him within reach of the title mil-
lionaire. He showed the taxation people
£77,162 collected by personal exertion
last year, but only £23,000 of it was tax-
able. He was the only man in the State
to earn more than £lO,OOO by his own
personal effort. Five more managed
over £lO,OOO from property; and by the
time the various Treasuries have shaken
out their trousers pockets for them they
will probably wish they had not.
No other country which claims to be
prosperous could show such a record
combined with the biggest average sav-
ings-bank deposit per head of popula-
tion in the world. Any little Chinese
coterie in the East Indies could produce
at least a couple of millionaires. Any
city in India with Queensland’s popula-
tion could muster a couple of dozen
without resorting to Rajahdom. No
European capital outside the Balkans is
complete without a few. It is one of the
things which the returned traveller
notices when he returns to Australia,
even in the midst of a depression: the
general well-being ; the scarcity of ragged
beggars by comparison with other lands ;
the almost complete absence of gilded
palaces in the suburbs and of Rolls-
Royces, Mercedes and Daimlers the size
of elephants. The shopping streets, while
they measure up in window-dressing and
commodity-quality with towns of equal
size in other parts of the world, are not
for the plutocrat, but for the average
man and woman.
Fighting* Bushfires.
With the peak period for bushfires
approaching in Victoria, Melbourne and
environs are recalling the disaster of
1926, when 30 Gippslanders lost their
lives. In one respect the position is no
better than in that year. There are scores
of little townships cowering in funnel-
shaped gullies with grass growing up to
their doorsteps and big timber all around
them. Firebreaks have been made;
during the year 400 men were kept at
work making new breaks and cleaning
up old ones. But the Forestry Commis-
sion has 4j million acres of dense bush
to look after, and no breaks will avail
against a northerly reaching 50 miles an
hour.
Still, methods of fighting bushfires have
greatly improved. There is an organisa-
tion controlled from the metropolis
whose efforts are now supplemented by
bush brigades, wireless and aeroplanes.
The R.A.A.F. fire-detection branch has
been brought to as high a degree of per-
fection as human brains can make it. The
country is divided into sections and a
fire-spotter goes out daily to cover every
one of them. Some idea of the size of
the job is gained from the report that the
other day the aerial patrol spotted a
dozen incipient conflagrations in the area
round Powelltown, which was destroyed
eight years ago.
Graft.
John Sandeman Allen, M.P., deputy-
chairman of the United Chambers of
Commerce of the Empire, and formerly
chairman of the Commercial Committee
of the House of Commons, says that
graft is almost impossible in the British
Parliament. It exists in the Parliaments
of younger countries, but this is under-
standable :
In the House of Commons we have men of
leisure whose private means place them be-
yond reach of the lobbyist. But in a country
such as yours, where practically everyone is
occupied with the struggle to live, the temptation
to feather one’s own nest is greater.
There is really not much graft in Aus-
tralia, though there is a lot of talk about
it. The honesty of the public services
in things that matter is beyond question,
and rare cases of political dishonesty end
quickly in inquiries and in ruin for those
who practise it.
The most amusing part of Mr. Allen’s
speech is his holding up England as
the Simon Pure of nations. England’s
political institutions rose out of a cess-
pool of departmental dishonesty. The
Tudor period smelt of it in Parliament
and out. The erudite Bacon suffered no
more than retirement for something
which was closely akin to embezzlement.
Of the Stuart age, Macaulay wrote:
From the nobleman who held the white
staff and the Great Seal, down to the humblest
tidewaiter and gauger, what would now be
called gross corruption was practised without
disguise and without reproach. Titles, places,
commissions, pensions were daily sold in the
market overt by the great dignitaries of the
realm; and every clerk in every department
imitated, to the best of his power, the evil
example... .the place of the Lord-Lieutenant
of Ireland was popularly reported to be worth
£40,000 a year.
Pepys acquired a reputation for
strangeness when he began his fight
against peculation and bribery in the
Navy Office with his plan for regulating
pursers and the issue of his dictum that
“a purser would not have twice what
he got unless he cheated.” He well-nigh
ruined himself when his campaign cul-
minated with an address at the bar of
the Commons which exhilarated the
House into getting gloriously tight, and
Lord Coventry into telling him that he
should be made Speaker.
The Indian age was equally corrupt.
The Pitts and like families built their
wealth on grab and bribe. It may be
indelicate to mention Warren Hastings in
the presence of a councillor of Liver-
pool like Sandeman Allen, so it is per-
haps enough to say that when General
Medows —the greatest bayonet-leader
of his age—retired after three years as
Governor of Bombay, half a dozen years
after Australia was founded, his secre-
tary, the pleasant Harris, handed him
£40,000 in savings out of his salary of
£lO,OOO a year, though he had given up
his prize-money earned in Tippoo’s war
because he could afford to do so.
Even in 1809 the Committee of the
Whole of the Commons sat to inquire
whether the Duke of York, Commander-
in-Chief, had been privy to the proved
habit of his lady-love, Mrs. Clark, of
selling commissions in the army on his
behalf, and since, that time there have
been a slight occasional aroma about
army contracts and a cloud of suspicion
hanging over Africa and whispers about
British titles.
The standard of the House of Com-
mons is, of course, a high one. The
unsupervised lobbying which goes on
in some Australian Houses would not be
allowed there for a moment, and, as
visitor says, party organisations keep an
efficient watch on each other. But human
nature between St. Margaret’s and the
river is still an average sample of human
nature, and no Australian tourist has
returned to report that he has seen any
haloes round that locality.
4
An Unwanted Cathedral.
The views of “Vestryman”:
The kind-hearted and practical clergyman
who started Hammond’s Hotels and Homes,
and who has thereby mitigated the wretched-
ness of thousands and given new hope to hun-
dreds, has come out with a courageous pro-
test against the building of a new cathedral in
Sydney at public expense. Lang, when Premier,
offered to give the Anglican Church one of
the most valuable blocks of land in Macquarie-
street, together with £500,000, in return for the
site of St. Andrew’s Cathedral ; and the
present Government evidently considers itself
bound by his offer.
Canon Hammond puts it to the Church autho-
rities that “any money they receive from the
Government would have to be borrowed,” and
that this would “embarrass the Government and
be resented by those who are not our co-
religionists, as well as those who, to the
number of about 100,000, are still on the dole.”
The Sydney diocese is already rich through
great . Government gifts of glebe lands and
church sites in the early days. The present
cathedral, which is nearly 90 years old and the
child of one of the finest architects in stone
Australia has known, is quite adequate for the
congregations which resort to it. It is, more-
over, in a central position, next to the city hall.
The Church has been offered by the Govern-
ment a site on Church Hill, where the oldest
Anglican Church in Australia now stands, but
has spurned it because that spot, though
served by trams and trains and underground
railways from every direction, would be “too
remote.”
If the cathedral is built most of the popu-
lation, Anglicans included, will feel as Canon
Hammond feels. It will be a monument to
false pride.
4
This Freedom.
A Bulletin criticism of the abolition of
the practice of chaining natives under
arrest in the Northern Territory was fol-
lowed by a torrent of northern protests
in letters to the daily press against the
official ukase. Now the Department of
the Interior has issued a statement:
The department has always regarded the
chaining of aboriginal prisoners as much more
humane than the handcuffing which has now
been adopted as a result of representations
made by various societies.
Nevertheless, the department decided
“to persevere with handcuffs” —which
everybody who knows agrees to be cruel
in a country infested with flies, and cal-
culated to make the way difficult and
dangerous for policemen—“until they
have been thoroughly tested.”
The handcuff-chain issue, in itself, may
not be very important, but, in the face
of this sort of departmental attitude,
Australia might well begin to ask who
is governing the N.T.
When the Caledon Bay incident hap-
pened, Government action was not dic-
tated by the Administrator’s advice; it
was shaped to meet the views of the
flapper press and a few aged eccentrics.
In the end the nation advertised the
futility of its Administration by permit-
ting a couple of missionaries to go out
and do the job which its own officials
should have done. Now the Department
of the Interior is acting against its own
definite opinion because some unskilled
and inexperienced persons who are un-
likely to be killed as a result of their
meddling don’t agree with its views and
those of the Territory population.
The natives who are chained are not
children. They belong to a band which
within the past year murdered twelve
whites and Asiatics, including a police-
man, among a widely scattered European
and Asiatic population of perhaps 500
with whom they are brought into contact.
Nobody would believe for a minute
that the opinions of milk-and-water re-
formers are more valuable than men’s
lives in the eyes of Canberra, but the
enemies of officialdom cannot be blamed
if they sometimes think they see evidence
of it.
: O
A Vic. Education Experiment.
“F.S.”: Vic. Education Director Mcßae
has a plan for Daltonising the State
schools. As far as the amorphous scheme
can be understood, Mr. Mcßae wants
children to be allowed to develop self-ex-
pression and individuality, to be given
such personal and intimate attention that,
the bent of their natural talent may be
discovered and encouraged, and to have
subjects taught them in such a way that
a mere hint from a textbook will start
them off on a voyage of private adven-
ture and exploration into the realms of
the intellect. Also there is talk of mak-
ing the schools into some sort of self-
governing republics.
These notions are all excellent as ideals,
but their chances of being put into prac-
tice are’ negligible. To begin with, the vast
education network is staffed, not with
Montessoris and Russells, but with over-
worked schoolmarms and -masters. A
teacher with a genius for real education
and a profound understanding of child
psychology might do something with a
class, say, of 12 picked pupils ; but what
is a badgered individual with no such
genius or understanding to do with a
mixed horde of from 30 to 50 obstreper-
ous youngsters, of varying degrees of
backwardness? Moreover, the apparatus
for such a scheme is almost entirely lack-
ing, and ill-paid pedagogues aren’t going
to pay for it out of their own pockets.
Much emphasis is placed on the im-
portance of character-building, but under
existing conditions I am ready to bet
that the trowel used will be the strap ;
the mortar, detentions, as at present.
The hollowness of the scheme is shown
by the fact that the old examination sys-
tem is to be retained and run parallel
with it. You can’t build character or
release self-expression if you have to
stuff children’s heads with facts and then
extract them periodically.
4
What’s in a Name?
“X”: A minor storm is raging in Can-
berra over the name which has been
bestowed on the surrounding Common-
wealth domain —now known as the
Federal Capital Territory. An imagina-.
tive resident named Shakespeare wants
it called “Australian Capital Territory.”
If a South Latin had discovered the
continent, Australia could have tagged
itself with something equal to “District
of Columbia” in grandiloquence. But
what could even a Shakspeare do with
Cook, Phillip, Dirk Hartog and Dam-
pier? Cook is hopelessly prosaic. Phillip,
for those peoples who do not know our
national fathers, might be misspelt and
the baptism attributed to all sorts of in-
appropriate people—Philip of Mace-
don, for instance ; or Philip Nye, who
was a dissenting minister noted for
his unsightly beard; or Philip Quarl,
who was cast away on a desert island
with no companion but a monkey ; or
St. Philip, who, like the Australian tax-
payer, is always represented with a large
cross on his back.
Dampier has too much the sound of
an Australian outback comestible. No
policeman could ever be expected to re-
peat the words Dirk Hartog. Banks
would have been an appropriate god-
father, but his moniker would distress
Mr. Beasley and Senator Dunn.
Of course, The King Country—after
Plymouth Rock O’Malley, the de facto
founder —would be unpatriotic, being of
U.S.A. origin, and, though a descriptive
title like Appoplexia or Gagopolis would
be highly suitable to the sessional
atmosphere, it might offend the sensitive-
ness of some of the inhabitants.
So let’s call the whole darned place
Canberra and let the world know exactly
where it is.


Societ y
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Lao-dah”: One of the dance “palays”
that dominate St. Kilda’s foreshore caught
fire just before the Saturday-evening ses-
sion. In a few minutes it was giving a
grand spectacular display, prophetic of
the approaching centenary celebrations.
When the blaze was well under way the
manager, engaged in rescuing movable
property, heard a telephone ring. He
answered it; the gentleman at the other
end had engaged a table for himself
and his girl and wanted to know whether
the weather would be warm. “As warm
as you’ll want it,” shouted the manager.
“The place is on fire!” “Oh,” said the
caller ; “then cancel my table, please.”
* * * *
“Paschal”: Many people have won-
dered why lamb and mint sauce'should
be so indissolubly linked. A British law
case in which the litigants were Hebrews
has solved the
mystery. One of
the expert wit-
nesses, a rabbi,
stated that mint
was included in
the list of “bitter
herbs” with which
"I hear stunning stories about Jack’s
kisses. Have they reached your
ears?”
“Yes, and my kisser, too.”
Jewish ritual prescribed the lamb of the
Passover should be dressed. Bit by bit,
as the ages passed, the other herbs
dropped out as far as the Gentiles were
concerned, only mint remaining. What
Hitler will say to this can only be guessed
—anyway, he seems more partial to apple
sauce.
“Rokko”: The dentist was touching
lightly upon the language he sometimes
heard from anaesthetised patients. “And
my experience is,” he added, “that it’s
the people who don’t make a habit of
cursing heartily in ordinary circumstances
who let themselves go in periods of un-
consciousness. One morning a patient
had proved more than ordinarily pro-
fane, to the horror of an old lady who
was waiting to interview my partner.
When the patient was led away to her
car the old lady remarked, ‘What a
dreadful creature! So well-dressed, too!
And such a beautiful car! Now what
would her station in life be?’ Profes-
sional etiquette prevented me from re-
vealing that the just-departed possessor
of a secret vocabulary that a drill-ser-
geant might have envied was the wife of
a bishop.”
* * * *
“Binduli”: Staniforth Smith had the
unusual experience of being able to read
dozens of obituary notices on himself
some 23 years before they were due. I
wrote one, and took a deal of pains with
it. “Stan” went exploring his New
Guinea satrapy in 1910, and some remote
portion of the hinterland swallowed him
up. He had been quite given over as
lost, decapitated by head-hunters or de-
voured by cannibals, when he unex-
pectedly turned up in North Queensland.
Before that, the Kalgoorlie Municipal
Council had called a special meeting to
pay a tribute of respect to one of its
earliest mayors. We drank his health, as
far as I remember, in solemn silence,
but the eulogies that followed were full-
flavored. And then the missing man
turned up again, to read, if he liked,
things about himself in cold print which
are usually kept for tombstones.
* % H* %
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne quartette gave
a concert at which Frank Bridges’s
“Three Idylls” was a number. In the
absence of a programme the leader an-
nounced the item verbally in a foreign
accent. A newspaper report mentioned
that the piece “had the peculiar title of
‘Three Eels.’ ”
v *!• •(*
“C.Q.”: Two years ago a Beaumaris
(Vic.) garage-keeper went out in a motor-
boat to test the engine. A storm enveloped
him, and next day the launch was found
ashore, but there was
no sign of its owner.
The family mourned
him as drowned until a
friend ran up against
him in a neighbor-
ing suburb. Friend’s
amazed greeting was
ignored, and the lost man disappeared
again. A few days later he was run to
earth again and taken to a brain special-
ist, who found that he was suffering from
amnesia. How an individual who had lost
his memory could go about Melbourne
without his state being revealed to some-
body is a mystery.
* * * *
“Caveman”: On return from a long
sojourn in foreign parts I find that
American lift “conventions” have been
imported into Australia. In many city
buildings the lift has obviously become
a sacred place. Once inside the holy
area, with the clanking grill door
slammed, conversation (among males)
ceases or voices are lowered, hats are
deferentially removed, eyes are meekly
directed to the floor or on the back of
the neck of the nearest lady in front. As
a touch of gallantry, a hostile glare is
aimed towards the uncouth lout who with
boorish ignorance retains his foolish hat
on his stupid head. The reason or origin
of this inane ceremony is beyond me ; it
certainly isn’t an English custom. A man
will travel to the city in ’bus, tram or
train in the company of scores of ladies.
“How did you get that way, sport?”
“Duckin’ aeroplanes.”
He will enter shops and offices, meeting
ladies in mobs and droves, all the time
remaining hatted. Then on arrival at a
lift, off comes the hat. What a silly busi-
ness it is!
* * * g
“Deeahree”: Ex-Justice Ferguson is
more nearly correct when he says that
crooners sing “through the nose” than
“Ike Hollar” (B. 17/1/34) would have
us believe. The fact that good singers
use some of the eligible spaces in the
cranium to obtain the best effects does
not mean that they sing through their
noses. Anyone can clench his teeth and
croon a ditty about “Mah bloo ahed
hunna goil,” but a good singer must open
his mouth wide.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A man was picked up un-
conscious in the Exhibition Gardens in
Melbourne. He was
hurried to the General
Hospital, where he was
found to have a frac-
tured skull and to be in
immediate danger of
passing out through
loss of blood. A tele-
phone call to Russell-
street brought a con-
stable who gave the
modicum of his essen-
tial fluid required to
sustain the patient. Vic. police have a
voluntary blood-transfusion corps always
at the service of the public.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: Newspaper senti-
ment goes a bit too far in the matter of
these blood transfusions. There is never
a shark attack in the surf or an accident
involving serious haemorrhage but the
donor of blood is belauded as a hero.
He is, of course, simply a decent-minded
altruist undergoing a harmless (and
almost painless) operation—albeit a tedi-
ous and somewhat messy one —to succor
another good lad who may be a com-
plete stranger to him. This press blather
about the nobility of blood donors is
mischievous in so far as it implies an
element of danger which is non-existent.
In England the Red Cross runs the blood-
transfusion service, and it goes with a
click. A card-index keeps tab on all
donors and patients, and the latter are
hunted like fugitive slaves if they fail
to report progress. As for the harm of
blood-letting, a London Scoutmaster has
acted as donor on more than 50 occa-
sions. And one Frenchman has been
tapped of 109 quarts of blood. But they
do the business smartly in France; a
small, electrically-driven pump propels
blood from volunteer to patient. I am
looking at a French paper showing
photographs of the thing, no bigger than
a silver cream-jug. A beautiful little
machine!
* * * *
“Cotter”: Government House, Can-
berra, was built as a station homestead,
and despite its picturesque surroundings
is put to rather a strain in entertaining
royalty. Prince George and his aide,
secretary, detectives and entourage gener-
ally will provide the familiar problem.
There are only five guest bed-
rooms at Yarralumla, and to
make way for the Prince’s
party Government House
staff, except the aide (Cap-
tain Bracegirdle), will have to
shift camp to the Hotel Can-
berra, two miles away. The
G.-G. will, of course, vacate
his own suite, which is the
one apartment in the house
considered suitable for royal slumbers ; it
has modernistic decorations, with a grey
and blue motif, and is complete with
private bathroom, dressing-room and a
view of the Australian Alps.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: “El V.” (B. 17/l/’34)
wrongs me by inferring that I object
to Ah Kongs and Murphys joining Scot-
tish regiments and wearing kilts. I was
acquainted with a Schneiderberg who
sang “Mary of Argyle” in the most de-
lightful Scotch dialect; I know a Jewish
family with the extraordinary name
(for Jews) of Abbott, a Kelly who
is full Italian, a Macgregor who is mainly
Indian. All these incongruous things give
me a quiet pleasure. One of my most joy-
ous recollections is of an occasion in camp
in England when men of the Jewish race
were ordered to fall out for the special
leave that was granted for Passover. The
C.S.M. glared when he noticed one of
the band, and strode over to him.
“What’s the meaning of this, O’Brien?”
he demanded. “You’re not a Jew.”
O’Brien looked at him innocently. “I
thought you said ‘Fall out all men with
a Jewish face,’ ” he explained.
H= * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The latest centenary
disturbance in Melbourne is over a pro-
posed beauty competition. When Briga-
dier-General Jess innocently announced
that certain papers had offered prizes for
the event rival sheets broke out with cries
of horror. A hasty conference of organ-
isers was convened. In vain Jess pointed
out that the scheme had been known for a
long time and that thert had been no
previous objections ; the suggestion was
negatived, amidst professions of righteous
disapproval. Yet what is wrong with
beauty competitions if properly conducted
and if the commercial element is excluded?
Ancient Greece looked kindly on them,
the Hellenic sculptors got valuable data
from the display of feminine beauty, and
there are plenty of girls in Melbourne as
well proportioned as the Venus of Milo.
There will be many other contests dur-
ing the centenary much less interesting,
such as competitions between rival
breeders of canaries, ping-pong cham-
pions and purveyors of dreary platitudes
concerning our great past and our
greater future.
PUZZLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tire me with their gab and guff,
These blokes who mount the rostrums
Their cure-all boluses to puff
And boost their magic nostrums.
Homegrown or fresh from oversea,
Their slabs of cheapjack clatter
Might just as well be Cherokee
For all that they convey to me.
It gets my goat, their patter!
They look so solemn and so wise
You soon conclude they’re mighty
Like those old mediaeval guys
Who sought elixir vitce.
It’s true they never caught the fish,
But round about the nations
They went, as cheerful as you wish,
With never-ceasing gibberish
And muttered incantations.
I still have crumbs of learning spilt
In classroom and in forum;
I’ve scaled the wall that Balbus built
And pontes asinorum.
In boyhood’s days my cranium
Took in the average cargo,
But prophets might as well be dumb
For me, unless they speak in some
Intelligible argot.
I've played with indices and surds;
I’ve even found specific
Appeal in Babylonian words
Accounted hieroglyphic.
But here’s a tough and tangled skein
That has me beat —you’ve said it!
I wilt and reel beneath the strain.
Help! Help! Can nobody explain
This blinking Douglas Credit!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Hunter Grubb”: “All Australia has
seen of the Emden is the bell,” says “Ex-
dig” (B. 17 /1 / ’34). Not quite all. The
Emden gun has been standing at the Col-
lege-street end of Hyde Park, Sydney, for
years. Communists use it as a notice
board for their propaganda about the
dangers of capitalist wars.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: The story of the
turf which wouldn’t grow on the Milton
(Q.) tennis courts (B. 10 /1 / ’34) recalls the
experience of an Adelaide man who
bought an old cottage, pulled it down
and erected a bungalow on the site. He
laid down a grass court, but there were
two patches where the turf obstinately
refused to grow. He showed them to me
one day when I was putting up a sleep-
ing-out porch for him, and together we
investigated. Under one patch we found
a well, 60 feet in depth, bricked all the
way down. The red-gum slabs which
covered it were nearly rotted through,
and sooner or later a player would almost
certainly have gone through it. Adelaide
Council employees have come upon many
similar wells when remaking footpaths ;
they were dotted all over the city in the
early days. Under the other infertile
patch we found a cellar, full of a weird
"Why do they call ships ‘she ’ ?’
“Maybe ’cos they make their best showing in the wind.”
and wonderful collection of rubbish, and
roofed over with sheets of flat galvanised
iron, the forerunner of corrugated iron.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne woke on a
recent Sunday morning to find the town
shrouded in unaccountable smoke. There
had been no bushfires reported anywhere
in the State. It was found that a southerly
had blown the smoke across the
Strait from the Speck, where a big burn
had been going on for some days. In
the afternoon a norther wafted the cloud
back to Tassie and the weather pilot from
Point Cooke saw the sight of a lifetime.
From 3000 ft. up he found a great grey
pall of smoke, only 20ft. thick, but ex-
tending to the horizon, travelling back
to the Apple Island at 20 m.p.h. 6ld
hands consider the phenomenon a return
for the visit paid to Tasmania by the
debris of the tremendous Victorian forest
fires of 1851, when still-burning frag-
ments of wood carried by a tremen-
dous gale from the north fell on the
Speck’s shores in an impenetrable fog of
smoke. Communication with the main-
land was slow in those days, and for a
week every Van Diemen’slander thought
the end of the world was approaching
and swore to reform.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: I am in a bit of a fog about
this Melbourne centenary business. It
seems that there are
hundreds of projects
for improving the
Domain, providing a
gateway to the city
that will be worthy
of its greatness, root-
ing up slums, demol-
ishing buildings to
make squares and
boulevards, and
other gigantic con-
structional enter-
prises. Few of these
schemes will be
completed before
our guests, including
the royal one, de-
scend upon us. There
will be thousands of
men tearing up
drains and levelling
hills, and Whelan the
Wrecker’s familiar
sign will be hung
like a garland upon
the city’s dusty
bosom. When well-
mannered people en-
tertain their friends
they usually clean
out the house, pre-
pare a meal and don
evening-dress for the
occasion. It will be
somewhat embarrass-
ing if Batman’s fair
city has to greet its
guests clad in its underclothing.
* * * *
“Jobber”: In conversation with a war
widow in a N.S.W. hamlet the other day,
I mentioned that one of my sisters was a
grandmother at 45. “Fancy!” the lady
said ; “but what about me ? I was mar-
ried, had three children before I was 21,
and was a grandmother at 37.”
* * * &
“Soso”: Even the Children’s Court
finds itself pondering on the intiicacies of
the Law at times. A Sydney man applied
to have a maintenance order—which
had been in existence for a long time —
quashed on the ground that complainant
was not his lawful wife, the marriage to
her having been a bigamous one. He
produced an earlier marriage certificate
and proof that his real wife was alive.
Notwithstanding this, he runs no risk
of prosecution for bigamy, for the Child
Welfare Act, like the Bankruptcy Act,
specially provides that evidence given or
matters disclosed in proceedings under
that Act shall not be used for the pur-
pose of any other proceedings, except in
the case of a prosecution for perjury.
* * * =i:
“X.S.”: One of Melbourne’s police-
patrol cars blundered into a touching
romance. A single-seater car had been
observed every morning at 2.30 to draw
up outside a hospital. After waiting a
few minutes the occupant invariably went
to a telephone booth, had a brief talk
with someone, and departed. The Rus-
sell-street sleuths, apprised of his strange
conduct, lay in wait one morning and
then pounced on the mysterious sranger.
They caught an embarrassed young man,
who blushingly explained that he knocked
off work at 2 a.m. and always came to
the hospital to wave his hand to and
have a short telephonic yarn with his
fiancee, a nurse on night shift.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A youth of 20 at Moonta
(S.A.) has appeared in the Criminal
Court to answer for his Christmas holi-
days. He stole a Government launch first
and went gulf-cruising till it broke down ;
then, drifting to an island, he stole a boat
and rowed to another quiet island which
is a depot of B.H. Associated Smelters ;
there he commandeered a lot of goods
and broke into an empty house. In
“I saw Mae out with John last night. Thought she’d thrown him over?”
“She did; but you know how a girl throws.”
court he mentioned with quiet pride that
he had occupied a different bed every
night for the duration of his outing, and
cheerfully accepted an 18 months’ sen-
tence.
* * * *
“Pat McGinty”: That Irish member
who sported a kilt in the Commons (B.
24/1/’34) was really more Scotch than
Irish. His name was Gibson. His
father was Lord Ashbourne, Lord
Chancellor of Ireland at one time,
and his sister achieved notoriety by try-
ing to shoot Mussolini some years ago.
Gibson succeeded his father in the Ash-
bourne peerage, but I don’t know that
he ever sported the kilt amongst the
peers.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: It is quite true
that wines, except those of the port type,
do not improve after the
first few years of keeping.
I have seen buried hoards
exhumed, and most of the
stuff was undrinkable, a
bright exception being a
solitary bottle of hock,
bearing the label “Pewsey
Vale, S.A., 1905.” Brandy,
of course, improves with
age ; so does bottled beer
which has been stood on
the cork. Some 20 years
ago I was called in to
smarten up a house in
Adelaide, where an old
couple had lived for 50
years, to make it saleable.
In the cellar we found all
sorts of stuff, including
some bottles of beer stand-
ing on the corks. We
opened the first very
doubtfully, were reassured
when it popped and
foamed over, and within
half a minute of drawing the cork we
knew what the gods drank on Olympus.
* * * *
“Porcher”: In Australia we are used
to official receptions being given to
cricketers, footballers, tennis-players and
the like. Russia has accorded a com-
bined municipal and official welcome to
a trainload of 500 fat pigs, which arrived
in Moscow from the State farms. After
detrainment, the four-legged comrades
were marched through the city, headed by
a brass band and marshalled by the bi-
pedal comrades in charge of them. Of
these last, Comrade Mikoyen, chairman
of the Council of the People’s Commis-
sars, announced that “By their honest,
conscientious and cultural work, they
had earned the right to accompany the
swine to Moscow.” They were accord-
ingly given a day’s holiday to see the
sights. The pigs were accommodated at
the abattoirs.
“C. 8.”: The girl (B. 24/l/’34) who
asked the chemist for nitric instead of
citric acid to make a summer drink re-
minds me. My wife had a methylated
spirit stove by the side of the bed for
warming baby’s milk. One night she lit
the thing, vigorously pumped it and flame
and smoke shot up nearly to the ceiling.
She told me this had happened several
times previously when I wasn’t present,
and we decided that the machine needed
cleaning. I cleaned it, she refilled it and
we had another Vesuvius which removed
my eyebrows. The next morning I heard
her giving the grocer an order over the
telephone. Included in it was a bottle of
benzine. I suggested she meant metho.
“Oh, yes,” she said brightly, “that’s it.
I never can remember the difference be-
tween those two”!
* * * *
“Spasebo”: On the anniversary of
Lenin’s death the Soviet presented Pro-
fessors Vorobief and Zbarski with the
highest order at its disposal. Ever since
the Communist leader died the profes-
sors have been exclusively engaged in
preserving his body. It was found that
too many worshippers at the shrine in
the Red Square altered the moisture-
content of the chamber, and so visitors
were carefully supervised. At first it was
believed that the cadaver would only last
three months, but now it is considered
that it can be preserved for ever. In the
remoter regions of the Union, where
Christianity has been replaced by new
superstitions, there is a belief that if
Lenin’s corpse disintegrates it will be a
portent of the downfall of Communism.
Naturally the commissars will exert every
nerve to see that the body keeps its
curiously life-like look, even if they have
to provide a substitute.
* * * *
“Nikko”: The carpet in a Darling-
hurst guest-house is secured to the
wall by chains. It seems that the
manager, coming home from the theatre
one night, met two men staggering from
the building with its immensely heavy
predecessor. He held the door open
for them, remembering that the house-
keeper had remarked that the carpet
needed beating and could be removed by
night and replaced first thing in the
morning. When the floor was still bare
next day he made inquiries, and learned
that the removalists had assured the
housekeeper that the manager himself
had authorised them to carry out the
operation. How the thieves discovered
the cleaning was due was never made
clear, but no more chances are being
taken.
* * * *
“Jagersfontein”: A sketch based on
the finding of another large diamond in
the Transvaal (B. 24/1/’34) tells of the
finding of “63 pounds weight of fine
diamonds in the blue-clay bed of Dingo
Creek.” Writer has never yet heard of
alluvial diamonds being found in any-
thing but gravel wash. The famous blue-
clay deposits of Kimberley and else-
where are plugged volcanic pipes leading
deep into the earth in which the stones
are embedded. The clay is rock hard and
has to be spread out on open-air “floors”
for some months before it disintegrates
sufficiently to allow of puddling and
washing. These “floors,” fenced with
barbed-wire and lit by arc-lights at
night, are as familiar a feature of''Kim-
berley as the great native-labor com-
pounds at the various mines.
BEAUTY SHOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is most gratifying to find that the Melbourne
Centenary Council has decided that the fair fame
of the city shall not be besmirched and degraded
by a feminine beauty show.”— “S. M. Herald.”
And was the old world wickeder, I wonder,
When up towards Mount Ida’s sylvan crest,
Where Paris waited, quivering pine-trees under,
And nerved himself for a momentous test,
On feet that tore the crocuses asunder
And trod the lotos down came, three abreast,
The goddesses on that historic morn
As mother-naked as when each was born?
Surely no job more elegant and tony
Was ever handed to a shepherd boy;
A task congenial, I’ll bet a pony,
He counted it, and an aesthetic joy.
What though it left a desolate GEnone,
And, later on, a devastated Troy,
It was —you must admit it anyhow—
The choice and not the choosing raised the
row.
Withal I have a shrewd idea, between us,
Whatever venal methods you ascribe
To Priam’s progeny, that had it been us
Commissioned for the arbitration tribe
The golden apple would have gone to Venus
Quite irrespectively of any bribe.
Else why the thrill Hellenic statues bring?
And Paris (mind you!) saw the genuine thing.
It might have knocked old sculptors from their
perches,
Or puzzled them in their Elysian glades,
The thought that beauty unadorned besmirches
Or, insufficiently attired, degrades.
Though Melbourne never was a city of
churches —
That shining claim, of course, is Adelaide’s—
’Twould sorely jar upon her civic pride
If Psyches flapped about the Yarra’s side.
Ah, well! Perhaps they’ve worn it to a frazzle.
Only I wonder what will artists do
If figures that intrigue and forms that dazzle
Become verboten and are ruled taboo,
Too reminiscent of a Pagan razzle
To grace an anniversary shivoo.
Shall we be nearer Heaven—ah, who knows?—
Without the fleshly lure of beauty shows?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The moisture - proof
“Cellophane” Pack is
exclusive to Craven
“A” Cigarettes and is
your only guarantee
of getting a really
factory - fresh smoke.
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
“Pve smoked them for years
and they never vary ”
CRAVEN A
in tne new mci&tuhe-fyurif
CELLOPHAN E.'PACK
m ■■
POLITICAL POINTS
If the Vic. Labor bosses have their
way, at least two more “unity” confer-
ences will be held within a twelvemonth
or so. Speaking at the annual State
A.L.P. conference on the report of the last
“unity” conference, Don Cameron said
he “would sacrifice almost anything to
have unity restored to the movement.”
He and his friends sacrificed ex-Premier
Hogan and his associates ; now, it seems,
they are ready to sacrifice the Federal
A.L.P. executive, Scullin and the Federal
Labor group in N. S. Wales.
Two self-appointed saviours of the
people let themselves go in N. S. Wales
the other day. One, Douglas, boasted
that, by means of what he calls social
credit, he could put every unemployed
N.S.W. man and woman back in work
within three months. The other, Lang,
said he had a policy “which will bring
more happiness to our fellow-Australians
than anything we have done yet —sociali-
sation of credit and nationalisation of the
banks.” Each has a great following, but
the world is full of mugs ; so there is still
an opportunity for the projector —or his
lineal descendant, if any —who proposed
to make everyone bright and happy by
extracting sunshine from cucumbers.
Hitler and Pilsudski, the Pole, have
signed a non-aggression pact good for
ten years. It is a blow to French
diplomacy, but it removes the Polish Cor-
ridor from the list of possible causes of
war during a critical time in the history
of the nations. In fact, it is the best piece
of news that has come out of eastern
Europe since the repulse of the Bol-
sheviks from the gates of Warsaw.
Britain in 1932 imported 3,044,200
gallons of Australian wine. U.S.A., with
nearly three times the population, pro-
poses to restrict imports of Australian
wine to 10,000 gallons for three months —
40,000 in a year. This is so paltry that
even American business men are object-
ing ; a protest from the Detroit Board of
Trade has been received at Washington.
Detroit, of course, is concerned for its
car trade with Australia. It will be very
small potatoes if Uncle remains unrea-
sonable ; and the same applies to other
lines.
At the rate at which shop-betting
licenses are being applied for, it looks as
if half the population of Adelaide has
hopes of getting its living by wagering
with the other half. It is nothing for the
Betting Control Board to receive 100
applications for licenses in a day, and
one license may represent many book-
makers. A group operating in Tatter-
sail’s Chambers calls itself “Crystals In-
vestments, Ltd.” “Diamonds for the
Missus Syndicate” would be more appro-
priate.
While every Government railway sys-
tem continues to lean heavily on the tax-
payer, the Midland Co., which operates
250 miles or so in Westralia, reports an-
other tidy profit. Last year it paid taxes
and interest on first- and second-mort-
gage debentures; transferred £2OOO to
taxation reserve and £30,000 to deprecia-
tion and renewals fund ; added £5OOO to
exchange contingency account and car-
ried forward £16,357 —the same as in
1932. And the co. has had to compete
for many years with a trade-stealing
Government railway running parallel
with its line, or nearly so.
A notion cherished by some people is
that Japan seized Manchuria in order to
get rid of some of its surplus population.
Actually, the average Nipponese hates
the cold climate of Manchuria as much
as he does that of his own northern
islands. The Japanese, anyway, have not
shown themselves an emigrating people.
While more than 9,000,000 Chinamen live
overseas there are only 630,000 Japanese
abroad, and 70 per cent, of these are in
Honolulu, in their own island possessions
and in centres where they are securing
material to fill home industrial needs.
• Since the Treaty of Versailles was
signed, a committee of five has governed
the Saar Basin as trustee for the League.
It was provided that a vote of the in-
habitants should be taken on January 10,
1935, to decide whether they should join
France, return to Germany or remain
under the League. The Nazis protest
that they ought to control the plebiscite
machinery, and have been dragooning the
inhabitants in advance. This may prove
their undoing if the League finds its lost
backbone. Most of the Saar people are
R.Cs.; many are (or were) Communists.
Ballot-papers will be restricted to men
and women who were 20 and over and
Saar residents on June 28, 1919 ; and, as
a rule, elderly people prefer a quiet life.
The force behind Hitlerism is youth.
Near as the Brisbane civic elections are
the non-Labor groups are far from justi-
fying their recent boast of solidarity. It
was given out that all the non-Labor
aldermen would be “endorsed.” A. D.
Gill, secretary of the Nat.-Progs., says
this is a fairy tale ; nominations are to
be called for, and candidates will be
“With some trepidation Vic. Labor has accepted the unity proposals of the Lang
group.”
Vicky: “I’ve done it now; but can I trust him to be true to me?”
selected regardless of whether they are
sitting Bumbles or not. Meanwhile Labor
is working like a beaver. Alf Jones, some-
time Minister for Mines, is likely to be
its candidate for Mayor.
Mussolini proposes to take a hand in
the settlement of the East Asia quarrel, but
how he is going to settle it isn’t explained.
Italy, though concerned at Japanese trade
penetration, hasn’t anything like the vast
interests in Asia that Britain and France
possess. During the great scramble for
concessions that preceded the Boxer out-
break the Italians put in a belated claim
for a slice of the melon. They demanded
one of the best ports in China and a
number of islands. The Chinese worm
turned, and told them, in effect, to go to
blazes. Italy dropped the subject.
Since 1921 the Melbourne suburb of
Preston has increased its population from
9670 to 33,447 ; Coburg has bloated from
18,114 to 38,122 and Moorabbin from
7443 to 19,004. This has been at the ex-
pense of inner suburbs and Melbourne
proper, where vacant terrace houses
hang out signs despairingly. The fact is
that Melbourne has rebuilt itself, like
Delhi, cheap railway fares and time-pay
ment assisting the process. A State with a
dwindling rural population and more than
half its people crammed into the metro-
polis can’t afford the luxury.
Queensland’s Labor Government de-
cided that it would charge a registration
fee of ss. for each bull kept on a dairy
farm. The impost has proved so difficult
to extract from the embattled farmers
that instead there is to be a levy of a
ha’penny on every box of butter and
hundredweight of cheese made. The
Opposition protests that this amounts to
daylight robbery. The Government
swears it is really a beneficent provision,
but the cow-cockies are angrier than ever.
A new long-distance passenger travel
records was put up the other day by a
hero named Jones. He journeyed from N.
York to Genoa in the Conte di Savoia,
trained it to Brindisi, there boarded an
Imperial Airways ’plane and arrived in
Calcutta, 12,000 miles from the start, in 14
days. His schedule should be printed on
a sticker and plastered on the garden
gates of the Federal Ministers who pro-
pose to agree to an all-air schedule from
London to Australia —his, of course, was
done by sea and train —which is three
days more protracted than Jones’s.
Most European countries seem to have
learnt something from Russian methods
of propaganda. The Post Office benefits.
Every week The Bulletin gets a line or
two from Hitler and Co., Mussolini, Ltd.,
and Stalin. This week’s bag includes a
new effort —a publicity journal from
Budapest the front page of which is decor-
ated with a barren map of Hungary sur-
rounded by other maps of which the fea-
tures are serried ranks of bombers and
big guns. Hungary, it appears, wants
peace. It is about time.
All the civil-service superannuation
schemes in Australia and M.L. have been
described, at one time or another, as
“actuarily unsound”; and Papua has
come into the picture. During the last
two financial years nearly £7OOO has had
to be appropriated from general revenue
to meet pensions, and if all retired who
are entitled to retire another £12,000
would be required in the first year. The
fund was launched in 1917. One officer
paid £590 into it. He has retired on a
pension of £530 ; and he is still a com-
paratively young man.
A man in the Agricultural Department
has reported to Westralian Premier Col-
lier that the sales tax on flour could have
been raised 255. a ton without increasing
the price of bread in Perth and country
towns or lessening the profits of bakers.
No denial has been forthcoming from
Canberra. Lyons knew that the wheat-
growers would have to be helped some-
how. He made no provision for assisting
them in his Budget. When the matter
could no longer be dodged Cabinet de-
cided that something would have to be
done ; but it vacillated for weeks, and
finally imposed a tax of £4 ss. a ton in a
hurry. Now, of course, it is appointing
a Royal Commission.
Moved by reports that Britons are
scared at “the proximity of potential
enemies” who may bomb and gas and
starve them, two Diggers in the Trafalgar
(Vic.) branch of the R.S.L. have solemnly
proposed that the Imperial Government
be asked to transfer the entire population
to Australia and put its homeland up for
sale. The motion is to be as solemnly
debated next month. There is a histori-
cal precedent of a sort. When the Dutch
Republic looked like falling a prey to the
French, William of Orange and his coun-
sellors decided that, rather than yield,
they would mobilise their ships and trans-
port the whole nation to the Dutch East
Indies, opening the dykes behind them.
Had they done so, the history of Eng-
land and of this country would have been
very different.
As a result of the strike at Mt. Isa, the
co. asked the Industrial Court to sanc-
tion a working roster. Organiser Fallon,
of the A.W.U., objected, and the presid-
ing Judge suggested that, since full re-
sumption of work was an urgent matter,
the parties might agree on some other
roster system. The co.’s representatives
were willing, but the A.W.U. man loftily
announced that he was going on holidays
and would be absent some weeks, so that
nothing could be done. To the disgust
of the trade-union hierarchy the Court
refused to recognise the transcendent im-
portance of Mr. Fallon’s holidays. It
approved of the roster asked for, failing
agreement between the parties within the
next three months. But “financial”
unionists are tc have “absolute prefer-
ence,” and all non-unionists must apply
to join the union within 28 days or lose
their jobs.
Douglas, the credit crank, says Aus-
tralians should issue enough internal pur-
chasing power to enable tl em to con-
sume all their own produce. But if they
ate all the wheat they produce they
would burst; and if they wore all the
wool they grow they would die of
heat-apoplexy.
Dr. Grenfell Price, of Adelaide, who
has been studying tropical settlement in
the Americas under Rockefeller auspices,
has returned with the conviction that
whites can succeed in tropical and sub-
tropical parts if they remain white and
maintain the standards of their race ; but
not if they mix or have to compete with
colored men whose standards are low.
In the course of his researches he found
“little-known Nordic communities which
have lived in the tropics and sub-tropics
for up to 250 years.” On the other
hand: —
A large number of German settlers went
to Jamaica about the same time as our Ger-
mans came to South Australia. The Jamaica
Germans have very largely mixed with the
negroes.
Dr. Price is satisfied that “the White
Australia policy is absolutely essential to
the Commonwealth.”


This
Modern
Ar^.
/y My OEAR SIR , TWATS NOT WATER }
-PHAT& -twe 6KV * f
✓/ Hpw-fmm'ii'
lo (qET THE TRUE EHEECT. VGXJ MUST VIEW IT
►ROM A OI&TAKICE
This modern music
//1/ /
IM DAN&IN WITH TEARS IN ME EVES t
COS THE SAL- IN ME ARMS ISNT VEW ,' S
i
Our Hntertaonments,
Out yv& still have somethin q to e>e tha*jkj=-ul fo^,,
PROGRESS.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
Fine Diamonds
£55
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£3O
Fine Diamonds
£3O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£35
Fine Diamonds
£22
Fine Diamonds
£2B
Fine Diamonds
£l7
E
AGMEWT
TTHE diamonds used in the rings illustrated are
guaranteed finest quality Blue White Gems —the
illustrations representing actual size. Hand-made
throughout with Pure Platinum Settings these rings
represent the best value in
Australia. Write for selection
on approval. A Catalogue of
Rings, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Silver and
Wedding
Presents
sent post
free on re-
quest.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
SYDNEY
IB Hunter St.
BRISBANE
II 6 Queen St.
MELBOURNE
338 Collins Street
Douglas Delusions
This Dollar Business
What Does It Mean?
Trade Developments
Will Share Prices
Hold?
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments. the
“ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
February Issue on Sale Saturday
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays:
Merchant-knight Wm. Brunton (Melb.), 67,
on Ist; Col. Brinsmead, 51, and W. F. Dunn
(ex-Min. for Agric., N.S.W.), 57, on 2nd; Geo.
Taylor (editor, “Sun-News-Pictorial,” Melb.), 42,
W. A. Deacon (ex-Min. for Lands, Q’land), 62,
and knight Tom Henley (N.S.W.), 74, on 4th ;
Rev. L. E. Bennett, M.A., B.D. (Master of
Wesley Col., Sydney), 56, and David Maughan,
K.C. (Syd.), 61, on sth;. N.S.W. Min. for Mines
R. S. Vincent, 42, and Monsignor Nevin (pre-
sident. St. Patrick’s Col., Manly), 48, on 6th;
Richard Linton, Vic. A.-G., 56, on 7th; Dr.
Walkom (gen. sec., Australasian Science Assoc.),
45, and Prof. Jack Murray (Q’land), 45, on Bth;
Q’land ex-Premier A. E. Moore, 58, and Kings-
ford Smith, 37, on 9th; knight Robert Garran,
67, and E. T. Crutchley (British Govt. rep. in
Aus.), 56, on 10th; knight Albert Gould (Syd.,
formerly Pres, of Federal Senate), 87, N.S.W.
Min. for Educ. D. H. Drummond, 44, H.
McD. Russell, M.L.A. (Q’land), 61, musician
Fritz Hart (Melb.), 60, and Ida Leeson (Mitchell
Librarian, Syd.), on 11th; Prof. Carslaw (Syd.),
64, Prof. Ewart, F.R.S. (Melb.), 62, Major-
Gen. Charlie Rosenthal (Syd.), 59, and
pastoralist-knight Edward Wittenoom (W.A.),
80, on 12th; Archbishop Kelly, 84, Melb.
scientist Frederick Chapman, 70, W.A. Crown
Solicitor J. L. Walker, 49, and S.A. -Govt.
Astronomer Geo. Dodweli, 55, on 13th;
knight Edward Lucas (ex-S.A. Agent-Gen.),
77, J. L. Price, M.H.R. (Boothby, S.A.),
52, and Q’land Senator J. V. Macdonald,
54, on 14th; Geo. Black, M.L.C., 80,
on 15th; Justice McTiernan (Federal High
Court), 42, N.S.W. Collector of Customs G. F.
A. Mitchell, 55, N.S.W. Transport Commis-
sioner S. A. Maddocks, 53, and Brig.-Gen. C.
H. Jess (Melb.), 50, on 16th; “Banjo” Paterson,
70, H. T. Armitage (dep.-gov. C’wealth Bank),
5.3, S.A. Govt. Geologist L. K. Ward, 55, and
Prof. T. Hytten (Tas.), 44, on 17th; Prof. O.
U. Vonwiller (Syd.), 52, on 18th; Justice Mac-
rossan (Q’land), 53, Rev. Alfred Gifford (Surrey
Hills, Vic.), 66, and novelist Dorothy Lang-
ford, on 20th; Judge Drake-Brockman, 50,
Henry Cohen, K.C., M.L.C. (Vic.), 62, and
Anthony Hordern (Syd.), 45, on 21st; Justice
Starke (Federal High Court), 63, Dr. lan
Clunies-Ross (Director, McMaster Animal
Health Laboratory), 35, and Dr. M. J. Holmes
(C’wealth Health Dept.), 50, on 22nd; Norman
Lindsay, 55, and novelist Jas. M. Walsh, 37,
on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Registrar of Sydney
Uni.), 51, Prof. D. B. Copland, 40, and Prof.
R. M. Allan (Melb.), 48, on 24th; artist Percy
Leason, 45, ex-Customs Comptroller Ernest
Hall, 63, and Justice J. A. Browne (N.S.W.
Chief Industrial Commissioner), 58, on 25th;
knight Mungo MacCallum (Syd.), 80, former
S. Premier knight Henry Barwell, 57, Prof.
J. M. Holmes (Syd.), 38, and C. R. Chapman
(N.S.W. Treasury), 59, on 26th; medico-knight
James Barrett (Melb.), 72, and airman L. J.
Brain (Q.A.N.T.A.S.), 32, on 27th; and S.A.
Min. for Educ. S. W. Jeffries, 48, on 28th.
Just left for six months’ holiday in the
Cold Land, Dr. A. E. Floyd, who for 17
years has wakened the thunders of St.
Paul’s organ in Melbourne, trained a mul-
titude of choirboys and seen many of
A. E. FLOYD, organist at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne.
them, like John Dudley, join the ranks of
grand-opera vocalists. Floyd is noted for
a certain acidity of diction, both as a one-
time musical critic for the “Argus” and
as a choirmaster. “Are you being paid by
the Communists to sing flat?” is one of
his favorite wisecracks —after the war it
used to be “by the Kaiser Wilhelm.
Assistant-organist Fehmel takes his place
temporarily.
Timmy Watkins. Sydney portrait-
painter, teacher and N.S.W. Art Gallery
trustee, is a genial fellow with a deep
fund of art knowledge and a flair for
imparting what he knows to his pupils.
“Watty,” as he is known among his con-
freres, was born at Wolverhampton, Eng-
land, and studied at the local branch of
the South Kensington School of Arts.
Coming to Australia at 16 he studied
J. S. WATKINS, Sydney art teacher and
trustee of the N.S.W. National Gallery.
further under Julian Ashton, Daplyn and
Frank Mahony, father of the artist who
has made the accompanying sketch. He
went abroad for a while, learning a little
more at Colarossi’s in Paris, and returned
to Sydney to start teaching and executing
private commissions. He is a vice-pre-
sident of the Royal Art Society of N.S.W.
and was appointed as a trustee of the
N.S.W. National Art Gallery a couple of
years ago. He is also a member of the
Marshall Trust, which buys pictures for
the gallery, and of the Public War
Memorials Board. Various Australian
galleries contain samples of his work.
Some of our leading black-and-white men
have passed through his school.
Dr. L. B. Bull, whom the Common-
wealth’s Animal-health department has
taken over from Adelaide Hospital, will
spend all this year and next in Europe
studying modern developments. Dr.
Eugene McLaughlin, trained in S.A. and
England, succeeds him as head of the
hospital’s bacteriology “lab.”
N.S.W. Jewry lost a leader and Sydney
one of its most noted business men when
Sep Levy died at 66. He was a Sydney
Grammar boy, and a son of Leg. Coun-
cillor L. W. Levy. His first taste of
business was in the West Maitland
branch of the David Cohen Co. ; later
he was managing director in Newcastle
and then in Sydney. Tooth’s, Nestles
and the Hunter River S.S. Co. were other
interests. Three sons were Diggers, and
the eldest, Maitland, won the M.C.
before he fell.
“2882”: I nominate Charles Merrett,
recently knighted, as the champion holder
of public offices in Australia. He has
been a councillor of the Victorian R.A.S.
since 1902 and president since 1915 ;
chairman of the Vic. Rifle Association
since 1907 and of the Commonwealth
body since 1921. From 1916 onwards
he has been president of the British Em-
pire Union and is in his 26th year as
chairman of the Canned Fruits Board.
With his other duties he dovetails in the
headship of the Cattle Research Council,
of the Society for the Protection of Ani-
mals and of the Big Brother Movement
and a commissionership of the Metrop.
Board of Works, but has time to attend to
two other chairmanships, four trusteeships
and a dozen memberships of councils,
which includes that of the body in control
of the Melbourne centenary arrange-
ments. In his spare time, he sits on a
few boards.
“D.’s” estimate:
Arthur Jose (he died in Brisbane after an
operation last week, aged 71) was one of the
best Australians that have been born and
educated in England. Vision was his outstand-
ing quality. I first met him in 1905, shortly
after his return to Sydney from India, where
he had been acting as a university professor.
It was the fashion then to be apologetic about
most Australian products. Jose took the other
line. He praised Australian food, wine, tweeds,
pianos and all else at every opportunity, and
prophesied a big future for them. He was
the first Englishman I ever heard say that Aus-
tralians would make as good officers, naval
or military, as any in the world if given a
chance, Jose found himself in Australia with no
money to speak of half a century ago, his
father having gone broke. He became a school-
master, and he retained something of the peda-
gogue’s authoritarian manner to the last, but
he was a charming and amiable companion.
Balliol is the only Oxford College that turns
out men of just his type. He did Australia
good service in England during the ten years
that he was “Times” correspondent here, and
he was one of the first to offer himself when
the war began. They put him in the Intelli-
gence Corps (naval side), and one result was
his account of the work of the R.A.N. in the
official history. As an authority on the begin-
nings of Commonwealth history, he stands in
a class by himself; he had studied the subject
at first hand, and knew all the founders of
Federation personally. Deakin was his best
friend.
Salvationists in Sydney will soon be
extending a welcome to the last member
of the Booth family on the active list:
Evangeline, seventh child of William
Booth. Though rising 70, Evangeline
Booth is still active in the U.S.A., where
she holds the rank of Commander-in-
Chief. She is entitled also to wear a few
decorations —one from the King of
Sweden, another from President Wilson,
and a third, the Order of the Founder,
which is the Salvarmy’s own particular
V.C. and D.S.O. rolled into one.
Pondering over his cigar is George H.
Prosser, one of Adelaide’s best-known
public men for the last 40 years. He is a
S.A. native, born on the Gawler River
66 years ago, and was a member of the
State’s Leg. Council for a dozen years,
and American Consular Agent for a de-
cade. He had a spell as Mayor of Ken-
GEORGE H. PROSSER, one of Adel-
aide’s best-known citizens.
sington and Norwood, and then had
charge of the Torrens city for 21 years.
Nowadays he’s chairman of Wallaroo
and Mt. Lyell Fertilisers, Ltd. When not
working he likes a quiet game of billiards.
Cecil Vindin, who died the other day,
was celebrated as the courtliest man in
Inverell, where his tall figure had become
a landmark. A scion of an old Austra-
lian legal family, he was Chamber Magis-
trate in the northern town for many
years, and after his retirement bought
a pastoral property. He was an authority
on old glass, of which he had some inter-
esting specimens, but none of them were
rarer than his handwriting. Only two
literates in Australia would have had a
chance with him in an illegible signature
competition—-James Love, chairman of
the Q. N. Bank, and W. G. Layton, Syd-
ney’s erstwhile Town Clerk.
“El V.” says good-bye to an old
friend:
That Harry Bracker R dead is hard to be-
lieve. He was born on the Darling Downs in
1844, four years after the Leslies settled there.
His father, whose people had been driven off
their estates by Napoleon, brought out some of
the first and best Saxon rams for the Betting-
tons of Brindley Park in the late ’twenties.
Dad joined in the rush to the new northern
Land of Canaan in 1842, forming Rosenthal
for the Aberdeen Company, and there Harry
The late HARRY BRACKER, second
white child born on the Darling Downs.
was born —the second white son of the D.D.
country. His mother’s marriage—she was a
Ross, and her father forged the first plough-
share in rural Queensland —was the first cele-
brated in Queensland between pastoral people.
She was a real pioneer. Once she carried the
youngster 200 miles over the wild and black-
ridden range to Brisbane on a pillow on her
saddle bow. Harry grew into a born drover and
cattle judge. He knew all the overland routes
and all the great pastoralists of his time. He
had a wonderful memory, and in his later years
would repeat at length conversations with
legendary figures like Robert McDougall of
Cona and the Mortons of Derrimut. He
spoke of Dumaresque and the Howdens and
the Gardiners as if they were twentieth-century
contemporaries. The Robertsons of the Hill
were his bosom pals, but his greatest friend
of all was Jimmy Tyson. The two tall bush-
man figures in cabbage-tree hats and moleskins,
usually with a couple of packhorses and a
blackboy, once were familiar sights at many
waterholes; but if there was a station handy
Harry, something of a dandy, would go
dancing while Jimmy smoked his pipe in
the quiet by the creek. In the boom
days of the ’seventies Bracker .became
a great Shorthorn and pure-bred man. Every
historic Victorian sale saw him on the rails,
and often he went north with a thousand pure-
bred reds and roams from the best Bates stock
in the world. After Robert Clark died in 1917
he became the Nestor of the Derrimut men —
Neil Black, the Robertsons and Mortons, C. B.
Fisher, Jenkins, M. H. Devlin and a dozen
more had all faded into history. Scarcely a
big breeder of Shorthorns of to-day does not
owe something to his tutoring. After 40
years on the roads and on his station at
Warroo, he joined Moreheads, Ltd., and man-
aged their stock department. His language,
which was of the bush variety, much enlarged
the vocabulary of the Enoggera saleyards. Once,
when he was over 80, I was talking to him in
Brisbane showring when Arthur Lomax’s Grand
Duke of Clifton broke loose a few yards from
us. I went suddenly under a platform which
had been erected as the Governor’s rostrum.
Harry merely opened his umbrella in the aston-
ished Grand Duke’s face. He did not even
remove his cigar from his mouth. Grand Duke
retreated ignominiously. That was the type of
man who made western Queensland.


running to Schedule!
! !S
»
II
5- l
I:
8
j'j
i
m.
m
% l . ® ®
f;r'^
,_
mi
i
K
nil/
hllilfLi
#
iliIS
REDUCES OVERHEADS
SAVES TRUCK AND
BUS OWNERS TIME-
LOSINQ DELAYS.
The Barnet Glass Truck Tyre
is a triumph of tyre building.
With a tread of the resiliency
and strength of tempered steel,
these tyres resist the biting
wear of modern high-speed
transport . . . substantially
reducing overheads . . . pre-
venting truck owners time-
losing delays . . . saving bus
owners loss of business through
running late ... in every
corner of Australia . . keeping
the Nation’s Transport run-
ning to schedule.
ARMOURED WALL
TRUCK TYRES
RESISTING
CATERPILLAR
TRACTION TREAD


“What an Executive
Should Know”
The most famous little book
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
(Division of Hemingway & Robertson),
Executive Training for Business Men.
38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney;
38 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
GOLD - BEARING
ORES AND
CONCENTRATES
PURCHASED IN ANY
QUANTITY.
Send a representative sample (about one pound
weight) by post. We will assay and report to you.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY.LTD.
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Branches at 9 Phillip Street, Sydney.
72 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Works at Bendigo and Yarraville (Vic.).
Telegrams: Victor Beggo, Melbourne.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Doeg he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on reguest.
Directors:
O. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOQD THOS. BUCKLAND
CECIL H DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
PUMPMOBIL"
4BED
i
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. 15 p.c. venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., '28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100,772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 .. 895,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883,763
Dec., ’30.. 135,380 84,500 50,000* Nil 884,643
June, ’31.. 126,757 84,500 14,702* Nil 912,198
Dec., ’31.. 107,254 84,500 Nil 934,952
June, ’32.. 102,776 84,500 7,908 Nil 945,320
Dec., ’32.. 108.380 84,500 9,388 959,812
June, ’33.. 95,517 84,500 9,801 961,028
Dec., ’33.. 111,136 84,500 11,109 976,555
*old plant written off.
That 13 p.c. div. is an indiscretion. It
has repeatedly brought the co. into dis-
favor, and will continue to do so, with
that section of the public which over-
looks *the fact that 13 p.c. is purely a
nominal rate on all but a small fraction
of the capital. It has been made inevit-
able by the premiums which the scrip
(fully paid to £5) has brought in the
market. For well over half a century all
shares have been sold at auction, the
average price realised being £lO 10s. 3d.
Actually, therefore, the 13 p.c. is worth
no more than 6.1 p.c. No harm would
be done if the position was made to look
more like what it really is. Of the
£976,555 of reserves, £819,201 has been
contributed by shareholders in the form
of premiums over and above what is
called the share capital (£1,300,000).
The present Government having de-
clared its opposition .to price fixing,
whether for gas or anything else, the
co.’s scrip retains its popularity on the
market; and seems likely to do so while
money remains cheap. At £l3 13s. (the
price was never better) the return is 4.7
p.c. on a 13 p.c. distribution.
As usual, more gas and residuals were
sold during the last half of the year, and
a tight hold was kept upon exes., which
include £15,000, making £25,000 for the
twelvemonth, for alterations to head
office premises:
Half Year Half Year
Ended 30/6/’33. Ended 30/12/’33.
r A —• \ r~ -'i
Per. Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Sales:— s. d. s. d.
Gas .. ..£570,007 6 lj £590,473 6 14
Residuals, etc. .. 84,347 lli 96,044 11J
Total ..£654,354 7 1 £686,517 7 li
Manufacturing &
distrib. exes. 397,598 4 3J 412,683 4 3i
Other charges .. 161,239 1 9 160,472 1 7|
Total outgo £558,837 6 04 £573,155 511
Allowing for an unexplained reduction
of £2227 in the meter-renewal reserve
(£9725), the year’s net result was £4503
lighter at £206,653. The div. took
£169,000, and £20,910 (up £3614) was
spent on extensions and improvements
to plant and charged to earnings, leaving
£16,743 for reserves.
No specific provision is made for de-
preciation ; much, therefore, depends
upon whether expenditure on repairs,
maintenance and renewals (£309,788 last
year, about the same as for the previous
12 months) proves to be sufficient to
cover actual wear and tear. It has not
been sufficient to cover obsolescence, on
account of which £76,285 has been struck
off during the last 18 months.
When expenditure on the head office is
complete, and with the recent reduction
in the calorific value of the gas, further
cuts in the price charged to the con-
sumer can be expected. This charge has
been lowered from 7s. 6d. to an average
of a little over 6s. during the last five
years.
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
to To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£, £,£> £/£>
1927.. 44,435 7 p.c. = 12,080 17,000 15,355 50,380
Added reserves, £7069.. .. .. 57,449
1928.. 34,796 7 p.c. = 13,522 12,000 9,274 66,723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 .. .. 53,411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 50,333
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
bad debts written off.
Wheat (as agent for the pool the co.
handles over half the grain in the State)
now dominates the co.’s finances and
overshadows its other activities. Hence
the losses, which have gobbled available
reserves and more besides, and the con-
tinued absence of divs. and bonuses to
clients. The next table helps to explain
the reason why:
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel. per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. BJd. £2/15/4
1928.. 36,370,000 12.1 4s. lOfd. £2/19/5
1929.. 34,000,000 10.9 4s. Ofd. £2/4/2
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 71d. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. 105 d. £l/5/9
1932.. 41,521,000 13.1 2s. Bfd.f £l/15/7
1933.. 41,792,000 12.3 2s. sd. £l/9/9
1934*. 36,186,000 11.4 2s. Od.J £l/2/10
*Estimate. fExcludes 41d. bounty. JValue, Jan., 1934,
Although the current season’s crop has
been sown and mostly harvested at less
cost than its immediate predecessor, the
yield will be lighter, and the estimated
average return per acre is down nearly
75., being only half the 1929 figure, and
growers are having a hard struggle to
make ends meet. To help relieve the
strain the Federal Government has
granted the industry a subsidy of
£3,000,000. Still, for many growers mixed
farming may yet prove to be the only
way out, and the Government may have
to find a lot of the money to help finance
the change.
Despite better sales in the wool, live-
stock, skins, machinery and egg depart-
ments, the year’s gross earnings slipped
£31,254:
Gross Profit. Exes. Net Profit.
1927.. £370,664 £326,229 £44,435
1928.. 340,809 306,013 34,796
1929.. 285,028 274,687 10,341
Loss.
1930.. 254,217 259,089 4,872
1931.. 264,830 319,180 54,350*
1932.. 232,391 249,244 16,853*
1933.. 201,137 201,137 *
*Not allowing tor reserve adjustments.
Exes, were pulled back £48,107, making
them exactly equal to gross earnings.
That was after sending £34,308 to the
bad debts reserve, to which the p. and 1.
account has contributed £217,767 over
the last four years.
Amongst other things, the extent to
which the co. has gone into debt to assist
clients is seen in the next table:
1928. 1930. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital. . £193,243 £212,567 £213,502 £213,790
Debentures .. 137.736 140,901 129,371 107,730
Overdraft •• 179,193 212,607 ) Q 2 698>434
Other liabilities 259,493 622,587 j
Freeholds, etc. 92,575 130,612 159,946 148,058
Plant, etc. . . 60,354 62,188 52,313 37,190
S'hares in other
cos. .. 16,120 48,570 36,728 48,705
Stocks .. 197,798 159,018 128,890 119,311
Debtors . . 490,494 818,640 585,492 599,279
Cash, etc. .. 11,709 13,057 13,775 12,907
To clip £21,641 off the debenture debt,
add £11,977 to shareholdings and £13,787
to debtors’ balances, the co. leant upon
sundry creditors for a further £8832 and
reduced the stocks item by £9579. The
book value of fixed assets was reduced
by £27,011. When the books closed
liabilities exceeded more or less liquids
by £20,962, an improvement of £28,126
over the twelvemonth.
During the year the co. and the trustees
of the wheat pool formed Co-op. Bulk
Handling, Ltd.; hence the growth in the
shares item. The idea is to further re-
duce charges to the grower.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ &
1923 19 281 10 p.c. = 15,000 4,281 96,457
192®" 28,892 10 ~ ~15,000 13,892 110,349
1925 29,420 10 ,', 15,000 14,420 124,769
1926 29 744 10 „ „ 15,000 14,744 139,513
1927.: 32,617 10 ” ” 15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ „ 15,000 6,435 163,560
1929.. 20,886 10 „ „ 15,000 5,886 169,451
1930.. 9,528 7i„ „ 11,250 167,729
1931.. 8,560 5„ „ 7,500 1,060 168,789
1932 17 051 6,, ~ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13:840 7,, ~ 10,500 3,340 180,180
With reserves visibly £30,180 in excess
of paid capital, the two combined need
net only 3.1 p.c. to pay a 7 p.c. div., or
3.6 p.c. to cover an 8 p.c. distribution.
The co. is well ribbed financially, and its
chief earning asset, the fleet, is reported
in good order and believed to be well
worth its book value. For the dozen years
to the close of accounts in 1929 a steady
10 p.c. was paid, sweetened with £50,000
of bonus scrip in 1920. Then the sick-
ness in the coal trade reduced the popu-
lation on the northern fields, and there
is not quite the volume of passenger and
cargo traffic there used to be. Still, the
commencement of wool sales and re-
vival of industrial activity at Newcastle
have helped to fill the gap, costs are
down, savings followed the closing of the
Morpeth branch a couple of years ago,
and net earnings have responded.
“Trade was maintained” is the chair-
man’s laconic comment on last year’s acti-
vities. After dropping £3326 (£BO5O in the
previous term) from somewhere into re-
serves, and writing off £4444 more than
was spent on shipping property, the
board claimed an extra £1513 of profit
(£10,514), and added a point to the div.,
making it 7 p.c. The “Wild Cat” be-
lieves that these unexplained additions to
reserves are genuine profit, and treats
them as such. There was thus sufficient
to show 9.2 p.c. on capital as against
11.4, 5.7, 6.3, 14.2 and 21.7 p.c. back
to 1928.
Appearances are that an 8 p.c. div.
may not prove to be beyond the co.’s
reach. Hence the market has lengthened
its bid for the pound shares from 30s. to
365. over the last 12 months. The return
at 365. is 3.9 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the backing is 445. in net tan-
gibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1919. 1932. 1933.
Capital £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. . . 23,557 8,474 9,895
Ship property .. .. 89,759 191,686 187,242
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,419 15,279
Plant, stores, etc. .. 6,040 9,700 9,277
Book debts .. . . 17,350 13,859 13,509
Consols, cash, etc. . . 108,332 109,898 120,008
Last year £lO,llO was added to Consols,
cash, etc. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£123,622, exclud-
ing plant and stores) was £8399. The co.
is in the comfortable position of being
able to hand back two-thirds of its capi-
tal if it wanted to, without disturbing
the shipping business.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Written Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1928.. 124,192 10 p.c. = 105,000 527,522
Hidden reserves disclosed, £424,261.. 951,783
Fixed assets written down, £377,522.. 574,261
1929.. 188,228 15 p.c. = 157,500 21,000 583,989
1930.. 50,360 | 5 P-<yf3o,ooo \ 7 200 f 197149
Previous years’ taxation, etc., £128,101.. 469,048
Written off shares in other cos,, £65,606.. 403,442
Loss.
1931.. 67,670 { Nil \ _
Contingency reserves included, £102,200.. 437,972
Written off shares in other cos., £47,674.. 390,298
Reserves disappear, £30,456 .. .. 359,842
1932.. 55,844 Nil 303,998
Reserves disappear, £49,557 .. .. 254,441
Profit.
1933.. 37,817 Nil 292,258
The losses in ’3l and ’32 were due largely
to suspension of operations at the
Barrier. Here the co. closed down its
Central mine at the end of 1930, when
lead fell below £l5 a ton, and didn’t re-
open it until April, 1932; meanwhile,
something like £llOO a week went out
in maintenance, etc. There was an all-
round increase in production during the
last term, but prices were too low to leave
much profit, and shareholders were passed
by again. The amount claimed was
£37,817 (6.3 p.c. on pref. capital), of
which £14,242 came from realisation of
investments. But that leaves out of the
reckoning an unexplained reduction of
£49,557 in reserves.
At Cockle Creek, outputs compare as
follows: —
Cement
Sulph. Acid, Superphosphates, Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1926 .. 18,333 34,833 24,328
1927 . . 20,770 33,879* 42,884
1928 . . 20,541 37,919* 68,375
1929 . . 22,997 43,954* 52,985
1930 . . 16,507 34,351* 38,338
1931 . . 15,944 30,138* 17,876
1932 . . 8,346 8,104* 7,535
1933 . . 19,968 32,800* —
*High grade.
The acid and superphosphate plants were
in almost continuous production through-
out the year ; an extra 14,713 tons of zinc
concentrates, making 20,807 tons in all,
was roasted. In the cement section only
one kiln was in commission for about 11
weeks. The output is not stated, but
sales (13,361 tons) were 974 tons less. At
Attunga 22,222 tons of limestone (7630
tons more than for the previous year)
was quarried, and a crushing plant has
been installed to meet the demand for
road-making purposes.
It is largely to mining operations at
the Barrier that shareholders have to look
for satisfactory divs. During the year
123,334 tons of crudes, assaying ll.loz.
silver, 13.8 p.c. lead and 14 p.c. zinc, was
milled for 19,869 tons of lead concen-
trates and 28,406 tons of zinc concen-
trates. Their metal content and assay
value compare as follows: —
Leadiks.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
on t 1,216,773 oz. 16,407 tons 2,004 tons
1930 --£ 48.9 oz. 65.9 p.c. 8.0 p.c.
( 693,761 oz. 9,113 tons 912 tons
53.5 oz. 70.3 p.c. 7.0 p.c.
inoo l 291,315 oz. 3,604 tons 250 tons
59.2 oz. 73.3 p.c. 5.1 p.c.
( 1,154,870 oz. 14,637 tons 1,021 tons
1933.. | 58.1 oz. 73.7 p.c. 5.1 p.c.
Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc,
t 186,943 oz. 1,062 tons 16,366 tons
1930 - 5.7 oz. 3.3 p.c. 50.2 p.c.
f 74 856 oz. 395 tons 9,043 tons
1931 - - } ’ 4.4 oz. 2.3 p.c. 52.7 p.c.
1Q32 . ( 39,561 oz. 189 tons 3,923 tons
l 5.3 oz. 2.5 p.c. 52.6 p.c.
, AOO f 104,511 oz. 467 tons 15,083 tons
1933 '*| 3.7 oz. 1.6 p.c. 53.1 p.c.
Combined recoveries were 91.9 p.c. silver,
88.8 p.c. lead, 93.5 p.c. zinc. Including
44,870 tons of contingent stone, ore re-
serves are put at 618,267 tons of average
grade. At last year’s rate of ex-
traction there is about five years’ work
measured up. But with costs and metal
prices as they are, there is not much
profit in the mine.
Finances are comfortable enough.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £592,435.
Still, there is £1,050,000 of capital calling
for attention. It includes £600,000 of 10
p.c. non-cum. prefs., which participate
with the ords. in any higher rate and
have priority as to capital. The market
prices the pound prefs. at 17s. and the
15s. paid ords. at 10s. 3d.
Since the close of accounts the zinc
and acid works at Seaton Carew (Eng.),
which have been more of a hindrance
than a help lately, have sold for cash
(amount not stated) to a subsidiary of
Imperial Smelting Corp.
Melbourne Electric Supply Co.
This is the concern which used to
supply Melbourne and Geelong with
electric current. It is now an invest-
ment co., whose assets consist chiefly of
Government securities and shares in a
subsidiary, Melbourne Investment Trust
Pty., whose funds are also largely in-
vested in first-class securities. The old
franchise ran out in Nov., 1925, and the
Electricity Commission took over the
physical assets in Sept., 1930, for
£1,323,552, payment being made in Com-
monwealth bonds. Meanwhile, profits in
excess of a specified amount passed to
the State, which thus gathered about


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt
* * * *
ASSAYS.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Special facilities for handling large batches of
samples expeditiously under highly qualified assayer.
THE ROAD TO NET PROFIT. The path to more
net profit lies in the proper functioning of finance,
production and merchandising. Our staff of sales
consultants, engineers and cost analysts is equipped
to investigate and reorganise these fundamentals of
business. Consultation incurs no obligation. B. V.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne,
o.l. —Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1980-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
ulus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEI3
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
£20,000 more than it paid for the busi-
ness. At the same time the State became
responsible for the co.’s debenture debt.
But this debt remains secured by a
charge over the co.’s assets ; hence the
future of the business and the disposition
of the assets remain in abeyance while
the debenture obligations exist.
At Aug. 31 last these obligations were
made up as follows:
5 p.c. Debenture stock .'. .. .. £353,925
61 „ Debenture stock . . . . . . 300,000
6 ~ Debenture stock . . . . .. 265,553
7 „ Debenture stock .. .. . . 400,000
71 ~ Gold dollar bonds .. .. 442,294
The Electricity Commission has notified
the co. of its intention to repay the
dollar bonds and the 6 p.c. debentures
at June 1 next, and the co. has established
the necessary dollar credits in New
York. There will then remain the long-
dated 5 per cents., which may be re-
deemed at any time on six months’
notice, and the 6| per cents, and 7 per
cents., both maturing at the end of Oct.,
1935. The advantages to the Govern-
ment of early redemption of the long-
dated fives is obvious. There are, there-
fore, grounds for supposing that by the
end of Oct., 1935, the restrictions which
now hamper shareholders in deciding
upon the co.’s future will have been re-
moved.
Meanwhile, earnings promise to be
sufficient to pay the 8 p.c. pref. div.
(£40,000) and 6| p.c. (= £50,037) or a
bit more to the ords. These rates ab-
sorbed all but £406 of last year’s net
earnings (£90,443). Recent reductions in
taxation, however, promise to give the
co. a little relief. Also, the decision of
the House of Lords in the case of the
Adelaide Electric Co. has established the
right of this Melbourne co. to pay its
English shareholders in Australian cur-
rency.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1930. 1932. 1933.
Pref. capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Ord. capital .. . . 800,600 800,600 800,600
Debentures .'. .. 1,834,257 1,781,402 1,761,772
State loan .. . . 1,829,283
Other liabilities '. . 364,685 126,820 127,122
Undertaking .. .. 5,019,066
Melb. Invest. Trust .. 673,300 673,300 673,300
Debtors, stores, etc. . . 408,108 12,148 12,644
Govt, securities . . 1,355,050 1,355,050
Cash, etc. .. . . 54,218 83,599 81,911
Govt, obligations .'. 1,785,069 1,761,483
The holding in the subsidiary (£673,300)
appears at face value, or £112,355 less
than the net asset value, after allowing for
inter-company debts. Including the
£112,355, but excluding the tax and staff
reserves (together £17,205), the net tan-
gible backing per fully-paid £5 pref.
share was £2O 18s., and 395. 9d. per
pound of ord. capital.
As a going concern the market prices
the prefs. at £6 12s. and the ords at 335.
On the basis of last year’s distributions
the return is 6 p.c. and 3.8 p.c. respec-
tively.
A little-known development in the
rubber industry is the English Dunlop co.’s
huge experiment in budded rubber in the
F.M.S., the G.H.Q. being at Malacca.
The grand total of the various estates
is 106,000 acres, the biggest in the world.
Model bungalows with electric light and
other amenities, golf courses and football
fields have been erected for the Euro-
pean staff, and villages capable of accom-
modating 1000 coolies apiece have been
laid out for the natives, who enjoy the
unheard luxury of two-roomed dwellings
with private kitchens. All the resources
of science have been brought to bear on
the production side, though there are not
wanting critics who say that budded
rubber may turn out like other
stimuli to nature, in short life with an
excessive production. Meanwhile the
Dutch East Indies kampong-grown
rubber continues to be the nigger in the
woodpile of restriction. The Hollanders
daren’t antagonise their colored subjects,
for fear of the growing menace of Com-
munism.
* * * *
A. Gatley Lyons and his brother,
aided by a Government subsidy, have
been experimenting in the treatment of
Maitland coal for fuel oils. They claim
to have got 25 gallons of refined oil, suit-
able for all classes of motor vehicles, per
ton of coal treated, and this at a cost
which would permit the stuff to be sold
at a profit in competition with imported
petroleum as motor spirt. It is claimed
that, from three tons of Maitland coal,
two tons of smokeless fuel, worth £l,
and 75 gallons of distilled oil, worth £2
10s., can be obtained in addition to other
by-products. To date, one of the pro-
blems associated with the profitable
operation of the hydrogenation pro-
cess on a large scale has been the diffi-
culty of marketing big quantities of
smokeless fuel at satisfactory prices. It
is expected that the recommendations of
the Newnes Shale Oil committee to the
Federal and N. S. Wales Governments
will favor the production of oil from
shale instead of coal. There are huge
high-grade deposits of both materials
available. Much depends upon the com-
parative capital and treatment costs and
the market available for by-products.
* * * *
“Driller Bill”: “Bit” (B. 17/1/’34) is
astray if he is under the impression that
Oil Search or its subsidiary, Drillers,
Ltd., will go to greater depths in search
of oil in the Roma-Blythdale (Q.) area
than the 3800 ft. to 4000 ft. already drilled
by the Roma Oil Corp., Lander and Aus-
tralian Roma Oil cos. At Hospital Hill,
Roma, the wells ran into metamorphics,
and at Blythdale into granite, between
3800 ft. and 4000 ft. According to Gov-
ernment and private geologists, these for-
mations are the dead finish so far as
deep oil accumulations are concerned.
The bore to be put down by the Oil
Search group will be located at Warooby,
five miles east of Roma, and midway be-
tween Roma and Blythdale. Since there
are no geological reasons against com-
mercial accumulations of oil in the
4000 ft. between bedrock and the surface,
this bore, if located on a favorable struc-
ture, may produce oil or gas or both. To
the east and north-east of the Roma-
Blythdale area the bedrock floor appar-
ently falls away, and the sedimentary
beds are thicker. At Wallumbilla (25
miles east of Roma), Australian Roma
Oil with a rotary plant, manned by Aus-
tralians, successfully drilled just on
5000 ft. without striking bedrock. To the
eastward of the buried ridges of granites
and metamorphics in the Roma-Blyth-
dale area, therefore, the sedimentaries
may go down to 10,000 ft. or even
20,000 ft., as they do in California and
other American fields. For drilling down
to 10,000 ft., however, a special technique
and special equipment have been de-
veloped in the U.S.A. Australia, unfor-
tunately, does not possess either the
equipment or the experience.
* * * *
Prospects of Mt. Coolon and Gold
Mines of Australia becoming jointly in-
terested in an alluvial gold-prospecting
proposition sent the market for each
co.’s scrip up with a rush last week.
Coolon advanced from 9s. Bd. to 11s., and
Gold Mines of Australia from 11s. 6d. to
13s. sd. If the meagre announcement
by the directors had been less tardy, at
least some shareholders may have been
able to avoid sacrificing their scrip. No
details concerning any property which
the two cos. have in view have yet been
announced. All that can be said defi-
nitely is that the negotiations have not
reached finality.
* * * *
One result of the comparative stabili-
sation of tin- prices has been a revival of
mining activity in North Queensland,
where both lode- and stream-tin deposits
used to keep the wolf from the door of
a large number of small concerns. Dur-
ing the last few months the State treat-
ment plant at Irvinebank, near Herber-
ton, which had been working only
intermittently, had to go on full time to
cope with the supplies of ore coming in.
In 1931 the State’s production was 478
tons, worth £35,744 ; in 1932 it was 708
tons, worth £66,174 ; last year it was 740
tons, valued at £107,284. With prices and
costs as they are, much ground that
wasn’t worth putting a pick into in the
past has now become a payable proposi-
tion.
* * * *
Mt. Charlested Wolfram Mines, Ltd.,
Boorowa (N.S.W.), is asking the public
for £lO,OOO in 10 p.c. prefs., which are
also entitled to 50 p.c. of the surplus pro-
fits after the ords. (£20,000) have had 10
p.c. The money is wanted to reduce the
co.’s external liabilities, and to provide
for further development of the property,
etc., so as to enable the co. to produce
at a profit with wolfram at 14s. per unit
in London. The sterling quote for wol-
fram is now around 275. 6d. per unit,
thanks to the demand for high-speed
steels, especially from Russia. Also, when-
ever there are rumors of wars manufac-
turers, fearing that they may be caught
short, begin to stock up with tungsten.
* * * *
The Federal Government has been in-
formed of a rich find eight miles south-
east from Tennant’s Creek. The wire
from the Deputy Administrator at Alice
Springs says 11 tons of ore returned 101
ounces of gold. No particulars concern-
ing the ore-body have been furnished.
Tentative arrangements have been made
for Dr. Woolnough, Commonwealth
geological adviser, to visit the Northern
Territory and examine Tennant’s Creek
and other mineral areas.
* * * *
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock has de-
cided to close its mine at Harrietville
(Vic.). The main shaft, which became
dangerous, was abandoned, and nothing
worth while showed up in the large for-
mation in the adit level. The show was
first worked about 75 years ago, and the
present co. has paid £41,000-odd in
divs., the last (6d. per share) being dis-
tributed in April, 1933. There is £18,667
of capital, and at the end of Oct. last
the co. had £5OOO in the till. In addition
there is about 30,000 tons of 3-4dwt.
tailings, which may be treated by a syndi-
cate on a royalty basis. Meanwhile, the
co. is on the hunt for another property.
* * * *
From one who was there:
Wiluna’s annual meeting in London on Dec.
16 was a cheerful gathering. Chairman F.
H. Hamilton pointed out that enlargement of
the plant was followed by a steady and sub-
stantial increase in production and profits.
Including development, costs had come down,
and had lately averaged just under 18s. 7fd.
per ton in Australian currency, or about 14s.
lid. sterling, which is believed to be a record
for Australian goldmines working under com-
parable conditions. J. A. Agnew, one of the
directors, said the latest development work in-
dicated a strong continuance of both lode
systems at depth, and the width and value in
each instance were better than those disclosed
between 750 ft. and 1000 ft. As a result of the
recent rearrangement of capital, the co. is now
free of debt, which means a saving of over
£30,000 a year in interest. It has ample
funds to finance exploration of the northern
section of its Westralian subsidiary’s property,
and is in a position to pass on to shareholders
such divs. as the pup may declare. A maiden
distribution has just been made.
* * * *
Paringas—the co. is one of the
lesser lights on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile —have enjoyed a rise in the market,
following encouraging results from bor-
ing at a depth of about 700 ft.
* * * *
Mararoa, which sold its areas at Cue
(W.A.) to the Triton Co., proposes to put
up the shutters. There should be over
6s. per share coming to those on the
register out of the purchase considera-
tion (£50,000). Triton’s shares are at
Bs. 6d. on the market, which thus values
the show at £340,000. Although Triton
has planned a vigorous development
policy, with big plant equipment, it has
not thus far done much development
work. Appearances are, therefore, that
Mararoa sold out at remnant prices.
Triton is enlarging and deepening
two of the old shafts (now down 150 ft.)
to 300 ft., where the first main level will
be driven. Here boring data show satis-
factory widths and gold content. Also,
according to the drill, lode widths and
values at 500 ft. should make those at
300 ft. look shabby.
* * * *
The Transvaal, Southern Cross (W.A.),
is booked for serious attention by a Mel-
bourne crowd. Width, length and depth
of lode, together with gold content, are
all good enough ; the doubt is the arsenic
content. Wiluna, however, is satisfac-
torily dealing with arsenical ore, not-
withstanding its unpleasantness, and sell-
ing the arsenious oxide at a profit. Only
lack of capital prevented the owners of
the Transvaal erecting a second plant to
treat the mispickel, and gold was then
worth 85s. per ounce. With the metal at
nearly double that figure, the show
appears to be well worth investigation.
* * * *
Exhaustion of payable stone has
brought operations at the Princess Royal,
Westonia (W.A.), nearly to a close. When
the present management took charge, the
show looked impossible ; yet some pleas-
ing divs. were paid and a fat bank bal-
ance accumulated. The co. has now
secured an option at Ora Banda.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.E.E.: Though the Lancefield property has
yet to be developed, it promises to open up
well. Yes; Lake View and Star is a front-
ranker. At June 30 estimated ore reserves were
put at 2,160,000 tons, with an average assay
value of 325. (sterling) per ton. A lot more
payable stone is believed to exist outside the
measured limits C.K.: If safety of capital
is first consideration, keep out Interested:
The Douglas social credit scheme is fully dis-
cussed in the February issue of • the “ ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly”... .Investor: (1) A safe invest-
ment, but the return is low, and likely to re-
main so for some time. (2) A good spec.
Japanese imports are chief trouble, but the
management appears to be alive to the pro-
blem.... .Enquirer: The bonds are a long-term
speculation. If safety of capital is important,
keep out.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“Golden Harvest,” at the Prince Ed-
ward, is a blend of high melodrama, low
comedy (of the “Dad an’ Mum” brand)
and economic problem play. It begins
on a farm with the sturdy old father of
Richard Arlen and Chester Morris rais-
ing the usual loan. Richard decides to
be a farmer ; Chester opts for a career in
the Chicago wheat pit. The rural shots
show acres of wheat, cows and fowls ; an
American Dave who has a farcical wed-
ding and gets tin-kettled by the neigh-
bors afterwards (his imbecile behavior
caused shrieks of laughter on Saturday
night); the arrival of twins in the estab-
lishment of Richard and Julie Haydon
(yells at the customary obstetric jokes);
the onset of ruin due to overproduction ;
and the wheat-farmers’ strike.
Meanwhile in Chi. Chester Morris is
making millions in wheat futures because,
being a farmer, he is a weather-prophet.
We see him living in luxury, getting en-
gaged to Genevieve Tobin, daughter of
the leading wheat speculator, having a
gigantic gamble on the strength of his
brother’s assurance that the strike is to
continue, facing bankruptcy when the
farmers get cold feet and go back to
overproduction.
It ends with none of the major pro-
blems solved, and everybody more or
less satisfied —which is like life anyhow.
The action drags owing to the compli-
cated nature of the story, but each facet
of it is competently done. Julie Hay-
don’s study of the young farmer’s wife
is interesting. No perm., no Paris frocks,
normal eyebrows ; it is hard to believe
she was ever in Hollywood. Chester
Morris plays the Chicago business man
on gangster lines ; and he is no doubt
right.
“The Way to Love” is a first-class
medium for the respective whimsies of
Maurice Chevalier and
Eddie Everett Horton,
and they, of course,
are first-class foils for
each other. They
wander about Mont-
parnasse annoying
gendarmes and others,
cutting people’s ties
off (their habit of
snipping ties in half
without attracting the
wearers’ attention is
one of the master-
quips of the comedy)
until the producer de-
cides to call it a day,
and directs Chevalier
to take Ann Dvorak
in his arms and smile
at the camera more
expansively than ever.
Chevalier’s celebrated
charm is mercilessly
overworked. Some
day humanitarians will
agitate against the
eye- and denture-
sweating which is
rampant in parts of
California ; but in the
meantime film capital
ists like Chevalier and
Joan Crawford will
continue to amass for-
tunes. It would be dull for all but con-
firmed Chevalier addicts if Horton were
not there. His futility and the gloom
which it engenders, the faint nauseated
smile with which he greets the worst of
his setbacks and his sad voice make the
oldest business and silliest lines seem
funny.
“College Coach,” at Sydney Capitol,
has the main features of the standard col-
legiate—the disgruntled footballers who
come back to save the old coll, in the last
quarter of the match of the year, and
the coach (Pat O’Brien), still chewing
peanuts and addressing team members as
Legree did Uncle Tom. But the watch-
word of Hollywood to-day seems to be
“debunk”: so the college has a fraudulent
trustee; examination results are faked
to keep nitwit shamateurs on the
books, while conscientious students are
ploughed ; the coach’s standing instruc-
tion (“bowl at the man” is the Australian
for it) results in a killing, and the coach
conspires with the trustee to swindle the
college over a land deal. The coach’s
neglected wife (Ann Dvorak) saves his
bacon when his jealousy wrecks the team,
and in the fade-out he accepts (with his
wife’s blessing) an offer of 40,000 dahlars
to continue his nefarious career in an-
other cahlege. Moral: “Swindling pays.”
“His Woman” is a broadcasting studio
romance. Chick Riley (Wallace Ford),
through the energy of his wife (Helen
Twelvetrees), becomes a national broad-
casting favorite. The adulation that his
Joe Millerisms bring him is too much for
Chick. He takes to hooch and accuses
his good, kind employer (Victor Jory) of
misconduct with Mrs. Chick—and the
charge seems to be all too well founded.
So Chick is sacked, and goes to Holly-
wood ; Mrs. Chick goes to Reno, and
there are wedding-bells at the fade-out
for Jory and Miss Twelvetrees.
The studio scenes are better done than
previous film essays in this atmos-
phere, and; though it may seem odd that
fabulously large salaries should be paid
to the very mediocre performers who
are represented as radio stars, there is
abundant collateral evidence that the
American standard in that line of enter-
tainment is low enough to make it pos-
sible. This movie may not be meant for
a ffebunker, but it’s a fierce indictment
G f the U.S.A.’s latest “great industry” all
the same.
’* * #
“A Yankee at the Court of King
Arthur” and Einstein’s theory of rela-
tivity appear to be the inspiration of
“Berkeley Square,” which has made its
fi rs t Australian appearance at the Plaza,
Melbourne. One character points out
that jf a person is floating down a river
on a boat, what he has seen round the
i as t corner is in the past for him and
what is coming round the next corner
j s i n the future and what he sees at the
moment is in the present, but to a person
i n an a eroplane all the three events would
app ear to be contemporaneous,
After this nothing seems more plausible
than that Leslie Howard, a young Ameri-
can who has been through the Great War,
s fi oldd s t e p 140 years backwards and as
his own grandfather, who has been
through the War of Independence, should
presen t himself at Berkeley House as
SHOTS FROM A TALKIE.
In “I Was a Spy,” at Sydney Lyceum: ( 1 ) Herbert Marshall; (2) Conrad Veidt;
(3) Gerald du Maurier; ( 4 ) Madeleine Carrol; (5) Edmund Gwenn.
suitor for the hand of his own grand-
mother. Mark Twain made the theme
wildly humorous, whereas the Fox people
make it ponderously romantic.
Certainly there are amusing items, as
when the wanderer in space-time tells his
eighteenth-century audience that he has
met Dr. Johnson, who thundered a few
platitudes, when he staggers them by
firing oft some witticisms of Oscar Wilde,
uses modern Americanisms, congratulates
Sir Joshua Reynolds on a portrait he
hasn t yet painted and horrifies the young
Duchess of Marlborough by talking
about her as if she were dead and de-
scribing the love affairs she hasn t yet
embarked on. But apart from these
chance potshots and the trappings of bnl-
hant photography and painstaking atten-
tion to historical detail there isn t much
to be said f° r Jhe thing. • ,
* * *
In “The Blarney Stone,” at Melb.
Majestic, Tom Walls appears as a fairly
forcible Irish gentleman. Unfortunately
the more he is the Irish gentleman, the
less he is Tom Walls, and what the
public demands nowadays is that an actor
shall be himself, the character he is sup-
posed to represent being regarded as an
irrelevance.
“The Blarney Stone” is about moon-
lighters who burn down the house of a
landlord in the Distressful Country.
Walls, reduced to beggary, drifts to the
Thames Embankment, from where an
affluent young Englishman with a pretty
sister rescues him, and they go on a
glorious bend together.
This movie moves in a very gradual
manner, and “the breath of Ireland men-
tioned in the advt. never rises to a gale,
but there are some bright moments.
* * *
In “The Masquerader,” as presented
here by Guy Bates Post, John Chilcote,
M.P., was a party politician, drug addict
and son of a big shipbuilder. England
was at war and Chilcote was asked to
save the country by revealing a muni-
tions shortage. The national saviour
failed his country by having an attack of
fantods at the crucial moment, and his
place was taken in the House of Com-
mons by his double, a cousin from
Canada.
In the film version at Melbourne Capi-
tol, it is Ronnie Colman who saves the
country by his magnificent oratory, but
the crisis is the present economic crisis
and the subject of his discourse has been
lifted from the book of the New Eco-
nomists. He tells the astonished poli-
ticians that the men of England have
been enslaved by the machine and they
must master the machine or humanity
will perish. He doesn’t explain how they
are to do it, but that is all in accordance
with political traditions. If a country
can’t be saved by oratory what on earth
is Australia doing with 14 political broad-
casting studios and approximately 1000
Parliamentary radio uncles, each with a
different bedtime story in his repertoire?
However, “The Masquerader” is bril-
liant me lodrama and its basis of tom-
foolery is f orgo tten in the excitement,
John CMcote? MP and his cousin are
as like one anoth er as Ronnie Colman is
like Ronnie Co lman, and the trick photo-
graphy i s excellent, though no more effec-
tive than Guy Bates Post ’ s quick-change
cos t U ming in the legitimate production,
Also, there is an interesting interplay of
mo fives due to the fact that John Chil-
cote bas a m i s t r ess as well as a wife, and
that the cousin doesn > t unders t and the
station but eventually unravels it to
tbe sa fisfaction of everybody by dismiss-
ing the mistress and taking the place of
hmhnnd whpn tW wnrthv
t 0 an overdose of blue devils Y Thi i th
1 , th fth t the world crkk
being merelv a convenient^Tckcfoth
Stm S it j oratifvinc to know that
deduct of nSinoiSi
Lj it { th solution of our troubles that
hJve Iff ?ookW fnf *
K ng tor-
* * *
Clive Brook and Irene Dunne, the
melancholy soul-mates of “If I Were
Free,” at the State, meet in Paris, the
haven of so many victims of unfortunate
film-marriages. Brook, whose trouble is
a mildly unresponsive wife, is trying to
drink himself to death. Miss Dunne,
chained as she is to a philandering
foreigner, also yearns for the grave.
After their first meeting hope returns.
Brook goes back to the Bar ; Miss Dunne
starts a curio shop. Their friendship, or
whatever it is, continues until she is told
that Brook’s chances of being raised to
the Bench are being ruined. So she
throw's him over with a breaking heart
and he goes off to be operated on for
an old war wound, the odds being 100
to 1 against him recovering.
Does he recover? Does Miss Dunne
return to his side and win him from his
wife? Need you ask?
Anyone who is familiar with the tech-
nique of the principals will know just
how they handle the various situations.
Nils Asther (villain), Henry Stephenson,
Vivian Tobin and Lorraine Mac Lean are
in the cast, and the dialogue is adequate.
The basic thrill of “His Grace Gives
Notice” is the revelation that a footman
is heir to a dukedom. He didn’t know,
his titled employer didn’t know, nobody
knew. He was in love with his employer’s
daughter, and she was infuriated at his
impudence in tacking up a photograph of
her in his bedroom. But her sentiments
changed when she became aware of the
glorious thing that had happened to him,
and then he completed the good work by
saving her from the clutches of a lasci-
vious American gangster with whom she
had gone to Paris.
This silly story is interpreted by some
good English actors. Notably O. B.
Clarence.
* * *
The criminal lawyer of “The Women in
His Life,” at the Regent, is no more
credible than any of the dozen others
we’ve seen. Otto Kruger’s clients are
mainly women, and pretty —the junior
partner attends to any others —and he
spends a lot of his time at parties and
week-ending at Florida. Still he has his
worries: he’s asked to defend the sup-
posed murderer of his (Kruger’s) former
wife and forgets to turn up. It all ends
satisfactorily. Una Merkel and Roscoe
Karns help it along.
“Jimmy and Sally,” on the same pro-
gramme, is the old Hollywood story of
a lovers’ quarrel. Jimmy tries to be a big
guy after the Lee Tracy manner. Sally
wants him to settle down to a steady job.
They part, and Sally becomes engaged,
the marriage being postponed indefinitely
so that Jimmy may come back and claim
her. He does. James Dunn and Claire
Trevor are the two. Jed Prouty gets some
good laughs as Jimmy’s boss.
Sundry Shows
The only change in the theatrescape in
Melbourne might be described as micro-
scopic, the dainty figure of Isobel Mahon
having taken the place of Dulcie Daven-
port as the Barbara of “Gay Divorce,”
at the King’s. Isobel moved up to her
present position from the children’s ballet
in “Lilac Time.” She is a clever little
actress. “Collits’ Inn” is well into its
smashing stride at Melb. Princess, and
the Australian musicomedy is causing a
welcome shower of silver rain at the box-
office nightly.
# * *
The Gregan McMahon Players will
shortly embark on their 1934 programme
at Melb. Garrick. The most eagerly-
awaited item is the new Shaw play.
* * *
Melbourne’s traditional conservatism
is finding expression at the moment in
the building of new theatres. Sydney
may build more movie palaces, but
Yarratown still clings to its faith in legit.
Although it already has five flesh-and-
blood playhouses, usually empty, His
Majesty’s is being rebuilt at a cost of
£50,000 and the Temperance Hall is being
torn down to be replaced by a theatre.
Incidentally, the demolishing of the Royal
disclosed two previous strata of Mel-
bourne’s history. Traces of an old place
of entertainment were found and under
them the remains of a brewery.
The Anthony Hordern gallery is at pre-
sent the shrine for about the best collec-
tion of etchings and dry points by Eng-
lish artists ever seen in Sydney. Whistler,
Brangwyn and Lee Hankey are repre-
sented by works most of which have been
made familiar to Australian art-lovers in
reproductions, but there are many other
specimens which come here with the
charm of novelty. Among these are I.
R. G. Exley’s farmyard whimsicalities,
Vernon Stokes’s dogs, William Walcot's
river pictures, in which prosaic details
such as the Forth Bridge are etherealised
by fog, and landscapes and seascapes by
Joseph Grey. There are a fine large
Rosenberg and some characteristic
examples of the art of J. Winkler, D. Y.
Cameron, Donald Maxwell and Osborne.


WAIT FOR
THE CARS THAT HAVE
I
GENERAL MOTORS’ 25th ANNIVERSARY ANNOUNCEMENT
The new Cars for 1934 presented by General
Motors, the world’s largest manufacturers of motor
cars, are completely redesigned to embody many
new features of a sensational nature which set
entirely new standards in modern motor car values.
One innovation among many is the revolu-
tionary “Knee-action” front wheel springing de-
scribed below, which will unquestionably place
the new improved Chevrolet, Oldsmobile, Pontiac,
and Buick Cars in the forefront of all competitors.
HOW KNEE-ACTION WHEELS WORK
Your present car is stiff-legged. Stiff front springs
are rigidly joined by an I-beam front axle. So when
you hit a bump the front of the car bounces, the rear
pitches, and you are jarred
See how serenely a man meets a hump. One knee
bends easily,’ lifting its leg. The other leg is not
affected; equilibrium is undisturbed. The knee, not
the body, takes the jar
Now, 1934 —n0 more I-beam axle, no stiff springs.
The wheel, flexibly mounted on its own coil spring,
rises and falls like a knee to absorb the shocks, while
the car glides on ...
WHY KNEE-ACTION WHEELS GIVE A GLIDING RIDE
Each front wheel is independently carried on an individual,
frictionless coil spring, abolishing the old-fashioned I-beam
axle and the uncomfortable “ stiff - legged ” front springs.
For more than two years, in the Laboratories and on the
Proving Ground, the principle of these Knee-Action Wheels
has been perfected. No motoring improvement has ever
been more painstaking, or so thoroughly tested and proved.
The difference in comfort produced by Knee-Action Wheels,
especially on the* back seat, is beyond description. There is
smoothness at high speeds and a steadiness and clinging to the
road almost unbelievable until you test the car for yourself.
Safety is much increased—the life of the car extended. There
is no tramp of wheels on the road, no jerk on the steering wheel.
Shake and shimmy are banished. Except for setting the
course, your hands are at rest, and free from vibration.
And this is only one of the radical advances made in the 1934
General Motors Cars —See the many other remarkable features
in a few weeks’ time, when the cars are in the showrooms.
With the ups-and-downs absorbed by Knee-Action Wheels,
with other most-important improvements, the motor ride of
yesterday is gone. General Motors cars for 1934 will glide.
If you would have greater comfort and safety —if you would
be up-to-date —if you would get 1934 value for money you
will delay your purchase until you see General Motors’ 25th
Anniversary Models. They will be in all showrooms in a few
weeks —watch for the announcement date in leading newspapers.
Chevrolet • • Pontiac • • Oldsmobile • • Buick
tb Anniversary
r - u
of General Motors
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
Brisbane - - Sydney - - Melbourne - - Adelaide - - Perth
AII6IM
The Palette.
As Archibald foresaw, his prize for por-
traiture helps the Sydney National Gal-
lery to be something more than a
museum. On the first afternoon the 1933
entries were on view the room devoted to
them (and to the Wynne Prize entries)
was thronged, and the buzz of comment
was unrestrained. Under the best light
were grouped the Buckmaster, Mclnnes,
Carter and Longstaff entries, also
Wheeler’s prize-winning picture of Am-
brose Pratt. Beside the dramatic empha-
sis of the Buckmasters and the cocksure
technique of the Carters and Mclnnesses,
Wheeler’s canvas seems suave and quiet,
but it is a nice essay in delicate tones and
a spanking good likeness. The Meldrum
school proves, in self-portraits by Max
and his disciple Colin Colahan, that its
faith in the doctrine of stern realism is
undaunted, though both exponents have
given themselves an expression that
mingles disappointment with defiance.
There were 80 entries on show, and
fully 40 of these are of a high standard
in draughtsmanship and color-treatment.
The lure of the Wynne Prize drew an
entry of 38 paintings and two pieces of
modelling—and the prize went to the
modeller Lynden Dadswell for “Youth”
—figures of a girl and a lad in classical
deshabille, very gracefully posed and of
eager expression. Mr. Dadswell’s second
entry, a man in the panoply of the war-
riors who fought at Troy, is pleasing from
every angle. Among the pictorialists the
more striking offerings on show were
Buckmaster’s “Clearing Morning,Olinda”
and Robert Johnson’s “Valley Pastoral,”
both simple in design and bold in execu-
tion. Hans Heysen, Gruner, Barron, Will
Ashton, Percy Lindsay, J. R. Jackson and
W. Rowell show characteristic work, and
the standard of entries generally is very
much higher than it has been for many
years past.
“The Old ’Un”: Around it and about
I’ve heard all the arguments regarding
art, including several on what is and
what isn’t. The last I participated in was
particularly willing. There was a com-
poser of music who said that his craft
was superior to poetry because it could
express the intangible. There was a poet
who said that when it came to expres-
sing the unutterable Keats had Chopin
knocked into a cocked hat. There was a
painter who said that just once or twice
in his life he had exactly expressed what
he felt—most notably in a study of a
wheelbarrow which had been associated
with his decision to give up being a
second-gardener and earn real money,
There was a Philistine (a woolbuyer) who
declared that exactly what he felt when
he smelt and touched a really beautiful
fleece (for his purposes) was inexpressible
to anybody save a brother of his craft,
and a sculptor who claimed (and he got
a round of applause) that he could model
a man so sweetly in any material from
pipe-clay to plumbago that the color
wouldn’t prevent any intelligent observer
from deciding whether the image was
intended to be white, black or brindle.
The mathematician of our coterie said
he hadn’t seen any method save the sym-
bols of his craft whereby the beauty of
a differential integration of a curved area
could be made apparent, and pointed out
that his symbols would be meaningless
to anyone who hadn’t mastered them,
The sculptor was the only one of us who
bore that onslaught without a twinge,
Up rose our chairman, lineal descendant
of Pickwick, learned in all the humanities,
“Gentlemen,” he said, “my contribution
to the elucidation of art is this: There
are still a dozen bottles of lager on the
ice. This announcement is literature,
and also, I think, drama, which none of
you have mentioned. Its meaning, I per-
ceive, is clear to all. I produce a speci-
men bottle. It is, just as you choose to
regard it, either a fortuitous concourse of
electrons or a symbolic form or an ex-
ample of symmetrical modelling. I draw
the cork. That is music unmistakable in
its purport. The cork is circular, expres-
sive of the cardinal mysteries of geometry
and its allied logical sciences. The aroma
speaks ; draws mental pictures ; bodies
itself forth in a poetry of perfume,
Gentlemen, I unite the arts, the sciences,
the sensations”.... At that stage we told
the old dear to shut up, and drank the
beer.


ABORIGINALITIES
“J.C.L.”: Hunting natural history
specimens in the pear country, Moonee
River (Q.) way, I overtook an old bleary-
eyed swaggie who, on my assurance that
I would open my own gates, climbed
aboard the car. I mentioned my work
to him, but he shuddered and said he
didn’t want to hear anything about
strange insects. However, he seemed
quite rational, and we got friendly. Run-
ning into a long stretch through lanes of
pear near St. George, we espied a corn-
sack lying on the road. My passenger
said we might as well retrieve it, as bags
were scarce out that way. But as he
toddled towards it it ran away and
started to climb a brigalow. Evidently a
cat in that bag. Back came my swaggie
friend, seeming to lose all interest in it.
When we got to St. George he asked me
to drive to the police station. “Why?”
I asked. “Did you see that bag run off
the road?” he demanded. “Yes,” said
I, “of course I did.” “Right,” was the
grim retort; “you’d better come in too.
We both flaming well need protection!”
* * * *
“The Prooshan”: Paddy Hennessy,
who keeps the pub in our village, owns
“There wuz the dingo, an’ all I did wuz ter shove me fist down ’ees throat.”
“Wot was the idea? Want to make ’im vomit?”
a fine red retriever. One day the dog
was capering round his master in the pub
yard, trying to induce him to throw a
stone or chip for him to retrieve, when
up came Woolbales. “Nice dog that, by
the look of him,” he said to Bung, “but
is he any good at retrieving?” “And
indeed he is,” said Paddy. “I’ll bet you
drinks he’ll fetch this chip back if I
throw it up on the roof.” Woolbales
looked up at the roof and, seeing neither
fence nor other construction to afford the
dog a leg-up, said it was a bet. “Here,
Shamus,” called Paddy to the hound,
“bring this back to me” ; and he shied a
chip up on the iron roof. Then he
walked over near the wall, bent over with
head down, and his hands on his knees.
Instantly the dog leaped on his back,
and thence to the roof. He was back
with the chip within ten seconds. “It
took me six weeks to teach him that,”
said Paddy.
* * * *
“Pick”: Don Quixote, our turkey
rooster, sidled up to Hector the bull, re-
clining outside the yards. Chortling husky
defiance Don, with one wing rigidly set,
flapped with the other the sleeping levia-
than across the face. Hector, with a sud-
den wild start, awoke to the realisation of
the impertinence. He emitted a snort that
turned every feather of his assailant the
wrong way. With a bellow that rattled
the milk-cans he picked up his insignifi-
cant foe on one horn and heaved him
higher than the pine-trees. Then, bullish
honor satisfied,- he resumed his siesta.
Don limped back to his harem lame and
bedraggled, but in his hard little eye was
the light of great adventure.
* * * *
“Duffer”: Most western Queens-
landers are familiar with the legend of
the gentleman who took up a selection in
the Carnarvon Ranges with two working
bullocks and in two years bang-tailed
1500 head of various sexes and ages. A
N.S.W. North Coast man has had a some-
what similar experience, but without so
happy an ending. Some years ago he left
a farm in another part of the country,
leaving behind on agistment two young
heifers and a filly. Returning to settle
the agistment account recently, he found
he had £BO to pay, his stock having in-
creased to nine cows and three horses.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: It was an astonished and
aggrieved Melbourne householder who
found himself served with a summons for
having gunned a cuckoo because it dis-
turbed his early-morning rest by calling
to its mate from a tree outside his win-
dow. An unsympathetic beak fined him
£2 and ss. costs for taking the law into
his own hands against the prohibitions of
the Games Act.
* * * *
“Varanus”: Sydney’s Taronga Zoo is
shortly to have specimens of the
Komodo “dragons,” the giant lizards
which are found only on three small
islands in the Dutch East Indies.
The big fellows are close relations
of our own goanna, though speci-
mens have been described running up
to 20 feet long. Naturalists consider
that these chaps derived from Australia,
having gone north-west when the land
connections between Malaysia and Aus-
tralia were practically continuous, but
closely allied members of the family are
common in tropical Asia and Africa.
Good swimmers and climbers, like our
goannas, the giants live chiefly on the
wild horses, buffalo, pig and deer which
inhabit their strictly preserved islands,
and run down and kill these themselves.
Yet there is no record of their being dan-
gerous to man, though their dentistry
would make the average crocodile from
N.Q. retire from the field in disgust.
* * * *
“Myall”: It is in the great open spaces
that you encounter the real stingo. A
“You smoke a cigarette and I’ll have finished my bath
Then you can come in.”
“’Ow about a bumper, lady?”
publican of Dalby—which is in the
middle of as open a space as any the
writer knows in western Queensland—
has been blown up by a barrel of his
own beer. He was unhurt, but the
counter was shivered and a large spanner
was hurled through the ceiling. It was
a bit of bad luck for Bung, but it might
have been worse. If it had been a barrel
of the stuff misnamed rum they used to
brew at the mail changes on the old coach
road between Blackall and Jericho, no-
thing would have been left to tell the
story but a deep hole in the red sand and
a couple of square miles of blasted spini-
fex.
* , * * #
“C.H.F.”: Last August a cow belong-
ing to a Taranaki (M.L.) dairy-farmer
fell over a 60-foot cliff and landed on a
fairly wide ledge about half-way down.
It was found impossible to rescue her,
so she was wiped off as a bad debt. How-
ever, the owner decided while she lived
she must be fed, so ensilage was daily
dropped down. She occupied her
cramped quarters for nearly six months,
when she gave birth to a calf. This de-
cided the cow it was time something was
done, so she gallantly scrambled down
the rest of the cliff, and made her owner
acquainted with her return. The young-
ster was hauled from the ledge, and
mother and son were reunited in a
large and comfortable paddock.
* * * *
• “S.M.W.”: The kraken described by
“Bay Webb” (B. 10/l/’34), and referred
to as an octopus, is really the giant squid.
The octopus has eight tapering tentacles
arranged around the mouth, prominent
eyes and a spherical body. The giant
squid has a long oval body ; the eyes are
flat in the head and, in addition to eight
tentacles similar to those of the octopus,
it has two of nearly double the length.
These are almost circular in section for
most of their length, but flatten out at
the tip into a broad oval covered with
suckers. The Prince of Monaco estimated
that the body of the largest of these
squid “was the size of a Pullman car,
with tentacles 70ft. long armed with
suckers 2ft. in diameter.” However,
even these monsters are no match for a
sperm whale. Bullen in “The Cruise of
the Cachalot” mentions that he saw a
sperm on the surface seemingly wrapped
up in a decapod. Closer observation,
however, showed that the whale was
calmly chewing the squid into chunks
of suitable size for swallowing, while a
swarm of sharks in the surrounding
water did their share in the cutting up.
* * * *
“Lugger’s Mate”: Ages hence a new
island, approximately 80,000 square miles
in area, will strut itself before the
face of Queensland. It is in the
making now; name, the Great Bar-
rier Reef. The reef below the sea covers
justj about that area, and here and
there are hundreds of little sand cays,
islets, reeferies, etc., that already have
raised themselves from the sea-floor to
above low-tide level. Then there are the
larger islands—some more than 40 acres
in extent, well above sea level, and pro-
tected from the fury of the seas that they
have beaten in the struggle for existence.
And the work is still going on. Even in
our own time we can see the shifting
movements and the building-up process
which everywhere are beating the level-
ling-out action of wind and wave.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Amateur fishermen will
take small boats up to the landward side
of half-tide rocks, because it appears to
be safe there; this is the cause of
many fatalities. The backwash is liable
to swing the boat in, and if the gunwale
catches under a rock ledge it’s a swamped
boat and a swim at the very least. The
front of the reef is the safe place, right
out in the open sea, for there the rollers
pass harmlessly under the keel. You
can pay out the anchor cable until you
could reach the face of the rock with a
cast of a handline, and still be quite safe,
although one instant you are on the top
of a roller and the next are down in the
trough, with the wave surging over the
reel' almost above your head. Incident-
ally, it is the best place to catch fish.
When fishing from rocks which face the
open sea you must be prepared for the
extra-big breaker which will cover the
spot where you stand waist-deep. If one
rears its green head, don’t run landward
to escape it; if you do you will be over-
taken by a wall of water. Take up a possy
where there is a natural hand-hold on
the rock or a good big bunch of kelp
right on the seaward edge of the reef,
and when the wave rears up lay your rod
down flat on the rock, grab your hand-
hold, and wait with your feet braced.
It takes a bit of nerve to do it, but all
that happens is that the water rises up
round you and then sinks again. Then
you turn to meet the backwash, which is
seldom more than ankle-deep. If you
do happen to be knocked over by a
wave, don’t attempt to get on your feet
again or to swim against it. Grab the
rock or a bunch of weed, and hold your
breath until the water recedes.
A BACK NUMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Along the well-kept roads that skirt
The township and its buildings prim,
Where sunbeams with the shadows flirt
Round fertile farms and orchards trim,
I sometime see a man who rides
With slackened rein in careless way,
Whose jogging horses’ shuffling strides
Will see them through the longest day.
Again with him through morn’s faint haze
I ride where brolgas strut and pose;
In sultry summer’s noontide blaze
Together in the shade we doze;
Odd nights at lonely huts we spend,
Odd days at some dull one-horse town,
Where, here and there, we meet some friend
Who’s married now and settled down.
Since stock routes once of herbage bare
To-day the drovers’ dreams fulfil,
And all the runs have had their share
Of rain from here to Donors Hill,
How steadily the bullocks feed
As, step by step, he deftly wheels
The foremost of the far-strung lead
When twilight through the timber steals!
We differ in one slight respect:
When working through the western sheds
A run of “tails” sees him collect,
But I prefer to back “two heads.”
We’re “down below” —this Summer Cup
Will see us give the books a jar.
“They’re off!” A voice says, “Dad, wake up!
You’re wanted; someone in the bar.”
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


“Candle”: Wagga (N.S.W.) should be
interested in this excerpt from London
“Daily Express” of November 11:
It is Christmas Day in a far-flung outpost
of Empire. The temperature is 103 in the
shade. The greasy river slides sluggishly
between scorched banks. Lax in his wicker
chair sits a far-flung legislator, idly sipping his
tiffin. A faithful black fans him diligently.
Downstream comes a faint hooting sound of
a siren! Twice a year the Nelly calls at Wagga
Wagga. The tiny packet edges round the
bend in the stream. The far-flung flings him-
self into evening dress and dashes down to
the beach.
Jack Lang, of course.
* * * >9
“Stratford”: There has just been added
to the annals of Centennial Park, Syd-
ney, a chapter on the unreasonableness
of bulldogs. Royal Chimes, a pedigreed
and prize-winning hound of the bow-
legged breed, was being taken for a
motor-drive in the park by his 15-year-
old master. Floating on a pond were
two black swans, assiduously minding
their own business. Roy, or Chi, or what-
ever they call him for short, forgot that
he was a bulldog and became Drake pre-
paring to scatter the Spanish Armada.
Straight from the car he leapt and into
the pond, with visions of swiftly crunching
two black necks, one after the other. But
alas! A bulldog in four feet of water
is a warrior without arms or armor. The
swans smote poor Chi viciously with
flurries of black wings and deadly thrusts
of scarlet beaks. Every time he came up
to breathe they gave him another duck-
ing, and as Chi (or Roy) was too brave
to retreat his young master had to plunge
into the now very muddy water and with-
draw him from the contest. Possibly
there’ll be a legal sequel. There are
statutes of England dating back to
Edward the Confessor prescribing awful
fates for molesters of swans, and if the
huge notice-boards that disfigure Centen-
nial Park don’t include swan-assassina-
tion in their list of crimes public faith
in them will be much shaken.
“If your men started to retreat, what would you do?”
“Lead them.”
‘ Dr. Mivart”: I don’t doubt that wasps
with long Latin names assassinate cicadas
and store their bodies in catacombs, as is
averred by recent contributors to this
page, but it isn’t only wasps that have a
derry on the shrill singer. My veteran
cat acquaintance Rozzener, hero of a
thousand battles, one-eared, one-eyed and
perpetually lame, finds them annoying.
They disturb his morning siesta. When
they start their jubilant chorus he opens
his baleful yellow eye, cocks his solitary
ear, and presently, without hurry, and
with some pain, climbs a near-by euca-
lypt. There are sounds of crunching,
and Rozzener descends, spitting out bits
of cicada. He has robbed the choir of
half a dozen lusty performers, and goes
back to his snooze with the air of one
who has done his best in the circum-
stances.
* * * *
“Heresone”: Native trees can stand
heavy lopping, in spite of “Pick” (B.
20/12T33). We lop mainly yellow box
and cut limbs up to 18in. thick. Trees
lopped in this way shoot at the first rain,
and give better shade than uncut trees.
"i* H* ‘l s t
“Erua”: Though blackfish, singly and
in shoals, have been known to render
M.L. beaches uninhabitable,
the worst experience of the
kind was provided by sheep.
The Kaipara, bound for
London with frozen mutton,
grounded in the Rangitoto
Channel, which is Auck-
land’s garden path, and her
cargo was jettisoned. It was
believed the cast-off mutton
would float docilely out to
sea, and much of it did;
but it was not long before
yachtsmen and picnickers
began to have proof that a
good portion of the by-now-
smellfiil cargo had marooned
itself on islands of the
Hauraki Gulf. It became
the fashion for picnic parties
to sniff inquiringly before
settling down, and even then
a change in the breeze would
send them hastily seeking an-
other retreat. Finally, the
authorities collected and
burnt the jetsam, but it was
many weeks before one could land on an
islet with an easy mind.
jJS v
“Mako”: You can do more than
merely smell Australian bushfires in
M.L. (B. 17/1/’34). For some years
mysterious palls of smoke that used to
appear in M.L. when that land was fire-
less were suspected of having crossed the
Tasman. Ocular demonstration was pro-
vided on the west coast not so long
ago, when a party of campers noticed
a bank of smoke drifting slowly in from
the ocean. It was otherwise a cloudless
day, and as the smoke could not have
originated at sea the conclusion was that
it had travelled from Australia. Some
enthusiasts declared they could smell the
gum-leaves in it.
* * * *
“Wagga”: In season the slopes of Bal-
larat East are bright with flowering
English broom ; and the bushes help to
cover a good deal of the mullock heaps
and country disfigured by 'mining opera-
tions. The first broom, is said to have
been introduced and grown in the ’fifties
by William Bridges, who at that time
occupied a building in Geelong-road,
Ballarat, where he had established the
first Art Gallery in Victoria. Bridges was
famous in his day, not only for the col-
lection of pictures and statuary which
he had got together, but also for the re-
markable needlework pictures which he
executed, choosing such subjects as “The
Last Supper” and “The Triumph of
Christianity.”
* * * *
“C. Coral”: I’m pretty well acquainted
with beche-de-mer, but hadn’t heard of
coco-de-mer until the other day. Accord-
ing to a botanical writer the coco-de-mer
is a palm which produces a curious fruit
of great size containing one or more bi-
lobed nuts, shaped like the lower part
of the human body. It was first brought
“What makes you so tired, Jacky?”
“Sold a man a pair of fowls, and he took ’em twenty miles.”
to Europe a couple of centuries ago,
having been found floating in the sea:
and, as its home could not be traced,
scientists proclaimed the nut to be the
product of a tree growing on the ocean
bed. There are forests of sea-tree
fathoms below the surface in parts of
the Pacific (as Torres Strait divers well
know), so this theory was not so fan-
tastic as it sounds. However, in due
course, the palm was found growing on
a small island called Praslin, in the Sey-
chelles group, and this island is the one
and only place in the world where it is
known. Has any Councillor seen it?
* * * *
“Dai R.”: Binghi records contain few
references to comets. The Wai-willum
tribe, of Pine Creek, had a legend of a
chief and his wife and a tertium quid, the
last chapter of which details how the t.q.
wanders through 'space with a spear (once
the property of the outraged husband)
sticking out of his back, occasionally re-
visiting the scene of his naughtiness. A
Barwon (N.S.W.) crowd nursed a fan-
tastic story of an outsize in codfish
which, during a period when a mys-
terious disease decimated bush game,
flopped out of the water, gave instruc-
tions to the chief medicine man in the
fish-curing art, and surrendered the ghost
to save the tribe from starvation. As a
reward this benevolent fish now swims
for ever through space with extra big
tail and fins to assist it. Similar chronicles
exist amongst tribes in various parts of
the Commonwealth—notably in Centralia,
where they focus on a gigantic bat that
earned eternal and celestial glory by
settling a plague of poisonous spiders.
Never have I found any record of fear
associated with comet appearances by
Black Brother.
* •* * *
“Frigid”: As to sea-serpents, down
Wellington Point (Q.) way Harry Clark
caught a Hydrophis elegans, an elegant
sea-snake, grey in color and poisonous.
It was opened and found to contain 10
eggs. The most remarkable thing about
this specimen was the lung, which was
almost as long as the snake, stretching
from mouth to vent. The creature mea-
sured sft. in length, but the Queens-
land Museum has larger specimens of
other sea-snakes. The longest ever caught
is housed there. It measures 73in. and
was captured at Port Douglas.
“The Antiquary”: Sea-serpents? A
12-footer was seen in shallow water
at Sandy Cape (Q.) in 1890 ; in 1901 a
much larger one was sighted off Cape
(W.A.) by the Nemesis, and
12 hours later by the Perth ; and the St.
Francois Xavier reported a 60-foot ser-
pent off Port Stephens lighthouse
(N.S.W) In 1925.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: The early settlers along the
Murray and its tributaries pumped all
the water they wanted out of the river
without let or hindrance, but the day
came when it was decided to impose a
tax. One old squatter, highly indignant
at the idea of paying for river water,
asked if he would be taxed if he put
down a well. He was told that wells
were not taxed provided they were a
stated distance from the bank. The
squatter measured the reqflired distance
and sank a well, but it yielded only a
meagre supply of very brackish water.
But he was not to be beaten. He took
a trip to Bendigo, engaged a couple of
old miners, and set them to work punch-
ing a drive from the bottom of the well
to the river. They did so, timbering as
they went with redgum slabs, and kept
at it till the seepage from the river came
in so strongly that the pump in the well
couldn’t keep it under control. Then
the squatter carted the huge dump of
earth away from the shaft, and when the
water ranger came along invited him to
inspect the wonderful water supply which
had been struck. The ranger marvelled
at it. So have other rangers and visitors
innumerable. The well is still in use, and
the drive remains unsuspected, even by
the men working on the place. Of course
it cost more to put the drive in than to
pay water rates for 100 years, but the
squatter had beaten the confounded
Government, and that was all he cared
about.
* * * *
“Peu”: Though it’s good betting some
10,000 Abo. experts have got in ahead of
me, I desire to correct my statement (B.
17/1/ ’34) that I once caught a “sword-
fish” in Tamata Creek in British New
Guinea. The beast in question was a
“sawfish,” a creature allied to the sharks
and of an entirely different family from the
swordfishes out of which Mr. Zane Grey
and others have drawn so much publi-
city. The error was due to the type-
writer, a malicious instrument which, as
everyone who has used one will agree,
has a fearful habit of perversion.
* * * *
“Deemster”: Recent Bulletin com-
ment on the Melbourne cat plague re-
minds me that the Isle of Man is also
troubled over an invasion by alien cats.
The tailless Manx cat is renowned among
breeders, and the export trade in the
species is a profitable one. Of late years*
however, Manx cat families of hitherto
unstained pedigree have included several
members with long tails. Importation of
alien cats has been banned and those in
residence are to be extirpated. Unfor-
tunately, as disciples of Mendel will un-
derstand, it will take a lot of time.and
much trouble before the tail of woe is
ended.
* * * *
“May”: Women who pluck their eye-
brows are only doing what the natives of
Papua have done for many years, except
that they pluck the beard instead of
the eyebrows. Native policemen, too.
They say if they use our razor they will
have to take the hair off every day, but
the plucking of the beard needs to be
done only once a month. For the pluck-
ing operation the native lies on the
ground or rests his head between the
knees of another native seated behind
him ; then a stout grass is rolled round
some of the whiskers and they are
plucked. The great mop of fuzzy hair
that always looks so immaculately
rounded also has a lot of attention. No
scissors are used ; there is a painstaking
singeing, until not a hair is out of place.
TREE MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No refrain could ever be
Fraught with sweeter melody
Than this song of loveliness
Wakened at the wind’s caress.
Yet I hear it crooning slow,
Soughing soft with sylvan flow,
Whispers of primeval days,
Rustic charm of wooded ways.
When I sleep this beauty seems
Ever more to tinge my dreams.
When I wake it gives my soul
Rest and peace which waking stole.
Trees! thy magic minstrelsy
Stirs in me an ecstasy
Quiet, rare, like elfin spell
Born in some cool, fragrant dell.
K.S.W.
T. ROSE.


o' V
* A
* , 4*
4 %
*v
'‘A policeman who saved a
man from a thug .was surprised
to find the victim laughing.
He asked him for his money.
A man won a contest by talk*
ing for 42 hours without
stopping.”
What of it? My
wife hasn’t
stopped for two-
years.
~A crowd hissed a seventy
year-old bridegroom at a recent
ceremony
He’s going to get mar-
ried secretly next time.
A U.S.A. authority thinks
that cards should be taught in
all schools.”
“Jones, what is the
answer to that?”
“A full house, sir!”
’Women who chase men are nothing
less than despicable. *
"Ma certie!”
SUCH IS LIFE!


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
£250,000
3,700,000
900,000
*REA PLANTED: 150,541 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds
Reserves—
The Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds
FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time ia nearer
the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won’t provide
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one week’s
salary will provide education for your children, heavy medical
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
.savings service—all the time.
temonwealtl) Savinas JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
SMOKE-OH!
“In America tests are being made to find
materials suitable for dental fillings.”— “Argus.”
So the U.S.A. is going off the gold-
filling standard, too?
* *
“Car regulations in England showed a con-
siderable increase in 1933.” — “Argus.”
Week-ends seem to have shown an in-
crease also in the turn-over of English
cars.
* *
THE ONLY WAY.
Pearly Slulk (Perpetual Past-President
of the Bellevue Younger Set) was the un-
happiest B.Y.T. in Sydney. Not once
had her photo, appeared in the “Sun”
or in the Thursday edition of the “S. M.
Herald.”
Game a Saturday when she appeared
on her favorite beach with her sixth
vertebra visible (others were showing only
as far as the fifth at the time). What
happened? A shark was sighted and the
“Is it hard luck to tell a dream before breakfast?”
“It was to me when I told the wife the one I had about Greta
Garbo.”
brute promptly monopolised all the
available photo, room.
111-luck prevailed again when a bevy
of smile-scavengers transpired with their
cameras. Pearly was the only one un-
smiling! In the struggle to achieve a
prominent position among the teeth-dis-
players she had dislodged her upper
plate.
In desperation she grappled with a
press photographer of her acquaintance
and put the acid on him frankly. She
posed for him with Demon, her Scotch
pomeranian, wrote the caption (“Popular
Pearly Slulk loves her ickle doggie at the
Associated Accountants’ picnic”), packed
him off to his office in a taxi —and again
Jailed to get into the paper. The ass had
'forgotten to load his camera!
Pearly was now on the edge of the
Gulf of Despair. But her fighting spirit
stood to her. Published her photograph
should be, come what might.
And it was!
Sacrificing all to her obsession, Pearly
removed her teeth, perm, wave and face
kalsomine, resumed her specs., dressed
herself and appeared the following Sun-
day as a winner in the “Beauty-in-Old-
Age” division.
Vil N.
* *
“Club woman on poison charge.”
— “Telegraph.”
Why on earth use poison when she had
her club?
“The paper specialises in divorce news.”
A feature being “Answers to Co-
respondents.”
*
SPREAD OF CULTURE.
There were several underworld identi-
ties in the sly-grog joint at the “Cross.”
Spike Mulligan had the floor.
“You have heard,” he said, “with ad-
mirable forbearance, the thesis which I
have propounded. The age-old question
of the abandonment of a fellow-operator
during ‘excursions and alarums,’ as the
Bard hath it, is one which has oft inspired
our rhetoric. Inevitably there are two
schools of thought. We of the older
cleave to a professional chivalry that is
—a las! —passing ;
yet shall it ever be
our endeavor to
emulate the shin-
ing deed of the gal-
lant Perseus, in
that classic ex-
ample of mytho-
logical lore, who
sped with a magni-
ficent selflessness
to the sorely-tried
Andromeda.”
Scug Razorstein
intervened. “P e r
a n g u s t a ad
august a,” h e
smiled.’ “Yet your
analogy is scarcely
warranted. I would
not endeavor to
willingly d i spa r-
age”...;
Spike leaped to
his feet, his face
livid with anger.
“W hen our
friend attempts to
syllogise, we can
perhaps tolerate,
for the sake of de-
bate, an argument
from a faulty pre-
mise. But for the
u n p a r d o nable
crime of a split
infinitive”....
H e shuddered
into broken silence.
An inter-State gangster over in
“smoke” turned to the broken-nosed man
beside him.
“Wot’s this ’ere chiakin’ stuff they’re
peddlin’?” he asked.
The other gazed sadly at the Philistine.
“Doubtless the cultural standard is low
among Cabbage-Gardeners,” he said. “I
would have you know that most of us
who are here to-night have appeared
before Judge Curlewis over a greater
number of years than we now care to
contemplate. Eheu ! fugaces’’
S. W.
Many take comfort from the thought
that, though beach-flappers only brown
now, they’ll burn later.
TIDINGS OF GOOD CHEER.
Some letters that the Board of Control
is longing to get:—•
I wish, to intimate that I have no desire to
visit England with the Australian Eleven this
year. -Earn too old:—Yours, “Veteran.”
Please note that I refuse to take my wife
with me on the coming English tour. —Yours,
“Benedict Rungetter.”
“Maybe this’ll teach y’ not to run into me with your old car. I’m a hard woman!”
It is my fixed intention neither to write for
newspapers nor engage in broadcasting while
in England.—Yours, “Shamateur.”
Larwood will not bowl “bodyline” during
the next series. If any fast bowlers are called
on they will be instructed to keep well on the
off. However, as a general rule, you can rely
on nothing but slow half-volleys being bowled
in all Tests. —Yours etc., M.C.C.
( H- *
UNSKILLED PROFESSIONS.
“Tram-driving is an unskilled trade in Ger-
many.”
In Australia we find the unskilled in
more remunerative callings.
Claudie Eyhbrow couldn’t spaie years
studying to. be a doctor or solicitor or
architect ; in any case it is doubtful if
he would have been able to pass the
examinations. So they taught him to
spell “atmosphere,” “values,” “linear
pattern” and “impasto.” He has been
earning a comfortable income as an art
critic ever since.
Agatha Muddle found it impossible to
draw anything that bore the faintest re-
semblance to the object in front of her.
Her efforts at painting caused derision or
pained silence, according as . the man-
ners of those to whom she showed her
works were bad or good. In despair
she took up Modernism. Last week her
“Portrait of a Girl” (four purple blobs
on a pink background) won her the
travelling scholarship (two sections on
one of Sydney’s new trolley-’buses) of
the King’s Cross Surrealiste Group.
Claudie Eyebrow wrote of it: “Interest-
ing. .. .linear pattern... .atmosphere....
She is Trying to Say Something New.”
Old Sam (“Spruiker”) Dudde had a
varied career before he happened on his
true vocation. We find from the “In-
solvents’ Who’s Who” that he was first
“made bankrupt 1904” ; “filed schedule
1907” ; “committed Long Bay (1913)” ;
“promoted Gold from Aussie Whales
Syndicate (1919)” (the company failed
owing to a newspaper exposure showing
that gold is not found in Australian
whales); “promoted Bondi Diamond
Mine (1922)” (this company also col-
lapsed following on a scathing letter
signed “Metallurgist” in the “Miners’
Beacon”); “filed schedule (1923).”
Shortly afterwards Mr. Dudde retired
from business and entered municipal poli-
tics as “The Toilers’ Friend.” Later he
successfully organised the epoch-making
Bootclickers’ Strike, which is estimated
to have put over 2000 workers on the
dole, and was swept triumphantly into
Parliament. He has never looked back
since.
H. S.
# *
Most of the witnesses at Sydney’s
latest inquiry seem to be suffering from
films before the eyes.
* *
THE FILM WAR.
From the Front Line.
Monday: Sapping operations have
been begun by the Australian forces on
the Macquarie-street front. The aim is
to prevent the erection of new fortresses
by the Americans. Countermining by
underground engineers from the Can-
berra sector is already in progress.
Tuesday: There was a thrilling affair of
outposts last evening when a raiding party
of front-stall ushers from the Magnificent
clashed with a patrol of chocolate ven-
dors from the Superbus in the Graeco-
Afghan lounge of the latter. The
raiders were routed after a fierce hand-
to-hand fight during which the admirals’
epaulettes of several uniforms were torn
bodily from their moorings.
Wednesday: The Americans are stop-
ping at no frightfulness to gain their
objectives. This morning a gas attack was
put over by a picked squad of directors
smoking Hollywood Horrors. They re-
leased the noxious fumes to the accom-
paniment of A 1 Jolson singing “Mammy,”
and nearly had the Aussies on the run.
Thursday: Preparations for a general
engagement seem to be imminent. All
publicity writers have been recalled from
leave, and all floor commanders and
commissionaires have been issued with
field-marshals’ uniforms. It is rumored
that the morale of the Americans will
be stiffened up by an issue of bootleg
whisky from the original keg which was
starred in “The Gangster’s Bride.” The
keg arrived at their camp yesterday under
its own power.
A. O’C.
YOU CAN’T SATISFY THEM.
What time I wooed a wench divine
A sickle moon hung overhead. .
Raising her coral lips to mine,
“I want the moon,” the maiden said.
Fearing for Venus she might sigh,
The reins of Pegasus I shook;
l drove across the midnight sky
And from its nail the moon I took.
Alas! rage shone in her bright eyes
No derring-do of mine could lull —
When I descended with my prize
She raged because it wasn’t full!
P. O. M. C.
MISTRESS OF MISSILES.
Would she miss him ? he wondered.
The hour was late;
He thought of her lonely, blue;
But he needn’t have pondered;
He knew of his mate
Thai her aim was always true.
H. N.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Passed in at 110 guineas as a yearling,
Clever Fox, winner of the A.J.C. Anni-
versary, may be a rival for Hall Mark in
the autumn. The brother to Dark Chief
was bred by Hugh Denison and leased to
Randwick trainer Jack King until 1934.
There was no fluke about his win, as he
ran the mile and a half in 2min. 30sec.,
beating the track record by half a second.
He was backed from B’s to s’s. The
favorite, Satmoth, was beaten a long way
from home.
Milantheon was partly responsible for
the fast time. He made it willing all the
way, but, just as his backers were looking
fctr their tickets, caved in at the Leger,
where Broad Arrow took command.
Young Britt kept the chestnut going, but
Clever Fox, whose sire, Dark Fox, is
bred on the same lines as Magpie, got
the verdict in the last stride. The winner
has now taken three races at Randwick,
one at Rosehill and one at Canterbury.
Dame Moab (3 to 1) should-have been
favorite for the Kurnell Handicap, as her
second in the Challenge was a meri-
torious effort. Jim Pike’s presence in the
saddle caused the bookies to open with
Tom Pinch favorite, and after touching
7 to 4 Tom started at 9 to 4. He looked
a winner at the Leger, but Dame Moab,
who was tailed off last at the half-mile,
Gert me YOUR PAPER.
Bert T
Bert : " Whact for 2**
G»ERT*. " To wrap mv costums ih v '
Bert’. "You cah wra>p it \m vour
tram tdcet
unwound a brilliant run to score easily
from the favorite and Some Boy. It was
the outstanding effort of the day.
The Adrian Knox Stakes is one of W.
Booth’s lucky races. Last year the Rose-
hill trainer scored with Roman Spear,
and a few seasons ago led in Meenah.
This year he was first with Leila Vale,
bred by himself. Leila Vale started at
6’s, and won easily from the hot favorite,
Air Queen, who was set a stiff task. Half
a mile from home she was giving Leila
Vale too much start, and it was evident
that had McCarten made more use of
her pace she would have been closer
at the finish. She battled on gamely, but
would have had to break a track record
to score.
One of the big failures in the Adrian
Knox Stakes was t.ie Victorian miy
Lady Syghton. She appeared to be
troubled by the reverse way of running,
and lugged badly at the turns. She fin-
ished well to get sixth, but was a long
way from the winner.
Greenstead was a great miler in his
day. One of his stock, Kenya Green,
who carries the colors of trainer Arthur
Neville, won the Novice at 14 to 1 from
Frescade and Salted Almond. The favor-
ite, Captain Rado, met with his share of
bad luck in the running, but his fourth
suggests he may score before he returns
to the western districts.
M.L.-bred Sir John made hacks of the
opposition in the Havilah Handicap. He
started at 6 to 4 on, and won pulling
up in record time for the 5£ furlongs.
Ned Moss has a tophole galloper in this
colt, who strides out in a manner re-
miniscent of Veilmond. Sir John cost
825 guineas as a yearling, and as he has
won two races out of three starts is a
cheap colt.
Track work proved reliable in the case
of Celebrate (6 to 1) in the Phillip Han-
dicap. The Magpie gelding led through-
out the seven furlongs, to win with some-
thing in hand from Loch Garry and
Chemosh.
* * * *
Backers were well on the spot at
Canterbury. Jim Pike rode three winners,
and he has rarely been seen to greater
advantage than on Babili in the Campsie
Handicap. Babili once ran a dead-heat
with Peter Pan at Warwick Farm, but
has been a disappointment since. He
started at 2 to 1, and struggled home a
head in advance of Dick Wootton’s
Prince’s Daughter, who was hemmed in
on the rails most of the way. Mountain
View ran a close third.
Wallsend-owned and -trained Polette
(5 to 1) won the Canterbury Handicap
rather easily from the Dominion gelding
Lavington; Dango and Fickle Balloon
ran a dead-heat for third. Hot Shot, at
even money, ran last, a position he occu-
pied practically throughout.
Mrs. H. F. Broadbent, whose husband
is an aviator, captured the Flying with
Questionnaire. The mare went out at
-5 to 2, and won in a canter from Nardale
and Polydorus. Questionnaire, despite
a strenuous time of late, looked in great
trim. Loyal Verde dropped out at the
start but came home promisingly.
Canterbury-trained Varnottar (5 to 1),
whose sire Dunnottar got Dunerc and
others, proved too good for Jovial Son
and Mangelo in the Nursery. He should
be capable of succeeding at a bit of a
distance. His dam, Vargar, is by Varco
from Gay Girl, by True Blue.
Jockey Phil Burn, who has ridden in
England and in most of the Australian
cities, made his holiday from Brisbane
profitable by taking the mount on Aus-
tralian Bride (5 to 1) in the fourth divi-
sion of the Maiden. The mare was lucky
to beat Joan Moa, who was left at the
post. Fred Williams won the first heat
with Kagal (3 to 1), a stable-mate of
Chatham.
* * * *
After having been badly let down by
Gordon’s Leap, Hugo and Whittingham
at Caulfield, Holt landed the William
Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley with
Heros, who belongs to Mrs. L. R. Bux-
ton. Heros was once the property of H.
Laidlaw, a young Victorian pastoralist.
Next to Hall Mark, he may be the most
distingushed member of Holt’s autumn
team. Best odds were 6 to 4, last year’s
winner, Waltzing Lily, being second
favorite at 5 to 1. It proved to be a
cakewalk for the Heroic gelding, who
was not extended to score by a length
from Airkloof. Latter finished most im-
pressively, half a length in advance of
Waltzing Lily.
Waltzing Lily seemed backward in con-
dition. She began slowly and met with
some interference. Up to a middle dis-
tance this is the best mare on the Aus-
tralian turf. She won the Standish and
Newmarket as a three-year-old, and is on
the first line of favoritism for the big
sprint at Flemington in March. Airkloof
is bound to come into favor as the result
of his week-end display. With this colt
and Palphar to represent him, Fernkloof
should be in the limelight. Holt was con-
fident of Heros, but expected Whitting-
ham to gain a place. Though he finished
sixth only, Whittingham must not be en-
tirely condemned, as he experienced a
poor passage.
Holt secured Skidmore as rider for
Gordon’s Leap in the Warrook High
Weight Handicap, and this chestnut, bred
and raced by C. B. Kellow, was served
up nearly as warm a favorite as Heros.
His trainer made excuses for Gordon’s
Leap, but it was the worst display of
galloping that the son of Heroic —Absurla
ever gave. Most punters will be dis-
inclined to back Gordon’s Leap here-
after. The winner turned up in Kichaka,
who used to be trained at Randwick by
George Price. Kichaka started at 50 to
1, and paid more than 57 to 1 in the win
pool. He squeezed home by a neck
from Oakland Belle.
Divisions of the Juvenile Handicap
were annexed by Coolart (Ronsard —
French Model) and Billie Simon
(Simeon’s Fort —Archeress). Former be-
longs to J. S. Feehan, who was lucky to
have his colors carried to victory. The
favorite, Pantrymaid, by Pantheon, had
the race won, but her apprentice jockey
mistook the winning post, and, allowing
his mount to slow down, was beaten by
a head. Billie Simon, a stable-companion
of Waltzing Lily, led all the way, reach-
ing the judge a length in advance of
Devoncourt, whose half-brother, Powers-
court, captured the Ascot Vale Stakes of
1932. Billie Simon measures only 14.2,
and Devoncourt towered above him as
they galloped down the straight.
Little Queen, winner of the Calder-
meade Handicap, also is of galloway
height. She scraped home by half a
head from Boundless, with the Austra-
lian Cup and Sydney Cup candidate Sea
Rover third. Sea Rover is not thoroughly
wound up, and will do better.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Australians figured in the two week-
end wrestling matches in Sydney suburbs.
Nylan tackled Lurich at Newtown, and
Meeske brawled with Beth at Leichhardt.
Nylan proved a rough customer, and
after the first round Lurich retired with
knees knocking and blood streaming
from his mouth. He nevertheless gained
the first fall with a body-scissors in the
third round. Nylan, with headlocks and
a body-press, broke even in the fifth.
Just when the Aussie looked a likely
winner the Russian, with a kick on
the chin, knocked him flat on his back,
and flopped on him for a deciding fall.
Beth and Meeske warred like wildcats
before, during and after their match,
which was declared a draw.
Ins anti Outs
The last Sheffield Shield match of the
season between N.S.W. and Victoria at
Sydney Cricket Ground saw N.S.W. paste
the very ineffective Victorian bowling to
the tune of 672 runs for 8 wickets. Fea-
tures of the batting were a hurricane
innings by Bradman (128) and a sterling
knock by Brown for 205. Fingleton got
to 145 after being dropped in the slips
at 2 and run out by Barnett later, when
he had returned to the crease after an
absence due to cramp. He was 86, and,
after giving a catch to Ebeling at short slip
which was dropped, lifted his foot to pat
down the wicket. The ball went to Bar-
nett, who promptly put down the stumps.
The umpire gave Fingleton out, but
Woodfull, in defiance of the rules and ex-
ceeding his prerogative, called Fingleton
back and allowed him to play on. This
sort of thing may go down in tennis, but
it is right outside the rules and practice
of cricket.
Victoria opened confidently, and at
stumps on Saturday had 98 up, with
O’Brien gone for 16. Woodfull ran to 83
on Monday before being stumped off
O’Reilly. Rigg and Darling went cheaply,
but a stand of 158 by Bromley and
Scaife saved the day. Bromley batted
with great dash for his 92, hitting 12
fours. Scaife was unbeaten at tea with
93, and Barnett, also n. 0., helped the
score to 349 for 5 wickets with a well-
made 25.
*
“Wal”: Port Moresby was invaded by
air recently, when a team of cricket and
tennis addicts flew across the New
Guinea mountains to meet their opposite
numbers in Port Moresby. The land
route from Wau to the .Port is a four or
five weeks’ climb; the ’planes do the
journey in a couple of hours. Moresby
beat the visitors at cricket in a two days’
match. J. Ireland, who captained Wau,
knocked up 119. For Moresby Jack
McKenna made 143. The mountaineers
turned the tables at tennis, the play being
too vigorous for the men of the steam-
ing lowlands.
*** * *
“Randwick”: The Sydney Cricket
Ground trustees are still pondering over
the question of enlarging the insufficient
arena, as they have been doing for a
couple of years past. The Government
very properly turned down the attempted
cadge of £50,000, this being no time for
subsidising sports arenas mostly devoted
to encouraging professional sport. In
the meantime it is likely the trustees will
do the best they can with the money in
hand, some £50,000 by all accounts. First
consideration is to be given to increasing
the comfort of members, who provide a
regular revenue of £15,000 a year. This
might take the shape of checking the un-
blushing trafficking in members’ tickets,
which, on big occasions, crams the already
overloaded accommodation.
0 Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
Those who watched Perry and Craw-
ford shape in the earlier rounds of the
Australian singles championships in Syd-
ney had little doubt that if they met the
Englishman would win hands down. So
it proved, for, though Crawford flattered
his backers by soundly beating Quist in
the semi-final, he proved easy meat for
Perry: 6-3, 7-5, 6-1. England also scored
in the doubles with Hughes and Perry,
though Quist and Turnbull extended
them. Moon and Joan Hartigan took
the mixed doubles, and the latter outed
Mrs. Molesworth in the final of the
women’s singles.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Since the Tilden-
Vines tournaments have been started in
the States the rumor has been revived
that Perry was considering an offer to
join in the hunt. Interviewed in Aus-
tralia, Perry said he didn’t like to dis-
cuss dangerous matters. He and Austin
were both approached after the Davis
Cup win, but both stuck to it that they
were determined to remain amateurs to
defend it this year, In any case the game
seems hardly worth the candle, if reports
are true. Vines was offered a big cash
payment down to go over. To-day it is
said the offers do not include a deposit,
but a percentage of future gates only.
* * * *
“Milton”: Mrs. Molesworth, the
Queensland tennis champion, who has
figured in the Australian championships
in Sydney on the eve of taking on a tour
of Europe, is a personality in Australian
tennis. As long ago as 1924 she retired
from the game, but came back two or
three years later to win the Queensland
championship. She has now won this
six times, the Australian and N.S.W.
titles twice, and the Victorian and Tassie
titles once. She is playing as well as ever.
{Continued on next page.)
FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Juvenile: Constantine; next,
Jovial Son.
Flying Handicap: Canegrass ; next,
Treasury.
Rosehill Handicap: Milantheon ;
next, Prowler.
Carlingford Mile: Havilah Belle ;
next, Prince’s Daughter.


srv.
m
: ;X<w
*&&
Speed
. . £o catch them
Punch
to bring them down
RHENWEST
99
Now Specially Waterproofed
. * . . for Duck Shooters
THE sportsman with Rhenwest knows
that every shell is ready to do its work,
wet or dry.
The new Rhenwest cartridge is completely
waterproofed, so that even after total
immersion in water no damp can penetrate
the shell or affect the charge.
This new feature alone justifies your pur-
chase of Rhenwest cartridges, yet you have
the additional advantages of Walsrode
Smokeless Powder and' the wonderful
Sinoxid Priming.
Insist on Rhenwest cartridges—they are
guaranteed indefinitely.
Loaded in Australia solely by ... .
arvey Shaw Successors
LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE
INTERSTATE AGENTS
New South Wales
Sydenham Davies,
189 Clarence Street.
Sydney,
Queensland:
Jackson & O'Sullivan,
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Brown & Dureau, Ltd.,
Murray Street,
Perth.
Tasmania:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
McGregor Bros. Pty., Ltd.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
ins and Outs
“Fitzcray”: A queer cricket paradox
cropped up in a second-eleven pennant
match between Fitzroy and South Mel-
bourne. It ended in a tie, each team
scoring 121. The last Fitzroy wicket fell
to the last ball of the last over of the
day. Had Fitzroy played out time and
gone back with only nine wickets down,
it would have been a draw under V.C.A.
rules, and neither side would have scored
a point. As it was, Fitzroy, by losing a
wicket, scored l\ points, as did Souths
qlso.
>iil * * *
“Bash”: Cricket history was made in
Melbourne the. other day in a match be-
tween two teams of John Hops at St.
Kilda. One Charlesworth bowled with
such pace that he was cleaning up the
opposition until a ball hit the batsman
m the ribs. The ump. promptly called
“no ball” in conformity with the Board
of Control’s fool alteration of the law
early in the season. The ump. also told
Charlesworth that if he offended again
he would enforce the rule to the limit and
refuse to allow him to bowl. This is the
first occasion in Australia that the rule
has been applied. All sane folk hope it
will be the last.
* * * *
“Senex”: The youthful players in the
second-eleven match in Melbourne be-
tween N.S.W. and Victoria showed little
respect for the conventions as established
and observed by their seniors of the
Sheffield and Test matches, for in three
days they knocked up 1148 runs. Vic-
toria kicked off by making 461 in 340
minutes, and N.S.W. responded with 448
in even time, this last in itself a record
in ordinary times. No wonder several
players on each side were injured.
Modern cricket is emphatically not a
suitable vehicle for such excessive exer-
tion.
* * * *
“Sang Azur”: Passing through Syd-
ney last week, the Earl of Wemyss —
his name, as the erudite will recall,
rhymes with “chocolate creams”—gave
us anew line on the bodyline barge.
The belted personage said that when in
M.L. during the last Tests he was
shocked by the expressions he read in
the Australian papers. But he travelled
home on the same boat as the English-
men, and was even more shocked to find
“how much justification there was for
the Australian protests.” Unfortunately
he stopped there at the most interesting
part, which is just like these imparters of
the dinkum oil.
H 5 H 5 H*
“Bramall Lane”: Stanley Jackson, one
of the greatest all-rounders England has
seen since W. G. Grace, had, as might
have been expected from a Yorkshire-
man, some sensible remarks to make at
a recent cricket dinner in England about
modern cricket tendencies. In his opinion
the period between 1890 and 1910 was
the golden age of the game, and even
those who cannot recall those days per-
sonally will be inclined to agree on look
ing up the records. Especially apt is his
reference to the fact that in those days
batsmen (right-handed) were taught to
throw the left foot forward. To-day the
rule is to bring the right foot back. The
first spells attack, the second defence, and
that is the difference between the old
cricket and the new.
* * * *
“Headingly”: It is already evident
that all seats for the Test matches
will be sold out before the Australian
team lands in England, the demand being
especially heavy for the last Test at the
Oval. Four-day tickets for the “Aus-
tralian” stands at Lord’s and the Oval are
going at from three to four guineas, Aus-
tralians in London buying on behalf of
friends hastening to the seat of warfare.
The prices of daily seats are 125., 7s. 6d.
and 4s. 6d., plus 3s. admission to the
ground! No wonder English cricket
financiers are always glad to welcome
the Australians, however glaring their
faults.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The English press, or a
section of it, continues to harp on the
horrors of barracking at Australian
cricket matches, quite forgetful of the fact
that some of the English grounds, includ-
ing the Oval, can muster a team as hot
as any, as Warwick Armstrong can
testify. Bitter partisanship is another
charge levelled at Australians. A Lanca-
shire-Yorkshire match at Old Trafford
or Bramall Lane can give any Sheffield
Shield or Test struggle a stone and a
beating in this respect. Bramall Lane is
famous for its special display of partisan-
ship. The ground is surrounded with
factories, and when the enemy is batting
the furnaces to windward are stoked up
with damped coal, with the result that
a heavy smoke-screen rolls across the
ground. When the home side goes in
to bat the furnaces are raked out and
the batsmen enjoy as pellucid an atmos-
phere as Sheffield can afford —at least
that’s what they say F Lancashire.
Racquet and Baw!
“Sharki”: Add to the list of freak
tennis players headed by McGrath and
Bromwich (B. 24/1 / ’34) another Sydney-
ite in George Gough, of Eastern Sub-
urbs. While McGrath plays a two-fisted
backhand and Bromwich a ditto fore-
hand, Gough plays all his ground shots
in the ordinary way with his right hand,
but doubles the grip for volleying and
smashing. He gets tremendous power on
these shots but, as he is well on to the
thirties, is not likely now to win a place
among the stars.
*f*
“Cottesloe”: Westralian tennis fol-
lowers are not exactly filled with delight
oyer the team selected to represent
Australia against England in the last Test
at Perth. The only players approaching
first-class as it is at present constituted are
Hopman and Moon. The others are Pur-
cell and Ewin, of Victoria, and Thomp-
son, of N.S.W., as emergency. The last
trio are all promising young players, but
they cannot be expected to draw the
gates like Crawford, McGrath and co.
The Westralians have gone to a lot of
expense over the match and naturally
expected a selection which would bring
them their money back. The stars, how-
ever, are “not available,” and the Austra-
lian selectors have been compelled to
leave them out whether they like it or
not.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: A Sydney journal
considers Perry the most powerful player
to represent England since J. C. Parke.
Perry has a long way to go before he
equals the Irishman’s record of three
Davis Cup teams, including the one that
took the cup from Australia at Mel-
bourne in 1920, an Australasian and a
Victorian championship, and innumerable
others in Britain. Nor does the compari-
son fit off the courts. Perry graduated
from the ping-pong ranks. Parke was
capped 20 times by the Irish R.U., and
was one of the most dreaded and power-
ful wing-threequarters of his time, while
he was also a 4-handicap golfer.
*** > *
“Applesauce”: The Australian tennis
championships in Sydney saw a glaring
instance of that sad lack of good manners
which consists in presenting an opponent
with a point if one considers he has suf-
fered by an umpire’s decision. The
Sydney press, as usual, glowingly spoke
of the “sportsmanship” of the offender,
the usually well-balanced McGrath. A
line umpire gave a ball hit by Hughes
as “out,” and that should have settled
the matter according to the rules.
McGrath disagreed, and hit the two fol-
lowing shots out of court, presenting
Hughes with the game. Hughes is stated
to have called out “Thanks” to his oppo-
nent, while the crowd applauded. No
one seems to have thought of the official.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A thrill more
appropriate to the Stadium close by than
to the Sydney White City tennis courts
came over the audience watching the
opening stages of the Australian cham-
pionships when Hopman appeared in
shorts. The N.S.W. tennis heads, though
not actually banning the bags, had
announced disapproval of them. When
president Frank Peach went up to Hop-
man and began to speak, everyone waited
in delighted horror for the box-on. No-
thing happened, however. Hopman car-
ried on, and the president later explained
that he had worded “Hoppy” not offi-
cially, but “as a friend.”
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: That reference to
the professional tennis tour of the States
by Tilden and Vines, with its delightful
accompaniments of £6OOO gates (B.
24/1 / ’34), calls attention to the fact that
Tilden, at least, is not is not in dire need
of the money. When not touring he is
giving tennis lessons at 100 dollars a
time, and he has a waiting list so long
that, if queued up, it is estimated it would
stretch from Caribou (Mne.) to Pacific
City (Wash.). In the palmy days of Eng-
land’s social life, a boy was entered for
a school and at least one club as soon
as he was born. Something of the kind
will have to be done in the near future
for infantile aspirants to Tilden’s coach-
ing.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: “Thomas” is a good tennis
name in Adelaide. R.V., now retired, is
the only S.A. man to win a Wimbledon
championship—the doubles, with Patter-
son. Geoff Kyffin Thomas, former local
doubles champion, is more than useful
still, although he has a son, R.K.T., com-
ing well to the front. And now George
Thomas, a hard-hitting baseliner, has
beaten Turnbull in a club match. The
three families are in no way related.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sand Green”: The Australian profes-
sional champion, V. Richardson, is to
tour the N.S.W. backblock clubs part-
nered by C. Gray, the State professional
champ. This exhibition tour, of a type
common enough in America, opens anew
era in Australian golf and one that should
('Continued on next page.)


V
/
M
above a I
m
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a lie. It gives immediate,
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unecjualled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet.
Price
10/6
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
KISMET GAUGE
Representative: John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
AT THE HEART /
OF LONDON/
LORDS
$8
iIAM
t>AI J&Z.
PARK LANE HOTEL,PICCADILLY, W.l.
(’Grams: Kcighbrace, Audley, London.)
Equidistant from Lord's and Kennington Oval
Cricket Grounds on direct route, and close
to Theatre-land and the finest shopping centres.
400 modern bedrooms, each with
telephone and fully-equipped private
bathroom. 40 suites.
SINGLE from 14/6. DOUBLE from
25/'-. SUITES from 42/-.
Garage for 200 cars. Sandler’s Orchestra.
Illustrated topical tariff from ‘‘The Bulletin.’
PARK LANE HOTEL
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
benefit the game. If the tour is a success
it is certain to be followed by others, and
the standard of country golf should not
be long in hitting the ceiling. The pair
kicked off at Wollongong last week by
way of a preliminary, but the tour proper
begins when Keane, of Cammeray, has
mapped out an itinerary.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: The N.S.W. professional
golfers have resolved to take a leaf from
the book of their American cobbers and
get as much stroke practice in competi-
tions as they can before the Australian
championships. To this end they will
hold numerous 72-hole stroke competi-
tions. Last year they tried the experiment,
with the result that the standard of play
improved all round. The big American
players tour the States during the year
playing practically nothing but stroke.
This is given as the chief reason for the
signal success of the Yanks in the British
open championships over 72 holes of
stroke.
*f* *i*
“Divot Digger”: There is a likelihood
that N.S.W. will this year defend the
Kirk-Windeyer Cup, which it won from
Maoriland in 1932. Owing to the de-
presh it was not played for last year,
but this time the golfing heads think they
see their way to dispatch a team across
the Tasman about Easter. Players avail-
able are asked to get in touch with the
G.C.’s secretary, R. J. Withycombe. First
set up in 1927, the mug has been played
for only five times, the other blank year
being 1931. N.S.W. has won the trophy
three times to twice by the All Blacks.
* * * *
“Brassey”: After many requests to do
so, the N.S.W. Golf Council has at last
consented to seed the draw for this year’s
amateur championships, which begin at
Kensington on July 7. The council will
have its State handicapping list, so should
be able to face the job without nervous-
ness, and we shall not again be faced with
the picture of two first-class players pitted
against each other in opening rounds, with
the elimination of one of them inevitable.
Only players with handicaps of 8 or less
will be eligible to enter, a stroke less than
in previous championships. The four-
somes will be played on June 30, and
here the old 9-limit will be adhered to.
* * * *
In spite of the pleadings of Melbourne,
which wanted the event badly to make a
centenary holiday, N.S.W. refused to
waive its right to hold the Australian golf
championships in Sydney this year. They
will begin on October 8, the finals taking
place on October 19. Royal Sydney’s
links at Rose Bay will be the venue. The
holder of the open, M. L. Kelly, of Goul-
burn, is now living in Sydney, and so is
the professional champion, V. S. Richard-
son. The amateur title is held by Hope,
of Victoria, and the women’s by Maori-
lander Oliver Kay.
Car and Cycle
“Marathon”: Yet another bike-pusher
has cast up in N.S.W. after riding some-
thing over 16,000 miles round Australia.
A Swiss journalist, Morganti by name, he
started from Melbourne 18 months ago
and did the round via South Aus. and
Westralia, the N.T. and Queensland. His
excuse is that he was seeking material
fdr a book on Australia, though he could
have got all the necessary information
with much less inconvenience from the
experts of the Sydney afternoon press.
One of his trials was starvation, and at
one time he was compelled to cook and
eat a snake. He was better off than an
African friend of mine whose tyres gave
out while on a Cairo-to-the-Cape trip.
He was compelled to fit puff-adders to
his rims, and the delay caused by catch-
ing and fixing fresh puff-adders as the
old ones wore out and burst made him
run days behind his schedule.
* * * *
“Differential”: R. A. Railton, designer
of Campbell’s Blue Bird, told a London
audience some of the difficulties experi-
enced in the attempt to reach the speed
of 300 m.p.h. which Campbell seeks.
The trouble under the present conditions
is to make the two rear wheels stick to
the ground under the tremendous power
transmitted to them. Railton estimated
that, when 272 m.p.h. was reached at
Daytona last year, the loss in slip between
the tyres and the ground was 100 m.p.h.
with one and a half tons load on the driv-
ing wheels. While favoring a drive on
all four wheels, Railton suggested that
a six-wheeled car with four driving wheels
might be even better. As he and Camp-
bell are known to be radically altering
the design of the big car for the next
attempt, the experts are wondering
whether she will be driven on all four
wheels or be a six-wheeler with four
drivers.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The annual Monte Carlo
Rally, the world’s greatest international
motor-car reliability trial, ended last week
in Europe, where it was run under Arctic
conditions. It was hoped some time ago
that the Melbourne centenary committee
would include an all-Australian event of
the kind in its programme, planning
the finish for Melbourne about Cup time.
Such a contest, with the prizes thrown in,
could be arranged for about £2OOO, and
the event would draw many times that
amount to the coffers of Melbourne
tradespeople. The Monte Carlo event
“What was dad’s decision when you asked for my hand?”
“He foot-faulted me.”
permits competitors to start from any
point in Europe they desire, and route
points are allotted pro rata according to
the length of the run chosen. Thus a
starter from Normanton or Darwin
would be marked in the same ratio as
one from Sydney or Brisbane. A fixed
minimum speed, day and night, is insisted
on, and this is raised considerably for
the last few hundred miles. Such a com-
petition would undoubtedly draw many
competitors in this country. It is a bit
late in the day, but there is time yet to
put an All-Australia rally on the cen-
tenary programme.
* * * *
The one- and three-mile amateur
cycling championships of N.S.W. were
run off in Sydney last week. In the mile,
the oldest title event in Australia, H.
Pethybridge, of Marrickville, won in 2min.
17 2-ssec., among the defeated being the
Olympic rider Gray. The latter got his
own back in the three-miler,- winning
by a length in 6min. 54sec. A puncture
dropped Pethybridge out of the hunt.
Miscellaneous
“Ainslie”: One of Canberra’s bowling
clubs came face to face with tragedy the
other day, when it was discovered that
the committee had forgotten to renew
its liquor license at the end of the year.
In spite of the tearful protestations of
the members the bar was at once locked
up, and will remain so until the drought
is broken by a new license. This, un-
happily, will .take some time to happen.
A special general meeting has to be held
and a majority must declare in favor
of applying for a new license. The next
hurdle will be the Licensing Board, and
the cows aren’t sitting until next month.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Jumper Metcalfe and
sprinter Hampson, of N.S.W., have been
granted permission to tour Maoriland,
leaving Sydney on February 15. The
pair open at Waimate on February 21
—six days after leaving Sydney —and
show at 10 more centres by March 28,
when they finish the tour at Rotorua.
The trip has been characteristically held
up by the N.S.W. athletic authorities. It
was first arranged without reference to
them, and they refused to know anything
about it for some weeks until the proper
amount of kowtow and flimflam had
been performed, when they at last gave
permission.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Australian side for the
Empire Games is due to leave for Eng-
land on May 25, and it is probable that
the team will be selected at a meeting of
the committee held on March 23. One
interesting matter cropped up at a meeting
of the Boxers and Wrestlers’ Union of
Australia in Brisbane. It was stated that
W. Burns, the heavyweight boxer, and an
extra good one, would not make the
trip, he having injured his amateur status
some years ago by competing in profes-
sional running. This is quite in accord
with the laws of amateurism, and some
of the organisations which shut their eyes
to similar acts of professionalism might
do worse than take notice. The B.E.G.
association has given £lOOO towards ex-
penses and the Commonwealth Govern-
ment £5OO. The public is being asked
to find the additional £2OO needed.
* * * *
“Stamford Bridge”: One of the oppo-
sition our Australian sprinters will have
to watch at the Empire Games next
August is the South African flyer Dan
Joubert. At Port Elizabeth, on what is
described as a loose track, he recently cut
out the 100 in 9 4-ssec. His best figures
for the sprint are 9 2-ssec., and as yet
we have seen no one in Australia equal
that under record conditions, though
Carlton did it with a following wind at
Newcastle in 1931. Joubert is used to
the cinder tracks, and our Australian
representatives, accustomed to the pre-
historic grass, always have trouble in get-
ting accustomed to them.
* * * *
“Sarie Marais”: Like their menfolk,
the South African flappers are a tough lot,
if one may use the expression in a Pick-
wickian sense. One, Gert Watson, lately
entered for a 100-mile road race in bit-
terly cold weather with a gale blowing.
Disregarding all attempts by officials to
shoo her off, the lady started, and finished
50 miles in 10 hours before throwing in
the towel. Only three men went the
whole course, the winner being 19-year-
old Piet Strydom, who did the distance
in 18hr. 43min. 41seC.
* * * *
“Ajmer”: According to a cable pub-
lished in a Sydney paper, camel-wrestling
has supplanted cockfighting in the favor
of the Punjabi. This may be so, but the
Punjab, as far as the writer knows, has
never been particularly noted for either
form of sport. A little to the south, in
Rajputana, everyone, from Rajah to ryot,
has some fancy to back. The small man
sticks for the most part to fighting cocks
and quails—the tastes of potentates range
from elephant-, ape- and camel-fighting
to battles between tigers and buffaloes
and pairs of fighting bulls. Cockfighting
is common to all classes and seems to
have been a pastime long pursued in
Hind. Writer has an old steel engraving
depicting a cockfighting by a
personage described as the “Nabob of
Oude,” which dates the affair back to
John Company’s days. The picture shows
him in a state of extreme undress watch-
ing a main of cocks in company with
an equally corpulent Briton, also scantily
clad. The background is filled in with
natives of various degree and the fore-
ground with bottles of every description.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: Australian riflemen are
disappointed to hear that the proposed
visit of a British team to Australia for
the Melbourne centenary is not coming
off. The team was to have toured South
Africa before coming to Australia, and,
after visiting all the States in this coun-
try, was to have shot its way home via
M.L. and Canada. Money for the tour
has been hard to raise, and so has a
really representative team.
* * * *
“Speck”: Tasmanian rowing heads
have meekly borne the criticism of their
Derwent course for the inter-State eight-
oar championships in May (B. 27/12/’33),
but at last the worm has turned with
bared teeth and thrown down the gaunt-
let, so to speak. Its delegate informed
the A.R.C. the other day that every
course in Australia on which the race
was rowed had been unfitted at one time
or another for racing by rough weather,
the same applying to the historic Putney-
Mortlake run on the Thames. Because
the Derwent was rough in 1927, said
the indignant Speckshioner, that was no
criterion that it would ever be so again.
* * * *
“Kowloon”: The Australian Univer-
sities’ Rugby team got off the boat at
Hong Kong on its way to Japan and was
beaten 11-5 the same afternoon by a
Hong Kong side. The opposition included
players from the naval and military
forces, as well as the civilian. Hong
Kong has a Rugby Union of its own and
exchanges visits in the season with other
football-playing centres on the “Coast.


Protect Your Family!
If you have not made a
Will —then it is your duty,
to those dependent on
you, to do so without
delay.
This will save your wife
and family worry, ex-
pense, and perhaps legal
difficulties.
For absolute safety and
economy name The Union
Trustee Company as
Executors.
UNION TRUSTEE
Comptwi/ of lfusfra/ia f/rf.
400 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
AND FLINDERS STREET, TOWNSVILLE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
26th MARCH to 4th APRIL, 1934—NINE DAYS, SIX NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE:
(incluaing Trotting: Events) February IT
STEER RIDING COMPETITION February 17
CATTLE AND PIGS ] | |’ ' February 19
CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS February 24
XiOCxS A.ND CATS Fehrnarv
AG RICmTTJRE (other than Wheat), including FRUIT and
APICULTURE February 23
WINE February 26
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) February 23
DAIRY PRODUCE, EXPORT CLASSES (See Schedule for Classes) ... January 15
STUDENTS’ JUDGING COMPETITION t 0 February 16
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS March 5
HORTICULTURE (Separate Schedule to be Issued).
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
House G. C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
n
. h
.s
TO ENGLAND
Fortnightly
Two charming routes at your choice—
go by Auckland (N.Z.), Suva and Hono-
lulu to Vancouver, or by Wellington
(N.Z.), Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco—thence to England across
Canada or U.S.A. by luxury trains and
modern liners.
See picturesque New Zealand.... enjoy
the charm of the South Seas.... explore
the wonders of Canada and U.S.A. on
the most picturesque routes to England.
Tickets are interchangeable on both
routes, thus giving opportunity for a mag-
nificent round trip. Stopovers arranged
for any port of call.
Moderate fares, comfortable ships, modern
accommodation, faultless service.
ahp Union Lihei
Let us quote you
the most economical
rates for your trip.
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
’328 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
290 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
I\o
h
O/v
°<*U
EJj
The Ideal Australian Film.
Here are love, drama, comedy relief, senti-
ment and spectacle, all presenting a true pic-
ture o t Australia and capturing the national
spirit. Now set to work! ” — Scenario-writer to
director—any director.
List of Characters:
Dad (a sturdy pioneer).
Mum (his mate).
Lantana Liz, Sandbag Sal (their daughters).
shearer Sid, Drover Dave (finest types of
Australian manhood).
Rev. Mr. Meek.
Hon. Maurice Trafford (a nefarious remit-
‘ tance-man).
Dingo Dick (a rouseabout).
Mrs. Summer-Ilford (a scheming Society
widow from the city).
Goanna Gert (a black gin).
THE action takes place on Dad’s hold-
ing, Warrumbidgee, in the Dead
Heart of Australia. Time, the Pre-
sent. Drought has scourged the land and
Dad has become financially embarrassed.
Dawn is breaking over the saltbush
plains. In the distance, eagerly scanning
the horizon for a raincloud, can be seen
Dad and Mum.
Dad : “Five, years, come next month,
old girl, since the last drop fell. It’s
tough.”
Mum: “Tough’s oke.”
[Scenario-writer to Director: “Dia-
logue should be reduced to a minimum.
It is action that is wanted; moreover, if
there is much dialogue, it makes it much
harder to get actors.”]
Close-up of Dad, bearded and fur-
rowed, sternly pulling himself together
after his momentary faltering over the
prolonged dry spell. He takes a stick
and, with shoulders set square, strides
off to measure how much water is left
in B dam.
Close-up of Mum, inside the humpy,
hard at work on the damper that
has made her daughters Lantana Liz and
Sandbag Sal the strapping girls they are.
Mum is silver-haired and her face is set
in a beautiful resignation, which changes
to gay animation at the biennial visit of
the mailman, who brings last year’s
drapery-store catalogues and calendar.
While Mum is turning the damper, a
carpet-snake unwinds itself from one
of the cross-beams and glides down
the wall just by her arm. Noticing it,
she lifts a gun from the armory on the
wall near by (there are several, always
ready loaded, in case of attack by
marauding blacks), empties a barrel of
shot into it and unconcernedly carries on
with her damper. Carpet-snake wriggles
off to die at sunset.
A terrific noise of shouting, barking
and stockwhip-cracking is heard outside.
An exterior set shows Lantana Liz and
Sandbag Sal riding in from the morning’s
mustering. Lantana Liz is astride an out-
law ; a few shots should be shown to dis-
play her skill as a buckjump-rider. She is
the elder of the girls ; a thick-set, horny-
handed, twelve-hour-in-the-saddle girl of
viiom Australia may well be proud.
Sandbag Sal, so nicknamed because she
is somewhat rough in manner and speech,
but with a heart of gold underneath, is
a fit younger sister for Liz.
Goanna Gert enters, and asks them for
a refill of tobacco for her pipe. Liz
good-humoredly cracks her with her
stockwhip.
Enter Shearer Sid and Drover Dave,
two magnificent specimens, both stand-
ing well over six feet. They make love
to the girls. All four are extremely bash-
ful and shy. There is much giggling and
wriggling from one foot to another, the
scene closing when Sid, during a moment-
ary lull in the giggling, plants a hearty,
open-spaces kiss on Liz’s cheek. Liz
coyly swings round and gives him a ter-
rific clout which pushes him over the
fence into the pigsty.
Close-up of Sid in the sty. [Scenario-
writer: “Keep it going for five minutes
at least.”]
Rev. Mr. Meek rides up on a camel.
He is on his annual visit to take tea with
Mum. Close-up of Rev. Mr. Meek jug-
gling his teacup and saucer and damper.
On departing he is shown having trouble
in mounting ; he is thrown a few times.
[Scenario-writer : “Sure laughs here !
Besides, introduction of camel as one of
our modes of transit will be invaluable
propaganda when film is shown abroad,
and may influence big-game hunters to
come here.”]
Hon. Maurice Trafford arrives. He
is dressed as the typical Englishman:
beautifully-cut riding-breeches, topboots,
monocle and cravat; in other words,
exactly as all the men of the Strand and
Piccadilly are attired. Dad has mortgaged
his property to him, and he has come
to foreclose. There is a heated exchange
between him and Dad.
Mum—her hair looking more silvery
than ever —pleads with Hon. Maurice
Trafford on Dad’s behalf. She points
out to him that he must have had a
mother. Hon. Maurice Trafford admits
it, but remains adamant.
Sudden entry of Mrs. Summer-Ilford.
(How or why she came there doesn’t
matter, as the audience is there to be
entertained, not bored with logic.) Mrs.
Summer-Ilford conceives a passion for
Drover Dave ; he is a refreshing change
from gigolos and lounge-lizards. To get
him away from Sandbag Sal, she sug-
gests taking that young woman to Syd-
ney, assuring Dad and Mum that after
three years in a School of Deportment
Sal would be the reigning toast.
Dad and Mum, Liz and Sal, with Mrs.
Summer-Ilford and Hon. Maurice Traf-
ford, leave for the city, taking with them
Dingo Dick. The rouseabout is dressed
in typical Australian style—corduroy
trousers, grey flannel shirt, big hat
and no boots. So thick has the skin of
his feet become, through years of tramp-
ing the bush, that the top of a beer-bottle
is embedded in one of his heels and he
doesn’t even know it. Liz and Sal have
white stockings, elastic-sided boots,
feather boas and straw hats.
Visitors are shown driving through the
Sydney streets in their four-wheelers;
pretending to throw themselves over the
Harbor Bridge ; smoking clays and drink-
ing out of their saucers at cabarets, and
cutting funny antics in box at theatre.
Hon. Maurice becomes enamored of Liz.
He suggests to Dad that for her hand
he would wipe off £5OO of the mortgage.
Liz knocks him out with one blow from
her whip. Then she relents for Dad’s
sake.
To help Dad, she makes a wager. If
Hon. Maurice, with two minutes’ start,
can beat Shearer Sid in the woodchop-
ping contest, she will marry him.
Mrs. Summer-Ilford’s plans have gone
awry. Sal refuses to stay in the city;
she insists on returning to Warrumbidgee,
where men are not city rats ; so back go
the whole party.
Comes the day of the Great Wood-
chopping Contest. Immense excitement.
Neighbors arrive from the near-by hold-
ings after rides of hundreds of miles.
Hon. Maurice, immaculately clad, is lined
up with Sid and the other contestants.
Sid shows his mighty prowess as an axe-
man, getting through his log in four or
five swings. Hon. Maurice, for his
part, swoons before his log is severed,
and Liz is saved from the supreme sacri-
fice.
Dingo Dick, who has been eavesdrop-
ping, has informed Sal of Mrs. Summer-
Ilford’s plot. Dramatically Sal confronts
her with it and challenges her to a wood-
chop. Protesting, Mrs. Summer-Ilford is
forced into the ring by excited onlookers.
She reaches for her axe, clad in shorts
and brassiere. Sal rolls up her sleeves
and spits on her palms. She, too, gives
her opponent two minutes’ start, but it
is another triumph for her.
Sal: “Yes, you women from the city,
who look down on us girls of the bush.
Which is the better woman now ?”
Hon. Maurice, infuriated, meets Dingo
Dick by moonlight. He bribes Dingo
Dick to set fire to the property, by way
of revenge. Follows Great Bushfire
Scene. All except Hon. Maurice lend a
hand to save the homestead. Hon.
Maurice is trapped in the flames and
burnt to death. Dingo Dick falls on his
knees before Dad and confesses. Dad
magnanimously pardons him, and Dingo
Dick joins the fire-fighters with renewed
vigor.
Suddenly the skies grow dark. A
storm is approaching. The rain falls in
torrents and puts out the Great Bushfire.
The English villain has been killed, the
drought has broken and Dad is saved.
The lovers go off in pairs. Dad and
Mum, arm in arm, gaze at the creek
running a banker.
Dad: “We can carry on now, Mum.”
Mum: “80, you’ve said it.”
FADE-OUT. FINIS.
CHARLES DEARDEN.


LYS
InfFS
A
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
I i
V
I I
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
RYELAND SHEEP.
“Murrawong”: Although the Ryeland
has been a success in Victoria and S.A.
for many years, its merits have been
overlooked further north until recently,
when its rise to favor among fat-lamb
breeders has led to the transfer of the
leading stud of the breed from Victoria
to Wagga. Rams acclimatised in that dis-
trict should do well anywhere in N.S.W.
and Queensland. The Wagga stud has
been built up from selected M.L. and
English stock and has been further
strengthened by periodical purchases of
champion prize-winning rams at the Eng-
lish Royal Show, the grand champion of
1933 being the latest importation.
The Ryeland is a Downs type, a prime
favorite with exporters. Besides hav-
ing the good points of the Southdown in
shapely joints and quick maturity, it is
highly resistant to footrot, and has a
white face and points and a much
superior fleece. The wool is of 56’s
quality, and samples grown near Canberra
show good length and a distinctive,
attractive crimp not usually associated
with English short-wool breeds. The
lambs are ready for marketing at nine
to ten weeks. Three-month lambs have
gone 901 b. live weight.
A feature of the Ryeland cross is
that the progeny will carry over without
becoming unshapely, a. fault that has
hitherto told against other Downs types.
LIGHT LANDS IN W.A.
“A.G.T.”: With the continued low
price for wheat, to continue farm-
ing much light, poor W.A. wheat-
lands is sheer madness. The man
getting eight bags per acre can struggle
on with the hope of better prices, but
slightly better prices cannot help the man
who is growing two or three bags. His
case can be mended only by building up
the land so that it will produce more —-
which often is impossible.
Wheat-growing should be stopped
immediately on this poor country, and
left to those who can produce the high
yields. The country should be rabbit-
netted and the rabbits taken in hand.
Then the water supply should be looked
to and an area (say, 200 acres) of the land
sown with super, and South African
perennial veld grass. This grass will
provide green feed during summer
months, but would need feeding judi-
ciously.
The land should then be stocked with
sheep—cautiously and not heavily. A
further area would be sown each year
with grass, in time covering the whole
farm.
I am going to try this system this year.
The only likely snag may be the rabbits,
which may give trouble, with green feed
all the year round.
The alternative is: let the places go
back to bush and the occupiers drift to
the dole army, leaving the mortgagees —
a whole army of them —to write off the
loss.
There is not much to be made out of
my scheme, but it will pay expenses till
better times.
MYALL AS FEED.
“Dimon”: Some graziers swear by
myall as a drought feed. Buttabone and
Bundemar stations (N.S.W.) have large
plantations of it. At one time it was
plentiful over wide areas, but thousands
of trees were cut down for stock, instead
of being lopped, and felled for the tim-
ber, which is hard and heavy, like bone.
It was largely used for making stockwhip
handles.
Though the myall is only a small tree
and of poor shape, it produces a large
quantity of foliage, which is readily eaten
by sheep and cattle. Next to mulga, it
is the best of the acacias for fodder pur-
poses. It likes good soil, and to propa-
gate it the hard seeds have first to be
steeped in hot water. The usual proce-
dure is to sow the seeds in cardboard pots
or in cornstalk or bamboo tubes, and
put these in the ground where the tree
is to grow, and when the plant is three
or four inches high.
In some places, instead of destroying
the trees or lopping them, the leaves are
flogged off in bad times with long whips.
But lopping improves the shape and den-
sity of the top, and the woody part is
good fuel.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
“Bahb Dwyer”: Queensland Royal
National Association, which always has
aspired to be something more than
merely the body which runs the annual
show, is out with a pasture-improvement
scheme. Prizes are offered to encour-
age cockies to clean their pastures of logs
and stumps, treat them with renovating
harrows, top-dress and plant them with
recommended grasses, and subdivide
them into conveniently-sized paddocks,
to be grazed in rotation.
Young grass contains a minimum of
fibre and a maximum of protein and
minerals, making for better all-round
stock and farming methods.
In the R.N.A. competition there are
all premiums and no blanks, for com-
petitors who do not win a prize will gain
payable experience in pasture manage-
ment, which is vital to success in dairy-
ing as in grazing.
CROSSING THE ABERDEEN-ANGUS.
“Circle Dot”: “Beefo” (B. 17/1 /’34)
advocates the introduction of these bulls
into the Shorthorn herds of n.-w. Queens-
land. It depends on what he wishes to
do with them. If he proposes wholesale
cross-breeding, which would leave stations
populated in ten years by half-and-half
stock, what he advocates means disaster.
Crossbreeding can only be undertaken
where the whole progeny, male and
female, can be marketed for slaughter.
The big herds must stick to a pure breed,
and the Shorthorn has won its place as
the animal for this class of run because
of its ability to hold its type without
“running out,” as most other breeds of
cattle do unless there is constant and heavy
culling and change of blood. On one
Queensland run some years ago, the end
of the type of crossbreeding proposed by
“Beefo” was the complete clearance of
the stock on the run and the reintroduc-
tion of a pure breed. I took 1000 three-
year-old bullocks from one draft into
northern N.S.W. for sale, and such a
mob of flat-sided, bottle-rumped brutes I
hope never to handle again.
“Beefo” says a Shorthorn tied for second
place at the Smithfield Show. This bears
out the old cattlemen’s view: “A well
bred S.H. on good country will hold its
own with any beast.” The proper place
to breed crossbreds is on a small hold-
ing where the dams can be changed by
buying as age depletes their numbers
and where all the progeny can be mar-
keted as fats.
The big N.Q. runs will supply the
dams as they cull for age, and a breeder
culled for age from a big herd is the
best breeder for a small man. She has
stood the critical eye of the culler at
home for probably four seasons.
RED-POLL VIRTUES.
“Apollo”: “Debenham” (B. 10/1/’34)
was sound in his remarks on Red Polls,
but he omitted to mention two essential
characteristics of the breed.
Firstly, the R.Ps. are of a color which,
in addition to its suitability for a tropitdl
climate, is right for crossing with any
pure or crossbred beast.
Secondly, being a dual-purpose beast,
where crossed with other breeds they
will infuse a supply of milk —a considera-
tion neglected in a number of herds for
many years, mainly through the foster-
mothering of calves.
OVERPRODUCTION.
“Hatter”: England, having reorgan-
ised her pork and bacon industry and es-
tablished a pig-recording system, can now
closely approximate the Danish scale of
production costs.
As, however, Denmark’s largely in-
creased output in 1932 was sold in Eng-
land at about 40 per cent, below cost,
England recently limited the importation
of Danish bacon to about 105,000 pigs
per week.
Denmark was thus faced with the dif-
ficult problem of limiting production.
Her scheme is ingenious. It includes
the fixing of two price-levels—one for
pigs up to a definite number per month,
and a lower one for pigs in excess of that
number. Her own consumption is esti-
mated at 20,000 pigs per week. Any pigs
in excess of some 125,000 per week must
therefore find new markets.
Legislation prohibits the slaughter of
baconers except in controlled slaughter-
houses. Each month cards are issued to
producers supplying baconers which will
entitle them to a definite number of sales
at the higher rate. For pigs delivered
without cards, the lower price is paid.
While each producer will be able to
reckon on the “export price” for a certain
number of pigs, those who cannot pro-
duce profitably at the lower price, and
who fail to reduce their output, will pay
the penalty themselves instead of depress-
ing the market for everyone. It sounds
a reasonable attempt to meet the diffi-
culty.
Canada and the U.S.A. in the past have
endeavored to regulate prices by the
operations of organisations that bought
immense quantities of wheat and other
commodities to avoid their being thrown
on a glutted market. The disastrous results
do not seem to have prevented our poli-
ticians from light-heartedly embarking on
a similar scheme and promising the
farmers to buy their surplus wheat this
season. In every country where this
policy has been followed it has proved a
ghastly failure.
CANADA’S BUTTER-FAT VICTORY.
“Bahb Dwyer”: The loss of the
world’s butter-fat record is more serious
to Australia than that of the cricket ashes,
but “Casein” appears to suggest (B.
10/1 /’34) that “elaborate and costly feed-
ing” was mainly responsible for the
Canadian cow’s triumph.
The potential productive capacity of
cow, hen, sheep or other animal is de-
termined solely by breeding and constitu-
tion, which are also the only factors gov-
erning the butter-fat percentage of a
cow’s milk. Whether the full potential
productivity is ever reached is determined
by the management, feeding and all-
round skill of the husbandman. No
amount of “elaborate and costly feeding”
would make a record-breaker of any kind
of animal that didn’t possess the inherent
ability to convert a maximum percent-
age of fed material into maximum milk
of high fat yield.
The concentrate mixture of bran, oats,
gluten meal, oilcake and soya-bean meal
fed to the new champion couldn’t be
termed “elaborate and costly.” All these
ingredients are cheap enough in Canada
and could be fed to Australian cows
quite economically. The mixture, as de-
tailed by “Casein,” would yield a little
less than 20 p.c. crude protein, and the
usual allowance of such a mixture, fed
with medium quality roughage, is lib. for
every of milk produced. There is
no cramming about the daily allowance
of 241 b. to a cow averaging 521 b. of milk.
Plenty of Australian dairymen feed 81b.
of a grain mixture of equal monetary and
nutritive value to 4001 b. cows and show
a profit on it. Why cavil at 241 b. to a
13001 b. cow?
Anyway, there’s no disgrace in being
beaten by a cow with an average 6.9 test.
BUTTER OVERPRODUCTION?
“R.G.R.”: With Australian butter sell-
ing at unprecedentedly low prices in
London and the local market moving
even more sluggishly than usual, dairy-
men are now face to face with one of
those crises that are experienced periodi-
cally in every primary industry.
Panic-stricken, many dairymen advo-
cate restriction of production as a solu-
tion, or, alternatively, restriction of ex-
ports (no suggestion has been offered as
to what should be done with the sur-
plus, however).
Any man of average intelligence who
applies himself with an open mind to
the question must realise that Australia’s
trouble is overseas. Great Britain has a
population sufficient to absorb ten times
the amount of butter Australia can pro-
duce at present. In vitamin content and
in flavor Australian butter is the equal
of any in the world, yet for some reason
—and there must be a good reason —
British consumers show a marked pre-
ference for Danish, despite the fact that
it is dearer to buy.
Some Australian butter sells in London
in a haphazard way. No attempt is made
to test the provincial markets properly,
and there is no financial institution inter-
ested and strong enough to go over the
(Continued on page 30.)
A WEEKLY PRIZE FOR A HINT.
Hints for farmers have always been a popular feature of the Man on
the Land Page, and the little volume of them published by “The Bulletin”
has had a wide sale.
Lately, the supply appears to have dried up somewhat, and in order to
encourage a renewal of the flow “The Bulletin” has decided to offer a regular
weekly prize.
In addition to space rates, which will be paid for all hints published,
£l/1/- will be paid for the best hint of the week.
Hints should not exceed 100 words in length.
Every land man has some method or contrivance about his place calcu-
lated to make work easier or farming more profitable. Give the other chap
a chance to benefit by your experience through the Man on the Land Page.


m
. ■: s
IF
m
m
1111 l
H
H
;
1
'* : di|®flli
\ ffljsß
Wm
■
II
■
H
d#
* r
V ■
m
mm
■ :• ':•':
ids
m
mm
■■■.?.
./' ,# >*
gWWKiIi
diiK
W
B«iB&
HHHk
. .
:
'
a
.
r ..*m
■
RBI
;
■KTJSi I
llFtll
r
:-x-d
I n ;
Slßli
V'
9
mmm
9
1
m
/
X
\
/
k!l
FOR BETTER RADIO


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
p.m
HS
mm;'.*
y-i'M
ZM
&
SCHUTE
BKIULCS,
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
CHEAP POWER
AT 29 AN HOUR.
r
DIESEL
» TYPE
CRUDE OIL
ENGINE
Starts, runs and re-starts on
Crude Oil.
Send for illustrated literature to the
Sole Distributors: —
N.S.W.: The Purifier Dairying Equip-
ment Co., Ltd., 113 Pitt St., Sydney.
VIC.: Webb Bros. Pty., Ltd., 284-294
City Road, South Melbourne.
Q’LAND: Motors Pty., Ltd., Wickham
Street. Brisbane.
S. AUS.: Adelaide Car & Tractor Co.,
Ltd., Cnr. Morphett and Waymouth
Streets, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY. LTD.
BRI S BANE
HAMILTON
VACCINE for
MAMMITIS
Tried, Tested and Proved
during the past ten years. It
has proved beyond criticism its
superiority over everything else
for the prevention of Mam-
mitis.
Write for a free copy of 16-pp.
Booklet describing the different
types and methods of treat-
ment of this disease.
HAMILTON PTY. LTD.
608 Harris Street, Sydney.
Postal Address : Box 225, Haymarket.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
'HTT
No. 130
THE
“STOCK
RIDER,”
£5/2/6
BARE.
Leathers, 67-
Girth . . 5/-
Good N.P.
Irons ... 6/6
Complete £6
Freight paid for cash on
N.S.W. railways.
THE “STOCKRIDER” is exceptional
value for an inexpensive station saddle,
with its comfortable pigskin seat and good,
firm capped kneepads. Write for our
Catalogue and see our Big Range of
Saddles.
No. 300.—HAIR SADDLE CLOTH. Pre-
vents sore backs, 21/-. Post, N.S.W., 1/6
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mining.
WANTED. —Mining and Metallurgical Engineer
with initiative required by sound and well-
established Gold-mining Company in the East.
Applications are invited from competent men
available to accept offer of appointment. Appli-
cants must be well experienced in lode mining,
and supply full information supported by testi-
monials and personal references. Liberal salary
to suitable applicant. Address reply to “GOLD
MINE,” C/o GORDON AND GOTCH
(A’SIA), LTD., Brisbane.
Support the Sydney Auction Sales
THE WORLD’S BEST ORGANISATION
FOR THE SALE OF WOOL.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT&Co.Ltd.
SYDNEY
5 Macquarie Place, Sydney
WILL GIVE YOUR CLIP EXPERT ATTENTION IN EVERY
DETAIL AND SECURE THE FULL MARKET VALUE.
LIBERAL ADVANCES MADE AGAINST WOOL AND
STOCK.
WRITE FOR MARKET REPORTS.
WE SPECIALISE IN STATION SUPPLIES.
WOOL - PRODUCE - STOCK
Telegrams:—GOLDSßßO Box 484 AA G.P.O.
heads of those who now maintain the
present purchasing policy at our expense.
Let us stop weak howling about over-
production, and find some profitable way
of disposing of what we have produced.
Having found it, let us produce more and
more butter. We must go forward and
not back.
BREEDING WALERS.
“J.A.S.”: “The Breaker” (B. 3/l/’34)
talks nonsense when he avers that “the
best sire in the world would never get
anything except a waster if put to a non-
descript mare.” The mating of a good
thoroughbred sire probably wouldn’t re-
sult in the ideal remount type, but a
gelding so bred would undoubtedly be a
vast improvement on his dam, whilst a
filly almost- certainly, when mated with
a good type of remount sire, would pro-
duce the desired type.
“The Breaker’s” statement that “a
good class of mare will throw a decent
sort of foal to almost any sire” is mis-
chievous. The owner of such a mare
who sends her to anything but a really
good sire is doing a disservice to Aus-
tralia.
Our brood mares have slipped from
various causes, the main one having been
indicated in The Bulletin many times —
viz., the importation of a plethora of
English third-rate stallions which were
mated to all the best mares to the exclu-
sion of Australian sires. Progeny of
Windbag, Heroic, Manfred and others
will retrieve the position if owners of the
best mares (and even nondescripts) will
only keep mating them to the best
thoroughbred sires available. Let “The
Breaker” note that it takes only six
generations of “grading-up” (i.e., succes-
sive use of pure-bred sires) to convert a
nondescript into a 98.4 p.c. thoroughbred.
PROTECTING FARM MACHINERY.
“Lion”: Despite the high cost of farm
machinery one often sees good headers
and combines, etc., left lying in the pad-
dock in which they were last used.
In the long run, sun and rain will do
those two implements more harm whilst
idle than is done to them when in use.
Neglect is doubly silly because machinery
sheds are easily and inexpensively built.
Bush timber and the oldest of iron are
all that is required. They do not need
sides if a good wide roof is put on. When,
using old iron, put a sharp slope on it
so that the rain can slip off quickly.
As soon as a drill or combine is finished
with for the season, and while the residue
of accretion and contents is still un-
caked, clean the manure from under-
neath the stars, and “run out” any seed
still in it. Flush out with kerosene, especi-
ally if copper carbonate has been used to
dry-pickle the wheat.
Similarly with headers and harvesters.
When work is completed, open up all
the elevator boxes, clean out thoroughly,
and see that all the cups are empty.
Leave the bottoms open, as it discourages
rats. Pay particular attention to the
drum and concave, and see that they are
well cleaned, and that there is nothing
left in the spinal elevators. An easy way
is to open the bottoms of the elevator
boxes as soon as harvesting is finished,
and run the header, which, except for the
concave plates, will automatically clean
itself, with but little effort on your part.
Periodically revolve the working parts
of a header, and dislodge the rats, which,
if prevalent, can do a great deal of
damage to the woodwork, e(c.
Removing the comb from the header
(1) lessens the storage space required ;
(2) makes the machine easier to handle ;
(3) eases the strain on the frame, and (4)
eliminates risk of damage by other
machinery bumping it when being taken
in or out of the shed.
To protect waggons and drays from the
weather increases their life considerably.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.D.”: When you drench sheep or
lambs for the first time, take two or
three old crocks or, failing these, the least
valuable members of the flock. Give
them the right dosage, and if they are all
right next morning go ahead and feel
safe. I know a case where a farmer gave
his neighbor a drench for lambs with
worms. The novice did the lot, and
next day had the job of skinning three
hundred. Arsenic especially is so deadly
that nothing should be left to chance,
and the user should always test the
drench before giving it on a large scale.
“Mercury”: What you make of the calf,
in most cases, will remain in the cow.
Hand-feed the calves, with chaff or green-
stuff, while they are on the bucket and
the grown cows will take to hand-feeding
as a matter of course. If your calf-pad-
dock is poddy-proof there is less danger
of cows roguing through fences later.
If the calves are coupled in pairs—a
hobble-chain and two straps make the
best coupling—they are less likely to go
through fences, however bad, and coup-
ling gives freedom with restraint that
steadies down the wildest calf. Let the
children teach the calves to lead, and the
future task of breaking-in the heifers is
more than half done.
“Cow Cocky”: An old-time dairyman
in my district sticks his cream can into
a vat of water colored with ordinary
washing-blue, which he reckons keeps
it cooler. He beats us all for sweet cream.
“Teats”: The first place a banded milk-
can will leak, or the worst place to scour
the dirt out of, is the two edges of the
band, against the sides. Run a soldering-
iron round and fill up the cavity with
solder, for most makes leave that spot
unprotected. Always buy seamless cans
if you can ; they’re more hygienic, though
they do get bumped at times. Banded
are best for long or bumpy trips.
“Nypped”: Stretched half a dozen
strands of barbed wire over some special
fruit-trees and, judging by the skin left
behind, the flying foxes struck trouble.
A handy dodge is to set a few rabbit-
traps on the branches where fruit is thick,
tying with wire. Though the fox hangs
mostly to feed, he often clutches the trap
by mistake. He generally pulls out by
morning, but the scare acts like a charm
for that tree in future.
“Grunter”: To keep condition on a pig,
and often save his life in these hot days,
give him a liberal issue of water to make
a mud wallow. As the surf to a human
being so the wallow to Dennis. A hose
run over a sow’s teats before she goes
back to the suckers helps to prevent
disease. Heat-wave treatment makes pig-
keeping profitable, as the grunter is a
great sunstroke subject.
“Kariah”: Coal soot, sump-oil and a
little kerosene make a stencil ink that is
lasting and waterproof.
“Cooramin”: If the foundation blocks
of the haystack are laid on tin caps like
those used in Queensland houses, but with
a wider projection, the stack will be
mouse-proof.
“A.G.T.”: To repair the broken angle-
iron frames on harvester winnowers, take
a 3ft. length of -Jin. square-section bar
iron (there is plenty of this size oji the
scrap-heap, or on old drills and cultiva-
tors). Insert underneath the broken angle.
Clamp in place with U bolts with plates,
suitably spaced, placing clamps one each
side and close to break and other clamps
at ends of bar. Pull the clamps tight.
There is no need to remove any rivets
from frame. The mend will see out the
life of the machine, if done properly.
“Eureka”: Old sardine-tin keys bent
and nailed to the wall of the barn or shed
make good file and small-tool holders.
“Jersey”: Despite the low price of
cream on the Darling Downs (Q.) this
month (7d. per pound), dairymen with
well-bred herds are showing remarkable
returns. There are not many districts
where cows will return over £1 per head
per month. Here, for December, one
herd of 10 cows returned 295. each.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(‘Transferred from Service Department.)
How would saltbush fare in the Victorian
Mallee ? Rainfall here is about Min. 1 under-
stand there are some 120 species of the plant,
some altogether worthless, some excellent feed.
What are the species which provide the best
feed, and how would they get on in the Vic.
Mallee ?—9565.
Saltbush is at present producing good feed
in some of the districts of N.S.W. and S. Aus.
It even flourishes close to Sydney. In view
of its ability to give good feed under summer
conditions, it may have a place in areas further
south in which it is at present not growing.
A record of the S. Aus. work is contained in
the August, 1932, number of the “Journal of
the C.5.1.R.,” page 152. Later infor-
mation could be obtained from the Director of
the Waite Research Institute, Adelaide. Vic-
torian experiments, which were only com-
menced this year, consisted of sowing seed of
one species ( Atriplex semibaccatum ) at the
research farm, Werribee, and at the Mallee
research station, Walpeup. This species was
the only one available at the time, and is
considered best for grazing. At Walpeup ger-
mination was good, and the plant grew strongly
in spite of dry weather, being nearly 6in. high
where sown on loam or fallow, but shorter on
the sandy ground. But germination is difficult,
and great care must be taken in grazing during
the first year. Many attempts to establish
saltbush in Victoria have failed due to weed
troubles and over-grazing.
How to scour locks and dags, also short
lamb’s wool ? How to get grass seeds out of
such wool ? —9497.
Soak locks and dags in cold clean water
for 24 hours, occasionally agitating with a
fork or stick. Lift the wool out of the water
to drain off the surplus moisture; then rinse
in clean cold water. Drain once more, then
rinse off in hot; water, about 125 deg. F., with
enough soap to make a good, slippy lather, and
when clean drain off and dry on sheets or bags
in the sun. Lamb’s wool can be treated in the
same manner. If the vessels used for washing
can be fitted with perforated false bottoms a
better job will result. Scouring wool —for an
amateur —is a messy job anyway, and, unless
the wool is needed for cushions and mattresses
for the home, is not worth the trouble. Grass
seeds can only be removed by mechanical or
chemical (carbonising) treatment. If the wool
is coining to market, suggest you write Frank
Young. 22 King William-street, Adelaide, send-
ing a sample of the wool to be treated.


, “The Barrier Miner,”
Broken Hill.
Published since 1888 and circulating
throughout Broken Hill, the West Darling
pastoral country and many of the north-
ern parts of South Australia, “The Barrier
Miner” offers an unequalled service for
readers and advertisers.
Representatives: F. L. Wilson, 30 Car-
rington Street, Sydney; H. J. C. Boyd
McEwan House, Eittle Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; News, Ltd., Adelaide.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from .. 10/6
Meals, ala carte, from .. . 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager for full information.
Ml
; if fl
\
Conducted by WIN. FOWLES.
CARL YON’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 66/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. Please write
the Manager for quotations and detailed tariff
card.
WOLAROI
• _# •
Wolaroi College
Orange
Day and Boarding
School for Boys.
Preparatory to Leaving Certificate
Standard, SPECIAL AGRICUL-
TURAL COURSE, Commercial
Subjects, Woolclassing.
Excellent climate, 3000 feet above sea
level. Grounds, 50 acres.
Prospectus, etc., from—
STANLEY G. BROWN, M.A., B.Sc.,
Principal.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Is Money to Blame?
“Why are you so much opposed to the
Douglas Credit theory?” asks a corres-
pondent. “Aren’t you satisfied that the
present money system has failed, and that
any system would be better than that
which we are suffering under?”
The gold standard, it is admitted on all
sides, leaves much to be desired ; but our
money system has not failed us so much
as we have failed it. It has been shock-
ingly abused. The lure of easy money on
the Stock Exchanges, excessive profits
and prices, prodigal Government expendi-
ture and, above all, the waste of war —
n u mone y scheme can function smoothly
when these strains are piled upon it.
This page last week expressed the
opinion that the most to be expected of
any money system was the free inter-
change of goods and services. At present
the channels of trade are blocked (though
not altogether; there is improvement).
Hence idle men and idle money. The
blockage can be largely attributed to the
maldistribution of wealth, a result of
boom-time excesses and extravagances.
President Roosevelt is attempting to
control prices—and price-control is one
of the largest constructive efforts towards
stable conditions—or at any rate to raise
them, by a series of experiments. One
is depreciation of the dollar. This, un-
fortunately, seems more likely to result
in speculation than sound investment.
As soon as the dollar stops falling there is
likely to be a slump in prices, and there
will be a demand for inflation to put
them up again. Then the danger will be
that instead of a controlled rise there will
be uncontrolled inflation.
In its November circular the National
City Bank of New York is not opti-
mistic about Roosevelt’s managed-cur-
rency plan, which —let it be explained to
our Douglas friends—aims at reopening
trade channels. “There is universal agree-
ment as to the desirability of working
towards a stable price level,” says tbe
bank, “but most economists feel decidedly
sceptical as to the efficacy of purely
monetary measures to control prices.
Most all will agree that determined
efforts in the monetary field can be suc-
cessful in checking a boom, but there is
much less unanimity in the view that
purely monetary measures can lift a
country out of a depression. In general,
economists believe that the best way to
achieve price stability is by restraining the
booms which are the cause of the later
depressions.”
The last few lines, in fact, sum up the
opinion expressed by this paper for over
25 years, and expressed again for the
benefit of its Douglasite correspondent.
The Coal Trade
The N. S. Wales coal trade is one of
the few Australian industries which look
to the current year without much rise in
hopes. The average value of coal at pit-
head has been estimated at 12s. 2d. a
ton, as against 17s. 7d. in 1927, when
11,126,000 tons (valued at £9,782,000)
was produced, compared with 7,050,000
tons (£4,300,000) last year. Though an
extra 266,000 tons was brought to the
surface compared with 1932, production
for 1933 was valued at £76,000 less.
Values continue unsteady, and the price-
cutting of the smaller mines, whose costs
in many cases are lower than the larger
ones, has caused some collieries to favor
Government intervention.
It is hoped that the feeling of recovery
now evident in other industries will
eventually be reflected in coal outputs and
prices, and the expansion promised by the
B.H.P. Newcastle steelworks and sub-
sidiary interests should mean increased
activity for some collieries. If railway
traffic improves, so should coal consump-
tion, but the policy of extending the elec-
trified lines has hit the collieries. Oil from
coal is not only a technical possibility but
a success ; costs, however, are the bugbear.
idle Men and Idle Money
“Pitt-street” looks to the man:
So much is expected of idle money, but isn’t
the man the more important factor? Naturally
we are tired of the talk that he should work
for less money. In fact, it is quite arguable
that in a country like Britain Labor has
accepted too small wages since the Armistice,
and that higher rates are desirable while the
national debt is such a heavy burden. But
it might be possible, without disturbing the level
of wages, to give idle men work with part of
their wages deferred. Half, for example, might
be satisfied in p.ns., payable in five years’ time.
Evidently this scheme is not practicable,
otherwise it would have been put into operation.
But why should it fail? Would the money-
lender step in and buy the notes for cash at
a heavy discount, as was done with Savings
Bank books? Is human nature unable to do
its best at relief work? Obviously, to go
slow on a relief job would be natural—who
wants the job finished, anyway? Harassed
foremen have often asked zealous relief workers
how they thought a job could be found to-
morrow if they finished the present one to-day.
The temptations are enormous, and, unless some
sort of contract- or piece-rate is fixed, the cost
of such work would be so heavy as to become
a curse instead of a blessing to the employer.
It. is also clear that a clerk can do little
with a pick and shovel. Similarly, the pick-
“They say Roosevelt is going to use all that gold to depreciate the dollar!”
“Yes. Only the wealthy are able to look poor in the foreign exchanges these days.”
and-shovel man would be a poor clerk. It is
difficult to find jobs to fit the men; it is pro-
bable that they never do fit at first. The man
has to make himself fit the job. Nobody else
can do it for him. It seems impossible for the
best-intentioned employers to find jobs and offer
them as titbits on a platter. Something is
required from the men. It may be only the
will to work. But there have been thousands of
men filled with that will, and with initiative
and resource, yet we have failed to find jobs
to which they could accommodate themselves.
The most sensible, most economical and
simplest thing is to allow a single man a ration
valued at about Is. a day and encourage him
to scratch for himself. Failing this, give him
work at the legal rate and demand good value
for it. Otherwise he is really defrauding the
community which is putting up the ready cash
to give him work. He should at least give them
good value in return.
British Marketing
From a leading British provincial mar-
keting authority:
Traders here are unanimous that the
best way to market Australian products
in Britain is to develop direct contact
with the thousands of retailers in the
provinces, who now are compelled to be
your competitors because they cannot
get your goods. In Scotland, for instance,
there are 10,000 to 12,000 shops, and, ex-
cept when your official advertising
schemes are in progress, one can go from
town to town and in hundreds of shops
seldom, if ever, find a pound of Austra-
lian butter, whereas Maoriland’s product
is becoming popular, and is stocked in
over half the Scottish shops to-day.
Advertising is useless unless the house-
wife can get your products regularly
week in, week out.
The position is not as bad as it was.
The Clyde Trust has opened 50 new
trading connections in the past few years,
and this is where the new business comes
from. -Five years ago shipping from Aus-
tralia to Glasgow totalled 18 vessels,
only nine of which were refrigerated,
and in a number of these refrigeration
was shut off at Liverpool owing to lack
of cargo for Scotland. These 18 vessels
brought about 40,000 tons of cargo—
mostly grain. In 1932 39 vessels went
north, and 1933 established a record
with 52 vessels bringing 120,000 tons.
Despite this, only the fringe of the pos-
sibilities for your butter, meat, eggs,
canned fruits, has been touched, and the
northern port authorities are to-day liter-
ally crying out for most of these lines
on behalf of merchants who have the
field at their feet.
President Roosevelt’s momentous deci-
sion to devalue the dollar was in defiance
of a lot of American economic opinion—
the “preponderance of it,” to quote the
New York National City Bank. Accord-
ing to a report (before the devaluation)
by that institution, the economists
point out that there is already room for a
considerable degree of currency management
within the limitations of a fixed gold standard.
By virtue of their open market powers, central
bankjs can and do contract and expand the
credit base, depending on whether they wish
to check or promote a rise of prices. To the
extent that prices are responsive to monetary
influence, the ability to make credit tight or
easy as policy dictates is believed by most
economists to afford adequate scope for cur-
rency control without resort to the more radical
step of altering the gold content of the stand-
ard of value, with all the attendant confusion
in the foreign exchanges and danger of im-
pairing confidence in the currency.
It will be interesting to see whether
Americans tire of the economists of Mr.
Roosevelt first. In the past they have
been strong for economists.
* * * *
The Australian (mainly Queensland)
record sugar crop for 1933, now estimated
at 633,000 tons, is not bringing much joy
to the grower. Finance is a bigger pro-
blem than usual. The Australian price is
down by £4 13s. 4d. a ton, and a much
larger proportion of the crop is beingr
sold for what it will fetch (about £8 ss. a
ton) in the world’s markets ; the return
here is about £1 a ton less than in . 1932.
The average price for raw sugar manu-
factured during the year will be lower
than at any time since 1914, and a large
portion of the year’s crop will have been
grown and milled with no return to the
farmer. Costs of production are actually
higher ; one of the blessings of the Forgan
Smith Government was the introduction
of the 44-hour week to the industry.
* * * *
“Cru”: There is every reason to hope
that the wine bounty, which is to be dis-
cussed by the Federal Cabinet this week,
will be renewed. Opponents have made a
catch-cry, as those against the sugar em-
bargo have done, that the bounty is a
burden on the community. Minister for
Customs White has ridiculed them by
showing that the cost of the bounty is
paid by the wine industry itself. Last
year £178,000 was paid in bounty. Against
that, revenue from the grape spirit used
for fortifying was £202,000, and there
was an additional excise revenue of
£171,000 from brandy.
* * * *
“Donk”: Recently Chinese agents in
N.S.W. tried to buy 300 mules, and were
willing to pay up to £25 a head for them.
A mule census showed that there were
only 72 of the beasts in the State, apart
from members of Parliament. Why Aus-
tralia has not taken to the mule as
America and S’Africa have done has
always been a puzzle to those who know
the virtues of the hardy, frugal brutes.
More than once attempts to breed them
on a large scale have been made, notably
in Queensland, but have ended in failure.
Possibly Australian horse-worship is
responsible.
* * * *
“Ilimo”: Papua has gone in for ship-
and boat-building in a small way for
many years, but its boldest challenge to
the Clyde took the water recently in the
Vailala River. This stream is in a sec-
tion of the Gulf of Papua famous for
its timber, and the Lakatoi fleets from
Port Moresby used to voyage there in
the old days for sago and new canoes.
The Papuan vessel is entirely built from
Papuan timbers, the only outland thing
about her being her oil engine. Fifty-
two feet long, she has cargo space for
300 bags of copra.
* * * *
Australian beef- and mutton-growers
have been heartened by the announce-
ment of a merger between W. Angliss and
Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., and the large Brit-
ish firm of W. Weddel and Co., one of
the Vestey group. Weddels and their
associated cos. are wholesalers and re-
tailers of meat and meat-products in Brit-
ain and other parts of the world. For
some time Weddels have not been
actively engaged in the Australian market,
though they handled large quantities of
Australian meat at Smithfield. The firm
has direct interests in Maoriland, Pata-
gonia and the Argentine, while Vesteys
have large grazing areas in the Northern
Territory. The Blue Star Line is con-
trolled by Vesteys ; it is to start a service
to Australia about October next, the ships
having special facilities for chilled and
frozen meat cargoes.


etf.a'
Ideal for
\bur Holiday
Melbourne and Victoria have a
big appeal to those of other
States for summertime holiday-
ing—the more temperate and in-
vigorating climate providing that
“toning-up” so necessary.
You’ll enjoy Melbourne, with its
well-planned city streets, beautiful
gardens, historic buildings, easily-
accessible beaches, scenic river
reaches, picturesque golf courses,
etc.; and, within almost the proverbial
stone’s throw, the magnificent moun-
tain scenery, fern gullies, good fishing
and shooting.
Stay at “Scott’s,”
Melbourne’s Most Central
Residential Hotel.
You’ll find at “Scott’s” comfort and
convenience, combined with the very
latest in modern hotel service.
Reasonable Tariff: Inclusive or
Room Only—Breakfast, Luncheon
and Dinner a la Carte.
t
Collins
Street,
Melbourne.
Garage
Adjoining
mm
m
m
FOR SALE
Freehold Leading Hotel, in
North Queensland,
STRAND HOTEL, CAIRNS,
situated on the seafront, adjoining the Post
Office, one of the best sites in the City, fully
equipped with every modern convenience, septic
system, hot and cold water, electric light, own
refrigerating plants, gas cooking, concrete sea-
water swimming pool, 10 large sample rooms,
big C.T.A., tourist, pastoral, mining and farm-
ing connection. Starting-point for Barron Falls
and Tableland Lakes. Annual average turnover
last five years £21,000, all bar and casual house
trade. Owner, licensee last 10 years, made
sufficient to retire. Price, £25,000, includes free-
hold and furniture. Immediate possession;
finance arranged. Further details, balance
sheets, etc.,
A. J. DRAPER PTY., LTD
Auctioneers,
Cairns, North Queensland'.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1674 of 1933.
BETWEEN GWENDOLINE IVY ARKIN-
STALL. Petitioner
And THOMAS FRANK ARKINSTALL
Respondent
TO THOMAS FRANK ARKINSTALL
TAKE NOTICE that the said GWENDO-
LINE IVY ARKINSTALL has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Eighteenth day of April One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-four and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of January, a.d.
1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
FRANK GRAYSON PARKER, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
P. & o.
LUXURY CRUISE AROUND AUSTRALIA
Calling at the East Indies
R.M.S. CATHAY, 15,000 tons,
will leave Sydney on March 21st for Melbourne, Adelaide,
Fremantle, Batavia, Sourabaya, Bali, Kalabahi, spending
9 days in the East Indies, and returning to Sydney on
April 27, via Torres Strait, Great Barrier Reef and
Brisbane. .
The voyage will occupy 37 days . . . passengers will visit
the Capital Cities of Australia .... see the most
picturesque parts of the coastline and the Great Barrier
Reef .... visit four of the most fascinating places
in the'East Indies, including the beautiful Island of Bali.
It will really be a luxury yachting cruise, as_ the entire
ship will be at the disposal of about 300 First Saloon
Passengers. • Accommodation will consist exclusively
of one and two-berth cabins with special bathroom-
cabins and cabins-de-luxe.
FARES FROM £7O
(Tree of Exchange)
Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton
& Co.,
247 George St., Sydney
P. & o.
Registrations are
now being
accepted.
Legal Notices.
TO CHARLES ALBERT EDWARD STONE,
born on the 25th day of March, 1869,
at Constitution Hill, in Tasmania, and last
heard of at Queenstown, in Tasmania, in
May, 1908, when you retired from the ser-
vice of The Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway
Company, Limited.
TAKE NOTICE that your sister MARY
BROWN, the wife of Samuel Brown, of Hobart,
in Tasmania, Gentleman, intends after the first
day of March next ensuing applying to the
Supreme Court of Tasmania that your death be
presumed and Letters of Administraticpn of your
estate granted to her. You, the said Charles
Albert Edward Stone, or any person knowing
the whereabouts of the said Charles Albert
Edward Stone, are requested to communicate
with MESSRS. CRISP & CRISP, Solicitors,
68 Collins Street, Hobart.
DATED this 24th day of January, 1934.
MARY BROWN.
Witness to signature:
H. E. R. CREESE, Solicitor, Hobart.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Position Wanted.
RECOGNISED sub., teacher—six years’ experi-
ence, desires position. Intermediate standard.
No. 259, Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Patents.
VEHICLE HOIST.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24322/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
STARTING MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
25171 /30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
J}
/>
83
T
$
-/V7
III':-:-:-:*?
Y-&
3 o Stimulating ~.
THAT "PLUS' SEHSATION/
Take towns in your stride . . . Not actually, of course ; for
that would be too much even for “C.O.R” Plus . • . But
that’s the Plus sensation—a feeling of smoothly flowing power
that makes old cars run like new and new cars glide with
silky ease and silence . . . Stimulating is the word.
M sU '°"
* Contains tetra-ethyl-lead, the
finest anti - detonating fluid
known to modern science . . .
ţ
lb
c«
OL BLUE PETROL
C66/16/34
r
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Australians as Horsemen.
“Circle Dot” comes back:
• “Second Divvy” (B. 24/1 /’34) changes ground
and descends to the personal sneer and the
heavy sarcasm which, to my thinking, weaken
any argument. Ignoring Sibbritt and Johnstone,
he picks Wootton and Carslake as horsemen
of a bygone generation; Carslake is still
a leading jockey at his weight. In my judg-
ment Pike, Knox, McCarten and Duncan are
quite their equals; Pike is the equal of any
jockey in my memory, which goes back to
Tom Hales.
Lewis and Scobie are simply repeating the
old-timers’ criticism. Compare John Porter in
“Kingsclere”: —
Where are the jockeys? They appear to be
diminishing annually. Compare them to the skilled
jockeys of 30 or 40 years ago.
“Second Divvy” says he knows the horseman-
ship of the drovers, and twits me with not
being able to ride over Rosehill and Rand-
wick steeplechase courses. I never suggested
that I could, and as I am verging on 60 I
am not going to try. But although he knows
our standard of horsemanship so well, he is
so ignorant of our calling as to refer to my
plant as my “herd.” He next refers to rip-
roaring feats of anonymous backblockers. No-
thing rip-roaring about them; they are done
day after day by men throughout, the scrub
country. The Lawtons of the Dawson, the
Wormells of the Moonie, the Gilhows of the
Weir, the Tooheys and Smiths of Goondiwindi
will do the thing I mentioned for “Second
Divvy” any day he likes to look them up at
their work of mustering in those localities.
Also I will back Miss Atthow or Miss Stirton
to draft and work a fast bullock against
“Second Divvy,” and I will lend him one of
the best horses that ever came out of Queens-
land.
As regards the Ashton brothers, I did not
refer to them as champion riders or polo-
players, but as horsemasters. In that respect
they proved themselves by the prices they got
for their ponies over the other side.
The horsemanship of a good bushrider is
as good as and—with the exception of the
military—of far more importance to the world
than proficiency in any of the branches named
by “Second Divvy.” Our mounted men in
Palestine and S. Africa more than held their
own with the English cavalry.
“Second Divvy” says that my arguments
prove nothing but the predilection of one Aus-
tralian drover for out-of-date skite. My view
is that “Second Divvy’s” arguments prove no-
thing but the rancor of a city-dweller for the
best class of Australian in our continent, the
back-country stockman.
From William Hatfield:
Any Australian stock-camp comprising men
who could emulate the feat classed as
ordinary by “Circle Dot” (B. 17/1 / ’34)
would be famed from Cape York to
the Leeuwin. The only man I could find in
all the cattle country of s.-w. Queensland last
year who would throw and tie a beast for a
shot in one of my films was Tommy Norman
(now nearing 50), of whom everybody inter-
ested in horsemanship has heard. The trouble
is that every Australian identifies himself with
those outstanding performers.
“Circle Dot” has been unlucky in his Eng-
lishmen. I never rode anything rougher than
an electric tram till I came here at 19, but in
four years I was riding horses in droving- and
station-plants that nobody else would get on.
Wave Hill is no suburban dairy farm, and an
Englishman was head stockman when I passed
through there last year.
The bulk of the work on stations is done
by very ordinary riders on very ordinary hacks.
The man who can sit anything is the local
Bradman. Give the horse that can root a bit
to the horse-breaker or the head stockman
is the general rule, or, better still, to the blacks.
Well, our black brothers are Australians, and
perhaps the correspondents are being ethno-
logically correct in their references. I have
not seen all the horsemen in the world, and I
don’t suppose I shall ever have the time, but
I am satisfied I shall never see anything much
better than abos. as a race. They get their
practice riding things white Australians won’t
get on.
Every country herding stock in the open pro-
duces "good horsemen. The Arabs, Tartars,
Berbers, Mexicans, Cossacks, Argentinians and
Texans all have to do the same class of work
on horses bred in similar conditions. Why
should Australians imagine they are the world’s
best?
“R.C.W.”:
Go to the cattle-runs of 30,000 head
and you will see men and horses that
can hold their own with any in the world. Our
horsemen saddle and ride the worst, and do
it single-handed. They go for a day’s sport
after brumbies: pick one out of the mob; race
up beside it; grab it by mane and wither; fetch
it down, and finish up riding it home. The
men that work among scrub cattle, in vine and
wattle, devil-devil and broken gullies, have
keen judgment and great skill. If they want
a wild bull they can get him with their hands
—and a useful nag.
As for roughriding, Alan McPhie settled
that argument when he went to America. Our
horsemen come from the back country, and
are still there, to take on anything that comes
along. But you don’t see them in show rings.
J. Rundle (West Coast, S.A.):
I do not wish to blow my own trumpet, but
as far as buckjumpers are concerned I was
only, once thrown; and I rode hundreds of
bad ones. I rode horses in Africa which
had thrown many Englishmen.
I taught my boy to follow me over big
fences when he was nine years of age. This
stood him in good stead at the war, when he
and I were members of the Bth M.G.C. J
(Vickers).
At Belton Park, Grantham (Eng.), in 1917,
there was a hunting competition in which 40
Englishmen and one Australian (my son, now
of Olive, S.A.) took part. After an exhaustive
test over a heavy course of jumps—doubles,
stone walls, etc. —my son won outright, and
he had trained and schooled his horse for the
event.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A Chinese Gentleman
“El V.” : The last papers from Rabaul
tell of the death of Ah Chee, who will
be mourned round the world. Old Ger-
mans, of the Hasag-Hernsheim era, griev-
ing in Hamburg for their lost estates in
the Mandate, will pause sadly to remem-
ber him, and hundreds of Australians
who knew him will join them.
Ah Chee kept the hotel opposite Ching
Hing s in Rabaul, on the corner of
Chinatown. Other hostels came and
went. The new post-war Mandate Ad-
ministration formed three clubs and a
“white” pub opened its doors, but “Ah
Chee s ’ survived. There was a large bar
on the ground floor and a dining-room
in which an old German musical box with
a peculiarly sweet voice played “When
Irish Eyes Are Smiling” over and over
again.
The hotel of Ah Chee was built of
wood and set on volcanic ground, so that
every sound in it was amplified. The walls
of its bedrooms, which opened through
French lights on to a broad verandah,
had been cut off a foot or so from the
ceiling for ventilation. Each room was
furnished with a specklessly clean bed with
a sheet and a mosquito-net, a washstand
and one chair. Bed is the coolest place
in Rabaul, and to lie there in the even-
ing a decade ago was a cosmopolian
adventure, for nothing was hidden in Ah
Chee’s. You could hear every sound in
the bar—the “prosits” of the sad exprop-
riated, the “Ludwig-two-bottle-beer-he-
come” of the Civil
Service, the arigata te
kamisen of the visit-
ing Jap skipper, the
lusty “Whisky soda
along King George—
quick-time” of the
arrogant police in for
their free “nine
o’clock”; the whis-
pered love tale on the
verandah ; the domes-
tic discussion three
doors down ; the sage
debate between com-
mitteemen as to
whether the salary of
you, a stranger, would
be £6OO a year, which
would make you eli-
gible for membership
of the Rabaul Club.
Somebody, perhaps,
would be playing a
concertina round the
corner, not loudly
enough to mute the
malarial sobbing of the sick Teutonic
planter just bereft of the results of his
life work.
Above all the medley song would rise.
German voices in the dining-room lifted
the roof with “Ein Pflanzer auf ein
Kiistenreis ” The musical box did its
best; the picture-show gramophone
across the road blared “Susie”; the
stewards off the Norwegian boat shouted
“Ja, jeg elsker dette landet” without blot-
ting out the insistent “You did,” “I
didn’t” of two Cantonese engaged in a
long-drawn quarrel in the street against
a background of native sing-sing wafted
across the hot kunai grass in the moist
square.
Through all the babel and turmoil
moved Ah Chee, never disturbed, always
gentle, kind and smiling. When the
young Australian girl next door fell ill
of fever and the oppression of the tropic
atmosphere, the little man was there in
person with cool drinks and comfort.
When the drunken sailors on the steps
at 3 a.m. were moved to wrath because
you threw water on them as they sat
singing “Ma,” it was Ah Chee who
arrived, placatory, pleasant, unruffled,
and, looking smaller than ever in a pair
of loose pyjamas, persuaded the outraged
mariners not to knife you and bum the
house down.
Fights in the bar, attempted suicides,
gouriers which seemed like to shake
Rabaul into the sea, oppressive ordi-
nances, cheeky coons —none of them
rattled Ah Chee. And the poor were
always with him. The German deprived
of his property by the fortune of war, the
shell-shocked youngster ruined by high
living, the gambling fool with the empty
pocket, the weakling taken in crime and
in search of bail, the hungry and the
thirsty, deserving and undeserving—all
patronised him. Paper and pencils were
cheap. One more chit would be added to
the pile in his little office with a gentle
“Some time you will pay me.” But
nobody ever did.
Ah . Chee was a legend through the
Pacific. He even got into the songs of
the colorful Bismarcks in the days when
“Willst du reich werden” was still sung:
Will you be wealthy? Down to Rabaul flit,
Stay at Ah Chee’s for months and pay by chit;
Fill up your sleeves with ace and king and
joker,
Then start indulging in a little poker.
Produce those jokers from your sleeve—be
stealthy,
And then if you aren’t caught you’ll soon be
wealthy.
A fortnight after Ah Chee died, his
flowerlike wife and his fine young son
did something on Christmas Eve which
must have pleased the spirit of the little
hotelkeeper. They gave a banquet in his
memory. Eighty people came to it. Men
of the old German time, civil servants,
white traders, Orientals joined in a party
which only needed the Absent Guest of
Honor to make it a representative human
historical gallery of all Rabaul’s past.
But I’ll wager that a good many of
the guests owed Ah Chee a lot more
gratitude than is represented by sitting
at a man’s dinner-table as the guest of
his estate.
“Waranbini”: Old King Jimmy, chief
of the Victoria River blacks, has for a
long time been wood-and-water joey and
assistant floriculturist at Wave Hill.
Being constantly about the house, he
always dresses in white man’s fashion at
work, but when there’s a chance of being
photographed—for a bit of tobacco—
“Not let ’er chop the wood? Why I’d trust her to do any blanky job on the
place!”
Jimmy slips into the shrubbery and
changes into his regal garb, which is a
tabby (a few scraps round the loins) and
some paint, plus a couple of weapons.
But best of all he likes to be shown in
corroboree regalia, which means more
paint and less loin clothes.
* * * *
“Awbeca”: Cardwell, a station on the
Sunshine route to N. Queensland, proves
to tourists that a spirit of competition
can survive the tropics. When the train
stops there for dinner, the Railway Re-
freshment Room serves a meal in the
teeth of fierce rivalry. Facing the railway
line is a row of small shops, in front of
each of which stands the owner vigor-
ously ringing a bell to call attention to
the fish lunch which he proposes to serve,
and which he symbolises with the largest
fish he can lay hands on hung outside
the door. It is like being in a Balkan
village, where this type of salesmanship
is normal.
* * * *
“Rastus”: St. Augustine’s Church of
England, Hamilton (Brisbane), has a bell
with a vivid history. The British Durham
Regiment acquired it during the war, and
somehow it found its way to Brisbane
and into the possession of a resident,
who presented it to St. Augustine’s.
The bell, which calls the faithful of that
correct suburb to prayer each Sunday,
did the same thing in Roumania as early
as a.d. 320. The Turks grabbed the
church in which it hung during the
Crusades, and thriftily used the same
bell to gather together the followers of
Mahomet. For over 500 years it tolled
for the Prophet’s flock, and now it is
back again in a Christian church, appar-
ently none the worse for its many adven-
tures. Whether the late Bishop Webber
would have approved of what must be a
“souvenir” is doubtful. A fanatical
member of his congregation, moved
by a spirit of fierce righteousness, stole
the candlesticks from a church altar pre-
sided over by a too-High Churchman. He
carried the incriminating things to the
bishop, who sternly bade him remove
them at once, as he (the bish.) was “not
a receiver of stolen goods.”
* * * *
“Juice”: Queensland’s R.A.C. is telling
the world that it will hold its “Motorists’
Week” from March 9 to 16. This is in-
tended to be a protest against the extor-
tionate taxation levied, directly or other-
wise, on Australian motor owners, particu-
larly the p.c. Federal tax on every gallon
of petrol used, a tax which hits the motor
owner only, whether he be a private- or
public-car driver or an owner of commer-
cial motor vehicles. In addition to the
ordinary taxation under which the general
community groans, motor owners contri-
bute millions yearly to the revenue in
registration and license fees for the mak-
ing and maintenance of roads from which
the whole community benefits.
* * * *
“Toondi”: It isn’t only as preachers
that our abos. sometimes succeed. Mit-
chell River Mission (Cape York Pen.)
has a woman native teacher—the first to
be successfully trained—who has been
at work in the school for 15 years. She
is a strong personality and known and
loved for hundreds of miles round. In
the Burnett (Q.) settlements there are a
number of native pupil-teachers. At
Woorabinda a small republic of 500 full-
blooded natives have their own farm and
Hereford herd, are governed by their
own executive council of nine, which they
elect, and administer their own justice;
the school, which 120 children attend,
is staffed entirely by Binghi except for
the head teacher. It should, however, be
pointed out that all natives are not equal
in adaptability to the C.Q. natives. The
son of Rev. James Noble, who despite
statements to the contrary is the only
full-blooded native to take holy orders —
the Strait people who run missions on
Mer and elsewhere are not pure abo-
riginal—has just been entered at All
Souls’ School, Charters Towers. He is
15 years old and is destined for the Uni-
versity and a theological college. He is
a splendid athlete.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: While nobody likes unneces-
sary capital punishment of natives, most
white New Guinea residents will hope
that the sentence of death passed by
Judge Gore on a policeman for assault-
ing a European child less than five years
old will be carried out. Assaults on
European females have become all too
common in Australia’s tropical Terri-
tories, and the interference of people in
Canberra, who do not understand the
atmosphere and the tight rein needed to
ensure protection for white women have
made the more severe penalties provided
by law a dead letter. There is another
aspect. The only way to efficiently
manage the native is to keep all promises
to him. Whether he is definitely given
£5 or a running noose there should be
no drawing back. He doesn’t understand
commutations of any sort and is apt to
read them as signs of weakness in the
Government.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: The difficulty of rounding
up the hordes of uncontrolled cats men-
tioned by “Felix” (B. 6/12/’33) recalls
the occasion when a large consignment
of catskins was shipped from Darwin
with the buffalo hides. The cats were the
domestic variety, which had multiplied
and become a nuisance from the time
the meat works were operating, many of
them being wild. Singapore Joe, a crack
rifle shot, was put on to exterminate
them. Joe shot cats day and night, in
all manner of places, and two or three
blacks helped with the skinning and peg-
ging out. No valued house pet was seen
abroad while Joe was on the warpath.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The news that Dr. R. W. Cilento has been
appointed Research Officer in Tropical Diseases
has caused a good deal of fluttering in Bris-
bane, which hates to lose a good man.
Dr. Cilento is a brilliant and attractive lecturer;
so the non-scientific love him, and the scientific
envy. His wife, Dr. Phyllis, is a well-known
children’s specialist and the guiding spirit of
a flourishing mothercraft society. She also
mothers very successfully her own brood of
five young Australians. The Lyceum Club, of
which she is a member, will miss Mrs. Cilento
sorely.
When Winifred Ponder stepped ashore from
the Ormonde the Lyceum welcomed her. Invi-
tations have descended upon this much-travelled
lady so thickly that it seems almost as though
she will have to hire a substitute to help her
work through the various menus.
Mrs. P. M. Hamilton, wife of the principal
of the Brisbane Boys’ College, is off on a
year’s trip abroad. She is sailing by the Jervis
Bay early in March with her two children.
No one has a greater passion for blue water
than Thomas Welsby, many times president of
the Yacht Club, and skipper of one of the
finest launches in the Brisbane River. Tom
is the acknowledged authority on Moreton Bay,
and every skipper of a pleasure craft possesses
a copy of Welsby’s chart. It seems fitting
that his daughter Hannah should be marrying
a seafaring man —Joseph Walton Williams, an
officer of the R.A.N., who hails from Padstow,
Cornwall (Eng.). The bride-cake was cut on
Jan. 27. The- elder Welsby daughter, Winnie,
married some years ago Colin Clark, elder
son of James Clark, Queensland’s pearl king,
himself the skipper of many a champion yacht.'
Joan Overell, the pretty daughter of the
Clive Overells, who returned last week from
Colombo, where she has been spending some
months, gave her girl friends who waited at
the wharf plenty to think about. To
begin with, the lass wore a ravishing trouser
suit of a kind totally unknown in Brisbane.
This created so much interest that for some
time they did not notice the brand-new circlet
set with diamonds which adorned the finger.
Joan designed the frock herself, which pro-
bably accounts for her winning the heart of
W. B. Thompson, a young Scotsman whom
she met in Colombo. Mrs. A. G. Fry, Joan’s
aunt, from San Francisco, who spends half
her time in Colombo, also was on board. She
returns to San Francisco later in the year.
Early February will see the wedding of one
of Brisbane’s most eligible young men —Neville
Henderson, son of the late J. C. Henderson
and of Mrs. Henderson, of Toowong. The
bride is a pretty Sydney girl, Joan Hamilton
Brownhill, daughter of the D. J. Brownhills.
The usual vows will be made in St. Phillip’s
Church, Sydney.
Joan Ferrier, a member of that handsome
Roma clan, is the latest maiden to announce
her engagement. The lucky man is Billy
Poole, and, as the news was given out at South-
port, where various Ferriers, Billingtons, Bas-
setts and Maynes (all Roma folk) are holiday-
ing, the westerners arranged a launch picnic by
way of .celebration.
May Holman, the fascinating, dark-eyed lady
from W.A. who is an M.L.A., and a very
smart dresser into the bargain, arrived in Bris-
bane last week. On Thursday night the mem-
bers of the Queensland Citizenship League gave
a reception in her honor at the Brisbane
Women’s Club. Winifred Burston, the Queens-
land girl whose piano-playing got her a job
in the Sydney Con., is up here on holiday,
and she played for the visitor.
Mrs. and Miss' Rallia Ram are still with us,
and are spending their time in visiting hospitals
and creches and in being entertained by vari-
ous organisations. The Queensland Auxiliary
of the Zenana Bible and Medical Mission en-
tertained the visitors at a social. Miss M. B.
Cartner, of the Vellore Medical School, who
is spending her furlough in Queensland, also
was a guest, and Mrs. P. F. Lanyon, for some
years a missionary in Bengal, presided.
Knight John Sandeman Allen, M.P., took
Brisbane and Southport in his stride, and
lunched with our vice-regals at Huntingdon,
their seaside summer home.
Everyone who could wangle an invitation
hurried off to the reception on the Karlsruhe,
the German cruiser. Flags and music and
pleasant-faced officers and tars made the func-
tion a jolly one. Brig.-Gen. E. M. Ralph,
with his handsome wife and daughter, Colonel
and Mrs. Lorenzo and their daughter, Naval
Commander McFarlane and his spouse, the
Lady Mayoress, Colonel and Mrs. Craven and
the German Consul and his wife and daughter
helped the Commandant (Captain Baron Hars-
dorf von Enderndorf) to receive. A ball also
was held on the Karlsruhe during the week,
Hilda Reber and a bevy of young German-
Australians arranging the affair.
Harry Bracker, who died at 90 the other
day, married a daughter of Richard Dines, of
Tulloona and Marewa stations on the Mcln-
tyre. Oldsters still remember Dick Dines as
a notable whip who used to drive his family
into Toowoomba each year for a summer holi-
day. Mrs. Bracker, Mrs. Malcolm McDougall,
sen., and Mrs. Willie McDougall (the two
latter are Toowoombaites) were daughters.
The Premier’s wife, Mrs. W. Forgan Smith,
threw a party at Government House in honor
of May Holman, M.L.A., all the wives and
other female relatives of the Parliamentary men
being there. Miss Holman wore an ensemble
of navy blue, relieved with striped green and
white marocain, and a cute black hat. The
Premier’s Jady received in drapings of navy
blue and white and a black hat.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. ...
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. . . .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
English nurse (Vic.) is willing to care for
invalid or children in return for part passage
to England.—9B64.
Young stockman (N.S.W.), with good horse,
would like job on station; willing worker.—
9870.
Youth, Sydney, plumber and metalworker,
with license, wants position as improver.—9943.
Lecturer, Sydney, specialising in talks on Aus-
tralian literature, seeks evening engagements.—
9919.
Advertising canvasser and share salesman,
Sydney, requires position.—99o4.
Young lady (25), Sydney, typist, newspaper
and publishing-office exp., seeks position with
city firm.—99os.
Metallurgist (25), 10 years’ exp., wants em-
ployment. Refs. —9888.
To buy copies of London “Sphere,” January,
1914, to January, 1919.—9894.
To buy complete set of Australian aviation
magazine “Slipstream.”—99o2.
To exchange other volumes of “Australian
Stud Book” for Vols. 11, X, XI and XII. Also
Vols. 1920, ’2l, ’22, ’23 and ’2B of “Australasian
Turf Register” for other vols. —9860.
To exchange biography of Byron for book
“Dogs and Their Ailments.”—9927.
To exchange “A White Australia: Is It Pos-
sible?” and “The Problem of the Empty
North” for other books. —9928.
Male voices required for massed choir of
300 to perform “Stabat Mater” in Sydney at
Easter. Rehearsals every Tuesday, 8 p.m., at
305 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Central Q’land storekeeper wants youth, 18
to 20, to keep books and type; must be good
at figures. Award wages, board and lodge
with employer; fare paid after six months.—
9958.
To buy “Lone Hand” for March, 1908.
9952.
Information Supplied.
9690. —The legendary station to which the
location of tall stories told by shearers and
cattlemen for the education of newchums was
ascribed was “on the Speewar.” It was
“where the crows fly backward to keep the
dust out of their eyes,” “where they make tea
in a 10,000-gallon tank,” “where they raise
the sun up with a crowbar,” “where the tarboy
rides round the board on a pony,” etc. —E.W.S.
Information Sought.
What was Bob Fitzsimmons’s height, and
how tall were those who succeeded him as
heavyweight champions of the world ? —9907.
Fitzsimmons was sft. 1 1 jin.; Jim Jeffries,
6ft. 1 j-in.; Tommy Burns, sft. 7in.; Jack John-
son, 6ft. 0 jin.; Jess Willard, 6ft. 6in.; Jack
Dempsey, 6ft. 1 jin.; Gene Tunney, 6ft. Ojin.;
Max Schmeling, 6ft. lin.; Jack Sharkey, 6ft.
lin.; Primo Camera, 6ft. 7in.
How to treat muscle cramps contracted while
swimming ? —9908.
These usually affect the muscles in the back
of the upper leg, the calf of the lower leg and
the foot. If the cramp is in the calf of the
leg, seize the cramped muscle with thumbs and
fingers of both hands. Squeeze the muscle
with both hands as though trying to force the
thumb and finger of one hand through to meet
those of the other. This usually relieves the
cramp at once, and it rarely returns. For
toe cramp, apply pressure on the nerve which
lies in the arch of the foot on the inside edge
about a third of the way from heel to toe.
Find this spot so that if you ever need to do
so you can locate it quickly. Press the place
with your thumbs, sliding them towards the
great toe. In any case of cramp, get ashore
as quickly as possible and proceed with mas-
sage if the pain continues.
Meaning of the term “beyond the pale” ?
—9961.
The “pale” was the name applied for some
centuries after the conquest by Henry 11. to
that part of Ireland in which English law was
acknowledged.
What is the origin of the name "silhouette”
for black pictures on white? —993l.
The art of cutting profile portraits from black
paper became fashionable in the reign of Louis
XV., and the cuts were named after Etienne de
Silhouette, the Minister of Finance to that
monarch. As the portraits were cheaply made
and executed by scissor-cuts, it is guessed by
some that a compliment to (or a condemnation
of) the Minister’s economical management was
implied.
Does snow fall frequently in M.L., and does
it interfere with railway traffic ? —9903.
M.L. is a country of high mountains, on the
upper levels of which snow falls every winter.
In the interior of the South Island there is a
considerable area of flat country which has
on an average 15 days of snow a year.
Snowfalls are less heavy on the coast, but in
all South Island provinces and in Wellington
Province there are> records of tramway traffic
being held up by snow. Railway traffic, because
of the heavier rolling-stock, is less subject to
such interruptions.
I propose to instal an old Ford motor in
a 20 ft. boat, s ft. beam, \ft. draft. (1) Size and
pitch of propeller ? (2) Any suggestions to
offer ? —9939.
(1) 15in. diameter, 3-blade, with a pitch of
22deg., would be about right. (2) Mount the
engine so that it will be level when the boat
is under way, making allowance for the boat
rising out of the water when travelling fast.
Fit some form of protection below the pro-
peller if the boat is to be used in shallow
water, and use a centrifugal or gear pump to
force the cooling water round the jackets.
Finally, run some of the overflow water into
the exhaust pipe, a foot or more from the
engine, which will help to muffle the noise.
(1) Who originated the theory of the origin
of the solar system in the Milky Way ? (2)
Briefly, what is the theory ? (3) Is it gener-
ally accepted ? —9859. ,
(1) Thomas Wright, of Durham (Eng.), about
the year 1753, but Tycho Brahe, in 1572, sug-
gested that new stars were formed by the con-
densation of ethereal substance, of which he
imagined the Milky Way was composed. (2) Ihe
theory was that originally the Milky Way was
the unit system of matter, and our solar system,
in common with all other solar systems (ot
which the stars are the suns), was evolved from
this nebulous matter. The theory later became
the basis of the nebular hypothesis propounded
by Herschell and Laplace. (3) It is not now
wholly accepted by astronomers, as the system
of the Milky Way is considered to be but
one of many island universes. Spiral nebula;
are believed to be island universes in the
making. '
/ intend forming a collection of postage
stamps. (1) Upon what lines should I pro-
ceed ? (2) What accessories would I require ?
“9937. „ .
(1) Depends upon the amount of time and
money you are prepared to devote. Collections
may be general; by countries or groups of
countries; Australian States and Common-
wealth ; zoological; historical; commemorative
and air mail, to name a few. You might
commence by forming a small general collec-
tion, after which you will be better qualified
to decide upon what branch of collecting to
follow. (2) A good general catalogue, album,
stamp hinges, perforation gauge and water-
mark detector. Become a subscriber to a
periodical such as the “Australian Stamp Jour-
nal” or “Australian Stamp Monthly.”
Particulars of Commonwealth Government’s
Australian film scenario competition ? —9763.
There are two prizes of £250 each, one for
a scenario containing Australian sentiment, the
other for a general scenario. British sub-
jects or persons who have resided in Australia
since July 1, 1932, are eligible to compete.
The scenario must provide for a talkie film to
run one hour to one hour and a half. Entries
must reach the Chief Film Censor, 9 Bligh-
street, Sydney, not later than December 31,
1934. Scenarios will be judged in accordance
with a scale of points to be determined by the
adjudicators appointed by the Minister for
Trade and Customs. In the event of two or
more entrants tying, the amount of the award
is to be divided equally.
Best market for giant maidenhair ferns and
other ferns for pressing and dying, and best
way of marketing ?—9665.
The ferns are picked and placed in bundles
of about 50, frond to frond,' and kept under
cover until dry. They are then packed in
crates of 50,000 to 60,000 for shipment. The
chief market is Germany. The Consul-General
for Germany could advise as to present require-
ments.
What is litmus, as used in litmus papers ?
How is it used to detect different acids ? Where
is it manufactured ? —9855.
It is a coloring matter, commercial form
of which is small blue tablets, consisting mostly,
not of the pigment proper, but of calcium car-
bonate and sulphate. Litmus is extensively em-
ployed by chemists as an indicator for the
detection of free acids and free alkalis. A
solution of litmus in water when exactly neu-
tralised by an acid, exhibits a violet color,
which, by the least trace of free acid, is changed
to red, while free alkali turns it to blue. The
reagent is generally used in the form of test
paper, which is dyed red, purple or blue by
the respective kind of infusion. Litmus is
manufactured in Holland from the same kind
of lichens as are used for the preparation of
archil.
Is the use * of the spelling "rhyme” prefer-
able to "rime” ? If so, why ? What is the
origin of rhyme ? —9978.
The spelling “rhyme” is the standard form.
The revival of “rime” is an affectation based
on erroneous ideas concerning word-origin.
The modern spelling indicates the origin of
the word —Greek rhuthmos, or Latin rhythmus.
What amount of unemployment-relief tax
is payable in N.S.W. on income other than
wages or salaries, and are small incomes
exempt ? —9BOO.
All persons whose income for the year ex-
ceeds £lOO are liable. For the purpose of
this tax the net assessable income is taxed:
5-12ths, at Is. in £; next £1 to £6O, at 6d. in
£; next £6O to £l2O, at Bd. in £; and any
further balance at lOd. in £.
Has M.L. a system of compulsory military
training ? If not, what training is given .to
its young men, outside the Permanent Forces ?
Terms of enlistment in any voluntary forces ?
—9909.
The Defence Act, 1909, provides for com-
pulsory service in peace-time in the cadets
from 14 to 18 years, and from 18 to 25 years
in the territorial force. Since Oct. 1, 1930,
the compulsory provisions of the Defence Act
have not been enforced; but if the Government
so directed they could, without legislation, again
be brought into operation. In July, 1931, the
forces were reorganised, and service in the terri-
torial force and cadets has since been volun-
tary. The only cadets now trained are at
secondary schools. Recruits for the territorial
force are enrolled under a voluntary agree-
ment to serve for three years. They may extend
their service up to the age of 32 years. A
further extension up to 35 years may be granted
to warrant and non-commissioned officers.
Anything known about Migual MacKinley,
painter ? Is it true that he is an Australian ?
—9938.
He was born in Guadalajura in 1895. His
father was a Scottish engineer and his mother
Spanish. He received his first art training in
Valencia, where he learned modelling. He
came to Australia with his parents when he
was 14, and attended Perth Art School in the
winter for life-drawing, and painted in the
bush in summer. He went to England to study
early in 1914, and so was just in time to go
to France as a soldier at the beginning of the
war; afterwards he returned to the study of
painting. He exhibits with the Royal Academy,
the New English Art Club and the London
Group. He has also made some book illus-
trations.
(1) Information concerning the manufacture
of artificial mottled marble; materials required,
and mode of mixing, etc. ? (2) Where can I
get names of Australian manufacturers ? (3)
Names of books dealing with the subject, and
where obtainable ? —9702.
(1) Generally prepared from the best neu-
tral Keene’s cement, but Sorel cement can be
used. Fibrous materials (silk threads) dipped
in a cream of the cement, colored to the tint
desired for the veining, are arranged on a
glass plate. A thin coat of cement, tinted to
the body color of the marble, is then poured
on the plate. The threads are picked out, leav-
ing some of their color in the place they occu-
pied. Dry Keene’s cement is then added, to-
gether with material, such as hessian, to absorb
the surplus moisture. The slab is then backed
with a further thickness of cement. (2) There
is a list in the Australian Manufacturers’ Direc-
tory. (3) Know of no book solely devoted to
the subject. Articles are scattered throughout
technical journals. There is one in the “Archi-
tectural Forum” for November, 1929.
(1) When was the Albert Medal established ?
(2) To whom is it awarded ? (3) For what
service ? (4) Description of medal and ribbon ?
(5) Are bars granted ? —9918.
(1) 1866. (2) and (3) Its recipients are ranged
in two. divisions, the one receiving a badge
inscribed “For gallantry in saving life at sea,”
the other with the closing words varied to “on
land.” (4) Each division has now two classes,
the badge of the one, distinguished as the
“Albert Medal in Gold,” having a golden
centre with a bronze garter around it, that of
the other being wholly in bronze; both are
oval, and contain an Albert crown and the
cipher VA, to which, in the Sea division, an
anchor is added. The suspending ribbon in this
division is of dark blue, with four white stripes
in the first class and two in the second; in
the Land division it is crimson with similar
white stripes. (5) Yes, for additional acts of
gallantry.
(1) Are any returned soldiers still being
trained for vocations under the Repatriation
Dept, scheme ? (2) How much has the voca-
tional training of ex-soldiers cost to date ? (3)
Number of men trained? —9929.
(1) No. (2) Expenditure from inception of
the scheme to June 30, 1933, was £4,849,616.
(3) 27,696.
(1) Does .the Commonwealth Repatriation
Commission act as agent in the paying of war
pensions for Governments outside Australia ?
(2) If so, number of pensions it handles p.a.
and amount disbursed? —9921.
(1) Yes, it acts for the British Ministry of
Pensions, the Dominion of N.Z. and the Union
of S. Africa. (2) As at June 30, 1933, 4986
British pensions, involving annual payment of
£277,343, 695 M.L. pensions (£38,338) and 70
South African pensions (£5026) were paid.
Also there were payments aggregating £207 on
behalf of Newfoundland, and of £144 on behalf
of Southern Rhodesia.
How much did each of the Australian States
receive in bounties for the year ended June 30,
1933, under the Commonwealth of Australia
Bounties Act, and how much was received on
account of each. bounty ? —9923.
N. S. Wales: Wire-netting, £8317; sulphur,
£15,844; wine, £7382; cotton yarn, £34,060;
gold, £JB64; wheat, £29,394; Papua and New
Guinea Bounties Act, £632; total, £97,493.
Vic.: Traction engines, £894; wine, £7182;
cotton yarn, £2925; flax and linseed, £412;
gold, £4095; wheat, £35,308; total, £50,816.
Q’land: Cotton seed, £56,182; gold, £1368;
wheat, £4B; total, £57,598. S.A.: Sulphur,
£24,115; wine, £162,084; gold, £1004; wheat,
£41,013; total, £228,216. W.A.: Wire-netting,
£630; wine, £1843 ; gold, £87,733 ; wheat,
£26,857; total, £117,063. Tas.: Sulphur, £6286;
gold, £4B; wheat, £187; total, £6521. Total
for the Commonwealth, £557,707.
(1) Technical qualifications of a marine wire-
less operator ? (2) Can the required training
be obtained in Australia ? (3) Chances of
obtaining a position ? (4) Where should I
apply ? (5) Salary ? —9830.
(1) The applicant is required to be in posses-
sion of a commercial operator’s certificate of
proficiency in radiotelegraphy and telephony,
which entails a knowledge of electricity and
radio-communication and regulations relating
to the exchange of radiotelegraph traffic. He
must be able to transmit and receive 25 words
per minute in plain language, or 20 words per
minute code. (2) Yes, at the Marconi School
of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney. (3)
Not bright at present. (4) Nearly all vacancies
are filled by old Marconi School students. (5)
£lO 12s. 6d. to £27 2s. 6d. per month, includ-
ing board.
(1) What is the difference between the radio-
tron 57 and 58 valves ? (2) In what portions
of the receiving circuit are they most frequently
used? (3) Normal operating voltages ?—' 9912.
(1) Both valves are of the 6-pin triple-grid
type with grid cap located on top of the glass
bulb, but the 58 possesses features which give
it special value in the R.F. and I.F. stages of
a receiver employing automatic volume con-
trol. (2) The 57 is designed primarily as a
biased detector, and it is also largely used
as an automatic volume-control rectifier of
the bias type. The 58 is recommended for use
as an R.F. and intermediate frequency ampli-
fying valve, and may also be employed as a
first detector in a superheterodyne receiver. (3)
Heater voltage, 2.5; heater current, l amp.;
plate voltage, 250 max.; screen-grid voltage,
100 max. (both valves).
(1) What is a cathode ray oscillograph ? (2)
How does it operate ? (3) Its chief applica-
tions ? —9906.
(1)'It is a kind of thermionic valve in which
the electrons are rendered visible so that their
movements may be followed by the eye. (2)
Briefly, the cloud of electrons emitted from
the heated filament is focussed into a thin beam
which is thrown on to a florescent screen con-
sisting of a layer of suitably prepared calcium
tungstate or zinc silicate. On reaching this
screen this high-velocity beam is stopped, and
its energy is largely converted into light. If
two deflector plates, located on either side of
the beam, are connected to a source of A.C.
voltage, the beam will be deflected on either side
of its normal path, so rendering visible the alter-
nating wave form of the voltage. (3) It is used
for indicating wave form and distortion in radio
and electrical circuits, and also in certain tele-
vision systems as a means of converting signals
into light pictures.
Brief Answers.
J.M.M.G.: (1) £9 p.a.; £3 per term. (2)
He must pass in six subjects. Out of the 13
or 14 subjects covered at the High School he
can select what he chooses, in consultation
with the headmaster... .G.H.: Write Divisional
Officer, N.S.W. Weather Bureau, Miller’s Point,
Sydney J.T.M.: Length of rope must be
approximately 316 feet. Problem involves use
of calculus, and working out is a very cum-
brous process H.E.P.: Write to Registrar of
Probates, Supreme Court House, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. Fee for inspection of will, 25.;
cost of a copy depends on length... .A.C.:
Lewis Carroll was the pen-name of the Rev.
Charles Lutwidge Dodgson J J.: C. aris-
tata and C. glycinoides are coastal species, the
former ranging from W.A. to Q’land, the latter
not extending westward beyond Victoria. C.
microphylla is found on the coast and inland
in all the States... .C.E.G. : In 1870 the pro-
portion of signatures made by mark in the
marriage register in N. S. Wales was as high
as 188.8 per 1000 of the whole, but the number
of persons who signed in this way in 1931
was only 59, equal to 1.9 per 1000 persons
married in the year L.G.: Yes, but it is
safer to have a solicitor, who will make the
necessary searches. Memorandum of transfer
form is obtainable from Registrar of Lands Titles,
Chancery-square, Sydney.... G.W.: Rudyard
Kipling married Caroline Starr Balestier in
1892. He has one daughter... .R.H.C.: Use
“Weedicide” A.C.: (1) Pars., from 2jd. to
4d. per line, according to section of paper in
which they appear; verse, minimum, sd. per
line.... W.M.8.L.: Write Chief Film Censor, 9
Bligh-st., Sydney W.T.S.: (1) Contributors
are answered under their initials. (2) Stories and
serious verse are paid for on acceptance; other
material upon publication and receipt of claim.
The only way of determining acceptance in the
latter case is by watching the paper
A.A.: Leonard Henry Puddifoot was con-
victed on Sept. 11, 1923, on a charge of man-
slaughter, and was sentenced to three years’
harcT labor 5.5.8.: Jacques Offenbach was
a French composer of 69 comic operas
who conducted performances of his works in
most of the capitals of Europe. Best-known
works are “Les Contes d’Hoffmann,” “La
Belle Helene,” “Orphee aux Enfers,” “La
Grande Duchesse” and “Madame Favart”
W.M.: He is not a salaried Government officer,
but is paid a commission on the amount real-
ised by the estate G.E.: Harding’s “French
Polishing” (Is. 6d.)... .G.W.: Cornish’s “Con-
cise Dictionary of Greek and Roman Anti-
quities” (425.) M.H.: The prospects of
advancement for lady graduates in dentistry
are at least equal to those of any other pro-
fession. Most of the 14 graduates are prac-
tising dentistry. One or two have married
since graduating... .E.W.J.: (1) Feb. 28, 1936.
(2) The Interest Reduction Act (1931) reduced
all interest by 22 j p.c., but not below 5 p.c.
J.H.: (1) The council should be notified
and the rates paid. (2) Yes; cost depends on
value, the rate being 15s. per £lOO or part
thereof. (3) Possession of the certificate of
title and receipt is not sufficient; the land must
be formally transferred from the old owner
to the new. Form of transfer may be purchased
at the Lands Titles office, Chancery-square,
Sydney G.E.K.: A patch may be stuck on
with tar, pitch or tyre solution; but there is
nothing better than stitching a patch with a
wide lap, the two surfaces and the stitching
being well waxed with hot, melted beeswax to
keep out moisture... . G.F.M.: Reply to 9595
was based on case 33, given to illustrate the
rules of tennis in the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis
Assoc.’s handbook. There is a distinction
between deliberately throwing the racquet at
the ball and an accidental slip... .A.M.: The
fares from Melbourne to Wellington are £l6
155., first class; £l2 155., second class; and
£lO, third class J.C.: East Sydney Techni-
cal College, Darlinghurst, or Sydney Art School,
Q. Buildings, George-street, Sydney
R. : “Newspaper News,” 30 Carrington-
street, Sydney A.L.: Binkenbar means “a
small tortoise,” Jungaburra “a spirit place,
Kindilan “joyful” and Murrenbong gcioa
camping ground.” All are Q’land aboriginal
place-names... .T.M.: Lionel Lindsay was
born on October 18, 1874; Norman Lindsay,
on February 23, 1879... .D.T.: Some pen-
sioners voluntarily surrendered their pensions
before December 31, 1932. In these cases
there is and will be no charge upon any pro-
perty for the amount paid on account of the
pensions so surrendered, nor will this amount
be recoverable in any other way from, any
person L.H.: “British Journal of Photo-
graphy,” 24 Wellington-street, Strand, London,
W.C.2... .M.H.M.: W. J. Baker, 3 Hunter-
street, Sydney, manufactures the metallic ear
tags for sheep... .M.H.: E. C. Booth’s ‘ Aus-
tralia Illustrated” was first published in 1874.
The engravings are of no special value....
H:G.M.: Write Mitchell Library, Macquane-
street, Sydney 5.8.5.: Peter Derek, Ltd.,
108 Charing Cross-road, W.C.2; Cary and Co.,
13 Mortimer-street, W.; and Chappell and Co.,
50 New Bond-street, W.l—-all London....
jP C : There is no table of ranking of the
medical degrees of British universities For all
official purposes they are equal.... E.H.: (U
No. (2) No figures are available. The great
majority are successful. (3) This is a contro-
versial question... .M.J.M.C.: The law has been
authoritatively expressed thus: “Every man is
bound to use his own property in such a
manner as not to injure that of his neighbor,
the law, however, does not regard trifling incon-
veniences, and therefore the injury, to be
actionable, must be such as visibly to diminish
the value of the property and the enjoyment
of it” A.A.8.: Relationship cannot pe
proved by blood-tests. A negation of paternity
can be proven, in that certain blood-groups
cannot give rise to certain other blood-groups.
LR.: The phrase “white man s burden,
coined bv Kipling, means the responsibility tor
the moral and physical welfare of the earth s
black races....N.F.A.: The “Rabaul
which was succeeded by the Rabaul limes,
was founded by Capt. J. S. Lyng, now in the
Federal Census and Statistics office....
A.D.D.: The Thirteenth Amendment to the
American Constitution abolished slavery, and
the Fifteenth Amendment gave negroes the
right to vote... .P.S.: Dr. C. H. Souter has
had published the following books of verse:
“Irish Lords,” “To Many Ladies” and “The
Mallee Fire” K.C.: Write Under-Sec., Dept.
of Agriculture, Sydney, for free pamplet on
the subject... .W.F.8.: See “Webster’s Un-
abridged Dictionary”.. . . R.P.T.: Australian
Press Cuttings Agency, 443 Little Collins-street,
Melbourne (Many others mailed.)


A GOOD SIGN
THIS TRUST HOUSE SIGN
is carried with pride by over 200 comfortable Hotels and Inns
of varying size, which represent each the best of its kind.
Whether it is your desire to stay in a large Hotel or in just a
country inn, or to enjoy the happy medium, you will be given
the same welcome.
The Best of English Fare,
cooked in the most appetising way, awaits the visitor to any
of the Trust Houses.
When you go to Britain always choose a Trust House, where
you are sure of perfect cleanliness and the best service.
Particulars of tariffs and full information may be obtained from
AUSTRALIAN AND OVERSEAS TRAVEL SERVICE PTY. LTD.
* MELBOURNE 334 Collins Street (F 3752)
SYDNEY 135 Pitt Street (BW6880)
TRUST HOUSES, LTD
All over
Britain.
/
rr
N.S.W.,
Victoria and Tas., Feb. 15 ;
South Australia, Feb. 14.
Heavy Load Cartridges
For Long Range Shooting
Loaded with
The NEW Neollak POWDER
When birds are elusive and can only be secured at long
range then it is that “ Neoflak ” Powder immediately
proves itself.
This wonderful new propellant for shot
gun cartridges makes it possible to load
1 k ozs. Of Shot in a IW Cartridge
assuring high velocity and hard hitting.
Without Excessive Pressure or Recoil
Use “Duxbac” & “ICIL Special” Cartridges
Loaded With The New “ Neoflak ” Powder.
assuring shooting successes whatever the conditions.
Both “ Duxbac ” and “ Icil Special ” are effectively waterproofed,
so that not only are all chances of “ lost ” birds cut out because
of their wonderful pattern, but water-spoiled cartridges are avoided
because both these brands are impervious to moisture or immersion
in water itself.
Ob'.ainable Throughout Australia
At Popular Prices
From Storekeepers
and Gunsmiths
o
/
EC
Cl
British Made
Product of the Famous “ NOBEL ” Factories
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bclt-etin, 252 George
Street, Sydney: or from any branch office—Melbourne,
Brisbane” Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
From China to Peru.
“Tenrag”: The world’s double-handed
sawing record of 12 seconds for 18in.
logs was broken at a Southland (M.L.)
sports meeting by the Fraser brothers,
who ripped through a white pine log in
11 4-ssec.
* * * *
Brig.-Gen. O. F. Phillips, appointed
Australian A.D.C. to the King, is an
R.A.A. man of pre-war vintage who
served in the A.I.F. in Gallipoli, Egypt,
France and Belgium. Fie is a son of the
late Dr. A. O. H. Phillips, who played a
prominent part in the early development
of the Warwick (Q.) district. To date all
of the King’s Australian As.D.C. have
been Queenslanders. The others were
W. A. Coxen, C. H. Foott and C. H.
Brand.
* * * *
A word from “Fleet Street”:
One of S. M. Bruce’s dislikes is for his
first baptismal name. His press liaison people
have more than once tactfully asked the Lon-
don papers to call him “Mr. S. M. Bruce”
and not “Mr. Stanley Bruce.” The heavy-
weights among the London press, with true
English abhorrence of Christian names, have
always obliged; but the populars continue to
call him “Stanley.” So do introductory speakers
at luncheons and . dinners. Incidentally, his
appointment as High Commissioner has not
in the least affected his standing in London.
He professes to have forgotten politics; never-
theless, London still regards him as carrying
Cabinet gunpowder.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Some discoveries signifi-
cant for the White Australia policy have
been made in England and America rela-
tive to the effect of climate on post-
operative deaths in hospitals. It was
found that there was a higher propor-
tion of deaths during dry weather than
moist. The optimum temperature-range
for survival was between 55 degrees and
73 degrees F. and within a range of
humidity from 60 to 95 per cent. So,
other things being equal, go to Cairns or
Darwin for your next operation.
* * * *
“E.C.A.”: The Highlander’s kilt is
comparatively modern, dating back no
further than the seventeenth century;
hence it is obvious that it cannot have
been borrowed from either Romans or
Norsemen (B. 17/1 / ’34). The old High-
land dress consisted of one large piece of
material —the plaid. This was belted
at the waist, the lower portion hanging
skirtwise, the upper being arranged in
various ways as a sort of cape or hood.
It was not until 1626 that the plaid was
cut into two portions, one of which
formed the modern kilt or philabeg.
* * * *
“Nicholas”: A record is claimed for
the four-masted barque Parma, which
reached Falmouth after an 83 days’ trip
from Australia as one of the 21 sailing
vessels taking part in the 1933 “grain
race.” The competitors consisted of 17
Finnish, two German and two Swedish
sailing ships, nearly all of them manned
by apprentices, there being two girls as
part of the Parma’s crew. The carrying
of girl apprentices is not new ; the Erik-
son schoolship Viking started it in 1932.
The average age of the 500-odd sailors
was 17. Each ship carried between 2200
and 2500 tons of wheat.
* * * *
“P.K.8.”: The swastika is far older
than early-Christian times. It may be
found among the ruins of ancient civili-
sations in South America, Mexico, Africa,
Asia Minor, India and Easter Island ;
on old Greek coins, Etruscan vases and
even Cornwall rocks. The accepted
significance is that it represents flights of
migratory birds, then the solstitial year—
the sun in its course. The form with the
arms turning to the left acquired a sinis-
ter meaning as well at some time or other,
and is known as the su-astika and female
sign. The right-handed male sign is th:
lucky one and the more common. It is
still used as an Indian caste mark. The
early Christians used it to represent the
Tetragammaton, the unspeakable name
of the Deity beyond human comprehen-
sion.
* * * *
“Achtung”: That reference to the com-
memoration of an ancient feat of Ger-
man heroism (B. 17/1/’34) reminds me
that another has followed almost on its
heels. Von Hindenburg, addressing a
celebration of the Kyffhauserberg
Veterans’ Association, reminded them of
the glorious implications attaching to
their name. The Kyffhauserberg is the
Thuringian mountain under which the
Emperor Frederick I. (Barbarossa) sleeps
with his knights around him until he
awakes to lead a united Germany to vic-
tory. Hindenburg referred to this, but
made no mention of the fact that the
somnolent Emperor missed a fine chance
by not waking up somewhere about
1914-18.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) wi
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.G.: Not quite devoid of merit; the hand-
writing is excellent... .Poteski: There’s an idea
in it, but your apprehensiveness about defects
of handling is warranted... .S.H.: It doesn’t
live up to the promise of the opening verse.
. ...E.R.M.: The rewriting hasn’t helped it.
. ...S.L.R.: “Love’s Logic” came nearest, but
you riot overmuch in adjectives and parti-
ciples. .. ,J.S.: No market for philosophical
reflections in free verse... .A.L.8.: The rhymes
have considerable interest. The local color,
we are assured, is good, and the mirror held
up to life faithfully.. Unfortunately the verse,
considered as verse, seldom, if ever, rises above
woodenness... .R.H.M.: Disorderly ranting
won’t solve any of the world’s troubles. ..
Helen S.: Has a pleasant tinkle, but that isn’t
enough... .S.U.: If your golf is no better than
your versification you must have a record han-
dicap N.W.5.8.: No discernible merit ex-
cept its sincerity... .S.H.S.: It doesn’t get past.
M.W.: Too feather-light Dom B.: A
very thin lilt R.E.R.: Dreadfully obscure
verse; creaks, too, like a rusty meatjack....
H.M.S.V.: Can’t make much sense of it. Any-
way, “heaves” is a disease of horses, not an
incidental of summer heat... .E.K.F.: What
is it, an allegory or a double acrostic?....
T.W.N.: An old theme, this “Shall I, wasting
in despair, die because a woman’s fair?” But
your verse lacks the sound philosophy of the
original... .G.0'8.: It failed to raise the
faintest smile... .M.J.S.: Too misty altogether;
it left us in a dense fog... .E.M.M.: You may
be young, but all your images are very, very
01d....H.W.: Makes terribly tough reading.
. ...W.S.C.: No use submitting stories under
consideration elsewhere... .E.C M.: Storm in
a teacup H.J.T.S.: A woman’s paper might
buy it J.T.W.: Pretty near... .G.J.: That
cadger has visited us in many guises... .E.C.:
Other old nuisances have been married off in
the same way....V.D.: Slight, and repeats a
couple of old wheezes... .J.C.: Needs strength-
ening. .. .P.J.E.: Super-salesman crashed....
Z.M.: Too long and sentimental.. . .C.S.D.:
As soon as we read there was a nice young
man next door we knew she would catch him.
M.D.: Simpleton became more dreary each
page J.H.W.C.: Good atmosphere, but
plot’s a bit thin L.0.J.: Nothing funny in
musings of depressed vitamin... .L.H.: Ridi-
culous... .P.C.: Jejune melodrama... .L.8.W.:
“Double Chance” stood none... .R.H.M.:
Missionary yarn is feeble... .E.J.B. : Ploughs
no new furrow W.H.R.: Been done over
and over again... .K.T.: Library story lacks
punch... .D.J.H.: Poor, and don’t write on
both sides of the paper J.M.: You’ll have
to improve a lot, but it oughtn’t to be beyond
you. .. .J.H.S.: Opens spiritedly enough:
Old Bill Brown was not a boozer in the full sense
of the word,
Though occasionally he’d break out, drinking till
his vision blurred.
And when drunk he was a character, all gab and
skite and jest,
The reverse of himself sober; when he always seemed
depressed.
Unfortunately Bill hardly lives up to his early
promise E.A.D.: Very feeble verse
L. : It strikes us as unchivalrous
M. : All that repetition has a monotonous
effect... .J. 0.: Did you ever hear anyone blow-
ing his nose as tunefully as if he were playing
the harp? ... .M.H.: We have seldom read such
bald and sterile doggerel A.E.K.: They
don’t get past C.F.: You are a bold soul,
trying to rhyme “attention” with “regulation.”
... .M.G.: The valley, as you feature it, seems
hardly worth dreaming about R.L.C.H.:
They’re all spacious subjects, and you say no-
thing fresh about them C.G.: You have a
heavy hand for narrative J. 1.: Crude verse,
spattered with quaint, grotesque words
W.C.: Don’t see much point in it L.H.G.:
Others have got in before you in practically
every general paper in the State R.M.:
Tale of when Greek meets a shickered sailor
is not absorbing G.H.F.: If we wanted
articles of that description we could go to
encyclopaedias ourselves M.S.J.: Too flam-
boyantly written M.W.: Ending weak
N. : You haven’t the gift of the storyteller.
A.G.: Neat, but there’s not much in it
N.J.: Anti-climax came as no surprise P. 8.:
Tell the story straightforwardly. No saloon-bar
customer would spin it your fashion.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.R.M.: Not at all bad for a novice. Call
again... .F.G.: All moss-grown... .E.M.S.:
Mechanical V.A.: Graceful treatment, but
humor too feeble S.J.: Small hope for you
if that’s your best... .M.J.M.: All grievously
inartistic,.. .J.R.: Almost undecipherable. Ink
next time, please! J.H.M.: Stiff and awk-
ward W.W.: They fail in humor rather
than in execution A. 8.: Style leaves much
to be desired... .J.A.P., M.T. and F.A.L.:
Chestnuts.... R.W. No regulars need be jeal-
ous of you P.W.: We want caricatures of
people known to the man in Bourke-street and
his brother at Darwin... .C.H.S.: Dead weary
of that Lyons-Lions pun L.M.: What have
we done to have the world’s oldest parrot-pro-
fanity gag sent to us? E.8.J.: Your calm
certainty that we would publish them almost
stunned us into doing it....J.M.: Some of
the sketches have merit, but the gags are pain-
ful P.J.E.: Too straggly A.R.C.: Send
them to a denominational journal... .R.S.:
You’re a bit green, but keep 0n....H.V.:
Shows the ’prentice hand too much... .F.T.N.:
With plenty of study from life you might suc-
ceed N.D.: Didn’t we bump those out
months ago? ... .R.H.: You splash the ink
round, but the result is awful W.E.: No-
thing to distinguish it from hundreds of others
hurled out annually S.K.: Your stuff would
be vastly better if you took more time over it.
... .W.H.H.: Crude... .D.C.: Lines appear to be
bushed and travelling round and round on then-
tracks... .E.C.: In short, they made excellent
cigar lighters H.R.: Stale jests and shaky
linework A.P.: Have you only just dis-
covered that wheeze? W. 8.: Don’t know
what you're driving at, though we suspect you
dislike Hitler.


Spend Easter in Sydney
•% W 1
Easter Show and Autumn Races—truly a gala season that perennially attrac
visitors from every State.... and, of course, “The Australia” is ever the
centre of all the social gaiety.
Early booking is desirable for so admirable a holiday !
Write for your copy of new illustrated booklet and ratecard.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF
Single Room, from 10/6
Double Room, from 20/-
The
Australia
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
After all, there's only one “Australia’
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The world’s oldest public regatta cele-
brated its 98th birthday on Port Jackson
last Friday. From all the little bays
canoes and row-boats bobbed out over
the wind-blown blue of the harbor. From
Kirribilli to the matronly P. and O.
Maloja, which was the flagship, yachts
sped gaily, a sort of aquatic Russian
ballet. Like fussy and over-active whales,
speedboats ripped and zipped through the
graceful, skittering company blowing Gar-
gantuan jets of water in their wake.
Bronze-armed men drove racing skiffs at
a great pace along the watery way, while
guests on the decks of the flagship and
passengers on the ferry gazed down at
them, perhaps thankful for the solidity
beneath their own feet. The spreading
white sails between blue sky and curling
blue wave held the gaze of hundreds of
unofficial guests who watched their gay
progress from the sunbaked lizard that is
Cremorne and the crouching green fore-
shores.
On the flagship women were allowed
to meet, but not to eat, only lordly
locusts being allowed to consume the offi-
cial lunch—quite an effort on the chef’s
part. The Governor, Priminister Lyons,
State Premier Stevens, Mayor Parker, and
the mellow-voiced Consett Stephen were
among the speech-makers. Lady Mar-
garet Shaw and daughter Jean watched
the spirited scene from the Maloja’s
decks; so did Deborah and Madeline
Mackay Sim. But none followed the
events with more experienced eye than
Mrs. Douglas. When in England she sails
her 12-footer on the Solent. She and her
major husband are also the enviable pos-
sessors of a 15-ton cruiser. The nautical-
minded couple went off to Maoriland by
the Wanganella.
The petunias, lilac-pink and dusky
purple, were a rich frieze to the green
lawns of Randwick at the Anniversary
Day meeting. The flowers were more
opulent than the dressing, which flaunted
along in careless fashion as if it were
saying “It all comes out in the wash.”
Enid Hull’s blue and white wavy stripes
put a bit of dash into the company on the
official stand, while Mrs. W. Mackay’s
peach-pink blouse and white suit did not
pass unnoted. The tennis championships
had proved too strong a counter-attrac-
tion for Esme Burfitt, whose mother
wagered in lonely recklessness on gees
whose names were associated with her
schooldays.
The Harry Budges brought daughters
Sadie and Rosemary ; Mrs. Budge’s pink
crepe, patterned lightly in black, and
Sadie’s blue linen were a pleasing con-
trast. The Coghlan lady, who later served
cocktails to a large company, punted in
black and white. Philippa Stephen and
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones were clad in
lightish pinks topped by shady hats ; Mrs.
Pat Osborne was blue-and-white-striped,
and so was Mrs. Walter Brunton ; Mrs.
Jimmy Burns’s white crepe had cinnamon
stripes. But let us get away from the
zebra effects, and record that Joan
McDermott’s white frock was sprinkled
with red spots.
Glitter and dazzle swept from cars of
lofty power and de luxe upholstery into the
Prince Edward on Saturday. Silver foxes
occurred most frequently. In fact, if you
didn’t know the price of them, you’d begin
to think they were a basement bargain.
Ermine tippets, too, were surprisingly
numerous, considering that depression is
so close behind. Long, plumy fans out-
numbered the real breeze-awakening
palm-leaf. There wasn’t an evening coat
to be seen, evidence that the backless-
frocked sisterhood had arrived on rubber
tyres. One of the most impressive entries
was made by tall slimness in clinging
and backless black velvet, sheeny as satin.
Over the right shoulder was flung a silver
fox that outdid all others for length and
plumpness.
Society rushed off to the wedding of
Isabel Rundle, of Woollahra. Besides
having a well-known father and mother,
Isabel had a grandfather who was Arthur
Tooth. St. John’s Church in Darling-
hurst blessed the bride and her ’groom,
Dr. Douglas Warden, of Double Bay.
The principal, in softly-flowing white
satin and tulle, was attended by sisters
Catherine and Joan, whose chiffon frocks
were as a pink cloud at sunset. Their
coronets of real fuchsias were unusual
and effective. C. W. Rundle handed his
daughter over at the appointed hour,
Christopher Capel, of Warialda, stood
by the ’groom, and toasts were drunk at
the Rundles’ Woollahra home.
Governor Phillip with a buttonhole of
blue hydrangea and palmy fronds pre-
sided with grave friendliness at the
Women Pioneers’ Anniversary celebra-
tions. In spite of the heat that lay
like a sodden blanket over the city,
the rooms of the old Warrigal Club
managed to be cool, and the portrait of
our first Governor above the fireplace
must have been a good deal happier than
his marble statue across the road pre-
siding over Macquarie-street. In fact,
if all the marble statues in the city had
begun to melt away you couldn’t have
blamed them.
This is the way you smile when you’ve
just signed the contract for your second
novel. Jessie Urquhart, the girl ,in this
Falk picture, sails for London by the
Ormonde on Saturday, not seeking fame,
but with the aura of it about her. In
her handbag she carries her second con-
tract with the Endeavour Press, which,
very shortly, will publish her “Giving
Amber a Chance,” and will follow it up
with “The Hebridean.” Both these
novels started life as serials in the
“Mirror,” and Amber was so popular
that not only babies but puddings were
given the name. To nibble the lettuce-
leaf of farewell with the young author,
women writers clustered about the Blue
Room at David Jones’s one midday while
the mercury ran up to 104.
Hugh Denison’s lounge suit with its
meticulously creased light trousers was
the best sartorial effort at the Royal
Empire party. The afternoon was hot
and clammy, but, lured possibly by the
“informality” stressed on the invitations,
the v/omen members filled the room with
chiffons, muslins and silks and a fan-
evoked breeze. Some ladies fanned
themselves and then their neighbors. One
or two surreptitiously fanned their
ankles. Lady Sandeman Allen was
the afternoon’s attraction, and a super-
frozen ice-cream couldn’t have drawn
the gaze of desire more than did her
trig ankles and feet. These ably sup-
ported a blue linen frock and a shady
leghorn hat. The Denison lady, who is
a living demonstration of correct dressing
for every occasion, accompanied her
flowered bronze-brown chiffons with a
beige straw hat, and toned in nicely with
the yellow and gold flowers along the
mantelpiece. Sir John Sandeman Allen
and C. M. C. Shannon were among the
few male happenings.
This serene gaze is the enviable pos-
session of Lady Margaret Shaw, wife of
the chairman of the P. and O. Company,
and a daughter of the late Lord Inch-
cape. With her husband and their daugh-
ter Jean, Lady Margaret travelled to Aus-
tralia in the Maloja. This is not one of
the ships of the line which owe their
scheme of interior decoration to her artis-
tic judgment; the 'Strathnaver and the
Strathaird have both profited by her ex-
pert knowledge and eye for color. Before
returning to England the visitors will see
Brisbane and Maoriland. Jean, who has
just left her schooldays behind, will be
one of the debs, at the June Court.
“Cavalleria Rusticana” brought an
overflow audience to Broadcast House,
Jean Drummond, slim as a rapier, her
voice vivid as a hibiscus, was the tragic
Santuzza. She wore a clinging daffodil
satin frock, and in the strong studio
lights it burned as fiercely as the anguish
and jealousy in her voice. Near by
Evelyn Hall, the flaunting Lola in the
Sicilian drama, was clad meekly enough
in rosebud-pink chiffons.
Jean Roberts, whose mother, Mrs. A.
V. Roberts, does splendid organising
work for the Industrial Blind, and whose
father rowed in the Queen’s eight when
he was a very athletic undergrad, at Mel-
bourne Uni., will waft the. perfume of
orange-buds about old St. Thomas’s in
North Sydney on February 3. The
young man with the ring will be William
Pritzler, of Hunter’s Hill.
The dark head and bright cheeks of
Kathleen Trefle were veiled beneath a
mist of tulle and her slim length was
sheathed in ivory satin when she became
Mrs. Frank Hidden within St. Mary’s.
The frock, which was pearl-encrusted,
flowed out into a train of great length,
and at the end of it paced three ’maids,
whose chiffons were as crisply green as
a Granny Smith apple. Later there were
congratulations at the Cavalier when
bride’s mother, Mr. K. Trefle, very hand-
some in beige lace and chiffon, took the
wheel. Kathleen’s father was Minister
for Lands in the State’s second Labor Gov-
ernment ; the ’groom is a newly-fledged
barrister with a high-voltage brain.
The abo. artist of old was not afraid
of a bit of movement in his pictures of
contemporary life. Father giving junior
a lesson in boomerang throwing and two
dancers caught in action are among the
rock carvings in the Anthropological
Society’s show in the “Sun” building.
There were no restrictions in armaments,
apparently, in tribal laws ; and, what with
husbands’ waddies, nulla-nullas (with and
without prongs), wooden swords and
death pointers, one suspects there was
little talk of feminism among the married
ladies. The bucks of the Islands are
evidently fond of personal adornment,
one dashing Torres Island headdress
being a long ibis-like beak, set lengthwise
on a copper circlet. The circlet binds the
head, and height is given to the whole
by feathery antennae. A mother-of-pearl
ornament, picked out in a colored bird
decoration, had been a perquisite of one
of the lads of the village.
Bull-roarers, lizard-skin drums and
shell trumpets are among the instruments
of melody, and musician Keith Kennedy,
who edits the society’s paper, can tell
you all about those. But from the Solo-
mon Islands come the Pan-pipes. These
are six hollow tubes of bamboo, bound
together with split cane, and are similar
to the Pan-pipes of ancient Greece.
To you and me Sir John Sandeman
Allen might seem only one of those hun-
dred p.c. Britons, but feminists regard
him with starry eyes. To them he is a
mixture of Sir Galahad and St. George,
and when he spoke to the members of the
United Association at Challis House on
one of the hottest afternoons of last
week their cup of joy was iced and brim-
ming over. His theme was “Nationality
Rights for Married Women.” He has in-
troduced a private member’s bill which,
if it goes through, will allow a British
woman married to an alien to retain her
British nationality unless she otherwise
desires. The visitor also discoursed on the
subject of women police, and you’d have
thought it was Reboux disclosing advance
styles, or Keats hymning his nightingale,
so rapt the gaze, so avid the ear of his
listeners.
Just as this paper was preparing to
dawn in rosy splendor on an expectant
world, Helen Mary Wright was timed to
blossom, an ivory-and-silver bride, in
St. John’s, Parramatta. Helen’s father
is the George Wright who is managing
director of Farmer’s, and her frock was a
rather gorgeous affair. Its neckline was
drawn into a silver cord, classicwise.
The narrow panel in the back of the very
long and narrow skirt spread out into a
train three yards long. This was kept
stiffened out to its full width by rows of
quilting. The bridesmaids’ frocks were of
hydrangea-blue in a thickish silk, their
only touch of color being the silver girdle
doubled round the waist and falling in
two thick silver tassels at the right side.
Into the girdle at the back were caught
the ends of the scarf draped across the
neckline in the front of the -dresses. From
the girdle the two ends fell, a bisected
train, to the ground. Burdett Andrews
Laycock was the name that accompanied
the bride’s in silver lettering on the invi-
tations. Guests were bidden to the
George Wrights’ home, Wanawong,
Castle Hill.
One of the guests at the Women
Writers’ lunch last week was Mrs. M.
Liddell. Mrs. Liddell, an active worker
in the city’s welfare movements and one
of Sydney’s most popular journalists, has
been for the past year on the staff of a
Melbourne weekly. But like a homing
bird she flew north for her holidays.
Here’s news that will make the babes
of the Far West twiddle their rosy toes
with glee. A railway carriage, the exact
twin to the Far West Travelling Baby
Clinic, will puff out of Central at five
minutes past four on February 8. Wal-
gett, Pokataroo, Mungindi and Bogga-
billa lines will spread themselves satin
smooth under its wheels, and inside it will
be fitted up as a home for a nurse and
as a baby health centre. Kelso King is
booked to christen it at Central on Feb-
ruary 7 at eleven o’clock.


Silver Threads
They tell the tale of advancing years
and rob you of the youthful appear-
ance that care and attention to the
skin and figure have preserved. Let
Dr. Allen’s Stain help you. By
following the simple directions, you
can, in the privacy of your own home,
restore the natural shade of your hair
in a way that will defy detection.
Thousands of women are using Dr.
Allen’s Stain in brown or black
shade, the most effective reviver for
grey hair it is possible to use.
All chemists, 4/- per bottle
D B ALLEN’S Mexican
WALNUT-STAIN
Come West !
The Best Country
in the World to-day
A Prosperous Market
for Enterprising
Manufacturers..
The Golden West and a
Golden Investment
THE PERTH
UNEQUALLED RESULTS
FOR ADVERTISERS
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins Street
Melbourne
Chatter
The Mayor and Mayoress of Mel-
bourne entertained aldermen, council-
lors and their wives and daughters at the
Town Hall. Gengoult Smith is always
the perfect host, and his young wife sailed
glibly through one of her first official
functions. She had a word for everyone
and moved among the guests with bright
suggestions as to second cups of tea and
the addition of ice-cream to raspberries.
The most juvenile of the smart maroon
flunkeys served pink-and-white water-lily
posies to all the women. Gloxinias and
croton leaves grew from rockeries upon
each table, and banks of blue hydrangeas
crept upwards to an infringement of the
stained-glass windows. The massive gold
cup, a centenary gift to our city from
shipping magnate Alexander Shaw, only
unpacked last week from its bulky wrap-
pings, was displayed among valuable
relics of Melbourne’s growth. There was
an adjournment to one of the rooms con-
verted into a talkie theatre, where the
film of the Smith-Brookes wedding was
shown. The hostess had a silver fox
slung over the shoulder of greeny printed
silk. Stephen Morell with his lady and
Sheila, Mrs. Harry Emmerton, Alderman
and Mrs. Stapley (who had Joyce Sims
under their wing) and Cr. and Mrs. E. L.
Morton and their daughters were in the
throng.
The auxiliary for the Minton Boys’
Home lassoed its friends to The Fernery,
Frankston, for a remunerative merry-
making, profits overlapping high-water
mark for any previous year. Bunches of
phlox, gladioli and hydrangeas gave a
gladsome welcome on the way to the
dance floor. Mrs. John Dunstan, the
auxiliary’s president, was clad in a mist
of pigeon-grey chiffons ; black lace swept
about ticket-sec. Marie Lucas and the
matron; Mrs. William Gilbert had a
night off from her responsibilities in
sherry-red lace. Among those who
danced and sipped cold drinks were the
Ernest Heymansons, Dr. and Mrs. Hed-
ley Dunstan, the lan Mackeddies, the
Wallace Mitchells, Mrs. A. J. Lucas and
Elaine, and Dr. and Mrs. Stewart
Ferguson.
The Wattle’s attractive lounge, where
punctual people can wait in comfort and
the late ones hide their guilty blushes in
diffused lighting, buzzed with femininity
one afternoon last week. Mrs. J. Dunkin
and Mrs. R. J. Hardie mustered their
flock and led it upstairs to an elongated
tea-table, festive for Mrs. Norman Laing.
The guest of honor has been hon. treas.
of the Kew auxiliary for the Royal Insti-
tute for the Blind, and has worked hard
for the Mission of St. James and St.
John. A travelling rug was the presenta-
tion gift. The Laing family soon migrate
to Sydney.
In celebration of Australia Day, the
British Film League held a matinee at
the All-British Athenaeum. The Irvine
lady, her presentation bouquet resting on
the balustrade, sat in the dress circle, with
Mrs. Horace Calder and Frank Talbot
hovering near by. Not far away was
Mrs. I. H. Moss and across the aisle Mrs.
Tunnecliffe. Her Leader-of-the-Opposition
husband mounted the stage during the
interval for a short speech. Cecil Parkes,
in a velvet coat, made introductions and
apologies. After a dose of Jack Hul-
bert, the second half of the programme
was mostly musical. Eileen Castles, be-
hind a large tartan bow, warbled the
“Jewel Song,” and Izobel Duncan spoke
Shakspeare with page-boy hair and a
touch of Early English in her frocking.
Lesley Gowan has leanings towards
green, especially for kitchens, so Lilian
Hunt telephoned a number of friends
that a passport for a game of bridge at
Como, Brighton Beach, would be a
kitchen gadget, green if not twinkly alu-
minium or unpainted wood. The bride-
to-be (next month she becomes Mrs.
Stanley Hunt) draped herself in black
crepe blown upon with the tints of an
autumn forest. Mrs. Byram Gowan’s
gum-tip lace was folded about the neck-
line ; Mrs. J. E. Hunt and Lilian were
both in black.
The perfume of frangipanni held in
the bride’s fingers crept through Christ
Church, South Yarra, during the marriage
of Thora Heymanson and Alexander Fin-
lay. Instead of a bouquet the bride chose
these tropical flowers arranged in trails
from a twisted bow. Seed-pearls held
in position her tulle veil, which swept over
her elongated satin garment. Gold
threads piped the shoulder ruffles of Mrs.
Geoige Griffith’s white matron-of-honor
gown and she carried cream and gold
Swiftian S ixon ’ Jean Rennie, Gwen
J ?i h wh£? Kltty He y m anson made an
all-white-chiffon quartette of attendants.
The bride’s parents received guests at the
Alexander.
Pipes skirled outside St. Mark’s,
Audley-street, London, in honor of the
marriage of Angus, son and heir of the
Duncan MacLeods, Skeabost, Isle of
Skye, and Jean, younger daughter of the
Justin Carrs, of Melbourne. Upon the
same date bonfires blazed around the
MacLeod stronghold in the north, and
there was feasting and merriment. The
bride carried three lilies against her
cream velvets, and her tulle veil was
attached to a halo of gold leaves. Her
sister Edna and ’groom’s sister Catriona
attended, their ruby velvets draped in a
mediaeval fashion and silver lilies halo-
ing their heads. Reception at Claridge’s
and ’moon at St. Moritz.
With the “Ladder of Fame” looming a
few weeks ahead, Mrs. George Langridge
and Mrs. Chris Cowper, the organisers,
gathered up to luncheon at Menzies’ a
few people who have promised their sup-
port. The Ladder, which has been suc-
cessful under diverse names in other cities,
is an “art” exhibition. Entrants are
grouped for any of its four rungs. There’s
an age limit for the first; the second takes
the raw and untried ; amateurs of brush
and pencil enter for the third, and pro-
fessionals for the top. The second rung
is always the greatest success, for the com-
petitor can achieve a wildly exciting effect
with weird ingredients like rouge and lip-
stick, sealing wax and plasticine.
Sorrento and Portsea were very fes-
tive for the Australia Day week-end.
Hotels pinned up “House Full” notices,
private homes had all their pink,
blue and sun rooms occupied, and in the
cottages young things who had snared a
chaperon unpacked their bathing togs
and the cooked ham. For the annual
golf championships at Sorrento the links
were striped and zigzagged with jumpers,
tiger golf socks, bright plus-fours and the
glitter of steel shafts. There were big
entry lists, particularly in the mixed
events. Mrs. Geoff Grimwade won the
women’s championship and Mrs. A. H.
Wilson and Mrs. McColl McCowan took
home spoil depending upon the women’s
foursomes.
Herewith Mrs. E. W. P. Chinnery, wife
of the Commissioner for Native Affairs
in New Guinea. It’s a good thing to have
a hobby in the tropics: Mrs. Chinnery’s
is photography. During her schooldays
a camera was always within reach, and
she now has an interesting collection of
photos, as a result of experimental work
and a heap of patience—the New Guinea
boy likes to pose for his picture with
joints stiffened and a glassy stare. Her
subjects include every anthropologist who
has visited Rabaul and a number of pro-
fessors of anthropology at Cambridge.
She met them all and attended a series
of their lectures in her husband’s pet sub-
ject while he was studying in that seat
of learning. By birth Mrs. Chinnery is
North of Ireland. The couple are leav-
ing four daughters at school in Mel-
bourne. Broothorn made the portrait.
The Wattle League rose to the occasion
of Australia Day with an at-home in the
E.-S.U. rooms. Artists contributing to
the programme chose only Australian
numbers. The league’s president, Mrs.
Britomarte James, just back from a well-
earned month’s holiday, did honor to
Madame Madalah Masson with roses and
deep pink sweet-peas. C. H. Holmes,
director of the Australian National Travel
Association, discoursed upon his jaunt
through this continent. He sampled the
Nullabor Plains, the Golden Mile, New
Norcia and its masterpieces of Spanish
painting, a ship high and dry at Broome,
the walking fish of Derby and the sand-
flies of Darwin.
Marion, daughter of Archdeacon
Lamble, is affianced to Dr. Eric Tymms,
only son of medico and Mrs. H. G.
Tymms, of Perth.
If you go to “Musical Chairs” at the
Garriik you won’t see much of the smile
glimpsed for this paragraph by a Broo-
thorn lens, for Kathleen Goodall, the
subject of the portrait, is cast for Mary,
an unloved, woeful creature. Mrs. Good-
all is an all-round actress. She has a
flair for character work, her playing of
Wilson in “The Barretts of Wimpole
Street” being a particularly successful
engagement which extended to a Maori-
land tour. She likes straight parts, too,
and her Princess Mathilde in “The
Quaker Girl” was a recent musicomedy
triumph—she made her debut on the
boards in that sort of thing. Mrs. Good-
all is Westralian by birth. She’s a niece
of the Kingsmill lady and a niece by mar-
riage of Mrs. Hammond Clegg. Her hus-
band, John E. Goodall, takes as much
interest in plays and players as if he were
himself an actor.
Social annals of the West:
A fitting kick-off to Perth Repertory Club’s
season was a welcome-home to the president.
Rabbi D. I. Freedman, after his sojourn abroad.
Bill Trethowan produced N. K. Smith’s satire
“They Refuse to Be Resurrected,” and eight
singers warbled solos and concerted folksongs.
Vice-presidents R. A. Cameron and H. S. Bick-
ford gave greetings and sipped official cups of
coffee in the beflowered lounge.
From a cabin trunk which came with her
from Bananaland Phyllis Stuart-Smith extracted
a milky confection of satin romaine and girdled
it Grecianwise about her lissome lines to meet
Charlie Zeck at St. Mary’s Church. Orange-blos-
som held in place a double veil of misty tulle
over rose-point lace which frothed around the
vivid color splash of crimson roses. ’Maids
Pat Stuart-Smith and Hazel Grace came from
Melbourne bearing twin outfits of ice-blue sand
crepe and tulle corsair caps which harmonised
with their posies of delphinium and golden
gladioli. The cake towered monumentally over
a sunken-garden arrangement in the centre of
tables set at the Esplanade.
Mrs. Geoffrey Mclntyre’s departure for India
occasioned a series of bon voyage parties. Mrs.
Theodore Ambrose sheathed herself in beige
Chantillies, and shook six-o’clock cocktails for
some 70 well-wishers. Mrs. Frank Leake set
out bridge scores and mah-jongg tiles at her
Mount-street home; Mrs. Dan Quinlan’s pastel-
blue silks hovered behind teacups at the Palace
Hotel, and Mrs. Punch James sat at the head
of a dinner table at the same rendezvous. Jo
Temperley, who travels ’neath the voyager’s
wing, had her share of glory at most of the
functions, and played the star role when Ted
Hayes mixed vermouths for the younger fry.
Dick Trigg, billowing summery floral blues,
started the celebrations for Joan Drummond’s
marriage to Harry Calder by lubricating many
guestly throats with sherry. Ethel Trigg
helped pour in sprigged pink muslin, and Joan’s
saucy white biretta surmounted a lemon-spider
contraption. Gladys Hadley’s card shivoo
heard the next round of cheers, closely followed
by Joan Stowe’s bridge fixture.
Deep regret was felt at the passing of Mrs.
Louise Mary Forbes, widow of Lieut.-
Col. Charles D’Oyley Forbes, who, with his
wife, came to Westralia in 1885 and played an
important part in Perth’s social life. Mrs.
Forbes was a granddaughter of the Countess de
Volbert, who fled to Mauritius during the First
Revolution. The right to call herself a countess
if the Bourbons return now passes to Mrs.
Forbes’s daughter, Mrs. A. B. Kidson.
Mrs. Goff, with son Peter, is packing grips
for a jaunt to Los Angeles, California, where
she will stay with her daughter, Mrs. Stitch
Elder son Ivan, joint-author of “Not So Inno-
cent,” is on his way to the same spot.
A little bird flying from one of Pat Hamil-
ton’s intimates to another induced her friends
to hastily cancel previous engagements and dash
along to St. George’s Chapel to see her mar-
ried to Captain J.. (“Streaker”) Scott-Young.
From the Speck, where bushfires have
been blazing:
Medical Congress Week wound up with the
T.A.J.C.’s race meeting and a farewell dinner
at Government House. A few delegates lin-
gered on to make excursions and visit friends.
The Lyceum Club gave a party for the 12
women doctors who attended the conference
and for the wives and daughters of male medi-
coes. Lady Clark, patroness of the club, was
there, also the C.J.’s lady and all the brass-
hats belonging to the executive and committee.
Music punctuated chatter.
Mrs. Fay and Mrs. E. A. Rogers were joint
hostesses of a bridge party for the visiting
medicoes’ womenfolk. The party was held at
Dr. Fay’s pretty house in Sandy Bay, over-
looking the harbor. Ten tables were filled.
The floral decorations were a strong feature.
The Bishop and Mrs. Hay threw open the
grounds at Bishopscourt for a garden party in
honor of the visiting summer-school folk. His
Ex., Lady Clark, Miss Macdonald, the Lieut.-
Governor and his lady, Mayor and Mayoress
Wignall, Mr. and Mrs. G. V. Brooks and the
heads of Hutchins School and Launceston
Church Grammar School attended, and tea and
ices in the shade of the trees mitigated the
sultriness of the day, on which the sky was
hazy with smoke.
Lieut.-Gov. Lewis opened the Jubilee Exhi-
bition of the Art Society in the Town Hall.
Quite a number of original members are still
going strong, among them Louisa Swan, co-
founder with Miss M. Evans. Medical-knight
James Agnew was the first president. Many
of the members have earned distinction in Eng-
land and on the Continent.
The Zealandia took about 200 passengers
on its cruise to Cole’s Bay and Port Arthur, on
the East Coast. Weather was perfect, and
though the smoke haze interfered with the
distant views the trip was a great success.
His Ex. opened John Eldershaw’s show of
pictures at Hadley’s, and a big crowd turned
up. The exhibits showed the artist’s work in
all sorts of moods and manners, Tasmanian
landscapes rubbing frames with glimpses of
foreign lands.
Baritone Charles Benson writes from London
that his teachers are determined to turn him
into a tenor. At the Overseas Club knight
Frank Fox and his lady recently held a recep-
tion for the singer, and many ex-Tasmanians
were present, among them Lady Parry and
Mrs. Hugh Tyser, Mrs. Clemes, Miss Lem-
priere, Mrs. Westbrook, Ethel Graham, Mrs.
Gwen Spencer and Marjorie Martelli.
Archbishop and Mrs. Head, of Melbourne,
are holidaying in the Speck, and are doing a
good deal of motoring.
Adelaide continues to swelter:
One heat-wave has followed another, till
the community has felt like one big grease spot.
There must be a slump in the hosiery indus-
try, for sunburnt legs are more popular than
stockings. At several seaside hotels it has been
necessary to check the reckless shedding of
apparel. Beach pyjamas, no stockings and men
with their silk shirt sleeves rolled above the
elbow are not permitted in the toniest pub
dining-rooms.
Theo Shall produced “Flirtation” at Aus-
tralia Hall on three nights when the tempera-
ture was well over the century. However, those
of the social world still in the city turned up
and stood the heat like heroes. There’s a pro-
posal afoot to get Shall to link up with the
old Adelaide Repertory Society, which could
do with some new blood.
The heat inspired Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Jolly
to invite guests to attend a dinner-dance at
their residence, Medindie, in beach costume.
A buffet dinner off the ice was served at eight.
Later everyone danced in the hall to music
supplied by two street musicians, playing re-
spectively an accordeon and a combination of
violin and brass horn.
Many tea-parties have been given for Evelyn,
only daughter of Cathedral-organist J. M.
Dunn. She is to marry Don, son of the late
Dr. Downey, at the St. Peter’s College chapel
this week. Among the hostesses were Dorothy
Finlayson, Walkerville, and Mrs. Alan Lendon
and Mrs. James Irwin (recent brides).
Mrs. H. J. Lipman, who leaves this week
for England with her husband, has been living
in a whirl of farewells. She was entertained
at luncheon, bridge and afternoon-tea at the
Hotel Botanic by a number of friends, and
was the guest of honor at a big shivoo held
in the Willow Room at Birks’s Piccadilly. The
Hackney Free Kindergarten, of which Mrs.
Lipman is president, gave her parting gifts.
There is still uncertainty concerning the pos-
sibility of the Hore-Ruthvens extending their
stay at Government House in order to enter-
tain Prince George when he visits Adelaide.
Should they decide not to linger we shall most
likely be without vice-regals, as there is gener-
ally a lapse between the departures and the
arrivals.


a GEAR-LIKE GRIP
ihai keeps you SAFE !
The deep Helical pattern of the Dunlop tread
grips the road like one helical gear grips
another —and grips its full width Go in a
hurry—and, from shoulder to shoulder. Dunlop
bites into the road transmitting the maximum
engine power. Stop in a hurry—and the same
wider road-grip makes your brakes more effective
holds you back from danger. Drive on wet or
greasy surfaces and Dunlop safely holds the
road. Fit this great Australian tyre for safety,
more mileage, silence and economy. Today s
prices are lower than ever before and your
local dealer stocks all sizes.
HELICAL TREAD PATTERN ■
The Dunlop tread pattern is based on the principle of
helical gearing—one of the most efficient methods of
transmitting power. By adapting it to a tread pattern
Dunlop solved the problem of liow to give tyres the
maximum traction. This helical tread is one of
Dunlop's most important improvements in tyre
construction.
i
n
The Dunlop tyre is a product of Dunlop
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.- the largest manu-
facturing organisation in Australia, employing
5000 Australian workers and making every
variety of high-class rubber goods.
572-273
Out of the Past.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
CASH VERSUS PRICE.
ONE sunny day in 1848, the Governor
Phillip brig, with stores, prisoners,
military and civil reliefs and an im-
portant personage from Van Diemen’s
Land, came beating up to the anchorage
off Sydney Bay at Norfolk Island, in the
five-mile strait lying between that green
oasis of the Western Pacific and the red
pyramid of Phillip Island to the south.
Full of interest to every one in the
settlement was the arrival of the Govern-
ment vessel. For the Civil Commandant,
Major Childs, was to take his departure
in her and his successor was to be the
redoubtable John Price, Chief Magistrate
at Hobart Town.
As his career in Van Diemen’s Land
had shown, what John Price did not know
of the ways of prisoners of the Crown —
whether on ticket-of-leave, in assigned
service, or as members of the gaol- and
road-gangs —was not worth knowing. He
had a reputation for fearlessness, and for
thoroughness. No better man, in the
opinion of Authority, could have been
chosen to put an end to the state of chaos
in Norfolk Island, which had arisen as
a result of Major Child’s regrettable
leniency. He was such a tamer of the
homo ferox as had never before been
seen in any of the four colonies of Aus-
tralia —New South Wales, which still
stretched from Cape York to Wilson’s
Promontory, South Australia, Western
Australia and Van Diemen’s Land. If
anyone could be depended upon to re-
duce Norfolk Island into terrified submis-
sion, it was John Price.
But throughout all Lagdom his name
and his reputation were execrated. There
were thousands who would have consid-
ered themselves blessed in being per-
mitted to take his life; there were other
thousands who, though most of them had
never seen him, would have rejoiced at
the news of his violent death. When,
in 1857, the convicts from the prison
hulks at Williamstown slaughtered him
with their shovels, these people were
unanimous and fervent in the “Hooray! ”
which they uttered, muttered or merely
breathed to themselves as a sort of prayer
of thanksgiving.
Amongst the many inhabitants of the
island who watched the brig take in her
sunlit canvas, as she bore up for the
anchorage out beyond the reef, was a
tall and muscular Irishman with a red
head, clad in prisoners’ clothing, who is
still remembered not without some mea-
sure of affection. For in the bushrang-
ing records of early Tasmania Martin
Cash stands out as a decent fellow, in
marked contrast with some other of the
freebooters such as Michael Howe, who
had no decency whatever. In fact, it
might not be an exaggeration to say that,
of all the bushrangers who ,have ever
flourished in Australasia, the big Irish-
man with the red head, who had achieved
what was reckoned the impossible by
escaping from Port Arthur, was alto-
gether the most likeable.
Up on the roadway that leads from
Kingston to Longridge, Martin Cash and
three other prisoners, harnessed td a
handcart, were returning from the agri-
cultural, settlement at the latter place with
a load of garden stuff for Government
House and the officers’ mess. The road
is steep, as it descends the narrow valley
on to the strip of flat country by the sea-
shore, where to-day you may still wander
over the remains and ruins of the old
gaol and the new, inspect curiously the
hospital, storehouses, soldiers’ barracks
and the street, still known as Quality
Row. So steep is it that the four human
draught animals were compelled, as it
were, to hang back in the traces, lest the
heavily-laden vehicle should run over
them.
When he caught sight of the brig, over-
seer Clancy bade them to halt and rest
a moment, whilst he speculated a little
as to her passengers, and the news that
she might be bringing. So they chocked
the wheels and stared down at the brig.
“Well now, Martin”—this to the big
fellow in the “off” lead—“they do be
sayin’ th’ new Commandant’s a-comin’
- down in th’ Gov’nor Phillip. Have ye
had anny expayrience of him at all? Of
Mr. Price, I mean.”
Clancy was a prisoner who had come
direct from England to Norfolk Island,
and had never been in Van Diemen’s
Land.
Martin Cash spat reflectively in the
dust of the roadway, as he stared down
at the blue waters where the brig was
bringing to, and considered for a few
moments before replying.
“Faith then, Mister Clancy, if ’tis Jack
Price it is who’s a-comin’ in her, I have
that same experience. ’Twas through him
I was nabbed in Hobarton,' an’ I seen
plenty of him, an’ to spare, whilst I was
a-waitin’'me trial, an’, after that, when I
was a-waitin’ for to be hung. He was
always in th’ gaol, a-crackin’ his jokes,
an’ yarnin’ wid th’ boys, an’ givin’ ’em
’baccy —an’ all th’ time a-spyin’ an’ a-
findin’ things out. I know him well.
Which of us doesn’t that’s been in Van
Diemen’s Land this ten year past?”
“An’ how d’ye think he’ll do here?”
“Wid th’ Major an’ them others as
Commandants, Norfolk Island’s been no
happy place for to be doin’ time in. But
with John Price as master ’twill be very
hell of hells. Ye’re a dacint man, Mister
Clancy, an’ ’tis glad I am, for y’r own
sake, y’r time is up here. Ye’d never
last a wake, as an overseer, under John
Price. He’ll have all th’ blaggards in
the Island in such billets as yourn before
he’s been here a month. Every man’ll be
a-layin’ and a-watchin’ for every other
man. No overseer or super’ll be safe in
his job, unless he brings cases to the
office. The blasted floggers’ll be at work
be day an’ be night. I know John Price,
an’ I know too well what he’ll make o’
Norfolk Island!”
* * * *
For a time, however, the new Civil
Commandant belied the reputation that
Martin Cash had given him to Overseer
Clancy. Before the departure of the
latter for Hobart, on ticket-of-leave, he
took occasion to remind the ex-bush-
ranger of his prophecy.
“Sure now, Martin,” he said, “ ’tis a
too bad character ye seem to have given
him. Why, he’s been as mild as cud be,
an’ th’ perfect gentleman. He says to
me in the office, in front o’ Major
Childs: ‘Well, now, Clancy, me man, I’m
sorry to lose ye, an’ I wish ye luck. Here’?
y’r ticket, an’ I hope ye’ll do well in Van
Diemen’s Land.’ He shook hands wi’
me, an’ was rale pleasant an’ nice. ’Tis
mesilf is thinkin’ ye run him down too
hard the other day.”
Cash smiled sourly.
“I’ve naught to take back. He can be
just what you say, when he likes. He’s
the flash cove, an’ he’s th’ deadly cove,
an’ well them that’s here will find it out.
Ye’re lucky to be goin’.”
Two days after his arrival, Mr. Price
had recognised Cash, as the latter passed
by him at the prison gate. The Com-
mandant was in the company of a couple
of military officers, whom he could not
resist impressing with his knowledge of
his charges individually. He stared for
a moment or two through his eyeglass at
the prisoner as he saluted.
“Well, Martin,” he said genially, “and
how are you?”
“I thank y’r honor kindly. I’m very
well, sir.” *
“Indeed, you look very well —remark-
ably well. But it appears to me you
have got very stout since last I saw you
in Hobart Town. Let me see what you
have got about you.”
He took a step or two forward, to
where Cash stood at “attention,” and
ran his hands down the prisoner’s sides, in
the manner of a convict constable search-
ing a suspect. It was obviously done to
impress the two officers with the way in
which John Price dared to deal with the
lately-dreaded bushranger of Van
Diemen’s Land.
“Ah,” he laughed. “I see your con-
dition is entirely due to good living,
Martin. Better place this than Port
Arthur, hey? But not so easy to get away
from.”
“Now, God help Martin Cash!” mut-
tered the prisoner, as they passed on. It
was in his mind that such a greeting from
the Commandant, at their first meeting,
was, to make the least of it, a little
ominous.
For close upon two months Mr. Price
did nothing that was markedly disagree-
able, or outside the ordinary routine of
penal discipline. But this attitude of
mildness deceived few of his subjects.
With an uneasy apprehension of what
was in store for them in the future, they
awaited the inevitable shedding of the
sheep’s clothing that would display the
bristling hide and snarling fangs of the
wolf they knew the Commandant to be.
They realised only too well that he was
merely biding his time.
John Price had extraordinary gifts a$
a penologist. An unfailing memory, an
uncanny faculty for thinking along the
same lines as the most degraded of his
charges, and an instinct for the detection
of guilt that almost amounted to a sixth
sense made him a formidable enemy
indeed to those prisoners who sought in
any fashion to circumvent him.
At length the clouds gathered, and the
storm broke.
Immediately after he had assumed office
Price reorganised the gaol gang by plac-
ing in it all the ablest and strongest
prisoners on the island. They were mostly
old hands. He sought an opportunity for
putting Cash in it also, and it was not
long before such opportunity presented
itself.
For some time Cash had been accus-
tomed to employ his scanty leisure in
(i Continued on next page.)


A lady writes to say that she does not understand why an 8-cylinder car does
not cost more to run than a car w'ith fewer cylinders. She refers to my statement
that our Ford V-8 develops more power on a gallon of petrol than any car we
have made.
The use of 8-cylinders does not mean the addition of two or four extra fuel
consumers. It is not, for example, a 4-cylinder engine multiplied by two. Our
8-cylinder engine takes the fuel supply of an ordinary 4-cylinder engine and
divides it eight ways. And why ?
By reducing four larger explosions into eight smaller ones, we get engine
smoothness and quietness. Eight-cylinders indicate the way the petrol is used,
not the amount. It is just the difference between going upstairs in four long
jumps or in eight ordinary steps.
Two things use up petrol—bad engine design and useless car weight.
Besides having an engine that gets a high percentage of power out of the fuel,
the Ford V-8 has a light, strong body and chassis so that no power is wasted in
moving excess weight.
The only extravagance about the new Ford V-8 engine is in the building of
it. The extravagance is ours —the economy yours.
The whole question of car economy needs clearing up. An economical
car gives economy all round. Price, operation, upkeep, all play their part. If
what you save on petrol you lose elsewhere, that is not economy.
As to upkeep, our dealers say that in recent years the improved quality
of Ford cars has cut down their repair business 50 per cent.
As to price with quality—judge for yourself.
As to economy, here is the record of a stock car three weeks out of the
factory :
On a run of 10,054 miles at the rate of 1,000 miles a day—the Ford V-8
gave 22i miles per Imperial gallon of petrol. Not a drop of water was added to
the radiator. The oil was changed once in 1,000 miles.
This should answer a lot of questions.
This letter from Henry Ford describes so clearly and simply the reasons for the
remarkable economy of the Ford F-8 that it is reprinted here by the Ford Motor
Company of Australia Ply. Ltd.
N.V. 5.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
making straw hats, which he would trade
for small luxuries, such as tea and sugar,
to the families of the civil officials and the
soldiers. The superintendent of the gaol
gang, one Aaron Price —no relation to the
Commandant —asked Martin to make a
hat for his little boy. The practice was,
of course, contrary to regulations, but
had always been winked at, so he made
and delivered the hat.
A day or two afterwards while attend-
ing to his work as a sort of sub-overseer
of the masons who were building the
wall round the new prison, he was
accosted by the Commandant during his
inspection of the work.
“Well, Martin, how are you getting
on?” said Mr. Price, smiling at him in a
fashion that Cash has described as
“demoniac.”
“Very well, thank you, sir,” replied the
prisoner, saluting humbly.
“I am very glad to hear it. When did
you make that hat for Mrs. Price?”
“I’ve made no hat for Mrs. Price, y’r
honor.”
“Now then, Martin, ’tis no manner of
use your lying to me about it. I know
you did make a hat for young Aaron
Price. If you’ll tell me the whole truth
I’ll let you keep your billet here. If
not, well”
Cash lost his head and continued to
prevaricate. “I’ve made no hat, sir, not
a one.”
“Ah, very well!” Mr. Price looked
round, and beckoned to a constable.
“Here you, Parsons, take this man to
the gaol, and tell Mr. Honey he is to be
sent over to the office. I’ll be there soon,
and will attend to him.”
The Civil Commandant’s court was one
of summary jurisdiction, where prisoners
charged with any offence against the regu-
lations received the mockery of a trial.
Presently Cash was brought before
Mr. Price in his magisterial capacity, and
charged with making a straw hat for
Mrs. Aaron Price, contrary to orders.
How did he plead?
“Not guilty!” obstinately persisted
Martin Cash.
So a prisoner named Barrett was called
as evidence, who swore to Cash’s having
made the hat for Mrs. Price, and when
it was done.
“With y’r honor’s leave,” asked Cash,
“I’d like to have the hat produced in
court.”
“No,” said John Price, grinning. “Four
months in the gaol gang. I’ll teach you,
Martin, ’tis not wise to lie to me.”
The sentence was severe, as at. that
time the gaol gang was engaged in build-
ing the massive stone jetty along the end
of the reef, which is still the landing place
in the little boat harbor close under Point
Ross. It was constructed of massive
blocks of sandstone, and those who were
building it worked in heavy irons up to
their armpits in water. The work was
the heaviest and most dangerous being
carried on in the island.
But Martin Cash was not quite done
yet.
When they had changed his clothing
from the grey uniform of a good-conduct
prisoner for the yellow flannel suit worn
by the gang, and fitted him with a heavy
pair of irons, he requested to see the
medical officer. Taken before that func-
tionary, who was something of a marti-
net and a good deal dreaded by prisoners,
Cash informed him that, owing to
wounds he had received during his bush-
ranging career in Van Diemen’s Land,
he did not consider himself fit for such
labor as had been allotted to him.
After examination, the M.O. gave the
constable who had charge of him a
ticket marked “Permanent light labor.”
So Cash was set to breaking stones in
the gaol yard, and round two in his con-
test with Mr. Price went in his favor.
But neither was Mr. Price done. It
was not his way to let convicts best him
in such a fashion as this.
Martin Cash had scarcely been an hour
at work on the stone heap when the
Commandant and his secretary visited the
prison. Looking at his victim malevol-
ently, Mr. Price was pleased to remark;
“Ah, Martin, my man, you don’t look
the flash pebble they used to talk so
much about in Van Diemet’s Land. That
you don’t. I think we’ll tame you here
before we’ve done with you. Don’t you
think so, too?”
This was too much for the Irishman’s
temper. He looked up and cursed his
gaoler defiantly.
“By God, sir,” he said, “if you’ll give
me one of the pistols you have at your
belt I’ll run you into the sea! ”
The Commandant made no reply, and
walked away, but when he reached his
office he ordered that Martin should be
fitted with the heaviest pair of irons on
the island.
So when Cash came to the mess-house
at dinner-time he found a blacksmith
waiting for him with harhmer and
anvil.
“I was invested,” he wrote afterwards
in his interesting reminiscences, “with the
largest pair of leg-irons I ever saw, the
basil which encircled each limb being
thicker than a man’s arm, and the links
of the chain nearly equal proportion. And
although I was then as strong and vigor-
ous as most men, I experienced the great-
est difficulty in moving my feet from the
ground, and, being obliged to wear them
in bed, I felt as if my feet were riveted
to the boards. At work I did not feel
so much inconvenience, for, being then
in a sitting posture, I could rest the
irons on the ground.”
So round three seems to have gone to
John Price. He kept Cash in these tremen-
dous fetters for fourteen days, and then
restored him to the lighter irons which the
prisoners called “trumpeters,” but which
were, nevertheless, heavy enough to
weigh down any but the strongest men.
It was an unequal contest, and Price
seems finally to have won. He made the
former bushranger an overseer again—
which he would never have done had he
not considered that his victim was beaten.
But in the end, after he had become
a free man, and was settled in Tasmania,
Martin Cash wrote the story of his life,
and to its obviously truthful pages we
owe a knowledge more intimate than we
can obtain from any other source of
the rule of John Price at Norfolk Island
between 1848 and 1853. The little fas-
cinating book survives as an indictment
of the harsh and brutal Commandant,
who, able and fearless man as he was,
must ever remain one of the most cruel
human figures in a system of convict dis-
cipline that is a disgrace and a blot upon
British civilisation.
Blind.
“They’re lilies,” someone said, and put a spray
Of flowers by his chair, where all the day—
Day after day—he sits, and hears the street
Surge round: the passing feet,
Clang of the tram bells, hoarse horn notes
of cars
Until night comes; and night brings him no
stars.
No variation of his life’s long dark.
He thought of Bogan lilies on the plains.
Those tall white lilies of the late spring rains.
He heard once more the wind in the belars,
And curlews calling under the first stars.
He saw the birds at sunset at the tank,
Their cautious strutting down the shelving
bank:
Breath-taking beauty of the lifted wings,
When parrots swerve and wheel in sudden
flight.
He saw again the magic evening light
Gilding the treetops, flushing rose; and night
Folding across the plain, as some great bird
That broods with gentle feathers; the quick dark
Smudging the glowing west; the bark,
Suddenly sharp, of some night-prowling fox.
He was a boy again; and war was all
Fanfare of trumpets or a bugle calling,
And sunlight on the flash of sabres falling.
And people paused. “How glad he looks,”
they said,
“Although he’s blind!” How could they know,
instead
Of passing trams, he heard wood-pigeons
calling,
And saw an eagle circle in the sky—
Dreaming and dreaming of the years gone by
Ere the last day grew dark for him in France.
And strangers passing saw the blind man smile,
As though he saw the flowers all the while.
N.S.W.
MARY LISHE.
A Farewell.
Except “Good-bye,” to you
Nothing at all to say;
And nothing at all to do,
Save go away.
Brief farewell, my sweet,
And of love between us twain
No word; for we shall meet
Never again.
And yet in days to be
I shall recall I heard,
Calling and calling me,
A shy, wild bird,
Promising dawn ere long—
And the night but half-way through!
Yet singing so brave a song
It seemed half-true.
N.S.W.
W. M. B. LAYCOCK.
Flags.
The high, white flag of morning is burning in
the sky,
Frail as a petalled iris, light as the foam
blown by,
The high, white flag of morning that with the
noon must die.
Fierce as the harsh, blue heavens, spawn of
the brazen sun,
The banner of the noontide flies flaunting
everyone,
Fashioned of burnished beryl a sibyl might
have spun.
The tattered flags of sunset are splashed with
red and gold,
Like to the masthead ribbons great galleons
bore of old,
When all their charge was squandered and half
their crew lay cold.
The high, white flag of morning surrenders to
the noon,
The banners of the sunset fade while the
breakers croon,
But evening’s starry standard is silvered with
the moon.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE JONES.


ADELONC 1859
ili.ll 1 !'
ŗ
Ad e long in the Fifties
One of the earliest discoveries of gold in
New South Wales was at Adelong, 321
miles from Sydney.
The Bank of New South Wales opened a
branch there in 1859, and since then has
co-operated closely in the development
of the district.
Both alluvial and quartz mining are still
being carried on, but the main industries
now are wool and dairying. Here, as else-
where throughout Australia and New
Zealand, the Bank of New South Wales
has provided the finance essential for the
development of natural resources. With-
out such co-operation the progress of the
district would have been retarded.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian
Bank of Commerce Ltd. are amalgamated.
59a
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-ChairmanV
Hon. Jas. Ashton, M.L.C.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay R. M. Pitt ’
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
MOTORISTS . . . Specify “SILVER EDGE”
BRAKE LlNlNG—British and Best
* rA tH£ l * aVß
Ensures Service, Satisfaction and Safety
Your Garage man Knows It Meets
All Motoring Conditions
THE RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Representative: J. Arnold, G.P.0., Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
Advertising Efficacy for Nearly a Century ! !
“The Examiner”
is the eldest
and most effi-
cient advertising
medium in Tas-
mania.
For 92 years “The Examiner,” the oldest
daily paper in Tasmania, and now the only
one pubished in Launceston, has been THE
Advertising Medium for Northern Tasmania.
It is a record of Advertising efficacy, based
on known results, and establishes its claim
of being
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Ralph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier’’ and “Saturday Evening 1
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Building's, Margaret Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 03
branches in Queensland and Northern ltivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements—conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expert advice is yours free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.
Dan and Uncle Get a Job.
BY STEELE RUDD.
DAN and Uncle, having finished
several jobs and received their wages,
were buoyed up with the spirit of
good-fellowship. Like bankers and poli-
ticians they had great faith in the re-
sources of the country. Going by the
sun they were heading south-east, slowly
crossing the great Downs and making for
Tallwood and the Mclntyre River.
“We needn’t kill ourselves,” Uncle
suggested as they broke camp one morn-
ing. “Let’s get over a few miles before
the grasshoppers are on the move again,
and make the day’s work of it.”
“It won’t be long before they’ll be
movin’ strong, th’ wretches!” Dan
i answered as they lifted their swags, which
had increased in size and weight since
I they began their adventure —“if they’re
| not startin’ already, the cows! ” And,
ducking his head, he narrowly avoided
a butt in the eye from a flight of them.
“They might be the last,” said Uncle.
“Stragglers, I mean. They’ve been cornin’
for three days.”
“Too big and swift for stragglers,”
Dan reckoned. “More like”—he paused
to slash at another lot with a green bush
—“th’ leaders of the reinforcements.”
Dan wasn’t far wrong. For days and
days a mighty plague of grasshoppers
had been on the wing. They moved in
droves, in waves, coming from the west
—how far west no one knew—all the
time making east, flying straight and
low, buzzing, bumping, colliding with
every object in their path. And their
path was the wide countryside.
“Just look at these here,” Uncle, who
hobbled along with lowered eyes, called
out. “The ground’s alive with them ; so
is the grass. We’re walking over thou-
sands.”
“They come off th’ wing at night,”
Dan grunted, “to spell, an’ go on again
when th’ sun begins to warm up ; and it’s
beginnin’ already.”
They hadn’t tramped long before it
was steaming hot. The grasshoppers had
increased to myriads. Their miniature
wings glistened in the shimmering heat,
while the air was filled with the con-
tinuous rain-like noise of them. To Dan
and Uncle the visitation was worse than
driving rain pelting in their faces. Tiring
in the flight, some would perch on their
hats and on their shoulders and gaze
perkily about at the world with their
pin-head eyes; others, more curious,
would saunter down the back of the
travellers’ moist necks, and explore their
open shirt-fronts, and make them ease
up and shrug themselves and use bad
language. At last Dan in desperation
threw down his swag and placed his
back against an old-man ironbark tree
in a defensive attitude.
“I’ve never seen th’ dam’ likes of
them — never! An’ I’ve been through
every sort of plague in th’ country!”
“Except the plague o’ mice that we
had, p’r’aps.”
“Listen to th’ cows hittin’ against the
other side of th’ tree!” Dan said, ignor-
ing Uncle’s “exception.*’
Uncle crouched down, making a shel-
ter of Dan as well as of the tree.
“Where in th’ devil can they all be
makin’ for?” Dan growled as he watched
wave after wave go by.
“Nature is directin’ them to some place,
no doubt,” explained Uncle, pressing his
head between Dan’s legs. . “Nature has
reason for everythin’.”
“Rats!” Dan deprecated. “Look at
th’ bloomin’ magpies an’ butcher-birds
on th’ trees over there lettin’ them pass
without snappin’ at one. Any other time
they’d fight each other like cats an’
dawgs for th’ leg of one. Has Nature
given th’ mags an’ butchers a reason for
that ?”
“They’ve hed so many to eat that
they’re tired of them now, I suppose.”
Attracted by a commotion in his billy-
can, which he carried without a lid, Dan
looked down. “Dam’ it if my billy ain’t
half-full o’ them!” and, upending the
vessel, he emptied them out on top of
Uncle ; then laughed as the other struck
out blindly.
A peregrinating photographer in a
covered caravan drew up.
In a friendly voice he said “Good-day,”
and asked which way they were going.
“Goin’ your way,” Dan answered,
“but th’ beggarin’ ’hoppers are blockin’
us for a bit.”
“Now if you don’t mind, please” —
the photographer was a polite man —
“stay as you were, both of you, and
I’ll take a picture, then give you a lift
as far as The Crossing Just as you
were when I came up,” he added, alight-
ing camera in hand. Dan, soldier-like,
stood to attention against the tree, while
Uncle crouched at his feet again, with
his head between Dan’s legs, looking
more like a native bear in wintertime
than a man.
“Very good—thank you,” the photo-
grapher said when the close-up was
taken; then pushed the apparatus back
into the caravan.
“What are you to do with the photo.?”
Uncle asked as they pushed their swags
into the conveyance and crawled in
themselves.
“Send it to the ‘Mail’ with an account
of my trip.”
“If I had known that I would have
stood up properly,” Uncle lamented.
.“And spoilt the picture,” the other
laughed. “It wouldn’t explain the trials
of the ’hopper plague.”
“You’ve said it,” Dan agreed; “they’re
a plague all right. Listen to them rattlin’
on your waggon” ; and he cocked his
ear to the canvas roof.
“Like hailstones,” the photographer
said, adjusting an improvised mask on his
face for protection, and starting the
horses off. From the heads of the latter
dangled green boughs for their protec-
tion.
“Anyway, we’re all right while we’re
in here,” Dan consoled himself as he
lolled comfortably among the parapher-
nalia of the jolting waggon. “So let the
beggars come as thick as they like.”
“They’re not as bad as the mice plague
was three years ago,” Uncle, seated
behind the driver, remembered again.
“Th’ mice wouldn’t fly into your eyes
and blind y’,” Dan discounted loudly,
“not like these danged ’hoppers.”
“But they’d crawl into your eyes when
you were sleepin’,” Uncle maintained;
“and they kept cornin’ in th’ same way
—in millions, an’ goin’ the same way day
after day, crawlin’ into barns and
into stacks, and eatin’ the grain, and into
houses, and into your bed, and into the
pockets of your clothes hangin’ up, an’
failin’ into the milk, an’ the cream, an’
the bread-tins, and they’d crawl all over
the dog an’ the cat, they got so friendly.
And all them that you couldn’t catch
would die on your hands in your house.”
“Heavens! ” the caravanner laughed,
“where did they have a plague like that?
I never read anything of it in any of the
papers.”
“It was all over the country,” Uncle
answered. “And I wrote about it to the
papers meself; but they wouldn’t put in
what I wrote. The editor said it was de-
famin’ Australia, and givin’ people in the
Old Country a wrong impression, and
would stop immeegration.”
The caravanner laughed and tugged
at the reins.
After another silence he glanced back
again, and seemed to take notice of their
clothes, and to make a brief study of
Dan’s whiskers. Then as the road came
to the bank of a creek he said, pulling
on the reins, “Well, here’s The Crossing
—and I go the other road,, gentlemen.”
“This’ll do us, mate,” Dan said, by
way of thanks. He and Uncle scrambled
from the vehicle and, lifting their be-
longings after them, stood for a moment
on the roadway, while the photographer
half-turned his horses. Then as they
waved adieu to him he took off his mask
and with a knowing smile called out,
“You are both well disguised, and I hope
you have luck in catching the murderers.”
Dan and Uncle stared after him.
“What th’ diggin’s was he driving at?”
the former wondered.
“Does he think we’re policemen?”
said Uncle. Dan became enlightened.
“That’s it” —his eyes opened wide —“he
thinks I’m a sergeant, and you’re”
He paused. Uncle’s diminished form, he
seemed to remember, didn’t coincide with
that of a policeman’s.
“Takes me for a tracker, I suppose,”
Uncle chuckled, moving after Dan.
Soon the everlasting grasshoppers took
up their attention again.
“We’ll pitch camp here under these
trees,” said Dan, “and then go on to
Tallwood.”
“Just as you wish,” Uncle concurred.
“That looks a good waterhole inside the
fence, and we might catch fish in it, if
we won’t be trespassin’.”
“What matters?” said Dan loftily. “You
make a fire an’ put on the billy, and I’ll
put up the fly.”
Uncle was setting out the provender
for their midday meal when a burly, red-
whiskered man rode up on a hairy-legged
cob.
“Where are you fellows making for?”
he asked brusquely.
“Down th’ rivers,” Dan answered, ris-
ing to his fdet and yawning.
“Do you know how to look after
fences an’ keep an eye on stock?” asked
the visitor.
('Continued on next page.)


THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world—the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON
NORFOLK ST.
STRAND
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
in the centre of London, close to all Theatres. (.'able: “Howdotel,” London.
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
Dynamic Power
For All Cars
1)
LEGGETTS
M
r
Whatever the make
of car or condition of
engine the “hotter
spark” principle, ex-
clusive to “Leggetts,”
ensures the maximum
power output, by-
more perfect fuel
combustion, resulting
in easier starting,
quicker acceleration,
sweeter running, more
miles per gallon—
Dynamic Power.
Motorists through-
out Australia are
unanimous in then-
praise of Leggetts
Spark Plugs.
Give your car
Dynamic Power. Fit
Leggetts Spark Plugs.
Your garageman can
supply.
34/2-4
ř
a poy# e r cgsmai
THE
lIMITCR
Ulll I Eli
insurance
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsuranceseffectcd on ail classes ot
■ —--Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ou Wool, Merchandise,
■ ” Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. liobinson, Gen. Manager.
VISIT THE
AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street (near Bridge Street).
Recent additions include works by Maud Sher-
wood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel Carrick Fox,
and other prominent Australian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
First Russia, then Tibet
By ROBERT BYRON, 15 s.
“A remarkable book The author has
the advantage of being an artist; and in
illustration and text tells much of Russian
art and architecture that is as good read-
ing to those who have known the country
for years as to those who know it only in
print.”— The “Times.”
Prisoners and Captives
By W. O’S. MOLONY.
[Empire Library.
The story of a young Irish prisoner
in Germany, 1914-18.
“The book is indeed an understanding
diagnosis of captivity, and gives 'an ex-
tremely able psychological delineation of
the characters.” —“ Aberdeen Press.”
Vanessa
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[lmperial Edition.
The final and most successful
volume of the Herries Series.
“ ‘Vanessa’ strongly and gracefully winds
up the tetralogy a book which warms
the heart.” — L. A. G. Strong (“Spec-
tator”).
Lost Horizon
By JAMES HILTON.
[Empire Library.
“I know of no man writing who has a
wider sweep of interest, who can shift his
scene across the face of the earth with such
assurance and fidelity to truth.” — Cecil
Roberts (“Sphere”).
Master of Jalna
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
[Empire Library.
“Continues the history of the White-
oaks .... A lovely piece of writing, and
some of the descriptive passages are ex-
quisite.”— “Daily Telegraph.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
The Only National Daily
Newspaper in Queensland .
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt St. ’Phone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Newspaper House, Collins
St. ’Phone F 3906.
A
■xuDir
■BUREAU OB
.CIRCULATION*
Dan knew everything about fences, and
had been amongst stock all his life —his
own and other people’s.
“Well, look after that paddock there
for me,” said the red-whiskered man, “and
go round the fence twice a week. It
has a thousand acres in it, and a hun-
dred head of spring heifers —reds and
roans.”
Dan nodded agreeably.
“And what will you want for doing
it? Are you hard up?” the visitor further
asked.
“Money’s nothing to us,” Dan
answered in a lordly way. “We could
lend you some at bank interest if you
wanted it.” And he pulled a roll of
notes from his pocket and flourished the
thing.
“Well, a pound a week and double
rations?” suggested the man.
“Right,” Dan agreed, “we’ll take it on,
boss —that so, Uncle, boy?”
Uncle, in his eagerness to acquiesce,
took one of his coughing fits, and
couldn’t answer in time.
“That’s settled,” the man said, “and
the rations will be brought out to you
every Saturday. My name’s Tyson—
Sam Tyson” ; and, turning the cob, he
rode abruptly away.
“Christopher!” Dan gasped, “that’s a
bit of luck —a quid a week an’ two
rations for a couple o’ days a week!”
“He’ll be a relative of old Jimmy
Tyson,” Uncle concluded.
Dan folded his arms and smiled
proudly.
"Pity you didn’t ask him two pound
a week,” Uncle said thoughtfully ; “he’d
have given it —or two pound ten !”
"It don’t matter just now,” the other
mused as though convinced he had been
weak. “I’ll sound him again, after we
get goin’ awhile.”
Next day, leaving Uncle in charge of
their camp, Dan started out on his first
round of inspection. He followed the
fence, an old three-rail construction,
cheerfully for three or four hundred
yards, then suddenly lost sight of it. He
stood looking about puzzled as one hope-
lessly bushed. But there was no more
of it except a half-burnt panel way
across a deep gully. No heifers or
traces of stock of any kind were to be
seen, either. There was no paddock, in
fact!
Dan retraced his steps and followed
what fence there was the reverse way.
Again it ended abruptly, but with the
remains of a gallows-gate as a romantic
sort of finish.
Thinking hard, Dan returned to the
camp.
“No paddick at all?” Uncle echoed
in astonishment. “That’s a curious thing! ”
“It’s a dam’ curious thing!” Dan, pull-
ing at his whiskers, emphasised.
At the moment a youth astride an old
grey mare, with a foal following, came
jogging past.
“Heigh ! Here !” Dan called to him,
“I want y’.”
The youth reined up the old mare, and
the foal, making the most of opportuni-
ties, began sucking her vigorously.
“Do you know where Sam Tyson
lives?” Dan asked.
“In a bark humpy up on that moun-
tain,” grinned the youth, pointing, “but
that ain’t his real name.”
Dan stared.
“Does he own a paddick about here
with a hundred heifers in it?” from
Uncle.
“He tells everyone he does,” the youth
grinned again. “But that’s because he
got a buster off a horse once, and had
to be took to th’ ’ospital.”
Dan and Uncle regarded each other
meaningly. But they didn’t question the
youth any further.
A Cool Head.
BY P. A. DARBY SHIRE.
OLD Gilderoy, manager and part-
owner of the Spinifex merino-sheep
stud, knew as many tricks as a ’Loo
larrikin, and practised them all without
compunction.
His name became such a byword for
crooked dealing that many people
wondered that he ever sold a sheep. The
explanation was that he bred magnificent
stuff, and that his buyers knew it. Many
of them were as sharp and as hard as he.
If the old man was keen to get rid
of a ram the buyer soon smelled it out
and cut his price accordingly. If Gilde-
roy realised that the buyer was particu-
larly keen on a ram he stepped up the
price.
He caught young Ferguson properly.
That young man had just come into a
fine sheep-run through the death of an
uncle. lie scarcely knew a sheep from
a goat, for he was city-bred.
When he needed more rams shortly
after coming into possession he went to
Spinifex for them, because he had heard
of the wonderful quality of Spinifex
sheep. Unluckily for him, he had heard
nothing of Gilderoy’s reputation.
He bought twenty ten-guinea rams,
handed over his cheque and went home
to tell the neighbors. Ten guineas was a
good price for a flock ram in those days
and there were several keen judges at
the station to see them untrucked.
“Hmmm!” said old Peter Jackson,
stroking his chin thoughtfully as the
young fellow proudly drove them down
the race into the forcing pens.
Most of the others looked at the rams
in eloquent silence, but young Jack Boyd,
Ferguson’s mate and a good judge of
merino sheep, was moved to express him-
self freely.
“You’ve been robbed, Bob!” he burst
out.
“Think so?” asked Ferguson, with a
startled look.
“I’m sure of it. They’d be dear at
five guineas.”
“Why, what’s wrong with them?”
Boyd told him, and the others began
to chime in. Some of the rams had
“hairy” fleeces, particularly in the crutch ;
others had “frosty” noses; one even
had “the Devil’s grip” badly. And at
least half of them were turkey-hocked.
The young man was no fool. “I’ve
been properly taken down, then,” he
commented quietly.
“There’s no doubt about it,” said Boyd
positively. “Are you sure they are the
rams you bought?”
“I think so. In fact, I’m practically
sure of it.” He surveyed them closely,
then shpok his head. “No, I don’t think
he s rung anything in on me. They’re
the rams I bought.”
Don’t waste your time trying to get
your money back, if that’s the case,”
Peter Jackson advised him. “Gilderoy’s
notorious for this kind of thing, and you
may be bound he’s on the right side of
the law.”
“I shouldn’t be so foolish,” said Fer-
guson.
He was a likeable young man, and the
others were full of indignation at the
shabby deal he had got; but he took it
calmly.
“It’s no use squealing,” he said. “I’ll
put them in a well-fenced paddock out
of harm’s way and buy some more later
in the season.”
“Wish I could take a disappointment as
calmly as you do,” said Boyd a little
later when they were droving the rams
along the stock route to Ferguson’s run.
Ferguson shook his head.
“I haven’t taken it calmly,” he said.
“I’ll get even with the old swindler some
day. I am telling you this in confidence.”
“Of course,” Boyd agreed, “and I wish
you luck, but I don’t think you’ve much
chance. He’s an old dog on a hard road.”
“I don’t expect to succeed,” Ferguson
admitted, “but I am going to try. I’ll
have no use for the rams until late
October, and as it is only February now
I have quite a while to think things over.”
That night he wrote a letter which he
sent off by the next coach.
Dear Mr. Gilderoy, —
No doubt you will be pleased to learn
that the rams arrived in splendid order.
/ like them very much, and think they
are truly a credit to your famous stud. /
expect to take a great fleece off them in
July.
As I intend to extend my property I
shall probably be back for another draft
next season.
Thanking you for your hospitality to
me, l am, yours truly,
Robert Ferguson.
This epistle gave the old rogue a good
laugh, for he had been quite prepared
for a bitter letter of recrimination, and
had mapped out in his mind just how he
would answer it. He reckoned Ferguson
about the greenest thing he had struck.
His answer went by the next coach.
Dear Mr. Ferguson, —
Thank you for your report on the rams.
I am glad they arrived in such good
order, for I instructed my men to truck
them carefully.
It is very pleasing to learn that you are
so satisfied with them. I agree with you
that they are a credit to the stud.
Looking forward to seeing you next
season, I am, yours truly,
Jno. Gilderoy.
A week or so later the young man
wrote again. He was, he said, more
pleased with the rams than ever ; they
were carrying a great fleece, and every-
thing in the garden was lovely. There
was something he would like to know —
what was the white hairy stuff on the
0 Continued on next page.)


CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
■
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
T obacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The zJWacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free
5 Times Cheaper to Run than
a Petrol Engine!
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
CRUDE OIL ENGINES
with their
RUGGED STRENGTH AND
OVERSIZE WEARING PARTS
are the
“LIFETIME” POWER UNITS
hbkmjssok
TIPPETT
Compare the 2J-3 H.P. Model
with its
2in. dia. Crankshaft, 2|in. Crankpin, 4in. long Main Bearings, 41in.
Bore, s£in. Stroke, Weight 6| cwt., with any Engine on the Market at
£69/10/- Brisbane
THOMPSONS High Efficiency CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
Pump more water and take less power than any other pump on the market.
Also Bulldozer and Hand Pumps, Windmills, Pump Cylinders, Automatic
Water Systems, Piping, Fittings, etc.
Headquarters
- House
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
ŕ
NQBranch
SUJKFS-
TOWNSVILU
ENGINEERING Siippiv r?nf AUSTRALIA E
noses of seven or eight of the rams? Was
it a detriment or otherwise? Perhaps it
was a characteristic of Spinifex sheep?
Mr. Gilderoy must pardon his ignorance,
but a man had to learn.
Gilderoy answered him at once, ex-
pressing his pleasure that the rams had
turned out so well; they were a fine lot.
No, the white hairy stuff on the noses
was not a characteristic of Spinifex sheep,
although some had it. However, it was
nothing to worry about. He was Mr.
Ferguson’s most cordially, and Mr. Fer-
guson was welcome to write at any time
he wanted information.
They exchanged quite a little friendly
correspondence. Mr. Ferguson asked for
and received considerable advice, which
Mr. Gilderoy gave gladly. The hairy
breeches of most of the rams, Mr. Fer-
guson learned, were of no importance ;
neither were the turkey hocks and but-
terfly tails which most of them had.
About the first of April, appropriately
enough, Mr. Ferguson wrote his friend
Mr. Gilderoy that he was more in love
with the rams every day and that he was
so proud of his purchases from Spinifex
that he was entering them in the Sydney
Show.
To this the old man replied most
promptly that, good as the sheep were,
they were scarcely up to Show standard.
But the young man was not to be dis-
suaded. He answered at once that he had
entered the sheep for the Show in every
possible section, and that he intended to
say where they had been bred and what
he paid for them, for he wished to share
with Spinifex any honor and glory the
sheep might win.
Mr. Gilderoy was sitting on his veran-
dah the morning the letter arrived. After
he had read it he looked thoughtfully at
a tall gum-tree which was stirring in the
wind. He had a big draft of rams ready
for the Show, and he almost groaned at
the thought of Ferguson’s turkey-hocked,
hairy-breeched, misshapen atrocities
being exhibited beside them with the
Spinifex ear label in their ears and the
Spinifex tar brand on their drooping
backs. He had a fine-wool ram for which
he expected to get a thousand guineas.
Suddenly he rose, bellowed to the
groom to harness his pair into the buggy
and went inside to pack his bag. A little
later he set sail for Ferguson’s run, which
lay about forty miles away.
It was late afternoon when he arrived,
and the young man went down to the
front gate and greeted him cordially.
“Where are those rams of yours?” de-
manded the old fellow, without much
preamble. ~ _
“They’re in my yards,” said Ferguson.
“I’m trucking them to-morrow.” „
“Get in, and we’ll have a look at them.
When they arrived at the yards Fergu-
son’s overseer was there mending a draft-
ing gate. He took no part in the ensuing
conversation, but was not so busy or so
far away that he could not hear it all.
“Putting ’em in the Show, eh? com-
mented the old man.
“I’ve ordered a truck ; it’s in the rail-
way yards now. I hope they score a
prize or two, because they’re a great lot
of rams; you said yourself they were a
credit to Spinifex. Of course, those
turkey hocks don’t look nice, but since
you told me they were nothing to worry
about”....
“How much d’you want for them?”
the stud-master cut in brusquely.
“Twenty guineas a head,” returned the
young man as promptly as if he had ex-
pected the question.
“I’ll buy ’em. Truck ’em back, and I’ll
send you a cheque on safe delivery.”
“I paid you right away,” Ferguson re-
minded him.
Without answering, the old fellow took
out his cheque-book and scribbled out a
cheque.
“Here,” he said roughly, thrusting it at
Ferguson, who took it calmly. “Stick
’em in that truck you ordered as soon as
you can get ’em there.”
“You don’t mind my waiting until this
cheque is cleared, do you?” asked Fer-
guson calmly. “It’s the usual thing.”
The old man swallowed hard.
“All right,” he grunted.
“You must stay the night,” said Fer-
guson cordially. “It’s too late to start
back to Spinifex now.”
“No, thanks; I’ll get on,” snapped
Gilderoy. “I’ll put up at a pub about
ten miles back, and get an early start in
the morning. Get in, and I’ll drive you
back to the homestead.”
Neither spoke on the way, but when
Ferguson got out and looked up to say
his farewells he was surprised to see that
Gilderoy was laughing.
“Young man,” he chuckled; “I’ll be
surprised if you don’t make your for-
tune. Come over and see me sometimes.
I could learn something from a cool-
headed young take-down like you!”
He flicked his whip at the horses, and
they set off briskly down the dusty track.
The Greeting.
BY BASIL HALL.
BILL CONOLLY came to the door of
the hut, and for the hundredth time
looked up the gully to where the
camel pad broke into it from the plateau.
After three months the utter silence of
the Kimberleys was getting on his nerves.
He had found no gold, not a color,
though the scarred hillside spoke elo-
quently of solid work.
Perhaps Ted had done better. He
should be back any time now, for he had
promised to be in by New Year’s Eve
to see the wireless set. There it stood
on the rough table, looking out of place
in the surroundings.
Mahomet Ali and his grunting string
of camels had left it on his way to Hall’s
Creek. That was six weeks ago, and
only in the last hour had Bill shed its
wrappings and connected it to the make-
shift aerial.
The opening ceremony awaited Ted.
It was easy to look back —Bill had
done it so often —to the day he had en-
listed and, through a casual word ex-
changed as they waited for the doctor,
met Ted Sands. That had been the
beginning of a friendship that had lasted
through those blurred four years.
Ted had come back with a patch of gas
on his lung ; Bill, unscratched, to Molly
and the soldier’s selection down Albany
way. Those had been happy years and
hard work for both, though there was
little money in it. The Government had
been decent when the crash came, and
they had saved a little from the wreck.
Then came the chap who told them there
was gold in the north.
“It’s there, lad,” he had said. “There
for you to take if you can fight the lone-
liness, and the flies, and water with inch-
thick scum, and the knowledge that blacks
you never see are watching you.”
Well, they had done that sort of thing
before, and Ted had jumped at the sug-
gestion, for his lung still troubled him.
The doctors said he must work outside
if he wanted to be fit to marry.
Joe cocked an ear and sniffed. The
dog wandered out and stood with his
back to the sun, gazing at the flanks of
the Leopold Ranges that were losing a
little of their shimmering heat-haze. But
the earth was still too hot for his cracked
pads, and he flopped down in his favorite
corner by the pack saddle.
The blacks were talking. A column of
smoke stood like a pampas plume, while
forty miles away another answered it.
Almost as good as wireless! Must be
Billy Mutt, as they called the emaciated
old brigand who led his dozen bucks
and their overloaded gins into the Flat
when the moon was full. No work then ;
they were a thieving lot. Even Joe sel-
dom left the shelter of the hut, as if
afraid of the half-starved curs that rooted
everlastingly among the empty tins and
rubbish outside. The moon was making
and Billy Mutt about due.
The rocky silhouette of the ranges
stood out like painted cardboard still,
though sharp-etched purple shadows were
deepening in the gully’s brief twilight.
The rising hum of mosquitoes reminded
Bill of a dwindling quinine supply.
Better start the fire; it would show Ted
the flag was still flying. Fill the billy
and mix the johnny cakes!
Was it a fool’s errand that had sent
Ted prospecting north-west to Mitchell’s
soak? He had taken the two camels ;
Rajah the bull, and the female they had
bought from that busted outfit up in
Wyndham. Some tools, a sack of flour
and the prospect of game round the hole.
There had been water there last time
Mahomet Ali passed.
They must make good. All their capi-
tal was in the venture. Molly and the
kids were hanging on in Perth, and Ted’s
girl was waiting. There was a letter from
her hanging on the hurricane-lamp wire
to keep it from the white ants ; Molly’s
he had read.
The letters had come in with the
Afghan and his camels. They were going
to broadcast messages to friends out-
back, Molly said. She had sent her greet-
ing in. There would be one from Ted’s
girl also, and these they should hear on
the first morning of the new year. A
minute or two after midnight, she said.
Worth waiting up for!
Hang those frogs! Every night they
made that row from the spring that kept
the creek-bed damp and the half-acre
of Blind Mick’s Flat a green that was
startling among the sun-scorched miles
of spinifex and mulga. There was some-
thing eerie about the place. Stealthy
movement all through the night. Animals
coming in to drink at the only water for
twenty miles. Some myall blackfellow
creeping down to quench a thirst he had
carried the whole day long. Gone with
daylight, leaving nothing but their tracks.
Nine o’clock as near as the battered old
watch could make it. Ted should be
showing up.
Was that a hail? The dog knew it was
some prowling dingo, and hunched him-
self closer in his corner.
Better try the wireless. See if she was
coupled up all right. A buzzing mutter ;
then the thin sound of a tune to which
he and Molly had danced the last night
he was in Perth. Ages ago it seemed.
“What’s up, Joe?”
A stone rolls down the hillside. The
dog trots back whining in a minor key.
“Hey, Ted!.... Just in time.”
A guttural voice out of the darkness
and the shuffling of bare feet,
“Damn. Only mgs. Smell em a hun-
dred yards off. Billy Mutt sure enough,
and carrying something wrapped in bark,
“Well, you old pirate; what have you
got there? Some of the ancestors^ Never
kn t family wore boots, though.
“Here, damn you ; give him to me....
he s mine. ...
“Found him two days out, did you?
Following camel tracks. That blasted
Rajah must have come in and cleared out
with all the water. Poor old Dig.
Came the wail of the loudspeaker,
round which the blacks had gathered.
“60P speaking. We have a message
here for Ted Sands in the far north-
west A Happy New Year to you,
Ted! Come back soon.


~V7ibr-~f><r
s.um^Q)
I
0
1
r ,1
m
A
z\)
is
m
V'///.
r mm
m.
mm
: I
m
mm,
Wmm
r m
m
m
m
m
m
m
wm
wm.
mA
msm
'////,.
m
WMmi
W 2
m
m
m
m
4m.
44m
m
m
BBS
&
3
im
m
m
V/S/S/A
im
■
■A
M
JS
J
u
-s
T
Swiis
si
'V -
..•.•ZTTI
ill
m
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Adelaide.
ADVANCE PUBLICATION NOTICE!
"MEMORIES MAINLY MERRY”
By MARCUS MARKS.
Mr. Marcus Marks is the late Supervisor of “Hansard of the
Parliament of New Zealand and Government Printer. In the
Dominion, Mr. Marks has the reputation of being one of the
finest raconteurs of after-dinner stories.
Many well-known Australian and New Zealand political per-
sonalities are mentioned in this delightful collection of Memoirs.
There’s a smile on every page.
“MEMORIES—MAINLY MERRY,” by Marcus Marks. On sale
at the end of February at all bookstalls and newsagents, or
direct from “THE BULLETIN,” all States, and Sussex
Chambers, 14 Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AN ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOK. Price 5/- (postage 3d.)
X
\>
&
\p
O
o
❖
\p
li
c°’>*
;^„o?
vvv:
v<
o
r*
Jo
Vj^
V*
o
S
0°
0*
<:
- ..••• ,«V<
«*V\>*2S**-
•••
£s<*»


:
# ~
?$. -.V. %
-
mmmm
ms
mi
Si... ... : f
m •••
i*
:
mmmfc ■ .mmmm:
H ';■
’ V 5. '.VS
SiSiiiii
?£i ■
WmMMmMWPi''-
Wmmmm
mm
..." ‘ - .’
..
Mtmm
v.X...;•
£&£s SasMSSiSsi
66
smoke is
H,S O. Solution!”
2 4
said the Salesman
as he blew it through
the Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulator!
v' /
“You couldn’t do that with the wooden insulator!” he added.
*'Only this Patented Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator
gives this perfect That’s one good reason why
a Willard Battery lasts LONGER , and gives better service!”
The Battery Insulator separates each positive and negative
plate ... should allow free action of the battery acids
between these plates . . . and withstand continuous immersion
in a solution of sulphuric acid (H»S 0 4 ).
Wood does this —but rubber , with its higher resistance,
greater strength, and greater porosity, does it perfectly!
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulators actually outlive the
plates! Thoroughly porous, the battery currents pass freely
at all times —and maximum battery power is always ready!
Due to this Threaded Rubber Insulator, the Willard Thread
Rubber Battery gives longer life, requires less upkeep, gives
better starting under all conditions, and more miles of
uninterrupted service. Make your next battery a Willard
Thread Rubber. See your Willard dealer —now!
This Illustration Explains the Porosity of the
W / illard Threaded Rubber Insulator.
Porosity means free flow of the battery acids
through the insulator. See the tiny threads which
carry the acid through. When the salesman spoke
of the smoke as H 2 S 0 4 solution, he wanted his
client to imagine that it was —and to see how easily
it came through! This greater porosity means
quicker starting-longer battery life!
iPiPill
No Wood in a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery!
Hard usage, vibration, and the
result of overcharging often wear
out wooden insulators before the
battery plates have been used up.
This is the most common cause
of battery failure. Insure your-
self with a Willard Thread
Rubber Battery. More Willards
are sold than any other make!
Motor Supplies Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton,
T ownsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney and Newcastle.
■
Automobile Electric Service Ltd., Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.
