

ź
ms
M
■
&
e<ruMM£s
fine
it
very
s
a
cigarette
THE MILD--
M E LLO W ---
MARCOVITCH
BLEND- - - - -
ż
The world-famous Marcovitch blend enjoys tremendous popularity. Every-
where people are saying that Black and White’s are the finest cigarettes
they’ve ever smoked. Your first cigarette proves the difference . . . Black
and Whites’s are a smoother, cooler, more satisfying smoke.
For a hundred years Marcovitch has preserved the secret of this fragrant mellow blend of
fine Virginia tobaccos. Today, you can enjoy it anywhere, in any climate. Black and White’s
come to you protected by inside wrappings of tissue and foil, and exclusive, moisture-proof
'lnsulane’ around the packet . * . Smoke these fine cigarettes today.
BY THE MARCOVITCH "PRIVATE PROCESS”
vr
i
j.
CORK TIPS
mmn
mam
The Bulletin
Stevens on u Art Unions 93 (Page 8)
Vol. 55.—N0. 2863.
Wednesday, December 26, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for our 80-page Christmas
Catalogue, which is now ready, and
will be sent post free to any address on
application, to:—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
During Childhood
Lay the Foundation for a
Healthy Skin by Regular
Use of
CUTICURA
Soap and Ointment
Never too young to start using
CUTICURA
Beat for You and Baby Too
Learn
BO
aIHOMTI
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Cut Here and Mail
Please send, without obligation, particulars oj
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING,
as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 434
“THE ACE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
‘‘The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price ljd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Oommonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Your 1935 Queensland
Advertising Campaign!
Queensland is a vast State to cover, with many minor publications
dotted over its length and breadth; but there are two outstanding
advertising mediums upon which you can base your 1935
campaign with certainty of success.
THE COURIER-MAIL
62,617 Copies Daily
(A.B.C. Certificate for 6 months to Sept. 30, 1934.)
Queensland’s outstanding daily newspaper with, by far, the largest
circulation of any newspaper published in the State.
THE SUNDAY MAIL
47,205 Copies Per Issue
(A.B.C. Certificate for 6 months ended Sept. 30, 1934.)
Companion Journal to the Courier-Mail, ami showing: a more pheno-
menal increase in circulation than any newspaper in Australia. A
comparison of the monthly net averages from April to September with
its previous A.B.C. Certificate of 40,342 copies per issue should prove
to national advertisers that it is worthy of inclusion in any campaign:
NET AVERAGE CIRCULATION PER ISSUE.
42,780
44,091
47,530
July . .
August
September
September’s figure of 51,501 is 27 per cent, greater than the average
net circulation six months ago.
The combination of the circulations of the Courier-Mail and the Sunday
Mail oners the most comprehensive and economical cover that can be
bought in Queensland.
INQUIRE ABOUT THE COMBINED ADVERTISING RATES.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
nr Sydney Representative: R. Jackson, 71 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. ». Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
Condon Representative: A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Week's Best:—
THE THREE-
REIGNS PAGEANT
Po s s ibly the
feeling has been
ex p e rienced at
some time in
every other century, but we, entering the
second third of the twentieth and look-
ing back, are impelled to boast that never
were there so many changes, never was
there so much progress, never so much
history made as in the last 50 years. And
those of us who are getting middle-aged
and philosophical like to have the period
reviewed for us on the stage and screen,
and in literature. Galsworthy’s saga of
the Forsytes, Coward’s Cavalcade are
symptomatic of the somewhat pridefully
reminiscent tone that sings through
almost all contemporary fiction. It is
natural, for literature is the only four-
dimensional art, and no period (or so we
like to tell ourselves) provides such effec-
tive perspectives of time as the last half-
century.
That perspective is sketched in with
extraordinary competence in Doris
Leslie’s Full Flavour, the saga of Cath-
erine Ducrox,
born in 1848,
and still going
strong in 1914,
where the record
ends. The saga
also of the to-
bacco trade, into
which she was
born, as it were,
and in which
she took an ac-
tive part after
the death of her
rather unbusi-
nesslike papa in
Doris Leslie.
1867. The business meant much to
her: too much, she came to think
afterwards. She was the only woman in
London in tobacco ; almost the only one
in' business of any sort. She came of
stubborn, fighting stock, and she suc-
ceeded. Married an artist, who ran away
with his stepsister; he complained that
Catherine gave more to her business than
to him and tried to tie him down. A
waster and a rake, but he had a spark
of genius, and Catherine loved him.
Their daughter, with all her mother’s
strong will, ran away with a fortune
hunting cashiered subaltern who hac
drifted into journalism. Her grandson
(her husband over again) was seduced b>
the granddaughter of the woman for
whom Catherine was deserted. In the
background cigars rise and fall and cigar-
ettes sweep into favor, the Crimean anc
South African campaigns make them-
selves felt, and the rival policies of Dizzy
and Gladstone hover dimly. Character
and heredity are delineated with sure
touches and with something of the wii
of a feminine Thackeray. The people
live, and though the story with its wealth
of detail (including much that wouldn’t
have been told in Queen Victoria’s day'
seems to amble the mind must trot
briskly to keep up with it. The narrative
doesn’t end; it is merely cut off in
August, 1914, and we are spared the stuff
that has been done till we’re sick of it.
Good-bye, Mr. Chips, by James Hil-
ton, covers a long life, but differently.
Instead, of the 500-odd pages of the
Ducrox saga, there are 128, and the type
is very large and the margins very
wide. Housemaster in a second-class
public school was Mr. Chipping. Started
his job in 1859 ; knew he wasn’t the stuff
of which great headmasters are made.
Married when close on 50 (she died a
year later). The girl was a governess;
radical in politics, admirer of Ibsen and
Shaw. ‘‘Her young idealism worked upon
his maturity to produce an amalgam very
gentle and wise.” Had a row with a
new head when he was 60. “Since you
force me to use plain words, Mr. Chip-
ping, you shall have them. For some
time past you haven’t been pulling your
weight here. Your methods of teaching
are slack and old-fashioned ; your per-
sonal habits are slovenly ; and you ignore
my instructions in a way which, in a
younger man, I should regard as rank
insubordination.” The head wanted
Chips to resign. “I don’t —umph—intend
to resign—and you can —umph—do what
you like about it!” was his last word.
The governors stuck up for old Chips,
and the head (one of those pushing
youngsters) climbed out to go higher
shortly afterwards. He loved his boys,
did Chips ; remembered all their names
and faces, and they loved him and his
little pedagogic jokes. When he lay dying
he overheard old friends talking: “Pity
he never had any children.” “But I have,
you know. I have! Thousands of ’em .. .
and all boys” he called out'.
Yet another flutter along the time-
corridor. Robin Hyde (a lady, and that’s
her real name) has written Journalese.
Her age is her own business, but she re-
members Jean Gerardy and his ’cello and
was on the newspaper deck when the first'
flickers were shown in Maoriland and
the first crazy contraption of bamboo
and sailcloth hopped clumsily into the
air. She knew Seddon and Massey,,and
did a girl-reporter’s rounds in Welling-
ton, Auckland, Dunedin and Christ-
church. Knew Elsie Morton and Frank
Morton and all the poetesses (she’s one
herself). Her book is a jumbled collec-
tion of incidents brightly recounted. Miss
Hyde has retained some of that wide-
eyed reverence for and intense interest
in journalism that flourish in Maori-
land more than anywhere else, and make
Inky Way visi-
tors from Ton-
don, New York,
or even Sydney,
smile mildly and
a little envi-
o u s 1 y. Of
course, she’s ter-
rib 1 y hard-
boiled and
s o p h i sticated,
rattles her
damns around,
and curses the
whole press of
her country as
a dull collec-
tion of money-
grubbers, bu t
James Hilton.
through it all peep trailing clouds of
glory and tributes to deities—among
them The Bulletin, the source of Miss
Hyde’s “first real cheque.” A mighty en-
tertaining little book for one who, like
the present commentator, covered the
same period on the same hard road and
finds an old friend on every page.
A. D. W.
[Full Flavour, by Doris Leslie (Bodley Head;
from Dymock’s; 9s.); Good-bye, Mr. Chips, by
James Hilton (Hodder and Stoughton; from
Dymock’s; 6s.); Journalese, by Robin Hyde
(Auckland Publishing Company; 5s.).]
A Novel of
Immigrants
As if wishes
were horses,
hardly had I de-
clared, some time
ago, that no novel
had yet been
written by an Italian about Australia than
1 was given La Casa in Oceania, by
Filippo Sacchi, of Milan, 1932. The
House in Oceania is a misleading name
for this wandering tale of the Far North,
with the characters drifting through so
many houses, roads, sugar-farms and
“Oceania.” Well, perhaps to Europeans
we look like that on the map.
The book has a neat little cover de-
sign. On the north-east of a map of
Australia, a sugarcane rampant nearly
buries a boxlike house ; and indeed, in
the final brief chapter of the book, two
Italian characters have married and
settled into a sugar-farm called Lilypond
near Ingham:
You see it on the left when you emerge
from the jungle, a white iron roof, very
new, with a windmill beside it, and gleam-
ing above the green sea of the cane. The
plantation goes right up to the house, so
that the cane, when fully grown, seems to
rustle within it.
That is almost the only passage of sen-
suous description in the whole book,
and it is the conclusion. To search this
novel for Italian immigrants’ impressions
of our landscape is a vain thing, except
that' we are shown their interests and
hopes'and plans. There are human char-
acters ; enough detail to make it plain
that those persons are fed and housed
and occupied and even amused. No
“scenery,” even when you emerge from
the Herbert River and face the craggy
masses of Hinchinbrook, or when a rain-
storm is pulled down to such jungled
heights as Bellenden Ker. No scenery
on this stage, only the necessary mini-
mum of dramatic properties: on the other
hand, no complaints about either heat
or rain ; that tropic coastal heat, so un-
like Italy’s, and that rainfall measured in
fathoms! There is indeed one pheno-
menon, a mortgage, frankly disliked
by the immigrants to this “paradise for
Italians”: but that is hardly local. One
then asks how the Italians regard the
Australians among whom they work, the
Australians who say what the author
spells “Gooda-oh!” All right, it seems,
but without at all discriminating between
recent English immigrants and people
born here. There is a young Englishman,
Copley, a leading character, who with
five years’ experience and success here has
developed just' those tendencies towards
wandering and change that would seem
to mark him out as a symbolic Austra-
lian bushman.
At a crisis, led on far westwards from
Brisbane by encounters with one old
mate after another (Gooda-oh!), he
simply forgets to go northwards towards
certain personal and romantic obliga-
tions, and it is the Italian who, quite
rightly, marries the Italian girl. In this
absent-mindedness, Copley has a close
parallel in Tom Collins’s character
Rigby, the unromantic hero of Rigby’s
Romance. The Italian author has been
guided by countless legends of Austra-
lian wanderers and overlanders: his own
countrymen accept their immediate en-
vironment, dig themselves in, make plans.
This book lets you see them and under-
stand them, whether in conferences about
marriage or money round some open-
air table on a sugar plantation, or drawn
into a wedding party in a crowded hotel
at Ingham. There is in these scenes the
recurrent figure of a powerful, kindly,
shrewd priest: another version surely of
the man Mr. Baume drew in Burnt
Sugar. The whole book lends itself to
comparison and contrast with Burnt
Sugar, that vivid Australian novel of the
(Continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation.
THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 G, G.P.O.
f I
\ ,
m
■
1 ;
u
wm
m
m§
m
m
m
■
111
HI
Strongly made Trousers
of reliable fit and finish
It is so much more satisfactory to buy quality Trousers, even though they are for work ...
for working trousers are required to give the maximum of wear . . . and that is only possible if
they are made of quality materials. All Anthony Horderns’ Trousers are cut and made
entirely in their own workrooms, and the fit and finish are above reproach. Strong pockets
high body rise . . . plenty of freedom plus a comfortable fit are all salient features of
the Trousers listed below.
from
pair
STRONG AUSTRALIAN COTTON TWEEDS 8/11, 11/6, 13/6, 14/6
ALL-WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEEDS 10/6, 13/9, 15/6, 17/6
STRONG-WEARING CHEVIOT SERGES 10/6, 12/6 and 16/6
FINE INDIGO SERGES ,8 / 9 - 22 / 6 and 25 /'
PLAIN GREY SUITING WORSTEDS 21/-, 25/- and 30/-
SADDLETWISTS IN FAWN OR OLIVE 24/6 and 30/-
WEAR-RESISTING KHAKI DRILL 9/6 and 10/6
STRONG AND DURABLE BLUE DRILL 6/11 and 8/9
e Men’s Trousers —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth
and railway stations in N.S.W.
Smart Shirts for work or leisure
“Hordura” Golf Shirts 10^6
A—Everything about “Hordura” Golf Shirts is suggestive of quality.
The first consideration is the material used. “Hordura” Shirts are
made of British Broadcloth ... a fabric that does not shrink, fade
or stretch. Then the double cuffs, V-cased front, dressed neckbands
and two soft collars all ensure extra wear. Sizes 14 to 19 inch neck.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 10/6
New “Tunic Shirt” at B^6
B—These “Tunic Shirts” are absolutely the last word in comfort. Made
of a very soft Cashmerette in check designs, and the tonings are Grey,
Blue and Fawn. Finished smart shape collar attached and two
military pockets. Sizes 1 to 17 inch neck.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 8/6
# Men’s Shirts—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.
A
m
•.
A man looks better wearing a Hat! especially
if it's of Anthony Horderns' reliable quality
A A*
1
1
Fur Felt Hat 19^6
A new Hat adds so much more to the appearance
. . . that is why a style such as the one illustrated
tinds favour among discriminating men. Medium
width snap brim, and the hat itself is of Pure Fur
Felt. Grey or Fawn tonings . . . trimmings and
linings to tone. Anthony Horderns’ Price .. 19/6
“Strand” Hat 2T6
A “Strand” Hat is a good investment, because it
will retain its shape and quality appearance to the
very end. Made in England by a leading London
manufacturer. Snap-brim shape. Satin lined, and the
tonings include Light Grey, Fawn, Steel, Slate and
Dark Fawn. Anthony Horderns’ Price .... 27/6
Real
Panamas
156
Wear a Real Panama and
know what real comfort is
. . . specially during the
hot, dry summer. These
Panamas come to us direct
from Ecuador, and are
blocked in a fashionable
Alpine shape. Finished
grease-proof leathers and
trimmed Black Silk.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 15/6
Also in a finer mesh.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
each 18/6
-! , -J
7
• Men’s Hats —Ground Floor, George Street , Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N,S.W.


Always ask for
and
Insist on getting the
Empire's finest fruit sauce
H. P.
Thick, rich, delicious.
Use it with all hot and
cold meats, fish, salads,
sandwiches, etc.
You will like
LEA & PERRINS
new sweet pickle
PIKANTI
A unique, delicious
blending of fruits,
vegetables and spices.


Now
on
Sale
« (
»}
KARANGI
By F. S. HIBBLE.
The novel which shared with Vance Palmer’s
FIRST PRIZE
in the
MELBOURNE CENTENARY COMPETITION
PRICE
6'-
(Plus 3d. Postage)
from
The Endeavour
Press
252 George Street,
Sydney.
North, so aware of exaggerations and
violences in climate, flora fauna and
humanity. It might almost have been
guessed that Burnt Sugar, with its emo-
tional emphasis, was written by an eager
new arrival, while La Casa in Oceania
was the utterance of someone born here,
who took everything for granted.
NETTIE PALMER.
Two
Thrillers
The Crooked
Lane, by Frances
Noyes Hart
(Heinemann ; 7s.
6d.), embodies to
an exasperating
degree a characteristic of many American
murder yarns. The theme isn’t red
blood so much as blue. Over and over
again the action is held up while the
authoress prostrates herself before the
social sublimities of her creations.
The hero is Karl Sheridan, an exquisite
of unimpeachable lineage, whom old
Lady Parrish (“the most outrageous
woman in America”) refers to out-
rageously as “the policeman from
Vienna.” (He has'been abroad studying
Viennese crime methods.)
He arrives at a Washington dinner
party 42 minutes late, and marches to his
hostess’s “famous crystal table in her
famous grey-and-silver dining-room,” fol-
lowed by a “bitterly disapproving but-
ler,” as “swiftly and confidently as though
he were the bearer of great good tidings.”
It provides the keynote of the book.
You or I might make a groundling’s
entrance in the circumstances —fall over
a grey-and-silver doormat, cannon .into
the bitter butler. Karl, a society super-
man, clicks his heels together in a cool
“Viennese bow” to his hostess, takes his
seat imperturbably beside the prettiest
girl in America and
leans back luxuriously content, his eyes
sweeping the table on which daffodils and
cottage tulips and blue hyacinths bloomed
as serenely as in a garden.
The girl is Tess Stuart.
Hair of the palest amber silk, parted,
sleeked and woven into a knot that
Nausicaa might have envied, a velvety
sweep from brow to chin, fastidiously pure
as any Florentine saint’s, and a wide,
generous, beautiful mouth curved magnifi-
cently in lacquer-red defiance —young as
the latest toast from Hollywood, old with
Cleopatra’s immortal challenge.
Tess’s father is a familiar type of
American aristo —“hard as glass ; glutted
and obsessed with the importance of
being Fuller Stuart the Eighth.” Accord-
ing to some chroniclers of the U.S.A.
scene the great republic proliferates
dynasties, whose courtiers are their typists
and clerks, English butlers, French cooks
and the tabloid gossip-writers ; but it’s
hard for the rest of us to be impressed.
Elinor Glynn and Michael Arlen are
satisfied to describe their heroines in lov-
ing detail, and get on with the story, and
they let it be taken for granted, as a
rule, that the hero’s clothes are all right.
When Karl dresses he “bends to knot
shoes that hundreds of skilful polishings
had deepened to the exact shade of a
perfect Malacca cane”; and Tess’s
“strange, clear eyes, candid and fearless,”
her “round, lovely shoulder that should
have belonged to the most exquisite of
Eugenie’s ladies-in-waiting,” her “wide
silver eyes, her deep silver voice” are
dragged in so often that the reader soon
begins to dread her next appearance.
A pity ; for those who manage to dis-
entangle the plot from the ballyhoo will
find it ingenious and psychologically
credible.
The House of the Apricots, by Hugh
Imber (Heffer ; 65.), is the antithesis of
the other. The style is biblically unad-
jectival. Society —the society of magni-
ficoes like Fuller Stuart VIII. —means
nothing to Mr. Imber. He describes a
social world which is much more interest-
ing, and, incidentally, much harder to
penetrate—that of France’s upper middle
classes
Captain Rawson, a gunner whose regi-
ment is stationed in Cairo, has made a
friend of Raoul Achard, a French official
in Ismailia. They are at home on leave,
and Achard asks Rawson to stay at
Angers. Others at Angers are Achard s
brother Paul (who is mysteriously mur-
dered), Paul’s daughter Natalie and her
admirer, young De Varins. P. G. Hamer-
ton did a classic picture of French middle-
class life half a century ago ; -it is not
too much to say that Hugh Imber has
done an equally satisfying one of modern
France in The House of the Apricots.
The story, which takes the principals
to Beyrouth and Anti-Lebanon, is
original and exciting, but that can be said
of scores of thrillers. The charm of this
thriller lies in the naturalism of the
characters and the author’s unforced
method of getting his effects. For ex-
ample, he has hardly anything to say of
a direct nature about Natalie, yet you
quickly see and know her well. If a
Chair of Detective Stories is ever estab-
lished The House of the Apricots, in the
opinion of at least one critic, should be
its first textbook.
JONN DALLEY.
Criticism
and
Plain Cheek
Feeding on
dead men s brains
cannot be ob-
jected to when
the incentive is
sincere f or t h e
modern accumulation of knowledge
makes this necessary except in a few arts
and sciences that are still rudimentary.
But praise of a subject becomes offensive
when it is presumptuous, and this is
likely to happen when it is proprietorial.
Commendation is justly earned by him
who excels at doing a thing, even if it
has been done a million times before.
The copyist has his merit. Young Dau-
ber with his .pencil before a Velasquez
in the gallery is not vile. But the origi-
nator is far worthier, and, if somebody
must dogmatise, then let it for preference
be him. They who neither copy nor
create, who merely take hold of a man’s
work and forthwith become pontifical
about it, are to be held in abhorrence.
That is what many teachers of English
are apt to do. For each one that has
ever written a successful piece—and it’s
granted there have been
many—a hundred would
be hard driven to put
together a readable letter.
They take a celebrity’s
work (the deader he is
and the more firmly
established the better),
criticise it a little, gener-
ally to their credit, and
praise it overmuch, to
their shame.
An eagle may admire
the sun, but when a clod
with a knack of sugary
jargon insists two or
three times a week in
ramming his own beauti-
ful thoughts down the
throats of adolescents
while professing to “teach
them Shakspeare” it is
remindful of Shelley’s
narcissi dying of their
own dear loveliness.
After all, the eagle has
no ambition to light up
the sun.
The reactions of some
of the patronised great
would be interesting to
watch could they slip
into the classroom some
time while their work
was being treated by one
of these anthropophagi.
The exquisite judgments
they’ve never made yet all extracted
from their lines ; the depthless wells of
reflection and precept they unwittingly
dug; the pawing about of simple senti-
ments, simply written down, with one
plain meaning instead of the attributed
hundred!
Not that some of them haven’t jabbed
slyly at their own sycophants. Brown-
ing is said to have been asked the mean-
ing of a particular crux in his poetry.
“Better go and ask the Browning So-
ciety,” he advised brightly. And another
earnest ass inquired of Tennyson whose
verse had “first awakened his soul” to
the wonders of nature. To which the
old gentleman boomed: “My own, sir,
written at the age of five!”
A distinguished countryman once de-
clared that “Rabelais was unaware of
any of the beautiful ideas since discov-
ered in his works.” This is probably
half true, for anyone who has first earned
a reputation in letters may safely rely
upon a continuing and posthumous
flow of inspiration in the classrooms —
and the coffee-houses, for that matter —
where synthetic glories abound. His
writings will be decked out with un-
dreamt of subtleties and opalescent
shades of intention, solemnly “derived”
and pronounced.
There is a phrase, in point: “the
thousand-souled Shakspeare.” It has been
bandied from book to book and
drummed into unwilling student ears as
if it were a line of revelation. As prose
it is a typical example of the ingrown
pedantic mood. Literally it’s empty of
critical value because of its mental con-
fusion, and as metaphor it’s tenth-rate.
Pygmies crawling over the Brobding-
nagian dead! In a hundred years from
now their successors will be looking for
the esoteric symbolism in the story of
the hound, the tucker-box and Gundagai
—and expounding it.
A. R. Q.
£25
Good Humor
Competition
Only about a
month to go in
this competition.
The Bulletin is
offering prizes of
£l5, £7 and £3,
in addition to payment at usual rates, for
short stories, narrative sketches or
essays, not to exceed 2500 words. The
offer will remain open until January 31
next, entries considered worthy being
published as they come to hand. Any-
one who missed the announcement can
secure full particulars on application by
letter to Red Page, Bulletin, Box
252188, G.P.0., Sydney, enclosing
stamped addressed envelope.
A Choice of Verse:—
WET AFTERNOON.
1 spent the melancholy afternoon
Reading dead poets: a well-known sonneteer s
Dark Lady smiled an enigmatic smile.
1 pondered on the platitudinous moon,
Brooded with Guido, wept vicarious tears
For lack of better. Rain raining all the while,
Rain li\e thin white straight lines against the grey
And dripping foliage. Two and twenty times
l threw the book aside and pushed the door
Ajar: then slammed it shut and turned at bay,
And shrugged my shoulders, read a dozen rhymes,
Then dropped the book again upon the floor.
What’s Ovid say of love, when the black wind
Is whistling wildly through his bearskin pants ?
He ma\es some show of amorous knowledge: brave
The writer: had he just as bravely sinned ?
1 wonder and 1 wonder : no hour scants
Its silly minutes : Time will dig my grave
And have his worm-corruptive way with me.
I ma\e my protest in its season : now
I stare with dull, fishlike, unwinking gaze
Across the abysmal gulf ’twixt lunch and tea,
Unmoved by Helen’s ship-compelling brow
As Menelaus in his sciatic days.
S.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.
A Satchel of Books
Octavus Roy Cohen presents his cor-
pulent detective Jim Hanvey in a further
series of triumphs in Scrambled Yeggs
(Appleton-Century; 7s. 6d.). So many
of the crooks involved are imbued with
the desire to reform that the outsize de-
tective’s chief job is the returning of the
surrendered loot. The yarns vibrate with
the raw vernacular of U.S.A. crookdom,
and should prove satisfying to talkie-
addicts and others educated beyond the
need of a glossary.
Life of Dr. W. S. Littlejohn, by A. E.
Pratt (Lothian Publishing Co.; 155.).
Biographies of pedagogues are usually
rather dry reading, but “Littlejohn of
Scotch,” who was one-time “Littlejohn
of Nelson,” had nothing dry in his com-
position save his humor; and the affec-
tion he inspired in his pupils wells out
in every line of Mr. Pratt’s narrative and
gives it life. Littlejohn was that happiest
of men, a born teacher and organiser
whose whole interest was in his work,
and who found no day too long. He
never grew old ; never found reason to
alter the simple fundamental principles
on which he based his aims and conduct.
A firm disciplinarian, with an eye that
could be as stony as a basilisk’s, he had
so little personal conceit that when he
went to be principal of Scotch College
in Melbourne one of his first acts was
to gather up the Intermediate Greek text-
books and sit in class with the boys,
explaining to the master afterwards that
in his 20 years in Maoriland he had for-
gotten all the Greek he ever knew. At
Nelson he was “Porky” (a play on
“pawky”); at Scotch he was “The Boss.”
A good Rugby player in his day (he
missed the Scottish XV only because he
couldn’t afford to travel), a good sport, in
the best sense, till the day of hh death,
and one of the best influences that ever
came into Australia, the only official
honor he received was the LL.D. of
Aberdeen, his old college. Mr. Pratt’s
fine tribute reveals a great man to a
wide circle of people who never heard
of him.
Companionate Marriage from the Medi-
cal and Social Aspects, by J. A. Goldsmid,
M.B. (Sydney), (Heinemann). This is a
summary of addresses delivered by the
author in Brisbane last year in defence
and support of the views of Judge Ben
Lindsey. He advocates a form of mar-
riage in which contraception is practised,
and which is dissoluble by mutual consent.
If such a marriage is not childless, appar-
ently it at once becomes amenable to
existing divorce laws —which vary in
nearly every country and jurisdiction.
Some of the social arguments used in
favor of the innovation seem strong in
themselves —they can be summed up in
St. Paul’s sage observation that it is better
to marry than to burn —but Dr. Gold-
smid, instead of leaving a fair case to the
jury, goes on to bolster it with statistics
from Germany and the United States
concerning confessions of sexual ab-
normality made by college students and
others —evidence which is not only highly
incredible but largely irrelevant.
The Demon in the House, by Angela
Thirkell (Hamish Hamilton; 7s. 6d.).
Many have written books about child-
ren, and most of their creations have been
either sentimental and mawkish or im-
possibly “tough.” Some have been pro-
duced by authors who have had the
knowledge and the art to write of nor-
mal youngsters as they are —neither
moonstruck young idiots nor embryo
gangsters. Angela Thirkell falls into this
class. Tony is one of the most convinc-
ing children created by contemporary
novelists.


FAMOUS
WINES
mm
i'-'W.
' i
< Ji
%
H
i
•A %
4 \ - % JLfJr
■ ■
■
f m -us
8
H
*
.
l‘ I
(#■*
a
S
: S J;
. ■-
wm
%
■
v ; .-
\
W.
7
«g ‘ *•.
SH§g
iJ»t
'
I w
K 1#
ff
& /uive ne^i^e^i


The Bulletin
Vol. 55.—N0. 2863.
December 26, 1934.
AS ONE WIZARD TO ANOTHER.
“Mr. Lloyd George is about to launch a ‘Get Something Done' campaign, based on political control of the Bank of England.
“Would you oblige me with a few wrinkles out of your vast experience? I’m starting in the same line, whateffer."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to
Country and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
STEVENS ON “ART UNIONS.”
The N. S. Wales Charitable Collections
Bill encountered opposition in both
Houses, but opposition from a certain
quarter was anticipated. Its chief critics
in the Assembly were Labor politicians,
who saw in it a check on A.L.P. methods
of raising money and on collections for
distressed members of unions and
friendly societies (registration is not to
be demanded in these cases), and Golden
Jest committeemen. Mr. Lang weighed
in with the gross libel that “Professor
Chapman misappropriated the funds of
the Cancer Research Fund of Sydney
University” (he did not take a penny),
“and whether he divided them with
other people in very high places will
never be known”—but then Mr. Lang is
privileged to lie like a redshank from his
place in the House.
Much of the criticism in both Houses
ranged round the percentage clause.
Mr. Chaffey pointed out that pro-
moters of half the N. S. Wales “art
unions” held in the past two years
had been able to hand over 60
per cent, or more to their benefi-
ciaries ; but others had netted next to
nothing. Mr. Stevens said that 65 “art
unions” had been conducted in Syd-
ney last year; in two cases, 98
per cent, of ticket sales went in
expenses and prizes; in a dozen
more charity received 20 per cent.:
in 20 other instances it got 30 per cent.
From six large “art unions,” “conducted
by an organisation whose name I shall
not mention,” the net return was con-
siderably less than 30 per cent. But a
Trades Hall building-fund lottery fur-
nished the worst example: Receipts,
£1232 ; expenditure, £1227 ; balance for
object, £5.
This happened last financial year. In
remoter days, according to the Chief Sec-
retary, there was a Waratah “carnival”
from which a hospital received £3l out
of £3197 collected ; a Coogee “carnival”
in which collections were £21,903 and
expenditure £22,611. And Sydney has
been cumbered with a “charitable work-
ers’ society” which raked in £154 one
month and returned £l2 9s. 9d. net; with
an unemployed organisation whose secre-
tary said 130 children were being fed
daily, a statement which was “found to
be false” ; with a Sunshine Club in which
“practically 75 per cent, of ascertained
gross collections went in expenses,
salaries, commissions, etc.,” and the
president of which was “in a position
which rendered it unnecessary for her to
render an account to anyone.”
Mr. Concannon, M.L.C., pleaded that
promoters of lottery-share syndicates
should be given time to “complete their
business”; one, he said, had 140 em-
ployees, who were under a fortnight’s
notice. Mr. Lazzarini, who is chairman of
the Food for Babies’ Fund and takes
an interest in other organisations belong-
ing to the same string, was moved almost
to tears when relating that the combina-
tion employed 120 girls, and that the
director had told him he would not be
able to pay adult wages and show a 40
per cent, return. This Golden Jest
outfit found another defender in Mr.
Lloyd, of Mosman. Neither he nor Mr.
Lazzarini nor any of the champions who
started up in the Leg. Council saw fit to
quote a report of the Golden Jest’s own
auditors, Messrs. Smith and Johnson:
The total sum expended on printing,
stationery and postages, etc., was £lOOl
13s. 7d., or 26 p.c. of the total receipts—
an abnormally high percentage. Here we
find the most objectionable feature of the
present methods of raising moneys by
means of “art unions”.... The cupidity •
of the public is pandered to by means of
circulars and literature, which is expen-
sive.... The prizes offered are in the main
disproportionate to the total collections....
Whilst the character of these “art unions”
remains as at present the collection of
moneys by such means is to be deplored.
No opposition to the measure came
from Sydney Hospital, none from the
Smith Family, none from other worthy
movements which need funds but do
not stoop to Golden Jest methods to
get them. It had a rough passage in the
Second Chamber, but Premier Stevens
saw it through.
The bill makes it compulsory for
charities to register, except in special
cases. It provides for rigid audit
and control of funds. Lotteries and
“art unions” in future must yield 40 per
cent, of takings to the hospitals and other
concerns authorising them. Collections
must return 50 per cent. Sale of shares
in Government lottery tickets is abol-
ished, and group collections by organisa-
tions which profess to work in an honor-
ary way for several enterprises, while
taking a gross remuneration from one,
are rendered illegal; each collection
must now be for a specific institution or
object. Control of all will be centred
under one Minister. It was a disappoint-
ing bill as drafted last year, but the
Premier altered that. If administered in
the spirit in which it was revised under
his direction, it will do a power of good.
THE RATIONAL WAY.
Penny fares are back, and the credit
belongs to a municipal enterprise now
under Labor control in a State with a
Labor Government. It points a useful
moral.
In December last year Brisbane City
Council’s tramway department began
selling city-and-suburban tickets, good
for six journeys each way from Monday
to Saturday, including public holidays, at
a reduction of up to 25 p.c. on cash
fares. Where the cash fare was 2d. a
weekly ticket was offered for Is. 6d.;
where sd. was the single fare, the weekly
charge was 4s. The innovation was so
much appreciated that in 29 weeks to
June 30 372,959 weekly tickets had been
sold ; they were used for an average of
8,000,000 rides p.a. And the tramway
department did not suffer financially, net
profit for the twelvemonth going up
£4703.
The result of the year’s working was a
net profit of £12,652, after paying interest
on capital, exchange, 1 p.c. (on loans) to
the sinking fund and making provision for
depreciation and amortisation as in previous
years.
A Labor Government bought out the
old company at an excessive price, and
this handicap remains, though the tram-
way department has made a creditable
financial showing in spite of it.
The indebtedness on account of loans
raised in London remains at £2,000,000,
but on June 30 the City Treasurer held
tramway funds to the extent of £270,500,
an increase of £Bl,OOO during the year.
This is equivalent to a reduction of the debt
by means of reserve funds, but owing to
the high rate of exchange it would not have
been practicable to remit money to London
to purchase tramway bonds. In addition
to the annual contribution towards the
fund for depreciation (or renewal) of
assets the department makes yearly pay-
ments of £20,000 to the sinking-fund
trustees, and the appropriation now stands
at £257,000.
When things got very bad in 1930, work-
ing hours were increased and work was
“rationed.” With the return of a Labor
Government in 1933, the 44-hour week
was reintroduced, and “rationing” was
gradually modified. It ceased altogether
eight months ago ; “since April 30 the
men on the cars and in other branches
of the service have worked full time.”
Apart from the 44-hour-week business,
the Labor Government and the muni-
cipal Labor party have kept their hands
off the concern and discouraged incon-
venient demands for extensions. Both
recognise that it has an able general
manager in G. R. Steer.
Now, by paying in advance for 12
trips, Brisbane people can travel on cer-
tain sections for a penny. They are
availing themselves freely of the oppor-
tunity, and tramway managements in
other cities might well extend it to their
own customers; judging by Brisbane’s
experience with the ticket system, they
would gain in the long run. Any com-
monsense step towards reducing the cost
of living would be appreciated. There
is a growing belief that more could be
done for Australia along these lines than
by maintaining high service charges,
sales-tax rates and revenue duties on
necessaries; by extending the policy
(humorously called “food-control”) of
creating famine in the midst of plenty by
means of which Sydney and Melbourne
people are charged fancy prices for
milk, and by paying bounties on wheat,
potatoes, oranges and anything else that
may be suggested. As it is, the pay-cuts
made since 1930 have been greater than
the fall in the cost of living, and there
is immense and natural discontent.
Though commodity prices have shown
little alteration for five years (there was
a spurt in wool, but unfortunately it did
not last), it is still taken for granted
that they will go back (or can be forced
back) to 1928 levels. This is Mr. Roose-
velt’s main idea. And without the vast
resources at his disposal our Govern-
ments are now copying Roosevelt poli-
cies. They are starting another “vigor-
ous” public-works programme, are about
to pay award wages for relief jobs, are
wiping off debts due by farmers to the
State, and are introducing plans for
taking over the burden of debts due to
private creditors. They do not yet pro-
pose to pay men for not growing grain,
fruit or meat on the hoof; but that may
come.
A DUD PROPHET.
“Mr. Lloyd George will launch a public cam-
paign early in the new year with ‘Get Some-
thing Done!’ as his slogan. National \i.e.,
political] control of the Bank of England as
the key to economic recovery and reconstruction
will be the foremost point of his programme.”
Time was when the Welsh Wizard led the
political fashions. It is nearly quarter
of a century since he boomed unem-
ployment insurance as a device that
would end the worst aspects of poverty.
Few objected. It was a genuine insur-
ance scheme, though contributed to by
the State. Nobody thought it would lead
to the dole and the dole’s subsequent
extensions.
Then Mr. Lloyd George went Lime-
housing. He said the landlords were
the enemy, and that prosperity could
be achieved by super-taxing them.
A result of his campaign to “make the
dukes pay” was to drive many dukes and
others off their estates (Lord Strathmore,
the Duke of York’s father-in-law, men-
tioned, on giving up Glamis Castle last
year, that he was paying £BO in taxes
for every £lOO of income), and to drive
many rural workers and villagers into
the cities.
The war began. It gave Mr. Lloyd
George the chance of his life and a
new prosperity slogan. He sank all his
convictions —Freetrade, pacifism, Home
Rule for Ireland—collaborated with old
enemies, such as Sir Edward Carson and
Lord Lansdowne, and got on with the
business of “squeezing the Germans till
the pips squeaked.” He claimed in
1917, and for some time afterwards, that
German indemnities would make every-
body rich. A born revivalist, he hypno-
tised the nation into believing his eco-
nomic rubbish, and the awakening didn’t
come in earnest till the crisis of 1920.
Mr. Lloyd George has the appearance
and gestures of an inspired prophet, but
his major forecasts —that the Germans
wouldn’t fight (made in his pacifist days);
that the Southern Irish would be satisfied
with Dominion Home Rule (made before
the Easter rebellion); that the Germans
would pay for the war after the Kaiser
had been hanged—have proved wrong.
They may have been poor things, but,
anyhow, they were his own. His latest
slogan was invented by Horatio Bottom-
ley when Bottomley was advocating a
“Business Government,” and the “fore-
most point of his programme” has been
taken from the Five-Year Plan of the
National Council of the British Socialist
League.
The illusion that money and leisure
can be gained for all by doing something
to banks is as fashionable nowadays as
the war-time illusion that the Germans
could be forced to pay and the pre-war
illusion that the true receipt for happi-
ness was a stern hand with dukes. Credit-
fixing, currency-fixing is essentially
the same as price-fixing, which nations
always resort to in moments of despera-
tion, and always abandon at Jhe first
opportunity. The British statute books
of 1917-18 are littered with laws de-
signed, in the phrase of one of Mr. Lloyd
George’s colleagues, “to put political
economy on the shelf.” Some of them
caused ruinous crises at once. Lord
Devonport’s attempt to fix prices for
palm kernels stopped importations for
a month when the country was threat-
ened with starvation. Others, such as the
Corn Production Act, were done away
with; the poor couldn’t afford them.
Whatever the way out of the depres-
sion may be it does not consist in yell-
ing “Profiteers!” at the banks, as a jus-
tification either for expropriating them
or forcing them to “release credits” to
doubtful marks. The cry of “Profiteer!”
or “Usurer!” is always used by the un-
scrupulous in troublous times to inflame
the passions of mobs. It has been the
inspiration of most Jewish pogroms, and
of countless penal laws against regraters
and forestalled which have done no
good to anybody. This business of set-
ting up an Aunt Sally—a duke, a Ger-
man, a bank —and claiming that, if suffi-
cient missiles are thrown at it, there
will be a rich dividend for all has been
overdone.
monash, white and
CHAUVEL.
‘Second Divvy’s” remarks (B. 12/12/’34)
have my entire agreement. The fact that
Monash was a citizen soldier and that
he did such magnificent work has
appealed to the citizen soldiery of the
Commonwealth and vindicated, if vindi-
cation were needed, the obvious truth
that citizens can be great soldiers. There
always has. been some feeling between
citizen soldiers and regular soldiers, par-
ticularly in Victoria, where, in my view,
the efficiency of the citizen soldier has
always been very high.
But let us look at the performances of
Monash vis-a-vis that other great Austra-
lian Chauvel. Both served on the Penin-
sula with credit to themselves and honor
to Australia. Then Monash went to
England and Chauvel to Palestine.
Monash had ample time to make the
3rd Division into a fighting force before
it was asked to do a job of work at
Messines. That it did this job well, just
as well but no better than any other Aus-
tralian division would have done it, is a
plain fact. The Maorilanders were along-
side. No comparisons are called for.
Later, Monash took over the Corps, and
success followed success, whether in de-
fence, as at Villers-Bret., or in attack, as
from July 4 onwards. But when he
took over the Corps it was a perfect in-
strument. Never was its morale higher,
never at any stage in it's glorious history
was it so fit to tackle any job that might
be asked of it. It was a well-oiled
machine, running perfectly. This was due
to its accumulated war experience and to
the leadership, through three years of
campaigning, of Birdwood and his Chief-
of-Staff, White. Also it has to be re-
membered that the German morale was,
at this stage of the war, definitely on the
wane. Any job that Monash liked to ask
the Australian Corps to do could be, and
was, in fact, done. To say this is not to
detract one little bit from the efficiency
of Corps H.Q. or of the Corps Com-
rftander. Initiative, originality and deter-
mination were there in evidence. Corps
H.Q. served the troops well, as did the
troops Corps H.Q.
The action of July 4 and those from
August 8 on until the Corps finished its
campaign were set-piece jobs with limited
objectives and flanks secured by co-
operating units —straight-ahead tasks pos-
sessing tactical significance only for the
minor formations. Within the division,
the brigade and the battalion the solu-
tion of local problems properly lay. The
resource displayed on the afternoon of
August 8 at Chipilly, the crossing of the
Somme at Peronne by “Bompey” Elliott’s
brigade and the magnificent work at Mt.
St. Quentin by the 2nd Division under
Rosenthal were instances typical of the
whole advance. They were not ordered,
inspired or anything else by Monash;
they happened because of the elan of
the troops and the initiative of local
commanders.
Now the other little man, Chauvel,
commanded the Desert Mounted Corps
in open warfare in most difficult country.
Because it was a sideshow the Palestine
campaign has always been relegated to
a secondary position. But the Australian
military student will learn far more from
Palestine than from France, just as in the
Peninsular campaign Salamanca is richer
in lessons than Badajos or Ciudad Rod-
rigo. Chauvel and his mounted Austra-
lians and Maorilanders enriched the his-
tory of cavalry performance in an amaz-
ing way. Never, it may confidently be
said, was there a more brilliant exposi-
tion of the science of mobile warfare ;
and, in my view, great though Monash
was, Chauvel was greater.
Brudenell White’s forte was staff work.
He was not a formation leader, and never
led a formation during the war. I doubt
whether he would have made as good a
divisional general as Glasgow or Rosen-
thal. But that is a guess.
Birdwood was the ideal formation
commander, especially when supported
by a man with the mental attainments of
White. Rarely did this combination fall
into error, although the tragedy of Bulle-
court should never have been allowed
to happen. Faulty intelligence, plus the
impetuosity of Gough, caused the black-
est page in the history of the A.I.F. to
be written of these suicidal engagements.
Monash’s mentality and industry were
things to revere. He is dead and there-
fore exalted. But in our admiration of
him we do well to remember that there
were others who served nobly and well;
men who still live, and are sufficiently
generous to swell the chorus of praise
accorded to Australia’s latter-day Corps
Commander in France.
P. S. C.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Not a European Language."
Herr Egon Erwin Kisch was convicted
of being a prohibited immigrant because
he had failed to pass a dictation test in
Scottish Gaelic. He carried the case to
the High Court, and their Honors, by
four to one (Starke, J.), upheld his appeal
on the ground that Gaelic is not “a Euro-
pean language” within the meaning of
the Immigration Act. Said Justice Rich:
Scottish Gaelic is not such a language.
It is the speech of a rapidly diminishing
number of people dwelling in the remote
Highlands and the western islands of Scot-
land. It is not the recognised speech of a
community organised politically, socially,
or on any other basis. Very few people
now use it as their only tongue, and not
many speak it in addition to English.
Yet at Edinburgh University, according
to its calendar, “honors may be taken in
modern languages, with Gaelic as the
primary language.” A professor of Celtic
languages is maintained there. At Glas-
gow a Gaelic course “qualifies for
graduation in arts,” and there is a lec-
turer in Celtic languages—he used to be
Professor Kuno Meyer, a compatriot of
Herr Kisch. And there must be a public
in Scotland for works in the Gaelic. One
standard Gaelic dictionary has gone
through 12 editions in 70 years; an-
other, published in 1925 (Maclennan’s),
contains a complete post-war vocabulary,
even to the equivalents of such words as
politician, aeronaut, solicitor and radia-
tion. It was prepared, according to the
preface, “with the help of a group of
Gaelic scholars representing the Gaelic-
speaking areas.”
As for the Irish form of Gaelic (there
is no material difference) it is declared
in the Free State Constitution to be “the
national language,” though “English is
equally recognised as an official lan-
guage.” The State is called Saorstat'
Eireann, the Upper House Seanad
Eireann, the Lower House Dail Eireann,
the party in office Fianna Fail, the Oppo-
sition Cumann na nGaedheal. At high-
school examinations pupils get a premium
of marks when they can write their
papers in Gaelic. At the National Uni-
versity last year 58 students took their
honors at the arts graduation examina-
tion in Gaelic ; at Maynooth, 11 out of
20 honor men made Celtic studies the
basis of their degree courses.
No Australian would dream of ques-
tioning the High Court’s exposition of the
law, but —“Gaelic no European lan-
guage”! Millions of Gaels will passion-
ately deny it.
• ♦ ■
Turning Back the Clock.
Sundry caveman intelligences are occa-
sionally heard demanding that no further
inventions should be permitted, even that
all machinery should be scrapped, so that
the world may return to a golden age
when everybody will labor 16 hours a
day, live on rabbits and dress in their
skins. Scarcely more fantastic is the
endeavor to arrange an international ex-
change by means of barter.
To carry out a system of barter be-
tween countries which' already have a
monetary standard, differing values of
exchange and differing values of com-
modities is merely encumbering the
difficulties of trade, already tremendous,
by a further clumsy obstruction. Barter
between such countries under present
conditions is actually impossible. All
that can be done is to pretend to barter,
while exchanging goods according to
orthodox business methods.
Germany and Australia decide to
barter. Germany is to give, say, dyes
for Australian wool. It is not suggested
that a pound of wool should be- swapped
for a pound of dye, or that the basis
should be pints or cubic feet, though such
a device would be no more ridiculous
than the idea of barter in itself. The Aus-
tralian who wishes to get rid of his first-
grade wool is not going to have it lumped
with the low-grade stuff ; neither is the
German with rare dyes ready to throw
them in with the cheap variety. The
first essential is that values must be
recognised. -The Australian will place
a value on his wool and say to- the Ger-
man: “Here is a thousand pounds’ worth
of wool; now give me a thousand pounds’
worth of dye, and we’ll call it square.”
The German will say “Ja,” and the goods
will be placed on their respective ships
to be delivered.
Wherein does such a transaction differ
from the ordinary business of interna-
tional trading? The only apparent advan-
tage is that the banks will not hit either
party for their commission, and it will
not be apparent for long. But the thing
is not barter. It is based on monetary
values ; —and such transactions must be.
Another Purity League.
Views of a movie addict:
Victoria is acquiring a League of Decency
“to consider questions affecting stage and
screen.” A similar move by Rome in the
U.S.A. which was supported by many non-
Romanists led to the appointment of Will
Hays and a crusade against film stars who had
been involved in scandals.
The weak point about all these ecclesiastical
campaigns is their preoccupation with nudity.
Since the reign of the Emperor Constantine
religious people have associated long skirts
with virtue, short ones with the other thing.
Yet the history of every country during the past
1500 years shows that the overclothed —the
courtiers of Elizabeth, Charles 11., Louis XIV.;
the nobles of the Italian renaissance; the
“smart” Britons of the ’nineties —were con-
spicuous for naughtiness.
Undraped human calves are not provocative
—nor knees, nor backs. On the contrary.
Anchorites wrestled in deserts with temptations
a thousand years ago chiefly because the only
women they had seen wore ears-to-feet costumes.
A day or so on the contemporary equivalent
of a Sydney surfing beach would have enabled
the holy men to laugh at Satan’s wiles. There
is nothing more trying to the eye than the
average nobby, buniony modern female on
beach or ballroom floor; nothing more weari-
some in the entertainment world than the aver-
age stage ballet or film nudity sequence.
Yet stage and screen do a vast amount of
moral damage. The reason lies in the imita-
tiveness which distinguishes about 99.5 p.c. of
potential criminals. Because of it the police
often avoid prosecuting in certain classes of
crimes; they know that newspaper publicity
would lead to other crimes of the sort.
One of the worst turns done to morality by
the screen consists in Raffles films —idealisa-
tions of society larcenists, male and female.
The type of gangster in which the thug is
presented as a handsome youth who either
marries a millionaire’s daughter and reforms
or dies game surrounded by anguished friends
and remorseful cops is also deleterious.
Another popular movie plot which inspires
thousands of weak-minded lads with admiration
for violent crime is the one about the dressy
boy-burglar or -blackmailer who, after being
wounded in a machine-gun battle with the
police, goes into smoke in idyllic country sur-
roundings and wins the hand of Mary Brian
as a farmer’s daughter.
I will be grateful to the Decency Leaguers
if they succeed in diminishing leg and under-
clothing displays; it won’t do a thing for
decency, but it will make film-going much less
boresome. Decency would be served best by
indexing about half a dozen plots which are
served up again and again by Hollywood in
slightly different guises. Only one has a sex-
basis —the bitter-sweet romance of the girl
who spends years in a Shanghai or Singapore
house of ill-fame and emerges to marry Ronald
Colman, looking as beautiful as Garbo or
Dietrich can make her.
But I doubt if even flappers take that yarn
seriously.
__4
Port Phillip Foreshores.
Efforts to repair the damage done by
the floods in Victoria have been so far
directed —and very properly— to making
good the losses suffered by individuals
and public bodies. But the damage has
not stopped at these; it has seriously
affected the beauty of the Port Phillip
foreshores. Where long lines of tea-
trees, lovely in form and color, topped
the cliffs and spread over beaches from
Brighton to Sorrento, there are now
miles and miles of bare stretches, leaving
no beauty to delight the eye and no
shelter for holiday-makers, a large pro-
portion of whom are children.
Fortunately, tea-tree is a form of vege-
tation which is hardy and quick-growing.
One of the mistakes of the past was in
plotting the bayside road too close to
the water’s edge—for many miles it runs
only 50 feet or less from the edges of
the: cliffs which rise from the beaches.
Furthermore, the existing road is a
harrow one, far too narrow to accom-
modate the traffic which sweeps south-
wards on Sundays and holidays. That
road will have to be widened sooner or
later; and during a period when work is
scarce there is no better method of
utilising labor on work which is directly
unproductive than in remedying the error
of the past. It is not possible to widen
the road on the coast side. That would
necessitate the destruction of tea-tree, of
which there is so little left, and the
opposite side of the road is mostly taken
up by gardens of seaside cottages.
A strip from the frontages of these
gardens should be earmarked for future
acquisition. The owners will, of course,
require compensation, and while the land
is comparatively cheap it would be as
well to have such compensation fixed
now, payment to be made when the area
is needed. As a set-off to the amount
to be paid, it will have to be remem-
bered that a frontage to a fine broad
boulevard is more valuable than one to
a narrow roadway. But the need for
action is imperative, whatever machinery
be evolved to carry it out eventually.
A more ambitious scheme is that of a
leading engineer in the public service of
Vic. He suggests that with the aid of a
sand-pump dredge the beach below the
cliffs could be widened to 200 or 300
yards, permitting a roadway to be built
on the reclaimed area, with a beach on
the sea side. The upper and lower roads
could then be utilised as one-way thor-
oughfares, permitting them to carry enor-
mous traffic safely, preserving all the
beauty of the 50-odd miles and providing
bathing facilities over the whole distance.
The Unemployed Settler.
From somewhere near the Hawkesbury:
I have been out of a job since 1930. After
various vicissitudes £ managed to take up a
five-acre block of Crown land, 35 miles from
Sydney, on conditional purchase, borrowing
the £lO deposit. In 50 years’ time, when I
have paid the Government £2O an acre, plus
interest, I shall become the owner.
I have erected a hut, and live by the skin of
my teeth. I make about 15s. a week by
writing (I was once a journalist), and that
keeps the dingo from the door. The place is,
of course, unl'enced, uncleared and, in conse-
quence, unproductive.
I could, I suppose, apply for Government
relief work, which would bring me in about
ten shillings a week. But then there would
probably be complications over my earnings
as a writer ; in any event relief work, from
what I see of it, is neither work nor relief.
And the extra 10s. —if indeed it would be extra
—would not enable me to clear and fence my
land.
A neighboring block has been taken up by
a returned soldier with a wife and family.
He’s on relief work. Farther along there are
other people living in various sorts of shacks
on areas which they cannot develop because
all they see in the way of money is what they
get from relief work. At the moment it is being
carried on almost at my back door. It takes
the form of bringing along gravel and laying
it out on top of the road. It is not a good
road, though I have seen worse, and I don’t
think the gravel will improve it much ; very
likely the gravel will all be blown away by
the next windstorm.
There is no purpose in this relief work at
all except to get men to perform various physi-
cal evolutions in return for a dole. Surely the
Government ought to be able to think up some
alternative scheme. Why must men be
paraded together to do wholly unnecessary toil
when they could be engaged usefully on their
own places if they could get hold of some
cash?
I do not claim to be a person of extra-
ordinary vision, but as far as I can see I am
likely to be unemployed for the rest of my
life. In 30 years or so I shall be eligible for
the old-age pension. But meantime the grass
will grow under my feet here, and my neigh-
bors will likewise have to subsist on their
undeveloped blocks, doing occasional relief
work till the end of their days. It seems absurd
that men on Crown land should have to strew
gravel on roads to earn a pittance when with
very little assistance the land would keep them.
«
Northern Territory Problems.
A. M. Blain, the new member for the
N.T., made a good impression with his
maiden speech in the Reps. A practical
man, a surveyor with farming and min-
ing experience, he knows both the un-
developed Territory and its adjacent de-
veloped Queensland country, in which he
has made subdivisions from coast to
border. Recently he surveyed The
Granites.
This year’s outlay on the N.T. will be
£168,000 (apart from amounts spent on
geophysical surveys and £lBO,OOO on rail-
way expenses). Of this, £27,000 is loan
interest and sinking-fund expense, £77,000
is remuneration, the rest upkeep and pay-
ment for immediate past sins. As the
white, yellow and half-caste population is
4860 (only 1700 earn over £1 per week),
it works out at £34 per head. There are
122 civil servants, who draw an average
of £361. The cost of government and
transport seems to be equal to 50 per
cent, of the value of production, which is
ridiculous in a land where settlers pay
freights of up to £6O a ton.
The Territory will never develop until
it has some sort of responsible govern-
ment. Mr. Lyons should invite Mr. Blain
to suggest a scheme.
4
The Mayo System.
“XT”: A lot more might be said for the
Mayo clinic system (B. 12/12/’34). Apart
from its sensible custom of charging
for services, the Mayo clinic handles a
wholesale specialist business in a whole-
sale way. There is a battery of salaried
operators for every major disease, and
the honorary who gives a large part of
his time to free hospital work doesn’t
exist in Rochester as he does in Aus-
tralia.
Moreover, the Mayo system does
away with the haphazard selection of
operators by patients and suburban
medicoes. The patient goes to the clinic ;
his case is diagnosed and he is sent to a
man or woman who is dealing only with
his kind of need day after day, usually
in a hospital or section which is exclu-
sively organised to cope with a particular
disease. The relations between the opera-
tor and the operated-on are impersonal.
The specialist does not also have to be a
debt-collector and costs accountant. He
is expected to give ail his time to tech-
nical work.
Costs can be kept down because there
need be no over-investment in plant, such
as is inevitable where the treatment of a
particular disease is spread over half a
dozen private experts and three or four
hospitals. By co-ordinating resources it
is possible to handle all cases with ade-
quate equipment and the best available
skill. Furthermore, the flow of patients
can be regulated to ensure prompt
treatment.
As an example of the difference, in
Sydney, where cancer kills about 1400
people a year, there is no cancer hos-
pital. The General Hospital, Prince
Alfred, the Coast, St. Vincent’s and
several private practitioners have deep-
ray therapy plants, and a number of sur-
geons cam use the knife at discretion.
Research is separated from treatment at
the university. Naturally, one hospital
may have a large waiting list, while at
others the roster is not full. And the
plants in use are not of equal modernity.
Commonsense suggests that a closer
brigading of knowledge, experience, plant,
organisation and research would give
better results and enable more efficient
specialisation.
+ —
“Next, Please!”
At first glance, it would appear that no
unbiased person could fail to support
the recommendation of the Common-
wealth Public Service Commissioners in
favor of promotion by merit rather than
by seniority. Their argument that to
promote on any other factor but effi-
ciency would be a backward step in
administration is almost a truism, and the
public services of States in which senior-
ity is the rule provide ludicrous examples
of incompetent heads who have nothing
but their grey hairs to recommend them.
The difficulty always experienced is to
choose the most' efficient for promotion
and to guard against nepotism. Political
influence is extremely apt to find evidence
of extraordinary ability in a public ser-
vant related to somebody influential or
connected with some particular political
organisation, perhaps some particular
church. The brother-in-law of the Min-
ister of Crustaceans would be discovered
to possess rare qualities as a crayfish
expert were the expert’s job vacant.
Whether the Minister in question en-
gineered the appointment or whether his
subordinates played the game for their
own ends is immaterial. If the Minister
were of the type that looked for perqui-
sites for self and friends the brother-in-
law would get the job.
On the other hand, there are Ministers
and others in authority who go to the
other extreme. They refuse to appoint
anybody remotely connected with them,
no matter how highly qualified. There are
men who were unlucky enough to have
ties of blood or marriage with people in
authority so punctilious as to refuse to
listen to any advice that would favor their
own connections. Both the crooked head
and the too-punctilious head are equally
standing in the way of public benefit,
but' they are both amenable to public
protest and are liable to be forced to do
the right thing.
'Even at the risk of favoritism on the
one hand and of missing capable men
on the other, promotion by merit is in-
finitely preferable to having a crowd of
public servants, each armed with a list
from which he strikes off the name of
every dead man and every retired man,
looking forward to the day when one
will automatically become a departmen-
tal head —much as the customer in the
barber’s shop studies the papers until he
hears the welcome cry “Next, please!”
♦
Swings and Roundabouts.
It is not only in Australia that the fierce
battle is waging between railways and
motor transport. The passenger service
of the railways in England has been
seriously depleted for the past’ 10 years,
while the U.S.A. is in a similar position,
the Pickwick cars running between all the
towns of the Union at fares faster and
cheaper. More is heard of the un-
pleasantness in Australia because the rail-
ways are publicly owned and the deficits
hit all the citizens in place of merely the
competitors in the financial arena.
In none of the countries concerned
would there have been any difficulties had
the controllers of railway systems been
sufficiently long-sighted to see the future
of the motor. In those lands where
railways are privately owned the com-
panies should have jumped to instal
motor lines as feeders to their stations.
In Australia, the railway departments of
the various States should have done the
same, the whole being under the control
of a Minister of Transport. They missed
their chances through inaction, and there
is so much to be said on both sides that
nobody can prophesy the ultimate result.
For very many years, Australian gas
companies have spent tens of thousands
of pounds fighting electricity, both pri-
vately- and State-owned, without checking
its advance. The same thing has occurred
to an extent in other countries. Only the
gas company of San Francisco had the
necessary vision. It adopted electricity
the moment it showed its head as a pos-
sible competitor, and the concern, now the
Gas and Electric Supply Co., has full
control. What it loses on the swings it
makes on the roundabouts, which is sane
business.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
Gilbert Mant (Canada): My affidavit
goes with this. Visiting New York re-
cently, I was introduced to a man from
Sinclair Lewis’s Middle West as “an Aus-
tralian.” He peered at me as if I were
a platypus and said: “My, you have
picked up English quickly!”
* * * *
“Q.M.1.”: In his just-published book
on Prince George’s tour of South Africa,
one Burch, official snapshotter to the
party, tells of the amusement occasioned
by a band of kilted nigger school-child-
ren playing tin whistles. This was at
Bloemfontein, and evidently the Scottish
leaven there is not worked out. In 1900
my regiment, the 2nd Q.M.1., entered the
captured capital on foot leading its
horses. The way led through the Kafir
quarter or “location.” As we appeared,
a schoolful of little darkies of both sexes
lined up alongside the column and, led
by a sable elder, burst into the strains of
“Bonnie Dundee.” They sung it tunefully
and well, and finished up with three
cheers for the “khakis” as our last sec-
tions plodded past them.
* * * *
“Bundalinga”: Nobody can blame sea-
men for asking that all ships trading on
these coasts be fitted with radio. The ob-
jection that the cost would be too great
for some of the smaller concerns and
“Yes, Mrs. Jones; it’ll be the first real holiday father’s had this year.”
that a wireless operator would have to
be employed is easily met. In cases where
there is no Sparks to operate the sets, it
would surely be possible to instal trans-
mitting outfits similar to those used to
call up the “flying doctor” of the Inland?
These have keyboards like a typewriter,
and messages can be tapped out by any-
one who can read the ordinary alphabet.
The set turns the letters into Morse after
the tapping is done.
“Spare Corp”: There are Diggers who
are making new applications for war
pensions, and a few have solid supporting
evidence. A unique case is that of
a veteran of 84, who despite his
age got into the war with the
Ist Australian Tunnellers, and was
wounded in the knee at Hill 60. He was
in the police in his early days, and after
leaving the force got a job to which
he returned after the war, although
nearly 70 then. He continued as
a first-class shiftman in a mine
at Abermain until he was 75. But now
he reckons his war injury tells against
his chance of keeping his job or securing
a new one, so the pension claim has gone
in.
* * * *
“Marsh”: Memories of the wreck of
the Quetta were revived the other day by
the death in the Cloncurry (Q.) hospital
of “Smiler” Clarke, one of the colored
members of the crew. “Smiler,” whilst
struggling in the water, found a baby
girl clinging to a dead sheep. For 20
hours he kept himself and the child afloat,
when the pair were picked up. The
death-roll was a heavy one ; 134 lives
were lost f and there were 150 survivors.
Clarke was rewarded by the Queensland
Government. He was 74 at the end.
* * * #
“Jillawarra’s” reminiscence:
The late E. P. Dowley, the last of the early-
day Westralian goldfields wardens, was the only
one who was ever seriously asked to give up
his well-paid magisterial job and stand for
Parliament. That happened to him 40 years
ago when the Murchison was first allotted an
M.L.A. A deputation of enterprising and
mostly coatless citizens waited upon Dowley
and suggested that, as he knew more about the
mineral resources of the district than anyone
else, they would like to have him for their
Parliamentary representative. They met with
a firm but courteous refusal. “What sort
of a mug do they take me for?” growled
the burly beak to an intimate an hour or two
later. “Give up £7OO a year for an unpaid
job! Not likely! ” From the purely material
standpoint the man from Dublin certainly
showed sound judgment, for it was six or
seven years before payment of members arrived
in Westralia, and “Electro Plate” went on
drawing a substantial salary until he was re-
tired at the age limit, sorely against his will.
* * * t-
“Purley”: Lord Sempill told Sydney
Millions Club that Mascot was “too far
away.”
An aerodrome in an important town
should be within five minutes of the heart
of the city.
Croydon is the best part of 15 miles from
the heart of London, whether you regard
the same as Piccadilly Circus or the
Bank. It is nearly 20 miles from the
Docks. The aerodromes of Paris, Berlin,
Rome and other great Continental cities
are also in outer suburbs. Mascot,
which can be reached from Central
station (the equivalent of Charing Cross)
in 10 minutes by car, is actually nearer to
its city than any Old World ’drome of
importance. Sydney’s problem is going
to be not to exchange Mascot for a
handier site, but to keep it. In spite of
the Bridge the city is moving south.
Another 10 years should find Mascot the
centre of Australia’s chief industrial area,
with concrete speedways linking it to the
city wharves.
“Corbie”: The Diggers don’t forget.
One of their number, a Vic. wheatgrower,
was killed in a tornado which struck his
home. A.I.F. men, unannounced, turned
up 100 strong with 21 harvesters and
took off his entire crop, harvesting 1000
bags, which were sewn up and delivered
at the local railway station.
* * * *
“Ex-Temp. Gent.” pontificates:
Touching this row over the use of military
titles, here’s the horsesense of the position.
No one under the rank of brigadier should
be allowed to use his war-time title at all.
Otherwise every Government department and
big store would be overrun with captains and
majors. _ There are two kinds of generals:
(1) comic, (2) otherwise. The comic ones
It's astoundin how the quality of babies has fallen off since my time.”
(who may be brig.-generals, major-generals,
heut.-generals or of the rank which is next
below a field-marshal) owe their status to non-
combatant war-work, allied, as a rule, to a
social, financial or political pull, or all three.
Sir Eric Geddes was a major-general at the
Armistice, though his service was performed in a
transport office. He had sufficient sense of
humor and proportion to drop his military title
when the war ended. Those who haven’t done
so should be made to. There are many bona
fide generals in civilian life all over the Empire
—meaning soldiers who have commanded divi-
sions in the field. Not Territorial or Militia
divisions on a peace-time basis, but divisions in
the face of the enemy. They should be en-
couraged to use their military titles at all
times. It might also be wise to give V.C.-
winners their titles. Genuine soldiers are an
inspiration, and can’t be kept in evidence too
much: the other kind make fools not only
of themselves but of their national defence
forces.
* * * *
“D.”: The spectacle of an unfunny
person trying to be funny in print, black-
and-white, on a stage, in a bar or else-
where is depressing. But is there
anything sadder than a humorless
musician? Music—a Sullivan num-
ber, a polka by Stravinsky—can be
very laughable. But where is the
joke in the average jazz opus? For
example, a young man is doing a
turn with a banjo on a Sydney
screen at the time of writing. As
he strums his monotonous jungle
air—it consists of variations on
two or three notes —he heaves him-
self from side to side in paroxysms
of mirth. Nobody in the audience
shows a glimmer of amusement, or
any other emotion except tired re-
gret that a fellow-human should be
making such a galoot of himself.
The average jazz joke, I submit, is
no more hilarious than a funeral.
Yet the instrumentalists go on as
Laurel and Hardy would if they were
in the habit of showing amusement at
their own quips. The O’Reilly ought to
censor them ; they inspire thousands with
homicidal impulses.
* * * *
“J.H.F.”: Item from the “Saturday
Evening Post”:
“Beano” is a bit of American soldier
slang, an immigrant word travelling out of
the Philippines to become a useful alien
wherever white men try to drown their
nostalgia in liquor. The Spanish are care-
less with “v” and “b”: vino, in American
ears, sounds like “veeno,” or usually
“beano.”
Which is, of course, rubbish. My dic-
tionary defines “beanfeast” as “a rustic
dinner given by an employer to his work-
men,” and colloquially known as a
“beano.” And I myself have a first-hand,
50-year-old recollection of the “bean-
feast” and its obviously jovial corrup-
tion.
* * * *
“Verri”: A Maorilander who has spent
Christmas in many lands regards his only
Australian Christmas Day as the most
outstanding. He was visiting relatives in
the west of N.S.W., and had been bidden
to dine with an uncle who lived three
miles away. A borrowed bicycle was to
carry him, and he started off in good
time. So did a fire burning in the oppo-
site direction. Turning a bend, he met
a wall of flame. He discarded his
machine and dashed for safety to an
empty ruin near by, where he lost no
time in deciding that the safest place
for him was an old dry well in what had
once been a garden. As it had a lid he
was able to shut himself in while the fire
burnt over the surface and demolished
the hut. A search party found the dis-
carded bicycle and the smouldering hut.
and dashed back with the news of the
tragedy. It quite spoiled the Christmas
dinner, and when the missing guest
turned up later, having waited until the
place cooled sufficiently for a safe pas-
sage, he was just in time to give the
local policeman firsthand information re-
garding, all that had befallen him.
* * * *
“Ist Divvy”: Everyone will agree with
“2nd Divvy” (B. 12/12/’34) that Brud-
enell White has not received half the
recognition due to him, but many will
dispute his right to rank above Monash.
As a regular White had a flying start,
while Monash had to battle against two
heavy handicaps—he was a volunteer
officer when war broke out and
he was a Jew. He succeeded, in spite
of the caste prejudices of the Brit-
ish Army, thereby justifying Lloyd
George’s remark that he was “the only
natural military genius thrown up by
the war.” Certainly the A.I.F. had more
confidence in him than in any other com-
mander, Godley included. His letters
were obviously never intended for publi-
cation verbatim, and judicious editing
would have avoided unhappy conse-
quences, such as Godley’s Adelaide
speech.
“Brass Hat”: The weight of expert as
well as popular opinion must surely be
against Godley’s contention that White
was by far the ablest soldier Australia
has produced.” Monash’s posthumous let-
ters have apparently irritated Godley into
making a wild statement; he might have
found more to agree with him if he had
assigned first place to Chauvel. At all
events, Chauvel and Monash weve
leaders; White occupied a subordinate
role, although a vital one. As Chief-
of-Staff he did not require the quali-
ties which must be possessed by a
successful commander. He influenced
decisions, but he did not make them.
White may have had the capacity for
leadership, but he never won his spurs as
a commander in the field. Chauvel and
Monash were proved and successful
leaders.
CHRISTMAS, ’THIRTY-FOUR.
It’s passing out, another year,
' With all its fleeting smooth and rough.
Froth out the seasonable beer!
Fall to upon the blazing duff!
We’ll take Depression by the scruff
This week and boot him through the door;
Black Care away like smoke we’ll puff.
A lilt for Christmas, ’Thirty-four!
Avaunt! avaunt! you croakers drear,
You propagandists sour and gruff,
Who whine another war is near,
And various other sobful stuff.
You dismal Jimmies are enough
To spoil one’s scran, and something more.
It 1 gets my goat, your ghoulish guff.
A toast to Christmas, ’Thirty-four!
What though we all in many a sphere
Have tasted knock and known rebuff,
If yet ungained, the* corner’s near
I hat looked so far when times were tough.
We’ll call a truce to hate and huff,
To wordy strife and faction’s roar,
To politicians’ bleat and bluff.
A health to Christmas, ’Thirty-four!
Come, charge your glasses quantum stiff.
I give you all, by sea and shore,
A catch for none to mull or muff:
Here’s luck to Christmas, ’Thirty-four.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“El V.”: I think that the Common-
wealth Government ought to give me a
research pension as the discoverer of the
only example of the works of Egon
Kisch which any Australian appears to
have read. Naturally, since Mr. Kisch is
not a Communist, he chose to publish
it in the official Communist propaganda
sheet, the “Moscow News” (27/l/’32). It
relates how the blessings of Sovietism
have turned Tadjikistan (East U.S.S.R.)
into a paradise in which the inhabitants
“ You're quaite sure these are fashionable? I don’t want to be conspicuous.”
abandoned religion to worship 80l-
shevism one hero has renamed himself
“Not-a-Gift-of-God”—thus turning from
hard work for others to “study collec-
tive economy and the history of Lenin-
ism.” After reading Mr. Kisch’s de-
scription of this new Eden, I appreciate
his indignation at not being allowed to
enter Australia.
* * * *
“ 10-2-4’s” sentiments:
The “S. M. Herald” discovered last week
that “Treasure Island” and “Monte Cristo
are “founded on the sure psychological founda-
tion of wish-fulfilment.” Wish-fulfilment has
been the basis of every melodrama and musi-
comedy for generations, and the movie trade
has always lived on it. The chief function of
flappers’ idols such as Gable and Colman is
obvious; and they also give delight t<? men,
young and old, who imagine themselves in their
fortunate places. Joan Crawford offers hard-
up shopgirls wish-fulfilments in the matter ot
fantastic clothes, and men such as Menjou and
Warner Baxter do the same for wishful youths
in the new-suit-every-two-years class. When
the management of a super-cinema instals an
Ancient Roman Clubroom for men and a
Ladies’ Exclusive Paphian Lounge, dresses
attendants in liveries, bestows statues, pictures,
thick carpets and deep sofas about the
entrance-hall, it is providing patrons with an-
other form of wish-fulfilment. For the duration
of his visit the movie-addict is able to forget
the overdue gas bill and the hole in the dining-
room carpet. Life is rich, spacious, free ot
sordid cares. I have been waiting for years
for a movie magnate to give his establishment
a suitable name. The Laudanum would be
better than the Lyceum, the Cocaine than the
Civic.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: I fancy “Mug Gunner”
(B. 12/12/’34) must have mixed Moslem
Gyppos up with Hindu coolies when he
describes the native levies gathered to
shoo away a locust swarm in Egypt refus-
ing to slay the creatures or to permit
others to do so. No one is a greater
sufferer at the locust’s jaws than
the Gyppo fellah, and he spiflicates
it by every available method. More-
over, he regards the locust as a
tasty morsel. The lower-class native
food shops in low quarters like Shubra in
Cairo exhibit trays of fried locusts
sprinkled with tumeric, and I can
certify that these smell very appetising.
Among Hindus, however, only the lower
castes will take animal life, even for food
though none of them is so particular
when it comes to bumping off a human,
especially if he be a Kafir. Sects like the
Jains walk abroad with their eyes on the
ground lest they should tread on some-
thing living, and never sit down without
carefully brushing any invisible wog off
the seat.
“Der Jong”: Those Egyptian locusts
(B. 12/12/’34) recall a South African ex-
perience at Pretoria after the Boer War.
The O.C. cavalry depot where I was
abiding was a base wallah who was near
to being certifiable. He had his place
laid out with pretty flower-beds among
the tents, and these seemed to be his
main reason for existence. One day a
horde of locusts descended on Paul
Kruger’s old h.q. As I rode into the
depot from town for lunch the flower-
beds were covered with locusts. All
available Kaffirs were doing their best
to shift them. The O.C. led the attack.
Armed with a hunting-crop he was run-
ning from bed to bed, flicking the tres-
passers off one at a time with the thong!
“Inaha”: Long-distance air travel,
necessitating meals for passengers at
high altitudes, has revealed some strange
facts about common foods. One vege-
table that has been “declared black,” so
to speak, is the humble cauliflower, tests
having shown that whenever it is served
about 90 per cent, of the aerial voyagers
are ill. Lettuce and
tomatoes, the lean
of cold ham and
raw apples are .all
approved, but may-
onnaise and black
coffee are taboo
Gin and limejuice is
recommended as the
best alcoholic drink,
with champagne in
“I don’t go much on this hiking business, George. We’ve been a week on the track
and done nothing but walk.”
small quantities a good second. At
10,000 ft. most tinned foods are viewed
suspiciously, and thermo-containers of
hot tea and other liquids frequently ex-
plode at even 2000 ft.
* * * *
“Bad Penny”: The tobacconist in our
suburb, a bit of a philosopher, has an
attitude to the brummy-florin problem
that will do me. Paying for a packet of
cigarettes, I remarked that the two-bob
piece I tendered looked suspicjous but
came from the bank. “All one to me,”
he declared. “It’s Government’s job to
keep the currency pure. I take ’em and
I pass ’em, good, bad and awful. I’m a
barber, not a mint inspector.”
* * * *
“Ex-P.8.1.”: I agree that you couldn’t
beat back-area commanders for their zeal
in enforcing rules and regulations (B.
12/12/’34). During 1916, while in charge
of an advanced L.G. post on the
wrong side of the sunken road
bordering Thiepval Wood, I saw
a major of the R.H.A. (29th Divi-
sion) lying on his back in the
blown-in remnants of a trench
trying to get snaps of the Ger-
man “woolly bears” (5.9 h.e. air
bursts) which were peppering the
wood—-and us. As promised, he
sent me prints. I was incautiously
displaying these souvenirs to some
cobbers in Charley’s bar (Amiens),
when they were pounced upon
and confiscated by a little pip-
squeak A.P.M. Redtabs gave the
usual idiotic reason for the seiz-
ure —“supplying the enemy with
information.” The prints (five of them)
each disclosed a ragged cloud of black
smoke and the tops of a few shattered
tree-trunks!
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Unusual speed was de-
veloped in a recent Sydney divorce case ,
according to the evidence, a man who
finished his breakfast as an unsuspecting
husband had secured the necessary evi-
dence and put the wheels in motion for
his divorce before lunch. It was an un-
expected return home for something for-
gotten that disillusioned him; he dashed
off hotfoot to a solicitor and, returning
with a witness, secured written admissions
from the lady. A similar hurry naturally
couldn’t be imparted to the court pro-
ceedings ; the petitioner had to join the
queue on the doorstep of the Matrimonial
Causes Court and wait six months before
his tale of woe was given a hearing.
“Bangemall”: Uncle Sam has ex-
plicitly disclaimed any intention of ren-
dering an account for the heavy cost of
his search for Ulm and his companions.
Nor would it probably have occurred
to the citizens of Albury (N.S.W.) who
saved Parmentier and party to set a
pecuniary value on their services. But
the Westralian Gov-
ernment made no
bones about billing
Germany for ex-
penses incurred in
the rescue of Bert-
ram and Klausmann
when they were lost
in the Kimberley
country in 1932.
The amount, it is
learned, was £370, and the airline co.
concerned paid up. Possibly it will be
argued that Commonwealth misrule has
brought the State to such a pass that
it can’t even afford to save life without
being paid for it.
**/ * *
“Lex”: If I had been on Tom Man-
cini’s jury in London last week it
wouldn’t have needed the eloquence of
Norman Birkett, K.C., to make me give
accused the benefit of the doubt. Man-
cini’s alleged victim was what some grim
ironist has called “a lady of joy.” In-
credible things happen to members of
her profession in great cities, and, above
all, in London, where their calling is
not officially recognised. Every psycho-
pathological case in the land resorts to
them, with the result that a London
prostitute’s expectation of dying a violent
death is, roughly, 40 times greater than
that of a woman in any other walk of
life. And, in the nature of things, most
of the crimes appear to be motiveless.
Were I conducting a crusade to keep the
young on the narrow path I would leave
moral and religious appeals alone, and
rely solely on the police figures showing
the number of girls who have been mur-
dered after “going gay” and the number
of men who have been charged (often
wrongly) with-murdering them. If that
didn’t put young people off vice nothing
would.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: England, it seems, has its
troubles over spurious money, and that
in a more serious form than counterfeit
florins —“crook two-eys,” as the N.S.W.
State lottery girls call them. Thousands
of forged banknotes are being circulated
in London—“stumers” of such mas-
terly workmanship that it takes the
most minute examination to fault
them. It is one of the obvious dan-
gers of paper money that it can be imi-
tated on just as good paper as the origi-
nal. The coiner must employ inferior
metal, or, at all events, metal that can
be distinguished from the Mint article,
or his nefarious activities wouldn’t pay
him. But, with the advance of chemical
research, the imitation of paper docu-
ments becomes easier. Nevertheless,
there used to be a tradition that the
paper used for Bank of England notes
was in a class of its own, and that its
exact ingredients were a jealously-
guarded trade secret that had been
handed down from father to son in one
particular family for three or four gen-
erations. It was a comfortable belief,
but I wonder what truth there was in it.
THE NO-BALLING OF THE GAELIC.
quashed the conviction of Egon Kisch as P
liibited immigrant.”
The Gaelic is spoken
In various belts,
The audible token
Of numberless Celts.
But what does that matter
Now Judges have rung
Its knell as a patter,
Its toll as a tongue?
Where haggises hearten,
When pipe-music’s spilt,
It goes with the tartan,
It clicks with the kilt.
It witches you rarely _
With its ripple and swish;
But they tried it unfairly,
It seems, upon Kisch.
When never a blemish,
A smudge or a speck
You could find in his Flemish
Or fault in his Czech;
When French like a native
Of Paris he’d speak,
And give you the dative
Of “crayfish” in Greek ;
When he’d never be beaten
By noun or by verb
In pages of Cretan
Or columns of Serb;
When neither at Yiddish
Nor Croat he would fail,
He called it “un-Bridish”
To stump him at Gael.
You can wager a million
He knows Portuguese,
And has talked in Castilian
With Spanish grandees.
His repertoire covers
Most modes of discourse,
From the language of lovers
To boisterous Norse. .
He’d have faced, cool and perkish,
Sans tremor or fuss,
A test in his Turkish,
A trial of his Russ.;
But he termed it, by jingo!
An outrage indeed
When they set him the lingo
Of Ossian to read.
When you carry a shipment
Of tongues in your head,
A lingual equipment
From A unto Z,
A stock that you hope’ll
Fair carry you through
From Constantinople
To Kalamazoo,
’Twould be real vexation
And rotten bad luck
To be “ploughed” in Dalmatian
Or “spun” at Kalmuck.
Though Scotsmen may clatter
And Irishmen “pish,”
It seems it’s no matter
There wasn’t a smatter
Of Gaelic in Kisch!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
m
■ .j
FACTORY-FRESH
when you open the packing
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keeps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”— 10 for 9 d - and 20 for 1/6
II
99
POLITICAL POINTS
Members of the junior Bar, a serious
race, regret that Chief Justice Gavan
Duffy wasn’t in his place when the High
Court ruled that Gaelic is not a European
language within the meaning of the Immi-
gration Act. They recall that a near rela-
tion was one of the six Irish delegates
who negotiated the treaty of 1921. He
signed as Sforsa Ghabhain Ui Dhubh-
thaigh.
It is hoped that when Herr Kisch
writes his book about Australia he will
speak in proper terms of the system
which probably saved his life when he
jumped off the ship in defiance of orders.
Had he done that in Germany, Yugo-
slavia, Turkey or Russia we might now
be in mourning for him.
During a Senate discussion of the cen-
sorship, it was mentioned that Aldous
Huxley’s “Brave New World” was in
the Parliamentary library for nine
months before it was banned. And then
perhaps some diligent student of close-to-
the-knuckle stuff borrowed the volume
and forgot to return it.
A “victory social” was arranged for
the ever-defeated Lang at Wollongong
Agricultural Hall one night last week,
and he had a full house. An anti-war
meeting addressed by Gerald Griffin at
the Wollongong Town Hall was “poorly
attended.” It is understandable. Who
would go to hear an Irish Com-
munist mouthing pacifism when he
could be a witness to Lang dancing with
rage and bellowing that “The Fight Is
On”?
The first air mail to Britain carried
55,967 articles weighing 11431 b., the
second only 8861 articles weighing
3161 b. ; and Mr. Brown is disappointed.
It is his own fault for charging so much
—eighteenpence a letter, and no reduc-
tion on taking a quantity, as it were.
The British have plans for a seven-day
service and a minimum rate of three-
ha’pence, but “the P.M.G.’s Department
has shown no enthusiasm” for them.
They would outrage its grand old bul-
lock-dray traditions.
The saving of the Dutch airliner at
Albury has had a sorrowful sequel. With
a new crew and passengers, the great
Douglas machine, carrying Christmas
mails from Holland to Java —the design
was to bring back a load within five
days—raced into a terrific storm above
the Syrian desert. This time there was
no succor for it; R.A.F. ’planes found
it a burnt wreck and its seven people
dead. Australia’s sympathy goes out to
the Dutch nation.
In the flush times savings-bank in-
terest soared to 5 per cent. Next week it
will be down to 2 per cent, on balances
to £5OO, and If per cent, on greater
amounts. Cuts, there had to be with the
lowering of interest on Government
securities, but thrifty people and concerns
have suffered. Many trade unions used
to depend upon savings-bank interest for
a considerable part of their income.
When Wiluna (W.A.) thought it
mightn’t have money enough to com-
plete its plant the State came to light with
a loan, and the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment guaranteed it. That was in
1930 ; since April, 1931, the co. has pro-
duced gold valued at £3,000,000 Austra-
lian. Last year it declared a net profit
of £403,400, distributed 22\ p.c. in divs.
and added 253,900 tons to its ore reserves,
making them 1,786,000 tons ; and it is
employing upwards of 800 men. In view
of these figures, Dr. Rivett’s notion that
Australia could dig the equivalent of its
overseas debt out of the ground is by
no means fantastic.
The Commonwealth Government
backed Ulm’s projected flight over the
Pacific in a land machine with a guar-
antee of £BOOO, and members, pausing
in their rush to get home for Christmas,
voted £5OOO to Mrs. Ulm. Protests are
coming from various parts of the Com-
monwealth, not because Australians do
not admire Ulm and do not sympathise
with his wife and the relatives of his
two companions, but because they feel
that the Government had no business to
support so hazardous an adventure with
public money, and that without consult-
ing Parliament. It is improbable that
Canberra will get out of it with an ex-
penditure of £5OOO. It is morally re-
sponsible for the huge cost of the very
gallant American search, though the
U.S.A. Government may not ask for
the money.
Bespeaking. support for the grant' to
Mrs. Ulm, Minister Casey was asked for
an assurance that there would be no
repetition of the folly of financing ocean
flights in land ’planes. He replied:
“If the Sydney aldermen cannot elect a Lord Mayor, the Stevens Government will have
to make the appointment. Last week, as at the previous meeting of the council, there were
10 votes for Alderman Parker and 10 votes for Alderman Jackson, both supporters of Mr.
Stevens.”
“Er, haven’t I read somewhere there were two Popes once?”
“There are no other similar commit-
ments, as far as I am aware.” A very
queer answer, and it won’t satisfy the
public.
Before the negotiations for an Australia -
M.L. trade agreement closed as usual,
Auckland “Herald” traced the history of
these manoeuvres. It recalled that there
had been a periodical procession of Aus-
tralian Ministers to the other Dominion —
Fenton in 1930, Parker Moloney in 1931,
Massy Greene in 1933 (accompanied by
Quarantine, Treasury, Customs, Trade
and Commerce officials and a professor of
agriculture), and Stewart (also with a
party from several departments) at the
beginning of this year.
Seeing that memory is short, there will
probably be an official visit one way or
the other next year, when the whole subject
will be reopened with the utmost cor-
diality.
A true prophecy. There is to be an-
other meeting at' Wellington in March.
From the N.S.W. Parliamentary de-
bates :
Mr. Solomon urged the Government to
devise means for the people to invest
shillings in the lottery.
A man with a name like that ought to
know that no Government can do it.
Mugs may buy shares in lottery tickets
and sellers grow fat on the profits of
the trade, now doomed under the Charit-
able Collections Bill, but to “invest” in a
lottery is beyond any person’s power.
Clydesdale, M.L.C., who has so sorely
embarrassed Westralian Labor by com-
bining his Parliamentary job with the
paid chairmanship of its Lotteries Com-
mission, announced the other day that
he was resigning his seat. Though the
Government amended the Constitu-
tion to permit him to hold the two posts,
the Trades Hall has had no answer to
the taunt that it was against “Labor
principles.” To compensate him for his
sacrifice, the Government proposed to
let him run the lotteries for five years at
£lOOO a year. The Leg. Council has
cruelly reduced the term to one year and
the salary to £BOO.
The Bulletin was unjust to Spring,
M.L.A., in saying that he had supported
the grant of Government railway and
tramway passes to members of the
abolished N.S.W. Upper House. “Han-
sard” records that, while he “congratu-
lated the Premier on introducing this
measure,” he voted against it. Mr. Spring,
for his part, was unjust to the memory
of Hugh Mahon:
At the time of the war a Federal
Minister gave vent to most disloyal utter-
ances on the floor of the House, and in
consequence was expelled from it When
he died it was found that for 16 years
he had been using a gold pass.
Mahon was really a war Minister for
two years (September, 1914, to Novem-
ber, 1916), and a good one. The speech
that got him into trouble was made in
a Melbourne park in November, 1920 ;
the seat was declared vacant on the 12th
of that month. He died August 28, 1931.
Considering the indulgence extended to
Garden, Mahon was savagely treated.
If Tim Healy were alive one of the
Australian pressmen in London might
have got some sparkling “copy” by going
over to Dublin and asking that wittiest
of Irish lawyers his opinion of the High
Court judgment dismissing Gaelic with
costs. Nobody would dare to question
the present Governor-General, especi-
ally as he demands to be known as
Domhnall Ua Buachalla. Still that’s
comparatively easy: the Chairman of
the Dail is Proinnsias O Fathaigh ; the
Minister of Finance, Sean Mac an tSaoi;
the Minister of Agriculture, An Doch-
tuir Seamus O Riain ; the Minister of
Defence, Proinnsias O h-Aodhagain ; and
the Attorney-General, Conchubhar Alas-
dair MagUidhir. These names ap-
pear in that very solemn publica-
tion the “Statesman’s Year-Book,” the
English forms following in brackets.
Defending a woman charged with hav-
ing carried out an illegal operation at
Wangaratta (Vic.), a lawyer made an
eloquent appeal for leniency, asserting
that the attitude of society to such
offences had changed greatly since the
law was first passed, and that leading
people to-day advocated contraception.
Judge Foster was not to be caught. De-
scribing the defence as a “second-reading
address,” he said he was there to admin-
ister the law as he found it. All the
same, he gave the lady in the dock only
six months for each of two offences, and
made the sentences concurrent.
The N.S.W. Local Government De-
partment, which is preparing an ordin-
ance to ensure that beach flappers will be
decently clothed, might turn its atten-
tion also to the verbal apparel in which
some Parliamentarians dress their views.
An unclothed flapper may be a delight
to the eye, but even a deaf man could
not say as much of some of the semi-
nude thoughts of J. T. Lang.
The U.S.A., Britain, France, Italy and
Japan were parties to the Washington
Treaty. It provided for a limitation of
capital ships and aircraft carriers for 15
years in the ratio of five, U.S.A. and
Britain ; three, Japan ; 1.66, France and
Italy. Japan is denouncing it this week ;
in effect, giving two years’ notice of in-
tention to withdraw. A disquieting
Christmas gift to a distracted world ;
however, in the terms of the treaty, there
will have to be a conference next year,
and, unlike the discussions in 1930, from
which France and Italy stood out, the
five Powers will be represented.
According to Chief Justice Kennedy,
all amendments to the Free State Con-
stitution made since 1930, including the
removal of the oath of allegiance, are
null and void, because they have never
been submitted to the people. He was
overruled by two colleagues on the
Appeal Court Bench ; but perhaps that’s
what appeal courts are for.
An unsavory sequel to a beano in a
Saarbrucken night club has embarrassed
Knox, the Australian-born Commis-
sioner, in his efforts to keep the peace in
the Saar. Driving away from the cock-
tail joint with an English lordling and
a German girl, one Captain Justice,
of the International Police, backed his
car on a footpath and hurt a German
woman. He was attacked by her friends
and sympathisers, and drew a revolver —
his “gat,” as he called it. When he had
fired two shots the weapon was taken
from him and he was banged on the
head. No one was badly hurt, but it was
a nasty beginning for the plebiscite
period.
Adelaide’s Young Liberals have come
out against the crazy proposal to spend
20 millions or more on unifying the rail-
way gauges. Says Keith Wilson, their
secretary:
Railways in this State are now losing
more than half our income-tax revenue.
And the S.A. income tax is the stiffest
of all.
Victoria’s Public Works Department
has told two relief workers who, after a
struggle, have each established a claim
to Id. for marginal time to come and
collect. As each man would have to
pay lOd. in fares, another struggle is now
developing between the P.W.D. and the
Unemployed Committee as to whether
the Government should send cheques.
Why not pay it in gold?


MIND ! NO ONES TO ENTER
A. cla.ss- rooiv\ until -me
TICK. Ot= NINE* ~
;, Its union rules,
Fifteen minutes for making up
M 9 Blinks the Science
Refuses to umpire the match
DURINe, THE S*nsUG»e l L.E FOR oue RtQHTS
Positively no pupils will. be kept in iv^\
OONT SCAkB OM y!s MAOTES V '
ff .; y *
Its half-pakst thr.ee
REGULATION STRIKE.


SHELL
*IBJL
if-
sk
,5 £^**3**
Mm
B 5&
‘5^W(»- ft r.w i s S>N v^ 4% .
for MILEAGE
and POWER.
51613
PERSONAL
ITEMS
A special interest attaches to young
Irvine Hunter, the baby of Ashfield
Grammar School and dux of 1A class.
He is the son of Professor John Hunter,
whose death was a loss to the world of
science.
The Earl of Aylesford, who has been
getting undesired publicity in the Saar,
is a descendant of Charles ll.’s Lord
Chancellor—“the father of equity,” whose
chief contribution to British law was the
Statute of Frauds. A kinsman gave his
name to a North Queensland sugar
town: Finch Hatton.
Sydney Jewry’s lamented Rabbi Cohen
is to be succeeded as chief minister by
Rabbi E. M. Levy. He is a graduate of
London (8.A.), Oxford (M.A.) and the
Jews’ College, from which he graduated
as minister; and his Rabbinical Diploma
has the endorsement of Dr. Hertz, Chief
Rabbi of the Empire. Like most eligible
British Jews of his class he volunteered
for the World War and served in France ;
he was 22 when the war began. He is
chief minister at Durban, S’Africa, at
present.
“R.A.N.” remembers:
Rear-Admiral Dalglish (in command of the
R.A.N. for two years from April, 1932) has died
at 53. His elder brother, father of the present
owner of Pomeroy, near Goulburn, also died
in his prime. The Dalglish fortune came from
a lucky mining deal. It was all inherited by the
widow of the man who made it, and she
presently took it and her large family to Eng-
land. One of the De Laurets, of Goulburn,
Mrs. Dalglish became prominent in London
Catholic society, gave £lO,OOO for the comple-
tion of the dome of The Oratory, and married
a Bellasis —a widower with a family as large
as her own. Members of both families
entered the services, but Robin Dalglish was
the only one to attain high distinction. He
did good work at Jutland, and was Commo-
dore of the Atlantic Fleet destroyer flotilla be-
fore getting his Australian appointment. De-
spite his English training, he was a typical
free-and-easy Australian. He was highly
approved of in the R.A.N.
The late Lee Neil, of Melbourne, used
to say that he owed most of his know-
ledge of finance, as applied to industry, to
his experience as a bank clerk during
the years of smash and recovery, 1893-
97. Born in England, this D.A.A.G.
of the Myer army went to school in
Sydney, and began work there with Perry
and Co., softgoodsmen. He joined the
E., S. and A. Bank in Melbourne just in
time to witness the financial earth-
quake of the ’nineties. He met Sidney
Myer when that commercial superman
bought out the firm in which Neil’s father
was partner. Lee Neil, who had left the
bank to join this firm, was taken over
with the rest of the assets, and proved
possibly the most valuable of them all.
Fred Davison, father of the author of
“Man-Shy” and an ex-president of the
R.S.L., won a seat at N. S. Wales local-
government elections on original lines.
He got some book salesmen to offer his
novel “Storm Bradley” in Vaucluse, and
followed up with a circular announcing
his candidature. The canvassers got rid
of 1400 copies, and Davison got 1384
votes and a seat. He is an estate agent
who enlisted at the age of 54 and saw
front-line service in France.
“Melb.”: Colonel Ryan, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., who is visiting his native land,
had a distinguished career in the R.A.
After the World War, in which he got
five mentions, he went to Coblentz as
Deputy High Commissioner. He married
Hon. Rosemary Hay, daughter of his
chief on the Rhineland Commission, ten
years ago, and retired four years later.
His father was “Plevna” Ryan, who pre-
ceded General Howse as head of the
A.I.F. medical services. A sister married
R. G. Casey, now Commonwealth Min-
ister.
“J.D.’s” impression:
Sydney Town Hall. Before the microphone
a tiny figure in scarlet—Dr. Downey, R.C.
Archbishop of Liverpool. He talks like a
good English Judge, never hurrying, or raising
his fine voice, or hesitating for a phrase; giving
each syllable its exact value. It is an educa-
tion to hear him pronounce some words —
“education,” for example.
His subject is serious—it is really a sermon
on contemporary morals —and the upper part
of his dark Castilian face is careworn, even
tragic; but he keeps the big audience in roars.
“Someone asked if I believed in trial marriages.
‘I believe in Test matches,’ I said. ‘Think that
one out.’ ” All his exhortations are pointed
by quips of the sort uttered beautifully, sadly.
He sometimes registers the shadow of an
expression with his whimsical mouth, or fingers
his pectoral cross, or moves his frail hands in
a restrained gesture; but for the most part his
economy of movement 5s miraculous. His
capacity for simulating a graven image reaches
a climax as “God Save the King” begins. It
ends, and he suddenly relaxes, smiles shyly
at the Lord Mayor, moves diffidently off.
A holy man and a great archbishop pre-
sumably; but a supreme platform artist with-
out the shadow of a doubt. If only he could
tell Australian speakers how he does it!
It says enough for Dr. Wood that he
is president of Sydney Legacy Club. This
DR. “BILL” WOOD.
club has done wonders for the depen-
dants of Diggers, dead and alive, and as
it entertains most visiting celebrities its
president has to be a first-class after-
food speaker. Dr. Wood is a graduate
of Aberdeen University (which explains
his burr), and he also has London and
Viennese degrees. He was a Light Horse
M.O. in Palestine, and he served after-
wards as P.M.O. at the A.G.H. in Suez.
“Old-timer”: Herbert Henniker-Heaton,
who has become Governor of the Falk-
lands, is a son of Sir John, the first
baronet, and Rose, daughter of the late
Sam Bennett, who owned the late Sydney
“Evening News.” Old John was a large,
impressive-looking customer with plenty
of energy and ideas—the born politician.
He had arrived in Sydney as a boy of 16,
but his career was made in England
nearly 40 years later. He was M.P. for
Canterbury from 1885 to 1910, and he
fathered universal penny postage. He
got his baronetcy in 1912. All his off-
spring made their marks in the services
or as writers, Rose, the only daughter,
being a humorous novelist of some note.
Herbert, who entered the Colonial Ser-
vice after coming down from Oxford
(New) in 1902, has moved uninterruptedly
upwards. The baronetcy, which is “of
Mundarrah Towers, Sydney,” is one of
two associated with the N. S. Wales
capital, the other being the Cooper
creation “of Woollahra.”
At 34 Alex. Boyce Gibson succeeds his
father as professor of philosophy at Mel-
bourne Uni. Always a great swot —he
did “leaving” German in two months —the
new prof, went from Grammar to Trin-
ity, and later did “Greats” at Balliol on
a scholarship. For two years he was
lecturer in philosophy and logic at Glas-
gow Uni., then he did extension work
for Oxford, and afterwards transferred
to Birmingham. His study of Descartes
has been described as the best on the
subject done in England.
“Soho”: St. Clare Grondona, who “has
been appointed one of the three deputy
commissioners of the reconstruction plan
in depressed areas,” used to be a civil
servant in Sydney ; then he went in for
journalism. He is a first-class speaker
and he knows all about publicity. A
pillar of the Constitutional Club, he has
stood for Parliament with the backing
of the Conservatives, but without luck.
He served in the A.l.F.’s 39th Battalion,
and was badly wounded.
The late Monsignor Moynagh was one
of Sydney’s last remaining links with
Archbishop Vaughan. He served under
the English prelate half a century ago,
and he has been the hard-working parish
priest of Rozelle practically ever since.
He raised the money for all Rozelle’s
impressive school, convent and other
church buildings ; he helped to found the
“Catholic Press” and was largely respon-
sible for the arrival of Tighe Ryan ; and
he has been Administrator of the Diocese
of Sydney in the absence of the Arch-
bishop. He was 81 when the end came
suddenly last Thursday.
“J.”: The R.C. Archbishop of Liver-
pool, whom Sydney met for the first time
last week, was plain Father Downey
(though a celebrated scholar) when he
was made an archbishop in 1928. It
hadn’t happened in England since Henry
VIII.’s day. The architect of the mighty
cathedral which the Archbishop is build-
ing in Liverpool is Sir Edwin Lutyens, a
Protestant. It is the first time in history
that a non-Catholic has been so em-
ployed. Lutyens was responsible for the
Whitehall Cenotaph—the model for all
cenotaphs.
“J. Roo” (Canada): Noel Coward will
probably visit Australia in 1935. He
told me so at Ottawa last month. He
goes to China late in January, and may
take in the South Seas and Australia
on the way home. Noel talks like
“Private Lives” ; every second word is
an intense “ frightfully” or “terribly.” He
mentioned flutteringly that he was “afraid
of what they’d do to him in Australia.”
The reference was to “This Year of
Grace,” which was one of J.C.W.’s most
expensive Australian flops, despite Maisie
Gay’s presence.
A. B. Sloan, who has retired from the
Postal Department after 52 years’ ser-
vice, was one of Victoria’s finest all-
round athletes in youth. He rowed in
several inter-State eights and stroked the
old Telegraph R.C. when Steve Morell
(afterwards Lord Mayor of Melbourne)
rowed bow. Tim Howard, also a postal
officer, was a member of the club. Both
Sloan and Howard were front-rank foot-
ballers—Sloan with Fitzroy, Howard with
South Melb.
Hughes, Pearce and Watkins, the only
original members left in the Common-
wealth Legislature, have survived 162 of
their colleagues in 13 Parliaments.
Some January birthdays:
Prof. Gilbert Murray, 69, Premier Stevens
(N.S.W.), 46, A. D. McGill, K.C. (Brisbane),
49, C’wealth Meteorologist Watt, 59, on 2nd;
F. G. Menzies (Vic. Crown Solicitor), 43, and
W.A. Senator Carroll, 63, on 3rd; R. JH.
Croll (Vic. Educ. Dept.), 66, and Judge Lukin
(Federal Bankruptcy Court), 67, on 4th; Bishop
Newton (New Guinea), 69, on sth; Archbishop
Clune (Perth), 71, N.S.W. Aud.-Gen. John
Spence, 57, pastoralist Edmund Jowett (Melb.),
77, and Prof. H. Tasman Lovell, 56, on 6th;
knight Graham Waddell (N.S.W.), 58, bird-
artist Neville Cayley, 48, and W. J. Hutchinson,
M.H.R. (Indi), 31, on 7th; Alex. Hay (Coolan-
gatta, N.S.W.), 70, and John Curtin, M.H.R.
(Fremantle), 50, on Bth; artist Sydney Ure
Smith, 48, and Canon Crotty (Melb.), 56, on
9th; Bishop Batty (Newcastle), 56, on 10th;
W.A. Senator Johnston, 55, on 11th; Vic. Tax-
ation Commissioner Chenoweth, 49, Prof.
Walter Howchin (Adel.), 90, and knight John
Melrose (Adel.), 75, on 12th; Prof, knight D.
Orme Masson (Melb.), 77, on 13th; Min. for
External Affairs Geo. Pearce, 65, on 14th; ship-
owner W. A. Mackay, 52, geologist W. G.
Woolnough (N.S.W.), 59, medico E. Angas
Johnson (Adel.), 62, and J. H. Starling (P.M.’s
Dept., Canberra), 52, on 15th; Brig.-Gen. C. H.
Foott, 59, and S.A.-born violinist Daisy
Kennedy, on 16th; E. J. Mulvany (Dept, of
Commerce, Canberra), 64, on 17th; knight
Clifton Love (Syd.), 67, on 18th; platypus-
authority Harry Burrell, 62, and Brig.-Gen. J.
Campbell Stewart, 51, on 19th; K. R. Cramp
(N.S.W. Educ. Dept.), 57, and Justice Webb
(Q’land), 48, on 21st; former N.S.W. Premier
Geo. Fuller, 74, and Colonel J. M. Arnott
(Syd.), 66, on 22nd; Prof. F. Wood-Jones
(Melb.), 56, on 23rd; Vic. Police Commissioner
Maj.-Gen. Blarney, 51, ex-Q’land Agent-Gen.
E. H. Macartney, 72, Prof. J. F. M. Haydon
(Canberra), 53, Bishop-coadjutor Kirkby (Syd.),
56, and Ethel Turner, on 24th; W.A. C.P. and
Opposition leader C. G. Latham, 53, S. E.
Lamb, K.C. (Syd.), 71, and Oscar Asche, 63,
on 26th; painter Julian Ashton, 84, and Prof.
F. W. S. Cumbrae-Stewart (Brisbane), 70, on
27th; Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.), 45,
Bishop Feetham (North Q’land), 62, Baronet
Hugh Poynter (Syd.), 53, A. Grenfell Price,
M.A. (St. Mark’s Coll., Adel.), 43, and G. B.
Ralph (Launceston “Examiner”), 42, on 28th;
Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 44, E. L. Frazer (Vic.
Parliamentary Librarian), 43, weather-prophet
Mares (N.S.W.), 56, A. S. le Souef (Director
of Taronga Park), 58, and Prof. C. A. Scutt
(Melb.), 46, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gen. Forster,
69, Australian baritone Peter Dawson, 53, Guy
Innes (Melb. “Herald,” Lond.), 53, Judge Moule
(Vic.), 77, J. S. Purdy (Sydney Health Officer),
63, and Dr. R. J. Tillyard (former Chief Com-
monwealth Entomologist), 54, on 31st.


zv
Em
m.
m
FOR
m
3
( r
i
v
v
that's all
it costs you
to enjoy the
a/:/
CIGARETTES
-*> /.
CIGAR ETTES
'c%?X Ti-C'
r-%
r <■> •
x y
%mm
/ Cl GA R E T TES
it 1 *7 *7 "T r '
f§ 7 Ji
7 820*11*4,
v


&
m
Are You Getting Clear Water?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
vv
ABBOT
filter
Cylinder
Bma
ill
v
If you are having trouble with your water
supply, either for household or industrial
purposes, we can help you. We manu-
facture water filters of all descriptions.
Our ABBOT pressure and drip type
filters used throughout the Common-
wealth and the East. Our pressure
filters used for Butter Factories, Ice
Works, Cordial Factories, Hospitals and
wherever pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN,
SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Ex- Writ- Added to
Sept., Income. Claims. penses.* ten Off. Funds.
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,918
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779.
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,076,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 1,052,445
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,214 1,214,892
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
•Excluding income tax.
With Government securities yielding
around 3 p.c., including redemption, and
with most sound industrials returning
from less than 3 p.c. to 4\ p.c. or more,
according to prospects, a life policy or
annuity in a sound office paying regular
and satisfactory bonuses has become an
even more attractive investment than it
used to be.
The National, founded by Col. Temple-
ton in 1869, is one of Australia’s five
big mutual offices. It missed the indus-
trial ’bus; still, it is the second-biggest
of the offices just referred to, and its
figures show satisfactory results in all
matters upon which soundness and pro-
gress depend. At Sept. 30 the business in
force (£89,184,460) was £3,624,887 more
than it was a year earlier. Surrenders for
the twelvemonth (£603,736) were £91,939
lighter, and the amount of new business
put on the books (£9,119,607, up
£1,542,162) was the best since 1930:
1929. 1933. 1934.
Policies .. .. 20,078 18,067 23,056
Amount .. .. £9,868,350 £7,577,445 £9,119,607
Av. per policy .. 479 419 395
First premiums .. 356,253 236,404 303,378
Renewals . . . . 2,660,690 2,875,329 2,915,488
Single premiums. . 338,637 69,581 63,274
Annuities .. . . 54,014 122,610 83,049
Interest, etc. .. 1,608,616 1,424,508 1,601,631
Assuming that consideration for annui-
ties (down £39,561) cost 3 p.c., and single
premiums (down £6307) 5 p.c., the
balance of the year’s exes, took 13.4 p.c.
of the premium income as against 12.7,
12.5, 12.7 and 14 p.c. back to 1930. The
amount allowed by the actuary for exes,
and contingencies at the triennial valua-
tion at Sept. 30, 1931 —figures for Sept.
30 last have not yet been sent out —was
15.3 p.c. Reversionary bonuses then
allotted on whole-of-life policies under
Table 1 ranged from 445. p.c. on con-
tracts only one year in force to £4 p.c.
on those 30 years old or more.
Another bright spot in the latest ac-
counts is a contraction of £150,962 in
the tax bill (£141,129); it accounts for
most of the growth of £177,123 in net
interest and rents (£1,601,631). Thus,
while the gross return on mean funds was
2s. 3d. lighter at £4 14s. Id. p.c., due
to the cheapening of money, the net
return was 6s. 6d. better at £4 6s. sd.
p.c. The office assumes that its funds
will net 3 p.c., so the margin available
for bonuses from this source, which is
the largest contributor, has widened.
Assets are in this form:
, 1933 ■ N , 1934 N
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,661,219 4.4 £1,691,285 4.3
Public securities .. 16,410,822 43.7 17,353,527 44.3
Mortgages .. .. 8,780,107 23.4 8,760,318 22.4
Foreclosures .. 327,825 0.9 336,768 0.9
Loans on policies .. 5,831,647 15.5 5,820,250 14.9
Other assets .. 4,535,794 12.1 5,156,122 13.2
Most of the year’s addition of £1,607,833
to the Assurance fund (£37,851,007) and
£14,615 to the investment fluctuation
reserve (£790,859) went into public secu-
rities (up £942,705) and the bank—the
cash holding (£1,992,827) was strength-
ened by £429,901.
Swan Brewery (Perth)
Dividends and Dividend Tax
__A__
e . Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1925.. 68,096 3000 16 p.c. = 49,310 \ IR fL _ 9 * -
Written off, £425 . . .. j 15,361 323,528
1926.. 74,503 3000 16 p.c. = 49,310 ) - Q „.
Written off, £20,258 .. ] 1,935 3-5,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720.. .. 339,183
Castleraaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. .. 405,029
1927.. 98,861 3000 16 p.c. « 54,650 ) 9ft9 991
Written off, £14,000 .. J 27,202 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957 .. 447,188
Emu Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. .. 506,121
1928.. 124,917 3000 20 p.c. = 85,076 36,841 542,962
1929.. 112,652 3000 20 „ „ 85,090 24,562 567,524
1930.. 118,187 3000 18 „ „ 76,581 41,606 606,130
1931.. 69,929 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 7,366 613,496
1932.. 83,449 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 20,886 634,382
1933.. 89,645 3000 14 „ „ 59,563 27,082 661,464
1934.. 105,215 3000 18 „ „ 76,581 25,634 687,098
Chief factor which has made possible
the high nominal rate of dividend is the
corpulence of the reserves —they were
£21,644 in excess of paid capital at
Sept. 30. Like the capital, they belong
to shareholders, who are entitled to a
fair return on the two combined. To
transfer some of the lay-by to the share
register would, therefore, make both net
earnings and dividends in relation to
capital look a little more like what the
position really is, and thus avoid much
popular misconception in this connec-
tion. Besides, under the new Federal
Income Tax Assessment Act, bonus
shares distributed after the end of 1934
are, subject to certain exemptions, tax-
able at the same rate as cash dividends.
The board’s decision to defer the issue
of gift scrip, therefore, disappointed the
market, which shortened its bid for the
fully-paid 255. ords. from £5 19s. in Oct.
to £5 14s. last week-end—a 2s. div. was
paid meanwhile.
The chairman puts it this way:
The board and its advisers have given
close consideration to the question of capi-
talisation of reserves, but in the light of
certain pending litigation as to premiums
on shares, and having regard to other
factors, they have decided to take no im-
mediate action. The matter will be con-
sidered further at a later date.
Paid capital now stands at £475,454, of
which £50,000 carries a fixed cumulative
6 p.c. If the ord. capital was doubled
by the issue of bonus scrip, raising it to
£850,908, 10 p.c. thereon, plus the pref.
div., would call for £88,090, or £17,125
less than last year’s declared net profit,
and £261,644 would remain in the kitty.
On this basis the return to the investor
at £5 14s. would be 4.4 p.c.
The year’s gross earnings (£255,331)
sprang £46,134, and exes. (£159,319, of
which £46,255 was for depreciation and
£19,092 for maintenance) took £27,034 of
the increase. Including £9203 dropped
from somewhere into reserves, there was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
24 p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands
as against 20.3, 18.9, 15.7, 27 and 25.7
p.c. back to 1929. The div. was lifted
from 14 p.c. to 18 p.c.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —-
1926. 1932. 19?3. 1934.
Paid capital.. £358,190 £475,454 £475,454 £475,454
Mortgages .. 46,144 21,148 1,501 •
Other liabilities* 85,614 119,371 104,478 105,866
Freehold and
plant .. 646,867 959,071 977,969 984,578
Mortgages .. 58,265 39,710 35,696 38,064
Stocks . . 61,798 50,234 47,003 49,083
Shares in other
cos .. 6,897 111,722 111,722 111,722
Book debts .. 60,471 65,817 66,174 72,596
Cash, etc. .. 6,269 50,827 31,359 47,910
•Includes goodwills accruing.
Last year £6609 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written off. Excluding
shareholdings, which consist of scrip in
the Castlemaine and Emu cos., bought
in ’26 and ’27 respectively, the more or
less liquid surplus (£63,723) improved
£25,166.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,'26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,'26. .39,422 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
5ept.,’28..47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar., '29. .50,771 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,775 248,316
5ept.,’30..33,020 4000 8 „„ 20,000 9,020 257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8„„ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 .. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20.000 261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8„ „ 20,000 260.923
Mar.,’33. .25,678 4000 8 „„ 20,000 1,678 262,601
5ept.,’33..31,280 4000 8 „„ 20,000 7,280 269,881
Mar.,’34. .30.807 4000 10 ~ ~ 25.000 1.807 271.748
Sept.,’34. .32,989 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 3,989 275,737
•Subject to goodwill, £118,074.
This old-established wholesale book,
newsagency and paper business, which is
scattered throughout the Commonwealth
and Maoriland, has put up a surprisingly
good performance. A run of 10 p.c.
divs., with wide margins, was sweetened
with a 2 p.c. bonus for 18 months to
the end of September, 1929. For the
12 months to thiat date gross earnings
were £171,007; three years later the
figure had dropped £87,620, and for a
while it looked as though 8 p.c. might
prove to be out of reach.
But an overhaul of the organisation
was followed by the stopping up of
outlets, the weeding out of dead lines
and the livening of others; stocks and
debtors’ balances were worked down
without apparent mishap, the outside
debt was reduced, and investments and
cash were strengthened. The co. was
thus able to take immediate advantage
of the turn in the tide, and the Gov-
ernment gave a little help, too, by reduc-
ing primage and chipping a bit off the
tax bill.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, gross earnings sprang
£9559, reaching £117,686, and the net
result (£63,856) benefited by £6898 of
the increase. After paying the pref.
div. enough remained to show 11.1 p.c.
on the half-million of ord. capital as
against 9.7, 7.5, 8.8, 13.3, 18.9 and 17.4
p.c. back to 1928. A couple of points
were added to the div., making it 10 p.c.,
and there is nothing in sight at the
moment which suggests that it is likely
to be disturbed. On the market the ords.,
which had reached 38s. 6d. in 1928,
dropped to 16s. 6d. in 1931; they are
now at 495, 3d., at which figure the
return is 4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs.—there are 100,000 of them —
are entitled to a fixed cumulative 8 p.c.,
and have priority as to dividend only.
At 375. 2d. they return 4.3 p.c. The
cover for all shares is 255. 3d. in net
tangibles.
Finances are snug:—
Sept.,’27. Sept.,’33. Sept.,’34.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £609,000 £600,000
Mortgages .. . . 66,357
S’undry creditors .. 147,941 105,147 115,554
Bank overdraft .. 108,389 -
Liabilities .. .. £322,687 £105,147 £115,554
Freeholds .. .. £208,015 £205,554 £214,051
Leaseholds . . .. 25,333 19,683 19,009
Plant, fixtures, etc. . . 52,655 33,833 33,207
Stock 326,247 193,718 204,854
Book debts . . . . 390,158 252,732 232,218
Investments, cash, etc. 23,658 200,439 226,637
Tangible assets .. £1,026,066 £905,959 £929,976
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£548,155, including
stocks) was £6413, and £8497 net was
added to the book value of freeholds.
Australian Mont de Piete (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924.. 4346 10 p.c. = 3934' 412 6,181
Property reserve, £9907 .. 15,088
1925.. 4580 10 p.c. = 3996 584 15,672
1926.. 5808 12£ „ „ 4995 813 16,485
1927.. 5504 12f „ „ 4995 509 16,994
1928.. 5626 12 J „ „ 4995 631 17,625
Added property reserve, £14,281.. 31,906
1929.. 4618 lli p.c. = 4495 123 32,029
1930.. 2487 H „ „ 3796 30,720
Written off stocks, £3148 .. 27,572
1931.. 4230 10 p.c. = 3996 234 27,806
1932.. 5360 12J „ „ 4995 365 28,171
1933.. 4263 12i „ „ 4995 27,439
1934.. 4285 lli „ „ 4495 27,229
Considering the obstacles which slump,
unemployment and moratorium legisla-
tion placed in the way of the redemption
of pledges and sale of securities, this
little three-ball concern has given a very
good account of itself. That is largely
because of its success in real-estate
transactions. Though it borrowed to
buy, it got out before the break, repaid
the mortgages and most of the deposits,
and pocketed £14,281 of profit on the
deals. The profit was used to extend the
co.’s own lending connections:
1C24. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Deposits '.. ..£14,810 £4,240 £14,790 £19,890,
Mortgages.. .. 34,390 34,200 33,000
Other liabilities .. 15,233 701 6,025 1,846
Total liabilities £64,433 £4,941 £55,015 £54,736
Advances, stocks, etc. 40,554 59,022 55,343 54,365.
Freeholds, etc. .. 62,084 8,283 63,729 64,140;
Liquid assets .. 8,935 7,400 5,839 5,417
In 1931, when the property market was
a lot sicker than it is to-day, the co.
bought part of the old Colonial Bank
freehold on the corner of Elizabeth and
Little Collins streets, and it went a bit
into debt again for the purpose. Still,
there is nothing to worry about on that
score. At the end of October the floating
debt (£21,736) was more than two and a
half times covered by liquids, advances,
etc.
Property and other income are not
separated in the accounts. During the
last term trading was difficult, and re-
sults fell short of expectations, the chair-
man says. Still, gross earnings from
all sources (£20,637) were £159 better.
Exes. (£16,352) took all but £22 of the
increase, leaving the net result at 10.7
p.c. on capital as against 10.6, 13.7, 10.5,
6.2 and 11.5 p.c. back to 1929. The div.,
etc., was dropped from \2\ p.c. to 11L
p.c., the final being at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a.
The pound shares paid to 17s. 6d. are
priced at 245. The return at that figure
is 7.3 p.c. on 10 p.c. div. basis. The
net tangible cover is 335. 7d. per pound
of paid capital.
East African Coffee Plantations, Ltd.
Develop-
To Re- De- ment
Aug., Loss. Dividends. serves, ficit. Account.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 614 Nil 3292 53,283
1932.. 3456 Nil 6748 60,919
May,
1933*. 940 Nil 7688 67,6301
Written off p. and 1. debit, "1
etc., £7688 i ag geg
Written off development f
account, £20,654 net j
Profit. Reserves.
1934.. 6260 7 p.c. = 403 t 5857 5857 46,976
♦Nine months. tPref. div.
The outlook for shareholders has lost
much of its drabness, but it is difficult
to say precisely when the ords. will- get
into the picture. The co. was formed in
Melbourne in 1928 to grow coffee in
East Africa, where it took over some
8500 acres, partly freehold and partly on
a 99-years’ lease, in the Nandi and
Kiambu districts. Before it could get
on its feet —the trees are not revenue-
producers until three years old, and do
not come into full bearing until their
sixth year—the markets broke, and the
business was in danger of becoming ham-
strung by lack of working capital.
The position in this respect was eased
early in the last term, when £15,000 of 7
p.c. pref. capital was gathered, and the
two principal creditors —estate of late
G. R. Mayers (£12,796) and Victoria
Nyanza Sugar (£11,055)— agreed to defer
their claims. At the same time, half
the ord. capital (£75,000) was jettisoned.
This and last year’s allowance for depre-
ciation, etc., enabled the p. and 1. debit
and preliminary exes, (together £7688)'
to be rubbed out, the development
account to be reduced by £20,654 net,
land and buildings by £36,903 and plant
by £6786:
1930. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £160,000 £150,000 £150,000 £90,000r
Liabilities .. 23,854 38,974 44,925 43,617 i
Land and build-
ings .. 100,271 99,996 99,914 63,011 i
Plant . . 22,574 19,212 18,298 11,512
Stocks and stores 1,506 1,508 1,229 4,721
Book debts .. 1,676 542 138 44l
Cash, etc. .. 1,120 49 27 13,2101
At the end of May the excess of liabili-'
ties over more or less liquids was'
£25,642, or £17,899 less than at the pre-
vious balance.
The £6260 of profit as against losses
for the three preceding terms was enough
to pay a full year’s pref. div. and show
6.9 p.c. on the £75,000 of ord. capital.
But the debt stood in the way of a dis-
tribution, and seems likely to for a while,
unless some of the property (it is not all
planted) can be sold. The spring in the
figures was due to a bigger crop, despite;
a dry season, and better price—3so.96|
tons (up 224.46 tons) were gathered, and
261.7 of them averaged £BO 18s. 4d., or
approximately £2O more than the aver-
age for the previous season’s sales.
Owing to heavy pruning, the crop esti-
mate for the current season is between
240 and 250 tons. Costa Rica, the
world’s chief producer of mild coffee,
reports a smaller crop, and the new
Kenya Coffee Board proposes to set up,


— Ha X e y° u . an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (Late Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
♦
*
*
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T. LEM-
PRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sirius House, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
MINERS I Are you receiving the highest market
value for your ore? Write Norman Hill & Co., Ltd.,
Cathcart House, Sydney. Buyers Wolfram, Gold
Concentrates, Complex Tin Ores, etc. Queensland
Agents, Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.— Advt.
* * * *
DRILLERS. Drilling carbons, all sizes. Aus-
tralian Diamonds for Industrial Purposes, stocks on
hand. G. E. MOUNT, Copeton, via Inverell.— Advt.
A SUFkE FRIEND IN .UNCERTAIN TIMES
■ »
m
m
m
Benefits others have
SECURED
EVERY A.M.P. counsellor can show- you the benefits others
have secured through their A.M.P. membership. When
next one calls on you, ask him to show them to you.
They are the best kind of proof that you, too, will benefit by
membership. The A.M.P. exists for the purpose of lightening
the burden of its members’ responsibilities. See that you give
it the opportunity to lighten yours.
On one day last month, at one branch only, the A.M.P. paid
out the following sums to the widows or other beneficiaries
of members:
All these policies, as it happened, were on the lives of mem-
bers who had lived to ripe years, but on the same day the
Society paid out £l,OOO to a young widow whose husband had
become a member only a few weeks earlier. Life is uncertain.
Membership in the A.M.P. removes the anxiety of that un-
certainty.
Ask that an A.M.P. counsellor be sent to talk your needs over
with you, or ask that a copy of “Investing in Happiness” be
posted.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
SIR SAMUEL HORDERN, Chairman.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A.
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. H. MARTIN, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
THE GREATEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
THE EMPIRE
ASSETS - £93,000,000 I'.y.V
INVESTED IN THE COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND „ >
its own Coffee Exchange in London, and
to extend sales in other directions, too.
The market prices the 10s.-paid ords.
at ss. 6d. The prefs., which participate
with the ords. beyond 7 p.c., are tightly
held.
Base Metals
The production of base metals and
the secondary and other industries asso-
ciated with it provide employment for
a large number of people in Australia.
With the exception of zinc only a small
fraction of the metals produced is con-
sumed locally. The rest is sold overseas,
mostly in London, though markets are
being won in Japan, China, India, S.
Africa and Maoriland. The most diffi-
cult problem which our metal producers
have to solve is, therefore, similar to -that
facing other Australian primary pro-
ducers—finding overseas markets for
their exportable surpluses at satisfactory
prices.
What has happened in connection with
London metal prices over the last eight
years the following table shows:
Copper
Load Spelter (Electro-
Average, (Spot). (G. 0.8.). lytic).
1927 1929 1122/18/9 £2O/4/4 £72/7/7
1930 ElB/1/5 £lO/16/9 £O2/2/8
1931 .. .. £l3/0/7 £l2/9/- £42/13/3
1932 .. .. £l2/0/9 £l3/13/10 £36/7/10
1933 e 11/16/1 £ls/14/11 £36/14/3
1934 (Ist Qtr.) £ll/9/2 £l4/14/7 £35/17/1
„ (2nd ()tr.) £ll/0/7 £l4/15/- £35/18/0
„ (3rd Qtr.) £lO/15/8 £l3/6/11 £3l/16/7
„ Dee. 18.. £lO/2/6 £ll/11/3 £3l/15/-
Since Dec. 3, 1931, exchange has made
London prices worth 25 p.c. more in
Australian currency. Only for this and
a vigorous assault upon costs the mines
at the Barrier, Mt. Isa and Mt. Lyell
would have to close down. For instance,
since 1926 B.H. South has reduced its
mining and treatment costs by 19s. 6d.
per ton of crudes. The mining profit
for the last term was equal to Bs. per
ton of crudes.
With things as they are, the mining and
treatment of copper ore at Mt. Lyell can
only be continued at a loss. It is the
co.’s fertiliser interests that enable it to
keep going without consuming its work-
ing capital. One trouble is that the
policy of price-control adopted by
Copper Exporters, Inc., resulted in accu-
mulation of huge stocks of refined
copper, and finally broke up the organ-
isation. World production has since con-
tinued to run ahead of consumption,
though the position in this respect is im-
proving. Still, with Germany practically
out of the market, a poor demand from
France and surplus Blue-Eagle copper
being dumped in London (this owing to
the high price fixed for home consump-
tion in U.S.A.), the outlook for the red
metal is obscure at the moment. There
is talk of producers getting together
again, and agreeing to quotas. Much
depends upon what happens in this re-
spect. Rhone Antelope (Rhodesia) can
still trade at a profit.
The recovery and comparative steadi-
ness in the price of tin (it fell from an
average of £240 in 1927-29 to £llß in
1931, and then rose steadily to £229 for
the first quarter of 1934, and has re-
mained fairly steady since) is due to the
favorable statistical position of the
metal, following a severe restriction of
output, which is controlled by the Inter-
national Tin Committee. Incidentally,
buffer stocks are now held by the Com-
mittee with the idea of ironing out violent
fluctuations in the price of the metal.
In the zinc market the relationship be-
tween supply and demand has been more
favorable than in most others. World
production fell short of apparent con-
sumption by 1.8 p.c., 1931 ; 5.3 p.c.,
1932 ; 3.3 p.c., 1933. Approximate year-
end world stocks reached their peak,
330,000 tons, in 1930 ; three years later
the figure was 230,000 tons. The fall was
due mainly to restriction of outputs by
the Zinc Cartel. Talk of difficulties in
keeping it together and lack of buying
support from Germany and France have
been mainly responsible for the fall in
the price of the metal. By arrangement
with the Cartel the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
has not been obliged to curtail its
output. The plant, which has an
annual capacity of over 70,000 tons of
spelter, is now turning the stuff out at
the rate of 54,000 tons p.a., about half
of which is sold locally.
As for lead, production has run ahead
of consumption. World stocks in the
hands of producers increased from
roughly 230,000 tons at the end of 1929
to 515,000 tons at the end of 1933.
These are now said to be on the down
grade, thanks to the recent spurt in
British and European buying, despite
control of foreign credits. Australian
producers anticipate no difficulty in
selling their current output —Empire
metal enjoys a 10 p.c. preference on the
British market —though it is difficult to
say at what price. The sharp rise in the
price of silver has taken some of the
sting out of the drop in the lead figure.
With things as they are the outlook for
the new year at Mt. Charlested Wol-
fram Mines, Boorowa (N.S.W.), is dis-
tinctly bright. The co. can produce at
a profit with wolfram at 14s. a unit in
London. There the price soared from 275.
early in ’34 to over 40s. before Christ-
mas. Meanwhile, the width and assay
value of the co.’s ore-bodies have in-
creased, plant capacity has been lifted to
300 tons of concentrates, averaging 71
p.c. wolfram, a week. Another feature
which should help to further lower
costs and swell earnings is the pre-
sence of bismuth in the tungsten in
commercial quantities. The fully-paid
ss. prefs. fetch 225. on the market. There
are 40,000 of them, 10 p.c. non-cumula-
tive, which are entitled to 50 p.c. of sur-
plus profits after the ords. have had 10
p.c. The ords. (80,000, also ss. f.-p.) are
priced around 13s. 6d.
* * * *
Western Deep Leads, Rockley (N.S.W.),
will start the new year with a trial run
of the treatment plant, just completed.
It is at No. 3 site, where underground
developments are more forward than at
the other two sites some miles up the
lead. The capacity is 50 c.y. of wash
per eight-hour shift, and two shifts daily
will be worked underground and on the
surface. Weekly operating costs are esti-
mated at a shade under £3OO, so it will
be necessary to extract about 11s., say
per cubic yard of wash put
through. Pan testings at this part of the
lode indicate a likely recovery of 2dwt.
to 2|dwt. To join the east and west
openings and give a complete section
across the lead at this point, another
500 ft. of crosscutting will be required.
* * * *
For industrial purposes Australian
diamonds are the best in the world, many
being harder than either Brazilian or
S African borts. But supplies became
irregular, and the market almost faded
out after the English co. on the Cope-
ton field, near Inverell (N.S.W.), gave up
before the war, the shallow ground hav-
ing been pretty well worked out. Still,
small quantities of nice gems continue
to come from this and other fields, in-
cluding Stanthorpe (Q.) and the Cudge-
gong River and Bingara (N.S.W.).
* * * *
New Occidental, which is opening up
the old Occidental mine at Cobar
(N.S.W.), has proved the lode on the
new (No. 8) level to be 63ft. wide, assay-
ing B.sdwt. Omitting the low-grade
stuff on the walls, the width is 55ft., assay
9.3dwt.
* * * *
After being worked continuously since
1861, the Rose, Thistle and Shamrock,
Harrietville (Vic.), closed down early in
1934, values having petered out. The
co. now has its eye on the Metcalfe, at
Taradale (Vic.), which it may work in
double harness with G.K.L. Gold Mines
Pty.
* * * *
An effort is to be made to interest Eng-
lish capital in Melawi Gold Syndicate’s
Alluvia area in Dutch West Borneo,
where some 500 acres is figured to con-
tain 17,400,000 c.y. of sd. dirt and
32,260,000 c.y. averaging 3d., with gold
at 85s. an ounce. The obstacles which
the syndicate sees in the way of working
the show itself are (1) uncertainty that
gold will continue to fetch its present
price in terms of sterling and Australian
currency during the full life of the area,
and (2) that Holland seems determined
to remain on the gold standard. Dr.
Oud, the Dutch' Minister of Finance,
recently said: “If stable relations be-
tween the various currencies were re-
established, Holland would have to con-
sider whether the present gold value of
the florin should be maintained.”
* * * *
J. A. Agnew (chairman) talked about
many interesting things at the Lake View
meeting in London the other day. One
was that mine developments were more
than keeping pace with plant capacity,
which, in turn, was 25 p.c. in excess of
what the board originally had in mind.
He also said that the co. had sold its
Australia East lease to the Gold Explora-
tion and Finance Corporation for £25,000.
This property formed part of the area
taken over from Associated early in the
year. Together with the adjoining Blue
Cap block, it will be included in one
of the Gold Exploration’s Golden Mile
floats.
* * * *
North Kalgurli Central has struck a
rich patch, showing free gold and tellu-
ride, on the 300 ft. level. Over a width
of 44 ft. values up to lloz. per ton were
obtained. Hopes are that there will be
enough of this high-grade stuff to enable
the co. to undertake treatment of its
sdwt. to 6dwt. stone, the average value
of which could be raised by including
some of the richer ore in each milling.
*.* * *
At the end of October Lady Shenton
Menzies (W.A.), had spent £4223 on
development, etc. Liquids totalled
£20,636. Results are said to be satisfac-
tory ; but the board has wisely decided
not to instal a treatment plant until
enough of the right sort of ore has been
proved.
* * * *
Concerning Pomme d’Or (W.A.) (B.
12/12/’34), the secretary wires: “Horace
Annear estimated that there is 10,000
tons of ore definitely available. The per-
manency of the deposit is no more
doubtful than in the majority of mines.
Ore treated to date shows a profit over
mining and treatment costs, and has been
taken over a greater width than men-
tioned in the prospectus.”
* * * *
A. T. Black and N. S. Stuckey figure
that there is 130,000 tons of sdwt. to
Bdwt. stone available in the Edjudina,
at Yarri (W.A.). It is proposed to instal
a 3000-ton-a-month plant.
* * * *
Burma Malay Tin has taken options
over a number of leases on the Kan-
garoo tinfield (N.Q.). R. McLean is in
charge of operations.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
A Christmas Programme
Sydney Plaza is giving one of those
shows for children that intelligent grown-
ups love. There is a gorgeous sequel to
“The Big Bad Wolf.” The two work-
shy pigs (moronically reckless, as usual)
offer to escort Red Riding Hood to her
grandmother’s cottage. The position is
desperate, when the bricklaying pig
dashes to the rescue and gives the wolf
an agonising lesson. There are three
Mickey Mouse cartoons. The writer pre-
ferred the one in which Mickey is left
in charge of a bird-and-animal shop
with disastrous results; but they’re all
splendid.
One of the straight films has a good
deal of unconscious humor. A lady with
a deep alto and a vast capacity for dis-
torting her face to express woe yowls
lugubriously in a restaurant, a barber’s-
shop, etc.
I wanner be lurved!
It's my ambishun
Ter be in juxtaposishun
Tew a loving boy.
Oh, joy!
An’ I gotta sooperstishun,
Jus’ a til’ preemonishun,
That I’m gonner be lurved
Serin day!
Serin way!
LURVED!
The above doesn’t pretend to be a literal
transcription of what she whoops, but
all these modernistic improvements on
the Song of Solomon are along the same
lines.
Jacky Cooper has a great part in
“Peck’s Bad Boy.”
“The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
Can a competently-constructed stage
play be improved in the process of trans-
Claudette Colbert in “Cleopatra,” at
Sydney Prince Edward.
lation to the screen? Very rarely, and the
M.G.M. version of “The Barretts” is not
one of the rarities. It sticks closely to the
book of the play, occupies about two
hours, and is not strengthened by its out-
door scenes and by the interpolation of
incidents such as Elizabeth’s attempt to
climb stairs. The restlessness of the
camera’s eye, alternating continually be-
tween close-up and wide view, is distract-
ing.
But the production is well cast. Norma
Shearer is Elizabeth —not quite frail
enough, but adequate to scenes of tension.
Charles Laughton’s Edward Moulden
Barrett, unctuous, overbearing, mentally
warped, is a terrible figure. Even the
movements of his nostrils are significant.
There is no evidence, by the way, that
poor old Barrett was the kind of father
that both stage and screen have been
saying he was ; but producers don’t care.
The dead can’t sue for libel. Frederic
March expresses the superabundant
vitality of Browning in his own way, not
ineffectively, though his American accent
is a calamity. Subsidiary parts, particu-
larly that of . the daughter who loved a
soldier, are better filled, probably, than
they could be in any stage production,
and the dog is superb. But, instead of
ending with Papa Barrett vainly ordering
the execution of Flush the spaniel, the
last shot is a wedding scene, and the fade-
out is on a prolonged kiss. Seen on pre-
view at M.G.M. theatrette, Sydney.
"Evensong”
Beverly Nichols’s novel was “drama-
tised” by Knoblauch, not because it was
material for a play, but to capitalise a
rumpus. Three-quarters of the play is
musicomedy romance that owes next to
nothing to the book. British-Gaumont’s
screen version (released on appeal after
the censor had banned it) follows the
play. Evelyn Laye, who represents Irela,
records badly, a froglike croak similar
to that caused by a much-worn gramo-
phone-needle making it impossible to
credit that her voice took the world by
storm, and rendering ambiguous the
action of the young gentleman who pro-
posed to shoot her during her first opera
trial. Delysia makes a stilted attempt to
impersonate the greatest of all teachers
of singing; other parts are rather poorly
presented.
But the music is well chosen, and, with
the exception of Miss Laye’s contribu-
tions, the singing is enjoyable. A few
excerpts from the novel are used in the
last half-hour, not very effectively.
Nichols’s picture of an elderly diva may
have been libellous, but he at least
credited her with pluck. The screen
Irela snivels. Seen at a Fox theatrette
preview.
"The Dragon Murder Case”
A retired explorer invited an importu-
nate creditor to his palatial country
home and pretended to be drunk. Every-
body but the host went swimming late
at night. The host proceeded to the
family vault, donned a diver’s suit and
nipped into the pool without anyone
seeing him, and when the creditor dived
in he was throttled. The murderer got
out of the pool while it was being
searched, stowed his diving tackle in the
vault, went back to the house, drank a
quart of whisky and was in the hands of
a doctor when the police arrived. The
body was found, not in the pool, but in
a remote part of the estate, and how it
got there—well, it was such a mysterious
affair that it nearly stumped Philo Vance.
And even he couldn’t solve it without
reconstructing the case to the last detail
with a diver and all, being distracted by
a crazy old lady who went about laugh-
ing horribly and talking about dragons.
Warren William is Philo. Margaret
Lindsay is also in the cast. At Sydney
Capitol.
“Hat, Coat and Glove”
Ricardo Cortez, a lawyer, defends his
wife’s lover on a murder charge. Cortez
knows his client is innocent, for he him-
self was present when the supposed mur-
deree suicided. The hat, coat and glove
of Cortez, found by the body, are proved
to fit the accused. Cortez holds this
evidence up to the derision of the jury
by showing that the garments fit' him
equally well. The charge fails, and
Cortez is reconciled to his wife.
Very smoothly acted throughout, and
a little vignette of a sob sister ’phoning
the story of the trial to the office and
translating her flowery phrases into
straight Bowery to assist comprehension
is really funny. Also at the Capitol.
“Elinor Norton”
At the Civic. It may be chronicled
charitably as an experiment that failed.
The story which is usually reserved for
Ann Harding or Irene Dunne —the one
about the good woman who finds herself
tied to a hopeless husband but carries
bravely on —is here interpreted by un-
knowns, and murdered. Have you found
the agonisings of the Harding tedious?
Then “Elinor Norton” should make you
realise that it might have been worse.
“Orders Is Orders”
Also at the Civic. An American film
company invades a British barracks in
order to shoot a film, and, among other
things, dresses the regiment as Arabs and
Warren William in “Cleopatra."
the colonel and officers as members of
the Foreign Legion. James Gleason, as
a high-fire movie-producer, and Char-
lotte Greenwood, as his offsider —they
dress exactly alike in bright checks —get
most of the laughs, but there are plenty
to spare for others. A defect is its ex-
cessive length.
Some First Nights
Sydney’s New Tivoli Theatre, for-
merly known as the Grand Opera House,
revived some of its ancient glories on
Friday night when the grand opera sea-
son opened with “Aida.” In most of
the operatic essentials the Fuller organi-
sation, judged by this sample of its
capabilities, seems to have competence.
Conductor de Abravanel treated the
Verdi score sympathetically and, where
necessary, delicately. The orchestra, of
adequate proportions, provided a nicely-
balanced background for the music of
the singers. Madame Austral as the
Ethiopian slave, Appleton Moore as her
papa, Walter Widdop as the Egyptian
field-marshal, Madame JBrunskill as
Pharaoh’s daughter and Norman Allin
as the high priest poured out their re-
spective emotions in the way the com-
poser intended, and in the stage settings
scenery and costuming combined to
make designs in color and form that
were worthy of the sensuous richness of
the never-ceasing flood of melody.
As might be expected in a company
which seems to have been mainly selected
for its Wagnerian proficiency, the prin-
cipals have dignity. The part of Aida
is a very trying one for a soprano built
on the lines essential to the production
of notes that will dominate a mighty
orchestral and choral tumult, and
Rhadames and Amonasro are required
to give vent to their feelings in a man-
ner that easily degenerates into hysteria.
Madame Austral solved her problem by
concentrating on the fact that Aida,
though captive, was a queen, and Messrs.
Widdop and Moore never forgot that
they were supposed to be warriors. Choral
singing was excellent, and the ensemble
at the end of the second act was musi-
cally magnificent.
The audience behaved itself better
than is usual in Sydney. The opera was
not interrupted by prolonged ovations as
the principals made their entrances, and
with one or two forgivable exceptions
applause was reserved till the end of each
act, so that the Egyptians of 2000 b.c.
were not compelled to bridge 40 cen-
turies and come half-way round the globe
to acknowledge mistimed demonstra-
tions of approval. Also, miracle of
miracles, the house was sufficiently quiet
at five minutes past eight to make it safe
to commence the overture, which opens
pianissimo.
The opera was sung in English, but
this made very little difference, only
about one word in a thousand being
recognisable.
v * *
A fair to middling house occupied
Melbourne Town Hall for the Philhar-
monic’s 115th performance of Handel’s
“Messiah.” Professor Bernard Heinze’s
acquaintance with the work has ripened
with the years into warm affection. Pre-
vious performances have either been
taken at a hand gallop or at a speed
appropriate to a funeral procession, and
the emotional approach has either been
solemnly religious or inclined to be ex-
cessively dramatic. A combination of all
the relevant moods distinguished Thurs-
day’s presentation. Nothing could have
been more awe-inspiring than the open-
ing chorus or more impressive than the
enunciation by the choir of the adjective
“Wonderful!” The orchestra did full justice
to the calm beauties of the “Pastoral
Symphony,” and tenor John Dudley was
operatically intense in the air “Thy Re-
buke Hath Broken.” Basso Rush and
contralto Joan Jones had all the control
needed for their sections, and Freda Tre-
week’s soprano was beautifully expres-
sive. The final “Amen,” which has been
known to be excluded on previous occa-
sions, put in an appearance, and more
than justified its presence.
v * *
Frank Neil is gradually raising the
level of the Melbourne Tivoli shows,
which loomed big in the days of Harry
Rickards and slumped badly in inter-
vening years. The latest revue, “Paris
en Fete,” was put on at the mid-week, and
is remarkable more for the evenness
of the production than the individual
merits of the comedians. On the other
hand, the vaudeville portion of the pro-
gramme was of high standard generally.
The oustanding turn was that of the
Eastern Brothers, two young Chinamen
who have all the physical dexterity of
acrobats coupled with a mental dexterity
which has evolved a number of devices
new to the game. Michel and Arnova
are dramatic dancers —that is to say, they
present a story by means of vigorous but
graceful dancing. Ray Vaughen is a xylo-
phonist who makes real music. Phyllis
is an acrobatic girl who is revealed
sleeping in a huge bowl from which she
arises to do her stunts. As beautiful
as Venus, and almost similarly attired,
she gives the audience a brief act, but
Lionel Barrymore in “Treasure Island
at Sydney St. James.
one long enough to count the beads
which comprise her costume. There are
ballets and parades and scenic effects and
lightning effects all good to look upon,
half a dozen smart, clever playlets and
half a dozen others which are tiresome.


ASK FOR
PILSENER
I
N
II
/
Heqes
'iiiiitiiiiiininn


ABORIGINALITIES
“Rindy”: The influence of Bung! In-
side our door porch two swallows per-
sisted in building. Just as persistently
we knocked their work down. Then
we remembered an old remedy, and
within a foot of the .building site we
stood an empty beer-bottle. Hundreds
of times those home-makers wheeled in
and out of the porch. Hundreds of
times they made fluttering attacks on
the bottle, but never once actually touch-
ing it. Eventually, after several twitter-
ing conferences from a distance, it Was
agreed that the black terror was there
for good, and had better be left in peace-
ful possession. It was.
* * * #
“Gumblegubbin”: Add the cowbail to
things artists can’t draw. Their atroci-
ties that represent that bit of dairy-yard
furniture are often upside-down—the bar
being close to the post at the top and
wide out at the bottom, so that the cow
has only to lower her head to walk out.
While the perpetrators make jokes about
the cowman, their bails are a greater
joke to him.
“Second Murderer”: Concerning these
artists who can’t draw an axe or a saddle
(or a cheque), I notice that whenever they
depict a theatre stage—and that’s pretty
often —they give artistic verisimilitude by
putting a row of (presumably) tin sconces
to mask the footlights from the audience.
Those sconces went out with kerosene-
cw/n-candles foots, about the time when
G. V. Brooke gloried and drank deep.
H< * sje
“32 x 40”: What’s all this talk
about sticks and saplings for cross-
ing flooded rivers (B. 31/10/’34)?
No real bushman travels the flood
country without a canvas cover suit-
able for constructing a packsaddle
boat. He spreads the canvas on the
ground, places packsaddles upside down
and end to end and lashes them securely
together. The canvas is then brought up
and round in the form of a canoe, both
ends being fastened carefully. In the big
1917 flood Tom King, the Birdsville-Boulia
mailman, skirted the Georgina flood-
waters for 400 miles, taking six weeks to
do the trip. Carrying as passenger a 23-
year-old school miss who couldn’t swim
a stroke, he built and used this boat 38
times on the journey. I was a day and
a half behind him at the Milkanunga
crossing with the Diamantina mails, and
was only able to touch ground twice in
a mile-and-a-half swim.
“Splasher”: Rafts? 1 just bundle
all my things together, including the
packsaddles, to make bulk without
weight, and enclose the lot in a tent-fly,
tying it up like a big plum puddin’.
Water can’t splash over the gunwales to
wet the rations lying in the bottom of the
boat. And, if there are half a dozen
channels to cross, as there invariably
are, my lot can be pulled apart and put
together again in one-tenth the time it
would take to make one boat.
* * * *
“Verri”: There’s no doubt the domes-
tic turkey is a super-sensitive fowl. When
the big Gunning (N.S.W.) shake was felt
at Goulburn recently, the turkeys were
ahead of humans in the knowledge that
the earth was not its usual steady self.
During the Duke of Gloucester’s visit not
a ’plane went by without a salute from
the turkeys, and when nine droned over-
head to be present at the Sydney cele-
brations it was a strenuous day for the
gobblers. In M.L. pheasants are far
ahead of any other creature to sense the
advent of an earthquake.
* * * *
“C.H.M.”: During the grasshopper
plague through which we have just passed
at Cowra (N.S.W.), the ’hoppers made the
front lucerne paddock look like a main
road, then attacked the shed and wooden
GRASSHOPPERS.
supports of the tennis court, which had
been painted an attractive green. “The
morning after” millions of grasshoppers
—minus their boring claws—were found
dead at the foot of the tennis-court fence.
“Bowyang”: Complaints are coming
from northern Vic. neighborhoods that
eggs are becoming tainted through the
hens eating so many grasshoppers. Years
ago, when the King River (Vic.) country,
around where the Kelly gang functioned,
was overrun with snakes, bacon from
that' area was difficult to sell in Mel-
bourne markets. Housewives, whether
through imagination or fact, used to
assert that the bacon tasted of snakes. I
remember my mother being sent a side
as a present, and her immediate disposal
of it to a local charity. As the pigs
killed off the snakes King River bacon
gradually took its place with the rest.
“J.G.”: Fishing about three miles
off Port Hacking (N.S.W.), I noticed
dozens of dead stormy petrels. The
ordinary gulls thereabouts seemed
healthy enough, the little darkies being
the only casualties. I’m wondering if
the recent disastrous storms were to
blame.
* * * *
“Kaa-Pai” (Kavieng, N.G.): I haven’t
missed having my share of the palolo
island delicacy for the past 15 years. But
this season the worm was quite different
in color from that usually obtained in New
Ireland. In Samoa and Fiji the palolo
(which shows itself for only one night
instead of two as in New Guinea) is
always what is called Palolo viridis, and
is very thin and dark green in color. In
New Guinea the worm usually fraternises
with a larger one, which is of varied
colors —grey, brown and dull red. This
year there were only two kinds, equally
good to eat, the one green and the other
bright red.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Despite a claim for a cat
as a fast swimmer (B. 5/12/’34), I’ll
back that plucky pirate the Australian
water-rat to win a speed competition
amongst all the smaller furred mammals
of the earth. Using the full length of
his sinuous body and powerful tail in
propeller-like thrusts, he goes through
the water like a fish. Indeed, he will
pursue and catch fish, meeting every
twist and turn and beating them by sheer
speed. I was once adopted by a bucca-
neering old rascal of a fighting tomcat
with broken ears and scars all over his
powerful 151 b. body. No dog had a
chance with him. He would have been
a formidable opponent for an unarmed
man. One evening as we strolled on
the river-bank, he prospected a bush. A
water-rat came out of it at him. Sam
fled up a tree, hair erect, spitting and
swearing, thoroughly scared. I never
could induce him to go near that bush
again.
* * * *
“Mamba Beach”: Turtles’ eggs (B.
12/12/’34) will cook as far as the yolks
are concerned. It is the white that re-
fuses to harden, no matter how fiery the
trial by cooking. In any case the things
are a greatly overrated breakfast dish.
With care and plenty of seasoning, some-
thing resembling an omelette can be
knocked up for those who like a dash
of antiquated fish-oil flavor in their food ;
but their chief claim to usefulness is that
they are a help for keeping one’s eye
in when practising shots off the tee.
Even in this case they are apt to give
messy results if the foozler is driving intc
the wind.
“Dungeness”: “Jimmac” is wrong
twice about turtle eggs—first, in saying
that they are “general-purpose” only;
next, that they remain soft on boiling.
The yolks are the equals of any duck egg.
With some good dugong bacon (best
bacon in the world when properly cured)
and a dozen turtle eggs collected while
they still have the dint in the leathery
shell, a man can make a Torres Strait
breakfast compared with which ordinary
land tucker is as tinned beef to Canter-
bury lamb.
* * =K *
“Overland”: “G.D.M.” (B. 31/10/’34)
reminds me of a station cook who would
lay odds that snakes had legs. Know-
ing him to be a shrewd customer I
wouldn’t take him up. Years later an
abo. stockman showed me the trick.
Jacky took a hot branding-iron and
seared a dead wriggler’s belly. Imme-
diately a number of claws, not unlike the
talons of a rooster in size and shape,
made their appearance from amongst the
scales on Joe Blake’s abdomen.
* * # *
“Nerang”: That yarn of the largesse
of booze strewed on the shores
of Moreton Bay by the great
flood in the Brisbane River
in ’93 reminds me that the
happening was a trifle com-
pared with the heaven-sent
manna showered long ago on
what was then the- little sea-
side dorp of Southport, be-
tween Brisbane and Tweed
Heads. In the space of a
few years two Scottish sail-
ing-ships, the Cambuswallace
and the Scottish Prince, went
ashore off the place. They
carried thousands of cases of
Scottish whisky, forbye casks
of the same, and these were
washed ashore in hundreds.
The inhabitants of the town-
ship and the hardy yeomen
who in those days dragged
out a cocky’s existence in the
thickly-scrubbed country be-
hind it came down on the
beach like the wolf on the
fold. In the case of the first
ship, the local inhabitants
had practically a free hand
before the traps and the Cus-
to m s swooped belatedly
down. Conveyances of all
kinds were requisitioned, and
soon it was impossible to
shove a spade into the soil
for a radius of 20 miles round
Southport without hearing it
clink on a bottle or plonk on
a 25-gallon keg. For years
after no wayfarer in that
country ever lacked a wet
for his whistle. When the
second ship was wrecked, the
going was not so good. There
was a railway by then to
Brisbane, and the minions of
the law wasted no time on
this occasion. When they
swooped on the Main Beach
they found pyramids of cases
and barrels stacked, as the
polite bystanders explained, for official
convenience. All the same a lot of the
stuff got inland before the Hops arrived,
and joined the first lot, much of which
was still unconsumed.
* * * *
“Notaden”: To-day two frigate-birds
floated over the beaches for 10 miles to
and fro, their long, black wings never
moving, forked tails fluttering only on
a turn or dip. With us in S.Q.
this is a sign of a north-easterly
blow ■on its way across the Coral
Sea. Of frigate-birds and their kind
a great naturalist has said that they might
breakfast in Africa and dine in South
America, so speedy is their flight. They
never alight on the water, but I have
seen them at sea, 500 miles and more
from the tiniest sandbank or reef. True
pirates, they gain their living by robbery
and terrorism. The terns which sleep of
nights at the entrance of our little river
and rove the sea by day for food know
them well and unfavorably. Many an
honest, hard-working tern has picked up
a fish from the surface, risen to get the
capture head foremost for swallowing—
and lost it to a living bolt of black light-
ning swooping from aloft.
SUNSET ON THE NAMOI.
The thunder rolls away towards the mountains
in the east,
“Rumbling all his bellyful,” in King Lear’s
Saxon speech;
Leaving a thirsty land half slaked,
As though his watery burden ached
Yet must be carried elsewhere, beyond our
prayers or reach.
The sun dips slowly out of sight beyond the
western line;
Behind another “region cloud” he hides his
golden hoard,
Yet with his dying mellowed beams
Painting for all a land of dreams,
Chromatic in its splendor, like the rainbow’s
peerless chord.
The blue dome melts in glowing green, and
green in violet;
Amaranthine purple is backed by antique gold;
The fretted cloud stays to the last
As though in duty bound to cast
That magic for embittered men to see and
be cajoled.
Loping along the river bank, swag up and
dog behind,
Old Bill of Boggabri steps in to fill a setting
fair.
Bill is prosaic to the heart,
On him is wasted Nature’s art,
But he fits the composition as if Turner put
him there.
But Bill is all unconscious of his aid to cultured
taste;
Esthetics come not in his ken; a prospect fills
his eye;
He speculates what luck may wait
His coming at the homestead gate.
The cook may be indulgent and the station
sheds are dry.
The gods arc too capricious with their sun and
rain-filled cloud
(Think men in disappointment) when they
spend their force and will,
Withholding treasure in despite,
Yet wasting wine-spilt sparkling light
And all that wealth of color just to glorify
old Bill!
s.a.
BILL O'C .


“Jascop”: The parson was sitting on
the verandah after tea and giving the
family a homily. “Putting ourselves in
the other fellow’s place usually saves a
lot of trouble,” he said. Dad chuckled.
“That’s jist what Dave done last time he
was in Sydney. He put himself in an-
other bloke’s place when he was in a
queue waitin’ ter get inter the Stadium,
and you oughter seen what he got
for it!”
* * * *
“Brum-B.”: “Veega’s” galahs were
nothing to the cloud of raucous white
cockatoos that visited me during the ’23
drought. I was lopping the sweetest bit
of wilga on the Macintyre (N.S.W.) at
the time. They certainly saved me a
day’s work —stripped the clump (about
14 acres) as bare as Lady Godiva in
just under two hours.
“Monto”: When I was at Bundaberg
(Q.) last May, every night for three
weeks and two days from about
7 p.m. till after midnight, flying-foxes
passed overhead in a steady rustling
stream. They blotted out the moon and
the stars for those hours every night.
They were headed south on a migratory
flight—some said to pay a courtesy call
on the Stanthorpe orchardists.
“Cripes, I mus’ be comm’ into a forchun! I’m itchin’ all over!”
“Jindivick”: Quick-growing trees (B.
28/11 /’34)? My property was devastated
by the 1926 Vic. bushfires ; house, fences,
scrub, everything was cleared away. Now
there are silvertop saplings 50ft. high (by
measurement) and a foot thick growing
where the house stood. What was once
a grass paddock has become a healthy
silver-top and stringy-bark plantation,
with the young saplings all standing
more than 40ft.
* * * *
“Airline”: Queer currency? We were
mustering in the high country of the
South Island (M.L.) when poker fever
broke out. Most of us were short of
coin, and after hectic play on paper all
bets were declared off. Then someone
suggested that the game should continue
with keas’ heads as the medium of ex-
change. As the green killers were plenti-
ful “on the tops” and worth nine shillings
a head at the time, a grand drive was
made against them. The job—and the
game —lasted four months, and when one
of the party handed a sugarbag con-
taining £6O worth of heads to the
station-owner (an ex-nautical gentleman)
the language from the bridge was devas-
tating.
* * * *
“Inaha”: A fisherman at Kaiti Beach,
near Gisborne, surprised Maorilanders
by landing an outsize in sharks which
he caught in a net and then shot. The
monster was 23ft. long and 10ft. in
girth, truly large proportions for the tem-
perate waters that surround the Shivery
Isles.
* * * *
“Bark”: At a construction-camp
boarding joint we were treated to some
“dumplings,” tough and heavy as lead.
We tussled with them for
a while ; then, too scared
to leave them on our
plates, we pocketed them,
left the table and thrust
the sticky lumps over a
fence to a hungry goose.
Next morning we heard
“Barnacle Bill,” the pro-
prietor, telling Mrs. Bar-
nacle that there was some-
thing wrong with the bird,
as she was “all down by
the bows and didn’t seem
to be able to right ’erself.”
We inquired about the
bird’s health that night.
“I never seen a case like
it,” said Barnacle. “This
mornin’ she was all down
by the blinkin’ bows, and
now blime if she ain’t
turned about and all
down by the stern, like a
packet with a shiftin’ cargo —and bloom-
in’ near scuttled.”
* * * *
“S.G.”: I’ve seen that spider of
“Hagus’s” (B. 21/11/ ’34) out here in
western N.S.W., although he appears to
be rare. It is just as well that he is,
for I have never seen a more pugnacious
or venomous-looking customer. What
“Hagus” forgot to mention are the for-
midable mandibles with which he backs
up his characteristic fighting attitude. I
tormented one with a stick on one occa-
sion ; he finally leapt fully a foot, and
I distinctly felt the jar as his fangs con-
nected with the wood. The way he wor-
ried it makes me shudder yet. So, what-
ever his scientific classification may be,
take a mug’s advice when you encounter
him —and get in first.
* * * *
“Tripod”: Tell “Y.0.Y.” (B. 5/12/’34)
that his rooster hasn’t solved any prob-
lem. Any farmyard chook will rid her
master of vermin on demand ; she’ll get
well and truly scruffed if she doesn’t.
The most peremptory demand of this
kind I’ve yet seen is that given by the
Torres Strait pigeon. Up goes one wing,
stiff and quivering (like the salute of a
Guardee to his Prince), and woe betide
the hen bird that ignores the signal.
“Aviette”: The SOS that has gone
forth recently for flocks of ibises to
drop in and deal with the grasshopper
pest recalls that in some districts of
N.S.W. this useful bird is regarded as
the harbinger of evil. How and where
the superstition origi-
nated is uncertain, but
in one case it was
borne out by subse-
quent events. Some
years ago a large flock
of the birds arrived in
the Binda-Bigga dis-
trict, beyond Crookwell
“My word, it’s hot to-day, Mary! A hundred and eight in the shade.”
“Hey, you kids, come in out of shade. You’ll get burnt to death.”
(N.S.W.), and were gloomily regarded by
the settlers as a bad omen. A few days
later a record fire devastated the coun-
tryside. The fact that they regard the
ibis as a bird of ill-omen doesn’t induce
the farmers to injure them in any way,
the local idea being that they are capable
of creating sufficient misfortune without
any provocation.
* * * *
“Theo”: Some week-end anglers on
the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) found a small
tortoise in a creek. One of the party
decided to take the little-chap back to
suburbia to protect his delphiniums from
snails. On the journey down-
river aboard the mail launch
the tortoise found his way
out of the fish-basket and
fell down a crevice into
bilge. Efforts to retrieve
him failed. Eight days
later “Smithy,” the skipper,
engineer and crew of the craft,
discovered Mr. Tortoise
camouflaged under a heavy
coating of grease and oil try-
ing to climb out of the engine-
room bilge up for’ard. He was
a bit sick, but soon recovered.
I don’t think any other living
creature could survive for
eight hours in the stinking,
poisonous liquid of a launch
bilge, let alone eight days!
* * * *
“Lex L”: Mistletoe (B. 21/11/’34)
has practically no say in the question of
where it will attach itself. Its propaga-
tion depends upon the remarkable little
mistletoe-bird. This fowl has a definite
penchant for ironbark trees. It feeds on
the mistletoe seeds, which are covered
with a sweet sticky substance that usu-
ally sticks to the bird’s beak or face-
feathers. In ridding itself of the mess
on branches of other trees, the bird —a
beautiful songster, incidentally—aids in
broadcasting the parasite. The bird’s
nest, usually made of the down off
quinces, is a work of art.
* * * *
“Airline”: “Varanus” (B. 14/11/’34)
gives me an opening. Ringbarking re-
cently in the wild country of the Moonie
River district (s.-w. Q.), we pitched camp
in what must have been a regular goanna
metropolis. We had up to a score of
them in the camp at once, some of them
4ft. long. A few points I noticed. The go.
does come down a tree head first, al-
though occasional ones do jump, as
“Varanus” asserts. His tail, awkward
appendage though it appears to be, aids
him greatly in the descent. No matter
how big a titbit is thrown to him, he
will always grasp it as near the centre
as possible, making for the nearest tree
to devour it and using the tree as a batter-
ing-ram. He quickly becomes domesti-
cated, and after a few feeds will follow
you round the camp like a dog. He is an
ardent swimmer, plunging in recklessly
and performing the difficult feat of walk-
ing around on the bottom with ease —•
clear water gave us a perfect view of the
latter accomplishment on numerous
occasions. He is a quarrelsome cus-
tomer, savagely fighting off all opposi-
tion. The latter trait impressed us iavor-
ably; in a district notorious for death-
adders we didn’t see one in three months,
a fact which we attributed, rightly or
wrongly, to the presence of so many
large goannas.
* * * *
\ “De M.”: High-living lyrebirds (B.
5 /12/’34)? I knew of a pair that built
their nest 80ft. from the ground in a
steep bank. To get to their front door
the fowls had to jump or fly from branch
to branch in an overhanging tree. Many
roost high in trees, working their way
up in the same way.
* * * *
“Kaa-Pai” (Kavieng, N.G.): The
natives of New Ireland speak a language
which, though differing slightly every 10
miles or so, contains words which are
gathered from the Motuan, Fijian and
Samoan. But can anyone tell me where
they get their word of greeting from?
This is simply “er,” delivered in a sort
of belch. They have their word of fare-
well, “ioko,” but their only greeting is
the ugly “er.” After the rolling “sa
yadra” and the prettier “taa lofa,” to be
greeted with “er” is a bit of a jolt.
-■N * * *
“Grey Box”: Investigation of the cause
of a stoppage of water from the bath on
three occasions during the past couple of
years has each time revealed a good-
sized copperhead or “tiger” jambed a dis-
tance up the inch pipe. This explodes
the notion that snakes won’t go into a
hole that they can’t turn in.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: “Jindivick” (B.
12/12/’34) is quite right in assuming I
have had little experience of fishing in
the Thames. I have .stooped to jigging
for eels in a Yorkshire duckpond and to
fishing for yabbies in an Australian mud-
hole with a bit of prehistoric meat and
a string, but I’ve never fallen to a
Thames fishing competition. And still I
venture to doubt the weights of some of
the Thames fish quoted by “J.” A 301 b.
pike would be a monster even in a small
lake or mere, where these fish notori-
ously reach their greatest size. A 151 b.
chub also calls for doubt. As for barbel,
one is caught in the Thames about every
five years, and this is such an important
national happening that it is chronicled
at length in the “Field” and “Country
Life.” Lastly, “J.” doesn’t do his pet
fishing water justice when he says
Thames trout do not measure up to Aus-
tralian sizes. In the Upper Thames are
to be caught by those lucky and patient
enough to try some of the biggest speci-
mens a fishliar ever dreamed of, rivalling
even some of the Maoriland or Tas-
manian fish.
THE RETURN.
The head seas pound our straining hull; our
engine’s skied the towel.
For months we lay in tropic streams; the
sheathing’s slimed and foul.
We’ve lost the hope and songs of yore and
all our dreams the same —
We’re beating down the homeward shore, but,
oh! not as we came!
Just three days out from Weymouth Bay and
Christmas Eve is here.
Far south the homes are bright to-night with
happiness and cheer:
A different Eve we’d hoped by far, the
skipper, I and Yon —
We hitched our waggons to a star, and now
the coupling’s gone!
For we came chasing rainbows north, the
golden lure of old;
A big buck reef our only find for tales of
“wealth untold’’!
Yes, likely stone to build a town, but samples
wouldn’t show,
And thus a dream came crashing down the
way that all dreams go.
So we have lost. To-night, the thought of
failure’s bitter-strong,
With Christmas Eve, and home so far, and
all our plans gone wrong.
But we shall hold till all goes blue —the old
stars in their flight
Will hear us singing yet all through the watches
of the night.
Mayhap we’ll reach our homeward port in
God’s good time and grace,
Three salt-rimed, sun-scorched wanderers who’ll
look you in the face.
But, oh! it’s hold and take her through the
night’s eternity,
A weary, dreary way to go—and Christmas Eve
at sea.
Oh! grim and grey the seas they come, the
starshine on the crest;
And weird the wind goes whining through the
rigging without rest:
All dark and dark and loneliness, and three
souls in the wrack
Of God Almighty’s vasty deep—three men,
three men come back!
VICTORIA.
RALPH W. ADENEY.


V i
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
C°.;gc2).
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY
£~ Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
Reprciantatives:
McPHERSONS PTy. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide,. Perth.
—_ E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
fIWR
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,
SYDNEY.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.'
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
WET WOOL.
“Murrawong”: To say that wool is
only too wet to press when it feels cold
immediately after shearing, vide “Dead
Finish” (B. 12/12/’34), and that any
fleece that feels warm is safe, is mis-
leading.
I am not airing theories ; the question
has given me more headaches than
enough in the past 25 years.
I have been forced to press wool m
all stages, even with the water running
out of the press as the bale was being put
down. I have had doubtful lots inspected
on arrival in store and reported on.
When sheep have been out in recent
rain, the classer should go through them
as soon as they are brought to the shed.
A light shower may wet the backs on
the tip and leave them dry underneath.
They will soon completely dry if turned
into a roomy yard or small paddock.
Where there is doubt, catch a few sheep
and examine them. Pick a couple of
open-woolled, plain sheep to begin with;
handle the belly wool and open up the
neck between folds. If those are too wet
it is little use penning them up unless
you have a team of tigers and are de-
termined to carry the risk. The sheep
that takes longest to dry is the one with
the dense, dark-tipped, heavy-yolked
fleece with heavy neck folds, and shearers
are only too well aware of the fact.
When a vote is being taken on wet sheep,
the onlooker can often forecast the result
by noting the class of sheep the shearers
picki
When a doubtful flock is being tried
the classer should handle the belly wools
as soon as shorn. When a fleece is
thrown on the table he should handle it
all round the edges, especially about the
neck. If, after the inspection, moisture is
visible on his hands, it is fair proof that
the wool is not' fit to press. Unless the
sheep have just been through a dam the
fleece will not be cold, as “D.F.” suggests ;
the natural warmth of the animal will
have permeated the wool to some extent.
The neckfolds especially may be very
wet and yet warm.
Heating of wet wool is aggravated by
pressing and the exclusion of air. Last
year I saw a dozen bales of dumped wool
being removed from the hold of a
steamer in Sydney, all damaged by spon-
taneous combustion occurring within the
24 hours between dumping and discovery.
Brokers hold the classer responsible for
wool requiring reconditioning unless it
can be proved that damage was sustained
in transit or that the classer was over-
ruled by the owner or manager, in which
case he should protect himself by men-
tioning the fact in his report.
“CONDITION” IN WOOL.
“Right Angle”: “Murrawong” (B.
12/12/’34) may be right about willying
in dry seasons, but I have handled wool
west o’ the Darling in a good season,
sound, fairly free 50-50 condition, from
medium to fine in quality, that it would
not pay to willy.
“Condition” in wool is gauged largely
by instinct, plus “feel.”
The old-time classer well understood
the almost occult process of judging,
based on closing and unclosing the hand
on the wool, and he was seldom wrong.
Foreign buyers are past masters at this
test for “clean” weight.
“Murrawong” refers to “quality.” This
demands technically a patient study with
a high-power microscope. It does not
follow that a superfine (70’s) must be a
better quality than a good medium count
wool, or superior to even a good strong
wool (60’s), for on merinos crimp is
the bedrock of quality, no matter what
it counts. Naturally the closer the crimp
the finer the quality, plus other things
of less moment.
A perfect 70’s super should display
an almost semicircular crimp, the waves
running evenly right out to the tip.
West of the Darling the tendency,
through dry conditions, is to produce a
“wasty” clip, fiat, ill-defined in crimp,
and light. But this wool under good
seasonal conditions may show some of
the attributes of high-grade wool at least
within its own counts (64’s to 66’s).
MORE ABOUT WOOLPACKS.
“Nedos”: “Murrawong” (B. 14/11 /’34)
is correct when he says that no buyer
will pay Bs. per bale more for a perfect
woolpack.
Some years ago I experimented with
paper-lined and jute woolpacks, taking
bale for bale of AAA out of the same
bin. The slight difference in price did
not cover the extra cost of the paper-
lined packs.
All the jute doesn’t get into the wool
in Australia. Bradford woolmen when
opening packs in England rip them down
with knives, thus spreading small strands
of jute on the floor.
“Wakatipu”: Maoriland has turned to
native flax as a woolpack material. One
company is operating at Foxton and an-
other is building a mill at Mataura (5.1.).
It is claimed that the new bales are
stronger and cleaner than those made
from jute. The present shearing season
should prove their worth or otherwise.
SHEEP LICE.
“G.F.D.”: Sheep lice are well-estab-
lished in s.-w. Queensland, where almost
every grazier from Warwick to Dirran-
bandi and St. George dips.
The Government is considering bring-
ing in legislation to compel owners
to dip in infected areas, but little com-
pulsion is needed, as failure for a year
means that over 50 p.c. of the flock will
come to next shearing with wool rubbed
off their sides or matted and almost
valueless.
It is a good idea, as “Sheepo” says, to
get a clean muster, but he is a bit out in
thinking that “one or two sheep left un-
dipped will soon infest the whole flock”
(B. 21/11/’34).
In this scrub country (in s.-w. Q.) we
rarely dip within 10 p.c. of the entire
flock, but we do not find 10 p.c. lousy
at shearing.
RAISING LAMBING AVERAGES.
“Valerin”: There are all sorts of
reasons for percentage declines.
The rams may be too old or too fat.
After three years old 3 per cent, of rams
should be gained. The condition of fat
rams should be gradually reduced by put-
ting them on poorer pasture and giving
them an occasional drench of loz.
Epsom salts to get them down to spare
condition.
The use of dope to stimulate sex acti-
vity must be condemned, because it
eventually weakens the animal and ren-
ders him useless.
Fly is largely responsible. Ewes should
be crutched carefully and well three to
five weeks before lambing. Crutching
should be supervised to check rough and
careless handling. Ewes should not be
dragged out of the pens by the leg,
dumped on the board, thrown down the
chutes, “dogged” through gates and
overheated in droving. Rough treatment
doesn’t pay.
When shearing ewe lambs and young
ewes make a close scrutiny of the teats.
In these days of careless and bustling
shearing the machine can remove teats
without leaving a trace.
Crows take a toll of newly-dropped
lambs, but fat and S.A.P. spread out on
green sheepskins a couple of weeks before
lambing will check these marauders.
Dogs should be kept out of lambing
paddocks. Merino ewes are very nervy,
and the sight of a dog causes them to
bolt away from the lamb.
PICKLING WHEAT.
“Sorghum”: The first essential is to
obtain seed grain from a clean crop.
Bluestone and lime and formalin solu-
tion have their advocates. To my mind,
dry pickling with copper carbonate beats
them both. Success in wet pickling de-
pends too much on moisture being
present in the soil at the time of sowing
to ensure rapid germination.
Wet-pickled wheat sown on dry ground
has a tendency to “malt” instead of ger-
minating, and the only way to avoid this
is by sowing immediately after treatment.
Wheat dry-pickled with copper car-
bonate can be sown in a dry seedbed.
For this reason alone it should be popu-
lar among Mallee farmers.
Genuine dust should contain about
52 p.c. copper carbonate and 40 p.c.
copper hydrate. This standard of copper
content was used with great success in
experiments in 1923 at the University
of California, and has been adopted offi-
cially by the Commonwealth experts.
Where paddocks have been badly
affected with smut, a good plan is to
sow in rotation a crop of oats or a smut-
resistant variety of wheat such as
Nabawa or Gurkha.
Cultivating and liberal manuring, by
invigorating the crop, will also help to
resist disease infection.
DRY-COUNTRY LUCERNE.
“Stump Jump”: I admit to “West”
(B. 28/11/ ’34) that my statement about
thin crops of lucerne in dry areas was
rash. But we were discussing ensilage,
and there is a power of difference be-
tween the succulence needed for it and
for hay.
My experience is that lucerne in the
wheat belts proper grows one good crop
only in the average year.
This first cut of lucerne, too, is nearly
always full of dry barley-grass, which
is bad in ensilage. On average dry
country a wheat or oat crop grows twice
the green stuff, which is of better quality
and more succulent for ensilage. In
wet springs lucerne will run away from
the others certainly; but you can’t de-
pend on that.
I have tried “West’s” 31b. per acre
sowing and swear by it, but it does not
make lucerne suitable for silage under
dry-belt' conditions.
I have always hesitated to leave the
bands in, as “Aerogenes” (B. 28/11/ ’34)
suggests, owing to the fear that if broken
they would get lost in the feed and
damage animals swallowing them.
HORNLESS CATTLE FOR EXPORT.
“Rich. J.”: The chief advantage in
hornless cattle is that the fear of the mob
“tyrant” is removed, and cattle feed
better. Also the absence of scored hides
is a valuable meat-sale factor.
The value of the practice for the
export trade is to be proved by the num-
ber of demonstrations to be held at
Moree, Inverell, Guyra and Cootamundra
under the auspices of the N. S. Wales
Graziers’ Association. They will reveal
to graziers the correct method of re-
moval, the unsuccessful work of ama-
teurs resulting from incorrect cutting,
and the dressing of wounds.
Mr. Errol B. Joyce, of Queensland,
will operate on calves of one to six
months and on aged cows seven years
old.
TREATING SCOURS. *
“R.J.”: Scour has different causes in
different animals. Scouring in a foal may
be due to acid changes in the mare’s milk.
To avoid this, milk the mare out' when
she comes in heated from work, and
keep the foal away for an hour or two.
Give the foal castor oil, and afterwards
a spoonful of soda carb. mixed in a little
wine.
With calves scour is usually infec-
tious, often brought into the herd by
purchased animals.
When the disease is prevalent abandon
the germ-ridden pasture and use a fresh
paddock. Use a drench of 2oz. castor
oil in lime water. Starve the calf for
36 hours after drenching. Then feed
pasteurised milk in tepid limewater. Be
careful to scald all feeding utensils, and
£25 FOR SUCCESS STORIES.
Mostly Australia hears of her farming failures, but there are many men
on the land who have a romantic record of success—men who started out,
with little capital, on rough scrub land, and made good despite low prices,
bad communications and high taxes; men who bought properties on which
others had failed and made them pay; men who began with nothing but
stock knowledge as capital and turned it to good account; men to whom
pasture improvement has brought a competence.
* T . he BulIetin ” »s offering prizes for stories of success in any branch
of farming, written by the parties themselves or by others to whom the facts
have been communicated. If the latter, proofs of genuineness must be
furnished.
First prize £20
Second prize £3
Third prize £2
And ten “Bulletin” drawings by well-known artists. Space rates will
be paid for all non-prizewinning efforts published.
A story must not exceed eight hundred words in length. It must be
sent in an envelope addressed to the Editor and marked “Success Competition”
not later than January 31 next. The Editor’s decisions and awards will
be final*


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
jTuTffittlleiz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Extra comfort always!
1 his perfectly-shaped Abbey Shoe is
made to fit you exactly for width as
well as length. It’s an exclusive
design. The last is so modelled that
all the curves of the foot are accom-
modated smoothly and comfortably.
Because of that, too, it wears much
longer and always looks better. The
sole is made of the toughest obtain-
able leather.
ORDER BY POST.
There are four widths in each full and
half size . . . narrow, medium, wide
and extra wide. When ordering,
state which you need and ask also
for the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 417.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usuai
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
v
Patent A PL 11*16596
Design Registered^
STROM
SEMI-AUTOMATIC
REFRIGERATOR
Non-Electric
Produces a dry, frosty cold, it keeps
all foods pure, wholesome and appe-
tising. OPERATES ON KEROSENE at
a cost of only 3d. per day and it is
so simple to operate that a CHILD
CAN DO IT.
Summer is with us, but you can dis-
regard the heat with a "Hallstrom".
CASH OR TERMS
Prices on application.
Write for descriptive, illustrated folder
Distributor’s:
Simplex Baltic Machinery Co. Ltd.
608-614 Harris Street, Sydney
Box 2425 MM. G.P.O.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com*
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
€lk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20.000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
For the Man on the Land .
Grazier.
Sheep and Cattle Dips
Branding Fluid
Blowfly Oil
Wheatgrower.
Copper Carbonate
Copper S'ulphate
Pickling Machines
v
Best By Test.
Dairyman.
Dairy Vigoreen
Pig VIGOREEN
(Mineral Rations)
Orchardist.
Arsenate of Lead
Oil Sprays
Bordeaux
Fluke Drench
Mineral Rations
WEED KILLERS & WOOD PRESERVATIVE
Manufactured by Victor Leggo & Farmers, L,td.,
222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Interesting Literature Posted Free on Reguest.
Nicotine Sulphate
Ovicidal Wash
Lime Sulphur Wash
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
NS
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
What Gold Means to the
GOLDEN WEST
His Excellency the Lieutenant-Governor (Sir James Mitchell), during the course
a t a recent public reception by the Coolgardie Road Board, said: —
That he did not think that people realised what gold meant to the State. In
the good days production per head of population was £BB. During the depression
t** l ® ,kad fallen to £53 per head, but the increasing production of gold had
added £l2 per head of the population on the State’s production. This increase
was being reflected in Perth, where Hay Street was being rebuilt, as it had been
built in the early days of gold production.”
WESTRALIA’S LARGEST NEWSPAPER
THE PERTH “SUNDAY TIMES”
will keep you in touch with activities in the West. It also produces more busi-
ness for advertisers.
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House. Melbourne Rep.: Mervyn Allan,
2,1 Collins Sti'eet. London Rep.:.F. A. Smyth, 34 Ludgate Hill.
put an iron, bonemeal and salt lick in
the calf paddock.
Where pigs scour through change of
feed or dirty troughs, administer a little
castor oil, followed by oatmeal gruel
made with fresh milk. A drachm of
chlorodyne in the gruel is fairly effective.
Pigs are awkward to dose, and I use an
old shoe with a hole cut in the toe as a
drenching horn.
THE BREEDER’S INSTINCT.
Aerogenes”: As “Stump Jump”
points out (B. 28/11/’34), the ability to
judge and breed livestock cannot be
learned entirely from textbooks. It is
based on instinct as well as on rules.
Many elaborate systems have been de-
signed to estimate the value of a beast
in breeding, or the significance of pedi-
grees, but they don’t ensure success. The
excellent judgment of W. T. Scrymgeour,
the Queensland Shorthorn breeder,
who is blind and has only his touch to
guide him, is an outstanding example of
the natural power to sense quality.
In feeding animals, too, some men have
the knack of keeping their beasts right
up to the mark, while others have little
success, no matter how they juggle their
rations.
A proper realisation of the natural
difference between one man and another
may save many from failure.
“W.D.McC.”: “Stump Jump” empha-
sises the point that I have been stressing
for years—that test and type must go
hand-in-hand if a good herd is to be put
together (B. 28 /11 / ’34). I also support
his contention that practical experience
is the principal qualification. All theory
and knowledge are useless unless the
dairyman possesses a sixth sense which
enables him to instinctively tell the
moneymaker from the dud. Some dairy-
men cannot pick a decent cow unless she
is fat and in full profit, but the real
judge knows them when dry and poor.
Test by all means, but keep dairy type
and conformation in view all the time,
and discard misfits, no matter how highly
bred.
BRIDLE-BREAKERS.
“Blister”: There is no sure cure for
an aged bridle-breaker. The only way is
to bring up youngsters in the way they
should go.
The whole thing depends on negative
training: a colt must be taught to know
what he can’t do.
A strong halter and a stronger shank
are needed. Tie your pupil up to a post
in the middle of the yard. You need a
place where he can throw himself about
without risk of hitting anything ; and the
greater the freedom the animal imagines
he has, the greater the lesson.
In time, he will fight for liberty. Keep
him tied till the mere fact of tightening
the shank, and the weight of it, is enough
to bring him running up to his post.
If a colt won’t pull he must be made
to pull, but frightening tactics are bad.
Try letting a mob of horses run past
him towards the gate which leads bush.
THE FOWL YARD IN SUMMER.
“Croad”: A galvanised-iron low-
roofed shed doesn’t give good protection
from the sun. Creepers can be trained
to grow over the houses, but natural
shade from low bushy trees is desirable.
Whilst these are growing leafy bough
shades are preferable to letting the hens
swelter under iron, which is cruel and
not good for egg-production.
Green-feed should be plentiful. Silver
beet, lucerne and lettuce are good.
Water should always be cool, clean
and abundant. The egg consists very
largely of moisture, and. you can’t expect
wholesome eggs except with the right
kind of water supply.
Spray the houses for red mites and
other pests. It’s not much use dusting
the fowls with insecticides, as the worst
parasites are those which live in crevices
and attack the birds on the roosts. Kero-
sene emulsion will destroy most of these.
Allow plenty of dust-baths, and
sprinkle them occasionally with weak dis-
infectant.
Stimulate the birds’ jaded appetite
with slight changes in the ration. Onions
are splendid as a tonic —chopped up and
mixed with a little wet mash, they are
greatly relished. But little and often —
too much onion at a time, will give the
eggs a tang.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Johnny”: If the head feathers on
young chickens are inclined to stand up
examine them for head lice. Olive oil is
a cure.
“R.J.”: A good general-purpose sheep
lick: 1001 b. stock salt, 61b. iron sulphate,
121 b. lime and lib. gentian. Mix well,
and keep thoroughly dry. For horses:
561 b. salt, 101 b. bonemeal and dry
sulphate of iron make a pretty good
tonic lick.
“Hagus”: Another pink-eye mixture:
Put one cup of vinegar on the fire, and
when hot dissolve 1 packet of Epsom-
salt in it. Let it stand until cold. Syringe
a portion into the eye once daily.
“Only Dave”: In lopping fodder
trees always use a saw —an axe often
split's the wood and kills a foot or two
of the limb. Make a slight cut under-
neath, so that when the limb falls it
won’t take a strip of bark or sapwood
•with it. Slope all cuts to facilitate water-
shedding. Level cuts allow water to
soak in and start rot.
“D.H.R.”: The pest bandages on fruit
trees should be examined after rain.
Moisture causes them to flatten, and wind
completes the damage. An effective trap
is made thus: Nail £-inch pieces of cork
at intervals along the bottom of the in-
side fold of the cuff. Stretch a piece of
thin wire across for the top fold to rest
on, and stitch in a couple of places to
prevent it's blowing open. Where pests
are bad occasional dusting of the inside
with insectibane pays.
“Granova”: Ordinary garden lark-
spurs seem to be an effective ’hopper
poison. The insects readily attack the
leaves, and after a meal of them fall
dead. A belt of the plants might prove
more useful than arsenic bait' and not
have its disadvantages and dangers.
“Hope Vale”: An emergency repair
to breaks above the hub in the thread of
farm machinery spokes can be effected
by screwing each end into a nut and lock-
ing with the hub nut. It is still better
to prevent' breakages by keeping all
spokes tight and evenly tensed. When
the wheel is true no undue strain is put
on the spokes.
“Wrash”: The best wood for axe-,
adze- or mattock-handle wedges is
American beech —the timber usually
found in tobacco-cases. This wood never
swells when wet, nor shrinks when dry.
Wedges from it do not' loosen and work
out of handle clefts.
“Teg”: A refrig, co.’s buyer at a recent
country sale of fat lambs put it this way:
“Some of these pens comprise, roughly,
50 p.c. prime, 30 p.c. good and 20 p.c.
inferior. I haven’t the time to handle
every lamb in the pen, so I strike an
average price per head, allowing a mar-
gin for error. The man who doesn’t
‘hand-pick’ his stuff loses anything from
Is. to 2s. per head.’ 1 Moral: Handle
and mark every lamb yourself; don’t
leave it to the yardman at the drafting
gates.
“L.T.8.”: If the small sheep-owner paid
more attention to elementary breeding
principles there would be less complaint
from the wool trade. I know an opti-
mist who mated superfine-woolled merino
rams with strong B. Leicester-merino
cross ewes, the result being a nondescript
type of wool, ranging in quality from a
half-bred 50’s to a fuzzy 64-70’s, with all
sorts of weird variations in between. As
“Valerin” says (B. 21/11 /’34), G. A.
Brown’s book “Sheepbreeding” (1880)
should.be in the hands of every young
sheepman. Beside imparting a clear idea
of the basic principles of breeding, the
book is a mine of information about the
origin and development of leading flocks.
“Tock-Tock”: Apropos of “mummy”
wheat (B. 21 /11 / ’34) Sir E. A. Wallis
Budge made available samples for trial
plots. Mr. F. J. Smith (Basingstoke,
England) is - the first to report failure
under all conditions, including water-
bath methods. The grain became mouldy
arid rotten, and showed no signs of ger-
mination. This confirms Sir Wallis’s
contention that successful growers' have
been duped by the Egyptians.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Disclaimer
I recently read in The Bulletin that
I had announced my intention of stand-
ing for North Sydney at the State elec-
tions. The result has been meteoric:
1. I have developed a fan mail.
2. My wife’s relations and other former
enemies now approach me and congratu-
late me on “bucking the machine.”
3. Comparative strangers disguised as
workers pat me heavily on the back and
utter monosyllabic eulogy to the same
effect as in 2.
4. Clients receiving more than the basic
wage have abandoned me.
In short,, with the best of intentions
you have brought sorrow on the un-
worthy head of one of the most faithful
members of the U.A.P. executive for the
Woollahra and Wentworth electorate.
Can nothing be done?
Will you tell the world that the man
in the case is Mr. L. G. Dare, of North
Sydney, and not Lionel Dare? —Yours,
in great pain, Lionel Dare (N.S.W.).
The “Regulated” Life
An unemployed man in our Sydney
suburb has experienced a new form of
government by regulation. A son for
some petty offence had been sent to one
of the Government farms; the father,
on receiving his relief-work docket, found
himself down for an extra ten hours’
work for the fortnight, the proceeds to
be paid back and a receipt produced
before the next relief-work docket would
be issued. I presume the boy is under
15 ; if he had been at home the father
would have got four hours’ work (six
hours if the lad is over 15), but the Gov-
ernment institution’s charges could not
be met under ten hours.
The matter will quite possibly be rec-
tified. It is hard to see what justifica-
tion a Government department can find
for increasing normal unemployed work-
ing hours so that a Government debtor
may pay a particular Government branch
out of unemployed-relief tax-money. But
the incident is a revelation as to what
can happen to any one of a body of
men who live their lives under regula-
tions interpreted by civil servants intent
on balancing the budget for their own par-
ticular department.— Kendall (N.S.W.).
“The Golden Way Out”
There is none. Even in the palmy
days of the Golden Mile it cost, in the
aggregate, £7 to produce £4 4s. worth of
gold, and, though the price is now £8
14s. Australian per fine ounce, costs are
already rising to meet it—they always
do.
Three years from now not 10 per cent,
of the companies at present “operat-
ing” (I think that’s the word) will be
visible to the naked eye. After three
years of the most intense activity we
have witnessed the reopening of every
old mining grave in Australia, but no
new field worth mentioning.— Lucifer
(W.A.).
Bolivia Shows the Way
While the League of Nations has been
floundering about for years in an en-
deavor to devise some way of preventing
warfare, the Bolivians hit on the solu-
tion in five minutes. Tired of the in-
competence displayed in the leadership
against Paraguay, a body of officers
seized President Salamanca, intending to
place him, like Uriah, in the forefront of
the next battle. As it happened, there
was no next battle, but the example
remains.
If every nation would follow it, peace,
beautiful peace, would enter upon an
eternal reign. There would have been a
sudden change of heart had the Kaisers
of Germany and Austria and the Em-
peror of Russia been placed in the front
line in August, 1914. The Bolivian
method is worthy of consideration by
every country which aims at peaceful
progress.— Grasspan (Vic.).
The A.W.U. in Queensland
“Duke Meredith” (B. 11/10/’34) is
wrong in stating that 80 p.c. of pastoral
workers is hostile to the preference
clause. The only ones who object are
mean-spirited crawlers who, while glad
to accept the increased wages assured
under , the award, are too mean to con-
tribute a paltry 255. to help pay the cost
of getting it. Let “D.M.” consider how
the pastoral workers were treated when
the Moore Government suspended
awards ; then sweaters were free to offer
any old wage, and we had to take it or
starve. — Herb Dickinson (Q.).
Fascism in the ’Nineties
Melbourne brought into being the first
Fascist organisation in the world. It was
in the early ’nineties, when the ranks of
Toryism were threatened by violent re-
volutionaries like George Turner and
Alfred Deakin —Turner, by the way, was
described in the “Argus” of the day as
“an amiable brigand.” To combat such
pernicious influences and to strangle in
its cradle the Labor movement, which
was just showing signs of life, a body
was formed calling itself “The Young
Victorian Patriotic League.” The mem-
bers were mostly public schoolboys
whose fathers had plenty of money and
other young fellows who aimed to move
a step higher in the social scale.
A vigorous canvass succeeded in
rounding up a fair body of athletes, and
these formed the shock troops whose
duty it was to turn up at meetings favor-
able to Labor or to banditti like Deakin
and Turner, and vigorously interrupt the
“I expect you’ll spend most of your time here, Charlie. These are some of the
books I’ve censored.”
proceedings. If words got to blows, the
shock troops would be called into action.
The trouble was that the lower orders
found that they could mobilise shock
troops, too, and, further, that they had
the numbers. George Turner swept the
country at the election following, and
the Y.V.P.L. died young. Possibly Mus-
solini and Hitler got their ideas from
reading up the old files of Melbourne
papers. — Montaigne (Vic.).
Against It
The British Government acted with
over-impulsive humanitarianism in grant-
ing a free pardon to the woman who
killed her imbecile son (B. 12/12/’34).
No reasonable person thinks the woman
blameworthy, but the high-speed quality
of mercy without further inquiry than
the actual trial creates a precedent which
future murderers may successfully quote.
The law’s delay should be applied in
such cases above all others. There was
no question of the woman being hanged,
and she need have been subjected to no
further mental suffering. She might even
have been admitted to bail. But the
actual pardon should have been withheld
until every phase of the victim’s death
and the mental condition of both himself
and his mother had been exhaustively
and scientifically studied. — Grasspan
(Vic.).
Two Archbishops
Every sane Australian, of whatever
faith or of no faith, should take off his
hat to Anglican Archbishop Head for
holding out the olive branch to the
Catholics at the reception to Cardinal
Macßory in Melbourne ; and, similarly,
he should take off his hat to Archbishop
Mannix for accepting that olive branch
with both hands.
Cynics may assert that the two
churches are seeing virtues in each other
because they are assailed by the common
enemies of hostility and indifference.
What matters to the man or woman who
places Australia first among temporal
things is that the gesture of these clerics
means an end to bitterness, simmering
or boiling, which has stood in the way
of Australia’s development, material and
cultural, for many years.
The Catholics took the initiative.
Archbishop Head accepted their invita-
tion and spoke as any genuine Chris-
tian should speak but as too few clerics
venture to speak. He did better than
that; he brought into the gathering a
spirit of whimsical humor which evoked
from Dr. Mannix —a prelate generally
regarded as dour and cold and humor-
less—flashes of geniality in response.
The antagonisms of the past have done
incalculable injury to this country.
Let us hope that the friendships of the
future will work even more powerfully
in the reverse direction. —G. M. (Vic.).
Forests and Public Money
Much fulsome praise has appeared in
the newspapers as to the achievements
of the N. S. Wales Forestry Commission.
The public records of this statutory
body disclose a position which calls for
closer supervision of its expenditure of
public money. Since the beginning of the
war, 33,000 acres of pine-timber planta-
tions have been set out and maintained
at a cost of about £550,000 (principal and
interest), an average of nearly £l7 per
acre. In Maoriland the Government has
established over 205,000 acres, and main-
tained 197,100 of them, at an average
cost of about £3 4s.
In its report for 1933 the N.S.W. Com-
mission frankly admits that “results....
have not been satisfactory in spite of the
trial of various species.” As a palliative
the report adds, “It is only the national
importance of the question of developing
these idle lands (coastal zone) which
justifies the continuance of operations.”
The N.S.W. exotic softwood planta-
tions have only to be seen to be appre-
ciated. One observer has described them
as “free rubbish dumps.”
As for the indigenous forests under its
control, between 1916 and 1933 the Com-
mission spent £100,782 on the silvicul-
tural treatment of 408,403 acres out of a
total of 5,128,305 acres of State forests.
At this rate it would take over a century
to complete the work. During the same
period, 2971 forest fires were reported
in an indigenous forest area of
2,298,356 acres. Though it may be
argued that little real damage was done,
whatever steps have been taken to fire-
proof Government plantations in N. S.
Wales have not been effective. During
the years 1921 to 1931 over 1200 acres of
exotic softwood plantations were totally
destroyed by forest fires. The loss here
must have been at least £12,000. — Area
O. (N.S.W.).
The Huge Wen
The census summary for N. S. Wales
makes one wonder what sort of a
country the Ma State will be in half a
century. Already 47.6 per cent, of the
population is packed into Sydney. Coun-
try towns and urban areas hold another
22 per cent, and the balance —31.4 per
cent. —is rural. In 1921 Sydney had
only 43.1 per cent, of the people, and
the position is made worse to-day by the
fact that, whereas there is an abundance
of females in the metropolis, where they
exceed the males by 53,000, there is
more than a 10 per cent, shortage on
farms and stations.
The worst, however, is yet to come.
The metropolitan division shows an in-
crease in 12 years of about two-fifths of
the total inhabitants, rural areas only
.one-fifth and the country towns about
one-twelfth'. If these rates of change
remain static —and they are not, for the
city is rapidly gaining ground—the posi-
tion in 48 years will be that Sydney will
hold 4,745,000 people, the country towns
785,000 and the farms 1,649,000.
Here is a real problem for politicians
which can only be solved by making
farming worth while. And this can-
not be achieved while half of every crop
goes into taxes and interest. —E. H. M.
(N.S.W.).
Unemployment in N.S.W.
The N. S. Wales “Industrial Gazette”
gives an involuntary
glimpse of the labor
situation which is
not reassuring. After
a year of bumper
income and soaring
trade-credit balances,
64,117 N. S. Wales
workers were on
emergency -relief
work 31,878 in
Sydney, 6662 in
Newcastle, 4981 on
the Maitland coal-
fields and the
balance distributed
over the rest of the
State.
Schedules show
what this sort of
work consists of.
Bankstown has a
total population of
25,393, of whom
about 15,000 would
be over 20. Adult
workers, rich and
poor, in the munici-
pality might number
8500. Of these, 1793
were emergency lab-
orers engaged (in the
wettest year N. S.
Wales has seen for
generations) on jobs
like “the upper
Cook’s River drain-
age system; con-
struction of storm-
water channel, including excavating,
concreting, pipelaying, bricklaying, car-
pentering, constructing manholes and
gullies.” Hundreds were probably trades-
men who had never done any pick-and-
shovel work; scores were clerks and
shophands.
Forty-four municipalities in N. S.
Wales out of 260 —one in six—had over
450 workers on emergency relief, apart
from those on the dole. There were
2900 of them at Lake Macquarie and
2238 at Kearsley. Yet, the official
reports show a delightfully optimistic
tone. On top of this, if Federal figures
are to be believed, 20 per cent, of workers
are totally unemployed. District sum-
maries take no note of the dark side, but,
concentrating on hamlets where there
happens to be a little building going on,
emphasise that “prosperous conditions
continue at Bingara,” or that “prospects
are very bright at Bonalbo” and “general
conditions are bright in the south and
south-western districts.”
The truth about Australian unemploy-
ment is that no Government has tackled
it seriously. It is a political plaything.
“What should we do about it?” asks
Edmund Jowett, the old Australian
pastoralist. “I would reply in the words
of Parer when his machine broke down:
‘We’ll be all right when we ascertain
what is wrong.’ ” It is about time the
Auditor-General or Federal Statistician
was asked to provide a clear, frank, non-
political statement as to what the position
really is, so that public opinion may com-
pel Governments to divorce their work-
providing measures from their publicity
campaigns.—El V. (N.S.W.).


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
f* ** w
mm
- - -
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METRO POLE■ ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“The average criminal is a milk-and-water
sentimentalist.” —“ Tele graph. ’ ’
One of the reasons, no doubt, why he
is put in the jug.
* *
“ ‘A slice of ham goes well with the turkey,’
says a cookery recipe.”
But some of us can only get turkey
with a slice of luck.
* *
“ ‘Toughening of the outer skin is a common
thing in advancing age,’ says a medical writer.”
So much for those cranks who are
always advocating younger politicians.
* %■
“Cries of ‘Shame!’ greeted Clemens Krauss
when he approached the director’s desk to
conduct Verdi’s ‘Faust’ at the opera.”
The audience, expecting to hear
Gounod’s “Rigoletto,” would naturally
be narked.
* *
“A Sydney cleric says that the churches,
with smaller attendances, are finding it most
difficult to make ends meet.”
Yet they have surplices galore.
* *
“New York financiers have been complain-
ing about Jewish influence in international
finance.”
The Wailing Wall Street.
* #
“Bill to Help Women Married to Foreigners.”
Next we may get a bill to help women
married to Australians.
“Turkish women may now vote at 23 and
become deputies at 31.”
There may be voters, but no woman
will want to be a deputy.
* *
“In Arabia a man does not know his wife
until after he is married.” — Woman’s paper.
It’s the same in this country.
“Don’t just lie there — do something!”
There’s nothing like celebrating the
festive season with the right spirit!
ALAS, HOW AGE WITHERS THEM!
She flicked the ash of her cigarette
into my coffee (not purposely, of course ;
but you know what rotten shots girls
are), drained her cocktail glass, crossed
her exquisite legs and leaned back in
her chair.
“Men are beasts,” she said with some
feeling. “The moment a woman’s beauty
starts to fade they lose interest in her.”
“Meaning?” I asked.
“That I’m a has-been; a wilting
bloom.”
“Rot!” I laughed. “Why, you were a
debutante only a few months ago.”
“That’s just it,” she sighed. “I can’t
help wishing that I’d got married last
year, when I was a young girl.”
P. O. M. C.
%•
STRANGE BUT TRUE.
My uncle, an Irishman and a hotel-
keeper, was busily engaged in writing a
letter last Tuesday, when suddenly the
clock struck six. He at once closed the
letter. I intended working this into a
play, but I couldn’t wait. There are
also several trees on the property.
D. D.
THAT TIE OF MINE.
Well, Christmas is over, or so I under-
stand on good authority. The old tie
came back as usual, so my faith in human
nature should be intact. Unfortunately,
however, the tie is showing decided signs
of wear. I’m not insinuating anything
against George, to whom I gave it last
year. It is not for me to say what does
or does not constitute good taste. George
may be, for all I know, a most dis-
criminating man. He may have seen
something in that tie that I and the four
previous recipients missed.
At the same time, the fact that he has
been actually wearing the thing (and
from its appearance I can draw no other
conclusion) is a reflection on the judg-
ment of my Uncle Oliver (a man of im-
peccable taste), to whom I gave it in
1931, and who returned it in 1932. I
can quite imagine Uncle Oliver’s recep-
tion of it. He probably gave a glance
at the tie and a hollow groan almost
simultaneously, and then hastily re-
wrapped the present.
It also reflects on the taste of my old
friend Timothy Nitbat, the 1929 reci-
pient. Tim is the best judge of beer
south of the Equator, and his beer-
drinking tie makes hard-boiled barmaids
blush, yet he wouldn’t wear it, and back
it came to me in all it's pristine splendor.
No one has previously questioned the
taste of Cousin Alfred, one of the biggest
shipping magnates in Bendigo. He got it
in ’27. Alfred moves in the most exclu-
sive circles, and what he says goes, as
far as Bendigo and the surrounding dis-
tricts are concerned. He certainly didn’t
wear the tie. I doubt whether he even
opened the package, as it came back to
me in 1928 in the same wrapper.
The slight I resent most of all is that
upon the memory of poor old Martin
Muzzleplate. Martin was a man of un-
questioned taste
and refinement —
so much so that I
have always re-
gretted the impulse
that led me to send
him the tie for
Christmas, 1925. I
have often felt that
it may have hast-
ened his untimely
end. Under the
terms of his will I
received the tie the
following Christ-
mas.
The slight which
George, in wear-
ing the thing, has
cast upon the taste
and judgment of
these four gentle-
men is intolerable.
I am not objecting
in the least to the
insult to my own
taste. I have
always considered
the tie atrocious,
and I still do.
Goodness knows
who chose it in the first place. I must
try to work back.
This is the lifestory of the tie:
1934 —Received from George.
1933 —Given to George.
1932 —From Uncle Oliver.
1931 —To Uncle Oliver.
1930—From Timothy Nitbat.
1929—T0 Timothy.
1928 —From Cousin Alfred.
1927—T0 Alfred.
1926 —From Martin Muzzleplate (estate of).
1925—T0 Martin.
1924—From ? ? ?
Now, let me see.
Who gave it to me
in 1924? Good
heavens! Surely
not! Yes, hang it
all, it was George!
And I was fool
enough to give it
back to him last
year!
I might have
known that a man
who could buy a tie
like that for a
friend would think
nothing of wearing
it.
Poor old George!
No taste whatever.
Jasby.
FIRE ALARM.
. As Mrs. Wodger lifted the latch of
her front gate she sniffed the air sus-
piciously.
What was that? Smelt like something
burning?
She hurried apprehensively down the
side path.
Heavens, it was getting stronger! Re-
minded her of dead cabbage and burnt
rope.
Could anything have happened?
Surely not! Hadn’t she left Mr. Wodger
at home to mind the house?
That was it —he’d upset something!
You couldn’t trust these men —careless
brutes!
As she threw open the back door the
foul stench almost knocked her down.
Good God, smoke everywhere! The
house —on fire!
“John!” she screamed. “John!”
“Yes,” he answered. “What’s up?”
“Whatever are you doing?” she panted
as she burst into the sitting-room.
“Nothing—why?” he replied, looking
up from his paper.
“But —that awful”
Then she realised it all in a flash. He
was smoking one of her Christmas gift
cigars! ”
Roland Butter.
“Don’t you dare call me a fowl!”
“Well, you pick up ANYTHING!”
IT’S IN THE BOOK.
“Talkin’ about clerks,” said the odds-
caller, “I picked up a real beaut, onct —
one of them drawin’ blokes. I used to
do a lot of bettin’ on the nod with the
squatter blokes at them picnic meetin’s
in the West, an’ if the clerk didn’t catch
one of their names right he’d sketch the
bloke’s face in the column where the
name goes. He could draw all right, but
it got him into trouble onct.
“It was out Cunnamulla way, an’
the squatters was bettin’ a treat an’
bookin’ bets as if there wasn’t such a
thing as settlin’ day. A squatter what’s a
good bit my way comes up an’ asks how
he stands. Him an’ the clerk has a bit
of argument over one bet, an’ the clerk
perduces the book. ‘Here y’are,’ says
the clerk, pointin’ out the bet. ‘What’s
that y’ got drawed there?’ says the
squatter, real wild-like. ‘Aw, I couldn’t
catch y’ name, so I drawed a rat,’ says
the clerk.
“Yes, he could draw all right, but he
couldn’t fight. The rat-faced squatter
bloke could.”
A. N. M.
•¥*
THE ONLY WAY.
For the benefit of suffering humanity
I have decided to make my punting
system public.
First of all, I buy all the tipping sheets
at prices ranging from Is. to £5. Then
I get on the right side of the milkman,
the greengrocer, the tram conductor, and
write down their “certs.” and “morals.” I
ring up all my friends who are likely to
“know something.” I don’t neglect the
fortune-tellers either. In fact, I leave no
stone unturned. Even the urgers’ tips
are noted.
But before I bet I cross out all the
horses recommended. Then I back those
left —if there are any. One of them is
sure to win.
S. Esq.
“Punishment is the only way to stop those
people who 101 l about the beaches half naked.”
—Brisbane Methodist clergyman.
Well, most of them do get well tanned.
THE TIE MYSTERY SOLVED.
After the earlier tie article on this page
had been set up I discovered the follow-
ing note from George. It apparently
came with the tie:
Herewith please find one necktie. You
may recognise it as the one you gave me
last Christmas. It is also the same one
you gave me in 1923 and which I returned
the following year. Where on earth did
you dig up the hideous thing? Burn it,
my boy, and no funny business.
P.S. —I have been using it this year as
a belt for my gardening pants.
So / must have bought it after all.
Well, of course, fashions have changed
since 1923.
Jasby.
CHRISTMAS ITEM.
They tellsh me, full of wine and beersh,
And shaying — hie — they’ve hit the
skiesh,
That Chrishmish comes but once a yearsh.
But I tell them they’re telling liesh !
Fact ish — hie —drinking with my friendsh
Hash made me sho extremely gaysh
That from thish evening 1 intendsh
To have a Chrishmish every daysh!
T. W. N.
REAL WILD COUNTRY.
“In this wild country the man who is not
‘quick on the draw’ is still liable to bite the
dust.” —“ Telegraph.”
Guns and pistols all remind ’em
They must quit that sorry clime,
Or, departing, leave behind ’em
Toothmarks on the sands of time.
H. M.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
269 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEOROE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lnnch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. .Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 91
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
‘Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Returned soldier, Sydney, wants work. Can
make garden rockeries and crazy paths, and
can quarry stone. Refs. —4748.
Young Tasmanian cabinet-maker wants posi-
tion anywhere, country town preferred.—4739.
To buy “The Australian Horse, from Pad-
dock to Park,” by D. McGillivray.—4746.
To buy or borrow “The Love of God”
of St. Francis de Sales. —4729.
Words of song “Adieu” from “White Horse
Inn,” as sung by Tauber, in German and with
literal English translation.—4o47.
Whereabouts of Bob Delaney, prospector,
who left Woodside (S.A.) about May last.
Well known on Palmer and Northern Australia
goldfields.—47BB.
Information Sought
Was Primo Camera much taller than Max
Baer, who beat him for the world’s heavy-
weight championship ? Was Camera the tallest
boxer to hold the world’s heavyweight title ?
How tall was Tommy Burns, and what were the
heights of the boxers who succeeded him as
heavyweight champions of the world ?— 4783.
Camera stood 6ft. 7in. in his socks, and
Baer 6ft. lin. Camera shares the honor with
Jess Willard (who was also 6ft. 7in.) of being
the tallest world’s heavyweight champion.
Tommy Burns was sft. 7in., Jack Johnson
6ft. Willard 6ft. 7in., Jack Dempsey
6ft. Gene Tunney 6ft. o£in., Jack
Sharkey 6ft. lin., Max Schmelling 6f(. lin.
Sharkey defeated Schmelling in their return
bout, then Camera conquered Sharkey, and
Baer beat Camera.
(1) Length of Cunard liner Queen Mary?
(2) Height (a) keel to mast-top, (b) keel to boat-
deck and (c) keel to main deck ? (3) Height of
funnel ? (4) Draught ? (5) Displacement ?
(6) Clearance for shipping under Sydney
Harbor Bridge, and could the Queen Mary pass
under the bridge or even enter Port Jackson ?
—4416.
(1) 1018 ft. (2) (a) approx. 250 ft., (6) approx.
135 ft., (c) approx. 100 ft. (3) Over 70ft. (4)
and (5) Details as to draught and displacement
will not be available until construction of vessel
is completed. (6) Clearance for shipping under
centre of' Sydney Harbor Bridge is 172 ft. 6in.
at H.W.0.5.T., decreasing to 160 ft. at the sides.
But the Queen Mary could enter the port, as
there is a minimum depth of 80ft. at the
entrance and the eastern and western channels
have been dredged to a minimum depth of
40ft. at low water.
Is the production of Australian talkie “shorts”
for local distribution a profitable business ? —•
4263.
Australian-made short subjects have difficulty
either to obtain distribution or any reasonable
revenue. One concern says it has lost money
on nearly all the shorts made by it. There
is no £lace for shorts on average Australian
cinema programmes.
(1) Was there a form of conscription in the
Commonwealth prior to 1914 ? (2) If so, was
there a clause compelling troops to serve over-
seas ? (3) Why the conscription referendum ?
—4435.
(1) and (2) From 1909 until abolished by
the Scullin Government, the male inhabitants
of Australia, within certain ages, were liable to
render military or naval service. The liability
was for service within the Commonwealth only.
(3) To ascertain whether the people of the
Commonwealth were in favor of the Govern-
ment having compulsory power to require
military service, for the term of the Great War,
outside the Commonwealth, as it at that time
had in regard to service within the Common-
wealth.
(1) Is the Sussex a sister ship of Canberra and
Australia ? (2) Overall length, gun calibre and
salient features of one or both classes ? —4592.
(1) Yes. (2) Length (0.a.), 630 ft.; beam,
68 1 -3ft. Eight Bin. guns, 50 cal., four 4in.,
four 3pdr., four 2pdr. pom-poms, four machine,
eight Lewis, eight 21in. torpedo-tubes in quad-
ruple mountings.
(1) Total cost of the Shrine of Remembrance,
Melbourne, to date ? (2) Cost of mainten-
ance ? (3) How is maintenance to be financed ?
(4) Sources of money already spent ? (3) Is
there to be any further capital expenditure ?
4662.
(1) About £224,000. (2) About £lOOO p.a.
(3) Melbourne City Council will contribute
£5OO p.a.; balance from sale of official sou-
•venir book of shrine. (4) Melbourne City
Council £50,000, State Government £50,000,
municipalities £62,000, State school-children
£B6OO, public subscriptions £70,000, Melba
matinee £1543, interest on fixed deposits £7570.
(5) No.
(1) What is the color of the pure-bred dingo ?
(2) What is the significance of the tuft of bristly
hair half-way up his tail ? (3) Have these
animals ever been tamed, and are they all neces-
sarily fowl-killers ? (4) Is there any law against
keeping a dingo as a pet ? —4637.
(1) The coat color, as observed by earliest
settlers long before inbreeding with domestic
varieties, varies from black to almost white.
The commonest phase is a reddish- to creamy-
yellow, usually with a darker brindling along
the back; the paws and tail-tip are usually
lighter. (2) No special significance. (3) The
general experience in taming dingoes is that
they never lose the tendency to attack poultry,
and become untrustworthy and savage with
age. The aborigines make camp companions
of them, but usually dispose of the older ones.
(4) The dingo is declared a noxious animal
under the N.S.W. Pastures’ Protection Act, and
as it is compulsory to destroy them in most
shires, permission should be sought before
making any attempt to keep them in captivity.
(1) How is T.N.T., as used in explosives,
manufactured ? (2) Are apricot kernels em-
ployed in the manufacture ? —4745.
(1) A mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids is
employed, with the addition of sulphuric acid
containing some sulphuric anhydride, SO3, thus
minimising the amount of water in the acid
mixture. Toluene (a liquid prepared from coal
tar by distillation) is gradually added with con-
stant agitation. Nitrous fumes are led away
and reconverted into nitric acid. The oily
product is separated from the acids and poured
into water, where it solidifies, and is then washed
free from adhering acids and purified with a.
solution of sodium sulphide. (2) Not in any
process of which details have been published.
The kernels contain prussic acid.
(1) (a) Horse-power, (b) type and (c) petrol
consumption of engines of De Havilland Comet
’planes ? (2) Wing-span ? (3) Same de-
tails of Douglas airliner used in centenary
air race ? (4) Specifications of Miles Hawk
monoplane ? (5) Manufactured by whom ?
(6) Price ?—4299.
(1) (a) 215-220, (6) Gipsy Six R, (c) ten
gallons per hour each. (2) 44ft. (3) (a) 735
h.p., ( b ) Wright Cyclone 1820 F? (c) 30-36
gallons per hour each. (4) Dimensions: Wing-
span, 35ft.; length, 24ft.; height, 7ft. Bin.;
track, 7ft. Bin.; chord (max.), 6ft. 3in.; span
(folded), 15ft. lOin. Areas: Main plane, 181.5
sq. ft.; tail plane and elevators, 26.5 sq. ft.;
elevators, 8.4 sq. ft.; fin, 2.24 sq. ft.; rudder,
7.24 sq. ft. • All-up weight, 18001 b.; tare
weight, 10451 b.; disposable load, 7551 b. Seat-
ing accommodation, 3. Oil capacity, 2 gal-
lons; petrol capacity, 22\ gallons. Pay load,
4051 b. Max. speed, 114 m.p.h. at 1000 ft.;
cruising speed, 98 m.p.h. at 1000 ft; landing
speed, 38 m.p.h. Take-off run, 80yds.; initial
rate of climb, 860 ft. per min.; ceiling service,
16,000 ft.; ceiling absolute, 18,000 ft. Range,
450 miles. Petrol consumption, 5 gallons per
hour. Landing run with brakes, 50 yards;
without brakes, 80 yards. (5) Phillips and
Powis Aircraft Co., England. (6) £750 ex
works (Hawk Major); £350 ex works (Miles
Hawk).
Method of treating silk to render it suitable
for model-dirigible construction ? —4678.
Silk can be waterproofed by applying a
solution of paraffin in naphtha, but oiled aero
silk which is waterproof, airtight and light may
be purchased from Model Flying Co., 375
Kent-street, Sydney, 6d. per large strip.
(1) Is baldness curable ? (2) Causes of bald-
ness ? ■ (3) I am 30 years old, and have been
going bald for about five years. What chance
is there of re growing hair ? —4460.
(1) There is no exact treatment, but in early
maturity much can be done to stimulate growth
from the hair root or cell. Where baldness
persists, small repeated doses of X-rays (under
medical supervision), combined with massage
of the scalp, may be resorted to with benefit,
but much depends upon the individual case.
(2) May be due to constitutional disorders,
nerve debility or glandular malnutrition. (3)
Can’t say. Use a bay-rum lotion to rub into
the hair roots daily, adding a trace of castor
oil if the scalp is dry.
Best soil-mixture for pot-plants; also when
to repot or recondition them ? —4769.
Six parts loamy virgin soil, 3 parts leaf-
mould, 1 part each of sand and rotted cow
manure is a good mixture. Pulverise
thoroughly and sieve, then place in the open
air for about a week to sweeten. Repotting
can be done in early spring or in February.
Stand the pots in water slightly above the rim
so that the moisture can thoroughly soak the
soil. A drenching of this nature should be
given at least once a week.
How to recondition the soil of a garden
which has become sour and almost useless
through overmanuring ? —4761.
Dig over the plot and leave it in lumpy
condition to sweeten with sun and wind for at
least two weeks; then give a heavy treatment
of agricultural lime (about 6oz. to the square
yard). Then let the ground lie fallow for at
least three months.
/ have two hydrangea plants which 1 re-
potted the season before last. Since then they
have not flowered, although the plants look
very healthy. What can be done ? —4701.
Prune the plants back to two sets of “eyes”
in March or early April. If that doesn’t force
them to bloom they are not worth bothering
about.
An old-age pensioner with a pension of
6s. 3d. a week and no other income but rents,
and no children or other persons to whom he
can look for support, owns equity in property
of which the mortgagees enter into possession.
(1) Is this equity taken into consideration in
estimating the rate of his pension, or is he con-
sidered as having no equity ? (2) Is the posi-
tion altered by the fact that rents from the
property are sufficient only to meet interest,
rates, insurance, etc. ? (3) Pensioner is allowed
under the Act to own his own home; is this
irrespective of value, or is there a limit to the
value allowed ? (4) Is a mortgage on a
pensioner’s home allowed as a deduction from
his accumulated property ? —4623.
(1) and (2) If the pensioner receives a portion
of the rent a proportionate value of the equity
must be taken into account in determining his
pension rate. (3) No limit. (4) As the value
of a home is exempt, a mortgage cannot be
allowed as a deduction from the value of the
property.
(1) Chemicals used for making colored lumi-
nous paint ? (2) Books on subject ? —4728.
(1) Red: 30 parts varnish, 1 part madder
lake, 3 parts red arsenic sulphide, 4 parts
powdered sulphate of barium, 15 parts luminous
calcium sulphide. Blue: 21 parts varnish, 3.2
parts ultramarine blue, 2.7 parts cobalt blue, 5.1
parts sulphate of barium, 23 parts luminous
calcium sulphide. Yellow: 12 parts varnish,
2 parts barium chromate, 2.5 parts barium
sulphate, 8.5 parts luminous calcium sulphide.
Violet: 21 parts varnish, 2.4 parts ultramarine
violet, 4.5 parts cobaltous arsenate, 5.1 parts
barium sulphate, 18 parts luminous calcium
sulphide. The varnish is made of kauri or
Zanzibar copal 6 parts, oil of turps 24 parts,
the copal being made into a molten state and
then dissolved in the turps. The solution is
filtered and mixed with 10 parts pure linseed
oil, which is well heated and allowed to cool
before adding the copal solution. (2) Spon’s
“Workshop Recipes,” Vol. 111, obtainable at
the Sydney Public Library.
(1) Correct food for goldfish ? (2) How often
should the water in their aquarium be changed ?
—4270.
(1) Chopped-up earthworms or mosquito
larva: (wrigglers). If these are unobtainable,
finely-shredded raw beef may be substituted.
Ground puppy biscuits or prepared foods sold
by dealers are usually fairly satisfactory, but
the fish thrive best on live foods. A little
vegetable diet, such as chopped-up lettuce, cab-
bage or spinach leaves, should be added occa-
sionally. (2) An aquarium cannot be kept suc-
cessfully without plenty of aquatic plants
growing in it, and if these are thriving the
water never requires to be changed. For
further details, Roughley’s “Cult of the Gold-
fish” (65.) is recomrriended.
I am a collector of birds’-eggs. (1) How
can l remove a chicken from the egg ?
(2) Is it legal to make a collection of birds’-
eggs in N.S.W. ?— 4339.
(1) In eggs that contain an embryo a larger
hole is necessary than in eggs without chickens,
and as much of the contents as possible should
be extracted (without injuring the shell) by
blowpipe, forceps and bent pieces of wire. If
the embryo is too large a 2 p.c. solution of
caustic potash must be introduced into the
shell with a glass suction blowpipe (in extreme
cases a stronger solution may be required).
Leave the solution in for 30 minutes, then blow
out again, and with the aid of forceps the
embryo can be extracted, or the treatment may
be repeated. Then introduce clean water and
rinse out the inside of the shell. Care should be
taken in using caustic potash, and it must
not be left too long in the shell or allowed
to come in contact with the blower’s mouth.
When bottled, label it “Poison.” (2) Under
the provisions of the N.S.W. Bird and Animal
Protection Act it is illegal to make a collec-
tion of eggs of protected birds, and you would
be well pdvised to make yourself familiar with
the conditions of the Act.
(1) Relative values of Pinus insignis, P.
pinaster and P. pinea as sawn limber ? (2)
Would the sawn timber of any of these pines
procured from large straight trunks pver 2 ft.
in diameter be useful for farm gates, rough
outhouses, rafters or flooring boards ? (3)
Would a coat of paint or tar make this timber
last for any considerable time if exposed to
weather ? —4079.
(1) P. radiata (syn. insignis ) provides a good-
class softwood remarkable for its lightness,
toughness and ability to take nails without
splitting. Plantation-grown, it is equal in its
mechanical properties, if not superior, to
Oregon, and is definitely superior to the im-
ported Baltic pine commonly used for floor-
ing. Open-grown, its value is reduced some-
what by the presence of large knots and the
fact that the trees are often not cut until they
have commenced to deteriorate. P. pinaster
and P. pinea are similar timbers to P. radiata,
and, although slightly inferior generally, are
useful for the same purposes. They are about
half as heavy again as P. radiata in the dry
state. (2) Any of these three timbers would
be suitable for general building construction
and the purposes enumerated provided they are
kept above ground level. Before being used
in the ground they would need to be creosoted,
and our more durable native hardwoods, if
available, are consequently generally more suit-
able. (3) Coated with paint or tar, any of
these timbers lasts for a considerable time, even
though exposed to the weather. They should be
sawn as soon after felling as possible, and
carefully stacked for rapid drying under cover
from rain or they may develop a blue discolora-
tion which, however, does not appreciably
affect the strength of the timber.
List of fluxes for various metals? —4815.
The fluxes used for soldering metals with soft
solder are as follows: Galvanised-iron, hydro-
chloric acid (raw spirits); tin, chloride of zinc
(killed spirits), made by adding zinc to hydro-
chloric acid until action ceases; copper, chloride
of zinc or sal ammoniac; brass, chloride of
zinc, tallow or resin; lead, tallow or resin;
zinc, when clean, killed spirits; if very dirty,
raw spirits diluted.
(1) Particulars of the Melbourne centenary,
the Macarthur and the recent Ir. 6 d. air-mail
stamp ? (2) Date of issue of these stamps ?
(3) Name of a M.L. stamp-dealer who pur-
chases Australian issues ? —4742.
(1) The Victorian centenary stamps were
printed in three values, 2d. vermilion, 3d. bright
blue and Is. black, on Cowan and Wiggins
Teape paper watermarked Crown C of A.
The first supplies were perforated by a machine
gauging 10|, which was replaced in August
by a lli machine. The Macarthur issue con-
sists of three values, 2d. carmine lake, 3d.
blue and 9d. violet. These stamps were also
printed on C of A paper, but only occur per-
forated IR. The new Is. 6d., although used
mainly for" combined air and postage" fee in
connection with the Anglo-Australian air-mail
service, may be used for ordinary postal pur-
poses. It bears no inscription to identify it
as an air-mail stamp. (2) July 2, ’34; Nov. 1,
’34; Dec. 1, ’34. (3) Wilcox, Smith and Co.,
Manse-street, Dunedin.
Brief Answer*.
D.F.: The ferret has a depraved appetite
due to want of some important constituent in
diet. Give details of diet.... A.S.J.: A small
silk mill is operated by Marshall Seifert,
Lydiard-street, Ballarat, Vic. Write to him....
’Possum: The opossum is protected, and a cam-
paign of eradication would be illegal. You
might try temporarily blocking up the open-
ing. After a few days’ confinement they ought
to be glad to leave. You could then make the
blockage permanent... .J.F.F.L.: Mother Ship-
ton, so-called prophetess, was first heard of in
a tract of 1641 in which she is said to have
lived in the reign of Henry VIII. and to have
foretold the death of Cardinal Wolsey. Charles
Hindley brought out in 1862 a new edition
of an old work, “Life and Death of Mother
Shipton,” and perpetrated a worthless jingle
that often passes for “the prophecy.” The
best authorities are W. Lilly’s “Collection of
Ancient and Modern Prophecies” (1645) and
W. H. Harrison’s “Mother Shipton Investi-
gated” (1881)... .W.H.M.: The creosote-oil
portion which distils from coal tar at between
198 and 203 deg. C. is approximately 24 per
cent, of total distillate. This portion consists
almost entirely of cresylic acid, which, in other
words, is a mixture of ortho-, meta- and para-
cresols... .F.H.: Symptoms suggest epilepsy of
idiopathic or primary type. Consult a nerve
specialist or attend at a public hospital for
examination. Home treatment is out of the
question... .R.T.H.: Lump ammonia (ammonia
carbonate) is soluble in four parts of water.
Crush and dissolve gradually in water, using
a mortar for preference; heat must not be em-
ployed. Bottle and store in a cool place.
Approximate proportion is soz. lump ammonia
to 1 pint of cold water... .5.0.5.: Literature
gives details; it is prepared for animals only
5.8. W.: In the course of normal flying a four-
engined aeroplane Hies constantly on all four
engines... .J.G.M.: As requested, the letters and
papers have been forwarded to the Local Gov-
ernment Department, Sydney... .C.M.N.: The
passenger list of the Great Britain, which left
Liverpool on December 10, 1859, and arrived
at Melbourne on February 5, 1860, includes
Patrick Burke, aged 22, laborer, Irish, and
James Burke, aged 24, laborer, Irish. The
Great Britain belonged to tho Black Ball line,
owned by James Barnes and Co G.8.P.:
Write to De Havilland Aircraft Pty., Mascot
Aerodrome, Mascot, Sydney .... T.J.W.:
Question too vague. If you send a clipping of
advertisement inquiries will be made... .L.D.:
“The Bankside Costume Book,” by Melicent
Stone (well illustrated), and H. W. Whanslaw’s
“The Bankside Stage Book” (Wells Gardner,
Darton and Co., London)... .J.M.C.: The
classic book on the subject is “On Actors and
the Art of Acting,” by George Henry Lewes,
who was for long the intimate friend of George
Eliot and wrote an excellent history of philo-
sophy... .A.H.E.: “Wings” was a Paramount
picture, and “Alias Jimmy Valentine” a Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer picture. Address inquiries to
these companies... .F.C.G.: Only the nine
types advertised on the wool cards are avail-
able. These comprise a comprehensive selection
from the range of qualities grown in Australia,
chosen and endorsed by leading wool authori-
ties... .L.C.: There are no suitable islands off
the coast of Queensland open or available for
opening under any tenure of the Land Acts
at the present time. There has always been
a keen demand for islands off the coast of that
State, and the best of them are already held.
....J.S.: An aboriginal female in Queensland
is not permitted to marry without the consent
of the Chief Protector. In N.S.W. there is
not any restriction, except as to wandering
in the company of aborigines without lawful
authority or excuse. Apply Chief Protector of
Aboriginals, Brisbane... .M.D.S.: Send a list
of the fcoins to Tyrrell and Co., 281 George-
street; Lyster Ormsby, 78 Hunter-street —both
Sydney; or D. Raymond, 502 Rathdown-
street, North Carlton, Melbourne. If informa-
tion as to description and valuation is desired,
write to C. J. V. Weaver, hon. sec. Australian
Numismatic Society, 11 Carlisle-street, Leich-
hardt... .F.C.W. (Atherton): Send name and
full address, and reply will be posted... .W. 8.:
The Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act pro-
vides that a pensioner’s income, including all
pension, must not exceed £7B per annum. The
value of board and lodging allowed a pensioner
is regarded as income within the meaning of
the Act, but if a pensioner had no other income
no alteration would be made to her pension rate
if she received free board and lodging....
J.N.S.: There was no Tancred in the 1910
South African team that visited Australia. The
players, in addition to those you mention,
were T. Campbell, L. Strieker and O. C.
Pearce. Campbell was the second wicket-
keeper... .H.W.: (1) Endeavour Press, 252
George-street; Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street; and N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Castle-
reagh and Market streets —all Sydney. (2)
An advance is generally given on acceptance.
(3) No set manner, so long as it is securely
fastened. (4) Yes. (5) Remote J.L.: Sub-
mit formula to Health Department, Sydney;
it must comply with requirements of the Pure
Foods Act. Ingredients must be pure and
wholesome; no schedule poison is permitted.
The preparation may be advertised without
registration... .8.E.F.: Keep affected parts dry,
cleanse as required with olive oil and apply
the following ointment at night: Prepared
calamine 10 grains, bismuth subgallate 20
grains, powdered chloretone 10 grains, zinc
cream to 1 ounce. Smear on sparingly and do
not bind. In the morning dust freely with
zinc and starch powder (equal parts). Get
medical advice if trouble persists... .F.J.R.:
Duty is payable on the value of the gift at the
date of transfer: £6OOO less £l6OO. The stamp
duty paid on the deed of gift will be deducted
from the death duty... .C.W.: There is no
method of paying death duty in advance. If
a widow is appointed sole beneficiary and sole
executrix no one can stop her from carrying
on her late husband’s business as she sees fit.
A.M.M.: (1) Impossible to say without
knowing if all the assets have been realised or
the position the accounts disclose. (2) Twelve
months after probate has been granted. (3)
That is a matter on which you would need to
consult a solicitor... .(Many others mailed.)


WHICH WOULD YOU PREFER TO BE ON...THE GIANT
GYRO-STABILISED LINER OR THE PITCHING FUSSY TUG?
...
%:?<:
/
<**
A SIMILAR DIFFERENCE EXISTS BETWEEN THE MASTER
CLerM- EQUIPPED WITH “KNEE ACTION** SUSPENSION
AND ORDINARY CARS WITH OLD-FASHIONED, LESS-COSTLY-
TO-MAKE LEAF SPRINGS .
‘KNEE-ACTION’ permits you to drive
your Master Chevrolet at high average
speeds over the roughest roads in posi-
tively jolt-free comfort ... in perfect
safety . . . with effortless ease.
‘KNEE-ACTION’ is the only type of
springing that gives you absolutely
shock-less steering, regardless of surface
conditions.
‘KNEE-ACTION’ improving braking
tremendously, imparts a feeling of
complete confidence in the most nervous
of drivers.
II
KNEE-ACTION’ type suspension is
much more costly to manufacture than
the ordinary type of spring, and is now
standard on most of the world’s finest
and highest priced cars.
KNEE-ACTION’ springs on Master
Chevrolet never squeak ... they are fully
enclosed and submerged in a bath of
lubricating oil.
drive it only five miles
AND YOU’LL INVEST IN A
MASTER CHEVOLET.
General Motors • Holden’s Limited.
Reprinted from :—“The Automobile Engineer” (England) November, 1933
“Orthodox suspension of the front wheels would appear to be rapidly becoming a
thing of the past-where really bad surfaces have to be negotiated there can be no
question whatever of the superiority of independent wheel suspension "
every MASTER
v
has ‘Knee-action*
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
C-8-44
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.C.: Can neither make anything of them
nor do anything with them CJ.: Untidy
doggerel F.C.: Two lines from your belated
centenary effusion:
The gods look down on Melbourne town
And weep, and weep, and weep.
Your verses aren’t the sort of thing to dry
their tears, either... .A.H.: It might do for
a horticultural paper T.F.W.: Too
flamingly erotic... .L.J.R.: It falls short in
sense. . ...J.W.P.: Quite a pleasant conceit, but
yours is a thin and reedy pipe... .C.M.A.:
The last verse is quite good; the others are
commonplace... .C.L.: They don’t grip u 5....
R.E.M.: Your alleged song may be “suitable
for weddings,” but we shouldn’t like to hear
lC at ours H.C.S.: They jangled overmuch.
... .R.W.T.: Philosophy, cut into lengths, won’t
make poetry... .E.R.M.: There aren’t enough
telling lines to redeem the monotony of it
We read it half a dozen times without
seeing daylight... .E.C.P.: The grasshopper is
a sufficiently grievous burden without your
versification... .R.C.8.: Dragged out to that
length it becomes intolerably tedious E.F.:
Not quite S.H.C.: As you justly remark,
no literary credit is due for such an effusion.
F.B.: The week’s worst J.H.S.: Prosy
verse; and some of the efforts you apparently
regard as rhymes make us shudder J.H.:
Your blank verse runs trippingly enough to
pass muster if it only had some ginger in it.
V.K.: Not in our line R.F.8.: Flat
and stale as the overnight heeltaps that the
6 a.m. barman empties into the slop-pail
D.A.M.: Maybe, but you fail to make a read-
able rhyme of it G.M.: There’s nothing
coming for that C. 8.: “Away, Away!”
proved a prophetic headline M.G.: But
there are constant lovers, you know... .J.R.T.:
You may know the bush from A to Z, but you
can’t jingle for nuts R.W.8.: A very limping
version of the Prodigal Son L.T.D.: If you
can write a piece so full of feeling in what
you call “a sort of free verse,” doesn’t it occur
to you how much better you could do it in
metrical form? J. 5.8.: They both missed.
G.A.M.: “I have been persuaded to for-
ward the enclosed to you.” We suspect leg-
pull... .P.J.8.: Political economy never seems
to run easily in numbers A.M.C.: The idea
is far-fetched and the execution amateurish
W.D.: Sounds a bit bald:
A typical son of the open space
Waa Lawson, front childhood till he stepped his last
pace.
And you get balder as you go 0n.... J.W.A.:
Unmitigated doggerel D.F.8.: We get a lot
of alleged poems setting forth the joys or hard-
ships (or both! of milking. Yours is undis-
tinguished A.H.N.: “I understand you
accept and pay for similar poems to the one
I enclose.” You have been misinformed.
P.M.: You’re too pessimistic J.M.C.:
It would take too much patching and polishing
to make that readable W.H. (M.L.).: Family
camps aren’t funny; they’re tragic... .JJ.: A
lot of truth in it, but it isn’t suitable....
F.H.M.: Not far off 1.V.: Not quite good
enough... .L.R.: You lean too much to melo-
drama E.1.H.: Absent-minded professors
don’t even make us smile.... R. 8.: Not
prepared to. accept the telegraphist’s mistake,
C.T.B.: Far too long H.P.8.: Christmas
racing yarn disqualified... .W.A.C.: Sorry we
haven’t seen the joke yet... .E.H.8.: The
widow’s mites (both of them) are northward
bound once more H.Q.: The Ming vase has
been broken too often K.N.: Came close.
Try again J.J.M.: Not suitable K.W.F.:
Such dreams don’t happen J.M.S.L.:
Rambles, and doesn’t hold the interest
R.A.M.: In reply to your question—afraid not.
L.S.: Regret that the yarn won’t add
“D” to your initials D.V.: Babu English
has been copied so often that genuine examples
aren’t worth while W.N.W.: It’s the old
theme of distant fields appearing greener....
C.C.: The woes of flat-dwellers aren’t funny.
They are too serious. We know K.McC. :•
Doesn’t ring the bell 1.M.M.: A firm with
4000 men on its payroll doesn’t trust the pay-
sheets to one man F J.F.: Yarn shows
real feeling, but the subject isn’t a good one.
. ...G.A.L.: You haven’t quite succeeded in
what you set out to do. “Unhumorous bur-
lesque” seems to describe it R.W.: The
idea is old, and it was never a very brilliant
one R.D.M.: Our sympathy is with the
Colonel H.S.E.: Out of our line... .S.N.:
It is people like Jim that make the world
so unpleasant to live in 8.P.: Send it to
the local paper... .L.H.: Regret we cannot
endorse the opinion of the club E.R.W.:
Can’t find a home for your “Soliloquy”
E. 8.: Have you tried the “Temperance
Gazette”? ... .C.C.G.: Rather stereotyped....
L.M.S.: Not funny enough Natura: It
doesn’t fit G.A.: A hackneyed theme....
A.F.: Both miss the ’bus A.T.P.: Have
passed it on.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.8.C.: Cannot judge from copies. Let us
see some originals W.W.: Father Christmas
is taken that way every year M.H.L.:
Figures are not badly drawn, but why all that
ugly cross-hatching in the background?....
C.P.: It doesn’t look much like a horse....
H.M.: Portrait of mosquito on drunk’s nose
would make an entomologist weep... .L.V.:
If that is how they look in their bathing togs
it is a pity you didn’t keep their street clothes
on J.C.: No, we will never believe that a
child of that shape could be ‘‘the apple of his
mother’s eye”... .M.G.: You leave far too
much undone P. 8.: Oswald Pryor has
beaten you to it F.T.C.: The thing below
might be a tuckerbox, but the object on top
is certainly not a dog K.L.: Last time that
jest made an appearance we hurled it out
in The time was lowered on this
occasion G.D.: Not one of them bears any
likeness to the subject C.H.: Shows promise
—lessons would help W.R.: Put the half-
Nelson on the wrestler M.S.A.: Before dip-
ping your pen into the inkpot again think
seriously whether it is worth it S.H.T.:
Much improved, but make them less scratchy.
... .R.W.E.M.: It has nothing to recommend
it G.H.R.: Still stiff and finicky....
G.W.H.: Amateurish GJ.L.: Leave the
game to your artistic betters H.R.: A wash-
out.


“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
SAFETY!
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on—tut the
fundamental basis of all safe
driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
. . . . in Good Condition .
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life, specify
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING when
re-lining is necessary.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND .
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
Wi
n
•S’
Jhe
RENRUT
pump£
Sole Manufacturers
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD.,
EYRE WORKS, SHEFFIELD, 1, ENGLAND.
Representative: —
JOHN ARNOLD, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
For easiest and speediest
tyre inflation ....
The “RENRUT” pump offers remarkable service, ease ana
efficiency in tyre inflation. . ..„
It is the pump with a quadruple compression—a double-
acting cylinder, drawing in air both with the up ana
down stroke, so providing a volume usually
obtained only with a barrel twice the size.
Manipulation of this large volume is ren-
dered very easy by the inner high-
pressure cylinder.
Strongly built and handsomely
finished, the “Renrut” Quadruple
is the pump for speed and
service, to make inflation
easier than ever before.
PRICE...
60/-
With gauge,
5/- extra.
The Steering Column.
WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?
1934 MOTORING IN RETROSPECT.
BY FRED BERRY.
|\ /TOST motorists will agree that progress in automobile design,
whether in terms of comfort, economy or reliability, has
been greater during the last decade than in any previous period,
but most of us take each idea and improvement for granted,
without asking the reason or studying the effect.
Improvements in transmission systems, flexible engine
mountings, independent wheel suspension and' streamlined
bodies have placed this year’s car so far ahead of earlier models
that, mechanically, any machine over three years old can now be
rated as obsolete.
Examining the 1934 car in retrospect
one is. at once impressed with the re-
markable general advance made in
transmission mechanism. This is more
sudden than evolutionary, for when we
look back over early designs we find
modifications have been incorporated in
almost every other part of car mechan-
ism from time to time ; yet until a year
or two ago gearboxes and back axles,
Girder construction of chassis and body gives greater rigidity
and better riding qualities, and streamline profiles permit high
road speeds without wasting fuel.
although improved in general design and
workmanship, were substantially identical
in principle with the “mangle” type
common to the early ’nineties.
An insistent public demand for all-
the-time top-gear performance may
have been responsible for recent radical
changes, but whatever the reason there
is scarcely a car to-day that does not
incorporate a foolproof transmission. No
longer are “crash” gearboxes fitted to any
save a few super-sports models. No
longer need the nervous tyro tremble
lest something dreadful happen when
he moves the gear lever, as synchro-
mesh and constant-mesh systems have
made gear-changing safe and simple.
Increasing engine life by fitting
case-hardened inserts into valve
seats.
Furthermore, when a free-wheeling de-
vice is used in conjunction with the new
gear arrangements, it is impossible to
crash the gears once the car is in motion.
New motorists, and perhaps a number
of older but still timorous drivers, have
generally felt uncomfortable when con-
fronted with a stop and restart on a
steep grade. Here the automatic clutch
comes to the rescue, for with this and
synchromesh gears there is no occasion
to operate the clutch pedal except in the
unlikely contingency of failure of the
automatic clutch.
A popular system in which the element
of skill in operation is totally eliminated
is the Wilson pre-
selector gearbox.
Here a neat lever,
fitting into four
small notches, is
positioned on the
steering column
immediately be-
neath the wheel
and within easy
reach of the
driver’s fingers.
With the engine
running, this lever
is placed for
starting in No. 1
position, the clutch is pushed out and
slowly let back, and away glides the car.
Second, third and top follow, with the
clutch movement actually selecting the
gears. Once in top the pilot lever can be
placed in second or third position, and
remains there until such time as the
driver, either in an emergency or by rea-
son of heavy going, desires the lower
ratio, when the simple clutch movement
instantly and automatically makes the
change.
Automatic Changes.
Self-change gearboxes are fitted in
some instances. Here lower or higher
ratios are selected automatically, speed
of rotation actuating centrifugal clutches
within the gearbox governing the time at
which changes are effected.
The conventional clutch arrangement
is rapidly being displaced by the Daimler-
type fluid transmission, or “fluid fly-
wheel,” as it is more popularly known ;
and there is so much in favor of this
principle that in the near future it is
likely to be universally adopted. Briefly,
the fluid flywheel takes the form of two
rotors, similar in principle to a pair of
water wheels, sealed in a casting and
running in a bath of oil. Forward rotor
is attached to the crankshaft and rear
rotor to gearshaft. When the engine is
started oil is thrown from the forward
rotor to the vanes of rear segment, forc-
ing it to rotate in the same direction and
so transmit the drive to gearbox and rear
axle. In effect, this provides an infi-
nitely variable gear, the conventional
gearbox, although still retained, merely
providing better acceleration and hill-
climbing due to reduction of final ratio.
Greater Economy.
Not only has motoring been simplified
and driving freed from certain hazards
by the devices described, but, due to
many of the moving parts “idling” for
long periods instead of being driven by
the road wheels, their effective life is con-
siderably lengthened, less petrol is con-
sumed, periods between overhaul have
been increased and gear and transmission
noises have largely been eliminated.
Another radical improvement gener-
ally adopted this year has been flexible
engine mounting, the main objective of
which is to damp the power impulses of
the motor and prevent vibra-
tion and noise being trans-
mitted to the chassis, and so
to the passengers. So suc-
cessfully has this been
achieved that when driving a
modern car fitted with “float-
ing power” or some similar
type of flexibly-mounted
engine it is almost impossible
to determine the number of
cylinders in the motor, so
smooth and vibrationless is
the flow of power. Further-
more, when used in conjunc-
tion with closed-type bodies,
one seldom experiences that
objectionable “drumming” of
the body so common to
older types.
Damping Vibration.
The only advantage that
can possibly claimed for
rigid engine mounting is
that a car can be driven at lower speeds
in any given gear without fear of
stalling. This is due to the fact that at
extremely low engine speeds the flexible
mounting permits the motor to rotate on
its axis to such an extent that pistons
tend to stick on dead-centre and so stall
the motor. Furthermore, at extremely
low speeds the rocking effect prevents an
even flow of fuel to the carburettor, with
consequent flooding of the mixing
chamber and uneven running. As an
offset to this minor disability it has been
proved beyond doubt that a flexibly-
mounted motor will “hang on” to top
gear and pull better on hills than con-
ventional types, due to the rubber buffers
compressing, storing up energy and re-
turning it to the crankshaft between
power impulses.
Independent Suspension.
So far as car-suspension systems are
concerned, a number of ingenious, and in
certain instances radical, changes have
been made this year. The advantages
of independent front-wheel suspension
have been known and appreciated by
automobile designers for many years, the
Lancia car being an outstanding example
of the successful practical application of
the principle. It is not surprising there-
fore to find leading American and
British manufacturers at last falling into
line. Broadly, the systems adopted this
Preventing squeaks in springs by fitting
special graphite insets between leaves.
year fall into two general groups—those
in which the conventional axle is dis-
pensed with entirely, each wheel being
an independent unit, and those adopting
the “articulating” axle. Whichever
method is adopted, the motorist can be
assured of immensely improved riding
qualities, particularly on rough roads,
together with longer life and freedom
from rattles in bodywork and chassis.
Comfort and Ventilation.
With regard to coachwork, and, inci-
dentally, passenger comfort, astonishing
advances have been made during the last
year. Particularly is this noticeable in
New steering systems have eliminated wheel-
wobble and rendered driving easier and safer
at high speeds.
the various schemes used in ventilating
closed-type cars.
Adjustable driving seats and steering
columns are now standard equipment,
with the result that motorists can under-
take an extensive tour without fear of
physical fatigue or personal discomfort.
Cruciform chassis construction,
coupled with the practice of mounting
bodies on rubber-cushioned subframes,
Helical-cut teeth
and synchromesh
gears make
changing easy and
transmission
silent.
has removed any
pos s i bility of
working off doors
and fittings and
eliminated drum-
ming and reson-
ance of panels.
Chromium-p 1 a t-
ing of headlamps,
radiator grills
and other hard-
ware provides a
brilliant and last-
ing surface with-
out the necessity
of frequent pol-
ishing, and, of
still greater importance, the rust prob-
lem has been effectively solved, for, pro-
vided the plating has been faithfully
done, fittings will not be affected by
weather under any conceivable circum-
stances.
Streamlining.
Aerodynamic body designs have been
responsible for extremely economical
road performances. With any given
power higher maximum speeds are now
possible, while at moderate touring
speeds less throttle opening is required,
with a consequent improvement in fuel
consumption and in the life of tyres.
Finally, with oil-purifiers and air-
cleaners as standard fittings the efficiency
of lubricating systems has been enor-
mously increased. Motorists now may
expect 20,000 to 30,000 miles’ service be-
fore a major overhaul becomes neces-
sary, while plated pistons and alloy
cylinder blocks have practically doubled
the effective life of the motor.


Make of Car.
(••IV.) Denotes Free-wheeling.
R.A.C.,
h.p.
Wei gilt,
Cwts.
Coasted
from Maximum
15 m.p.h., Speed,
Yards. m.p.h.
Eurrajong
Hill Climb.
Acceleration
from 10 to 30 m.p.h.
(Time in Seconds),
Top Gear. Third. Second.
From
0 to .*>0
m.p.h.,
Seconds.
One-fifth Mi it
Top-gear
Slow Acceleration
Running, Average,
m.p.h. m.p.h.
Stopped from
25 m.p.h.
Tinning
Circle, Feet,
Left. Right.
Petrol
Average Con-
Speed, sumption,
m.p.h. ra.p.g.
Ford "V8" Sedan
30.00
32.25
704
76.3
3min. 1 8sec,
7.6
4.8
12.4
3.3
38.0
28ft.
Oin.
37
37
35.5
22.5
Pontiac "8” Sedan . . . .
32.60
36.50
690
73.6
3min. 36sec.
7.4
4.8
13.4
3.1
36.4
23ft.
Oin.
40
40
35.5
17.3
Rovei ‘‘14*’ Sedan (F.W.)
13.84
29.25
706
62.0
4min. 25sec.
12.8
8.8
6.0
19.8
5.0
30.0
19ft.
39
39
35.0
25.3
Chevrolet “Master’* Sedan
26.30
35.75
654
75.3
3min. 39sec.
9.4
6.0
14.8
2.8
36.3
24ft.
Oin.
39
34
36.6
21.0
Triumph “Gloria" Sedan (F.W.)
9.57
26.50
688
62.7
4min. 25sec.
17.2
10.4
7.0
22.0
5.0
28.8
21ft.
38
44
39.0
29.0
Dodge D.R. Sedan (F.W.)
25.35
31.75
680
75.0
3min. 18sec.
7.0
4.6
12.6
1.9
46.1
21ft.
41
41
39.0
23.6
Graham "6“ Sedan (F.W.)
25.35
33.00
720
75.0
3min. 22s cc.
6.0
3.8
12.0
2.8
47.4
24ft.
54
60
35.4
23.7
C hrysler Plymouth Sedan (F.W.)
23.44
33.00
685
75.0
3min. 2 1 see.
7.0
4.8
12.8
2.3
42.3
20ft.
41
4 1
39.0
22.8
Ford 8-h.p. Sedan
7.96
17.25
614
53.7
5 min. 1 6*ec.
12.8
6.4
22.4
6.0
32.7
•26ft.
31
29
35.7
41.4
Vauxhall ‘Big 6*’ Sedan , .
26.30
36.50
635
68.0
4min. 33.iec.
10.2
7.2
5.4
18.6
4.8
35.9
24ft.
38
38
34.3
20.9
Standard 20‘ Sedan (J-.W.) ..
19.84
32.00
700
67.4
4min. 1 bscc.
9.6
7.8
5.8
20.6
6.0
37.9
28ft.
38
38
34.4
23.8
Chrysler Airflow (F.W.) , ,
33.80
39.50
744
88.2
2min. 59«ec.
7.4
5.0
10.0
3.0
45.5
23ft.
38
24
45.1
16.4
Vauxhall “Light 6“ Sedan , .
14.07
25.25
690
64.3
4m in. 1 2sec.
9.6
7.6
4.8
24.0
4.5
30.0
20ft.
36
36
33.5
31.2
Willy* 7 7" Sedan . .
1 5.63
24.50
725
72.8
3min. 33»ec.
9.0
5.8
13.4
6.8
42.3
25ft.
9in.
34
34
35.4
35.0
NEVERLEEK
HOOD DRESSING
Now in Half-pint Tins.
50.1ki.a9 of
SPRINGS
’Phone:
F 2134,
F 2135.
Next time you strike trouble
bring the car along to us.
We operate Australia’s largest
Spring Service Station and special-
ise in wheel alignment and cor-
rection of faulty steering. Axle-
straightening and heat treating to
I manufacturers’ specification, also
back-axle housing and torque-
tube straightening, etc. Chassis
frame straightening and repairing.
Motor forgings of every descrip-
tion in special alloy steels.
Court'ney &■
Boh Ise n ...
FORBES 5r PLUNKETT STREETS,
) I b)l 1 11 11 1 !
I
u
UUIH
UUWA
>
J|ust Imprison Qas
PISTON RINGS
Will put that Old Punch back into the Engine and
stop the excessive Oil Consumption.
See us before having that Rebore.
We can save you half the cost.
MIG PRODUCTS LTD.
89-91 AUSTRALIA ST.,
NEWTOWN. ’Phone: L 2508.
Simoniz Your Car
. ... It Will Sparkle Like New
New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
m
iouckWft
of uouA,
coT/
the Had iator
Many motorists, particularly
those running older-type cars,
sometimes lose sight of the vital
importance of the Radiator.
A faultless Radiator insures first-
class running, but a choked, leak-
ing or otherwise inefficient unit
can cause untold damage and
expense.
At the first sign of leaking, rust-
ing or scaling, secure our expert
advice. Our latest FLUSHING
PROCESS (costing from 15/-)
eliminates choking immediately.
In cases, of course, where a
new Radiator is essential, order
a MULLER “COOLAHCORE”
RADIATOR CORE —the finest
core made in Australia.
Remember also we are TRACTOR
RADIATOR specialists.
F. MULLER Ltd.
77-79 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
’Phase: L 3201 (3 Lines).
PERFORMANCE DATA OF CARS TESTED OVER “BULLETIN” COURSE.
1934 Series.
Aluminising Cylinder-heads.
For years designers of automobile en-
gines have endeavored to promote tur-
bulence, and at the same time allow the
use of high-compression pressures by ir-
regularities in the shape of cylinder-
head and combustion chamber. Up to a
point the measures adopted have been
successful, proof being available in any
comparison of standard pressures adopted
to-day with those of, say, five years ago.
In the older types, compression ratios
greater than 4.5 to 1 could only be effec-
Spraying-gun used for depositing metallic
aluminium on cast-iron cylinder-heads.
tively used in conjunction with doped
fuels. In modern motors compression
pressures up to 6.5 to 1 are common
practice, with consequent increase in
horse-power and greater overall efficiency
for any given engine capacity.
There still remains, however, a lurk-
ing suspicion that in some at least of
these high-performance jobs there is a
tendency to “pink” or knock when the
motor is driven at low engine speeds on
full throttle or is rapidly accelerated, un-
less a leaded or specially-blended fuel is
used. For some time automobile tech-
nologists have been fully aware that alu-
minium heads are far more effective at
high-compression pressures than those
made from cast-iron, and now a patent
process whereby aluminium can be
sprayed on to and at the same time amal-
gamated with another metal has at one
stroke cheaply and effectively surmounted
the disabilities inherent in cast-iron
heads.
According to the “Light Car,” the Wes-
lake aluminising process of coating
cylinder-heads speedily and cheaply re-
moves the “knocking” properties of any
engine, while, as the application is done
without the use of heat, there is no fear
of distortion. Any type of cylinder-
head can be sprayed, and no machining
is required excepting, of course, where
it is intended later on to increase the
compression ratio.
The method of applying the aluminium
is at once simple and ingenious. The
head to be treated is first cleaned thor-
oughly by sandblast, and then the metal
!f s P[, a y ed on by a specially-designed
“gun.” Aluminium wire is fed into a
burner, melted and projected with great
velocity under high air-pressure.
The intense heat of the flame causes
the aluminium wire to be pulverised, and
in this state it is deposited on the cast-
iron cylinder-
head, to which it
adheres as firmly
as though it had
been welded. The
finely divided
metal actually
enters the pores
of the iron, and
is not merely a
surface contact;
as a consequence
it can, if neces-
sary, be built up
to a considerable
thickness of solid
and homogeneous
metal.
Official tests conducted with a number
of engines before and after treating with
the aluminising process show in every
instance a marked improvement in both
speed and petrol consumption.
New Theories on “Running-in” the
Engine.
No less an authority than L. Mantell,
technical editor of one of England’s lead-
ing automobile journals, has stirred up a
hornet’s nest by reviving arguments as to
the most effective method of “running-
in” a new engine. Mr. Mantell has for
many years propounded the theory that
one should, in popular parlance, “belt
the engine” until just before seizing point
in order to make a good job of “running-
in.”
In his latest article on the question this
very clever journalist defines a theory as
“something which cannot be proved, but
is often employed to cover lack of know-
ledge” ; but it seems probable that, despite
his theories about how a boundary layer
(immediately before seizure) can be de-
veloped, he in his own private car or
cars goes through the same old cautious
process of “stropping” the bearings
adopted by 19 out of 20 misguided
fellows who fear they will ruin their
machines if they drive faster than 30
m.p.h. during the first 500 miles.
Overlying all arguments on theory is
the undeniable fact that no living driver
is capable of running an engine for any
appreciable period at “just below” seizing
point, and as a consequence, though Mr.
Mantell’s theory may have been proved
to the full by laboratory experiments, the
man who has recently parted with £5OO
for a car will, and always should, take
the safe course until such time as some-
one will guarantee to do the job thor-
oughly by the shorter route.
The Trouble Lamp.
J.P.C. (Payne’s Find, W.A.). — When my
Standard Six Buick, 1928 model, is travelling in
top the gear lever slips into neutral occasion-
ally, especially on bumpy roads. Clutch also is
slipping. How can this be adjusted ?
Evidently the car has been in an accident or
something has occurred to throw transmission
out of line, for such troubles are almost un-
heard of in this model. Check alignment from
flywheel to outside of bell-housing, and closely
examine gearbox and flywheel-housing for
cracks in metal. Clutch is multiple disc type,
with no provision for adjustment except varia-
tion in length of pedal.
S.Y. (South Yarra, Vic.). — I have been
warned against polishing my car with waxes.
Why ?
Can think of no rational reason. Polishes
fall into two general groups, liquids and waxes.
Liquids are easier to apply, but in many cases
slowly dissolve the lacquer finish. Waxes take
much longer to “rub up,” but protect the
lacquer film.
D. (Jerilderie, N.S.W.).—(I) My 1929 Hup-
mobile does not show battery charge until 1
have run five to ten miles. Generator is clean
and cut-out points in good order. Once the
charge shows, everything is right. What’s
wrong ? (2) Should I use colloidal graphite in
my new eight-cylinder Buick, and should I use
it in oil or petrol ?
(1) Everything points to a defective contact
in the generator, which does not “make”
properly until the metal expands after warm-
ing. Check brushes, and make sure they are
making even contact with the commutator and
that the springs are forcing the brushes firmly
into position. (2) Yes. One ounce to each
gallon of oil in the crankcase and one-half
ounce to 10 gallons of petrol. Do both for
first 3000 miles for best results.
E. (Murwillumbah, N.5.W.).—7 have
changed over to 6.00 tyres on my F 8 Ford
roadster, and the present pressure (331 b.)
appears to make suspension harsh and causes
the car to dance about on rough roads. What
is the correct pressure ?
Driving solo, 22 front and 23 rear should do
with oversize equipment; fully laden, 24 all
round.
E.L.W. (Canowindra, N.5.W.).—7 have an
%-h.p. compound steam traction engine.
0) Would Latex compound in the lubricating
oii be bcneflCia i ? (2 ) Would it be advisable
to change over to carburettor ( named) on my
Buick Four ?
(1) La S ex , compound in lubricating oil is a
comparatively new idea. Tests by some author-
ities have given favorable results. The Bulle-
tin is at the moment conducting similar tests,
and results will be published shortly. (2)
No.
H.M. (Bulli, N.S.W.). — Some time ago the
axle of my Marquette was removed to locate
an oil leak, and in the process so much force
was used that the wheel-bearing collapsed;
now a distinct grinding noise can be heard
when in top gear. What is the trouble?
If sufficient force had been used in dis-
mantling the axle to fracture a bearing any-
thing may have happened. Axle may be bent
or crown wheel and pinion forced out of
alignment. Have transmission carefully checked
at nearest General Motors service station,
otherwise there will be a risk of serious trouble.
J.E. (South Kensington, Vic.).— New valves
and rings have recently been fitted to my
1-h.p. car. It ran splendidly until one
morning in traffic it stalled and seized. On
cooling down it started up again, but now huge
volumes of smoke are emitted from the crank-
case breather and scarcely any from the ex-
haust pipe. When revved up, the motor will
choke and finally stop, although it does not
seize. What is the trouble ?
Original seizure has caused the piston-rings
to “freeze” into the pistons; consequently they
are now tight in the grooves and will not main-
tain compression in the cylinder. You have no
option but to dismantle the engine, true piston-
ring grooves and fit a set of oversize rings.
R.McA. (Clifton, Q.). — Being interested in
British-built cars I have been disappointed at
not reading more about them in the columns
of The Bulletin. Will you be testing the new
models during the new year ?
The Bulletin endeavors to give its readers
an accurate and carefully conducted test of
every car. As soon as distributors make these
models available details will be published.
XYZ (Curlewis, N.S.W.). — Method of wiring
a 12-volt generator to charge a six-volt bat-
tery ?
You can couple up direct,' only disadvantage
being high charge rate and consequent shorten-
ing life of battery. Insert voltmeter and vari-
able resistance in series, and you can adjust
voltage to any desired value.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to “The Bulletin” and
recount any interesting or novel experiences; these,
where accepted, will be published under “Motor
Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving experiences have not
been confined to racing and competition drivers, while
outback mechanics, with typical Australian ingenuity,
have worked miracles in getting their cars home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still in service; drivevs
with huge mileages to their credit, and details of diffi-
cult and hazardous journeys are among subjects of
interest to readers of “The Steering Column.”
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.


RADIO DEALERS, SERVICEMEN
Plug-in and Quickly Locate that Fault with
The Slade-Paton A.C.-D.C. Analyser.
■mM
(Senior Model)
A complete and compact multi-instru-
ment in one, reading D.C. Volts to 500 v.,
A.C. and Output Volts to 500 v.,
Milliamps to lOOma., Ohms 100,000 on
Scale, Inductance and Capacity.
FEATURES: Bridge calibrated non-inductively
wound D.S.C. multipliers in conjunction with
our high-grade sapphire bearing d’Arsonval
Meter (1000 ohms per volt) make for extreme
accuracy on all the ranges. D.C. isolated
when taking all A.C. and output readings.
Point-to-point resistance measurements.
Universal socket; shielded grid lead on cord ;
staggered scale for A.C. readings; fool-proof
push button operation; bakelite panel with
embossed lettering, etc.
£l5/15/-
Price complete,
net
The Slade-Paton Junior Signal Generator.
Can be operated as a MODULATED OSCILLATOR;
a plain R.F. OSCILLATOR; an AUDIO OSCILLATOR.
v
Employs electron coupling for maximum
stability. Is thoroughly shielded. Has
calibrated attenuator (units and decibels).
Variation of modulation depths; also of
Audio note.
Covers the intermediate band from 160-
490 kc. Broadcast and short-wave band on
strong Harmonics. Special Vernier Dial.
Complete with batteries.
Price, net £l2/12/-
Free booklet, “HOW TO USE A SERVICE
OSCILLATOR,” describing 12 essential uses, including Aligning and Track-
ing, Stage Analysis, Trouble-hunting, etc., supplied to all purchasers.
Obtainable from. Leading Wholesalers. Write for Illustrated Catalogue to
SLADE-PATON RADIO TEST EQUIPMENT,
LANG STREET, CROYDON, SYDNEY. UJ4576, G A 1960.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
6. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.),
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone'. 82251.
We are purchasers of all classes
of Scrap Copper, Brass .303
Shells, Boiler Tubes, and
other Non-ferrous Metals.
AUSTRAL BRONZE COMPANY, LIMITED,
O’RIORDAN STREET,
’Phone: Mascot 465, ALEXANDRIA, N.SnW.
Telegrams: Ausbronze, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS
THE QUEST FOR A WIDE-BAND TUNER.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
Australians are famous in sport, avia-
tion and other activities, but so far one
cannot cite a single Australian name out-
standing in the field of radio invention.
Possibly this is because Australian radio
technicians, amateur and professional,
have had their work cut out to keep up
with rapid overseas progress.
All the same, it is about time an Aus-
tralian launched a worth-while radio in-
vention to put Australian radio well on
the map. Surely there must be a Mar-
coni, Tesla, Fleming or Armstrong some-
where among our amateurs who keep
prestige high on short waves.
One of the outstanding needs of to-day
in radio design is a tuner to cover all
waves efficiently without band changing
or switching. The need for such a tuner
has been apparent since the earliest days
of radio, and the radio world still awaits
it.
In 1893 Tesla lectured before the
Franklin Institute on “Electrical Reso-
nance,” and outlined the principles of
transmitting and receiving tuning sys-
tems'. Three years later he patented the
adjustable-condenser-and-coil method of
obtaining resonance. Since then any
tuning method developed has been a
modification of this system, for either a
variable capacity or variable inductance
is necessary, and both are covered in his
patent. Unfortunately the condenser-
coil system of tuning can only be used
to tune a small band of frequencies.
Known as the L/C ratio, the ratio of
inductance to capacity must be kept as
high as possible to get a high-signal vol-
tage across the tuner. For wave-lengths
between 300 and 500 metres the shunted
condenser should not have a value of
more than .0005 mfd. maximum. Signal
strength suffers if this value is exceeded.
Actually the greatest voltage is obtained
across an inductance coil of correct value
when there is no condenser across it.
With such a condenser the wave-length
band that can be tuned in has a ratio
of two to one. This means that the
maximum is twice the minimum—for in-
stance, 250-500 metres. Therefore, in
order to cover a wide band of wave-
lengths (or frequencies) it is necessary
to have a series of inductances that can
be connected in circuit. The values of
these coils must be so arranged that each
covers a certain band of frequencies and
that the limits of each overlap the next
in the series.
All manner of arrangements have been
developed to extend the range in this way.
Tapping switches, plug-in coils, sliders
and even variometers have been used.
Each has its advantages and disad-
vantages, but all are far from the ideal.
The ideal arrangement calls for a con-
tinuous wave-length range from, say, 15
to 2000 metres without overlap, switching
or coil changing.
The variometer usually has an induc-
tance ratio of 10 to 1, which, allowing
for aerial inductance, gives a wave-length
range of 3 to 1. One excellent type of
variometer, using two pairs of D-shaped
coils, was developed by C. F. Mansbridge,
the originator of the Mansbridge paper
condenser. The inductance ratio was
unusually high, being 20 to 1, and it
was claimed that the variometer would
tune in all the broadcasting wave-lengths
up to 1800 metres. Whether this was so
the writer cannot say, but it is certainly
another step towards the ideal.
Another step forward came with the
fuller knowledge of coupled circuits. It
was found that by using two loosely-
coupled circuits the resonance curve
could be made broader at the top and
steeper on the sides. This principle is
used to advantage in band-pass filters.
It was also found that the wave-band
could be extended slightly.
One of the most ingenious methods
of using coupled circuits to extend the
wave-length band was described in
“Radio News” (U.S.A.), March, 1926.
Using double condensers and close-
coupled coils the secondary circuit be-
came resonant at two different frequen-
cies. Actually two stations could be
received at once on the 80-300-metre
band or on the 200-500-metre band.
Mathematically designed, the coils were
given a 60 per cent, coupling. This
resulted in a double-humped resonance
curve in the secondary, and at dial read-
ing 80 these humps peaked at 172 and
336 metres. Giving a range of wave-
lengths from 80 to 550 without switch-
ing or coil changing, this receiver gave
further impetus to the quest. The prin-
ciple seems sound, and it opens up an
avenue with excellent possibilities.
RADIOZ.
A CHILD’S HISTORY OF MUSIC.
Nothing much is known about the be-
ginnings of man-made music. Monkeys
can sing, and do. At the zoo in Singa-
pore an attempt has been made to ana-
lyse their melodies, but all you can find
out about a melody by analysing it is
the notes it contains. The monkeys seem
to know as many notes as we do, and
they slide them one into another —a form
of crooning.
If ever you take up the study of music
seriously, child, with’ a view to sitting
for the examinations of the Associated
Board, you will have to study harmony
and counterpoint. You won’t be told that
most of the peoples under the sun refuse
to recognise these alleged sciences ; that
the Orientals, whose musical theory is
frankly admitted to be a religion rather
than a science, nevertheless gave us the
first rules we ever had on the subject.
It is unlikely that you will be told that
our oldest church music is unmistakably
of Egyptian origin and drifted west,
bringing with it surplices and other eccle-
siastical furbishings.
You will be taught that the foun-
dation of harmony is the triad —GBD
is a triad. That fact burst upon Eng-
land as a great discovery in 1722,
when a Frenchman, Jean Phillipe
Rameau (whose graceful little gavottes
still survive), published a “Harmony
Treatise” which’ is the rock on which
all subsequent books on Western musical
theory has been founded. But Rameau
wasn’t the discoverer. The Druids —the
white-bearded terrible old men who con-
ducted human sacrifices at Stonehenge—
used the triad to express the never-spoken
name of their stern deity. Some say they
worshipped the sun, but the sun may
just have been a symbol. Their written
sign for their god was a sort of broad
arrow, three radiating strokes. Its only
audible expression was the three notes
GBD sounded together (in what we call
a chord) on the druidical harp. The
sound, say ancient Welsh chroniclers, was
“melodic, sweet and quiet” (Menryw ab
Teirg Waedd).
You may ask how people got on for
music in the centuries when the bardic
harpistry of the Druids was forgotten or
out of favor and before Rameau resur-
rected their religious principle. All over
the world, pretty well, they struggled
along with what is called “discant.”
Almost always and everywhere music
has been mainly associated with religious
observances, and the essence of that sort
of music is that people should sing to-
gether. The art of writing something
that all people, young and old, from
bassos to high trebles, can sing in unison
wasn’t cultivated much for some reason
or other, and in China and Japan, in
Germany and in England, and in many
other countries, Western and Oriental, the
practice was to let each sort of voice
sing in its most convenient key. It wasn’t
harmony as Rameau and the Druids
understood it, but neither was it discord
or dissonance. The musical scientists
now call the result “heterophony,” which
has nothing to do with superhets.
If you are very young, it may be that
by the time you come to cram this subject
of music your teachers will think it ad-
visable to tell you that quite a number
of modern composers don’t give two
hoots for the triad, and are sick and
tired of the diatonic scale (the one you’ll
have to practise in major and minor
modes till you, too, are heartily sick of
it), and that they have sought relief by
emulating the glad free music of the East
One of the Australian Inland, Mission
radio stations, operated by pedal power,
in use at Gregory Downs. The manager’s
wife, Mrs. Schaffert, is seen using the
Morse typewriter.
—principally worshipping at the shrine
of the gong orchestras of Java and the
five-tone scale of China. The Javanese
gamelangs work on a distinctly religious
principle. A note is sacred, and once it
is struck it must be allowed to die a
natural death. Luckily, they use bells,
not pipe-organs. As to the Chinese, they
had as complete a scale as the one we
call diatonic once upon a time, but
Chinese Emperors have had a habit of
making edicts about music when time
hung heavy on their hands. Emperor
She Huang-Ti had all the music-books
and -instruments destroyed 246 b.c., and
another edict abolished all scales save
the five-tone.
The Western music in the centuries
before Rameau unlocked the gates of
harmonic theory as it is taught and
understood to-day was mostly written in
counterpoint, which means melody played
in conjunction with one or several other
melodies, all being given equal impor-
tance. You will be expected to fall down
and adore the w'orks of Bach written in
this style. You will not be told that Ber-
lioz, one of the most perspicuous musical
critics of his or any age, said, after lis-
tening to Chopin, Liszt and Hiller play
the Bach concerto for three pianofortes,
wrote: “It was heartrending to see three
such admirable talents united in a bundle
to reproduce this ridiculous and stupid
psalmody.” So if you find contrapuntal
writing crabbed, abounding in unpleasant
sounds, and almost as difficult to listen to
as to play, don’t put it down entirely
to your shortcomings. Also, don’t get
superior about it. Tune-in to Percy
Grainger, who loves Bach, when he’s
romping through a fugue and making
it sound like all the stars of the morning
singing for joy.
And —this, frankly, is the whole object
of what has been here written —don’t,
on any account, miss Grainger’s lectures
in which he deals with the music of all
times and all nations. You’re getting
them free from 2FC Sydney or 3LO
Melbourne. As an aid to musical appre-
ciation and as a guide to modern develop-
ments they are worth a price above
rubies.
A. MAJOR.
City Short-wave Explorations.
The German stations are making a
splendid showing at present, and can be
heard any night now from 6.45 p.m. on-
wards. DJN (31.45) is reliable, and can
be tuned in at good speaker strength
almost any night of the week. DJB
(19.73) was very poor until Dec. 10,
when after 10 p.m. it was equal in
strength to FYA Paris, on the same
wave-band. At that hour an English
news-service was being given.
The Empire stations GSF (19.2) and
GSG have been rather disappointing
during transmission No. 2, which com-
mences at 9 p.m. It is a pity that GSD
or GSE, both on the 25-metre band, is
not used in place of GSG. This change
was made on the occasion of the royal
wedding, and everyone knows how suc-
cessful the result was. On the same even-
ing GSG was only half the strength, and
if the relay had come through this sta-
tion it would not have been nearly so
successful.
W2XAF Schenectady (U.S.A.) was
heard on 31.48 metres on the evening
of Dec. 10, presenting the usual early-
morning exercises.. This station was very
clear and strong at 9.45 p.m., and the
chiming of the clock at 10 p.m. (7 a.m.
in New York) could have been heard
100 yards away. The other U.S.A. sta-
tion, WIXAZ (31.35), was also on the air,
but strength very poor. WBXK (25.25)
has been occasionally at good strength
until after 5.30 p.m. This station is
worth looking for on Sunday afternoons.
GSD (25.53) and GSB (31.55) continue
to give excellent signals during the No. 1
transmission, and the programmes have
greatly improved.
H. M. S.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
Conditions have been poorer lately,
especially in the 31-metre band. In the
mornings no Americans have been worth
listening to. The Italian station (30.7)
has been fair, and there has been little
of value from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m., either on
31.25 or 19 metres. Close watch was
kept on the new Italian station, and
along came an announcement in English
on closing down at 3.30 a.m. The callsign
is SRO ; wave-length, 30.7 metres ; power,
not stated ; situation, a town in north-
ern Italy. The name was not caught.
Apparently SRO operates in the hours
of old 2RO —from 2.15 a.m. to 3.30 a.m.
and from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. ; also occasion-
ally at 9 a.m. The times are S.M.T.
8.8.C.’s No. 1 transmission has dropped
considerably in strength at opening
at 6.15 p.m., but GSD improves towards
closing. Not much difference can be
detected here between the several aerials.
Later in the evening both' GSB and GSE,


.s^l
Hi
>t ‘#?W: f-
w
* '•’ <4 -‘I £
imk
v.
Jf
‘«;
;■*
—4
.i***
The Slade All-Wave
Kit. Now Available.
Range 13 to 550 metres. Highest amplification,
greatest signal strength, lowest noise level of any
kit made. New automatic volume control, super
power, extreme selectivity. Very compact, with
most efficient switching device, using American
Yaxley Switch. Three intermediate transformers,
air dielectric, peaked at 465 kc. Complete blue
print sent free with every kit.
Price £5-5-0
Seven-Valve All-Wave Set, roT /I A /
complete (as illustrated), 3LZ//IU/-
Write for Trade Discounts.
SLADE’S RADIO,
UJ4576. Lang Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
Also Manufacturers of High-grade Testing
Equipment.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-elcctric Sets from £3/10/-
adio Accessories at give-away prices. Ail
tally tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
MORE THAN JUST MAKING VALVES
During the past ten years of radio, more
Milliard Valves have been sold than any other
make. This definitely proves two things:
that Milliard Master Valves must be the
finest radio valves obtainable, and that ten
years’ preference by the radio public has
been maintained by continued research and
experimenting. Write for Booklet.
Milliard
The Milliard Radio Co. (Aust.), Ltd.,
&5 Clarence Street, Sydney.
in the No. 2 transmission, are at fine
strength, particularly GSE; but on nights
when VK3ME is bn the air there is a
beat note with GSB. According to call-
books both are on the same frequency.
VUB was also on the air at 10.30 on a
recent Sunday with good strength, but
faded towards midnight. VUB has also
been heard much higher in the band ;
about 31.43 instead of 31.36 metres on
occasions.
The German transmissions for M.L.
and Australia are weak on both stations
until 9 p.m., when DIB comes up to good
strength. The next transmission is now
on both DJA (31.38) and DJN (31.45),
with' DJN easily best. The English news
comes from DJA, and DJN speaks in
Dutch.
VK3LR has been coming in well,
and if the signal strength continues it
will be a blessing. For months to come
it will be almost hopeless to get recep-
tion from the 200- to 550-metre broad-
cast stations, except on odd nights, both
static and fading being continuous. The
Neatness can be combined with experimental work, as seen in this
amateur station located at Wilston, Queensland. All controls are
within easy reach of the operator.
same must apply to most country • lis-
teners. RNE again was excellent in the
9 p.m. transmission, but the 7 a.m. ses-
sion is weaker than last summer.
FYA has not been quite so good in the
daytime, but was still well worth listening
to after 2.30 p.m., and the 19-metre sta-
tion is excellent from 10 p.m. PHI con-
tinued good, but faded sharply after 12
p.m. PCJ was barely audible right
through the transmission. The hour of
starting seems unsuitable here for that
wave-length, as on two occasions when
PCJ was on the air at 10 p.m. or earlier
the signal was very strong indeed, almost
equal to FYA at its best.
NIGHTOWL.
Amateur Chatter.
A letter from ZLICD regarding his
difficulty in hearing VK’s calling him on
10 metres three weeks ago explains
matters. High noise-level from a local
power sub-station sank the signals. In
future, ZLICD has arranged to have one
particular motor closed down during 10-
metre listening periods on Sundays. He
could have had it running all day on
16/12/*34, for conditions then were
hopeless for 10-metre men —in Sydney,
anyway. Nothing was heard beyond the
usual locals, who indulged in spasmodic
calls, and, as the day wore on in tragic
silence, one by one gave up the ghost.
In previous years, thundery weather
resulted in extending the skip on 10
metres, but this Sunday was a perfect
deluge of electrical discharges from
wicked-looking cloud banks, and, with
hope of some DX, one or two braved
the elements and stuck to the ’phones.
Silence, other than vicious crackles from
uncomfortably close lightning, was the
result. Practical jokes have been rife on
10 metres, and haven’t improved tempers.
VK2LZ was heard to comment caustic-
ally on a pseudo-Westralian call. It
took him five minutes to say what he
thought of the joker. VK2SA wasn’t
fooled either by the station signing XCS!
......
On 20 metres, at 11 p.m., S.M.T.,
15/12/’34, ON4AU, located at Peruwelz,
Belgium, was heard calling and stating
that he was on 10 metres simultaneously
with 300 watts, and asking for reports,
Popping the 10-metre coil into the
receiver with rising hopes, but grave
doubts, the doubts were realised. The
Belgian’s H.F. signals weren’t reaching
Australia. Other Europeans active on
20 at this time were OK2RM, SPIDE
and a few Belgians, but they appeared to
be difficult to contact from this part of
the globe. VPSPZ and SU6HL are still
heard nightly. The American amateur
’phones on this band in the hours be-
tween 2 a.m. and 5 a.m., S.M.T., are
numerous and easily followed. The
modus operandi of the American ’phone
man, compared with many we know of
elsewhere, is striking. Short snappy
QSO’s are the order, with no “wind-
bagging.”
On 40 metres King Static has arrived
with all his courtiers again, but many
Sydney stations on this band struggle
along against these long odds, plus con-
gestion. Strong telephony was heard
during 16/12/’34 from the 2UW shark
patrol ’plane flying over Sydney beaches.
Arising in the small hours to keep
a schedule with G2NM and GSCV at
18.30, G.M.T., a surprising number of
VK2’s were heard on 40. Sunday night
appears to be almost sleepless in many
VK2 stations. Many Europeans were
heard weakly, but not a single English-
man.
VK2NO.
Casual Comment.
Our American friends are great stunt
merchants, and that applies to radio pub-
lications, also. One well-known U.S.A.
monthly featured a two-valve short-wave
receiver built into a coffee-pot, the bat-
tery cabling being taken up through the
spout. The article describing the receiver
showed an attractive lady holding the
affair by the handle ; the battery cable
looked like liquid running from the
spout, and the editorial genius headed the
article “Java, Hot from the Percolator!”
* * * *
“Dee Ah”: Listeners who have com-
plained of the non-encouragement offered
to home-grown playwrights by the A.B.C.
will feel more satisfied now that the
results of the Commission’s competition
for local plays and sketches have been
announced. From the 398 entries 29
scripts have been selected for production
before March 1, 1935. The six prizes
all went to unknown writers ; three of
them Queenslanders, two Tasmanians
and one Victorian. N. S. Wales, with
more writers to the square mile than any
other State, never got a look in.
The Q. and A. Column.
I notice that Class-B twin valves are used
as push-pull oscillators for ultra-short-wave
transmitters. Would it be possible to use the
twin valve as a
push-pull regener-
ative detector in a
simple broadcast
receiver ? — 197.
Yes, quite suc-
cessfully. The
diagram illustrated
shows a simple
two-valve arrange-
ment. Any of the
Class-B valves and
triodes could be
employed. A vari-
able feedback coil
(tickler) is neces-
sary, and the coil
assembly will
necessarily be ex-
perimental with re-
gard to number
of turns, coupling,
etc. Such a push-
pull detector will
give very good quality, and should not be
lacking in any way in sensitivity.
(1) What size set would be suitable and eco-
nomical for my district, Bordertown, S.A. ?
(2) What is an all-wave set, and how does it
differ from others ? (3) I have seen all-
wave sets advertised at £25. Are these up to
date or old types being sold cheaply ? (4)
Is a superhet the best type, and is it practical
in three- and four-valve sets ? (5) Which would
you prefer, a or a , both three-
valvers ? All these questions refer to battery
sets. —200.
(1) Difficult to advise without knowing re-
ceiving conditions in your locality. A well-
designed tuned R.F. model might do; the
Wide-World Four (described B. 18/ 7/’34)
would almost certainly be suitable. (2) An all-
wave receiver is one designed to cover all
wave-bands, including the short waves and the
normal broadcast. (3) Have had no experience
of these particular receivers. Better-known
makes of all-wave receivers are advertised
and reviewed in The Bulletin. (4) The super-
het is the best all-round type, and is practical
in four valves, but tuned R.F. can be very good
in some districts. (5) No test has been made
of either of the makes mentioned, so cannot
make comparison.
My seven-valve superhet uses the following
valves: Two 35, two 24, one 27, pne 47 and
80 rectifier. Could another valve be added to
make the receiver push-pull ? The receiver is
perfect, but I have heard so much about push-
pull and high fidelity. —2ol.
Be wise and leave well alone. If your re-
ceiver satisfies you, don’t incur expense and
court disappointment by chasing the mythical
“high fidelity.”
The article “Tuned Aerial Input for Short
Waves” ( B . 17/10/’34) interests me, but I don’t
quite know how to use it with my Lekmek
5.-w. 10/200 converter. (1) Would the scheme
as per attached sketch work ? (2) Would it be
possible to make coils similar to those used by
you., and what turns are required ? (3) What
method should be adopted as lightning pre-
caution ? (4) Are flat-top and feeder lengths
critical ? —202.
(1) Not as a tuned system, but even as it
stands it can be useful in reducing noise-level
interference. A series condenser is necessary
here in the feeder to the grid circuit. A seven-
plate midget will be ample. (2) Yes, but cannot
specify turns, as this is a matter for experiment,
depending upon the characteristics of the
doublet in use. These are not the same for
two similar aerials, due to the proximity of
objects such as a houseroof or trees. You
will have to cut and try coils. (3) An arrester
from each feeder to earth might spoil aerial
performance, owing to the capacity to earth.
Therefore use two single-pole, single-throw
knife switches, with a wide break, and earth
the aerial completely. (4) The top is critical,
but if twisted feeders are used these are not
at all critical. Almost any length seems to
work equally well. You will have to arrange
aerial-coupling coils for the detector circuit
of your converter for best results with a tuned
doublet.
(1) When will the new broadcasting station
at Cumnock be completed ? (2) Should crystal
reception 20 miles west of Forbes be possible ?
—203.
(1) No information available. Try writing to
the P.M.G.’s Department. (2) Yes, if you
erect a really good aerial system and have a
sensitive crystal, efficient tuner and sensitive
headphones.
What are the differences between Class-B
audio amplification and quiescent push-pull, if
any ? —206.
The circuit arrangement for Q.P.P. is similar
to that for ordinary push-pull working, but
grid bias is of special importance. Like Class
B, it is of special advantage to battery-set
users. The valves are apparently over-biased,
and intolerable distortion would result were it
not for the fact that two valves in push-pull
are used. The values of transformer ratios
and voltages are critical, and decoupling is of
great importance. Parasitic oscillation is
likely in Q.P.P. circuits unless guarded against,
The grid current requirements of a Class-B
stage necessitate a valve capable of supplying
power before it. This is termed the drive
valve, and works on the Class-A principle,
thus requiring a small negative biasing voltage.
I am a Maoriland reader, and have been
waiting for some information on battery sets
for use in isolated districts. There must be
many people in Australia who would welcome
such an article. What interests me is a battery
set that will run for two months without hiking
the A battery miles to be recharged. —2o4.
You must have missed the article on the
Wide-World Four receiver (B. 18/7/34).
This is a particularly economical battery re-
ceiver with a fine performance on all waves,
It uses low-consumption two-volt valves, and
the battery drain is no problem at all, particu-
larly if you use a six-volt battery with the
three cells in parallel. The receiver is also
kind to the B batteries.
I have some parts on hand; are they suit-
able for inclusion in the Wide-World Two ?
(1) Pilot eight-plate tuning condenser. (2) Geco-
phone 2-to-l audio transformer (use as choke).
(3) Pilot vernier dial. (4) Marquis or Bradley-
ometer potentiometer. (5) Valve bases instead
of coil formers. —2os.
(1) Yes. (2) Depends on total inductive value
of pr j mary a nd secondary in series. (3) Yes.
(4) jq 0(; f or this set; you must use Centralab
or lR c (5) Yes , if bases are good moulding
and not moulded mud
, W(m( fQ make a w)fl// c[ass _ B bat(ery
amplifier for various uses. Please illustrate a
circuit and suggest suitable valves.— l9B.
xhe c j rcu j t diagram shows what is needed,
Two-volt valves are recommended, and the
dr j ver can be a Mullard PM2DX, with PM2B
Class-B twin valve. Otherwise, type 30 and
19 will be suitable. The Airzone ClasS-B
driver transformer suits the characteristics of
either type of valves. If an Amplion 01 per-
mag. speaker is used, this can be obtained
with the output transformer fitted, but, if you
want the transformer included in the ampli-
her _ for . experimental purposes, it can be
obtained to order from K. Jones, Gladstone-
street, Bexley, N.S.W. Note that the driver
valve is biased to a higher negative voltage
than usual, and this bias is adjusted to a point
just short of where distortion occurs. No bias
is necessary on the Class-B valve.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
At an A.J.C. inquiry in the early part
of the year, Rufe Naylor, once a book-
maker and since a professional punter,
admitted that he had told lies to the
committee. The club warned him off
Randwick under a regulation which
makes it an offence for a person subject
to the rules of racing to deceive the com-
mittee. Naylor applied for an injunc-
tion, and Justice Long Innes found that
he was not subject to the rules. The
A.J.C. tried again under a section osten-
sibly giving it power to deal with those
not subject to the rules, and Justice
Street found for the committee. Now
the,State Full Court, by a two-to-one
majority, has dismissed an appeal of
the A.J.C. against the decision of Justice
Long Innes and upheld an appeal of
Naylor against the decision of Justice
Street.
Gert: "One sill op brakov"
&ERT ’ %VM AT ARE VOU MAK.IMG, "
Christmas pudding' 1 '
EsERT'/VsIHM 1 became op the one
Vou MADE LAST YEO.R T "
Evidently the Law has not lost its
capacity for being a hass. The A.J.C.
has been placed in a position like that
of a social club entitled to turn an un-
desirable member out of the cardroom
but forbidden to exclude a visitor who
is caueht cheating.
* * $ #
Newcastle trainer Les Haigh is settling
in Sydney, and will have his stables at
Kensington. Rogilla has completed his
holiday, and is to be put into work at
Randwick in a week or two ; the spell
has apparently done the chestnut a deal
of good. He is much heavier on the
quarters and has lost that drawn appear-
ance he had after his return from the
Melbourne Cup meeting. t
Randwick trainer William Kelso has
retired Suntan, who broke down in. a
race over brush hurdles at Victoria Park,
Suntan will be used as a hack by Harry
Woods, of Riverstone. He showed good
form as a two-year-old, and after his
first victory at Randwick friends of Kelso
congratulated him on having got hold
of “another Statesman.” But Suntan de-
veloped into nothing more than a fair-to-
middling hurdler.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: At long last England’s
Jockey Club is talking of appointing sti-
pendiary stewards. The present system of
amateur stewards works badly; men
who act at one meeting may not attend
another for weeks, with the result that
thev cannot keep touch with the form,
The change will cost a lot of money, and
much depends on whether the Betting
Control Board, which has built up a big
fund from its cut of tote receipts, will
find it As the J.C. is heavily represented
on the board this seems likely. In that
case there should be a lot .of good jobs
going, for in the English flat-racing sea-
son there is a meeting of some import-
ance practically every day of the week
except Sunday
* * $ *
The “Standish and Bagot” double at
Flemington on New Year’s Day is once
more the medium of ante-post specula-
tion. When Commotion and Sheet Anchor
scored, in 1885 and 1886 respectively, the
distance of the Bagot Handicap was 1|
miles, being then run under weight-for-
age conditions. Commotion received a
walkover; Sheet Anchor had only two
opponents. In 1887 the race was changed
to a handicap ; 21 started, and Ted Gorry
won on All Gold. Gorry was a great
horseman, but did not make the most of
his opportunities. He lives in Melbourne,
and delights in yarning over the old days
when money ran through his hands like
water. No horse that strips for the Bagot
Handicap of 1935 will be comparable
with' Greygown and Portsea, triumphant
in the early ’nineties. Past winners of
the Standish include Boz, Fortunatus, The
Victory, lownit, Eurobin and Aleconner.
You don’t see horses of that class at
summer meetings in Melbourne now.
* * * *
When Silver King was beaten by Theo
in the A.J.C. Derby many of his backers
blamed the rider for trying to win all the
way. Trainer Eiver Walker is now satis-
fied that Silver King is- no stayer. The
colt will miss the Legers, and is to be
prepared for the Futurity Stakes. In
that race he will meet Winooka, who is
galloping at Randwick in great style.
* * * *
Deputy Ruler has proved a costly pur-
chase for Pearson, who did so well with
Amounis. The chestnut is to have a
holiday at Doonside for a couple of
months. Some of these latter-day M.L.
nags have caused owners many sleepless
nights.
jd/* l \ d,,!-,.
M.Q. (mid Rafferty) Rules
England appears to be incapable of
turning out a first-class heavyweig .
Sayers, Mace and Mitchell must have
been good men, and Fitzsimmons was
born in the U.K., but they were
middleweights. Jack Petersen has been
loudly boomed as Britain s hope. He
is 23, and ought to be at his best, but
last week he failed to knock out pool
old George Cook. George was never
more than a second-rater, and he was
doubtfully third-rate when he last boxed
in Sydney.
Ins and Outs
Against N. S. Wales at Melbourne on
Friday Victoria’s successors to Woodfull
and Ponsford as opening batsmen made
an auspicious beginning. O’Brien (126)
and Rigg (111) put on 234 for the mst
wicket; both were run out. Darling
hit 76 n.o. in as many minutes, and
at stumps it was 3 for 364. For the first
time this season Chilvers failed with the
ball; he had 81 knocked off 15 overs,
But he has a knack of coming to light
when he is needed.
* f Q
Pretty Cocky : The manager of a
N.S.W. colts cricket team that recency
toured some country centres complains
m his report that his charges are not
given blazers to mark their hign degree
but have to appear in the colors of their
metropolitan clubs. This country is be-
blazered enough as it is, counting only
those Australian inter-State and club
and school players who have some right
to sport the thing. The wholesale adop-
tion of the gaudy garments has sickened
people of the sight of them, and any
proposal to add to the chromatic con-
fusion should be strangled in its cradle.
* * * *
“Gabba”: I can parallel that queer
run-out in Adelaide (B. 28 /11 / ’34) from
my own experience. Playing in Bris-
bane club cricket I drove a ball hard
between bowler and mid-off —who was
standing well up, parallel with the wicket
—and called the run. As the ball was
passing him Paddy Carew, the Queens-
land batsman and Australian Rugby
player, who was the mid-off, threw out
his foot on the offchance of blocking
the ball. He kicked it some 20 yards
into the wicket, which broke about a
second before I arrived at the popping
crease.
* * * *
“Clifton”: There still seems to be a
spot of balm in Gilead for the English
cricket professional, in spite of much talk
about the lack of public interest in county
cricket. Gloucestershire, where the
cheese comes from, is far from being
affluent in a cricket sense, but it sparred
up £2620 for Hammond’s benefit. It
sounds a bit like lubricating the well-
conditioned porker, for Hammond is re-
puted to be well-to-do. Still, every little
helps, and the wool trade in Bradford,
whence Mrs. H. is reputed to draw her
dividends, is none too pretty at present.
{Continued on next page.)
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Before leaving Aus-
tralia Diegel and co. pooled their win-
nings and had an equal division. Ex-
ceptions were Thomson and Ezar,
who were not official members of the
party. Thomson took £IOOO clear from
his win in the centenary open, so he has
nowt to complain about. The caddies
who revolved round the visiting lumi-
naries did well. Thomson handed his
lad £22, and Diegel’s boy got just a little
less. The other members of the team
gave their lads from £lO to £l2
each. Any further visits from Yankee
golfers are sure to be popular with the
club-humping fraternity, whose cham-
pionship-meeting earnings in this country
run closer to 10s. than £lO.
“Divot Digger”: The surprise-packet
of the Americans’ golf tour in this coun-
try was the emphatic win of Thomson
in Melbourne. In his own country, apart
from his reputation as a long-hitter,
Thomson has no golf ranking worth
speaking of, and, until he lifted the Mel-
bourne event, he had never won a golf
tourney of any importance. To do so
he beat several men who would be backed
in America to give him a stroke a hole
and lose him. It will be interesting to see
how the centenary open champion fares
when he gets back to the game in his
own land.
:jc ❖ * %
“Hoylake”: A cable tells us of the
shameless conduct of a golfer in Eng-
land who, confronted with a deep ditch,
removed his lower garments and waded
across it. The match was of the swanki-
est, between Oxford University and the
Army, and was followed by a big crowd.
Presumably the offender donned his
breeks on the other side and carried on,
though the story tantalisingly ends with
the wading part.
* * * *
“Spoon”: One important point in
Scotsman McLean’s criticism of Austra-
lian golfers (B. 28/ll/’34) is his asser-
tion that most of them slavishly copy the
American fashions in clubs without realis-
ing that they are on the wrong tack.
Yankee players affect deep-faced brasseys
for getting the ball off the grass on the
fairways. This is because the ball used
in America is much larger and lighter
than that authorised by St. Andrews and
used in Australia. With the latter there
is no necessity for the deep face, which
does more harm than good.
(j Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
Young Bromwich had his first chance
at the big stuff in a so-called Australia v.
Europe show in Adelaide. He went
down to Menzel, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2, but beat
Maier, 6-3, 6-1. Turnbull also defeated
Maier, and Stefani as well; Quist ac-
counted for Stefani and Menzel.
In Sydney the Frenchmen and the Eng-
lish team joined with Crawford and Mc-
Grath in a triangular match. The first
day McGrath beat Perry in three sets,
6-1, 6-8, 11-9. Against Brugnon the
Englishman did better, though Brugnon
took the first set, 13-11 ; the next two
were Perry’s, 6-0, 6-1. On Friday Aus-
tralia led with five rubbers; G.B. two
rubbers and France one.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The defeat of Perry by
Quist at Melbourne has caused nearly
as much argument as the pronunciation
of the word “centenary.” Hughes says
his partner failed because he had to play
on the sodden Kooyong courts “after a
week of cast-iron courts.” He blandly
ignores the fact that Quist was playing
under exactly similar disadvantages. The
truth, of course, is—and McGrath
rammed it home in Sydney —that Perry
is fed up, and he would be a walking
miracle if he wasn’t.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The English L.T.A.
is still backing and filling over the
eternal amateur status. At the annual
meeting a motion to ban amateurs writ-
ing for the press for payment was carried
by 53-47 ; but a two-thirds majority is
necessary. The I. T. Federation was
begged to ban amateurs accepting money
for showing on films, advertising their
names or permitting others to advertise
them as authors of books on tennis, or
for giving private lessons in tennis or
conducting correspondence teaching the
game—this last anew development as
far as Australia is concerned —either
privately or in the columns of the press.
• !jt * * *
“Centre Court”: The English L.T.A.,
windy over the boom in professional
tennis, has been conducting a confidential
inquiry into its probable effects on
Wimbledon attendances if any more
leading lilywhites join the cash brigade.
Wimbledon is financed by a syndicate of
debenture-holders who have been draw-
ing fat dividends for years. These have
been circularised for their opinion as to
whether the dividends will continue in
the event of a breakaway by, say, Perry
and Austin. The general opinion is that
the big crowds will go only to see the
big players.
{Continued, on next page)
“Spike”: Athletics and games in Aus-
tralia are being regimented beyond rea-
son. To be successful in either nowadays
means that one becomes a serf, wearing
the collar of some particular controlling
body and unable to stir without its sanc-i
tion. For example, athletes invited to
Melbourne to figure against the Anglo-
Finnish team have been compelled to
give a guarantee to stay behind after the
match for a challenge game against Vic-
toria. Failing that, they will not be
allowed to meet the visitors. This sort
of ticket-of-leave business is unknown
elsewhere.
“Roque”: As soon as this footling
tennis business is over we shall see some
real he-man stuff. As I write the Eng-
lish croquet team is on its way from
Fremantle to play in Brisbane, Sydney
and Melbourne —there, triangular Tests
between the visitors, Maoriland and Aus-
tralia will be fought to the last hoop.
The English skipper is Captain W.
Dupre and the manager Sir Francis
Weems—he insists on spelling his name
W-e-m-y-s-s.
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Maiden Mile: Barak ; next, Lana-
cian.
Carrington Stakes: Myra Tip, 1 ;
Vista, 2 ; The Marne, 3.
Novice: Palady ; next, Frassadale.
Pace Welter: Ranchero; next,
Archmel.
Tatt.’s Cup (New Year’s Day):
Magnitas, 1 ; Miss Nottava, 2;
Mainlaw, 3


The Trade Quota Ques-
tion
Taxation of Dividends
Outlook for Tin and
Other Metals
The Share Market
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments.
THE
“‘WILD CAT* MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things
December Issue Now on Sale.
FULL-SIZED MILITARY STOCK
m
Remington .22 Bolt Action
Single Shot Rifle Model 33
This model is unerring in its accuracy. It has the velocity and killing power
of many greater calibre rifles. Genuine American Walnut Stock with finger
grooves in Fore-end. Chambered for short, long, long-rifle cartridges. Two
lugs lock bolt firmly. Safety features give positive safety. Barrel 24 in.
Weight about 4|- lb. Adjustable rear sight.
/ nxAMßont
For best results use Kleanbore Cartridges. Ask your dealer for them.
Distributing Agents for New South Wales :
PAUL & GRAY LIMITED, 82 and 84 Sussex St., Sydney
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
13 / 6 . 34 Box 686 E, G.P.0., Melbourne
Tlie Kirliardson Chain Hotel
>'!■ ||:
385*
Ml* <?
Plli'E*'«»»*’?>’’’
gSS*^
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-133 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
Under the Whip
One of the favorites for the Perth Cup
(Hyperion is on the same mark) is Bal-
landallock, who, like Peter Pan, was
sired by Pantheon in his first season at'
the stud. Ballandallock, whose dam is
Humility, beat old Second Wind recently
in a race over a mile and a quarter at
Belmont Park. He is owned and trained
by Pinkus, who rode many a winner over
the sticks.
* * * *
In years gone by, wealthy racing men
in India, British merchants and native
princes alike, used to send to Australia
for prospective Viceroy’s Cup winners.
Then Australian thoroughbreds went
out of fashion, no doubt as a result
of the deterioration caused by the
introduction into this country of in-
ferior English-bred sires and mares;
and since the war (though the war
had nothing to do with it) victory for
an Australian-bred racehorse in an im-
portant Indian race has been an event.
The success achieved with Ethics bids
fair to bring back the buyer for Indian
stables. Bought cheap in Sydney a couple
of seasons ago, Ethics has proved him-
self one of the best horses in India. At
Calcutta on December 16 he won the
King-Emperor’s Cup and became favor-
ite for the Viceroy’s Cup, to be run on
Boxing Day. A brother to Magnetic
(also very useful), he is by Rossendale —
Cragrose, and is trained by one of the
brothers Higgins from N. S. Wales; the
other is the stipendiary steward.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Why shouldn’t Winooka re-
turn to his four-year-old form (B.
5/12/’34)? He is evidently sound in
wind and limb, and an overseas tour
which was not particularly exacting
should have made no difference to him.
In the nineties of last century, the Wil-
sons, of Bonny Vale (Vic.), had a
mare called Disfigured who did some
racing in India, the climate of which is
doubtless much harder on horses from
these parts than that of the U.S.A. It
left so little mark on her that on her
return she was equal to winning the Mel-
bourne Stakes and defeating, among
others, a clinking good horse like Hop-
scotch, who at Caulfield that spring had
won the Stakes and the Toorak Handicap
on the same day. If my memory does
not betray me, Disfigured was rising eight
at the time. Winooka is a year younger.
* * * *
Melbourne and Sydney trainers are in-
creasingly resorting to the practice of
working their neddies without shoes.
It is no innovation; Mason generally
galloped Gloaming shoeless, though at
times that matchless gelding wore con-
caves that weighed only a few ounces.
Many yearlings gallop without shoes, but
in this case it is to teach them the art
of gathering speed.
. * * % *
Dan Seaton has given his th'ree-year-
old Lynford every chance to come good.
Lynford’s victory in a division of the
Flying Handicap at Victoria Park,
Sydney, Was impressive, as he started
from the extreme outside, stayed there
and won like a good one. He is by Bold
and Bad from Oriental Charm, and may
furnish into a useful stayer.
* * * *
Whittingham’s sire, Rosewing, had to
be destroyed last week after breaking a
foreleg. Rosewing, who was imported by
the late Jim Love, of Queensland, 10
years ago, was beautifully bred, being by
Sunstar from Desmond’s Rose, by Des-
mond ; he sprang from the same stock
as Gloaming and the English Solario,
one of the greatest of Old Country stal-
lions. Rosewing got a number of win-
ners, but nothing great.
Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: Any hope South Aus. had
that Bradman might be able to show
in the State Eleven this season has been
dashed, a cable from the young man
saying that the doctors are imperative on
the necessity for a “very long rest” after
his illness. With Mrs. Bradman the new
Croweater is leaving Toulon by the
Otranto, and should make his landfall
at Adelaide towards the end of January.
English newspaper files to hand make it
clear that Bradman’s illness was much
more serious than many on this side
supposed.
“Tenth Slip”*: The *N.S.W. cricket
heads have decided to send a team across
to Westralia in March, when the Shef-
field matches will be over. Westralian
cricket needs encouragement of the sort,
and it is to be hoped the team will in-
clude first-class men. The players will
be away for three weeks, and will draw
255. a day allowance. The cost of the
tour will be about £9OO, but if a decent
side goes over Ma should get most of
that back.
“Spin”: While Ma is keen on giving
the game a lift in the West, the obvious
folk for the job, as chairman Oxlade
suggests, are the South Australians.
“Py korry, don’ take you
long to knock up nothing!”
N.S.W. has backed cricket in Queens-
land for years, as Victoria has done in
the case of Tasmania, and Oxlade rightly
thinks the Croweaters might show a bit
more enthusiasm for their next-door
neighbors, even if there is a bit of a pad-
dock between.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Corso”: Jim Ferrier, who won the
Manly Summer Cup on Dec. 15 from
a field of 250, might be Australia’s Bobby
Jones. In addition to tremendous length
he can play all the shots round the green
—sometimes. A boyish amiability pre-
vents him from concentrating like a true
champion, so he remains Australia’s
Tolley; one who does amazingly bad as
well as good holes. He went round the
tricky Manly course in 72 (par), after
piling up six at the ninth. He had
reached the edge of the green in two.
* * * *
“Shirley”: Maoriland always believes
in getting its money’s worth out of visit-
ing athletes, as footballers from other
climes can testify. The British golfers
were scheduled for eight engagements in
21 days, one of them a three-day go in
a Christmas tourney at Christchurch--
appropriately, if uniquely, it was to kick
off on Christmas Day itself. Christchurch,
Dunedin, Wellington and Auckland are
the four big centres visited, Invercargill
having been given a miss. The tour ends
on January 8, when the team heads for
home via Yankeeland.
* * * *
“Aberdeen”: The most astonishing
sporting phenomenon of recent years has
been the democratisation of golf. When
the game came south from St. Andrews
towards the end of last century it was
monopolised by the swells. “Artisan’s
golf” is still little more than a phrase in
England ; so few artisans play that the
best clubs open their courses to them
free of charge at times. If an Australian
city or near-city club did that the first tee
would look lilse a section of the Hill dur-
ing a Test match. Manual workers
swarm on our public links, and many be-
long to golf clubs. So do jockeys and
bookies. The teachers of N. S. Wales
(men and associates) competed at Moore
Park last week ; and teachers financially
(more’s the pity!) rank below some
manual toilers. Australian bakers often
swing a wicked club; so do butchers. As a
game for the masses golf looks like oust-
ing football within the next few years.
* * * *
“No. 9”: J. O’Connor did a great 62
in the Cammeray G.C.’s caddies’ cham-
pionship last week. He had six threes
on the outward journey. J. Campbell
won the assistant pros.’ championship at
La Perouse with a much poorer display,
and some of the young men he beat
were plain rabbits. A pro.’s assistant has
his work cut out to keep up his golf; a
caddie is in clover. Caddies see every
kind of mistake being made, and they
can avoid doing likewise every morning
and evening if they are keen. To a boy
who can do 18 holes in 62 —however easy
the course —a caddies’ calling is by no
means a dead-end one. He has the pass-
book of a Kirkwood in his disreputable
pants, so to speak.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: With N.S.W., Vic. and
South Aus. in favor, an Australian chal-
lenge for the next Davis Cup—it need
not be in until January 31 —is assured.
It is stated that officials have been in-
fluenced by Crawford’s recent win over
Perry. With all respect to th'e N.S.W.
player, that seems an uncertain founda-
tion for such an important decision. At
any rate, one hopes that at least one of
the new juveniles will be given a trip for
the sake of the experience, even if it
means taking five players and dropping
some of the expensive camp-following of
previous trips.
* H* * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Sydney tennis
scribes are indignant because the folk
running the Victorian championships
made 16-year-old Thelma Coyne play
three matches in one day, the last against
Miss Lyle. It was over the fence cer-
tainly, but the State which has exploited
youngsters like McGrath to the utmost
should refrain from heaving bricks
through other people’s windows. The
best way will be to wait and get some of
the Melbourne girls over here and pay
them back in their own Coyne, so to
speak.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Crawford’s victory in the
Victorian tennis singles was his sixth,
five being successive until Perry broke
his trot last year. Perry is the only Eng-
lishman to hold the title Parke, success-
ful in 1912, was Irish. Gerald Patterson
won it eight times —six years in suc-
cession.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: With the story
of Vines and Crawford in mind, and not
forgetting his own recent failures in Aus-
tralia, Perry is to have a good spell sub-
sequent to the Australian and M.L. *
championships. He is going home via
Los Angeles, and, after a stay there with-
out a spot of tennis, will go into smoke in
England until next season’s hardcourt
championships there and the champion-
ships at Paris and Wimbledon.
Miscellaneous
“Dummy”: Yet another Olympiad is
to be inflicted on a suffering world. This
time it is for deaf and dumb folk only,
and it is to be held in London in August'
next year; France has thrown a subsidy
of £5OO into the kitty. I allow that the
scheme has its attractions. The tennis
section, to be held at' Wimbledon, will see
no temperamental outbursts by dis-
gruntled stars —verbal ones anyway; in
the athletic contests at Wembley there
should be no charges against women of
being really camouflaged men, as at the
World Games. On that occasion the
discoverer of the alleged ramp said he
spotted the offenders by their gruff
voices, a bit of Sherlocking which will
be quite out of the question with the
dummies. If only the barrackers could
be rendered voiceless also the scheme
would be rounded off perfectly.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Joe Davis, back in
England, has revealed that, although his
experiences with Australians generally
were delightful, his quest of the cham-
pionship didn’t turn out well financially.
Followers of the game tipped this
when it was evident that the affair
was going to be rigidly confined to
Walter Lindrum, Davis and McConachy.
There was a lot of feeling over the fact
that Horace Lindrum and George Gray
were ignored. They might have made no
difference to the result, but their admis-
sion would have meant more heats and
caused more widespread interest.
* * # *
“Stickphast”: The next Stawell Easter
Gift is to carry £5OO in prize-money.
Not bad for a dash over 130 yards ; and
a well-bottled-up candidate can win a
lot more in wagers. Roberts, who
brought the big money to N. S. Wales
last time, was backed for every shilling
that McShortodds would lay, though
after the first lot of heats he wouldn’t
lay much. Roberts was a good thing.
Capable of breaking even time any day
in the week, he had a start of 9J yards.
He sped over the 120} yards in 11
9-16 sec., and could obviously have gone
faster.


A RISK
Too Grave to ¥«&«/
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you—or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this risk of hardship hanging
over you. And you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
Write now for details of this P. St C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself without delay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director:
H. FELL.
Hon.
Chairman of Director*:
A. K. TRETHOWAN. M.L.C.
FRASER’S CLAW HAMMER lately invented, made entirely of
rAAULdiu U rtPdmed as an all-round tool to work corrugated iron,
Itimbera nailf, siples. screws, tacksjvire bolts, etc.
handymen and all men on
the land will find the tool
Invaluable, .and It soon pays
for itself.
—'si rsr;,r;.rsr
f CPA SEOS CIAW HAMMER"
ALL STEEL
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
CENTENARY NUMBER
Recording 100 years of Victoria s
Progress in Pictures and Story.
(Including striking aerial view or
Melbourne, 15in. x 21in.)
72 PAGES—2OO PICTURES-NOW ON SALE, Price 1/
Missing Friends.
AUSTIN CARDWELL, a son of JAMES
CARDWELL, at one time of Dandenong, Vic-
toria, or any person knowing his whereabouts,
is requested to communicate immediately with
ARTHUR ROBINSON & CO., Solicitors, of
377 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
1934 — 1935.
The historian of the future will no
doubt find the 1930’s an absorbing
period. To the businessman, financier
and politician of a later age they will pro-
vide many warnings and morals. But
to the people of the world to-day, the
actual players in the drama “Depres-
sion,” it is far too serious a piece to be
viewed in the abstract.
Yet if viewing things in the abstract
means seeing the other fellow’s point of
view, as well as our own, it is eminently
desirable. In lifting the world out of de-
pression nothing seems to be more neces-
sary than friendly co-operation—co-
operation between debtor and creditor, as
individuals and nations, between city
manufacturer and land man, between
capital and labor. Honest feeling for
the other fellow can only come through
an understanding of his troubles. So far
co-operation in the problem of combat-
ing the depression has been conspicu-
ously absent; the spirit of most depres-
sion “remedies,” such as competitive
exchange depreciation, has been one of
“diamond cut diamond.”
Australia faces 1935 in some ways
more uncertainly than at the beginning
of 1934. Wool is down again, and there
is a slight “morning-after” feeling in
some directions. Imports of recent
months have been excessive. Most
wheatfarmers are still definitely up
against it. Woolgrowers, too, are again
threatened with a thin time.
Italy, among other countries, is cur-
tailing wool purchases in Australia;
it has to cut down its imports
from somebody. Its exports for 11
months of 1934 fell away £14,000,000
sterling, and the adverse trade balance
increased from £22,000,000 to £40,000,000.
Other European countries are having
similar difficulties, and Australia’s pocket
is being hit.
The year just closing produced a spec-
tacular gold-share boom in Australia.
There has been a surfeit of funds for
investment—yet another cut in fixed-
deposit rates was announced by the Com-
monwealth Bank the other day—and it
proved but a short step from investment
to scrip-gambling. The Stock Exchanges
did little to discourage the unhealthy
trend in goldmine flotations; the inevit-
able result of an overload of paper on
the market was pointed out in these
pages months ago. Many dabblers now
show losses, which may be temporary
in a number of cases. But genuine floats
will, find it more difficult to raise money
until confidence is restored by mining
results, and to that extent the haste and
greed of speculators are matters for
regret. The actual goldmining industry',
apart from the share market, shows more
promise than for many years. A high
price for the metal seems assured for
some time.
The employment position in all occu-
pations shows encouraging improvement;
that is the gladdest thing 1934 has
brought. It should be our chief aim
in 1935 to reduce further that 20 p.c.
of registered workers still faced with soul-
destroying idleness. Secondary industries
generally have made splendid recovery.
So far, they have' displayed little
effect of the relapse in wool prices,
but the shrinkage in land men’s purchas-
ing power this season must make itself
felt sooner or later. However, there is
a better feeling all round in financial
circles ; the danger is that we may over-
estimate our progress towards better
times and capitalise it at too high a
figure.
World Wool ~
The October report of the Imperial
Economic Committee shows that during
the first quarter of the current season
shipments of wool from Australasia and
S’Africa were 86,000,0001 b. less than in
the same period last year. Yet the world
clip is likely to be heavier than in 1933-
34. S’Africa has continued its efforts
to get Germany to take wool in exchange
for machinery and agricultural imple-
ments; German reports published re-
cently stated that an arrangement had
been made.
The Union Government has estab-
lished a guarantee scheme under which
growers will be able to obtain advances
up to 6d. per pound against their pro-
duction, the object being to “prevent
wool and mohair being sacrificed by dis-
tressing sales.”
In most countries there is a slight im-
provement in the wool-manufacturing
business, but in many consumption is less
than last year. In U.S.A. it is at an ex-
tremely low level.
“Before I read the independent report on the mine I should like to mention
that there is a trained nurse 'in attendance.”
The general import figures show that
Germany between January-September
this year imported 273,800,0001 b. against
279,500,0001 b. for the same period of
1933 and 316,000,0001 b. for the whole of
1932. Her imports in September
were 9,000,0001 b. Japan, however, showed
a decline from 163,600,0001 b. to
127,000,0001 b. and Italy from 152,000,000
lb. to 131,000,0001 b., which would have
been above normal in 1932.
Merino top stocks on the Continent
over the average of four countries—
Germany, France, Belgium and Italy—
stood at 26,700,0001 b. against 27,900,000
lb. for the same month last year. They
had been consistently higher than last
year in each month since June in France
and Italy, but Germany held only five-
sevenths of last year’s September sup-
plies and Belgium only about five-sixths.
Germany’s wool yarn imports were larger
in the 1934 January-September period
than last year.
Mussolini’s Method
Italy is having difficulty in keeping on
the gold standard. The employment posi-
tion is not satisfactory, nor is the trade
balance. Imports, including Australian
wool, are being restricted, and an in-
tense policy of nationalism in trade has
been fostered. But, though Mussolini can
order his subjects to eat only Italian
foodstuffs and wear only Italian textiles,
he has no such authority in the markets
of the world. Italian exports are not
expanding, while essential imports are
hard to cut down. The country’s over-
seas credit position is becoming acute.
Many other exporting countries are off
gold, and their manufacturers are aided
by the currency depreciation. Italians
get no such export bonus. Nevertheless,
Italy seems determined to stick to the
gold standard if it possibly can; the
extent of this determination is shown by
Mussolini’s edict the other day, which
gave everybody domiciled in Italy 10
days in which to surrender his foreign
securities, to be paid for in lire.
The decree has aroused resentment.
But it was the only alternative to cur-
rency depreciation. Italy has lost
£13,500,000 in gold in three months, and
the 40 p.c. gold reserve against paper
currency is threatened. London “Finan-
cial Times” is of the opinion that a mod-
erate devaluation of the lira would have
been the better plan ; it would have given
exporters a leg-up, for one thing.
The mobilisation of private funds over-
seas in a national emergency, however
much it may be resented by “dollar
princesses” resident in Italy, is not
without precedent. In 1916, owing
to the strain of war, Great Britain
mobilised its vast private holdings
of dollar securities —in 1910 these
totalled £1,318,000,000 —and enforced
a scheme of compulsory sale to
the Government. By this means the
dollar-sterling exchange was kept at par
for some time.
Countries like Italy and France which
have experienced the bitterness of
uncontrolled currency inflation in the
past contrast strangely with countries
like the U.S.A. in their reluctance to de-
part from gold again. America’s aban-
donment was premeditated and deli-
berate ; Mussolini is fighting to keep Italy
on gold in the face of keen opposition.
It is frequently asserted that the sugar
embargo is a disastrous handicap to ex-
ports in the fruit-processing trade. That,
of course, is ridiculous. The rebate on
the sugar content of goods exported
varies slightly from time to time; for
December it was fixed at £7 9s. a
ton on fruit products exported to Maori-
land, and £2O 16s. on jams and preserves
exported to other countries. On sweets,
etc., the rebate (where not exported to
M.L.) is £23 a ton ; if to M.L. £9 13s. a
ton. The difference in the rebates on
processed fruit and sweets, etc., is that
fruit-canners get a special reduction on
all their sugar requirements in the first
instance. The Australian-Maoriland trade
agreement is responsible for the other
differentiation ; it provides that the sugar
content shall not cost less than import
parity, with M.L. customs duty added.
* * * *
From Carba Dry Ice (Aust.), Ltd.
(Melbourne):
Victoria is certainly not behind other
countries (B. 5/12/’34) in the use of “dry ice”
(solid carbon dioxide) so far as transportation
of ice-cream is concerned. In 1929 a plant
was erected in Melbourne. Each year its out-
put has been doubled. Late in 1933 a similar
plant commenced production in Brisbane. In
Melbourne there are over 1000 dry-ice containers
in use, and 11 insulated and refrigerated de-
livery vans for the carriage of perishable pro-
ducts.
* * * *
Commonwealth Bank is cutting its
three months’ fixed-deposit rate from 1|
p.c. to 1 p.c., and the six months’ rate
from 2 p.c. to l\ p.c. The trading banks
are not following suit, interest rates hav-
ing “reached a bedrock level,” according
to the chairman of the Vic. Associated
Banks. Other financial authorities are
not unanimous on this
point, but the present
yield on Consols is a
shade higher, if any-
thing, than it was a few
months ago.
* * *
“V.L.E.”: Sy d n ey’s
Golden Jest recently
launched another
gamble. Books of
vouchers for tickets-
really receipts—were dis-
tributed broadcast in the
too-familiar fashion.
One, returned from
Hong Kong, is covered
by a circular dated in
August which asked the
buyer to remit “3.60
Hong Kong dollars (6s. Australian)”
for six tickets. In return for dis-
posing of the vouchers the seller was
to receive a “free ticket.” At the date
of the circular, 3.60 dollars Hong Kong
was worth roughly 6s. lid. Australian.
There is no statement as to how
many tickets will be sold. In a recent
Golden Jest, ticket No. 1,197,596 won a
prize. If all tickets from No. 1 onwards
were in the barrel, £59,879 18s. in
gross takings should have been returned.
The balance sheet showed revenue of
£32,489 13s.
* * * *
Bung had a more cheerful Christmas,
too. V. H. Peate, president of the Wine
and Spirit Association of N.S.W., reports
“very satisfactory conditions” in the
trade. T. Watson, Tooth’s g.m., also
mentioned improvement at the associa-
tion’s annual dinner. During the ten
months to October there was an increase
of 6,000,000 gallons in Australia’s beer
consumption, mainly because of the small
cut in the excise.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
7"HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so saft
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
SfrOllvris (.MEXICAN)
KkUnid Stodm,
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr. : F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Your home is • . .
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from' the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Lunch and Dinner, a la carte, from 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to" the Manager jor full particulars.
Methodist Ladies’ College
BURWOOD, SYDNEY.
A College of
Distinction.
-N a *
IUCIS
Founded
1886.
THIS COLLEGE OFFERS:
A Broad Curriculum —Kindergarten to
University—Commercial Classes.
A Refined Home for resident pupils of
all ages.
A complete Sports Programme, well-
equipped Gymnasium, fully-trained
Sports Mistresses.
Headmistress:
MISS SUTTON, B.A.
Principal:
REV. H. C. FOREMAN, M.A.
PROSPECTUS FROM THE PRINCIPAL.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
\0
<9
m
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
'Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
v
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Liist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There were no trumpets sounding, but
at eight o’clock a roll of red carpet
spilled its way down the d.-c. stairway
of the Tivoli, and Ben Fuller prepared
to meet his vice-regal guests. Lady
Game, in green velvets, carried a grey
feather fan, one up to the plumage
sisterhood; but when she arrived in
her place the white bouquet balanced on
the ledge in the centre of the circle evened
things up for the spray supporters.
On the stage scarab greens, turquoise
that shifted and deepened to peacock,
coral-reds and -pinks, martial reds, blues
as delicate as the plumbago petal were
massed, dissolved and blown by the
winds of music and passion. Silvered
palm-leaves waved tumultuously, and two
great snow-white feather plumes, slave-
borne, waved behind the throne where
Amneris sat so proud and confident in
her gold cloak with its Nile-green lining.
If the dressing in the audience didn’t
come quite up to the glitter of the Court
of Pharaoh’s daughter, Sydney in its
brightest and best sat in a circle that was
positively hidden in flaggery.
A distinguished figure was Lady Milne,
the wife of the Field-Marshal. She wore
ivory laces and, with husband and blue-
clad daughter Joan, sat with the Govern-
ment Housers. The Bishop of New-
castle was a listener, and Mrs. Batty
brought pink laces to a group swelled
by Bertie Kelly, the C.J. Jordans (she
was in gold lame), the Philip Streets and
the Harry Budges. Horace Stevens was
noted with his bride, in pink laces. The
still-Mayoral Parkers were in the front
row, and near by sat Miss Anne Rogers,
who had motored from her Katoomba
home for the performance. Sir Alan
and Lady Anderson, the Alfred Hills and
persistent opera first-nighters Mrs. Flor-
ence Taylor and Mrs. E. Wunderlich
were among the hundreds who, from 7.30
to after eight, made the theatre fuller
and fuller.
The shops had a brisker Christmas.
Weeks before the day of gift-giving
it was a feat of strategy to wedge
your way into the toy department
or get into the front line of the
sweets counter at any big store. As
for the hanky-seeker she took her life
in her hands. Swarms of children, loosed
from bondage, descended on the city, the
small ones insisting on visiting Santa
Claus in his various lairs. At one big
shop tiny ones were photographed hap-
pily perched on the red-robed one’s knee,
whispering their desires into his cotton-
wool whiskers. Some stores had wishing-
wells, and into these orders for trains
and scooters and dolls were murmured
interminably. Mickey Mouse and a
smart young lady doll, cosy in lavishly
befurred green velvets and a tricorne hat,
made traffic a snail-like affair around
one island window. One thing every
woman noticed was that the 1934 kiddie
looked jollier than the 1932 Christmas
model.
“Wanted, One Hard and Steady Drinker;
must also be a glutton for hors-d’oeuvres.”
There was a lot more in similar strain
on the long yellow poster sealed with red
that Jo Fallon issued by way of invita-
tion to his cocktail party. About 150
answered the call and reported for duty
at Graham’s, the new cabaret in Hunter-
street. The first drinks were poured
at five. Rene Riano acted as hostess
in a frock that was a wavering rain-
bow from the hem, half-way up the skirt,
and after that sobered down to plain
beige. Fragmentary, and therefore smart,
millinery completed her attire.
"Thirty-five Sea Cadets stepped jauntily
around the deck of the Durham at the
dance arranged for their delight by Birt
and Co.’s head, T. S. Gordon, and Cap-
tain H. L. Upton. The Durham, built
to carry frozen meat, is spacious and
new and shining, and made a good im-
pression on Port Jackson, which she en-
tered for the first time last week. She
is an m.v., and her saloon is panelled in
mirrorlike Australian woods. She has
room for two passengers only, and what
friendship or even honeymoon would
stand the strain of that for six weeks
on end?
The T. S. Gordons received the guests,
she in a frock of claret lace caped in a
wisp of itself. Tall daughter Victoria
mixed two shades of green in a frock
that wore its neckline high, back and
front. In her shadow stood schoolgirl-
sister Helen, a flutter of Madonna-blue
chiffons. Mrs. H. H. Hibbert’s black
chiffons bloomed with cherry-blossom.
Black lace was worn by Mrs. A. G.
Potter, and white satin by Mrs. G. Craw-
ford. Gay awnings kept the decks safe
from the sputters of rain, and the elec-
trics wore red and white parchment
shades. The supper-table, set in the offi-
cers’ mess, was rich in cream-fattened
sweets and thirst-forming savories. It
was decked with
tall spikes of pink
and gold gladioli.
All meals in the
Durham are elec-
trically cooked, the
floor of the kit-
chen being speci-
ally insulated. In
his suite the cap-
tain carries two
mascots. No. 1, an
Aberdeen terrier,
stands guard over
the radiator ; No.
2 is a doll, Tessie,
perched on the
desk. For every
new ship her hus-
ba n d commands
Mrs. Upton sup-
plies a new mas-
cot, the one from
his former com-
mand going to
swell her collec-
tion at home.
Westralians in
Sydney got to-
gether for their
Christmas “Wongi”
at the Moulin
Rouge, which isn’t
so very rouge, but
much like other
restaurants. Walter
Kingsmill told of
some of his past
Christmases. One
in particular
sounded a joyous
affair. He was out
camping with a
Scotsman and a Russian, and when
Christmas Eve arrived he went out and
shot three wild ducks. He not only
cooked them but the pudding as well —
a huge affair, the pudding-cloth a
torn old shirt. His lady smiled happily
through these reminiscences. She wore
soft blue satins with pink roses bloom-
ing on them and aided and abetted Fred
Johnston, the M.C. August Stang, from
Perth, brought his wife, who wore black
taffeta jocund with tulips. The Senator
Carroll couple, the Julius lady, Mrs.
Mattei and pretty Gabrielle Waygood,
from Brisbane, helped swell the “Auld
Lang Syne” chorus.
The Tremayne Rodds lived up to the
family’s reputation for good looks at the
Christmas dance of the Women Pioneers.
Jeanie Ranken was another who made
an effective entry. Her flowered chiffons
swished a train about the mellow old
rooms that were once the stronghold of
the Warrigal Club. Gladioli and hy-
drangea were banked and massed in
profusion in the rooms and hall, card
addicts had their bridge, and just before
the shutters went up there was a rally
around the piano, and all the company
joined in singing carols. President Mrs.
Lingham received in black lace, and sec-
retary Carlotta Doyle wore a black-and-
silver frock, sinuous and trained. This
party was run on modern lines, and there
was a complete absence of mistletoe.
Ruth Bedford, in between sending out
notices for P.E.N. Club dinners, has
taken time to write a book of children’s
verse. It is called “Hundreds and Thou-
sands,” after the pink and white infinitesi-
mal sweets that are scattered on the tops
of nursery cakes, or even sometimes just
over bread and butter to make it seem
like a party. The little book (there are
only 49 pages to it) is full of twisty fan-
cies and quaint delights as fluttersome as
a child’s thoughts. Through all is the
thread of real poetry. Pixie O’Harris is
responsible for the happy jacket and the
decorations, which are both pretty and
amusing.
The ambition of this pretty girl is to
be a concert-size pianist. She is Clara
Butter, and already experts declare she
has passed the amateur class. She is tall
and slight, and if she should take up
her art professionally she would be a
decoration to any platform. Clara is
the granddaughter of Mrs. Alfred Lee.
John Marks, to whom Joy Howarth,
the moving-picture actress, said “Yes”
last week, is related to most of N.S.W.’s
Best People. His father, the ear and
throat specialist, who died a couple of
years ago, was a brother of “Wally,” ex-
M.P. for Wentworth, and of Mrs. Fred
Watson. John’s mother, who lives at
Bowral, is a daughter of C. E. Pilcher,
K.C., and one of the Bathurst McPhil-
lamys. The engagement came as no sur-
prise to anybody when it was announced
during a family dinner party at the Aus-
tralia on Thursday; the young people
have been friends for years. Joy will
complete her theatrical contracts in
Queensland and M.L. before coming
back to Sydney to be married.
When Lady Game leaves Australia she
will take with her one gift that would
win a prize place even in a royal trous-
seau. It is a nightgown of sheerest white,
beautifully embroidered and stitched by
the girls of Doone. This was daughter
Rosemary’s school before she was sent
off to England, and the Governor’s wife
has always been looked on by the girls
as a great friend. Every girl in the school,
whether she was a clever needlewoman or
not, put a stitch or two into the garment.
It was the prize exhibit of the hand-
sewing display at the Darling Point
school’s break-up last week. Lady Game
went out to say farewell, and the noise
of Thursday’s hailstorm was a whisper
compared with the girlish handclaps that
greeted the vice-reine’s remark that her
happiest hours in Australia had been
spent with them at Doone.
All day long there is a stream of tele-
phone calls and floral offerings to St.
Luke’s for Jean Drummond. The popu-
lar and widely-known singing girl will be
in the Darlinghurst' hospital for a few
weeks, her main regret being that she will
be unable to attend the opera. Jean is
particularly interested in the German
works, as she studied Wagner at Bay-
reuth and passed many years of her girl-
hood in Germany. She was one of the
soloists of last year’s A.B.C. opera season.
Australian dried fruits, grown within
our own borders, were an attractive des-
sert on the Christmas dinner-table: cher-
ries and pineapples, prunes, figs and
raisins, delicious and fresh-flavored. The
Fruitgrowers’ Federation of N.S.W. is
behind this eat-more-dried-fruit move-
ment.
The man of the moment last week
was Captain Evan Cameron, master of
the Orama. He was asked everywhere
where the Arts foregather. He has big
shoulders and a head rather like a mas-
sive faun, and this Letter met him in a
studio where he was consuming tea and
tomato sandwiches, and talking light and
shade and French literature to a group
of the initiate. Like many sea captains
(Conrad among them), color and poetry
are to Evan Cameron the vodka and
whisky of existence. As a cadet he came
to Australia under sail; and before he
joined the Orient company he was in the
British India S. N. and Cunard services.
He was in the war, too ; in the cruiser
Birmingham he took part in the Dogger
Bank and Jutland engagements. But he
would rather talk about Norman Lind-
say’s color or Dora Jarrett’s sympathetic
pencil sketches.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax did the honors at
the Queenslanders’ party. She wore mul-
berry tulle scattered with velvet spots and
a shoulder posy of some dimension in
pastel tones. The jollity shook the Forum
Club out of its usual mould of decorum.
Holly and frivolous balloons coquetted
on the walls, and most of the 200 revellers
proved active dancers in spite of the
night’s humidity. Of springtime green
was the satin sash that swathed Eira
Boyd’s floral silks; Nell Moreton was
attired in slinky white satin. Dutchie
Somerville’s black moire was touched up
with frangipanni. President General
Goddard entertained one of the largest
parties; the S. Moretons and the A.
Pixleys also drew long trains of merry-
makers. Helen Campbell was pictorial
in black tulle and white gardenias.
Australian authors are finding audi-
ences in many lands. Jean Ranken got
word the other day that her novel
“Tzane” is being translated into French,
and Marie Bjelke-Petersen, the Tas-
manian writer, who popped her head,
clothed in a moss-green felt hat of fetch-
ing shape, around this Letter’s door last
week, tells of one of her romances being
done into Arabic. She has had her novels
translated into many tongues. About
15 members of the P.E.N. confessed after
the last club dinner that they are dipping
their pens in gore and combining in
the authorship of a thriller, each writing
one chapter.


THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street).
The best and latest paintings and
etchings by Australian Artists.
New works recently added.
BUY AUSTRALIAN PICTURES.
OPEN DAILY FROM 10 A.M.
ADMISSION FREE
Telephone: 87971.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1630 of 1934.
BETWEEN DOREEN WATERS (formerly
Doreen Laurie) Petitioner
And WALTER WATERS Respondent.
TO WALTER WATERS late of Boggabilla in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOREEN
WATERS has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds ol
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twelfth day
of March One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-four.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
WEBBB & BOLAND, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, Moree.
By their City Agents, WHITEHEAD &
FERRANTI, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 492 of 1934.
BETWEEN ADA MAY FITZIMONS Peti-
tioner
And ALBERT JOHN FITZSIMONS Re-
spondent.
TO ALBERT JOHN FITZSIMONS late of
Narrabri in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ADA MAY
FITZSIMONS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Seventh day of March
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of December,
1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HAROLD WHEELER, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Maitland Street, Narrabri.
By his Agent, G. E. DALE, 77 York Street,
Sydney.
IN THE ESTATE OF MARGARET Mc-
AUSLAN late of Canterbury in the State
of Victoria Widow intestate
And IN THE MATTER of Section 123 of
the Administration and Probate Act 1928
of the Parliament of the said State.
WHEREAS the said MARGARET Mc-
AUSLAN died in the said State on the
Twenty-first day of September 1927 intestate
AND WHEREAS a rule to Administer her
estate was granted by the Supreme Court' of
Victoria to the Curator of the Estates of
Deceased Persons for the said State on the
Seventh day of October 1927 AND WHEREAS
the said Curator has been informed that JAMES
HALL a brother of the said Intestate left Vic-
toria for Goulburn in the State of New South
Wales over fifty years ago AND WHEREAS
the said Curator has also been informed that
the said James Hall has not been heard of
since many years before the death of the said
Intestate AND WHEREAS the death of the
said James Hall has not been proved AND
WHEREAS the said James Hall if he had sur-
vived the Intestate would have been entitled
to a distributive share of the said estate AND
WHEREAS neither the said James Hall nor any
person claiming through him has made a claim
upon the said Curator in respect of the said
estate NOW in pursuance of the Provision of
the said Act NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the said Curator proposes to distribute such
part of the said estate as has been retained for
the benefit of the said James Hall as if he had
not survived the said Intestate Margaret Mg-
Auslan. .
Any notice claim or any other communica-
tion in reference to this foregoing should be
addressed to the said Curaor 267 Queen Street
Melbourne Victoria Australia.
DATED at Melbourne this Seventeenth day
of December, 1934.
J. A. ROSS,
Curator of the Estates of Deceased Persons.
Melbourne
Chatter
The spirit of Christmas was imbibed at
innumerable cocktail and sherry parties
last week. At the James Clymers’
tomato-juice was also on the menu, as it
usually is when many Americans come
together. Mrs. Clymer wore a graceful
black gown with a small proportion of
back and full marks for long sweeping
sleeves. Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Brind were
there* with their daughter Mickie. Mrs.
Brind wore a white linen coat over a
spotted navy dress; Mickie looked hand-
some in brown. The George Saengers
brought their vivacious daughters, Mary,
whose spotty dress had a little pleated
cape emerging unexpectedly across the
back of the shoulders, and Mrs. Mark
Graham, in a floral frock and dozens of
silver bracelets. Charlie Hartman es-
corted his wife in a wood-brown cobweb
of a gown around the waist of which
were twisted sashes of green and cherry
velvet. A tall and distinguished couple
were the Eric Wilsons, who arrived in
Melbourne four months ago. Mrs. Wil-
son wore flat pearl earrings as large as
shillings of the type which clasps snugly
to the lobe of the ear, three lines of
breakers in white plisse frillings round
the neck of her black garment and a tiny
black hat with a bandeau of tulle across
the forehead.
At the party the Cal Hoyts broke the
news that they are leaving Australia for
good—there is lots of travel ahead of
them, for they may not be settled for
longer than a ,year in any country. Mrs.
Hoyt is an Australian, but she’s been so
often to the U.S.A. that her husband’s
country feels like home. Mrs. Guy Mc-
Henry, wearing a black coat over a
mustard frock, also* scattered good-byes ;
she is off to America on January 5 to
be present at her son’s graduation.
With the object of providing Christmas
treats for the youngsters at St. Joseph’s
Home a large committee of women gave
their support to a musical afternoon and
bridge party held at the Windsor. Card-
players auctioned and contracted in the
Blue Room (Christmas shopping must
have been too much for many of them,
for the majority arrived without cards).
Mrs. J. Davis, in trim black ninon and
a crownless hat, was among the ped-
lars of sweets. Lurline Urwin wore in-
triguing clothes which she has recently
unpacked after a trip abroad. (She says
that the smartest people overseas are
wearing taffetas at all hours of the day.)
An interesting alliance of white linen
over a black frock was successfully worn
by Ita Arthur. Molly Hendrick’s auburn
locks were hidden on one side by her
white hat. Tinka Lucini wore a floral
dress and a large navy hat. Those who
felt lucky (or were spurred by a charit-
able inclination) could buy lucky
envelopes which gave them a chance of
winning a hamper, a Christmas pudding,
a ham, a chicken or theatre tickets.
Towards the end of last week Mel-
bourne was rapidly filling up with bare
knees and Scout kerchiefs, for the Scout
jamboree commences at Frankston on
the 27th. The president of the Alliance
Fran?aise and Madame Vanderkelen
gave an evening reception at Scott’s in
honor of the Commissioner of the French
delegation, M. Schlemmer, and Madame
Schlemmer, and for the Deputy-Commis-
sioner, the Comte de Maigret, and his at-
tractive little dark-eyed Comtesse. The
majority of the guests conversed in fluent
French, which gave to the party an at-
mosphere of vivacity and good fellow-
ship. The Comte de Maigret has white
hair and a neat moustache ; he is of slim
build, and there’s a merry twinkle in
his blue eyes. Madame Vanderkelen was
in lobelia-blue with a swinging cape bor-
dered with strawberry-red. Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer assisted her in a gown of white
ripple cloth with dashes of blue upon
its elaborate sleeves. Madame Schlem-
mer was a striking figure in black chiffon
gown with tracings of green twigs and
cream flowers. The overseas guests ap-
peared intensely interested in Colonel
Holman James’s pranks with a stock-
whip.
Betty Black presented her fiance, Dr.
Estcourt Hughes, to her friends over
sherry and cocktails at No. 9. Dr.
Hughes arrived from England only a few
days before this welcome-home party.
Mrs. J. J. Black was clad in pale biscuit
tints, with a stronger note of brown for
her hat. Betty’s crepe frock was a dark-
blue background for a meadowful of
daisies. Mr. and Mrs. Headen Cuthbert,
Mrs. Austin Embling and Mollie, Dr.
and Mrs. Lennox Spiers, the J. Plottels,
Margaret Campbell, Diana Mann and
Margaret Sherwin were a few of those
invited.
Ahead of Judge and Mrs. Lowe and
their daughter Edna is a trip round the
world which commences with a first lap
across the Pacific on January 5. To
mix good-byes with Christmas wishes, the
prospective travellers gave an evening
party at Grosvenor. The guest list was
compiled from professional ingredients,
with a large proportion of Judges and
barristers, a pinch of lawmakers and a
sprinkling of medicoes. Mrs. Lowe re-
ceived the guests in a black gown which
flowed into a train and was a-twinkle
with brilliants upon the corsage. Miss
Lowe was in nettle-green, her waist
girdled with green and yellow lilies.
Caugnt in pensive mood by a Jack
Cato camera is Molly, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. E. McCauley, of Haw.-
thorn, who, after the excitement of this
week’s wedding, will have more time to
think about her proposed trip abroad.
Miss McCauley was one of the seven
’maids who attended Jill Ryan at her
marriage with pianist Raymond Lambert
on Christmas Eve. The ’groom’s gifts
to the ’maids were brooches composed
of each girl’s initials in Old English letters
of white gold. In keeping with the
white-and-silver wedding, a tiered white-
and-silver cake supported on its topmost
storey a minute grand piano, complete
with keyboard, wee carved legs and a
scroll of music.
Melbourne takes off its hat to the Busi-
ness and Professional Women’s branch
of the Y.W.C.A., which has raised £5OO
for the Blue Triangle in the last 10
weeks. The effort is all the more praise-
worthy through having been made just
before Christmas, which is the most ex-
pensive time of the year for everybody.
As a wind-up to 1934 activities members
were invited to a moonlight garden party
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Coles
in Kooyong-road, each guest bringing a
gift (to be used at' a fete next year) and
a teacup, for the Coles china-cupboard,
though capacious, couldn’t manage to
provide a drinking vessel apiece for
nearly 500 girls. At the end of the
evening hot tea, saveloys and sandwiches
were very welcome, for everyone felt
rather worn-out after fighting the ele-
ments all the evening—the weather did
its best to spoil the party with wind and
sudden showers of rain. Christmas carols
were sung in an effective setting from
the steps of the house. Vanda and Lor-
raine Stenborg performed Swedish
dances with the help of four men who
played accordions, and a Grecian dance
was executed by two maidens who went
floating over the lawns in airy draperies.
Mrs. J. G. Coles wore midnight-blue
ninon, sequin-studded, and the Hon. Sara
Vanneck, who officially received the
£5OO, was in a long-sleeved gown of
green-and-pink patternings. Mrs. W.
Angliss introduced Mrs. Essington
Lewis, who is the Y.W.’s president, and
Grace Lane. Among other speakers
were Amy Snelson, Miss M. Davidson,
Miss Dentry and Gwen Varley.
Owing to the efforts of many sym-
pathetic people there were very few
children in Melbourne who didn’t get
their spot of happiness this Christmas.
Every year the junior committee of the
Y.W.C.A. gives up a day in December
to take a large bunch of youngsters to
the Zoo. This year for a change they
chose the Aquarium, where the children
had a marvellous time pressing grubby
hands and noses up against glass-cases
filled with colored fish and making the
acquaintance of Percy the crocodile —for
none of the little inhabitants of Port
Melbourne and Montague had ever met
a croc, face to face. The char-a-banc
at a squash held 60 children and the six
young committee members, each of
whom had 10 under her wing for the
day. The girls also provided the young-
sters with lunch, sweets and ice-creams
and had a hot time trying to keep track
of their charges. Luckily numbers were
the same coming back as going out, so
apparently no little waifs or strays were
left behind among the fishes. .
The influences of modern art upon
Christmas gifts are more apparent this
year than they have ever been before.
Toilet accessories which’ will delight a
woman at her dressing-table depend more
on a feeling for line than on a decorative
effect in colors. Mirrors have slipped out
of the conventional ovals and circles to
spade and paddle shapes, with thin cylin-
drical stems for handles. The backs of
some mirrors and brushes are filigreed
with gold ; others are uncut crystal inlaid
with enamel, or they look like alabaster
thinly veiled with pewter or ebony. Per-
fumes have arrived in fascinating cubist
bottles made with lots of corners from
cubes piled one on top of the other. The
newest ceiling-lamps are decorated with
chromium; some, of German manufac-
ture, have little lamps arranged around
the main shade. In others the globes
are hidden within perpendicular rect-
angles or long, slender cylinders. For
the boudoir there is a slender sprite lean-
ing against an opaque silver bubble which
turns pink when the current is switched
on.
There are all sorts of cocktail-shakers.
The more expensive stand in ice-buckets,
and are surrounded upon their matching
tray with glasses in each of which is a
fragile glass cocktail stick. The party’s
accompanying hors-d’oeuvres look parti-
cularly tempting when served upon one of
the new pale-yellow glass or green china
trays, which consist of little dishes fitting
snugly upon a larger one.
Most good bookends are expensive, for
their weight is provided by marble or
bronze. One pair which were unpacked
in Toorak on Christmas Day carry a pair
of bronze tigers, not very lifelike but
most expressive of feline grace and lithe
muscle. Their bodies form a long, slinky
arch, their front pawsi pressed hard
against the bookends and their heads
thrown back so that they gaze up with
half-shut eyes at th'e ceiling.
in a dark, neutral shade of. some heavy
compound of metals, are formed with the
minimum of plain, sweeping curves.
Their heads are turned away at an un-
comfortable angle, as if they have no
love for the books which they must sup-
port.
Here is Mrs. A. G. Wales, Melbourne’s
Lady Mayoress. Mrs. Wales is South
Australian by birth and Victorian by
adoption. She has travelled to M.L.
several times, and is so fond of that coun-
try’s fine scenery and invigorating cli-
mate and has such a regard for its people
that she would be happy to settle there
some day. Mrs. Wales has always
worked for the welfare of children and
children’s charities. She has a soft spot
in her heart for dogs, and among grow-
ing things she is particularly fond of
ferns and has built her own fernery.
Councillor and Mrs. Wales have one
daughter, Winifred. The trio will spend
Christmas and New Year, as they always
do, at Lome. Broothorn made the por-
trait.
Mrs. Hugo Throssell (Katherine Prich-
ard), who is spending a few months in
Victoria, dividing her time between Mel-
bourne and . F ' an J st °?^ t ha Scott Tin
together of SP”* B®* 8 ®* s w £
honor of Jonathan Cape.. Tht: party was
mostly arguments i • co ffee in
intense talk over s g P sm oke
a cloud of pipe- “d ciga ette-smoke.
Women came wit r i n thes ’ The
men were there in s • b is
Louis Essons, Hopgood and his
Wl f e > E. J. Brady P j n t4li2entsia
court were among the intelligentsia
present. . .
Yuletide festivities are of very an
origin. At the time of year when
Northern Hemisphere sun started to s
a little longer each day, the Aryans ceie-
brated their sun-god’s rebirth with a
festival. Ancient peoples always w o } -
shipped the sun. The Druids did their
sun-deity honor with eating, drinKing
and merrymaking, with decorations or
mistletoe, hofly and iaurel. Candles ™
which we deck our Christmas-ti
Christmas supper-tables originated in
pagan eras when torches and bonfires
were used by the sun- and light-worship-
pers.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
An SOS for
Opera in
Sydney
E. J. Grave-
stock, who has a
fellow-feeling for
impresarios
whose enterprises
fail to stand the
box-office test, has been writing to the
newspapers stating that the Fuller opera
season in Melbourne resulted in an
“enormous loss” during its first seven
weeks, a loss not atoned for by the
brightening of business that marked the
concluding fortnight. He appeals to
the “thousands of really musical-minded
people of Sydney” to see to it that there
is a better financial recompense for the
performances in the senior State’s capital.
He suggests that the A.B.C. might help,
and that the women’s clubs might pull
their weight on the social oar. The
A.B.C. evidently has been helping; it
isn’t to be supposed that it was allowed
to broadcast the Melbourne perform-
ances for nothing. The suggestion that
the Sydney season should be boomed on
the social side is more to the point.
Mr. Gravestock quotes Percy Colson,
Melba’s biographer, as saying that grand
opera can “never be a commercial propo-
sition” —it must always be subsidised by
the wealthy ; and he goes on to cite the
example of Chioago, which provides
£50,000 to £lOO,OOO annually to cover
opera losses. All this has been said be-
fore, and it seems to be repeated on this
occasion to drive home the point that the
Fuller proprietary has been actuated
more by self-sacrificing public spirit than
by a desire for vulgar gain. That may
be so, but there are limits to the sacri-
fice, and if Sydney wants as long a
season as Melbourne had it will have to
fill the not-very-large theatre that is
being used by the promoters. Opera
m Sydney has always, in recent years,
been more of a social than a musical
occasion. Sydney opera audiences are
utterly uncritical, lavishing applause on
good, bad and indifferent alike, and fre-
quently in the wrong places. Fuller’s
company has at least one world-
famous prima donna and several singers
near the front rank, and is probably
about six times better than Sydney de-
serves. If it gets good social support the
comparatively few genuine music-lovers
in the city who can swallow the absurdi-
ties of opera should have an enjoyable
time.
A. MAJOR.
The Owl.
The minstrelsy of the night is muted;
Only a horned owl cries the hooded
moon,
Curving a moist hot tone, limply fluted
Through chill mist rising from the
dark lagoon.
Unutterable silences that cling
Like dream-born desert thirsts I cannot
slake;
Dark swathings of expected happening
Too tightly bound for human hands to
break.
Only a lone owl dares give utterance;
l have no tongue to speak of mid-
night awe;
Will nothing move to end this sufferance ?
/ am helpless, a wisp of tranced straw.
As the trees stand, so do I stand, con-
gealed ;
If I could stretch my hand and snap
the seal
That is one finite inch from me con-
cealed —
But, no; / cannot, for I am not real.
/ am but lost, faint shadow from the past,
The owl’s flute a forgotten little wind;
My flesh is spelled, 1 am a ghost at last —
Oh ! owl, why is your voice so ghostly
limned ?
QUEENSLAND.
B. VREPONT.
Bland
Uproar
G a 1 s w orthy:
“Gluck wrote his
operas in a sun-
lit garden with a
bottle of Rhine
wine by his side.”
Montague Grover appears to have
written with his tongue in his cheek and
the location unspecified, although anyone
ribald enough might hazard a guess.
His contention is that grand opera only
purports to represent action swift and
violent by a necessarily slow medium,
and emotions and sentiments by a suc-
cession or combination of sounds which
are not presentable in any medium.
This seems to me to be exactly the
definition of what grand opera does do.
Although the action may not necessarily
be swift and violent—as, for instance,
the slow passages in “Aida.”
Gluck surely presents emotions and
sentiments in the lament of Orpheus for
his lost Eurydice: “Che faro senza,
Eurydice.” Can any lover of sound com-
bination imagine a more poignant ex-
pression of grief, passion and despair
than is expressed in this aria?
“Tosca” as a play was one of Sarah
Bernhardt’s artistic triumphs. Was Puc-
Pen-and-ink study for etching by Cedric Emanuel. ( Painter-Etchers’ and Graphic
Art Society’s Show, Sydney.)
cini inartistic because he enveloped the
play with a combination of beautiful
sounds? ,
Again, Canio’s grief over his betrayal
by Nedda in “Pagliacci,” as rendered by
Caruso or Fleta, might be expected to
stir the emotions of anyone not tonally
deaf. The orchestration of this passage
is Leoncavallo’s masterpiece. By the
medium of the violin, the instrument
nearest akin to the human voice, he con-
veys without the aid of the interpreter
the anguish of the man.
Wagner may or may not have refused
to admit that his musical plays were
operas, but the musical world, averse
possibly to the waste of time employed
in splitting straws as to terms, has de-
cided for him.
No one is likely to cavil at Grover’s
statement that “Wagner’s music was in-
tended to be merely an atmosphere for
the emotions of the characters,” but how
does he reconcile this statement with his
contention that “emotions and senti-
ments are not presentable in any
medium”?
Wagner wrote his own librettos, and
so to the genius of his music he added
that of a dramatist of the highest order.
Consider the achievement of Shak-
speare had he been capable of setting
“Hamlet” to sombre music as Wagner
did “The Flying Dutchman.”
Grover states that “comic opera is not
taken seriously,” and so presumably we
are not to associate its production with
art in any shape or form. Comic opera,
or, rather, light opera, which is a more
suitable term, may be the antithesis of
grand opera in treatment and atmo-
sphere, but that fact surely does not
destroy its claim to artistry.
Wagner raised grand opera to its high
plane because he opposed the assump-
tion of superiority on the part of the
interpreter—the singer—over the com-
poser. Gilbert and Sullivan performed a
like service for light opera. Consequently
the artistry of operas such as “The
Mikado” and “The Gondoliers” will
always possess a perpetual charm for
lovers of music.
HORSE.
Ravished by
Russians
Sydney has
been congratulat-
ing itself on hav-
ing “seen” the
Ru s sian Ballet.
Critics let them-
selves go on it. No common or garden
variety of ballet, this— Russian! The
aesthetes of Sydney’s daily and weekly
newspapers, with one exception, went
into hysterical excitement. .
Never, in all the sad history of Aus-
tralian newspaper criticism, has a touring
company been so lauded as was this
troupe of dancers. Mdlle. Olga Spessiva,
premiere danseuse of the Paris Opera
House, gave genuine artistry on occasion,
but her flashes could not disguise the
crudities that marked the performances
as a whole.
The corps de ballet was lamentable. A
fundamental of the classical Russian
ballet school is unison of movement on
the part of these “supers.” The corps de
ballet of the Paris Opera House or of
any really good Russian company is not
a collection of individuals dancing but
a perfectly-combined whole. The two
dozen odd men and girls who formed a
background for the gymnastics of Spes-
siva and Vilzak would have brought tears
to the eyes of any conscientious drill-
sergeant’, let alone a ballet-master who
knew his business.
The music! One hoped for at least
a little worth-while stuff. Surely, when
the conductor is one of the imported
variety, supposedly familiar with ballet
scores, it is not too much to expect an
intelligent co-ordination of orchestra and
dancers. Perhaps it was there, but, if so,
it was well-disguised.
It is a quaint commentary on Austra-
lian critical standards that all this went
unremarked in the welter of blurb which
overflowed the pages of the press. That
Spessiva did not show herself to Sydney
as a really great artist; that Vilzak gave
an impression of effort rather than
grace ; that mediocre dances were thrown
to uncritical audiences: it is understand-
able that, overawed by the tag “Russian
Ballet” in combination with the equally
Russian name Olga Spessiva, our local
George Jean Nathans should not have
noticed these things. But that the corps
de ballet and the music should have
left them unscathed—Lord have mercy
upon us!
BARBARIAN.
Current
Artbursts
Vic. artists
came down hand-
somely with a
gift exhibition
and auction
sequel on behalf
of the Floods’ Relief Fund. Virtually all
the leading painters around Melbourne
handed in one or more pictures, and the
show compared more than favorably with
most of the mixed events on recent ex-
hibition. There was no reserve, and the
sale on Friday brought in £386. The
highest.figure was 33gns. paid for Hen-
sen’s “Farm Gum-tree.” Streeton’s
“Howitzer” brought 26gns., Buckmaster’s
“Rain in the Hills” 25gns., Rowell’s
“Willow” 18jgns., Dora Wilson’s “View
of Melbourne” 18gns., Louis McCubbin s
“Anglesea” 15gns., Sturgess’s “White
Gums” 13igns., “Landscape,” by Rowell,
26gns., and “On the Cleveland,” by Har-
rison, 15gns. Prices nothing to whoop
about, but the painters were satisfied with
the result.
Gayfield Shaw, whom few in Mel-
bourne know, burst upon the southern
city with an exhibition of etchings at
Scott’s Hotel. It is long since Shaw has
exhibited anywhere, and his present work
marks a tremendous advance upon that
of 10 years ago. Most of the etchings,
apart from the bookplates, depict land-
scapes or street scenes around Sydney.
The architectural work is by far the best,
though there are a couple of little gems
among the scenic prints. As usual, the
slum areas make more picturesque etch-
“JSf.„. than the imposing structures;
‘ Philhp-street Residential” and “Jamie-
son House” are possibly the best of the
collection. The exhibition was opened by
Bob Croll, who, unlike most openers of
art shows, knows what he is talking
about. 6
This year’s Godfrey Rivers Trust pre-
sentation to the Brisbane Art' Gallery is
an unusual Sir George Clausen R.A.
work—unusual because it is a figure
study, whereas the big Englishman was
essentially a landscapist, with regular ex-
cursions into interiors. The picture is a
draped half-figure of a female, and
fording to Herbert Dicksee is one of
the finest pieces of flesh painting he has
s een. The Trust' was formed by the
widow of artist Godfrey Rivers with the
object oi presenting a memorial picture
to the gallery every yean An
Australian picture and one from
abroad are chosen in alternate
years.
Peg Maltby’s drawings at New-
man’s Gallery, Melbourne, pos-
sess a mastery of line rare in
artists of the fantastic. She has,
the needful imagination to work
out dainty scenes as aceptable to
adults as to children and swing
back the mature cynic to his in-
fantile faith in fairies. Her colors
are brilliant but harmonious, and
her observation accurate. In addi-
tion to the colored drawings are
several in black and white, a num-
ber of flower studies and a couple
of excellent portraits.
John Munro, one of Mel-
bourne’s younger set in art, is ex-
hibiting 50 pictures at the Fisher
Galleries. “Moments Feminine,”
showing three girls in kimonos, is
the most' striking picture, well-
composed, harmoniously colored
and showing imagination. His
“Tea,” the second large canvas,
is equally valued by the artist, but
not in the same class. Nearly all
the exhibits are landscapes or
street scenes ; they show promise,
and with plenty of study and
hard work Mr. Munro should
produce something much better
in a year or two.
Norah Gurdon did not bother about
hiring a hall for her exhibition of oil
paintings. She hung them on the walls
of her residence overlooking the Silvan
Dam, 20 miles from Melbourne, and
invited the public to come up and see
them some time. In order that the
public might not get bushed on the way,
the card of invitation bore on its back
a definite map of the route to be fol-
lowed until people reached the spot
marked X. Thus, a surprisingly large
number of motorists contrived to view
the exhibition without such adven-
titious aids as compasses, guides, smoke-
signals or black-trackers. The house is
wonderfully equipped for such an exhi-
bition and set in picturesque surround-
ings. Miss Gurdon’s pictures are mostly
scenes from the country .surrounding her
home, with a sprinkling of European
pictures. They show a good color sense,
with possibly too deep a devotion to
dark greens, but are one and all har-
monious and well composed.
Melbourne National Gallery has
always professed to be punctilious about
the artistic value of its contents; many
years: ago it was seriously suggested to
sell S. T. Gill’s water-colors —the only
pictorial record of the goldfields era —
because they were not “works of art.”
Now, at the last meeting of the trustees,
a “framed woolwork picture of the late
Queen Victoria’s pets” was solemnly
accepted, while an offer of 30 canvases
of aborigines by Percy Leason was re-
jected as “not suitable for the National
Gallery.” The woolwork atrocity was
presented by Queen Mary—that made all
the difference. When the revolution
comes and Leason is crowned king, his
abos. will occupy the front line.


mm
m
i
*****
... but not to
owners of the
PONTIAC
Are hundreds of miles of roads (and
possible beauty spots) barred to you
. . . not merely by a sign, but by the
thought of the discomfort of travelling
them ? . . . Let a Knee-action Pontiac
open up the prospect of new thousands
of miles of interesting touring.
Pontiac’s Knee-action front wheels
cradle you in perfect comfort on the
roughest road. Bumps you see ahead
simply don’t happen. Each front wheel
flexibly mounted on its own coil spring
rises and falls like a man’s knees when
he climbs stairs, absorbing all shocks.
Safety is much increased ; the life of
the car extended. There is no tramp of
wheels on the . road, no jerk on the
steering wheel. A trial run will prove
a revelation to you.
GENERAL MOT O R S-H OL D E N’S LIMITED
v
Consult your local authorised Pontiac Dealer
PONTIAC
Straight Eight— l 934
v
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Ivy Plane and Arthur Sharman, two
of Brisbane’s best-known musicians, were
married at the Albert-street Methodist
p, ur k ch °" Saturd f > December 15. There
?.kK n ? e V S ? SP fIT ln . ho , n “
of the bride-elect, one of the ha pp test of
<hat S ' Ven by planlst
Gladys Frost . f
Joan Bonds wedding to Eric Grant
on Wednesday, December 19, was all
blue and white The bride who was
given away by her father, Ivan Bond,
wore ivory satin, cut on classic lines and
showing wrist-length sleeves. Her sister,
Mrs. Whatmore, was matron of honor,
and she had four baby bridesmaids, sweet
in blue frocks. After the ceremony a
cocktail party was held at the Ivan Bond
home, and the bride and bridegroom left
for Southport to spend a fortnight at
the Whatmore cottage.
Joan Bond’s trousseau was a miracle
of stitchery, and, excepting one lingerie
set which Cecile Whittingham brought
her from Paris, was all her own work
Mrs Julian Mack who MolUe
Ferrier, and who is related to several of
the best . known pioneering families of
Queensland, has been staying with sister
Mrs. Ross Philp at Southport. She went
home last week; Mrs. Philp travelled
with her to spend some weeks at Scone
(N.S.W.), where the Mackays reside,
Caloundra is getting its fair share of
holiday-makers ever since Vance Palmer
P ut d on the map. Among its visitors
Phyllis Cilento and her children,
Mr and Mrs. Harding Frew (he builds
bridges and things) and Mrs. Arnold
Conrad.
Edith Wagner and V. Murray will be
married on January 16. Several teas have
been given for the lady, one of the most
interesting being that arranged by Joyce
Dunlop and Joan Allsop in Rowe’s ban-
queting hall.
Betty Brenan, daughter of the Cecil
Brenans, and granddaughter of the O’Neil
Brenans (her great-uncle is story-writer
Coh Drew), is off to Sydney to spend a
holiday with her aunt, Miss Jane Brenan,
and with artist Ethel Stephens, who share
a house at Vaucluse.
Mr. and Mrs. Firmin McKinnon are
off to South Africa in the Ascanius, and
Mac. is to represent Queensland at the
Imperial Press Conference in that coun-
try. He has been the guest of honor at
various luncheons, including one given
by the Press Institute. Several parties
also were arranged for Mrs. McKinnon,
but she was too ill to attend them.
Robert Fearn Steele and Julia Nixon
between them made a very fine film out
of “Corroboree,” which was wholly pro-
duced in Queensland. R. F. Steele was
responsible for the photography, and
Mrs. Nixon wrote the incidental ab°-
music. The picture was filmed on Palm
Island.
WESTRALIA.
The lift at.Anzac House was continu-
ally in commission during the R.S.L. at-
home, for there were dancing and bridge
on the ground floor, more dancing in
the roof-garden, which was girt with
palms and colored lights, and supper in
the basement, where young gum saplings
swayed above carnations and gladioli.
Mrs. Olden’s pimpernel georgettes were
the only feminine draperies in the recep-
tion quartet; Mrs. D. M. Benson’s
florally chiffons ran to autumn tonings,
and Colonel Collet’s lady combined black
lace and georgette.
Nor’-westers Ethel Cream, of Cobra
station, and Robert Jansen, from Bullar-
doo, set out for pastures new from St.
Mary’s Cathedral. The bridal train of
fleece-white lace, soft under the dust of
a floating veil, was carried by little Mary
Leeds, shepherdessy in everlasting pink
crepe de Chine, with bonnet to match.
Matron-of-honor Mrs. Frank Leeds
sprinkled field flowers on her soft pink
ninons. *
Before their departure for Adelaide
Prof, and Mrs. Shann poured gallons of
sherry at their home in South Perth.
The horde of guests quaffed their nectar
in the sylvan gardens, where Mrs.
Shann’s floral georgettes harmonised with
the foliage. Colorful buds bloomed on
daughter Jane’s green Liberty silks, and
Betty and Margaret chose linen, the one
royal-blue and the other primrose.
A glitter in South Perth is Dorothy
Brodribb’s new ring, gift of Donald Ross,
of the same subbub.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Dances and divertissements by Nora
Stewart’s pupils at the Tivoli drew the
usual crowd of grandparents, mothers,
sisters and aunts. The little ones are
wonderfully trained, and a ballet of mice
quite brought down the house.
Mrs. G. Walton, wife of Lieut.-Col.
Walton, the Imperial headquarters repre-
sentative of Boy Scouts to the centenary
jamboree, is president of the Long-
worth branch of the Women’s Institute
in Berkshire, England, which does simi-
lar work to our C.W.A. A morning-tea
in her honor was held at the C.W.A.
rooms. The president, Mrs. H. S. Hudd,
received Mrs. Walton, who was frocked
in a cool pale-green-and-white frock with
a white panama hat—most appropriate,
as the thermometer had reached the cen-
tury.
The civic reception to the visiting in-
ternational tennis-players was held in the
reception-room of the Lady Mayoress at
the Town Hall. Mrs. Dunstan wore a
black marocain frock relieved with scar-
let and a smart black straw hat. Mrs.
Cain was present in a black crepe en-
semble and a black hat with a touch of
white. The guests, R. N. Menzel, G. de
Stefani and E. G. Maier, are a good-
looking trio.
The marriage of the P. R. Vercos’ only
daughter, Pattie, to the W. S. Angus
couple’s only son, Alexander James, took
place at the Congregational Church,
Mount Lofty. The bride looked charming
in ivory satin, with a Honiton lace veil.
Her bridesmaid, Kathleen McMichael,
wore pink-and-silver lame, with a hat of
the same tone with water-lilies on the
brim.
TASMANIA.
Launceston Grammar School’s new
chapel was dedicated by Bishop Hay.
Stones from several English public
schools (notably St. Mary’s, Launceston)
and mosaics from Jerusalem have been
donated; also communion vessels, a
bishop’s chair, a lectern and two stained-
glass windows. Australian public schools
clubbed together to buy the pillars for
the altar rails, for Launceston Grammar
is the longest-established public school
in Australia.
Lady Clark, recovered from her recent
illness, presented Collegiate School prizes
at the Town Hall, which was crowded.
In the official party were Bishop Hay
(who presided), Mrs. Cheyne (staying at
Government House), Sister Phyllis, Sister
Persis, Dean Rivers and Mr. and Mrs.
Max Butcher.
Hobart Phil.’s performance of “Mes-
siah” was attended by his Ex. and Lady
Clark, the Lud Mayor and his wife and
knight John Evans. Soloists were Minna
Rattenbury, Mrs. Kathleen Hay, Les
Fisher and Rev. C. Gribble, and the
choral singing was held to show a marked
improvement on that of other years.
The Eccles Snowden lady is once
more in Hobart, the guest of Mrs. Tom
Murdoch. Her two daughters, Jean and
Estelle, are staying with their aunt at
Montagu Bay.


51 m
mew South Wales
(Guaranteed by the State Government.)
Assets, £28,262,687.
Reserve Fund, £1,289,667 (invested mainly in Commonwealth Stock).
Commissioners:
H. ROGERS. C. R. McKERIHAN (President) P. KEARNS.
Head Office: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches:
SYDNEY, 350 George Street (opp. Wynyard Street).
ARMIDALE
BATHURST
BEGA
CASINO
COWRA
DUBBO
FORBES
GOSFORD
GRENFELL
GRIFFITH
INVERELL
LEETON
MUDGEE
NARRANDERA
ORANGE
PARKES
QUIRINDI
TAMWORTH
TEMORA
WAGGA WAGGA
WEST WYALONG
YASS
73 Agencies at Commonwealth Bank Branches.
USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
Current Accounts. Fixed Deposits.
Loans on Overdraft to Primary Producers.
a®§4}
113)341
A century of accumulated experience and sound
progress has qualified The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, to afford excep-
tional facilities to its customers.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
Advances made. Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Heartfelt Competition Entry:—
HINTS TO GARDEN-HATERS
BY LES ROBINSON
DRAWINGS BY
UNK WHITE.
WAIT until you have the whole place
to yourself and then decide that
you are doing to have a very
busy time in the garden.
You could not begin better than by
putting hobbles on all the creepers, after
snipping the spikes off the thorny ones.
Muster snails and slugs, and drive them
to fresh feeding grounds on the younger
cabbageous and adolescent lettuce
patches; also see that the caterpillars,
slaters, fruit-flies and codlin-moths have
nicely camouflaged and congenial rest-
houses, which should, of course, be fitted
with emergency exits to enable them to
enjoy absence of haste and peace of
mind when ravenous birds, gardening en-
thusiasts or other deadly enemies of
theirs are about.
A few pairs of old scissors should be
left where cut-worms, whose last season’s
cuts have by this time healed up prob-
ably, can find them, and inflict fresh
ones upon themselves and one another.
Potato beetles flourish best where least
disturbed, and, if the crop seems likely
to be a failure, hand-feeding should be
resorted to.
The same may be said of green-flies,
aphis, the woolly or merino and various
other kinds, mealy bugs, sap-suckers,
root-nibblers, bud-blighters, blinting
thrips, goobidgers and bimblibims. Black
spot, fusarian wilt, bunchy-top, roup,
ringworm, jaundice, glanders, stringhalt,
etc., always get a better hold and
do more blightingly if well protected by
waterproof material of some kind, such
as strips off someone else’s mackin-
tosh, from arsenate of lead and other
nasty fluid spray-pump and rub-on mix-
tures.
Manure all the weeds thoroughly. Ac-
customed as they have always been to
your usual ruthless and ferocious antag-
onism, some may die of shock. They
will be in the minority, though.
It will facilitate the holocaust or gen-
eral decimation to sink deeply a few
parcels of worms here and there, if the
garden seems deficient in them, and then
let the fowls in. Bandicoots are fond
of worms, too, and, having only a dim
or vague divinatory faculty, apparently,
will root up a surprisingly large area
nightly in the search for the exact inter-
ment patches.
Another and even more devastating
way of taking the smug and formal smile
off the face of an ultra-orderly suburban
garden, and sure, at the same time, to
tarnish its tiresomely immaculate escut-
cheon irretrievably, as it were, is to
spread the rumor, per medium of the
neighborhood’s most pestiferous busy-
body, that a reformed housebreaker, now
a churchwarden, has, by way of atone-
ment, told you that he once buried the
major portion of a big haul of jewellery
where your garden stands. People, even
those whom you were wont to think were
respectable, will climb the fence in the
dead of night, and if you listen intently
you will hear their muffled spades
stealthily churning up the loam.
Put lawn-motor, secateurs, pruning-
knives, trowels, forks, sickles, shears and
Coiffured Effect.
other imple-
ments out to
soak in tub of
brine, and
now proceed
without delay
to make huge
bonfire of
seed cata-
logues, horti-
cultural and
a g r i cultural
guide - books
and periodi-
cals, trellis
work, garden
stakes, rustic
seats, arbors.
summer-houses, bridges, pergolas, wheel-
barrows, rakes, hoes, hoses, etc. Use
same to boil billy and light pipe, then
go inside and write letter to compila-
tors and editors of garden publications
somewhat as follows:
“Purblind and Wearisome Sirs, —
“Do you ever pause to conjecture what
all this insensate advocacy on your part
of intense and ceaseless horticultural acti-
vity may end in? Do you ever stare into
the future? Have you ever had the
nightmarish experience of floundering
about in a large and once formal but
long-deserted garden where rosebushes
are more plentiful than anything else
except perhaps bougainvillaea, holly, spiky
aloes, strelitzias, cacti, pampas grass and
a few other saw-edged, pricklish and
thornful trees, bushes and vines? No?
Well, less fortunate people have, and that
exhausting and exasperating struggle to
extricate oneself from the spiked and
barbed greenery, clutching, clawing and
clinging with diabolical tenacity, and the
by no means easily frustrable intention
of tearing the misdirected trespasser and
flounderer to pieces, is liable to make"
him wonder whether the curse of pos-
terity rather than its blessing is likely to
be the well-merited reward of ardent
present-day suburban gardeners, rose-
growing specialists in particular. Hun-
dreds of years hence, though you may
never have thought of it, our descendants
will probably shudder over such sensa-
tional news items in disquietingly large
type as, for instance:
“ ‘THE JUNGLE WINS.
Outer Suburbs Now Uninhabitable.
Last of the Rosebush Fighters
Forced to Retire.
“ ‘Frightfully scratched, their blood-
soaked clothing dangling from them in
shreds, as though they had been mauled
by tiger-cats or involved in domestic strife,
the last gallant little band of rosebush
fighters, after superhuman efforts to stem
the encircling and ever-advancing tide of
warlike greenery that has rendered the
outer or gardening suburbs untenable and
now, spreading with terrifying rapidity,
threatens to overwhelm the city, were taken
to hospital yesterday. There is scarcely
any need to remind even the most obtuse
or forgetful of our readers that it is our
insane and far too energetic forefathers
(if only we could get near some of them
with half a brick!), who, with fatal en-
thusiasm and ceaselessness, spent their
spare time in rosegrowing, that we have
to thank for the present appalling and in-
extricable predicament we find ourselves in.
I hose were the days, of course, when it
was not illegal as now to grow anything
one fancied, whether it was potentially
disastrous to do so or not. Much too
late were the stringent restrictions imposed
that render the now unfashionable tedium
of formal gardening innocuous.’ ”
Then less prophetically, but with as
undiminished impetus, vehemence and
virulence as though you had something
to gain by it, and in verbiage the smell
of which, if it had one, would be like
garden refuse burning, blight the editors’
and compilators’ hopes that you were
about to cease fulminating because you
had run out of ammunition, so to speak,
with some such exclamatory tirade as :
“Yet you keep on urging people, in
what should be their hours of ease, to
weary themselves to death with that
wretchedly dull vice formal gardening!
Immaculately titivated and coiffured
lawns ; shaped and modish hedges, stiff
and stark, the inverted too.th- or scrub-
bing-brush effect striven for usually and
so often achieved mute testimony to their
owners’ joyless inflexibility, and sympto-
matic as well of the desk-clockularious,
clamped and clumped, slotted and
To fresh feeding.
grooved type of mind ; hacked and
jagged rosebushes (you will often find
fur and skin impaled on them, and not
always cats’ or opossums’ fur and skin
either); urns, ponds, cannon balls, crouch-
ing dogs and lions, sundials, statuettes,
tree-stumps and logs made of concrete.
Placed purposely just where strangers
are likely to trip over or bump into them
in the dark, these encumbrances are very
useful indeed to unsociable or misanthro-
pic householders, unless they happen to
be absent-minded, somnambulistic or ad-
dicted to drink, in any of which cases
their enthusiasm for formal, plus art-
crafty, gardening is likely to receive a
painful setback occasionally.
“This, that and the other primly precise
and in equidistant rows that are as
patience-straining in their monotony as
the waves of the ocean, or as scales and
exercises for the piano played over and
over until one feels like denting the per-
former’s cranium with a mallet.
“Miles and miles of creeping and
malevolent verdure —very useful indeed,'
there’s no denying, since it hides their
activities from the public gaze, to noxious
insects, parasites and reptiles galore ; but,
as scarcely any of it is edible, merely
Let the fowls in.
tripful, strangulatory, clothes-soiling,
sanguinary and enraging to the fence-
climbing, wall-scaling, roof-traversing,
anti-plantic and gardeniously subversive
section of the community. And what,
besides cramming the universe with
superfluous and soil-exhausting vegeta-
tion, is all this misspent spare-time horti-
cultural zeal, fostered so assiduously by
your enticingly worded and colored
guidebooks and pamphlets, mainly doing,
do you think? It is filling cemeteries
and asylums with daffodiligent, hippias-
tric, aquilegiacal, cinerarial, coreopsing,
antirrhinic, bignonic, mesembryanthe-
mumping and gerberously gibbering
wife-driven wrecks of human vegetables
gone dodderishly to seed!
“It would save someone else a two-
penny stamp someday if you would also
proceed to inform these cemetery and
asylum fillers that their indefatigable
assistants, the composers of such songs
as ‘ln a Chinese Temple Garden,’ ‘ln the
Garden of Your Heart,’ ‘Only a Leaf,’
‘l'm Knee-deep in Daisies,’ ‘Every Morn
1 Bring Thee Violets,’ ‘There Are Fairies
at the Bottom of the Garden,’ ‘Tiptoe
Through the Tulips with
Me,’ ‘Then I’ll Begone,
Begonia,’ ‘Where Core-
opsis I’ll Be, Too,’
‘Where the Sweet Forget-
me-nots Remember,’
‘Lay My Head Beneath
a Rose,’ ‘I Moan Be-
cause My Anemones for
Me’ and several thousand more have had
their attention drawn to the number of
constitutions they help to ruin annually
by their insidious drawing-room propa-
ganda and been requested to cease as
soon as possible, if able to combat the
(Continued on next page.)


JADED?
LISTLESS ?
NO APPETITE?
Don't turn to drugs. Take Roboleine
a wonderful concentration of
Nature's most nourishing foods com-
bined in a special way. A short course
of Roboleine will literally put new life
into you and quickly restore your
appetite for ordinary food. Doctors
all over the world prescribe it and hos-
pitals use tons of it every year.
The adult dose being one teaspoonful,
which contains an adequate ration of all
the essential vitamins, Roboleine is very
economical in use. I2oi. jars 4/6, or three
times the quantity 12/- at all chemists and
stores.
v
Send Coupon for Sample
I Muir & Neil Ltd., S B 19
Box 1562 E. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
■ I enclose 3d. in stamps for sample of
j Roboleine.
| Name
| Address
VISIT
THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
29 Years'
Stomach Pains
Ended!
I
MR. H. P. MARTIN of KELVEDON, ESSEX,
SAYS: I WRITE AS
( A SERVICE TO THE PUBLIC’
"I have suffered with gastritis (indi-
gestion, etc.) for the last 29 years. I
was none too well last April and could
hardly eat anything without pain. Seeing
your advertisement for ‘ Bisurated ’
Ma gnesia I bought a bottle and am pleased
to tell you that I got free from pain almost
at once. I can now eat my food without
fear of pain and lam in better health. I
send this letter with the object of being a
service to the public. I am truly very
grateful for the benefit I have had from
it.... I am keeping quite fit thanks to
* Bisurated ’ Magnesia.”
For indigestion, gastritis and other
painful stomach troubles there is no
more effective remedy than * Bisurated’
Magnesia which has been used and
recommended by doctors and hospitals
for over 20 years. This remarkable
remedy has brought instant and perma-
nent relief to thousands who had almost
given up hope.
BISURATED’
MAGNESIA
POWDER TABLETS
Every package bears the
oval ‘ Bismag ’ Trade Mark ■
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
FOR quiet 9
quick shift
and easy
start
w
LEMI
E
©Stands for
"ALEMITE”
which means correct lubrica-
tion under high pressure of all
bearings and metal contacts
in a motor vehicle. All dirt,
sand, grit are forced out...
new, clean, Alemite Lubri-
cant is forced in to give protec-
tion and increase efficiency.-
"ALEMITE”
these
Y 1)0 ( Ms)siv~ n/iv demands lubrication of
year highest quality. Alemite
has developed protection for the three types of gear
in general use and for all seasonal conditions.
Never w grease” the gears in the transmission—in-
sist on ''Alemite” Special Gear Lubricant every 3000
to 4000 miles and note the better performance.
Aleurite Corporation
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS. U. S. A.
Cable Address : ALMIT .. . Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust>—2-33
E.
SPARE THE LUBRICANT - SPOIL THE MOTOR
mania, from maundering florally and
trying to shed glamor over an irritating,
ageing and perniciously prevalent method
of putting more fute in futility and ab-
stracting the fizz from physique.”
Having dropped the large, insufficiently
stamped envelopes addressed to editors
and compilators of gardening guides,
periodicals, calendars, pamphlets, etc.,
containing, as well as facsimiles of your
missive, copies of the Garden-haters’
Aggression Pact, into the nearest pillar-
box, it will now be advisable, as the bliss
of having the whole place to yourself
may not last much longer, to take to the
bush ; only look out it doesn’t, in the
pugnacious or bellicose meaning of the
phrase, take to you instead,
It is pleasing to be able to mention,
by the way, that many members of the
Late-risers and Bed-lovers’ League have
signified their intention of signing the
Garden-haters’ Aggression (in their case,
afternoons only) Pact.
Out of the Never Never:-
George's Accommodating
Brother
BY ARTHUR W. UPFIELD
Believing us to be asleep, she thought-
fully went through our clothes, and even
slipped her hand beneath our pillows. As
thoughtfully she refrained from taking the
loose change from the dressing-table.
U\\T HEN we get round this
Y V bend we must step on
it,” George said as we
approached a line of sand-
dunes which, stabbing the river’s
elbow from across the wide,
grey flats, recalled a different
world to that of gum-trees, cool shadows
and running water.
We were travelling southward, swags
up, billies and waterbags empty. We
were travelling light and fast, with
cheques in our pockets and the alkaloids
of a year’s drinking of surface water
coating our throats. Little more than
one mile ahead was a supply of that
which is the most efficacious remover of
alkaloids in this world.
On reaching the summit of the sand-
dunes physical effort was forgotten by
the sight of One-tree Halt dancing and
shimmering in the heat haze. Even the
one tall red-gum growing in the centre
of the township shimmered and jazzed.
“Come on!” urged George. “Step on
it! Young Ted will be up that tree look-
ing out for chequemen.”
When a youth appeared frantically
pedalling a bicycle towards us, George
heaved a deep sigh. His swag was twice
as big as mine, but his body was only
half as large. His red hair and wild
whiskers rivalled any morning-glory.
“Hullo, Ted! ” he cried when the youth
dismounted.
“Day, Mr. West,” replied the boy,
grinning widely. From the basket on
the front carrier he produced two bottles
of beer and two thin glasses. “Mrs.
O’Murphy sent me along to welcome you
to One-tree Halt,” he recited easily.
“She sends her compliments, and she
says as how she ’as your rooms ready.”
“Take the empties back, and tell her
we’ll be seeing ’er in ten minutes,”
George said when he regained his wind.
The boy rode off back with the empties
and the glasses, and with even greater
speed we moved upon the town.
AN the outskirts were the usual mobs
of goats fossicking round the usual
bag-and-petrol-tin humpies; then the
brick-built police station and the ram-
bling Darling Hotel opposite. Beside
the hotel was a store.
We plugged along the main street, un-
marked by sidewalks, and so came at
last to the home of our dreams —The
Coach Exchange, owned by Mrs.
O’Murphy, which stood in the shadow of
the solitary gum-tree. Beyond, further
down the street, was another store, a
third hotel, the post office, more petrol-
tin humpies and more mobs of goats.
The next minute we were reclining
against a bar counter, and were being
served with deep-nose-ers by a diminutive
woman of great age whose broad smile
did not quite iron out the glint in her
hard blue eyes.
“Well, this is a surprise, Mr. West,”
gushed Mrs. O’Murphy for the tenth
time. George called her Ma. “Where
have ye come from an’ all?”
“Me an’ ’Ampshire has been workin’
—fill ’em up, please. Me an’ ’Ampshire’s
been up on Talarra for more’n twelve
munse,” George managed to say between
swallows, and I saw the brain behind
the blue eyes rapidly calculating the
strength of our cheques. Time passed
pleasantly.
“Now, you boys,” chirped Mrs.
O’Murphy an hour later, when a heavy
triangle was beaten somewhere back of
the house. “Go and wash. Dinner’s
ready. Your room’s Number Eleven.”
George stationed me at the door of
our bedroom whilst he conducted a
searching examination to discover an effi-
cient plant for our money, we having
agreed to pool our wealth and draw from
it a fiver each every day. He had cashed
his cheque with Mrs. O’Murphy before
the haze thickened, and by prizing out-
ward a section of skirting-board with a
knife he slipped my cheque and a roll
of notes behind it. When the knife was
removed, the board sprang back again
against the wall, and imprisoned the wad.
HUSK was creeping over the peaceful
U town when the north-bound coach
pulled out. I met Ted coming down the
ladder nailed to the mighty trunk of the
tree growing just outside the bar, and
I asked him point-blank what work he
did up there among its branches. Each
freckle on his round face drew wider
apart when he smiled, and one forgot
the ragged trousers and the old shirt in
the beam of that smile.
“I lives up this tree most all day,” he
stated with pride. “Old Ma pays me a
quid a week and tucker to keep a look-
out for chequemen. From the top of
that tree I can see for miles. I can see
everythink wot comes round Sandy Bend,
as well as wot comes across Wide Flat
to the south. When I sees a chequeman
coming I reports to Ma, and she sends
me off on the bike with a bottle or two
of beer and a kind welcome. You see,
all the chequemen ’as got to pass one or
other of the other pubs before they can
hit Ma’s joint, and if they weren’t met
properly not one of ’em would get this
far, Ma’s pub being in the middle of the
town, like.”
Asked how he knew a chequeman from
a stiff on tramp, he readily explained.
“I can tell that easy enough. If
they’re stiff they just ambles. If they’re
chequemen, they trots. Over the last
two years I only made one mistake.”
v He was about to depart with a shilling
tip when he turned back to whisper:
“You keep yer money well down south,
or you’ll be eatin’ galah quicker than
you’ll have to.”
Unenlightened on the subject of diet,
I watched him till he disappeared round
the building, and then waited to see the
arrival of the south-bound coach drawn
in by five weary horses and bringing four
thirsty passengers. A person having but
one eye attached himself to me with
touching affection, and from him I
learned that Ma O’Murphy’s mother had
been the founder of the hotel and of
One-tree Halt. As the place grew around
the pub and the yards for Cobb and Co.’s
horses, in course of time a hotel had
been erected on her either flank, taking
from her hotel some of the cream of the
business. Hence the employment of Ted,
first to announce the coming, and then
to meet all chequemen with refreshment
before they could reach one of the oppo-
sition hotels. My affectionate friend esti-
mated Ma’s roll at fifty thousand pounds.
IT quickly became evident that George
would not run away should Mrs.
O’Murphy ask him to marry her, her
husband long since having drunk him-
self to death. George had had his hair
and beard trimmed. He wore his best
clothes, and kept them well brushed and


to
i
VyA
m
n"'
.^JIL 1 Y'l ,
wes&S*- &•
is
il |,| lipt»« s :
Warn
o^VNNW\N\
m
I
«sfe
This "Garden of the East"
has countless attractions
for the tourist. Beautiful
landscapes towering
mountains ancient tem-
ples —bazaars—colourful
native life—palatial hotels.
Equipped with every
modem convenience the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" sails
regularly from Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane by
way of the Great Barrier
Reef, Thursday Island,
Darwin, Sourabaya, Sama--
rang and Batavia, to Sing-
apore. Fares have been
greatly reduced and are
free of exchange.
At your request we shall be pleased
to forward folder No 25.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY 4 TELEPHONE B 7901
312 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE 128 ADELAIDE ST.. BRISBANE
FOR THE MAJORITY
Few are so fortunately placed that the future holds no
problems, and, since it is apparent that the majority of people
receive moderate incomes, it is just as obvious that the majority
can attain financial independence only by systematic saving.
After all, some sacrifice, some self-discipline is unavoidable
if anything worth while is to be gained.
The Savings Account provides a safe, profitable and convenient
method.
CbmiHonwealtl) savmgssank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch offices-Melbourne
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).'
WHY NOT TRAVEL cm
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
to
CANADA
U.S.A.
and
EUROPE
via
South Sea Isles
and
New Zealand
Fortnightly Sailings
Across the Pacific
UNION S.S. CO., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
I
D
V
'll.
v
creased, and he refrained from getting
properly drunk despite the fact that what
he did consume would have paralysed an
ordinary man.
For three consecutive nights did Ma
O’Murphy visit us in the small hours.
With a “Are you boys quite comfort-
able?” she sidled into the bedroom. Be-
lieving us to be asleep, she thoughtfully
went through our clothes, and even
slipped her hand beneath our pillows.
As thoughtfully she refrained from tak-
ing the loose change from the dressing-
table.
In her dining-room we occupied places
of honor at the long table, above which
on the wall hung a full-length picture of
the Iron Duke. At a smaller table were
placed those guests who no longer were
chequemen, whose money had been
transferred to Ma’s till, and who were
living on credit whilst allegedly prepar-
ing for the track. Every mealtime Ma
would first come round our table to ask
if we would take a slice of beef or a
cut of mutton. To those at the smaller
table she would say:
“Will ye be havin’ a cut o’ goot, or
will ye take a bit o’ gahh?” One to
whom a little credit still remained might
choose goat—and get it. Should, how-
ever, there be any present whose credit
had completely vanished, and who had
the temerity to select goat, Ma would
hiss: “Indade ye won’t. Ye’ll be havin’
a bit o’ galah.”
We, in our state of affluence, were ever
confronted by the ultimate “bit o’ galah.”
Galahs were the inevitable fare of all
chequemen staying at Ma O’Murphy’s.
It was as though they slid down a greased
incline, tossing shillings as quickly as
possible into Ma’s till and eating beef
and mutton until, having no more shil-
lings to toss, they arrived at the bottom
where many galahs awaited their masti-
cation.
nOWN and down towards the galahs
U slid George and I. Our money plant
was shrivelling with alarming rapidity.
When Ma asked George how we were
enjoying our rest from labor, he admitted
that soon we would have to return to
those labors if he could not induce his
wealthy brother in Adelaide to send him
some money. That afternoon he in-
tended to dispatch an urgent telegram
seeking financial assistance.
Into the beady blue eyes leapt the
first flash of coldness that was so closely
allied to a “bit o’ galah,” but the next
morning, when the postboy brought
George a telegram, and when on open-
ing it George smiled and shouted snifters
all round, Ma tried hard to see how
much money had been wired, and she
still smiled when George walked down
the street to collect.
Without doubt George’s brother in
Adelaide was a trump. ' Every week
George sent off a wire, and every week
he received a telegram which took him
to the post office. After many weeks
had passed the goats and the galahs with-
drew into the mists of improbability.
One telegram received by George, how-
ever, mystified me. I found it on our
bedroom floor. It read:
“Sorry. Cannot supply paint you re-
quire.—Icor and Company.”
A week or so later I found another
of George’s telegrams. It read:
“Regret unable to supply book asked
for. — Book Marks.”
The period of our alcoholic splendor
extended to months. We were the most
popular men who ever had stayed at
Ma’s pub.
THEN there arrived one day on the
1 coach from Cobar two city men
who said they had come to purchase a
site and to let the contract for the build-
ing of a branch bank.
Ma said that a bank had long been
wanted at One-tree Halt. George was
silent. I was not greatly interested be-
cause George’s accommodating brother
was going to live for ever. We sat on
the verandah between drinks, idly watch-
ing the new bank going up, and the
further it went up the longer lasted
George’s fits of depression.
Chequeman after chequeman was re-
ported by the tree-dweller; was met by
the tree-dweller with bottles of beer and
Ma’s compliments; finally arrived to be
effusively welcomed. Chequeman after
chequeman slithered down the money
incline, tossing their shillings into the
till, finally to be severely told:
“Indade ye won’t. Ye’ll be havin’ a
bit o’ galah.”
Every time I heard that hissed into
the ear of some poor devil I gave thanks
to George’s brother in Adelaide.
The bank building was at last finished,
and on the day it opened for business
we ate breakfast in an unusual silence.
Afterwards, George and I sat on the
verandah and watched the new manager
go across to the building and let him-
self in. George muttered something
about the crimson money monsters bat-
tening on the poor. Punctually at ten
o’clock the door was thrown open, and
that appeared to be the signal for Ma
O’Murphy to walk out of her bar door
with a well-filled paper bag clutched in
her hands. She smiled at George, and
then quickly crossed the track to the
bank. When she disappeared inside
George sighed as though in pain.
Two stiffs came and stung me for ten
shillings. Ted came down the tree ladder
in a great hurry with the news that an-
other chequeman was in sight. With-
out waiting orders from Ma, he obtained
a bottle of beer from the yardman who
was looking after the bar, and a second
later he was racing off on his bike. The
policeman’s dog chased a cat into the
store opposite the post office, whence
came a woman’s screams, a man’s oaths,
smashing crockery and a dog’s frantic
yelps.
Through it all George remained in
pensive gloom.
FROM that day we lived in a shadow.
The flow of ale did not diminish, but
henceforth George received no more
telegrams.
At the end of the following week our
decline came, and came swiftly. Ma was
distinctly disappointed when George
asked for a couple of deep-nose-ers and
requested that a note of the transaction
be made on the slate. That was during
the morning. At lunch we were moved
to the smaller table in the dining-room.
“Will ye be havin’ a cut o’ goot or a
bit o’ galah?” asked Ma.
George selected goat, and got it. [
nominated galah, determined to get used
to poultry as quickly as possible. How-
ever the following morning we rolled
our swags.
“What! Are ye lavin’?” said the aston-
ished landlady.
“Yes. We gotta knock up another
cheque apiece. That brother of mine in
Adelaide ’as gone an’ died on us,” George
explained.
“Well, well! Ye’ll be havin’ a deep-
nose-er on me afore ye pull out. An’
ye’ll be goin’ along to the cook for to
fill yer gunny-sacks for the track. My
—my! What a time ye’ve had! I’ve
enjoyed yer stay, and I’ll be lookin’ for
to see ye again soon.”
I ticked up a bottle of whisky; and,
with exceptional care and restraint, even-
tually we regained normality and came
to view the break at Ma O’Murphy’s pub
in its true perspective.
ONE evening when fishing, or pretend-
ing to because the fish wouldn’t bite,
George said, chuckling:
“We ’ad a good spin, any’ow. , Some
blokes would have gone too deep early
in the piece. Moderation in all things
is my motter.”
“How much do you owe your
brother?” I asked.
George grinned and winked.
“Nothink,” he said. “Sending away
for stuff I knoo them firms wouldn’t
stock and getting my reply-paid tele-
grams back was just a blind to keep
nasty suspicions from giving old Ma in-
somnia. She give me insomnia once
when she pinched me roll the first night
I camped there, leaving me only six and
ninepence on the dressing-table. That’s
’er way of doing business, and I ain’t
cryin’ it down. If a man’s a mug he
deserves a kick in the neck to remind
him of it. This time, I does a bit of
snoopin’ round after the bar shuts down,
and I seen Ma putting away her takings
in a box wot she had in a hole in the
wall behind that picture of the Dook of
Wellington. After that I went to her
plant every week to take out some of
our money to spend over and over again.
Ma ’ad ’undreds of pounds in that box,
but I was honest enough only to take
out enough to keep us going comfortably
from week to week.
“Of course, when they opened that
damned bank it meant good-bye to my
dear brother in Adelaide, and a course
of fifty-years-old galahs. That’s the
worst of being honest. A honest man
never gets anywhere bar the long, long
track. The night before the bank opened
I should have taken all of Ma’s roll, but
I just couldn’t be a thief.”
Pigeon-Right.
Through the evening’s overture
Of pastel serenity
The far-away flocks of silver pigeons fly,
As a ripple of distant notes
Played by the hand of God
Would sweep in a gracious chord across the
sky.
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
X
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
<Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 1 8 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
The SATURDAY EVENING EXPRESS
The only
Evening Paper
in the North
of Tasmania.
The S.E. Express gives a guaranteed
circulation in Launceston, the Mid-
lands, and the North-West Coast of
T asmania.
Besides being a Sporting Journal, it
is the Sunday Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania.
ADVERTISE IN THE S.E. EXPRESS FOR WEEK-END READING.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “The Examiner” (daily) and “Weekly Courier”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St., Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kemlbla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
My Political
Life
By W. A. HOLMAN
The public had heard rather more
about the slenderness of our majority
than I thought was altogether good for
it. Everybody knew that the difference
between us and the Opposition was only
one vote. The people had been told to
regard us as men cast away looking to be
washed off by the next storm. When on
the very first vote of censure we could
win by 10 or 12, which is what a turnover
of five or six meant, a considerable shock
ran through the public gallery.
We were suddenly revealed as a Gov-
ernment with a solid majority and a fair
chance of living. A great many people
who had business with the Government,
and who had imagined that in three
months they would be again negotiating
with Wade, saw light instantly. If we
could win one vote of censure by these
numbers, there was no reason in the
nature of things why we should not win
a dozen.
There was a slight but perceptible
change in the attitude of everybody at
once. The Upper House, the press, the
Railway Commissioners, our bankers,
Ihe public service generally, all began to
think that perhaps we were not merely
a Government pour rire, as they sup-
posed, but might have to be reckoned
with seriously for a long time. Our pres-
tige improved.
One swallow does not make a summer,
however, and whatever temporary advan-
tage we gained by this minor diplomatic
success was entirely swept away in the
vicissitudes that followed.
THE
CORONATION
Before any fur-
ther attack could
occur the Houses
had to take their
'hare in the Coronation celebrations.
Our team rose well to a sense of its duty
here, little as it had been associated be-
fore with ceremonial matters.
Some earlier decisions, to the effect
that one large section of the effort must
be devoted to impressing the nature and
importance of the event upon children,
and that the proper persons to do this
were the authorities of the Education
Department, had freed us of a good
deal of embarrassing detail, while arous-
ing immense interest among young people
and their parents. A committee under
the Government Architect was appointed
to supervise the city decorations, and
Flowers and T arranged to move con-
gratulatory resolutions in the two Cham-
bers simultaneously.
A minor but highly-interesting occur-
rence in this connection was the refusal
of Fisher to illuminate the General Post
Office as part of the decorative scheme.
Whether this was due to an excess of
democratic feeling among the Federal
Labor men, to a well-timed economy or
to mere wooden-headedness on the part
of some subordinate was never disclosed.
The fact remains that the Federal
authorities mulishly refused all solicita-
tions to join in, and on the Coronation
night the Commonwealth’s buildings re-
mained dark and churlish blobs among
the floods of rejoicing brightness which
covered the rest of the city.
While a general pleasure was expressed
at the adequate and dignified manner in
which we —that is, actually, our expert
committee—had carried through the
occasion, the sullen aloofness of the
Federal power was much disliked, and in
some quarters seriously misunderstood.
We had sufficient humanity in us to be
gratified at the sight of our ultra-virtuous
Federal brethren “getting it in the neck”
for once.
WE further improved the occasion, too,
by the speeches Flowers and I
made in our respective Chambers in mov-
ing the loyal resolution.
Gratifying as this service was, the task
was not without certain difficulties. The
so-called “loyalism” of that period was
often tainted with a note of excessive
adulation which our party had always
deprecated. Flowers and I sought to
avoid any suggestion of over-passionate
protestations, while we were anxious in
moving such congratulatory address to
do it in becoming terms.
This sounds perhaps too trifling a diffi-
culty to mention, but it was for a day or
so very real. We determined upon em-
phasising the many advantages the Em-
pire gains from its form of government,
and we stressed as matter for democratic
admiration the happy combination of
liberty and order symbolised in the Coro-
nation ceremony. We dwelt on the peace
and certainty of the succession and the
ease, to which the world could testify, with
which one mighty monarch, under our
constitutional system, stepped into the
vacant throne of another. On this really
important theme we spoke freely and
feelingly, and a startled world woke up
the next morning to read the compli-
mentary headlines given us by an aston-
ished press.
DISSENSIONS
IN THE PARTY
So far our
public perform-
ances of the new
session had been
successful and good. We had made defi-
nite headway in two or three directions,
and the note of ridicule was perceptibly
a little softened. In spite of these visible
successes, however, behind the scenes
the march of our ranks towards disrup-
tion was going steadily on.
I have not narrated here, nor could I
indeed recall now, the various steps by
which I endeavored desperately to hold
the conflicting elements together. It was
already apparent that a large majority of
the party was against Neilsen’s views on
the Repeal Bill, and unhappily it was
also becoming more and more apparent
that Neilsen would either carry his own
ideas or leave the Ministry.
AT a meeting of the party the whole
matter came up for settlement. But
by the closing hour nothing had been
settled, and it was agreed that the meet-
ing should go on, although the House
was sitting. The business set down that
evening was the Criminal Appeal Bill,
on which I had to make either an intro-
ductory or a second-reading speech. I
had gone to considerable trouble in pre-
paring this speech, and had, incidentally,
read up all the doings of the English
Royal Commission which had reported
on the question some years before. It
seemed a pity to waste it all. on the
desert air of an unsympathetic Opposi-
tion, but there was nothing else for it.
I accordingly arranged that I should go
into the House alone, while the rest of
the party remained in the party-room
under the chairmanship of a colleague
and thrashed out the lands dilemma. I
asked for only one volunteer, one faith-
ful comrade, who would support me in
the Chamber in case it was necessary to
obtain documents or send out messages.
T. Keegan, the member for Glebe, was
the devoted spirit who offered. He under-
took to absent himself from the room
where the fate of the Ministry, and, for
aught we knew, of the movement, was
being settled, and to listen to me for an
hour and a half on abstract principles
of criminal jurisprudence. I hope he
profited by it. It was a trying experience
to face the serried ranks of Opposition-
ists, and be smitten with their interjec-
tions, without the meed of sympathetic
cheers.
At first the Opposition was at a loss as
to what could be the matter. It was only
after some time that it dawned upon
members that our lands difficulties had
reached a climax, but from then on a
series of cleverly turned witticisms,
directed not at what 1 was arguing, but
at what might reasonably be supposed
Flowers, M.L.C.
to be going on
in the party-
room, punctu-
ated the later
parts of my dis-
course. I con-
tinued imper-
turbablyenough,
however, until
my speech and
the party meet-
ing were both
finished. When
we rose that
night the bill
was well on to-
wards comple-
tion, but the
early loss of Neilsen seemed almost a
certainty.
DEFECTION OF
DUNN AND HORNE
Neilsen w a s
not yet in the
, to take
any decisive step.
But two of our new members, quite
unnecessarily alarmed over the kind of
measure that Neilsen might bring in
and that they might be compelled to
support, resolved to forestall all such pos-
sibilities by at once taking action them-
selves.
How they came to adopt this resolu-
tion, and still more to act upon it, with-
out consulting me, I am unable to ex-
plain, any more than I can account tor
my knowing nothing of their ideas until
the blow fell. In some way, during these
few days, I had got right out of touch
with the keenly anti-Neilsen group. _ I
was, I suppose, chiefly concerned to in-
duce him to reconsider his course, and
took for granted, rather rashly, that the
others, having won the day at the party
meeting, would be satisfied. The whole
session had been clouded with the im-
pending crisis—our first —and these few
days were days of special anxiety.
Thus matters stood until July 25, when
Wade moved another vote of censure
of which he had given notice 24 hours
before. By this time the Independents
had become less friendly. Still, strong
in the reflection that we had a majority
of one over all other parties combined,
we listened to the unfolding of the attack,
as Wade’s speech proceeded, with all
proper self-possession.
I was sitting on the front bench, as
temporary head of the Government, and
in that capacity rather enjoying the ex-
perience of my second censure vote,
when two letters were handed to me by
one of the messengers. These were from
Dunn and Horne —the two doubtful
spirits—informing me that they had that
day written to the Speaker resigning from
Parliament!
1 SUPPOSE few Premiers or Acting-
Premiers have been confronted with
the resignation in a body of their entire
majority just in the middle of a vote of
censure motion. Such, now, was my em-
barrassing position. I replied to Wade,
when my turn came, vigorously enough,
and fairly effectively, and we pressed
matters to an issue that night. The In-
dependents were undecided, and some of
the Liberals were away. We won on the
division by several votes, and I was com-
plimented by several of our men on
maintaining a cool head and stiff upper
lip in the face of disaster.
These compliments were not really
earned, as at that stage I had not re-
garded the blow as a fatal one. I still
counted on the Independents in all or in
part. It was not until late in the next day
that 1 realised how illusory that hope
was.
Enlightenment came next evening with
stunning directness. We were dealing
with a supply bill, and when the division
was taken the voting was exactly equal
—37 all. Here the Speaker gave his cast-
ing vote for us and we were saved. But
these figures indicated, when pairs had
been allowed for, that the whole of the
Independents were rallied against us and
the Liberals in their places; in other
words, that the Opposition was united!
The united Opposition outnumbered us —
deprived of Dunn’s and Horne’s votes —
by one vote!
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given m next week’s Bulletin.]


* M
m
I rim
rnmimßß
wMmm
-11 .' fi
mm WmEmmStimm
msmm
m
“Just a COLD!”
But smash it quickly
With <(wv)«
Double D
isucaliffttud SxPuut
v
'Fake 3 drops of Double “D” on a lump
of sugar—being pure, Double “D” is
safe to take internally.
Rub Double “D” thoroughly into chest
and back—Double “D” is strong, and
will quickly penetrate.
Inhale 16 drops of Double “D” in & jug
of hot water. Double “D” contains no
irritants, and will have a very soothing
effect.
In -this treatment the powerful germicidal vapors of Double
“D” Eucalyptus are brought right into contact with the Cold
germs in the nose, mouth, throat and lungs, and will surely
destroy these germs.
What is “just a Cold” to-day may develop into ’Flu,
Bronchitis, or something even more serious by to-morrow.
Do not hesitate——let Double “D” Eucalyptus quickly drive
away all traces of your Cold. At the same time it will
soothe the inflamed membranes of the nose and throat, and
break-up any signs of a Cough.
Every drop of Double “D” Eucalyptus is double distilled,
and is guaranteed to be entirely free from Phellandrene,
to contain over 70 per cent. Cineol, and to conform in every
way to the standard laid down by the British Pharmacopoeia.
Double “D” is the highest grade, purest and strongest
Eucalyptus sold in Australia. For your own safety, demand
it, and take no other.
9d. » Enormous sales » 1/3
Double strength—Double purity
The Ideal Gift Book for Boys
v
PEARLS OF PAPUA
By Commander H. C. Brewster
A really topnotch book for boys—indeed, for anyone who
retains some boyish love of exciting open-air adventure. Pearls
of Papua takes the reader first pearling on the North Australian
grounds and then into a series of excitements while the leading
characters are wandering amidst hostile and friendly tribes
through the heart of Papua. The adventures are not imaginary-
Commander Brewster bases them on life experiences making
of them a lively narrative, touched with humor. Pearls of Panua
can be heartily recommended as a wholesome, stirring tale that
any boy will joy to have as a gift.
Price 5/- (postage 4d. extra)
Obtainable from all booksellers, or direct from
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
252 George Street, Sydney.
fainJ
ffluumattim
M
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
will make you
PAIN-FREE
THE causes which produce Joint Pains and Rheumatism are often silently
accumulating in the system FOR YEARS. Poor digestion, stomach troubles,
weak kidneys, torpid liver, and a general inactive condition of the system leave
the refuse and waste matter, which should be carried off, to sour and form
uric acid, which is absorbed into the blood.
When the blood is in this acid-charged condition, it deposits the poisons and
irritating particles with which it is loaded, in the muscles, nerves, joints and
bones. Then Joint Pains, Rheumatismi or some other form of Kidney Froub ©
GETS POSSESSION OF THE SYSTEM, and life is made miserable by its pains,
aches and discomforts,
The changing of the weather, exposure to cold and dampness, etc., . always
increase the trouble, and so severe does the pain become that quick relief must
be had. External rubbing is often helpful, but it should be remembered that
relief from such treatment is only temporary, because the trouble is in the
blood, and cannot be removed by external applications.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills end Joint Pains and Rheumatism by RIDDING THE
BLOOD OF THE CAUSE. They are absorbed into the circulation, and by
invigorating and cleansing the blood of the acid poisons, and sending a stream
of fresh, rich blood to all parts, remove the pain, reduce the inflammation, and
bring lasting relief in a very short time
The fact that over three million Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills are sold annually
speaks for itself. They have been on
the Australian market for over 25 years,
and have brought relief to tens of
thousands of one-time sufferers.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills is the safe treat-
ment for Joint Pains and Rheumatism,
because they contain no harmful ingredi-
ents of any kind which might damage
the system.
Have the Health That Can Be Yours
By Beginning a Course of Dr.
Sheldon*s Gin Pills To-day.
Jheldom
rx*
GIN PIUS
27 PILLS 1/9—60 PILLS 2/9.
X
Vv© c
JP
kP
\>*
*'y
*o^
+j».
*v
I
o°^
' yyyy^s


THE NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS
The first Office in the World to apply the
Surrender Value of Life Policies in Paying the
Premiums, so as to Prevent a Policy Lapsing until
the surrender value is exhausted.
Extracts from the
65th ANNUAL REPORT
23,056 New Policies Assuring . . £9,119,606
New Annual Premiums ..... £329,488
Income for Year £4,902,113
Payments to Policyholders . . . £2,857,242
Added to Assurance Fund . . . £1,607,832
Assurance Fund at 30/9f34 . . . £37,851,006
Amount Assured under Policies
Current £89,184,459
The above figures comprise ORDINARY
ASSURANCE ONLY. The Association does not
transact industrial Assurance.
offices throughout New Zeahndj Great Britain, South
Africa, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
New South Wales Board:
Sir John Vicars.
W. D. Stewart, Esq. Sir William Vicars, C.B.E.
Oswald St. Clair, Manager.
OFFICES’
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
