

APPOINTMENT TO H.M.THE KING
■
SOT
GUAR
. a
Ca«fcle OK UWSV
frwn Malt *pd
Go
fieri
CfiUy
dolicafcß flavor of
fiottloi CorifSiri apprex
V) txji
QISZO=
pm
USTRA^SgI
f^oo.uce.
or
, H*® SIR CHARLES A- “J
iw f ’ n b «» »/ Hyi‘fc mdd«“
' 4 »iu Co Hoi# of Suof&n* li
'•‘Ui/atr‘ iU4M ,u ‘ 'Jiwum'”' ",*!'!!!, u (1
, "•MUlw.lf - ,IM It ’
Mu.
ViJ-y«* £*«e 0£ GIN Ul , 1
llMn '"“lui».,. Ull , u ,„. , lU . w»-.V , I"'
Uk “ L <“< 'm •■> to' r* ,
M, “‘“I "«**"< , l( Him''' a cfl"'
'":■ ! lUfll w
v <!.■ , “! 'U. v. U,„ m" ini'".
pft ' ■* 'HI" III" Uitwl * u
oc C
v\\\\vw 'UvA"
GILBEY S, the STRONGEST gin# not
the minimum proof strength allowed
by law.
Gilbey's# therefore, completely fulfils
its most important objectives.
Its well-known medicinal value is
immediately beneficial owing to the
essential properties having been
preserved. Thus you use less in
cocktails and retain the full flavour.
Cheap# inferior gins cannot be
considered in the same category.
Always consider your health and
pocket by purchasing only gin from
the famous house of Gilbey.
. , . . therefore#
Don’t say Gin . say —
THE
5
DRYCIN
The Bulletin
j'ltljWLgjiJLd !
Vol. 55.—N0. 2821.
Wednesday, March 7, 1934,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. NS W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR. New Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be sent, post free, to
ny address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Learn
HU
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 234
\
%v
m
r\
>
*/
m
It pays to look your best
at all times
Cuticura Soap
will do much to help you.
Used daily, it protects the
skin and keeps it in a healthy
condition.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age’’ has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, whfch appeals to an intelli-
gent pubijc,-and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as ati advertising medium,
cannot be. disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure,
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
&ie. vfrurfip w
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES <SS
v ——~~™====±*±
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George St. (near Bridge St.).
Recent additions include works by Maud
Sherwood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel
Carrick Fox, and other prominent Aus-
tralian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current eventi
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street. >
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies, the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
w. J. HESLiEHUKST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THINGS ARE MOVING
IN THE WEST!
Visitors to the Golden West express
pleasant surprise at the state of trade,
the outward signs of prosperity and
the progress in Western Australia'.
Western Goldmines produced 80 p.c.
of Australia’s gold last year. West-
ern pastoralists have received splendid
prices for wool. The building trade
is getting back to pre-depression
days.
THERE IS TRADE-
GOOD TRADE
for Eastern States Merchants. Reach
out for it by using the largest news-
The Perth
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Melbourne Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins St.
paper m tne west.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Something New
With wearisome iteration most English
novelists exploit the old plots, situations
and characters. People go to the Con-
tinent—and mostly to the same parts of
it—and have the same amorous adven-
tures. Or they go to America and meet
gangsters, millionaires, dope fiends and
dipsomaniacs. Or they stay in the West
End of London and meet much the same
people and do much the same things
there. A few new plots are needed almost
as badly in Paternoster Row as they are
in the places that England’s film comedies
come from.
The writers of the two novels reviewed
below seem to have realised it. They are
nothing much as writers, and they haven’t
particularly original minds. Their merit
lies in the fact that they are pioneers,
forerunners. They have got away from
the beaten track.
Hero-murderer
In their preoccupation with congenital
murderers nearly all modern crime
writers have overlooked an outstanding
incentive to murder throughout the ages—
the congenital murderee. Alan Brock
has made one a central figure in By Mis-
adventure (Nicholson and Brown:
7s. 6d.).
The action takes place in one of those
ruined London suburbs that delighted
the dyspeptic soul of George Gissing.
Young Henry Draper has inherited a
dying ironmongery business. A manag-
irig aunt brings her two daughters to the
funeral of Henry’s father, intent on
marrying one of them off. Ada gets
him. For over two-thirds of the„ book
the intolerable stupidities, selfishnesses
and snobberies of Ada are stressed. She
is contrasted with her sister, whom Henry
has come to love.
Henry and Ada are nearing middle age
when the obvious idea strikes him. Ada,
like all her kind, has a craze for tele-
phoning. Poised over the receiver are
some massive iron weights ; he merely
has to adjust them and gravitation, com-
bined with Ada’s bustling ways, will
bring him happiness. But it isn’t as easy
as all that; he has to try and try again
before he succeeds in killing her.
An Old Bailey prosecutor would call
him one of the most cold-blooded vil-
lains on record, and the Recorder and
public would agree. Yet he is a highly
sympathetic character in this story; and
when the kindly old local doctor, who
alone knows of his guilt, makes fools of
the police and coroner and sends him
off to the seaside to recuperate, the reader
is relieved. Rough justice has been done.
Ada is savagely drawn, but not so
much so as to make her inhuman ; there
are women like her in every community.
By nature Henry is another Mr. Polly,
one who in happier circumstances would
never have thought of murder. Chance
transformed him into another Dr.
Crippen. Speaking with the voice of
Dr. Mac Alister, Mr. Brock says:
“I’ve no doubt that many of us would be
murderers if the means had been ready to
hand. In Crippen’s case the means were always
read v to hand, and he was daily driven to
desperation by the terrible woman he had for
a wife.”
A disturbing theory, but there may be
something in it.
A Seven-and-sixpenny “Blood”
In choosing Dick Turpin as a promi-
nent character in They Ride Again
(Matthews and Marrot; 7s. 6d.) Collin
Brooks broke no new ground. Turpin
is one of the Big Five (Jack Sheppard,
Claude Duval, Jonathan Wild and
Eugene Aram are the others) who have
figured over and over again in English
romances. Harrison Ainsworth described
the ride to York in “Rookwood,” and
Turpin’s career interested Dickens, Lyt-
ton and George Borrow. Mr. Brooks
is only an innovator as regards the
manner in which he has handled the
highwayman.
He seems to have reasoned this way.
Judges, bishops and other members of
the intelligentsia
have owned up
to being constant
readers of mystery
stories. A few
generations ago
these stories were
only read by boys. The lives and loves
of present-day criminals began to attract
adult attention as soon as novelists began
dealing with them on adult lines. Why
shouldn’t the same thing apply to the
activities of highwaymen, who, save for
passing mention in cape-and-sword fic-
tion, have been monopolised for years
past by the writers of “penny bloods”?
They Ride Again is simply a “blood”
extended to over 300 pages, and written
in a style that should appeal to grown-
ups as well as to juveniles. No ingredi-'
ent is missing from the old recipe. The
hero is young Rodney Revelstoke, who
falls into Turpin’s hands while on his
way to join the navy as a midshipman.
Turpin did not count himself a robber in the
ordinary sense. A Jacobite,, he felt that to
rob George, the so-called King, was a virtue,
and in his takings from private travellers he
trusted that he kept to the great tradition of
Robin Hood of old, and took from the rich
to give to the poor.
The Bow Street Runners are imbeciles.'
Beetles, the inevitable comic nigger, has
the effrontery to call on poor Officer
Gunter.
‘‘Am dis de name of de Bow Street Run-
erers?” asked the negro.
“ ’Ere, wot do you mean by bellowing at
me like that?” said Peter Gunter.
“Me, sar! Bellow, sar? You must have
been dreaming, sar. In dat innocent sleepings
dat you treat yourself to after dinner you must
have, been dreaming of de cows in de fields.”
And so it goes on, with the highwaymen
always in the right and law and order
always in the wrong, till the time comes
for Turpin to restore Rodney to the
estates which the lad’s villainous kinsman,
Captain Clarence Revelstoke, is trying to
steal. Sir Robert Walpole now comes
upon the scene in the capacity of pro-
tector of the' orphan heir ; and a very
lifelike portrait we get of that genial old
cynic. Turpin engages Revelstoke in
single combat, and wins. Rodney returns
regretfully to home and respectability.
Thrillers are popular not only because
millions are interested in criminals, but
also because the characters are usually
unsubtle folk whose ways, sentiments
and remarks are restfully familiar. They
offer an escape from promiscuity, and
bright talk about it. The elaborated
“blood” fulfils the same function, and
it may well enjoy the same vogue in time.
Red Page.
The Catiline Plan
In a sense Jack Lindsay’s Rome for
Sale (Matthews and Marrot; Bs. 6d.) falls
between two stools. It is too near to
the somewhat drab facts to be good
romance, and it is too romantic to be
good history. Catiline’s conspiracy is the
subject, and Catiline is the hero. The
opening shot—the word is appropriate,
for this is a predestined talkie, with
someone like Charles Laughton in the
chief part—reveals the demagogue in the
Forum delivering one of those speeches
that may be heard at any of Mr. Lang’s
meetings.
There was wealth everywhere, he told them;
in the midst of plenty the people starved....
Every time he spoke of usurers and financiers
the mob snarled ferociously.
Catiline was standing again for the Con-
sulship and he had a Plan, namely, debt-
repudiation, which had been tried in
Greece and which was warmly supported
by thousands in Italy.
It is easy to understand the appeal
which this phase of his career makes to
a present-day novelist. The problems are
topical, and his friends and supporters
were necessarily the most exciting people
of the period—bankrupt noblemen like
Cethegus, spendthrift society women like
Sempronia, adventurers and exotics of all
descriptions. We know now that the
conspiracy which followed Catiline’s
defeat never had a chance. The debtors
of Italy were willing to be freed of their
obligations on constitutional lines, but
they had no intention of joining in a civil
war for the purpose. They knew too
much about civil war.
For the purposes of his story Mr. Lind-
say has assumed that Catiline was a great
and good man; a true talkie hero. He
(Red. Page continued on page 5.)


Shop where “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” Always Protects You.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
ORDER YOUR EASTER SUIT NOW!
LATEST WOOL
WORSTEDS, SERGES
AND TWEEDS
CUT TO YOUR
MEASURE BY
EXPERT TAILORS...
sdf
Good tailoring can only be appreciated after a Suit has had considerable wear. That is
why you should allow Anthony Horderns’ tailor your new Suit.... and, besides, you will
want a smart, well-fitting suit for Easter and its attendant gaieties. . . .so order early and
avoid the last-minute rush. The materials include All-wool Worsteds, Serges and Con-
servative Greys in all the latest patterns and shades. Our cutters will give your order
their personal attention, and our tailors will make the suit in our own workrooms, so that
you may be assured of every satisfaction.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 75/-
85/-, 95/-, 115/-, 125/-, 147/-, 175/-
m-
i
ffl!
y-J
MM
1
X*'
V
x¥
t mi ! V
>:<■
£*
: : :vX<
: : :A¥A
SWS*
■W
Q Men’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in
New South Wales.
LATEST FASHIONABLE STYLES
FOR WELL-DRESSED
YOUNG MEN
POLO
COATS
from
396
The newest style of
young men’s Overcoats
to be worn this season
is the Double-breasted
Polo. This style is
widely worn overseas.
Double breasted, all-
round belt and buckle,
full skirted, deep two-
way storm collar, roomy
patch pockets, strap cuffs.
In Fancy Tweed Coat-
ings. Grey or Fawn.
Prices: 39/6, 49/6,
59/6, 69/6
Plain Fawn Overcoatings.
Prices: 59/6, 79/6
English Camel Hair
Coatings.
Price 126/-
■A
OVE RCOATS
FEATURING NEWEST POPULAR STYLES
STORMPROOF LEATHER COATS
Men’s Leather Coats of Real
Hide. Absolutely storm-
proof and windproof.
Tailored in a smart double-
breasted style and finished
all round belt and storm
collar. Strongly made and
/
finished so that you are assured of years of service.
In tonings of Dark Tan and Nigger Brown.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
-79/6, 87/6, 95/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-
w
■sz
■
-
■
-3r
NEWLY ARRIVED
ENGLISH TWEEDS
£660
The latest models from England are
arriving. Men’s Overcoats, tailored in
England from best-quality English
Cloths, are a revelation in style and
good taste. Made in smart Raglans,
form-fitting “Prince George” Coats or
conservative Chesterfields in a smart
selection of tasteful patterns.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices—
£6/6/-, £7/7/-, £B/8/-, £9/9/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD,
’Phone: M 2401. SYDNEY Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


POINTAPOINT
cm
m.
■ ■
mm.
■.^V.ygj
ssc
m
m
xmmrvjz
m
m
mm
w
s
?«8#
wsfr
avs
m
m
m
m
1. The famous Reo Gold
Crown Engine.
2. Chrome Nickel Alloy Cy-
linder Block. LoEx Alumin-
ium Cam Ground Alloy
Pistons.
3. Massive 7-Bearing Counter-
weighted Crankshaft.
4. Deep Heavy Duty type
Frame.
5. Correct loading space to
give perfect load distribu-
tion.
6. Heavy Duty Truck type 4-
speed Transmission.
7. Full Floating Rear Axle.
8. Large, safe, 4-wheel In-
ternal Expanding Hydraulic
Brakes.
9. Large ventilated type
Parking Brake.
10. Extra long flexible Silico
Manganese Springs.
11. Helper springs with round-
ed contacts.
12. Magazine type Lubrication
at all important Chassis
points.
13. Strong, perfectly aligned
Spoksteel Wheels.
14. Easy acting Cam and
Lever Steering Gear.
15. Reo Ability Rating Plate.
NEW ZEALAND
REO MOTORS LTD., Auckland,
Hamilton, Palmerston North
McLAREN & CO., Christchurch
T. R. TAYLOR, Dunedin
In every truck in the Reo range you will find
outstanding features. Compare them, point for
point, with those of any other truck and you will
realise why Reo leads, why Reo sets the standard
for truck value.
The new Reo range excels even Reo's enviable
standards of the past. Power, speed, stamina
and enduring value are built into every model.
And there is a model designed to do your job
profitably. Phone your nearest Reo distributor
and arrange for a demonstration, or write for
full particulars and illustrated literature.
DISTRIBUTORS:
AUSTRALIA
REO MOTORS LTD., Sydney
QUEEN'S BRIDGE MOTORS
PTY. LTD., Melbourne
THE REO SERVICE CO.,
Brisbane
S.A. TRACTOR CO., Adelaide
DENNY BROS. LTD., Perth
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LANSING, MICHIGAN
f
1 TON TON


Mr Can't: ‘Missed my train
by the skin of my teeth!’
Mr Can: e Missed your Eno
by the look of your face!’
If you have been out late the night before—if you
awake liverish and heavy-eyed—there is nothing
like a glass of Eno for putting you right. Its effer-
vescence refreshes you —its gentle laxative action
restores the system to order and purifies the pois-
oned blood-stream —even as you drink it, in fact,
you feel it doing you good. Don’t forget this
golden rule of health —take a glass of sparkling
health-giving Eno first thing in the morning! Eno’s
‘Fruit Salt’ is very good for sleeplessness, head-
aches, rheumatism and general sluggishness of the
system. Doctors have recommended it for more
than sixty years. Never be without a bottle in
the house!
Au 32
Enos Fruit Salt
The words Eno and “Fruit Salt’’ are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents ; The British Harold F. Ritchie Co. Ltd,, Sydney, K.S.
dominated Caesar, though Caesar, at the
time, was not only Pontifex Maximus
but praetor-elect. “Catiline,” Caesar is re-
presented as reflecting sentimentally,
“had awakened the people to a demand
for justice greater than had ever spoken
in them before ; they loved and trusted
him.” And again: “He [Caesar] must
learn to obey.... In submitting to Cati-
line he submitted to a will that pierced
to the core of the action, that sprang
full-born and immaculate from the
depths of vital necessity. To Catiline
then the lordship.” In a society of loose-
livers this Catiline whom Mr. Lindsay
has imagined was also a sound family
man. He worshipped his wife Orestilla,
and she was faithful to him, though
sorely tempted by Cethegus.
There is no evidence whatever that
Caesar sympathised with Catiline’s
schemes, much less that he decided after
the defeat to be Catiline’s “underling.”
On the contrary, one of the arguments
used by Cicero to bring about the defeat
was that Caesar, though a popular leader,
had disowned Catiline ; and Caesar, an
insolvent at the time, was relying for
financial help on Crassus, the wealthiest
banker and biggest creditor in Rome.
The intention of the real Catiline to
assassinate Cicero and start a civil war
was betrayed to the Consul by Fulvia,
Catiline’s mistress. In Mr. Lindsay’s
story Fulvia is the mistress of one
Curius, a degraded being whom she pays
for news of what is going on in Catiline’s
house.
In spite of these and other discre-
pancies—in fact, to an extent, because of
them — Rome for Sale is a most dramatic
novel. You see Catiline facing fearful
odds without a tremor ; swaying one of
the greatest and most cynical minds of
his time (and, for that matter, of all
time) by the force of his intellect and
character and the justice of his cause ;
losing the Consulship owing to the un-
scrupulous machinations of the money
barons ; dying heroically after a desperate
battle in the Etrurian mountains.
The style is rich and colorful, and a
picture is given which embodies almost
every phase of the life of the period.
These Lindsays are master-researchers.
Rome for Sale should establish Jack
Lindsay as an authority on the era which
immediately preceded the Roman Empire
as Philip Lindsay’s writings have estab-
lished him as an authority on Tudor Eng-
land.
J. D.
Dean Inge and Mankind
In “Red Page’s” analysis of Dean
Inge’s “God and the Astronomers” (R.P.
21/2/’34), the author is correctly classed
with Swift as a “contemner of mankind.”
It seems to me that this also classes him
as definitely a comic character. A tree
might as logically have a contempt for
trees.
If the dean is “an official first and
a believer afterwards,” then he is a disap-
pointed and defeated man. A man with
his intellect must be conscious that some-
thing is checking the development of his
thought, and if it is the subjective neces-
sity of making it square with a faith
which he has lost or never possessed, then
he is in the unfortunate position of a
health officer who knows what ought to
be done but can’t do it because vested
interests stand in the way. When people
are in that position and are conscious of
it they often rationalise their self-con-
tempt into contempt for something else.
One remembers Nietzsche’s warning
against the danger to the artist of “the
nausea for man.”
The dean objects to the idea of “pro-
gress” in the ordinary acceptance of the
term. But he would hardly assert that
?ld Rembrandt was not a more developed
individual than young Rembrandt, and
if that is not progress we will have to
exclude values from the universe. Every-
body wants to make the world a more
congenial place for himself—even Dean
Inge. The higher the type of individual
the more beautiful will be the garden he
will want to make of the world.
I have just read a biography of Lenin
by Maxim Gorky. Lenin might be de-
scribed as an artist who used society as
his medium. He would have been
amused at the suggestion that human
nature can’t be changed. He punched the
Russian proletariat into a new shape and
he had no more contempt for his medium
than a poet has for words. He didn’t
spend his life grizzling at humanity like
the gloomy defeated deans, but imposed
his values on it, which is what Inge is
unable to do.
It is therefore interesting to find that
the dean’s notion of the function of the
artist, which he dismisses in a single para-
graph, is nonsensical. It is precisely the
same as that of H. G. Wells, as stated
in his “The Shape of Things to Come.”
The “aesthetic producer” is dominated by
acceptance; he writes for response. The scien-
title worker aims at knowledge and is quite
indifferent whether people like or dislike the
knowledge he produces. /Esthetic life there-
fore is conditioned by the times; science con-
ditions the times.... Literature and art are
necessarily timeservers, either abjectly so or
aggressively and pretentiously so It is no good
writing books that people will not read or
painting pictures from which they merely turn
away.
Inge says the same thing in ecclesiastical
terms. What they say is, of course, true
of the bad artist, but the significant artist,
like the significant scientist, is a dis-
coverer only because he can transcend the
prejudices of his contemporaries. Chek-
hov didn’t flatter the prejudices of his
time ; neither did Rembrandt. Neither,
sometimes, do Wells and Dean Inge.
M. G. S.
Forlorn
“Oxmead” says (R.P. 24/1 /’34) that
plenty of people besides Scotch people
can (he doesn’t say do) pronounce the r
in worn, and make it sound natural. I
don’t agree, but, even assuming he is
right, the fact remains that they don’t
normally exercise this power.
Nothing he has said is at all relevant
to my statement —and it was my main
argument—that language is what people
do say, not what they ought to say.
King Alfred no doubt pronounced the
r in hearte. Shall I therefore pronounce
the r in heart ? Keats, a Londoner of
1820 or so, used the r in forlorn to make
the word sound more bell-like —I para-
phrase “Oxmead.” Does it follow that
I, being an Australian of 1930 or so,
should do likewise? A difference of a
century, even in these days, means more
than appears at first glance. A difference
of 16,000 miles means even more.
But I am more interested in the prob-
lem of mixed poetry, psychology and
phonetics, suggested by “Oxmead’s”
statement that forlorn, with the r’s deli-
cately suggested and not rolled, is more
like a bell than fawlawn as I say it, and
that Keats used this fact. Either way
you say it, I don’t think that fawlawn
sounds much like a bell. If I had writ-
ten the “Nightingale” ode, and had
reached the last stanza, and wanted, in
it, to be tolled back to my sole self, I
think fawlawn would have served. I
think that if the previous stanza had
ended in the word gone, that would have
done.
“Gone! the very word is like a bell.”
(It is, if you linger on it long enough.)
“Bone! the very word is like a bell.”
“Pawn! the very word is like a bell.”
No doubt forlorn is better than any
of these, however you pronounce it. But
any of them would have served.
It seems to me that “Oxmead” con-
fuses mere sound with sound aided by
sense. Desecration? Yes, but perhaps
this is one of the occasions when desecra-
tion has an advantage over romantic
nonsense —it is true.
EUNICE HANGER.
Stage and Screen Technique
What is the difference between them?
When you look on a stage the whole
scene is before your eyes. You can’t
see from the dress circle or the back stalls
whether the wife is quietly smiling up
at her hated husband, or whether she
has a satirical twitch at the corners of
her mouth ; you have to depend upon
her general physical outline for your
visual impression of her hatred, and for
her words to confirm this impression.
But when your “establishing” shot with
the camera has been made, so that you
can see the wife beside her husband,
your camera cuts to a close-up of the
wife’s face, it cuts again to her trembling
hand holding the knife, it cuts again,
maybe, to her lips agitated with hatred.
A camera “rhythm” may be used, i.e.,
an equal number of frames, to the extent
of, say, two feet in each shot; so that
you have a flash of her face, the knife,
and then her lips which gives you an
emotional reaction of excited and speedy
murderous intention. That is the func-
tion of the camera in sound pictures.
Who, then, can say that stage technique
and screen technique have any similarity?
Photographed staged plays, which de-
pend upon dialogue for their entertain-
ment, are not good films, and never can
be. Whenever a movie director depends
upon dialogue to tell his story, he must
fail.
Perhaps the best illustration of the
relative positions of stage and screen
technique can be given by the difference
between the written play and the novel.
The play opens with a brief description
of the scene —in this case a bedroom
occupied by the wife and husband. Then
dialogue and a few lines of stage direc-
tion tell the story of the murder. In
the novel of the same subject description
would dwell on telling all those details.
Anyone who says that the stage is
doomed to die from sound celluloid
proves lack of knowledge of both
mediums. The stage can never again be
the popular medium that it was, but it
may hold an art niche for the few that
will never be ousted by the camera.
ERIC BEDFORD.
A Satchel of Books
Ex Lihris John Galsworthy (Heinemann;
25.) has a reproduction of his bookplate
on the cover, and a selection, made partly
by himself and partly by his wife, from
his works inside. It is the first alpha-
betical anthology that has appeared, so
far as the writer knows. The method
isn’t entirely satisfactory. The little book
is beautifully got up.
In the hands of Melbourne “Herald
and Weekly Times” The Australian Year
Book, 1934, has been enlarged from 384
to 480 pages. A great deal of dead matter
in the first edition has been discarded ;
new features have been included, and
the various records and statistics have
been brought up to date. It is an amazing
shilling’s-worth.
The Oppermanns, by Lion Feucht-
wanger (Martin Seeker; Rawson’s,
Melb. ; Bs. 6d.). A picture of Germany
under Hitlerism. Feuchtwanger, being a
Jewish fugitive, is naturally interested in
the recent vicissitudes of his race. How-
ever, he doesn’t snuffle, and he presents
his characters in a reasonably objective
way. The book fails to be completely
convincing because the characters are not
particular persons, but types introduced
to illustrate the reactions of one class
towards another.
The latest volumes from Philip Allan’s
Nautilus Library, famed for its sea stories,
are Cicely Fox Smith’s Ocean Racers and
J. G. Lockhart’s Strange Tales of the
Seven Seas. The first deals mostly with
the crack sailing-ships of half a century
ago —the gold, wool and tea clippers
whose euphonious names still come
readily to every true sailor’s lips. Mr.
Lockhart describes a number of sea
tragedies in the sober, detached manner
of a conscientious historian. In “More
About the ‘Waratah’ ” he gives some in-
formation regarding the 16,800-ton pas-
senger ship that left Adelaide 25 years
ago and mysteriously disappeared which
will be news to many Australians. The
Nautilus books cost half a crown each.
Household Insect Pests and Their Con-
trol, by C. French and R. T. M. Prescott
(Dept, of Agriculture, Vic.). This is a
revision of the old pamphlet containing
the latest information on a subject that
should interest every householder in the
land. There are about 60 insect enemies
of sedentary man in Victoria. They range
front the common bed bug to Blatella
germanica, or German cockroach, an
enemy alien which, judging by its habits,
ought to be interned. A popular illusion
the authors are anxious to dispel is that
measures of prevention are useless unless
adopted along the lines of community
effort. The common house fly, for in-
stance, is mainly manufactured on the
premises, and if houseowners care to take
the trouble they can reduce the nuisance
enormously.
Jack Read’s Boxing Annual, 1934, gives
a lot of information for Is. 6d. An in-
teresting feature is “Champions the
World Over,” which reveals that there
are no fewer than 20 countries with recog-
nised champions in all classes from fly-
to heavyweight. The most useful part is
a review of the noble art in which an
important truth is stressed: “Boxing
prospers nowhere unless the local lads
are looked upon as potential world-
beaters.” An Australian Boxing Commis-
sion is advocated, with power, inter alia,
to compel instructors to pass an examina-
tion before being licensed to teach boxing.
Ohelists En Route, by C. Daly King
(The Crime Club ; 7s. 6d.), is a thriller
with a number of novel features. The
whole of the action takes place on an
amazingly luxurious American train.
Enough to say that the first corpse is dis-
covered in the train swimming bath!
There are several psychoanalysts on board
and the bemused reader gets a lot of
reasoning on these lines:
“She [the heroine] has plenty of Inducement
then, the active element in Captivation,” Pons
surmised. “In that case Summerlad may have
some real love response towards her. At the
same time, he is almost certain to have appeti-
tive Desire responses too; Duplex types some-
times have both kinds of response towards the
same person, if they are complex personalities
as well as Duplex.”
Still it’s a genuine thriller, with hardly a
dull moment from the time the mighty
train pulls out of New York till its arrival
in San Francisco 72 hours later.


9
ites.
$k
* . w • >*'
/'A *•
:
M
it
. . ■•
m
W 0
/
mm
ipn
¥
u
■
mmm
■
l
sum
V*.
\1
Mi
m *
/a
y*
■P
Ir
K
. •• ■■ -
',M ffr
• -m
m h\
\


The Bulletin
Vol. 55- -No. 2821.
March 7, 1934.
DEADLOCK.
“But she CAN’T go back.”
“Then she SHAN’T go forward.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4. ’Phone
Central 5170.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS I - 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“CLEVER CHAP, MENZIES!”
“What a clever fellow Menzies is!” the
Premiers murmured to one another after
the Victorian Attorney-General had
spoken for his Government at the open-
ing of their latest abortive conference ;
and the young gentleman is clever. He
can pick a Constitution to pieces perfectly.
No one is more alive to defects in the
present distribution of powers and
revenues in Australia, and no one can
express them more pungently.
“If we are to have i€ have independent
and not hierarchical governmental powers
in a Federal system,” he said, “there must
be attached to each Government some
financial powers which are independent
and not hierarchical.” Thus far the Court
is with him. Again:
In the Constitution itself we find the gene-
sis of much of the present discontent which
exists in the States.... From the time of the;
passing of the Surplus Revenue Act, 1908,
authorising the aggregation of trust funds, Sec-
tion 94 of the Constitution became a dead letter,
apd it is now of academic or of obituary in-
terest 0n1y.... Every time the States ask for
additional assistance they strengthen the posi-
tion against themselves.
All true, and pithily phrased ; and for
a moment it seemed that a new national
leader had arisen when the idol of the
Young Nats, turned from his acute
analysis of the position to suggest that
we should “go back beyond the Constitu-
tion, to a point at which there will be a
much clearer definition of authority than
was found possible in 1900 in an
endeavor to create a real Federal system.”
The illusion was dispelled when the
orator came to propose remedies. Perhaps
he was fettered by the instructions of his
absent chief, and felt that he could not
go beyond his brief; at all events, he
dropped at once from the height of a
fine argument to the level of a selfish
provincialism. “Every State finds that
there is a gap which at present it cannot
breach between its responsibilities and its
resources.” That said, he mentioned the
possibility of transferring to the Com-
monwealth control of and financial re-
sponsibility for railways and roads, only
to dismiss it with contempt. If any other
way of lightening the responsibilities
which are too great for the State Gov-
ernments occurred to him he did not
refer to it. He hurried on to the more
congenial question of “solving the
dilemma of the States by increasing their
resources” at the expense of the tax-
payers.
His Government’s proposal was that
“the Commonwealth should vacate the
income-tax field.” This would leave it
without the means of placing Australia
in a posture of defence —all the services
have been starved—and of paying old-age
and war pensions—they cost £18,000,000
a year —save, perhaps, by terrific increases
in revenue duties on necessary imports
and in sales tax. It would mean that
persons such as marine officers, commer-
cial travellers and shearers, whose callings
take them into more than one State,
would pay less than their fair share of
income tax and that persons with fixed
habitations who draw income from more
than one State would pay more than their
fair share. Already people in that posi-
tion and companies operating in several
States are doubly taxed on the same in-
come —thousands of N. S. Wales people
have had to pay 5 per cent, relief tax on
income from other States which has
already borne two Commonwealth and
two State taxes —and if the Common-
wealth withdrew (after all, unlike the
States, it does not tax tax-money actually
paid) they would be entirely at the mercy
of six sets of tax-gatherers instead of, as
in Britain and Maoriland, being account-
able to one.
It is astonishing to find Mr. Menzies
associating himself with a proposal which
would make confusion worse confounded
and raise new impediments to the growth
of the nation-wide industries so urgently
needed. Still worse was his suggestion
that the State should be given “concur-
rent powers of taxation in some field now
exclusively occupied by the Common-
wealth”—specifically, excise. The people
are crying out for fewer taxes ; and here
is a rising hope of the U.A.P. proposing
more. He rightly objects to the complex-
ity of our scheme of government; yet
he would make it more maddeningly
complex still.
As if conscious that his case had
become weak where it had been strong,
the speaker, before he sat down, enumer-
ated the “responsibilities” which, as he
admits, the States are no longer capable
of discharging properly. “All these re-
sponsibilities,” he insisted, “make it im-
perative that the States should have
increased resources if they are to continue
as individual units.” But they could sur-
render some of the “responsibilities” and
still be individual units. Education, for
instance. In the last pre-depression year,
1928-29, it cost £11,340,800, whereas the
State income and dividend taxes yielded
£15,948,000. In the same year, Common-
wealth land-tax collections amounted to
£2,988,800, and Commonwealth death
duties yielded £2,080,100. Averaging the
five years to June 30, 1929, education cost
the States £10,391,700 p.a. and income
and dividend taxes produced £14,447,500
p.a., leaving a gap of £4,055,800 p.a. ; it
would have been more than made up had
they received the proceeds of the Federal
land tax and death duties (£4,260,100
p.a.). So if the Commonwealth took over
education with income tax (levying addi-
tional tax during the depression period to
cover unemployed-relief expenditure) and
sacrificed death duties and land tax, the
States would be better off financially and
the people as a whole would gain.
What does Victoria want with a
Minister of Education when it can get
men like Tate and Mcßae for the office of
Director? What does Australia want with
six Ministers of Education, each with
a personal staff surrounding him? A
national system of education has, for
hundreds of years, been one of the glories
of Scotland. We could make our pro-
vincial systems national, with a substantial
saying in administrative costs (the saving
might be reserved for the rebuilding and
re-equipment of ramshackle country
schools, so numerous now), without doing
away with the States.
These reforms, and others which would
mean much to an over-governed and over-
taxed people, could be effected without
amendments of the Constitution, though
amendments of the Constitution are
necessary if Australia is to become a
nation organised as strongly as Britain
or France. But the representatives of
four States had no use for reforms when
it became clear that they would be refused
the right to loot. Asked to help in clear-
ing away the muddle of divided control
of industrial matters, aviation, navigation,
cinematograph films, broadcasting and
company law, they abruptly refused. The
only thing agreed upon at the conference,
which dragged on for nearly a fortnight,
was that the Commonwealth should have
full powers over whales. A national atti-
tude was not expected of Butler, who
blames the Commonwealth for the re-
sults of the reckless extravagance of
South Aus. Governments ; or of Collier,
the pledged unificationist who poses as
a secessionist in Westralia ; or of Baker,
the Tas. Attorney-General, who appa-
rently wants to scrap the High Court.
But it is a melancholy thing to see
Menzies in that gallery.
ANOTHER STEVENS SCHEME.
The Stevens Government’s home-build-
ing scheme is not the end of its generosity
towards the unemployed and the electors.
It now proposes a stunt which will add
millions to the £6,290,000 which it spent
last year on unemployed-relief, and to
the millions which it is spending out of
loans and consolidated revenue during
the current year.
Its plan, briefly, is to create a perman-
ent board which, the Loan Council con-
senting (consent should have been refused
in the first place), will issue bonds to
finance more sewers, dams and gutters,
and the reclamation of Sydney swamps.
It is a great scheme from the State poli-
tician’s standpoint. If, as is anticipated,
the other States follow Mr. Stevens’s
lead and go after the money that looks so
easy, Australian unemployment will soon
be in six watertight compartments, and
there will be no danger of any Aus-
tralian-minded organiser transferring, for
instance, surplus coalminers from New-
castle to North Queensland, where there
might be openings for them.
When the sewers, gutters and reclama-
tion works on the schedule are completed,
those who construct them will either be
left in the air or else the Government
will have to go in search of the where-
withal for another litter. Taxpayers will
meet the losses ; repayment of the loans
will be left to posterity.
Any scheme for the permanent solu-
tion of the unemployment problem must
be all-Australian, so that national resources
may be used as machinery, and it must
be carried out under the direction of
those who know just what money there
is to apply and just where and how it can
be economically applied. The obvious
authority to handle the matter is the
Commonwealth Bank, acting in concert
with private banks, which might con-
sider the financing of undertakings which
at present can be financed only by re-
course to the Stock Exchange. The de-
velopmental offshoots of the Bank of
England are doing good work in this
direction, providing money for enterprises
of a kind which no individual bank will
touch in Australia. Governments could
help by giving special tax consideration
to new concerns so financed, according
to the unoccupied workers wliich they
absorb, and by extending it to existing
wage-payers prepared to give employ-
ment at award wages to the extent of
taxes remitted. And they could set
in motion schemes like that placed before
the N.S.W. Government by experienced
men on the shire councils, which would
take people from the cities and put
them on small holdings in suitable
country districts on which, even at the
worst, they would have home-grown food
and shelter.
Another plan with possibilities has been
brought forward by J. B. Cramsie. It
is designed to deal with both Aus-
tralian and British unemployed, and has
received support in the House of Com-
mons. Its sponsors propose that the
British Government should relieve itself
of part of the capital dole burden by
financing unemployed with agricultural
experience into Australian settlement. An
obvious objection, suggested by memo-
ries of the Westralian group settlements
and the experiences of those British
migrants in Victoria, is that unless the
projectors can find regular avenues of
production in which to employ the new
settlers they would merely add ,to the
army of bounty-fed farmers.
Cramsie and his friends admit it. They
say that baby beef and baconers, corn-
fed and farm-fattened, would provide such
openings and help us to push Denmark
and the Argentine out of markets which
should be a Dominion perquisite. They
propose to develop their idea entirely with
British money (£l5OO per family), which
would be used on loan to acquire the land
and buy Australian materials, workman-
ship and stock to complete each settler’s
farm before his arrival, so that he may
walk on to a holding ready to produce
immediately. They suggest further that
Australian Governments might adopt their
plan and shift some of the Australian un-
employed on to soil of their own. Their
idea of the first essential of the farms is
that they should make their occupants
as nearly self-supporting as possible.
The plan may have weaknesses, but
none like those of the Stevens schemes,
which merely provide temporary jobs for
men and fresh avenues of business for the
real-estate agent, in the process increas-
ing the already gigantic public debt. The
other scheme, if it worked, would give
us more people, create new markets,
and expand buying power for Australian
manufactures. It would have its difficul-
ties and its dangers, but there is nothing
in it as dangerous as the spirit which is
being ored by hopelessness among men
who are expected to show gratitude for
the use of a cement shovel and a pittance,
and among those who drain the cup of
bitterness to its dregs as they stand in
queues outside the dole offices.
YELLOW REDS.
Eighty years ago a young, semi-educated
Cantonese named Hung Siu-tsuen re-
ceived from a missionary a copy of the
Bible. Having read the book and imper-
fectly digested such of its contents as
appealed to him, he started a religious
cult which was a blend of Scriptural odds
and ends, Chinese philosophy and local
magic, with leanings towards Commun-
ism. The landowners of the province,
the orthodox Buddhist clergy and the
Government tried to put the young man
in his place. The result was a rebellion,
known in histories as the Taiping, which
swept as far north as Nanking and as far
south as Shanghai.
Hung’s rebellion reduced the population
of the Empire by a figure that is variously
estimated up to 40 millions. It nearly
brought the Manchu dynasty to ruin, and
produced wars with two European
Powers. Hung set a court and a harem
up at Nanking, took to opium, went mad
and died in a ditch.
History is beginning to repeat itself
to some extent. The young Hungs
of to-day have read Marx’s “Capital” or
perhaps only the Little Books of Lenin.
In some favored districts they listen-in
to Moscow broadcasts. The result
is the Chinese Communist party,
which, except for the absence of magic,
has a programme much like that
of the followers of Hung. On the sea-
board of China for the past 100 years
the Christian missionary has been preach-
ing the doctrine that this world is a vale
of tears, and but a preparation for the
rewards to be expected in the next. His
teaching is interpreted to mean that it
does not matter how wretched the Chinese
are now, because in the life to come those
who are worthy will enjoy eternal beati-
tude. Thus he unconsciously bolsters up
the growing industry of the treaty ports,
and it is significant that "most of the
Chinese leaders who control the seaboard
provinces have turned Christian. Along
the landward frontiers the Bolshevik mis-
sionary teaches that it is this life that
is all-important, and that Communism
will give immediately all the advantages
the Christian looks for in the after-life.
Consequently, the achievements of the
Communist missionary have been so
astounding as to put all other tendencies
in China in the shade.
At the International Anti-war Congress
at Shanghai in September a telegram of
greetings from Comrade Tchu Teh, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Red Army and
chairman of the Revolutionary War
Council of the Chinese Soviet Republic,
was read:
Since 1931 the Red Army has decisively re-
pulsed five military crusades organised by the
Kuomintang and the imperialists. Twenty
divisions of the Kuomintang army were com-
pletely cut up.
Allowing for the pardonable exaggera-
tions of military commanders, the fact
remains that at least five Chinese pro-
vinces, if not Sovietised, are all in
the hands of armies calling themselves
Red. These armies are reported to be
equipped with the latest scientific devices,
and also to be better disciplined than
the regular forces of the Kuomintang
leader, Chiang Kai-shek, who has had
to detail off 60 of his 90 divisions to
counter the threat. There are Soviet dis-
tricts in Hunan, Honan, Anhwei, Kiangsi,
Hupeh and Sechuan, and a Red guer-
illa force is operating against the Japan-
ese in Manchuria.
When Hung threatened the Manchu
monarchy the mandarins called in General
Gordon, who, with a nucleus of free-
lance foreigners, formed the Ever-Vic-
torious Army. Gordon smashed the Tai-
pings and re-established the dominance of
the European traders on the coast; but
the resort to European assistance eventu-
ally sealed the Manchus’ doom. To-day
the initiative has passed to the Japanese.
The Japanese army showed what it was
capable of doing when it demolished the
huge industrial city of Chapei, on the
outskirts of Shanghai, from the air, and
established its supremacy over Manchu-
kuo, of which Pu-Yi is now titular em-
peror. Such methods are the only
weapons at Japan’s command, but the
Soviet has another, and possibly more
effective one, in its armory. The Soviet
Constitution is the only one in the world
which has no. fixed limits of frontier. If
any conveniently placed country turns
Communist it can vote itself into the
U.S.S.R., and will be accepted if the
existing members of the Union agree.
Consequently it is the Communist propa-
gandist, and not the Red Army, who in-
vades a neighboring State.
What the world is likely to see in the
next few years, or possibly months, is
a struggle Between these two opposing
techniques of imperialism for control of
the Flowery Land.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Irresponsibles.
Three months ago Australia was in the
throes of a “defence” campaign fostered
particularly by the flapper press. Japan
was the bugbear. Having yelled blue
murder for several weeks and stirred ner-
vous Australians into a state of mind in
which they expected invasion at any
moment, the sensationalists decided to
send one of their young men to Japan
to investigate the facts of which they
seemed positive.
The young man has delivered his ver-
dict. It is as follows:
There is not the slightest sign in Japan of
any antipathy towards Australia.... in fact, it
must be said that, apart from a few business
men, and those connected with the wool trade,
there is not much known in Japan about Aus-
tralia. Even responsible Ministers have little
more knowledge of the Commonwealth than
that learned at 5ch001.... Not even in the
back of the more warlike minds is there any
territorial ambition aimed at Australia The
country cares little for the Commonwealth—
apart from the possibilities of trade and the
obvious wool aspect.
All of which proves how far the
yellower press will go when it is stunting
for circulation.
♦
Still Borrowing.
A mere £8,000,000 was borrowed on the
open market during the year to June,
1932. The public debt nevertheless in-
creased by £31,793,000. In the ensuing
twelvemonth another £8,000,000 wss raised
for “works,” and at the end of the year
we were altogether £16,830,000 deeper in
debt. For the six months to December
31 last £8,638,000 was added to the pile,
bringing it up to £1,213,000,000.
Unbalanced Budgets have been financed
by discounting Treasury bills. Of the
total debt the short-term variety
accounted for £84,000,000 at the end of
January, £34,000,000 of it in London. It
is time some move was made to fund
at least the Australian portion of our
floating liabilities. Interest rates are not
likely to grow more favorable.
For 1932-33 the expenditure of the
seven Governments, lumping them to-
gether was £4,536,000 greater than their
revenue. For the year to June 30 the esti-
mated total deficit is £9,112,000. But
there is at least something constructive
about that debit; it allows for taxation-
relief of £9,500,000, mainly granted by
the Commonwealth. Still, it means that
June 30 next will probably show a greater
debt-increase than the year to June 30,
1933.
The overcapitalised railways continue
to white-ant our finances. Last year they
dropped £5,500,000, making a slide of
£48,000,000 in seven years. Unemploy-
ment-relief is another huge item, but the
public foots the bill—or part of it —in
special taxation. The main object of all
the Governments should be to get those
on the dole back to work. That means,
not borrowing for public works, but en-
couragement of private enterprise. The
public debt in ten years has grown from
£163 14s. lOd. per head to £lBl 17s. Id.
Despite interest-reduction, the cost of this
debt per head is growing, too. Yet it
doesn’t seem to have done us much good.
* .
“Confiscations Bring Results.”
The Australian post office is a law unto
itself. By means of regulations which
would not hold water in any court, it
evades substantiating its telephone
accounts and applies the screw and the
crusher to every customer who stands
on his rights. A month or so ago it flat-
tened out an attempt to have telephones
metered at the subscribers’ expense—
no meters at any price! It remembers
all too clearly the result of overcharging
Hampton Court, a big Sydney flat build-
ing, for 30,000 calls —the decision of the
Court was against it. Meters might prove
disastrous.
The latest move, however, transcends
previous ones in Hunnishness. There is
a section in the Wireless Telegraphy Act
(passed in 1905 before there was any
broadcasting) which permits the seizure
of private wireless sets. It was obviously
designed only as a Defence measure and
to stop competition with the Telegraph
Department, but in Brisbane the authori-
ties have begun to use it extensively
against persons who do not take out
licenses for their wireless sets. The
alleged “pirate” has no trial. The depart-
ment discovers that he has not paid 245.
for the privilege of listening to announcers
and crooners, calls and takes away the
set. It may even break and enter to
get the apparatus on a warrant issued by
one of its departmental Js.P.
It is an indefensible - infringement of
the right of judicial trial which citizenship
of a British State always implies, and it
inflicts a penalty which is out of all keep-
ing with the offence. The average fine
in 494 no-license cases which have been
brought before the Courts in Brisbane
during ten years has been £1 Bs., with ss.
costs ; the misuse which the department
makes of the law enables its inspectors to
inflict penalties ranging from £5 to £7O
without recourse to a Court.
The very existence of unlicensed sets is
due to departmental stupidity. If it were
compulsory for traders to sell licenses
with sets, the trouble would be obviated ;
but such a method would be too simple
for a concern with a huge staff.
The departmental defence is that “con-
fiscations bring more results in license-
issues in five days than were got out of
prosecutions in eight years.” This is
obvious nonsense ; and it would be a
sad position, indeed, if the same prin-
ciple were extended to other trivial
offences. No doubt illegal parking in the
streets would cease promptly if the police
had power to seize cars, and burglary
would slump if the detectives could hang
the offenders on the nearest lamp-post.
As the law stands, however, even a mur-
derer caught with the knife in his hand
can plead not guilty and claim to be tried
by a jury.
Bavin Issues a Warning.
“10-2-4”: T. R. Bavin has emerged from
the obscurity to which he was somewhat
unfairly consigned to predict “a challenge
to the whole system of party Govern-
ment, coming not only from the extrem-
ists of the Left but also from the extrem-
ists of the Right.” The challenge has
come already. In Europe Parliamen-
tarians are being dispensed with. Here
they are becoming stock subjects for
derision.
In other days men went into public life
from patriotic motives, or, at the worst,
for the honor of the thing ; rarely for
what they could get out of it. Such
amateurs might mishandle the nation’s
revenue owing to ignorance ; they never
had to do it for votes, and corruption
was out of fashion.
The arrival of the professional politi-
cian changed all that. In Britain, income
tax, super-tax, death duties and other im-
posts which are paid by a tenth of the
population supply two-thirds of the tax-
revenue, and most of it is spent on
schemes designed to please the other
nine-tenths. There are no votes in
national defence after a big war, so the
British Army has been cut to the bone,
and the Navy is weaker, relatively to its
rivals, than it has been for two centuries,
though the nation’s indebtedness has been
increased out of all reason. It is the same
in Australia. Although the C.M.F. and
the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F. have been
reduced to insignificance, taxes have been
multiplied and the public debt has grown
to prodigious heights.
In N. S. Wales “extremists of the Left’”
practised interest-default and threatened
debt-repudiation. An effect was to pro-
duce “extremists of the Right” in large
numbers. It was the realisation by respon-
sible Italians that many of their politi-
cians who talked most eloquently about
liberalism and democracy were imprac-
tical visionaries, or worse, that gave Mus-
solini his chance ; and the same thing
has led to Germany’s Nazi dictatorship.
For years the tendency to discredit
Parliaments has been increasing, not only
in Europe, but in Britain and the
Dominions ; and it is an ironic fact that
so-called democrats started it. Militant
trade-unions were the first to challenge
rule by majority. Their leaders asserted
that associations such as theirs had “in-
herent rights”—the right, for example,
not only to strike but to force others
to strike. This “right” conceded, the poli-
tical agents of such organisations pro-
ceeded to claim other “rights,” and it is
now contended that they, being “the
people,” will be entitled, if a general elec-
tion goes their way, to “take over the
banks” and “issue credits” based on the
savings of other people.
If Australia ever has the bad luck to
achieve a Government that tries to put
into practice this policy and others which
Laborites are enthusiastic about, such as
disarmament, an indigenous variety of
Fascism will arrive. Not because any-
body will want the thing as such, but
because the politicians will have defi-
nitely proved themselves public menaces.
The party theory, which is only an
upside-down version of the mediaeval
kingly theory, is that a nation can safely
be governed in the interests of a domi-
nant caste. No people have gone on
swallowing that idea for long after it has
become clear that to do so may mean
the overthrow of their nation from within
or without.
#
These Bureaucrats.
Justice Macrossan, of Queensland, who
has fired a shaft at bureaucracy and been
rebuked for it by Premier Forgan Smith,
is following the lead of many'an alarmed
constitutionalist. As Lord Hewart, Chief
Justice of England, wrote, there is a trend
all over the Empire towards government
by “a vast army of anonymous officials,
hidden from view but placed above the
law.” Governments, afraid to ask Parlia-
ments to make them omnipotent, sneak
clauses into bills like those in Mr.
Stevens’s Charities Bill last session: -
The regulations may modify the conditions
....in the case of any church or....any other
charity in which the circumstances... .render
their strict application difficult or unduly
onerous.
Forthwith, the Minister proceeds to legis-
late, and, when he passes on, some other
Minister, leaning on the civil-service
advisers, and his own inclination, legis-
lates even more vicariously, until presently
the intention of the original Act is de-
feated by its own dependent by-laws. The
State Railway Departments are excellent
cases in point. In N. S. Wales, tens of
thousands of by-laws and regulations have
force, and it is a gold pass to a goose-
berry that if half of them were tested in
the courts they would not hold water.
Recently the Railway Department, with
true bureaucratic autocracy, refused to
say under what regulations free passes
were issued to its servants, and it took
a fortnight’s search in a public library
to disinter the facts.
The Commonwealth Governments have,
however, been the greatest Offenders.
Departments like the G.P.O. seem to
make their regulations irrespective of
any statutory power. Providence and
their power to bluff are their warrants,
but they have every encouragement from
the careless Legislature, the rank and file
of which frequently do not understand
what they are putting their seal to.
It would be inconceivable, for instance,
that any responsible body of legislators
which knew the power it was giving
would have consented to the clause in the
Transport Workers Act of 1928 which
authorised the Governor-General to
make regulations with the force of law,
“notwithstanding anything in any other
Act.” The contempt which the dictators
feel for Parliaments was well illustrated
by Scullin and Theodore in the matter of
the transport' regulations they issued.
Upon disallowance by the Senate., they
merely gazetted a new and almost identi-
cal set, which ran for the statutory 14
days before being cast out in their turn.
Following the Royal Commission on
the Constitution, the Senate appointed a
Select Committee, which reported that
regulations were “so numerous, technical
and voluminous that it was practically
impossible for Senators to study them in
detail and to become acquainted with
their exact effect.” It proposed a Stand-
ing Committee to examine Common-
wealth regulations. Pearce would have
none of it; and the old game goes on.
- ♦
Encouraging the Producer.
A tobacco-grower of Mareeba (N.Q.)
has sent The Bulletin his latest account
sales —about all he has to send.
2 bales leaf, less stalks —
2261 b. at 6/4 £7l 11 4
Less excise, 4/6 per lb. £5O 17 0
Less stripping, manufac-
ture and delivery,
9d. per lb. .. ..896
Less selling costs, 7d.
per lb 6 11 10 65 18 4
Net proceeds, at 6d. per lb. .. 5 13 0
Half net proceeds to manufacturer 2 16 6
2 16 6
Freight and cartage on leaf .. 112
Net return to grower .. ..£254
After paying cost of manufacture,
manufacturers’ bonus and agent’s charges
and freight, the tobacco was worth to
the grower precisely 4s. 8.4 d. Of this
the Government took 4s. 6d. It is to be
hoped the Mareeba man had an income
from other sources. If he had the autho-
rities will add his 2.4 d. to it and take
two income taxes and land tax, besides
rates.
The Tobacco Investigation Committee
made a report recently, on the basis of
which Senator McLachlan (Minister in
Charge of Development) said there was
“no doubt that good tobacco could be
grown in Australia.” To encourage the
growing of it, Cabinet approved of a
grant of £20,00Q p.a. for three years, the
money to be used in “supplying the
growers with additional services.” The
Tobacco Investigation Committee had
then spent £50,000 on “development”
work, outward and visible results of
which were pamphlets and rejected bales.
Its activities are to be transferred to the
C.S.I.R.
Among the schemes which Mr. Lyons
has approved for making tobacco a win-
ning bet for the Australian grower is an
educational campaign carried on by offi-
cials. It is to be hoped that instruction
will include a course in advanced arith-
metic, which will enable growers to work
oitt sums like the following:
The Commonwealth “Production Bulletin”
shows that in 1932 the average production of
tobacco in Australia was 5741 b. per acre farmed.
The value of the crop averaged £62 16s. lOd.
per acre. The excise passed was equal to
£129 3s. per acre, beside which the grower had
to find agents’ costs and commission, manu-
facturers’ costs, freight-rates, taxes, operation
expenses, rejections, pest-elimination charges,
living expenses and sal volatile. Who is on the
best wicket — (a) the Government, (b) the
grower, or (c) the Australian consumer?
Mr. Lyons and Senator McLachlan
might open the campaign by giving exhi-
bitions of solving this simple problem.
4
Graft and the Press.
“D.”: “F.S.” complained (B. 28/2/’34)
that I confined myself to “an excessively
limited extension of the word ‘graft’ ”
when claiming that less of it goes on
under democracies than under tyrannies.
According to the Oxford Dictionary,
“Graft” = “illicit spoils in connection with
politics”: “Politics” = “science and art of
government.” So I took graft to be illicit
spoils secured by Government officials ;
in other words, by all kinds of politicians,
from royal and other despots to party
heelers. Could any term of reference be
wider?
“F. 5.,” to prove that “Demos is the
most Gargantuan grafter in the world’s
history,” cited a candidate in a shire
tion who promised if supported “to
agitate for the block adjoining my house
to be set aside as a public garden,” and
an agent who was warned that he
wouldn’t be likely to sell the gadget he
was pushing unless he squared Alderman
So-and-so. These are the pathetic little
ramps that go on in a democracy with a
watchful press and a. relatively high
standard of official conduct. Nothing
much worse is recorded of the Roman
Republic till about a century before the
Empire, when generals, Governors and
others began to make millions by extor-
tion. Then came the Imperial tyrannies,
and corruption reached unexampled
dimensions.
All the significant revolutions have
been caused by grafters who went too
far. Versailles was responsible for the
French Revolution. Everybody of any
importance, from Mazarin downwards,
was grafting hard when Louis XIV. first
decided to build the monstrous place.
Fouquet, the Chief Steward of Finance,
spent 700,000 marks on a supper in honor
of Louis, who immediately confiscated all
his property, saying “An official who can
spend such a sum in one evening is too
rich.” Henry VIII. had given Louis a
lead with Wolsey. England’s only revo-
lution of violence was caused by the
shameless grafting of Charles I. and his
friends ; and Lenin got his chance owing
to the corruption and nepotism of the
governing classes in Russia. The inevit-
able stage had been reached when too
many people knew and resented what was
going on.
Politicians are, of course, as corrupt by
nature under democracies as they are
under any form of government. The
only check, as I said in the article “F.S.”
has taken exception to, is an uncensored
press. There seems to be little graft in
Italy and Russia so far, though we can’t
be sure, because their newspapers are
censored. However, nothing is surer
than that graft will start on a huge scale
in both countries if the newspapers re-
main chloroformed for long. A free
press is the feature which chiefly distin-
guishes a democracy from a tyranny. To
say that it doesn’t tend to dimipish graft
is equivalent to saying that policemen
don’t tend to diminish crime.
. . ♦
A.B.C. “Encourages” Authors.
“Aerial”: A few months ago A.B.C.
conducted a competition for composers:
In announcing the results the chairman
intimated that it was proposed to plan
a similar competition this year and to
include in it a section for authors so as
to encourage Australians to produce;
material suitable for broadcasting.
The commission’s avowed concern for
writers is not in keeping with the methods
it has adopted in dealing with people
who submit matter to it. It has come
as a shock to those whose plays and
sketches have been accepted to find that
a demand has been made for a receipt
acknowledging
the sale to and purchase by the Commis-
sion of the sole and exclusive rights (including
the copyright) to copy, reproduce, print, pub-
lish 1 represent, produce, perform or broadcast,
or cause to be copied, reproduced, printed,
published, represented, produced, performed
or broadcast... .in any part of the world
wheresoever the copyright shall subsist.
In other words, a sketch may be bought
for a pound or two or a few shillings,
broadcast several times in Australia, sold
to radio organisations abroad or to a
publisher, and A.B.C. will get the whole
proceeds. This sort of thing was definitely
not one of the purposes for which the
Commission was constituted.


Society
"AND IT’S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Jobber”: Quoth the charlady to my
sister, who had asked how many children
she had: “I’m the mother of seven,
ma’m, and the last was as welcome as
the first. I don’t ’old with this Marie
Stopes business ; sooner ’ave a baby on
me knee than on me conscience.”
“The doctor has ordered me away for a good rest.”
“Did you show him your tongue ?”
“No, but I told him about yours.”
“E 1 V.”: The sundry tales about ben-
zine in the primus remind me of my
own adventure. Marooned at an Ana-
tolian railway station, I hired a primus
avec fuel from the stationmaster. It was
too cold to smell anything, though I
noticed, as the owner filled the tank, the
excellent quality of the local kerosene.
After several days of food-cooking with
the apparatus, an offsider came to lunch
with a tale of a petrol tank leaking, but
before he got any further I had the sen-
sation of being hit in the face with a large
blackboard. A few minutes afterwards,
having assured myself that my eyelashes
were really gone, and having extinguished
the blankets, which were blazing merrily,
I searched for the primus. Some of it had
gone clean through a wooden door ; the
rest seemed to have been almost atomised.
The stationmaster claimed compensation,
but didn’t get it, and, curiously enough,
the petrol tank stopped leaking.
* * * *
“Specker”: “Cellarman” is sceptical
concerning the alcoholic kick of matured
ale (B. 14/2/’34). Were he to visit Trinity
College, Cambridge, he could not fail to
notice that their audit ale, a beverage
famous for centuries, is sipped from
wineglasses. It is a pleasant jest to offer
the unsuspecting stranger a tumblerful —
and see him home.
* * * *
“Selma”: I have discovered a gate
slogan more impressive than “Beware of
the Dog” ; it is “Beware of the Gander.”
I was seeking a dame to stoke up the
copper on Monday morning when I
beheld the gander warning on the gate I
proposed to open. As I hesitated the man
from next door leaned over his verandah
and waxed confidential. “Don’t you risk
goin’ in there, lady,” he said. “That there
bird’s a terror, an’ there won’t be a
stockin’ on yer leg when yer git out. You
stop there an’ holler.” I took his advice
and felt a spasm of gratitude when the
gander emerged to see what the commo-
tion was all about. He was a “terror” all
right.
* * * *
“Indices”: In a breaking-and-entering
trial at General Sessions in Melbourne
the prosecution produced a piece of glass
from a broken window through which
entry had evidently been effected, and
called experts to demonstrate that a
thumb-print on it was that of one of the
accused men. Judge Winneke, in his
summing-up, declared that the finger-
print system “had not become a science
on the plane of chemistry,” and added
that it was on a par with the identifica-
tion of handwriting. Accused were
acquitted. At Wagga (N.S.W.) a few
days later, at the inquest on the body
found in the Murrumbidgee, the Sydney
C.1.8.’s finger-print authority said he had
taken “impressions of the epidermis of
the right hand and found them to be
identical with those of a man known
as Percy Smith” ; and the Coroner com-
plimented him on having “established
identification by means of the infallible
finger-print system.” No comment —
I am merely setting down striking facts.
* * * *
“Pot”: The different names for brew-
containers in different States (B. 21 /2/’34)
recall the time when three of us
from Collie (W.A.) had our first drink in
the City of Churches. Bob dropped a
couple of shillings on the bar and saicL
“Three, please, miss.” “Butchers?”
asked Hebe. Bob looked surprised, “No,
miss, we’re miners,” he told her cheer-
fully.
“Hick”: “Maltworm” is wrong when
he says “in Adelaide the super-thirsty
shopper asks for a ‘butcher.’ ” This con-
tainer is identical in volume with the
“What caused the accident?”
“I forgot to put her out before starting down the hill.”
fourpenny glass of the other capitals, and
is more often ordered when the shopper
has already had his thirst assuaged with
a few “handles.”
* * He He
“Lao-dah”: A three-week-old baby
adopted by a Melbourne family has a
death instead of a birth certificate to mark
the beginning of its career. A constable
found the morsel of humanity floating in
the bay and took
it to the morgue.
The morgue re-
fused to receive it
without a certifi-
cate, so the finder
took it to the
General Hospital.
The medico had
just signed the
necessary docu-
ment and was going
out of the room
when he observed
an eyelid flicker. A
few hours later the
babe was on the
highroad to life.
* * *
“Valerin”: The
old man settled
himself snugly in
the corner of a
first-class carriage
on a branch line,
and became ab-
sorbed in a book.
Presently a bright
young thing and a
quantity of luggage
blew in; then an
obsequious porter
plastered “Ladies”
on the window.
The young thing
directed the old
man’s attention to
the window; he
immediately rose,
gathered together
his luggage and
proceeded to do likewise with the young
lady’s rugs, etc. “What on earth are
you doing?” she queried. “Neither of
us has any right to be in a ladies’ com-
partment!” came back the acid retort.
* * * *
“T. Square”: “S.M.H.” devotes a
quarter-page to a perspective drawing
showing what the east end of Martin-
place will look like when all the build-
ings clear through to Macquarie-street
are razed. A Government architect who
never heard of the depression produced
the fantasy. New Houses of Parliament,
with lonic pillars and huge flights of
steps, surmounted by the dome of a
Turkish mosque on which is perched a
Venetian mast, will appear on Macquarie-
street. From Elizabeth-street to Mac-
quarie-street the roadway will be closed
by stone walls about 10ft. high with
narrow openings only in the centre and
at the sides. This will enclose a lawn
cut into triangles by footpaths, so that
one may approach Parliament, if one
desires, in various devious zigzags. Like
the architecture in the background this
is highly symbolical. So is the blocking
of the thoroughfare which is to cost so
much to unblock. So is the fact that
Sydney Hospital will have to be torn
down in order that Parliament or (as an
alternative plan suggests) St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, uprooted from George-street,
may stand behind a sort of Maori pah.
More than ever symbolical is the cir-
cumstance that the job will cost two or
three millions, will leave future Sydney
town-planners with the same old traffic
problems, and will destroy buildings
which would be cherished in a city with
any sense of tradition.
* * * *
“The Antiquary”: The superstition
that ringing glasses presage death (B.
21/2/ ’34) isn’t confined to seafarers, but
represents a variant of the ancient and
almost universal belief that ringing bells
foretell death, particularly when they
ring of their own accord. In many parts
of rural England a singing in the ears
is still regarded as the equivalent of the
ringing of a bell. In one form or another
the superstition goes back many cen-
turies, having doubtless originated from
the custom of tolling a bell to give notice
of a death—a practice mentioned by
Bede.
* * * *
“Pawang”: G. H. Woodhouse, presi-
dent of the Vic. Astronomical Society,
has joined the scientists who have been
crossing swords with astrologers. One of
the seers, it seems, had caused trouble
in a household by informing an expec-
tant mother that if her baby were born
at sunset it would come under more
baleful influences than if it arrived at
dawn. Mr. Woodhouse points out that
the same rays fall on the earth at both
these times. Another magician, after a
study of the heavens, foretold wet
weather in Ballarat and a drought in Mel-
bourne. As the planet which was held
responsible is 10,000,000 miles from both
places Mr. Woodhouse suggests that the
sage was drawing on his imagination.
However, despite the spread of popular
science, there are probably just as many
people in Melbourne to-day prepared to
back the astrologers against the astro-
nomers as there were in 1869, when
many people vacated their seaside homes
because a member of the profession pre-
dicted a tidal wave that would reach to
within a few feet of the top of Mount
Maceuon.
WHY NOT BOTH?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
”It is better for a woman to be a good cook
than an expert bridge player.”— Rev. W. Duncan at
Scots Church, Sydney.
Better, no doubt, she keep her think-box fuller
Of Mrs. Beeton than the latest lore
Of Dalton, Foster, Culbertson and Buller,
And all the rest of that engaging corps.
There’s many a well-judged call may prove a
winner
When in their ordered fours the pasteboards
fall,
But the quiet summons to a well-cooked
dinner —
I’ll say that beats them all.
She may excel at masterly finessing
And what your contract addicts term the
“squeeze,”
But if she’d be a real domestic blessing
There’s lots of scope in kitchens, too, for
these.
Grand slams are feats to lighten life’s drab
worries
And make the watching gallery enthuse,
But, none the less, they lack the zip of curries,
The solid punch of stews.
A timely “duck,” prompted by nimble reas’ning,
May serve to queer your adversaries’ pitch ;
My preference is for the bird with seas’ning,
Green peas and apple sauce that’s smoothly
rich.
Though rash opponents she may land in
trouble
When with a “double” crisp their yap she
stops,
Most husbands, I suspect, would sooner double
Her appetising chops.
Over her hearts and spades her brows she’ll
pucker;
Her clubs she cleaves to, or her diamonds
dumps.
Ah! if she only realised it, tucker
For nine of ev’ry ten of us is trumps.
And when a fellow’s feeling sunk and heavy,
The homely frying-pan, the humble grid
Are admirable articles to levy
On for a psychic bid.
Better a lightsome hand for pastry, madam,
Than all the bridge you’ll learn from play or
books;
Better than staging coups like Doc. McAdam
To make ragouts as choice as Nelly Cook’s;
Better your saucepan skill should earn you
praises
Than cardroom craft, on that I’ll take an oath.
Still, viewing modern life in all its phases,
I see no valid reason why the blazes
You shouldn’t manage both!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Kerys”: We have for some years been
unlucky over our Show Ball, the
celebrities invited to grace it with
their presence having in succession been
stricken with sudden illness, or held back
by urgent private business or some family
bereavement. This year we ventured to
invite the Governor. The committee
met the other day to discuss the details
of the reception, when a solemn and
elderly farmer arose. “Before we make
any arrangements or go to any expense,”
said he, “I suggest we write and ask His
Nibs fair and square whether he means
to be ill on our Show Day or not!”
# * * *
“Jungor”: Publicans were the adver-
tising stand-by of every Westralian gold-
fields newspaper in the ’nineties, though
their wares required no publicity. Con-
ventional souls they were, as a rqle, quite
satisfied with the baldest announcements
of their establishments’ resources. Yet
there were exceptions. “Best brands of
liquor kept in stock” was a worn-thread-
bare line ; and the trade generally felt
aggrieved when an audacious innovator
got out of the rut with “Best brands sold
at Dooley’s, not kept in stock.” I recall
another Boniface who insisted on having
splashed across the double-column precis
of his activities the four words “Traps
“I want to buy a present for the wife.”
“Could I interest you in a sunbathing suit?”
“My oath you could! But let’s fix up the present for the missus first.”
Meet All Trains.” As it was a one-train-
a-day place and the population invariably
turned out to meet the one train, afoot
or awheel, the item seemed superfluous.
But my most cherished memory is of a
distributor of malted and spirituous who
requisitioned the press to disseminate the
glad tidings that the “Excelsior billiard-
room was replete with one of Alcock’s
best tables.” I don’t know where he got
hold of the word, but it had more apt-
ness than he suspected, for there was
barely room to make a stroke at the
top of the table without whacking one’s
elbow against the wall.
* * * *
“Coif”: The cabled news that, during
the recent little emeute in Paris, members
of the Bar took the gown and toque —
this last the equivalent of our own re-
vered wig—of an objectionable Minister
of the Republic from the robing-room
and burned them recalls some old
Queensland days. There was then in
Brisbane an incredibly derelict and in-
sanitary barrister who ocasionally went
into court with instructions direct from
some equally derelict client, a practice
with an Old Bailey flavor not encouraged
in Australia. The Judges always extended
the old wreck every courtesy, but un-
fortunately he had a habit of dodging
into the robing-room at Brisbane Supreme
Court and grabbing the nearest gown and
wig he could find whenever he had to
appear before the Bench. The owner had
either to get his property fumigated, as
happened more than once, or tell
the ancient in a strangled voice to keep
the things. The last procedure
never worked, for the recipient would
promptly pawn them and make another
raid on the robing-room when occasion
arose.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: At a Sydney suburban
court the defendant in a tenancy case
did not answer, but his daughter was
there on dad’s behalf. “Where is your
father?” inquired the S.M. “We don’t
know where he is,” responded the girl.
“What’s that you say?” asked the S.M.
“Gone to Queensland droving,” jocularly
suggested a court official in an undertone.
The beak caught the remark, but he was
evidently unacquainted with “Clancy of
the Overflow.” “So your father’s in
Queensland droving, is he?” he went on.
“When do you expect him home?”
* * * *
“Haidar Pasha”: How I love biog-
raphy, especially as dished up by that
greatest of journals Granny “Herald”!
Take the old lady who died at 109 in Mel-
bourne the other day. The indefatigable
person, according to Granny, was the
daughter of a captain in the “First Royal
Guards” —which didn’t exist, for one
thing, and which was sent to India, for
another, at a time when there certainly
wasn’t a Guards regiment of any sort
overseas. Left to grandmamma, who
seems to have been a casual person, she
ran away and became first a nursemaid
at ninepence a week and then stewardess
at 14 years of age—at a time when the
very few stewardesses to be found in
ships were invariably married and middle-
aged women. Meeting Florence Nightin-
gale, she decided to become a nurse in
the Crimea, where there weren’t any
nurses, and passing right by Florence’s
hospital at Scutari she reached the enin-
sula, where even Florence herself never
succeeded in getting. She wasn’t allowed
to land, the storming of Sebastopol being
in progress. Ido not wonder at this,
seeing that ( vide “S.M.H.”) “in 1852”
—that is, three years before—“she
married and came to Australia with
her husband.” In Victoria she im-
mediately went to “the newly dis-
covered goldfields in East Gippsland,”
being presumably there and in the Black
“What did your husband do when he caught you with him?”
“Brought out the whisky and soda.”
Sea at the same time. After that, be-
yond shooting a man or so and helping
the police to capture bushrangers and
swimming a river to escape aborigines
who wanted to murder her in a spot
where no self-respecting abo. had been
able to earn a crust for years, the lady
lived an entirely peaceful life.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: South Australia has a
place far more entitled to think of what
might have been than any of the towns
that just missed being the
Federal Capital (B. 14/2/’34).
When the south-east section
was surveyed, a site for the
capital of what was to be a
colony was fixed at Custon,
and upon the maps you will see
it all laid out, with streets,
squares and even a site for a
university. Motorists drive
about the neighborhood with a
perplexed look, frequently con-
sulting their maps and wonder-
ing when they are going to
strike the town. At last a
drover will chance along, or
they will see some cocky at
work and go over to seek en-
lightenment, and when the
other has stopped laughing he
will inform the wanderer that
the only place where he can
find Custon is on the map. Yet
allotments in the never-built town are still
held by optimists who steadfastly believe
that it will be built some day.
* * * *
“Lumber”: I fancy it was H. G.
Wells’s Mr. Lewisham who was such a
zealous student that every paoment of his
day, even dressing-time, was marked
out for acquisition of some sort of
academic knowledge, to which end
manuals even hung on his wash-hand
stand. Australia, it seems, has a parallel
case in real life. The new Bishop of
Goulburn (N.S.W.) was a woodcutter in
his early years, and after his selection for
the see an old colleague paid a glowing
tribute to the divine’s youthful persever-
ance and determination:
His Greek was studied as he chopped down
trees, with a Greek vocabulary nailed to the
trunk.
Mr. Lewisham, one suspects, occasionally
sustained a cut on the chin while shaving
as he glanced aside to memorise dates
and gems of poetry, but a man felling a
tree and getting a smattering of Greek
simultaneously would take risks hardly
to be contemplated without a tremor. It
would be interesting to know how the
other woodcutters or the boss (if one
was handy) viewed the pursuit of know-
ledge under such difficulties.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Behind Allenby’s hurried
conclusion of his visit to Java as a guest
of the Government is a secret-service story
which leaves screen romances on the sub-
ject hopelessly in the rear. While the Vis-
count was busy seeing the sights like
an ordinary tourist, the Dutch authori-
ties suddenly told him that his life was
in danger, and, to his disgust, insisted on
surrounding him with a cloud of armed
detectives wherever he went. He found
the experience so boring that he booked
a fictitious passage by an air liner to
one address and then vanished. He
turned up in Sumatra and left in a boat
for England. The conspirators were
three natives, not subjects of the Dutch,
and the information of the plot came, of
all places, from U.S.A. It was the Inter-
national Intelligence Department which
traced and telegraphed personal descrip-
tions of the plotters from Washington.
sic sj: ifc .
“Lao-dah”: An extraordinary case of
mistrust of the banking system is that of
Henry Baker, of Cheltenham (Vic.). Fif-
teen years ago he started saving to buy
a property. Every time he had accumu-
lated £lOO in gold or notes he put it in a
cocoa-tin, went at night to his stable,
removed two loose boards and deposited
the treasure. For the first time since
last November he went to count his
hoard the other evening and found
£BOO-odd missing. Mr. Baker was para-
lysed with astonishment, because the
secret of his private bank was ostensibly
known only to himself, his wife and
mother. The police have recovered the
boodle and informed the unsophisticated
market gardener that his financial eccen-
tricity was common knowledge in the
district. Baker now banks in the ortho-
dox manner.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: On the Timaru-Mt. Cook
road, in South Canterbury (M.L.), is
what must surely be the only memorial to
the depression in the world. An
M.H.R. has had erected on his estate a
solidly built stone wall and a fine iron
gateway. On it appear the words:
“Erected to keep minds and hands busy
during the Great Depression, 1932-33.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: The latest spot to revive the
agitation against wigs in court is, of
all places, the F.M.S. A Judge recently
appeared in court on a sweltering tropical
morning in full regalia and hinted that
he would regard it as an act of grace if
the sweating advocates did the same.
Such haberdashery asceticism goes back
to hoary antiquity. The first Dutch
Administrators in Java died like flies,
largely because they insisted on wearing
the sort of costume Dr. Johnson affected
in Fleet-street in a London winter.
British Tommies in India sometimes
placed their foreheads on the muzzles
of their muskets because an army
order forbade them to undo their
stocks while on the march. The
most heroic adherent to tradition I
ever ran across was an English rubber
planter who invited me to a Christmas
dinner at which we ate roast buffalo,
turkey and plum pudding, washed down
with beer owing to the absence of wine,
and did it in evening dress. There was
flaming brandy on the pudding and snap-
dragon afterwards. It was a painful
experience while it lasted, but none of us
suffered any after-effects.
THE CONVINCING ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I delivered a well-timed uppercut right on the
jaw.”— Ex-Prime Minister Scullin.
Beware the lion’s deadly paw,
The eagle’s beak and claws that tear,
The lifted truncheon of the Law,
The hug of the embittered bear!
Keep out of range, with wholesome care,
Of mules that kick and goats that butt,
And most of all, my son, beware
Of Jimmy Scullin’s uppercut!
You reckoned that his wagging jaw,
His" flow of oratory rare,
Were all he had to overawe,
To sock and dong, to score and scare.
Unconsciously you wronged him there.
A knottier prop., a tougher nut
One rash detractor’s found, I’ll swear,
In Radio Jimmy’s uppercut.
His eye flashed fire. He scorned to draw
Upon his store of heated air;
For once he didn’t give a straw
For verbal shots that flame and flare.
He clambered, with a Dempsey glare,
From out his dialectic rut
And dealt the foeman. fair and square
A devastating uppercut.
Beware the shark’s voracious maw,
The squids with waving arms that snare!
Don’t monkey with a crosscut saw
Or press too near the tiger’s lair ;
Steer clear of where on human fare
The ’gator’s jaws are quick to shut;
But, most of all, my son, beware
Of Radio Jimmy’s uppercut!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


WM.
■
y&w :
•j
*
WLK.
A World of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH —SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 100% VIRGINIA
G635M
Cftxwen, '& ana mxxda specially to sore thumU
POLITICAL POINTS
The Loan Council was guilty of a bad
blunder when it sanctioned the setting
up in N. S. Wales of a board to borrow
for unemployed-relief works —sand-shift-
ing, sewers and the draining of suburban
swamps. This, as Stevens protests, may
not be a breach of the Financial Agree-
ment, as approved by the people, but it
is a departure from its spirit. On most
of the subjects discussed at the Premiers’
conference, Stevens was in a min-
ority of one ; but in this matter they were
all with him. They all want easy money,
and find the Financial Agreement irk-
some.
Like the late Woodrow Wilson, Eric
Campbell, now leader of the Centre party
(it and the New Guard repudiate
one another), is out with a programme
of 14 points. The first point is “unity of
the political, industrial and other func-
tions of the State,” whatever that may
mean; the last is “settlement and de-
velopment of this State,” which it is also
proposed to “settle” by “the abolition of
State Parliaments.” Unaccountably
omitted is Campbell’s Shorter Catechism
for Anti-Communists —“hit ’em on the
nose.”
An optimist, giving evidence in the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, said
that bulk-handling would mean a saving
of 3d. a bushel to the Vic. wheatgrower.
They used to say that in Westralia, and
with rosy anticipations a co-operative
concern improvised a scheme. It worked
so well that a larger plan was proposed ;
then Labor-unionism took a hand. The
Fremantle lumpers declared that they
would handle no more wheat in bulk till
those whom bulk-handling would throw
out of work had been “provided for.”
The Labor Government announced that
permits for bulk-handling facilities would,
“for the present,” be restricted to the few
sidings where plant had been installed.
In short, bulk-handling is off the Labor
map.
By way of letting everyone know that
they are supreme at Fremantle, the
lumpers there have had a go-slow strike
against a Beeby award reducing the
“penalty rate” for handling bagged wheat
from 3d. to 2id. an hour (the ordinary
rate is 2s. 4d.). An obsequious Harbor
Trust, on which another Labor politician
was recently put, has debited shippers
with the increased cost.
Things are not happy for poor Mr.
Scullin, even in Melbourne. When he
addressed a meeting in a building appro-
priately named the Bambalina Hall at
Malvern, the inhabitants turned the pro-
ceedings into grand opera. “You’re a
liar,” sang some tenor. In a moment Mr.
Scullin was upon him and “struck a
blow.” Two' women fainted and ushers
rushed to haul the panting leader off his
prey. He offered to apologise if the other
gentleman would do the same, but merely
got himself accused of having a “rough
Labor mob behind him,” and of being a
Fascist. Evidently everybody had a good
night except the principal performer.
Eric Spooner, who has fallen foul of
a host of Bumbles since he became N. S.
Wales Minister of Local Government,
has had one of his proceedings endorsed
by the ratepayers —his veto on a crazy
plan for spending £19,000 of unemployed-
relief money on surf sheds at Manly.
Recognising that it would mean adding
£5OOO or £6OOO p.a. to the rates, property-
owners and householders voted nearly 2
to 1 against it. Spooner will now oblige
by vetoing some of the wild-cat suburban-
concrete schemes of his colleagues and
lending support to the plan of the shire
councils for transferring adaptable people
from unemployed camps—like those at
Clontarf and the Spit— to small holdings
near country towns.
America has just learned—and Aus-
tralia might profit by the lesson —that
army ’planes are not built, nor are army
fliers trained, to carry mails. In an un-
happy moment, President Roosevelt can-
celled all the Government air-mail con-
tracts, and when Lindbergh protested
that young man was roared down. At
the end of a fortnight seven or eight of
the improvised mail-carriers had crashed,
with the loss of about a dozen lives, and
the Government was hurriedly arranging
new contracts. And now Americans
whose lips were locked by fear of boy-
cott are muttering that their Roosey is
not really infallible after all.
From a letter ‘to a Bulletin man:
You have not seen the old people because,
during the depression, they have been living in
ships outside Australia. You see the Govern-
ments reward them for this by letting them
off taxation.
Yet people who remained in Australia
during the depression, and put their
money into bricks and mortar, which
made work for unemployed, have to
pay four taxes on their net receipts—(l)
State income and (2) unemployed-relief;
(3) Federal property and (4) special pro-
“The only matter on which agreement was reached at the Premiers’ conference was that
whaling should be under Commonwealth control.”
“It’s your funeral, Joe. We’re giving you plenary authority over whales.”
perty—now 6 p.c., though it was 10 p.c.
Even their ghosts are pursued with assess-
ments should they be worried into the
grave.
Auburn, in which Lang combines his
callings of land-agent and politician, has
a financially embarrassed council. “But
for the loan,” Mayor Cheetham said the
other day, “there wouldn’t be a man
working for us, and there’s only about
£2OOO left.”
In the general fund we have about two bob.
We are up to the limit of our overdraft, £lO,OOO.
In fact, we are bankrupt.
Perhaps if Mr. Cheetham consulted the
member that worthy would produce an-
other Lang Plan.
Kenneally, the Westralian Minister of
Employment, won’t give a man a scrap
of toil on Government relief works unless
he joins the A.W.U. That union charges
twenty-five shillings for a ticket, and the
average applicant for a relief job hasn’t
twenty-five pence, but that aspect doesn’t
worry Kenneally. Neither is he moved
by the consideration that the relief-work
money that isn’t borrowed is taken from
the pockets of non-unionists as well as
unionists, non-unionists being greatly in
the majority.
Pleading at the Provincialists’ confer-
ence for full Commonwealth powers over
aviation, Latham said it was absurd that
the law relating to the airworthiness of
’planes and the qualifications of pilots
should change when the machine whizzed
over a State boundary; and so it is. It
is equally absurd that there should be
divided control of navigation, though in
cases like that of the Christina Fraser
absurd is not the word. Ordinarily en-
gaged in the N.S.W. coasting trade, this
craft set out on a voyage to Victoria
and went down with all hands, leaving
it uncertain, among other things, whether
the dependants of the dead were entitled
to workers’ compensation on the State
or Federal scale —there is a great differ-
ence. If the thing were put to the vote
the people would be 5 to 1 for Common-
wealth control in these matters, but
Latham came away from the conference
with empty hands.
By way of reminding Collier that he
is a secessionist —he forgot his part when
the Melbourne farce was being played
out and stood up for the High Court
against the Privy Council —Mr. Boyle,
Mr. Mulqueeny and Mr. Dolan, of the
Westralian Wheatgrowers’ Union, have
sent him a resolution.
That the Government be urged to call a
special session of Parliament immediately on
the presentation of the Secession Committee’s
report.... In the event of the wishes of the
people being defeated by any technical objec-
tion or other device, we appeal to the people
of Westralia to secure their freedom from
Federal bondage by direct action.
Sounds as if there is a fat time coming
for poets of the “Awake! Arise! ” order.
In assessing income tax the Common-
wealth has a five-year averaging system
under which losses are allowed for;
hence taxpayers carrying on business in
more than one State get something like
justice. Queensland permits deduction of
losses, but only to the extent of £lOOO,
and only if they are actually incurred in
Queensland ; thus, if a co. lost £30,000
one year and made £29,000 the next, it
would have to pay tax on £29,000 at
7s. 3d. in the £ —the Queensland tax on
company profits is the stiffest in Australia
—and if it made £3OOO in Queensland and
lost £7OOO in N. S. Wales, it would pay
tax on £3OOO. J. M. Niall.ventilated this
grievance at the annual meeting of Squat-
ting Investments in Melbourne. His
opinion of the Vic. Government’s pro-
posal that the Commonwealth should
leave income tax to the States, instead
of the States surrendering their imposts ir
the Commonwealth, would be worth
hearing.
It has been suggested in Perth that
Jack Curtin, M.H.R. for Fremantle in
two short Parliaments, may contest the
pre-selection ballot for Bourke. Curtin’s
reply is that he would rather see Anstey
remain a member, and no doubt he
would—he is that sort of man. After
an excellent showing against Watt in
Balaclava, Curtin went to Perth in 1914
to edit the “Worker.” It would probably
have been better for him politically had
he returned to Victoria after two or three
years, as ex-Premier Hogan did. He nearly
killed himself trying to edit his paper and
become member for Perth—he would
write about 14 columns a week and make
two or three speeches a night—and he has
since found the great personal popularity
of old Watson a heavy handicap in
Fremantle.
Bearer bonds are a fine invention for
the rich man who wants a steady income
from a safe investment without paying
taxes. Since no names are mentioned,
Midas could acquire £50,000 worth and
draw £2OOO a year tax-free. Yet a widow
receiving Savings Bank interest on
£lO,OOO is liable for four income taxes:
two Commonwealth and two State.
Fifty-two Labor candidates have
nominated for 19 of the 20 wards to be
contested at the Greater Brisbane muni-
cipal elections; the exception is Hamil-
ton, where the opposition is too strongly
entrenched. Alf Jones, ex-Minister for
Mines, is the party choice for the elective
mayoralty. Brown (Logan), Power (Pad-
dington) and Skirving (Maree) are the
only aldermen who will not have to fac:,
the plebiscite; of the new candidates,
Healey (Sandgate), King (Toowong) and
Wilton (Oxley) are in the same position.
Aldermen have a fairly steady job at
£3OO a year.
During January food and grocery
price-levels showed a decrease of ,3 p.c.
for 30 towns and of .4 p.c. for the six
capitals. N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Westralia reported increases, and the
other States decreases. Only one capital
produces anything like pre-war figures—
Perth, where the standard has grown
only 3.5 p.c. in 20 years; in Sydney the
comparative rise is 25.6 p.c. The record
increase goes to Bathurst, 31.5 p.c.; the
grocers’ purgatory is apparently Bunbury
(W.A.), 1.8 p.c.
Anybody who wonders how the Com-
munist came to poll 1220 votes in Hamil-
ton need only take a glimpse at the Lang-
sters’ how-to-vote card. It advises electors
to give second preferences to the Com-
munist. Advice like that comments on
itself when it comes from a body which
a few months ago was threatening A.L.P.
members with expulsion if they so much
as fraternised with any body which even
smelt of Moscow.
“Coaldust’s” account of it:
Bethune got in Hamilton the largest indi-
vidual vote any Communist has polled in N. S.
Wales. True, scores of A.L.P. supporters
chose this means of registering their protest
against the Sydney executive’s selection of the
70-year-old Brennan ; nevertheless, the district
committee responsible for Newcastle and coal-
fields areas has in the last couple of years been
able to report to headquarters a substantial
increase in membership and sympathisers.
Bethune is young, and so are many of his sup-
porters, scores of whom haven’t done a day’s
work since they left school. Specially-selected
Reds devote the whole of their activities to this
fertile soil.
A contretemps in Adelaide:
Lib. Leaguers are gratified with the results
of Garden’s “unity” mission. Bardolph,
“leader of the Lang party” of one, entertained
the great man at Parliament House, but, judg-
ing by his subsequent explosions, was not
told of the negotiations his guest was carrying
on with “the leader of the Labor Parliamen-
tary group,” Richards. Then Lacey, “the
A.L.P. leader,” disgustedly declared that,
although Lang’s angel of peace had seen
Bardolph, he hadn’t called on him, adding that
the ambassador had been told on a previous
visit that the executive of the A.L.P. desired
to see nothing of the Bardolph brothers, except
their political corpses. Garden went back to
Sydney leaving the several Labor leaders scowl-
ing more heavily at one another than ever.


Young Perce Muggins, who turned his car over on the
Pacific High wav, severely injuring his mother and aunt,
AND CAUSING THE DEATH OF J.WAy-WSR (toj) A PEDESTRIAN.
Miss Gloria Fitxpotts, the promiment charity worker at her labors
Goofy (of Sjriff cos
Lacs counter 1 ) who won the
Loveusst Bbach Sheik:* fri-tb
offered e*Y thr"Daily Blither,
HoNEST BIUU BLUFP "THE FIQHTINQ POi_tTICIA.NI .
Wb OOUQT IF THIS ONE \e> worthv of INCLUSION \n such a
Qtt.LA.XV OF BEAUTY AMD TAUEMT. HOWEVER. , PROFESSOR
Smith j who has devoted 227 vears to research with the
OBJECT OF EUtMIMATIMq DISEASE,
AMONG OUR CELEBRITIES.


I don’t know anything
about petrol but I do
know my ear runs best
on SHELL
\\ v i
1
SHELL
The Quality Spirit of Australia
and of the World
• • •
S 1523
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas O’Donohue,
barristers and solicitors, are about to put
their plate up in Melbourne. Mrs.
O’Donohue, in addition to being the first
life-partner to become a business one, is
also the first Victorian woman to get her
law degree after marriage.
A. M. Bills, of S. Aus., who has just
left for Oxford, took a First in English
literature at Adelaide Uni. He was
editor of the ’Varsity magazine, leader
of the debating team, tennis and football
blue and inter-State hockey player ; and
he isn’t a Rhodes scholar. He is after
the degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
The three £lOO exhibitions given by the
Australian Musical Board for free tuition
for the Bachelor of Music course at Mel-
bourne Uni. Conservatorium have been
won by Howard Leyton Brown, violinist
(14), Marjorie Summers, pianist (14), and
Ella Simpson, pianist (15).
C. Andersen, sec. of the Meat Industry
Union, has climbed the steps of Mel-
bourne Trades Hall daily for the past 45
years, and can remember the time when
there were only four unions on the rolls.
Recently he informed his employers that
it was time for him to call it a day.
Harold Schlencker, who, having passed
through Parkin College, Adelaide, has
gone to save the heathens of Daru, New
Guinea, is a hereditary missionary. His
parents, Rev. H. P. Schlencker and Mrs.
Schlencker, left Brisbane, where the
former was a Congregational minister,
for the same section of the vineyard in
the ’nineties.
Marcus Marks, whose memoirs have
just been published by the Endeavour
Press, was born at Wellington (M.L.) 70
years ago. He began his economic career
as an apprentice in the Government
Printing office ; when he retired he was
“Hansard” supervisor and Government
Printer. In between he has sandwiched
a deal of hard work in M.L. and Aus-
tralia ; plenty of bowls, cricket, fly-fishing
and golf ; any amount of leg-pulling, and
MARCUS MARKS, author of
“Memories (Mostly Merry).”
as much travel as he could manage. He
has met everybody worth meeting in
this hemisphere, and he has good stories
to tell about most of them. Billy Hughes
was one of the few whose leg he failed
to extend. He told William at a Tas-
manian hotel that it was the custom there
to dress for dinner. “Dear me!” said
the statesman, “I must go off and dress
at once.” He returned in a few minutes
wearing a green woollen sweater which
reached to his knees. “Thank goodness
I’m dressed now,” he said cheerfully.
The man who “got” Rasputin:
Prince Youssouppoff has established one
record anyhow. He is the only living mem-
ber, or ex-member, of Oxford’s hyper-ex-
clusive Bullingdon Club who has pub-
licly claimed to be a murderer. He went up to
Oxford five or six years before the World War
began, and married Princess Irina Alexan-
drovna, who has been fighting a libel action
against M.-G.-M. in connection with its Ras-
putin film, in January, 1914. The prince was
enormously wealthy, and proportionately popu-
lar at Oxford. The revolution ruined him and
his, and he has been living modestly in the
Rue de Gottenberg, Boulogne, ever since.
This is Walter Lucas, who pioneered
the Pacific trade of Burns, Philp and Co.,
and was grabbed by Billy Hughes in
1921. Lucas was instructed to take over
the expropriated German interests in
New Guinea, and replace the Germans
WALTER LUCAS, who pioneered B.P.
and Co.’s Pacific trade.
with Australian ex-soldiers. He did it
with a will. He knows every habitable
foot of the Solomons, Papua and the
adjacent islands, having spent most of his
time up north since he joined the old
Australian New Hebrides Co. in ’93 as
supercargo of the little old Croydon.
Horace Stevens, who left Melbourne
to serve with the A.1.F., has returned
intent on giving recitals with the Russian
pianist Pouishnoff. Stevens, who looks
rather like his namesake of N.S.W., sang
in the choir at the opening of St. Paul’s
in 1891. He asked others to open their
mouths for 20 years as a Collins-street
dentist before he realised the financial
possibilities of opening his own mouth as
a singer. His fine bass-baritone has been
heard at England’s best musical festivals,
The Bulletin knows the Rev. Ernest
Burgmann, who was elected Bishop of
Goulburn last week, chiefly as the
founder of the “Morpeth Review.” This
brilliant little quarterly, which is printed
by the press of St. John’s College, Mor-
peth, of which the bishop-elect has been
warden for the past nine years, is a curi-
osity among religious publications: it
takes a completely objective view of poli-
tics, social problems and literature. The
new bishop was born on his father’s
farm in the Manning River district 49
years ago, did well at the University, was
in England at the beginning of the war,
and married, when he came back to Aus-
tralia, a daughter of Morgan Crowhurst,
of Griffith.
Vic. rail chief Clapp’s new passenger
train supt. is William R. Price. Price had
charge of the Allied broad-gauge field
lines in Belgium in 1918, and comman-
deered the German rolling-stock at Cour-
trai under the Armistice terms. He won
an M.C. in the field. Though badly
gassed, he stayed with the London and
North-Western Rail Co. and inquired
into the new system of telephonic con-
trol of train-running from a central
bureau before returning to Australia.
This earned him an appointment as
Clapp’s chief train-dispatcher in 1929.
Latterly he has been district supt. at
Bendigo.
From “Jeames”:
The libel action which the Duke of West-
minster brought against his niece, Loid
Beauchamp’s daughter, fizzled out last week
with mutual expressions of regret. The allega-
tion to which he objected was that it was un-
patriotic of him to spend so much of his
income abroad. He draws £250,000 p.a.,
mostly from the 600 acres in Belgravia-Pimlico
which were brought into the family by a
seventeenth-century farmer’s daughter.
The duke is highly sensitive of his reputa-
tion these days. In his unregenerate youth he
was anything but persona grata at Court.
Twice divorced before he was fifty, he looked
like establishing a Debrett, if not a Hollywood,
record. Four years ago, however, he married
the only daughter of Sir Frederick Ponsonby,
who has been Treasurer to the King for years
and is idolised by the royal family.
There will be moaning at the Bar over the
declaration of peace.
Lady Houston, who owns the “Saturday
Review” and put up the money for the last
Everest Expedition, was siding with the defen-
dant. Between them the parties had briefed
every fighting silk at the London Bar.
“Lex”: The career of N.S.W. Justice
James proves what poor judges of judi-
cial form lawyers can be. When John
Storey appointed the lively Common Law
junior just on 14 years ago, there was a
united yell of protest from both branches
of the profession. Storey was accused of
making a political appointment —the silly
charge was actually renewed in a “Sun”
obituary last week. Actually, Storey had
nothing to gain by appointing James,
who was one of two Nat. members
for Goulburn at the time. Under P.R.,
Millard, another Nat., automatically
took his place. James got the job chiefly
because the Laborites of the day liked
him, and they had no one on their own
side whom they dared to appoint. Much
to their surprise he soon turned out to
be one of the best Judges on the N. S.
Wales Bench. He knew his law and the
world (a big asset on the Common Law
side), and he had a first-class brain. His
defect, from the standpoint of the more
refained members of the profession, was
a rasping Australian voice. On the other
hand, practically everybody else rather
liked his voice ; for one thing, it gave
added point to the stories he told so well.
“D.”: Dr. Van Loon, the historian,
who arrived in the Franconia, is a vast,
stout, uncannily active man, with the
easy ways and articulation of a good
actor. He snaps out his philosophies in
colloquial conversation like a U.S.A.
business executive who has no time to
waste. Born in Holland, he gradu-
ated at Harvard, Cornell and Munich ;
DR. VAN LOON, historian, war-corre-
spondent, globe-trotter and wise-cracker.
was in Russia during the 1905 troubles,
and (as representative of the Associated
Press) in Belgium, France, Italy, England
and most of the neutral countries during
the war. “The Liberation of Mankind”
is a historical best-seller, but he made his
fortune in business.
Alec Shand, K.C., is a great Chief
Justice lost to N. S. Wales. Of course, he
never refused the position—no one is
given the opportunity—but he could have
had it years ago if he had hinted at his
readiness to accept. Over six feet in
height and of an impressive bulk, with a
rich round voice and a masterful manner,
he has always done conspicuously well
with juries. Unlike many advocates of
A. B. SHAND, K.C., leader of the
N. S. Wales Bar.
his type he is equally acceptable to
Judges. He is a first-class lawyer, and
as trustworthy as a reference-book. When
he cites a case nobody bothers to look it
up. Shand used to be the N. S. Wales
Bar’s champion walker —for years he
thought nothing of a stroll between
Manly and a cottage he had at Narra-
been, seven miles away —but he does
most of his locomotion on mail steamers
nowadays.
The late Justice James was the first
politician in Australia to take to the air.
Twenty years ago, when flying was re-
garded as akin to suicide, he flew to the
Goulburn racecourse from Sydney, suc-
cessfully defended a case in court, went
back to the course for a race meeting, and
addressed a meeting of his constituents,
all in the same day. A representative of
Goulburn for 13 years, he was a Minister
for three (1917-20).
“El. V.” on two veterans:
The two survivors of Parkes's last Ministry
who remain, now that Sydney Smith has left
us at 77, are both lawyers—one in each branch.
Albert Gould, at 87, is the elder, but Bruce
Smith, though his name is almost unknown
to the present generation, had the wider pub-
licity in an earlier age when his moustaches
and embonpoint made him a fine mark for
“Hop” and his brigade. Gould also had a
good deal of attention from both “Hop” and
Phil May, but he was a leaner kind who ran
rather to presidencies than to polemics. He
was an early President of the Senate and a
Chancellor of the Anglican diocese of Sydney,
and sat in the N.S.W. Assembly as early as
1882. He still holds down a big commercial
job or two —the chairmanship of the Electric
Light and Power Corporation is one of them.
Bruce Smith, however, is enjoying a peaceful
celebration of his 57th year at the Bar and the
83rd year of his age at Bowral. Half a cen-
tury ago he was managing director of Howard
Smith, but forsook the job to wear horse-
hair in 1888, and almost at once joined Parkes,
having become an M.L.A. contemporaneously
with Gould. He was an ardent Federalist, and
holds the championship as a refuser of titbits
—the N.S.W. Agency-General, the Speaker-
ship of the Reps, (twice) and a Supreme Court
Judgeship were among the morsels which he
eschewed. It was his bad luck and The Bulle-
tin cartoonists’ good fortune that he wa r a
Freetrader and a somewhat extreme Tory. Now
his hobbies are chiefly books and trees. He
retired in 1920.


A PAGE FROM THE VACUUM HISTORY BOOK
fsd
SERVING A NATION
WITH OIL
This is the first of a series of messages to the public*
HE oil “ ITT°l T T°t y J,hZy* ea S ,t io'O'' 1 "-' "* ‘nfn,i„ r irolo’ oatboriuni^
cmr,*****"" „ . *
0/ H rn»fc ’I" l' uhl ’‘ ' Ptv ud. is si's P iooeer ‘ >l ’ has been no sapid
Oil Company P*y* - ye ars ago. T - been due
tSSs.~SS: bars®--* *
rs^=i—
Ae Company- years the *”
£ * odern meth ° d
lUhed nation-wide bulk econoin y and con
i citv dweller, the ben > goo per year in
as the city awe revenue £2,250, w0 v•
of marketing. r ibutes directly to the pU governments, municip
The Company paid dir eetly to gov
-s^s-ss&ISSSS*
and year out, m g Vaouum has stead
firable communities, . organisation is
unprofita w hich permeates t “ dlines s and
“ ™ 5 tz. — *■"
3, pari..”"* naii”^
n:rrr^
to make each day FA CTS AND FIGURE j# mfli „ ftulfc inst<rf-
.. /j/rn nfl() flflilOrtS* . rq7 fOUfltl"!/ ®
tributiW spent „„ pctr
and trucks ' ’ British-built tankers,
locally made. includes 5 Brit.
The Vacuum tanKe are used eeeri/ y
»” S'r-
»* rsi -— ■«“
£350,900 of tMW sa Lent many thousands of P»
The Company Tealand.
ln Australia and New
VACUUM OIL COMPANY Pty. Ltd.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
, Dividends. ~ To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.e. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923. .159.479 311,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 12* „ „ 93,750 18,565 808,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 124,, „ 93,750 9.255 618.034
1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 „ „ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
1933.. 73,078 30,000 5 „ ~ 37,500 5,578 767,852
To meet competition from the Matson
line, the Wanganella, a fine new 9576-ton
passenger motor-vessel, replaced the
Ulimaroa on the Maoriland run at the
beginning of last year. Trade was a bit
better, but it was not nearly good enough
to keep all the co.’s passenger and cargo
space filled ; and the sickness in the coal
trade continues. Probably the best con-
tributor to the pool was the £1,204,000-
odd invested outside the business in Gov-
ernment and other securities. Allowing
for the pref. div. (£30,000), enough re-
mained to show 5.7 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 5.5, 5.4, 11.5, 13.7, 17.4, 18.6
and 24 p.c. back to 1926. These figures
include net additions to the insurance
fund (£310,287, up £ll4 last year) and
to the reserve for “contingencies, taxa-
tion, repairs, superannuation, etc.” (un-
changed over the last two years at
£424,691). This reserve for contingen-
cies, etc., which expanded at the average
rate of £12,118 for the six years to the
end of 1931, has not been included with
the lay-by in the table, though a sub-
stantial part of it is probably genuine
profit. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., mak-
ing the average 10 p.c. since the close of
accounts in 1922, when £250,000 of bonus
scrip, one for two, lifted paid capital to
its present figure—£l,2so,ooo, of which
£500,000 carries a fixed cumulative
6 p.c.
The gift and reserves were largely the
outcome of war and early post-war acti-
vities and the sale of surplus tonnage
when prices were at their peak. Hence
the fine wad of outside investments and
the snugness of the finances:
1924 1932 1933.
Ships, etc. . . £1,055,442 £1,578,501 £1,525,128
Cash .. . . 35,127 402 4,268
Book debts . . 159,817 63,414 93,534
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,361,774 1,204,307
Stores . . . . 54,441 34,781 35,471
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £3,038,872 £2,862,708
Less liabilities.. 311,052 568,158 386,415
Net assets .. £2,227,031 £2,470,714 £2,476,293
To wipe out.the overdraft (£182,745 at
the previous balance), return £62,603 of
deposits (now £53,269), carry an extra
£30,120 of debtors’ balances and add
£3866 to the cash holding, the co. leant
upon sundry creditors (£333,147) for a
further £63,606 and drew upon invest-
ments, etc., for £157,467. The book value
of ships, etc. —the etcetera includes shares
in other cos. —was reduced by £53,373 ;
whether by sales or writing off is not
ascertainable from the published figures.
The market, which believes that most
of the investments are readily realisable
and worth their book value, notes that the
co. could return more than half its capital
without hamstringing itself. It there-
fore prices the fully-paid pound ords. at
335. 9d. as against 30s. a year ago. At
the higher figure the immediate return
is 2.9 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Includ-
ing the reserve for contingencies, etc.,
the net tangible backing is 51s. lOd. The
well-protected prefs. seldom come on to
the market.
Any early improvement in earnings will
depend mainly upon activities in the ship-
ping section. The co.’s coal interests,
which used to contribute largely, are now
poor earners, and likely to remain so,
for a while at any rate. These include the
Hebburn and Metropolitan pits (the latter
is on the southern N. S. Wales field) and
a holding in J. and A. Brown and Aber-
main-Seaham Collieries, which paid 2+
p.c. for the year to June 30 last.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1924.. 37,179 12J p.c. = 32,500 4,679 193
1925.. 10,408 Nil 10,408 10,601
1926.. 43,699 174 p.c. = 52,500 1,800
April,
1927*. 75,158 20 ~ ~ 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44,963 15 „ „ 45,000 16,921
1929.. 62,338 15 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34,259
1930 55,003 10 ~ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
1931.. 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,017 Nil 22,162
*l3 months.
Headquarters are in Melbourne, where
most of the £300,000 of capital was sub-
scribed, but the plantations, mill and
refinery are all in Kenya, East Africa,
where a plague of locusts ate much of
the profit in ’3l and ’32. But the worst
of the co.’s troubles is that it now shares
an oversupplied market with half a dozen
other sugar manufacturers, whereas it
used to enjoy virtually a monopoly of
the local business. The rich returns won
in the past, therefore, are not much of
a guide to future possibilities.
The locust pest disappeared during the
last term, but not before it had done
severe damage, to the crop and affected
the sugar content of the cane. The co.
crushed 7395 tons less of its own cane,
and farmers’ supplies fell away by 16,959
tons, making the shrinkage in the quan-
tity put through the rollers 24,354 tons.
The outturn of whites was 677 tons
lighter: —•
1925. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown . . 14,774 50,389 39,406 32,011
Cane purchased .. 5,299 49,042 27,300 10,341
Sugar (white) pro-
duced . . . . 1,385 7,457 3,498 2,821
It all helped to bump up unit costs, while
prices remained low, despite the small
output. So, after charging earnings with
£13,655 for depreciation and £3724 for
taxation, the loss on the year’s operations
was £38,617. That lowered the nominal
reserves to £22,162 ; the figure is sub-
ject to £52,920 (up £2925 last year) spent
on development and charged to capital.
The financial position slipped, of
course:
1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000.£300,000
Liabilities . . . . 58,863 19,371 20,117
Mill 132,891 128,688 122,483
Land, buildings, etc. . . 63,758 62,557 61,369
Rolling stock, tramways,
plant, etc. .. '.. 84,084 75,376 65,196
Plantation development 47,388 49,995 52,920
Sugar stocks . . . . 62,760 800 710
Book debts . . . . 19,782 53,670 36,183
Cash, etc. . . . . 8,259 9,064 3,388
Including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£20,164) was £23,999 lighter than
at the previous balance. The £10,270
advanced to the East African Coffee Co.
is to be repaid as circumstances warrant;
it looked like a frozen asset a few months
ago, but the borrower has since gathered
£15,000 of fresh working capital.
During the current term the co. ex-
pects to crush 83,000 tons of cane for
6000 tons of fines. Some of this will
have to be exported. With sugar at £5
10s. per ton f.o.b. European ports, the
loss on the export surplus would approxi-
mate £6 per ton. Efforts are now being
made to bring about agreement amongst
the seven producers to regulate com-
petition in the local markets and to
pool the loss on exports. Much depends
upon this, and upon extension of African
markets, where natives are the chief
consumers—the Sudan is said to offer
possibilities.
The market offers 14s. for the pound
shares. The cover is 21s. sd. in net tan-
gibles, mostly fixed assets, worth what
they can earn.
The D.I.C.
All Maoriland knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand,
Ltd., by those initials.
r~ Dividends — N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Aug. Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
■££ £ £ £
1923. .37,785 15,000 7 p.c. = 12,405 10,380 40,287
Reserve additions, £149 .. .. .. 40,436
1924. 15,000 9 p.c. = 15,977 11,846 52,282
1925.. 51.155 15,000 10 „ „ 17,781 18,374 70,65?
Premiums on new shares, £6B .. .. 70,724
1926.. 48.982 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,802 16,180 86,904
1927.. 46.905 15,000 10 „ „ 17,827 14,078 100,982
1928.-42,790 15,000 10 „ „ 17,852 9,938 110,920
Profit on sale investments, £2580.. .. 113,500
1929.. 45.027 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125,649
1930.. 37.447 15,000 10 „ „ 17,918 4,529 130,178
1931.-19,371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
1932.. 2,974 15,000 Nil 113,547
1933.. 17.207 12,500 2j p.c. = 4,532 175 113,722
The co. has lost no time in trimming its
sails to the altered trade winds. Over-
head and stocks were the chief problems.
It had gone a bit into debt to finance
its new seven-storeyed shop, with front-
ages to three streets, in Wellington, and
alterations and additions had been made
at headquarters (Dunedin), and at Christ-
church and Wanganui. Still, old lines
were cleared to make room for newer
and cheaper ones, which lighter purses
have brought into fashion, and stocks
generally were reduced in order to keep
in step with lighter trading. The money
that became available was used to reduce
the debt:
IQ9O IOQI T QQO 1 Q9Q
Pre7 capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 117,792 179,564 180,922 181,283
Liabilities . . 215,707 280,271 259,745 211,814
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 134,834 574,167 561,270 545,700
Stocks . . 298,073 185,042 174,500 151,465
Book debts . . 91,801 86,435 69,621 65,591
Investments and
cash . . 176,115 6,241 6,323 4,845
Last year £43,505 was knocked off the
overdraft (now £5197) and £4426 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£206,617). To do it stocks were lowered
by £23,035, debtors’ balances by £4030,
cash, etc., by £1478, and £15,570 was
deducted for depreciation from the book
value of fixed assets. The improvement
in the liquid position was £19,388 ; more
or less liquids, including stocks, exceed-
ing liabilities by £10,087 when the books
closed.
The encouraging spring in the year’s
net earnings was due entirely to savings
in overhead. Though business improved,
wholesale prices rose faster than retail
prices, due mainly to the jump in ex-
change and the sales tax. Thus there
was a contraction of £6009 in gross earn-
ings. But exes. (£173,574) were pulled
back £20,260, and the statutory cut re-
duced the pref. div. from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c.
So enough remained to show 2.59 p.c.
on ord. capital, and 24- p.c. was distri-
buted.
Since the close of accounts turnover
has continued to expand, thanks largely
to the improvement in wool and mutton
prices. Because of this, and the tight
hold the management has kept upon
exes., and the cheapening of money, the
market has lengthened its bid for the
pound prefs. to 225. 6d. The return at
that figure is 4.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. Over the last three months the
fully-paid 10s. ords. have advanced from
11s. 9d. to 14s. 6d. At the higher price
they return 2 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. distribu-
tion ; so the investor who looks for a
shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on a 6 p.c. div. The net tangible cover
is £2 3s. 9d. prefs. and 16s. 2d. ords.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Ke-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 16,450 12J p.c.* = 15,387 1063 1,279
1924.. 15,252 10 „ „ 14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16,917 10 „ „ 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ „ 13,000 3723 10.088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 „ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 „ „ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.*
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO .. .. .. 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
1933.. 187, Nil 187 9,769
*l4 months.
The management has not failed to curb
controllable exes., the hotel has been kept
up to date, and the building and
plant are reported in excellent con-
dition. But the stoppage of suburban
’buses (276 used to go to and from Cen-
tral Station) and the extension of the rail-
way into the city affected the bar trade.
Moreover, visitors from the country and
other States are less frequent than they
used to be, and competition has forced
the co. to further reduce its tariff. Also,
now that the tide has run out, the bank
and other charges have become a
drag—about seven years ago the pre-
mises were remodelled and extended, and
the board went to its bankers for the
money.
Last year gross earnings (£23,389)
slipped £2302. Including an extra £278
for ground rent (£4165) and £4195 set
aside for depreciation, etc., exes. (£23,202)
were pulled back £1956 ; but only £lB7
of profit remained, and shareholders
went hungry again.
Exactly what the future holds for the
co. it is difficult to say. The Easter
business promises to be better this year
than last, and the visit of Prince George
should help, too. Thus prospects of a
better showing at the end of the current
term are encouraging.
The market sums up the position by
paying 10s. 9d. for the fully-paid pound
shares as against 275. 6d. a few years ago.
The return at 10s. 9d. would be 4.6 p.c.
on a 2\ p.c. div. basis.
The lease runs out in 1960, and a sink-
ing fund has been created ; but the board
has not yet been able to invest the money
outside the business. The position as
balance-sheet figures show it is as fol-
lows :
1 QOK IQqn IQQO IAQO
Paid capital. . £130,’000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft . . 19,125 45,334 39,362 34,918
Creditors . . 6,474 4,858 3,738 3,347
Buildings . . 137,373 164,349 158,999 156,225
Furniture, etc. 25,276 26,288 18,944 17,523
Stocks . . 5,184 3,674 2,582 2,546
Book debts, etc. 3,559 3,329 2,454 2,160
The year’s allowance for depreciation,
etc., enabled £4444 to be snipped off the
overdraft, and £391 off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors. That reduced
the excess of outside liabilities over more
or less liquids to £33,559 at the end of
December, an improvement of £4505 over
the twelvemonth.
Manly Gas Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923 .. 6,086 8 p.c. = 7,560 734
Premiums on shares, £517 .. .. 1,251
1924 .. 9,864 8 p.c. = 10,344 771
Premiums on shares, £BO4 • . . • 1,575
1925 .. 13,130 8 p.c. = 11,700 1430 3,005
1926 - . 12,040 8 „ ~ 13,200 1,845
Premiums on shares, £2847 .. .. 4,692
1927 .. 14,427 8 p.c. = 14,639 4,480
Premiums on shares, £5023 . . . . 9.503
1928 .. 18,549 8 p.c. = 17,189 1360 10,863
1929 .. 20,155 8 ~ ~20,800 10,218
1930 .. 20 371 8 „ ~20,800 9,789
1931 . . 17,849 7 ~ ~ 18,200 9,438
1932 . . 16,131 6 „ „ 15,600 531 9,969
1933 . . 15,990 6 ~ „ 15,600 396 10,365
N. S. Wales gas cos. were first har-
nessed by legislation in 1912, when Car-
michael’s Act sought to regulate prices
and divs.- The experiment broke down
because it failed to provide for increasing
costs. Instead of 10 p.c. on old and 7
p.c. on new capital, the Act of 1918
sought to standardise the div. at 8 p.c.,
and made the question of allowance for
depreciation, etc., more explicit. The Act
of 1932, which placed the industry under
the control of a commission, lowered the
standard div. to 6 p.c. and the allow-
ance for special purposes and deprecia-
tion from 3 \ p.c. to 3 p.c. of the capital
outlay on buildings and plant.
As the outlook became less obscure
and interest rates fell, a more or less
assured return of 6 p.c. has sent the co.’s
pound shares from 16s. 6d. to 255. in
the market over the last 2\ years. On a
6 p.c. div. basis, the return at the higher
price is 4.8 p.c., which is about the yield
looked for from most sound industrials
these days.
Last year the co. laid 2690 yards of
mains, 1538 yards of new services and
connected up 242 new meters. Gas sales
increased by 2.12 p.c., and the price to
the consumer (now 7s. Id.) was lowered
by 2d. per 1000 c.f., making the cut
Is. 04d. in less than three years. There
was little change in gross earnings:
f — 1 Year ended Dec. N
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
1932. s. d. 1933. s. d.
Sales
Gas .. ..£64,431 7 5 £64,041 7 4|
Residuals .. 6,481 0 9l 6,619 0 9
Total ..£70,912 8 2J £70,660 8 14
Manufacturing:—-
Exes., etc. . . 33,520 3 10£ 34,252 3 111
Other charges. . 21,261 2 5i 20,412 2 41
Total outgo. £54,781 6 3J £54,664 6 3J
Sales of gas appliances increased by 45.3
р. and the cost of fitting and fixing
them is responsible for the small increase
in manufacturing and distributing costs.
The 6 p.c. div. called for all but £396 of
the net earnings, which were per 1000
с. lighter than the previous year’s. The
yield of gas per ton of coal (20.47 c.f.)
was the best yet, and further economies
have resulted from an overhaul of the
plant. So another 2d. per 1000 c.f. is to
be knocked off the charge to the con-
sumer from March 1.
The year’s outlay on capital account
was £6866, and £10,669 was spent on re-
placements, etc., and charged to special
purposes, reducing the fund to £6614.
When the books closed the £260,000 of
share capital and £24,779 of specific and
other reserves was supplemented by
£41,900 of debentures and temporary
loans and £18,720 coming to sundry
creditors. Land and buildings figured
at £41,688 ; plant, £286,310; stocks,
£8786 ; debtors, etc., £8614.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1925.. 32,695 10 p.c. = 8792 23,903 38,224
Reserves capitalised, £21,978 .. 16,246
Dec.,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.c. = 8055 13,823
Loss.
1926.. 406 Nil 13,417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil 13,943
Loss.
1928.. 6,674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 8,145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil 480 948
1932.. 1,276 Nil 1276 2,224
1933.. 3,842 Nil 3842 6,066
About eight years ago high prices and
the multiplication of small growers en-
couraged the board to double the capa-
city of the mill, raising it to 100,000 tons
of cane annually ; and the co. went to
its bankers for the money. But prices
fell, and so did this co.’s supplies—it is
a bit too far south —while the growth in
the export surplus further lowered the
average price of raws:
Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed, factured. By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1924.. 86,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 6
1926.. 57,701 6,743 155,335 23 5 10
1927.. 46,355 5,917 130,266 22 110
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1930.. 47,990 6,603 123,206 19 16 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1932.. 52,001 6,824 114,751 16 11 7
1933.. 82,362 10,908 174,547 15 7 7
For the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1932, the mill averaged only
about half a meal. Last year’s bumper
crop brought crushings nearer to capa-
city, the output of raws was a record,
and costs benefited. Still, after reserving
£5OO for bad debts, £2500 for the tax-
gatherer, and striking off £12,534 for
depreciation, only £3842 of profit re-
mained, equal to 3.2 p.c. on capital
(£118,086, which includes £56,199 of
bonus scrip).
During the year £19,539 was clipped
off the overdraft (now £73,914) and £1352
off the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors (£1510).' When the books closed lia-
bilities exceeded more or less liquids by
£60,854, or £16,121 less than at the pre-
vious balance. The market offers Is. 6d.
for the fully-paid pound shares.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
iDEAs.-r-Commonwealth ana Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY" Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
4= 4s * 4=
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other alloys, try LEMPRIERE
AND CO., Sirius House, Sydney.— Advt.
n
The Metallurgical Works of
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or Con-
centrate which you have for sale, it will
be assayed for Gold content free of cost,
and price submitted.
f
Wjm
Wv.
■&%wm-
mm
, m 1m % ymmm,
Wow&ms?%Wf
■ms.
I Wm&
1 SM
m
lip \ *, *
yssys/S
-m
Let's take out more
ASSURANCE
WHAT a different world this would be if every
wife said to her husband occasionally: “Let’s
take out more assurance!”
“Let’s take out an A.M.P. policy that will give us a trip
round the world when we are 50! Let’s take out an
A.M.P. policy that will give our boy £5OO when he is
25! Let’s take out an A.M.P. policy that will provide
a dowry for the daughter we hope to have! Don’t let
us spend all your earnings; let us invest some of them
in the A.M.P. to make glad the future!” O, that all
wives would be so wise!
When the husband was 29 a certain couple took out a policy
that would give them £5OO when they were 60. Recently
(while still in full enjoyment of life) they drew a cheque for
£879, which was the total of their policy with bonuses added.
That was a good return on a quarterly investment of £4/6/3,
was it not? It is in this way that members of the A.M.P.
“make glad the future.”
A copy of a most informative book called “Investing in
Happiness” will be sent to anyone asking for it; or a repre-
sentative will be sent to anyone desiring to discuss membership
in the Society.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.. Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., Chief Inspector & Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
(jSP
Send
f
t
or
a
copy
o
HAPPINESS
in
R
duK
to
ree
ess
any
a
Concreters, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 283 Nil 459
Nominal
Reserves.*
1929.. 8,204 15 p.c. = 4246 3958 3,499
1930.. 13,292 15 „ „ 4249 9043 12,542
1931.. 5,726 10 „ „ 2833 2893 15,435
1932.. 5,050 10 „ „ 2833 2217 17,652
1933.. 5,429 10 „ „ 2833 2596 20,248
*Subjeet to patent rights, processes, etc. (£20,008).
This successful little concern was formed
late in 1927 to operate a patent for turn-
ing out concrete pipes, etc., at low cost.
It paid away no less than £20,008 of its
£28,327 of capital for the rights. Still,
it has been able to earn enough to dis-
tribute divs. aggregating 60 p.c. (an aver-
age of 12 p.c. p.a.), and at the same time
accumulate £20,248 of reserves. Thus the
whole of the share capital, and £240 be-
sides, was represented by more or less
solid assets at Sept. 30 last.
These days tenderers have to quote a
pretty low figure to capture contracts for
the supply of drainage pipes, etc., to
local government bodies; and it is here
that this co. scores over competitors.
Last year every tender it made was
accepted, and, new uses having been
found for the co.’s patents, several small
bridges and culverts were built for the
Main Roads Board. After providing for
taxation, the net result was £379 better
at 19.1 p.c. on capital as against 17.8,
20.2, 46.9 and 28.9 p.c. The div., which
had been lowered from 15 p.c. in 1930 to
10 p.c. in 1931, was kept at 10 p.c.
The co. has practically no plant, and
it has not had to borrow much to finance
its contracts either:
1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. .. £28,327 £28,327 £28,327
Liabilities 8,441 8,324 5,464
Patent rights, etc... .. 20,008 20,008 20,008
Fittings 2,517 2,429 2,038
Stocks .. .. .. 997 545 696
Debtors 32,036 34,107 34,656
Cash, etc 346 309 310
The scrip enjoys a fairly active market,
investors being attracted by the specula-
tive value of the patents. At 38s. the
fully-paid pound shares return 5.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
To provide for further expansion of
the business and help reduce the debt,
this co. is offering 200,000 B prefs., carry-
ing a fixed cumulative 6 p.c. and ranking
for capital and divs. next after the exist-
ing A prefs. When all the money on
this issue, which has been underwritten,
comes in, paid capital will be £844,350
in 100,000 7 p.c. A and 200,000 6 p.c.
B prefs., both cumulative, and 544,350
ords. Together, both lots of prefs. will
then call for £19,000 p.a., or about half
the amount netted for the 12 months to
June 30 last. Over the last eight years
net earnings averaged £52,732. Sales
for the December half of 1933 were 5|
p.c. better than for the corresponding
half of 1932. On the basis of figures at
June 30 the net tangible cover would be :
A shares, £8 10s. 7d.; B’s, £3 15s. 4d. ;
ords., 20s. 4d.
On the market the A shares fetch
265. 9d., at which figure the return is
5.2 p.c. So, unless operations of stags
interfere, there should be a shilling or so
profit in the new shares for those who
care to take it. It would be hard to find
an investment offering a similar return
with equal security.
Mount Lyell
One of the most interesting develop-
ments at Mt. Lyell (Tas.) has been the
variations in the grade of ore which it
has become possible to treat commer-
cially. Early in this century pyritic ore
averaging little more than 2.5 p.c. copper
was profitable. This phase was followed
by a much longer one, during which the
silicious ores treated needed to have
nearly double that copper content to
make them payable. Then the North
Lyell tunnel, erection of a refinery at
Queenstown and metallurgical and other
improvements reduced costs and made
possible treatment of lower-grade ore
than the original pyrites. Present ore.
reserves and their assay values are as
follows:
, Average Assay
Ore, Copper, Silver, Gold,
„ ~ Tons. p.c. oz. oz.
Aorth Lyell .. 616,498 4.75 1.00 .015
Lyell Comstock .. 666,000 3.00 0.25 ~030
Crown Lyell .. 433,000 2.00 0.25 .015
Royal Tharsis .. 2,750,000 2.00 0.10 .020
Total .. .. 4,465,498 2.53 0.26 .020
Thus the future of the mine now depends
mainly upon profitable treatment of the
low-grade silicious deposits in the Royal
Tharsis.
Last year the co. paid 2\ p.c., mainly
from returns on its £1,450,170 of invest-
ments, mostly in the fertiliser industry.
All-in mining and treatment costs aver-
aged £45 ss. per ton of copper produced.
Electrolytic, which averaged £36 17s. for
the term in London, is now around £35
12s. So the co. still depends upon th
exchange premium and the gold and
silver residues for whatever profit there
may be from mine products.
English results indicate that the treat-
ment of coal by the low-temperature car-
bonisation method has an encouraging
future both there and on the Continent.
Doncaster Coalite, the only subsidiary of
Low Temperature Carbonisation, Ltd.,
yet working, paid a div. of 30s. per £1
ord. share last year. Sales of coalite
(smokeless fuel), etc., sprang 23 p.c., and
the fuel is said to be growing in popu-
larity. In its other activities, including
production of petrol and fuel oil from
coal, the co. also reports very definite
progress. Further, the success of coalite
in France has led to negotiations with
five other Governments and private
undertakings for the rights to operate the
process in the countries concerned. Pros-
pects of successfully operating the pro-
cess on a commercial scale in Australia
are largely wrapt up with the question of
costs. Here coal is about 50 p.c. dearer
than it is in England.
* * * *
Although the statistical position of zinc
continues to improve—world consump-
tion has overtaken production of the
metal, temporarily, at any rate —stocks
are still substantial, and members of the
cartel continue to restrict output to 50
p.c. of plant capacity. At present annual
U.K. consumption is between 125,000
and 130,000 tons, whereas Empire plant
capacity is around 310,000 tons. It looks
like curtailment of output for some time
to come, the fear being as to what might
happen to prices if the restriction prop is
withdrawn. However, by arrangement
with other members of the cartel, Elec-
trolytic Zinc, Risdon, has been able to
continue at practically full capacity, and
has found buyers for its output, which
used to sell at a premium over G. 0.8.
spelter in the world’s markets.
* * * *
The Newhaven, an old mine 30 miles
nor’-west of Charters Towers, was re-
opened last year. Its old records showed
14dwt. stuff. The first crushing taken out
since reopened was worth 15dwt., includ-
ing 7dwt. in the tailings. The lode has a
length of at least 700 ft., and, while touch-
ing 10ft. wide in spots, it averages 3ft. to
4ft. ; so it has a chance if recoveries are
O.K. The deepest shaft is 128 ft.
* * * *
Kangaroo Hills tinfield (N.Q.) is now
practically a fossickers’ field, company
operations being a thing of the past.
Among them, some 30 to 40 men garnered
94 tons of ore in January for 5£ tons of
black tin. The average return was about
£lO a ton of ore. Outside of these, Reddie
brothers have done well since acquiring
the Sardine in July last at bedrock price.
For the last few months of 1933 they won
120 tons of high-grade ore averaging £ll
a ton. In its flourishing days the Sar-
dine was one of the richest tinmines in
North Queensland.
* * * *
Auburn Falls G.M. Co., Burnett River
(C.Q.), was taken up by W. H. Barnes. A
little driving has been done, looking for
new ore shoots —the two previous
ones, which were exhausted years ago,,
supplied 550 tons of 9dwt. stuff. Samples
from the new faces assayed from
2dwt. to 14dwt., but the higher figure
covers only a width of 12in. The
lode is up to 14ft. wide in places, but so
far the broader faces have been poor. It
possibly has the makings of a big low-
grade proposition, being an extensive
porphyry dyke deposit, but new pay
shoots will have to be found.
* * * *
Recent developments at the Hercules,
Bendigo, have further improved the out-
look. There is at least 130 ft. of payable
stone below the 1725 ft. level, and there
is 18 months’ work ahead before this new
deposit can be attacked. The market
prices the 10s. shares paid to Is. at 335.
as against 275. in January.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Ore Treatment Co. has
made a start with the extraction of gold
from Boulder Perseverance and North
Kalgurli ores. The co. was formed a
few months ago to take over the en-
larged Boulder Perseverance plant. Of
its 1000 shares, Perseverance holds 635
and North Kalgurli 365. Each has the
right to contribute tonnage in proportion
to its holding. About 14,000 tons is
expected to be put through monthly.
❖ * *
North Kalgurli Central, near the North
Kalgurli leases at the northern end of
the Golden Mile, has advanced the north
drive on the 87ft. level to 40ft. in 4dwt.
stone. In a rise in the south drive 9dwt.
stuff showed up. On the 400 ft. level,
where the co. hopes to locate a large body
of payable ore, the north drive has been
advanced 72ft. in sdwt. ore.
H: * * if:
New Venture Gold and Development
has commenced operations on the old
Redemption, held under option at Cool-
gardie (W.A.). The property, which
adjoins the Bayley group, had been shut
down for years. The vertical three-com-
partment shaft is down only a few hun-
dred feet, and about 6000-odd tons has
been mined for 7000 oz. of gold.
Ernest Williams, formerly g.m. of
Boulder Perseverance, has been asked by
the London board of Great Boulder
Prop, to inspect and report upon that co.’s
Kalgoorlie property.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.J.R.: (1) The bonds are not quoted on
the Stock Exchange. (2) Write to the secre-
tary, Kembla Buildings, Margaret-street, Sydney ;
he will endeavor to find a buyer for you
G.A.P.: (1) and (2) Published accounts showed
loss of £37,818 for year to June 30, 1932.
Actually expenditure exceeded revenue by
£326,000. Revenue from mine products
(£722,382) was equal to £l9 per ton of bullion.
Expenditure was put at £2O. If prospecting
and developing charges are added, the figure
was over £27, which is more than need be looked
for in the near future. (3) Mill recoveries
(now 80.1 p.c. lead and 77.1 p.c. silver) are
likely to improve. (4) and (5) Yes. (6) All
depends upon sales and metal prices.... Seeker:
See February, 1934, issue “ ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly”... .Undecided: (1) It is a small show
with fair prospects. (2) Sit tight for a while.
(3; The amendments foreshadow extension of
the co.’s activities; nothing to object t 0....
RJ.O’H.: The co. is having a hard struggle
to turn the corner. Neither bonuses to policy-
holders nor dividends to shareholders are yet
in sight.


LN!
RALPH
LYN m
AND
TOM
•
A BRITISH AND DOMINIONS FILM.
ft
il
&s?s
i:PI
7&?FILM THAT IS RIVALLING
/‘ROOKERY NOOK' IN POPULARITY
Watch For It in
Your Favourite
T heatre.
TRAVERS
™mArv BROUGH
<5 ’ /7 " ROBERfSOfM HARE
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Hindle Wakes”
This Victor Saville production, at the
Mayfair, is the missing masterpiece: the
British film which everyone who admires
England has been looking for in vain
since the talkies started. It seems to have
all the material dialogue of the play,
yet the action is fast and the interest
never flags.
The girl is seen starting for her holi-
day in Blackpool, where she meets, by
chance, the son of the man who owns the
great Lancashire mill in which she is
employed. They think no one knows
of the affair into which they drift, but
her father and mother find out and the
drama begins.
Here is a film which is a better adver-
tisement for England and the English
than any number of “Cavalcades” and
“Good Companions.” There are no
box-office sentimentalities or sensational-
isms ; only truth. Analysing the reac-
tions of the characters to the situations
the onlooker realises why the British
have got on in the world. These people
are as honest as they are level-headed,
and they are realists. When the mill-
owner learns what has happened he
admits to being disgusted at the prospect
of having one of his weavers for a
daughter-in-law, but he is determined that
she shall be his daughter-in-law. He
doesn’t explode into theatrical platitudes
on the subject; just takes it for granted,
as a man of principle. The son is in
love with another girl—one who talks
his own language—but he is ready to do
the right thing. He is no picturesque
film seducer; only a decent lad who has
made a mistake.
Then the girl has her say. She won’t
marry the young man. She isn’t in love
with him, and never was. She doesn’t
want his brass and position ; they would
embarrass her. No tears, no posturings.
There is a young man of her own type
in the background who will suit her
much better. It is life, as distinguished
from the emotional slush which the films
have been foisting on us as life for so
many years.
The casting is so flawless that it is
hard to say which player does best.
The writer preferred Norman McKinnel
as the mill-owner; but McKinnel’s is
by far the most attractive part. Edmund
Gwenn is superb as the girl’s father;
so is Sybil Thorndike as the mother;
and the heroine, in addition to looking
like a nuggety, cheeky little English mill-
hand, is right in every expression of her
face and intonation of her voice.
Unfortunately the film is old, and the
photography shows it.
“Thark”
A Tom Walls-Ralph Lynn farce in
which the famous pair repeat the mix-
ture. The only outstanding innovation
is that Walls, as an elderly soldier-
baronet, talks with a Cockney accent.
But they may be doing it in the Guards
now that so many London shop-hands
have Oxford voices.
On this occasion it is the ghost of
Thark Manor —the property of Mary
Brough—that drives Lynn and Walls to
the whisky decanter, impels the younger
ladies of the cast to rush about in their
underclothes, and exposes Robertson
Hare (Walls’s servant) as a yammering
craven. “Thark” is nearly as old as
“Hindle Wakes.” Why it should be
starred in the advertisements is one of
the impenetrable mysteries of the show
business.
“The World Changes”
The principal Regent movie this week
is a blend of half a dozen that have
made money in the past. It begins with
a covered-waggon theme —prairies, Injuns,
cattle and a Buffalo Bill with natural curls
—and shows the rise of a Wild-West boy
(Paul Muni) to the status of meat-baron,
and eventually to that of carcass-duke
with a favorite seat in the United League
Club—the New York equivalent, appa-
rently, of a seat in the bow-window of
White’s.
But the grand old butcher’s family is
unworthy. His wife (Mary Astor) be-
comes insane when he refuses to give
up his trade. His sons and their wives
drink cocktails —and every movie-fan
knows what that means. A grand-
daughter gets engaged to a low-comedy
baronet (referred to by the society papers
as “an English lord”), and the brute
leaves her at the church door when the
1929 slump arrives. The youngest scion
of the house is seen setting out to re-
FLASHES FROM BRITISH FLICKS.
In “Hindle Wakes” at Sydney Mayfair: (1) Norman McKinnel, (2) Sib
Thorndike, (3) Edmund Gwenn. In “Thark” at the same theatre: (4) Robertson
Hare, Ralph Lynn and Tom Walls.
fill the depleted family cashbox at the
fadeout.
It is crude melodrama redeemed by
some excellent acting. Paul Muni looks
equally lifelike as a boy, as a middle-
aged man and as a septuagenarian.
Mary Astor, exquisite in youth, is night-
marishly ugly when, as a distraught
lunatic, she escapes from her nurse and
falls dead before her appalled husband.
“Aggie Appleby, Maker of Men”
Have you a boy who wears specs,
dislikes fighting and makes for the street
when he finds a strange girl half-naked
in his room? Then let the girl—who
should be a hard-faced, wise-cracking
platinum blonde with black eyebrows—
throw his specs into the street, and per-
suade him to live with her. Soon he
will be dressing like a nigger pug and
picking fights with man-killers of the
class of his instructor’s convict-husband.
The little homily is driven home —mostly
in the language of the Bowery—by Wil-
liam Gargan and Charles Farrell, who
is transmuted from pansy to man by the
arts of Wynne Gibson.
“Sleepers East”
The mills of Hollywood are grinding
them out faster than ever. This Capitol
film arrives in Australia simultaneously
with the thriller on which it is based.
The background is life on one of those
American trains that resemble luxury
hotels. The “montage”—a trade term
which means in this connection the re-
production of everything connected with
a train except the smell —is admirable.
The story concerns municipal poli-
tics (plot 823), and has a dash of gangster
(plot H 76). Wynne Gibson demonstrates
what a nicely-brought-up girl is liable to
do when threatened with 20 years’ gaol
if she doesn’t tell the truth and with
death if she does. After drinking a
quart of alcohol she gets slightly maudlin.
She is discovered in this condition by
an honest young business man from back
home (Preston Foster) who loves her
still. But a silly old locomotive-driver
runs into a level-crossing accident, and
a bone-headed detective shoots the lover
in the forearm. Miss Wynne goes on the
witness-stand believing that four gun-
men are drawing beads on her, but
nevertheless she spills the beans reso-
lutely.
All ends in a satisfactory manner with
the suicide of the real murderer and joy-
bells for the young people.
“The Pride of the Force”
A British effort, which seems to have
a haunting suspicion that it ought to be
American. Leslie Fuller, whose princi-
pal asset is a hollow-sounding burble,
plays two parts—an athletic constable
and the constable’s idiot brother. Sorted
into the mixture are scenes in a circus,
some wrestling mixed with boxing in a
way that wouldn’t get past any referee
of this critic’s acquaintance and farcical
situations which are as old as the jests
with which they are garnished.
“My Weakness”
It is constructed in accordance with the
following familiar recipe: Take one
eccentric uncle of great wealth, one
amiable nephew, one charming maiden
of humble birth, one undesirable suitor,
one scheming siren, several shapely
females in scant attire; mix, and add
a few soft-boiled ballads and set against
sumptuous backgrounds.
Lilian Harvey is a gawky hotel maid
who blossoms into a sophisticated beauty.
She has a sense of humor, a light touch
and rare grace. Another smooth worker
is Charles Butterworth, who portrays a
woman-shy vegetarian. The other roles
are conventional. Some of the songs are
catchy, particularly “Gather Lip Rouge
While You May.”
If Warner Baxter hadn’t been so com-
placent, if Helen Vinson hadn’t been so
dull, if G. P. Huntley, Jr., hadn’t been
so stiff, and if the precocious nephew had
been thrown overboard, “As Husbands
Go” might have been a good film of its
class. Helen Vinson and Catharine
Doucet are American tourists in Paris
who have entangled themselves respec-
tively with an English poet (G. P.
Huntley) and a lady-killing Frenchman
(Warner Oland). Helen V. thinks of
divorcing her husband (Warner Baxter),
but the splendor of his character makes
her pause. Then the poet meets him and
is so impressed that he chivalrously with-
draws. He and Baxter are superb in the
inevitable drinking scene.
Sundry Shows
Sydney Electrical and Radio Exhibition
at the Town Hall (the ninth of its line)
differed very little to
the non-technical eye
from last year’s. Un-
less he had time to
listen to all the sales-
men and compare their
claims, the novice who
had the purchase of a
radio-set or an electric
stove in mind didn’t get
much enlightenment.
The trade seems to
have got itself engulfed
so deeply in technolo-
gical intricacies that it
talks about YZ to cus-
tomers who haven’t
mastered AB. The
dealers ought to club
together to provide an
educational show which
would give tyros the
rudiments.
* * *
Sydney Con. about
three or four times a
year finds a singer
whose abilities war-
rant a recital under the official aegis.
Latest discovery is Marie Brown, soprano,
whose voice has a very pleasant timbre.
She shouldn’t, but did, sing Brahms, who
wrote his songs when, in a musical sense,
he was very sophisticated, but she has
the sort of voice that Schubert, whose
simplicity imposed much more terrible
tests, had in view when he wrote his
best-loved lyrics. Miss Brown, pupil of
Spencer Thomas, goes to England to
study.
“Von Morgens Bis Mitternachts,” by
Georg Kaiser, translated into English by
Ashley Dukes and into action by the
Little Theatre co. in a little old recon-
ditioned church in a narrow little lane
o Continued on next page.)


c
tt
&
Hitt?"
(.UStfIMJ
«5S
&
1
?&•
•»A
*
i'S
A
•s>'.
••i/v
v:-ir
'#2
S*t
if
SH
Vi £?/■*>*•?
•A*.
V ;•'
«r
VM
A A
•■?;•. r
y.v » : s
'fir?:
<^>
N./
"V.vl
t-VyAC
c$
?*4#
fifi
°D
A
r Vi»-rTt
.®c7 s f->*•' <X' //>
■W*
WsmmS^
\?<9
V> tCs>
■*'4s>:# *
-5£T thf STM®*
It
s a
F)HxnYWJ^
World
r A
55
H
BRYANT
& MAY'S
MATCHES
in South Yarra, tells the story of a
middle-aged cashier whose libido is in-
flamed to such an extent by the appear-
ance of a woman with a nice figure and
a letter of credit that, as soon as she has
gone, he purloins 60,000 marks and goes
off to her hotel, knowing that the man-
agement and probably the police will be
hot on his heels. The lady rejects his
offer. He takes to the woods and is pur-
sued by Death —or perhaps it is his con-
science—represented by a skull painted
on the backcloth; returns to his home,
where his mother drops dead because, for
the first time in his life, he won’t stay in
to dinner; goes to a bicycle race, where
he offers prizes with the munificence of
makers of chocolates and headache
tablets; engages a private supper-
room at a cabaret, but doesn’t like the
girls his stolen money purchases ; goes to
a Salvation Army hall and is giving his
testimony when a policeman enters;
whereupon he blows his brains out.
This is all so manifestly absurd and
so inherently improbable that we know
at once that we are in the presence of
the expressionist drama, even without the
evidence of the programme. The radical
defect of the expressionist drama is that
it is so inexpressive. In this case, it tells
us no more than that when a man has
got into a mess he is darned sorry for
himself. The soliloquy is liberally used,
as it was used by Hamlet. The encounter
with the skull in the woods appears to
be a recollection of the Walpurgis Nacht
in Goethe’s “Faust”; in fact, the
whole plot is a rearrangement of the
“Faust” motive, with the letter-of-credit
lady as Marguerite, the cashier as Faust
and his suppressed subconscious urge to
have a good time before he gets too old
as Mephistopheles. The piece would have
been an intolerable bore if it had not
been for the extraordinary fine playing of
Jack Wiltshire. There were 35 people in
the cast, but Wiltshire practically mono-
polised the talk and the action. He never
once faltered, gave the longest speech a
variety of nuance and always made you
feel the appropriate emotion. He is a
first-class actor, judging by this perform-
ance.
H- * *
St. Patrick’s Church, Sydney, had a
concert the other night, and it went over
the air to all Australia. There were two
choirs, a competent orchestra, singers such
as Nora Hill, Evelyn Hall and Franco
Izal, and, at the organ, Father Moreno,
whose compositions—a “Missa Prima,”
settings of verses from Father Hartigan’s
“The Boree Log,” and another of Hood’s
“Song of the Shirt”—were garnished with
Bach, Mendelssohn and Gounod. Whether
Father Moreno’s music for the Mass
measures up to the highest flights of
Palestrina, Cherubini, Bach, Haydn and
Mozart may be questioned, but it seems
a lot more devotional and appropriate
to the words than anything Weber, Ros-
sini or Gounod devised. And some of
the “Boree Log” songs are delightful.
H- * *
The force of destiny seems to be
mainly exerted on Verdi’s “Forza del Des-
tino” in the direction of preventing its
performance. No opera has such a record
of announced performances followed by
cancellations. 2FC listeners got one of
the disappointments on Thursday night.
The overture was performed, but it was
followed by “Traviata,” sung sweetly by
Dorothy D’Orn, Lionello Cecil, Franco
Izal and others. The story of the woes of
Violetta is certainly much more tuneful
than Verdi’s excursion into martial
tragedy, the only well-remembered aria
in which is the duet for tenor and bari-
tone, immortalised by Caruso and Scotti,
so 2FC patrons hadn’t much to growl
about.
* H- ¥
Melbourne Tiv. is full of audience and
welcome for the return of Mo, whose
make-up is a little greyer and whose
business a little more concerned with
lavatory humor than of yore. All to the
satisfaction of his hearers, however, who
giggle and wriggle throughout the per-
formance. Sadie Gale is as pert as a
sparrow, and Stan Foley doesn’t need a
refresher course in the science of hoof-
ing ; nor has the ballet anything to learn
from the stars in the matter of grace and
elegance. The ballet houris do their best
to look like Queenie, the dancing mistress,
who runs off the quicktime song-
with-husband with her customary vivac-
ity. But truth to tell, General Depresh
is beginning to tell on local vaudeville.
Same old elaborate shorts to illustrate
a more or less unexpected point, fol-
lowed by songandance and danceand-
song, and on it goes—more dance, more
song and more erring wife or husband
with a wandering eye. However, Mo
makes up for a good deal.
¥ * *
At the Melbourne Town Hall on Satur-
day night Pouishnoff guided the grand
through Beethoven’s 32 variations in C
minor diligently, but seemingly without
great zest. His Brahms Rhapsodie stirred
the emotions more satisfyingly. His
Chopin was well done, though so are
lots of chickens. The Russian’s playing
is, on the whole, more rhythmic than
colorful. Huge Horace Stevens took up
most of the evening with his great John
Bull voice and figure, and the beef of
Old England was served with the ragouts
of France, represented by Massenet’s
“Vision Fugitive,” somewhat incon-
gruously. Stevens is more interested in
the dramatic than the musical aspect of
his songs,
** * .
That immensely popular singer James
Foran filled Melbourne Town Hall with
his robust voice and an enormous audi-
ence for his farewell recital last week,
James is a tall, handsome, upstanding
young man, knows how to put himself on
easy terms with his listeners, manipu-
lates his songs with the astuteness of a
magician and can give anything, from
opera to claptrap, some emotional signi-
ficance. These qualities encourage the
critic to overlook certain faults of in-
tonation and the failure of daring vocal
experiments to quite come off. In “Che
gelida manina” (Puccini) Foran missed a
couple of top notes by a small but per-
ceptible number of inches, but he was
perfectly at ease in the local George
2SMttsa«sas
a flair for drama in a song about foot-
sloggers on the Western Front, and in
conjunction with the Melbourne Male
Choir (under A. C. Bartleman’s baton) he
made an impressive affair of some soli
and choruses from two early Verdian
works. He is shortly off to storm Europe
with his tenor. His only previous visit
was with the silent service known as the
was witn tne silent service Known as tne
A.l.r.
V * *
Amongst the Firm’s 1934 attractions
Amongst me rum s attractions
Will be that titanic production Ten
Minutes’ Alibi” (now over the 400th-per-
formance mark in London), the ornate
“White Horse Inn,” Ivor Noveflo’s
“Fresh Fields” and Dodie Smith’s “Ser-
vice.” Pulling a leaf out of Thring’s
book, J.C.W. will stage an Australian
musicomedy after “Gay Divorce” has
filed its schedule at the King’s, Mel-
bourne. Its title is “Night Night, Mitzi,”
and its author is Jack O’Hagan, who
pleads guilty to being responsible for over
100 jazz ditties, with sales over the two
million.
J his wee k (March 4-10) the Ma State re-
members its animals. The Be-Kind-to-
Animals Week is organised by the R.S.P.C.A.,
one bie oldest institutions in the State,
The society interests itself in all matters that
affect livestock, some of its best work having
been done in 1924> when it was instrumental in
having the Railway Commissioners review the
system of transit of stock by rail. In the
metropolitan area it maintains a dogs’ home,
afl ambulance service and a convalescent home
f or horses, investigates complaints and prose-
cutes offenders.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Onambatutu”: As an old Papuliar, I
cannot but help feeling grieved at some
news from Port Moresby which tells of
the capture of certain cannibals after a
feast in which “men, women and chil-
dren” shared the banquet of long pig.
It is risky to generalise as to the customs
of the very various Papuan. But I have
been closely acquainted with some of
the most eminent cannibal tribes in
Papua, and this is the first time I have
heard of women, much less children,
being permitted to eat human flesh,
though there was always a tacit license
“I’m not worry in’, Alf. In China, a bloke tol’ me, thousands has LIVED on the
water for years.”
for them to chew the bones when their
lords had done. I fear I can trace the
influence of that feminist spirit which is
becoming such a menace in other parts
of the world. Though he regarded
murder as a fine art and cultivated
treachery as a primary virtue, I must say
the Papuan of my day shared the views
of St. Paul regarding the proper place in
the community for womenfolk, and how
to keep them in it.
* * * *
"L.E.A.”: “Bangemall” (B. 7/2/’34) is
wrong when he says no Chinaman could
have been found on the Westralian gold-
fields during the last 40 years. Twenty
years ago I was at Leonora, and work-
ing on a sheep station 20 miles further
north was a Chinese. He had slipped
through to the district somehow, had
his pigtail cut off and was allowed to
remain. He’d been there for years when
1 met him, and was a kindly soul.
* * * *
“Lucerne Flea”: Stanley River (Q.)
isn’t the only water which won’t rust
iron or steel (B. 14/2/’34) ; on W. G.
Warren’s station, near Lyndoch (S.A.),
there is an inexhaustible well with the
same properties. A 50-guinea shotgun
spent a month in the well, and when
brought up was without a speck of rust.
Near Kongal, in the s.-e. of the same
State, there is a bore whose somewhat
hard water is in demand for use in car
and truck radiators. Over the inside it
puts a coating of a thin white priming
which prevents the metal underneath
from rusting and stops leaks ; the priming
stays there no matter what water is used
afterwards.
“O. de V.”: “Spinifex’s” Afghan (B.
21/2/’34) who treated the chafed humps
of his camels with hot fat was a humani-
tarian alongside some of the oont-con-
ductors of my acquaintance. A tough
old Ghilzai whose caravan wore a pad
between Burketown (N.Q.) and Camoo-
weal arrived at our station too late to
unload and move as far to windward of
the horse-paddock as we and the horses
would have liked. Next morning the
voice of Scottie, a recent arrival, was
loud in the land, and I turned out to in-
vestigate. The ’Ghan had pinched a
freshly skinned sheepskin and was
busy alongside a kneeling camel that was
filling the morning air with snarling
obscenities. Its neck was tied down to
the forelegs, while the owner fitted the
sheepskin, wool side out, over a raw
patch of hump, and sewed it on with a
packing-needle and twine. The sight was
too much for Scottie. He was soon half-
way back to the station, going through
the motions of a man who has swallowed
a fly.
* *. * .
Sand " lam • Queer is the kink in
human nature which prompts ordinarily
decent people to allege that they have
suffered a loss when there is a possibility
of gaining by it. A mailbag fell into
a North ° Westralian river and could
not be found. Almost every person in
the district whose mail might have been in
that bag had, it transpired, posted money
to Perth or ’ the nearest town in notes.
Cheques there were none. Six weeks
afterwards, to the contractor’s great
delight, the bag was recovered. When
the postmaster broke the seal it contained
two bills and one letter with a ten-shilling
“Hullo there, Jack. Early bird catches the worm, eh?”
“What do y’ mean by worm?”
note in it. The letter was from a man
who hadn’t made a claim.
* * * . *
“Jerry”: Can anyone tell me why old
hands on the N. S. Wales North Coast
still put turkey red in the kerosene fount
of table-lamps? Whenever I have asked
about it the reply always is that the
custom has been handed down from
family to family and the present genera-
tion wouldn’t dream of changing it.
* * * *
“Funafuti”: Taronga Park has ac-
quired a couple of baby frigate birds,
perhaps the world’s finest
long-distance fliers and cer-
tainly the unmatched robbers
of the seas. It will be in-
teresting for visitors to the
Sydney Zoo if the birds are
allowed to look for their own
tucker when they grow up.
They are the most domesti-
cated acquirers of other
people’s property on record,
and like many of their human
opposite members never
dream of working for their
own living. Their method,
after a good snooze ashore
during the heat of the day, is
to cruise a mile or two out to
sea about the time the terns
and other gulls which have
been out fishing are coming
home with the catch. As a
well-laden gull approaches,
the frigate bird swoops on it
with a feather-raising screech.
The gull jettisons cargo at
once, and before this has
reached the water the pirate
has it. Many of the South
Seas natives domesticate these
birds, and it is no uncommon
sight to see them roosting and
yarning on the perches made for them in
the villages until it is time to go out to
dinner.
* * * *
“Jills Two”: “The Prooshan’s” swaggie
(B. 14/2/’34) who pulled the waggon out
of the bog with one horse and a block-
and-tackle, after two teams of horses and
two teams of bullocks had failed, must
have had some tackle. A block-and-
tackle usually has a pulley more in
one block than in the other, and, ignoring
friction, the advantage is equal to twice
the number of pulleys in the smaller
block. “The Prooshan” doesn’t say how
big his teams were. I should say the
brew at Darlington Point must have been
pretty potent in those days.
* * * *
“Kali”: Despite “Paumotu” (B.
7/2/’34) the cocoanut-crab has a very
susceptible hinder part, and the robber
well knows it and keeps that part of his
anatomy well tucked up beneath him. He
lines the rear of his burrow with coir,
teased with his claws to a silky fineness,
When he is safely in it the soft hind
part is allowed to relax and falls back
into this luxurious Cushion, while Mr.
Crab presents a heavily-armored front to
any intruders. At Christmas Island,
where robber crabs are still very plentiful,
I saw a duel, watched by the cause of the
trouble, a young lady crab, who stood
about three yards away from the com-
batants and idly toyed with pieces of
attap. There was a lot of sparring and
clinching, neither crab being able to get
an effective hold until the larger crab
was forced back on to a smooth stone.
Sensing his disadvantage he struggled to
get back on the gripping surface and
momentarily relaxed his vigilance. Next
moment he had been caught in the giant
claws and thrown six feet through the air.
Before he could regain a defensive posi-
tion his adversary was ripping through
the unprotected hind section, continuing
to tear and rip until the vanquished ceased
to struggle. In five minutes’ time the
victor disappeared into the undergrowth
with the female of the species.
jj: * * *
“Eureka”: The new hand had been
bitten by a black snake, and, after treat-
ment, went to bed. Towards morning
Dad went into his room and found him
wide awake. “What’s the matter?” Dad
asked. “Can’t yer sleep?” “I’m not try-
ing to, sir,” Choom replied. “I want to
see whether I’m going to die or not first.”
H 5 "i 5 •!*
“Bunyip”: Have magpies no desire for
comfort? An old nest dragged out of a
tree in a Perth suburb consisted of
barbed wire, wire-netting, soft wire and
prickly sticks. I suppose it was lined with
feathers, but even so Mrs. Mag. must at
times have come in sharp contact with a
barb or a prickle while hatching her eggs,
and the young ’uns could not have found
it the ideal in nurseries. I thought these
birds had more sense.
* * * #
“L. 1.8.”: About the bitterest pill the
Australian Lighthorseman had to swal-
low in the last war, apart from the fact
that Billy Hughes neglected to visit him
at the front, was that he was forced to
leave his beloved horse behind when the
time came to go home. Considering all
things, a very great proportion of these
horses served through the Sinai and
Palestine campaigns and became dearer to
their riders than any brother. The men
in France were luckier, and many of
the four-legged survivors of that theatre
of strife returned to England in the
piping times of peace. Some were
the private property of officers and
were tenderly cared for, but others were
just rank-and-filers on the strength. One
of these, a gunner named David, re-
cently received the honor of a “Times”
obituary notice. He served throughout
the South African War and was posted
to the 107th battery R.F.A. in 1902. In
France he served with the guns from
Mons to the Armistice, and returned to
England to be pensioned off for life by
the battery. Decorations included the
two S.A. medals and clasps, the three
British and Allied medals, and the medal
for long service and good conduct, with
four wound stripes.
DISILLUSIONED.
[FORT THE BULLETIN.]
I remember a pundit who could claim
A string of letters behind his name,
Who sat in an agronomic chair
And smugly lectured —no matter where —
In the tone of one who holds the key
To all the puzzles of husbandry.
I recall a shaft in the hides he’d plant
Of those whom he counted ignorant,
His brand for incompetence complete:
“He wouldn’t know barley from bearded
wheat.”
And it seemed a harrowing thing to me
That such purblind ignorance could be
Detected ever ’mong those who toil
To wrest a crust from the harrowed soil.
.Some chumps might find it impossible
A beet from a bullock’s foot to tell;
But lower than such the prof, would place,
By the scorn he threw in his voice and face,
The dolts unwise in their own conceit
To the diff. ’twixt barley and bearded wheat.
And I used to wonder, I must confess,
If some mining experts I’ve rnet knew less
Than many a quack and charlatan
Who gives advice to the farmer man,
The obvious sort of know-all bloke
Of whom our sage professor spoke,
Who carries cockying in his head.
Seedtime to harvest and A to Z,
But who really couldn’t, for all his bleat,
Distinguish barley from bearded wheat.
So it came when a yeoman, good and true,
Whose dad and grand-dad were yeomen, too,
A product sturdy of paddock and plain,
Asked me what / knew about crops and grain,
1 cast about for some graphic phrase,
Some handy dictum that “nix” conveys,
And there came to my mind, by some queer
chance,
The ne plus ultra of ignorance:
And I answered, candid and short and sweet,
“I can’t tell barley from bearded wheat.”
And there he stood as he weighed the phrase,
But he bent upon me no pitying gaze.
All that he said, that cocky man,
Was “I’m none too sure that / always can”!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
A GUINEA A WEEK.
Beginning- on March 14, a guinea
will be added to the office cheque
for the “Aboriginality” placed first
by the editor.
But it won’t go to the pest who
vamps up matter that has appeared
in other papers. Send something
you have observed yourself, or draw
on your experience or your imagi-
nation.
Members of the staff are, of
course, barred.


“Erua”: 1 was present at an election
meeting when a hefty Maori advised the
candidate that he was going to vote for
the other fellow. “Orright,” said the super-
seded one agreeably ; “you vote for me
next time, eh?” “Oh, res,” was the
response. “Tiss time Hokewha kive
Riria te new tress, so I vote for him
to-tay. To-morrow I vote you.” As
to-morrow was election-day the original
fancy probably got the vote.
* * * *
“H.J.F.”: Journeying to Lucindale
(S.A.) recently, the driver of the Callen-
dale station truck arrived at the siding
short of his dog and his bundle of ropes.
He kept an eye open for them on the
way home, and came upon the ropes by
the side of the road, with a very tired and
thirsty dog mounting guard over them,
one rope in his mouth. A wheat-carter
told the rest of the story. “I saw your
ropes fly off when you went over the
spoon drain,” he said. “After trying to
attract your attention by barking, the dog
jumped off, hitting the dirt with an awful
wallop. He was groggy when he got up,
but staggered back to the ropes. He must
have stood there till you found him. I
went over to hang the ropes in a tree,
but he wouldn’t let me near them.” And
it was a blazing day ; shade temperature
was over the hundred.
* * * *
“Brown Trout”: Little blackfish are
sweet, as “Larrapinta” (B. 21/2/’34)
says ; but he errs in stating that blackfish
never exceed a pound in weight. On
the north-west coast of Tasmania I have
caught them up to a pound and a half,
and have heard of them scaling over two
“When I get ma wool cheque we micht gae down to Bondi for a week an’ see
what this sur-rfing’s like.”
"But I’ll have to get some new clothes, Sandy.”
“Ye’ll no need any clothes—ye’ll be in the waiter all day.”
pounds. It is also a mistake to blame the
trout wholly for the diminution of
blackfish in our streams, although they
do their share. With the growth of popu-
lation and anglers, blackfish, compara-
tively easy marks, have had the odds
against them. I have seen all-night parties
who measured their bags in 20 and 30
dozens, and all sizes.
* * * *
“Unity”: The policeman in a Maori-
’and suburb received an agitated call from
an old lady who reported a horse in her
wash-house. It was the morning after a
storm, and Dobbin, an elderly draught,
had foregone his supper of. roadside grass
the night before and looked round for
shelter. The wash-house, a narrow
weatherboard lean-to with a door in the
side, seemed to fit his immediate require-
ments, and there he stood, completely
wedged in. The policeman essayed to
open the door, scratched his head, and
then sought Dobbin’s owner, who was
equally nonplussed. It ended in the re-
moval of the side of the building Dobbin
was facing, and an unperturbed old horse
was led out and away.
* * * *
“Quark”: Though the average Austra-
lian is more inclined to curse than bless
our very gradual postal service, it cannot
be denied that as students of bird
psychology departmental officials have
achieved a triumph. Magpies inconveni-
enced the leisurely telegraph service
by building nests across the wires, this
setting up short circuits. Some genius
thought of setting up artificial nests with
h. and c.w., all mod. con., attached by
arms to the posts away from the wires.
It worked like a charm. The magpies
have rushed the free flats, and the ques-
tion is now whether or not a new Federal
department with the usual staff of archi-
tects, draughtsmen, clerks and tea-
brewers will not have to be instituted to
cope with the demand.
Sf« * H* *
“G.A.L.”: What’s become of that old-
fashioned barometer a lump of seaweed
suspended from a rafter? My dad would
mutter at breakfast, “Wonder what the
weather’s goin’ t’ be like?” and 1 would
rush to the front verandah to consult a
hunk of Tweed Heads seaweed. If it
were found at all moist, the old man never
shifted far from the homestead that day.
But if it were dry, he would wrinkle his
old forehead into a smile and say: “You
better get the horses in then —we’ll
plough the Long Paddock.”
“Kau-in”: There is in Queensland, out
Chinchilla way, a Burbank, some rela-
tion of the famous Luther, who in his
garden treasures a very fine specimen of
the spineless prickly-pear, Luther’s con-
tribution to the problem of dealing with
the spiny curse. It wasn’t the accepted
solution, and, by way of pushing the fact
home to the Burbanks of Chinchilla,
Cactoblastis cactorum has infested their
show specimen, which is going the way
of all pear that once blanketed the
locality and put a stopper on production.
Chinchilla is now, by the way, a thriv-
ing dairy district.
* N= * *
“Segnalpa”: “H.D.” (B. 7/2/’34) is
right. Many natives have some sense we
have lost. Some years ago, while I was
on an island in Torres Strait, things were
in a pretty bad pass as regards food ; it
was the dry season, when the native gar-
dens yielded very little. The native-
manned cutter that was our only com-
munication with Thirsty had been away
on the Reef for six weeks. Old Maino
suggested he should send for the boat.
I was somewhat sceptical, but assented,
and he forthwith retired to the bush to
operate his own peculiar wireless service.
Some days later the boat returned, and
on my questioning the skipper he told
me that at the identical time that Maino
was transmitting a thought came into his
head that it was about time he returned.
In Id dess’s book “Drums of Mer” this
telepathic power is mentioned in
reference to Chief Kebisu, father of
Maino.
* * * *
“The Prooshan”: Storm-bound at a
roadmen’s camp I watched four men en-
gaged in some gambling game, but for
the life of me couldn’t identify it. The
players sat round an upturned pine case,
pennies were staked in the centre, and
“ I’ll say this for Bubb —when things were gloomy and threatening he snowed
great confidence in me.”
“In what way?”
“Lent me an umbrella.”
the gamesters sat watching the money
with hands on knees. Presently one
would sweep off the cash, when stakes
would instantly be put up again. I drew
the camp cook aside and whispered
“What are they at?” “Playing bird-loo.”
“But how is it done?” I asked. “Listen
to that bird peeking over in that tall
gum,” he said. “Sometimes he peeks
eight, sometimes nine, and some nights
he goes up to 20. It’s just odds and evens
they’re at. To-night the odds have had
a good run. The bird’s going a treat;
they can hardly get the stakes down
before he yaps again. The bloke in the
blue shirt and the chap with red hair
are on the odds.”
“Cootharra”: Can
anyone produce a
theory to account for
the presence among the
abos. of the Murchison
and Gascoyne river
tribes (W.A.) of flaxen-
a n d reddish - haired
gins (I don’t refer to
half-castes), even to-day
when the number of
abos. on these rivers
has been greatly re-
duced? Thirty years
ago numbers of gins
so thatched could
be seen there. The hair
of some was as light
in color as that of any
Scandinavian ; that of
others was dark red.
They were as vain of
their topknots as a
flapper with a perman-
ent wave. The country
covered by this Gas-
coyne-Murchison tribe
is approximately 300
miles north, south and
east, and they didn’t
know the next-door
tribe’s lingo. Can a wreck in the dim and
distant past have anything to do with it?
H*
“Pawang”: Scientists do not by any
means discount the dowser’s claims. In
a test held by Queensland Agricultural
Department a diviner was blindfolded and
led over the lawn at the University;
he succeeded in locating all the under-
ground waterpipes. Then four sceptical
professors had a go, and, while three of
them Were unsuccessful, one was aston-
ished to find that he was • a diviner of
first-class quality. The dowser, however,
isn’t anything like as efficient as the
geological experts. The geologists have
recommended the establishment of thou-
sands of bores and never made a mistake.
“Runa”: The ihost enthusiastic bee-
keeper I have encountered was a youth
who rented the only attic office in an
Auckland (M.L.) building. He ran a
small agency, and had established three
hives just beyond the public eye on the
roof of the place. As the spot was handy
to the Albert Park, his bees had an all-
the-year-round supply of glorious blooms
to keep them going. The honey was ex-
celient, and was presented to elderly
aunts and uncles. The amateur apiarist,
now a prosperous business man, attri-
butes the legacy which gave him his start
to gifts of honey made to an uncle dur-
ing a last long illness.
* * * *
“Kismet”: Matsume Meomatsu, crew
of the pearling-lugger Santa Cruz, limped
timidly into the little Island hospital. He
presented his letter, beautifully written by
the Japanese official letter-writer. It
read: “Bearer has a crick in his young
of cow; please provide necessary.”
Meomatsu had rheumatics.
“Apia”: “Navigators’” himself slips
when he says (B. 21/2/’34) that the
Samoans do not tattoo. The practice is
fast dying out owing to strong missionary
opposition, but it was once universal
among the men, women being debarred
from the rite, for such it was. The face
or upper part of the body was not
tattooed, this being done from the hips
to the knees only, just as was the case in
faraway Tonga. As “N.” says, the tattoo-
ing was incised, not after the Maori
fashion, but with needles set in fours, the
dye being rubbed in as the process went
on. It was, nevertheless, extremely pain-
ful both at the time and while healing.
This was often complicated by sepsis.
* * * *
“Crowsash”: A Victorian has survived
a sawmill accident in which his chest was
pierced right through. There was a paral-
lel case at Nambour (Q.) just 20 years
ago. A sawyer was operating No. 1
circular saw when a piece of hardwood
2in. x in diameter flew back and
passed clean through the centre of his
chest, protruding 18in. beyond his back.
Before they could get him to hospital his
mates had to saw off the timber, back and
front. The local medico, a surgeon of
parts, made a wonderful extraction, and
the patient was nursed back to full health.
But pneumonia got him some months
later.
* * * *
“G.M.L.”: Nellie, the house lubra,
hitched up her Mother Hubbard and
showed us women the scar. Right across
her abdomen it ran, and, except for being
a bit raised, it looked as neat a job as
that made by any surgeon. Then Mrs.
Frank told us about it. Nellie’s mother,
a full-blooded abo., had performed a
wholly successful Caesarean operation on
her. She made the abdominal incision
with a piece of hoop-iron sharpened on a
stone, sewing up the wound with a bag-
needle and string. Wattle-ash was used
for dressing. And here was Nellie merry
and bright, with little Caesar a kind of
king.
TRAINS IN THE NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the hillsides, calm in the cool night air,
The winds of the valley uplift and bear,
With a warning shrill as they roar up the steep,
Echoed and mellowed by hillock and height,
Or an organ moan, diapason deep,
The rolling rhythm of trains in the night.
Clear-cut and friendly to ear as to eye
The writhing serpents of light go by.
Is this the world to which they belong,
Or had fecund darkness given release
To lights that are jewels and sound that is song,
Or to cameos carved out of silence and peace?
Out of the tunnel in smoke-drench hurled,
Dark Atlas bearing a shouldered world;
Burdens befitting and burdens absurd.
The food of to -morrow, to-day’s mere delight,
The plaything of fashion, the life-giving word;
Impartial you carry them, trains in the night!
Home-bound countryman, home-bound clerk,
Shout their “hail-fellows” and pass in the dark.
The song of fleeting ribaldry dies,
Like lingering love, fast fading from sight;
Ev’n so the things that we cherish and prize
Pass and are gone from us—trains in the
night!
Time, tide and train no emotion may move.
What life held most precious, most hard to
resign,
Stays not for wishing, for pleading or love,
And is lost in mere smoke on a bend of the
line!
S.A.
BILL O’C.


\OM Ti
<W‘
t
II
m
n
%
%
tD
ss>
“WS
* *• ■'■■
*«S!SB
«S 5
I CRUDE SINCE 1861
73 YEARS
experience in every quart
the only 100% pure paraffin
base oil selling in Austra-
lia & New Zealand at the
same price as ordinary oil.
ATL
Pure Paraf
fl
k\
zr-
m2
Cfp
W
AS
PA*
pUK
©Elu
otor Oil
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd., Marketers of Petrols, Industrial Oils, Greases, Etc.
AH.IO-48,
sdf


I The Rieliardson Chain Hotel
?! <.i
yj
m
11
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kail way Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from .. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
<&'
>> v
> /V 4) 9
A° > N ~
/\V -a? '
CT _^>'
A.
V «y
#
■v
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: Castlereagb St., Sydney.
\ .e. Oflice: 300 Collins St.. Melbourne.
t 4
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company- trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Fife,
Endowment,Children’s
Endowment, Family
Income; Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits.
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
E. D. SMOUT, F.F.1.A.,
F.A.1.5., Gen. Sec.
SMOKE-OH!
“During a betting case at Collingwood (Vic.)
a constable said ‘I have hoard the names of
the hearses—l mean I. have heard the names
of the horses.’ ” — Melb. “Herald.”
A natural association of ideas due to
the fact that hoards are often lost on
horses that are too slow for hearses.
* *
“The ship, one foresaw, would be all a
ferment of romance ere this passage was half
seas over.”— Brisbane “Courier-Mail” serial.
This would, no doubt, be one of those
rollicking passages we hear so much
about.
THE CURE THAT FAILED.
“What you need,” the doctor told
Banks, “is a spell near the sea. Get away
from the noise of the city. Go to a place
“Is your son a minor, Mr. Trezziwick?"
“Iss, constable. When it do come to ’ammer and drill, none o’ they chaps from
Broken III can lam ’e nuthih’.”
where there are no radio-sets or jazz
bands, no gramophones or saxophones to
spoil your night’s rest. Rise early, work
hard, go to bed early, cut out rich food
and cocktails. It’ll make a new man of
you,”
“But it didn’t, doc.”
“What do you mean?”
“I’ve just done six months at Long
Bay.” -yy p -p
“KINDLY REPLACE THE DIVOT.”
“The action of Clark, the English fast bowler,
in digging a hole with his boot just where a
good-length ball would pitch in the match
against India-Ceylon has caused a sensation.
He refused to apologise.” — Cable.
Interviewed by the “Times” Lord Hail-
sham said: “There is no divoting con-
troversy. The opprobrious term has been
invented by ill-disposed journalists. Clark
seems to have followed the recognised
custom of ‘patting the pitch.’ That he did
it with the heel of his boot, instead of
with a bat, is irrelevant. He and his cap-
tain have the entire confidence of the
M.C.C. Pandit Chunda’s action in re-
flecting on Clark’s sportsmanship was
indefensible! ”
Bruce Harris : “The howls about
‘divoting’ raised by the hooligan bar-
rackers of India and Ceylon against
Clark’s perfectly legitimate habit of dig-
ging holes in suitable parts of the pitches
he is about to bowl on indicate the depths
to which sportsmanship (save the mark!)
has descended in some of our Dominions.
The action of Abdurrahman Khan (frac-
tured jaw), Dal Jamsetjee (broken nose)
and the young Rajah of Ghoosh (front
teeth knocked out) in complaining that
Clark’s methods were ‘not cricket’ has
created a highly unfavorable impression
at Lord’s. There is talk of a monster
testimonial to buy Clark a poultry farm
in token of England’s confidence in him.”
Clark: “Did Ah dig holes in t’ Test
pitches? Becourse Ah did, laad! Look at
ma figures—4o wickets, 119 runs ; an’ all
clean-bowled or retired hurt. Got they
savages feer scairt, Ah did, ba goom!”
Douglas Jardine: “To amend the
poem I was so fond of quoting in my
speeches in Australia:
Soberly watching the beautiful game,
Orderly, decent, calm, serene;
Cheering the beautiful fliers that maim,
Or land on a dodging foeman’s bean.
This so-called divoting controversy em-
phasises again that we must get vulgar
barracking, as practised in Australia,
India, Ceylon, etc., out of cricket if it is
to remain a game fit for members of
the M.C.C.”
10-2-4.
* #
“I think that what Australians call ‘body-
line’ will certainly not be seen in the Test
matches of 1934.” — Lord Belper, of the M.C.C.
Not seen! Then they’ll be harder
than ever to dodge.
“A negro aged 20 was lunched to-day in
Kentucky.”— Adelaide “News.”.
In Alabama he might have met with a
different fete.
h- *
MORE THRILLING DISCLOSURES
ABOUT THE PRINCE.
His Charm
As showing our prospective visitor’s
unique charm, it is recorded that, while
visiting the Jibberloot Indians, he met
their paramount chief. “Igglyhoo?”
(“How goes it?”) smiled H.R.H. So
entranced was the chief by the fascinat-
ing demeanor of our King-Emperor’s
“Men I refused before I accepted you are richer than you are now”
“That’s why.”
youngest son that he then and there
offered him his nine oldest wives. The
offer, though courteously declined, is
understood to have been highly appreci-
ated in English court circles.
A Modest Hero
While the Prince was serving with the
cruiser Bunyip, a rating fell overboard
during a raging gale. Had the Prince
been on deck he would, one doubts not,
have plunged to the rescue, or at least
thrown the man a lifebuoy. In point of
fact he was at lunch. The rating, who
reached the shore eventually, where he
was cared for by friendly savages, often
tells the tale of how narrowly he escaped
being saved from a watery grave by a
royal prince! The Prince himself has
never been heard to boast of the
episode. Noblesse oblige !
Wit and Humor
The Prince is recognised as one of the
wittiest members of our royal family.
Convulsing tales about his sallies are
legion. The most side-splitting of them
concerns a royal nurse of the long ago
who handed him his bottle with the
words “Woodums likum icky bottle, your
Royal ’lghness?” “Goo,” replied the
illustrious infant. “Woodums likum two
icky bottles?” interposed the nurse’s
young man, a ribald character, who
chanced to be present, and who was dis-
covered later to be an Australian bar-
racker. “Goo, goo,” instantly responded
H.R.H.
This story never fails to arouse peals of
laughter when related on state occasions
at Buckingham Palace.
D.
* *
“General Blarney says Westralia could be
taken and held by an army of 40,000 men.”
But it would promptly secede from
them.
“After hopping the boundary fence, the kan-
garoo stood still, unable to move.” — “D.T.”
He realised he was out of bounds.
* *
“Fifty years ago people seemed to live in
a dream.” — “Telegraph.”
Ah, for the good old daze!
* *
WOMEN DON’T KNOW.
“Dressing for men is a drab and monotonous
business.” —Woman writer.
How erroneous! Take braces. Thou-
sands, aye, millions, have broken at in-
convenient moments, and have had to be
hastily jury-rigged. Billions of shoelaces
have done likewise. There are men who
have spent hours on their
hands and knees in the
mating season, searching
feverishly for the mate of
their only clean pair of
socks.
There are unhappy be-
ings who, after putting
their only remaining shil-
ling in what they thought
was their only remaining
safe pocket, find it has
vanished. Also men who,
after partially dressing
themselves, have discov-
ered that they will have to
; be their own dry-cleaners ;
men who, with a large
bottle of petrol and a
scrubbing-brush
But enough! Dressing for men, even
though it involves occupancy of the same
underwear and tenancy of the same suit,
boots and hat all the year round, is, so
far from being drab or monotonous, a
daily adventure fraught with countless
perils and humiliations. R
“Newspaper correspondent suggests high-
heeled shoes for women polo players.”
And slippers for bridge partners?
* *
NO OTHER WAY.
I examined the position feverishly
from every aspect, but there was no other
way out. Nobody would believe Naomi
capable of such conduct.
I was dismayed. To think that this
demure, charming creature had deserted
her husband and run away with the
milkman! It was unthinkable. But there
it was —she had undoubtedly done it.
And I —l had made her do it!
With a curse I seized my pen.
“It’s preposterous! ” I cried. “A woman
of Naomi’s lofty ideals wouldn’t dream
of such a thing. I’ll have to write the
infernal story again!”
P. O. M. C.
KNOCKTURNE.
“Women love dangerous men, wild men and
destructive men.”— Woman’s paper.
Take warning, you gentle-voiced Johnnies,
With manners persuasive and mild,
You’ll be told by the ladies to go straight
to Hades
Unless you are he-men and wild.
Don’t whisper sweet-nothings to Gertie,
But batter the minx till she howls;
And to win Maud and Alice you’ll have
to be callous,
A nd swing a rough fist to their jowls.
It seems that the women are changing;
For big brutal heroes they yearn ;
And your old-fashioned wooing, your
billing and cooing,
With scornful derision they spurn.
So brandish your clubs, all you lovers,
Raise lumps on their skulls where you
can !
As you blacken her eye she’ll contentedly
sigh
In a rapture of bliss, “What a man !”
D. McM.
PARADISE.
At last we’ve found a perfect flat
Away from all inquisitors.
It’s so infinitesimal that
There isn’t room for visitors!
P. C.
THE CHAMPION.
The greatest optimist I’ve ever seen
(How often at his goings-on I’ve
jested !)
Was Jones, who, when his gas bill roused
his spleen,
Coughed up ten bob to have his meter
tested !
K.


i
HAND!
PLAITED
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
w 'itn new
vinti fastener ’
PRICE-
MH IHllllirb
irt Queen St. Brisbane
sf
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
» Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
COMPLETE SAMPLE ROOMS
AVAILABLE.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Graneentral,”
SYDNEY.
a
r-_
msMmm
■i
Conducted by WIN. FOWLES.
CARD YON’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 65/- week, both net. Free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. Please write
the Manager for quotations and detailed tariff
card.
sd
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
McShortodds is waxing fat on the
autumn racing in Melbourne. Each
Saturday for several weeks past there
has been at least one “skinner” for him.
When Foursome (50 to 1) led practically
from post to finish in the Newmarket
Handicap ringmen—whose habit is to
moan, with or without provocation—
were unable to deny that they had made
a haul. Ante-post operators on the New-
market-Cup double are in a particularly
happy position, Foursome having been an
almost despised candidate for the first
leg.
Foursome was bred at Snowtown (S.A.)
by A. E. Michael, who sent the gelding
across to Melbourne some months ago to
be trained by Sing. As a cross-country
jockey Sing earned distinction, Haoma
being one of the brilliant timber-toppers
that he rode. Sing is an Adelaidean. He
set up in business there as a trainer, but,
not meeting with much success, returned
to the saddle last year' in Melbourne.
Jack now holds a V.R.C. permit to train.
When originally licensed in that capacity
he did well with the steeplechaser Min-
terne.
Jacko, winner of the 1932 Doncaster
Handicap and the last Carrington Stakes,
headed the Newmarket quotes at 9 to 2,
followed by other Sydney candidates in
not been in yet."
Bert’. Vou look if vou were
COmimos out
GiEet: "Do I ? "
Bert; Nes, of your costume?
Care Free (6 to 1) and Closing Time (7
to 1). Her lack of size hampered Care
Free, though the bonny little mare was
prominent up to a quarter of a mile from
home. If Jacko had found his legs
nearly as quickly as Foursome he must
have succeeded. The son of Magpie put
in a wonderful run over the last two fur-
longs and finished only half a neck behind
Dame Moab (20 to 1), who lost to Four-
some by a length. Closing Time and
Waltzing Lily were in the immediate
wake of the placed horses. Waltzing Lily
is worshipped by Melbourne womenfolk,
who made her favorite in the tote, though
8 to 1 could be got in the ring. Accord-
ing to W. Cook, she began too smartly
and tired. Golden Wings, the Maoriland
flier, ruined his chance at the start. He
is almost unmanageable.
The sensation of the afternoon at Flem-
ington was Hall Mark’s failure to land
the St. Leger. In a miserable field of
four he made a dead-heat for first with
Limarch, but that was poor comfort for
those who had laid 3 to 1 on C. B. Kel-
low’s colt. Spectators hooted Pike all
the way back to scale, believing that Pike
had lost the race through overconfidence.
Hall Mark appeared to have Limarch
settled at the furlong post, where Pike
was sitting still. However, the energy of
Bartle on Limarch put the favorite in a
critical position, and Pike had to ride
Hall Mark right out to avert defeat.
Even if the crack Sydney jockey did err
to some extent, Hall Mark clearly is not
as good a colt as he was in the spring.
The tussle with Limarch was so prolonged
that a champion three-year-old should
have risen superior to the disadvantage of
an unexpected challenge. Perhaps the
effort of winning the Melbourne Cup with
heel trouble may be reacting on Hall
Mark.
Sir John came through the Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes ordeal with flying colors.
Many racing followers argued that, to
be accepted as a crackajack juvenile, he
ought never to have been beaten in the
first division of the Hawksburn Handicap
at Caulfield. The soundness of this
argument was admitted by Moss, the
owner; but those associated with Sir
John believed that the Limond colt would
have benefited by his run in public, and
so it proved. Sir John shot past the
leaders after entering the straight and
scored with ease from Pasha (winner of
the Maribyrnong Plate) and Dark Sky.
Rider of the last-named horse lost a
stirrup-iron beyond the winning-post and
nearly fell from the saddle. Impressive
form was shown by Visage, a stable-
companion of Sir John. The sister to
Veilmond might have gained a place if
Darby Munro had not been frustrated in
trying to get through on the rails a fur-
long from home.
Gippsland, by his victory in the Bruns-
wick Stakes, stamped himself as a true
stayer, and he will be hard to beat in the
Australian Cup on Saturday. The New-
castle gelding takes a long while to find
his legs, and Skidmore began to push
him along a mile from home in the \\-
mile journey. He made a good run at
the five-furlong post, but had to be
checked at the turn, where King Colossus
streaked to the front and set up a sub-
stantial lead. Skidmore rode Gippsland
with such remarkable energy that the
gelding got up in time to defeat King
Colossus by half a neck.
* * * *
A little 6 to 4 was wagered about
Chatham for the Randwick Stakes ; then
the price shortened to 6 to 4 on.
Assisted by a walk-up start and a fol-
lowing breeze over the last half-mile, he
travelled at a great pace; indeed, the
Australasian record for a mile would
have gone if Windbag’s son had been
ridden out. Though eased to half-pace
by Davidson in the last half-furlong,
he completed the journey in lmin. 36sec.
—only a quarter of a second slower than
the record, held by Winooka and Closing
Time. Lough Neagh attempted to go
with Chatham, but finished four lengths
behind. The Queenslander was very
tired at the Leger, and had to be kept
going to stall off a late run by Blixten,
who cut Peter Pan out of the minor
prize, with Silver Scorn last. Peter
Pan and Lough Neagh were backed
at threes or thereabouts. The Mel-
bourne Cup winner looked pretty well,
but that is all that can be said for him.
Rogilla was given a fine reception when
he returned to the weighing yard after
running a dead-heat with Frimsel in the
Denman Stakes ; both were at fours. It
was the chestnut’s first outing since his
accident. Last early, he was still badly
placed turning for home, where Vista
had run away from Tom Pinch, and
Frimsel was waiting for a run on the
rails. She got it at the Leger, and it looked
any odds on her when Rogilla was taken
to the outside ; but he finished splendidly.
Tom Pinch was too much for his appren-
tice jockey, and lugged badly for most
of the way.
Going out at 20 to I—the1 —the s.o. tote
paid £2l 10s. 6d. for 10s—the Silvius colt
Sylvandale, who is raced by “Miss Lorna
Doone,” won the Youthful Stakes from
The Marne and Gladswood. Hope car-
ried most money, but, fractious at the
barrier, he got away poorly, met
with trouble on the journey, and beat
one home. Subsidy finished fourth after
being hopelessly placed at the top of the
straight. Fashion Star was a failure.
Perhaps that Breeders’ Plate success was
a fluke.
Kagal began the day well for Rand-
wick trainer Fred Williams, who led in two
other winners, Chatham and Sylvan-
dale. At 8 to 1 for the Novice Handicap
Kagal put up a fine performance, as he
was drawn wide at the barrier, and had
to be hustled along to get a position. It
was a fine finish: Kagal, in the middle,
beat Dromos, on the rails, by a head,
with Fluent, on the outside, a similar
distance away, and Diamond a good
fourth. The last-named was in front at
the Leger, and is worth following. He
is owned by Dominion sportswoman Mrs.
Crossley, and is by Limond, sire of Sir
John and Limarch.
Little Roxburgh landed some nice
wagers when he led Sassanides and Tin-
galba home in the City Tatt.’s Cup. He
was supported from threes to 6 to 4, and
scored so convincingly that his owner,
A.J.C. committeeman Walter Brunton,
now has hopes that the grey will extend
Hall Mark and Limarch in the St. Leger.
Roxburgh is also in the King’s Cup and
the Sydney Cup. There was good sup-
port for Havilah Belle, but Roxburgh beat
her by the best part of a dozen lengths.
Celebrate enhanced his prospects for
the Doncaster by capturing the Club
Welter in lmin. 24fsec., fast time for
seven furlongs on the part of a horse
with 9st. 81b. The son of Magpie got a
nice run on the rails all the way, and
when Gravure moved out under pressure
at the Leger George Browne, who had
previously scored on Rogilla, quickly sent
the favorite through to a comfortable vic-
tory over Mr. Kerry and Prince Pombal.
He was backed from 7 to 2 down to 6
to 4. Golden Flash never showed up,
but Gravure, Camargo, Ramrod and
Touchit were prominent at the box, and
are worth keeping in mind. So, perhaps,
is Serabite.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Carnera went to scale at 19st. 41b. in
his fight with Loughran at Miami,
Florida. Giving him 6st. 21b., the Irish-
American was still on his feet at the end
of the 15th round, though outpointed and
badly battered, nor did he once take a
count. He must be wonderfully game,
but then Australia has never seen an
American bruiser that wasn’t game.
* * * *
A bit of real wrestling was seen at
Leichhardt on Saturday, along with a lot
of stale showmanship. Burmeister, the
Esthonian, put Clarke, the American,
down in the second round, and was him-
self pinned in the fourth. The next saw
Clarke lose his head—or so it seemed.
Punches floored Burmeister a few times,
and the referee was also knocked down
on asking the offender to keep within the
rules. Burmeister was declared the
winner on a foul when another right
knocked him “unconscious.” Lurich, the
Russian, and Penchiff, the Bulgar,
wrestled a draw at Newtown.
FOR FLEMINGTON ON SATURDAY.
Lloyd Stakes: Waltzing Lily ; next,
Middle Watch.
Leonard Stakes: Foursome ; next,
Top Hole.
Australian Cup: Mince Pie, 1 ;
Gippsland, 2 ; Danilo, 3.
Farewell Handicap: Gordon’s
Leap ; next, Celotex.
FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Westmead Handicap: Rogilla ;
next, Roman Spear.
Club Handicap: Tingalba; next,
Sassanides:
Maiden Welter: Musician ; next,
Catalan.
Rydalmere Mile: Mr. Kerry;
next, Golden Flash.


W:
' .'• • ■ _
mmm
■Rli
mmmm.
mm
M
wm
if
:> : :
ft? f :
iii
wm
mmm
wm&mm
The
Vauxhall Light Six
is priced from £285
So Little to Pay For
So Much Extra Value i
Vauxhall’s 30-year reputation piays no smaii
part in a Vauxhall owner’s pride in his car.
For Vauxhall dependability rides with him
every mile he drives. In the gear box he has 4-speed
synchro-mesh transmission with silent third; in the
engine he has ample power to give 65 to 70 miles an
hour; and in the body, by Holden, he enjoys a roomi-
ness that seems unbelievable on a car of only 101-inch
wheelbase.
Everywhere quality and completeness is evident:
leather upholstery, No-draught ventilation, bumpers
front and rear, shock absorbers, and
every little detail that pampers personal
comfort and convenience.
There are four models in the Light Six range
—see your nearest Vauxhall dealer for literature
and a personal demonstration.
Vauxhall Light Six Roadster - - £285
Vauxhall Light Six Tourer - - - £295
Vauxhall Light Six Coupe - - - £335
Vauxhall Light Six Sedan - - . £345
All prices plus sales tax
VAUXHALL Light Six and Senior Six
A.s English as England
. . . The Senior Six . . .
\
Longer in wheelbase and greater in horse-power than its smaller
companion, the Vauxhali Senior Six is an ideal car for the man
who wants big car power and performance. Features include
26 h.p. engine, 107-inch wheelbase, No-draught ventilation, English-
styled coachwork by Holden and adjustable folding driver’s seat in
the Sedan. Five models Commercial Roadster, Sports Roadster,
Tourer, Coupe and Sedan. General Motors-Holden’s Limited.
Consult Your Local Authorised Vauxhali
Dealer*
L972M
V
r
ma
m
:
mmmm
m
m
r
Ins and Outs
The touring Westralians struck their
real form in the return match against Vic-
toria. The game ended in a draw, the
Cabbage Gardeners playing out time in
the second innings, but the visitors were
definitely on top. Their innings was
closed at eight for 423 ; the Bryants
scored centuries —F.J. 115, and R.J. 103
—and the consistent Hill-Smith contri-
buted a neat 68. Vic. could do no better
than 243 and seven for 130 ; AllSopp, 48
and 27. Bromley and Lonergan, who
played for the same college (Christian
Brothers’), had to leave Westralia before
they could get chances in big cricket.
Unless inter-State matches are more fre-
quent, other promising young Westralians
will have to do likewise.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Of course it had to happen.
The Melbourne centenary authorities, who
are celebrating the occasion by organising
sports exhibitions ranging from special
horseraces to greasy-pig-catching con-
tests, have roped in the Eleven. When the
team returns from England—if it ever
does —it is to play the Rest of Australia
in a four-day centenary match beginning
in Melbourne on November 23. As their
last matches in England run well
into September, this won’t give the un-
fortunate returning tourists much time
to get their eyes in.
Racquet and Bawl
“Spare Colenso”: A misguided French-
man is the latest to try to rank the
tennis-players of all time with the aid of
a mathematical formula. It involves the
allotment of points for the winning of
Wimbledon, French, American and Aus-
tralian championships, as well as for
Davis Cup challenge rounds, since the
first Wimbledon meeting in 1877. Allow-
ances are made for the varying times at
which the competitors came into the
reckoning. America began in 1881 with
championships; Australia, in 1905.
France dates from 1912, and the Davis
Cup kick-off was in 1900. Four points
are allotted for a win in English, French
and American championships; two for
the Australian title, and one per player
in doubles. This is the Frenchman’s
ranking list : Tilden, 88 ; Cochet, 61 ; H.
L Doherty, 53 ; Wilding, 46 ; Johnston,
43 ; Lacoste, 39 ; Brookes, 38 ; Renshaw
and H. F. Doherty, 35 ; Sears, 34.
* * He *
“Pzrtyl”: In canvassing possibilities for
the European-zone final of the Davis
Cup competition, don’t overlook Czecho-
slovakia. The Czechs proved themselves
quite in the first class last season; in
Menzel they have one of the finest
players in Europe, while Siba is almost as
good. Maoriland, competing for the
first time in six years, will be the first
opponents of the Czechs. Good as
Andrews, Stedman and Malfroy are, they
seem scarcely equal to the opposition.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: In future a board of
12 members of the Wimbledon club and
six of the L.T.A. will control champion-
ships at Wimbledon. Forty per cent,
of the profits will go to the club and the
balance to an L.T.A. reserve fund to
provide, in addition to other matters, for
overseas tours. After 1938, when the
Bournemouth agreement ends, the hard-
courts championships will also be staged
at Wimbledon, as well as Davis Cup
matches and county tourneys.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Pleading for professional-
ism in lawn tennis, Perry points out that
amateur and professional may play golf
side by side and neither be sullied by
the contact. The English star’s idea
seems to be that with open tourneys and
open professionalism there should be a
lot of money in the game for the paid
man, taking a line on his brother of the
golf clubs. It is a false analogy. There
are no tennis clubs in Australia that can
afford to keep a professional on salary.
There are probably 500 golf clubs which
do so. And each of these clubs, in met-
ropolitan areas at least, numbers its
members by the hundred. The pro. can
supplement his salary by teaching and
(Continued on next page.)


A
'A
<8
/
51AQY
sboVc <3
The KISMET Pressure Grille is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a lie. It gives immediate,
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the flat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CI.EAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet. If \/£* BRITISH
Price IW'O MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
KISMET pressure GAUGE
Representative: John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
2
AT THE HEART
V
OF LONDON
LORD'S
or gy
Vvs
GBAM
pai>c<;
r
KENN/WGTQi
OVAL
PARK LANE HOTEL, PICCADILLY, W.l
(.’Grams: Keighbrace, Audley, London .)
Equidistant from Lord’s and Kennington Oval
Cricket Grounds on direct route, and close
to Theatre-land and the finest shopping centres.
400 modern bedrooms, each with
telephone and fully-equipped private
bathroom. 40 suites.
SINGLE from 14/6. DOUBLE from
25/-. SUITES from 42/-.
Garage for 200 cars. Sandler’s Orchestra.
Illustrated topical tariff from “The Bulletin.”
PARK LANE HOTEL
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; H*Hart, E r?j L . ; ® yan * Esq ’ :
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq, C.M.Q.
General Manageb--M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
. l°o It Ontw>n«lnnrt and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through 8 the fading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
selling gear. The average Australian
tennis club has fewer members and a
much smaller subscription than any golf
club would countenance. The tennis pro.
thus has to rely on individual pupils for
a living.
* * * *
“Gate”: A slight coolness has arisen
between the English L.T.A. and the
French over Davis Cup finance. The
L.T.A. reckons there is £4OOO owing to
it in respect of the takings of the last
challenge rounds —France was running
the show —but the Frenchmen do not
agree, and dispute a lot of items in the
English account. Matters have reached a
deadlock, and it is likely that an arbi-
trator will be called in.
* * * *
A worth-while contribution to practi-
cal tennis literature is “Courtcraft,”
issued in Australia by the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co. at 45., and published in England
by Eyre Spottiswoode. The book is
by N. H. Patterson, and is chiefly about
doubles play, in which the author was
an expert in his day. Apart from the
carefully-detailed text, the many diagrams
showing positions of players and the
angles of strokes will help the young
player capable of learning to improve
his game. Chapters on tactics, court
manners, training and knowledge of
the rules enhance the value of the little
volume.
The Nineteenth Hole
Killara staged this year’s Sydney A.I.F.
Cup competition. Entries increase every
year ; there were 450 this time, and near-
by clubs looked after the overflow. The
winner was a Killara man, B. W. Howard,
who has only been playing golf for a
twelvemonth or so. With a handicap of
15 he was the only player to beat par,
finishing one up. A. L. Spooner and
H. E. Davies ran a deadheat for second
place, one down ; Spooner filled the same
position at Killara in 1930. Last year's
winner, L. E. Carter, was fourth. The
competition is coming to be as big an
affair for the caddies as for the players.
They arrived from everywhere, two of
them camping on the course.
* * * *
“Glengallan”: Queenslanders got a
mild shock when the Dean of Brisbane,
Dr. Barrett, wrote to the press protesting
against the playing of golf on Good Fri-
day during the Darling Downs and
South-Western championships, which are
to be held this year at Stanthorpe. The
Dean also objected to the tournament
being continued on Easter Sunday. The
Good Friday events are unimportant
handicap and kindred items. There is a
possibility of these being pushed into
some other date.
* * * *
“Prince’s”: The Walker Cup match in
Britain this season promises to be a war
of Methuselahs. When Britain selected
55-year-old amateur champion Michael
Scott as skipper, America countered with
H. C. Egan, who confesses to 51 sum-
mers and scored in the Yankee amateur
event in 1904-05. For good measure.
Max Marston, 45, has been added. He
played in the Walker 10 years ago, but
dropped out of sight until he came again
as runner-up to Goodman for the U.S.A.
amateur title last year.
* * =t= *
“Shirley”: Oliver Kay, Maoriland
and Australian golf championette, has
sailed for Britain to capture the women’s
golfing titles on the other side if good
play and determination can do it. With
her goes Mrs. Guy Williams, five times
champion of M.L., so the young lady
will lack nothing for coaching and advice.
* * *
“Canny Lad”: Now that a number of
American professionals are likely to
come to Australia for the Melbourne
centenary golf tourney, N.S.W., which
has not contributed anything towards
the expenses of the visitors, is agog to
get them to show in the Australian open
championship in Sydney before the Mel-
bourne show starts. The Australian Golf
Association is ostensibly running the
Sydney show, but all the activities are
being directed by Ma, who will benefit
by the gates for the big meeting, which
are pretty well sure to be a record.. All
the A.G.A. offers a winning professional
in the open is £50 —an amount which
hardly pays expenses even for those liv-
ing within easy reach of the course where
the title is played for. The prize for the
British open is £lOO, but a win by a
professional means a great increase of
income from the kudos attaching to the
victory, whereas the Australian profes-
sional is never a penny the better for his
success. The A.G.A. has already said
it will not raise the prize-money. Here
is a chance for Ma, who is certain to
make a good bit on the show, to come
forward with an offer of another £l5O.
Even that will look like chicken-feed to
most of our American visitors, but the
£5O at present obtaining can only be
considered as a light diet for a dyspeptic
canary.
* * * *
“Shirley”: The date of the next Kirk-
Windeyer clash between Maoriland and
N.S.W. golfers has been fixed for April
6-7, and the match will be played on
the Middlemore course at Auckland, the
first time the event has been staged at
that end of the Shivery Isles since it
“What round is this?”
“They call ’em innings in cricket, not rounds.”
“What a silly I am —I was thinking of football!”
was started in 1927. The Ma State team
leaves Sydney on March 23 and returns
from Wellington on April 12.
Car and Cycle
“John Doe”: Italy, which bulks big
nowadays in the world of motor-cars, is
proposing an international motor race
from New York to Rome. The route
plotted is from N.Y. to ’Frisco, and thence
via China to the city on the seven hills.
Some may recall the Pekin-Paris race
of 1907 engineered by “Le Matin.” The
run included some thousands of miles on
caravan tracks across Asia and Russia,
and only five starters faced the barrier.
Camels laid petrol dumps across the Gobi
Desert part of it, as well as supplies of
food and water, and generally the Gov-
ernments on the route gave assistance.
Prince Scipione Borghese, driving a 40-
h.p. Itala, got through to Pans in 60
days. Two 10-h.p. De Dions and a
Dutch Syker staggered in some weeks
later. The fifth car’s bones are some-
where in the Gobi Desert to-day, though
the driver and his mechanic were rescued.
* * * *
“Differential”: Most of us who use
cars and talk or write about them know
that Australian engineers are perfectly
capable of putting a first-class all-Austra-
lian product on the market. But to make
car-manufacture pay in this country
would require the production of at least
50,000 of a fixed type annually. Nothing
less would show a profit on the tremen-
dous outlay for the necessary machinery
and plant. And only 15,615 new cars
were sold in Australia last year.
s{« V %
“Kick Starter”: A Briton named
Scragg claims to have ridden a motor-
cycle on the beach under record-break-
ing conditions at the rate of 163.68 m.p.h.
Whether he will be able to repeat the
achievement in an official attempt is an-
other matter. It recalls the old-time duel-
ling story of the man who boasted that
he had hit the ace of spades ten times
running at 30 paces that morning. He
was brought back to earth by a comment
that the ace of spades didn’t have a pistol
in its hand.
Hi * * *
“Jindivick”: Concerning Opperman’s
forthcoming attempt on the Land’s End
to John o’ Groats cycle record (B.
17/1 /’34), the Australian champion will
find that the “perfect British roads” do
not extend down into Cornwall. For
some reason or other the good road sur-
faces cease abruptly at the Devon-Corn-
wall border, and the roads from then on
are anathema to the holiday motorist —
and cyclist. Stiff hills all the way will
keep Oppy busy, but still, given fair
weather, he should lower the existing
time.
* * * *
“Shift”: Variable gears and free
wheels for use in road championships
and other first-class races have been per-
mitted for some years in most of the
big European events. In Australia they
have been banned both by the amateur
and professional governing bodies. At
the recent amateur conference it was de-
cided to permit the devices in Australian
championships, giving the States the right
to legislate for their own championships
and other races. In N.S.W. and Vic-
toria, the State professional organisations
do not permit the use of the fittings in
events of less than 50 miles.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The Australian team for
the Empire Games in England will be
chosen on March 23. Although there are
to be only 12 members, N.S.W. has sent
in 25 names. The idea seems to be the
old “scatter-gun” one favored by pot-
hunters: “Load her up as full as she’ll
hold and some of the pellets must hit the
mark.”
* * * *
“Gaffer”: If all goes well Metcalfe
should gather in a hatful of honors at
the Empire Games in London next
August. His performance in the N.S.W.
championships, when he won the high
and broad jumps and the hop, step and
jump in one afternoon, is probably with-
out parallel, especially as in each he put
up exceptional figures: high, 6ft. 3|in.;
broad, 24ft. -g-m- ; hop, step and jump,
50ft. 2in. Metcalfe tackled almost every
item on the programmes when he went
to the Uni. from Sydney High, including
the shot putt. Wiser counsels have pre-
vailed, and to-day he is specialising in
jumping. If Metcalfe is beaten on his
merits in London, the athletic world will
probably see a new set of figures.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The visit of two of the
leading American baseball teams to Aus-
tralia having been assured, local baseball
authorities are beginning to map out the
tour. The proposal is that the visitors
shall play in Brisbane and Sydney and
in N.S.W. country matches. The tour
fits in nicely with the Sydney festival
week, and the Americans will play Austra-
lian teams in addition to exhibition
matches. Their stay will not be a long
one. They land in Sydney on December
20, and take ship again for home on
January 3, probably showing in M.L.
* * * *
“Long Rest”: Now that this year’s
British billiards championship is to be
played in Australia, the war between
Walter Lindrum and the British Billiards
Board having ended with a graceful
climb-down by the board, it is suggested
that the preliminary heats be run off in
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide, with the final in Melbourne at
the height of the centenary celebrations.
It is already certain that Walter, Fred
and Horace Lindrum, with McConachy
and Davis, will be entrants. Walter
expects that Newman will think better of
his refusal to come.
* * * *
The annual report of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union shows that last season was the most
satisfactory experienced by the amateur
code since the war, both financially and
in a playing sense. The game has made
rapid strides in Melbourne, Adelaide and
Perth, and this season will see Tasmania
enter the list. Queensland, of course,
needs no special mention. In Melbourne
alone there were 42 teams of all grades
in the competitions last year, with 11 in
the navy section. Adelaide had eight
senior clubs in action, and the Westra-
lians, who have been going strong for
some years past, further improved their
position. This season the All Blacks will
play in Australia, and the occasion of the
Union’s diamond jubilee is to be marked
with fitting ceremonies.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1280 of 1933.
BETWEEN NELLIE MOUNSEY Petitioner
And JOHN JAMES MOUNSEY Re-
spondent.
TO JOHN JAMES MOUNSEY late of Broken
Hill.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Nellie
Mounsey has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-
eighth day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-four and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this first day of March, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street
Sydney, agent for ERNEST ROY HUDSON
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Broken Hill.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1647 of 1933.
BETWEEN MONA EDNA WALLBANK
Petitioner
And CECIL RICHARD HUGHES WALL
BANK Respondent.
TO CECIL RICHARD HUGHES WALL-
BANK late of Ballina.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Mona Edna
Wallbank has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds o'
desertion for three years and upwards withoul
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the twenty-eighth
day of May 1934 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtainin'
further time the petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filer
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this 28th day of February, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
TIGHE & COX, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
River Street, Ballina.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A SUNDAE DISH
AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
5423 /22 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attor-
neys, Sydney.
FUEL PUMP AND DISTRIBUTING
APPARATUS FOR INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
1250/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attor-
neys, Sydney.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
GoM
(j»jo4 (
gp*
*
A magnifi-
_ cent tour by car —a
delightful trip by sea —just a
few hours by train or ’plane and then
Melbourne —The Garden City of the South.
Your Easter Vacation spent in Melbourne and its surrounds
will prove a wonderfully enjoyable holiday—invigorating be-
cause of crisp, fresh atmospheres, and with every minute filled
by attractions of historic buildings, delightful beaches, mountain
grandeurs, scenic river reaches, picturesque golf courses and
sports facilities of every kind, including fishing, shooting,
cricket, tennis, racing, etc., etc.
Comfort,
Convenience
and Modern
Service
Await You.
Be sure, however, to make certain of
real hotel comfort by reserving accom-
modation at “Scott’s —Melbourne s
most central hotel.
s>
§
m
a
4
tel
iw
(JerVtie
Res!
$0J>-
lea
rtlfS
H^22
fsd
f
Reasonable Tariff
Inclusive—or Room Only.
Telegrams:— “Scottsotel,” Melbourne.
10 6f4
Personal and Missing Friends.
JOHN TURNER, son of Colin Turner, last
heard of at Bathurst, N.S.W. Information is
required of his present whereabouts. Any
person knowing his address is requested to
communicate with
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES, LIMITED,
P.O. Box 43,
Toowoomba, Queensland.
WILL the legal representative of the late
ALFRED LAY, who was a stationmaster at
Albury, N.S.W., and who died on or about
October 24, 1907, communicate with MR.
E. A. SMITH, 143 Above Bar, Southampton,
England.
IF THOMAS HENRY AND JOHN HILL,
brothers of Rebecca Millar, late of Curran Ben-
burb, County Tyrone, Ireland, deceased, or
their children, will communicate with MES-
SIEURS SLY & RUSSELL, Solicitors, of 16
Barrack Street, Sydney, they may hear some-
thing to their advantage.
“The Barrier Miner,”
Broken Hill.
Published since 1888 and circulating
throughout Broken Hill, the West Darling
pastoral country and many of the north-
ern parts of South Australia, “The Barrier
Miner” offers an unequalled service for
readers and advertisers.
.Representatives: F. h. Wilson, 30 Car-
rington Street, Sydney; H. J. C. Boyd,
McEwan House, Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; News, Ltd., Adelaide.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and 9
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
$
SEND
NOW
FOR
A COPY
OF OUR
NEW
CATALOG
THE “TRITON”
SATISFIED HIM.
One day a Guest-house Proprietor wrote us:—
“I want a power pump that nobody seems to sell. I want this
pump to be small, and inexpensive to buy and operate: It doesn’t
matter if it only gives three or four hundred gallons per hour, but
,it must be absolutely reliable in spite of its smallness and cheapness.
It must not cost me more than £lO. What can you do for me ?”
Frankly, we were stumped for the time being. Among the
wide range of pumps we handled there was nothing quite
suitable in size and price. Then we took a chance. If one
man needed this type of pump, others might also. So our
Works designed and made the sturdy little “TRITON.
At 300 r.p.m. it gives 360 gallons per hour through I in.
piping. It takes only to run it. It is trouble-free, and
practically noiseless. Only 19J inches high, this powerful
midget completely satisfied our client. Since then the
“TRITON” has become one of our most popular lines.
If you are interested in such a pump, write for particulars.
Its low price will surprise you.
Proprietary Limited
582 Collins Street . . MELBOURNE
116 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE
532 Murray Street .... PERTH
51 Bathurst Street .... SYDNEY
With two rounds still to be played,
Mosman has a good lead in the Sydney
first-grade competition. It has not been
beaten yet, and has only University and
a weakened N. Sydney team to meet. On
Saturday Mosman defeated St. George
by 21 runs on the first innings. Horsfield
had a splendid day, taking five of the
St. George wickets for 52, and scoring
110 not out in his second trip to the
wickets. McCabe is a member of the
Mosman club, but has seldom played
for it.
Racquet and Bawl
{Continued from page 26.)
South Aus. easily won the men’s sec-
tion of the match with Victoria in Adel-
aide. Quist defeated Hopman with the
loss of only two games, 6-2, 6-0 ; but
the other Davis Cup colt, Turnbull, had
a hard game against Purcell to win 6-4,
6-4. The only surprise was in the doubles,
Hopman-Hassett v. Quist-Turnbull. This
time the Davis Cup pair could do no-
thing right, and went down in straight
sets, 6-2, 6-4. Vic. took the women’s
match by seven rubbers to five.
Miscellaneous
{Continued from page 26.)
“Amateur Pro.”: These professional
League footballers are a quaint lot. Some
years ago the English body promised not
to poach Australian players. The practice
has been continued unblushingly ever
since, all the same, and now that the
’Roos are back it is expected that there
will be another rush to engage Australians.
Clubs doing this are committed to the
payment of £2OO to the Australian
Leaguers for each man poached. As most
of them are careful to embody a clause
in their agreement with the purchased
players whereby the £2OO comes out of
the “bonus” promised the deluded youths,
this is no handicap—to them.
* * * *
“Shell”: Goodsell, now an American
citizen, has notified all concerned that he
claims the world’s sculling title from
Pearce because the latter has ignored a
challenge. Never in the highest class,
Goodsell was easily defeated on the other
side by Bert Barry, who later lost the title
to Ted Phelps. The latter was hopelessly
outclassed by Pearce in the last race for
the championship. There are probably
half a dozen scullers in Australia to-day,
amateur and professional, who could give
the venerable Goodsell a long start over
the championship distance and lose him.
* * * *
“Amateur Prd.”: As anticipated, the
Australian Olympic Federation has called
on Bobby Pearce to pay the £2OO he
agreed to forfeit under his Olympic bond
if he turned professional within two
years of signing the contract. Pearce’s
connections here are talking of fighting
the matter in the courts, but they might
as well save breath and money. The
contract is a watertight one, as cyclist
Standen found out. Like Standen, Pearce
may be affected in another direction. Re-
payment by the cyclist being out of the
question, the Union Cycliste Interna-
tionale was appealed to, and disqualified
Standen from appearing either as ama-
teur or professional for two years. Pro-
fessional sculling is now also governed
by an international board, with head-
quarters in London.
* * * H=
“Prime”: The International Fencing
Federation has granted affiliation to the
N.S.W. Amateur Fencing Association.
The historic art has a number of keen
exponents in this country, but is a mystery
to the general public, which, when fencing
is mentioned, conjures up visions of per-
spiring workers digging holes and string-
ing wires on posts. Years ago Brisbane
had a small and select fencing club, of
which the late Dr. Jack Hamilton, a
master with the foils, was the leading
spirit. I once persuaded my best girl to
accompany me to an assault-at-arms.
Asked how she liked it after the show,
the lady remarked: “So that’s your won-
derful fencing? Just poking at each other
with two bits of wire!”
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland is holding its
rowing championships this month, the
chief events being the eights and sculls.
The title winner will probably represent
the State at Hobart in the King’s Cup on
May 7, following precedent. That trip
will cost £350, and the 11 senior clubs in
the State must spar up £25 towards it,
the champion crew picking itself for
Hobart being stuck for an additional £65.
The Innisfail and Cairns clubs, far to the
north, are to be stung for £lO each only,
since they are too distant to compete in
the championships. In addition, the
Q.R.A. is levying Is. a head from the
800 rowers in the State, and clubs shy on
their share will have to toe the line.
“ Splash ” : Boy Charlton’s juvenile
triumphs were recalled in Sydney when
one Robin Biddulph, 13 years of age,
won a half-mile race from scratch at the
Rose Bay baths in 12min. 2sec. This was
53sec. faster than that hoisted by Charl-
ton when a year older, and the race was
open to all swimmers under 16. Last
year Biddulph won the under-12 and -13
State championships, and this year took
the under-14 title over 75 yards. The boy
is evidently a coming champion—pro-
vided the gate-money hunters don’t race
him to death before he matures.
* * * *
“Clip”: There has been a flutter in
rifle-shooting dovecotes over the an-
nouncement of the Victorian R.A. that
anyone using a converted M.L.E. rifle at
its meeting this month must have the con-
version made to the standard specifica-
tions of the regulation rifle. Removal of
service backsight and handguards will
not be allowed, and the nose cap must not
be altered or interfered with. Apropos,
the last winner of the N.S.W. King’s, Felt-
ham, of Marulan, filed the nose cap of
his rifle without protest from the officials.
*** * •
“Fenner’s”: Horsfall, who has made
such a splash in Cambridge athletics thus
early in the season, will be eligible for
his blue if he can earn it. Last year
Cambridge decided to ban the granting
of blues to overseas students from other
universities unless these are under 19 on
October 1 of the year on which they first
go up to Cambridge. But the new rule
does not operate until October 1 this year.


USE MORE SUPER
and when ordering
specify “packed in Bates Paper Bags”
BATES (AUSTRALASIA) LTD., 341 George Street, Sydney.
Ideal for Fertilizers
—Moisture Resistant
Easy to Handle
— 94 lb. instead of 1871 b.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
SHEEP ON SHARES.
“Valerin”: N.S.W. silos are chocka-
block. Very little wheat is being sold
and preparations are well in hand for
sowing another crop. For wheat the out-
look is definitely unpromising, but wool,
for another season at any rate, seems
hopeful.
It seems to me that there are pos-
sibilities in a scheme of running sheep on
shares with farmers. By sowing quick-
growing oats such as Mulga and Belar
two or three sheep to the acre could
be carried through the winter, with the
prospect of a good return of oats, which
could be stored in silos or converted into
silage.
A thousand dry sheep would cut, say,
90001 b. of wool, which at a net return of
Is. would give each party an income of
£225 p.a. and have a surplus of fodder
for the following year.
The advantages of such a scheme are:
It would (1) improve the fertility of the
farm and get rid of noxious weeds, (2)
restrict the wheat acreage.
A general discussion on the proposal
would be interesting.
MORE BLOWFLY THEORY.
“B.B.”: “512” on blowfly (B. 24/1/’34)
is on the right track, but he does not get
down to basic principles.
The attraction of blowflies to carrion
and sheep is due to the same cause.
Meat goes bad because of bacterial
decomposition ; so does moist yolk-and-
sweat-saturated wool, and the products
of decomposition attract the flies in the
same succession in both cases. First
come the primary flies, followed, when
the right degree of putrefaction has been
reached, by the secondary flies.
Research shows that actually there are
two green flies, a primary ( Lucilia ) and
a secondary ( Chrysomia ). The green
secondary fly will not strike sheep unless
they have been first blown by the brown
Calliphora or the green Lucilia. The
Chrysomia is broader and much less
bristly than Lucilia. It is the “hairy”
maggots of the former which exhibit the
cannibalism described by “512.”
It is true, as he says, that traps catch
a preponderance of secondary flies, but
opinions differ as to which it is most vital
to catch. The secondaries do most
damage, but they are harmless without
the primaries. One of the chief objec-
tions to traps is that the number of flies
about is less important than the pre-
valence of ideal conditions for maggots
breeding.
The problem is like the question of the
best way to cure alcoholism —by the
removal of the man or the whisky. The
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture is try-
ing the effect of removing the whisky.
Tn other words, it is breeding sheep
having little or no crutch or breech fold-
ing, which, by retention of urine, encour-
ages bacterial action and so renders the
sheep susceptible to strike. Sheep with
wrinkled breech or crutch may be made
far less likely to be blown by a simple
operation which leaves a plain breech.
If “512” would consult Bulletin No. 40
of the N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,
he would be more up-to-date in his
information.
HAND-SERVING THE EWES.
“Lucerne Flea”: The standard of small
flocks can be improved out of all know-
ledge within a few years by adopting
hand-serving, as the stud flockmasters do.
First, divide the ewes into four main
classes —one of culls.
Choose rams suitable to counteract the
weaknesses of each class, remembering
that it is better to have too many than
too few. Brand the drafted ewes con-
spicuously, according to their class. When
you turn the ewes out, let some lively
young rams run with them, each with a
long strip of bagging, a foot wide, placed
around the belly and tied on the back
with stout twine. Put the mating rams
in separate yards, each fitted with' a gate.
Round the ewes up every day, then
stand off to watch. As soon as you see
the young rams interested in a ewe,
catch her, look at her brand to see which
ram she is to be mated with, and put
her in with him, then into another yard
into which all the served ewes go until
you have run through the flock. Then put
the ewes back into the paddock until
next day.
I have seen men who have used hand-
serving on farm flocks raise the standard
from that of scrubs to sheep which have
scored at the local show.
MERINO SHEEP CLASSING.
“Murrawong”: The right time to class
sheep is within a month or six weeks of
shearing when they are carrying a fair
fleece.
One procedure is to have catchers at
the end of fhe drafting race, from which
the gates have been removed. A lot of
time can be saved, even by graziers who
employ a sheep-classer, by putting the
mob through the race first and drafting
off the small, weedy and rough, wrinkly
sheep, and by classing the remainder from
the far end of the check pen. For any-
one but a stud breeder the sheep only go
two ways —flock or cull. Raddle the culls
on the nose, and when the job is finished
tarbrand them with either end of a bottle
unless a cull mark is to be put in the ear.
Start off with a complete overhaul of
the rams. Examine them for physical
defects —general size and shape of the
frame, devil’s grip, cow hocks, teeth,
under- or overshot jaws, the set and
formation of horns, which should be mas-
sive and open. Close-set horns give
trouble at shearing-time and when flies
are bad, apart from their appearance.
When you turn a ram over, make sure
that the genitals have not been injured at
shearing or crutching. In judging the
wool, allowance must be made for the
type ; a strong-woolled flock ram may be
passed with points that would be a defect
in a fine-woolled ram. The hair on the
face should be soft and amber-colored
and free from black spots. Pass out the
harsh, frosty-faced ram. Rams with wide
saucer tails or with sharp, converging
wrinkles round the tail will only breed
fly bait.
The fleece itself should be dense and
even in length and quality. Color should
be a soft white —not chalky or stary —
and certainly not yellow. The rams’ wool
should be bolder in character than the
ewes’, but avoid straight and nondescript
types. Make the wool on the shoulder
the standard and judge the rest of the
fleece by it. Note especially if the back
wool is open, mushy or short, whether
the wool tends to go short towards the
belly, whether neck folds run coarse and
starey, and whether the wool on rump
and britch runs stronger or coarse, with
kempy hairs projecting from the tip.
Whether they go woolled to the toes or
with bare points is a matter for the owner,
but the belly should be well covered with
good shafty wool, and with no big bare
patches round armpits.
Flock ewes will be much more quickly
handled. Consider size, constitution,
mouth, any physical defects, and examine
the teats of every ewe. If they have been
cut olf by careless shearing, cull, even if
the ewe is the best in the mob. She will
never rear a lamb. Open the fleece on
shoulder, ribs, back, thigh, rump, neck
and belly. If it is consistently uneven it
points to faulty breeding ; remember, if
you are trying to change the standard of
your flock, it must be done gradually.
You cannot expect to breed a fine-
woolled flock from strong-woolled ewes
by using fine-woolled rams ; you will only
get an unevenly-woolled sheep that is
neither strong, fine nor medium, but a
bit of each and the despair of the shed
wool-classer.
When you have classed, say, 200 ewes,
find what proportion you are culling and
decide whether you can afford to cull
harder or lighter. Classing is meant to
find the general weaknesses of your flock
and to eradicate them and improve the
constitution of the sheep and the quality
and weight of the fleece.
Out with the culls and buy good rams
to balance the weak points of your ewes,
but don’t expect miracles right away. It
will take several generations of careful
mating and culling before the flock begins
to show real results.
WHITES AND SCALDING.
“Joinerson”: Though the Large White
is the only sire worth while for breeding
pigs for the export trade and the best for
any purpose except lard production,
many Australian pigmen are still pre-
judiced against it, saying that it will scald
in the Australian climate.
I have raised hundreds of Large Whites
in Gippsland) and never had a case of
scalding till I handed over part of my herd
to a share-farmer. He ran out of feed
and threw three litters (23 pigs) back on
my hands. All these scalded, some very
badly, though they were littered in June,
and previous scald-free litters from the
same sows by the same boar farrowed in
December.
These pigs up to the time I took them
over had had the run of a large scrub
paddock affording plenty of shade and
running water but little grass, and had
been liberally fed with maize on the cob.
I turned them into rich pasture, with
access to abundance of ashes and char-
coal, and supplemented the maize with
boiled rabbit. All soon recovered and
made good baconers, but they took from
one to three months longer to reach
bacon weight than they should have
done.
Is it possible that this so-called sun-
scald is sometimes really a diet-deficiency
disease?
BACK TO THE WALERS.
“The Breaker”: Tell “J.A.S.” (B.
31/1/ ’34) what I meant to convey was
that the dam is of far greater importance
than the sire. Proof of this can be seen
every day on stations where horses are
bred.
I have been breaking-in horses for 24
years, and I have seen how, in only two
decades, the Waler types have gone back
in quality. What I maintain (and it is
borne out by Indian horse-buyers) is that
the percentage of horses now fit for the
Indian market has dwindled through
allowing mongrel mares to go to the
entires.
Indian buyers have time and again im-
pressed on breeders the necessity of cull-
ing out nondescript mares, but since the
slump owners and managers of stations
bother little.
As “J.A.S.” says, there must be a sire
of blood, but the progeny of horses like
Windbag and co. can never be of the
type of those Walers that saw service in
the Sinai and Palestine until quality
mares can be claimed as their dams.
HEAVES AND BROKEN WIND.
“Cincinn”: It is often possible to buy
a good stamp of broken-winded draught
horse cheap.
A fair day’s work can nearly aways
be got out of him by observing the fol-
lowing precautions:
1. Never water immediately before working.
2. Damp all dry food, preferably with linseed
tea. , , ,
3. Never work with the stomach overloaded.
4. When “blowing” in the paddock, Wind a
piece of rag round the bit and smear with
Stockholm tar.
Get twelve of the following powders
made up, and give one every day for six
days. Then allow an interval of two days
and repeat.
Heave or Broken-wind Powders.
White arsenic .. .. 5 grains
Antimony tartrate . . 1 drachm
Iron sulphate .. .. 2 drachms t.
Medicinal Ball for Broken Wind.
Arsenious anhydride .. .. 6 grains
Digitalis leaves powdered .. 1 drachm
Mutton suet .. .. .. 4 „
Linseed meal .. .. .. 2 „
Opium 30 grains
Stockholm tar, enough to make a ball.
There is nothing better than linseed for
the “heaves.”
STINKWORT ERADICATION.
“Lion”: Paddocks with a moderately
even surface and free of large stones can
be cleared by mowing just before the
stinkwort breaks into flower. It will
sprout again. Let it advance a second
time to the flowering stage. Then mow
again. This should kill the whole of that
year’s seeding. Hoe out anything that
the mower missed, and repeat next year.
Don’t cultivate to eradicate. That
merely makes a seed-bed for last year’s
seeds. Seeds may exist in the ground
for seven years.
Overstock paddocks that can’t be
mown. Do it consistently between
November (the shooting month) and
March —after that it has seeded and the
damage is done. Sheep, especially old
ewes, will eat stinkwort readily if
crowded on to the paddock —about 10
sheep to the acre.
When it is eaten down remove stock,
allow to shoot up again, and then feed
off once more. In a few seasons the
paddock is absolutely clean ; but, again,
don’t cultivate it.
It is said that stinkwort’s chief danger
is abortion in lambing ewes. This is a
myth in my experience. We lambed 92
per cent, of lambs on a badly infested
paddock. It made no difference to ewe
or lamb.
On mountainous country where mow-
ing is impossible and overstocking im-
practicable, stinkwort can be crowded
out by the following N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture method, which also
doubles the value of the land:
In autumn plant 161 b. Wimmera rye
grass and 61b. of subterranean clover per
acre. If impossible to plough the land,
broadcast the seed in March or April,
and if possible harrow it in. About
lcwt. of super, helps considerably.
“Ceebee”: Once more we have com-
plaints from buyers, but not from brokers,
that small clips of N.S.W. wool are not
“skirted” or are “very mixed and skirty.”
It is about time the cockies saw how
much they lose through the cry “we can’t
afford a classer.” Sometimes this may be
true, but surely they can skirt a fleece
themselves and leave it free from sweats,
bad necks, etc. —a process which some-
times improves the price by pence per
pound. If the skirtings don’t amount to
large-lot requirements (i.e., five bales and
over), there need not be any fear that
they won’t meet a good demand. This
season skirtings have sold out of all pro-
portion to fleece wool, and in many cases
of “all-in” methods the unskirted fleece
has brought less than good average
broken or first pieces.
{Land page continued on page 30.)


ti\vs
X
Ylce
%
1934
1884
Jug
(To
farmer#
ait
SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating
Plough for Summer Fallowing
Light in draught. Makes a splendid tilth. Deals
effectively with paddymelon, stinkwort and heavy
weed growth.
Sizes: 10-Disc, sft. Cut. 14-Disc, 7ft. Cut.
s
1934
Sunshine’s Jubilee
It is just fifty years since Hugh Victor McKay
invented and successfully built the first Sunshine
Harvester.
To-day the works at Sunshine manufacture a
complete range of modern labor-saving machines
and implements for orchard, vineyard and farm.
“SUNTYNE” Combined Grain and Fertilizer Drill and Spring Tyne Cultivator
SIZES:
8-Row—l7 Tynes Cultivating sft.
12-Row—2s Tynes Cultivating 7£ft.
14-Row—29 Tynes Cultivating B£ft.
SIZES:
16-Row—33 Tynes
20-Row—41 Tynes
24-Row—49 Tynes
. Cultivating 9£ft.
. Cultivating 12ft.
. Cultivating 14ft.
The “Suntyne” sows shallow or deep, on a level, compacted seed bed, where full advantage is secured
from the stored moisture in the soil.
3
WA
Write for 96-page Genera/ Catalogue of all Sunshine Manufactures,
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
Branches: 664-666 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. 27-39 Broadway, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
KIDNEY TROUBLE
Causes Untold Agonies
LOSS OF VIGOUR WEAK KIDNEYS
SWOLLEN JOINTS LUMBAGO
BLADDER TROUBLE RHEUMATISM
WORN-OUT, feeling too-old, hating work, no zest
for pleasure, strength just giving out, bad nights,
rheumatic twinges, bladder disorder, it is certain
that kidney trouble is the cause of your serious condition.
The kidneys are not carrying out their work properly,
and poisons such as uric acid in excess and other impurities,
instead of passing out of the body, accumulate in the system.
This harmful waste, carried to joints and muscles, causes
agonising pains day and night. No wonder you feel
irritable, weak and worn-out.
TW
m
"Kidney trouble is the cause
of that pain.”
There is a remedy that will
act quickly and surely. It is De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
The very young, the weakest
and the oldest, men, women at
all times, can take De Witt’s
Pills. No dangerous drugs or
purgatives, but a scientific pre-
paration that will do you good
from the very first dose.
Why should you suffer when
hosts of men and women have
passed from the torture of
kidney trouble to splendid health
and vitality simply by taking
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills for a little while?
This safe, always reliable remedy is invaluable in all cases
of pains in the back, kidney trouble, joint pains, uric acid
trouble, depressed or tired feeling, rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago,
sleepless nights and bladder weakness.
Relief in 24 Hours
We make no extravagant claims, but the evidence of thousands
of one-time sufferers tells us that you cannot do better than start
at once a short course with this 45-year-old remedy. Its quick,
sure action you will see in 24 hours. That is why we ask you
to start taking these wonderful pills to-day. If you will only
persevere your troubles will disappear. No more pain; you feel and
look years younger, healthier, ready to enjoy work and pleasure.
Don’t put off until to-morrow the health you can have to-day.
Sold by chemists everywhere. Ask for and see you obtain
the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, sold only in
the white, blue and gold boxes.
DeWitt
Kidney and
Bladder
Pills


Longer wear and
greater comfort
The double sole, the leather-lined
upper, both combine to make the
Abbey Cossack more comfortable
... .and more serviceable, too. It’s
a splendid boot for the roughest,
all-weather wear. Abbey Cossacks
are soled with the toughest leathers
available.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 40/-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 375
Miscellaneous.
APPOINTMENTS. —Those who are desirous of
improving their prospects in their own or
another country should write for full particulars
and terms of a service with 25 years’ world-
wide reputation.—PEßCY COUTTS & CO.,
LTD. (Dept. S 2), 325 High Holborn, London,
England.
Change at 10,000
Miles
If you’ve driven over 10,000 miles
without a change, fit a set of Leggett
Spark Plugs and prove to yourself what
many motorists already know. That a
set of Leggetts Dynamic-action Spark
Plugs brings easier starting sweeter
running—more miles per gallon—dynamic
power. A dynamic set costs surprisingly
little.
Change today for a
power o_t difference.
%
I
m
34/3-4
A POWER
Dynamic
SPARK
PLUGS
ƒ
sfs
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
The Premiers’ Conference
and the Market
Should Treasury Bills Be
Funded?
The Exchange Question
Stocks Worth Watching
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments. jjie
“ ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
MARCH ISSUE
NOW ON SALE.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
V
e
Milford Sound -
xsr
Cook
for your
Easter Holidays ?
Delightful, Economical
Excursions by
Royal Mail Liners.
An Ideal Holiday Assured.
R.M.S. MAKURA . . sails March 15
R.M.S. MOXOWAI. sails March 16
R.M.S. MARAMA . . sails March 22
R.M.S. NIAGARA.. sails March 29
R.M.S. MONO WAI? sails March 31
Let us help you plan an itin-
erary that will give you the
maximum of holiday-making
at a minimum of cost —our
50 years of travel experience
is at your service.
Full particulars from
UNION S.S. CO.
241 George Street. Sydney
328 Collins St., Melbourne
296 Queen Street, Brisbane
ROYAL MAILLINES
HINTS FOR THE FARM
“Deekay”: The gum off the lucerne
is inclined to make the mower-knife clog,
but if the blade is kept wet the machine
runs much more freely.
To remove sections from
a mowing-knife, insert the section in a
vyce, screw up fairly lightly, being sure
not to catch the plate. Then give a ser-
viceable tap with a hammer right over
the rivets. The result will be a surprise
if you have not done it before.
“Cockyson”: Experienced fencers use
a special shovel for post-hole sinking.
This is made by cutting a square face on
an ordinary long-handled shovel and
turning up the sides evenly, narrowing
down the shovel to the width of a post-
hole. The upturned sides prevent the
earth from falling back into the hole, as
well as make the shovel easier to handle.
“Golightly”: The cheapest, quickest
and most efficient method I know of lay-
ing rain-water on to a farm homestead
is to run the water from iron roofing into
a centrally situated 5000 or 10,000 gallon
iron tank on the ground. Use a sft.
wheel windmill to pump supplies to a
lOOOgal. tank placed on stand 20ft. high.
The outfit, including mill, pump, pipes,
curved iron for tanks, gutting taps, fit-
tings, timber, freight and labor, cost me
£B2, which laid water on to two bath-
rooms, kitchen, laundry, garage and
men’s hunts.
“Jimmy B.”: This automatic large-
scale pig-feeder will take some beating.
Field peas is the food and the peas are
built into a stack raised three feet from
the ground and supported by a floor of
hardwood battens. Long, upright poles
along the centre allow the stack to be
built to a good height. The idea is for
the porkers to drag the bushes from the
sides, the stack automatically sinking
while the poles keep it in position. As a
result, not a pea is wasted and the pigs
get exercise. In addition the stack gives
fine shelter from sun and rain. Two
hundred porkers and a handful of back-
fatters seem to be thriving on their ration,
which is supplemented with skimmed
milk.
“512”: “Spring’s” rules for preventing
bloat (B. 24/1/’34) are sound, but need
one addition: Always keep easily acces-
sible rock salt in the paddock. When
stock (sheep or cattle) become uneasy
with slight bloat they look for the lick,
and the action of the tongue seems to
release the pressure.
“C.L.”: To plough and harrow in one
operation, secure a bar to the off side of
a disc-plough, where seat is bolted to
plough-frame. Let the bar extend far
enough for a 2ft.-wide zigzag section
harrow to be attached to it with a light
chain. As the double discs turn the
furrows, the harrow covers them, breaking
up lumps while still moist. This is a great
saving in labor. The extra pull is negli-
gible.
“Colon”: Try building your post-and-
rail fence of individual panels, each rail
bolted to the upright with |in. bolts, tak-
ing care to oil your bolts if putting them
into green timber. All rails should be
inside the yard, with the ends of each
panel fitting close to the next. Besides
the advantage of leaving the posts intact
and strong, a panel can be removed for
repairs without interfering with the rest
of the yard. Bolts cost less than mor-
tising.
“G.J.A.S.”: When dosing sheep with
worm tablets it’s hard to be perfectly
sure that these have been swallowed. Try
an ordinary drenching trumpet and have
a bucket of water handy. Pick up in
trumpet about a couple of teaspoons
of water, not more —one very soon gets
into the knack of it. Place the tablet or
tablets just inside neck of trumpet and
push down jumbuck s neck. The small
drop of water induces him to swallow,
and the pills go too. The job takes a
little longer, but it’s sure.
“H.A.L.": Where the fall is sufficient,
a good way to carry milk from the bails
to the piggeries is down a V-shaped gut-
tering of 24-gauge galvanised iron with
turned edges, through each of which run
plain No. 8 wire which is strained tight
at the piggery end. This makes a rigid
job, easy to clean and with a perfectly
even slant.
“Beady : When stung by a ora f’
sc ° r P'°" ” bu >' d ° g *7 l^TlaiS
nicotine from your pipe on it. n easeb
t he pain and stops swelling.
“R FJ ” • Paint sheepskins, as soon
after 'removing from carcasses as possible,
with the so l u tion which remains after
dipping plus a little water. This is a
cheap and effective way of preserving the
skins.
“Deeahree”: An old car battery-case
makes a good swab vessel for bluestone
solution, used for dressing fly-blown
sheep, the bluestone having no corrosive
effect on it as on tin or zinc.
Eggs should never be
placed on end in an incubator. Place
them flat while keeping for incubation
and roll them over if kept more than four
days before placing in the machine.
“E.D,”: The best all-round stock-lick
mixture I know is made in the following
proportions: One bag of salt to 151 b.
sulphate of iron, 251 b. of slaked lime and
151 b. of sulphur. Two gallons of water
will dissolve the sulphate before mixing
the lot together. The mixture contains
all that sheep need in the way of lick—
and it is cheap.
“Culp” : A good fly veil for bridle or
winkers can be made from a piece of
old motor tube. Cut off a piece of the
tube as long as the forehead band, then
split it open. Leave a piece about three
inches solid at the top to attach to the
band and cut the portion beneath into
strips about a quarter of an inch wide.
A pair of shears or scissors does the job
very well. Cut out every alternate strip.
This veil hangs better than leather or
cord and does not tangle.
“Kayem”: An old waggon tyre (heavy
for preference) will make an inexpensive
and efficient implement to eradicate
bracken. Drill a hole through it and insert
an eye-bolt to hook your swinglebar on to.
Should the tyre be rather light, twitch a
heavy piece of timber on top to keep it
flat on the ground. One horse will pull
it easily. Owing to its shape it will ride
over any obstacles such as logs. We
have used it in bracken over 6ft. high,
and it flattened the stuff down to the
ground, so that it was easily burned off.
When the young shoots come up repeat
the process.
“King T.”: Cotton should always be
planted north and south. Last season
with several varieties I tried both direc-
tions on two different classes of soil. In
each case, the yield from the east-west
planting approximated 1001 b. per acre
less of seed cotton. The only way of
evening up the east-west-method produc-
tion is to place the rows an extra foot
apart to give the sun a better chance at
the inner sides of the bushes. This applies
particularly to the lofty-growing Durango
variety.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the cost of the agriculture course
at the University of Sydney ? (2) How long
does it take ? (3) What chances of employ-
ment when finished ? (4) When does the Uni-
versity open ? —372.
(1) Approximately £l5O for lecture fees, etc.
(2) Four years. (3) Up to the present the
supply of agricultural graduates has never ex-
ceeded the demand. The chief avenues of em-
ployment are as follows: (a) Scientific officers
of various State and Commonwealth Agricul-
tural Departments—agric. chemists, plant patho-
logists, plant breeders, agrostologists, entomolo-
gists, etc.; ( b ) teachers in agricultural colleges,
high and rural schools; (c) technical posi-
tions in manufacturing; ( d) a few positions with
fertiliser and similar firms; (e) general techni-
cal advisers to agricultural companies; (/) agri-
cultural journalism, and (g) farming. The first
three have absorbed the bulk of the graduates,
but a few have been placed in each of the
remaining occupations. (4) It opens on
March 12, 1934.
Which is the richer milk in butter-fat, that
of the Jersey or the Illawarra Shorthorn ? —341.
Jersey milk is much the richer. In 1933 the
average N.S.W. purebred butter-fat test of the
former was 5.4 p.c. against 4.1 p.c. for the latter.
HINTS FOR HINTERS.
In addition to space rates, £1 Is. will be paid
for the best hint of the week.
D 0,,; send a covering later.
Write your name, pen-name and address on
the top of the first page. Then fire away,
writing on every second line. Don’t waste
words or trouble to begin: “This is a hint
which I have used for 20 years. Remem-
ber that 100 words is about the limit of length.
THIS WEEK’S PRIZE HINT.
This week’s guinea for a prize
hint is won by R. J. GILLIES,
Renwick-street, Lismore, N.S.W.:
To water the grindstone, cut a third
section of an old motor-tyre; punch
a hole in one end and nail up by the
other end under the grindstone so
that t'he stone almost touches the
gullet of the tyre. Attach the
punched end to a stout nail at level
height. Fill the tyre section with
water in which the stone will revolve.
If stone is too hard, leave water in
and alter position of stone occasion-
ally when not in use, till stone is
softened. If stone is soft, detach
punched end and tip water out after
using.


WHEREVER I 11 /r
you LI Vt
b
<4
*
J||^^
r % V*
(Incorporated by Royal Charter. 1835.)
Wherever you live in Australia
or New Zealand, a branch of
The Bank of Australasia is
near, ready to render the ser-
vices that almost a century’s
Australasian experience has
brought into being.
Wherever you travel the Bank
can help you—with Letters of
Credit, and with the local ser-
vices of its Agents and Corre-
spondents in the countries
through which you are going.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of the
Bank)
Currency Re-
serve
Reserve Liability
of Proprietors
Under the
Charter
£4,500,000
2,475,000
2,000,000
4,500,000
£13,475,000
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALASIA:
394-96 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Superintendent: George D. Healy.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Petrol-War Explosions
Sydney has heard some astonishing
things about petrol lately.
First of all, there was an attempt to
blow up the Purr-Pull storage tanks at
Glebe. Later on the Purr-Pull Co. got
convictions against garage-men for sell-
ing doped petrol through imitation Purr-
Pull pumps. Now remarkable evidence
has been given at the Petrol Inquiry con-
cerning the mixing of petrol and kero-
sene and the addition of lighting kero-
sene to power kerosene, and related
“jokes.”
Respecting a shipment of power kero-
sene consigned to Texas Co. (Australasia),
P. R. Cusack, an ex-employee of the co.,
went into interesting details concerning
samples prepared for the Customs. “To
evade payment of duty?” (£3000) another
witness, still on the Texas staff, was
asked. “No; to avoid paying it,” he
explained.
Cusack made further allegations. He
lost his job, he said, because he refused
to mix petrol with kerosene. Previously
he worked for about a fortnight mixing
20 p.c. kerosene with second-grade petrol.
Winner motor oil, a product of the Texas
concern, was, according to this witness,
substituted for Mobiloil (Vacuum Oil
Co.). He had seen Winner oil being put
into a Mobiloil container, and garages
took the oil as a product of the Vacuum
Co. Early in 1929 150 to 200 tins at a
time of second-grade spirit were sent to
a Punchbowl (N.S.W.) garage to be
dumped into competitors’ tanks.
Part of Cusack’s evidence has been
denied; but Frederick Scott, N.S.W.
manager for Texas, after stating that “his
instructions” were “not to countenance
substitution in any shape or form.” said
he would “not deny Cusack’s description
of the mixing of kerosene with petrol,
except as to the percentages.” Referring
to the power-kerosene shipment, a Cus-
toms officer mentioned that the Texas
people had the keys of their own bond,
and no other concern enjoyed that privi-
lege.
Lamb, K.C., is the Royal Commis-
sioner. He is continuing his investiga-
tions.
The People’s Prudential
The tragic business of the People’s
Prudential Assurance Co. was recalled
in Sydney last week, when V. A. C. Part-
ridge, formerly managing director, ap-
plied for variation of a bankruptcy order.
He was declared insolvent in March,
1931. The Official Receiver mentioned
that the People’s Prudential owed
£123,146 to 18,000 people, mostly small
policy-holders. “It was a flourishing con-
cern for 30 years,” said Mr. Lloyd.
“Then the bankrupt assumed control, and
within six years the co. was in liquida-
tion.”
The funds to buy the People’s Pru-
dential were borrowed from a money-
lender, who was repaid out of the assets.
Policy-holders’ sanction to the deal was
not required by law, so this disastrous
form of finance was not questioned.
Partridge and others subsequently stood
their trial on a conspiracy charge;
they were acquitted. It came out in
evidence that Partridge had had a glori-
ous time joy-riding and going to the
races, but he was not charged on those
counts.
It is three years since the People’s
Prudential crashed, but the lesson was
lost on Governments which might have
been expected to be watching the pro-
ceedings. Anyway, they have made no
move to tighten up their shockingly loose
life-assurance laws. Queensland is a
bright exception.
State figures show that 98 N.S.W. fac-
tories had 41,612 hands in Dec,, 1933,
against 34,399 in Dec., 1931—an improve-
ment of 21.4 p.c. The basic wage was
reduced 16s. a week in the period—
about an equal percentage —and general
unemployment has been cured (on union
figures) only to the extent of 4.5 p.c.
At the beginning of this year 27 p.c. of
unionists in the Mother State were with-
out jobs, so there is still a long way to
go to get back to the 1928 position, when
only 10.6 p.c. were out of work —many
because of strikes.
* * * *
“King D.”: Fortunes were made in the
boot-and-shoe trade during the boom, but
there has been another story since. Joe
Gardiner, from a string of shops in Syd-
"Isaacstein, and on the nod, of course. Give him a pass to Sheol and he'd
use it, if nothing else was offering."
ney, showed astonishing profits. Five
years ago the co. which bears his name
was paying 20 p.c. dividends. Latterly
there has been nothing at all for share-
holders. A. J. Liddy, another shoe-mer-
chant, who recently assigned his estate,
blames his troubles on “the phenomenal
rise and fall” of his business, which
“overstepped” him. He paid income tax
on £5OOO in 1927, but “it was all over in
about six years.” Salaries of £l5 a week
to his wife and £lO to a 14-year-old son
were mentioned. The younger Liddy
blithely told the Registrar that he spent
his tenner on “enjoyment—theatres,
picture-shows, dances and a little beer.”
* * * *
Helped by half John Ellerman’s estate,
Britain’s accounts to Mar. 31 next will
show a substantial surplus—a press esti-
mate says £35,000,000. While nearly every
other nation in the world is off Budget
equilibrium, this performance is highly
creditable. Prime Minister Ramsay Mac-
Donald, in a talkie now showing in Aus-
tralia, speaks of 600,000 men taken off
the dole and put back to work during
1933. Not many of them have been
absorbed in “public works,” either.
Britain has had enough of that.
* * * *
Wool has slipped back a little in price,
overseas and locally. The tendency of
buyers is to wait for the opening of the
London sales. At Bradford small busi-
ness is being done, but topmakers are
fairly confident, manufacturers’ low bids
being turned down as unacceptable.
* * * *
The bore which is being drilled from
the bottom of the Balmain (N.S.W.) col-
liery-shaft has encountered at 200 ft. a
series of coal-bands identical with the Dirty
Seam at Newcastle. The drillers are after
natural coal-gas, and the bore-hole is full
of it, though the pressure from the small
seam just entered is not high. Operations
have slowed up while casing is put
down ; the sides of the bore caved in
when the soft coal was struck. The bit
is now 3200 ft. below Sydney, and if the
authorities are awake a proper record of
the strata will be taken.
* * * *
During the quarter ended Dec. 31,
19,795 tons of copra was shipped from
Rabaul. France took 6000 tons, the U.K.
5491, Germany 4074, Australia 2166,
Italy 1333, and the rest of the world
1331 tons.
* * * *
“ Edin ” : During the falling wool
values, Maoriland millowners made only
slight reductions in the price of their
textiles, maintaining that fluctuations in
the price of raw wool did not greatly
vary manufacturing costs, mainly labor
and processing. However, now that wool
is up again prices of woollens have been
advanced about 20 per cent.
“Lugger’s Mate”: Ike Askew, of Strat-
ford (N.Q.), has a project for canning
kingfish on 40-foot floating factories
fed by a fleet of luggers. They
could be moved from one fishing-
ground to another between Brisbane and
Cape York, and would come to port
only to land their tinned and labelled
products.
* * * *
Chancellors of the Exchequer look like
getting less help from death duties as time
goes on. Few of the large British
estates yield anything like the amount
of the Treasury’s last grab when they
become due for further slashing upon the
death of another family head. The Bud-
get benefited to the tune of £15,000,000
on the death of Sir John Ellerman. This
year a muster of millionaires in Britain
brought forth only 333, whereas in 1933
the tally was 460. When a man dies
worth a million the State takes 40 p.c.;
two million and over, 50 p.c.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The days of sail are by
no means done as far as Bass Strait is
concerned. The topsail schooner Alma
Doepel recently brought 100,000 feet of
hardwood from the Speck to Melbourne
at an average speed of 10 knots. This
beats the times of small steamers engaged
in the trade.
* * * *
“Wilfremon”: That slogan of Victorian
Railways, “Help Us to Help You,” seems
all eyewash to me. Freight on two suites
of furniture and a roll of linoleum sent
from Melbourne to Cranbourne, a dis-
tance of 28 miles, cost me ss. Bd. A
fortnight later I paid 4s. lOd. to send
a similar roll of lino, alone. Did I pay
only tenpence to send two suites of fur-
niture, or have I been robbed?
* * * *
Though Britain bought £264,000,000
worth more goods than she sold in 1933,
shipping earnings (£65,000,000) and in-
come from overseas investments, com-
missions, etc. (£195,000,000), reduce the
adverse balance to £4,000,000, compared
with £104,000,000 in 1931 and £56,000,000
in 1932. Australian Governments don’t
encourage people with income from
overseas to live in Australia; in Britain
such citizens do a lot towards keeping
the country’s external finances on an even
keel.
* * * *
“Mick”: Dr. Benzoin H. Shein, of the
World Zionist Organisation, told Maori-
landers the other day that Palestine
oranges were superior to those received
in the Shivery Isles. A peculiar com-
bination of light and soil was needed for
the perfect orange, he said, and that
existed only in the Holy Land. The
sting for Australia in the doctor’s re-
marks was that Palestine is to develop
an export trade.
* * * *
“King D.”: Every widow I’ve ever
met would testify against the extortions
of the probate-taxers. One, whose late-
lamented was a builder, had to pay duty
on a heap of scrap-iron and junk in the
backyard, valued at a ridiculously high
figure. The law should be amended to
admit of duties being paid in cash or
property at the assessed valuation, the
option to rest with the executor.
* * * *
“Mat”: The geophysical survey party
working on the Waikaia (M.L.) gold-
fields isn’t altogether sorry that we had
a war. After the Armistice the Defence
Department was left with a big supply
of surplus guncotton, and the surveyors
are snapping it up at 2s. a charge as
against nearly £1 for the new imported
explosive.
* * * *
“C. Croft”: R. Coghill (B. 14/2/’34)
may have a new method of softening
Maoriland flax, but the art of making
fibre pliable before it is dressed and
spun goes back ages. I worked softening-
machines at Clifford, Yorks, 50 years ago
that would make M.L. flax soft enough
for conversion into a flapper’s powder-
puff.


AMERICA
'. }gcyt
r aA:
w«
•••• "-'
W«*
-s*
I
tig'
»
v
/
w
Z\
Z'
V*
m
W 4
3^
22
%
Zs
wf
aC
Colourful, brilliant, fascinating Americas
entertainment world, revolving around a
galaxy of world-famous stars of stage and
screen. Live awhile in this glittering world.
Nature’s theatre, too, surpasses in pageantry,
with scenic “stars” more easily visited and
enjoyed than those of any other land. A
magnificent railway system links port and
prairie, mountains and metropolis. Luxuri-
ous trains with richly furnished club and
observation cars . . . comfortable “Pullman”
sleepers . . . dining cars that make an
art of cuisine and service. Fares extremely
moderate.
Luxury, comfort and low cost distinguish
every stage of your journey—whether to
America only, or through to England. Two
mighty, new ships —the superb “Mariposa”
-r
ME
> r -
..„ . *
and “Monterey” cut the time between
Sydney and California to 18 days—with
calls at Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago and
Honolulu (never over 5 days between ports).
A voyage of charm and contentment a
route of sunshine and romance!
California greets you! Los Angeles . • •
Hollywood, with its cinema stars and studios
. . . Bohemian San Francisco.
Across America, see such scenic marvels as
Yosemite, the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone,
Zion-Bryce Canyon National Parks, "Indian
Detour” (liberal stopovers without charge).
Sojourn in famous cities: Salt Lake City,
with its Mormon Temple . . . Denver, a
mile high . . . New Orleans, flower of the
old South . . . Chicago, roaring hive of
industry . . . Washington, beautiful capital
. . . New York, like another world!
Every detail is explained in the delightful,
new, illustrated booklet, “England Across
AmericaA copy awaits your request.
AMERICAN
OTlcd^ortMn^ •
RAILWAYS TRAVEL and INFORMATION
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. Phone B 7981-3.
R U R E A IJ
3R-1A
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.G.: “I hope you are not angry with me
for helping to fill your w.p.b.” Not a bit....
G. : Sing on, by all means, but there’s no
corner for you on our concert platform
H. : There’s no metal in your verses; they
aren’t even cupriferous AJ.A.: One is a very
long way after Kipling; the other is an echo-of
a hundred bards D.S.A.: You’re right; it is
a great deal too protracted and also too pseudo-
scientific. Still, you have a pleasant fancy
and a turn for ingenious rhyme H. de J.:
There’s some sound sense in it, but not a
ha’porth of lilt or swing R.M.C.: Mere
verse exercises with the minimum of merit.
. ...LJ.C.: A dim snapshot... .W.R.D.: Just
a middling dog story R.W.: Trivial
D.G.S.: About the most unreal yarn you have
turned in....J.E.: You write of things that
don’t happen F.J.: Poor characterisation
C. : Some undeniable physical facts;
but they don’t fit into a sonnet 0.R.:
Afraid it won’t do. It remains far too
much like a slab from a guide-book
cut into rhyming lengths F.H.: Written
with feeling, but too clumsily put to-
gether W.S.: She’ll have to wait a long time
to get into print M. 8.: Written to the
recipe, “Back the winner and all is we 11”....
G.L.: No chance... .M.M.C.: No hidden gold
in that yarn... .Krishnam: There’s only one
tolerable rhyme in your six verses, and there
are five atrocious ones... .Zero: Tennyson put
all you say, and more, into two lines of “Locks-
ley Hall” A.C.: About as hopeless as your
previous effort in the realm of poesy A.S.A.:
“If pars, are rejected, please mention faults.”
If we once began that our working day would
need to be enlarged E.V.P.: Lawson made
a much better story of it in “The Loaded Dog.”
E.T.L.: It hasn’t even the makings of
a bad hymn in it... .G.F.G.: Excellent philo-
sophy, but it falls short of being tolerable
jingle W.M.: We grow a trifle tired of flut-
ing magpies... .J.D.: “The Beehive” can’t
carry all that top-hamper... .J.T.: You may
have pounded heavyweight pugs in the boxing-
ring, but as a rhyme-slinger you aren’t in the
flyweight class... .J.C.: The Tappington Hall
witches we can understand, but we don’t quite
get the hang of yours N. 8.: Edifying reflec-
tions, but they don’t run easily in verse....
Wai-iti: No doubt there is poetry in “the
cryptic slant of feline eye,” and even in “amber
seams of cheese between new bread,” but you
do little to bring it home to us D.P.:
We will not countenance more war
Or feed ourselves to Mammon’s maw.
Neither will we countenance a rhyme so hor-
rible... .A.S.: Not much merriment in that
minstrelsy C.S.: One of the pieces you sub-
mit as your own work was published in these
pages in 1928 H. 0.: Your verse has swing,
whatever else it lacks J.T.R.: Fair crafts-
manship, but nothing more... .H.L.G.: Un-
appetising scraps J.M.: Darned little
J.S.C.: There’s no occasion for fear and trem-
bling. The worst we could say of your effort is
that it’s too high-flown, too grandiose....
R.D.E.: Cheap sentiment raggedly phrased.
... .K.R.V.S.: One startling line:
The wind stirs soft the gold hair on my thighs.
The rest is negligible... .J. 0.: Even the con-
cluding couplet fails to lighten the stodginess
of it....8.P.: Swagman’s apostrophe to his
faithful headgear firmly rejected J.0.R.: No
grip in that sonnet F.L.H.: Seventy lines
of monotonously feeble parody R.A.P.:
There’s a woeful lack of swing in it
M.C.A.: Even the pungency of the last line
fails to carry it through... .W.D.W.: They
don’t appeal... .F.S.L.: You' need a firmer
touch... .V.K.: “Mates” came close... .8.N.:
Central incident too unlikely... .R.G.M.: No
story in it R.J.0.: Good idea, but not
well executed M.H.H.: Ancient curses
played out... .E.McK.: “The Doctor’s Monu-
ment” improbable and over-sentimental....
Drummond: Well told, but misses A.S.:
Confidence story an old friend E.D.:
Neither scores... .W.G.T.: Nothing to be
ashamed of. Try again... .R.A.P.: Radio
story lacks appeal.... G.A.8.: N 0... .C. 8.:
“The Little Old Clock” did not strike our
fancy L.M.St.H.: Authorities state that the
long-lingering kiss is now taboo. Yours was
a whole story 10ng... .E.W.: Cannot place
either Horatio: The conversion of Red
Flag Sue does not convert your reminiscences
into a story... .R.P.: “Old Henry’s Revenge”
crude R.C.8.: Nature-study essay unsuit-
able A.P.: Of little general interest
Lucky Mac: “Luck on the Sydney Waterfront”
missed the pick-up G.McK.: We suspected
that detective all along Grobid L.: Nemesis
story falls short. But don’t give up.... Green
and Purple: Not up to standard H.G.:
Over-sentimental... .E.W.K.: “Lamb in Collins-
street” yields no golden fleece.. . .A.M.8.: The
parrot has been overworked Ralph B.:
Cannot agree that the subject is of immense
topical interest; and your style doesn’t impress'
Ben Richards: Gangster story put on the
spot... .R.G.R.: Touches no chord M.P.:
“Impressions at St. Kilda” too superficial.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
K.W.: Drawing awful, joke awful, everything
awful C.L.: Drunk gag is of hoary antiquity.
W.S.H.: Neat drawing but tame jest....
D. : Don’t use such a faint pencil P.M.:
Still puzzling over the joke about the ancestors of
the baldheaded Chinaman... .8.J.: You should
have made hay when the bodyline sun was
shining... .E.V.: Great lack of artistic skill.
E.J.S.: Inexperienced, but keep on
G. 8.: You have some talent for caricaturing;
try better-known persons. .T.S.: Drawing
needs too much explanation R.A.C.: Bal-
anced for a space on the basket’s edge, but
finally fell in S.K.: You should take some-
thing to cure that jumpy style of linework
J.J.: Both hopelessly weak on the artistic side,
though one is very strong in another sense
W.J.F.: Made a desperate but unavailing effort
to find the point D.W.: You’ve made a
dreadful mess of a good idea N.J.: Some
skill in linework but doesn’t quite pass muster.
G.H.: Gives promise of good future work
A.R.: The lines are scraggy and the figures are
standing at impossible angles D.E.K.: A
weird horror which should never have left your
desk M.T.: Doubtless there is a joke in it
deep down, but we haven’t a diving suit.
The Palette.
Present critic saw an exhibition of
Phillips Fox’s work at London in 1920 ;
it was under the auspices of his
widow. The latest —at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne —is once more under her
guardianship, but Mrs. Fox now adds
some canvases of her own. Phillips Fox
was at his best an admirable illustrator of
the Salon subjects fashionable in his day.
He specialised in large groups of languid
people, whose resemblance to the classical
forms bred in the academies was cun-
ningly cloaked in parasols, top-hats and
suchlike modern modes. At his worst
he was a romantic escaping into mists of
his own making, in which nothing is but
all things seem to be. Mrs. Fox is neither
a romantic nor an illustrator, but a hard
realist. She is at her best in some small
flower pieces from which one gets some
of the sensation of pure color; she is at
her worst in her large inventories of
popular European tourist resorts, in
which she has been more interested in
each separate article in the wardrobe of
Nature’s charms than in the impression as
a unity
“Meldrumite”: Tell “The Old ’Un”
(B 21/2/’34) that if “a statement of
truth”is only artistic when the artist por-
trays perfection,” then no works of art
have been produced hitherto, because per-
fection although it is the aim of the
artist is unattainable by finite beings, as
Socrates explained to the Athenians some
time ago. Nor is a “pretty lie” a work
of art—it is merely a lie ; and if “The
Old ’Un” finds it pretty that only signi-
fies that that particular lie makes him
feel more comfortable than the truth,
Why “The Old ’Un” drags the Mel-
drumites into his muddled statement I
can’t quite see. He seems to imply that
what they are trying to do is to strike a
“happy mean”—“The Old ’Un” is a
whale on happiness—between “roman-
tic” and “photographic” art. They are
doing nothing of the sort. The realistic
painter, which is what “The Old ’Un”.
evidently means by “Meldrumite,” like
the realistic composer or architect or
story-writer, is concerned with explor-
ing his particular reality. Cezanne said
(though he didn’t succeed in following up
his words with deeds) that when a
peasant looked at a landscape he saw
cows, houses and trees. When he
(Cezanne) looked at the same landscape
he saw patches of color. The aesthetic
of the painter could not have been more
aptly put. Nature comes to the painter,
as painter, in the form of sensations of
color, which he endeavors to put down
in their proper relationships. As “The
Old ’Un” has probably never attempted
to look at a landscape like a painter, but
only as one who is interested in trees,
houses, etc., as such, it is only natural
that when he sees a realistic painting it
will seem strange to him. If “The Old
’Un” would get out of his head the
notion that the function of the painter
is to flatter his prejudices, and realise that
the painter is a specialist who knows
something “The Old ’Un” didn’t and
couldn’t have known before, he will get
much profit, pleasure and comfort out
of realistic art. And if he calls it “soul-
balm” nobody will mind.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Man for N.G.
“Gain” gets in the last word:
Leonard Wood, I repeat, was made Governor-
General of the Philippines for military and
organisational reasons. His medicine had no-
thing to do with it; but if he had the sort of
medical department which tried to “hush up
a dangerous cholera outbreak, while he was
away on tour,” it says little for his capacity as
an organiser of medical departments.
The pith of what “Fi. Fa.” says is that the
I essential thing for the Territory is a flourish-
ing, healthy native race, while at present the
native race is dying fast.” To that all I can say
is that before the numerous doctors came on the
scene there seemed to be no sign of the race
dying out. And, anyway, if it is dying out,
it is not going to be saved by just sending Dr.
Cilento back to Rabaul into a job in which he
would have only a tithe of his time to give to a
problem which formerly he could not cope with
m a whole-time billet. Even if he wanted to
made radical reforms the League and Mr.
Marr wouldn’t let him. The native problem
will only be solved when the League of Nations
and theorists -on the spot stop fiddle-faddling
with matters which the kanakas themselves
seemed to manage very well before molly-
coddling and interference with their local cus-
toms began to debilitate them.
“Flaminott”: A London cable gives
further proof of the dire effect of Aus-
tralia’s tropic climate. Mrs. Charles
Torrey, a flapper of 82, once of Alpha
station (C.Q.), has booked a passage by
air mail from London to Cape Town.
From Cape Town the lady proposes to
travel to Nairobi, either by
’plane or bullock waggon, as
she is anxious to see lions
outside a cage. Questioned
as to her outfit for the jour-
ney, she said: “Certainly
pyjamas. I must look re-
spectable in the event of a
descent in the jungle or
desert.”
* * * *
“Isee”: Before Govern-
ment rule, in a remote
Papuan village a dreaded
sorcerer was noted for his
powers of black magic ; he
could kill a man just by
stroking his body. He was
arrested for murder, and for
weeks nobody could fathom
his method. At last, wearied
with repeated questioning, he
produced from his thick mop
of hair a grooved bone half
an inch long. The R.M. was
handling it, when the man
cried: “Don’t touch the
point, Taubada! You die!”
A small quantity of deadly
poison, then unknown
to science, was found on the
bone. The sorcerer’s habit
had been to place the bone
between his fingers, and
as he stroked the victim with his palm
the point scratched the skin, depositing
the poison. The witchman was gaoled
for five years, and when he returned to
his village he was laughed at. It was no
use resorting to his old tricks; the vil-
lage was then under Government control
and his secret was out.
* * * *
Corbie Dhu”; In parts of the dry
west of Queensland the* mineralised local
bore water prevents the growing of vege-
tables, with the result that the health of
children suffers. Two clinic sisters who
travel have shown that by soaking
beans, dried peas, barley or wheat in
cold boiled water overnight and then
keeping them covered with a double
thickness of gauze until they germinate,
western mothers can ensure a continuous
supply of the essential green food for the
family. When the sprouts appear in
about 48 hours, the seeds are placed on
fine hessian or sacking, which is kept
damp with cold boiled water. They are
ready to eat when the shoots are about
two inches long, being prepared like any
other green vegetable.
* * * *
Acid-Fast”: lon Idriess, who should
know better, has been making Brisbane’s
flesh creep, per the “Courier-Mail,” with
a bloodcurdling article on leprosy
amongst the abos. of the n.-w. coast. In
square-toed fact, leprosy risk among
Australian whites is practically nil. Nor
is the disease nearly as terrible as, say,
a slow-growing cancer involving sensory
nerves. Anaesthetic leprosy often leaves
its victims unmarked except to the expert
eye. Tubercular leprosy disfigures, but
not more so than several skin diseases ;
far less so than lip or nose cancer. Pain
is seldom felt by lepers. Australia is
amongst the few white countries where
the mediaeval habit of leper segregation
is still enforced. There are more white
lepers in London than in the whole of
Australia. A few years ago I saw at
a medical demonstration 22 assorted
lepers, showing every type and stage of
their disease. All were uncontrolled
London residents. If 100 had been re-
quired they could have been collected
within a 20-mile radius of St. Paul’s.
Some make a living as demonstration
subjects at medical schools. Leprosy
nowadays is frequently cured ; not infre-
quently it cures itself. Isolation of abo.
lepers is kindly, though expensive. Segre-
gation of white lepers is cruel and
vastly more expensive. But, with
the Biblical-mediaeval superstition still
alive —the leprosy of the Bible wasn’t
leprosy at all—we’ll go on segregating.
If I suspected myself of leprosy I’d make
for London—and nobody there would be
one penny the worse.
* * * *
The opening of the new A.M.P. build-
ing in Brisbane makes the old office at
the corner of Edward-street a memory,
and consigns earlier ones to a place in
prehistoric legend. The A.M.P. has been
a good friend to the northern State, as
to other States, and it is difficult, looking
at its present ramifications, to realise that
it began 85 years ago with only 30 poli-
cies and an annual total cover of under
£lO,OOO. Its funds to-day are almost at
the £100,000,000 mark, and its new
general-life business last year totalled
£12,000,000 in 28,000 policies. The new
Brisbane building is a giant beside the
“Where's that one Janey, Bungo?”
“Bin divorcum that one, boss! Wearum shorts, smokum cigarette, go hikin’,
drinkum rum belong me —too much all same white pfeller missus!"
old. It is nine-storeys high in the
Renaissance Italian style so popular
in Brisbane, and has taken two and a half
years to build. Most of the material
comes from local quarries, and the result
is a reminder of the fact that Brisbane
district is rich in beautiful granites and
sandstones.
* * * *
“North Coaster”lt looks as though the
Queensland Government will have to run
special trains to cope with “rattler”-
jumpers, who nowadays travel in packs,
sometimes crowding out the legitimate
passengers when there are no empty
trucks. It is no use the railway
people putting the men off a train.
If they don’t immediately climb back
again they board the next suitable puffer
that comes along. And not all of the
free riders are penniless. One hauled
up before the beak recently had over £7O
in his possession.
* * * *
“Lofty” (N.Q.): By all means let ship-
ping cos. dispatch tourist steamers to the
Great Barrier Reef, but not during
the summer months. As I write there
have been four such tours since Christ-
mas, and on no occasion were the tourists
able to see the coral reef; on two, heavy
tropical rain fell all the time they were
in the islands. To see the reef you must
have low tide and a calm, sunny day.
There are no low tides during daylight—
or none low enough. Again, the wet sea-
son generally begins towards the middle
of January, but for at least three weeks
previous to the break the weather is un-
settled and cloudy. The reef as a show-
place and tourist resort is coming into
prominence, but shipping cos., which in
the long run will benefit, are following
a very short-sighted policy by running
these tours out of season.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Seed-pearls, found in
black-lip and other shell, have one un-
usual use. At Thursday Island Chinese
buy them and use them to dissolve in
some of their medicines. It is common
theory that the seed-pearl is produced
through the irritant action of a grain of
sand, the m.-0.-p. oyster covering it with
a protective excretion. An old-established
T.I. jeweller, however, has not found a
grain of sand in any of the many pearls
sectionally examined with a microscope,
although a tiny marine creature has been
discovered in some.
* * * *
“Dibatau”: Re “NXT” (B. 28/2/’34),
the official language in Papua is Eng-
lish. It is found that it is just as
easy, where a lingua franca is needed, to
teach English as any native language.
Be it understood that it is English ; not
the appalling jargon used in the Man-
dated Territory. Papuan officials can-
not understand why Mandated officials
stick to the awful pidgin, even in official
proclamations, when it has never been
used or needed in the sister Territory.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Recollecting
my first sight of a Solomon Islander
nearly half a century ago, attired in a
coat of oil and a trifle of sinnett, it seems
unbelievable that the place is now being
kept alive only by the button trade. With
copra down to £7 12s. 6d. in London,
planters “no can do.” Natives won’t, at
£l, which is all that traders can afford
in addition to freights, handling and other
charges. So local trade is after trochus
and green snail shells and ivory nut, all
of which go to the button trade. But
buttons! Except as snide contributions to
missionary collections, who would have
thought it for the Solomons?
* * * *
“Diggaire”: Brisbane Grammar, which
celebrated its 66th anniversary last week,
has a war record hard to equal. Alto-
gether 1019 “old boys” out of 1200 of all
ages alive served in the Great War, 170
going west; 306 became officers in com-
mand of A.I.F. sections —five generals
two colonels, 18 lieut.-colonels, 31 majors,
88 captains, 135 lieuts., 27 second-lieuts.
The generals were J. H. Cannan, of the
11th Brigade; W. A. Coxen, of the Artil-
lery; L. C. Wilson, of the 3rd Light Horse
Brigade ; V. C. Sellheim (Adjutant-Gen-
eral) and Cecil H. Foott, of the Engineers.
One “old boy” (Macandie) was assistant-
secretary to the Navy. The remainder
brought home 138 medals and 22 foreign
distinctions.
* * * *
“Physeter”: Romance may have been
driven out of whale-hunting by the
harpoon gun and the electric shock, but
a Brisbane fisherman recently struck
something quite in the Herman Melville
manner. Cruising singlehanded after
mackerel, he sighted a 50ft. humpback
stranded on a sandbank. The creature
seemed dead ; he decided to tow it into
a convenient lagoon to render down some
of the blubber for oil. With a towrope
round its tail and the help of a rising
tide, it came off easily enough, but on
reaching deep water it suddenly revived.
After strenuous and intermittently suc-
cessful attempts to tow the launch stern
first, it nearly capsized her by a lateral
rush, and then dived. The startled fisher-
man cut the rope just in time to prevent
his craft from being dragged down, and
has since given up whaling.
* * * *
“Ben Nevis”: “Mundowie” (B.
14/2/’34) must have a keen imagination
when he says that low-looking, mile-long
range beyond Cooktown is 2000 feet
high. W. H. le Soeuf records the alti-
tude of the highest hill as 700 feet above
the sea. The blackness of these hills is
caused by a lichen which covers the
boulders. There are similar black hills
in China, in the Hok Ching district.
“Australia JaneV’ Budget
Lady Mayoress Green has had an Athletic
Week. She tea’d at the Merthyr croquet
greens and attended the Brisbane Row-
ing Association’s dance at the Carlton Cabaret to
raise funds for the rowers. Lord Mayor Greene
was at the latter tamasha, and helped carry
away the bouquet tied with the association’s
colors v/hich made its inevitable appearance.
Foundation Day at the Grammar School in-
cluded a boat race, a cricket match and tennis.
At lunch headmaster Stuart Stephenson was
assisted by Jessie Stephenson, who was
ornamental, as well as useful, in scarlet maro-
cain and a smart scarlet hat. The Sports Club
handed round teacups in the afternoon, and
headmistress K. M. Lilley, of the Girls’ Gram-
mar School, who has inherited much of her
mother’s good looks, was among the onlookers.
The he-bowlers of Balmoral did the gallant
thing when they lent their pavilion to the Bal-
moral female bowlers for a benefit evening. The
funds will help to furnish the women’s rest
rooms in the club pavilion. There were a musi-
cal programme, competitions and cards; also
refreshments. Several flourishing clubs with an
entirely feminine membership have been
opened in Queensland in the last few years.
Dorothy Dixon and Dr. Clive Sippe were
married on Thursday, after a perfect orgy of
parties, thrown by the friends of the bride. Mrs.
E J. Dixon was among the last of the hostesses,
and her party was in honor of Mrs. Sippe and
daughter Ruth, who were up from Sydney for
the wedding.
When Edith Pugh, of Townsville, met Henry
Stuart Atherton, of Nambour, before 'the altar
of St. John’s Cathedral, she wore quite un-
orthodox, but becoming, pink draperies and veil.
Dean Barrett did the knot-tying and George
Sampson smote the organ keys. Ina Alphen
was bridesmaid and E. Atherton best man.
Mrs. Margaret Curran, who frequently drops
into verse, has tried her hand at a play-
let, which shortly will be produced by the Too-
woomba Repertory Society. It is called “Blue
Monday.”
The latest engagement is that of Joan
McLeod, of Terrica, and Harry Corden, of
Sandgate. Joan is spending a few days with
her future in-laws before packing for her trip
to the East Indies. Oldsters still speak admir-
ingly of the prowess of Roderick McLeod, the
lady’s granddad, who was one of the most
daring horsemen ever seen in Queensland. Joan
also has a neat seat in the saddle.
John Collins and the former Hagon miss, his
wife, were welcomed back to their station
home by a series of house parties. Mrs. Wil-
liam Collins hostessed one and Mrs. Charlie
Persse another.
Young Donald Cameron, son of Dr. and
Mrs. D. D. Cameron, who now live in Eng-
land, was married at Southport during the
week, the lady of his choice being Daisy
Hicks, daughter of the W. Hickses, of Benowa.
Roy Metcalfe was best man, and H. Baker
groomsman. The ’maids were Madge Hicks,
Ruby McLeod, Ena and Audrey Baumann (the
two latter, in frilly frocks, scattered flowers for
the newly-weds to walk on).
Nancy Price, daughter of Dr. T. A. Price
(the medico who has so terrorised the mos-
quito that none dares to buzz in or near Too-
woomba when he is about), married Alex.
Lawrie, a Sydneysider, in Toowoomba during
the week. Nancy spent some of her school-
days in Sydney, and later on studied archi-
tecture at Sydney Uni., so she will not be
lonely in her new home.
It was a decent gesture on the part of the
Chief Secretary’s office to send a railway pass
to the secretary of the Bush Nursing Associa-
tion. A new centre has just been established
at Beerburrum with the support of the
Department of Agriculture, which is interested
in the tobacco-growers of that district.
Doris Gardner, who follows Joan Budden
as director of the girls’ section of the Pad-
dington Playground, has arrived. A graduate of
the Dupain Institute of Physical Education, she
is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. Gardner,
of Hunter’s Hill, and besides being a mighty
swinger of clubs she has studied psychology,
dietetics and other things that many girls of
her age could not spell, much less pronounce.
Her practical experience was gleaned at Moore
Park.
Inky Wayfarers gnashed their teeth when
they discovered (1) that a real, live Danish
countess was aboard the Mooltan, and (2)
that the lady was much keener on meeting a
Queensland horse than all the journalists in
Brisbane. “No, please” was all that could be
gathered from her when attempts were made
to get an interview. It is a pity Countess
Frijs did not stay long enough to get
acquainted, for she seems to be a remarkable
woman. Her hobbies appear to be horses,
travelling and wrestling! She is as slim as a
boy, has thick fair hair, which she wears much
like Struwwelpeter, and uses neither rouge nor
powder. Her first action on reaching Bris-
bane was to hire a riding horse; she rode to a
farm just outside Brisbane where some com-
patriots have settled.
Sister Harden, a member of the recently
formed War Nurses’ sub-branch of the Diggers’
League, noticed that there was no portrait of
George V. among all those which graced the
walls. She has presented the League with a
really good portrait in oils, and now George
hangs beside the Prince of Wales. None of
the men had noticed the omission, and, as a'
shocked matron said, grimly: “If they had
done the dusting, my dear, they must have
realised it.”
Lady Wilson and Miss Marjorie Wilson are
oft to England but will be back again before
Prince George is with us.


iL
.o*
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
BEU
s.
s
o
N
L.
5
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
4 RISK
Too Grave fo T ahef
SICKNESS and accident are the thieves that may rob
you of your income and expose you and your family
to hardships.
They may never happen to you —or they may even
happen to-day.
You cannot afford to have this risk of hardship hanging
over you. And you need not, for the P. &C. offers you
financial protection at such times, and for a cost so
small that everyone can afford it.
Write now for details of this P. & C. service. For the sake of
security and your peace of mind, protect yourself ivithout de ay.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director:
H. FELL.
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN. M.L.C.
Your home is . ..
The Wentworth Hotel
when you visit Sydney
Only two minutes from the G.P.O. Every
modern convenience. Telephone in every room,
running hot and cold water. Centrally-
heated in winter, air-cooled in summer.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Lunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write the Manager, E. HYNDMAN, for full
information.
sdf
GRIP FACTS.
For
Examinations, Business,
Public Speaking, Lodge,
etc., etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. , ...
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Ex-bank officer (27), Vic., nine years’ exp.,
slight knowledge of stock, wants job on station
anywhere.—4l9.
To buy or exchange for other publications
Broadstreet’s “Course of Spine Motion,”
“Course of Strongfortism,” also Part 21 of
“Wonderful Britain.” —415.
To buy bound volume of “Aussie” during
the period when the journal was published in
France. —445.
To buy or borrow book on play-writing and
plots.—42l.
To buy “Modern Methods of Nursing,” by
Saunders. —409.
To buy “Writing the Short Story” and
“Studying the Short Story,” by J. Berg Esen-
wein; “The Plot of the Short Story” or “The
Universal Plot Catalogue,” by H. A. Phillips,
and any other good books on the subject.—4l7.
Information Sought.
(1) How can a “Kolex” treated tennis court
be given a smooth surface ? (2) How can a
cracked asphalt tennis court be repaired ?
315.
(1) By spreading a thin layer of a mixture
of bituminous emulsion and sand. (2) By fill-
ing the cracks with the mixture of sand and
emulsion, and if necessary by applying a thin
sheeting over the court. One ton of sand will
require about 25 gallons of emulsion, and the
mixture should cover about 30 square yards.
(1) A cheap book dealing with the construc-
tion and maintenance of battery-operated re-
ceivers, suitable for a beginner ? (2) Approxi-
mate cost of parts for a three-valve receiver ?
(3) Cost of license and how payable ? —350.
(1) “Concise Radio Handbook,” by R. C. V.
Humphery; White Bros, and Parsons, Angel-
place, Sydney (3s. Bd. post free). (2) Receiver
and valves, £6 155.; speaker, 475. 6d.; batteries
and accumulator, £3 12s. (3) 245. p.a., payable
in advance at any post office.
(1) Amount of caustic soda imported into
Australia yearly ? (2) How much is used in
soap-making ? (3) Amount of sulphur im-
ported yearly ? (4) Market price of sulphur ?
(5) Market price of imported arsenic ? (6)
Is there a good market for arsenic ? (7)
Amount of hydrochloric acid manufactured and
used in Australia yearly ? (8) Is any hydro-
chloric acid imported ? (9) Has a process for
degreasing baled wool using volatile solvents
such as benzol or benzine been tried in Aus-
tralia ? —258.
(1) In 1931-32 about 6000 tons. (2) No
details available. (3) In 1931-32 about 33,000
tons. (4) About £7 per ton landed. (5) In
large lots, about £33 per ton. (6) Yes, but
competition from other countries is keen. (7)
No figures available. Main producers, Mt.
Lyell Mining and Railway Co. (8) No. (9)
Industrial Research, Ltd., 16-18 Bulletin-place,
Sydney, have developed a process.
(1) Is there a demand for shark oil ? (2)
Where is there a market ? (3) Price per gallon ?
—142.
(1) There is a market for shark liver oil
free from stearine, the whitish deposit which
forms at the bottom during cold weather. This
stearine can be removed by chilling the oil
and running the clear upper layer off, or prefer-
ably by chilling the oil and filtering it through
a filter press. (2) James Hardie Trading Co.,
378 Kent-street, Sydney, will buy oil free from
stearine. (3) Varies from 2s. 3d. to 3s. per
gallon, according to fluctuations in the price
of imported cod oil.
(1) What is the maximum amount an invalid
pensioner can be paid ? (2) Can he earn any-
thing additional to pension; if so, what amount
per week ? (3) Can such pension be levied
against for debt contracts prior to pension being
granted or after? —351.
(1) Maximum rate is £45 10s. p.a. (2) A
person capable of earning is not eligible to
receive an invalid pension. (3) No. By statute
'Jaw such a pension is inalienable.
(1) Did Captain Scott take dog teams with
him on his journey to the South Pole ? (2)
If so, why were they not used ? (3) Is it a
fact that Scott and his associates in the final
dash had plenty of food, but perished on
account of a wrong diet, as they had no know-
ledge of vitamins ? —6.
(1) and (2) Dogs were used as far as the
Beardmore glacier, where Scott discarded them
as he thought he could do better without them.
’’3) They did not have plenty of food. They
.vere on too short a ration, which reduced
them to a condition of great weakness during
the latter stages of the journey. Had they
adopted a ration containing a greater variety
and quantity of vitamins they would have main-
tained better health, and it might have made
sufficient difference to secure their safe return;
but this is only guesswork.
In The Bulletin of December 13, 1933, is
ci poem by C, H. Souter entitled “On the Buck
Verandah” which deals with the subject of
shelling peas. If I remember rightly another
Bulletin poet covered the same subject in
verse about 25 years ago. The first four lines
were: —•
We sat on the steps with the door ajar—
A blue dish on your knees.
I was smoking your dad’s cigar,
And you were shelling peas.
Who was the author, and when did the verse
appear ? —9986.
The lines you quote are from “Shelling Peas,”
by Will Lawson, which appeared in The Bul-
letin of December 8, 1904. Incidentally, there
is a history behind the writing of Dr. Souter’s
verses. Some time ago a Service Dept, in-
quirer, wanting the words of the Lawson poem,
attributed the authorship to Dr. Souter, who,
when approached, declared that he had never
written any poem on the subject of shelling
peas. The inquirer and others insisted that he
had, despite his denials, so in desperation Dr.
.Souter wrote the verses which were printed last
December. During the search for the Lawson
poem two others on the same subject came
to light, one by Harry Morant (“The Breaker”),
which appeared in The Bulletin of August 9,
1902, and the other by James Guthrie, which
appeared in the “Housewife,” Adelaide, of
November 11, 1931, being reprinted from
“Time and Tide.” Rather strangely Dr. Souter
found the Adelaide magazine on his front
lawn one morning. The four verses are reprinted
with explanations as to their histories in an
article to appear in the “Woman’s Mirror” of
March 13.
(1) When did applications close for the 10-
year lease of Bowen Island ? (2) Where is the
island ? (3) What is its area, and is it de-
veloped? (4) Nature of soil, vegetation, and
what is the shore like ? (5) Did the lessors
stipulate what the lessee had to do with the
property ? —9798.
(1) On January 17, 1934. (2) It forms portion
of the Commonwealth Territory at Jervis Bay,
and is situated about half a mile from the
mainland at the entrance to the bay. (3) Ap-
proximately 126 acres; practically undeveloped,
ihe principal improvements being two two-
roomed cottages erected by a previous lessee,
who has the right of removal of such buildings.
(4) It has sandy soil, scattered stunted scrub,
and, for the greater part, low cliffs and rocky
shores. (5) In advertising the lease recently
the Department of the Interior left it open to
the applicants to state the purposes for which
they proposed to use the island.
Amount provided in this year’s appropriation
from N.S.W. Consolidated Fund for Public
Servants’ Superannuation Fund ? —236.
Civil Service Act (1884), £173,500; Super-
annuation Act (1916), £66,000; employers’
liability to the State Superannuation Fund,
£240,000.
(1) Is more than one lightning conductor
necessary on a house ? (2) Is a room with a
fireplace safer than one without during a
thunderstorm ? —332.
(1) It is usual to fit • lightning rods on all
the highest points, connected together by hori-
zontal conductors. Metal roofs, ventilating
pipes, gutters, etc., should be connected to the
horizontal conductors. Lightning conductors
are not used on small dwellings, but outdoor
wireless aerials should be provided with an
approved type of lightning arrester and earth
switch. (2) No.
What is the ‘‘Hallwachs Effect ? —423.
Hallwachs, while experimenting with an elec-
troscope fitted with a zinc rod, discovered that,
when ultra-violet light was directed upon this
knob, the electroscope was discharged. This
led to the conclusion that, under the action
of ultra-violet light, negative electricity leaves
a body. It has since been discovered that cer-
tain elements, including sodium and potassium,
were found to lose negative electricity when
influenced by ordinary visible light. It is this
effect that is responsible for the action of the
photo-electric cell used in talking pictures and
television.
(1) What is meant by the term , f° ot ' c^nd^ a '
(2) How does it differ from the lumen £-429.
(1) The foot-candle is the illumination pro-
d-:ced on a screen placed at a distance of ltt.
from a standard candle made of spermaceti wax,
which burns at the rate of 120 grams an hour.
The standard is now. represented by a lamp
burning a pure organic liquid. (2) The lumen
is the flux of light falling on a sphericalsurface
of 1 sq. ft. area, distant Ift. from a standard
candle flame.
A number of young sugar gums were planted
in the autumn and did well until recently, when
several died. On digging up the roots white
ants were discovered eating them. Remedy .
Prevention ? —336. .
A few roots on or in which white ants are
active should be exposed and Paris green or
London purple introduced.
What are the characteristics of “seven-
gilled” sharks? —113. . .
They have only one instead of the usual two
dorsal fins, and six or seven instead of five gill
openings. Their teeth are remarkably complex,
those of the upper jaw differing altogether from
those in the lower. A species (Heptranphias
perlo ) commonly taken in moderate depths ott
the south-eastern coast of Australia is not
distinct from one that occurs in European
waters; it is grey in color, with a striking
green eye, and its snout is pointed. Another
(Notorhynchus pectorosus ), occasionally cap-
tured in shallower waters, is light grey in coloi
with small dark spots, and is distinguished from
H. perlo by its broadly rounded snout. Both
species are of small size, and quite harmless
to man.
What are the arguments for and against the
destruction of shags ? —292.
On the sea coast and large coastal estuaries
shags feed mainly on Crustacea and slow-
swimming. non-edible fishes, and thus are
of benefit by destroying enemies of the prin-
cipal food-fishes; on the rivers and swamps,
however, where even rapidly swimming fish
have little chance of escape, they undoubtedly
destroy all kinds of fish. They aqe of benefit
in irrigation settlements, as they feed on the
fresh-water crayfishes that make holes in the
bank of irrigation channels.
1 have a number of leather-bound books
which, owing to the excessive humidity of the
New Guinea climate, are showing signs of
mould on leather bindings. Method of pre-
venting and eradicating mould ? —291.
You can keep the mould at bay by occa-
sionally rubbing the books with shoe cream,
sparingly applied with a flannel, finished off
with a silk cloth for polishing. Failing shoe
cream, a little soft soap or saddle paste may
be used. These dressings all contain turpentine,
which kills fungoid growths. While the turpen-
tine lasts moulds cannot grow.
Particulars of poem competition being con-
ducted by the Q’land Authors and Artists’
Assoc. ? —l7B.
It is open to all residents of Australasia.
A first prize of £2 2s. will be awarded, and if
entries are sufficient a second of £1 Is. No
restrictions are made as to form, theme or
length. MSS. must be typed and signed by
a pen-name; real name and pen-name in a
separate envelope. Members of the Queens-
land Authors and Artists’ Association enter
free; others pay 2s. entrance fee. Entries
should be addressed to J. V. D. Coutts, Kodak
Building, Queen-street, Brisbane. Closing date
is March 31, 1934.
Do the N.S.W. fisheries laws prohibit the
digging for worms or nippers on or near haul-
ing grounds and net landings ? If so, penalties
for offences ? —214.
Digging for worms or nippers on any leased
area or on any recognised hauling ground or
place used for landing nets is prohibited. On
areas only infrequently hauled, where digging
for worms and nippers, is allowed, holes made
by diggers must be immediately filled in level
with the surface. Penalty up to £5 for first
offence in either case, and not exceeding £lO
for a second or subsequent offence.
The N.S.W. Testator’s Family Maintenance
Act was passed by the Holman Labor Govern-
ment, but I understand before this Government
came into office a bill had been drafted and
submitted to Parliament by a private member.
If so, what name? —3lo.
John Hughes, a Legislative Councillor, intro-
duced a Testator’s Family Maintenance Bill on
September 24, 1903. It was negatived on the
voices on the question of a second reading.
Location and description of Goodenough
Island ? —215.
It is in the d’Entrecasteaux group, off the
coast of Papua, and is separated from the west-
ern end of Fergusson Island by Moresby Strait.
A mountain range extending through almost
the whole length of the island culminates in
two rugged peaks of about 7000 ft. in height.
The range is flanked by an extensive plain
which is studded with native plantations. Part
of the mountain slopes has been cleared and is
now occupied by terraced gardens, planted with
yams. Limestone caves exist on the mountain
spurs. Deposits of gold have been found in
several of the creeks.
What are the sizes of the more commonly
used printing papers ? —228.
Foolscap, 17in. by 13iin.; double foolscap,
27in. by 17in.; crown, 20in. by 15in.; double
crown, 30in. by 20in.; post, 19|in. by 15|in.;
double post, 31+in. by 19iin.; double large
post, 33in. by 2lin.; demy, 224 in. by 17im.;
double demy, 35in. by 22-1-in.; medium, 23m.
by 18in.; royal, 25in. by 20in.; super royal,
271 in. by 2<Hin.; elephant, 28in. by 23in.; im-
perial, 30in. by 22in.
Recipe for a hektograph or similar duplica-
tor composition and directions how to pre-
pare and make it; also recipe for suitable ink ?
—4l.
Melt together over gentle heat 12oz. glycerine,
2oz. gelatine, water and 2oz. sugar. If
the weather is hot, allow it to steam a little
while to evaporate some of the water ; then
pour into a clean shallow pan. and skim on
air bubbles with the edge of a piece of card-
board. A purple ink may be made as follows:
24 parts water, 4 parts glycerine, 1 part sugar,
2 parts alcohol, 2 parts methyl violet. Dissolve
the violet in the alcohol mixed with the
glycerine ; dissolve the sugar in the water ; then
mix both solutions well together.
Recipe for a good and cheap freezing mix-
ture and where can I procure materials ?— BO.
Hyposulphite of soda (photographic hypo)
packed round a basin containing the food to be
frozen, and moistened with water, will give
intense cold. It can be used again by evaporat-
ing the water ; place the vessel containing the
damp hypo on a warm stove, when the water
will evaporate and leave the crystals to be used
again. Procurable from chemists at 6d. to
9d. per pound. Nitrate of ammonia in the
proportion of 4oz. to £ pint of water will
also give a freezing mixture ; 2oz. to * pint
water will set a small jelly. None of these
freezing effects will last longer than half an
hour or so. Nitrate of ammonia can usually
be procured from fertiliser stores.
What are the main features of the Act passed
by the British Parliament for the reforming of
the London police, based on a report presented
by Lord Trenchard ? —97.
The main proposals are the institution of
a police college, where university and secondary-
school recruits could be trained for the higher
ranks, and the creation of a short-service
branch, in which constables should retire after
ten years’ service.
(1) Do steel magnets retain their magnetism
over long periods ? (2) Is the steel expensive ?
(3) Will soft iron retain its magnetic proper-
ties after the magnetising force has been re-
moved ? (4) Name of a book on magnetism ?
—22.
(1) Yes, if not jarred or heated. (2) Good-
quality high-speed tool steel, about 4s. per lb.,
is suitable for most requirements. (3) The
instant the magnetising force is removed iron
loses most of its magnetic properties. But it
retains a small amount called “residual mag-
netism” which greatly facilitates dynamo opera-
tion. (4) “Magnetism and Electricity for Begin-
ners,” by H. E. Hadley, price 6s. 3d.,Jrom
Angus and Robertson.
I have an electric radio set which I wish to
operate off my 32-volt D.C. house-lighting
plant. Hovy could this be done? —118.
Could only be done by generating the re-
quired 240-volt, 50-cycle' supply, using a small
motor-generator or similar machine. Cost of
such a machine would be higher than a new
receiver, so it would be advisable to exchange
your set for a battery-operated one. An adver-
tisement in “Radio News” might assist.
(1) Details of electrolyte for a gold-plating
solution ? (2) Metal for anode ? (3) Operating
\oltage, etc. ? (4) Where are the chemicals
obtainable ? (5) Cost of “The Canning Prac-
tical Handbook on Electroplating,” and where
obtainable ? —9349.
(1) Gold chloride 30z., potassium cyanide
10oz., water lgal. The potassium cyanide is
dissolved in warm, distilled water and the gold
chloride added. (2) A thin sheet of pure gold.
(3) From \ volt to 4 volts. Experience will
soon show" the exact voltage for the desired
speed of deposition. The correct working tem-
perature is about 125 deg. Fahr. (4) Elliotts
and Australian Drug, Ltd., 20 O’Connell-street,
Sydney. (5) A. G. Healing, Ltd., 164 Goul-
burn-street, Sydney, 6s.
(1) What type of wet cell contains a zinc
plate which is lifted out of the electrolyte when
not in use ? (2) Composition of the electrolyte ?
(3) Voltage of cell ? —9893.
(1) The chromic-acid cell. (2) Chromic acid,
50z.; water, 2 pints; sulphuric acid, 3oz. Dis-
solve the chromic acid in the water and then
slowly add the sulphuric acid. (3) A freshly
prepared cell has an E.M.F. of 2 volts, but
after the. cell has been in operation for a while
the E.M.F. falls off.
1 intend building a 5-valve electric receiver.
(1) Can I use the speaker field ( dynamic type
of speaker ) as a smoothing choke ? (2) If so.
will an additional 25 H. choke be required .
(3) If not necessary, capacity of the two-filter
condensers ? —9825.
(1) Yes, provided the speaker field is wound
for this purpose. (2) The speaker field usually
provides sufficient filtering in cases where the
detector feeds directly into the output valve,
but if a stage of audio is placed between the
detector and output valve an additional choke
will be required. This choke should be con-
nected on the input side of the speaker-field
winding. (3) Two 8 M.F. electrolytic con-
densers.
(Service Dept, continued on next page.)


There’s an Battery for Every Purpose
W/t
l v \
/*
I
"A
N
X
A/,
t<
l
//
■M
V?//
0
X if"
f
/
i\fir
/&
,////■' .-x
\ 'i
//,
%
%
W
ffil
//
>
Wife
Cripes ! bun plurrij
qood battery
In its long existence of 45 years the
EXIDE Battery has become associated
with three world-famous slogans....
each of which describes some outstand-
ing feature.
The first .... “The Long-life Battery’’
The second . . “When it’s an Exide you
START”
The third . . . “There’s an Exide Bat-
tery for every Purpose.”
Bear these well-earned slogans in mind
when next you buy a battery, whether
it be for Car, Radio, Motor Cycle,
Home Lighting or Emergency Lighting
in stores, theatres, hospitals, etc. Play
safe.... get an EXIDE.
Obtainable from Your Local Exide Dealer
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Deering Engineering Co.), 8 Hunt Street, Sydney.
A. P. SUTHERLAND, Queen’s Bridge, 2 Maffra Street, Melbourne South.
EXIDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q.) PTY., LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., 97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
M. J. BATEMAN, LTD., 12 Milligan Street, Perth.
MEDHURST & SONS PTY., LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: Yes, but the standards and methods
ot testing gas vary somewhat in different
parts of the world. In N.S.W. the purity and
heating value of gas supplied are constantly under
the surveillance of Government inspectors....
E.L.: There is no training in librarianship in
Sydney apart from the course for officers in
the N.S.W. Public Library. Appointments there
are entirely of juniors under the age of 18£.
W.G.: The population of N.S.W. at the
census taken on June 30, 1933, was 2,601,104
(males, 1,318,728; females, 1,282,376), exclusive
of aboriginals... .W.B.: The Service Depart-
ment does not express opinions on controversial
subjects.. . .A.M.C.: Get in touch with British
and American Trade Commissioners in Sydney;
also the foreign Consuls. Advertising in over-
seas trade journals might bring results....
VJ.C.: Write Forestry Board, Executive Build-
ings,, George-street, Brisbane A.A.: “Mora-
mee” was the name used by Murray River
aboriginals for the small crayfish used in those
parts for bait.... J.G.A.: Write Prime Minis-
ters Department, Canberra, F.C.T J.J.:
Bowen Island is under the control of the
Federal Government. Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Interior, Canberra, will furnish
information... .D.H.: (1) Killarney (Q.) has a
population of 1400; surrounding district, 6500.
(2) Timber, dairying, wheat and wool. (3)
(«) Scrub; ( b ) 35in. (4) Yes. (5) Approxi-
mately 75 years ago W.W.P.: There is
nothing better than a daily rubbing with a
coarse cotton cloth soaked with kerosene. If
the hath has become discolored, clean with
kitchen powder and finish with kerosene....
W.T.: Saturate the whitewash with water and,
when it has soaked for a while, remove with
a scraper or hard brush. If very obstinate,
use hot water... .D.J.; Place in pots or jars,
and cover with a strong solution of salt in
water. If keeping for any time, examine daily
and change the water if necessary D.D.:
(1) Society of Arts and Crafts, 8 Rowe-street,
Sydney maintains a shop and sells work on
commission for members. (2) Don’t know o>
any such club; it would be better to rent a
little studio-workshop... .W.S.: Write to firms
dealing in seeds or garden supplies (see telephone
or post office directory), and insert a small
“For Sale” ad E.P.: Write to Mrs. V. Eyre,
104 Mount-street, Coogee, Sydney, who is an
Australian authority on hand-built pottery....
A.D.H.: Communicate with any of the lead-
ing shipping cos G.M.R.: (1) Common-
wealth Statistician, Canberra, may be able to
help. (2) Impossible to say, as many salaries
are not made public... .H.H.C.: You should
furnish to the Deputy Commissioner of Tax-
ation, Brisbane, a Federal return of interest
derived from the deposits. You will be assess-
able for Federal purposes as an absentee,
0.J.: Use only two parts kerosene in your
mixture, and substitute turpentine for the other
third part; if this still seems sticky, add also
a very little petrol—too much may cut the
color from the flooring J.H.W.: (1) Dept.
of Labor and Industry, Sydney, has the matter
under consideration. (2) Write Chief Secretary’s
Dept., Sydney... .J.L.S.: “The Australian
Company Director, by R. K. Yorston (65.);
“Companies,” by Sidey (305.)... .H.G.: Under
N.S.W. Early Closing Acts sale of surfers’ and
chemists’ goods is prohibited in the Sydney
metropolitan and Newcastle districts after
1 p.m. on Saturday, but chemists may reopen
between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. These Acts, admin-
istered by the Dept, of Labor, regulate the hours
of trading on week-days, but Sunday trading is
controlled by the police under the Police
Offences Act....J.G.H.: Write Lecturer-in-
charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Water-
loo, Sydney... .8.E.H.: The umpire was cor-
rect. Rule 32 states that “the service is a
fault....if the ball served touches the server’s
partner or anything which he wears or car-
ries”... .E.J.C.: (1) Approach any of the
leading London syndicates, such as General
Press or National Press Agency. (2) Depends
entirely upon the merit of the work. You
may get anything from ss. or 7s. 6d. upwards
for each strip sold, less agent’s commission....
. ...L.H,: Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept.,
Sydney, for free leaflet, “Lettuce Growing.”
. ...J.E.G.: (1) Phil May was born at New
Wortley, near Leeds, on April 22, 1864. (2)
Yes, as an errand boy, first for a solicitor, then
for an architect; as a timekeeper, a scene-
painter, an artist and an actor. (3) Yes, from
1886 to 1888. (4) At St. John’s Wood, London,
on August 5, 1903 G.F.S.: Do not know
how to tan kangaroo skins with cream of tartar.
You might get an inferior leather by rubbing
the wet fleshed skin with the dry powder....
5.0. L.: Lieut. Joseph Maxwell was awarded
the V.C. for “most conspicuous bravery and
leadership in the attack on the Beaurevoir-
Fonsomme line, Oct. 3, 1918” G.8.F.: (1)
The mean distance of the moon from the earth
is about 239,000 miles. (2) Moon’s diameter
is a shade over 2160 miles. (3) Probably
the same as that of the earth E.G.R.: Brit-
ish Numismatic Society, 1 Upper Montague-
street, London, W.C.I; Royal Numismatic
Society, 22 Russell-square, London, W.C.I
W.H.T.: (1) Panhard and Levasson. (2) In
1892 he produced his first car—a two-cylinder,
four h.p 8.L.: The Dixson collection con-
tains the originals of 20 of Robinson’s odes;
the 21st was printed in the “Sydney Gazette”
of August 18, 1821... .E.G.: The first import-
ant sculling race in Australia was rowed in
Sydney Harbor, over a course from Balmain
Point round Pinchgut and back, between Mc-
Grath and Howard, for £l5 a side, on January
6, 1851; McGrath w0n....H.L.: The Hawkes-
bury River (N.S.W.) bridge was opened for
traffic in 1889... .0.P.: Yes, the forked sun-
dew ( D. binala) often has as a messmate an
insect in the form of a small assassin bug
(Reduviidce) which camps on the back of the
leaf and shares the captured prey. A. G.
Hamilton has found a similar insect on Byblis
gigantea... .(Many others mailed.)


IT
cr
MbSfejir
TW
gJgniVJ
m
ym
fo'M
0
TTr
/—T
tl
r*i,'
sdsf
GET YOUR
COPY 1
Spend Easter in Sydney!
Easter Show and Autumn Races —truly a gala season that
perennially attracts visitors from every State... .and, ot course,
“The Australia” is ever the centre of all the social gaiety.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from . 20/-
Our regular patrons should confirm their reservations.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney.
‘THE AUSTRALIA’
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
“After all, there’s only one ‘Australia.’ ”
m
-£!
• tf' V
: -'
h
cl
t-
SIDNEY,
N.S W
Write for
your copy of
new illustrated
booklet and
rate card.
A WOMAN'S LETTER
Prospects didn’t look rosy for the
Anzac Memorial appeal when it was
launched by the Governor at the Conser-
vatorium. It seemed a pity that L. A.
Robb’s eloquence should be wasted on
the scattered few among the benches
when it should have been a torch to fire
the imagination of a multitude. The com-
mittee handling the appeal has an almost
superhuman effort ahead ; it aims at rais-
ing £15,000 in seven weeks so that the
Memorial may be completed in time for
Prince George’s blessing.
The idea is to set Anzac Day as the
time limit for getting in the money. This
will be raised by the sale of stars —
150,000 of them—to be sold at two shil-
lings each. Dame Eadith Walker will be
going about as glittering with constella-
tions as the Milky Way, for she was an
early arrival with a cheque for £250.
A notable good-looker on the Fran-
conia, the great white liner that lay at
the Quay last week-end, was the widow
of American novelist James Oliver Cur-
wood. When her husband was alive the
two spent much of their time seeking the
cold spots of the earth, and the lady’s
sparkling skin and eyes look like it. “The
Franconia,” ferry travellers muttered
to one another, “is filled with million-
aires,” but at close quarters the passen-
gers just seemed like ordinary human
beings. The big dining-room, pillared
and domed, bloomed with baskets of
roses and lilies (tiger and tame), sent
with compliments from the Australian
Travel Association. Red roses rioted on
the lunch tables, at which Sydney’s ate
hundred sampled the efforts of the Fran-
conia’s chef. Behind the glass cabinets
Spode, Wedgwood and Doulton pieces
clamor colorfully ; furlongs of carpet that
suggest forest mosses and autumn leaves
are soft to the tread in writing-,
eating-, sleeping-, smoking- and reading-
rooms, and everywhere is the comfort
of downy chair and lounge. In short, the
Franconia is the usual floating grand
hotel; and you could go from here to
the world’s end in her without once gaz-
ing at the deep and dark-blue ocean, if
you didn’t want to see it. Among the
passengers sighted this Letter gave the
palm to the lady with the unflared mari-
gold cloth cape that fell straight as a die
from shoulder to hem of her dress, and
to the girl with the soft grey fur epau-
lettes and tie to her grey tweed suit.
All the speakers at the annual meet-
ing of the Royal Society for the Welfare
of Mothers and Babies at the Australia
last week were men. Obviously, like
“Peg o’ My Heart’s” father, they know
a good deal about motherhood. The
society celebrated its 14th birthday by
giving itself a pat on the back (well de-
served, too) and then glowing com-
placently over tea and crumpets. The
reduced maternal- and infant-mortality
figures were a special subject of con-
gratulation, but Grace Scobie, who has
all the facts and figures about the former,
won’t agree that we can congratulate
ourselves at all while the death-rate for
young mothers is five in every thousand.
Still, the Royal Society in its 14 years
has done splendid work in both the
matter of infant and maternal welfare.
Tresillian has had to its credit some great
triumphs in the saving of the prema-
turely-born babe; and the society can
be justly proud of the result of its
preachings and teachings to the young
mother on the care of the infant. After
Dr. Ludowici and Dr. Stephen and others
had their say, W. G. Layton arose with
the air of one about to read the motto
in the bon-bon, and told how Minister
for Health Weaver had promised that
the Government would pay the whole
cost of the new quarters for the domestic
staff at Tresillian North. This was the
crescendo of the meeting, and evoked the
loud chortle of satisfaction.
The regretted death of Justice James
threatens to remove one of Sydney’s
two most conspicuous traffic-marks.
The Ford coupe which he drove until
a few weeks before he took to his bed
for good must have been at least 20
years old. The electric brougham which
is still steered here and there by members
of the Allen (Allen and Hemsley) family
is even older, taller and more gradual
in its movements.
In China you can’t stroll into the let-
tuce patch and nibble a green leaf when-
ever you feel inclined. But in the Chengtu
gardens of Sydney’s new Archgaiters
Mowll you could make a perfect little
rabbit of yourself if you wanted to, be-
cause all their vegetables and fruit were
grown under the expert eye of the bishop
and his lady. They even had a straw-
berry patch at their headquarters in
Western China —an immense district with
a population of 70 millions. No chance
there of getting into some quiet, unin-
habited Arcadian spot for a picnic. No
matter how unpopulated the place
seemed, within half an hour there would
be a ring of curious eyes fastened on
each movement.
At Chengtu itself—that’s two thousand-
odd miles up the Yangtse—there’s quite
a missionary colony; and one enterpris-
ing Canadian missioner has taught the
Chinese how to graft the apples of his
country on to the indigenous little wild
apple. The result is so good that the
five generals of the district are as keen
on them as the small boys. The same
benefactor has brought cows from other
lands and bred them with the little-milk-
giving local cow.
Monte Luke captured this picture of
Mrs. Mowll on the day of her arrival,
which was all blue and gold and throb-
bing with the chime of church bells—
they pealed around the harbor from old
St. Mark’s and Rose Bay steeples in greet-
ing to the new shepherd. Mrs. Mowll is
tall, slim, dark-haired and flashes a warm
smile at her new world. She was attached
to the Chinese missions from 1916, and
when she first went out she ran a school
and a dispensary to which women from
a very great surrounding area came for
attention and medicine.
There was a great rush on the tickets
for the Farewell Ball to the Australian
Test team, and no fewer than seven
hundred would-be dancers were turned
away empty. Mark Foy’s ballroom was
a seething melee of chiffon and satin and
velvet steered by tails and white ties, and
when the debs, paced forward to be pre-
sented to the Walder and Julius ladies the
maids’ progress was under a triumphal
arch of cricket bats. An Australian
flag was handed by knight Sam Walder
to the warriors of the willow, while his
wife’s contribution was a gold bag to
carry home the Ashes.
Lord Beauchamp is just putting the
finishing touches to his memoirs. These
contain a chapter or two on Sydney—
mainly Bondi. The Earl broke the news
at a sherry-party at which old friend
Mrs. F. Aronson gathered a group of
the departing one’s writing and artist
friends, among them D. H. Souter, who
in a witty little speech told how in the
’nineties the Earl had made an honest
woman of the Arts in Australia. Another
guest was a Lygon kinswoman, wife of
Dr. Robertson; also among the sherry-
tasters were the Navy’s popular Oscar
Irelands, who are settling far above the
salt sea wave in Bowral. Lord Beau-
champ and son Hugh (he was away till
the last moment on General Mackay’s
station) left by the Monterey on Tuesday.
This girl with the gipsy eyes will soon
be friends with Sydney radio audiences.
She is Ida Nelson, the violinist of a trio
of sisters of whom the eldest is the
pianist, the youngest the ’cellist. They
arrive fresh from London triumphs on
the concert platform and over the air.
Melba was among their earliest and
warmest admirers, and when the young-
sters first arrived in London from Mani-
toba she took them under her wing.
When in need of relaxation, the three
sisters turn to a nice stiff problem in
chess ; their father was one of Canada’s
chess champions.
Six Australian-grown birds are already
on their way to live in the amethystine
light of the Vatican. They were chosen
from the Hawkesbury College poultry
parade by Apostolic Delegate Dr. Ber-
nardini, and are off to Castle Gandolfo,
the Pope’s farm, near Frascati. No Pope
has visited or stayed at the farm since
the Garibaldean upheaval, but every
morning a lorry piled up with its produce
is dispatched to the Vatican. The buying
of our poultry is the result of an exhibi-
tion in Rome, where the Australian birds
more than held their own.
Alexander Gordon’s little lady is going
about wearing her thousand-pound look.
Everybody knows it, and it’s just as well
to help her obtain her objective quickly,
for obtain it she will. This time her ener-
gies are devoted to’ raising funds for Elsa
Corry, the girl with the dramatic soprano
voice for whom John Brownlee prophesies
a brilliant future. Elsa is the daughter
of an Anzac, and, as far as her musical
training is concerned, she is a ward of
Repat. She has the healthy look of
a country girl—her home is with her
aunts in Bowral —and she has the height
and the bearing we associate with Wag-
nerian heroines. Dr. Ziele, up in Bowral
for a holiday, heard Elsa singing “There
is a Green Hill” at an Easter service, and
started the movement to give the girl
singer her chance. One thousand pounds
is the Gordon lady’s estimate of what
foreign polish on the voicebox will cost,
and she and a committee, on which are
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Henry Braddon,
Hugh Denison, Dr. Arundel Orchard and
Peter Board, are getting busy about a
gala concert at the Town Hall early in
April.
The Luscombe-Newmans’ new yacht is
among the luxury craft on the .harbor. It
is big enough to go cruising in and has
a roomy cabin fitted with berths and
upholstered in chintz. All meals can be
cooked on the premises. The yacht has
an engine, but pridefully bowled along
under sail last Sunday when it took a
cargo of picnickers to the Heads and
across to Manly. Marjorie Luscombe-
Newman helped her parents do the
honors, and on board were the Captain
Bradley couple, the military Phillips pair,
America’s Consul Caldwell, Jean Chenton
and another dozen or so.
Alice Gore-Jones, the Queensland
poetess, is spending a holiday in Sydney,
and is the guest of Mrs. E. M. Brissen-
den at Cooya, Woolwich. The singer
from the North will be entertained by
the Women Writers at lunch to-day.
“Farewell” and “happy journey” will be
wished at the same time to Sydney writer
Nora McAuliffe, who goes for a quick
scamper in Europe, and who should
arrive there in time to pluck a violet
from Fiesole and a bluebell from Scot-
land.
The Reggie Staffords went off luxuri-
ously housed in the Monterey (they had
the equivalent of the royal suite). Jo
Fallon was another who chose a subsi-
dised U.S. steamer in preference to Brit-
ish and Maoriland boats. Jo waved
a sad farewell to his speed-launch
IT, and takes with him visions of Cowes,
which, as he is a true yachtsman, is one
of the strongest lures that take him to
the other end of the world.
A red sash and biretta worn by Car-
dinal Cerretti during the 1928 Eucharistic
Congress arrived in Australia a few days
ago. They were a gift to Sydney’s Papal
Countess, Eileen Freehill, from the car-
dinal’s sister, Elvira, who shared her dis-
tinguished brother’s beautiful establish-
ment in Rome. It will be remembered
that when the cardinal was in Sydney the
countess gave Carmona, her Point Pipet
home, over to him and his staff The
sash and the biretta may eventually be
among the treasures of the Cerretti
Memorial Chapel at St. Patrick’s College
Manly, the foundation-stone of which
will be laid early in April.
A book containing 45 plates depicting
the representative works of sculptor
Rayner Hoff, best known among us for
his work on the Anzac Memorial and
his services to art in the Technical Col-
lege, is to be published this month. There
will be 150 numbered copies in the
edition, each signed by the sculptor,
printer and authors. The printer is E. H.
Shea, and the work will be done on his
Albion hand press of 1874 vintage. Earl
Beauchamp, Howard Ashton, Sydney Ure
Smith and William Bede Dailey are re-
sponsible for the text. Subscribers can
obtain copies for a modest three guineas.
If you aren’t on the list, your copy will
cost five guineas.
Within the next few years there should
be a good job for Australian women of
talent in the managing of concert artists,
according to Hugo Larsen. Hugo, just
back from Europe and America and
bringing under his banner Russian pianist
Pouishnoff and baritone Horace Stevens,
tells of Maud Winthorpe in New York,
the English Gladys Crook and the
Danish Henrietta Kjaerbye, who handle
world-artists with profit to themselves.
When recently in Copenhagen Hugo had
an appointment with the last-named
lady, and was very late for it. Whihj
Henrietta, who is a great personal friend
of the Danish royal family, was waiting
for him, King Christian X. drove up and
decided to wait with her. Still Hugo
tarried, and when he finally arrived King
Christian had departed. Hugo is never
late now.


QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions : —they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
Median’s CMExtcAN)
y^UudStaLn
BLACK AND
WHITE CLUB
MEMBERSHIP FORM
NAME
ADDRESS
Melbourne
Chatter
A visiting Englishman is pondering on
the vanity of women. Those who study
fashion before comfort went to the New-
market on a day of fierce summer heat
in sumptuous furs, the look of which
made their neighbors in the stand long
for a fan, in winter tweeds and with noses
and necks reddening under berets.
There were many parties to which the
wilted and otherwise were invited after
the races. Joyce and Pat Hammond and
Margaret Finlay busily mixed cocktails
and dancing at Coonac. The Duke Armit
couple, of Gippsland, with Mary and Bill,
received their friends at the home of Mrs.
Armit’s sister, Mrs. C. H. Adams. The
Stanley Burstons extended hospitality for
almost the last time at Carrical. This
old home in Kooyong-road is to become
a prey to wreckers.
Summer is over. We know it by the faces
back in town after weeks of fresh air on
beaches or mountains. A giddy round of
March festivities has been planned ; last
week saw a preliminary canter with a
bunch of late-afternoon parties. Mrs.
Ernest Poolman handed out hospitality
with a welcome-home to Miss Edith Pool-
man and a good-bye to the George Shaws,
who are off to the other side of the world.
Louise Moran feted her uncle, Dr. Paddy
Moran, with before-dinner refreshers.
Dr. Moran passed through Melbourne to
have a look at Sydney before returning
to England. Louise was all in black, her
halo hat keeping in line with the slit
sleeves of her ripple-cloth dress.
For their party Dr. and Mrs. Hume
Turnbull used their garden to advantage.
It accommodated the overflow on an
afternoon when the mercury took an un-
expected bounce upwards. Jean Turn-
bull, who migrates on March 13, was the
cause of the cocktail-shaking. The
second guest of honor, Mrs/Richard
Turnbull, had the misfortune to be kept
at home through illness. Sleeves of
“dirty”-pink lace gave a voluminous ele-
gance to the hostess’s black gown. Miss
Turnbull’s mulberry dress was spotted
with white. The Clive Leonards, Mr.
and Mrs. Carre Riddell, Mrs. Frank
Andrew and Mr. and Mrs. E. Yencken
were a few of those who browsed upon
the glory of flowers indoors and out.
Chips of ice also clinked at Brighton
when Dorothy Rogers did her spot of
late-afternoon entertaining.
Miss Bullivant launched her niece Nina
Bullivant as a full-fledged deb. with a
dance at No. 9. The hostess kept her eye
on the young things in chocolate lace and a
cloud of orange in her feather fan. Nina,
who is the only child of the Arthur Bulli-
vants, of Blairmore, Boggabri, N.S.W.,
preened her newly-sprouted wings with
the help of white moire and a spray of
frangipani. A trio of her friends
emerged grown-up on the same occasion.
Alison Carse wore a flutter of tulle at
the throat of her green-and-silver-striped
lame. Joyce Robinson was in peach-
blossom pink satin, and Barbara Dough-
arty completed the rainbow with her
Egyptian-blue and spray of roses. Among
the guests were Admiral and Mrs. Hyde,
red and green velvet twists putting a
smart finger upon her black-and-white
mousseline. The liquid fall of a knife-
pleated train made a success of Mrs.
Colin Simpson’s maize garment. Susan
Staughton wore pierrette checks of black
and white and an additional burst of
black chiffon. Marie and Rene Crooke
were in blue, and Frances Winter-Irving’s
eowslip satin flew between crimson cape
and slippers.
Margaret, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Harold Brookes, was another deb.
who decided against a solo flight from
the parental nest. Her coming-out was at
the family mansion Flinthill, Woodend,
and three of her country friends made
their curtsies at the same party. Mar-
garet wore traditional white, in a blis-
tered-satin surface, its elaboration de-
pending upon skirt draperies. Betty
Thomson, who gave her last sub-deb.
dinner-party that evening, was glittersome
in gold lame. Mollie Murray’s olf-white
frock quivered with frills and rosebuds,
and a train swished from Alison Dal-
rymple’s wind-blown satin. Among other
guests were the Russell Grimwades, Mr.
and Mrs. James Paxton, Laure Falkiner,
Ayliffe Neil (from England), a Tasmanian
visitor, Sylvia Pedder, Captain Traill and
Rod Andrew.
Somewhat unique was the welcome
given to Bishop Mowll (he’s the Arch-
bishop-elect of Sydney) and Mrs. Mowll
in the Fellowship-room of St. Paul’s. A
scarlet ribbon was tied round the bishop’s
right arm and a similar ornamental ban-
dage upon his wife’s left arm. Miss
Cooper performed the rite, which is an
old Chinese welcome with which the
guests of honor are familiar —they have
missioned in China for many years. Their
chairs, decked with ceremonial scarlet,
were placed on either side of Archbishop
Head’s plainer perch. A brew of China
tea pervaded the atmosphere.
Mrs. Britomarte James lassoed her
Wattle League and a sprinkling of others
to the Lyceum, and there proposed
the foundation of a Centenary Club,
for men and women, which will
aim at making welcome visitors to
Melbourne who will not be officially
entertained. Prof. Osborne was per-
suaded to speak—his words were guarded ;
he wants the idea to sink in—also Dr.
Ethel Osborne, Dr. Maloney (when you
are 80 and have a quiet sense of humor
you can take off your collar and tie and'
get away with it) and W. H. Gates, who
defended the elms in St. Kilda-road. Dr.
Maloney attacked them ; he likes gums.
Amidst the coffee, iced and creamy or
hot and invigorating, there was a flutter
of leaflets being filled in by prospective
members.
The Little Theatre has leased St.
Chad’s, an old church in a backwater of
South Yarra. A stage has risen in
place of an altar, and the “back stalls”
sit upon high prim pews. On the open-
ing night the headlights of a Rolls-Royce
helped to scuttle ghosts of old Melbourne
along narrow, dark Martin-street. “From
Morn to Midnight,” an “expressionist”
drama translated from the German of
Georg Kaiser, was chosen for the week’s
season of St. Chad’s debut. Herewith is
a Jack Cato interpretation of Jack Wilt-
shire wearing the moustache he grew
especially for his casting as the cashier.
It’s an exacting part and a long one, for
the central figure of the big cast is sel-
dom off the stage. Mr. Wiltshire received
a well-deserved ovation. Incidentally, a
bank is his walk of life.
Chatter in many languages filled the
International Club for the Austrian ex-
hibition. Performing the difficult feat of
manoeuvring tea through the crush were
two little Japanese women and Pat
Chilvers, a lass with an engaging smile
who has just returned from abroad. She
was in Austrian peasant costume. The
bureau’s secretary, Miss Duncan, van-
ished to wield a monster teapot on a dimi-
nutive back landing. Mrs. Fred Marsi’s
erect carriage bore last century’s taffetas
and a waving purple feather. She and
Mrs. del Cott, also in Viennese costume,
saw that everyone had a chance of nib-
bling enticing dainties made from rich
Viennese recipes. American Consul
John Dye and his wife were there ; Mrs.
Dye, in beige and brown, steered her
way among many languages to suit the
accomplishments of her listeners. A
diminutive attraction in navy blue was
Mrs. Hylton Dale, chatting happily in
French. Mrs. W. Mortill’s tunic suit was
carried out in shagbark and a dash of
cherry. Mrs. E. C. Dyason’s rose-ash was
seen near the only man who wore a
beard, her husband. The loveliest
antiques were on view. Veneer of 300
years hung over the furniture and some
of the silver, pewter, ivory reliefs, minia-
tures and plate. Most of the exhibits
belonged to Mr. and Mrs. Marsi, who
brought all their treasures with them
when they came to this country.
In feminine circles interested in politics
the news came as a bolt from the blue
that Mrs. Enid Anderson, president of
the Vic. C.P.’s women’s section, had been
killed in a motor accident on the Prince’s
Highway on Sunday. Mrs. Anderson,
whose abilities as a speaker and organiser
have made her widely known, was driv-
ing with Mrs. Baker, organising secre-
tary of the section, when the car got
out of control and the occupants were
thrown out. Mrs. Baker escaped with
slight injuries.
This is a Broothorn picture of Jacque-
line Boyes, a young N.S.W. visitor who
has found Melbourne much to her liking.
Jacqueline has a taste for drawing and
carries a notebook around in her vanity-
case in which she pencils original and
fantastic nymphs as the idea occurs to
her. She has done some sculpture, but
commercial art is to be her future, and
if she studies hard a trip abroad is loom-
ing ahead. She is the only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Boyes, of Elizabeth
Bay, and a niece of Mrs. Ted Dyson, of
Melbourne.
Mildred Shaw and Elizabeth Luxton
have each a place in the migratory stream
to the other side of the world. One of
their farewells was Yvonne Cox’s party,
which started off with bridge and grew
chattier round the tea hour with an in-
vasion of more young things. Among
those who contributed to the babble were
Rosalind Parbury, Ketha Macpherson,
Dinah Cockrill, Mignon Munro and
attractive young matrons like Mrs. Tom
Luxton and Sydney bride Mrs. Burdett
Laycock.
A smart turnout at the races was of
navy blue in tunic fashion. Rows of but-
tons on the corsage and voluminous white
sleeves decorated with cutwork were
its distinctive features. Halo hats slipped
in warily, for they are apt to give their
wearers a startled expression.
Chronicles of Hobart:
The Australian Navy used to visit Hobart
once a year. This year it is represented by
only two ships. However, those on board
have many friends under the shadow of Mount
Wellington, and their welcome was hearty.
The Matrons’ Ball, at the Continental, was
a well-engineered affair. Taking a leaf out of
the methods of the Customs Department large
gilt letters were affixed to the mirrors round
the room as a “guide to lost partners.” Lady
Clark, as an unofficial guest, wore black lace,
and the Lieut.-Governor’s wife was in black
satin. The Ashbolt lady, in the new shade
of grey, looked a picture. Among the hostesses
were tbe Nicholls lady and Mesdames E. O.
Bisdee, G. N. Butler, Eustace Cameron, T. W.
H. Clarke (Quorn), C. E. Davies, Mrs. Cyril
Lewis, Minette Lucas, E. Webster, J. C.
Mitchell, T. Lyons, A. Maxwell, R. Moser,
C. B. Davies, H. C. Cray, R. Dick, Clive and
Hungerford. Blue and white agapanthus and
red-hot pokers in great masses made effective
decorations near the main door, and supper
tables blushed under pink dahlias. Eleven debs,
made curtsies—Betty Hudspeth, Joan Clive,
Wilma Courthope, Mollie Swan, Mollie and
Frances Shoobridge, Alix Pritchard, E. Lord,
Rosemary Moser, Betty Pringle, M. Old-
meadow —all in traditional white, but in a
variety of styles. Officers from the warships in
part provided some partners.
The Engineers’ conference was a cheery
affair. A Mayoral reception in the Town Hal]
was followed by a ball given by the pro-
fession in Hobart. Red baize, red-covered seats
and greenery turned the staircase and lobby
into an attractive lounge, and in the anteroom
off the main hall tables were set for bridge.
Tree ferns added a tropical and topical touch,
and supper tables were brilliant with autumnal
tints.
At last something is to be done towards put-
ting into repair one of our most cherished bits
of classical architecture, the Lady Franklin
Museum at Lenah Valley. Mrs. Irvine (Vic.)
made an appeal to the Victoria League when
visiting the Speck, and Lady Clark with an
official party has been to inspect the building.
Collection of funds starts right away.
Summer swallows are flitting from the Speck.
Mungo McCallum and his lady, knight William
Cullen and his daughter and Mrs. Sweetapple,
who has been spending several months with her
daughter, Mrs. Alan Roberts, are among them.
Mrs. Richard Walch is being vigorously fare-
welled before her trip, with her son Charlie, to
England. One of the brightest shivoos in her
honor was a bridge party at the Queen Mary
Club, when five hostesses, Mrs. Flexmore, Mrs.
C. Payne, Mrs. C. B. Davies, Mrs. Fenn Smith,
and Mrs. C. E. Davies, sped the parting guest.
Also there was a dinner party at Hadley’s where
several of Charlie’s friends were hosts.
Margaret, daughter of the Rev. A. E. and
Mrs. Hutchinson, Bothwell, was married to
Dr. A. E. Taylor, at St. John’s, Toorak. The
Percy Dobsons feasted the young couple at
their home in Carmyle-avenue.
Mary Caulfield, friend of the Diggers and
a great social worker among civilians, is off
to the Cold Country for a well-earned holiday.
Hobart gave her a farewell at the Town Hall.
Adelaide’s gaieties:
A cocktail party at Bishop’s Court sounds
startling, but the episcopal palace has been
leased by Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Melrose during
the absence of the Bishop and his family in
England. Mesdames A. J. Melrose and
Guy Makin set the shaker moving to welcome
■back after a trip to England Mrs. Albion Tolley,
Miss Peacock, Dr. and Mrs. Roy Burston and
Mrs. Jewell Thomas. The guests, who numbered
about 150, were entertained on the lawn. The
Melroses will spend Easter at their station,
Kadlunga, Mintaro, where Betty Burston, who
is taking part in the tennis tourname.nt at Clare,
will be their guest.
Kathleen McMichael and Mary Lisle John-
son have been in a whirl of parties ever since
they returned from England. Last week they
were the guests of honor at a tennis party given
by Catherine Sunter, and at another given by
Victoria Edmunds. Deborah Hackett was their
hostess at a bridge party.
The many friends of Alison Milne, who is to
be an April bride, were entertained at a cheery
bridge party given by Mary Lisle Johnson at
her parents’ home, Prospect. Progressive bridge
was played at nine tables. Miss Johnson was
in pale apricot-toned crepe, the high neck
finished with brilliant buttons. Afternoon-tea
was served in the dining-room, and bowls of
lovely mixed flowers were in all the rooms.
Dr. and Mrs. Frank Willcox have returned
to Medindie after a delightful motor tour
through England and 'Scotland. On their
return trip they spent Christmas at Cairo.
The only social gathering in connection with
the conference of the College of Surgeons was
the opening ceremony at the Uni., after
which refreshments were served in the refec-
tory. Vice-Chancellor William Mitchell has
his niece, Dr. Marjorie Thomas, and her hus-
band, Dr. Mervyn Thomas, of Sydney, staying
with him at Fitzroy. Dr. Marjorie prior to her
marriage was pathologist at the Sydney Chil-
dren’s Hospital.
Perth’s pleasant occasions:
Premier Argyle’s illness caused a change in
the Argyle-Brinkley wedding arrangements.
Papa Brinkley sent out hasty invitations to quaff
pre-nuptial cocktails at Pierre’s, where cun-
ning savories lurked amid gold and pink roses
and glasses chinked to the accompaniment of
the Neapolitan Trio’s stringed instruments.
Yvonne’s Junoesque lines were tucked into
black sand crepe, bibbed with ivory flutings of
pleated georgette and haloed with a wheel of
white panama-lac. Next morn her ripe-corn
silks and daisy-wreathed ballibuntal traversed
the aisle of St. John’s, Fremantle, followed by
Sheila Clement’s blue linen, which mingled with
the gowns of the few intimates who drank toasts
aboard the Katoomba.
The Repertory Club skidded around J. B.
Priestley’s “Dangerous Corners,” with Molly
Ick at the wheel and Bill Trethowan controlling
the traffic.
A supper of fish and chips, saveloys and
the like fortified the guests at the W. T. Cham-
berlains’ Caversham home during the “Hamp-
stead Heath” party. Fortune-tellers squatted
on the lawns, country dances were stepped
’neath festoons of colored lights, and charades
wound up the entertainment, held in honor of
Mrs. Carl Streich.
The Mongolia carries a large crew of this sea-
son’s trippers to England, among them Mable
McCrae, Mr. and Mrs. L. Butler and Mar-
jorie, Mrs. H. Kelsall and daughters Edith
and Peggy. These last were farewelled by
Mrs. Leigh Thomason at a music-and-com-
petitions high tea. Peggy Kelsall and Doro-
thy Bird collected prizes and gave items in
conjunction with their blue-organdied hostess,
Lucy Howell and Nina Jackson.
May Oakley tore herself away from poring
over architects’ plans with Ken McGibbon,
struggled into white flat crepe flecked with
green, and hurried off to the Palace Hotel,
where Gwen Hall, trim and slim in navy blues,
wielded a pot of tea. The guests’ gift parcels
will help to stock the kitchen.
Lesley Everett plucked a spray of rosebuds,
girded her limbs with pastel floral linen and
garnered a host of friends at the June Eliza-
beth to bid bon voyage to Marjorie Tindale,
who goes a-holidaying to the eastern States.
The buds were pinned to the shoulder of Mar-
jorie’s airy pink and blue muslins.
Merab Harris went to London with her M.A.
and returned as Doctor of Philosophy. During
her time abroad she attended a conference in
Edinburgh of the International Federation of
University Women as a delegate for Australia,
and was later granted a scholarship entitling,
her to a course at the Zimmern School of
International Studies at Geneva, where she was
the only Australian student.


"he Road to Comfort
... .-«...
mm
*~ v ~-
pgsft
--' v-St*
l§siBlllii>>
'
THE STAR INN, ALFRISTON, SUSSEX.
illustration shows a Pilgrims’ Inn five centuries old in a #
village in the South Downs. Such beauty spots are best
reached by car, and visitors to the Home Country should tour
with a list of Trust Houses. Over 200 Hotels and Inns carry
the Trust' House sign, and offer WELCOME. AND COMPLETE
COMFORT at a moderate tariff. Every detail is studied so
that the traveller leaves with lasting happy memories.
Full information may be obtained from
AUSTRALIAN AND OVERSEAS TRAVEL SERVICE PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY 135 Pitt Street (BW6880)
MELBOURNE ------ 334 Collins Street (F 3752)
TRUST HOUSES, LTD.
All over
Britain.
Wsm
PAID IN FULL!
mmmm
i
3
- | | 1| ■
:
■
m
i vmmmm
!
-
To save teeth you
must fight film
XTITHAT is this film that robs us of our
* * teeth ? A slippery, sticky coating
formed by the mucin in saliva. It stains
teeth yellow. It catches bits of food
which soon decay. Yes, but that’s not
all! Film contains millions of tiny germs.
Some are rod-shaped, grouped in
clusters. These are decay germs. As
they live they give off enzymes that
produce lactic acid. This lactic acid
dissolves tooth enamel just as other
acids eat holes in cloth. Other germs
are linked with “trench mouth” —still
others with pyorrhea.
“ What must I do to fight film ?”
To fight film use Pepsodent instead of
ordinary tooth pastes. Why ? Because
a tooth paste is only as good as its
polishing material —not one bit better.
The new polishing material in Pepso-
dent is one of the great discoveries of
the day. Its power to remove every
trace of film stain is revolutionary ! Its
notable distinction of being twice as
soft as polishing materials in common
use has gained wide recognition. Re-
member, the one safe way to fight film
is to use the special film-removing tooth
paste —Pepsodent—twice every day
and to see your dentist at least twice
a year.
See how rapidly film
forms on teeth
m
These teeth were
absolutely free of
film at 8 a.m.
At noon— the film
detector* solution
was applied and
this is how they
looked.
At 8 p.m.— the film
detector* shows
still heavier de-
posits of film.
Two-thirds of the
tooth’s surface is
covered.
At 10 p.m.— these
same teeth were
brushed with
Pepsodent. Note
how thoroughly
film has been re-
moved.
*A harmless fluid,
used by dentists,
which stains film so
that the naked eye
can see it.
I OOSOOOITV —is the special Film-removing tooth paste
■ MADE IN AUBTRALIA
M9B2M
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Japan is building a 10,000,000-yen air-
port between Kobe and Osaka, sundry
bankers and the Jap Air Transportation
Co. having put up the cash. One of the
regular routes contemplated is to Singa-
pore.
* * * *
“Exul” (Derbyshire): Grant Hervey
wrote that treacly ode to a Kalgoorlie
barmaid, reprinted in The Bulletin,
which the author of “Those Were the
Days” sought to fasten on to ex-President
Hoover. There was no more lyric quality
in Hoover than there is in a herring.
:fc * * *
What a job the judges will have when
they come to give a free return trip to
Australia to the most perfect entry in the
Australian knitting competition to be held
in England! Vic. Agent-General Linton
had the brainwave as a centenary ad.
Competitors must use Australian-grown
wool. After the weeding-out process the
most flawless articles are examined
through a microscope. Seams and odd
ends are fatal. In such company a gar-
ment with a dropped stitch will blush for
shame.
* * * *
“Currente Calamo”: “Pickering Junc-
tion” (B. 21 /2 / ’34) boarded the wrong
train when he said the “Flying Scots-
man” made an extended tour of the
United States and Canada. The loco,
actually shipped across the Atlantic was
the “Royal Scot,” of the L.M.S. system.
Some years ago the G.W.R. sent its
latest loco., “King George V.‘,” to the
States, where, after exhibition, it acquitted
itself with honors. Before leaving for
home it was. presented with a bell charac-
teristic of the American loco. This was
duly mounted on the buffer beam, and
still adorns it.
“8.40”: A crack English loco, can
traverse U.S.A. railroads because it roars
over lines the same width apart as the
ruts, along which the tin-waggons lum-
bered across the English . downs many
centuries ago. When the colliery railways
were laid down the first waggons were of
l the same wheel span, and so the rails
were laid to fit them. Stephenson built
his first locomotive for a colliery, and
when, he built others later he used the
same gauge. That’s the history of the
4ft. Biin.
*** . *
South African defence' shames the
feeble Australian effort. Apart from the
permanent forces, embracing all arms and
auxiliaries, every Afrikander of Euro-
pean descent between 17 and 60 must
render personal service in war-time.
Those between 17 and 25 must undergo
peace training over a period of four
years. In practice only 50 p.c. of this
class is called up at one time ; for those
exempted, four years in a rifle association
are prescribed, and there are cadet corps
for boys between 13 and 17 in urban
and other closely-settled districts.
* * * *
“Lond”: Anybody know what scandal
Eric Linklater refers to in “Magnus
i Merriman”? Running through the thrills
: of Edinburgh Castle, from Queen Mary
onwards, he ends with: “And, no more
than a handful of years ago, it has heard
the roaring of forty Australians, seven
feet high and drunk enough to rip the
stars from Heaven, penned in its guard-
room.” It is doubtful if there were as
many as 40 Diggers in Edinburgh at the
same time during the war; and those
who favored Scotland were a quiet lot
on the whole.
* * * *
! “Flebilis”: No hereditary ruler of this
generation has gone to his grave amid
such a chorus of well-merited eulogies as
King Albert of Belgium, but one sen-
tence in the Belgian Government’s pro-
clamation of the nation’s grief was a
doubtful compliment to a figure so
heroic. “He was thought by everyone,”
declares that document, “to be a worthy
successor to his uncle and his grand-
father.” To Leopold 1., no doubt, but
Leopold II.! That old reprobate had
become a sinister figure long before he
died in 1909 ; Mark Twain made him the
subject of one of the most stinging philip-
pics ever penned. There is no need to
dig up grim memories of the Congo
atrocities and other happenings so late
in the day, but surely the less said about
King Albert’s predecessor the better.
* * * *
“Kuweik”: There are some strange
pets in the world, but the strangest is
the Aleppo sheep. Everybody in Aleppo
keeps a sheep—an ordinary pie-faced
merino-looking sort of cuss, usually de-
corated with a vermilion band painted
round its neck or with saffron horns.
French cavalry majors are to be seen
leading mounds of wool down the
souhks; small boys pause before fruit-
and-vegetable stalls, with one eye on the
owner, for forage always is a problem.
As you go to see the morning train to Bey-
rout off, lambs peer at you from the
verandahs of third-storey flats. There was
once an Australian who paid momentary
tribute to the potency of the local ver-
mouth when he returned to his second-
class hotel and found a large, bedizened
wether curled up on his bed like a poodle.
Quite a lot can be said, however, for
Aleppo’s taste in pets. The price of even
a little wool goes a long way in that
frugal community, and when the wolf
calls or the blowfly strikes or the dole
is cut olf there is always a carcass to
cheer one in adversity. Moreover, the
sheep doesn’t bark.
* * * *
There is a film going the rounds in
Australia just now which depicts the sub-
Arctic —Greenland, Lapland and the
Norwegian fiords and fishing-ports,
flavored with generous dashes of iceberg
and midnight sun. It calls for the music
of Grieg—any Australian who has heard
Percy Grainger play the “Bridal Proces-
sion” knows how (after Grainger has
explained just what he is going to depict)
the atmosphere of a sunny morning with
frost a foot thick on the ground is
achieved. Instead of which icebergs slide
by and fisherfolk wend their way to
market in the crooked streets of
Stavanger and Trondheim to the notes of
Red Indian themes culled from Lieur-
ance’s compositions. Apart from the fact
that they are poorly adapted, and that
most of them weren’t worth lifting, any-
how, they’re wrong in latitude, ethnology
and significance.
* * * *
“El V.”: I often wonder that Austra-
lian tourists bound for Britain do not
show more originality in their routes.
Most of them hurry to England as fast
as possible, when for no more expendi-
ture they could break the journey at Port
Said or Alexandria, take one of the little
French boats which run round the coast
of Syria and Asia Minor, see Smyrna,
Gallipoli and the Golden Horn and finish
off with a sectioned 80-hour train trip
from Istanboul to Calais, with breaks at
Budapest, Vienna, Prague, Munich and,
perhaps, Paris. Or they could go to
Beyrout, see French Syria and cross the
majestic Taurus by train, with visits to
old-world Turkish towns like Konia and
Broussa, en route to the Golden Horn. I
can assure them that in most places they
will find reasonably priced hotels and
travel conditions at least as comfortable
as those of Australia.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: An unpublished manu-
script of Charles Dickens, a “Life of
Christ,” has come to light among the
effects of his late son Henry, and
there is some controversy in England
and elsewhere about the wisdom and
propriety of putting it into print. On
the one hand, it is argued that anything
from the novelist’s pen would be
of incalculable interest; on the other,
that Dickens wrote it merely for his
children, and never intended it to be
published. Dickens-worshippers, how-
ever, dispose of this by pointing out that
the great Victorian writer was pre-emi-
nently a lover of children and that the
Christ portrayed by him will be
approached in an entirely new spirit,
which should make the work of unique
value. It is assuming a good deal. The
only other child’s book, as far as I
know, of Dickens that has seen print is
“A Child’s History of England.” That
production was stigmatised by Saintsbury
as “probably the worst book ever written
by a man of genius, with the exception
of Shelley’s novels.”
* * * *
“Nakh”: Aaron the Just, better known
as Harun al Raschid, is represented in the
story-books as having been a generous,
good-humored sovereign who pursued
romantic nocturnal adventures in the
streets of Bagdad disguised as a com-
moner. Actually Aaron, or Harun, was
nothing of the sort. The record of his-
tory is that, when only 16, he attacked the
great Byzantine Empire and extracted an
annual tribute of 70,000 gold dinars from
the warlike Empress Irene ; that he ruled
over a dominion which included Khoras-
san and Egypt; that he was a patron of
art, science and literature, commerce and
the teaching and practice of medicine :
that he forced a Greek emperor to send
a yearly tribute of Greek books, and
that in his later years he became capri-
ciously jealous of the Barmecides and
assassinated them. He died at the age of
44 of apoplexy due to his unconventional
way of living. His alleged nocturnal ex-
ploits are now regarded as fictitious, being
founded on the authority of “The
Arabian Nights’ Entertainment,” an
eighth-century equivalent of our Holly-
wood Nights’ Entertainment.


/gH j
sl\ \ •" u 9*a»»u
.£<
y. - \
S\ ] l
riitol
X,Y=. -
sin®;
£
s.s’
if
W
M£
At your request we
shall be pleased to
forward illustrated
folder No. 25.
REDUCED FARES
to
JAVA
Peopled by a picturesque race,
highly cultured, gifted in dancing,
music and art —these Eastern won*
derlands of colour and exotic charm
call irresistibly.
Care in choosing your ship and
route will add to the joys of this
holiday trip. The t.s.s. “MARELLA’*
sails regularly from Australian ports
by way of the Great Barrier Reef,
Thursday Is., Darwin, Sourabaya,
Samarang and Batavia to Singapore.
Comfort, service and cuisine are ex-
cellent.
The whole tour need only occupy
seven weeks, fares have been greatly
reduced and are free of exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7 9 0 1
A Safeguard for Travellers
The safety and security of a Letter of Credit which enables the traveller
to draw on his account in any part of the world is only one of the many
services and advantages which The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
offers. The Bank also establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable.
It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or by telegraph. It transacts
all classes of general Banking and Exchange business. The Manager of any
Branch will gladly explain these facilities to intending travellers and place
at their disposal the informatiQn on current conditions of Exchange, etc.
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank,
Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South
Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world.
Cable Address: “Thermostat,” Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
HAVE YOU BEEN ILL?
ARE YOUR NERVES OUT OF ORDER?
DO YOU SLEEP BADLY?
ARE YOU ANAEMIC OR RUN-DOWN?
HAVE YOU A POOR APPETITE?
IF SO
oboleine
THE FOOD THAT BUILDS THE .BODY |
IS WHAT YOU REQUIRE
TO BUILD UP HEALTH AND STRENGTH.
The results obtained from Roboleine have been described by doctors and
the general public as “magical.” After a few doses lost appetites return,
digestive troubles disappear, good red blood is made, firm flesh is formed,
weight increases, and the improvement is maintained until good health
is restored.
Roboleine now costs only 4/6 fora 12oz. jar, or
12/- for 360 z. At all chemists.
“I have been ill for tome time with Anaemia and general debility and I was
getting: so weak that I began to think I was never going to feel well again
and was losing weight considerably (31b. in a month). I have had various
tonics and tonic foods, bat nothing seemed to pick me up. I have been taking
Roboleine for three weeks and I feel a different person, better than I have felt
for months. I sleep better and my appetite has returned, and I am already
gaining weight.” Mrs. A. B , Folkestone.
SAMPLE
VOUCHER
Muir and Neil, Ltd., Box 1562 E, G.P.0.,
Sydney. I enclose 3d. in stamps for sample
of Roboleine.
Name
Address
5.8.2
Arithmetic.
BY E. DITHMACK.
WHEN Walter Richards contracted
to pull Martin Anderson’s corn at
seventeen and six an acre, he felt
he could do the job in good time and
make money at it. So that it was rather
unfortunate for him that his own man
should take it into his head to go off
and leave him just then, with ten acres of
lucerne to be cut and all the cows to be
milked into the bargain.
Walter explained his difficulty to
Martin as they met in the dry creek-bed.
They squatted down on their heels, and
Martin began to figure out Walter’s earn-
ings by means of scratching with a stick
in the sand.
“Seven and three-quarter acres at
seventeen and six,” he began. “Seven sixes
are forty-two, and forty-two pence is—
forty pence is three and four, and tup-
pence”—
“Better make it seven and a half and
throw in a coupler bob for the quarter,”
Walter suggested.
Martin waved him impatiently aside.
“And seven sevens are forty-nine, and
seven ones are seven”
He was figuring rapidly on the ground
while Walter chewed a piece of grass and
tried to follow him.
“Carry the nine. Seven ones are seven,
and seven and nine make sixteen. That’s
—that’s”
“Better make it the round eight acres,”
Walter suggested again, “and I’ll give
you back a coupler bob.”
“How d’yer mean?” Martin snapped.
“That’s not business. You go over this
with me, and we’ll soon find out what’s
owing.”
They went up to the dairy. Martin
got a piece of chalk and began to figure
the matter out on the bench.
“It’s the three-quarters of an acre that’ll
be the trouble,” Walter explained. “If
you’d only make it the full acre and I’d
give you back a coupler bob, or make
it half and you give me a couple”
“Now, just wait a minute,” Martin in-
terrupted. “Seven acres at seventeen and
six. That’s —let me see. Seven sevens
are forty-nine— two pound nine, isn’t it?
Then seven tens are seventy —seventy
shillings. That’s, that’s”-
“Well, there y’are,” Walter broke in.
“As I say, make it the even half-acre or
a whole acre and we can settle up
between us.”
“But, damn it all, why can’t we do it
properly?” Martin exploded. “Just wait
awhile now.”
He rubbed out his former calculations
and began again. “Seven sevens are forty-
nine, and forty-nine shillings is two pound
nine. Then seven tens are seventy —three
pounds ten. Five pounds nineteen, isn’t
it? Now for the pence. Seven sixes are
forty-two, and forty-two pence is—forty
pence is three and four, and tuppence —
three and tuppence, isn’t it?”
“Yes, but it’s the three-quarters,”
Walter began again. “If you’d only”——
“Blast you and your three-quarters!”
Martin shouted. “Just wait till we come
to that.”
He chalked the figures in angrily. “Five
pounds—what’s that figure there? Can
you make it out?”
“Looks like a five to me,” Walter said,
not sure whether it was a three or a five,
but meaning to be on the right side.
“Five pounds nineteen, and the pence
comes to —what was it?” He groped
among the medley of figures. “Forty-
two pence-—what’s forty-two pence?”
Walter’s brain felt like a piece of
damper minus the rising. “Er—forty
pence? Twelve ones are twelve ; twelve
twos are twenty-four; twelve threes are
thirty-six”
“Yes, but the pence—what does it come
to?”
“You work it out yourself,” Walter
said huffily. “I’m not a bloomin’ account-
ant.”
“Well, now, just wait awhile,” Martin
said patiently. “We’d got to the pounds,
hadn’t we? And we’re on to the pence.”
“But there’s the three-quarters to
come,” Walter insisted. “And it’s the
three-quarters that’s going to be the
trouble.”
Martin restrained himself with an
effort. “We’ll get to that in a minute.
Now, seven sixes.”
“Forty-two.”
“And forty-two pence?”
“Three and two, I make it.”
“Three and two.” He added it on.
“And now,” said Walter, taking a big
breath, “there’s the three-quarters.”
“What the hell are you making such a
fuss of the three-quarters for?” Martin
exploded. “We’re not a pair of duds, are
we?”
“But it’d be so easy to make it the even
acre and we could adjust it then.”
. “And what the blazes is wrong with
adjusting it now? It’s the same thing.”
“Well, go ahead.”
“To begin with, you take the half of
seventeen and six”
“That’s just what I say, and you give
me”
“And the half of seventeen is eight and
a half—eight and six. Then the half
of six is three—thrippence—eight and
nine.”
“Go ahead.”
“Then you add the eight and nine on
to seventeen and six. Six and nine’s fif-
teen pence—one and three—and one and
eight’s nine—nine and seventeen’s —er —
nine and seventeen’s twenty-six. That
right?”
“Go ahead.”
“Now we add the lot together. Seven
acres at seventeen and six is six pounds
two and tuppence. Then three-quarters
of that comes to one pound six and
thrippence—a total of seven pounds eight
and fivepence.”
“You can chop off the fivepence,”
Walter offered magnanimously. “Make
it a clear seven pounds eight.”
“Well, are you satisfied that’s right?”
“It seems to be all right.” Walter’s tone
was indifferent, though inwardly he felt
sure that the amount exceeded his own
calculations.
“Well, come on up to the house and
I’ll get the wife to make out your
cheque.” He walked back to have a
final look at the total. “Seven pounds
eight and fivepence.”
Walter also stepped back to make sure.
“Seven pounds eight,” he repeated.
Mrs. Anderson was a woman who did
not implicitly rely on her husband’s judg-
ment.
“Make out a cheque for seven pounds
eight,” Martin instructed, “payment for
pulling corn.”
“But the contract’s not finished,” she
objected.
“That’s all right—we’ve fixed things
up.”
“How much did you say?”
“Seven pounds eight.”
She began to write. “How much did
he pull?”
“Seven and three-quarter acres. Hurry
up with that cheque.”
She blotted it and handed it over. “Are
you sure that’s right, Martin?”
“Course I’m sure. Think I can’t add
up?”
Mrs. Anderson kept her own opinion
to herself, but during the night she woke
up and began to juggle with mental
figures. At last she caught Martin by
the shoulder and shook him violently.
He sat up in bed with a start. “Eh?
What’s the matter?” he demanded.
“That money you paid Richards to-day
—you’ve paid him far too much.”
“Nonsense, woman!” Martin stared
unbelievably into the darkness. “You’re
making a mistake.”
“No mistake about it. Here, light the
lamp and I’ll show you.”
Martin groped under the pillow for
the matches, hitched up his pyjamas and
struck a light. His wife stepped out after
him and together they wrestled with the
figures again.
When her remorseless reckoning proved
to him beyond all doubt that he had
erred on the wrong side, Martin remained
silent for a moment; then he gave voice
to his thoughts.
“Well, let it be —I’ve not finished with
him yet. The swine knew all the time
that I was wrong, but he’ll pay for it in
the end.”
Walter’s ten-acre paddock of lucerne
adjoined Martin’s place. It was a luscious
patch at which Martin’s milking herd had
often gazed with longing eyes. Some of
the more venturesome cows had even
gone on their knees and with tongue out-
thrust striven to reach the young green
shoots on the headlands.
When Martin’s eldest son, a quick-
witted youth of twelve, let down the wires
into Walter’s lucerne patch after dusk
and shepherded a dozen of the best
milkers on to the green paradise, the
beasts gave tongue to low bellows of
gratification, quickly choked by great
mouthfuls of feed.
The younger Martin watched them
carefully, at the same time not forgetting
his father’s admonition to give the
animals no more than twenty minutes.
“Well, that’s a bit off the score,” Martin
said with a grunt of satisfaction when his
son announced that all had gone well.
Like the just man that he was, he marked
down the approximate value of such de-
duction.
“Now, to-morrow night, my boy, we’ll
do the same. Keep your eyes open for
(Continued on next page.)


Banking
Facilities
IT is not necessory to have a large amount
of money to open an account with the
National Bank. The initial deposit may be
quite a small amount, but it makes available
to the customer all the wide range of facili-
ties which the Bank provides.
The facilities include the convenience of
being able to make payments by cheque, and
the satisfaction of having unused money
safeguarded—-either in Current Account and
immediately available, or on Fixed Deposit
and earning interest.
The Bank’s 430 branches and offices are
spread through the cities and country dis-
tricts of all the States. Two are in London.
The National Bank
of Australasia Limited
Capital Paid Up £5,000,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business) £3,000,000
Assets Exceed £43,000,000
• Pair of tan Oxfords over
4years old. Apart from wear-
ing creases, the uppers are as
sound as the day they were bought
—thanks to regular cleaning with
Kiwi. Owner, V. St. Kilda.
sdf
• Kiwi makes a good shoe last,
• and gives a good shine to boot
BLACK
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
7 mn
H7OIM
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements—conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expett advice is yours free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
6
D.
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
anyone along the road, and if you see
Walter or any ol: his kids coming just
pretend to be driving the cows off and
swear at them all you know.”
While Walter during the day mowed
and raked at one end of the patch
Martin’s cows at dusk reduced the score
at the other end.
On the fourth morning, however,
Walter sent his eldest son round to in-
form Martin that four of the best Ander-
son cows were blown on the lucerne, and
to get them off as soon as possible.
Martin saved three of them after
gallons of soda-water had been adminis-
tered. The fourth beast put Walter in
his debt deeper than ever, so that fresh
ways of getting even had to be thought
out.
A distinct coolness sprang up between
the families where before had been only
harmony. Walter felt the breach the
most, having been dependent on Martin
for many little spells of help. Now, as
he bagged his crop of potatoes, he won-
dered how he could best get them to
market. Hitherto Martin, being the
owner of a ton truck, had been in the
habit of taking in his own crop first,
finding the best market, then carting for
his neighbor and handing over the
amount received after deducting his
charges.
Walter, knowing nothing of the over-
paid corn money, and worrying over the
disposal of his potato crop, was sur-
prised to see Martin approaching him
one evening as he was sewing up his
last bag.
“I’ll be taking in my lot to-morrow,”
Martin informed him. “If yours are
ready they can go in about the end of
the week.”
“Right-oh.” Walter straightened, put
one foot up on the rail, wiped his face
with his shirt sleeve and fished around
for his pipe. These were usually the
preliminaries to a long yarn ; but Martin
gave curt instructions about the loading
and rode off, not even waiting to dis-
cuss the crop, its quality and possible
value.
Walter scratched his chin and looked
after the retreating figure in perplexity.
Martin called for the load on Friday.
“There’s only five ton this time,” Walter
complained. “Nothing like the load I
should’ve had.”
Martin refused to be drawn into a
discussion. He helped to put on the
bags, his mind on the overpaid money
and the dead cow. Walter seemed to be
in a hurry to forget that cow, but he’d
pay for it all right in the long run.
Arrived in town, he drove round to
the local store, to find that the potato
market had risen during the last twenty-
four hours and was firming.
The storekeeper offered five pounds a
ton.
“What!” thundered Martin, “and the
railway station only a quarter of a mile
away! I’ll send them to Brisbane first.”
“You’ll only get five-ten a ton there,”
the storekeeper advised, “and all expenses
to pay.”
“Well” Martin began to crank up
the truck. “I’ll see what the Toothless
Wonder is paying to-day—he’ll go a few
bob better than you.”
“Wait awhile now, wait awhile.” The
storekeeper came out and surveyed the
load. “What’ve you got there?”
“A ton,” Martin informed him, “but
more’n likely I’ll strike a bargain with
The Wonder.”
“Wait awhile now —wait awhile.” He
poked and pushed at the bags. “I’ll make
it live-ten and clinch the bargain.”
“Not on your life!” Martin caught at
the crank-handle again. “The Wonder’s
paying top price.”
“Look here, wait awhile now.” He
peered at the load. “How many more
have you got like this?”
“Four more.”
“Well, look here, now, I’ll make it six
pound a ton; but that’s between our-
selves. Officially I’m only paying five.
You understand?”
“I understand,” Martin replied, well
pleased. “You make out the account at
five pound a ton. Will you take the lot
at that price?”
“Yes, bring ’em in.”
Martin made haste to get away for
the other four loads. Walter expressed
himself as satisfied with five pounds a
ton —it wasn’t top price, but it wasn’t
bottom.
Martin’s mind was at rest. That extra
pound a ton would put him square with
Walter now. No more sleepless nights
worrying over the dead beast and that
overpaid money. And Walter would
never find out. Anyway, in a war all was
fair.
Puffing at his pipe that night, Walter
confided to his wife that Martin seemed
to be getting over his huff.
“Perhaps I was a bit hasty turning his
cows in on that lucerne,” he repented.
“What do you think, Gert?”
In similarly softened mood, Gert sug-
gested sending over a sucking pig as a
token of reconciliation.
When Walter’s youngsters delivered the
agitated bag “With dad’s compliments,”
Martin felt a twinge of conscience. After
all, it had been his own fault, putting the
cows in on the lucerne. One couldn’t
expect a fellow to take a thing like that
sitting down. And Flossie was an old
cow —she didn’t owe him anything.
He reciprocated by refusing to take
anything for carting the potatoes. “Just
between neighbors,” he rumbled, and left
Walter staring after him, doubting his
reason.
On Sunday the youngsters struggled
over to the Anderson home with a bag
of cabbages. They returned with a bag
of oranges.
“After all, it pays to be neighborly,”
Gert said. “I wonder whatever made
him start putting his cows in on our
lucerne.”
“Dunno.” Walter’s hand went to his
chin. “It was after that corn-pulling
business he began to get funny,” he rumi-
nated. “I wonder if we added it up
wrong after all?”
“Now, don’t for goodness’ sake start
going over all that again ; it gives me a
headache thinking of it.”
“But it’d be just as well to know.
Here, Bob, you get me a sheet of paper
and a pencil—l’ll soon find out.”
Walter cleared a space on the table,
rolled up his sleeves and lit a cigarette.
“Now!” He took a big breath and
got into the matter.
“Seven acres at seventeen and six.
Gert, how’d it be if I made out seven
acres at a pound and then took olf seven
half-crowns?”
“No,” Gert called back from the
kitchen, where she was washing up the
dinner things. “If you’re going to do it
at all, do it properly.”
Walter was squashed at the beginning.
“Well, seven acres at seventeen and six,”
he began, “that’s—seven sevens are forty-
nine. Put down the nine and carry four.
Seven ones are seven and four’s twelve.
That’s a hundred and twenty-nine, isn’t
it?”
Gert came in wiping her hands. “That’s
right,” she encouraged.
“Then seven sixes are —what’s seven
sixes?”
“Forty-two.”
“And forty-two pence—forty pence is
three and four, and tuppence —three and
six.”
“That’s right. Now add it up.”
“Who’s doing this job?” he asked
aggressively. “You or me?”
“Seems to me we’re both at it,” she
answered equably. “Go on.”
“Go on yourself. This isn’t a job you
can rush at.”
“Well, get your pounds now. Seven
acres at seventeen and six.”
“We’ve got that already. A hundred
and twenty-nine.”
“Shillings?”
“Of course. You don’t think it’s
pounds, do you?”
“Wish it was. Now get your three-
quarters.”
“And that,” said Walter, as though
meeting his Waterloo, “is where the mis-
take is.”
“Look.” Gert hung over his shoulder,
breathing on to his neck. “We’ll do it
this way. There’s seventeen and six for
one acre —divide it by four.”
“By four? But we only want a third.”
“Yes, divide by four to get a quarter,
then multiply by three to get the three-
quarters.”
“I see. Right-oh, then. Seventeen and
six is how many pence?”
“But you don’t want pence, stupid—
you want shillings. Look.” She took the
pencil from him. “Four into seventeen
goes—four fours are sixteen and one
over.”
“One what?”
“One shilling.”
“Then that’s five?”
“Yes. Now multiply by three.”
“That’s fifteen.”
“Well, there’s your answer.” She
threw down the pencil and picked up the
cloth again.
“But what about the sixpence?”
“Oh, yes. I forgot about that.” She
thought for a moment, then picked up
the pencil again. “Four into six goes
one and . two over.”
“Two what?”
“Ha’pennies, I suppose. Now add the
lot together and see what you get.”
More scratching of pencil, more
laborious breathing, and Walter an-
nounced the total—seven pounds seven
and eight.
“And what’s the cheque?”
“Seven pounds eight. I thought he was
overpaying me.”
“Well,” Gert said, going back to the
washing up, “a few pence is neither here
nor there amongst friends. You’d better
shake it up and go for the cows.”


YOU'LL NEED A
CAR IN ENCLAND
sdf
sdf
Free Booklet
Obtainable
from Any
Office of “The
Bulletin.”
Make up your mind to have the use of a car on your
next visit to England ; it is the best and cheapest
way to enjoy your holiday.
Our service covers every possible motoring require-
ment, including repurchase guarantees at fixed
percentages, special terms for export, and all details
in connection with registration, insurance, driving
licences, etc., and saves you money, too !
INMAN EASTERN
CAR AGENCY
49, Old Bond St., London, W. 1
HOWARD HOTEL
LONDON N °^kED ST *
OPPOSITE AUSTRALIA HOUSE
A Luxury Hotel, yet bedroom, bath and full breakfast for 12/6. Every
room has either private bathroom or hot and cold water, central heating and
telephone. Luxurious suites. An hotel of distinction, modern and up-to-date,
in the centre of London, close to all Theatres,. Cable: “Howdotel,” London.
Send fur Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S LONDON RENDEZVOUS
.a:
r
r
-i’ 1
. t’ w ’ : ' x su> - ~ -
r\ -vJ^SiSill^
CV
w^/Tr, /"...
/>
O
«A.
e?/
**■
o>-
£k
J
jr>
Really Surprising! ...
THAT “PLUS' SENSATION/
Sheep in the road? ... A mere nothing to “C.O.R” Plus . . .
At least, that’s the Plus sensation —a smooth silkiness of
power that scoffs at obstacles and treats hills as the dirt they
are . . . Old cars or new—you feel it just the same ... a
really surprising sensation.
\-
* Contains tetra-ethyl-lead, the
finest anti-detonating fluid
known to modern science . . .
d
C-ORff
9L BLUE Usdd? PETROL
PLUS WHAT? PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING SOME OTHERS HAVEN’T GOT
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Persian Oil
Poolman Street. Port Melbourne. 5.C.7. ’Phone: M 3261. 117 Pitt Street,
Agents for South Australia aud Queensland: :: :: Dalgety &
Co. Ltd.)
Sydnev.
Co. Ltd.
By Far the Largest
Circulation in Queensland.
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt St. ’Phone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Newspaper House, Collins
St. ’Phone F 3906,
•BUREAU OP-
CIRCULATIONS.
Politics, Biggar and Bunkum
BY HAROLD MERCER.
opponents’ politics are bun-
jVl kum!” With his big figure and
his breezy manner, Biggar could
thunder that declaration so as to make
it sound like a serious political utterance.
It was as near to a serious political
utterance as Biggar ever got.
I had supposed that Biggar had had
enough of politics when the optimism
with which he pictured himself as Biggar,
M.L.A., crashed on a humiliating total
of 159 votes. It was a politically sophis-
ticated Biggar, however, who blew upon
me in Pitt-street and blew me into the
place where drinks are served. I men-
tioned his prospect of becoming Biggar,
M.L.A.
“My boy, I haven’t got a hope! That’s
in confidence, of course. It’s a good job
—that’s the way I look at it. They were
wanting someone to cut in on the Jordan
by-election, and as Pompard, M.L.A.,
mentioned my name 1 thought I might as
well take it on. The costs of the cam-
paign are none of my business, and I get
six quid a week and exes.”
The way he thumped another two
shillings on the bar gave a sort of em-
phasis to the point that the exes, were
all right.
“Who’s the they?” I asked.
“A lot of people have gone mad on
this Bray plan,” he explained. “Our
man, of course, can’t touch it; the Labor
chap, Parsons, was likely to play it up
a bit and pick up some free votes: the
only thing was to get a Bray Planner
into the field to tie them up.”
“Are you a Bray Planner?”
“I believe in it,” said Biggar with a
sudden earnestness. “The only remedy
for the ills of our economic system is a
change in the basis of the system, which
has outlived its usefulness. We have the
spectacle of people starving in a world
of plenty, simply because”
I reminded him that I wasn’t a poli-
tical meeting.
“Oh, well, the Bray plan has no
chance —yet. You know how dirty poli-
tics are, old chap. Asa matter of fact,
if I thought I was likely to be elected I’d
draw out. I don’t want to be mixed up
in the messy business ; but as a pocket-
money job it’s good enough.”
Biggar used up his time and his ex-
pense money liberally; it was while we
were changing hostelries that we met two
youngish men who were boisterously
greeted by Tom.
“I thought you were going to call in
to-day at lunchtime,” said one.
“So I was —forgot. But I ran into my
friend, here—he writes for the press,”
said Biggar impressively.
He introduced them. “Hamilton
Miller and Reg. Bamford. Miller’s secre-
tary of my committee and secretary of
the local Bray Plan branch —a dashed
good secretary, too ; Reg. is one of my
lieutenants. What about a drink, boys?”
“Haven’t time,” retorted Miller, rather
impatiently. “There’s an extra meeting
to-night. I’ve got speakers to carry on.
Don’t be late.”
“I’ll be along at seven to remind you,
Mr. Biggar,” put in Bamford. “Millie be
at home, you think?”
Biggar grinned.
“She’ll be there all right.”
Miller came back as they were passing.
“Got those quotes for that printing—
you promised to have them? Right!
Well, don’t forget to bring them; we
want those posters and circulars at once.”
“That,” said Biggar as we turned into
the Hotel Magnificent, “will be commis-
sion for me.”
'My old friend’s political views were
as hazy as ever, but he promised the
earth in a manner that sounded decisive,
metaphorically shouting for the electors
with the public revenue, just as he
shouted for his friends with the money
allowed him for expenses.
Explanations of the Bray plan were
left to others, preferably to Hamilton
Miller, who, as far as his debating-club
manner permitted, did it ably.
Reg. Bamford also was an indefatig-
able worker in the Cause. Millie Biggar
was the explanation. The leggy Millie
of a few years ago had grown into a
fascinating miss, with a job in the Lot-
tery Office, achieved when her father had
failed in his Lottery Shares venture.
Mrs. Biggar appeared wistful, as she
always did when her Tom ventured out
of the placid shallows of his £4 per week
into the deep seas of wider adventures.
“I think Tom has a much better chance
of winning this time?” It was a question
she put rather than an opinion.
“You don’t really want him to win,”
I said.
“Of course, I do! It is people like
Tom they want in Parliament. But,” she
added, with a sigh, “we’ll see so little
of him when he gets in.”
The puzzle was the altruism of Hamil-
ton Miller. An apparently keen Bray
Planner, he must have known, as the sec-
retary of its local association, how Big-
gar had come into the fight; but he was
putting wonderful work into the cam-
paign. Hardy, an old political hand who
had found something better than elec-
tion hazards in brewery travelling but
still loved the smoke of battle, gave me
a sidelight. Hardy was a friend of
Biggar, too.
“Miller —there’s a youngster who’s going
to be in politics in a few years. He be-
lieves the Bray plan is coming as a fac-
tor, and Tom’s here to break the ice for
him—at somebody else’s expense. Of
course, Tom hasn’t Buckley’s chance,
but Miller will get a fair vote for him,
and he’ll get a few himself ; people like a
boisterous chap like Tom. Next time
Miller will be the candidate. He’ll stand
with a clean sheet and a great reputation
for organising.”
It seemed a good summary of Miller —
cold, self-seeking, knife in hand for any-
one who had outlived his usefulness to
himself.
“His organising is good,” I commented.
“It’s made me wonder sometimes whether
Tom has a fighting chance.”
“Not a ghost!” laughed Hardy.
“Queer things have happened in politics,
of course. Look how McGarry won the
Murrumbidgee! He tramped the whole
electorate, or begged rides, canvassing ;
doing a spot of work here and there to
pay his way, and doing it well; and the
farmers reckoned a hard grafter like that
was the man for them. But things like
that don’t happen now ; the parties are
too strong.”
It was the logical view; anyway, it
didn’t matter to Tom, who kept repeat-
ing in private his disdain of the honors
he was ostensibly seeking. In another
form he made his views public. “Our
politics are corrupt; rotten to the core!
I am asking you to help me to clean the
Augean stable! ” he would thunder.
“That touch about the Augean stable
seems to get them, Tom,” I commented.
“What’s it refer to?” .
“It’s an old racing scandal,” he
answered. “Forget for the moment when
it happened.”
An odd feature of the campaign was
the secret support given to the Biggar
cause by a local bank manager. He was
on the Foodie committee, but privily he
came to Biggar with encouragement and,
sometimes, subscriptions. Bitterness was
in his heart against the banks because of
his slow progress in their service. And
there was Simsott, of the, Simsott Stores,
which, dealing with working people, ex-
pressed open sympathy with Labor. Be-
cause of the cheque the Parsons commit-
tee had received, Biggar strolled in to
see if he could get one for his own. He
found Simsott, in his private capacity, a
virulent hater of Labor and all its works,
and collected a small cheque. Having
cashed it, he divided the money, putting
ten shillings into his waistcoat pocket.
“My commission,” he commented. “It
isn’t my regular job to collect cash for
the committee.”
He soared into the higher realms of
finance when he tried to borrow £2O
from Abstein.
Abstein laughed.
“Oh, no, my friend! You have as
much chance of winning the election as
getting £2O from me!”
The “dirt” began to fly, as usual spread
by vicious rumors for which each candi-
date vigorously denied responsibility.
One night I found Mrs. Biggar on a
platform. Her oratory was poor, but her
earnestness was immense. Something had
been said about a separation in the Biggar
household when Tom had been led away
by temporary affluence. A divorce had
even been discussed. But in defence of
the man who, in spite of his faults, had
always been her hero, she spoke of him
as the model of husbands. The crowd,
liking the loyalty, cheered her to the echo.
I entered the committee-rooms to find
Mrs. Biggar sobbing hysterically on the
bosom of her husband.
“Can’t we give it up? It’s all so
horrible, Tom!” she cried.
“There’s only a few days of it, dear.
Isn’t she a Briton?” he demanded
proudly. “You heard her to-night?
There, darling, cheer up. I’m going to
borrow five bob from our good friend
and we’ll have some supper right here!
Prawns and beer!”
On the eve of the election people had
something else to talk about. Parsons, the
overdressed Labor candidate, who looked
as if he had never done a day’s real work
in his life, had bolted. The Labor
organisers were dismayed, but carried on.
Whisperers made the most of it. The
affairs of a company with which Parsons
(Continued on next page.')


FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save
money, but if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all
the time is nearer the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it
won’t provide for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO.
No one week’s salary will provide education for your children,
heavy medical expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have
to save, more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly,
efficient savings service—all the time.
Cbmmoiiwealtl) Savinas JBank of Htistralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
/aHftk
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 50/-.)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,600,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHAI.L STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
-NOTICE-
Hake a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
LONDON’S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAMILY & RESIDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Bridge, Bil-
liards, Table Tennis and Dancing.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
guaranteed. Accommodation for 120
guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas.
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Bath
and Breakfast from 8/6. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 31 guineas Single,
6* guineas Double. Bedroom, Bath and
Breakfast from 7/6. Tel.: Padd. 9121.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL
29-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Telephone: Padd. 8022.
Accommodation for 60 guests.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
23-28 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 2.
Telephone: Padd. 9712.
Accommodation for 90 guests.
Hotels of refinement, with young and
cheerful society. Delightful rooms
arranged as bed-sitting rooms. Owing to
their popularity you are advised to secure
accommodation—if possible—in advance.
Terms: Single from 3 guineas. Double
from 5 guineas. Bedroom, Bath and
Breakfast from 6/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
d
Now in its 92nd Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
was concerned were being investigated by
the police; Parsons, in fear of arrest,
had fled. Foodie, it was said, had put
the police on the track. Mean brute,
Foodie!
Biggar was indignant. “I don’t believe
Foodie would do such a thing,” he
roared. “Whoever spread the rotten
rumor ought to be horsewhipped.”
Next day, while the dull excitement of
the voting proceeded, Biggar was mainly
absent, enjoying, behind the closed doors
of the hotels, the last experience of being
treated as potential M.L.A.
“It’s Foodie’s seat,” he told me. “He’d
have won even if Parsons had been here.
He may lose a few votes over that lying
rumor ; but I’ve been telling everybody
that there’s not a word of truth in it.
Anyway, I’ve had a pretty good job—
while it lasted.”
I wondered how large a vote Biggar
would poll in the changed circumstances.
As we waited in the committee-rooms,
the strained faces of Mrs. Biggar and
Millie told on Biggar’s nerves.
“Come out,” he whispered. He found
a way into a hotel, where, in spite of my
desire to return, we lingered.
The landlord had answered a buzzing
telephone. He put his hand over the
mouthpiece as he asked, “Are you here,
Mr. Biggar?”
Biggar was. The landlord spoke again
into the ’phone and turned excitedly.
“You’re wanted at the committee-
rooms. The lady says you’re winning.”
It was like a thunderbolt; but Biggar
laughed as we hurried out. “Poor Millie
gets excited and jumps at conclusions.”
The excitement about the committee-
rooms, however, hastened our footsteps.
Biggar was hailed rapturously ; we had to
push our way through the crowd that
thronged the doorways. Mrs. Biggar
threw herself upon Tom.
“Tom! Tom! You’re winning!” she
cried.
Everybody seemed to be shouting at
once ; but we heard some things clearly.
“The first return was Biggar, 157;
Foodie, 130 ; Parsons, 25. The total now
is Foodie, 2071 ; Biggar, 1970; Parsons,
195!”
“And Foodie’s best subdivisions are
in! Why, in Lumsden he only got a
majority of 91!”
“The Labor crowd must have switched
to you, Biggar! ”
It was being thundered from all sides ;
in the midst of the faces surging around
him excitedly Biggar’s looked stunned,
unbelieving. It had gone almost as pale
as the face of Miller, which had a
curious, strained appearance.
The telephone was ringing sharply.
Somebody who took the call gave a shout.
“Graham-street polling-place: Biggar,
213 ; Foodie, 193 ; Parsons, 10. Pro-
gress total: Foodie, 2264; Biggar, 2184.
Only 80 behind! You’ll get an absolute,
Tom!”
“The Parsons preferences will go to
you, Tom!”
“I’m damned if I understand,” said
Biggar. “Even if I get Parsons’s votes
Foodie should still”
“The people couldn’t' stand that idea
that Foodie had put Parsons away!
That’s what’s killed him —a man getting
rid of an opponent like that.”
“I don’t believe he did it!” burst out
Biggar with a very real indignation.
“Whatever they say, Foodie is too
decent! It was a dastardly thing for
anyone to say.”
He was shaking hands with everybody.
I saw Abstein hand him a paper and a
fountain-pen, and then money. He was
giving Biggar the twenty pounds.
The next return made Biggar 47 be-
hind. “You’re wanted at the Town Hall,
Tom! There’s a crowd waiting there,
cheering for you.”
There was a crowd outside, too, now;
we could hear its shouts and cheers.
Biggar was moving towards the door
when the next ring came with news that
roused the clamor into a tumult. We
had to shout for information.
“Biggar, 3217 ; Foodie, 3001 ; Parsons,
218. That’s with Kingswood schoolhouse
polling-place”
Miller’s pale face came pushing
through the crowd to reach Biggar.
“Well, Tom, 1 did pretty well for you,”
said Miller. “My spreading that tale
about Foodie did the trick.”
It was a wrathful face Biggar turned
upon him.
“You! It was you did that —that
contemptible”
“Come on, Tom! Come on!”
Biggar went with the men who were
tugging at him. But Miller had been repu-
diated. His face showed the realisation.
Biggar, M.L.A.! The unbelievable
had happened; later returns confirmed
and extended the victory.
Biggar looked surprised, but gave me
five pounds when I asked for it. I saw
the cadgers “touching” him already, and
he was responding as if he owned the
universe; it was as well to save some-
thing. Presently I heard him talking of
what he would do when he was in “the
august halls of our Legislature”
But the impression that remained most
from the kaleidoscope of that night was
the face of Mrs. Biggar. White but
proud, it was ; yet there was something
of desolation upon it. Her Tom was
being taken from her.
Rose and Old Gold.
BY JOHN ANDREWS.
I PUT down the afternoon paper.
“Tell me the worst, Edgar,” I said.
“We met in Hyde Park,” he be-
gan. “She sat down on my new panama
beside me. We both apologised, and one
word led to another. She was from Mel-
bourne, where her family was pretty big
in a social way. Rosalind Fey.
“I told her I was in the old-gold busi-
ness with my grandfather. Her jewellery
was worth fifty pounds of anyone’s
money, and when she and the old man
met he couldn’t take his eyes off it. He
was feeling for his acid-bottle and was
just going to proposition her when I got
in with a remark about her family.
“‘A charming girl,’ he said later. ‘So
well connected. A trifle young to be
travelling alone.’
“Rose and I went about a lot together,
and she told me all about her ideals.
They were a bit out of my line, business
being business ; but her eyes were almost
green, and her hair was that dusky
auburn color.
“I began to change. F’rinstance, a
woman offered me a pair of old brace-
lets. I put the pliers into one and
found it was wax-filled. Gave her ten
shillings for the two, and when I got back
to the office found the other was solid
eighteen-carat. I sent the woman another
half-dollar, anonymously. All because of
Rose and her ideals.
“One evening when we were looking
in the shop windows I popped the ques-
tion. She accepted me—on approval.
“I had to earn more money, of course,
and just then the old man was spending
most of his time away from the office.
“Whenever I saw them together—Rose,
slim and cool, and the old boy in a top-
hat and that bushy white haircut of his —
I wondered what her family would think
if they’d known him as ‘Chiseller’ Whim-
pole, late of the Whimpole Used Cloth-
ing Emporium of Bathurst-street.
“That brings us to where we are now.
I was to meet her in Marocains’, on the
third floor. Just as I left the lift I sighted
her, and stepped back to let a little pro-
cession pass.
“The manager and a couple of coppers
were marching a bird to the stairs. If
they’d carried a calico sign with ‘Shop-
lifter Caught in the Act’ on it, they
couldn’t have created a bigger sensation.
The women milled around, staring and
wondering whether it was a roll of
Genuine Jap Silk Crepe de Chine at six
and eleven or a couple of those Reduced
Stonemarten Necklets that the cove had
under his waistcoat.
“Rose was looking after him sympa-
thetically, so I walked close to the fellow
and said, loud enough for her to hear,
‘Cheer up, old son!’
“Before I could move they grabbed
me, too! I tried to explain. I asked
them to let me go back and speak to
Rose. It was no go. The coppers just
handcuffed me to the crook and shoved
me into the Black Maria without giving
me a chance to tell Rose what a bloomer
they’d made.
“At Central we were charged together.
When I tried to deny being an accom-
plice this shoplifter just grinned. ... . I’d
be in the cells yet if you hadn’t bailed me
out.
“Not a word from him when I sent a
message for bail. Chiselling old hound!
“And Rosalind.... To recall that l
thought the world of her! ‘My Lily
Maid of Astoreth,’ as it says in the
poem she used to read to me. And
what is she now?”
Edgar’s voice rose harshly and sank
to a whisper. “My grandmother!”
He smoothed out a crumpled telegram
and handed it to me:
“Rosalind and I married Ap-
point you general manager.”
He stopped reading to eye me malevo-
lently. “If you think there’s anything
funny about that”
I did. I gave him back the wire and
read him a paragraph from the after-
noon paper:
“Inter-State Shoplifter Arrested.
“Detectives Sharp and Wissel to-day
arrested Rosalind Whimpole, alias Fey,
at Katoomba in connection with exten-
sive thefts from city stores. Her husband.
Josiah Whimpole, prominent business
man and alderman”
“Bring me a whisky, quick!” Edgar
groaned.


FARMING IS A
BUSINESS
The management of a Farm or Station is just as
much a business as is running a store —and the
successful farmer is he who really deals with
his affairs in a businesslike manner. To do this
involves some knowledge of business principles and
practice.
This knowledge will safeguard the station owner
and the farmer from many serious mistakes in man-
agement, buying and selling. To provide for this
urgent need, hi. & R. have compiled a Special
Course of study for Farmers and Station Owners,
known as —
“The Farm and Station Bookkeeping Course”
(Business Management)
This is a sound and eminently practical course of instruc-
tion. It shows you how to deal easily and correctly with
every form of farm and station accounts, and also with
your taxation problems. It is written by practical experts
in a simple, clear and concise manner. It is taught by
the H. & R. Personal-Individual Method in your own
home at your own time, and the cost of tuition is extra-
ordinarily small.
Here is just the thing every farmer and his sons really
need, particularly the young man just commencing on the
land. Every farmer will find that the knowledge given
in this Course will, without doubt, bring to him an assured
success and save needless worry.
Send in TO-DAY for
Free Particulars to:—
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
Farm and Station Accounting Specialists
38 BARRACK HOUSE, BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, C.l.
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES AND NEWCASTLE.
■m.
CUT OUT AND MAIL NOW
JUST PUBLISHED
“MEMORIES MAINLY MERRY”
By MARCUS MARKS.
Mr. Marcus Marks is the late Supervisor of ‘‘Hansard of the
Parliament of New Zealand and Government Printer. In the
Dominion, Mr. Marks has the reputation of being one of the
finest raconteurs of after-dinner stories.
Many well-known Australian and New Zealand political per-
sonalities are mentioned in this delightful collection of Memoirs.
There’s a smile on every page.
"MEMORIES—MAINLY MERRY,” by Marcus Marks. Now
on Sale at all bookstalls and newsagents, or direct from THE
BULLETIN” offices all Australian States, and Sussex Chambers,
14 Panama Street, Wellington, N.Z.
AN ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOK. Price 5/- (postage 4d.),
X
o*\,
&
*
CjV
.O to
<V >"/ e Vo>‘
eS y „ x „''
V V .**
0
o
0
\0
6®
sS
■$
V*
#&. **
••■ , o r>-
,\ s . *w
<s*s♦


L. T. Piver PARIS
FACE POWDERS
and CREAMS
(100 per cent. Parisian Manufacture)
POUORE
PO/VVPEIA
pOUDf^G
_ Deßi^
■ J.efcWlVtlP.
I&W.M
MwMT • p*%
'// J Pouuße^v
de Riz. \
U^AFRfINOR
$•11
awes
LTPivcr
Par 15
LX
RfcMg
AZURES
CREtfrg
fisRA/nyE
LT.Pivfcß
i P Af HS
cap
L.T.PIV6RX
PARIS
■: ■%
The NAME is the guarantee oi
is
FkAROR
LTPiven
wuws
E-‘ a jir Pouoafc o* K}Z
* FISRAWE
L.T Pi VC
P*=o _
OE RIZ
AZ : UREA
L.T. Pivcr
PAOIS
©jyt m
-
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SPECIAL SAMPLE OFFER:
SEND 6d. IN STAMPS TO G.P.O. BOX 1659JJ, SYDNEY, FOR SAMPLE
OF FACE POWDER, SMALL TUBE OF FACE CREAM AND SACHET.
