

SHELL
A natural, straight, crystal-clear petroleum spirit
with an exceptionally high anti-knock rating,
Super Shell successfully meets
every demand of the modern
-compression engine.
UP TO 6900 MORE FIRING CHARGES PER GALLON.
AND EVERY PARTICLE IS FUEL.
©
5.1578
The Bulletin
Scapegoats and Short Cuts (Page 8 )
Vol. 55.—N0. 2846.
Wednesday, August 29, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New Library Catalogue for 1934 is
now ready, and will be sent post free
o any address on application to —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
d
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Cut Here and Maid
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING
as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 434
(uticura
m h Soap
V Ointment
Talcum Powder
%
rin
L
ana
ea
mutu
TO YOUR SKIN/
Daily use of this pure, medi-
cated Soap, containing emol-
lient and cleansing properties,
protects, as well as cleanses,
the skin. The Ointment
quickly relieves and heals any
rash orpimple that may ap-
pear. The Talcum over-
comes excessive perspiration
and adds a finishing touch to
the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointmentls.and2s. Talcum ls.3d.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
A Newspaper in which the spirit of Progress
and Development abounds, and whose forceful
Editorials and Literary features provide a
wealth of interesting socially
and politically.
For 80 years this influential household publi-
cation has enjoyed an eiivious period of pros-
perity, and is an institution firmly established
in the regard of the Victorian people generally.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE,”
whose vigorous articles and great political
principles—with its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value —
have made this publication an outstanding
newspaper in modern journalism.
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price ljd. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, In Towo
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, It
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current event#
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
on Thursday*.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury.” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
HERE is the
Evidence!
in a recently-conducted teat THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
AH must admit that this is a moat
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
' V . ' - 'J
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
"The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Phone: 85241.
If any illustration in
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
a market-
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
nal customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
k centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says , “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
7 s that so with
you ?
Jill
aTEIEGKAPH
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
The Sex Theme
Naughty old Miss Crawley used to
read French novels because in her day
no indelicate fiction was produced in
England. Now it is the French who are
being shocked by the outspokenness of
British writers. Storytellers who use the
tongue that Shakspeare spoke must drag
in expressions and descriptive passages
that would have led to prosecutions in
the reigns of Victoria and Edward VII.
or be derided as old-fashioned.
It is having some awkward effects. In
scatology as in holiness it is impossible
to stand still: you go forward or back.
So the original purveyors of bawdry
begun to exploit rare perversions,
with the result that some of their
romances make as hard reading, in
places, as the deeper stuff of Herren
Freud, Jung and Krafft-Ebbing. Many
humbler writers are beginning where the
Masters left off, and some of the best
French novelists have taken to treating
sex in the reticent manner of the Vic-
torians.
Of course England has gone through
this phase before, but the conditions
were different. Even as late as the
Restoration period light literature was
for the few. Nowadays any library
subscriber has access to works that would
have surprised Congreve or Wycherley,
and our bedevilled censors seem to have
decided to ignore the situation. Plain
speech is permitted provided it isn’t
about Australians. Here are some ex-
amples of the new trend.
A Sex-Thriller
The Bell Is Answered, by Roger East
(Collins ; 7s. 6d.), is a first-class thriller.
The people are credible ; the place where
the murder occurs is an authentic bit of
Essex, and the atmosphere of tension
is skilfully created and sustained. The
finish, with its double climax, is par-
ticularly effective. The story could have
stood on its merits, but the author has
dragged in episodes that don’t blend. It
begins with the heroine —an Anglicised
Mae West—idly ringing a bell while she
is having a bedtime bath in an old
house that was lent to her by friends. To
her surprise—for the daily woman has
left —footsteps approach. A handsome
young man appears. “What do you
want, madam?” “Company.” So they
live together till the mystery is cleared
up, and she is ready to marry a worthy
army captain who, like herself, is near-
ing middle age. An indecent film comes
into it.
“What interested me in the film,” Dr. Tate
was saying, “was the psychology of a man
who could allow his wife to take a part
-in it.”
“It points to the so-called Candaules
complex, doesn’t it?” Sir Joseph suggested.
And there is an exposition of the
Candaules complex. Neither the film,
the Candaules complex nor the heroine’s
fancy for the young man has any real
bearing on the plot. An artist in this
genre such as Gaboriau wouldn’t have
wasted his time on any of them.
Still in the Van
Michael Aden helped to pioneer the
Paphian renaissance ten years ago.
Since then he has been beaten in his own
field by dozens of bright young men
and women. Hence Hell! Said the
Duchess (Heinemann; 65.). It repre-
sents an advance in daring on Mr.
Aden’s previous efforts, and it isn’t
likely to be imitated, if only because a
repetition of the formula would be ex-
tremely dull. It begins as social satire
in a style which combines the most
memorable features of Gibbon and
“Pitcher” of the “Pink ’Un.” Rioters in-
vade Mayfair.
Thus the charming but private details of
a gentlewoman’s bedchamber became the
derided objects of the rioters’ lust, and the
coarse hands of the mob delighted to de-
stroy the flimsy fabrics of a duchess’s
intimate toilet. While London, on that
' wretched day, was not spared the degrading
spectacle of Englishmen wearing in broad
daylight a lady’s knickers as fancy head-
gear.
Antitheses of the sort are effective on a
small scale, as
Max Beerbohni
proved 40 years
ago in his study
of Lord George
Hell, but Mr.
Arlen’s book has
181 pages, and the elaborate flippancies
go on tor 145 of them. The last three
chapters deal reverently, sentimentally,
with the fantastic being whose crimes
impelled the gentle duchess to utter the
exclamation which figures in the title.
Xanthis Axaloe is a pronounced necro-
mantic. As duchess he earns the nick-
name Jane the Ripper by murdering in-
fatuated lovers; as himself he causes
dauntless Colonel Wingless to go “as
blanched as though the devil had kissed
him on the mouth.” Wingless eventu-
ally gets his mighty hands on the mon-
ster’s throat, and “Axaloe, opening his
mouth wide in his dying agony, spoke
a sentence in a language that sounded
like a rushing wind.” The concluding
paragraph is lugubrious:
Some five months later Colonel Wingless
blew his brains out. He left no message
of any kind. His many friends must
always mourn the pitiful end of a loyal
friend, a fearless rider to hounds, and a
very gallant gentleman.
The humor of Hell! Said the Duchess
is thin, and the horror is that .of
“Creeps,” “Shudders” and similar Philip
Allan publications ; but the sex-element
is certainly the goods. It makes Paul de
Kock seem mealy-mouthed. But it is
bad art, as the eroticism of “The Green
Hat” was not. The sex theme of “The
Green Hat.” was part of the pattern;
the salacities of Hell! Said the Duchess
are almost as irrelevant as song-and-
dance turns.
A Modem French Novel
Isabelle, of Simonne Ratel’s The High
House (The Bodley Head ; 7s. 6d.), is an
exasperating creature in many ways. She
shouldn’t have married Amedee; with
her frigid nature she probably shouldn’t
have married anybody. By the exercise
of a little tact she might have jollied the
wretched man into imagining that he
wasn’t altogether abhorrent, and so made
things pleasanter for everybody. But
she is one of those women who can’t
dissemble and who, when roused, are
liable to say the unforgettable, unforgiv-
able thing. So she and Amedee blunder
from one misunderstanding to another.
Mother-love is the theme, and it is
dealt with in exquisitely sensitive prose
(Eric Sutton is the translator) from every
imaginable angle. For the sake of the
children Isabelle wants to leave the
Auvergne and live in Paris.
A woman trying to induce her husband
to move to the town where her lover lives
was not more cautious than Isabelle when
she uttered the word “Paris” in Amedee’s
hearing, with the idea that she could there
get the children educated without having
to part from them. And as she talked
she watched him with all her eyes, eye-
lids and eyebrows to stab the words
“Boarding School” on his very lips, as soon
as he looked like uttering them.
Of course she gets her way. “What
has been deeply desired,” she muses, as
they are leaving Les Bories, “is always
in the end achieved.” But she remains
the anxious, introspective being she will
remain to her death ; the children cause
her as much distress as her husband, the
only difference being that it is another
kind of distress.
Here is a French novel which is touch-
ing and witty and which contains three
profound character-studies. It gives a
detailed picture of bourgeois life in
France over a period of five or six years,
and there is hardly a passage in it that
would have upset Dickens.
Red Page.
How Despotisms Are Created
Germany Reborn, by General Goring
(Elkin Mathews and Marrot; 2s. 6d.),
is of great contemporary interest; it was
written just before the recent mass assas-
sination which relieved the Hitler-Goring-
Gobbels triumvirate of the last of its
known rivals. Von Papen appears as a
{‘‘Red. Page” continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—The Foundation of Confidence.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2401. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
EFFICIENT IMPLEMENTS INCREASE YOUR YIELD
Thrifty Farmers buy at Anthony Horderns’. Profit by their experience
and buy there too!
JOHN DEER” PLOUGHS
s&zs.-.-zz-jiaa
WRITE FOR OUR
MAIL ORDER
CATALOGUE.
“Red
Jacket”
£B/7/6
A Sturdy All Steel Plough, with mouldboard of hardened, soft centre steel and shares of
crucible steel. The beam is of special steel with high curve. Body is one-piece steel,
with steel handles.
9in. Weight 89 pounds. Price £B/7/6
Single standard land wheels, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6. Disc Coulter, 30/-.
No. 4 Hill and Drill SEEDER
£5/2/6
A Hill and Drill Seeder and Single Wheel Hoe
combined. For the home or the small market
gardener it is indispensable. It plants practically
every vegetable seed. The index that regulates
the seed output is accurate; the hopper holds
2\ quarts. Cultivating attachments : Large garden
plough, three steel cultivator teeth, one pair
6in. Price £5/2/6
NEW HARROW
CULTIVATOR
ď
This does excellent work in Tobacco and Strawberry fields.
The Beams are of I section steel, light but strong. The channel
steel Handles are rigidly stayed to the Beams. These stays
keep the Beams down level at all widths, so that all the tines
work the same depth. They also make the Cultivator very
rigid and free from “rattle.” The double-ended diamond tines
are of hard steel, and have a small foot forged on both ends.
They are held firmly to the Beams, and are adjustable to three
slopes. Depth is altered by moving the front fork bolt to the
required hole. The Beams open from to 39-2- inches.
Widening is done with a quick-acting lever. The cast iron
wheel, which has a 2in. rim, runs on a renewable steel bush.
Approx, weight, 761 b. Price 82/6
đ
; - N
The “MINTERN”
No. 25 Hill and Drill SEEDER
No. 25 Hill and Drill Seeder, Double and Single
Wheel Hoe Combined. The No. 25 plants all
vegetable seeds like the No. 4, but includes the
Double as well as the Single Wheel Hoe,
enabling the gardener to straddle the
rows until the plants are 20 inches high,
cultivating both sides at one time. Equip-
ment includes a pair of garden ploughs,
four steel cultivating teeth, one pair of
6in. hoes and leaf lifter. Price, £5/17/6
CHAFF CUTTERS
No. I “Uni” Cutter, made
by Anthony Horderns’. The
“Uni’ Chaff Cutter, with
7 Jin. mouth, cut's two
lengths, Jin. and Jin.
Sturdily built on three
steel legs.
Price £6/ I 7/6
No. 2 “Uni” Hand Chaff
Cutter, made by Anthony
Hordern and Sons. Rising
mouth, 7-fin. Capacity, 5
cwt. per hour. Floor space,
6ft. x 3ft. 6in. Cuts two
lengths, fin. and
Weight, 2 cwt.
Price
£9/15/-
GRINDING
“Uni”
MILL
The “Uni” New Grinding
Mill presents unusual
value. Easily operated
hand power, fitted with
patent flexible grinding
plates. Suitable for farmer,
poultry-keeper, grocers,
chemist or domestic use.
Will grind to a fine meal
or kibble all kinds of
grain, coffee, drugs, char-
coal, cocoa,' oyster shells,
dog biscuits, oilcake, etc.
Nothing to get out of
order, and soon repays its
outlay. Weight, 701 b.
Price
The “Samson” (Reg.)
PUMPING OUTFIT
£4B/-/
Direct Coupled
v complete self-contained Pumping Plant, for pumping from a river,
dam or well, where the water is within suction limit.
The Engine is direct-connected to “Samson Low-down Power Pumps,
and mounted on steel base, forming a complete pumping unit—light,
compact and strong. .
The Engine will run for 12 hours on one gallon of petrol.
The Pumps have bronze valves on bronze seats, solid bronze piston rods,
brass-lined cylinders.
All parts are interchangeable, and the owner of a “Samson Pumper can
always relv upon replacing a worn part with a new one that fits perfectlj.
No " ' 323 324 325
Size of Pump— Diameter of Cylinder 3in. ton. oin.
Approximate Delivery, gallons ;>00 50
Total Head, feet 9
Size of Pipe, inches —Suction 2
Gross Weight, pounds ' 2f , 09
Shipping Measurement, feet £49/15/- £52
Price
Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor. Free delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
-- . V - ...
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


IlSpfcy; ; j j
mm
sxsss?
. '
■ • 1,,*-:
*
motor with
• ,
Atlantic
Soar up the hills on top without ever a knock!
Drive through traffic with smooth, instantaneous
pick-up! Increase your power and mileage!
In other words, drive with the modern motor spirit,
Atlantic Ethyl. This is a highly refined spirit of
peerless quality, with which has been blended the ideal
proportion of genuine Ethyl fluid for anti-knock
perfection.
Atlantic Ethyl is available at the red , cream and blue pumps.
ATLANTIC
d
Atlantic union oil co. ltd.
Australia a new Zealand
ES73


V (A
O
-x
UrCnll.im-s
L,
StatottiKisky fj \l
IL
jAeAai
i
ZM
i
m
I
'Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son -- - Fremantle
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros, and Co. Hobart
temporary hero. By August, 1932, Hitler
was frankly out for the Chancellorship.
We had warned Chancellor von Papen,
we had explained to him that we were
compelled to attack him, not for personal
reasons, but because of the part he
wished to fill. Again and again we ex-
plained to him that there was only one
possible solution, and that was to make
Hitler Chancellor.
They duly torpedoed Von Papen, but
Von Schleicher succeeded him. Immedi-
ately “the Leader [Hitler] was fighting
Schleicher in this hard struggle, and was
holding with iron will and dogged de-
termination to his demand for the Chan-
cellorship.”
A few weeks ago the “New Statesman
and Nation” printed a letter written by
Von Schleicher at the end of 1932, which
was when he first heard Von Papen was
conspiring against him.
I sent for Von Papen and put the follow-
ing questions to him:
“In the name of our old friendship 1
adjure you to be frank with me. What
docs (his Hitler interview mean?”
Papen took my hand and shook it,
looked straight into my eyes and replied:
“Kurt, in the name of our old friendship
and on my word of honor as an officer
and as a man, I swear to you that 1
will never undertake nor sanction any move
against you or against a Government of
which you are the head.” I was fool
enough to believe him.
Apparently Papen had long since decided
to betray Schleicher. From January 20
of the following year, writes Goring, “I
was in constant touch with Herr von
Papen.”
And then it was seen that Herr von
Papen, against whom for political reasons
we had once been forced to fight, now
realised what a momentous occasion this
was. With sincere cordiality he entered
into alliance with us, and became the
honest mediator between the aged Field
Marshal and the young lance-corporal of
. the Great War.
Papen soon persuaded the dying Presi-
dent to supersede Schleicher. Hitler was
appointed Chancellor on January 30.
Goring’s first concern as Prime Minister
of Prussia was to arm the police with
revolvers, and lay down a principle.
I declared that every bullet fired from
the barrel of a police pistol was my bullet.
If you call that murder then I am a mur-
derer.
He next addressed himself to “the wiping
out of Marxism and Communism,” with
results which the world knows. The
wiping out of Hitler’s political opponents,
notably General von Schleicher and
his wife, Dr. Klausener (leader of the
Catholic Action party) and between 40
and 50 other persons of note, including
Von Papen’s secretary, followed last
month. Papen was saved by the interven-
tion of Hindenburg. Now that the old
Field Marshal is gone and the young
lance-corporal is President as well as
Chancellor, the appearance of Papen
before a firing-squad can only be a
matter of time. Such men are dangerous.
Germany Reborn contains passages
which would suggest to Australian
readers that Goring is a sufferer from
some form of paranoia if the people of
this country hadn’t become habituated to
similar ravings by members of the “Lang
Is Right” school.
Just as the Roman Catholic considers
the Pope infallible.... so for us the
Leader is, in all political and other matters
concerning the national and social interest
of the people, simply infallible.
Stalin and his fellow-conspirators wrote
in the same strain of Trotsky in the early
stages of the Bolshevik tyranny.
H. S.
A New View of Wentworth
The main theme of William Charles
Wentworth, by A. C. V. Melbourne,
Associate Professor of History at
Queensland University, is that “Went-
worth’s political career was influenced in
an extraordinary degree” by his family
origins. Until Wentworth was 27 he
thought his father, Darcy, was one of
Sydney’s “exclusives”; he heard the
truth from John Macarthur, jun., in
Paris, and it is alleged to have embittered
him.
The theory seems far-fetched. Un-
doubtedly Wentworth cherished a grudge
against John Macarthur, sen., who had
refused to accept him as a son-in-law,
and he despised young Macarthur, who
was an oaf; but there is no reason to
think that it affected his intellectual de-
velopment. It has been said that if a
man doesn’t begin by being a social in-
novator he has no heart, and if he per-
sists he has no head. Wentworth said
himself in 1853: “I deny emphatically
that I ever was a democrat.” But, as
Professor Melbourne remarks, “he had
an inborn hatred of oppression and an
academic attachment to liberal prin-
ciples.”
Wentworth and Warded used the
“Australian” to express these sentiments.
However, long before Wentworth gave
up journalism and the Bar he had ceased
to believe in adult suffrage and the rest,
not because of fancied grievances against
the “exclusives,” nor even because he was
now “a wealthy man, a great landowner
and an employer anxious to obtain cheap
labor,” but because 10 years’ study of
the masses had satisfied him that “good
government was possible only where the
foolish and the ignorant were excluded
from public life.” Professor Melbourne
concludes with a high tribute:
It is difficult to suggest the heights to
which Wentworth might have risen had he
transferred his energies to the House of
Commons But Wentworth never seri-
ously thought of seeking election to the
House of Commons; he felt he owed his
service to the country of his birth, and he
must be measured by its standards.
According to these, at least, he was a
great man; probably the greatest the
country has so far produced.
The book is an expansion of the John
Murtagh Macrossan lectures for 1932,
and readers are referred “as a correc-
tive” to “Early Constitutional Develop-
ment in Australia, N. S. Wales, 1788-
1856,” which will shortly be issued by
the Oxford University Press.
D.
Are Modernist Artists Mad?
Miss Stephanie Taylor, guide-lecturer
to the Melbourne National Gallery, re-
cently unburdened herself to this effect:
These moderns declared it was not neces-
sary to paint what they saw but what was
in their minds. What minds! In this
country,, so full of lovely spots, so happy
in its magnificently formed young men and
women, there was no room for this morbid
and degrading art.
And she quoted another artist to the
effect that Gauguin’s work “bordered on
lunacy.”
There is no evidence that modernist
painters are madder than ordinary citi-
zens. Gauguin was queer in his habits
according to popular standards. Van
Gogh went off his head, but his painting
was the same when he was unquestion-
ably in full possession of his senses.
Cezanne was a very level-headed fellow.
If Miss Taylor argues that these artists
were insane because their pictures don’t
look like anything in nature, then she
is bound to admit that Alma-Tadema,
Waterhouse, Burne-Jones and Watts, all
of whom are represented in the national
collection, had a screw loose, for there
is nothing in nature in the least like their
pictures. On the same criterion, Tiepolo
was as mad as a March hare, for the
figures in his “Banquet of Cleopatra” are
about 14 feet high and have heads thd
size of walnuts. Yet the Felton Bequest
paid £28,000 for the picture, and Miss
Taylor recently expressed approval of it.
By Miss Taylor’s criterion Frith is a
mental deficient, Finey is a congenital
idiot, and it is time Syd Miller and D. H.
Souter were clapped in an asylum. There
are no objects in nature like some of
their drawings. Thousands of Australians
must be mental, for they appreciate the
productions of these lunatics. London,
Paris, Berlin and New York must be
inhabited by imbeciles, for they admire
and eagerly purchase the works of similar
madmen.
I suggest an explanation of the
apparent paradox. If we had lived 100
years ago we would have seen nature
in terms of George Cruikshank and the
academicians popular at the moment. A
few years later we would have seen it
in the terms of Rossetti, Watts and Du
Maurier. To-day we see it, some of us
in terms of Augustus John and the con-
temporary academicians, others in terms
of Walt Disney, Frith and Finey, still
others —the most “advanced”—in terms
of Cezanne and his confreres. Cezanne
was no more mad than his admirers
were and are. He was simply a rather
clumsy painter who painted according to
a rather muddled set of principles, and
made a lot of blunders. His followers
elevated his blunders into virtues and
copied them, and the result was artistic
chaos.
In other words, Miss Taylor, not to
mention the rest of us, is the unconscious
prey of fashion. Very few people ever
emerge from the realm of fashion. When
they do, they are usually called lunatics
during their lifetime and geniuses later.
Miss Taylor likes the old fashions, but
she doesn’t yet like the new fashions.
Similarly a lot of women once thought
short skirts were shocking and later took
to wearing them.
M. G. S.
A Satchel of Books
The principal feature of Art in Aus-
tralia for August (Art in Australia ; 55.)
is “Impressions of Contemporary Art in
London,” by Sydney Ure Smith.
I saw masses of work in London.
Some of it was good, some distinctly
bad Of all the contemporary artists,
Augustus John stood out as the greatest
living painter. '
Kenneth Wilkinson and Howard Ashton
discuss Roland Wakelin and Will Ashton
respectively (with full-page reproduc-
tions) ; and there are some photographs
of Melbourne houses which indicate how
far the Victorian capital is ahead of
Sydney as regards domestic architecture
these days.
Happy Dispatches, by A. B. Paterson
(Angus and Robertson ; 65.). The vet-
eran horse-poet has here collected a
number of yarns about the famous
people he has met as a war correspon-
dent in S’Africa, as a remounts officer
in the World War and elsewhere. The
celebrities include Winston Churchill,
Lord Allenby, Marie Lloyd and Phil
May, and he has something amusing to
say about most of them.
Reginald Campbell knows more about
wild animals than most living writers,
and in This Animal Is Dangerous
(Hodder and Stoughton; 7s. 6d.) he
makes interesting use of his out-of-the-
way information. Teen is a Lao mahout
in charge of Poo Lone, a fierce elephant,
and the novel describes his life, profes-
sional and domestic, in 25 chapters and
an envoi. You not only see the animals,
you see into the natives’ minds.
Chinese Testament, by S. Tretiakov
(Gollancz; Bs. 6d.). The author is a
Russian Communist, and this is the story
of a Chinese convert to Sovietism, as
told by the young man himself. The
early pages describe with much charm
the life of a well-bred but poor Chinese
family before Sun Yat-sen’s revolution
threw the country into chaos. The father
of Tan Shih-hua (the testifier) returns
to the family home in a remote valley
of the Yangtze from a prolonged visit
to Japan full of modern ideas. Part of
the story deals with the father’s revolu-
tionary activities, the rest with the mel-
ancholy career of the son. The pictures
of Chinese family life have been done
before by the authoress of “The Good
Earth” and others ; but the impact of
Russian political thought on the mind
of an idealistic and able, yet simple and
credulous, Chinese provides a new form
of tragedy.
Two with a Light, by Hallie Erminie
Rives (Hutchinson ; Robertson and Mul-
lens ; 7s. 6d.). A readable version of
the rich-girl-poor-man story. When it
starts he’s in Europe —they’re all Ameri-
cans —and having a good time on his
father’s money. Then the crash comes,
dad dies, and at “twenty-seven years old,
six feet one inch tall, one hundred and
eighty pounds, not even a tooth missing,”
he becomes a golf pro. at the Country
Club back home in Santa Barbara. The
girl he marries thinks he’ll be content to
live on her. He isn’t. They quarrel
after a year, and he leaves home. The
rest of it tells of a world-wide search she
makes to find him. She does eventually
on an island somewhere in the South
Seas, and that’s that. It should make
a moving movie.
An Investigation into Secondary School
Mathematics, by H. J. Meldrum, Is. 3d. ;
Educational Observations and Reflections,
by K. S. Cunningham, 2s. 6d.; The Edu-
cation of the Retarded Child, by P.
Molitor Bachelard, 4s. 6d. Published by
Melb. Uni. Press. These are issued under
the aegis of the Australian Council for
Educational Research. Mr. Meldrum’s
work is an exhaustive analysis of marks
received by candidates who took the
Mathematics I paper in the 1931 I.C.
exam, in N. S. Wales. One of the conclu-
sions arrived at is that the syllabus is
unsuited to many pupils, especially the
girls ; another that pupils a little below
the average are devoting time to algebra
which would be better devoted to arith-
metic. Mr. Cunningham has been to
the U.S.A. and Britain, where he studied
the methods of various schools. An in-
teresting section of his book deals with
the “project method,” under which an
endeavor is made to educate along lines
that capture the interest of the pupils.
Soviet Russia tried it, and went back to
the old drill-sergeant methods, but Mr.
Cunningham has a good deal to say for
it. Mr. Bachelard’s work is mainly
analytic, and deals largely with the Vic.
Special Schools and Opportunity Grades.
It is a little surprising to find that in the
Opportunity Grade categories of children
of retarded mental growth 58.6 p.c. are
boys.
The Hungry Locust, by Catherine
Croy (Cassell; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.), is one
of those novels in which the characters
fail to live up to their early promise.
Julian, the hero, should have succeeded
or failed magnificently on his childish
form ; all he does is to become secretary
to a Sloane-street dressmaker and marry
Jennet —a .Janet Gaynor character.
Bobby Bolton, the designer at La Maison
Conquest, has the makings of an interest-
ing degenerate, but his corruption turns
out to be barely skin-deep. The book
fails as a picture of London life; but as
a daily-paper serial or story for the
home it should be a success. Its moral
sentiments are unimpeachable.
Experienced readers will know the
identity of the mysterious killer of Bar-
rington Beverley’s The Air Devil (Philip
Allan ; 2s. 6d.) very early in the piece.
After that there is little interest in the
yarn, though those less used to picking
the villain may find it mildly exciting.
In Frank C. Robertson’s Ex-Rustler
(Wild West Club ; 7s. 6d.) the heroine
plays a more important part than usual:
she’s a range detective, her main object
being to “get” the gang, led by a cross-
eyed woman horse-thief, who murdered
her husband. The hero, an undersized
cowpuncher, isn’t a stock figure either.
When they meet he’s a rustler, but he
throws it in to join up with her. For
the rest it follows the formula while tak-
ing a little longer to reach the “he-found-
his-arms-around-her” stage.


ď
?nea^id
SEPPELT & SONS Ml#
SOOTH AUSTRALIA
WAa/eaiis
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2846.
August 29, 1934.
DEAFENED WITH HIS OWN THUNDER.
There shall be in England seven halfpenny loaves sold for a penny.... there shall be no money ; all shall eat and drink on my score, and I will apparel
them all in one livery that they may agree like brothers and worship me, their lord.” —Jack Cade, “Second Part of King Henry VI.”
“Gramercy, this is no place for me!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Janies Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street. Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to
Country and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas : 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via ‘‘All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
SCAPEGOATS AND SHORT
CUTS.
“Nature will be reported,” Emerson
says, and human nature will have its
scapegoats and its short cuts. It is so
charmingly simple to impute a crisis or
a catastrophe to the calculated villainy
of some individual or small group, and
so comforting to feel that there is an
easy way out. It satisfies the instinct
for melodrama, and removes the danger
of overtaxing the mind by hard reading
and thinking.
Nor does it lessen the attractions of
scapegoats and short cuts to know that
they can be changed. There are many
of both to choose from, and if one fails
to suit a particular need another can be
invented. This has been demonstrated
on various occasions since 1914. Thus the
war was caused by one master-criminal,
the Kaiser, and prolonged by the Hidden
Hand. That concealed member frus-
trated the efforts of our generals at Fes-
tubert, Neuve Chapelle, Loos, First and
Second Gaza, Second Cambrai and
Passchendaele. Victory, nevertheless,
gained at last, recovery was simply a
matter of collecting the whole cost of
the winner’s effort from the loser, at the
same time shutting out his goods. This
process was arrested, permanently as it
happened—by whom? The International
Jew.
The combatants long for peace, with
greater leisure to indulge in pastimes
which are mimic battles, and to go out
with guns and shoot things; but the
armaments manufacturers won’t let them
enjoy it. Fresh wars are being brewed
by those fiends in human form. Vain
is it to plead that the two most pacific
Great Powers permit private manufac-
ture of armaments, and that the one that
is always talking foreign war and trying
to stir up civil wars has banned it for 16
years. Capitalist manufacturers of arma-
ments are engaged in an international
conspiracy to drown the world in blood
for sordid gain. Many good people
cherish such beliefs. Some bad people
take advantage of them to conceal their
own blunders and increase or consoli-
date their power.
Europe’s traditional scapegoat is the
Jew. In Australia, since default began
to be preached as a sacred duty, the
private banker has been cast for the
part. He is blamed for beginning the
depression and for not ending it;
accused of having precipitated it by lend-
ing too much and of having prolonged
it indefinitely by lending too little.
His vaults, it is alleged, are crammed
with gold wrung from the nation in its
agony. Governments tremble at his
frown ; Parliaments are his humble ser-
vants. Fearful of Mr. Lang and jealous
of the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank, he smashed that institution. And
it is no good saying that he didn’t, and
that he helped the Savings Bank when
the Lang Government had defaulted to
it to the extent of £2,600,000, having
made default the cornerstone of its
policy. No use his protesting that he
surrendered practically all his gold to the
nation during the crisis of 1931 and has
strained his resources by accommodat-
ing the seven Governments during the
depression, and that Australians have
not been reduced to dreadful straits (as
the Americans have been) by the banks
going bung. He wastes his breath if
he points out that in the roaring years he
tried to save the people from being bur-
dened with debt, whereas Mr. Lang piled
it on their backs—had a part (often a
principal part) in raising the N.S.W.
public debt from £116,600,000 in 1913 to
£285,500,000 in 1931, and in spending
much of the money on the silliest pro-
jects ever minted in the brains of vote-
buying demagogues. It is enough that
the private banker stands between Mr.
Lang and the consummation of vast
plans for the issue of “credits, based on
the entire public and private wealth of
the country.” Away with him!
The Red (himself a scapegoat to the
duller sort of White politician) has the
capitalist for his scapegoat and for his
short cut Communism. At least he says
it is a short cut, with, as a first step, the
planting of his hoof on the private bank-
er’s neck, but Russian experience sug-
gets that it is a blood-splashed road, with
happiness always furlongs ahead of the
pursuers. After three years of civil war
and mass executions and 14 years of a
Marxian dictatorship, the Muscovites all
live in their bedrooms, have black-bread
cards (28oz. a day for manual workers
and 14oz. for office workers), and if they
yearn to wash the stuff down with tea
are privileged to pay 10s. a pound for it.
They may also, if they are lucky, aspire
to a “shoddy suit and a collar and tie
and a rotten pair of boots”—but not two
pairs: “the second pair of boots simply
does not exist in the Soviet Union.” In
short, besides being ordered about and
kicked—of course, they always have been
ordered about and kicked in Russia —
they are so ill-fed, ill-clothed and
ill-housed that, “at a conservative
estimate, 80 per cent, of the population
of Moscow is seriously tuberculous.”
The witness is an English Liberal who
went to Russia with the Quaker Famine
Relief Unit in 1922 and stayed on as
teacher of English at the Moscow Uni-
versity. He is there now, and confesses
to a bias in favor of the experiment.
Last come the Douglas Credit folk,
who have made such strides in Australia
(or think they have) that they are run-
ning 46 candidates for the Common-
wealth elections. The private banker is
their scapegoat also, and they are going
to choke him with paper —“issues of
credit, to be debt-free and interest-free”
—murmuring the while some witch-doctor
stuff about “reduction of prices to a
Just Price.” By thus juggling with paper
and muttering incantations, they will
straightway increase all pensions and
doles to “255. a week per person” ; “ex-
tend the scope of family endow-
ment throughout Australia and increase
the amount to 10s. per week till each
child attains the age of 18 years”;
“definitely provide work for all within
a fpw months” ; “progressively reduce
taxes to the point of elimination”;
“abolish public borrowing and make full
provision for the complete redemption of
the national debt.” What is more, they
will pay every man, woman and child
“a national dividend,” and they urge
men, women and children to hasten the
obliteration of the private banker by
bawling out for this “dividend” as their
right. Butcher, baker, candlestick-
maker ; bookie’s clerk, loafer, imbecile ;
“demand your national dividend!”
Scapegoats we shall always have, and
short cuts we may try if we are crazy
enough. We have already ventured
along one: Government ownership
of railways, tramways, motor-’buses,
steamers, cattle-runs, meatworks, fruit-
canneries and banks like the concern on
which a Royal Commission has just re-
ported in Westralia. It was recom-
mended to us by the Langs and Scullins,
and by many of those who are now
Communists and Douglasites, and among
the results are colossal liabilities, chronic
deficits, the rise of menacing organisa-
tions and a vast extension of bureau-
cratic control. Shall we follow these
false guides along wilder and darker
roads? Better stick to the ways we
know, improving them where we can
and prizing the liberties we enjoy while
the regimented and impoverished people
of the countries run by dictators and
doctrinaires are denied the vote and the
precious gift of free speech.
WOOL IS DOWN.
The Brisbane wool sales, first of the
1934-35 series, have shown a decline of
15 p.c. to 25 p.c. on May prices. Sales
were to have been held at Brisbane in
June. Postponement did not damp
the general optimism; neither did the
threats of Italian and German prohibi-
tions, nor even the May-July fall in the
price of tops, which had always proved
a yardstick for the following season.
Bradford 64’s fell over 9d. between May
5 and August 15, when their price at
29d. was nominal.
But as time passed hope wavered. At
the July London sales there was a 25
p.c. reduction on May prices, even after
heavy withdrawals. The Continental
position remained unsettled. A few days
before the Brisbane auction, agents who
had been confident changed their note.
It was thought in some quarters that the
sales might be postponed again. A re-
duction of the quota of bales scheduled
to be sold before Christmas, 1,600,000
to 1,350,000, was all that happened. This
means that at Sydney and Brisbane
10,000 bales per day instead of 12,000
will be offered. And
If conditions do not warrant catalogues
of that size the quantities can be further
curtailed.
At Brisbane one day the withdrawals
were 30 p.c.
The price obtained at Brisbane fell
short of last year's opening figure by
about Id. per pound. Yet competition
was “keen,” and brokers are still
“hopeful,” though some of them can be
heard whistling to keep their courage up.
The slump is now attributed to Ger-
many’s inability to buy, but there is no-
thing to justify any prophecy of material
improvement—not even the old cry
that “the position is statistically sound.”
“Statistically sound” it has been right
through the depression.
Australian marketers of wool have
been praised by the British Trade Com-
missioner for their “remarkable foresight
and strength.”
At a time when all over the world re-
striction of output or of sales had become
almost a fetish, Australia persisted in the
policy of selling each season all the wool
that came forward.
Mr. Dalton thinks that this procedure
“avoided disturbance of the statistical
position of stocks” and “made the
market more receptive to any influence
which might bring about a rise.”
It is doubtful whether anywhere in the
world for any product of world signifi-
cance the administration has been so far-
seeing or so effective for the good of the
industry and of the whole country.
Much of what the Commissioner says
is true, but it has been achieved as much
by circumstance as by merit. The wool
has been offered because the buyers have
been there and because every penny pos-
sible had to be scraped in to save tax-
laden, politician-ridden graziers from
bankruptcy. There was little foresight
about it.
At the moment hordes of politicians
are touring the country promising mugs
the moon. If wool prices do not
rise above the Brisbane level they will
have to face stern realities very soon —
tenpence a pound is definitely not pay-
able. The Commonwealth Wool Com-
mittee in 1932 found average cost of pro-
duction on an average holding to be
15d. a pound, interest being reckoned at
4+d. a pound. Costs have come down
a lot since then, but not enough to keep
growers solvent on the new scale.
Interest charges are doubly heavy be-
cause of the seasonal nature of sales and
financing. The grazier who shears next
month often may expect his return only
in eight or nine months after shearing.
Meantime, a little more bank interest
weighs him down every quarter. It
might be easier for him if sales were
distributed round the year instead of
merely round the season, and if a bill
system of financing were devised to give
him his money quickly.
Wool is a “self-liquidating” security.
Even at the depth of the depression it
was nearly as good an exchange medium
as currency—-so good that people with
funds to transfer to Europe shipped wool
to effect the transfer. In London, where
there is a bill market, it is easy to finance
commodities of this type on a rate which
ranges from i p.c. to 1 p.c. per annum.
In New York the rate is f p.c. But there
is no facility for wool financing.
A movement is now on foot in Sydney
to have a London wool bill market estab-
lished. The procedure would be that
each fortnight (as is done now for in-
surance purposes) brokers would declare
their wool stocks in store and the esti-
mated value of them. The Common-
wealth Bank would vouch for security
to London discount houses, which would
issue bills. The Commonwealth or trading
banks, the sponsors of the scheme claim,
could discount the bills. The wool-
brokers could pay to the grower within
14 days after the delivery of his wool in
store an amount equal to 75 p.c. of the
calculated value of his clip at a charge
of a few shillings per cent.
One thing is certain. If wool prices
do not improve swiftly and substantially
resolute reduction of all reducible
charges will be necessary.
POLITICIANS V. PEOPLE.
Politicians are slow at remedying abuses
suffered by the public, and they jealously
guard the out-of-date privilege which
permits ruffians among them to defame
private citizens and get their libels into
“Hansard” without being responsible at
law. But how swift they are to protect
members of their order when their
emoluments are threatened or their hides
are pierced!
A Westralian “Nationalist” Govern-
ment put Clydesdale, M.L.C., a reputedly
wealthy racing-club secretary, on its Lot-
teries Commission, at a handsome addi-
tion to his Parliamentary salary, and a
Labor Government kept him there. On
the complaint of E. J. Hughes, some-
time Labor M.L.A. for East Perth, the
State Chief Justice found that Clydes-
dale was holding an office of profit under
the Crown, which in effect meant that
he had forfeited his right to sit as a
member and to receive salary as such
while he was being paid for his lottery
work. To save him, the Labor Gov-
ernment straightway brought in a bill ot
exemption from pains and penalties
retroactive to the date of his appoint-
ment to the Lotteries Commission, and
with a clause allowing him to remain
on it. Though an amendment of the
Constitution Act, it was whisked through
Parliament in record time, only the
veteran Needham voting against it in the
Assembly.
This, nevertheless, did not dispose of
the matter. The case went to the State
Full Court, which ruled that the indemni-
fication was incomplete and upheld the
Chief Justice’s verdict, which incidentally
provides that a penalty of £2OO should
be paid by Clydesdale to Hughes. Leave
to appeal from this judgment has been
granted by the High Court.
Hughes meanwhile came out for the
Legislative Council himself, standing for
one of the West Province (Fremantle)
seats. During the campaign remarks
damaging to his reputation were spoken
and printed by certain of his former
“comrades.” He took successful pro-
ceedings in the Police Court and in the
Supreme Court; there £lOO damages
were awarded to him by a jury.
One of the defendants was E. H. Gray,
a West Province member who had four
more years to serve. The Fremantle
magistrate was asked to treat this poli-
tician as a first offender ; “otherwise,” it
was pleaded, “he would, under a penalty
clause in the Electoral Act, lose his seat
and salary for the unexpired portion of
his term” (the salary is £5OO a-year) and
be disqualified for a further two years.
The magistrate took a week to consider
these representations and then rejected
them. He said, in effect, that the law
had been flagrantly violated by a person
who, as a lawmaker, should have been
the first to respect it, and that he must
convict and impose adequate punish-
ment.
Did the Labor Government take steps
to declare the seat vacant and have a by-
election held? It did not. As in the
Clydesdale case, it sought for ways and
means of saving a “comrade’s” job, and
presently the newspaper roundsmen were
provided with material for the subjoined
paragraph:—
Fined £2O, plus costs, for a breach of
the Electoral Act, Mr. E. H. Gray, M.L.C.,
has been granted a free pardon by the
Executive Council, and is now able to take
his seat.
This was too much for even some of
the meek politicians who had supported
the Clydesdale measure or let it pass
without a protest. Opposition-leader
Latham demanded production in the
Assembly of all papers dealing with the
recommendation to the Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor (ex-Premier Mitchell, whose Gov-
ernment was responsible in the first place
for the Clydesdale appointment) that the
free pardon should be granted. Seddon,
M.L.C., gave notice of motion that, “in
the opinion of this House, the free pardon
is of no force or effect, since it is not a
proper exercise of the royal prerogative. "
The Labor Premier professes himself
ready to “go on any platform and defend
the granting of the free pardon to Mr.
Gray.” • What can he say except to brazen
it out? Restraints designed, in the in-
terests of the people, to make members of
Parliament behave are placed in the Con-
stitution and the Electoral Act; and
when two Labor members are involved
his party—“the people’s party” —sweeps
them away.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Battle-cruiser!
The two Labor factions and the Doug-
las Credit crowd apparently imagine
that Australia can be protected against
invaders or raiders by making speeches
or issuing pamphlets. The Lyons Gov-
ernment at least recognises the need for
strengthening the national defences. But
the policy outlined by Senator Pearce is
unlikely to make Australia feel much
safer.
He proposes that we shall spend
another £6,200,000 in three years. Five-
sixths of this will go in new building.
Each year we are to find one-fifth of the
cost of a new cruiser of a type which
exists in the world’s navies in dozens.
Then we are to contribute towards the
“cost of a second sloop.”
The new cruiser is to replace H.M.A.S.
Brisbane, an historic craft in that she was
the most expensive cruiser of her type
ever built. She has been tied to a buoy
in Sydney Harbor for years, manned by
a formidable force of watchmen and
greasers, and she was “over age” in
1932, like some of our politicians.
The annual new naval expenditure is
nearly equal to the cost of the upkeep
of an 8,000-ton cruiser in commission.
And the annual extra amount to be laid
out on military matters is £284,000, of
which £141,000 is to be put into 9.4 in.
guns, to be laid down in batteries a few
thousand miles apart. For “the navy
needs adequately defended bases, which
must also be available to the mercantile
marine.”
Any decent battle-cruiser of the type of
the Renown or the Repulse could take
both the bases and the navy in one bite
without coming within their range of
fire. One battle-cruiser and half a dozen
aerial squadrons of the newest British
bombers would have ten times the fight-
ing value of the additions proposed.
The reasons why the Scharnhorst and the
Gneisenau did not attack Australian
ports were not the Sydney and the Mel-
bourne, which they could have gobbled
up, but the presence in Australian waters
of one battle-cruiser which they did not
wish to meet at any price.
A strong aerial force ashore and a
single battle-cruiser or pocket battleship
of 20,000 tons, with the range, propor-
tionate armament and class of personnel
which characterise the new German war
vessels, would make it impossible for any
enemy raid to take place without the aid
of a battleship squadron.
4
Yellowplush in Australia.
A high old row is afloat between the
“S. M. Herald” and some Melbourne
newspaper proprietaries regarding the
use of the Duke’s photograph on choco-
late boxes. Melbourne says the practice
isn’t “etiquette” ; the “S. M. Herald” re-
torts that it must act “as a stimulant to
public loyalty.”
The picture of the King or any member
of his family cannot be brought before too
many of his loyal subjects anywhere.
Australians are used to these competi-
tions in servility. To the victors the
K.Bs. But what about the unfortunate
royalties? The Bulletin protested
against the ballyhoo campaign which
began in our papers when it was dis-
closed that the Duke was coming instead
of his brother; rancid stuff about the
new choice being “a man of action, yet
gentle as a woman,” “a very perfect,
gentle knight,” etc., which would have
shamed many a movie star. The editor
of the London “New Statesman and
Nation,” after quoting from The Bul-
letin, wrote last month:
My own comment is that it is really too
bad to make royalties ridiculous in this
way. They cannot answer back. They are
civil servants.
This is the customary reaction amongst
educated Englishmen to the activities of
our self-styled loyalists. When the
R.A.N. movement was started they went
on arguing that it was “disloyal” till
Downing-street said through Governor-
General Dudley that it had the approval
of the Admiralty. Australian cities pro-
liferate superfluous leagues for the pre-
servation of the throne, and when a
royalty arrives there are orgies of abase-
ment on the part of prominent citizens
and newspapers which puzzle people
overseas, who are accustomed to think
of the inhabitants of the land that pro-
duced the A.I.F. as upstanding, indepen-
dent folk.
It’s all hopelessly out of date. The
present-day royalty makes no claim to
a divine right of kings. He is simply
a unit in a democracy eager to do his
job with the least possible fuss and dis-
play. He can’t speak his thoughts when
people behave like Gyppo fellaheen in
his presence; some of our “loyalists”
would be surprised if he did.
Only Seven Years.
The Commonwealth Arbitration Court
in Melbourne is on the last lap of a
go-as-you-please race which began in
1927 ; final addresses are now being de-
livered in the case of the railways unions
against the Ideal Employer. During
the course of the inquiry there have
been several changes of State and Federal
Governments, four wars between foreign
nations, the invasion of Manchuria by
Japan, the rise of Hitler in Germany,
the investigation of the stratosphere by
Prof. Picard, a modification of Einstein’s
theory of relativity and the inauguration
of President Roosevelt’s Square Deal in
America. While these events were hap-
pening the Commonwealth reporting staff
covered 11,544 pages of manuscript, and
the tale of words is approaching four
millions.
During the proceedings Judge Drake-
Brockman has taken a ’busman’s
holiday of three mionths in North Aus-
tralia, where there were local industrial
disputes calling for his attention, and
when the evidence is concluded his Honor
will presumably refresh his memory by
wading through the material. This should
take him six weeks at the rate
of 100,000 words a day. By that time,
perhaps, the new problems of the
railways will be so changed as to have
no relation to the old problems, and it
will be necessary to have another inquiry.
4
M.L. Parliament’s Longer Life.
Opposed only by the Labor minority, the
Forbes-Coates coalition in M.L. has
passed a measure permanently extending
the life of Parliament from three years
to four. None of the arguments ad-
vanced in favor of the change was
strong. There are two precedents in
M.L. political history, and great play
was made with these.
From 1852, when the islands were
granted powers of self-government, till
1879 the Parliamentary term was five
years. Only one Ministry, that of Staf-
ford, stayed the distance, and there were
19 changes in the period. The Triennial
Parliaments Act of 1879 was observed
till the period of the Great War, when
the National Government —a Massey-
Ward coalition —extended its own life for
a couple of years.
This latter dispensation was sternly
criticised by many good Liberals at the
time, but the arrangement was defensible
on the ground that the country was at
war and that it was undesirable to hold
an election in the absence of so large a
proportion of its manhood. In the course
of discussions on the war-time expedient
the opinion of high constitutional autho-
rities was obtained. It was to the effect
that a Dominion Parliament is a sovereign
power and has a legal right to amend or
repeal any of its own Acts.
It was upon this opinion that the
Forbes-Coates Government acted when it
sought to extend the term to four years.
In the course of debate Mr. Forbes quoted
authorities who ascribe to the British
Parliament such extreme powers as the
abolition of elections altogether, and he
inferred that what was sauce for the
Mother of Parliaments was sauce for
any of its chicks. He likened the depres-
sion to a species of economic war, and
argued that his Administration had as
much right as Massey’s to extend the
Parliamentary term in such martial cir-
cumstances.
The only voice raised against the pro-
posal on the Government side of the
House came, not from a Liberal, but
from A. D. McLeod, who was Minister
of Lands in Coates’s Cabinet. McLeod
said he saw no objection to a longer
term, but the Parliament that decreed it
should not itself enjoy the extension;
that would amount to members giving
themselves an extra year of salaried em-
ployment. An unassailable contention,
but it made as little impression at Wel-
lington as it did in Adelaide last year.
4 —:——
Australian Forestry.
From an authority on the subject:
The Bulletin’s article on forestry (B.
22/8/’34) is timely. N. S. Wales is rapidly
sinking back into the dark ages of forestry
which existed prior to the establishment of the
Forestry Commission and the recognition of
the need for a technically-trained forester to
administer assets.
“We are going back to win-tie-or-wrangle
methods,” a sawmiller said to me. “Back to
the days when the sawmiller with the biggest
pull got the bush.” Each State is liable to
recede in this manner, for it is too much
to expect that succeeding Ministers will com-
bine both strength of character and vision.
It needs a strong Minister to withstand the
pressure brought to bear by timber exporters
on the one hand and by land-settlement inter-
ests on the other; and it needs a man of vision
to realise the value of the asset which is rep-
resented by a country’s forests.
Transfer-of the State forests to the Com-
monwealth Government and, with them, the
catchment areas of the main rivers, the
Murray in particular, is the only solution which
will safeguard timber and water supply. A
Commonwealth Act provides for the taking
over of forests, but to date no transfers have
been made and any move to do so would be
resisted by departmental heads in the States.
So the difficulties of unification of services
are great, and it does not seem possible to
overcome them without a much more enlight-
ened outlook. In this direction, a leader such
as yours is of particular value.
What is to be done in the meantime in
N. S. Wales? Every effort should be made to
arrest the retrogression which started a year
ago with the establishment of clerical control.
Mr. Kessell’s full report should see the light
of day. Only a very brief summary has been
made available to the press. That summary,
however, is sufficient to show that the report
is important, and that it should be published
before forestry is placed under full political
control.
—. 4
Scullin’s Horse.
“I do not regard the Commonwealth Bank
as sacred. It will be merely stabling for
Labor’s policy.” —Frank Brennan, formerly
Mr. Seal tin’s Attorney-General.
“El V.”: I know the sort of animal Mr.
Scullin will stable in the bank. She is
an ancient mare whom people used to
mistake for a tiger ; her asthmatic cough
in the dark deceived them. Her name
is Inflation (imp.), by Karl Marx out of
Lenin’s Desire.
Though she is losing her teeth and
the hair on her lower lip is somewhat
moist, she has labored hard in her time.
Socialism used her in Russia as a plough-
horse, but she bruised her hocks against
the bar, and her stable-mate, Circum-
stance, kicked her rather badly. Then
they had fed her mainly on hot air.
In Australia she may plough the fields
of revolution or she may not. It is more
likely that at a certain stage in the pro-
ceedings she will kick Mr. Scullin and
Mr. Brennan and Mr. Lang to glory.
Though weak on the trace, chains, she
has always been uncertain of temper.
There are a good many thousand
moderns looking at daisy roots from
underneath who have felt the weight of
her heels. Since she has not been accli-
matised in the Southern Hemisphere, and
she has always been impatient of dema-
gogue control, Australian ploughmen
are going to have a rough time driving
her.
They have shown themselves quite
unable to manage even normal financial
animals. The quiet teams they took over
four years ago bolted, after kicking them
hard, and on the food she is likely to get
in the Commonwealth Bank stable the
old mare will be inclined to pull the
reins out of their hands and run over a
lot of bystanders.
—4
Universities and Thought.
The council of the Canberra University
College has told Mr. Perkins, who con-
trols the artificial political city in the
Duntroon Valley, that Canberra should
be a “centre of learning and culture,”
and that a “national residential univer-
sity should be established there without
delay.” An initial outlay of £50,000
and a subsidy of £16,000 p.a. are men-
tioned.
Exactly what Canberra’s claims are it
would be hard to define. Outside Paris,
Vienna, Edinburgh and Dublin there is
scarcely a capital in the world which has
become a pre-eminent university city.
Harvard, Princeton and Yale are not in
Washington (D.C.). London did without
a university till 1834, and in competition
with the foundation then established
Oxford and Cambridge still hold their
pre-eminence. Chiefly, their success is
due to their independence. Everybody
sneers at both, and it may be that most
of their alumni retire to face the world
merely with developed muscles and
memories of Magdalen tower or the
Cam. But a small section leaves with
independent minds and with a catholic
knowledge of polities and literature.
There are no institutions in the world
(the days when Shelley was expelled hav-
ing gone) which so encourage the free
mind as these ancient universities. Nobody
was expelled when the Oxford Union,
cradle of British leadership, pledged itself
not to fight for King and country. Wise,
sleepy old dons in wise, sleepy old col-
leges merely said “Youth, youth!” and
reached for the port again, well knowing
that most of the young pacifists would
think differently at 25. Cambridge can
mature minds as diverse as S. M. Bruce
and Lord Rutherford, the Maoriland-
bred physicist; Oxford can tolerate the
thought of Lawrence, of Arabia,' as well
as that of Cosmo Gordon Lang, Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.
Stephen Leacock attributes the versa-
tility and independence bred in these old
universities to the tutor system, under
which students are encouraged to do their
own thinking. Such a system is difficult
enough in universities like Melbourne,
where the innocent Bolshevism of an
obscure undergraduate magazine recently
led to “official action,” and in Sydney,
where Government and money-bag in-
fluence suppresses the natural instinct of
the young to kick over the traces and
think new thoughts at every turn.
But what would be the atmosphere at
Canberra? Who can picture the fate of
the original youthful thinker in that wind-
blown expanse of politics and bureau-
cracy?
4
In Defence of “Knockers.”
From one of them:
Mr. Bruxner, supporting Premier Stevens in
his protests against utterances of Mr. Spencer
Watts at the annual meeting of the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce, called the retiring
president of that body “a knocker” (B.
1 /8/’34). Mr. Stewart, the Minister for Com-
merce, accused Mr. Watts of “reckless criti-
cism” and said he was entirely out of step
with the Australian commercial community.
As a member of the Australian commercial
community, I say that we need more “knock-
ers” to check squandermania.
Was not Mr. Bruxner largely responsible for
the wasting of tens of thousands of pounds on
the Guyra-Dorrigo railway? Was not that line
first laid down and then pulled up again be-
fore any traffic ran on it because, on the
showing of the Railway Department, it would
have lost at least £70,000 p.a., the loss increas-
ing in proportion to the amount of traffic
carried above estimate? Is not Mr. Bruxner
responsible in some degree for the current waste
of taxpayers’ money in digging out of Cen-
tennial Park duckponds mud that had much
better be left there? Can he disclaim all re-
sponsibility for the squandering all over the
county of Cumberland of money on
works that are not needed and can never
be productive? N. S. Wales is now the most-
heavily-taxed State in the world —anyway, in
the Commonwealth. Mr. Bruxner has had a
hand in making it so.
As to Mr. Stewart’s comment, I venture to
say that, if a vote of commercial men could
be taken, he would wake up. The taxpaying
community is sadly in need of fearless cham-
pions of the type of Mr. Spencer Watts. Every
political party has been guilty of waste of
public funds during the last quarter of a cen-
tury, but politicians are very thin-skinned when
they are told about it. I would be prepared
to subscribe to a “Knockers’ party” if I could
be assured that it would adhere to the principles
enunciated by Mr. Watts.
———♦
Freedom of Speech.
“Lex”: Mr. J. Blumenthal, of the New
Guard, argues (B. 22/8/’34) that the
organisation of New Guardsmen pledged
to give anyone who disturbs a U.A.P.
meeting a “push in the face” is in the
interests of law and order. The system,
indeed, has already been “justified by
results.”
Perfect orderliness always prevailed at
New Guard meetings... .Because the New
Guard was determined to defend its own
meetings, its opponents never once dared
to interfere with them.
Also:
If the New Guard was belligerently
pugnacious neither Garden nor Lang would
ever have been allowed to address a
public meeting.
Orderliness, not to say epileptic enthu-
siasm, prevails at both New Guard and
Lang Labor rallies, because they have an
important feature in common: admission
is by ticket. As well expect hostility at
a Hitler meeting.
So long as Australia’s political bravos
stick to their own meetings they will give
no trouble. Where Sydney’s New
Guardees are likely to make nuisances
of themselves is by butting into genuine
public meetings under the pretence of
wanting to preserve the peace. Political
meetings in Australia are celebrated for
their orderliness; a speaker can win his
most envenomed antagonists round, as a
rul,e, by some such device as reading out
the Test cricket scores. It used to be the
same in good-tempered England till Sir
Oswald Mosley introduced the technique
of the Nazis.
Mr. Blumenthal is correct in saying
that in British countries “freedom of
speech is not legally recognised.” But
neither is the right of, say, a New
Guardee to give a member of a crowd
a “push in the face” ( Redford v. Birley ).
The person who commits such an assault
is liable to be prosecuted, or the doc-
trine of “the legitimacy of force neces-
sary for self-defence” may come into it;
in other words, the aggrieved party may
legally retaliate. The scenes that recently
scandalised England at the Albert Hall
would be repeated here if Mr. Eric Camp-
bell, Mr. J. T. Lang or any other poli-
tical leader were allowed to surround
himself with “Law and Order Brigades.”
The effect of provocative behavior of the
sort was understood by the first Irish-
man who trailed his coat at Donny-
brook; total strangers struggled for the
privilege of being allowed to tread on it.
An inevitable result of the intrusion of
“Law and Order Brigades” at U.A.P.
meetings would be to attract gangs of
toughs and hoodlums who at present
avoid all political meetings on the score
of dulness. A clash between the factions
might lead to bloodshed and even loss
of life, in which case the police would
be justified in calling the meetings off,
and to that extent destroying free speech.
There is no other way in which free
speech at a lawful assembly can be
destroyed in Australia.


Society
"AND ITS POINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“C.Q.”: The radio provides quaint
contrasts at times. A journalistic cleric,
br o a dcasting re-
cen 11 y in Mel-
bourne, began by
patting Marconi on
the head for his
beneficent inven-
tion which enabled
the word of God to
reach so many mil-
lions. Then he de-
nounced material-
ism and the cencen-
tration on mundane
trivialities which
was producing an-
other generation of
futility. He was
pleading for atten-
tion to higher
things, when the
announcer, appar-
ently mistaking a
pause for breath
for the end of the
discourse, cut in
with: “And now,
listeners, I daresay
you have been
wondering what
the latest scores
are”
* *
“Lao-dah”: Mel-
bourne postal
authorities were in-
trigued at being
shown by a citi-
zen the envelope of a letter which
reached Australia from Poland in three
weeks, thus beating the subsidised mail
service by over seven days. To add to
the mystery, it bore no air-mail stamp.
It turned out that the letter had been
conveyed by air to Budapest, where it
met the Dutch mail flying from Amster-
dam to Batavia. It was thus able to hop
to Karachi, whence it found its way to
Colombo, to pick up the ordinary route.
Apparently the countries concerned don’t
issue air-mail stamps.
% * * *
“Aerial”: Long telegraph circuits (B.
15/8/’34)? Although the Hermanns-
burg abo. mission is only about 90
miles from Alice Springs (C.A.), its
wireless messages cannot be picked up
at that township. So when the mission
people want to send a message to Alice
Springs they wireless it to the head
A.I.M. radio station at,Cloncurry (N.Q.),
whence it is sent by telegraph to its
destination, via Brisbane, Melbourne and
Adelaide—a distance of about 4500
miles.
“H’m”: A Sydney society interested
in that sort of thing has recently been
investigating the origin of the name
“Kissing Point” as applied to a capelet
in Sydney Harbor. The romantic school
has always insisted that the name came
from either Governor Hunter or Gov-
ernor Phillip having been seen kissing
his wife there. The other side offers the
more prosaic explanation that it derives
from the. storeboat taking, provi-
sions from Sydney to Parramatta, an un-
manageable craft, which often used to
“kiss” the point on its way up river.
Further, this section points out, Phillip
did not bring his wife to Australia, and
Hunter had none. This last objection
seems to me to be irrelevant to the
point at issue. There were other ladies.
* * * *
“Risque”: Because there are no
hotels on Norfolk Island there seems to
be an erroneous impression that it is a
“dry” area, hence a poor place for a
holiday except for anyone who bends
his elbow too frequently. But, although
all liquor is under Government control,
anyone over the age of 21 may obtain
a permit and buy one bottle of spirits
per fortnight (or its equivalent in
wine or a dozen of beer). Mis-
behavior results in cancellation of the
permit. The fact that there is a limit
has a wonderful sales value, making
“issue day” an important occasion.
Those who find the fortnight dragging
can generally buy outside at a premium,
although this is dangerous to the seller,
as the maximum penalty is a fine of
£lOO or six months’ imprisonment.
“Carmelia”: The hibernating habits of
a Sydney man (B. 8/8/’34) recall a case
that has been puzzling Perth psycholo-
gists. A minor dental operation had the
effect of transforming a rollicking blade
into a recluse who for nine years
morosely repelled all approaches from
the outside world. Whether the period
“Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Alfred Egbeater please communicate
with his wife immediately."
was spent entirely in bed remains a mys-
tery, even to his most intimate friends,
but it is a fact that when the hermit
emerged from his voluntary seclusion he
had all the evidences of rejuvenation and
entered into his usual activities with the
nonchalance of a man quite sure of his
steps. The only complaint voiced was
that of a barber ; the nine years’ growth
yielded a record clio.
** . *
“Labuntur Anni”: I concur with
“Eheu Fugaces” (B. 22/8/’34) that beer
never tastes better than in its “native
pewter,” but he is wrong in supposing
that pewter pots are no longer to be
had in Sydney. Plenty are still to be
seen in the smaller pubs in streets front-
ing Darling Harbor and other waterside
areas. They are hardly worth stealing,
and if you hit a friend over the head with
one the soft metal flattens out and inflicts
no serious injury. With the sharp-edged
and unbending nickel pot, quite a nasty
and dangerous dong can be given. The
glass variety, which is superseding both,
can be a murderous weapon.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Endurance trials? At
ten o’clock the other night an engineer,
aged 63, went into the freezing chamber
where a well-known confection is treated
in Melbourne, closing the door behind
him. Four and a half hours later his
wife, perturbed by his absence, gave the
alarm, which led to his being located ;
he was carried out, conscious but badly
frostbitten. When he discovered that the
door had automatically locked itself, he
became panic-stricken, and it was pro-
bably the panic that saved him. During
the whole period of his incarceration he
continued to bang furiously on the door
with a kerosene-tin, although the sound
would not have been heard outside above
the pounding of the machine that was
keeping his environs at a level five de-
grees below zero. His first impression
when he emerged was that it was a sum-
mer night in Melbourne, though it was
actually one of the coldest of the season.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The latest attempt to make
the screen “pure”—it is the 4937th to
date—is the Legion of Decency, a
Yankee organisation whose members
pledge themselves to stay away from
theatres showing films that have come
under a clerical ban. The interdict covers
pictures of stars “leading an immoral life.”
If this were applied to literature Shak-
speare’s “Antony and Cleopatra” would
be an “impure” play, and Tolstoy’s “Anna
Karenina” a filthy book. Practically all
Ibsen and much of Shaw would be unfit
for the consumption of the Legion of
Decency, and it is doubtful whether they
ought to allow themselves to read the
Old Testament. The screen will never
be made “pure” by the rules and
regulations of busybodies who never
attempted to produce a work of art in
their lives. Pornographists will get around
any set of inhibitions, however ingeni-
ously framed. The purity movement
will be begun from inside—by a
Chekhov, Ibsen or Shaw.
“El Verdugo”:
Any trader who
thinks himself
hardly used when
he is fined £20 for
illegally using the
royal arms can
console himself that he is not a Persian.
A Sultanabad mirza of my acquaint-
ance decided not so long ago that it
would improve his trade if he painted the
Shah’s emblem on sheet iron above the
door. “Verily,” said the wise and just
old provincial Governor when he heard
of it, “this man loveth the kingly sign.
So let him eat it.” Whereupon strong
men rolled up the device and, firmly
holding the loyalist, pushed it down his
inadequate throat. The seed of Solomon
still sprouts in Iraq sometimes.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: 1 can go one better than
“Old Hand” (B. 15/8/’34), who shot
wallabies and kangaroos at Mosman in
the ’seventies. The first heavy rains of
winter used to make me rise early in
what is now Unley Park, Adelaide ; tak-
ing my shotgun, I would sneak through
the garden towards my cow paddock,
which always had a minature lagoon in
it in winter, caused by an overflow from
the Brownhill Creek. I had only to
crawl carefully through the young grass
under cover of a few acacias to the
swamp and wild duck would usually
appear on the table that night. If I had
more than I needed, I would walk 100
yards and give the surplus to the driver
of the next horse-tram .; he would cheer-
fully accept a pair for the job of hand-
ing the remainder to my sister as the
tram went past her home. And this was
less than 40 years ago, two and a quarter
miles from the heart of Adelaide. By
1910 that paddock had been sold ana
built on ; the man who lived over the
old-time swamp was politely incredulous
when I told him that I had shot ducks
on the site of his home. But one day
a record flood came down, Brownhill
Creek overflowed at the same old spot
in spite of an embankment, and the
lagoon formed as before, quite a lot of
it inside his house.
* * * *
“Corkscrew”: During 1912, when cars
were new in W.Q., the Baby Hup. at
Warenda station was driven to the
Hamilton pub for the mail. They got
it. The fellows also dealt handsomely
with the pub, and took some of its stock
away with them. A mile or so from
home the car gaye a bit of a cough and
stopped. The driver knew what was
wrong; he’d forgotten to fill the tank
before they started. While the engine
was still hot, and in spite of all pro-
testations, he primed her with whisky and
poured the rest in the tank. The car
came home. She was lurching in her
stride, coughing hideously, gulping and
acting as no lady should do. With a
final splutter and a belch she staggered
into her shed and lay there in a drunken
stupor. The job was done. So was
the whisky.
❖ *
“Brilliant Deeps”: There has been a
disquieting number of cheque forgeries in
Sydney and Melbourne lately, and bank
officials are on their toes. A dear old
pal of mine who
was teller in one
of the leading
banks on Charters
Towers in the
’nineties when
last heard of he
was financial ad-
viser to some sul-
tan in Malaya—
once told me that
the hardest signa-
ture to forge was
that of a man
with a shaky
hand. In those
roaring days he
never looked
twice at a cheque,
however disreput-
able the indi-
vidual who pre-
sented it, within a
reasonable time
of the bank’s
opening hour,
provided the
name was “good.”
That rule held
until about 11.3 C
a.m. After that
there was a ten-
dency on the part
of the bank’s
clients, having sobered up, to revert to the
fine, free, flowing fist of their clerkhood.
This type of signature, said my infor-
mant, was one of the easiest to forge
and the hardest to spot. In short, the
normal writing is easy to copy; the
abnormal, induced by wassail and other
influences of the night before, is very
difficult.
“X.S.”: Melbourne juries continue to
provide critics of the system with
material. At the conclusion of a recent
trial one of the good men and true
announced that he was practically stone-
deaf and hadn’t heard a word of the
proceedings. On another occasion the
foreman, after a retirement of several
hours, informed the Judge that one of
the jurymen was a conscientious objector
to declaring anybody guilty of anything.
In the latest case the panel was filing
into court after an adjournment when
one of the jury greeted a stranger with
every symptom of pleasure and shook
him heartily by the hand. A staggered
constable reported the incident to the
Judge; the.stranger happened to be the
accused. The juryman hastily explained
that it was a case of mistaken identity,
and after some minutes of painful
thought ’Sonah decided to accept the
explanation.
“Erua”: Add to the list of poker-
faced sneak-thieves (B. 15/8/’34) the en-
terprising person who not long ago
walked off with two new typewriters from
the Education Department at Auckland
(M.L.). This depredator, with a youth
of 15 as an offsider, called at lunch-
time, remarked to the office-boy in
charge that he had come to remove the
typewriters for adjustment, and was
shown where they were. The office-boy
even held the door open for the enter-
prising couple to pass out, and their
identity still remains a secret.
THE HOMING OF THE ASHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Woodfull Brings the Ashes Home.”
—Sydney “Telegraph.'’
“O Woody, go and bring the Ashes home,
And bring the Ashes home,
Those shadowy properties, so apt to roam
Forward and back across the hungry foam
As skill and chance decree.”
And, thus adjured, ’way back in March, he
clomb
The gangway from the quay.
Off to the front he went, in his command
A tried and trusty band,
Ponsford, McCabe, Bradman the more than
grand,
Oldfield the wizard, Bill O’Reilly and
The wily Clarrie G.;
And nervously we waited, all the land
From Broome to Bungaree.
Theirs but to conquer or to die, not their
Trouble to wonder where
Or whether or when this bodylinc affair
Might come upon them to perturb and scare.
They left the M.C.C.
To settle that. Themselves they didn't care
A single tinker’s and.
What now, though Voce may fume and
Larwood foam
And Carr may rack his dome,
And grim Jardine in gloomy monochrome
His acid repertoire for words may comb
On what was not to be,
Here’s to the chaps who’ll . bring the Ashes
home,
Home from across the sea!
N.SASD.W.
T. THE R.


“S.T.S.”: Australia doesn’t seem to
know much about itself yet, outside State
limits. A resident in Adelaide wrote a
note to Kensington Gardens, a well-
known suburb, but inadvertently carried
it to Melbourne and posted it there —
with no State named. Then these things
happened: (1) Routine endorsement,
“Post town not known in Victoria.” (2)
Imperially-minded official packs it off to
England. (3) London has a good try,
marking it carefully “Unknown in Ken-
sington Palace Gardens,” but at last,
curtly, “No such Gdns.” (There are, as
a fact, but they are just the western ex-
tension of Hyde Park, and nobody resides
in them —except Peter Pan.) So (4) back
to Victoria, where someone finally re-
members the neighbor next door, and
endorses it “Try South Australia.” (5)
The letter crawls home on August 4
having been posted on May 15!
“Vieux Marcheur”: As one who has
seen many sorts of dancing in many
parts of the world, I am interested in the
statement of a police prosecutor who
charged a young lady with indecent danc-
ing in a sideshow at the Brisbane Ex-
hibition. He said the dance was similar
“to the hula-hula or cancan” and the
“Wot, no cavviah? Then bring me sausage an’ mash.”
damsel’s clothing was inadequate. Yet
in the hula and the danse du ventre (prac-
tically the same) considerable clothing
is worn. The cancan was a purely
Parisian dance which came into full
flower at the Montmartre cafes of the
Second Empire, but was long kept alive
by American and British appreciation
when the Republic had come back,
Exponents were clothed from neck
to heels. Its chief feature was a wild
whereas his chief-of-staff isn’t, I would
say that a soldier of high or low rank
who funks responsibility seldom gets far
in active service, however he may climb
under peace-manoeuvre conditions. The
truth is—and I speak with, some inside
knowledge of staff work—that the big
man decides that, say, such an objective
has to be attained. He has a thousand
other matters to watch, so he says to
his C.O.S. “I want to do this ; work out
outburst of high-kicking which indicated
the tremendous amount of petticoats and
etceteras a woman could wear without
tears. It was Nini Patte en l’Air and
her Parisian troupe who in the early
1880’s first interested the gilded youth of
London in the art of kicking off top-
hats without offending maidenly
modesty.
* * * *
“L’F.”: “Chi Chi’s” recent par. about
rolling eyes being a sign of the tar-
brush fills me with misgiving. Under
the direction of an eye-quack, for 12
months I have been practising eye exer-
cises, looking as far upwards, down-
wards, to left and to right as possible,
changing quickly from one to another.
Savages, my optical mentor pointed out,
never turn the head if turning eyes will
do —and look at the magnificent eyesight
they have! Eye-rolling, he insisted, was
the royal road to better and brighter
eyes. I have been faithfully carrying out
his instructions, and now I am wondering
what acute observers like “Chi Chi” must
think of me.
+ * * *
“Morimoto”: The Vic. Government
has made the belated discovery that it
has power neither to permit nor prohibit
pictoral representations of Prince Henry
for commercial purposes, the Duke
standing in precisely the same position
as a private person in this connection.
It is quite otherwise in Japan. Until
recently the divinity that hedges a de-
scendant of the sun was jealously
guarded, and millions of loyal subjects
had to create an image of his Majesty
out of their unaided imaginations. Then
officially sanctioned photographs began
to make their appearance, but when dis-
played for sale they had to be reveren-
tially masked with tissue-paper. The
Prince of Wales arrived and began to
demonstrate that royal prestige can with-
stand the assaults of democratic curiosity
to an almost unlimited extent. Then
some daring journal secured and printed
a picture of King George’s eldest son in
plus-fours, and the right-thinkers sat
back and waited for the heavens to fall.
Nothing serious happened, and now the
Japanese royal family is sold to the
nation with the same vigor as any Euro-
pean potentate. What objection there
can be to the broadcasting of the Vic.
Government’s star guest in counterfeit
it is difficult to see. He already decorates
a brand of chocolates.
❖ ❖ * *
“Centurion”: Touching “Marco’s”
theory (B. 22/8/ ’34) that a man directing
a campaign or a military movement is
hampered by a sense of responsibility,
a way to come at it.” When the plan
is prepared he checks it and gives or
withholds approval—sometimes alters it.
As to Chetwode, he held an important
command in Sinai before Allenby came
there. He sized up the situation, and
wrote up the plan which began with the
turning of the Turkish flank at Beersheba
and ended with the capture of Jerusalem.
“It’s a good likeness, but I still think you ve made me look too stout.”
Allenby found the report waiting for him
when he landed in Egypt. His energy
and driving power ensured its success.
* * * *
“X.S.”: An “insulting words” case
in Melbourne had unusual features. The
offending party was a woman whose hus-
band had been gaoled, the injured
policeman was a wireless patrolman and
the objectionable expressions were “cad”
and “rotter.” In the environment in
which they were spoken—a public place
at St. Kilda—these words, according to
the philologists, would have no signifi-
cance, though they would have terrific
import if spoken in anger in, say, the
Melbourne Club or at a meeting of the
Centenary Council. But the philolo-
gists are usually wrong in these matters.
The constable was completely mollified
by an apology.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: With regard to that
“mahogany ship” supposed to be planted
near Warrnambool (Vic.), my original
par. merely dealt with the recurrence of
speculative ideas regarding the buried
craft, and was not intended to suggest
that I’d thought out the romantic story
myself. As for its relationship to
“Geoffrey Hamlyn,” I think it highly
probable that the vessel which was seen
somewhere about 1836, and which
(according to information in the Warr-
nambool Museum) was commonly re-
ferred to as the “mahogany ship” and the
“Spanish ship,” suggested the story to
the author, who was there 20 years later.
What confuses the subject further is that
one set of local controversialists is dis-
cussing the remains of a ship lying some
little distance out at sea, while the other
folk are talking about a vessel which was
seen right up on the shore. Which of the
two the relics in the museum came from
I don’t know ; and, unless any treasure-
hunting syndicates get on to the job, I
don’t suppose the question is ever likely
to be settled.
$ * $ *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: When the U-boats
were sinking Allied shipping right and
left I was on the s.s. Serapis, an old
windjammer which had been converted
into a hulk and then hastily refitted as
a steamer. The Admiralty armed the
old packet with a stumpy little Japanese
anti-submarine gun. The skipper eyed it
doubtfully, but the gunner in charge in-
sisted that it was a serviceable weapon.
Finally he said: “If you want to see
what me little popper c’n do, just ’eave
an old flour barrill into the ditch.” The
Old Man provided him with the desired
target, the gun crew loaded up, and when
the barrel was some 300 yards away the
gunner sighted and let fly. The Old Man,
eager to see the result, had edged for-
ward a little, and the blast sent his cap
spinning into the water; he afterwards
declared that he thought his head
had gone with it. All the glass
in the poop skylight descended with a
crash on to the saloon table, and every
teacup in the ship parted from its moor-
ing hook on the pantry ceiling and
smashed on the floor. Within 10 seconds
every man on the vessel was on deck,
thinking that we had been torpedoed. The
gunner’s head was almost jarred off his
shoulders by the concussion, I was par-
tially deaf for a week afterwards, and
in the general confusion nobody could
say for certain whether the barrel had
been hit or not. No more shots were
fired from that gun, and when we reached
port again it was taken off. On her very
next voyage the Serapis was torpedoed
off the Irish coast.
* =i= * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne’s State school-
going population holds several stagger-
ing records for continuous attendance,
and, to balance the ledger, two boys,
aged 10 and 11 respectively, can claim the
record for persistent truancy. On several
occasions their father has taken them to
the local seminary and pushed them
through the gate without any attendance
mark appearing subsequently on the roll.
The department wrote numerous letters
warning him that his boys were not turn-
ing up for their daily dose of dates, but
received no reply. It turned out that the
artful youngsters had recognised the
department’s sign manual and brought
down the correspondence on the wing.
* * * *
“Ainu”: The “Australian Encyclo-
paedia’s” dictum that the abo.’s b.o. is no
more offensive to whites than the white
man’s aroma to Black Brother, and that
“the Japanese are perhaps the only odor-
less race,” raises a more interesting ques-
tion than any of those “Olet” touches on.
The impression I get from it is that the Jap
is the only neutral and the solitary non-
combatant, so to speak, in the perpetual
olfactory war that is going on, whether
they realise it or not, between a variety
of races, European, African, Asiatic,
Polynesian and what not. If it is so, all
foreigners, from Eskimos to Malays,
from Scandinavians to Chinese, from
Scots to Hottentots, must tend to
grate upon the nerves of the Nipponese,
while they themselves create no corre-
sponding prejudice in anyone, from a
Lapp to a Senegambian. Is this one of the
reasons why the Japanese, for countless
generations, tried desperately to keep the
outside world at bay and as far as pos-
sible to isolate themselves from it? The
barrier was not broken down until last
century.
GOOD-BYE TO THE GOBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The U.S. cruiser Astoria left Sydney last week.”
They were surely smart and sailorly chaps
In their trim attire and their pork-pie caps,
And they brightened up the streetscape view,
As sight-seeing Jackies always do;
And they reckoned our harbor, one and all,
Had points of its own as a port o’ call,
That it rivalled ’Frisco for thrills and throbs.
Good-bye to the Gobs!
“Some Bridge,” they said (or one thinks they
would),
And they voted our beer was passing good
And our pubs could knock speak-easies flat,
Though they weren’t quite clear why we called
’em that.
They found our coppers an awkward size—
The coins, I mean, not the Johns—for guys
Who are used to cents for such humble jobs.
Good-bye to the Gobs!
Our girls as all to the good they classed,
Though they talked, it seems, just a trifle fast
Jo make their meaning entirely plain
1 o men in Oregon raised or Maine,
Or anywhere else between the two;
But those soft inflections, I’ll bet, they knew
And rightly construed—it’s pounds to bobs.
Good-bye to the Gobs!
A cordial greeting from all they had,
1 he hand of welcome, the eye that’s glad.
I'll venture they found us kin and kind,
And they left some dollars mayhap behind,
Nor ever let on they cared a d n
About war-debts owing to Uncle Sam.
Such things as those never bothered their nobs.
Good-bye to the Gobs!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


4
Quality should he your
first consideration
CRAVENA
in the new- Tnci&tuhe-pk&yf
llophane;,..pack
10 for 9d.
20 for 1/6
Points
Two ladies and 260 gentlemen, far and
away the greatest number that ever
nominated, are out for the House of
Reps. Only “Texas” Green, the exuberant
Scullin-Labor representative of Kalgoor-
lie, has been returned unopposed ; and
that also is a record.
After all the A.L.P. talk of lifting
Lyons’s scalp in Wilmot, the Prime
Minister is without a Labor opponent.
He has only two Douglasites to beat, and
neither need detain him in his electorate
for a day. One of them is the exploded
Laird Smith.
Overflowing with generosity, as is its
fashion at election-time, Queensland
Labor is restoring financial-emergency
pay cuts to State civil servants receiving
£5OO a year or less. The wherewithal will
have to be borrowed, but who cares?
In London at the week-end gold was
worth £6 19s. 3d. sterling per fine ounce
—£B 14s. in Australian currency.
South Africa is taking so much of the
premium that it is wiping out its war
debt to Britain. Alone among Empire
producers, Australia is letting the pre-
mium go untaxed.
In all States the election campaign is
reported to be “the quietest on record.”
One reason is that the tone of it is being
set over the radio ; parties are spending
more on radio speeches than on news-
paper advertising. Meetings are every-
where small, and politicians fresh from
the carpeted studios where slanderous
words are barred find it hard to work
themselves up to paroxysms of objurga-
tion. And the rotten egg is no longer
flung.
There is to be still another inquiry—
this time by the eternal Royal Commis-
sion on wheat —about the price of bread.
An Act compelling millers to sell flour
for cash on demand at the current
market price, and forbidding bakers —
except in certain specified cases —to
supply loaves on tick would do more
good than a thousand inquiries. Beyond
all doubt steadygoing people pay extra
for bread because the shiftless pay irre-
gularly or not at all.
The prize carrot in the Aged Class for
Optimists must be awarded to the man
who drafted the electoral law under
which Senate ballot-papers will be in-
formal if a preference number is not
marked against every name. There are
14 candidates in Tas., 13 in N.S.W., 13 in
W.A., 12 in Queensland, eight in Vic. and
seven in S.A. What the mess will be
like may be judged from the mortal
struggle of 204 N.S.W. legislators, the
flower,(or cauliflower) of the Ma State’s
political intellect, with Leg. Council
ballot-papers containing 30 names. They
had unlimited time for the job, and ten
mulled it.
“When you put £lOO in a bank the
bank can lend its customers £1000,” says
Lang. “When banks decide to expand
this credit they do it in their shareholders’
interest, not yours.” But they can only
lend the extra £9OO by going into debt.
Lang, obsessed with the half-truth that
every advance creates a deposit, forgets
that “deposit” and “credit” are euphem-
isms for “debt.” Bad debts with private
banks mean losses —for shareholders ;
bad debts with a “socialised” bank would
mean bad money —for the public.
The Gloucester (N.S.W.) Assembly
seat remains in the Bennett family;
Walter Bennett has been succeeded by
his son, C.E., a newspaperman like his
late dad. C.E. was the U.A.P. candi-
date ; two Agrarians, Waller and Haw-
don, came out as well, but together they
polled 818 fewer votes than Bennett’s
total, 6605. The U.A.P.-C.P. alliance has
been strengthened, if anything, by the
friendly contest, which is a lesson to the
Yaps and the Cockies in Federal Calare
and Robertson, and to the two Labor
factions everywhere.
Queenslanders are chuckling at the
discomfiture of Cooper, Minister of
Public Instruction, who, larding his Gov-
ernment with praise, asserted that Fad-
den, M.L.A. for Townsville, “the finan-
cial expert of the Nationalists,” could
testify to the wonders it had wrought.
Mr. Fadden has found it necessary,
owing to the expansion of his business,
to open an office in Brisbane.
A “Courier-Mail” correspondent took the
shine out of Cooper by mentioning the
nature of Fadden’s business. He is a
taxation agent.
It costs Australians a heap of money
to compensate politicians and others ap-
pointed to public offices by Tweedledum
and heaved out by Tweedledee. N. S.
Wales has had to find £14,000 or so for
the small fry of the Industrial Commis-
sion for whom Lang found jobs which
Stevens pronounced superfluous. A few
more thousands will go to the three
members of Lang’s Western Lands Com-
“‘Lang’s political opponents closed the Savings Bank,’ said Mr. Scullin at Prahran.
"The Commonwealth Bank will be mere stabling for Labor’s policy,’ says ex-Attorney-
General Brennan, who is out again for Batman (Vic.).”
“Take your ease, old Moscow Lady, in your lovely Australian stable; and don’t
mind the fellow you’re squatting on. He’s only a depositor.”
mission, which Stevens has abolished —
they are to be asked what they will take.
And the recall of ex-Premier Hill from
the London Agency will cost South Aus.
a pretty penny. Hill appointed himself.
Queensland Labor is still trying to
make the best of its beating in the East
Toowoomba by-election ; in fact, it pro-
fesses to be delighted. But considering
the promises rained on the electorate,
which was invaded by nearly every Labor
Minister and private member, the re-
duction of the other side s majority
was not much of an achievement. Round
about Toowoomba the Labor man led,
as was anticipated, but 19 or 20 country
boxes were for Annand, in some cases
by 10 or 12 to 1. Labor will have to do
a lot better than that in the country if
it is to gain seats on September 15.
It being the off season for tennis and
surfing, Sydney flapper papers are filling
up with pictures of girls skylarking at
Kosciusko. It is to be hoped that the
taxpayer enjoys these works of art, since
he is "paying substantially for the enter-
tainment of these damsels and their
friends ; Government trains carry them
and the Government hotel puts them
up at a loss. Losses on the hotel for
three years figure in the Auditor-
General’s report at £26,758. Yet the
Government could get a tidy ingoing and
rent if it gave over the apparently hope-
less task of trying to make the place pay.
Though information from Hobart pub-
lished in mainland dailies was that the
Loan Council had approved of Tas.
Labor’s “permitted deficit” for 1934-35
being increased from £20,000 to £146,000,
it seems that the amount is £246,000.
Premier Ogilvie is “extremely gratified
with the very fine work done by Mr.
Dwyer-Gray” in getting such an addition
to the overdraft, because, for one thing,
“the Treasury will now be able to budget
for a real deficit.” Mr. Ogilvie’s sub-
jects will have to meet it sometime, but
he expects them to be joyful.
If this country goes to the devil, it
won’t be for the want of alleged
“saviours.” Within the last month or
two a parcel of newspaper favorites has
been credited with having “saved Aus-
tralia” : McGrath and Crawford ; Grim-
mett and O’Reilly ; Bradman and Pons-
ford ; Noel Ryan and Clare Dennis. Mr.
Lyons, for his part, says the banks
“saved Australia,” and Mr. Parkhill says
it was Mr. Lyons. Now a claim has been
made for Forgan Smith. According to
Percy Pease, his Minister for Lands,
Foregone plucked Australia out of the pit
“on account of his activities at the Pre-
miers’ conference.”
A Mr. Tannock, M.L.C., an immigrant
from Scotland, has been saying that
“£144,000,000,” all borrowed abroad, “is
invested in N.S.W. Government railways,
and interest and exchange amount to
£8,000,000 a year.”
The policy enunciated by Mr. Beasley
for the establishment of a Debt Adjust-
ment Board will mean the writing down
of this capital and a reduction in interest
rate.
A difficulty is that the overseas country
aimed at might retaliate by “writing
down” its purchases of N.S.W. produce.
Menzies, who is giving Lyons much-
needed reinforcement on the platform,
has been tackled as to his appearance
before the Petrol Commission as counsel
for Shell. Fie replied that since he
entered politics he had had “the very
doubtful pleasure of seeing three-fourths
of my practice go to the wind.”
The Petrol Commission was a Common-
wealth inquiry and was in no way con-
nected with the State Government of
which I was a member. I want to make
it clear that whenever I have any chance
of appearing in court consistently with my
political duties 1 will take it.
And, of course, he will be fully entitled
to take it. In giving their services to the
people, men like Latham and Menzies
make real sacrifices. Yet there are those
who would increase their handicaps by
reserving Judgeships for barristers who
let no work for the public disturb their
accumulation of fees and refreshers.
In their struggle with the secessionists,
Commonwealth men in Westralia have
been let down by politicians to whom
they had a right to look for leadership.
Kirwan, for instance. As editor of the
Kalgoorlie “Miner” and one of the chief-
tains of the Separation for Federation
League, Kirwan did more than any other
man, except the reluctant Forrest, to
bring Westralia into the Federation, and
he was Kalgoorlie’s first Federal member.
But when the cause of the nation needed
a champion, Kirwan took up a position on
the fence, and wild cranes wouldn’t drag
him from it. Now the secesh address to
the King and petitions to the Lords and
Commons are to be presented for his
signature as President of the Leg. Coun-
cil. He is expected to sign without bat-
ting an eyelid.
Melbourne “Age’s” choice of a Pro-
tectionist, an Imperial Freetrader and a
Labor-socialist bank-nationaliser for the
Senate recalls the trying time it had at
the last Senate election, when it ran a
ticket of one —a Young Nationalist, in
the fifties. It used up about a furlong of
space in urging his claims, and the can-
didate responded with copious advice to
the electors to read “the splendid leading
articles in that great paper the ‘Age.’
Came the People’s Day of Power. Count-
ing of votes was begun. It was madden-
ingly slow. Days went by, a week. The
suspense was frightful. The Young
Nationalist bore it with manly fortitude,
but the nerves of the editorial staft were
worn to shreds. When, finally, a rounds-
man burst in with the joyful news the
Chief collapsed at his desk, a lifeless mass
of intellect. The “Age’s” man had done
it —saved his deposit.
[Responsibility for Commonwealth-election
matter in this issue is shared by J. E. Webb,
J. B. Dailey and M. H. Ellis, of 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


MUST FIMD AN HONEST
Banker^
Diogenes Lang, sets out ok his g^uest
Theodore e>v all thats holy v
Hm- makes Me thvkjk. op
G&ORQS vJuoah Cohekl "
" CqfOSHj * PORftOT '
RIJPE KavLjOß 'Snt here now
// V>
No» Gibson wavs Scotch ,
WELL. HWE TO OO IT oo« Selves, J/vcvcJ*.
“WANTED, A WIZARD, TO CONTROL CREDIT.”
“We want the control of credit When you put £100 in the bank, the bank will lend its customers £1000, and you can multiply that into any figure you like.”
Lang’s latest.


BEST CASH PRICES PAID FOR
OLD GOLD
Send your consignments of old gold to Hardy Bros.,
who have been established as Bullion Dealers, Jewellers,
over 80 years.
Valuation of parcels promptly submitted, and, if
accepted, a cheque is sent by return of post.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The 'JVLaclcod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
Don’t miss the Special Exhibition of Norman
Lindsay’s Latest Pictures, now showing till
August 31.
Admission Free
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some September birthdays:
Kenneth Austin (Syd.), 52, and S.A. Senator
Duncan-Hughes, 52, on Ist; Archbishop Duhig
(Bris.), 63, and N;S.W. Public Trustee W. J.
Kessell, 62, on 2nd; Prof. Francis Anderson
(Syd.), 76, J. W. Greene (ex-Lord-Mayor of
Brisbane), 58, and George Rowe (sec. A.J.C.,
Syd.), 53, on 3rd; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Brand
(Melb.), 61, on 4th; Melb. barrister A. D.
Ellis, Litt.D., 49, on sth; artist Charles Nuttall,
62, and Macpherson Robertson (Vic.), 74, on
6th; C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental Bloke”), 58,
Prof. A. D. Ross (Perth), 51, and E. J.
Harrison, M.H.R. (Wentworth), 42, on 7th;
Bishop Coleman (Armidale), 47, and Q’land
Attorney-Gen. Mullan, 63, on Bth; Bishop Cecil
Wilson (Bunbury), 74, ex-Justice A. B. Pidding-
lon (N.S.W.), 72, P. V. Storkey, V.C., 43, and
Dr. J. M. Baldwin (Vic. Govt. Astronomer),
56, on 9th ; Adelaide’s ex-Lord Mayor Laving-
ton Bonython, 59, and V. C. Thompson,
M.H.R. (New England), 49, on 10th; Gerald
Marr Thompson (Syd.), 78, on 11th; L. J.
McKean (N.S.W. Crown Prosecutor), 49, on
12th; Field-Marshal Birdwood, 69, and Vic.
Senator Guthrie, 62, on 13th; W.A. Chief
Justice Northmore, 69, and ex-N.S.W. Minister
R. T. Ball, 77, on 14th; W.A. Min. for Lands
Troy, 57, Prime Minister J. A. Lyons, 55, Col.
Percy Owen, 70, and Lieut.-Col. G. Hurry (ex-
M.H.R. for Bendigo), 66, on 15th; Bishop
Maguire (Townsville), 53, Prof. Walter Mur-
doch (W.A.), 60, and Commander Williams
(Navigation Dept., Syd.), 55, on 17th; ex-
Prime Minister Scullin, 58, Justice McArthur
(Vic.), 73, Melb. architect W. A. M. Blackett,
61, Justice Webb (N.S.W.), 49, and H. J. Lam-
bert (“West Australian”), 58, on 18th; Major-
Gen. Edwin Tivey, 68, on 19th; Prof. Nichol-
son (Syd.), 59, artist Will Ashton, 53, Q’land
Auditor-General G. L. Beal, 65, and author
lon Idriess, 44, on 20th; Philip Charley, 71,
and J. F. Coates, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 56, on 21st;
Bishop Davies (Carpentaria), 51, and W.A.
Min. for Mines S. W. Munsie, 64, on 22nd;
Major-General Brudeneil White, 58, on 23rd;
Bishop Snowdon Hay (Tas.), 67, knight Sam
Hordern, 58, Clive Baillieu, 45, Prof. H. W.
Florey (Sheffield Uni.), 36, G. F. Murphy
(Sheriff of N.S.W.), 51, and author E. S.
Sorenson. 65, on 24th; W. M. Hughes, 70, and
knight Wm. Lathlain (Perth), 72, on 25th;
S. Aus. Chief Justice Murray, 71, Wilfred
Blacket, K.C. (Syd.), 75, and F. W. Coney-
beer (S.A.), 75, on 27th; Prof. Oxer (Ormond
Col., Melb.), 66, and knight Herbert Gepp
(Melb.), 57, on 28th; artist Rupert Bunny, 70,
Brig.-Gen. T. Griffiths (New Guinea), 69, Brig.
E. A. Wisdom (former Administrator of New
Guinea), 65, Judge White (N.S.W.), 65, Q’land
Min. for Labor M. P. Hynes, 48, and author
Rev. Father Eris O’Brien (Syd.), 39, on 29th;
Brig.-Gen. W. Grant (Q.), 64, ex-Senator Need-
ham (now M.L.A., W.A.), 60, and F. M.
Cutlack (war historian), 48, on 30th.
Captain E. V. Smythe, Douglas
Crediter for Macquarie, won an M.C. at
Warlencourt (when his patrol captured
an enemy trench and held it all night)
and got a bar the same year. He is one
of four brothers, all of whom enlisted
early. One was killed, three got M.Cs.
and two bars to their M.Cs.
A. A. Fritsch, Melbourne’s leading
ecclesiastical architect, is designing the
temporary altar at the Showground for
the Eucharistic Congress on an honorary
basis. It will be in Corinthian form and
large enough to accommodate 500 priests.
Fritsch has also undertaken to design
seating accommodation for the 30,000
worshippers who are expected.
Frank Best, of Melbourne, will pro-
bably be presented with his Polar Medal
by the Duke. A member of the second
Mawson Expedition to the Antarctic in
1929-31, Best missed the Buckingham
Palace presentation in June. He has been
a sailor before the mast for most of his
life, went to France with the Durham
Light Infantry, was wounded on the
Somme in 1916 and taken prisoner in
1918. He settled in Melbourne after
being paid off from the Discovery three
years ago.
“D. 8.”: Just dead at Rotorua (M.L.)
Roger Delamere Dansey, aged 83. The
first postmaster of the town of steam
and sulphur, he maintained telegraphic
communication with the outside world
throughout that awful night in 1886 when
Mt. Tarawera belched death and de-
struction. He was a Welshman by birth,
spoke three languages fluently and was
the discoverer of the “Postmaster” cura-
tive mineral bath. That’s how it got the
name.
G. D. Meudell: “Ike Hollar’s” sneer
(B. 22/8/’34) at my late friend James
Moore Hickson was unjustified. Hick-
son didn’t leave £30,000 ; his will was
proved at £lO,OOO, and it was chiefly
made up of properties bequeathed by
patients he had cured. Hickson’s
methods were effective. It is the fashion
to laugh at faith-healers, but they merely
revive an ancient custom of the Church.
“D.”:
Peter O’Neil, the N. S. Wales Premier’s head
messenger, retired last week. He was a world-
celebrity like Mitchell, of the Australia, and
Joe Wallis: I have heard him spoken well of
in Singapore, Aberdeen and Berlin. With dif-
ferent opportunities he might have made a first-
class diplomat, for he has a shrewd brain that
knows all about human nature; like most big,
healthy men he is easygoing, and his manners
are equally simple and good with high and
humble. Peter was a boy on the Rocks when
that' region was infested by the fighting larri-
kins that Phil May used to draw, and he has
known every great Australian boxer from
Paddy Slavin to Ambrose Palmer. He has
been in the public service for 42 years, and
messenger to every N. S. Wales Premier from
Wade to Stevens.
New K.Cs.: A. G. M. Pitt, C. A. Hardwick, W. J. Bradley—all of Sydney.
Arthur Pitt, who has been at the N. S.
Wales Bar for 30 years, specialises in
land-tax matters, and he has a big
Common Law practice.
C. A. Hardwick wasn’t called till
June, 1915, but as an employee of the
A.-G.’s Department he had been soaking
in law for years before that. He figures
mostly on the Common Law side.
W. J. Bradley didn’t assume his first
wig till four years after his learned
friend Hardwick, but he had been asso-
ciate to the late Justice Sly. Industrial
matters and divorce are his chief lines.
John Mewton Harcourt, whose novel,
“Upsurge,” has been banned in West-
ralia, is a Victorian. A previous book,
“The Pearlers,” dealt with life on the
pearling grounds of North-Westralia;
himself an ex-pearler, Mr. Harcourt can
write with authority. As showing the
absurdity of Customs control of litera-
ture “Upsurge,” which has been praised
by London critics, was passed by Cus-
toms officers in Victoria and S. Aus.
“Thesp”: When the late Nigel Playfair
left the London Bar for the stage mum-
mers with a public school and/or univer-
sity education were very rare. Like H.
B. Irving he had been a member of the
O.U.D.S. towards the end of last cen-
tury, he had appeared in pastoral plays
in the beautiful gardens of Worcester
College, and he was in touch with all the
stage intellectuals of his day. A short,
fat, cheery little man with undistinguished
features Playfair wasn’t easy to cast, and
he soon turned to producing. He made the
Lyric, Hammersmith, fashionable, though
it is the best part of of five miles from
the West End. “The Beggar’s Opera”
was his biggest success ; it earned him his
knighthood six years ago.
“Nakhoda’s” reminiscence:
The death in London last week of H. C.
Mac Fie, one-time Vice-Consul for Spain in
Sydney, reminds .me of the only occasion on
which I was an accessory before the fact to a
murder. (Let me begin by stating that it
wasn’t deliberate.) In 1925 Mrs. Mac Fie, a
tall, handsome woman with a striking head of
prematurely white hair, went for a health trip
to the N.E.I. She was brutally done to death
in her bedroom at a hotel in Garoet. The
husband clamored for the Federal Government
to make it an international incident, charging
the Dutch with being incapable of keeping
law and order. The murderer was eventually
found to be a British subject—a Cingalese.
As I know Java well 1 planned Mrs. MacFie’s
itinerary before she left Sydney, down to the
room she was to occupy at Garoet —she wanted
it to be quiet and secluded on account of her
nerves. Unfortunately, this made it just the
place for a murder.
“Sturt”: J. F. Monten, Adelaide's
supreme timekeeper for racing, has re-
tired. He has had over 30 years with
S.A. Jockey Club, and was with Tatter-
sail’s long before that; also, latterly,
with pretty well all other local clubs.
“F.S.”: Donald Thomson, the Mel-
bourne anthropologist who is to spend
two years in the North, will live, eat, hunt
and dance with the abos. as a means of
studying their tribal lore. He has no
illusions about the dangers of his job,
for, although he has spent long periods
with his wife amongst the myalls and
found them reasonable folk, the semi-
civilised element has to be reckoned with.
Thomson is a spare, eager bundle of ner-
vous energy with a scientific equipment
of the best. Two or three weeks ago his
wife presented him with twins.
“Inner Temple”:
Dean Inge, of St. Paul’s, is retiring next
month. He is 74, and very deaf. Britain has
known no greater dean since Swift, and he
resembles Swift in many ways—he is a great
journalist, a writer of superbly simple Eng-
lish, a bom critic. He also has Swift’s capa-
city for indignation. To hear him preach was
like listening to a first-class don (Gilbert
Murray, say) lecturing; he read what he had
to say from typewritten sheets in clear, in-
cisive tones, and the subject-matter rarely had
anything to do with religion. His successor.
Dr. Matthews, Dean of Exeter, is also an in-
tellectual, a modernist and writer. Inge had
no associations with his neighbors in the
Temple; Matthews has been Chaplain and
Preacher to Grey’s Inn.
Mrs. Joanna Helback is Queensland’s
first woman Senate candidate. Born in
Scotland, she matriculated in Glasgow
Uni. in 1906, graduated M.A. in 1909.
did some school-teaching in Ayrshire and
came to Queensland in 1912. She left a
teacher’s job at Bundaberg High School
to get married, and spent three years after
that in Java. For the last eight years she
has lived at Manly (Q.). Douglas
Credit is her political faith.
“A. 8.”: —
In fairness to Anthony Fokker (B. 22/8/’34)
it should be stated that, before selling his
Fokker monoplane to the Germans, he offered
it to the British War Office. Britain rejected
the design, though Fokker said he felt sure
her enemies would buy it. Fokker is a
Hollander, and lives in Holland, where
I have often met him. He certainly makes
periodical visits to the U.S.A., but it is
wrong to assume that he spends more time
there than in Holland. I do not know whether
recent press cables to the effect that no one
but an Australian chocolate-maker would
benefit from the Melbourne centenary air
race correctly interpreted Fokker’s views. I do
know, however, that he does not think that
the development of commercial aviation (in
which he has taken such a prominent part) is
being benefited by stunts of any kind.
“Lex”: Lord Justice Scrutton, who has
died in London, got into the limelight
that beats upon the tabloid newspapers
in but two directions during his life of
78 years. He and the late Justice McCar-
die, of the High Court, had a series of
undignified controversies conducted from
their respective Benches regarding Mc-
Cardie’s attitude towards divorce. As
both were frequenters of the Athenaeum
and Reform Clubs the situation was
highly embarrassing for them and their
friends. Then McCardie committed sui-
cide and Scrutton wasn’t heard of by
the general public till the Youssoupoff case
in which, last month, as a Lord Justice
of Appeal, he confirmed the tremendous
libel verdict given in a lower court
against the makers of the Rasputin film.
He was England’s chief authority on ship-
ping and his work on charter parties and
bills of lading is a classic.
G. J. J. O’Sullivan, Federal Labor can-
didate for Hume, is among the members
of the N. S. Wales Bar who saw active
service with the A.I.F. He had had three
years of it at the Armistice, and he re-
sumed his interrupted education in the
A.I.F. schools, France. After collecting an
LL.B. at Sydney Uni. he was called, built
up a practice and helped to edit “The
Laws of the Commonwealth.” He is
honorary counsel to the Limbless Sol-
diers’ Association, and organiser of the
Red Mass for Lawyers which gives a
periodical note of color to the neighbor-
hood of St. Mary’s. O’Sullivan’s early
years were spent as a farmer near Wan-
garatta (Vic.), where he was born, and he
had an unavailing shot at Eden-Monaro
as a Federal Laborite in 1931.
P. A. Blundell, who severs a 41-year-
old connection with the Queensland
Trustee Company, of which he became
manager in ’93 and managing director
after the war, looks more like a Mac-
quarie-street specialist than a business-
man. He certainly has been a good phy-
sician to the Q.T. Co. In crises when
other concerns came out in spots it re-
mained conspicuously fit and well under
the Blundell regimen.


DID EVER A SMALL
CAR GIVE SO MANY
BIG CAR FEATURES
4 DOORS • 6 WINDOWS • ROOMY INTERIOR
•CHROME LEATHER UPHOLSTERY* AMAZING
PERFORMANCE • SYNCHRO MESH GEARS •
ERE’S a very simple way to prove the outstanding value of the
1934 Standard Nine. Just imagine you were choosing a car
double its price and decide what equipment you would look for.
You’d want four doors, six windows, leather upholstery, Buoyant
Power, Synchro-mesh gears (in top, third and second). You’d
insist on an X-braced frame, on Luvax Hydraulic Shock Absorbers,
on Silent-bloc Shackles and on powerful four-wheel brakes. Those
are the features of which big, expensive cars are proud. Those are
the features you get in this Standard Nine Saloon for £289.
Combined with this modern equipment goes real beauty —the
beauty of low, sweeping lines achieved up to now only in long
wheelbase models. And PERFORMANCE—performance that, if
described here, might sound exaggerated, but will astound you
when actually experienced.
Why not have a trial drive to-day and learn how this year’s English
Standard NINE has combined small-car economy with big-car
luxury. ’Phone your Standard dealer now.
The NINE is one of four models avail able in the 1934 line of English
Standards. See this fine range and you’ll find the car you want at
the price you want to pay.
Th •
Jl.
1*
y
*
w
ii s
4
f
Talbot & Standard Motors Pty. Ltd. Buckle and Harden Limited Mor *L?f Br ° s *. Ltd
568-574 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne.
Anglo-Austral Motors Pty. Ltd.
85-95 Boundary Street
Brisbane.
119-129 William Street
Sydney
Dominion Motors Ltd.
81 Franklin Street
Adelaide.
1016 Hay btreet
Perth.
Co-operative Motors Ltd.
131 Collins Street
Hobart.
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVE: ROBERT F. LEE. 58-60 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO.,LTD. COVENTRY. ENGLAND.


The Mutual Life and Citizens 7
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £22,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,000,000
\V. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
(General Secretary. Managing Director.
ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast. Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with F.athrooms. or Suites available.
Intercommunicating P.edrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
How Much Time
can you give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably
only give as much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), if appointed as your Executor, Trustee or
Agent, will attend to the affairs of your Estate all the time
—your friend can probably only attend to part of them
for part of the time.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
PUMPMOBIL
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To
May, Profit; Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 279,339 Nil 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. .. 3,222,271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ „ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ „ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345,777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,627,667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1983. . 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,029,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
Altogether it has been a remarkable
performance. In a slump the heavy in-
dustries are usually last out of the wood.
But this great iron-and-steel enterprise is
exceptionally equipped ; it enjoys a lion’s
share of the trade, and a substantial por-
tion is anchored by means of interlock-
ing share interests. The plant is highly
efficient; low-sulphur coking coal is
drawn from the co.’s own pits at New-
castle, while supplies of ironstone from
Eyre’s Peninsula and limestone from the
hills by Don River, near Devonport
(Tas.), are cheapened by the backload-
ing of coal.
The steady increase in demand for the
co.’s products sent production to a new
high level towards the close of last ac-»
counts, while efficiency and costs both
benefited by an extensive programme of
plant improvement. Sales plus products
on hand (£4,103,910) were £998,095
better, making the spring £2,065,102 over
the last two years. Working profit (up
£338,053) was the best for the last de-
cade, but interest and divs. (shares in
other cos. figure at £1,061,931) were
£19,679 lighter:
Income: ' 1929. 1933. 1934.
Working profit . . £795,953 £638,650 £976,703
Interest, divs., etc, 142,968 103,403 83,724
Total .. .. £938,921 £742,053 £1,060,427
Outgo:
Depreciation . . £417,592 £300,483 £407,978
Office and other exes. 61,854 53,825 75,170
Debenture interest.. 81,094 34,128 29.691
Income tax .. 45,710 40,000 120,000
Total exes. .. £606,250 £428,430 £632,839
The growth of £204,403 in exes, was
mainly on account of depreciation (up
£107,495) and taxation (up £80,000). The
net result (up £113,971) was the best
since 1920, being 14.3 p.c. on capital as
against 10.5, 3.4, 2.7, 5.4 and 12.3 p.c.
back to 1929. Though £200,000 was
struck off on account of obsolete equip-
ment (the benzol plant is out of date
and too small), the div. was kept at
10 p.c., reserves being visibly tapped for
£71,183 net.
The outturn of pig iron, steel ingots
and coke compares as follows:
1927. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Pig iron, tons . . 343,801 153,563 262,714 346,752
Steel ingots, tons 353,682 195,188 298,534 386,982
Coke, tons . . 350,865 167,160 268,033 361,109
For the first time for many years a
second blast furnace was blown in, a
second battery of the Wilputte coke
ovens was started up and the new mer-
chant-bar and -skelp mill was commis-
sioned early in 1934. The by-products
co. continued to operate on a reduced
scale, owing to the restricted demand for
road-making material.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
Liabilities.
Paid AllOthor
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1930.. 2,987,708 3,627,667 990,600 922,469
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 862,900 729,553
1932.. 2,987,708 3,814,644 739,700 889,788
1933.. 2,987,708 3,629,490 624,200 1.022,179
1934.. 2,987,708 3,558,308 480,000 1,190,337
Assets.
Stocks, Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel- Equip- and Steel vestments,
works. ment, etc. and Stores. Cash, etc.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 5,243,725 467,797 612,871 1,903,123
1930.. 5,532,218 458,224 586,129 1,916,467
1931.. 5,491,632 462,453 514,063 1,787,332
1932.. 5,335,700 441,953 613,669 2,107,787
1933.. 5,222,840 425,555 488,965 2,093,480
1934.. 5,269,943 419,788 572,500 1,934,123
In addition, the mine now figures at £20,000,
down £12,731 last year.
Despite the writing off already referred
to, the book value of the steelworks
increased by £47,097. To meet the out-
lay, carry an extra £83,535 of' stocks
and reduce the debenture debt by
£144,200, the amount coming to trade
creditors was increased by £168,158, and
book debts, etc., were reduced by
£159,357. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£836,286) was
£99,780.
The pipeworks, which are being put
up in conjunction with Stewart and
Lloyd, are well in hand, and the enter-
prising management is investigating the
possibilities of the tin-plate industry.
The market, which sees no cloud in the
co.’s sky, prices the pound shares at
50s. as against 375. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ .£ £ £
1924.. 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 ) Q „ pt . 9
Provident Fund, £5OOO { 92,652 777, r 37
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,737
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133.200 71,951 865,688
1^26.. 214,058 10 „ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.- 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
1930.. 128,724 5 „ „ 119,082 9,042 1,254,703
1931.. 99,820 4 „ „ 95,745 4,075 1,258,775
Transferred to depreciation reserve,
£165,044 1,093,731
1932.. 102,699 4 p.c. = 95,745 0,954 1,100,685
1933.. 105,279 4 „ „ 95,740 9,533 1,110,218
1934.. 148,623 0 „ ~ 143,018 5,005 1,115,223
This big wool-broking, pastoral finance
and merchandising, etc., concern has
practically confined its activities to its
home State, where its name is a house-
hold word, and Westralia. With a bit
extra in the fattest periods, it was a
steady 10 percenter for 24 years to the
close of accounts in 1929. During the
last 11 of them £229,650 of reserves was
capitalised, and shareholders put up
£2,163,990 of cash paid capital, which
brought with it £267,874 of share pre-
miums. Then, on the heels of a long
drought in S. Aus. and the West Darling,
came the collapse of the markets, and the
div. dropped to 4 p.c.
Last season’s clip in S.A. (245,262
bales) was 16,800 bales short of its
immediate predecessor; but it fetched
£4,477,715 (up £1,872,752), the average
per bale being £lB ss. 2d. as against
£9 18s. 2d. for 1932-33. This and the
rise in livestock and other values, etc.,
are reflected in a spring of £68,910 in
the co.’s gross earnings:
Paid Gross
Capital. Earnings. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1920 . . 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1926 .. 1,756,800+ 652,260 438,202
1928 . . 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1930 .. 2,393,640 569,121 440,39.
1931 . . 2,393,640 458,686 358,866
1932 . . 2,393,640 421,057 318,358
1933 . . 2,393,640 444,737 339,458
1934 . . 2,393,640 513,647 365,024
'lncludes £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here.
Tlneludes £229.650 of reserves capitalised from here.
Exes, took only £25,566 of the increase,
leaving the net result at 6.2 p.c. on
capital as against 4.4, 4.2, 4.1, 5.3 and
10.9 p.c. back to 1929. A couple of
points were added to the div., making
it 6 p.c., the final being at the rate of
7{r p.c. p.a.
As for the current term, prospects are
for a satisfactory clip in Westralia, but
the seasonal outlook in the north of
S. Aus. and the West Darling is less en-
couraging, and the price of the staple is
down.
Mainly on account of the rise in last
year’s wool prices, clients were able to
reduce their advances by £270,882 net
and put an extra £216,154 on deposit
with the co.:
1920. 1932. 1933. 1934.
D etc.° * 1 !. 2.20R303 1,487,029 1,703,183
° bilities 1 65,587 13,787 11,122 14,006
Property, pre-
mises, plant, _ „„„
etc. .. 278,598 561,588 562,337 569,489
Gov cvnment
cash* al ! d . 1,456,515 857,309 1,168,058 1,696,487
A cl v <i uc os
etc. ..’ 2,016,536 3,784,245 3,582,443 3,311,561
Other assets 62,630 38,249 14,65? 27,62 1
All the money that became available was
put into Government securities and/or
the bank ; the growth in the two items
(they are lumped in the sheet) was
£528,429. When the books closed, de-
positors and others, excluding the provi-
dent fund (£289,351), could see 19s. 9d.
of every 20s. coming to them in Govern-
ment securities and cash.
The £lO shares paid to £6 fetch £8 in
the market as against £6 16s. a year ago.
The return at £8 is 4.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is visibly £8 15s.
1 Id. in net tangibles.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profit. Dixidend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 40,170 124 p.c. = 23,375 5.796 45,000
1925.. 40,205 124 ~ ~ 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926.. 41,499 10 „ „ 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 ~ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 ~ „ 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 124 .. ~37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 ~ „ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 ~ „ 23,908 7,259 93,000 .
1932.. 21,365 7 ~ „ 20,920 93.445
1933.. 20,924 7 .. „ 20,920 93,449
1934.. 22,406 7 ~ ~ 20,920 94,935
tAdded to contingency reserve.
Between them, this co. and Castle-
maine-Perkins supply most of the beer
consumed in Queensland. There is no
price-cutting in the trade. Competition
takes the form of buying hotel properties,
thus widening and anchoring turnover.
In this connection the co. added £98,906
net to the book value of its fixed assets
during the last term, mainly on account
of city freeholds in Brisbane. To meet
the outlay, it went outside for an extra
£80,044 —secured creditors figured for
£167,364 when the books closed:
1920. 1927. 1932. 1933. 1934.
Paid £ £ £ £ £
capital.. 112,500 298,851 298,851 298,851 298,851
Creditors . 31,476 257,141 97,379 103,460 183,504
Fixed assets 73,643 305,824 286,433 308,614 407,520
Stock . . 44,795 89,790 77,055 84,195 82,021
Book debts 45.804 276,058 167,862 145,477 130,319
Cash, etc. 9,846 5,485 8,265 8,907 8,864
The purchases are further reflected in a
shrinkage of £97,419 in the more or less
liquid surplus (£37,700). Debtors’
balances were reduced by £15,158 and
stocks by £2174.
Gross earnings, which have come
down by annual steps from £214,397 in
1926 to £137,278 last year, when the slip
was £llO6, didn’t have a chance to get
much benefit from increased turnover,
which is expected to receive further assist-
ance from the new brew and new bottled
ale that the co. recently put on the market.
Another noteworthy feature was the re-
duction of £2588 in trading exes.
(£114,872), despite increased activities
and a bigger interest bill. The net result
was thus £1482 better at 7.4 p.c. on
capital as against 7, 7.1, 10.4, 13.2 and
14.7 p.c. back to 1929. The div. re-
mained at 7 p.c.
Since the close of accounts more hotel
freeholds and leaseholds have been
bought at Ipswich, Southport and
Gympie and on the South Coast line
and Darling Downs. It has therefore
been decided to offer those on the register
at Sept. 28 199,234 new £1 prefs., two
for three, at par. These shares carry a
fixed cumulative 5y p.c., with priority as
to capital, which cannot be repaid or the
rights altered without the consent of
holders of three-quarters of the pref.
shares issued. When fully paid, the issue
will call for £10,958 p.a., or less than half
last year’s net profit. On the basis of
figures at June 30, total funds (capital
and reserves combined) will then need to
turn in 5 p.c. net to cover the pref. div.
and 7 p.c. to the ords, and that looks like
being within the co.’s reach.
At 275. 9d. the ords. return 5 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. To the investor who
takes up his allotted proportion of the
new issue, the return would be a shade
over 5 p.c. on his total outlay, with
prospects of a capital profit of a shilling
or so on the new scrip. The net tangible
cover will be £2 19s. 6d. prefs. and 265.
4d. ords.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Net / Dividends , Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord, Reserves, fieit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,096
1927.. 699 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 644 35 8.061
Added intangibles, £7547 .. .. 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £406 .. 15,202
1928.. 5,690 10 p.e. 8 p.c. = 3647 2043 13,159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 „ „ 8327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 12,956
Lass.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil 51,936
June,
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil - - 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 374 p.c. Nil 4660 1135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7J ~ 74 p.c.= 8522 8277 11,816
*Nine months.
There was some early window-dressing
to coax capital, and the co. (it was
formed in Sydney at the end of 1926) got
its toes trodden upon, like many others
in the business. Following changes in
the control and an investigation of the
co.’s affairs, a loss of £38,980 showed up
in 1930 —-£7434 of it was on account of
the year’s trading, and the balance bad
debts, etc., dating back to the beginning.
Three years later earnings had recovered
sufficiently to enable the board to clean
the prefs.’ slate. Then, to rub out the
p. and 1. debit (£46,706) and goodwill
and preliminary exes. (£14,131), and strike
£13,552 off the book value of invest-
ments —to get a footing some similar
businesses had been purchased—Bs. per
share (£74,289) was lopped off the ords.,
leaving the whole of the capital and
£3539 besides intact at the close of
accounts in 1933. Everything was thus
ready for a fresh start.
During the last term there was a
marked revival in the cash-order busi-
ness, due mainly to growth in employ-
ment, following the recovery in the build-
ing trade, Government spending and rise
in the price of wool. Gross earnings
(£56,897) shot up £19,782. Including pro-
vision for doubtful debts and taxation,
exes. (£40,098) took only £8778 of the
increase, leaving the net result £11,004
better at £16,799. After paying the pref.
>div., enough remained to show 17.9 p.c.
on ord. capital, and p.c. was distri-
buted, thus breaking the drought which
began in ’29.
The £15,985 of new pref. capital gath-
ered during the last quarter of the term,
and an extra £25,695 of outside money
besides, had all been put out on loans,
etc., when the books closed:
1929. 1931. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £137,875 £171,706 £101,419 £117,851
Liabilities . . 15,127 10,500 23,456 49,151
Equipment . . 2,885 4,240 5,043 7,136
Investments .. 32,408 33,295 19,743 19,743
Book debts . . 106,736 82,563 107.213 162,977
Cash, etc. . . 2,571 1,331 1,429 984
To cope with further expansion of the
business, another 20,000 £1 prefs., rank-
ing pari passu with the existing 10 per
cents., will be offered those on the ord.
register, one for nine, at par on Sept. 10.
When fully paid, the issue will raise pref.
capital to £50,000, which will call for
£3875 p.a., or little more than one-fifth
of last year’s net earnings.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the prefs. at 235. 6d.—there is thus
a small capital profit for those who care
to take it. Allowing for the statutory
cut, the return at 235. 6d. is 6.6 p.c. At
16s. the 125.-paid ords. return 5.8 p.c.
on al\ p.c. div. basis. The net tan-
gible cover is £2 19s. lOd. prefs. and 225.
Bd. per pound of paid-up ord. capital.


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
.Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M. and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Anvr.
* $ if: •(«
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
•!» H*
N.Z. and AUST. FORESTRY VENTURES, Timber,
Tung Plantation Operations. Independent appraisals,
reports and technical advice for investors, bondholders
and operators. Charges moderate. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.S'c. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer, Union Build-
ing, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
4*
MINING ENGINEER.
Fully qualified Mining Engineer, graduate Otago
School of Mines, Associate Institution of Mining and
Metallurgy (London), Associate N.Z. Society of Civil
Engineers, with 12 years’ alluvial and reef experience
(seven years on staff of Waihi Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
N. and several years’ civil engineering experience,
is prepared to negotiate with responsible mining or
financial interests with a view to engineering engage-
ment. Cables or letters to “Cusec,” P.O. Box 1107,
Wellington, C.l, N.Z.
$ $ * #
NEW MI SIMA GOLD MINES, LIMITED.
Applications are invited from qualified men for the
position of Assayer and Cyanide Manager. Applicants
must have had practical experience of assaying and
treatment of gold ore, sands and slimes. Apply by
letter, with full details of age, experience, and quali-
fications, married or single, to Secretary, Samarai,
Papua.
Ci.Of R The Metallurgical Works of
a. VICTOR LEGGO & co.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you write and post a sample of the
Ore or Concentrate which you have for
sale, it will be assayed for Gold content
free of cost, and price submitted.
fc\ft\HtSS VMsH
WV>ST know
y TOW/
Just Published
new booklet on
Executive Training
TF you would like to have
a copy of this publica-
tion, instruct your secretary
to send this advertisement
with your name on your
firm’s letterhead. It will be
posted to you immediately.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Executive Training in Business
A Division of Hemingway Sr Robertson
33 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne, C.l. 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esn. •
• F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jollv, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manaoer— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banging business.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1910-SI.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine. Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—-
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Kembla.
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co.(Sydne y)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 36,637 5 p.c. = 32,500 4137 45,899
1925.. 35,857 5 „ „ 32,500 3357 49,256
1926.. 33,822 5 ~ ~ 32.500 1322 50,578
1927.. 40,695 5 „ „ 32,500 8195 58,773
1928.. 29,416 5 „ „ 32,500 55,689
1929.. 31,179 5 „ „ 32,500 54,368
1930.. 794 Nil 794 55,162
1931.. 6,626 Nil 6626 61,788
1932.. 5,358 2 p.c. = 13,000 57,146
1933.. 7,577 Nil 7577 64,723
1934.. 10,298 23 p.c. = 16,250 58,771
Shareholders in this old-established
business —it was set on its feet by T. S.
Mort in Balmain in 1854 —have never
enjoyed more than moderate returns from
the undertaking, which now includes two
graving and four floating docks, four
slips and half a dozen different engineer-
ing branches, including a heavy electrical
department, and brass- and iron-foun-
dries. For the 45 years to the close of
accounts in 1920 divs. averaged less than
7 p.c., and for the 14 years since the
average has been approximately 4 p.c.,
with three blank periods during the
slump. There was a five-for-eight gift in
1920, thanks to liberal allowances for
depreciation, etc., prior to 1914, which
makes 4 p.c. worth 7 p.c. on old holdings.
Of recent years the docking business
has been very dull, and more attention
has been given to the engineering sec-
tion, where competition has kept margins
very line. Still, the co. has been able
to get its fair share of the business offer-
ing, including the construction of loco-
motives and new trams for the N. S.
Wales Government, and of coal-handling
plant for the City Council at Bunnerong.
Last term net earnings were £2721 better
at 1.5 p.c. on the £650,000 of capital as
against 1.1, 1.2 and 1 p.c. for the three
preceding years. Shareholders got 24
p.c., making the average 2 p.c. since
1927, when reserves were approximately
the same as at last balance.
The market notes this and the outside
debt, and prices the pound shares at 6s.
The return at that figure is 8.3 p.c. on
a 24 p.c. div. basis. The cover is 21s. lOd.
in net tangibles, all in plant, etc., worth
what it can earn.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1929. 19.32. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital. . £650,000 £650,000 £650,000 £650,000
Debentures . . 168,735 168,030 168,030 168,030
Creditors . . 114,833 63,486 76,795 57,373
Freeholds, plant
and stocks 896,025 903,938 904,127 902,226
Debtors & work 107,249 40,808 '54,756 47,534
Cash.. .. 912 917 665 665
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
a reduction of £7222 in book debts and
work in hand, was used to reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£19,422. When the books closed the
debt exceeded more or less liquids by
£177,204, or £12,200 less than at the
previous balance. The 5 p.c. debentures
mature at the end of 1934, when they will
be offered again at the same rate, with a
five-year currency.
The aerial and geological survey for
gold and other minerals in Northern
Australia, on which the Federal, Queens-
land and Westralian Governments have
together agreed to spend £150,000, will
embrace about 10,000 sq. miles in nor’-
west Queensland and similar areas in
the Territory and northern part of
Westralia, including the Pilbara and Ash-
burton districts. For the first year aerial
work will be devoted mainly to strip
photography. Three geological units will
be engaged, one each in Queensland, the
Territory and Westralia. In addition, a
geophysical party will operate in the
Cloncurry district (Q.). Excluding air
reconnaissance work, for which tenders
are to be called presently, the first year’s
operations are expected to cost £30,000.
* * * *
The management of Bulolo Gold
Dredging is entitled to a pat on the back.
A lot of the fine gold was passing
through into the tailings, to the detri-
ment of recoveries, and therefore divs.
After much experimental investigation,
the difficulty has been overcome by the
installation of two six-cell flotation
machines on No. 3 dredge. This equip-
ment is employed in conjunction with
jigs, a tube mill and an impact amalga-
mator.
$ * * *
Fred Cuthbert’s New Misima leases,
New Guinea, look better than ever. For
the year to April 30 15,201 tons yielded
16,5450 z. of bullion, worth £30,489, or
40s. Id. per ton. Costs were 18s. lOd.
a ton. Divs. totalled 18s. per £1 share.
After deducting the amount coming to
creditors, the net cash holding was equal
to 16s. lOd. per share. During the year
10,801 tons of new ore was developed,
making reserves 73,800 tons, assaying
465. 6d. in Australian currency. A new
parallel lode, 400 ft. east of the present
workings, has been located, and surface
indications suggest that it may equal in
size and value the one now being worked.
sfc * $ Jj:
The Pearl Assurance Co., London, is
taking up the £500,000 worth of 44 p.c.
sterling debentures issued by Mt. Isa
(Q.) at par with a five-year currency.
On the recommendation of its Bureau
of Industry, the Queensland Govern-
ment has guaranteed both principal and
interest. The money is to be used to
develop and treat sulphide ores contain-
ing zinc as well as lead, and carrying
high silver values.
* * *
During July the Rubyvale and Sap-
phire Gem Miners’ Association, Anakie
field, Clermont (Q.), sold green and first
blue sapphires to American buyers for
£97, plus exchange. On the field 4070 z.
of small blue sapphires fetched £l5B.
><: * 4s &
Berry Leads has put four rises into the
wash at Annandale (Vic.), and in three
of them prospects range from 12dwt.
to 2oz. per fathom. Though the presence
of heavy clay will add to the cost of
puddling, the absence of water in the
mine is a big help so far as exes, are
concerned. The grade of wash exposed
will yield a substantial margin of profit,
the chairman says. A steam puddler is
to be installed to handle the stuff from
the western lead and the one near the
shaft. Other leads on the property will
be tackled later.
* * * $
During the last couple of months there
has been a lot of pegging and some
option-taking in the neighborhood of
Walhalla, Gippsland (Vic.), where rich
stone was obtained 40 years ago. The
Long Tunnel and Long Tunnel Extended
produced 1,255,0000 z. and paid about
£2,000,000 in divs. It is considered that
the field has been overlooked in favor
of Bendigo, Westralia and other areas,
and that a lot of the stone left behind, as
well as new makes, is now payable.
* * * *
Greta (Tas.) Hydraulic Sluicing, N.L.,
has been put off the stocks in Melbourne
with a nominal capital of £37,000 in ss.
shares, of which 112,500 are offered. The
vendor (Victoria Alluvial Syndicate)
takes 37,500 paids plus £5OOO cash, of
which £3OOO is payable at the rate of 40
p.c. of the net proceeds of gold won.
It is figured that there is 3,600,000 c.y.
of Is. 9d. ground, averaging 12ft. in
depth, awaiting treatment at Greta, in
the Lisle Valley, Tas. Costs are put at
6d. a yard. If estimates are realised, pro-
fits will aggregate £225,000. Two hy-
draulic elevators and special gold-saving
equipment are to be installed at an esti-
mated cost of £12,000.
* * * *
Brookstead estate, St. Paul River
(Tas.), has been bought by P. D. Beard,
who has left for England to float a com-
pany to work the deposits there. Here
tin was discovered by James Cowie, the
original owner, in 1828, and samples were
sent to England by surveyor Wedge.
Many attempts have been made to open
up the lodes, but with the exception
of the Brookstead Co., which treated
1300 tons of ore for 32.5 tons of concen-
trates in 1890, none met with much suc-
cess. There are 42 known lodes, mostly
parallel, as well as stretches of alluvial.
All the ore-bodies consist of greisen
veins of one type or another, and the sizes
of the lodes vary from a few feet to 16ft.
In one locality the tin-bearing rock out-
crops for over 100 yards.
* * * *
Prospectors are still in a rich patch
on the new reef at Burbanks, three miles
south of Coolgardie (W.A.). From a
hole 15ft. deep T. Martin and W. H.
Trythall, of Kalgoorlie, cleaned up
3090 z. from 72 tons at the Coolgardie
State battery,- while J. Hurley got 118 oz.
from 1501 b. of stone. Two assisted pros-
pectors, Marsh and Gormari, sold their
claim to Martin and Trythall for £l5O.
Good values have been reported from
other claims on the same line of lode,
which is 20ft. wide, with porphyry and
greenstone walls.
* * * *
Triton's ore-shoot at the 165 ft. level has
been proved for a length of 800 ft., width
67in., and average assay value 9dwt. At
300 ft. the shoot has widened a little, and
values are unaltered. The diamond drill
has proved the lode at 500 ft. to be wider
still, and of improved grade. If Triton
discloses nothing better than a continu-
ance at depth of this shoot, divs. should
begin to flow soon after ore treatment
begins. Some shareholders are wondering
why the 500 ft. level is not being opened
up and a start made with erection of
treatment plant.
-* * :|!
Wiluna (W.A.) shareholders have rea-
son to be pleased with developments on
the East lode at 1200 ft. level, where a
run of 6dwt. ore is being exposed over a
width of 12ft. For a long time the East
lode at depth had the management think-
ing hard, but recent developments have
allayed anxiety.
* * * *
Norseman (W.A.) continues to report
up to 600 s. values at No. 4 level on a
140 s. per ounce basis, and monthly yields
confirm this. Norsemans have been the
most successful W.A. bear-trap since the
Edna May Deeps broke up Perth and
Adelaide bear camps 20 years ago.
Despite high values in some of the
bores, development on Paringa’s pro-
perty at the northern end of the Golden
Mile (W.A.) is not all beer and skittles.
In the south shaft, 400 ft. level, the north
drive has advanced 12ft. in values of
3dwt. 18gr., and where the main west
crosscut entered the lode values were
2dwt. 4gr.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has about
210,000 tons of 7£dwt. stone blocked,
and there is a lot more lower but payable
grade stuff known to exist outside the
measured limits. The co. has been a
good div. payer, and still contains more
workable stone than recent W.A. floats
are likely to treat.
Owing to low gold content, the direc-
tors have not said much about ore dis-
closures in North Kalgurli’s Union Jack
lease (W.A.). Still, 7dwt. stuff is being
milled from that part of the mine, and
ore reserves, which already stand at
about the half-million-ton mark, should
get a nice lift.
The Havelock Syndicate intends trying
to locate the Radio reef, Southern Cross
(W.A.), at depth by diamond drilling
from an adjoining block over which it
holds an option. Should the drill prove
the reef to dip into this ground, the Have-
lock will probably have something worth
while.
* * * *
Yilgangie Queen, near Yarri (W.A.),
owned by Heppingstone and Palmer, has
been floated in Perth. The property re-
cently returned 4oz. to the ton from a
trial crushing of 45 tons, but the lode is
narrow. Two shafts are to be sunk to
200 ft., and joined by a drive.
* * * *
Princess Royal, which is salvaging at
Westonia (W.A.), still has several months
of profitable gold production ahead, and
may not have to put the shutters up then.
The co. played an important part in the
formation of Ora Banda Amalgamated,
and is now nibbling at other auriferous
ventures. It is in good hands, and has
been for some time past.
* * * *
Enterprise Gold has placed the options
it holds over the New Callion and Cal-
lion South, at Davyhurst (W.A.), with
Melbourne interests. The terms are
£21,000 cash, plus a one-eighth share in-
terest in any company formed to work
the shows.
* * * *
Gold Reefs (W.A.), a Melbourne syn-
dicate, has paid £l5OO deposit on the
Homeward Bound at Balgarrie, in the
Ora Banda district (W.A.). Present
owners have treated 750 tons foV an
average of 84-dwt. The reef was picked
up by loaming in a wheel rut.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.G.A.: (I) There seems lo be a good
chance of a further rise. (2) It is the most
promising of the N. S. Wales shows. (3)
Hold for a while; new options may give the
market a lift. (4) Appears to have a fair
chance of developing into a dividend-payer....
C.R.D.: (1) Renewals and new issues are
announced in London press before being
offered. (2) On 7/l/’33 £935,335,000; 6/l/’34,
£940,135,000; 30/6/’34, £.848,295,000. (3) Yes,
for week ended July 7, £76,206,000 was re-
ceived from sales, while maturities amounted
to £79,865,000. (4) Amounts raised during
last couple of years largely used in connect
tion with exchange equalisation fund... .A.K.j
If safety of capital is important, keep 0ut....
A.W.C.: The management is right, and the
venture has fair prospects of paying satisfac-
tory divs ... .C. 8.5.: (I) A doubtful spec. (2)
Much depends upon what happens in connec-
tion with quota allotments and the price of the
metal. Outlook better than at any time for
last five years.... V.J.C.: (1) Sell. Berleis
are worth consideration as a holding proposi-
tion. (2) Hold. (3) Golden Plateau, Gold
Mines of Aus. and Ora Banda Amalgamated
or Lancefield... .J.P.O’C.: (1) No. (2) It is
a speculation, and guesses as to what profits
are likely to be aren’t worth much. If
safety of capital is important, look elsewhere.


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL DISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Scarlet Empress”
This Hollywood talkie about Catherine
the Great is superior in a couple of
directions to the British one which was
reviewed last week. Sam Jaffe shows
Peter as the malignant moron he must
have been, whereas Douglas Fairbanks,
jun., made him an eccentric but likeable
beauty-actor. The settings of “Catherine
the Great,” though attractive enough, were
unimaginative ; in so far as monstrous
images, articles of furniture, doors and
the like, combined with fantastic dresses
and huge halls and stairways, can create
an atmosphere of mediaeval barbarism,
they do it in “The Scarlet Empress.” As
a pageant of life in the Dark Ages it
is a triumph. But the casting is awful
for the most part.
The period covered is the same as in
“Catherine the Great” ; so there is a big
part for Catherine 1., who was so mag-
nificently done in the British film. Louise
Dresser presents her here as a strident
Yankee mommer who slays illusion every
time she opens her mouth. Marlene
Dietrich is almost as bad as Catherine 11.
She exploits her exoticism on stereo-
typed lines (eyes darting this way and
that in maidenly panic during the mar-
riage ceremony; long luscious glances
aimed through the mosquito curtains at
a later stage ; back exposures, leg ex-
posures, etc.), and for the final sequences
when the army is won over Von Stern-
berg has got her up to resemble a panto-
mime boy. Like Elizabeth Bergner in
the other film, she doesn’t age in the 17
years she spends at the Russian Court,
but it is her self-conscious flapperishness
that jars. As some compensation, she
looks beautiful; she might be, Garbo’s
younger sister.
The Prince Edward, which houses “The
Scarlet Empress,” has several good first-
part items, notably a Max Fleicher comic
and a superb exhibition of horsemanship
by American Army officers.
“Harold Teen”
A blend of collegiate and backstager.
Hal Le Roy, a vacuous-looking lad with
a cavernous mouth, is loved by Rochelle
Hudson (daughter of Guy Kibbee) and
Patricia Ellis (daughter of Douglas Dum-
brille). The backstage stuff is introduced
via an amateur show put on by the
collegians, and Le Roy is given an
opportunity to show his gifts as a hoofer
when he gets on to the stage by accident
in the customary manner. Miss Hudson
wins him in the end.
“Voltaire”
A cloak-and-sword film in which
George Arliss repeats his popular for-
mula. He is precisely the same wise,
lovable, whimsical, sentimental, flapper-
patting old cleus ex machina as Voltaire
that he was in “Old English” and “Dis-
raeli,” and that he would be if he played
Genghis Khan or Heliogabalus. His
fans insist. Reginald Owen looks hand-
some and articulates beautifully as Louis
XV.; so does Alan Mowbray as the vil-
lainous Finance Minister. Mowbray gets
the father of the heroine executed, and
is about to destroy her (his objective
being the family estates) when Arliss and
Doris Kenyon (a remarkably beautiful
Pompadour) intervene. Mowbray is ex-
posed as a spy in the pay of Frederick
the Great in a scene which is as hard to
swallow as was the tableau sacred to
stage melodrama wherein the second
comedian-cwm-reformed villain used to
diddle vice and save the day for virtue
by whipping the missing will out of the
principal villain’s frock coat.
The gates and courtyard on the Ver-
sailles side of the palace and the terrace
on the other side are accurately repro-
duced, and the dresses and Louis XIV.
furniture look genuine, but it doesn’t so
much as pretend to be a picture of the
period. There isn’t a priest or prelate in
it, and all such atmosphere-making de-
tails as scratching-sticks and the scent
bottles which were necessary at this
phenomenally filthy Court are absent.
The aristocratic characters look as
washed and brushed up as people at a
modern fancy-dress ball.
However, in films of the sort it is im-
possible to guess even approximately at
how much has been bowdlerised. There
were obvious gaps in “Voltaire,” and
“The Scarlet Empress” was no more than
a series of unrelated incidents at one
stage.
Both “Voltaire” and “Harold Teen”
are at the State.
r
Australian Nature Films
At a private screening at the Universal
Theatrette, Noel Monkman showed four
one-reel Nature films. They compare
favorably with anything imported, but
“THE BELOVED VAGABOND "
At Sydney New Tiv. (left to right): John Dobbie, George Wallace (at easel —the
chart represents a fowl), Robert Chisholm and Gladys Moncrieff.
under block booking it is almost impos-
sible to see them. If the State Govern-
ments decide for film quotas they cer-
tainly ought to provide for the inclusion
of some of these educational one-reelers
in Australian programmes.
“Cockeyed Cavaliers”
Wheeler and Woolsey are the cavaliers,
and the wisecracks come with the labored
regularity of end-man and interlocutor in
a Christy minstrel show. Period is
Charles the Firstish, with dashes of fif-
teenth century. Wheeler is an angel-faced
lad with bobbed hair subject to attacks
of kleptomania. When one of these is
coming on his face assumes an absolutely
blank expression. He steals the horses
from a coach, the bell from a steeple, the
swords from a party of cavaliers, and,
placed in the pillory, gets away with the
stocks. Noah Beery is a wicked baron
who sings—disclosing possession of the
finest bass voice ever heard in a talkie.
Dorothy Lee, who runs away in man’s
attire in preference to marrying a pro-
fligate duke, and Thelma Todd, neglected
wife of the sinful baron, contribute a
little mild fun, and Don Quixote wanders
sadly through the story in the person of
Henry Sedley.
“Smarty”
Joan Blondell, the she-who-gets-slapped
of the screen, gets a few wallops from
Warren William and E. E. Horton in
this bedroom comedy, which employs
quips that Euripides rejected on the score
of age. After an hour of Miss Blondell’s
sugary inanities, she is welcomed back
by her divorced husband, and the thing
ends. In addition to other varieties of
undressing there’s a mannequin show in
which girls exhibiting evening coats re-
move them and reveal about six square
inches of bathing attire per girl.
Hollywood on Nurses and Newsreel Men
They’re at the Civic. Hospitals, doctors
and nurses have been overworked lately,
and “Registered Nurse” has nothing new
to offer. Bebe Daniels looks nice as the
nurse who endears herself to everybody,
including two of the doctors, but who
can’t marry either because her first is in
an asylum. Lyle Talbot is the doctor
who isn’t worthy of her, and John Hal-
liday the sterling fellow she gets at the
finish. The best bits in the show are
provided by a rather comic boss-
gangster and fight-promoter and a couple
of wrastlers, names unknown.
“Above the Clouds” is a trifle better,
mainly because the subject-matter is
slightly, fresher. Robert Armstrong is a
newsreel man who steals the credit for
his assistant’s work ; Richard Cromwell
is a good-looking youngster who can
plan scoops, but hasn’t enough sense to
see he’s being chiselled. Enter luv in
the person of Dorothy Wilson, and the
dupe begins to wake up. The shots of
a' huge U.S. Navy dirigible breaking up
in a gale somewhere over the Atlantic
are good enough to carry the rest of the
film.
“Strike It Rich”
At the Mayfair. George Gee’s clown-
ing, singing and dancing keep a hack-
neyed story from lulling the audience to
sleep ; but there is too much of Gee
and too little of Gina Malo, Dave Bur-
naby, Betty Astell and Ethel Warwick.
Gee begins as a browbeaten clerk. In
despair he visits a phrenologist, who per-
suades him that he is a second Napoleon.
His transformation from a spineless
creature to a dominating personality
follows the usual course, though there
are some unexpected twists towards the
end.
“Going Gay’’
It doesn’t live up to its title. The
principal comedians, Arthur Riscoe and
Naunton Wayne, are funereal creatures
who trundle feeble old wheezes at each
other, mostly while they are undressing.
The venue is Vienna, where Magda
Schneider’s mamma takes in boarders.
Riscoe and Wayne believe Magda is an
opera star in. the making, and their
dual aim is to get her an engagement.
The best scene is the impromptu con-
cert held in the courtyard of a block of
flats.
The flimsy thing is held together by
Offenbach and Donizetti excerpts.
“Tarzan and His Mate”
At the St. James, is another Weiss-
muller-O’Sullivan jungle confection. The
Tarzan of the radio, though he hasn’t
persuaded Jane to come and live with
him, has acquired a pretty thick coating
of civilisation and speaks almost fault-
less American; Weissmuller’s Tarzan
can’t get much further than “Jane love
Tarzan—Tarzan love Jane.” His famous
cry—the radio one is imitated in an “Our
Gang” comedy on the St. James pro-
gramme—is less convincing in the film.
For the rest, Tarzan swings blithely
through the trees on the ends of vines ;
Jane does swallow-dives to earth with
a confidence born of the proximity of
numberless friendly apes who never fail
to catch her before she bounces ; Tarzan
at one time or another fights everything
from an angry rhinoceros to an infuri-
ated crocodile, and hundreds of elephants
come and go at his call. The grand
finale is a pitched battle between a horde
of cannibals, a tribe of apes, dozens of
lions and elephants and two English-
men who have come, one after ivory and
the other after Jane. In short, just the
stuff for the children.
“Wild Cargo”
Melbourne Majestic screen is this
week resounding to the roar of man-
eating tigers, the laughter of hyenas and
the chirps, grunts and growls of the
birds and animals of the Malayan
jungle. A sceptical friend expressed the
opinion that Frank Buck’s feats amidst
the pythons and rhinoceri were studio
fakes, on the ground that these Yanks
can fake anything on the screen nowa-
days. As present writer in the long ago
used to visit the private zoo kept by a
Chinaman in Singapore where Buck de-
posited his snarling loot for eventual
transhipment to European circuses, he
absolves .Buck from the necessity for
fake, for he was renowned for doing
just those things the film represents him
as doing. In those days he was merely
a tradesman going soberly about his
menagerie business, which was no more
dangerous or exciting than that of a
Melbourne steeplejack’s or a steel rivet-
er’s on the top of a city building. In
fact, Buck, who is an artist at his game,
taught many fresh wrinkles to the jungle-
loving native, who is a skilful hunter
but a born conservative; and some of his
methods have gone into the Malayan
curriculum.
The present edition of Buck is much
like the last one, but none the less ex-
citing. The water buffaloes which de-
molish a native village while the inhabi-
tants flee to the jungle looked like the
domesticated variety, and the village
looked as if it had been constructed for
the occasion ; and the notion was stolen
from “Chang,” anyhow. Otherwise, the
show seemed genuine.
“Footlight Parade”
This Melb. Regent release is like the
Prince’s Highway—good in patches. The
critic is like the motorist who curses the
bad bits, says he’ll write to the papers,
and then forgets all about them until he
comes that way again, to curse again
and forget again, and so on. It’s no use
complaining about the bad bits in “Foot-
light Parade” —nobody will listen to you
—so the only thing to do is to take
what pleasure one can in the good bits.
These include two staggering ballets, one
entitled “Honeymoon Hotel” and the
other a cameraman’s holiday amongst
(Continued on page 38.)


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND
Up Three-fifteen
From the point of view of trade
where is this kind of thing going to get
us? In a London journal I saw an illus-
trated advertisement of an attractive
cabinet clock, price 405., and said to
myself I would get one if I had to pay
another pound or so. Last week I
spotted what, to all appearances, was an
exact replica of the thing. The clock
was of German make, the cabinet of
Australian blackwood, the price—£5 15s.
No sale.— Dixie (W.A.).
Left at Sixteen
I have heard that the Melbourne
Shrine is to contain a list of all Vic-
torians who served in the Great War;
but I am afraid many names of Victorians
who served in forces other than the
A.I.F. and the R.A.N. will be missing.
Take my case.
Born in Melbourne, I left it at 16i and
served 18 months in the merchant ser-
vice and three years in a war-time
branch of the Royal Navy. I left Aussie
the day that my brother died of wounds
received on Gallipoli. If eligible, I
should like to get my name on the roll.
—C. G. Smith '(M.L.).
The Digger’s Home
I am directed by the executive of the
War-service Homes Purchasers’ Associa-
tion of N.S.W. to convey to you our
grateful appreciation of the publicity
afforded the case for war-service homes
purchasers and ex-sol-
diers in general. Evi-
dence that The Bulle-
tin is read by the
members of our organi-
sation is shown by the
fact that invariably all
the delegates produce
cuttings at the same
time following publica-
tion of articles bearing
on war-service homes
matters. Again our
thanks for your efforts
to lighten the lot of
the purchasers.—F. G.
Williams, Hon. Sec.
The Union Boss’s “No”
A friend had a large
garden which he
wanted cleared. It was
a three-day job, and an
out-of-work gardener agreed to under-
take it at Bs. a day, plus meals.
A week later along came a union official
with a demand for a further 18s. and
a threat of prosecution for having failed
to pay award rates —14s. a day. My
friend told him to do his worst, fought
the case and lost, being shouldered with
costs and a fine in addition to the 18s.
Now he clears his own garden. There
arc scores of persons similarly placed.
They are unable to afford full award
rates, but would willingly pay slightly
less and be glad to have the opportunity
of giving some poor devil a helping hand.
But'the union boss says no. —Em (Q.).
“Fifteen Years’ Experience”
Here is a Digger who’s had it on a
soldier-settlement farm. Capital value
was recently reduced from £2400 to
£1250 ; many consider this amount exces-
sive. Of course, there’s a lot owing to
the Crown for back rent, but I have put
up a concrete home, a flue-curing to-
bacco shed, poultry runs and other im-
provements which are worth more than
the land.
In 1919 the amount allotted for a
living area was £3500. I have tried, but
failed, to get additional land. Having
had to toe the carpet before the Land
Board, I am once more “on probation”
for a few months, and if my position
doesn’t improve “question of termina-
tion will be seriously considered.” I
feel like a real returned soldier.—Tam-
worth (N.S.W.).
Sustenance Work in Westralia
It has some queer anomalies. A mar-
ried man with two children, after answer-
ing a lot of fool questions—designed
apparently to prevent some disguised mil-
lionaire getting the doubtful honor of
swinging a pick—goes to a sustenance
job. If he leaves it for a better-paying
temporary one it is hard to get back; if
he leaves a second time he may not get
back at all. A man with seven children
who was working full time left the job
to go shearing. He was refused re-em-
ployment when applying again, although
in the meantime a horse-driver’s services
were needed. This post was filled by a
“permanent” worker from the city. The
difference between a “permanent” and
a “sustenance” worker even an X-ray
photo, would not reveal. —A. G. T.
(W.A.).
Once Is Enough
Towards the end of October I read
advertisements in morning papers of
repute guaranteeing delivery in England
by Christmas of hampers of Queens-
land products. The guarantee was
offered by the Queensland Preference
League, and the cost of the service was
£l. I forwarded the amount to the
Sydney office ; the hamper was sent, but
it did not arrive at its destination till
February. The secretary of the league
blamed the English delivery contractors
for the delay. He is contradicted by the
Queensland Agency-General, as witness
an extract from its letter (enclosed):
Neither the Queensland Government nor
this office undertook any responsibility in
connection with the scheme, and no blame
can be attributed to the contractors for
delay in delivery of sonic of the hampers.
This office, as a matter of interest in a
Queensland venture, assisted the contrac-
“Whadger doin' with Peter Pan, Joe? Enterin’ him for the Randwick Stakes?”
“No; the lion steaks.”
tors as far-as possible, but it was solely
due to the'mismanagement of the scheme
by the organisers in Brisbane that so much
disappointment was occasioned.before they
. finally ; appealed to the Queensland Gov-
ernment for financial assistance to complete
the distribution.
If the Q.P.L. is distributing hampers
this year, I’m not buying one. —K. T. A.
(N.S.W.).
Sluicebox Bill Starts It
We are six old battlers in an outback
camp. Five are tin-scratching, and
Philosopher - Ned is the cook. Philo-
sopher says he is 75, but, as he has for-
gotten his birthday, he may be more.
In the aggregate we have lived about
385 years, and carried our swags over
20,000 miles. During that time we have
bought over 9000 Bulletins and paid
for most of them from the proceeds of
the sale of (take a long breath!) gold,
osmiridium, silver, platinum, wolfram,
scheelite, bismuth, tin, tantalite, lead,
copper, mica, opals (black and white),
sapphires, Mac Donnell Range rubies,
pearls from Broome (“snide,” the non-
pearlers insist), sandalwood, Huon-pine
logs, jarrah sleepers, stringybark palings,
dugong, beche-de-mer, Murray cod, cray-
fish, kangaroo-, wallaby-, dingo-, rabbit-
and snake-skins, eaglehawk heads, Java
sparrows (from Pilbara) and other side-
lines. ' Very few were bought out of
wages.
The last six months we. had lived in
harmony, but now there’s discord in the
camp. All on account of a paragraph in
“Political Points” (B. 1/ 8 / ’34) to the
effect that a Mr. Aarons, secretary to a
band of pilgrims, had returned from
Moscow with the report that Russia is
a magnificent country for the workers;
then the writer commented that Mr.
Aarons was like all the rest —took good
care to come away from the workers’
paradise and was not going back.
That par. has caused all our trouble.
Every night Sluicebox Bill starts the argu-
ment with “If Russia is such a hell of a
good country, why didn’t them there pil-
grims stay there?” Banjo Harry chips in
with “Why the blazes didn’t you stay
in W.A.? You’re always skiting that it’s
a better country than Tassie.” Philo-
sopher tries to pacify them by saying
“Russia may be all right for the Rus-
sians, but Australia will do me.” It’s no
good: they keep it up till they are ex-
hausted, and next night they begin all
over again.—M. I. O’R. (Summer P.A.
Camp, via Waratah, Tas.).
Women WILL Work
Can a country materially relieve un-
employment by taking women’s jobs
from them? Hitler says yes, and mil-
lions agree with him ; “Send the women
home and make work for the men.”
But, without consulting mere feminine
wishes, What becomes of the sacked
women?
Time was when women did stay at
home, and the home was provided by
male relatives if no nearer kin came up
to the scratch. Often extra female labor
was acceptable—at the price. Things are
different now. The age of chivalry is
dead. Modern man has no mind to
support any female now except in the
role of wife —and not always then.
Old-age pensions statistics reveal how
seldom even an aged mother is cared
for by her menfolk. Nor is marriage ,as
permanent as it was. Civilisation has
slimmed the family down to a pair or
so—not a life job for an energetic
woman. And the army of surplus spin-
sters and widows is swelled by hitherto
unknown quantities of deserted wives
and divorcees.
The deposed women could not be
absorbed into purely feminine pursuits
—if there are such things. Man long
ago annexed most of the work of the
home, and he makes women’s clothes —an
advertisement of “man-tailored negligees”
seems to me a perfect sign of the times.
The fact is woman always has worked.
Always busy: managing, buying, selling,
profiting, giving, eating not the bread
of idleness. The wife of a struggling
orchardist I know, to send her boys to
college, worked up a business in home-
made jam. It grew to be a factory at
home, and was more profitable , than her
husband’s calling. A laudable effort;
but she kept men out of jobs in a jam
factory just as surely as though she had
taken a salaried position. Shut women
out of the front door of salaried posi-
tions and they come sneaking round
the back—but getting there.—L’F. (Vic.).
The Gallipoli Legion
Every returned soldier applauds The
Bulletin for its exposition of the
Anzacs’ inability to serve in politics as
they served during the war ((B. 8/8/’34).
As the founder of the returned soldiers’
movement, also of the N.S.W. Anzac
Memorial, in 1916, I congratulate The
Bulletin on its consistent efforts on be-
half of the soldiers.
Every loyal Australian must agree that
when the soldiers returned they should
have entered into the political service of
Australia. But, war-wearied and physi-
cally disabled, they were unfit to measure
alongside the crafty professional politi-
cian, whose slimy promises comforted
them until they found him out.
The spirit of Anzac is reawakening
with all the vigor of 20 years ago. The
soldier realises his responsibility, not
only to the living, but to those who never
returned. Therefore, an early entry into
the field of politics is being prepared.
The Legion of Gallipoli, organised to
resuscitate the Anzac spirit, will pave the
way. For a beginning it will strive
against the inclusion of non-starters on
the platform when the Anzac Memorial
is unveiled by the Duke. It will stand
for no party intrigues, no class divisions,
no religious barriers, and, above all, for
no such spectacles as may now be wit-
nessed—Diggers begging their bread
and covering their war-shattered bodies
with the left-off clothing of shirkers.
Real co-operation among our people will
commence and the new Australia will
arrive with the reawakening of the spirit
of Anzac.—G. F. Davis, hon. sec., Gal-
lipoli Legion, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Another War On
, The latest thing in wars is the war
against individualism. It may be that
the first nation to win it will conquer
the world. The Soviet Government is
still a long way from success, but it has
done a lot considering its handicaps.
Work for Russia has become a substi-
tute for religion ; there is unity of com-
mand, and, with improved sanitation and
food, the population is “increasing by
3,000,000 persons every year.”
Germany is also active in the war
against individualism. Before it can afford
to think of a war of conquest on the
old plan it will have to put its 5,000,000
unemployed to productive work. Hitler
kept reverting to this in his widely-
advertised speech of last March.
In future the German people are not
going to pay any citizen for doing nothing,
but they are going to provide everyone with
the possibility of earning his own bread
by honest work, and thus of helping to
raise the general standard of living.
The programme would be hopeless for
a country under Parliamentary govern-
ment, but Germany is ruled by a Hitler-
Gobbels-Goring triumvirate which will
admit of unity of action so long as the
dictators don’t fall out. They have ex-
terminated the last of the rival dictators.
Italy is doing well under a dictator
who seems to have solved the problem
of making the people work hard and live
plainly for the glory of the collective
State. Mussolini has abolished strikes
and the forms of political extravagance
associated with elected bodies; and
though freedom, as we understand it, has
practically vanished, there is a higher
general level of comfort than ever be-
fore, and the country is facing its com-
petitors as an undivided unit.
The proletarian nations of Europe
feature another kind of unity. Those
engaged in agriculture in Bulgaria
number 82.4 p.c. of the population ; in
Yugoslavia, 80 p.c. ; in Roumania, 80
p.c.; in Poland, 75 p.c., and so on.
Primitive roads, marketing and trans-
port services, and tools have helped to
keep down crop yields, but peasant com-
munities have few unemployed.
Britain is still a stronghold of in-
dividualism, but it is being sapped
by unemployment. Latest unemploy-
ment figures for the U.K. are:
England, 15.6 p.c.; Scotland, 26 p.c.;
Wales, 34.2 p.c. In larrow “73 p.c. are
unemployed, all the youngsters are work-
less "and the majority have never
worked.”
How can countries run on such slap-
dash lines hope to stand up economi-
cally for long against the organised and
disciplined countries, the countries which
have set objectives, and are mobilising
their man-power and other resources,
as under war conditions, to attain them?
Democracy begins to look like Freetrade.
It was good business so long as the rest
of the world practised it or aspired to
it; but the rest of the world has ceased
to do either. —“10-2-4” (N.S.W.).


ABORIGINALITIES
“Peter”: Hinemoa was sad. Hon
had blackened both her eyes and hit her
over the head with a lump of tea-tree
not quite as thick as his wrist. Hori’s
wrist was a thick one. She jumped up
and rushed out of the whare into the
frosty night. Barefoot and in ragged
shift, she tore through the scrub among
the geysers and fumaroles and boiling
mudpools. She had resolved to end it
all in the terrible Hubblebubble, and
Hori could fish out cooked bones in the
morning. A final mad leap, eyes closed,
teeth and fists clenched, a soul-searing
screech, and —she had jumped into the
cold creek by mistake.
* * * *
“Wok”: Instead of rounding-up sheep
at a recent sheep-dog trial at Boyeo
(Vic.), G. McEwen’s dog yarded a fox.
Hearing a scurrying noise behind him,
the owner turned and saw the dog work-
ing a fox towards the yards in the ap-
proved fashion. The dog matched cun-
ning with cunning, and after a long battle
of tactics it finally drove the fox into
the yards. Reynard was not to be so
“It’s all right, miss — l’ve got ’im.”
easily caught, however, and leapt the
fence. Again the dog rounded him up,
this time cleverly yarding him in a pigsty
with no exit. A gun finished the chase.
* * * *
“Mumbo Jumbo”: To me the most
interesting thing about the Caledon Bay
futility is the sudden eruption in the
newspapers and at public meetings of
people who call themselves “anthropolo-
gists.” Most of them have shown that,
however well posted they may be in
cranial indices, they have darned little
practical knowledge of the abos. One
of them, referring to a native red-ochre
(cinnabar) mine in the Weld Ranges,
near Cue (W.A.), which has been worked
for centuries, mentioned that the pigment
was traded even far into Queensland.
The savant added that the Queensland
market was particularly favored because
the blacks of n.-w. Q. paid for it with
a “chewing preparation,” the secret of
which was known only to one tribe. The
stuff was the narcotic plant pituri, well
known to many old bushmen of the
nor’-west, and described in great detail,
with the trade in it, as long as 40 years
ago by the late Dr. Roth. The blacks in
the pituri country in their turn traded
the Westralian ochre with southern and
eastern tribes for articles which they
needed and the latter could supply.
* * * *
“El V.”: It is “Brace and Bit” (B.
15/8/’34), and not “Packsaddle,” who
should correct his history about the
Chinese who slipped over from the N.T.
to Cloncurry in the gold days. They did
get as far down as Lake Nash. Actually,
when Urquhart was Commander-in-Chief
at Urandangie, he built the police fort
there with the emaciated Chinese labor
which came crawling down the Georgina.
Some of the travellers were so far gone
that they looked like a pricked political
rumor, but a few square meals j set them
right.
_ v V
“Pick”: Even birds meet with acci-
dents. ’Possum-hunting on Brassknocker
Peak (N.S.W.) we found an eagle flapping
feebly with a broken foot wedged in the
narrow fork of a limb. In Waterloo
forest a magpie alighting on a swaying
branch of a tall gum had his claw nipped
and held by a closing crack. Screeching
distractedly, he fluttered there till we
relieved him. On Oak Range a rotting
limb fell as a crow lit upon it. The
bird came to the ground with the stick
across his neck. Days after we discovered
his plight. Collisions with lawyer-vines
are a source of many accidents to birds
on hasty wing.
* * * *
“Doug”: “Williami” (B. 25/7/’34) de-
scribed the equine crab with its hooves
and hairy fetlocks fairly correctly, but
he didn’t mention the fact that it carries
a rider. This is a sea-leech or similar
parasite whose color varies from green
to purple and dark-red; early in the
morning, when the crabs come out of the
sea to trot for exercise, Maoriland
beaches where the species abound look
exactly like a racecourse seen from an
aeroplane. The crabs are particularly fond
of watercress, and often wander up the
banks of a river in search of it. Maoris,
aware of this, set snares of flax along
the track back to the beach. A haka or
the beating of benzine-tins sets the crabs
galloping in panic for home ; many of
them, in the blind stampede, trip at the
snares and break their legs. Maori
observers aver that the leech-jockeys,
which have remarkably keen eyesight,
can be seen moving from side to side as
though endeavoring to steer their mounts
from disaster.
“Sa Tiko”: Tell “Kali” (B. 15/8/’34)
that his hairy-legs spider doesn't wind in
the cartwheel part of his web. What he
does is to scoff the network while gather-
ine in the catch—web, insects and all.
Whether or not the web is respun or
digested, I can’t say. Perhaps it is sorted
out in the pantry and put on the bobbin
for further use.
*** ( *
“Z.4.X.”: Dad and young hopeful,
aged six, were out riding the paddocks
and inspecting sheep when they came
“In the first place, where were you on the evening of April the fifteenth?
upon some badly mutilated ewes and
lambs. Dad’s language in reference to
all foxes and dogs was blistering; he
quite forgot the lad. About two weeks
later he had a flock of ewes about to
lamb brought into a small paddock near
the homestead ; he anticipated some
trouble. Next morning he was very busy
rendering first aid when a small voice
flabbergasted him. “Those foxes
again, dad?” piped Six Years from the
fence
'* * *
“Bucko”: Australia is reckoned the
oldest part of the earth. Professor Edge-
worth David’s estimate of the age of the
petrified stump found close to Scone
(N.S.W.) fixes the time of its growth as
a living tree a mere two hundred million
years ago ; at his suggestion the Upper
Hunter Shire Council is taking action to
give the ancient protection.
* * * *
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides): An inter-
esting old-time custom on the island of
Tanna was the right of sanctuary. Every
now and then a
chief planted a tree,
generally a banyan,
and declared it a
sanctuary; or per-
haps a dying chief
ordered a banyan to
be planted on his
grave and decreed
that blood should
never be spilled be-
neath its branches.
Any fugitive was
perfectly safe if he
could reach one of
these spots, and, as
long as he didn’t
stir from under the
tree, was not mol-
ested. Escape was
fairly easy at night,
as the majority of
the Tannese were
too devil-ridden -to
De anywhere but in their huts after dark.
There have been instances where whites
stumbled on these places by accident and
were spared.
“Larrapinta”: “Tidapa” says bears in
U.S.A. take the humming of telephone
wires for bees’ nests (B. 8/8/’34). In
Queensland cattle-drovers dread a tele-
phone line because of this same drum-
ming noise. Once had an example of
this when helping the late Jim Hutton,
of Raspberry Creek, Rockhampton (Q.),
bring 1500 head of wild “505” bullocks
from the Barkly Tableland to Isisford.
When we came to the telegraph line
between Boulia and Winton our cattle
suddenly went mad. With heads down
and tails and ears flapping, they rushed
in all directions. We couldn’t make out
why they were so scared until one of
our blackboys pointed to the wire and
yelled “Bullock think that fellow old man
hornet!” Anyone acquainted with the
stinging powers of the big yellow
Queensland hornets will know why the
cattle rushed when they heard the sound,
which resembled a swarm of hornets on
the wing. A Yankee stockman on Thy-
lungra station was stung by one of them
when he went to a waterbag for a drink.
When capable of coherent speech again
he solemnly declared that “there was
more kick in the business end of a
harnet than in a bag of goddam rattle-
snakes.”
* * # *
“Southportonian”: Re “J.M.S.’s” (B.
1 /8 / ’34) mimicking jackass, have watched
this same bird since two normal kookas,
apparently parents, brought him for fly-
ing lessons to my backyard 18 months
ago. The bark heard by “J.M.S.” is the
only sound he can produce, except that
he precedes it with a raucous ratchet-
like noise, corresponding to the ordinary
jackies’ chuckle. He is smaller than his
kinsfolk, has beautiful kingfisher mark-
ings on tail and back, and is quite a
celebrity in Southport (Q.).
“Elver”: “Airline” strikes a new line
when he talks about “bobbing” for eels
with “glow-worms” (B. 15/8/’34). Writer
used to see a good deal of it in England
once in a country with ponds full of eels.
There a mass of the ordinary earth-
worms, “scoured” to a bright red by
keeping in moss, was used. Failing
Charles Darwin’s cobbers, a tangled
bunch of red knitting-wool was often as
effectual as the live bait. In any case
glow-worms are really beetles, and so
would hardly fit into the scheme of
things.
“Test”: Britain can still export a
decent fish yarn when pressed. Have
just read a story in the “Field” describ-
ing the catching of a grayling, a brisk
and lively fish. A cricket match was
being played in a field by a river, and
someone lofted a “sixer” into the stream.
Rushing to rescue the ball, the fieldsman
found it floating beside a still-kicking
grayling which had evidently been
donged by the pill when it hit the water.
There is also the possibility that the fish
saw the ball coming, as hungry feeders
often will do, and, taking it for a mayfly,
rose at it, with the tragical result
described.
* * * *
“Travel Stain”: Talking about inebri-
ated chickens and billygoats, there is a
dump at Gordonvale (N.Q.), close to the
Mulgrave mill, that was once the scene
of many a happy frolic of wayward gee-
gees. In the “wet” it became a minia-
ture lake at which one cocky’s horses
were wont to drink. There was usually
a generous scum of molasses from the
mill on the water; the horses liked it,
and the grower had to fence the area
off in order to get some work out of his
team during their award hours. The
Johnstone River at Innisfail has always
been a similar source of inspiration to
stock, although it is death on fish.
Molasses again.
THINK OF THE CRACKLING!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Roasted in a camp-oven, the meat of the echidna
is delicious.” —B. 22/8/’34.
He’s a kind of a sort of a porcupine
And a most engaging little cuss;
His coat’s a mixture of fur and spine
And his lady-love is oviparous,
The same as the duck-billed platypus.
But you’ll find, when roasted, he takes the cake
From all our fauna indigenous,
If ever you’ve chewed echidna steak.
When lie’s done to a turn there’s never a
sign
To worry the most fastidious
Of the ants whereon lie is wont to dine,
So you’ll have no reason to sniff or fuss.
If ’roo-tail soup grows monotonous,
And from wallaby hash you crave a break,
There’s nought will glad your oesophagus
Like a goodly plate of echidna steak.
He’s kin to the hedgehog in rough design,
So scientists tell who these things discuss;
And English gipsies account that fine
And scoff it with gusto vigorous.
Now why should they show points to us
In scran which Heaven provides to take?
Cooked in the old bush fashion, thus,
It takes some beating, echidna steak.
Prince, here’s a dish that you won’t decline,
And thoughts of the crackling well may
make
Your mouth to water, even as mine.
Now, where shall we go for echidna steak!
N.S.W.
Midford


“Jerida”: There used to be quite a
number of Bede McNeils and Billy Ban-
nocks (B. 11/7/’34) in W.Q. The Mc-
Neil of this case was a manager who
surprised the Bannock in the half-caste
housemaid’s room. “And what the devil
are you doing in here?” he demanded.
“And what the devil are you doing?”
Bannock retorted. Climax came after
breakfast, when McNeil was giving his
orders for the day. “You’re sacked, Ban-
nock,” he said, “and I give you ten
minutes to get off the station.” Ban-
nock ripped off his boots and dropped
into the crouch of a runner. “Say ‘Go,’
Mr. McNeil,” said he. “What the devil
do you mean, fellow?” Mac asked in
wonder, his curiosity getting the better
of his indignation. “It’s 40 miles to the
boundary, and you give me ten minutes
to do it,” Bannock replied. “This is
going to be a record. I want it timed.
Say ‘Go,’ will you, and give me a good
start.”
* * *
“Heresone”: Have never before heard
of pee-wits (B. 25/7/’34) taking their
home on an extended lease, but the habit
is not uncommon among other birds.
Eaglehawks merely tidy up the family
stick-heap every year, and probably
settle down for life unless disturbed. The
mound-builders go one better: they add
substantially to the size of their heap
for each brood. I won’t give dimensions
of a 20-year-old nest plenty of Aboliars
“’Op it, Willie — you’ll do your job in if you knock the injine off the line.”
have seen them, and the rest wouldn’t
believe me, but they have little in com-
mon with the dainty spider-web cradles
that will be a feature of the bush in an-
other couple of months.
* * * *
“A.W.U.”: If it takes all night for
Queensland white-ants to build a nest up
one side of a bunk, across a man’s fore-
head and down the other side of the
bunk (B. 11/7/’34), they are mere sand-
shifters compared with those in Westralia’s
north-east. I once sat down on a log,
put my pipe on the ground for half a
minute while I chipped tobacco, and,
having loaded the pipe, found it wouldn’t
draw because the bottom of the bowl had
been riddled by the blighters.
* * * *
“A.G.T.”: Well might the discovery
of “dinosaurs’ ” remains in Queensland
(B. 11/7/’34) cause a sensation. In
the secondary epoch, before dinosaurs
came on the globe, Australia, for-
merly connected with Asia through
a land bridge via Java and the Malay
Peninsula, became separated. This line
of division is known as Wallace’s Line,
and it divides off sharply the animals
and plants of the Australian type from
those of the Indian and Burmese pattern.
If traces of dinosaurs have been found
in these parts, scientists will have to re-
cast a pet theory.
“Cam Cove”: The paper billy of
“Monaro Mick” (B. 15/8/’34) isn’t a new
idea, but it’s better than the old method
of sitting on the hot
ashes with a mouth-
ful of water and a
pinch of tea until it
brews. The best
method of the lot,
perhaps, is to throw
hot coals into a
small pool of water
in a rock depression.
The water can be
boiled in a few
moments, and when
cinders and tea-
leaves sink to the
bottom the ashes
can be scooped from
the surface. There
isn’t a better pot of
tea in the whole
world than a basin
of it made like that
in a rock. If you
can’t find a de-
pressed rock con-
taining the right
quantity of water,
try boiling your billy by that method.
White-hot stones will do instead of coals,
if you don’t mind a little extra trouble.
* * * *
“E.H.”: My little daughter, born and
reared on a dairy farm, was present when
a visitor mentioned that the parties to a
fashionable wedding were going on a
sea voyage for their honeymoon. The
youngster thought it over for a few
moments, then exclaimed: “Mummy,
who’ll milk their cows?” This is always
our worry when a holiday is planned.
“Williami”: No really
up-to-date da i r yman
would do without a
goat in his herd (B.
15/8/’34). I’ve not
known of one to be
used “for luck” or as a
charm against red-
water ; but on the
North Coast (N.S.W.)
cow country a goat is
run with the herd to eat
up the condensed-milk
tins. These tins are a
nuisance ; the cows get
their hind feet in them,
and are thus prevented
from scratching their
ears with their toes.
“Ruru”: “Tidapa’s” swordfish of the
Indian Ocean (B. l/8/’34) must be dif-
ferent from those we catch on M.L.’s
n.-e. coast. Have seen them when drift-
ing take a live bait, kahawai, in per-
fectly clear water. A squeeze ends in-
terest for the kahawai; it is released and
turned head on before it is sent below.
The dorsal fin of any of the swordfish’s
baits —small kingfish, kahawai or tre-
valli —precludes him from swallowing
anything over, say, half a pound other
than head first. Incidentally, a pecu-
liarity of this gentleman of the sea is the
sudden erection of his large and gor-
geous blue dorsal fin a fraction of a
second before he takes the bait. When
down, this is countersunk and invisible.
* * * *
“A.H.”: Prof. Helm, of Munich, who
for several years prior to 1910 studied
anthropology and biology in North Aus-
tralia, said during his Perth lectures that
the stampedes of cattle (B. 1/ 8 / ’34) were
“I’m lookin’ for the bloke in your Guvvermint who advised farmers t’
keep bees.”
probably due to earth tremors resulting
from some inequalities of underground
temperature. The professor added that
probably the abos., as near to Mother
Earth as the cattle, were also responsive
to these “earth calls,” to which the white
man, civilised out of sympathy with the
primitive, would be quite unresponsive.
-1= * =l= *
“Wodao”: The pelican mentioned by
“G.R.R.S.” (B. 27/6/’34) reminds me of
the fate that befel my prize Black Orping-
ton pullet. She was gone one morning,
so I put her down as taken by Rey-
nard. A week later, when passing the
rubbish heap, I glimpsed her tail-
feathers sticking out from under an old
washdish ; she had laid five eggs there
before she died. Had she had the sense
to stand up the dish would have been
overturned.
* * : i : *
“Tripod”: In the Coomera Gorge, one
of the most rugged parts of the Mac-
pherson Range (Q.), has been discovered
what is claimed to be a series of abo-
riginal burial caves. Considering the
number of high peaks, ledges, etc., in
this district —which, by the way, is rich
in folklore—the adoption of caves for
cemeteries seems odd. In most parts
of Australia the practice prevailed of
placing the bodies of dead tribesmen on
platforms in high trees or on ledges
away up the cliffs. In the sandstone
district on the Flinders (Q.), the banks
of the river—in fact, the district in
general—are honeycombed with caves.
But what were once respectable hills have
been reduced by wind and weather to a
series of stratified piles, for all the world
like towers, and it is on the tops of these,
not in caves, that abo. bones are usually
found.
* * * *
“Wongi”: Twenty-odd years ago two
lads found a bees’ nest in the bush 50
miles from Perth (W.A.). They placed the
swarms and their increase out in colonies
through the red- and white-gum country ;
queens were imported from Cyprus and
Italy. The lads had their ups and
downs; but last year 125 tons of honey
was produced from 1500 hives.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“R.A.”: Social life in the Vic. Mallee?
North-west of Ouyen lived a cocky in a
humpy—a packing-case affair, 30 x 12,
divided by a hessian curtain into two
rooms. At night the light from the living-
room shone through, giving it the appear-
ance of a magic lantern. The bedroom
was papered firstly with big sheets of
newspapers, and over these were news-
paper cuttings—recipes mostly. One
night we paid a visit for a game of cards ;
after being announced by a pack of hun-
gry dogs we came on our host searching
the wallpaper with a lamp made out of
a bottle of kerosene and a hessian wick.
He had an aching hollow tooth. “I cut
out a cure for toothache last month, but
I’ll be damned if I can find it now,” he
said. “Suppose you blokes give me a
hand.” We brought our hurricane lamp
into the search, reading column after
column —how to mend a broken axle, a
new way to stew prunes, etc. —till a
grunt from our host announced he had
found it himself. Oil of cloves was pre-
scribed. Creosote, used for white-ants,
was the only substitute available. He
plugged his tooth, and we played five
hundred until 12.30 a.m.
Hs *!« :Jc ijs
“Jim G.”: If you are fairly sure that
a fox is at home in his burrow, the best
method of getting a shot at him is to
stamp heavily backward and forward for
a few seconds, then hasten noiselessly to
the nearest cover on the side that the
wind is blowing to. Reynard is very
inquisitive, and soon will come creeping
out, peering this way and that, seeking
to discover what caused the commotion.
If no cover is available, lie flat on the
ground with your eye on the burrow
and your finger on the trigger.
Jjc & ' * :J;
“Agamemnon”: How long can a horse
live? Most bushmen place the maximum
at 30 to 35 years, but a specimen
recently obtained by Sydney Vet. School
for dissecting was reckoned to have lived
through the bank crash of ’93. Emacia-
tion was so extreme that the trunk was
no more than a foot in thickness, and
the beast could scarcely walk.
* * * *
“A.C.G.”: Passed a carpet-snake try-
ing to catch its tail round the base of
a stump. Didn’t take much notice at the
time, but when I came back that way an
hour later the wriggler was still coiled
around the tree. It was dead—choked
to death by its own tail.
Sfc * $
“Reekalating”: An ancient uncle
who’s been farming all his life purchased
a much larger acreage outback, and be-
cause I want to share in his will I allowed
myself to be persuaded to visit him. After
tea I came upon uncle at the crude “scaf-
fold” where he kills his mutton ; he was
in the act of attaching a cowbell to the
neck of a crestfallen dingo. “I jest
caught and knocked this cow out,” he
gasped, indicating the exhausted captive.
Presently the old chap kicked the dingo
free, and off it scampered, the tinny
sound of the bell round its neck adding
to an unmusical medley that dinned out
blatantly in the neighboring paddocks.
“That noise” I began. “Oh, that,”
uncle jerked out. “Them’s bells round
the necks of them damn dingoes. There
ought to be 13 of the cows with bells on
’em in the hills. Every time I catch one
I ’ang a bell round ’is neck and turn ’im
loose. It stops ’em sneakin’ on the sheep
unawares. You can give us a hand to
make some more bells to-morrow.” The
pests rang their confounded bells
throughout that night.
THE EARLY DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I walk away when the old chaps talk of the
early days of the fields.
When every gully and reef and patch was
giving its highest yields;
And of what they did, and of wjiat they saw,
and of fortunes nearly won
In those far-off years when ev’rything that
was worth the doing was done.
For I know that anything I have done, or
anything I have seen,
Or anything I have heard about, or anywhere
I have been
Cannot compare with the things that were —
and would bring me the scornful gaze
Of the men who lived (and are living yet) in
those good old early days.
So I walk away, for I doubt my right with
the older hands to sit,
The men who were here in the early days and
manfully did their bit.
I know my place in the scheme of things, and
it’s not for me to mix
With those who saw all there was to see in
the years before ’Ninety-six.
But a time will come, as it comes to all, if
they only live long enough,
When I’ll be pretending that I myself am
fashioned of sterner stuff . . .
And I cherish a hope that I shall prove, when
my own exploits I praise,
A better liar than most of those who talk of
the Early Days.
WESTRALIA.
Oscar Walters.


WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
HITS
LYS
k
PROOF
lIC.UUI
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
’S
Fencing Wire
sdf
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydn v
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WOOLSHEDS AGAIN.
“Murrawong”: I thank “Dead Finish”
(B. 8/8/’34), who champions the L type
of shed, for admitting that, up to eight
stands, the centre-board type is con-
venient.
I lock horns with him only when
he states that “over eight stands
the shed becomes a big barn.” Most
big, old sheds, whether T, L or centre-
board type, look like big barns, so his
assertion that the latter type entails the
roofing of a lot of waste space is quite
wrong. In an L shed the only exit from
the board to the wool room is that end
—about Bft. wide —which has to accom-
modate a shearer at work. Through the
remaining space, the express delivery of
anything up to 1500 fleeces per eight-
hour day must be managed.
Compare the distance from the wool-
table to No. 16 shearer in an L shed to
those in a c.-b. type. If in the L shed
the wool-table is 6ft. from No. 1 shearer
and the stands are sft. apart, No. 16’s
fleeces have to be carried 86ft. to be
thrown out. If he is shearing 100 sheep
a day, the boy has to travel 17,200 ft., or
3| miles, for the double journey, carrying
a 101 b. or heavier fleece to keep the wool
away from one shearer. He will have at
least three others to look after. With
a centre board, No. 16 and No. 1 are
equidistant from the wool-tables —within
20ft. The intermediate shearers are still
closer, so that in most cases the boy
has only to pick up the fleece, turn round
and throw it out. Anyone who has
juggled dusty, broken fleeces in a western
N.S.W. shed will realise just what every
extra yard means.
On a centre board, the entire face of
the board is open to traffic, and the
picker-up does not have to dodge the
shearers dragging sheep out of the pens.
In the L shed I had in mind in the
previous par. there were 14 shearers on
a board so narrow that there was barely
room for one boy to pass with a fleece
between the sheep being shorn and the
catching pens. The other boys and any-
one else on the board had to step into the
pens to let him pass, and packs for bel-
lies and board-locks had to be slung
inside the catching pens.
One boy picked up for the six shearers
nearest the woolroom, one for the next
five. The other had his work cut out to
look after the last three. When half a
dozen sheep were finished at the same
time, the left-over fleeces formed addi-
tional obstacles in the path of the un-
fortunate picker-up.
As to centre-board sheds being good
only for up to eight shearers, the best
12-stand sheds I have ever seen are of
that type. Mossgiel shed (western
N.S.W.) is a centre-board with 16 stands,
and every woolclasser, shedhand and
shearer I have met who has worked
there reckons it’s the best shed for iis
size anywhere ; and, finally, what about
Isis Downs (C.Q.), a centre-board with
32 stands? It is the exhibition shed of
Queensland.
FAT-LAMB WEIGHTS.
“Sheepo”: If fat-lamb producers
aren’t already in a fog, they soon will
be. Smithfield says the trade demands
lambs ranging from 301 b. to 361 b., but
results don’t bear this out.
For three years in succession, in the
export-lamb competition conducted by
the Wimmera and Mallee (Vic.) Fat
Lamb Assoc., pens of excessively heavy
lambs were awarded the first prizes at
Smithfield. Weights ot the winning
P ens i n tbc years in question were
39.271 b., 40.521 b., and this year highci
still, 42.241 b. The winning pen this yeai,
entered by the Longerenong Agn. Coi-
(e 8 e > realised, plus skin values and ex-
change, 245. 9d. per head,
If such results do not indicate that it
pays to export heavy lambs, there’s at
least nothing to prove that the lighter
weights are appreciated. It is what the
net return is to the grower that counts,
The position at present appears to be
obscure.
With light competition lambs only
returning from 15s. 3d. to 18s. lOd. per
head, how can fat-lamb producers take
notice of the experts’ advice to breed
the lighter lambs?
BAIT OR FUMIGATE?
“Valerin”: There’s nothing elaborate
i n my method of preparing and laying
baits (B. 15/8/’34).
A man and a boy can prepare 10,000
baits a day at a cost G f 6s. 6d. pec 1000 ;
can lay comfortably 3000 in an after-
noor,5 or w j tb a poison-cart 6000 at least,
jf t h e rabbits found on the trail are
s kj nne d each morning good wages can
be earne d over and above the bait cost,
j donX c i a j m that baiting is 100 per
cent effective Ne j t her is fumigating nor
trapping A t best, they are merely ex-
dients No owner is free of rabbils
J burrows are dug out and aI , cover
H „ ctrri . ;pr |
y '
DIPS AND DIPPING
„ T . t<cu ' » / D
' -A S fr\ t 0 ee P°.
8 / B | 34 > that with 40 years experience
? £ d ‘P s and dipping behind me, dipping
> s no experiment. I have always been
<°° busy to work out the decimal
atre "S‘ h of arsenic in dip powder and
have been content to accept the makers
guarantee. But what Ido know is that
<hera , ls a " arsenic-powder dip on the
ma rket which if used intelligently and
according to formula in a sheep balh
P’opetiy constructed, will keep immune
for a lon g ,lmc she ?P put through
ln a Proper manner with not less than
s « £ ° «B ht weeks wool on them,
Opponents of dipping have not had
practical experience or, if they have, it
has been with an obsolete affair through
which the sheep were bundled through
anyway and anyhow. The last para-
graph of “Sheepo’s” letter is the milk
out of the cocoanut: “Not one per cent,
of the graziers in Queensland” (and he
could have said N.S.W., too) “has a dip.”
Hence their fly troubles and losses,
“Maggoty” (B. 15/8/’34) states that
dipping is out of the question for
owners with 20,000-acre paddocks. If
I were fortunate enough to have a pro-
perty with paddocks of that size, I
would have an up-to-date dip in every
paddock, and it would be a good and
permanent investment. An efficient dip
can be erected for £lOO if material for
concrete is handy. If not, a steel or
iron bath can be purchased in sections
and erected on the spot, and a first-class
job should not cost more than £l5O
complete.
BEEF-FARMING.
“True Bates”: Although Australian
conditions differ from British, Australian
beef-raisers might make a close study of
United Kingdom methods, which pro-
duce the meat to which British buyers
are accustomed.
They differ widely from ours. To talk
of beef-raising in the County of Cum-
berland (N.S.W.) would make most Aus-
tralians laugh, despite the fact that the
finest Hereford herd in the Common-
wealth (probably in the world to-day) is
at Hobartville, within 40 miles of Syd-
ney at Richmond (N.S.W.). Of course,
ordinary export beef production is a dif-
ferent thing from sire and dam produc-
tion as carried on at Hobartville, but
there should be a closer relation between
the two types of cattle-raising than there
is. British beef is partly stall-fed, due to
seasonal conditions.
The ideal British conditions are on a
comparatively small farm well watered,
with a good sole of quick, springing
grasses established. The farm is so sub-
divided as to allow pasture to be eaten
off quickly in rotation at grazing, thus
keeping the young-grass spring peren-
nial. So far as seasons allow, stock are
kept in the open air. Cows and calves
are out throughout the summer and daily
in winter.
When in winter artificial feeding is
resorted to the staple is turnips and hay.
Turnips have revolutionised Shorthorn
and Angus cattle in particular. (For
that, the beef industry has to thank
“Turnip” Townshend, after whose near
descendant Sydney is named. He
pioneered the vegetable as a stock feed.)
Sires are not bred too young. Calves
usually suckle their dams, but are early
taught to feed from the bucket. Exer-
cise—not overdone—plenty of nourishing
food, good basic stock with an early
maturing propensity and comfortable
surroundings are the essentials.
There is a lot of room for small beef-
raisers in Australia in districts where
land is not too dear.
ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION.
“Murihiku”: In Russia, where desir-
able types of stud males are scarce, arti-
ficial impregnation is carried out with
cows, ewes, mares and sows. It is well
known that the quantity of semen
injected by a boar, for instance, would be
sufficient to impregnate many sows. At
the Moscow Agricultural Experimental
Station they claim to have successfully
served 250,000 sows artificially in 1933.
The rate of fecundation is from 75 to
90 per cent, as compared with 40 to 50
per cent, from natural impregnation.
But news of the most remarkable
instance comes by the last mail from
Warsaw. A valuable stud Large White
boar died by accident. His sperm ex-
tracted after death was used on sows as
they became available. All the sows
delivered successful litters.
Artificial insemination has been fre-
quently practised with horses, but it is
a new technique so far as other farm
animals are concerned.
PESTS IN QUEENSLAND.
“Dead Finish”: Until recent times in
western Queensland ailments which the
jumbuck suffers further south were un-
known. Fluke, worms, footrot, ticks,
lice —many of the younger native-born
graziers only knew of them by name.
Even the blowfly reached here much
later than the rest of Australia.
But gradually the pests are creeping
out. We have had patches of lice in
travelling sheep during the droughts of
the last decade, and the fox is here, as
well as vegetable pests.
A newcomer is the nasal worm. It
grows about Uin. long and looks
like a slug. The male is a queer-
looking fellow, with two headlamps
in front. The whole life cycle, from
germination to reproduction, seems to
take place in the jumbuck’s brain pas-
sages. Only an operation will remove
the pest. So far the worms have only
been discovered in those parts of W.Q.
with an assured rainfall. It remains to
be seen if they will survive on the open
downs.
USING A PEDIGREE.
“El V.”: There might be a more
general respect for stock pedigrees if
breeders knew how to use them. A pedi-
gree in itself does not imply good quali-
ties —it may be just as useful as a cata-
logue of bad ones. Or it may prove
such a tangled mixture of diverse good
ones as to show that an animal is not
likely to produce stock all of a piece. Or,
again, it may show such a combination of
blood in an uneven animal of vigor and
prepotency as to instruct his owner how
to improve from him in breeding super-
lative stock in the next generation or two.
Almost all enduring pedigrees go back
to a sound base. The Australian Sum-
merton shorthorns, for instance. The
original cows which came to Mt. Derri-
mut (Vic.) should have had 131,072
animals in their seventeenth-generation
ancestry. Actually, they trace at that
stage to one bull and one cow,
Favorite (252), descendant of the famous
Hubback and a near female relation.
Again and again it has been shown
that by a blending of some of this blood
with proper correctives and intensifies
history can be made.
Mr. A. J. Simpson’s Lindenow Duke
of Derrimut 40th was a case in point. A
generation ago he was known merely as
a vigorous, somewhat uneven bull of
strong temper, which had won a reserve
championship at the Melbourne Royal.
But when his owner, one of Australia’s
great studmasters, and the late Robert
Clarke, of Bolinda Vale, had analysed
his ingredients from his family tree, they
were able to make him a landmark in
shorthorn breeding. His blood to-day
permeates every great herd in the Com-
monwealth.
Mr. Anthony Hordern’s Grandmaster
II is another example. He is a peculiar
bull—at first glance solid, but a bit
effeminate, without the recognised show-
ring air. But his owner knew that he had,
first, a double cross of the great English
Masterkey, who sired both his sire and
dam, then a double cross of the equally
great Marthas. Three generations back
he had 50 p.c. of the Keep Smiling-
Missie combination, which has won a
host of British, Argentine and Australian
championships, 12| p.c. each of Duke
of Hampton (imp.) and of the Lindenow
40th male line —a recipe not unlike that
in construction which produced the 40th
himself. With complete knowledge of
his composition, his next generation has
been bred to consist of showring win-
ner after showring winner.
Agricultural colleges, Government in-
structors and herd-book societies could
do a great deal more than they are doing
to teach the science of animal genealogy.
Unfortunately the men in Australia cap-
able of teaching it are even scarcer than
bulls of national importance;
QUALITY IN WHEAT.
“H.U.C.”: “Fair Go” (B. 11/7/’34) is
right when he writes that until the farmer
gets extra consideration for high-quality
wheats he can’t be blamed for not grow-
ing them. But his assertion that “the
f.a.q. system probably suits Australian
o Continued on page 24.)


LYONS AT THE HELM
:
sdf
sdfsdf
A Policy.
that will guide AUSTRALIA
to PROSPERITY!
These ten points in the
policy speech mean peace-
ful progress, more jobs, and
better times for every man,
woman, and child in the
community!
1. A continuance of the policy of
lightening the burdens on industry,
by means of which over 200,000
have been put back into jobs since
the Scullin - Lang Governments
were overthrown.
2. A policy designed to hold the
scales evenly between primary and
secondary industries. Under this
policy, production has improved
by £40,000,000 in two years.
3. A Recovery Loan for a substantial
amount to be raised for assistance
to primary industries.
4. A continuance of the policy of
protection to all sound economic
manufacturing enterprises, by
means of which the value of
manufactured goods has increased
by £18,000,000 in two years.
“Common sense
demands of the elec-
tors that they should
not, at the coming
election, kick away
the ladder by which
the country has
climbed to solvency.
If they do, they will
bring untold suffer-
ing and misery to the
masses of the
people, and the
wage earner will
suffer most of all.”
—FROM THE POLICY
SPEECH OF MR. LYONS
5. Special measures for the develop-
ment of overseas markets.
6. A programme of major public
works, such as:—Unification of
railway gauges; country water
storages and sewerage construc-
tions; development of shale and
coal deposits for oil, etc.
7. Re-establishment of the Inter-
state Commission as part of a
comprehensive plan to overcome
interstate difficulties.
8. Co-operation with the States in
a determined effort to reduce the
mortality rate in childbirth.
9. A continuance of sound methods
of finance and Government, by
means of which Australia has
been enabled to stage the most
spectacular economic recovery
the world has known.
10. Adequate provision for Defence.
FOR THE SENATE VOTE FT) Abbott [f] Courtenay P
Dein
Authorised by H. W. HORSFIEKD, 15 Biig-h Street, Sydney
U.A.P., 11-FP.
EMPLOYMENT
WACE.S
SECURIT


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
Your size exactly!
In every size this Abbey Shoe offers
choice of four widths . . . narrow,
medium, wide and extra-wide. That
ensures made-to-measure comfort.
The sole is extra heavy . . . the upper
built to fit easily over the instep.
ORDER BY POST—State both width
and size, and ask, also, for a supply of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d. per tin),
or a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK CALF . . . . 33/6
TAN CALF . . . . 33/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Catalogue Post Free on Request.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 400.
sdf
No. 138
THE
“TUMBA”
STOCK
SADDLE,
MADE TO
LAST A
LIFETIME,
£l2/15/-
Send for our Catalogue No. 338 for de-
scription of this fine saddle and 70 others.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
EADE’S PILLS
Dispel Rheumatism
Eade’s Pills are indeed a famous remedy,
they' make no extravagant claims to cure
everything, only to be what they are, namely,
a famous and marvellously successful
remedy for all Rheumatic Complaints.
Read the following letter; it is one of
hundreds of unsolicited testimonials. The
sum of £5O will be paid to anyone proving
that testimonials published by Eade’s are not
unsolicited appreciations from the public.
2 Portland Terrace ,
Moons Mill, Freshwater, 1.0. W.,
October, 1932.
Dear Sir, —Thanlc you for the good your
pills have done me. I have been taking
them for !■/ years, and they have com-
pletely cured me of Gout and Rheumatism. I
take one Pill, and pain leaves me like magic.
I have recommended them to all my friends,
tvho have also found relief. I would not be
without them for love or money. My ivife
is noic taking them for Rheumatics in her
arm.
W. KELLEWAY.
Every high-class Chemist in the Common-
wealth sells Eade’s Pills, which are packed in
two sizes.
ms
Take your Doctor’s advice . . •
He will tell you that you need a genuine, high quality
medicinal preparation to banish that -cold, influenza
or cough.
HUDSON'S
D Eumenthol
kJUJUBES
have been accepted and recognised by the medical pro-
fession and the public for over 40 years, and must not
be confused with ordinary non-medicated confections
or gum drops. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are a
medicinal preparation for a specific purpose.
Sufferers from indigestion will find them a remarkabla
A. The Larynx or Organ of Voice, digestive agent. Take one after each meal.
B. —The Trachea or Windpipe. OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung.
D. The lobe of one of the Lungs.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6d. tin
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE,
1/6 tin
BUY BOTH SIZES —USE LARGE TIN AS REFILL FOR SMALL ONE
7
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, has nearly 7000
shareholders (people representing all sections of the community), whose per
capita holding averages under £7OO. Seventy per cent, of these shareho ers
have £5OO or less invested in the Bank. Shareholders appoint the Directors,
who, in turn, appoint the Management. By this sound policy of owners ip
and management, The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limite ,
conducts its business in the best interests of the community. It has proven
its capacity to serve the State and to render valuable aid to every branc o
Trade and Commerce essential to the common good.
Undoubtedly there is a deep-rooted sense of security in the knowledge that
the Banking system of Australia, under the ownership of thousands of small
investors, is the soundest in the world.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED.
Overdraft Rates as at July Ist, 1934, 5%
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits. Advances made and all classes of general
Banking business transacted.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
conditions as well as any other” is not
logical.
Authorities hold that we lose price
and markets by lack of grading. We
already grow some wheat of high quality,
but we mix it with our other wheat for
export. Sir Albert Humphries has stated :
“Really strong Australian wheats should
be sold separately. Mixing merely con-
fuses the buyer, who pays the lowest
possible price.” Our better-quality
wheats must win their way in export
markets if the f.a.q. system is replaced
by grading.
Grading would involve extra cost, but
this would be more than balanced by the
extra price. Farmers would then be
encouraged to grow more of the high-
quality varieties. The alternative is not
only loss of the average price per bushel,
but also the markets themselves.
H.Q. wheats are generally low
yielders, though Dundee, Baringa and
Ford —three of our heaviest yielders—
are of medium high quality.
Every effort should be made to develop
their yields.
LARGE WHITES WIN.
“Smithfield”: As an ex-inspector of
meat for the Commonwealth, let me into
this argument about the best export
bacon crosses.
The faults of the Berkshire as a
baconer are too large a ham. A 1601 b.
to 1701 b. carcass will have a ham about
241 b. A Large White has one about
171 b., which is a big consideration. The
Berkshire carries too fat and too large
a shoulder and jowl. These are the
cheapest portions, and it naturally fol-
lows they should be correspondingly
small. This is the advantage in the L.W.
The most valuable part, the loin, is
comparatively short in the Berkshire,
and long in the L.W.
When scalded the latter shows up
almost snow-white —a valuable selling
asset.'
All other crosses show various stages
in coloration.
Another merit of the L.W. is the pre-
ponderance of the boar on any sow.
About the only fault of the L.W. is
that the ham is narrow and long instead
of short and bulky.
SOME MAIZE HINTS.
“Minthall”: Secure your seed sup-
plies early. Grain held in stock is apt to
develop weevil. If possible, get your
seed from a cold climate ; the grain is
much freer from disease and more
robust, as well as being harder for keep-
ing.
If your area is dry, sow early and
select an early-maturing type. In
average seasons try a mid-season type,
but with rich ground stick to the late
type.
For fodder or silage there is nothing
to beat maize, and the best are the white
grains, which yield plenty of succulent,
leafy foliage, while the stalk is softer
and all usable. Feed chaffed green
maize to dairy cows when the cobs are
young and tender. Then it is a great
milk and cream producer.
When sowing for grain, about 151 b.
per acre is ample, in drills wide enough
to cultivate between.
Grain crops are no use unless kept
clean and earthed up as they grow. For
fodder, close drilling is best, at about
301 b. per acre, while broadcast you can
use \\ bushels.
Corn runs 561 b. to the bushel. Corn
is catholic in soil tastes, and will grow
on virgin soil, but the best yields are
from fallowed areas. Close sowing
induces smaller stalks, while space gives
bigger stems. For a dual-purpose crop,
sow thickly in drills. Cut out every
second and third stalk for green fodder,
and leave the rest for grain. Corn needs
moisture and drilling, and cultivating
will save a crop in hard times, where a
broadcast will fail.
Let the grunters eat it green, or wait
till the grain is dry and turn them in.
LUCERNE GROWING.
“Bill R.”: An erroneous belief
amongst farmers is that lucerne will
flourish only on limed and gravelly river
flats.
Given right weather, with well-drained,
porous soil, liberally treated with lime,
if sour, lucerne will thrive in any situa-
tion, high or low. Its bane is heavy,
clayey, waterlogged or acid soil.
To ensure ideal conditions for lucerne
might mean considerable expense, but
its successful farming will repay any
grower.
For prolific crops and permanency,
free circulation of air through the sur-
face soil is needed. The field should
be regularly and thoroughly scarified.
Injury to the plants in the process is
outweighed by the benefits from it.
Having long roots, lucerne tufts re-
quire an amount of top from which
abundant new buds can sprout when
growth is renewed in springtime. There-
fore, the common practice of grazing
down with sheep or cattle after the last
autumn cut seriously affects the next
yield. It causes the new growth to be
spindly and weak, and the next season
is well advanced before the plants begin
to recover.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Ama Ike”: Waste motor oil will help
preserve wooden gates and fenceposts.
Dab the oil on the top of each post to
prevent splitting.
“Spes”: To open a liquid container
that has no proper outlet, use an old
bolt sharpened to a fine point. This
pierces easily, makes a hole any size and
leaves a cavity easy to plug again or
solder.
“Sheepo”: In shearing-sheds, at lamb-
marking time and when treating wounds
on flyblown sheep, it is usual to daub
on antiseptics with a piece of wool or
rag tied on a stick. Much solution is
thus wasted. With a brush the mixture
can be applied more effectively and little
fluid is lost.
“A.G.T.”: To remove a truck or car
rear wheel from its axle without a wheel-
puller, slack off the nut but leave it on
the axle end. Jack up the wheel on the
opposite side. Then get a soft-iron
punch about the diameter of the axle,
place squarely on the axle end and hit
with a sledgehammer.
“Wrash”: Before fitting the rafters in
a cartshed, barn or stable, securely nail
a tie beam midway from wall plate to
wall plate. Unless this is done the
weight above may spread the walls and
hollow-back the roof. Nailing collar
ties across the rafters at any height will
give additional strength.
“C.R.”: In felling trees single-handed
(B. 4/7/’34) all that is required to keep
the saw level is to drive your axe into
the wood with the upper edge of the
back horizontal. The saw rests on this
until its buries itself.
“Hoxbro”: How many men on the
land keep a diary? An accurate daily
record which contains details of weather
and seasonal conditions, notes on the
growth of crops and stock, service dates,
rainfall records, etc., soon turns itself
into a reference book.
“Valerin”: For making firebreaks a
mouldboard plough is preferable to a
disc. The former buries the grass com-
pletely, while the latter leaves it stand-
ing on end, and there is always the risk:
of a fire creeping across it If the break
is rolled after ploughing the sheep will
use it as pads, keeping it always fjoe
from grass and weeds. Besides, a wide
break is a great help to sheep in grass-
seed time.
“J.V.C.”: When a log refuses to let
the wedge enter, put a saw-cut in the
splitting face, then try the wedge in saw-
cut. This often gives sufficient hold to
start the log opening. My experience is
that the maul is a mistake. A light
sledgehammer does so little damage to
the wedges that the repair bill is not
worth worrying about,
“Gumblegubbin”: To wean a calf
f ro m sucking without taking it away
from the cow, fit it with a strong leather
headstall and drive a row of nails
through the noseband from the inside.
The projecting points of the nails prod
the cow whenever the calf tries to suck,
and she drives it away. In about a week
the headstall can be taken off.
“Alex.”: To make a cool flyproof
dairy and meathouse, build a 15ft. square
shed with double walls filled with earth,
Cement the floor and thickly thatch the
iron roof with hay or brush. Build a
large gauze window into the side oppo-
site a self-closing gauze door. Six
feet from the window, and parallel to it,
erect a flyproof gauze partition having
another door. Outfit the section near
the window as a meatroom and the other
as a dairy. There will be a constant
draught through the building, and flies,
to enter the meatroom, must dodge
through two doors.


BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
M.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital £250,000
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds , . £3,800,000
Reserves—
T he Company’s provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds £900,000
AREA PLANTED: 152,788 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers: Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will project you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost 1
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., IjTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place. Sydney.
E. J, Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins' Street, A. Adams. Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street. Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House. St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith,
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
SMOKE-OH!
Many people are pony wise and pound
foolish.
•V- -y
“Most personal paragraphs are mere boost
built on very little.” —Sydney paper.
Bally-who’s Who.
%. &
“At a bootmakers’ conference it was asserted
that a woman will not marry a man who wears
shabby boots.”
Then it is true that old boots are
lucky?
* *
“What is worse than being one number
from a £5OOO prize?”
One number from a £lO,OOO prize.
“But when the will was proved, mum, they found I was
a love-child.”
“The man, who looked extraordinarily fat,
seemed to be searching for something.”
— “Telegraph.”
He was merely looking round.
DOUBT.
Met a fisherman returning home the
other day who admitted that he had not
caught any, nor had one got away.
Thought I had discovered a rarity, and
I started to write this par., intending to
claim a record. But a horrible doubt
has just assailed me. Was he really and
truly a fisherman?
J. B. J.
* SUSPENSE.
All round were people, strangers to
him, laboring under suppressed excite-
ment. He tried to compose himself, but
it was useless. He had to get away—out
of this. Those two, they were in there
together now. Could he sit here inactive
knowing that any minute —but, no, he
would not allow himself to think
that
He rose and groped his way outside.
The streets were practically deserted, but
that only added to his sense of in-
security.
The ride home in the tram was an
agony. He groaned inwardly whenever
the car stopped, and he was mentally
urging it onward, faster, faster!
The house was in
darkness. With un-
steady hand he fitted
the key and entered.
A faint light showed
under the door of
the room. A faint
murmur . . . that
familiar voice . . .
He flung open
the door. His father
looked up from his
armchair in front of
the radio.
“You’re home
early!”
“Yes, I couldn’t stick it at the pictures
any longer. Ponsford and Bradman still
batting?”
C/ESAR.
* *
THE PERFECT CANDIDATE. -
From the party’s point of view, he was
the ideal candidate. Quite brainless, but
so long as he voted with the machine that
was of little consideration. He was the
worst debater in the party, but there were
plenty to do his talking for him. On the
soapbox he was a complete dud. Apart
from his unhappy knack of antagonis-
ing his audience, he hadn’t sufficient re-
partee to silence the most boneheaded
interjector.
Yet he had one great asset that out-
weighed all shortcomings, and it was
almost a certainty that, by its very
psychological nature, it would carry him
to the top of the poll.
His surname commenced with a double
A.
Keo.
y
RESULTS GUARANTEED.
My neighbors think I’m mad. I admit
that my gardening methods are uncon-
ventional.
Having collected seeds from all the
weeds and pests I can find, I sow them
in seed-boxes, and give them my best
attention. When they are large enough,
I plant them out in the choicest spots of
the garden. All flowers apt to hinder
the growth of the weeds are chopped out
with a hoe. I zealously guard my pests
against frost attacks, neighbors’ chickens,
wandering cats and other dangers.
Under this treatment the weeds soon
die out completely and I have flowers
in abundance. It is the one certain
method of raising flowers, and is based
on years of failures.
Sef.
* *
AND NOW—THE SCOTCHIAD.
The cream of Scotland’s athletes were
prominent in the various events at the
first Scotchiad, held at Glasgow last
week. Many traditional events were con-
tested.
In the vaulting there was a very
“close” finish. Sporran Mcßawbee got
the decision, having “vaulted” 90 p.c.
of his pay over the last 12 months. He
stated that he would have had an easier
victory but for the fact that his daily
15-mile walk to work along the railway
line wore out so many pairs of boots,
and the second-hand shops had raised
their prices.
That ancient Caledonian sport the
Highland Fling attracted so many entries
that it had to be held on Loch Ness ;
278,000 hit the water as the traditional
saxpence was flung into the centre of the
“This is for being a bad boy
to-morrow.”
loch. Kiltie McCrankikow, who set new
figures by recovering it in 21 fathoms,
was pulled on to the bank unconscious,
but with the coin tightly clenched in his
teeth.
The combined burgoo-eating and
whisky-drinking event provided a stir-
ring struggle, Tartan McSwizzle eventu-
ally beating Googan McGuzzler by a
neck. The winner’s performance was
the more meritorious because imme-
diately prior to facing the starter he had
celebrated his anticipated win by eating
a haggis and a half and tossing off three
quarts of mountain dew. Passing the
four-bucket post, he led by a yard and
a quarter of the national food and 17
fingers of o.p. With two buckets to go
and his last, button hanging by a thread,
McGuzzler made a fast run by dispens-
ing with the conventional gulp and pour-
ing it straight down. McSwizzle was
not to be denied, however, and with
a brilliant finishing burst (almost) he
polished off the last half gallon in the
splendid time of 57min, 17sec
Included on the list of events was one
intended to test the lung power of the
brawniest Scots, a contest on the same
lines as that of the town criers of Eng-
land. Unfortunately, the event had been
billed as a “Shouting” contest. There
were no nominations.
S. W. K.
LAST WORD.
They had quarrelled very badly; it was
worse than just a tiff,
And angry words were bandied to and
fro.
He was better off when single, he in-
formed her with a sniff,
While she hated him—at least, she told
him so.
“Well, men are fools to marry — that’s
all / can say,” he said,
A statement he was very soon to rue.
For “I know that, too,” she answered.
“But, with no one else to wed,
It’s the only thing that we poor girls
can do.”
F. D'A.
PEEPS AT THE PROFESSIONS.
I. —The Banker.
The Big Bad Banker in his den
Schemes to rob his fellow men.
He laughs at tears and supplications;
Bankrupt farmers’ lamentations
Leave him cold ; he scorns their moans,
Refuses overdrafts and loans,
Except, of course, to friends and such as
Are already in his clutches.
The Banker should be avoided by all
right-thinking people. He battens on the
widows and orphans, and makes
money out of other people’s misery.
If you lend him money he gives
it to his friends and charges you for
looking after it. If you borrow money
from him it is not long before he gets it
back again, yet you still owe it to him.
If a banker sees a man with money he
rests neither day nor night till the man
no longer has the money, and the banker
has the money. Then the banker lends
the man the money and charges him in-
terest, and the man puts the money back
in the bank and still owes it, and in due
course the banker seizes all the man’s
property except his clothes, which are
left for the sake of decency. And what
has that man got left? Nothing. And
does the banker care? No! He merely
goes out into the street again and looks
for another man with money.
If a young banker wishes to get on he
must banish all honest thoughts and
model himself on his superiors. He must
learn to tinker about with the petty cash
and postage accounts, but must not get
found out, or the big
banker will dismiss
him, realising that if
he is not clever
enough to cover his
tracks he will never
make a big banker.
If he is not found
out it is assumed
that he has cleverly
concealed his tracks.
He is then marked
out for promotion,
and soon learns
how to forge en-
dorsements, fake
passbooks and alter
amounts on elderly
widows’ cheques.
After years of
cunningly concealed
fraud and embezzle-
ment he becomes
manager of a coun-
try branch. If he
lacks ambition he is
more or less honest
from now on, and,
except for juggling
with securities and
working occasional
swindles with the
milk and vegetable
cheques, he does no-
thing to justify fur-
ther promotion. If,
however, he aims at
higher things he takes a course of knots
and splicing. Then one fine Satur-
day night, when the hotel and picture
takings are favorable, his bank is robbed
and he is found bound and gagged. This,
besides being very remunerative, attracts
attention higher up, and after he has
repeated the performance in three or
four country towns he is elevated to the
seats of the mighty and becomes a Big
Bad Banker.
Once among his equals he throws off
all reserve and conspires, schemes and
plots to defraud the bank’s depositors,
clients and others possessing money. He
rigs the exchange, dictates the policy of
the Government, controls the weather
and causes booms and depressions at
will.
The only consolation for the general
public is that if he didn’t do it someone
else would.
JASBY.
LINES TO MY DOG.
Yes, you bit off the tail and the head
Of the terrible next-door cat,
And you killed the Smiths' Alsatian :
I’ll admit you did all that.
But, nevertheless, you're a coward I
For you wouldn’t assist me to fight
That army of boa constrictors
l warred with on Saturday night!
T. W. N.


Our Servicet Department
This page is set apart lor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (24), Sydney, typist, telephonist,
knowledge office routine, requires position.—
3115.
Young girl companion is offered holiday in
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) by lady in return for
domestic duties. Refs, required.—3lo3.
Young man, N.S.W., energetic, educated,
artistic, with travel exp., seeks position as
travelling secretary or tutor, or any position
where trust and tact are required.—3l2l.
Young man, Q., thorough knowledge of
printing trade, college education, wants posi-
tion as traveller. —3107.
Old-age pensioner, painter and bush worker,
N.S.W., will give services for home and small
wage; not used to stock, but good vegetable
gardener.—3lol.
Certificated engine-driver, with exp. in steam,
suction-gas, oil and Diesel engines, air-compres-
sors, refrigeration and ele'ctric drive, can splice
wire ropes, wants employment anywhere. Refs.
—3097.
Duco worker, 36, married, seeks employ-
ment, Sydney or suburbs.—3o46.
Mercer, young, 4 years’ exp., now casually
employed, wants job in the country or Islands.
Refs,—3o29.
Qualified male nurse, used to mental cases
and senile dementia, will undertake duties as
valet and secretary, seeks employment. Refs.
—3014.
Author wants assistance in financing publica-
tion of volume of poems, including an epic on
the Sydney Harbor Bridge and steel-making.—
3039.
Words of verses beginning “Fellers of Aus-
tralia, blokes and coves- and c00t5.”—2986.
Address of breeders of black Pekins and
feather-legged bantams. —3055.
Mineowner and prospector, N.S.W., 25 years’
exp. Tas. and W.A., seeks engagements to
sample, report and advise upon gold proposi-
tions. —2999.
Words of monologue beginning “Say, Bill,
we’re going up the line to-night.”—3oB3.
Whereabouts of Capt. Stevenson, Ist Field
Co. Engineers, who was in France in 1917. —
3083.
To buy vols. 1,2, 3 and 4 of Riso Levi’s
“Strokes of the Game.” —3081.
Opening for two light specialty salesmen
with own cars or conveyance, N.Q. —3087.
Names and addresses of suppliers of canned
kangaroo- or wallaby-tail soup.^-3071.
To buy or borrow Edmund Blunden’s
“Undertones of War.”—3ll4.
Words of verse “Little L0n.”—3116.
Words of poem “Lake Eliza.”—3lo4.
Information Sought.
Who fought the first main event at the New-
town ( Sydney ) Olympic Stadium, afterwards
burned down ? What was the opening date,
and how did the contest result ? —2969.
Dave Smith and Les O’Donnell met in the
first main event at Newtown on December 15,
1913. Smith beat O’Donnell on points in 20
rounds.
(1) Who killed Baron von Richthofen, the
German aviator ? (2) Was he shot down from
the air or from below ? (3) Was the 55tli Bat-
talion in the vicinity ? (4) Were there any other
’planes about ? —2695.
(1) and (2) According to R.A.F. records,
Richthofen was shot in the air by Capt. A. R.
Brown, of No. 209 Squadron, R.A.F. But
Major D. V. J. Blake, R.A.F., who was present
at the post-mortem examination, stated that
the evidence there given went to show that
Richthofen must have been shot from the
ground. In “The Story of the Fifth Australian
Division,” by Capt. A. D. Ellis, it is stated,
as “established by careful investigations,” that
Richthofen was shot by an anti-aircraft Lewis
gun manned by gunners Evans and Buie of the
53rd Battery, A.F.A. (3) It formed part of the
14th Infantry Brigade, and was in the vicinity
at the time. (4) Yes. Richthofen was chasing
a British ’plane when he was killed, and there
is mention of at least one other R.A.F. ’plane
being in the air at the time. Also, there were
many ’planes belonging to the Richthofen
“circus.”
Details concerning the captured German rail-
way gun which was exhibited in Sydney on a
siding off Sydney Central Railway Station
shortly after the war ? Where is it now ?
—3004.
The 28cm. naval gun, which weighed 120 tons,
was constructed in 1904 and mounted in 1917 as
a railway gun. It was captured by the Austra-
lians in France on August 8, 1918. It had to
be removed from its Sydney site to make way
for the city-railway extension. 'lt is now at
Canberra, where, in 1927, it was established
near the railway station on a concrete base.
In a recent issue of the “Dominion” (M.L.)
appeared a reprint from that paper of July 31,
1909: “Some curious rock carvings have been
unearthed at Woollahra Point, in Sydney
Harbor, which indicate that Spaniards camped
at the spot from 1595 to 1597.” Is there any
historical foundation for the theory? —29sl.
This refers to rock markings made public
by Lawrence Hargrave, who attributed to them
a Spanish origin. Local historians and many
others disbelieved the so-called evidence. There
is no proof of Spaniards having been on the
east coast of Australia prior to Capt. Cook.
( (1) What is Hitler’s religion ? (2) What is
the aim of his brand of National Socialism ?
3058.
The German Consulate-General in Sydney
answered the questions as follows: (1) Hitler
is a Catholic. He has said unmistakably that
the foundations of the nation can only rest on
the unchangeable principles of Christian faith.
(2) The ultimate aim of National Socialism
is the rebirth of Germany in a real German
spirit, the creation of a united national State
and the subordination of private interest to the
common interest. With the other nations
National Socialist Germany desires to live in
peace.
(1) How is electrocution curried out ? (2)
Is the practice successful ? (3) Voltage used.
(4) Where is it practised ? (5) When first em-
ployed ?— 2930.
(1) The condemned man is seated in a
specially insulated chair, to which he is firmly
strapped. A cap is placed over his head
covering his eyes, and containing a metal plate
forming one electrode. The other electrode is
strapped to the leg. (2) Yes, to everyone
but the patient. While three shocks are
usually given, there appears to be no doubt
that on the passing of the first shock, which
is only of two or three seconds’ duration, death
is instantaneous and painless. (3) 1800 down
to 200 volts. (4) U.S.A. (5) On August 6,
1890, when W. Kemmler suffered this penalty
in New York.
Can ihe art of ventriloquism be acquired, or
is it a natural gift ? —2944.
It does not depend upon any peculiar struc-
ture of the organs of the voice but upepn prac-
tice and dexterity. The art of ventriloquism
consists mainly of taking a deep, breath and
then allowing it to escape slowly, the sounds
of the voice being muffled by the muscles
of the throat and palate. Much of the ven-
triloquist’s skill is devoted to deceiving other
senses than hearing.
(1) I have a No. 5 Carbine camera with a
4.5/ lens and a Compur shutter marked with
speeds from 1 sec. to 1-250 th. What are the right
exposures for all shutter speeds and all lens
apertures in ordinary light ? (2) Must special
films be used for speed work; if so, what
kind ?— 2828.
(1) There is no such thing in photography as
“ordinary light.” Safest plan is to buy an
actinometer, and use it in conjunction with a
table of exposures. Table posted. (2) Yes..
Use Kodak super-sensitive panchromatic film.
Can you give details of a process in photo-
graphy where the negative is printed on a
substance resembling parchment or skin, which
after development gives a raised-up image ?
The parchment when dry is clamped on a pad,
when the picture is reproduced on any paper by
wetting the surface with printers’ ink applied
with a squeegee, then placing paper in contact
with ink and pressing the lot in an office press.
—2873.
The process was in vogue in England for
some time 25 or 30 years ago. Sized paper
was immersed in a solution of potassium
bichromate which was then exposed to light.
This exposure made the sizing of the paper
varyingly absorbent of water. The paper was
placed in warm water for development, and
subsequently rolled up with ink. It is a modifi-
cation of the collotype process, and equally
temperamental, depending for its success on
carefully controlled conditions of temperature
and humidity.
I am the author of a song published in
London. / receive royalties on everything
except 100 free copies / received on publica-
tion or further copies ordered by me at 6 d.
a copy. (1) Can / order as many copies as
I please at 6 d. each and sell them in Victoria
at the published price ? (2) Does the song
become copyright automatically in all countries ?
—2942.
(1) There should be no restriction. (2) You
must obtain this information from the pub-
lisher. If he has lodged it for copyright in
London, it is copyright for the world, except
U.S.A. To cover the U.S.A. with copyright
it is necessary to lodge the printed copies at
Washington within 14 days of the time it is
lodged at the Copyright Office in London.
On what date did the N.S.W. unemployment-
relief tax first come into force, the original
rate of tax and subsequent alterations ? —2774.
Unemployment-relief tax payable by means
of deduction from wages first came into force
in N.S.W. on July 1, 1930. The rates, which
were varied from time to time, were as fol-
lows: 1/7/’3O to 31/12/’3O, 3d. in the £l.
1/1 /’3l to 30/9/’32, Is. in the £l. l/10/’32
to 30/11/’33, £2 to £2 10s., Is. per week;
£2 10s. Id. to £3, Is. 6d. per week; £3 os. Id.
to £3 10s., 2s. per week; £3 10s. Id. on-
wards, Is. in the £l. The Prevention and
Relief of Unemployment Act was repealed on
November 30, 1933, and replaced by the Special
Income and Wages Tax (Management) Act.
The rates payable since December 1, 1933, are
on a sliding scale. A table can be obtained on
application to the Taxation Department.
. What is the nutritive value of eggs ? Are
they more beneficial raw or cooked ? —3093.
The value of eggs as a food lies in the' fact
that they supply a wide variety of nutritive ele-
ments. Their calorific value is approximately
the same as lea’n • meat; digestibility depends
upon 'the method of. cooking. Although raw
eggs are not so rapidly expelled by the stomach
as lightly-boiled eggs, the intestinal absorption
in both cases is very complete. The partial
coagulation of the latter is sufficient to stimu-
late peristaltic movement, whereas raw eggs,
having no irritating or stimulating action, take
more time to pass through the stomach, and
are acted upon longer by the gastric juices.
Under certain conditions of impaired digestion,
therefore,“'raw eggs may be the' more suitable
food. ' ' ’ • • r. •.
lam a clerk, weighing B st. 10 lb., height sft.
Tin., age 26. How can I add another Ist. to
my weight ? —2806.
Your weight should approximate lOst. 81b.
Include starchy foods, with sugars and fats, in
your diet; drink' fresh milk freely, and enforce
mental and physical rest. Tobacco and alcohol
(malt liquors) are permissible in moderation.
Malt extract and cod-liver oil should benefit.
How is the area of a ship’s rudder deter-
mined ? —3070.
By dividing the product of her length and
load draft by 30 to 40 in the case of war-
ships, 60 to 70 for fast liners and 90 to 100
for slow cargo tramps.
How to clean rose shrubs of while scale
and wafer-like aphis ? Will it harm the young
shoots if the work is done now? —3110.
Work should be done at once before the
warm weather sets in. Boil a cake of soap in
two gallons of water, and when dissolved stir
a tablespoonful of kerosene into it. While the
mixture is warm wash the affected rose shrubs
with it, using a toothbrush attached to a long
stick. A second treatment three weeks later
will wipe out any of the pests which may have
escaped the first dose.
During recent wet weather I lost hundreds
of young snapdragons, which withered and
died. Treatment ? —3llB.
There is no treatment which will prevent
snapdragons failing in wet weather. You pos-
sibly helped the trouble by not thoroughly
draining the soil before planting. Pull out
the young plants left, place a layer of stones
in a trench through the bed, lime the soil and
turn it thoroughly to sweeten; then set out
another batch of seedlings. The plants will
grow quickly in the warm weather.
Cheap and efficient priming for a very dry
and rough weatherboard cottage? Would like
to paint cream. —2894.
Use the paint which is to be the second
coat thinned well with oil. Add up to jj-gal.
of oil to the gallon of paint. The extra oil
absorbed by the timber is an excellent preserva-
tive.
(1) How to remove old putty ? (2) Oil paint ?
—3062.
(1) Paint it with nitric or hydrochloric acid,
arid after about an hour it will be soft enough
to remove. A hot iron will soften it at once.
(2) 21b. washing soda, 41b. quicklime, mixed
to the consistence of cream, spread on, and
kept moist for an hour. The paint can then
be washed off.
How to clean brass gas fittings not in use. —
3086.
Scrub the fittings in hot soapy water contain-
ing a good dash of ammonia, using a stiff
brush. Set aside to dry after rinsing well, and
when dry immerse in a bath consisting of a
handful of salt and a quart of vinegar. Do
not leave the fittings in this very long, but
move them about and scrub again with a
brush or flannel. This should make them
very clean; finish off with metal polish and then
paint them with a solution of orange
shellac, dissolved to a thin paste in
methylated spirit, which should keep them
clean indefinitely.
(1) What causes sulphation in the plates of
an accumulator ? (2) Remedy? —3l26.
(1) Overcharging; allowing the cells to stand
in a discharged condition; adding raw acid
to replace the electrolyte lost by evaporation;
leaving the electrolyte at too low a level; short
circuits and local action. (2) Only long-con-
tinued slow charging will tell. Give the cells
a long 24-hour charge at a slow rate, and re-
peat if necessary after a slow discharge.. If
this does not remedy the trouble the plates
should be examined. Most likely new plates
are necessary.
Where can l obtain the latest “Aust. and
N.Z. Writers and Artists’ Year-Book," and
price ? —3084.
This reference book, last issued in 1929, will
be revived at the end of the year under the
title “The Australian Authors and Artists’
Handbook.” The publisher’s address is Box
400 F, G.P.0., Sydney, and the price will be
2s. 6d.
Would a domestic worker experience much
1 rouble in securing employment in Brisbane ?
—2819.
Not if, experienced and possessing references.
Address application to Female'Labor Exchange,
Department of Labor and Industry, Brisbane.
How did Toowong ( Q .) get its name? —
2948.
• It is an aboriginal name, and,,there is a
popular belief that in the la'nguage of the
local blackfellows it signified “rich place.” That
seems doubtful. The locality was_ called Too-
wong, or, rather, Tutivong, before the arrival
of the white' men who ,came with Oxley in
1824, the name being an imitation of the sonor-
ous note of the male Flinders cuckoo, which
frequented the scrub at the foot of the Too-
wong Creek.
(1) Particulars of Alexander Graham Bell ?
(2) Was he a doctor of medicine? (3) If so,
where did he graduate ? (4) Did he practise as
a physician?- —2988. • ~ > . .
(1), (2).and (3) Born,in Edinburgh on March
3, 1847, he was educated at the High School
and University, and graduated there as M.D.
In 1870 he went to Canada, and-in.-1872 be-
came Professor of Vocal Physiology in the
University of Boston. In 1876 he exhibited his
apparatus for the transmission of sound, after-
wards developed into the telephone. He was
awarded the Albert Medal of the Royal Society
of Arts in 1902, the Hughes Medal of the
Royal Society 1918, hon. degree of LL.D.
(Edinburgh University) 1906, and freedom of
the City of Edinburgh 1920. He died on
August 2, 1922. (4) It is not on record that
he ever did.
What is the incident commemorated in Ten-
nyson’s ballad “The Revenge ’’ ? —3007.
The poem deals with the fight of Sir Richard
Grenville’s ship the Revenge against a fleet
of Spanish warships in the Azores in 1591.
Grenville was second-in-command under Lord
Howard of a squadron of British ships which
set out to intercept a homeward-bound treasure
fleet of Spain. The Revenge was delayed and
cut off from her consorts by the Spaniards.
Grenville resolved to try to break through
the middle of the Spanish line. His ship was
becalmed under the lee of a huge galleon, and,
after a hand-to-hand fight lasting 15 hours
against 15 Spanish ships and a force of 5000
men, the Revenge was captured. Grenville was
carried on board the Spanish flagship San
Pablo, and died a few days later.
Does Anybody Know?
Name of author who wrote stories about
prehistoric man for English magazines about
1918. Principal characters were named Grom
and Aya.—3o27.
Information Supplied.
2240.—The author of the observation “There*
is something in the misfortunes of our fellows
not entirely displeasing to ourselves” is La
Rochefoucauld. Usually the quotation is trans-
lated“ There, is, something not altogether dis-
pleasing to us in observing the misfortunes of
our best friends.”—“M.K.”
Brief Answers.
D.C.A.: Write Under-Secretary, Dept, of
Labor and Industry, Sydney... .H.L.: If you
are referring to the whole-life endowment assur-
ance contracts in the ordinary department,
premium rates now in operation were first
brought into force in 1901. Before that a
lower rate was charged J.C.: No license,
Government or other registration required, but
many, if not all, N.S.W. municipal councils
impose a rate of 2s. 6d. p.a. where premises are
used as hairdressers' saloons... .A.F.: If a
mortgagor has not paid interest since Dec., 1931,
mortgagee may, under the N.S.W. Moratorium
Act, 1932, enter into possession without per-
mission of a Court —may evict mortgagor and
put in a tenant or, if a tenant is already in,
direct such tenant to pay the rent to him
A J.H.: Director, N.S.W. State Lotteries, in-
vites you to write to him direct H.G.8.:
(1) No. (2) A sense of rhythm can be acquired
by musical study. (3) Musical study, particu-
larly the works of Dalcroze 5.N.8.: Write
Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra, F.C.T
A.H.: (1) Melba, in her prime, was considered
the world’s leading operatic soprano. (2) She
received considerably more than £lOO per week
during many of her . operatic seasons. (3) The
theatre recognises stars in all departments; to
compare their rank is like trying to assess the
relative merit of gooseberries and tomatoes
R. A copy can be obtained from the Regis-
trar of Probates, Supreme Court, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. The cost depends on length, but
the will may be inspected on payment of 2s
T. 8.: There is no law to restrain a husband
or wife in such circumstances, but if adultery
should result recourse could be had to the
Divorce Court J.R.M.: Presumably you
refer to an action for defamation of character.
Letters such as you received from the Gov-
ernment department are privileged, and could
not be produced as evidence in support of
your case W.8.T,: Upon the death of a
pensioner life-assurance, policies possessed by
him become portion of his estate and are sub-
ject to a charge by the Commonwealth in
respect of all pension payments made to the
pensioner after Dec. 31, 1932. The debt due
to' the Commonwealth, however, is not recover-
able until all other debts have been paid....
T.S.: There is no staircase inside Cleopatra’s
Needle. He probably means the Monument
(of London), which was built to commemorate
the Great Fire, and is on the east side of the
Embankment. It has a spiral stairway of 345
steps P.C.: (l)The making of a loom is de-
scribed, with sketches, in the “Woman’s Mirror”
of 9/1/’34 and 16/1/’34; the method of using
it, with diagrams of various weaves, is de-
scribed in the issue of 13 /3 / ’34, all procurable
from this office, 4d. each posted. (2) List will
be supplied by any of the leading Sydney
booksellers, with prices. (3) Society of Arts
and Crafts of N.S.W., 8 Rowe-street, Sydney,
does handloom weaving... .E.D.: Write Mrs.
Blomfield, secretary, Society of Genealogists,
Chaucer House, Malet-place London, W.C.I.
. ...E.S.: Write Director, Lighthouse Services,
Navigation Dept., Circular Quay, Sydney....
V.F.P.: If he made a suit trumps in which
he didn’t hold a card, B must take the bitter
consequences... .A. 8.: See “Gilding, Silvering
and Bronzing” in Cassell’s Work Hand-
books series 8.A.D.: Cannot trace L.S.:
Get in touch with the Deputy Director of
Navigation and Lighthouses, Sydney, and the
Deputy Director of Navigation and Light-
houses, Port Adelaide. Sailing vessels do not
now visit Q’land ports for the loading of wheat,
whereas they still visit S.A. ports and occasion-
ally Sydney J. 8.: See the 14th annual report
in respect of the registration of stallions by the
Vic. Chief Veterinary Inspector, which indicates
that for the year 1933-34 the proportion of
stallions rejected for unsoundness was 11.707
p.c., and through disapproval of type and
conformation 25.653 p.c J.C.: No Austra-
lian agents. Write the New Era Treatment Co.,
Cecil House, Holburn Viaduct, London. Can
obtain one bottle locally (100 tablets approx.),
price 10s. posted... .N.C.F.: The pamphlet
gives details of treatment by exercise for
functional disorders. Exact diagnosis should
be made in the first place. In the absence of
disease as a contributing factor, results should
be as claimed. The combined treatment may
be prescribed under medical supervision....
G. 8.: Purchase mascara or water black from
your chemist, price 2s. Bd. posted. The normal
make-up completed, moisten mascara cake
and apply with brush (supplied) to the eye-
brows as required. Use sparingly to shape
and tint the brows in pleasing outline. Especi-
ally avoid contrast with obvious cosmetics—
brown shade is supplied for blondes H.J.S.:
Page Barker scurf lotion, ss. posted (pomade,
3s. posted), from any Sydney chemist. Agents,
Elliott and Australian Drug, Ltd., O’Connell-
street, Sydney, and Felton, Grimwade, Ltd..
Melbourne... .S.N.C.: The odor of methylated
spirits (denatured with wood naphtha) cannot
be eliminated by ordinary means. For hair
lotions, perfuming oils as lavender, bergamot or
citronella may be tried —peppermint is not ad-
vised. A bay-rum admixture to some extent obvi-
ates the trouble... .J.M.C.: Commonwealth
occupational figures for 1932-33 are : Agriculture
(excluding casual labor), 205,305; pastoral (ex-
cluding casual labor and Queensland, for
which figures are not yet available), 78,164;
dairying (excluding casual labor), 161,773;
forestry, figures not available; fisheries, 11,436;
mining, 57,844; manufacturing, 370,727..-.
J.M.A.D.: Communicate with the secretary of
the Graziers’ Association, 422 Collins-street,
and the Pastoral Review Co., 120 King-street
—both Melbourne... .S.R.: The Queensland
Egg Board, Garrick-street, Brisbane, will buy
eggs. Consignments should be made to Roma-
street railway station... .J.S.L.: Information
obtainable from hon. sec., Junior Farmers'
Club Council, Box 36a, G.P.0., Sydney
A.M.8.: Submit full details by sketch and
description to a patent attorney for advice as
to patentability and costs. Provisional protec-
tion of invention costs about £5 55., including
attorney’s fee R.D.F.: Write threatening
legal proceedings to recover the money,
and if he fails to meet his undertak-
ing place the matter in the hands of
a solicitor W.8.C.: Details not available.
Any person interested in the estate could apply
to the Assistant-Paymaster-General, Whitehall,
London, for information. .. .T.H.: Electric
light and heat apparatus may be used for home
treatment of muscle strain, rheumatism, etc.
Medical supervision is advised. Price and par-
ticulars from Rodman and Co., 11 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .F.G.: Misses B. E. and C.
T. Dacomb, 120 Park-street, South Yarra,
S. Vic., are promoters of the Dacomb
shorthand system, and will supply information.
(Many others mailed.)


‘lt keeps you in good spirits.”
"This
McNish's is a
richtguid whusky!”
Through seventy eventful years
McNish’s Special Scotch Whisky
has won life-long friends.
Its mellow flavour and delicious
bouquet are the product of ex-
perience and age.
McNish is Scotch to the last wee
drop, being blended in bonny
Scotland to a precise and unvary-
ing standard.
SPECIAL SCOTCH
WHISKY
Agents for Australia:
THE COMMONWEALTH
WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LTD.,
89 Phillip Street, Sydney
And at Melbourne
55.34
E&A
j*3f y o»-
C o!! A **4
*<■>
RABAUU
"ff/
M\V
BRISBANE
s *Dn
l u «4
Passengers may live on
board at all ports
The Steamer
is your Hotel.
ROUND TRIP FARES
SYDNEY to YOKOHAMA
FIRST £9O
SECOND £56-15
Free of Exchange.
AUTUMN IN JAPAN
September to November is Autumn in the East,
when the weather is delightful and the foliage is
a mass of variegated colours. The Round Trip to
Japan by the E. & A. Line is an exceedingly
attractive and economical Holiday Tour—Passen-
gers need not incur hotel expenses as the Steamers
will serve this purpose at all ports.
The route includes the most interesting places in
Australia, New Guinea, Philipine Islands, China
and Japan and the Australian £ is worth 25/- in
Japan.
The comfortable SECOND SALOON accommoda-
tion is in 2, 3 and 4 berth Cabins, the Menu is
excellent, and Second Saloon passengers have
many privileges similar to First Saloon.
Agents:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
rSydney
J Melbourne
| Brisbane
(.Adelaide
///.
PH* 5?
X
limminj
'llium
s
i
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
TANK AND OTHER MEASUREMENTS
(Copyright), by F. E. Vigars, F.C.P.A.
Property-owners, Managers, Overseers, Contractors
and many others often find it necessary to compute
the measurements of Tanks, Land, Timber, Haystacks,
Silos, Washaways, etc. The rules commonly used,
together with examples, are given in the above book,
as well as much valuable information re preparing
contracts for Fencing, Ring-barking, Scrubbing,
Suekering, Clearing, Ploughing, Tank-sinking, Agist-
ment, Droving, Sinking Artesian Bores, Share-farming,
etc. Price, 6/- post free.
ORDER FORM
The Institute for Pastoralists and Farmers,
Box 2207 LL, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward me a copy of “Tank and Other
Measurements,” by F. E. Vigars, for which I enclose
herewith 5/-.
THE PALETTE.
J. R. Eldershaw, who. has 30 water-
colors on show at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, is a painter who seems to
have discovered, somewhat recently,
exactly what he wants to say and the
directest way of stating it. He’s not a
modernist or an ancientist, but paints
things as he (and any other individual
with normal eyesight) sees them. Whereas
formerly his affection for greys and drabs
led friendly critics to commend his re-
straint, he now takes all colors as they
come, and the brighter the better for his
purposes. His style is clean, snappy and
graceful, and he seems equally at home
recording Tasmania’s quiet scenery, town
and country ; the flaunting glories of
Sydney Harbor or the romantic ruins of
Italy and Spain. “The Village Street,
Richmond,” is an essay in sweet sim-
plicity ; “Blue Bay, Middle Harbor,” an
anthem of joy ; and “Old Township, Tas-
mania,” an exposition of the fact that it
is possible to reconcile romance and
realism.
That talented young Sydney artist E.
A. Harvey has invaded the Fine Arts,
Melbourne, in company with the shade
of George Washington Lambert. Like
most pupils, Harvey misunderstands the
message of his master. His pictures are
all catalogues of the objects represented
in them, and, in most cases, even cata-
logues of the various parts of the objects.
The result is a discordant jungle of un-
related planes which suggest that Nature
is a noisy harridan, which she isn’t. Nor
is the catalogue efficient as a catalogue.
If the artist was able to record the print-
ing on the barometer in No. 15, he
should also have been able to record
each separate hair on the head of the
boy in front of it. Lambert in his best
period was trying to escape from this ob-
session in the direction of the impression-
ism of Velasquez, of whom he was a
great admirer. That he did not suc-
ceed and went back to illustration is no
reason for a student elevating the faults
he would have liked to get rid of into a
fetish. “Fog Upon the Cove” and “The
Morning Ebb” are the nearest to a first
impression in the exhibition, which in-
cludes a picture of a pig deer’s skull that
might interest the Centenary Council’s
plaque committee.
A. G. Newbury’s big show at Melb.
Athenaeum comprises large and little
landscapes, much ocean acreage and
some carefully-considered studies of
flowers. In the botanical section “Ger-
aniums” struck this critic most favor-
ably. Most of the others betrayed traces
of the expert finisher who has inadver-
tently rubbed off the bloom of the first
impression. There are light and air in
all Newbury’s outside works, a.id in
many of them a fine vigor of attack. The
liquid atmosphere of “A Lowering Sky”
is admirably conveyed. A tendency to
bring the same formula to bear on other
subjects where it happens to be less ap-
propriate is evident —so much so as to
make the artist’s signature superfluous
on a good many of the canvases.
Gustav Pillig, by whose imaginative
flights in sculpture and painting Mel-
bourne was startled in moderation a few
years ago, has descended to the earth,
and a couple of dozen essays in simple
realism are on show at the Fisher Gal-
leries. Pillig is an industrious and sin-
cere worker in this field, though the
results are a trifle hard. Brilliant in
color, his flowers proclaim their charms
in too loud a voice. Some remarks
quoted on the catalogue are said to
have been made by Herr Hitler, who
was a painter of water-colors in his
youth. They show a great deal of
commonsense.
Two good shows in Adelaide. At the
Argonaut Gallery is Mrs. Spencer, who
exhibits under her maiden name, H. H.
Pulleine. Spending most of her time in
M.L., she has a good range of kauri pine,
lakes and hot springs. Her water-colors
are dashed in with bold effective strokes,
though in flower studies she shows an
exact care which is in strong contrast.
She has some impressions, too, of Ger-
ringong and other N.S.W. beauty spots ;
and is likely to exhibit in Sydney shortly.
Adelaide Gallery has bought one of her
kauri-forest studies. Tom Bone, who
shows at the Society of Arts gallery, is
now an instructor in S.A. Education
Department,. but studied mainly under
Arthur Woodward in Melbourne. He
has the odd modern fancy for faithful
studies of wooden fences and iron sheds :
but can see also the beauty in landscape
—mostly observed in Victoria. In still
life, with lights, shadows and reflections
he is perhaps J>est.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. Mill be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.G.J.: “The Wanderer's Song” finished be-
hind wicker bars... .R.M-C.: No fault to
find with your appreciation of the Archibald
Memorial, except that you don’t put it in
acceptable form... .F.S.: You make tod much
play with high-sounding words, but “Jonquils”
wasn’t very far off H.E.: They’re all hope-
less... .J.A.T.: In short, you know as little
as the rest of us about your theme; but art-
less admissions aren’t enough.. . .A.M.: No.
. ...J.M.W.: Nothing .in it....A.A.: No
comment except a chuckle... .A.W.H.:
Quite tolerable verse, but the peg you
hang it on is too flimsy for all that
weight L.A.C.: There are two good lines,
but that isn’t enough to carry a sonnet
through.... Ri Li: It is just the sort of
easy writing that makes darned hard read-
ing G.U.: We read it several times without
discovering what it was all about—.K.KJ.:
A daub in rhyme T.F.W.: “Let’s Be Cheer-
ful” left us quite the reverse.. . .5.J.8.: If
Lang’s book is as bad as that we don’t want
to read it....V.8.: Sounds like a blowfly
buzzing up the window-pane... .H.L.S. :
The soft Australian night has come, my love,
A dreamy peacefulness is in the air;
The stars are soundless.
Did you ever know them vocal?... .N.D.:
“West” went hurriedly in that direction....
E.S.: Very wishy-washy stuff; it’s difficult to
think it would have a chance, of publication
anywhere... .F.C.: Nothing in them....
K.L.C.: They’re all toshy, and one is a chest-
nut A.McL.: You handle a lyre as heavily
as a navvy handles a pick E.A.L.: Dread-
ful ... .E.D.W,: “The Punter’s Lament,”
dragged out to 76 lines, is over the odds.
Our experience of the unsuccessful punter is
that he can be trusted to convey all his senti-
ments in five words... .R.G.P.: You’re short
of ideas, even for a spring poet, and your
penultimate line is short of a foot T.W.D.:
“Not submitted elsewhere yet”—you have our
leave to submit it anywhere... .E.0’8.: Good
in parts; ending weak... .S.G.: Not the type.
....A.D.: There isn’t a.story in it....G.R.:
Your. conversation with the Maoris failed to
hold our interest R.R.: Rather unlikely
D.E. (N.S.W.): Not enough in it....D.J.:
It seems a shame to blame the horse....-
D.E. (Tas.): But do you live up to your anti-
feminist principles? ... .J.8.P.: Not up to stan-
dard. .. .Murra: Dad has been caught in that
of a similar trap so often that it is time he
learned his lesson... .C.S.M.: Interesting; but
we can’t find space for such straight-out de-
scription... .C.M.: You have been reading too
many stories of revenge C.C. (N.S.W.):
“Weird Night” left us cold. The other came
closer... .G.S.E.: If Peterson had been the
type you make him he’d have married the
girl C.C. (Q’land): The doctor's vengeance
is a deal too fantastic J.W.G.: Not suffici-
ently amusing EJ.O’K.: Still at the
barrier R.C.H.: Why? L.W.: Your
young drunk didn’t convince us any more
than he did the policeman F.L.: Involved
and rambling Gagi: Excellent sketches, but
why not try something with a story in it?
H.G.: No, you’re not there yet....A.F.:
“False Security” too slight, and hardly new,
anyway... .D. 1.: Not good enough; but keep
trying... .R.D.N.: Philosophy true but trite.
. ...Marovo: “With a skill reminiscent of
Napoleon in his prime he dashed between them,
like a forward between the backs.” But
wasn’t baseball Napoleon’s game? ... .R. H.C.:
The subject is unattractive 8.T.: Too
slender W.W.: Not enough story and too
many parentheses M.M. (Mosman): Crisp
and graphic, but not quite good enough....
A. : Doesn’t make the grade... .G.D.:
Can’t raise much enthusiasm over a blocked
guttering... .0.E.A.: Yarn unimpressive. Dad
and Jim were a pair of rogues 1.M.M.:
Try something with an Australian setting....
B. Not far off... .1.T.H.: We gather that
Stan’s complaint was hereditary. “Canaries,
etc.” too labored and unreal... .C.H.S.:
Misses... .A. G.W.: Came quite c105e....
J.F.K.: Well written, but the plot is too
unlikely E.W.: Phrasing extravagant. Light-
ning doesn’t sear a man’s “starting eyeballs,”
nor does the surface of water shine with “a
mystic eloquence” H.A.M.: Regret cannot
trace “Parting of the Ways” R.A.F.:
Bishop’s adventures diverting, but not con-
vincing... .S.T.N.: Where in the world do
lovers have “eyes like flaming meteors of
Neon lights”? D.W.: Not far off N.G.:
You spoiled it by that heartbreaking attempt
to rhyme “Canberra” with “clamberer”....
0.F.: The answer to the first question is no.
As for a time limit it is impossible to fix a
hard-and-fast one, but you will be quite safe
in submitting unnoticed contributions else-
where. Can’t trace “Birthday” 0.M.D.:
You have a light touch; try some less com-
prehensive subject D. 8.0.: They don’t
quite click... .Wai-iti: The trouble is that it
pre-supposes an acquaintance with Indian
mythology such as very few possess.
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.T.M.: Lady has a seal’s flapper for an
arm and small boy resembles a floor-mop
NJ.D.: A plumber could knock up a better
figure with odds and ends of pipings J.D.:
Except for the dimple the child is dreadfully
drawn R.F.S.: Less untidiness on the art
side and fresher jests are needed... .A.B. r Have
you only just heard that wheeze? A.J.M.:
Only a miracle would secure its publication.
. ...R.C.8.: After months of sjlence you
emerge with a joke that dates from the 1932-
33 Test series.... P.L.: You’re too fond of
labels and long and involved titles... .S. A.:
The figures lack vigor, the jokes freshness....
H.C.: Squire and Hodge again! Give us some-
thing Australian... .H.L.: You should reap
some reward if you study hard and don’t draw
from photographs C.J.T.: We agree; they
are “awful”... .M.M.M.: You’re 12 and
you’d like to do us a full page!... .G.D.: The
mount looks as if it had been rescued from a
boneyard, and the jockey is a libel on the
craft P.S.: Pictorial outburst against cod-
dling of dumb ' animals basketed... .T.E.S.:
The boys in blue have many noticeable faults,
lopsided bodies and deformed arms among
them... .8.C.: .Douglas Credit cartoon is as
obscure as the subject. ’
The latest card game that helps to
while away Sydney’s winter evenings is
called Russian Banker, but it has no re-
lationship whatever to the double soli-
taire game that Hoyle knows under a
similar title. Players, who may number
anything up to a dozen, provide them-
selves with copious quantities of chips,
and these had better be cheap, for risks
are extensive. Dealer gives each player
and himself three cards. These are
turned up at once. In front of him, in
a double row, face down, he lays 12
cards. Player to the left of dealer indicates
on which of the four end cards the dealer
is to start turning up. Player second to
the left elects whether, on the row
chosen, the dealer or the other players
shall pay. Then the fun commences.
Assuming that it has been elected the
dealer shall pay, if a card that pairs with
the first card he turns up is in the hand
of any player or players, he pays one
chip in respect of it. If a pairing card
is in his own hand he pays everyone
one chip, double to those who hold a
similar card, and treble to those who
hold two of it. On the second card, he
pays two, on the third three, and so on
till the sixth. On the other row of cards
he turns up the procedure is reversed.
Players pay dealer.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt 6t Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
•‘SILVER
EDGE »*
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the
uncanny feeling of pressing
your brake pedal and nothing
happens? Do not wait for
this experience to be yours,
but have your brakes watched
and adjusted at definite
periods in the same way as
you attend to the oiling of
your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RAYBESTOS
BRAKE LININGS and so ensure reliability, uni-
form wear and safety.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England
Factory Rep.: John Arnold ■, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
<9
\0
s
£
m
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient —
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
lor the original.
The Steering Column.
GRAHAM SIX SETS NEW RECORDS ON
TEST COURSE.
BY FRED BERRY.
ACCELERATION AND RIDING QUALITIES CONSPICUOUS.
"VV7HEN a motorist decides to purchase a new car the usual
’ ’ plan is to make the rounds of the showrooms and have
practical demonstrations of various types. In this quest it will
generally be found that in several different makes there will be
at least one outstanding feature. Where Graham cars are con-
cerned, years of experience under Australian conditions have
revealed a particularly harmonious balance of all features,
whether of performance or construction.
The 1934 Graham Six, tested recently
over The Bulletin course, worthily up-
holds the makers’ reputation. Mechani-
cally the assembly is a masterpiece of
modern engineering, while performance,
riding qualities, roadworthiness and
general finish are all of a high standard.
Graham Six four-door sedan, tested over The Bulletin course.
The 6-cyl. engine is mounted on live
rubber supports at four points, and with
a bore of 3£in. and stroke has a
piston displacement of 224 cub. in.
(3670 c.c.). With an R.A.C. rating of
25.35 h.p., a maximum of 85 b.h.p. is
delivered at 3400 r.p.m. Detachable
cylinder heads of aluminium alloy per-
mit a very high compression ratio (6.5
to 1) to be used even when operating on
Oil-pressure regulator, showing (a) pres-
sure regulating nut, and (b) oil-pressure
indicator switch.
standard fuels, giving improved. accelera-
tion and reduced fuel consumption.
The sturdy crankshaft, balanced both
statically and dynamically, runsTn seven
bearings, a feature which, combined with
generous crankcase webbing, eliminates
engine vibration throughout the speed
range.
Side-by-side valves are used, made from
special alloy steel, and tappet clearances
should be set at ten-thousandths while
motor is hot. Pistons are invar-strut
type, of aluminium alloy, each with four
rings and “floating” gudgeon-pins.
A high-pressure oiling system is fitted,
oil being forced to the main bearings,
valve lifters and timing chain. Other
parts are lubricated by spray from jets
in the connecting-rods—this oil spray fill-
ing the entire crankcase and cylinders
and lubricating cylinder-bores, pistons,
gudgeon-pins and rings.
Oil circulation is by geared pump, and
at a road speed of 18 m.p.h. in top gear
the entire capacity of the crankcase is
circulated through the engine once each
minute. An oil-pressure regulator with
simple means of adjustment is located on
the outside of the crankcase.
- The petrol tank, capacity gallons,
is suspended on brackets between rear
dumb-irons, and is insulated against
vibration or impact.
Fuel is drawn to the carburettor by
a mechanical pump, driven by an eccen-
tric on the camshaft, the metal bowl of
the pump being provided with a fine
mesh filter and sediment trap.
Carburettor is down-draft type, with
air-cleaner and silencer on the intake.
Power jet is fixed, but adjustments for
idling, accelerator pump and economiser
are readily accessible and easily made.
The specially-designed intake manifold is
fitted with automatic heat control and
heat insulated fuel line.
Electrical equipment includes six-volt
coil ignition, with full automatic spark
control. Starter motor has positive en-
gagement, operated by a button on the
dash through a solenoid.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry clutch with ball-bearing release
mechanism to a three-speed and reverse
unit gearbox, with central control lever.
Gears are helical-cut silent synchromesh
type, and a free-wheeling unit with re-
mote control on the steering column is
built integral with the gearbox.
Final drive is through a large-diameter
tubular propeller shaft with oil-tight
needle bearing universal joints fore and
aft.
Rear axle is semi-floating in banjo-
type housing with spiral bevel drive,
ratio 4.27 to 1.
Frame is X construction, with deep
side members slotted to surround back
axle. Semi-elliptic springs are used front
and rear. Spring
mountings are of the
“outboard” type, with
eyes and shackle bolts
cushioned in pressed
rubber.
The Graham hyd-
raulic-braking system
is mounted on all
four wheels. Drums
are 11 in. diameter,
with internal expand-
ing shoes, fully water-
proofed. The adjust-
able brake pedal is
mounted on the frame.
Roller cam and
lever steering is fitted,
fully adjustable for wear, with steering
shock eliminator - at rear of right front
spring.
Bodywork and interior finish are of
high quality and neat design, while all
exposed metal work is double chrome
plated.
The car tested over The Bulletin
course was a standard stock Model 68
Graham four-door sedan, driven by A.
Turner, of Garratts, Ltd., N.S.W. dis-
tributors, and the speedometer reading
stood at 2770 miles, so that the motor
had been thoroughly run in and was free
from stiffness. Weigh bill showed a
gross weight, including driver and ob-
server, of 33cwt.
On testing steering-lock the car turned
within a 60ft. circle on right and 54ft.
on left lock.
Driving out through city traffic it was
to be expected that manoeuvrability
would be somewhat restricted by reason
of the 116 in. wheelbase, but in practice,
due to generous lock and astonishing top-
gear acceleration, the car handled more
like a sports roadster than a family
sedan.
Leaving Parramatta and passing
through country roads the speedometer
New type of all-metal mechanical fuel
pump fitted to Graham Six. (a) Drain
screw for sediment tap.
needle hovered round the 50 mark with
but a slight throttle opening, and at this
moderate cruising speed the motor was
for all practical purposes silent, while
suspension and roadworthiness were
beyond criticism.
Approaching Windsor, speed was re-
duced to 15 m.p.h., and with gears in
neutral a distance of 720 yards was
coasted before coming to a standstill,
proof of absolute freedom of transmis r
sion and, as was afterwards confirmed, a
certain indication of economical fuel
consumption.
Approaching Richmond, a test of maxi*
mum Speed was made from a flying start
over a distance of one mile, the time
occupied being 48sec., averaging 75
m.p.h. Over this section the car steered
easily, roadholding was excellent and a
conversation was carried ont without rais-
Simple and accessible running adjustment
on Graham down-draft carburettor, (a)
Throttle-kicker screw, (b) throttle stop
screw, (c) idling needle valve.
ing the voice—proof that the motor is
smooth and vibrationless.
Leaving Richmond,' the bypass dirt
road through Grose Vale was taken, and
this section, badly cut up by traffic since
recent heavy rainfall, was negotiated
without slackening speed, the Graham
holding the road even on extremely
rough corners in a pleasing manner.
The two-mile climb of Kurrajong
Mountain was next essayed from a
standing start, and although the several
hairpin bends were wet and greasy the
time, 3min. 22sec., was a splendid effort,
in which excellent roadholding and accel-
eration were outstanding features.
Returning down Kurrajong Mountain
a test of the emergency braking equip-
ment, operating on the transmission, was
made with satisfactory results, and tak-
ing the cross-country route via Castle-
reagh to Penrith further performance
tests .were conducted.
Possibly of greatest value to motorists
in assessing handiness in traffic was the
covering of 350 yards as slowly as possible
in top gear, followed immediately by
350 yards, still in top gear, on full
throttle. On this critical test the Graham
revealed not only splendid flexibility,
covering the slow-running section with-
USEFUL DATA ON GRAHAM SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 12sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in
6sec.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second
in 3 4-5sec.
Stopped” from 25 m.p.h. in 24ft.
Maximum speed, 75 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 23.7 m.p.g.


I'" 11 Si'dVC I if 2
m
*!
Vi
PLYMOUTH
BACKED BY
CHRYSLER
ENGINEERING
‘
l*»S*
P-63
c
m;
Independent
Wheel Suspension
Luxurious riding ease in the new Chrysler-Plymouth
Six is the result of perfected independent front
wheel suspension. Each wheel acts independently on
its own individual pantograph type axle. The most
obvious advantage of this system is the absorption
of front end shock from one wheel at a time with
the car remaining on a level plane where road ob-
structions occur on either side of the car alternately.
This provides the sensation of walking or stepping
over bumps. Another great advantage is the rear
seat ride improvement contributed by this feature.
The reactionary upward thrust of the rear springs
from compression supplied by front end lift is en-
tirely eliminated and the result is a soft floating
ride for passengers in both front and rear seats.
The front axle spring is coiled
from one piece of treated steel
rod 1 47 inches long—actually
longer than the wheelbase
of the car.
DISTRIBUTORS
Brisbane: Stradbroke Motors Pty., Btd., Adelaide & Boundary Sts.
Sydney: York Motors Pty.. Bid.. 101-111 William Street.
Melbourne: Bane’s Motors Pty., Btd., 89-10;> Exhibition Street.
Adelaide: Flinders Motor Company, 26 Flinders Street.
Perth: Wentworth Motors, Btd., 414-416 Murray Street.
Hobart: Metro Motors Pty., Btd., 33 Argyle Street.
out slipping the clutch in 4min. 20sec.,
averaging 2.8 m.p.h., but phenomenal
acceleration, as, after picking up speed
before completing the slow section, the
350 yards accelerated was clocked in
15 l-ssec., crossing the finishing line at
60 m.p.h. and averaging 47.4 m.p.h. As
a further demonstration of excellent
traffic qualities acceleration from stand-
ing start to 50 m.p.h. (inclusive of cor-
rection for speedometer error) was
clocked in 12sec„ while on top and
middle gear acceleration from 10 to 30
m.p.h. occupied but 6sec. and 3 4-ssec.
respectively.
Stopping power of the Graham
hydraulic braking equipment was then
measured from a steady speed of 25
m.p.h., and the car came to a standstill
in 24 feet.
Return to headquarters was made
through Peruith via the Western High-
Bf l'!"® f oc , c . U 7 P ‘ ei V n “T 1 " 8 r
“f sl *f »nce of in mtles, tnclustve of
all tests, was 3hr. 15min., giving an.
average road speed of 35.4 m.p.h., while
petrol consumed on the journey, 4gal.
l-\ pints, gave a fuel consumption of 23.7
m.p.g. (39.1 ton miles):—a splendid all-
round performance.
Wasting the Good Oil.
There is a type of motorist that will
go to infinite trouble to save a few
gallons of petrol each year, but will let
oil consumption rise steadily until they
are forced to put in quarts each week —
an extremely expensive item. The reason,
no doubt, is that the average amateur
mechanic feels that excessive oil con-
sumption is a natural indication of a car’s
increasing age, and concludes that until
he can foot the bill for a rebore the waste
of oil must continue.
There are, however, many reasons for
excessive oil consumption besides worn
cylinder bores. Cracked cork gaskets
behind valve-cover plates or a broken
gasket between cylinder block and sump
can cause prodigal waste ; yet these are
defects that can be rectified in an hour
or so and at little expense. Worn main
and connecting-rod bearings in pressure-
fed motors are also responsible for
greater loss than motorists may suspect,
for the reason that the excess oil spray
smothers the' cylinder walls, is forced up
post rings and burned in the combustion
chamber, producing carbon and lowering
engine efficiency, while a percentage is
lost via the crankcase breather.
Worn piston rings, rings too close in
grooves, uneven ring pressure on cylinder
walls, distorted rings, excess gap in rings,
all add their quota to the expense
account.
When intake valve guides are badly
worn oil will be pumped into the com-
bustion chamber, burned and lost, while
if the crankcase ventilator or oil filter is
in any way obstructed pressure will be
generated in the sump by the rapidly
moving pistons. When this happens oil
is forced past the piston rings, however
well they may 'fit, and, as in the previous
case, wasted by burning in the motor.
Motor Oddities.
“A.G.T.”: On a carting job outback
the rear wheel of our truck collapsed.
The tangs broke off the ends of the
spokes, and the wheel hub, as it fell,
snapped the tip off the valve-holder, de-
flating the inner tube. Spokes were
patched up by driving nails into the ends
for tangs and the wheel put together. The
next problem was the tube. After some
brainstorming a thin, tapered wedge of
pine wood was made to fit the hole in
the valve holder. Then one of us held
the connection on the holder, while the
other worked the pump. When the pres-
sure in the tube was high enough, the
wedge of wood was quickly driven into
the holder with but little loss of air. The
repair saw the job out.
* * * *
“Jay”: The driver of a big lorry pulled
up, and then lifted the bonnet. Ever
full of charity, I hopped out to lend a
helping hand ; but he placed a meat-pie
on the hot exhaust manifold. “That’s
how I get a hot meal,” he remarked
with a grin.
❖ ❖ # &
“The Lizzard”: Wonder if any motor-
ist has made this great sacrifice before or
since. In midsummer 1913, as we were
crossing from Collie to Williams (W.A.),
the radiator dried up. Fifteen miles from
nearest water, no traffic and no hope of
succor for days. Four passengers
(bookies) and the only liquid on board
four bottles of beer. We poured the
golden fluid into the radiator and made
our destination with bookies and driver
drier than the radiator on arrival.
(Continued on page 30.)


Readers are reminded that the
services of Fred Berry are now at
their disposal should they require
information or advice upon any
motoring subject.
Inquiries should be set out as
briefly and concisely as possible.
A reply will be forthcoming immedi-
ately.
M
Of
■drJ^
a
I
n
ii/W
'* v
*
•'■» l
X
:v
l®
rs
rm
?„ M *
.•>(
,'~AN, .M
■TC#]
rs
-iV^’
c v /: *
yp:C./
« %
m-
'■ j *»••
3w§
igm
m
These hens look alike, but they don't lay alike/ with
kT BATTERIES, as with hens, its performance that counts, a fine
APPEARANCE DOES NOT ALWAYS IVIEAN GOOD RESULTS.
If A BATTERY ISN'T "RUILT-R.IGHTV/Vs/Pg. IT IS'EXPENSIVE AT
ANY PRICE. W/LLARD QUALITY IS HIDDEN AWAY INSIDE THE BATTERY
CASE. WILLARD QUALITY IS ASSURED BX THE HIGH SPECIFICATIONS
OF ALL RAW MATERIALS, AND EXACTNESS IN MANUFACTURING. EACH
W/LLARD battery must pass many rigid tests before
LEAVING THE FACTORY.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS
MOTOR SUPPLIES PTY. LTD., BRISBANE. ROCKHAMPTON, TOWNSVILLE
BROOKLANDS ACCESSORIES PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE
WAYMOUTH SERVICE CO.. ADELAIDE
WESTCOTT HAZELL& CO. LTD., SYDNEY AND NEWCASTLE
ATKINS (W.A.) LTD V PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., TASMAN IA
THE? SMOKE TBST w/llard threaded rubber batteries have
THE SPECIAL WILLARD THREAD RUBBER SEPARATORS BETWEEN THE PLATES. THESE
SEPARATORS ARE POROUS TO THE EXTENT THAT SMOKE CAN BE EASILY BLOWN
THROUGH THEM YET ARE SO DURABLE THAT THEY OUTLAST THE PLATES. THE GREATER
POROSITY AS SHOWN BY THE SMOKE TEST MEANS FREER CIRCULATION OE THE
BATTERY AC/DS FROM PLATE TO PLATE, THUS ENSURING QU/CKER STARTS.
•HOOD DRESSINC
sdfs
Now in Half-pi.nt Tins.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
IQ7 d. (SECOND
JL WOT EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from “The Bulletin,
252 George Street, Sydney, 3d. extra.
PROSPERITY
IN THE WEST!
THE GOLD
BOOM
Read the latest news from the
goldfields of the West in the
PERTH
Sniiitav
Share fluctuations and Hints for
Investors. Let the big Western
Weekly help you share in the
prosperity.
ADVERTISERS!
Sell in this valuable market by making
the “Sunday Times” your salesman.
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House
Melb. Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins S reet
London Rep.: F. A. Smyth, 34 Ludgate Hill
Record' Speed at Brooklands.
The cabled news that John Cobb
attained a speed of 140.91 miles an hour
for a lap (2 miles 1350 yards) of Brook-
lands track may not appear particularly
wonderful, but to those acquainted with
the limitations of the speedway Cobb's
achievement aboard his 12-cyl. Napier-
Railton commands deep respect. When
Brooklands was built in 1907 it was never
dreamt that speeds exceeding 100 m.p.h.
would be attained on it. Last March,
Cobb reached 139.71 m.p.h. for a lap,
and his feat was acclaimed a remarkable
one. His latest record must therefore be
accepted as still more meritorious.
Cobb’s machine is the fastest in the
world, built for track racing, a category
which excludes machines specially built
to attack the world’s land speed record
on straight course, such as Sir Malcolm
Campbell’s Blue Bird, which attained
272.46 m.p.h. The Napier-Railton is
equipped with an aero engine developing
about 500 h.p., and the machine has a
theoretical maximum speed of about 180
m.p.h. The problem is to find a track
that will enable it to display its best pace.
The Trouble Lamp.
n \/ /D„d a xi o w/ \ /i\ u//,ai it. ,i... ,-t,nr
, ' ' .y ’. ) xt r/n in 7 a ?
of my Morris Minor engine No. V 12107/1 /
(2) What valve clearances should be given
(some instruction books say .019, others .004
when hot), and how can this work be done ?
(3) Maximum speed is only 40 m.p.h. Should
it not be higher?
(1) Late 1931 series, first batch of the side-
valve models. (2) .004 when engine is hot —
you have confused the O.H.V. with the side-
valve models. Service station practice is to
thoroughly warm motor, remove carburettor
and induction pipe, then proceed with valve
adjustment. Total time for job 10 to 15
minutes, so that motor remains hot for cor-
rect adjustment of all tappets. (3) You should
get 50 m.p.h., but probably a top overhaul
and new rings or perhaps a rebore will be
necessary to restore compression.
H.O.R. (Invercargill, M.L.). — What is the
value of petrol-saving devices depending upon
introducing air to the induction pipe on the
•
engine side of the carburettor, in which more
air is admitted at low speed than when engine
is on full throttle ?
Such devices will only give results when the
initial tuning of the carburettor is incorrect or
where an inefficient unit of older types has been
used. At low engine speeds the mixture is
invariably on the rich side, so that some slight
advantage might be gained here by dilution
with air.
L.R.S. (Toolleen, Vic.). —/ usually crank my
Chrysler a few turns before switching on, and
sometimes when doing this the ammeter shows
a heavy discharge. Also when stopping after
a run the same thing happens, although not
very often, and it can always be rectified by
pressing the starter button and starting the
engine. What is the reason for this intermittent
trouble ?
As there can be no ignition current flowing
with switch in “olf” position there can be no
mechanical defect, but frayed insulation in a
wire of switch circuit or even a frayed lighting
wire may, due to vibration,.make contact with
some metal fitting, setting up a temporary short
circuit. As there is danger of fire, you should
have all wiring circuits carefully examined
and frayed insulation repaired.
No. 2770.—(1) In what year did the 509
Fiat roadster come out ? (2) Present market
value ?
(1) Late 1927 and early 1928. (2) £35 to
£5O, according to condition.
J.G.R. (Enfield, N.S.W.).—My 1930 Willy's
Six truck gives good service, but is hard to
start from cold. Spark is all right, but 1 some-
times have to squirt petrol into cylinders to gel
going. Once hot, it starts first kick and keeps
like that all day. Valves are correctly adjusted
and compression good. Can you suggest some-
thing ?
In this model choke control, for rich mixture
when starting, is actuated by a flexible wire on
the engine mounting. Should this become slack
the choke valve will not close, so difficulty will
arise in cold starting. Check this and try
holding your hand over intake for the first
start. An alternative cause would be low
battery not spinning the cold motor rapidly
enough. Over-wide spark-plug gaps would also
aggravate the trouble.
H. — ln a Model A Ford, if the ignition
switch becomes faulty, how- can I run a teip-
porary wire to start the motor?
Lift distributor head off and remove central
wire. Get a cork to fit neatly in its place,
drill a hole to take an insulated wire, insert
a burr over the bare end to make contact
with distributor arm. Take the other end of
the wire and attach it to the left side of the
high-tension coil (looking from driver’s seat)
and you'll get the motor going.
P.A.P. (Brisbane). — 1 have a pamphlet stating
that the new American Rolls-Royce is powered
with a Ford K 8 engine. Is this correct ?
Rolls-Royce (England) was making cars in
America under license, but has now ceased
operations. The plant is, however, continuing
production of a new sedan, the Brewster, using
some of the bits left over from the Rolls-
Royce venture, but in the main the Brewster
is a modified Ford VB—engine, transmission
and most of the other works.
I. (Nhill, Victoria). — In your test of the
Dodge DR6 petrol consumption worked out
at 23.6 m.p.g. I can only get 18.1 m.p.g. on a
level road on a test using two gallons. How
can this be improved ?
Your car at 1800 miles is still likely to be
mechanically stiff. Wait till you have run 3000
to 4000 miles, then have the valves touched
up and tappets adjusted. Using the free-wheel
attachment with discretion, and averaging be-
tween 30 and 35 ni.p.h. on a give-and-take road
with only two aboard, you should then do
better than 20 m.p.g.
P.A.P. (Greenslopes, Q'land). — 1 have been
using colloidal graphite in my Ford VS for
5000 miles but have been pouring the material
into the sump after adding oil. Is this method
correct, and should 1 continue using it after
this distance ?
Correct method is to mix graphite with engine
oil before pouring into sump. Try this with
the next fill, and keep on till at least 10,000
miles.
A.B.C. (Beelgangera, N.S.W.).—(I) For use
with a new tractor, is graphite better than
upper-cylinder lubricator? (2) Which is the
better in a kerosene engine ? (3) Will graphite
tend to dog pipes, etc. ? (4) If recommended,
what brands, and how should it be used ? (5)
Should I run on benzine for the first few
days ?
(1) Yes. (2) Colloidal graphite. (3) No.
(4) Motor Kollag or Oildag—use as directed.
(5) Does not affect the issue.
2962.— 1 n your description of Ford VS I
cannot understand how valves are worked with-
out tappet adjustment. How is it done ?
Neither the V 8 nor the Model A before
it employed adjustable valve tappets. Valve
stems and tappet rods are made of special
steels, clearance between tappet and stem being
adjusted when engine is first assembled, and
in practice the plan gives satisfaction. Should
the valve begin to ride due to a number of
valve grinds, clearance can be restored by
filing the stem, while thimbles can be obtained
to take up excessive clearances or a new valve
purchased at small cost.
The air-mail service between Brisbane
anc i Sydney is to be extended to Mel-
bourne next month, and when suitable
machines are introduced a seven-hour trip
e j ween the northern and southern ter-
. , . •
minals is anticipated. New England Air-
ways, Ltd., is to be enlarged with British
capital, and to enable the introduction of
a n jght service five multi-engined rriono-
pj anes —the order may go to Australian
* . u u u, \t
manufacturers—are to be bought. W. M.
Hughes and Lord Sempill will join the
board of the new CO.
j n the early years of the century one
. c n , J .
°f the merriest ot the band ot Bohemians
who made The BULLETIN office their
headquarters was Arthur Paul. He found
his ™.v <0 Westralia, where, after edit-
ing goldfields newspapers, he returned to
freelancing in Perth. When past 40 he
( . rf w : t u ih#. AIF return
went 1° France with the A I.t\, return-
mg with a wound and a Military Medal,
collected in a trench raid. Capable jour-
na)ist though he was, “Paulie” could not
... , ° ~ . , ’ . *
se * de down, but he was the kind ol
man who made staunch friends — among
them were Vic. Courtney and J. I.
Simons, of the “Mirror,” and Lou
Hickey, of the Westralian railways, a
lieutenant in Paul’s battalion—and they
, , , , ,
looked after him till the end, which came
in Perth the other day.
!f * * *
“Charles”: Though it means the em-
ployment of less manual labor, the coal-
handling plan, installed by Metropolitan
Gas Co. at its West Melbourne works
j s an impressive example of what Aus-
alianS Ca " d °' Total COStwas £9OOOO.
Constructed by Malcolm Moore, Ltd.,
over 90 p.c. of the complete installation
j s Australian. It provides for the mechani-
cal un ] oac ji n g of colliers by means of
grabs, and for the automatic weighing and
° ■ r , , ~ , , •
conveying of the coal to the crusher bins
It also reclaims coal from the yard and
transports it to the bins. The whole of
l he operations is controlled by one driver
rom a cabin on the river side of the
structure. At a test more than 490 tons
was unloaded in an hour. A collier
carrv incr between 4000 and 5000 tons can
carrying oeiween 4uuu ana ions can
ce * discharged in 24 hours, compared
with four to five days previously.


IT'S SILENT
BECAUSE.
■ ■ ■
■
For Absolute Reliability always use
CHAN EX Silent RESISTORS
RADIS NEWS.
A T.R.F. UNIT STAGE FOR BATTERY
RECEIVERS.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
Tlw old-time battery receiver can be considerably improved in
range and selectivity by the addition of this “booster” stage.
There are, even in 1934, people who
use receivers which, though looked upon
in the light of relics, are yet workable.
If their owners can obtain reception from
two or three main stations they are satis-
fied, and the blandishments of radio sales-
men are unavailing.
Even though the old set is a mediocre
performer, the owner doesn’t like part-
ing with an old friend. But if, without
much expense, his old receiver can be
improved, can have something added
to its range (and most certainly its selec-
tivity), that’s another matter. Assuming
that the user is satisfied with the repro-
duction, the audio side can remain as
it is, and attention can be given forth-
with to the business of making distant
stations stronger and the sorting out of
powerful locals which may be over-
lapping.
The job can be done by the addition
of another control. It is an extra knob
to handle, but that doesn’t matter. If
the improvement of selectivity alone were
sought, that could be achieved by the
use of a pre-selector unit; but, as it is
desired to improve the R.F. gain also,
more than a tuned circuit must be pro-
vided. The pre-selector as a separate
unit can be a useful addition to receivers
already using a stage of tuned R.F. ampli-
fication, such as the once-popular
Neutrodyne, Marco Four or Brown-
ing-Drake Four ; but, in the case of the
humble receiver of Reinartz type (re-
generative detector followed by one or
two audio stages), a tuned R.F. unit
using valve amplification will effect a
great improvement. The modern R.F.
pentode valve, by reason of the variable
MU properties, can be used as a pre-
detector volume and selectivity control.
It will be found that when this tuned
R.F. unit is added the reaction control,
which previously has been rather critical,
is now more of a secondary considera-
tion. The unit can be built up in the old-
fashioned way with a small baseboard
and panel, but an aluminium base and
panel will be more satisfactory, particu-
larly if, after construction, the assembly
is boxed in for complete screening. The
valve recommended is the Mullard
PMI2M.
•This is a two-volt battery valve of
the screen-grid variable-MU type, tak-
ing .18 ampere on the filament, up to
150 volts on the plate and a maximum
screen voltage of 90. If the receiver
already uses two-volt valves, well and
good; the A-battery leads are simply
paralleled. If four- or six-volt valves are
used, then a rheostat or fixed resistance
in series with the A positive to the
PMI2M must be included. This rheostat
is not shown in the diagram illustrated.
LI, L and C arc the usual R.F. coil
(with aerial coil)
and single vari-
able condenser to
cover the broad-
cast band. The
coupling to the
receiver is made
through the small
variable con-
denser, with a
maximum capa-
city of .0001
mfd. in the plate
circuit of the
PMI2M, to the
aerial terminal of
the receiver. This
small variable
condenser can be
quite a small
capacity, and a
mica compression type as used for
superhet I.F. transformers will be helpful.
A 23-plate midget variable will also serve
the purpose. If the unit is properly
screened and assembled ,*it should be pos-
sible to employ full .0001 mfd. capacity
without any sign of R.F. instability or
interlocking of the tuned circuits.
The radio-frequency choke can be a
single honeycomb type. A 50,000-ohm
potentiometer in the grid return takes
care of grid bias adjustment and conse-
quently volume control, a 4y-volt C bias
battery being connected across the poten-
tiometer, via the switch and A negative.
This switch, as indicated, is a three-point
type. Murdoch’s, Ltd., Sydney, can
supply. It breaks the A, B and C supplies
in the one operation. Consequently there
is no drain through the C battery when
the set is idle. There are now available
Centralab potentiometers which include
a switch in the mechanism. If this type
of potentiometer is used, the three-point
switch can be dispensed with. The R.F.
coil unit should, of course, be “canned”
and not left unscreened, otherwise there
will be direct pick-up from local broad-
casting stations and the full, effectiveness
of the unit will not be realised. The
small variable-coupling condenser can be
used at a very small capacity setting, and
this will be found to have a marked
effect also on the degree of selectivity
obtainable.
D. B.K.
DECOUPLE YOUR RECEIVER.
In technical articles and answers to
correspondents, reference is often made
fo the necessity for “decoupling” in a
receiver. This means the taking of pre-
cautions to prevent unwanted coupling,
inductively or capacitively, between cir-
cuits where complete stability is desir-
able, and, indeed, essential. It is a matter
of treating effectively the audio side of
the receiver to preserve this requisite
stability.
The performance of any receiver em-
ploying audio stages, particularly a bat-
tery receiver with transformer-coupled
stages, can be improved by decoupling.
If the reader has such a receiver and
there is any tendency to audio oscillation
(or “motor-boating”), decoupling will
cure this trouble. “Motor-boating” de-
rives its name from the popping sound of
audio oscillation at a very low frequency,
and it often appears in receivers when a
change is made from B batteries to*a B
eliminator or power-pack. The pitch of
such audio oscillation does not alter with
the tuning of the receiver.
Apart from this audible evidence of
audio oscillation there is the kind which
makes its presence known by a distorted
or rough tone from the loudspeaker. The
power-operated receiver is more prone
Figure 1.
to this trouble than one taking plate
voltages from dry batteries, but a dry
battery which has been used for some
time can be responsible. Decoupling,
therefore, is an advantage with battery-
powered receivers, because it leads to a
fuller use of the B batteries. They can
be discharged until the receiver fails to
respond through lack of plate voltage,
without audio oscillation, if the receiver
is decoupled. Thus more life is obtained
from B batteries —an important point
with the listener outback.
In treating the receiver, attention
should first be paid to the final audio
or output valve. If there is no output
coupling device, such as a choke-condenser
combination or transformer, this should
be provided. The best method is the
transformer, and if a modern permag-
netic speaker is used the transformer to
suit the valve is included in the speaker
assembly. The advantages are the pre-
vention of direct current from passing
through the loudspeaker windings and
the ability to connect the loudspeaker
'leads either way round. When it is de-
sirable to have long leads to a loud-
speaker situated in another room, the
output coupling facilitates this and pre-
vents audio feedback from the loud-
speaker circuit.
The detector valve should be next to
receive attention, and in this case the
decoupling components can serve a
doubly useful purpose. If the receiver
derives plate voltages from a power-pack
or B eliminator, the introduction of the
decoupling components can not only
assist in dropping the plate voltage as re-
quired to the valve but can assist in re-
ducing hum. It has been found in prac-
tice that quite a low value of resistor
can be used, as in the Wide-World
Two receiver (B. 15/8/’34), but in cases
of inherently unstable receivers the re-
sistor should be not less than 10,000
ohms. The usual value is 20,000 ohms,
with a condenser of 1 or 2 mfd. Fig. 1
shows how these components are con-
nected.
If a high value of resistance is used
the initial voltage supply must be high
enough to provide the valve with the
correct plate voltage. In the Wide-
World Two the high impedance audio
coupling drops the initial voltage very
little. If instability should result from
the use of less resistance it may be coun-
teracted by using a higher value of by-
pass capacity, even 4or 8 mfd. Simi-
lar values will be satisfactory for inter-
mediate audio stages and also for de-
Figure 2.
coupling R.F. stages, but in the case of
the latter 1 mfd. capacity is ample,
values of .1 mfd. being usual.
Modern receivers using automatic bias-
ing are also decoupled in the grid cir-
cuits, as indicated in Fig. 2. Audio
quality is improved by decoupling the
grid from plate-current fluctuations. As
there is no direct current flowing through
it, any value of resistance chosen can be
used, and thus the small grid-leak type is
quite satisfactory here. This, of course,
does not apply to the bias resistor, which
must be capable of carrying the total
plate current of the valve. 100,000 ohms
for the decoupling resistor and 1 mfd. for
the condenser will be suitable.
SHOULD THE LISTENERS HAVE A SAY?
A feature of the broadcasting business
that provokes envy and sympathy in
equal parts from purveyors, of other
sorts of entertainment is that the people
entertained have no ready means of ex-
pressing approval or disapproval of the
fare provided for them. They can write
to the stations, it is true —some of them
do—but the dead weight of inertia that
has to be shifted before that happens
tnakes the correspondence file of a station
a poor gauge of the success or failure of
its efforts.
This lack of contact with the public
is not all to the advantage of the
proprietors of broadcasting facilities, and
if they do not realise it many of the per-
formers they employ do. When opera
was broadcast in Australia by Italian
singers some time ago these insisted on
studio audiences. Without applause they
couldn’t do their best. Now, on all
special musical occasions, studio audi-
{Continued on next page.)
ences are arranged for, while in the case
of such A.8.C.-sponsored performances
as those of the orchestra conducted b>
Sir Hamilton Harty and the band
directed by Captain Adkins the concerts
were given in the largest halls available,
before thousands of ticket-holders.
But when concerts are broadcast there
arises immediately a conflict of interests.
It must be considered to what extent put-
ting the programme on the air will re-
duce booking receipts, and there have
been occasions (as in the case of the
Harty concerts) where the Commission
has been accused of putting the accom-
modation of its ticket-buying customers
before considerations of efficent trans-
mission. It might be argued that if
the Harty performances hadn’t been
heard directly they wouldn’t have been
heard at all, to all musical intents and


m
1
!
I
1
maheA a
amt-chair!
THE marvels and wonderful adven-
tures encountered those who in
olden days rode on the fabled magic
carpet are equalled in achievement
these days when you sit at home in
your favourite armchair and listen to
your Airzone Radio.
Story, Song, Music, Education, Sport
are all at your disposal for the mere
turning of a dial.
Such music such song ■ — such enter-
tainment it is too, that only Airzone
Radio can give because Airzone's Tone
is rich, resonant and true. Airzone's
selectivity is unequalled, and Airzone's
range superb.
If you own one of these excellent
Airzone sets you can be sure that
yours is the most modern radio
obtainable.
AIRZONE MODEL 545
5-Valve Table Superheterodyne
Receiver
A smart lustre finished receiver, with five
newest type valves: Magnavox Dynamic
Speaker and every other modern feature.
An excellent set for bedroom, study or
verandah.
CASH PRICE: £l5/19/6
EASY TERMS ARE OBTAINABLE. ■
AIRZONE MODEL 530
(Above)
5-Valve Console Super-
heterodyne Receiver
It has 5 newest type valves;
Magnavox Dynamic Speaker
and every other most modern
radio feature. Cabinet work is
exquisite in high lustre finish.
CASH PRICE:
£24/15/-
You can have Easy Terms
AIRZONE FINE RADIO RECEIVERS ARE
OBTAINABLE FROM THE LEADING
MUSICAL HOUSES, RADIO DEALERS AND
DEPARTMENTAL STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Dealers in country districts apply direct to Airzone for particulars of franchise.
Manufactured by Airzone 119311 Ltd., Camperdown, Sydney. 5.34-29
dfs
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
purposes ; but that only provokes the re-
flection that, if radio-listeners alone had
to be catered for, more trouble would
have been taken on their behalf. Any-
way the studio or public-hall audience
cannot be accepted as a jury on the radio
value of an entertainment.
An American electrical engineer, Dr.
N. M. Hopkins, has devised a voting
machine for radio listeners. He reckons
that if the idea takes on he can produce,
to be sold for a dollar, a little gadget
that will enable every listener to give the
studio, on conclusion of an item, two
pieces of information; (a) that he heard
it, ( b ) that he either liked it or dis-
liked it.
Hopkins’s device is the essence of
simplicity—a 100-watt resistance coil and
a push button, in circuit with the power
supply—but it requires the co-operation
of the studio and the powerhouse. When
the studio gives the word every listener
presses the button. That causes a surge
in power consumption, shown on a dial
in the powerhouse and on a connected
dial in the studio, from which the total
number of listeners can be computed,
Then the “ayes” are asked for and then
the “noes.” Of course, if a factory starts
up a 1000-h.p. motor just as the “ayes”
or “noes” are called for, or if unscrupu-
lous admirers or enemies of the per-
former switch on everything in the house
to emphasise their vote, it’s just too bad.
Dr. Hopkins admits that, and he has
worked out a clock gadget that will defer
the impact of the votes on the power
system (but not the voting, which is im-
mediate) till the small hours of the
morning.
Though this device has been given a
good deal of publicity, there does not
appear to be any wild scramble among
broadcasting authorities to popularise its
use. Possibly they are not convinced
of its technical efficiency. More pro-
bably they may prefer to deal with a
dumb, as well as blind, clientele. “At
present,” one can imagine them saying,
“we are performing a noble mission.
We are refining and improving the taste
of millions by pressing upon them not,
perhaps, what they want, but what we
think they ought to want. Give us
immunity from reprisals for another
decade or so, and we’ll have the listeners
so well trained that they’ll like what we
give them, because they won’t know that
there is anything different in existence.”
There may be some broadcasting con-
cerns in the world that could conscien-
tiously take that high tone,, but they
must be few. Mankind has not yet been
exposed for very long to an art exempt
from the pressures of competition and
out of touch with the public. It may
be excused for doubting whether any art
practised in such circumstances is likely
to develop. But there is not much need
to worry much on that score. Radio
entertainment has, apparently, come to
stay, and it already has become a sub-
stantial part of civilised life. On the
technical side its steady advance is
assured.
The technical side works under com-
petitive conditions. It should not be
long before the people in charge of
broadcasting realise that until they get
into more direct touch with their public
their usefulness as public servants is in-
ordinately hampered, and that the con-
Dr. Hopkins and his radiovoter.
duct of an entertainment business on the
lines of a postal monopoly is an anomaly
that cannot long endure. There are more
rewards for success than penalties for
failure to be looked forward to, and,
though the listeners may not have a vote
this year or next, their enfranchisement
will come.
A. D. W.
A Simple Valve-Voltmeter-Valve-
tester.
Here is something of interest to those
needing a ready means of lining up either
superhets or T.R.F. receivers. The dia-
gram is self-explanatory. The arrange-
ment can also be used as an output meter
to measure audio component in a signal.
For this, an audio oscillator or similar
source of modulated signal is necessary.
In addition, it is an effective valve-tester.
To use as a valve voltmeter, connect
to terminals 1 and 4. For independent
use of the milliamperemeter, use terminals
2 and 3. For valve-testing, the switch in
the grid circuit is put over to the nega-
tive side and the rheostat set for the
correct valve-filament voltage. Insert the
valve in the socket and read the current
passed by the milliamperemeter. The
switch is then changed to the positive
side, and the increase in current noted.
This should be done with a valve known
to be good, and the reading noted for
reference.
R. B.
Iron-cored Coils.
Since reference was made on this page
to the desirability of Australian radio
manufacturers turning their attention to
R.F. cods of the iron-particle-core type,
questions have been asked regarding the
immediate advantages. These coils, in-
troduced in Europe a year ago, are a
natural outcome of the necessity for dis-
pensing with the bulky R.F. coils and
still more bulky metal screen familiar in
receivers of six or seven years ago.
If a receiver could be designed with
3in. or 4in. diameter coils, gieatei
efficiency could be obtained from
the tuned circuits. The trouble is that
with such large coils screens would need
to be 6in. or 7in. in diameter ; the re-
suit, particularly in the case of a large
superheterodyne, would be a receiver ot
A Ferrocart coil unit. This example is
only two-thirds the size of the modern
air-cored coil unit and, covering from
200 to 2000 metres, includes a wave-
change switch.
coffin-like dimensions instead of one
measuring a few inches. The air-cored
coils in the receiver of to-day are of
small size, and wound with fine wire.
Increased valve efficiency and circuit
design make up for a large amount of
loss in the tuned circuits. To counteract
such losses the Ferrocart coil was
evolved; in this the characteristics of
the large coils are retained, but the size,
with screen complete, is even smaller
than the modern air-cored coil and
screen. The large-size coil gives sharper
tuning (better selectivity) and, being more
efficient magnetically, results in stronger
signals. For a definite amount of ampli-
fication required, the valves do not need
to be worked hard as with smaller and
relatively inefficient (air-cored) coils.
The new iron-cored coil makes possible
a receiver of reasonable dimensions,
having exceptional gain and a high de-
gree of selectivity. Thus it should be of
interest in the production of modern
tuned R.F. receivers. There are receiv-
ing locations in Australia where a good
T.R.F. receiver w.ould be appreciated.
D. B. K.
Casual Comment.
Trevor Evans, of experimental radio
VK2NS, located in Bathurst (N.S.W.),
devotes himself to the interesting busi-
ness of frequency standards. His station
will shortly commence S.F. transmis-
sions. In addition, VK2NS makes a
point of calibrating for reference the fre-
quencies of other stations known to be
using a crystal standard. The following
stations were calibrated on the 3500ka.
band- on the evening of August 12 last:
VK2HC, 3497.5 ; VK2RJ, 3504.5 ; VK2XJ,
3548.5 ; VK3OR, 3524.5 ; VK2XO, 3490;
VK2LM, 3583.5 ; VK2ZH, 3490; VK2AJ,
3617.5; VK2NS, 3526.4; VK2DR, 3573.25;.
VK2CB, 3552.
Illustrated, with VK2NS himself aria
daughter, is the special frequency meter
with 6yin. dial; also a new marble block
Reisz type microphone.
Country Short-wave Explorations.
The outstanding feature lately has been
a very great improvement in 8.8. C. sta-
tions—so great that it seems as if the
new aerial system is in use.
On a recent Saturday and Sunday
GSB, 31.5 m., and GSD, 25.5 m., were full-
speaker volume, with, in the case pf


Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
“““ S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), ““ "
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
I Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone 1 . 82201. j
million aerials
lead down to
Mullard Valves
nd
3 millic
aer i a
can't b
wrong
Write for booklet on Battery Valves to: —
The Milliard Radio Co. (Aust.),
35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GSB, volume cut down and strength
held all through the transmission, except
for a slight fading towards the end on
GSD. They quite overshadowed FYA,
which was rather erratic. Another
feature is the return of an old friend,
Radio Manila, which is apparently shar-
ing the wave-length of WIXAZ.
At 10 p.m. Manila was at fair speaker
strength and relaying the transmission of
KZRM, closing down at 10.30. There
has also appeared a station which is
heterodyning 3LR, but when 3LR closes
down the station is too weak to identify,
The short-wave session from WBXK,
25.2 m., was only fair copy on a recent
Sunday, but improved about 2.45. A most
unusual feature was the literally terrific
strength of 3ME the same day. Very
rarely is this station even audible, on
account of skip in this locality.
RVIS has been coming in well every
day with fine music, but static has been
bad. The D.E.I. sta-
tion at the bottom
end of the 49m.
band has been ex-
cellent, although at
times the noise
level has been
more appropriate
to summer than to
winter conditions.
HBL, in the 31m.
band, has been
much better on
Sunday, and the
talk at 8.30 a.m.
has been fair-
speaker volume
and quite good
copy. A lady an-
nouncer spoke on
“Art in Relation to
Civilisation.”
RNE, 25m., shows
considerable im-
provement at mid-
night, and gives
some excellent
music in the first
part of the trans-
mission. Urgent
requests are still
1
made for listeners’ comments. The early-
morning transmissions are still very weak.
FYA, 25.2m., not 25.6, was about the
best for this period before 8 a.m., but
only fair, and surging. DJD, 25.5m., has
weakened very much at midday, and is
barely audible now here.
The 20m. amateur band has not been
so good as formerly, though there are
still some Americans at fine strength.
W6CME still stands out, with a K6 very
close to him for strength.
The Blackwood Radio Club in the
80m. band has been putting over some
fine music after 11.30 p.m. from South
Australia. It is excellent quality and
strength here, and is found near the
top end of the band, especially on Sun-
day nights.
NIGHTOWL.
City Short-wave Explorations.
At last there are signs of activity on
the 19-metre band during the evenings.
On two occasions recently FYA Paris
and GSF were heard. On neither occa-
sion were they up to loudspeaker
strength, but they were very clear on
’phones.
On a recent Sunday morning at 1.50,
RNE Moscow, 25.2 m., was heard, and
giving one of the finest short-wave pro-
grammes yet received. Quality was excel-
lent and volume almost full loudspeaker
strength. Turning to the 49m. band the
same programme was coming through
REN. Although just as strong as the
other station it was not nearly as clear,
being badly interfered with by atmo-
spherics.
RNE was heard again the same even-
ing at 9.45, when the usual talk in Eng-
lish was broadcast, but the strength
then was not as great as it had been
during previous Sundays, and could not
be compared with the transmission heard
earlier in the day. The other Russian
station RVIS Khabarovsk, on 70.2 m., has
been consistently audible, and shared
honors with the D.E.I. Java, 50m.
H. M. S.
BEST BETS FOR THE WEEK.
Mornings.—FYA Paris, 25.63 metres.
Afternoons.^ —GSB, 31.55 metres.
Evenings.—JVN Japan, 28 metres;
RVIS, 7.3 metres ; D.E.I. JaVa, 49 metres.
What’s What in Radio.
Tamworth (N.S.W.) is to have its own
broadcasting station. The location has
been often discussed as the probable site
for a national relay station, but the thing
will be a private enterprise.
Latest for radio-equipped cars in
U.S.A. is a control which opens or
closes the door of a garage as required.
* * * *
Editors of radio constructional papers,
featuring weekly or monthly descriptions
of radio receivers, new or old, are often
hard pressed for a choice of name for
their latest creation. Short-wave receivers
inspire such titles as Globe-Girdler and
World-Ranger. The latest effort of an
American journal catches the eye with a
two-valve short-wave styled the Drag-
net. A sub-heading claims that it “drags
’em in.” Possibly the local chief of
police had a hand in the design.
* * * *
Interest is being shown by experi-
mental transmitters in Australia and
Maoriland in a renewal of activity on
28-megacycle (10-metre) communication.
Since 1928 nothing has been done in
Australia other than inter-State communi-
A DE LUXE SUPERHETERODYNE.
This receiver is the work of Mr. R. L. Cradick, radio dealer,
of Casino, N.S.W. It is built on 14-gauge chromium-plated
steel base, and the coils, valves, condenser gang and power-
pack are housed in chromium-plated copper shields. The
valve line-up is: Ist R.F., 55; 2nd R.F., 58; osc.-det:, 2A7;
three I.F. stages using 58’s; 2nd det., 287 ( A.V.C.); and
audio channel consisting of a 55 feeding two 286 valves
(triple-twin ) in push-pull. Ten watts of triode quality is
delivered to a Jensen 12in. auditorium speaker. The power
supply is mounted on a separate chassis.
cation, and long-distance signals have
been neither looked for nor expected.
28mc. communication is intriguing, and,
despite the peculiar nature of conditions,
the fact remains that, when signals are
heard favorably, they are invariably
superior in signal-to-noise ratio than
14mc. (20 metres). The Radio Society of
Great Britain is staging a 12-month 28mc.
test, and it is hoped to break the 10-
metre silence between Europe and
Oceania. Nearer home, Australians
should note that M.L. stations ZLIFT and
ZLIFW are conducting tests on 28mc.
and 56mc. ZLIFT is on “ten” on Sun-
days from 9 to 10 a.m. Sydney time, and
often running until 3 p.m. ZLIFW has
gone to the trouble of installing a special
aerial system with a rotatable reflector.
Latest in the Trade.
An attractive guide and chart to all
Australasian broadcasting stations has
been issued by A.W.A., and is aptly de-
scribed as the
“Radiotron Com-
pass.” This is
available to the
listening public
through radio
dealers at no
charge. In addi-
tion to providing
a ready means of
tabulating and
locating all Aus-
tralasian broad-
casting stations
there is a . large
amount of infor-
mation on the
principal over-
seas short-wave
stations, with
those more read-
ily received in
Australia marked
by an asterisk.
Four sections of
the “Radiotron
Compass” show
at a glance the
dial reading, the
frequency in kilocycles, wave-length in
metres, station call-sign and location, and
also serve to bring home the realisation
of the growth of radio broadcasting in
the Southern Hemisphere, over 100 sta-
tions being tabulated.
* * * *
Eastern Trading Co., Sydney, agent
for the Ken-Rad line of radio valves,
announces additional rectifier ratings in
its Engineering Bulletin, No. 9. These
ratings are extended to the new in-
directly-heated cathode type rectifiers,
which, because of high efficiency and
close spacing of elements, are subject to
the same limitations as mercury vapor
tubes. The additional ratings are for
maximum peak plate current and maxi-
mum peak inverse voltage. The new
Ken-Rad type 76 valve is now available.
This is a general purpose triode with a
6.3-volt heater, and is recommended for
service as a detector, amplifier or oscil-
lator. With the exception of the heater-
voltage and current ratings, it is similar
in characteristics to the well-known 56
in the 2.5-volt series.
The Q. and A. Column.
7 have built the short-wave converter
(“A.R.N.” 15/12 / ’33 and B. l/8/’34).
Although overseas stations are heard, there is
occasionally a lot of noise. The noise appears
in the form of crackles, and seems to be due
to failure of the 56 valve to oscillate. Often
7 can get nothing but noise when I turn up
the volume on the set, a seven-valve superhet.
Is the cathode resistor the same for the 56 as
for the 27 ?■ —105.
A primary fault lies with the wave-change
switch. This particular design of switch is
prone to poor-contact trouble, and the makers
have since turned out something much better.
Replace your faulty switch with an improved
type. The cathode resistor of 50,000 ohms is
correct in value for either the 56 or 27 valve.
In case the occasional failure in oscillation is
due to the particular valve used, a change
here may be worth a trial. Also, check oyer
all components carefully. As you are using
a voltage divider with adjustable clips, make
sure that the clips are all tight; otherwise
noise is a certainty. The plate voltages for
the valves are not at all critical.
At present I have an all-electric short-wave
receiver of the four-valve T.R.F. type made
years ago. It is fairly satisfactory, but this is
headquarters for man-made static, there being
an electric railway alongside, a sub-station and
a flour mill with an electro-static bleacher. I
believe that a short-wave receiver with the
R.F. section battery-operated and the audio
amplifier mains-operated would be freer from
static. Please advise me which of the follow-
ing would have the best chance of getting in
the weak signals: (1) Simple T.R.F. and de-
tector; (2) two T.R.F. and detector; (3)
superhet converter. —94.
Thq idea might help, but only very slightly,
You will have to do something about doublet
aerials, screened lead-ins, etc., before you will
have much hope of suppressing the noise. The
transposed feeder doublet can be wonderfully
effective, but the only snag is that you will
need more than one doublet for wide fre-
quency coverage. No. 1 of your proposed
arrangements is the most suitable. No. 3
would be the most prone to respond to the
interference, and No. 2 becomes a difficult
tuning proposition on short waves. if you
can build a special receiving-room enclosed in
wire gauze, with screened lead-ins from aerials,
you may be able to keep the noise down
to a whisper. *
Please illustrate a circuit for a one-valve
broadcast battery receiver using a Mullard
PM\HL valve. I have a .0005 -mfd. variable
condenser and a Reinartz coil unit. Could the
coil unit be used in the ordinary reaction cir-
cuit ? —lOl.
The circuit required is illustrated. Cl is
the ,0005-mfd. variable condenser and C 2 is a
.0001-mfd. variable condenser. LI and L 2
comprise the coil unit. This unit can be used
in the usual separate feed-back arrangement,
if the coil L 2 is separate, and not merely a
continuation of LI. The coil in the plate cir-
cuit of the valve is a radio frequency choke.
The 400-ohm potentiometer for the grid leak
return is not imperative, and the grid leak
can be tried simply across the grid condenser
in the usual way.
The volume control in my all-wave receiver
is connected in the cathode circuit in the usual
way. When the control is moved from the
“full-on” position, the volume from the
receiver drops to practically nil. Other
volume controls of the same make . have been
tried with the same result, but if I connect a
456-ohm resistor in series with the cathode the
action is more gradual. As the makers do not
specify this, it cannot be right. Can you sug-
gest an improvement ? —lO6.
Try connecting the potentiometer the other
way round. This make has a sudden variation
from almost zero to maximum, and, although
it is reliable, this feature, at one end of the
resistance element, necessitates connecting the
potentiometer the correct way round. The in-
clusion of the 450-ohm resistor would do no
damage.
7 have built a receiver on the lines of the
Wide-World Two, but with an extra audio
stage and 2.5-volt valves as in the enclosed
diagram. A growling noise is heard when
the volume control is advanced more than half-
way with the filaments heated by a fully-
charged 2-volt battery. Using another (par-
tially discharged ) battery there is no noise, but
the volume is much lower. Is it advisable to
take plate-voltage supplies from the one maxi-
mum tapping, as in the diagram ? —95.
It is a wonder you hear anything at all.
Your three valves are taking 3 amperes from
the single 2-volt cell, and, considering that
these are 2.5- and not 2-volt valves, there is
likely to be a drop to the region of H volts
available at the heaters. You need a 2i5-volt
4-ampere heater transformer to run the re-
ceiver normally with these valves. There js
no objection to taking the plate voltages from
the one tapping, but you should decouple
the first audio stage as a precaution. Try a
10,000- or 8000-ohm resistor in series with the
B positive terminal of the audio transformer,
leaving the 1-mfd. condenser as now connected.
Enclosed is a list of nine broadcasting
stations heard between 372 and 455 metres with
a seven-valve superhet. In each case the lan-
guage was Oriental. Most of these stations
were heard after 10.30 p.m. Can you identify
them ? —lO3.
Judging by the stated wave-length and fre-
quency on your list, the stations are probably
as follows: JOCK Nagoya, 810 kc.; JOFK
Hiroshima, 850 kc.; JOIK Sapporo, 830 kc.;
JOAK Tokio, 870 kc.; JOBK Osaka, 750 kc.;
JQAK Dairen, 760 kc.; JODK Keijo, 690 kc.;
JFAK Taihoku, 670 kc., and the other station
at 658 kc., although not in any available list,
may be assumed to be Japanese or Chinese.
My Radiola model 120 8 battery receiver uses
four 45-volt B batteries and a 2-volt accumu-
lator. Being 72 miles front the nearest charg-
ing station, I have difficulty in getting accumu-
lators charged, as they are invariably knocked
about it } transit. 1 have a set of Edison
primary batteries, and, with three of these
charged, the voltage is 2.25 and the receiver
gives excellent results. Will the extra .25 volts
be detrimental to the valves, and what life
can I expect from the cells ? —lO4.
Measure the voltage at the valve filaments
with the set switched on and in operation.
If the extra voltage is dropped under load,
well and good. If not, then it is advisable to
include a resistance in series from- the cells
to the set. A small 10-ohm rheostat will do.
You should get about 10 months’ life from
the cells, depending on the condition of the
zinc and copper plates and the number ol:
hours the set is used. If the set is used a
great deal, five months may see the end of the
plates in the cells.
I have an old burnt-out 6-volt cut-out, and
wish to rewind and use it in conjunction with
the charging of a 6-volt accumulator from a
52-volt service. Particulars of winding ? —96.
Roughly five times the number of turns of
wire will be needed for the shunt winding,
and the series winding will remain the same.
It will be necessary to use a finer gauge of
wire on the shunt in order to get the amount
of wire into the available space.
Some years ago I built the once-popular
PCJ4 receiver for short-wave and broadcast
reception. As it is not selective enough for
broadcast work and I have no time to spend
in short-wave reception, I would like to re-
build it for broadcast work alone, if this can
be clone with most of the old material. I do
not want to spend more than £5 on it.—9l.
Situated as you are in the country, and
using a receiver with a separately-tuned R.F
stage, and properly screened, selectivity should
not be much of a problem. You could try
with advantage the electron-coupled detector
as in the Wide-World Four (B. 18/7/’34) and
the capacity-coupled T.R.F. stage. If you
are thinking along the lines of a superhet, then,
the components in your receiver are of little
use.
A superhet built on the lines of the Quality
superhet (“ Aust. Radio News,” 11/5/ ’34) has
been working perfectly until recently. It is
possible that one of the valves or a resistor
is faulty, and I feel that an inexpensive re-
ceiver tester would be justified. Please advise
if a three-meter model of make would
meet all reasonable requirements. The D.C
resistance of the meters is 300 ohms per volt.
—9B.
The receiver analyser referred to is suitable
for rough tests, but no degree of real accuracy
can be expected from it. These are moving-
iron and not moving-coil instruments. A
more modern single meter 1000 ohms per volt
analyser, such as the Slade-Paton model, is
recommended. In any case, low-resistance,
moving-iron meters will not give anywhere near
accurate measurements on the output from
power packs or B eliminators, and something
more than meters suitable for measurement of
battery voltages is necessary.


BACKACHE
Untold Agonies caused by
WEAK KIDNEYS
Awful backache, down-dragging weakness, the
constant pain that lines your face and makes life
hardly worth while ... How much longer are
you going to suffer before you realise that weak
kidneys cause all your misery ?
Surely you do not willingly stay crippled with pain ? Why
not start to end those “untold agonies,” that chronic weakness,
crippling rheumatism, as thousands of others have done, by
taking De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills for a few days ?
“Years of suffering ended
good” . . . “After all else
You call it Backache, but
do you know this is but
one of many symptoms of
kidney trouble? It also
causes your
Rheumatism.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
m
URIC, ACID
1 . . . “Intense pain gone for
failed, this brought relief.”
These are statements of one-
time sufferers, ever grateful to
De Witt’s Pills for the freedom
from pain they have given.
There is no need to waste
money on unknown prepara-
tions, heart-exciting drugs or
purgatives, which cannot help
weak kidneys to healthy action.
Get the remedy specially com-
pounded for kidney trouble —
tried and proved successful the
world over for 50 years.
The very young, the weakest
and oldest can take De Witt’s
Pills with confidence. They
contain no dangerous drugs,
but are a health-giving tonic
preparation that will do you
good from the very first dose.
De Witt’s Pills have restored
even bed-ridden people to health
after years of suffering.
ST-
m
WbuL-f-
-m
■m
•y/'VA,
NO MATTER HOW LONG YOU HAVE SUFFERED
HERE IS QUICK, SURE HELP!
Go to your chemist and ask him about De Witt’s Pills—the remedy with the
prescription on the box. He knows all the ingredients and can tell you they have
been combined especially for the purpose of driving from the body pain-giving
poisons, and to build up vigour and vitality. In 24 hours you will know how
quick and certain is their action. Buy a box of “De Witt’s” to-day. It will be
the best investment you will ever make. Definitely refuse any substitute, for we
can honestly assure you there is nothing “just as good ” for kidney troubles.
Sold only in the blue, white and gold boxes, price 3/6, or larger, more econ-
omical size, 6/6. See the name of the manufacturers, E. C. De Witt & Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., clearly printed on the box. Be sure you ask for
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
BRIDGE
WITHOUT
SIGHS.
BY DR. H. L. TONKIN.
Thoughtful Defence.
It is very seldom that the best line of
defence comes to a player as a flash of
inspiration. Occasionally a good lead is
made as soon as the previous trick is
turned, but you can generally take it
that the leader has thought it out two or
three tricks before. Most good defensive
leads are based on the ability to count
up to 13. Here is a case in point:
Dealer East, both vulnerable. Bidding:
E. S. W. N.
IS P 3D P
3S P 4C P
4D P 6D P
The bidding is rather optimistic ; it de-
pends on two finesses. North’s opening
ten of clubs brought South’s queen under
West’s ace. West sees that he cannot
ruff clubs, and that his only chance of
six is in the spade suit play. He leads
the spade ten, and lets it fun to South.
When South wins with the queen, what
lead is likely to be most harmful to the
declarer? The trump seems no good,
for with his holding of three small ones
South would imagine that suit solid with
East-West. For a similar reason, forcing
dummy to ruff a club appears useless, as
declarer can then lead the diamond king,
return to his own hand with a heart,
clear trumps and run off the spades. This
would set the contract, but on the bid-
ding South cannot credit his partner with
the diamond queen covered.
As West has forced, and then called
four clubs with nothing better than ace,
knave, he is marked with ace or king,
queen of hearts, so a heart lead seems
futile. This induces South to consider
the spade return. Why did West play
spades so early? Presumably because he
wanted to lose the spade finesse before
dummy’s trumps were gone and the club
king could make. If West’s spade were
a singleton, would he not have gone up
with ace or king, and taken an immediate
discard, ruffed a third round, and tried
for further discards after two trump
rounds? If West originally held three,
then North had a singleton, and it would
be very bad play for West to try them so
early, and also finesse on the first round.
Far more likely that West started with
a doubleton spade. In that case a
return of that suit will do him no good,
for he cannot run them immediately, and
his only entry to dummy is on the second
trump lead, when opponents still hold a
trump each for a further spade lead. So
South returned a small spade, and away
went the small slam. A quite correct
conclusion, of course, but the desirable
play could never have been made by
anyone who did not regularly practise
counting up to 13.
That fine player and writer Mr. Frank
Cayley has returned to Sydney, after ten
months in Brisbane. While there, he
was president of the Queensland Bridge
Association, and won a number of tour-
naments. Mr. Cayley’s return will add
to the bridge-playing strength of Sydney.
Seizing an Opportunity.
It is not often that a player starts off
with a perfectly honest first-round bid,
and is almost invited to perpetrate a bluff
on the second round. Efowever, here is
a case from recent rubber play ; the wily
trap-setter was Mr. L. W. Donaldson,
who assures me that he began with no
evil intentions but only hoped to bid
game.
North-South vulnerable. North deals.
THE BIDDING:
N. E. S. W.
P ID Dbl. Rdbl.
P P 2C Dbl.
P P 2S Dbl.
3C Dbl. 3S Dbl.
After North’s pass, East has quite a good
opening. South (Mr. Donaldson) held
an excellent take-out double, and hoped
to play four or more spades home. But
West’s justifiable redouble with two
honor tricks and excellent support for
his partner puts a different complexion
on things.
South is now convinced that North
holds nothing better than one honor
trick, and consequently four spades is
hardly possible. South also knows that
any bid he makes will not be passed, for
East-West are bound to take some further
action after encouraging one another.
His only hope of game is to be doubled
at the two or three level. The first step
to bring this about is the “psychic” bid
of two clubs, his hope being that West’s
strength in that suit will not be so great
as to reveal the bluff to him. West
feels strong enough to double, and North
and East are content. South now tries
to appear to be seeking a better fit with
North’s hand by running into two
spades. This was evidently the impres-
sion conveyed to West, who doubled
again.
North cannot be blamed for tell-
ing . his partner that clubs suit him
better; East, feeling that, he has. hardly
been in the party up to date, wakes up
and puts in his double. South now looks
as if he felt himself trapped between
the two strong hands and were making
his last try for a minimum loss with three
spades. By this time, a gag would have
been required to stop West doubling.
The play, as can be seen, was not diffi-
cult, but three spades is the limit on
the North-South hands, although East-
West can get four diamonds.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
L.C. (Auckland, M.L.). —-The latest
laws for both auction and contract bridge
were published in 1932, and are the result
of consultation between the Portland
Club, the Whist Club of New York and
La Commission Franchise du Bridge,
Paris. These three authorities now form
all laws and settle all disputes connected
with bridge. The laws can be obtained
in book form at any reputable library.
R.M. (Corowa, N.S.W.).— Your won-
derful hand, containing 11 top cards, is
much too good to expect your partner to
hold anything. I know of no method,
under any system, by which the slam can
be bid. You would not actually be tak-
ing a chance of his having one specific
card, for the queen, knave of hearts
would return 12 tricks also.
H.F. (Coogee, N.S.W.).—-I am giving
your hand below:
♦_A. K, 10, 9,6, 4, 2
V-A, 3
4 —None
*—K, Q, J, 4
In my opinion, it is much too good a
hand to bid four spades on. That call
is taken by partner as a shut-out, and
denies any outside strength whatever.
The bid of three spades is better, and
personally I should not object to a cal!
of two on it. If one gets a response of
three diamonds, the slam is definitely off,
but a club or a heart answer, though
not probable, is worth trying for.
J.B. (Canberra, F.C.T.). —The same
rule applies as in all other games. To
improve one’s play it is necessary to be
engaged with or against exponents of a
higher standard than oneself.
A.C.R. (Bellevue Hill, N.S.W.).—If
you are a good auction player, you need
have no fears about contract. You will
probably play a better game of contract
than ever you did of auction.
Cavendish (Five Dock, N.S.W.).—
The safety plays of suits have been
arrived at mostly by mathematical cal-
culation. Emphatically they do not con-
flict with the deductive placing of cer-
tain cards, and are never used when all
reasoning is against them.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Silver King gave a dazzling exhibition
of galloping in the Hobartville Stakes at
Warwick Farm. Backed from fours to
6 to 4, he led from the start, cleared out
at the home turn and won, pulling up, by
two lengths from the M.L. colt Custo-
dian, with Duke Caledon, who finished
gamely under the whip, third. The
Marne, who was expected to test Silver
King for speed, had a bad position at
the barrier. He made valiant efforts to
catch Silver King, but dropped right out
in the run home. Fashion Star, who
looked as if the race would do him a lot
of good, came home fairly well in fourth
place; the Queenslander Pandion was
also putting his best foot forward at the
finish.
Though on the small side, Silver King
is bred the right way. His sire, El
Cacique, is by Tracery ; his dam, Silver
Wedding, is by Antonio, and on her side
there is Trenton blood in the colt. A.J.C.
committeeman Reg Allen owns Silver
King, who is held on lease by Eiver
Walker. Can fie stay the Derby distance?
While admitting his brilliancy, good
judges doubt it.
Chatham is still Australia’s best miler.
He was never in danger of defeat in the
Warwick Stakes. Starting at 11 to 8 on,
—■■■ ■ *•- «MC ---
Bert: 1 got these balls verv
cheap''
Gert’. " Pav more for-wem mext
TIME ",
Bert: // Whv should > 4"
<y v/
Gert; Xoci kjever could Orive
BARGAIN v '
the Windbag horse played with the oppo-
sition over the last half-mile ; Pike had
to give him a cut with the whip when
he was loafing at the Leger. Nightly,
who is trained by Fred Jones, of Lim-
erick celebrity, battled on gamely to get
second place. Limarch was third. Both
should be prominent in the long races
here and in Melbourne. Silver Scorn
finished last, but showed up while her
condition permitted it, as did Closing
Time. Rogilla lost his chance at barrier-
rise ; in the circumstances he did really
well to get fifth. He will have more time
to get balanced in the Caulfield Cup, in
which race he has 9st. 101 b.
Rosehill trainer Booth believes in giv-
ing his charges plenty of racing. Roman
Spear won at Moorefield, and, starting
at sevens, she annexed the Campbell-
town Handicap from the favorite, Golden
Wings, and Canegrass. Booth’s mare got
a nice run on the rails at the turn ; on
the other hand, Golden Wings was wide
out all the way ; Pike tried in vain to
get the M.L. gelding over to the fence
at the top of the straight. Roman Spear
has firmed for the Epsom, and as she is
by Spearhead she will not lack support
on a soft track.
William Kelso has Topical looking at
his best. Starting at 7to 4 in the Spring
Handicap, Bob Miller’s Windbag gelding
was ridden a clever race by McCarten,
who saved his mount by hugging the rails
most of the way. Challenged in the run
home by Journal (5 to 2), Topical asserted
his superiority. Elmaros came home
with a great burst on the rails to get
third. Mr. Kerry was beaten half a mile
from home. Topical has had strong sup-
port for the Metropolitan and Melbourne
Cup, and Whittingham-Topical, this
Page’s pick when the weights came out,
now looks a good Epsom-Metrop.
double.
Cid (5 to 1) had a runaway win in the
Glenlee Handicap. The favorite, Tavern
Knight, br6ke down and was pulled up
at the Leger. Cid has 7st. 41b. in the
Epsom. Povertdale, improving on his
Moorefield run, cut Regdl Son out of
second place. Regal Son looks nice and
bright, and is worth following.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy was confident
that he had a good thing in Sarcherie for
the first division of the Novice, and, as
the race was run, so it proved. Starting
at threes, Sarcherie won fairly easily
from Barak, who carries the colors of
V.R.C. chairman L. K. S. Mackinnon,
and Popularity was third. Barak came
from the clouds, as it were, and would
have won with any luck over the last
half-mile.
Another pastoralist, V. M. White,
scored with Jutland (7 to 2) in the second
division. He is by Pombal, sire of the
useful Prince Pombal, and in a close
finish beat High Cross and Ao Kiwa.
The favorite, Padding Queen, dropped
out early.
Hall Mark brilliantly opened his four-
year-old career by capturing the Under-
wood Stakes at Williamstown. In the
birdcage Kellow’s star galloper was criti-
cised rather harshly ; it was declared that
he had not grown since the autumn —
which is perfectly correct—-and that he
had the neck and body of a gelding,
rather than of a stallion. Holt confessed
that he was not putting much on Hall
Mark, who figured at 10 to 1 in the early
betting, but firmed two points. What-
ever the physical deficiencies of the son
of Heroic may be, it turned out that he
was much more forward in condition
than outsiders imagined. Actually he had
the race won at the back of the course.
Unwinding a splendid run at the turn, he
gathered in the leaders as if they were
anchored, and, easily stalling off a chal-
lenge from Waltzing Lily, scored by a
length and a half.
Waltzing Lily started a hot favorite.
She improved on her effort in the Moon-
dah Plate at Caulfield three weeks before,
and judgment on her spring prospects
should be suspended. There was a great
tussle for third place ; Aztec gained it
from Dark Sky, Great Legend and Der-
mid. The pace was set by Great Legend,
who v/on the Champagne Stakes at Rand-
wick in the autumn. He did not benefit
by being asked to draw out for a lead of
three or four lengths, and hung on better
than might have been expected. Dark
Sky did not shape like a potential Derby
winner.
With his strapping frame and dark
chestnut coat, Aztec was the most hand-
some three-year-old to for action at
Williamstown. He even outclassed
Titanium, who led from end to end of
the Three-year-old Handicap. Both these
thoroughbreds are in the stable of Fred
Foulsham. As a yearling Titanium —who
claims the Cooltrim mare Winter as dam
—was bought in Sydney by W. Wood-
mason for 1000 guineas. H. F. Creswick
bred Aztec, who is by Thracian, a brother
to the sire of Titanium. The breeding of
Aztec suggests classic distinction later on.
His dam runs back to Albina, a sister to
Gibraltar, winner of the A.J.C. Derby of
1890 ; from the same family came Le
Var and May King, winners of the Perth
Cup. Spearflash (Spearhead—Valotte)
astonished Williamstown spectators by
finishing second to Titanium, whom he
gamely chased throughout the race.
This colt cost Henry Boan, of Perth,
1250gns. as a yearling, but could not do
better than run second in a couple of
juvenile handicaps last season. If he
keeps on improving he will have to
be reckoned with in the Derbies and
one of the Cups—he is in the Caulfield
with 7st. 21b. and the Melbourne with
6st. 131 b.
No victory at Williamstown evoked
so much enthusiasm as that of Shadow
King, now nine years old, in the
August Handicap. Placed in the Mel-
bourne Cup on four successive occasions,
the cast-iron thoroughbred is getting into
splendid trim for his fifth Cup race.
Odds of 10 to 1 were obtainable about
Shadow King. He trailed Picatus, the
favorite, into the straight, and, after that
rival had cut down the leaders and
appeared sure of victory, Shadow King
slipped through on the rails. The old
fellow would not be denied, and gained
the judge’s verdict by a neck. Though
unplaced, imported Mystic Peak shaped
encouragingly.
Another of Holt’s string finished second
in the Truganina Handicap—Maybe, who
lost to Ogwell by a length after leading
at the half-distance. Ogwell belongs to
two members of the Williamstown com-
mittee, on which F. E. Shillabeer, part
owner of Shadow King, also holds a
seat. Shillabeer, a jovial personage, is
chairman of the Victorian Club com-
mittee, on which he has J. S. Dunbar as
a colleague. Dunbar did not profit
greatly by Mount Dangar’s success in
the steeplechase.
(Continued on page 36.)
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Stadium has imported a troupe
of wrestlers, and two, Sonnenberg and
Wong Bock Cheung, put on a polished
turn on Saturday night. Artistic holds
and spectacular footwork had a big
crowd cheering early in the piece, and
the populace went wild when Sonnen-
berg bowled the big Chinaman over
with a flying tackle in the second
round and pinned him with a body-
press. Cheung sidestepped the Ameri-
can’s head-dives in the third, and
downed him, but Sonnenberg’s flying
tackles clinched victory for him in the
sixth. Lurich and Walter Browning
were seen in their ancient act at Leich-
hardt, with the familiar result —a draw.
A Sonnenberg-Lurich meting is talked
of, but seems unlikely to happen.
Footbrawl
Thirty thousand saw Richmond play
Collingwood on Saturday. Defeat to
Richmond meant possible exclusion
from the first four if Carlton walloped
Geelong, while ’Wood, if it lost, would
drop from second place to fourth. De-
spite the loss of five of their best men
through injuries, Collingwood put up a
great battle, and led most of the time.
An extra-strenuous Richmond finish gave
the Tigers the game by 11 points—Rich-
mond, 86; ’Wood, 75. Zscheck, at
centre, Doug Strang and Murdoch were
chiefly responsible for the win ; Regan,
H. Collier and Pannam were best for the
others. At Geelong Carlton did a de-
spairing dash to get into the final four,
but found the locals too cool, clever
and accurate—Geelong, 95 ; Carlton, 70.
The gate of £3 r 4O, from about 18,500,
was soothing to the club’s treasurer.
South Melbourne was at home to Foots-
cray. Pratt was out to smash the goal-
kicking record. He booted 12 sixers,
bringing his tally for the 15 games played
to 127, three ahead of Gordon Coven-
try’s ’29 total, and one more than the
Australian record of Ken Farmer, of
Adelaide, made last year ; and South has
still six more games to play. South Mel
bourne, 156 ; Footscray, 70. North Mel-
bourne once again failed to break its
duck, losing to St. Kilda by 79 to 84.
Fitzroy accounted for Melbourne with
139 to 106. Hawthorn surprised ’Don
by collecting 81 to 79. As things are,
Geelong, South, Richmond and ’Wood
are “the four” ; the battle now is for
position, the first two having a better
chance than the third and fourth.
* * * *
By holding the All-Blacks to a draw
in the second Test in Sydney on Satur
day, each side scoring an unconverted
try, Australia takes charge of the Bledis-
loe Cup for the first time.
Twenty-five thousand were present. As
a battle between well-matched forwards
the game was highly attractive to the ex-
pert, but not so much so to the public,
which likes to see the ball flying and the
men moving' in the wide open spaces.
Playing conditions were much the same
as in the first match, though the footing
was probably worse. This did not excuse
the inertness of the inside backs on both
sides with one or two exceptions. The
spectacle of those two great scoring
wingers McLean and Kelaher standing
idle most of the game or trying to pick
an opening for themselves was disheart-
ening to Australian supporters.
But defence was excellent forward
and back, and when in the second half
the Australian backs stood up to the
opposition and played it at its own
game it was hard to separate the sides.
Australia scored first through a fine bit
of opportunism by Louden, and Hore
equalised in the second half. Neither try
was converted, and it should be said that
the goal-kicking throughout the day was
very bad. Apart from Kilby the M.L.
backs showed little enterprise. A notable
exception was Lilburne, who replaced
Collins at full-back with distinction. The
pace of the game was not improved by
the meticulous adherence to the letter
of the rules by referee Irving.
The visitors took their defeat like
sportsmen. They would have had less
cause for regret if they had asked that
the foolish “Australian XV” match at
Brisbane be replaced by a third and de-
cisive Test. As it is, they only lost one
and drew one of the eight matches played.
The second Rugby League semi-final
between Eastern Suburbs and South
Sydney at Sydney Sports Ground ended
in favor of East by 19-6 —5 tries and 2
p.gs. to 3 p.gs. The winners meet Western
Suburbs in the final, and if the latter, the
minor premiers, lose, there will be yet
another meeting in a grand final.
(Continued on page 36.)
Woodfull’s Men
Fresh from their Test win the Aus-
tralians tackled Sussex at the Hove, near
Brighton, one of the most perfect batting
pitches in England. Sussex won the toss,
and played stodgy cricket to score 304
for 8 wickets at stumps on Saturday.
Parks (60), Cook (60) and James Lang-
ridge (57) made most of the runs, but
it was left to Pearce (25 n. 0.) and our
old friend Tate (40 n. 0.) to put some
sparkle into the closing stages. Fleet-
wood-Smith was well spanked on occa-
sion, but ended with the good average
of 5 for 114. McCabe and O’Reilly each
bagged a wicket. Sussex is running
Lancashire close for the premiership
, this season, and the home score is the
fourth largest by a county against the
tourists this season, the others being 475
for 7 by Surrey, 420 by Hampshire and
340 by Yorkshire.
(i Continued, on page 36.)
FOR CANTERBURY ON SATURDAY
Flying Handicap: Canegrass;
next, Veilantif.
September Handicap: Enamour;
next, Lavington.
Canterbury Stakes: Chatham;
next, Closing Time.
Campsie Handicap: Lingo ; next,
Fame.


The Prontac
(Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation. . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
Box 98cc, G.P.0., Sydney.
Is Inflation Best Way Out?
Source of Purchasing Power
The Banks Again
Share-market Review
To be successful, tbe investor must keep one eye on
economic and trade developments.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY
Australia’s leading financial journal, enables him to do
this and other things.
September Issue on Sale Next Saturday
• Golfers ! If your feet slip, your shot
is spoiled. These shoes are specially de-
signed for extra GROUND GRIP....
note the placing of the Boomerangs on the
soles and heels. It is almost impossible to
slip. All leading stores sell “NIBLICK”
Golf Shoes.
K
Carubo
Golf Shoe
Under the Whip
The V.R.C.’s annual report shows
steady progress, the profit being £B6B7 —
£5OOO ahead of the year before —though
revenue from attendances only jumped
about £3OOO. Expenditure on the course
and appointments was reduced by £6500
on the previous period, and this helped.
More than £5OOO in stakes was also
added. The tote showed increased popu-
larity, and proved a good friend to the
club. The amounts put through in the
last three years were: £257,918 in 1932,
£474,495 in 1933 and £562,945 in 1934-
in 1932 the machine was used only nine
months of the year. The effect of the
tote’s success jis seen in the fact that the list
of paddock bookmakers has fallen from
138 before the machine came in to 85.
* * * *
“Morphettville”: That “Redlock” affair
in South Australia (B. 22/8/’34) has led
to a rare row over the settlement of bets.
Australian custom is that bets are paid
on the hoisting of the “weight” flag. This
was done in the Kadina case, and though
the winner, “Redlock,” was disqualified
later and the race handed to the second
horse, Jalisco, backers of the first horse
say they are entitled to collect, no
matter what the stewards did after. On
the other hand, though Jalisco got the
race, his punters had to go without.
They don’t agree at all, and the matter
is still being heatedly argued.
* * * *
“Retired Mug”: For years I have been
under the impression that owners of
racehorses are lordly and affluent folk,
consorting only with paddock book-
makers, fancy jockeys and Ms.L.C. I
have been disillusioned by reading the
evidence of one of the fraternity in a
recent racing case in Ipswich (Q.). He
said that when he arrived on the course
he had only 30s. in the wide, and this
he laid out in doubles, with his horse as
one leg. The nag finished down the
course, and, presumably, though he
didn’t say so, the owner-trainer walked
home. It is a longish walk from Bun-
damba racecourse to Ipswich, too.
‘ * 4 * *
“Punchestown” : One morning recently
an indignant John Bull awoke to
find the country flooded with sweep
tickets intended to raise funds for the
Irish Republican Army. The tickets car-
ried a picture of an I.R.A. soldier
trampling on the Union Jack. Condi-
tions of the sweep itself are interesting.
Tickets were only 3d. each, and the first
prize £25 and 15 tickets in the big Irish
hospitals sweep on the Cambridgeshire.
John has heaved the whole caboodle into
St. George’s Channel.
Woodfull’s Men
Sane cricketocracy throughout Aus-
tralia heaved a sigh of hearty relief when
it heard that the Test-match series had
come to an end. Not so much because
Australia had won —though that was
gratifying enough—as because the long
campaign of mutual abuse and mis-
representation by newspapers of this
country and Britain, which had set every
follower of cricket by the ears, was ended
at last. It may be taken as a certainty
that the same glow of satisfaction
warmed many hearts in Britain at the
same time. Let every lover of cricket
for its own sake pray that the conditions
of savage war artd reprisal which has
been the note of Test cricket for the last
three years will be abolished before the
next series begins; preferably by post-
ponement for ten years until the old
hatreds die out.
With 475 up for two wickets, Australia
carried on to a total of 701. Ponsford
raised his overnight score to 266 before
he hit his wicket, Allen being the bowler.
Woodfull made 49 and Oldfield 42 n.o.
Bowes (4-164) and Allen (4-170) had the
best of the English bowling.
Sutcliffe and Walters opened confi-
dently for England, and had 90 up with-
out loss on the second drawing of
stumps. Then the machine went to
pieces, and 5 were down for 142 until
Leyland and Ames got together. The
sixth wicket saw 263 on the board and
the retirement of Ames, who had been
showing every sign of a big stand with
Leyland ; he had ricked a muscle in turn-
ing for a run. This was cruel luck for
England, which thus lost one of its best
batsmen and a champion wicket-keeper.
Leyland went to 110 before Grimmett
bowled him. Allen and Verity reached
double figures, and England was out for
321. Ebeling was a success with 3 for
74, his victims including Hammond.
Grimmett took 3 wickets and O’Reilly 2.
Woodfull wisely decided to “mak’
siccar,” and batted again. Bradman (77)
and McCabe (70) provided most of the
runs, though Ebeling came along with
a welcome tail-end 41. Frank Woolley
was ’keeping in place of the injured Ames
—he has always been a slip-fieldsman
when not batting or bowling—and Mr.
Sundries scored 50, though the big
Kentishman took the only catch that was
offered him, dismissing Chipperfield off
Clark. The total was 327. Clark (5-98)
and Bowes (5-55) bowled finely. The
latter deserves special mention, since he
left hospital against medical advice to
carry on.
With 708 to win, England faced a
desperate forlorn hope, especially as the
wicket, which had shown signs of tricki-
“Stop ’im! Stop ’im!”
“What with?”
ness in the second Australian innings,
was evidently fed up. A hard, crumb-
ling pitch is like money from home to
Grimmett, and England went for 145
this time, the South Australian’s bag
being 5 for 64, while McCabe and
O’Reilly each collected a couple. Ham-
mond showed up with 43. He has had
a great season in county cricket, but has
been a disappointment against the Aus-
tralians.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: When Woodfull goes
down into the cricket shades he will take
with him a record that no Test captain
has ever held, or is ever likely to hold.
The closing day of the fifth Test at the
Oval, August 22, was his birthday. The
Australian skipper also led his side to
victory on the same ground and in the
same deciding Test on August 22, 1930.
The Fates fitted things in well by arrang-
ing that the 1930 game should spin out
to six days. The recent match only lasted
four, and so preserved the schedule.
* * * *
“Tadcaster”: As one whom bitter
necessity compels to earn his daily beer
by writing about sport, the finish of the
fifth Test has come as a boon and a
blessing. One of my chief afflictions is
being brought in contact with unknown
persons who refer loudly—and too often
alcoholically—to their intimate acquaint-
ance with “Old Don” or “Ponny” —the
latter very popular the last fortnight, by
the way. None of these folk seems to
know anything about any other leading
cricketer. The last day of the match
provided me with an exception. He was
a large gentleman, the burden of whose
song was his entire familiarity with a
person he called “Bobby” Jardine. He
explained to the party he was with —
from which 1 kept carefully aloof —-that
he had known “Bobby” since childhood
and had given him a lot of good advice
during his visits to Australia. I have
had little to do with Jardine personally.
But when the vociferous one referred to
him as “an old Etonian like me,” I fancy
the perfect product of Winchester whom
we knew out here felt what the Scots
call a “grue” all over him.
* * * *
The Australian skipper’s refusal to
give England the benefit of the follow-
on rule in the Oval Test when his side
was 380 ahead on the first knock has
been criticised as unsporting-j-as if that
had anything to do with modern Test
amenities. We have had quite recent pre-
cedent in Australia. Chapman, in the
first Test at Brisbane in 1928, found him-
self 399 runs ahead when both first in-
nings were played. He carried on, and
closed his second knock at 8 for 342.
Interesting that, whereas Bowes and Ames
dropped out of the Oval Test through
injury and illness, lack Gregory and
Kellaway were early lost to Australia at
Brisbane for similar reasons.
* * * *
“Statist”: Those familiar with averag-
ing are often confronted with anomalies.
An instance cropped up recently in con-
nection with the Test-match figures of
Bradman and Ponsford. After the fourth
Test Bradman headed Ponsford slightly
in the batting—the comparative figures
were 72.83 and 70.25 respectively. In the
final match Bradman scored 321 for two
finished innings and Ponsford 288 for
the two knocks. The averages of the
pair for the five games are: Ponsford,
94.83 ; Bradman, 94.75. Ponsford didn’t
play in the second Test, and thus had an
innings less than Bradman. Anyway,
work the sum out yourself.
Footbrawl
“Captain Kidd”: The Victorian F.L.
has at last taken definite action to pre-
vent the stealing of players from other
States which has been such a source of
complaint (B. 22/8/’34). At a solemn
meeting in Melbourne it was resolved
that the League would not grant a per-
mit .to any outland player to strip in
the Cabbage Garden until he had been
interned there for 12 months. One dele-
gate remarked that the States always had
the power of preventing their players
leaving by refusing clearances. Readers
of The Bulletin last football season will
recall that international complications
almost set in because one Melbourne
club which hungrily desired a Westralian
fought tooth and nail to get round
W.A.’s refusal to let him go. They even
got the young gentleman transferred to
a Melbourne branch of the firm for
which he worked in Westralia, but all in
vain.
* * * H<
“Rules”: The curious indifference of
the Victorian F.L. to the inter-State aspect
of the game was again exemplified at a
League meeting in Melbourne. The
topic being discussed was the transfer to
Victoria from other States of young
players of promise. One delegate re-
marked that inter-State games were
regarded as of little importance in Vic-
toria. Since the powerful and wealthy
V.F.L. completely controls
the game in Australia, that
means in other States. Yet
the Rugby Union and even
its by-blow the Rugby
League have found that inter-
state matches are the life of
their codes. The Australian
game is being challenged in
three States which a few
years ago played it exclu-
sively—Westralia, South Aus-
tralia and Victoria itself —by
the Rugby Union. Nowhere
in Australia during the last
20 years has the Australian
game made any advance,
even in its strongholds. In
Queensland and N.S.W. its
plight is melancholy. No
one is to blame but Victoria.
* * * *
The All-Blacks took an easy win from
Newcastle (N.S.W.) on their way down
from Queensland. The opposition was
not very stiff, but the M.L. side galloped
along to finish with a 35-3 score. As
always when a good team meets a bad
one the calibre of the game was pretty
doughy.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The honor of being
selected to play for the All-Blacks in
Australia has always been eagerly
sought. There is a catch in it, though.
If the silver fern goes down in one match
the witch-hunters on the other side start
to smell out the culprits—l have known
a couple of men to be sent, post-haste,
across the Tasman after a signal defeat
by N.S.W. to replace others who did not
come up to expectations. And invariably
after a M.L. side has fallen short of ex-
pectations another one is picked to give
the tourists a hearty welcome when they
get back.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: For about the fif-
teenth time in the last few years the
N.S.W. Rugby Union has banged the
table and said it really will do something
drastic in the matter of permitting rein-


THRILLING SPEEDS are safer with
these DOUBLE-TOUGH TYRES
WHEN the needle hovers at 70 when you corner
at speed or brake suddenly—do you ever realise
how much depends upon your tyres.
Perdriau tyres are modern tyres, produced by engin-
eers who are always a step ahead of current require-
ments. With their famous triangle tread and fully
insulated casing cords, these double tough tyres not
only bring a full measure of safety to motoring, but
they enable you to enjoy to the full, the thrilling
speeds of which your car is capable.
Fit Perdriau Tyres. Dealers, everywhere, stock all sizes,
and prices have never been lower than they are today.
Perdriau
Double Tough Tyres
PRODUCT OF DUNLOP PERDRIAU
119*27
statement of its old players who have
tried to find money in the professional
League game and desire to return, dis-
illusioned, to the fold. An elaborate
plan is being prepared which involves
registration of applicants, endorsement
by club officials, affidavits and a lot of
other footle. An affidavit in sport circles
is a joke, while the official check has
been found to be like rain on the river
when a club is anxious to enlist a good
player. What is wanted is a fixed law
banning from the end of this season all
players not active members of R.U.
clubs. The Rugby Union is so congested
by recruits from the G.P.S. teams that
it cannot find room for half of them.
To block these lads by the readmission of
chaps who have found professional foot-
ball far from being what it is cracked up
to be is rank injustice.
4* * * *
“Atcha”: An old trouble has cropped
up again in Indian football. Soccer is
the national game, and many of the Brit-
ish regiments have played in the Indian
F.A. competitions. In the final, open to
all teams in India, civil and military,
Indian and European, the K.R.R. and
the Durham L.I. broke even. A re-
play was ordered, but the competitors
refused on the ground that the Indian
referees differed over the full-time ques-
tion, with the result that the game was
messed up. Under the Indian Soccer
Association, two referees function instead
of one, as elsewhere, and this is what
caused the kick. A quaint idea, perhaps.
Yet some of us are able to remember
when Rugby Union games were presided
over by two umpires and a referee.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Oaklands”: In addition to the big
official tourneys, some of the Victorian
clubs are putting up shows on their own
and hanging quite good money to them.
One of these is the Peninsula County
Club at Frankston, which is to hold a
four-day tourney ending December 1.
The star turn for the amateurs will be a
Centenary Gold Cup worth 150 guineas.
There will also be a purse of £3OO for the
professionals, the winner taking half.
4= 4= * 4=
“Yarra Yarra”: Victoria kicks off with
its State amateur golf championship on
Saturday, when the qualifying rounds will
begin at Woodlands. There are more
than 30 entrants with handicaps of
scratch or better, and, since only 16 can
qualify for the match play, the golf pro-
mises to be pretty hot stuff. Ivo Whitton,
W. L. Hope—last year’s Australian cham-
pion—and Sloan Morpeth will not be
playing.
4c 4c 4= 4c
“Kenso”: Realising that first over
the fence usually gets the chicken,
South African golfers have petitioned St.
Andrews that the team of British ama-
teurs who are visiting Australia should
return via the Cape and play some
matches against the Afrikanders. The
tourists will have a fairly long and strenu-
ous time in Australia, but will have the
sea voyage to recruit energy. Australia
of course can have no objection, and if
the visit comes off we shall have an
interesting comparison between Austra-
lian and South African golf standards as
tested by the British cracks.
4: 4c 4c 4c
“Marino”: W. S. Rymill won the
South Australian amateur golf title for
the third time in Adelaide by beating the
holder, Ackland-Horman, at Seaton, 3 up
and 1 in 36 holes of match. Rymill’s
previous wins were in 1929 and 1932.
In the latter year he carried off the
Australian mixed foursomes with sister
Kate.
$ * * *
“Coif”: A legal ruling of some in-
terest to golfers, though it is an American
one, has been laid down by Judge Lauer,
of N.Y. State Court —it is that the
call of “fore” is not necessarily a “timely
and adequate warning” to people in the
direction to which the ball is driven. In
this case, a caddie was awarded £2OOO
after a bang on the head which is said to
have resulted in almost total loss of
memory. Yet, such caddies would be
popular with some players I know. How
glorious to come in and tell the world
that you have done the course in under
70, well knowing that your caddie has
utterly forgotten that the score was over
three figures!
Racquet and Bawi
“Let”: Some optimistic bird in Mel-
bourne has published a list of the world’s
best 10 tennis players. It is worth
noting that most of them will be taking
part in the centenary tourney in Mel-
bourne. The list is: Perry, Von Cramm,
Austin, Crawford, Wood, Menzel,
Shields, De Stefani, Merlin and McGrath.
The omission of Quist from that gallery
is inexcusable. •
“Crypto”: In his recent book on
his tennis career Fred Perry says he
owes his success to observing a formula
given him by Roper Barrett, England’s
non-playing skipper for years past. The
formula is “H.Y.8.T.,” and Perry says
it means “Hold your bat tight.” Putting
aside the fact that no one has called
a tennis racquet a “bat” for the past
50 years, 1 am inclined to think Perry
is deceiving us. Knowing both him and
Roper Barrett well, 1 am game to risk a
small wager that Barrett’s formula
stands for “Hold your blanky tongue.”
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: The American women’s
tennis championships fell very flat this
year. Helen Jacobs, a pale imitation
of the glamorous Wills-Moody, won in
both singles and doubles, her partner in
this last being Sarah Palfrey, a sister
Yank whom she downed in the singles
final. The show was entirely American.
4; 4-. 4: St
“Top Spin”: The South African
tennis heads came along at the inter-
national conference with a suggestion for
a new footfault rule. Half the squabbles
between players and umpires at tennis
arise from the standing rule which says
that when the server strikes the ball
no part of either foot must be across the
service line. In actual practice there
is often a complete step over the
line as the service finishes, and it is the
ump.’s tough job to decide whether
the ball has * been hit too late
or the foot advanced too soon. The
Afrikanders want a line drawn two feet
behind the baseline, the server to stand
behind it and keep at least one hoof
behind until service is completed. The
International L.T.A. has recommeryded
a trial of the idea to all its affiliated
associations. To the writer, there seems
to be nothing to prevent footfaulting
starting over again from the new line.
Miscellaneous
“Susie Swattit”: A new highlight in
Australian cricket flashed last week when
the Ma State women cricketers opened
their indoor coaching school, and thus
showed themselves about 10 years ahead
of their he-man contemporaries, who
have been fiddling with the notion for
years without doing anything. The
school is 90ft. by 60ft., and provides two
good pitches. A lot of once-prominent
cricketers came to watch and scoff, and
went away sorry for themselves. Few
who have not seen these girls in action
can realise what competent players they
are. Essie Shevill treated Macartney with
disdain, and at least one prominent
N.S.W. batsman who had been leading
the scoffers made a show of himself
against the bowling of a couple of the
girls. Of course, the truth was mercifully
suppressed in the Sydney dailies —it
always is where these old-timers are
concerned.
* 4: * 4c
“C.Q.”: The proclamation of Ararat
(Vic.) as a town was a calamity for one
body. As the Police Offences Act pro-
hibits betting on footraces in towns and
cities, the ancient Ararat Gift has had
to file its schedule, along with the Ath-
letic Club, which has lived on some of
the proceeds for 30 years. The neighbor-
ing borough of Stawell, though entitled
to blow its chest out still further on a
population basis, is keeping quiet about
it. The Stawell Gift is worth more to
it than any empty title.
* 4= * *
“Shinty”: The annual conference of
the Australian hockey heads in Adelaide
last week discussed the question of in-
viting an Indian team for the Melbourne
centenary in addition to one from M.L.,
where an Australian side is playing now.
It was decided to fetch the All-Blacks
over in 1935, “provided an Indian team
is not brought to Australia at the expense
of the Australian association.” Whether
the Indian team is coming or not, and
at whose expense, has been left to the
imagination of the reader of the resolu-
tion. It is a good example of the vague-
ness with which these minor sporting
bodies conduct their affairs while
wondering why the general public doesn't
rush their game.
* * *
“Mark ’Em Six”: Literature has not
contributed much to gambling. Convers-
ing with my pak-a-pu agent a few days
ago I was reminded of an outstanding
exception. In the long ago someone made
a contribution to the Chinese classics
which is revered by scholars to this day.
It is called the “Book of a Thousand
Characters,” and, though the literary
merit of the work is high, not one
character appears twice. On this classic
was founded pak-a-pu, the characters on
the familiar ticket being paragraphs from
the work.
* 4s * *
“Richmond”: The Henley-on-Yarra
people are scratching their heads over
the Grand Cup for eights, for which
there are 14 entries, including the London
Club, now on the high seas and due to
strike Melbourne on September 24 This
means that heats and semi-finals will
have to be rowed for the first time in
the history of the race. The Englishmen
will have seven weeks to settle down, and
will do all their work on the Yarra
course. They should know it by heart
when the time comes for the start.
* sfc -k
Anthony Hordern and Sons have pub-
lished their new cricket catalogue for the
coming season, covering all manner of
cricket apparatus and material. A fea-
ture is the instalment as adviser to buy-
ers in the cricket-goods department of
Ray Little, the inter-State and grade
cricketer, who will, in addition, carry
out personal coaching. School coaching
will also be undertaken by arrangement.


Open The Door . . . Step In . . .
and observe how the new all-feature
Oldsmobile sets the pace in luxury
1934 Refinements Of The
All-Feature Oldsmobile . .
“Knee-action” front wheels for in-
creased riding comfort; Super-hy-
draulic brakes for guaranteed safety
on any road; Centre-control steering
to eliminate wheel “shimmy”; Ride
Stabiliser to prevent body roll; a
frame 'v thin a frame which has 20
times normal rigidity ;Silent synchro-
mesh second and top speed gears,
quiet helical gears in all speeds in-
cluding reverse; Long 114" wheelbase;
No-draught Ventilation; Six steel
spoke wheels; and a built-in rear
boot on the Sedans and Tourers.
Quite apart from the many
refinements which earned
for Oldsmobile the description “the
car that has everything’’ there is a
genuine contribution to motoring
luxury that would be difficult to
equal in any other car at any price.
Pictured at left •is the roomy
rear compartment of the 1934
Sedan. The deep, form-fitting seats
are upholstered in genuine hide,
which is toned throughout to har-
monise with the car’s exterior.
Comfortable armrests are pro-
vided, whilst the rear curtain has a
remote control from the driver’s
seat. No-draught Ventilation is, of
course, embodied giving proper car
ventilation and comfort for every
passenger in all weathers.
And when you turn from the rich
appointments of the interior and
drive the new Oldsmobile, you
realise to what heights of perform-
ance its sturdy and economical six-
cylinder engine has been raised.
See your local Oldsmobile dealer
for a demonstration ride in an
Oldsmobile—a ride that will prove
to you that this 1934 car has every
feature that a 1934 car should have.
General Motors-Holden’s Limited.
“One look Makes You Want It—
ONE LRIVE PROVES YOU’RE RIGHT”
hit
Consult your local authorised Oldsmobile Dealer
A1099M8
water-nymphs who perform all the usual
gyrations under and above the surface.
The patterns they made amazed even the
photographer, apparently, because he
simply wouldn’t knock off, but took
bird’s-eye, sea-slug’s-eye and jellyfish’s
eye views of them, ad infinitum. The
results reveal the modernist painters as
footling incompetents. James Cagney,
Joan Blondell, Ruby Keeler and others
interpret such plot as there is with a
refreshing absence of sentiment.
“As the Earth Turns”
Jean Muir is a Greta Garbo of the
American blackblocks yearning for the
pure love of Donald Woods, who has
left a city orchestra to share the trials,
tribulations and financial embarrassments
of the orchardists. There are two
families of farmers, all full of repres-
sions and yearnings for the bright lights
and oppressed by bad seasons and falling
prices and matrimonial infelicities.
The misery becomes so complete that
only a master of dramatic falsehood
could save the situation for sentimental
theatregoers. Yet the producer lies him-
self out of it fairly successfully. The
show is at the Regent, Melbourne.
Sundry Shows.
Time took a backward dive at Sydney
Town Hall on Thursday night. Papa
Haydn revisited the glimpses of the
moon and, finding a very fair orchestra
and a really magnificent pianoforte ready
to his hand, indulged in an hour or so
of playing what he called symphonies
and what later composers called con-
certos. He commenced with Mendels-
sohn, born the year Haydn died, gloried
next in the richness of Liszt, not yet half
a century dead, and wound up with Sergei
Rachmaninoff, still in the land of the liv-
ing and doing well in the U.S.A.
Shedding his peruke and donning
modern evening dress, Franz Joseph dis-
closed a nicely-marcelled head of iron-
grey hair. He found the orchestra a little
heavy to pull through the graceful phrases
and brilliant flashes of the Mendelssohn
G Minor, but kept it well in time. His
arms flashed vigorously in all directions ;
now urging on the first violins ; now en-
couraging the brasses ; now rallying the
ensemble for a long crescendo. His own
part was slipped into the interstices of
the conducting so deftly and the orches-
tral volume was so nicely matched that the
audience at times wished he would be a
little more self-assertive. Liszt gave him
exercise to which he was less well accus-
tomed —long virtuoso passages in which
he had to conduct with his grey poll—
but the band was inspired by its vivacious
leader, and kept the spirit if not always
the letter of the Abbe's E Flat Major.
The allegro marziale seemed to carry
itself through with its own momentum.
Rachmaninoff’s C Minor was a horse
of another color. Steeped in Slav gloom,
amorphous in form and phrasing, and
revelling in harmonic progressions in
which Haydn made only tentative experi-
ments, it was a great test of musician-
ship to play the solo instrument and guide
the orchestra, but the indomitable ghost
forced it through. It was a great per-
formance. The programme advanced a
theory that the conductor-pianist was one
Leff Pouishnoff, a 41-year-old Russian,
but this was doubtless a printer’s error.
“The Beloved Vagabond,” which
opened at Sydney New Tiv. on Friday
night under the Thring banner, contains
all the ingredients of a successful musical
play—plenty of love interest, attractive
scenery, stacks of pretty girls in pretty
frocks and enough humor to leaven the
lump. Music, by Australian composer
Dudley Glass, is bright and tuneful and
cleverly scored ; Gladys Moncrieff’s
pleasant voice was never heard to better
advantage than in “The Lonely Princess,”
and George Wallace’s humor seems more
spontaneous than usual. Ballets and
dance turns are well-staged, and the pro-
duction, in its way, makes as good use
of W. J. Locke’s foundation as did the
pre-talkie screen play. The revolving
stage saves the audience from waits, and
by presenting many scenes in rapid
sequence helps to maintain interest.
Percy Grainger and his wife were the
chief actors in the musical drama at
Melb. Town Hall, which was packed to
the doors for the occasion on Saturday.
Mrs. Grainger, an attractive figure with
an Old-World and other-worldly touch
about her, played a minor but significant
role amidst the percussion instruments in-
troduced by her innovating husband,
alternating between the xylophone,
marimba and staff bells, the last a fear-
some-looking apparatus resembling an
adjunct to one of Dante the Great's
miracles, but emitting sweet and sonorous
sounds instead of dismembered accom-
plices. Another lady sat at a perkakas
that looked like one of those little har-
moniums used by street evangelists, and
there were so many other novelty instru-
ments that the platform had been ex-
tended to accommodate them. This fresh
armament was brought to bear on the
“Blithe Bells” of Bach-Grainger with fine
effect, but in the “Sooon River,” Ameri-
can folk dance, also by Grainger, they
tended to monopolise the tonal palette.
Grainger has been diving into the
treasure house of early English musical
literature, and has emerged with some
strange pearls. A thirteenth-century motet
and a sixteenth-century fantasy had a
holy innocence about them which was
curiously attractive. With characteristic
audacity, the pianist-composer then
jumped into the nineteenth century with
a concertino for pianoforte and orchestra
by John Alden Carpenter (first perform-
ance in Australia), which was melodious
in places, extremely long and, as far as
present hearer was concerned, somewhat
boring. The most original event was
Grainger’s “To h Nordic Princess.”
According to the programme, this piece
was composed for, and played at, the
composer’s wedding with Ella Viola
Strom at the Hollywood Bowl in 1928.
On Saturday, Mrs. Grainger performed
in her own bridal song with anxious eyes
on her husband’s baton. The piece
began gently amongst the wind, strings,
piano and celeste and gradually enlarged
until it invaded the whole orchestra,
finally melting back into the mood of the
opening. The piece struck present writer
as the most consistently musical of the
Australian’s compositions. A beautiful
concerto by Grainger’s idol Grieg con-
cluded the evening.
Mathematicians had a night out at
Melb. Royal when Anthony Arm-
strong’s thriller “Ten-minute Alibi” was
presented to a full house. Having mur-
dered Arundel Nixon to save the girl
he loves from a liaison with an aban-
doned ruffian, George Thirlwell tampers
with a clock in order to support the
claim that he was somewhere else when
the crime happened. This imposes an
enormous strain on the arithmetical
talents of the two detectives, Frank
Bradley and Tommy Jay, and the strain
thrown on an unarithmetically-minded
audience of pleasure-seekers would have
been excessive if it had not been for the
remarkably fine acting of the principals,
especially Bradley. As it was, the house
followed the proceedings with breathless
interest, showing that sums can be made
to be attractive if you go the right way
about it. On the psychological side
present critic has his misgivings. Two
detectives with such an obvious lust for
and a pecuniary interest in obtaining a
conviction would hardly succumb to the
demands of sentimental melodrama by
deciding to regard the crime as justi-
fiable homicide and ignore the evidence
under their noses. But Mr. Armstrong's
policemen weren’t trained at Russell-
Street. Jocelyn Howarth, the lone
female in the case, and Thirlwell, a
restrained actor, together with the
characters abovementioned, provided an
entertaining evening.
* v *
Glen Marks and Jean Starling, the two
colts who comprised the field at the Uni-
versity Con. concert at Melb. Assembly
Hall last week, were evenly matched.
Miss Starling played the Bach-Busoni
Chaconne in D Minor with force but no
great grasp of its main proportions ; yet
she left an impression of undoubted
promise. In Schumann’s Etudes Sym-
phoniques, a work of lesser merit but
bristling with problems for the piano-
smith, Glen Marks was well extended, but
finished gamely. There were excellent
control and fine tone in most of his per-
formance, and his playing of the Handel
Chaconne in G Major was clean and
capable.
Hetty King, England’s Greatest Male
Impersonator, is drawing some extra
barrowloads of cash to Melbourne Tiv.
Hetty is a shorter and plumper edition
of Ella Shields, with the same sort of
voice but a more rakish manner and a
habit of changing sartorially from one
branch of his Majesty’s service to the
other in public. There is nothing in her
repertoire to equal “Burlington Bertie,"
but her impersonation of an able seaman
comes very near it. Syd Beck and Jimmy
Taylor head the procession of low
comedians, and The Dixie Kid is a snappy
dancer whose skill is equal to that of
half a dozen young ladies who pose to
the musical classics in the amateur
academies. The Orlandos, adagio
experts, and Estelle Rose, character im-
pressionist, make up a bigger bill of
novelties than the Tiv. has offered for
a long time ; and there is a ballet, com-
paratively naked to the waist and
thence clad in flowing draperies, which,
in physical beauty and charm of pos-
ture, surpasses all but the very best
Grecian models.
* ¥ ¥
Grand opera will commence at the
Apollo, Melbourne, on September 29,
and there will be many months of it.
The last time the Fullers embarked
on the enterprise—in 1928—Italian
tenors and prima donnas were also
clutching at their bosoms at William-
son’s His Majesty’s, and to make
matters worse the Victorian Opera Co.
caught the prevailing virus, and burst
into an overcrowded market with a
supply of light goods. The theatregoer
could leave Norma in fhe act of being
tempted from the paths of virtue by a
Roman centurion at Spring-street and
pick up Manon dying of consumption
in Exhibition-street. Competition became
so keen that producers were driven to
all sorts of devices to fill their theatres.
On one occasion the Highlanders in pan-
tomimic tartans who were slaughtered at
His Majesty’s at the beginning of the
week had to die all over again in kilts
resembling Javanese sarongs at the Prin-
cess at the end of it, though with a
different set of actors. During the 1928
frenzy Wagner made only one appear-
ance—under J.C.W. auspices in “Lohen-
grin”—and, the Firm having co-opted
most of the Italian operas, the Fullers
had to be content with what was left,
which included some of the earlier operas
of Verdi. This time the Fullers have the
field to themselves, with the result that
the repertoire is one of the most dis-
tinguished ever offered in Australia. It
includes six Wagnerian works and Hum-
perdinck’s “Hansel and Gretel,” which
is to take the place of the customary out-
break of Christmas panto.


KNOW how your Bank can help you
yy\CORPOfr
y*
? 1835
•in BUSINESS
•in OVERSEAS
TRADE
•in TRAVEL
ABROAD
The Bank of Australasia can help you in
many ways—by the issue of Drafts and
Transfers by mail or telegraph, by arranging
Commercial Credits by mail or cable, by
issuing Travellers’ Letters of Credit, avail-
able in any banking town in the world.
The Bank will explain to you these facilities
that can help so much in every department
of your finances.
PAID-UP CAPITAL - - - - £4,500,000
RESERVE FUND (used in che
Business of the Bank) - - 2,475,000
CURRENCY RESERVE - - - 2,000,000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PRO-
PRIETORS UNDER THE
CHARTER 4,500,000
£13,475,000
Branches in all principal cities and towns.
Head Office for New South Wales Branches:
Martin Place (opposite G.P.0. ), Sydney.
HE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Sunshine Gold Development, Ltd.
The ten-shilling fully-paid shares in
Sunshine Gold, a concern developing
alluvial leases in the Mandated Territory
and Papua, a few months back went over
455. on Australian ’Changes. Since then
the bears have been busy, and, despite
strong support, last week the scrip went
as low as 265.
The chairman, commenting on the
co.’s leases—principal of these are on the
Ono and Watut rivers in New Guinea
and Fish Creek and Lakekamu River in
Papua— at the statutory meeting of the
co. held in Sydney in February, said that
the Ono property was an excellent one.
Of the Consolidated Watut claims, the
Goldfoil had been tested by boring, and
the co.’s engineer reported 1,066,300
cubic yards with a gross value of
£190,810, allowing 80 p.c. gold premium.
Drilling on the Gorge and Goldfoil Ex-
tended claims had not been completed.
As against these favorable reports
punters have had their confidence
shaken by the steady bearing. Opinions
have been expressed by those who pro-
fess to know New Guinea, and particu-
larly the country where this concern is
operating, that yardages in the bulk will
not yield average values as high as the
reported tests have shown.
Another report that the co. had lost
two of its best leases was denied by the
secretary (Mr. Hammond). In an inter-
view, he offered to place at The Bulle-
tin’s disposal any data on operations
that had come into the Sydney office.
The present co. was floated in Novem-
ber, 1933, the registered office being in
Canberra. It took over from Sunshine
(N.G.) Gold Development, Ltd., its
interests in the 22-acre Goldfoil claim,
the 350-acre Sunshine claim on the
Watut, the 30-acre Gorge claim, and five
claims near the Ono and Waria rivers
aggregating 2500 acres. The new co.
paid £30,000 in 10s. fully-paids to the
vendors, and 60,000 shares were offered
for cash. The extra capital was re-
quired to take over the leases and options
and to test the properties further, pre-
paratory to the formation of one or more
operating cos.
Development will eventually prove the
value of Sunshine’s shares. Whatever
the result, the scrip is obvioiisly no
speculation for the faint-hearted or finan-
cially weak. Between the operations of
its admirers and its critics, the market’s
appraisement of the show has fluctuated
violently.
Make Bond Abuses Illegal!
The time has plainly come for a
thorough overhaul of company statutes
throughout Australia. Before the intro-
duction of the limited-liability system a
firm’s resources extended to the private
assets of its partners, and those having
dealings with one knew that unless the
partners or individuals themselves were
bankrupt their claims must eventually
be honored.
To-day private companies are not even
compelled to issue balance sheets. There
is no legislation in N. S. Wales by which
an outsider may demand details of any
company’s financial position—even an in-
surance company’s. Holding companies,
which show in their accounts as assets
very little but an arbitrary valuation of
their shareholdings in subsidiaries, are
another means of concealing the true
state of affairs.
One of the greatest menaces to the
investing public is the uncontrolled opera-
tions of “bond cos.” It may be that the
only shares issued are those taken by
the promoters —salesmen, often as not,
who know little or nothing about the
industry intended to be exploited: their
forte is salesmanship of the high-pressure
variety. The main business of the com-
pany is to sell bonds, and the main
expense may be bond-selling.
The principle on which most of these
cos. work is that bondholders finance the
industry, the company promising to do
certain work in return for the bond-
money. In the case of some Maoriland
forestry ventures, it has been demon-
strated that an acre of Pinus insignis
can be brought to maturity at a cost of
less than £l5. The cash-in-advance price
charged by many bond cos. has been
£3O or more, and shareholders have
become entitled to dividends out of this
capital profit before the forest is more
than three or four years old, about 10
“Isn’t she a beaut.?”
“But you can’t fit the wife and kids in there, lad.”
“That’s why she’s a beaut.”
or 15 years before it has reached the
estimated marketing stage. Bondholders
get nothing until the timber is marketed,
and it is a matter for speculation whether
they will get a great deal then.
If a company could show that its cash-
paid share capital was adequate to carry
out its promises, its guarantee might be
worth paying something for. But in many
cases bondholders largely supply their
own security,, and very often are not en-
titled to balance sheets' or p. and 1.
accounts showing how their money has
been spent.
The bond system is costly and un-
wieldy. On the other hand, it did,
until the public became awake to its
shortcomings, make a definite appeal to
the smaller investor. There would be no
objection to bonds if the abuses to which
they may be put were made illegal. That
could be done by intelligent company
legislation. No further time should be
lost by our tardy lawmakers.
The “Trust” Inquiry
Judge Halse Rogers, sitting as a
Royal Commission, continued his investi-
gations into the affairs of the Southern
British National Trust, the Investment
Executive Trust and affiliated cos. in
Sydney last week.
Harold Charles Glasson, secretary to
the Invest. Exec. Trust, said he under-
stood that the auditor refused to certify
the co.’s balance sheet in the form put
to him. The item objected to was
“statistics, records and establishment,”
lumped together at £40,000, charged in
the original balance sheet to debenture-
holders. Mr. Monahan, K.C., assisting
the commission, suggested that the item
which the auditor took exception to was
an amount of £12,000 said to have been
paid to Mclnnes and Co. Witness replied
“Yes ; but l don’t remember the exact
figure.”
Witness, questioned further, said that
about 23,000 ord. shares had been taken
by the public. On May 26, 1933, 193,400
shares were allotted to McArthur. In
actual cash £5 had been subscribed. The
total issue was 244,007 shares at 2s. each.
In May, 1934, McArthur transferred
155,320 shares to the Southern British
National Trust.
Mr. Monahan said it seemed that
McArthur first of all took up shares in
Invest. Exec. Trust, which he paid for by
debentures in British National Trust, and
the block in Invest. Exec. Trust he sold
to the Southern British for £62,000.
The Southern British discharged Its
obligation to pay him £62,000 by giving
him British National Trust debentures.
He spent the debentures in purchasing
shares in the Southern British.
Questioned, Glasson said that a Miss
Smith, of Christchurch, who was more
than 80 years of age, had threatened to
lake action through the Guardian Trust
Co. over a matter of £39,000. Sterling
Investments had bought back about
£BO,OOO worth of debentures, etc., from
dissatisfied holders.
V. B. Mclnnes said his co. had been
paid 5 p.c. selling brokerage, and an
extra 5 p.c. for “selling a little bit
harder.” It had received about £40,000
commission on £400,000 worth of deben-
tures sold for the Invest. Exec. Trust,
and up to 12| p.c. on nearly £200,000
worth sold for the Southern British.
His Honor observed that putting for-
ward to debenture-holders that only 5 p.c.
brokerage was allowed might be a very
serious matter when as much as 12y p.c.
was taken. Mclnnes said he understood
it was to be a charge against share capi-
tal, not debenture-holders.
Interest at 600 p.c.
“Pani”: There is a strong case for the
licensing of shops which sell the neces-
sities of life, particularly bread and meat.
Years ago an investigation in Sydney
showed that the bloated city had twice
as many butcheries as needs of con-
sumers called for. Speculation was the
driving force. Nerved by the possession
of a few hundred pounds, some smart
gentleman took a suburban shop, put
in plate glass, gold leaf and nickelled
hooks, and operated. Sometimes hangers-
on bought his own meat from him with
his own money until he had something
that looked like a decent custom. Then
he advertised:
Thriving suburban butchery, rich suburb.
Owner leaving the country. Cheap for
quick sale.
The buyer soon realised the position.
He usually merely said to himself: “That
fellow had a bright thought!” invested
in more marble slabs and painted the
refrigerator before he wrote out his ad-
vertisement and put up the price. The
landlord, sensing what was going on,
said: “Well, this looks a good thing!”
and each time the place changed hands
he increased the rent. Curiously enough,
this was always the greatest inducement
to the new mug who came in. His re-
action was that, if the rent was so high,
the position must be a picked one. One
city shop was found paying a rent of
over £lOO a week with an actual turnover
in business of £l4O per week. Each
owner of a speculative shop naturally put
up the price of meat or skimped his
weights or took it out of the housewife
who orders by ’phone. And the price
of credit went up far enough to make
a moneylender go pale.
The same sort of thing must happen
in the baking trade. In Westralia 1 notice
that the charge for credit is 11 p.c. on
the cash price of bread. Not 11 p.c.
per annum, mark you, but just 11 p.c.
Made for the week it is equal to 572 p.c.
per annum at only simple interest.
There is no doubt that the whole busi-
ness needs investigating by somebody
with commonsense.
Brisbane wool sales opened with prices
20 p.c. lower than in May. Demand was
fairly general, and 70 p.c. of the 9537
bales offered was sold. Top price for
greasy was 16fd., a big drop from the
figures of January and February last;
the market generally was below cost of
production. The most cheerful feature
is that there was a
fair demand; Bri-
tain, Japan and Aus-
tralian manufac-
turers were the main
supporters.
* *
Exports of dried
fruits were worth
£400,000 more to us
last year—£2,6so,ooo
altogether. Sultanas
represented
two-thirds of the
total, but currants (£633,000) showed the
largest individual increase with a jump
of £183,000.
* * * *
“Rindy”: Among about 300 applica-
tions for a job “open to youth' leaving
school,” we got three well-written ones
from the same youngster. He knew
we’d get a lot, he explained when sent
for—so many that most of them wouldn’t
be opened —so he reckoned that his three
trebled his chances. He spoilt the whole
thing by going on loquaciously to prove
his theory by instancing the increased
chances of a shilling-share “investment”
with “Lucky Nick” or the spreading of
bets on a horserace. We decided that
his youth had been misspent.
* * . -*:• *
Angliss, Vic. M.L.C., says that. Aus-
tralian beef and mutton growers have
benefited under the Ottawa agreement.
Though the 1932 year showed record
Australian meat exports up to that time,
the limit under the agreement had not
been reached even last year, when
943,718 more sheep carcasses and
293,260 more quarters of beef were sent
to Britain. But for the quota on foreign
butter the Australian industry, in Mr.
Angliss’s opinion, couldn’t have carried
on.


IQtMMwmvtvk
\ m*
(.
ft
<£j? i
m
*9r/
U>
< y
m
/
%
' ........^
7j-
-5
i
When Politicians Bolt
They Cannot See the Pitfalls
INFLATION
a. WORTHLEIf MONEY
POLITICAL CONTROL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH BANK MEANS INFLATION
TO STOP THIS
Vote for
LYONS GOVERNMENT
SUPPORTERS
Authorised by A. ae R. Barclay, Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
The basic aim of the Sar.e Democracy League is to combat fallacious and revolutionary doctrines,
needs members and funds to help it do its job.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“J.C.W.”: References to the “tickets”
held by shellbacks trading in British New
Guinea waters a quarter of a century ago
interest me greatly. During my stay in
Papua (1907 to 1914) 1 never heard the
terms “dog-barking” and “reef-dodging”
applied to these certificates ; they were
invariably referred to those days as
“mangrove tickets.” The skippers never
ventured out of sight of the mangrove-
covered coastline by day; at nightfall
they moored their vessels to the man-
grove trees.
* * * *
“Tion”: “Mulyan” is a bit wide of
the mark when he says that Norfolk
Island has never allowed it to be for-
gotten that the Norfolk, its first attempt
at shipbuilding, was commandeered by
Governor Hunter (B. 8/8/’34). That
sloop was built by convicts ; the present
islanders had nothing to do with it.
However, they have built a boat, the
Resolution, a schooner of some 40 tons.
On her maiden voyage to Auckland she
was seized, not by a hard-hearted Gov-
ernor, but by several hard-headed busi-
nessmen —for debt.
* * * *
“Tidapa”: According to the cablemen
Germany has discovered a serum capable
of imbuing a lamb with the ferocity of
a tiger. I have long suspected some
similar explanation of the ferocity pos-
sessed by Cocos Island rats. Originally
they came from a wreck on the Barrier
Reef, but they now overrun the islands.
All articles of food, even soap and tooth-
paste, must be stored in sealed tins, and
should a man enter a room in which
foodstuffs are stored the rodents are
quite likely to dispute possession with
him, only retreating before a vigorously-
wielded stick. They can easily outwit
the island dogs, as they climb trees and
palms with the agility of monkeys. The
island which houses the cable station is
named Puloh Tikus —“The Island of
Rats.”
* * * *
“Emsworth”: There is something in
this rocket business, even though Ger-
hard Zucker’s recent attempt to shoot
mails from Scarpa, off the Scottish
coast, to the neighboring island of Harris
was a dismal flop. Austria has a regular
rocket-post between Radegund and
Schokel, and not a solitary mishap has
so far occurred to it. The mail is placed
in a sealed container attached to a para-
chute, which opens out just before the
fuel—a mixture of chlorate and nitrate
powder—becomes exhausted. The accu-
rate working of this rocket-mail shows
that the stratospheric rocket is fea-
sible. Germany and Russia are both
experimenting in this direction ; Charles
Reber’s picture in the “Soir” of a
future war in which the belligerents will
hurtle rockets carrying explosives, poison
gas and microbes at one another from
100 miles away isn’t as fantastic as it
may appear.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: In the humid Ganges
delta, ten thousand people have faded
out during these past few months from
cholera. The disease is always endemic
there, just as bubonic plague constantly
smoulders amongst some small rodents
in Central Asia. We think, most of us
doctors, that cholera is due to a particu-
lar germ—the cholera vibrio, or “comma
bacillus,” which can be seen in infected
water, coiling and uncoiling itself like
a watch spring. It breeds fast, dividing
once in 15 minutes, so that in the course
of a day one germ will have millions
of descendants. It was Koch who first
microscoped the vibrio in 1883, and subse-
quently visited Japan and Egypt, with
beneficial results to humanity in the
matter of typhoid, tuberculosis and
cholera. But, with regard to the last,
Koch had a friendly adversary, one
Pettenkofer, who insisted that cholera
was caused, not by Koch’s vibrio, but by
some vague defect in the soil. To sup-
port his contention he swallowed a cubic
centimetre of Koch’s cultures, enough to
finish off an army corps. Yet he didn’t
die ; for some miraculous reason he was
immune to the bacillus. Some people
are immune, and others can be ren-
dered so by inoculation. Incidentally,
an aviator tells me that the pilot who
wins the centenary air race will have
to cover the London-Melbourne trip in
three days. Such cruises will be nothing
exceptional inside five years, perhaps;
but won’t big passenger ’planes, lobbing
here from the cholera-beds and the nur-
series of plague, need a careful once-over
by our health officers?
*,* * *
“Jonathan Wild”: Talking of handy-
men. I first met “Skeeter” Mulligan in
the then little-known King Country
(M.L.). He had a sort of job then
as unofficial teacher to a blacksmith's
half-wild kids ; also he was expected by
the blacksmith’s wife to keep tag on her
husband, who was addicted to prolonged
jags. Skeeter moved on, and I did not
see him again till we met on the Clutha
River, where he was getting a trifle of
gold and helping a Yankee to bring out
a small newspaper. The Yank ended
by hoisting the Stars and Stripes over
his premises and declaring the joint to
be U.S. territory. A party of miners
wrecked the show, and chased the pro-
prietor and his offsider over the horizon.
Skeeter was next employed by a small-
town butcher at turning the mangle of the
sausage-machine, but when tobacco got
mixed up with the output his services
were dispensed with. Before he left
Skeeter pinched an old candle-mould,
and soon he blossomed out as a night-
light manufacturer. Outside his shack
he announced, “Mr. Mulligan, Esq.
Candlemaker to His Maj. the King.
Grease and Orders Solicited.” Trade
becoming slack, he appointed himself
town-crier for lost horses, dogs and sun-
dries. Here, however, he encountered
competition, for another aspirant followed
him about, ringing a cracked cowbell and
bawling him down. The last time I saw
Skeeter was in a survey camp, where he
was first-lieut. to the cook. That was a
year ago, and 1 suspect he is dead by
now ; they wear out cooks quickly in a
survey camp.
4: * 4= *
“Murihiku”: The infantile death-rate
is lower in Maoriland, thanks largely to
the lifework of Truby King, than in
any part of the world. Statistics recently
published from 47 countries show that
of every thousand infants born in the
Dominion only 32 die in the first year.
Australia comes second with 39. The
European country with the best showing
is the Netherlands, with 44. In the U.K.
the tally is 65, about the same as in the
U.S.A.; in Canada it is 85, in Italy 113,
in Japan 132. Chile and Malta are at
the wrong end of the list with 235 and
307 respectively.
♦ *s* %
“Gin and Bitters”: London’s “Daily
Mail” has been howling dolefully because
a Glamorgan barracker, during the
match with Australia, offered money
prizes for boundary hits, large scores,
catches, etc. Advertising firms have been
running this stunt in Australia for years,
and both amateurs and professionals
took their share of the baksheesh. The
paper remarks bitterly that the practice
threatens to turn first-class cricket into a
circus. Come to think of it, it isn’t far
oft’ that now.
* 4= * *
“Cash Amateur”: The times change
with a vengeance. The other day the
English L.T.A. began a special tourney
at Bournemouth to decide the profes-
sional L.T. championships. The entry
was limited to 48 players in the singles
and 24 pairs in the doubles. Such a
happening has never before received
official recognition in the tight little
island. Even worse than that, from the
lilywhite point of view, is the announce-
ment that the Tilden circus wiU stage a
big show at Southport, in Lancashire, at
the end of September. It will be a
Yurrup-Yankee clash, Big Bill and Gled-
hill representing the States, Cochet and
Maskell the Europeans.
4= * * * .
“Bournemouth”: English tennis ex-
perts are starting a campaign for shorter
matches in championships. “Bunny”
Austin, not a noted stayer himself, is one
of the leading players advocating three-
set matches instead of five. His idea is
that three eight-game sets should be the
rule. Merrihew, an American expert,
thinks it should be three ten-game sets.
In the five-set match a man winning the
first three sets without dropping one game
only has to play 18 games. Giving him
the same run in three eight-game sets he
would have to take 16. The Yank idea
of three 10-gamers would force him to
win 20. The proposed change hardly
seems worth while.
* * * *
“Reel”: It, is not unlikely that a
London newspaper may take a team ol
Australian surf lifesavers to England
next summer for a demonstration tour.
Wallaby Geoff Bland, a prominent surfer,
now in London, has been preaching the
gospel, and the people at the other end
are considering costs. The Australian
S.L.S.A. says the trip could be done for
about £l5OO, and this should easily be
got from the hundreds of municipalities
in Britain which live on the “seaside sea-
son,” for the attraction would be
immense. Pale imitations of Australian
methods have sprung up in one or two
places in England, but those who have
seen them say they are more likely to
lose lives than save them.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“J. 8.”: Now that we are going to have
another go at “opening up the Northern
Territory” let me remember the first
small steamer, the Omeo, which panted
up the coast, from Adelaide to Darwin,
with the expedition that was to drive the
northernmost post of the O.T. line. Jack
McLaren (“McNorth,” of The Bulletin)
told me that the three women passengers
were the first white women to make the
trip— not a comfortable trip for ladies.
They got at least one very great fright
on the way up the Roper. They asked
tq be put ashore by themselves for an
hour or so, and took with them a large
basket carefully covered up which con-
tained what are delicately known as
“foundation clothes.” Near a secluded
reach they Spread these reticences out
to dry, but were almost immediately sur-
rounded by a herd of blacks, dancing a
welcome and “lu-luing.” The shrieks of the
washer-ladies brought a boat’s crew post-
haste to the beach, and the blacks were
rushed. The latter were as bewildered as
the womenfolk. Some of them had seen
the white pfeller’s tablecover at one time
or other, and had broadcast the news
that the white Marys were preparing a
luncheon for the tribes ; hence the exces-
sive affability. The ladies, however, were
not easily mollified. Capt. Calder, who
commanded the Omeo, had the follow-
ing inscription cut on a boulder on Maria
Island, at the mouth of the Roper:
“Steamship Omeo, 1000 tons, ascended
the Roper River 100 miles with the
Overland Telegraph Expedition, Feb.,
1872.” It’s there yet. Airplane explorers,
please note.
H* H? H< $
“Kaloa”: When the “Courier-Mail”
builds its new palace on the old “Daily
Mail” site the last of the old-time metro-
politan daily offices except the Melbourne
“Age” will have gone. The old “Mail”
building was a rackety place in which,
in my day, the cable editor worked in a
rats’ castle under the stair —until, unbe-
knownst to him, we presented him with
a large carpet-snake. The literary offices
consisted of two boxes for the sub-editor
and sporting writer, one for the political
men and the solitary lady writer and an
open space in which the rest of the staff
played catch-as-catch-can. In later days
it was modernised. The “Courier” occu-
pied a floor or two of its own large,
gloomy building at the corner of Edward
and Queen streets. Mainly it, too, was
made up of boxes in the old time, with a
gloomy reporters’-room and a single lift
worked with a rope. A little before the
war the whole staff used to get along
with three telephone instruments, and I
can remember the amusement there was
when the first portable typewriter ap-
peared there. (The company in a fit of
modernity put old Hammond full-size
machines in in the early ’nineties, but I
never saw anybody use one.) Some of
the old hands would feel strange in the
new surroundings which are to frame the
staff in a few months, but not many of
the ancients who worked for the old
company for half a century or more
have survived the recent changes.
H< * * H*
“Beefo”: Is it any wonder the Queens-
land railways are getting deeper into the
bog? Store cattle are accepted on 35
per cent, rebate, but the consignor of
fats has to pay full rates. Recently
Cloncurry (n.-w. Q.) growers asked for
a small rebate for owners of fats, guaran-
teeing 2000 fat bullocks-for almost imme-
diate shipment to Brisbane, as well as
3000 fat wethers. It was a matter of
a mere £7OOO revenue for the Q.R.,
allowing for rebate, but the usual reply
was: “Regret the request cannot be
granted.” “The Government is doing
all it can to assist the chilled-beef trade.”
Rats!
* * * „ *
“Taparora”: The stock cause ascribed
for murders like those at Caledon Bay
has been the violation of lubras.
Men who have spent years in close con-
tact with our aborigines and other native
races have pointed out that the trade
in women with visitors is age-old. In the
beginning it was a matter of hospitality,
which later developed into a demand for
some return. When custom and constant
contact made the native familiar with
the helplessness of a small party of
strangers rich in worldly goods, the idea
arose that stealing was even cheaper than
the other way. Stealing meant murder,
of course. This sort of thing has hap-
pened for many years at many places on
the n.-w. coast of Australia. No amount
of proof, however, will convince the
alleged humanitarians in Sydney and
Melbourne of the facts. However, their
lubra theory has received a staggering
jolt, and that from a Caledon Bay mis-
sionary. Speaking to Judge Wells after
Takiar’s trial at Darwin, missionary
Dyer said “I do not believe the stories
that they killed in defence of then-
women. I know them well, and believe
loot was their prime motive.” After
that Mr. Dyer’s opinion that the best
means of dealing with the murderers was
an old-man flogging was a bit of an
anti-climax. i
* * * *
“R.J.”: “Innisfail” (B. 15/8/’34) men-
tions the complete absorption of the
Italian into the mass of Australian
people within three generations at most.
But one questions whether the alien is
willing, or even able, to sink an identity
born of two thousand years of culture
and tradition in a country still struggling
in its cultural birth throes. If there is
anything in the so-called “Italian menace”
the solution lies in providing adequate
laws to prevent Antonio congregating in
colonies. There he retains his foreign
habits and traditions to the fifth and sixth
“If you’re not home by ten o’clock to-night I’ll lock you out!”
generations. I have known Italians who
couldn’t speak 10 words of English after
20 years’ residence in the country. They
rarely mixed with Australians. Individu-
ally, the alien is a desirable settler. He
i$ industrious, honest and frugal. Col-
lectively he may become a racial or
social problem, especially if he is the
wrong kind of foreigner. A certain Mr.
Barrington was not the only man who
left his country for his country’s good,
as the U.S.A., with its A 1 Capones, has
found out. Foreign immigration, like
British immigration, can be good or bad
for the country according to the type
we get.
% H* He
“Lugger’s Mate”: The Cairns (N.Q.)
Harbor Board has now discussed my
idea (B. 6/6/’34) that it should fill in its
mudfiat foreshore off the Strand for
public gardens. Engineer Nicholson told
the board it would have a wonderful asset
if it and the City Council could do
the job. So his report goes to the civic
fathers. If the sporting and naturalist
bodies got into the movement it would
save the area from being dedicated to
oil tanks and wharf sheds. They should
be kept where they are on the Inlet, out
of sight of incoming tourist boats.
$ * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane faced an ugly
situation the other day when pub bar-
men threatened to down pots at 8.30 p.m.
—half an hour after legal closing time,
by the way—as a protest against late
trading. This is something new in the
history of the Great Queensland Thirst.
Writer can recall the wave of fury
which swept the community in the
early 1900’s when the Government
of the day appointed a special flying
squad under Sergeant Bee, just re-
tired, to see that eleven o’clock
closing—that was the hour in those
halcyon days—became a concrete fact.
Bee did his work so ruthlessly that the
hardiest topers soon threw in the towel.
The problem of bearing home sufficient
bottles after 11 p.m. to carry the cus-
tomer through until 6.30 a.m. became
acute. A genius stepped into the breach
and marketed a huge, globular glass
bottle, warranted to hold a gallon. The
thing was rushed, and the relieved popu-
lace promptly christened it a “Bennett
and Bee,” a name which endureth for
evermore.
* * * *
“Hallo”: Just a month ago Bill Cong-
don took up the Midas claim at Lolworth
Creek (N.Q.). For four weeks’ solus
mining he has sent to the Pioneer bat-
tery 24} tons of ore ; yield, 124 j-oz. of
smelted gold, valued at £3 15s. 2d. an
ounce. With the Mint premium added
he should receive over £lOOO.
* * # #
“Mallabob”: Already arrangements
are being made at Caledon Bay for a
big corroboree to welcome the released
blacks charged at Darwin. Years ago, a
lugger was found washed up on Bicker-
ton Island near Blue Mud Bay. The
Roper River police investigated, and word
was sent by natives that if they came
down again they would all be killed. No
evidence of the identity of the lugger has
ever been found. There was plenty of
evidence of a murder. In 1916 Captain
Luff, of “Thursday,” started irepanging
near Blue Mud Bay and left some men
there. Every one was speared or killed by
the natives. Two lubras, Clara and Bunny,
were taken from Borroloola with their
native husbands to assist. After the
murder, Bunny escaped and returned to
Borroloola with her husband. Clara did
not return. Since then, there have been
murders by natives nearly every year
along this coast, and nothing has ever
been done. Some of the Caledon natives
have a copper-colored skin, and much of
their language consists of Macassar
words. Now they have speared a con-
stable and some have been allowed to go
free, any M.C. who has to go there will
be in danger. The natives used to fear
only two persons—a policeman and a
doctor. They will go miles if they think
a doctor is coming. Thanks to Canberra
and missionary meddling their respect for
the police must be about dead.
* * - * *
“Strand”: “Lugger’s Mate” (B.
8/8/’34) errs seriously in some of his
claims for Mourilyan Harbor. Records
show that the Allara, with 21ft. 6in., has
to date been the heaviest draught to
negotiate the entrance. Further, the
sailing directions for 1934 state that only
18 feet L.W.S. with a rise of 7-10 feet
of high-water springs can be relied upon.
A rock bottom also compares unfavor-
ably with the soft formation in the
Cairns channel, which admitted a vessel
recently drawing 27ft. 2in.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The festive ghost of Showtime gaiety still
lingers in Brisbane, and daily there are teas
and cocktail parties, and little dinners, dances
and theatre parties. Brisbane has welcomed the
J.C.W. comic opera co. with open arms, and
packed houses demand nightly encores.
Visiting us is Mrs. Quinn Rice, who was
Agnes Cusack, of Brisbane: Mrs. Dan Joyce
gave an afternoon-tea for her, and several
others are looming. Mrs. Rice holds a unique
position—she is the only woman in Australia
who directs a wholesale wine and spirit estab-
lishment.
Ivy Hulbert, who has been at Redcliffe with
Lena Hammond, has gone back to her job as
organising secretary of the Central Methodist
Mission in Sydney.
Mrs. Walter Mactaggart—she was Mary Mac-
donald, younger daughter of John Macdonald,
for many years president of the Royal National
Association —passed the buttered buns in honor
of Mrs. Will Ridge and Miss 1. McGregor,
two Melbournites. Iceland poppies and pansies
made the rooms gay.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Watson Robertson, of
Melbourne, who have been doing the northern
trip, looked in on Brisbane on their way
home. Mrs. Robertson is a leading light in
the Creche and Kindergarten movement in
Victoria, and is on the council of the English-
Speaking Union. She also is president of the
Victoria League Club in Melbourne. North
Q. has secured another ardent barracker in
the lady.
All Hallows’ Convent rallied round Berenice
Montgomery when she gave her first concert since
her return to Queensland. The convent orchestra,
clad in white and sashed in blue, played,
and Ted England uplifted a powerful bass, and
Marjorie Stuart accompanied him. Beethoven,
Chopin and Debussy were the three com-
posers whose works Berenice favored. Chopin
found her in her rrjost sympathetic vein, but in
all her work she proved that her London
reputation was well earned. Such a wealth
of flowers came her way that the services
of two strong men were enlisted to help carry
them out to the waiting car.
We have been hearing a lot about Asia
lately. Dr. W. G. Goddard thinks that Chinese
and Japanese should be taught in the schools
—and the sooner the better. The Braddon lady,
who returned by the Nellore, talked about
the power and prosperity of Japan, the charm-
ing manners of its people, and the progressive
outlook of its authori-
ties. Rev. S. J. Warren,
of the China Inland
Mission, says that
slowly but surely North
China is falling under
Japanese influence.
Mrs. Albert Webster,
who has been holiday-
ing with her sister, Mrs.
Norman Gow, has
packed her bags and
taken her two little sons
back to Perth. Parties,
including a bridge tea
hostessed by Mrs.
Gow, speeded the part-
ing guest.
Dr. and Mrs. Guild-
ford Davidson and
daughter Gillian, who
are leaving Sandgate,
where the doctor and
his wife' have resided
for a generation, are
being farewelled with
genuine regret by the
residents. They were
almost as much part
of Sandgate as the pier
—and far more popu-
lar.
September 1 sees the
wedding of Meg Pat-
terson and Malcolm
Finlayson. The bride-
elect has been enter-
tained daily by one or
other of her girl friends.
To replenish the linen
apply at the District
Nurses’ Flome, a bridge
party will be held in
the Lady Mayoress’s
room on September 18.
After the necessary
linen has been bought,
the surplus will go to
buy a car for the Dis-
trict Nurses’ Associa-
tion.
Artist Robert Campbell and his wife have
been beachcombing on Dunk Island while
Robert put the beauties of North Queensland
down on canvas. They lived in a tent, and
if boats from Townsville did not come out
with provisions it was necessary to hustle out
for fish or oysters, or else go hungry. Judg-
ing by Campbell’s show, which was opened
by Donald Cameron, the discomforts were
worth while. All Brisbane’s art world was
at the opening.
The Ron Macleods also have been up look-
ing at the Barrier Reef. After returning from
the North the pair spent a few days renewing
old friendships in Brisbane.
Eight girl friends joined up to give Joan
Overell a send-off before she shipped to
Colombo, where her marriage is to take place.
The hostesses were Marion Allom, Neridah
Bedwell, Marga Harrold, Peggy Baynes, Nancy
Rennick, Sheelagh O’Reilly, Joyce Overell and
Florence Walker. A host of other young
things, either this or last season’s debs., were
in the party.
Nell Barry, daughter of the M. J. Barrys,
of Bundaberg, marries Ken Paterson, younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Paterson, of Too-
woomba, at St. Ignatius's Church, Toowong,
on September 5. The teacups were rattling
overtime in Nell’s honor last week. Ken’s
father is a member of the Toowoomba City
Council, and his mother was the moving
spirit of the women’s committee which erected
and paid for the splendid Mothers’ War Memo-
rial which is a feature of the Downs city.
The Arts and Crafts Society will hold its
annual §how on October 11, and our Sir Leslie
has promised to officially open it. Mrs. Bruce
Shearer, the president, is already up to her
neck in arrangements.
Mrs. Tim Kelly, who is known to a wider
public as Carrie Tennant, is in Brisbane, after
doing some anthropological research work at
an abo. settlement in Central Queensland.
A versatile lady, Carrie; she once made the
Community Theatre in Sydney a really live
wire among the Little Theatres.
Veteran G. P. Barbour, who has been head
master of the Toowoomba Grammar School
for 25 years, attended the Old Boys’ dance,
run by Brisbane residents, at the Carlton
1. R. Alexander, who has arranged the dance
for several years, is about to enter the rank;
of the Benedicts, and the committee handed
over something suitable. There were several
debs.


YOUR HAIR IS ALWAYS
UNDER CRITICAL NOTICE
IN social or commercial life your
hair, if neglected, will tell the tale
of advancing years, yet how glorious
your hair can be by using DR.
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNU'I
STAIN, which restores the natural
colour and lustre, and gives that
youthful freshness so much admired.
Apply ALLEN’S STAIN yourself
—the treatment is simple, rapid and
unfailing. The directions tell you
what to do. No expensive equip-
ment is required, and there can be
nc moments of doubt —you obtain
the happiest results every time.
In brown or black shades.
I/- per bottle at all Chemists.
Sfrctfl&rts CMEXICAN)
■ftkUnu,tStaJbn,.
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from tit®
roar of trams, etc. Running Hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per da>
Meals, a la carte, from 2/-
THE WENTWORTH.
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manaaer for full particulars.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday.
EVERY COUCH
ISA CALL FOR
dfs
COUCH CURE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A “House Full” notice was put out by
Old Sydneians a week before their an-
nual flutter at the Blaxland Galleries.
Here 1000 danced in an aura of gilded
lilies and black-lacquered leaves (the gold
and black of the union). There were a
posy of violets and a tiny doll dressed
in the colors of the school she repre-
sented for each of the women at the offi-
cial table. President of the union E. M.
Mitchell brought Mrs. Mitchell. She
lifted her black velvets out of darkness
with touches of silver, and Mrs. H. S.
Dettmann hers with a white cowl collar.
Her headmaster husband was there ; so
Was the knightly John Peden, whose Mar-
garet wore midnight-blue velvets. Ellis
Dettmann’s Nile-green satins swished a
train, and Nancy Withycombe’s black
velvet cape a silver lining. Naomi Wil-
liams’s fair head emerged triumphant
above orange velvets, and Mrs. Ken
Addison’s gold satins swung an intrigu-
ing pleated cape.
By nine o’clock on Saturday the Royal
Art Society’s students’ revel was in its
stride. They had lifted the little master,
J. S. Watkins, off his feet, put him down
and played a “ring-a-ring-a-rosy” around
him. Pixie O’Harris looked the part of
Mischief from the bobbing peacock
feather in her fascinating little cap to
her tiny feet. A sheik was fox-trotting
with a scarlet-robed Psyche. There was
a Daisy Bell with the smallest sailor hat
on record. Dulcie Deamer murmured
“This is the nearest approach Sydney is
having this year to an artists’ ball, so I
wore my beggar costume.” Artist James
R. Jackson’s wife put a mantilla on her
head and became a Spanish lady. The
last this Letter saw of her she was danc-
ing a tango with Aubrey Halloran.
George Johnson came with Thora Unger.
He, by the way, won the life-drawing
scholarship in the school competitions.
Lister Lister brought his wife and his
daughter, Mrs. Atkinson ; Estelle Oxnard
Smith her mother and father. Joan Rad-
ciiffe and Mollie Moreton were Ameri-
can tars. Syd Long made one of his too
rare appearances. Ray Lindsay came
to the party ; so did young Peter ; and
Viola Wilding was there disguised as a
Chinese lady of fashion.
Music Week got its kick-off at the Con.,
the director, Dr. Bainton, conducting.
Brahms’s Requiem was the opening
number, and Madame Goosens-Viceroy
and Alfred Cunningham were the solo-
ists. The concert was rather disappoint-
ing in point of attendance, the musical
elect staying away in large numbers.
The recital of latest pianoforte, vocal,
opera, violin and orchestral records at
the King’s Hall, with explanatory words
by authorities Frank Hutchens, Roland
Foster, Lute Drummond, Cyril Monk
and Albert Cazabon, was one of the
week’s treats. Anthony Hordern and
Sons’, Hordern Brothers’, Farmer’s and
David Jones’s recitals are luring hundreds
in to drink tea daily. Pouishnoff’s re-
cital and Dudley Glass’s “Beloved Vaga-
bond” are two unofficially musical affairs
that are adding lustre to the week.
To-night the Eisteddfod will be offi-
cially launched by Lud Mayor Parker,
but that doesn’t mean that it hasn’t
started yet. It has been raging ever since
Monday night, and with its 9600 entries
is keeping 11 adjudicators and nine halls
filled with sound, more or less musical.
Every one of Uncle Sam’s daughters
in Sydney had a new perm, or a hair-
set in honor of the visit of the cruiser
Astoria. The very informality of the
ship’s dropping-in heightened their en-
joyment, for this meant the entertain-
ment of the officers could be of the small
and intimate order. America’s Consul-
General and Mrs. Caldwell started the
ball rolling with a cocktail party, and
followed this up with a dance, both in
Tudor, their Elizabeth Bay home. The
American community gave a dance at
Romano’s. The officers retaliated by
inviting all their countrymen and their
best girls to a dance in the ship. There
were lunches and teas and dinners on
board and on shore, and everywhere one
met the same people.
Captain Root was a busy man. His
first visit was to the Cenotaph, on which,
attended by marines and sailors, he
placed a wreath. Besides being feted
(he ate lunch with the Millions and with
the Legacy) he was the dispenser of
hospitality. He paid courtesy calls on
Acting-Governor Street and on Sydney’s
Mayor, and motored to Canberra to pay
his own and his country’s respects to our
Governor-General. And wherever he
he and his officers went fluttered the
Stars and Stripes.
Every afternoon the ship was open for
inspection, and every afternoon hundreds
were turned away disappointed. On the
Sunday, if you were lucky enough to
be among the first 2000, you got aboard
and could wander about in tow of a gob ;
otherwise you were one of the 12,000
who had spent their tram and ferry fares
to no purpose. Some insisted on being
“Much more a la mode than our sailors’ hats.”
steamed round the ship, not believing in
the adage “distance lends enchantment to
the view.” Those who got their money
back from the ferry co. went home half-
mollified ; those who didn’t felt that the
afternoon and their money had been
wasted.
How Joan Osborne Wilkinson arrived
at St. Mark’s with her ivory satins and
tulle unspoilt is a mystery. The rain
poured down. Guests and bride had
almost to force their way up the
awninged pathway, so lined was it with
onlookers. The church was massed with
flowering peach ; the pews decked with
arum lilies. Lent by Mrs. C. Baily
was the misty lace train, mellow with
200 years of life spent in the service of
brides. An armful of arum lilies com-
pleted the wedding garment. Like
maids dedicated to spring were Anne
Gordon, Daisy Osborne and Barbara
Warry in their peach-pink chiffons, in
which handfuls of tiny blue, pink and
yellow flowers had been caught in the
weaving. Their heads wore flowers of
the same hue, and the florists must have
looted all the gardens from Sydney to
Hornsby for the cornflowers, daisies,
buttercups, red anemones and daffodils
that spilled over the bridesmaids’ arms.
Lennox (“Dinger” to his intimates), son
of the R. H. Bodes, of Wahroonga, kept
his head sufficiently in the face of all
this loveliness to put the ring on the
finger of his Joan. She is the daughter
of the E. S. Wilkinsons, of Park-lane
Mansions. Toasts were drunk at No.
11 Onslow-avenue. And hither, best
wishes in hand, came the leading lights
in the medical, legal and commercial
worlds. Came, too, nearly every Sydney
knight and his lady.
It is said that an adding machine was
requisitioned to get at the total of the
cheques handed out to this popular paii.
Very handy, too, in view of the home
they intend to build. I his, the bride
says, must have a really good kitchen
and be well equipped with cupboards.
And, believe it or not, in the midst of all
the wedding excitement Joan remem-
bered what each guest had sent her,
and coupled her thanks with a reference
to that special gift. He gained the hearts
of every mother by the way in which
he thanked Mrs. Wilkinson for the
beautiful wedding she had given his Joan
and him.
No ’maids followed Janet Knox up the
aisle of All Saints’, where Julian Simp-
son waited with the ring. The wedding
was a quiet family affair, and after the
ceremony there was a luncheon —or
rather a real wedding breakfast —at
Rona. The bride wore blue. Her dress,
in one of the new pale shades, was cov-
ered with a coat of deep-sapphire hue.
The hat was to tone, and the flowers
were orchids.
Myrna Rosamond Dickey and Roger
Barraclough Gibson exchanged wedding
vows at C. of E. Grammar School chapel.
Old Spanish lace (lent by Mrs. F. Under-
wood) mounted on tulle formed the train
of the bride’s ivory velvets. A veil of
golden tulle and an armful of daffodils
completed the wedding raiment. This
golden note was sustained by the matron
of honor and three ’maids, who walked
in velvets, their arms filled with wall-
flowers. The bride is the daughter of the
medical Craufuird Dickeys, of Wollstone-
craft, and the ’groom the son of the Alex.
J. Gibsons, of the same suburb. Trainon,
the home of the bride’s parents, housed
the toast-drinking.
Judy Burleigh’s coming-of-age dance
at her own home was one of the suc-
cesses of the week. The scent of daffo-
dils, violets, lilies and boronia filled the
rooms, and Mrs. Burleigh welcomed the
guests in black satins. Judy blushed over
Patou-pink crepes. Helen, Peggy and
Nancy added color to the night in ice-
blue lacquered satin, dusty-pink satin and
floral chiffons respectively, and did their
bit to make the hours speed along.
Among the guests who found the night
pass all too soon were Joan lnglis, Lola
and Ebba de Dardel, Joyce Carpenter.
John Brain, J. Mackay Sims, C. Carpen-
ter and John Caldwell.
There was the usual flutter of excite-
ment in the foyer of the New Tivoli for
the first night of “The Beloved Vaga-
bond.” “There’s Dudley Glass” was
whispered as the writer of the music
made his appearance, and an ovation
greeted him when he entered the hall.
Gladys Moncrieffs dressing caused
gasps of admiration. In gleaming white
satins and her jacaranda-blue dress and
deep-sapphire coat she looked adorable,
but better still in black velvets and silver
foxes.
In one of the boxes sat Mrs. Varney
Monk, husband Cyril, the T. S. Gurrs
and daughter Nancy. The Mayoral
Parkers brought Miss R. M. Birkin. The
Jack Glasses were there —he’s uncle to
the composer —also Charlie Westmacott,
Premier Stevens, the E. J. Taits and the
Commonwealth Bank E. C. Riddles with
daughter Enid. Rosemary Budge
brought her father and mother.
After the show, when all the speeches
were over and the flowers - carried ofl,
Mrs. Jack Glass gathered together a
number of friends, among them the
Arthur Rickard couple, the Frank
Peaches, the medical Staffords and
George McElhones, and carried
them off to Romano's to drink suc-
cess to the play. But this wasn t
as exciting as the party given on
the play’s first production in
London. Then Dudley toasted
“the old vagabond,” and Locke
“the young vagabond.” Adrian
Ross, the librettist, too, was at
that shivoo.
' Mr. Glass owns up to -having written
these songs for Gladys, but she was star-
ring in “The Blue Mazurka” when his
play was ready. “The Beloved Vaga-
bond” first saw the light at the Duke of
York’s Theatre, where it was produced
by Dion Boucicault. During its run the
Princess Royal was frequently in the
audience. Locke (he has been dead these
two years) was a delightful man, tall and
distinguished-looking, and always per-
fectly turned out. Mrs. Locke is rather
of the dashing type (according to Mr.
Glass), and in those days their home at
Cannes was always full of guests
From a Sydney writer in London:
Everybody’s hat blew off (or so it seemed)
at the King’s garden party except the Queen’s.
Hers was the most exquisite shade of turquoise,
and matched the rather long-handled parasol
she carried. So aware was that hat of its
responsibility that the queenly hand never once
had to be lifted to it in admonition. Her
Majesty’s passage through the 9000 guests was
punctuated with the flash of diamond eai-
rings and the rich glint of emerald in throat
pendant and brooch. The emeralds were greener
than the royal lawns, which showed threadbare,
drought-stricken patches. Those to be honored
by special presentation were rounded up under
an old plane-tree close to the Durbar tent—
a canopy of opulent red and gold, the grass
beneath it spread with priceless Indian rugs.
Close by is ffhe tea tent, awninged in red and
white and latticed half-way up at the ends.
Though the public can’t go across the Durbar
lawn it musters many deep as close as may be
The table in the royal tent is set with gqld
plate. Between the glittering pieces full-bodied
and scented Malmaisons from Sandringham
gloried and languished, and before the tent
were massed hydrangeas. Next door to the
royalties was the diplomatic tent. Across to
this fluttered a tall, slim dryad in spring-green
organdies —Diana Chamberlain. The Duchess
of York was there in pink-and-blue-patterned
chiffons and a wide, transparent pink hat.
Daughter Elizabeth’s muslins were geranium
pink. Her hat, too, was sent bowling by the
wind just before she ran up to the King, who
greeted her with a kiss. His tailorings were
grey, and he looked very well. The Prince of
Wales was in grey, wore a red carnation and
fingered his tie almost unceasingly while he
talked for quite two minutes or so during the
royal progress to a vivacious girl in a blue-
and-white-patterned frock. Somebody mut-
tered “Dear me, she shouldn’t keep him so
long.” But who could blame her? The
Queen, as unaware of 9000 pairs of eyes as
only custom could make her, talked here and
there to acquaintances. Her beautifully-shod
feet are surmounted by trim ankles, which her
ivory-lace and chiffon frock did not hide, as it
ended just above them.
The Duke of Connaught carried his grey
raiment well ; so did daughter Lady Patricia
Ramsay, dressed in rather tailored lines in blue-
and-white crepe de Chine. The Duchess ol
Devonshire added purples to an afternoon that
was littered with picture frocks and hats ol
every period, organdies (white, check and stripe)
and evening 'frocks turned into garden-party
attire by the addition of fluffy little capes that
the wind blew into little tunnels between their
fastenings, showing the bare flesh of back
shoulder to the near-by. Ostrich boas anc
capes and such—the English women love them
—were aired in every tone and shade. Maha-
rajahs in reds and blues, the muslin of their
turbans tied in an upstanding end that lookeo
like a poised butterfly, African chiefs m
flowing brown-gold robes, and the King s
Indian bodyguard gave more color to the
scene. The tent where the also-inviteds have
their tea is a monster affair, and the catering
is done by a firm of food providers, whereas
the royal provender comes from the Palace
kitchens. However, the tea was good —rasp-
berries and cream, hock or any other sort oi
cup, iced coffee and delicious cakes.
(Continued on page 44.)


Melbourne
Chatter
Members of the newly-formed Junior
Empire League were invited to the
Clowes-street home of the Lady Mayor-
ess for the first rally. All the members
are young. The girls were approached
first, and they have now persuaded hus-
bands and lads of their acquaintance that
there is a lot to be learned about the
Empire, even though the assimilation is
wrapped up in the sugared pill of a social
function. Medical-knight James Barrett
delivered information per medium of a
lecturette, many statistics and lantern
slides. He stressed the point that it’s
not tropical heat as much as city dirt that
kills babies. Frank Tate talked on South-
ern Rhodesia. He went there to inspect
schools, but managed to see hundreds of
snakes, a lion in a trap and baboon
burglars running off with mealie cobs
under their arms.
As all the guests were friends of the
host and hostess, it was a very informal
gathering, with a semicircle of chairs
and cushions in view of the screen
through both reception-rooms. A wealth
of peach- and cherry-blossoms made
pinky clouds of decoration. Gengoult
Smith’s lady wore flyaway sleeves to her
black georgette dress. Valerie Purves
clipped one of the new twinkly orna-
ments into a wave of her locks just above
her forehead. Mrs. James Cook’s beige
satin had black sleeves, and Marjorie
Clarke’s idea of a brown satin skirt and
dusty-pink plastron blouse was an in-
spiration for cocktails and formal even-
ings. The Norman Barretts, the Jim Pax-
tons and the Alan Mackays were there,
also Peggy Broadhead, in blue; Peggy
Sawrey, in red ; Barbara Dougherty, in
black, and Barbara Bryans, in white.
Elspeth Elder, in a little scarlet and silver
coat over her black dress, and Pat Clegg,
in tomato lace, were among those who
watched proceedings from the level of
the floor.
The Ballarat Sheep Show, traditionally
considered to bring forth the proudest
fine-woolled animals in Australia, was
opened by Lord Huntingfield, who there-
by experienced his introduction in an
official capacity to pastoral life. Cham-
pion rams from Blythvale and Banongill
showed no concern over the stir which
blew round them, for judges F. S. Austin
and C. Currie couldn’t agree upon the
perfection of. their points, and Major H.
A. Currie, who judged the ewes, had to
arbitrate.
In the evening blue ribbons were
folded away, dinner parties were put on
and everyone went to the Sheep Show
Ball. The City Hall set out to emulate
spring in the paddocks. Woolly lambs
tried to climb bushes, their mothers
nibbled grass behind picket fences and
their fathers walked about under a
canopy of streamers. Captain T. Parkin
and his sister, Mrs. Allen, looked after
Lord and Lady Huntingfield. The J. K.
Russells, of Barunah, were there, Mrs.
Russell in black with touches of white
here and there. R. A. Salmon brought
his wife, who plucked a downy ostrich
of his best plumes to ruche her tamarisk-
pink dress. R. Morrison came from
Terang, and J. Morrison from Wool-
brook, with wives in different shades
of blue. Mrs. Ken Allen’s black
net was spotty with gold circles. Two
Alisons, one a Fitchett and the other a
Tyson, were both in black ; so was June
Russell, whose dress became perky with
white ruffles. Joan Gardiner wore ruby-
red velvet.
The Blue Triangle appeal is in full
swing; the object is the collecting of
£lOO,OOO for girls’ clubrooms in the city.
While the wage-earning lasses are rais-
ing money in various commendable ways
the auxiliaries are doing their bit with
house-to-house and office-to-office col-
lecting. They hunt in pairs, and have
diverting tales to tell of their adventures.
Sometimes all the doors and windows are
open in a house of a prospective victim,
but no one answers the bell, although
there is a suspicion of a face behind a
curtain. Every second house has a
“Beware of the Dog” notice. Often it’s
bluff ; often, too, the animal is a con-
ceited poodle much too snobbish to take
any notice of strange young women. But
the less valiant collectors are taking no
risks. One guards the gate while the
Other rings the bell ready to bolt if a
jman-eating hound appears.
In some houses the girls are asked to
morning-tea. In others there are forced
to listen to drab accounts of illness ; of
farms —“sinks for money” ; of progeny
who need educating; of “the cruise which
we have just had which has left us so
short.” In one home they are given a
cheque for £5O ; in another, just as large,
a shilling in coppers.
At one mansion the door was opened
by an enormous flunkey in plum-colored
breeches who astonished the visitors by
saluting them. He regretted that they
could not see Madame. Madame was
in bed. “In an hour’s time? Oh, no.
Madame will then be in her bath.” After
fruitless knocking and bell-ringing at an-
other house the pair were put on the
right track by a perky butcher-boy. “Go
round the back, miss ; they never answer
the front door.”
Felicity Syme, an attractive maiden
with a taste for pencil and paintbrush,
has agreed to a life partnership with
Dr. George Maxwell Clemons of the
well-known Tasmanian clan.
A great crowd, clad in anything from
tails and white ties, diamonds and
orchids to the odd clothes favored by
our reactionary artists, went to the
celebrity concert, when for the first
time strange instruments were used in
conjunction with an orthodox orchestra.
It was a critical audience, pros and cons
being hurled about between items, for
even the musically ignorant felt safe in
airing opinions on music so new. The
orchestra stretched its legs between times
and exchanged handshakes and thumps
on the back, but couldn’t smother its
yawns during the most tedious compo-
sition. Percy Grainger, who has long cher-
ished an ambition for such an orchestral
plunge, made his entrances and exits by
an athletic flying leap up or down the
steps. Mrs. Grainger, in puffed-sleeved
white taffeta, played the xylophone, the
marimba, the aluminium marimba and
the staff bells.
This is Mrs. Ken Rodda, who, in her
own words, is “Jack-of-all-trades” at
Bridgehaven, where a new Welsh kit-
chen has just been opened. The kitchen,
where one lunches, dines or sups, has
built-in seats, a lift which brings up
victuals from nether regions, a sideboard
where host Joske carves the roast becff
of old England or the leg of lamb, and
a Welsh dresser which carries buffet
salads and the like for people anxious
to snatch a bite before squeezing in an-
other rubber. Mrs. Rodda makes use of
her woman’s intuition in arranging com-
patible bridge fours. She plays a hand
when necessary, gets a game for «tray
individuals and keeps an eye on the
meals.
For the opening night of “Ten-minute
Alibi” the Comedy draped symbols of
patriotism in front of the circle, where 10
seats were reserved for G.H. ; a prim
bouquet looked lonely among the up-
turned chairs until the vice-regal guests
arrived. In the party were N.S.W.
visitors Barbara Holmes, of Bathurst, and
Pat and Noreen Dangar. Jocelyn How-
arth, on the stage, wore a peach of a suit
—dusty-pink, with scalloped edges to
skirt and brief coat made to fit snugly
with an arrangement of inverted tucks.
The blouse was black satin. In the house,
crowded with people and thrills (particu-
larly exciting for those who hadn’t read
the play), were Mrs. Leigh Falkiner with
Joan and Ann. (Afterwards George
Thirlwell, who played Colin Derwent,
joined their party at the Embassy.)
Noticed also were the Dudley Bruntons,
Louis Nelkin, Mrs. McCall McCowan,
Mrs. Willie Bates (against a blue back-
ground), Dr. and Mrs. Merrillees (she
in old-gold lame), Mrs. J. H. Keating
(in nut-brown velvet) and Mavis Car-
negie.
Guests who sipped cocktails in Men-
zies’ large reception-room Tate on Satur-
day afternoon had three hands to shake
on their arrival and three lots of dutiful
“Thank yous” to say on their departure.
The hostesses were Mrs. Ken Clarke,
in a Nile-blue dress under a coat of a
deeper shade; Mrs. H. Gray, in navy
taffeta with bright stitchery upon its
vestee ; and her sister Joceyn Outhwaite,
in black and a Breton sailor. Miss
Outhwaite’s marriage to Gibson Shaw
takes place on September 14 at St.
John’s, Toorak.
Small and intimate was the Fairell-
Rosenthal wedding, with only a few
yards of Collins-street between the cere-
mony in Scots Church and felicitations
in the flat occupied by the bride’s
parents. The tall brunette bride was
Margot, daughter of the Harry Rosen-
thals, and the ’groom was John Fairell,
of Sydney. The wedding attire was a
snugly-belted, deep-revered suit of
goblin blue worn with a prim pique
blouse and a cunning little berette
balanced at a precarious angle. The
only ’maid was bride’s sister Olive, in
honey-beige and brown, who walked
down the aisle beside John Reichendach,
of Sydney. ’Groom’s sister, also an
Olive, came from Sydney to throw a
handful of confetti. The bride’s photo, is
by Dickinson-Monteath.
In honor of Margot Rosenthal and
John Faviell, the Leslie Wilsons gave a
merry cocktail party at their flat in South
Yarra. The hostess, in black with orna-
mentations of pintucks and knots of
white at throat and wrists, awaited her
guests among decorative bowls of daffo-
dils, perfumed boronia and stocks and
feathery sprays of pink and white blos-
som. Miss Rosenthal wore a cloud-blue
tunic over a black satin skirt. Among
the guests were Mrs. Harry Rosenthal
and • Olive, Colonel and Mrs. P. W.
Vaughan, the Hamilton Sleighs, the Max
Glovers, Geraldine Turner, Alison Cook,
Bryan Page and C. Reichenback
(Sydney).
The Centenary Club had its tender
feelings somewhat jarred at its afternoon
party with Delysia as special guest of
honor. Mrs. Britomarte James made a
welcoming oration, touching on the
friendship of France and England, and
how happy the Australian soldiers were
to look after the French women. Delysia
fluttered her carmine nails, expressed her
gladness, and said that Mr. Thring was
so thoughtful in escorting her personally
to functions ; this afternoon he couldn’t
do so, but she was delighted he’d “had
the guts” to send her alone. Conster-
nation! Mrs. James hurriedly called
upon Hugh Linaker to deliver his lec-
ture, which was thickly packed with long
botanical names.
. H. D. A. Joske captained the team of
Melbourne bridge champions who w;nt
to Sydney last year and proved them-
selves more crafty contract players than
the N.S.W. four. In Melbourne there
are now 16 A pennant teams, about two
dozen B teams and nearly a score of
ladies’ teams.
Mary and Janet, daughters of knight
Edward Mitchell and his lady, are
sampling the pungent aroma of Swedish
pine forests. They commenced their holi-
day in handsome, well-groomed Stock-
holm, and have travelled through vil-
lages nestling within range of salt spray
from the Baltic. Mary Mitchell’s “Warn-
ing to Wantons” has been a tremendous
success.
Mrs. Carlisle Smythe is off to Japan
next week in the capacity of the only
Australian delegate to the Red Cross
Conference, where 50 countries will be
represented. Mrs. Smythe has a bent
for languages, and for the last few
months has been spending two or three
hours a day studying the intricacies of
Japanese. So far she has no complaints
about its difficulty, and she’s delighted
at finding a language with no pitfalls in
spelling. Her Japanese tutor is aston-
ished at his pupil’s progress. Mrs. Steinle
is leaving attractive daughters Lorie
and Giselle to travel as Mrs. Smythe’s
offsider. Every delegate is permitted
such a companion, who may share in
the worth-while perks of the tour, in-
cluding free passes on the Japanese rail-
ways.
Marjorie King, barrister and solicitor,
daughter of Mrs. King, of Caulfield, and
of the late Thomas King, also a legal
man, will not be separated by marriage
from her chosen profession. Her fiance
is Valentino Adami, barrister and soli-
citor.
All sorts of conveyances waited their
turn to get as near as possible to the
Town Hall portico, for the lower hall
was an auction-room for the sale of pic-
tures and other art treasures from the
Lansell home, Fortuna, at Bendigo. One
man wriggled a kidney-table, with risk
to both table and car, into the back seat
of his sedan ; another, struggling with an
enormous picture into the dickey of a
car of the sort generally known as “road
bug,” made one wonder how the picture
will look if the size of its new owner’s
house is in proportion to his chariot.
Lots ranged from valuable ivories and
beautiful pieces of Sevres, through a
mixed collection of pictures, to the junk
which is usually accumulated in a big
old-fashioned home.
It was no shopping expedition but a
housewives’ rally in Howey-court which
caused the chauffeur and the arm-of-the-
law on duty in Collins-street to berth the
v.-r. sedan under a No Parking notice.
Lady Huntingfield was invited to present
a cheque for £l4O net, a result of the
Labor-saving Devices Exhibition, to Mrs.
I. H. Moss, president of the Pioneers’
Women’s Memorial Fund. The Gover-
nor’s wife, who is extremely practical,
was delighted to find in the middle of
her presentation basket of daffodils and
boronia a canister of special tea, pic-
tures of the Duke, Lord Huntingfield
and Melbourne, 1836 and 1936, decorat-
ing its four sides.
The A. M. Nicholas residence at Sher-
brooke has blossomed forth into a net-
work of radios throughout house and
grounds. If one sits under a tree and
presses a button, loudspeakers start off
in full blast. It is said that the sound
can be heard three miles across the hills.
A girl just returned from a trip
abroad has brought some cunning dress
accessories. A posy of flowers on a
clip is all ready to be slipped on to her
spring hat; another clip with tight buds
attached to its slender length will fasten
her curls at night. This serves a dual
purpose, for it can be used also to hold
fresh flowers. There is an ingenious
holder of tortoise-shell, whose duty is to
clasp flower-sprays without injury to
expensive fur coat or frail chiffon dress.
One pair of earrings look exactly like
snail-shells ; they are studded with dia-
mente and slip neatly on to the lobes of
the ears. From other ear-ornaments
dangle twinkly bits of colored glass
which make a musical tinkle as the
wearer moves her head. The sinuous
creature who sold these insists that
Madame must put a touch of rouge
upon her ears the better to throw out
the opalescent highlights of the “cow-
bell” globules.
Members of the Women’s Centenary
Council are disappointed that no out-
standing British women have accepted
invitations to attend Melbourne’s hun-
dredth birthday party. Rather cold com-
fort is Mayor Gengoult Smith’s sug-
gestion that we may concentrate upon
the wives of the men celebrities, for the
Women’s Council has no time for re-
flected glory. It likes its notables to
shine under their own light. Guests
expected are the Baden-Powells, the
Marconis and the John Masefields. They
will have an opportunity of making a
tour of Vic. per Reso train.
Thirty years ago the young man who is
now Judge Beeby sent a literary effort to
The Bulletin, the result being that
“long, dark and grim as a sea-serpent”
appeared in the Answers to Correspon-
dents column. This unencouraging criti-
cism inspired the would-be writer (he
had not then been admitted to the Bar)
to harder work with his pen, and he is
now one of the most prolific playwrights
in Australia. Recently he came back
from Sydney specially to see his “Science
and Sentiment” performed by the Little
Theatre at St. Chad’s. In this comedy
Mrs. George Bell, as the woman who for
15 years has been in undisputed posses-
sion of X (thus she identifies her bigamis-
tic anthropologist), calmly does fancy-
work for his felon’s cell when she be-
lieves him to be only half a husband. The
Other Woman, called Gladiola and re-
ligious (she impersonates Hyacinth, the
real first wife), announces that the law
of bigamy protects weak women from
licentious men, that her (Gladiola s)
motives are not worldly, that the Lord will
provide and that one must walk the
narrow way—“but not three abreast,
adds the heroine. Leila Pirani and Mary
Guy-Smith were attractive in their parts.


Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1224 of 1934.
BETWEEN ANNIE SARAH KELLY Peti-
tioner
And FREDERICK AUGUSTUS KELLY
Respondent.
TO FREDERICK AUGUSTUS KELLY last
heard of in Johannesburg South Africa
but formerly of Stanton Road Haberfield in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
SARAH KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted the Petitioner and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Eighth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-four and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-four.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 36 Hunter Street, Sydney.
KP
M
Travel to
Java, Bali
and
Singapore
on a Great
White Yacht
A VAIL yourself of special
**■ fares for a holiday trip of
glorious weeks at sea, visiting
colorful Eastern lands.
Special first-class return fares
from Sydney and Brisbane from
£67/10/- to Java, and from £75
to Singapore —including side-
trip by local K.P.M. steamer
to Bali. No exchange.
Small increase in fares from
Adelaide and Melbourne.
Sailings to Java and Singapore:—
From From
Sydney. Brisbane.
T.S.S. Nieuw Zeeland.. Sept. 10 Sept. 21
T.S.S. Nieuw Holland.. Oct. 24. Oct. 26
Agents in all principal ports.
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION Co.,
I’aketvaart House, 255 George St., Sydney.
Painful Corns £° n y, at °r r
big, or how long they have made their abode
with you, whether hard or soft, A’CORN SILK
will settle them and give you glorious foot
comfort. Applied with postage stamp simplicity,
A’CORN SILK kills Corns while you sleep, no
trouble—ho mess—no pain. The way Corns
disappear is magical—a sixpenny packet will
suffice. Ask your Chemist for A ’COR .V
SlLK—only one price — 6d. Packed by Felton
Grimwade & Duerdins Ltd., Melbourne. A.S.I
PILES.
we trust you.
NETAS CO
Most severe case can be cured uj
simple remedy. Send no Drone.'.
No cure, no pay. Write '
56 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
For the C.W.A. Ball for the Duke on
November 27, the vestibule of the Town
Hall is likely to rival a Northern District
exhibit at the The hall itself will
be girdled with flowers (waratahs were
mentioned for the flanking of the dais),
the pillars are to be swathed in primrose
muslin, and ten feet from the ground they
will sprout out in boxes from which
flowers and greenery will brim over. The
supper-tables in the basement are to be
a horticulturist’s dream —so lavish and
varied are to be the blooms and trailing
greenery. But the nicest idea of all is
the bordering of the carpeted pathway
from door to dais with the young
daughters of country members, all
snowy-clad and flower-laden. Cards are
limited to 1500, and 1200 of these are
being reserved for country people up
till October 20.
Again the Rachel Forster Hospital
comes out on the right side of the
ledger. For 12 years now this insti-
tution, staffed throughout by women,
has balanced its budget, though the
depresh years have meant more calls in
every way on its resources. For its latest
year there has been an average of 200
patients treated per day, with a maxi-
mum attendance of 380.
A special word of thanks was given to
the almoner department —under the
direction of Kate Ogilvie. Many think
the work of an almoner is to see how
much she can screw out of a patient, but
she has as much to do with the well-
being of the community as the doctor or
the hospital. She is the connecting link,
and her job commences when the patient
is ready to go home. She visits the
home and gives advice on diet, or maybe
on the spending of what money is avail-
able. For the six months the depart-
ment has been in operation the help
given has ranged from arranging for
convalescence to be spent in nursing
homes to the cancelling of eviction
notices and helping with the purchase
of glasses, crutches and suchlike.
Spring hats, is it? The large cartwheels,
in leghorns, ballibuntals and baku, have
field flowers, the yellowest of buttercups,
the bluest of cornflowers and the whitest
of daisies, with black centres, banding the
front of them, and long green stems in
many cases spraying their brims. Pana-
mas have velvet swathings. Breton
sailors are to be worn a lot. One in
blue straw had vivid green and deep
sapphire quills girdling its crown. All
crowns are shallow. This necessitates a
bandeau, elastic or ribbon bands to hold
them on. In the American models the
coolie influence is noticeable, whether the
brim be wide or narrow, and the four-
cornered square crown has also been
popular with Uncle Sam’s daughter.
In Van Druten’s “There’s Always
luliet,” staged by lima Barnes for the
Free Kindergartens, Sydney Bush as
Leonora Perrycoste wears some devastat-
ing clothes. First her Persian-red crepe
dress, topped with a short mandarin coat
of navy taffeta and crowned with a pink
hat, its upturned and tucked brim deco-
rated with a pink and navy flower, was
calculated to catch the eye of any male,
whether visiting American or Timbuc-
tooian. When the curtain goes down
she is wrapped in a length of silver
weave with side peplums that run off
into a big bow and trailing streamers.
Over this goes a fingertip-length black
velvet coat with black fox-fur revers. In
between there are a pink costume, a
white-and-brown rig-out and a dusty-
pink dinner-gown whose frills seem to
have discovered the secret of perpetual
motion.
On Sunday, September 2, the exact date
of the poet’s death, the Henry Lawson
Literary Society will make its pilgrimage
of love to Lawson’s statue in the Domain.
Here, at three o’clock, extracts from his
works will be read by Tal Ordell, Max
Coleman and Miss Clem Robertson. Rod
Quinn will say a few gentle words, and
Duncan Macdougall will speak on Law-
son’s influence on Australian literature.
The Teachers’ Federation will be repre-
sented, and Tom Inglis Moore will be
present on behalf of the Fellowship of
Australian Writers.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Though the weather was stormy there
was a big roll-up at Victoria Park for the
Adelaide Racing Club’s meeting. His Ex.
and Lady Dugan were there —their first
visit to an Australian racecourse. Chair-
man James Hall and daughter Muriel
entertained at afternoon-tea. Lady Dugan
wore a mink fur coat over a brown-and-
white-check suit, and her hat was a small
Breton sailor in brown felt. Premier
Butler’s wife was in a dyed squirrel coat
and a small navy hat.
The Ad. Club Ball crowded the Palais
Royal. An immense gilt jar about six
feet high with “The Ashes” on it stood
near the entrance. The prosperity ballet
was an original effort; a huge gilt
sovereign 9ft. in measurement was up-
right on a float, and through a small door
in the centre tiny girls passed, scattering
thousands of new halfpennies among the
crowd. Lud Mayor Cain and his daugh-
ter were there, Mrs. Dunstan gowned in
scarlet chiffon.
The inter-State dance in the Uni. re-
fectory to entertain the sporting students
from Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and
Perth was a huge success. Misses Paddy
O’Dea and Pat Burnard had undertaken
the decorations, and capable Shirley
Burns-Cuming was convener of the buffet
supper served in the Lady Symon Hall.
Prof, and Mrs. R. R. P. Barbour received
the guests, she is blue-and-white-pat-
terned organdie.
Holden’s staff ball at the Embassy was
a very cheery affair. Mr. and Mrs. E. W.
Holden were present, and Jim Holden
brought his bride, whose first name is
Prudence, and who looked very charm-
ing. The Bruce lady and Mrs. Arthur
Rymill, both wearing pastel patterned
chiffons, represented their director hus-
bands. Over 600 were present. There
was a ballet by pupils of Jean Bedford.
Douglas Mawson’s lady hastily formed
a committee to organise a large bridge
party for the relief of the flooded families
at Port Pirie. Use of Birks’s Piccadilly
was promised, with supper to boot.
More than 300 attended the Dominican
Convent Old Scholars’ dance in Australia
Hall. Mamie Horgan supervised the
decorations, carried out in tango and
gold. The president, Mrs. H. A. Lewis,
welcomed the guests gowned in black
and silver lame, and she carried a bou-
quet of pink roses presented to her by
the committee.
Hockey players gave a dance at the
Embassy to entertain visiting teams. A
box was set apart for each State deco-
rated with a shield bearing initials and
club colors. The players demonstrated
that they were as good at dancing as
hockey.
At the Kooyonga Golf Club’s house
dance beautiful flowers everywhere and
bright fires in all the rooms made things
cheery. There were as many married
women as girls among the dancers, and
bright colors predominated.
John Martin and Co., by means of
mannequin parades in the Town Hall,
have materially assisted the Lord Mayor’s
Relief '•Fund. Their autumn parade
brought in £l4O and the recent spring
parade £l5O.
WESTRALIA.
The Free Kindergarteners started their
appeal week with an afternoon frolic for
children in Government House ballroom
and an adults’ dance in the evening. The
official guests, piloted decorously through
the throng by Mesdames Rischbieth,
Joyner, Withal and Gladys Pendred, soon
forgot their dignity and capered with the
youngsters. Acting-Governor Mitchell
and his lady joined in the march to High
Tea.
After a clean sweep of children and
debris, Rosemary Sanderson made her
bow to society in heavily-embossed white
crepes, demurely sleeved and shoulder-
sprayed with daphne to match the frag-
rant wreath encircling her curls. Marcia
du Cloux’s fitting hip-length coat sparkled
over a froth of white chiffon ; from a
yoke of silver leaves fell Thelma Rose’s
velvets, azure as the leaves which bound
her hair and wrists; Billie Salter’s
pseudo-Spanishness was enhanced by
scarlet satin, sleek raven locks and a trio
of. spit-curls caressing one cheek ; the
Collister twins, Joyce and Joan, slashed
their amber taffetas with black, sashed
them with huge bows and splashed them
with flared frills ; Dora Anderson wound
a slinky girdle around reed-green velvets ;
Nancy Hughes’s velvets were a shade
darker.
Laelia Finneberg’s recital drew a musi-
cal-cw/n-social audience to the Town Hall.
The soprano’s silver lame drapings
were attached to a cape lined with Erin
Isle crepe, secure at one shoulder but
slippery at the other. Supporters of the
Kindergarten (where went the proceeds)
ushered and sold programmes wrapped
to the ears in fur.
The Primary Produers’ Assoc, went
social one evening during its confer-
ence and danced at the Embassy. Presi-
dent Teasdale and his better-half did the
honors (her floral georgettes were
warmed with a mulberry coatee), and led
off the flirtation barn dance and merry
chains. Enrico Rigattieri, Mrs. J. M.
Smith, Mrs. V. Webb and Elsie McCal-
lum gave items while the dancers paused
for breath and munched the chocolates
won in novelty dances. The women’s
president, Mrs. Maitland Leake, was
there, and Senator and Mrs. Johnson, Mrs.
and Mrs. H. Gregory, the Venron
Hamersleys, Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Griffith,
Sydney Stubbs, the P. D. Fergusons, Mrs.
Mary Farrelly and Mr. and Mrs. Prater.
Organisers of the Blue Triangle Fair
smiled warmly as the Mitchell lady
opened the fete to a large gathering of
Y.W.C.A. supporters at the St. George’s-
terrace headquarters. President Phoebe
Holmes greeted milady, and steered her
through the well-stocked stalls. Mrs.
S J. McGibbon, Mrs. Norman Stowe
and Jessie Robertson judged the cooking
and the other arts and crafts.
The Embassy was girt with Wild West
pictures and a tangle of colored streamers
for the Uni. Boat Club’s Mexican
Cabaret. Prof. Beasley, C. S. Wickens,
John Walton, Alec Fisher and Gerald
Keall had the affair in hand, and egged
on the lads to do their Carmen ballet.
Molly Lloyd’s honey georgettes and lame
were in the front row, near Dorothy
McCleman’s flower-sprayed ninons,; Vans
Anderson’s creamy complexion rose from
lichen velvets ; Allie Marfleet’s laces were
baby-blue, and Molly Manning’s taffetas
shone lettuce-green.
The Kylie Club reserved the greater
portion of its programme at the Karra-
katta Club for Australian composers.
Harmonies by Gladys Cunliffe, Roy
Wood, Malcolm Dick, Evelyn Willis and
June Epstein comprised the W.A. contri-
butions, and Frank Hutchens’s “Lam-
orna” trio and “Weeping Mist” joined
the group from t’other side with Roy
Agnew’s “Rabbit Hill,” Louis Lavater’s
“Hornpipe” and a song by Mona Mc-
Burney.
The 200 Club’s guest night at the
Y.A.L. was a riotous show. Alice Biggs,
Viola Bathgate, Gwenda Cribb, Toddles
Dunn and Kae Kirby were hostesses.
Rene Underwood and Reddy McMorrow
gave a series of exhibition dances, Harold
Reid tapped tunes on his xylophone and
500 bright souls danced far into the night.
Bride-to-be Betty, the C. P. Smiths’
blonde chick, is doing a round of parties.
Kath Cumpston set the ball rolling with
bridge and dancing at her home, Bonnie
Spencer followed with cards, Dulcie
Allen put on a “Blue” afternoon, brides-
maids Beryl Randell, Wynne Palmer,
Betty Unmack and Noel White made
theirs pink and white and Mrs. Kenneth
Cameron and Mrs. Robert Jacka poured
sherry.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark, in a graceful frock of
black lace, crowned the winner of the
8.D.D.1. queen competition at the Con-
tinental. Gladys Whyte (Children’s
queen) stood ahead of the other eight
candidates at the end. The coronation
ceremony was prettily arranged., with
Beattie Jordan’s wee pupils as crown-
bearers.
Gertie Atkins bade farewell to a host
of friends at Hadley’s before her mar-
riage to Keith White, which took place
a day or so afterwards. Mrs. Atkins, in
black ripple crepe with oyster vest, re-
ceived the guests with her daughter,
whose smart" frock of heavy crepe in
green, gold and brown diagonal stripes
was set off by a posy in the same shades
sent to her by Mrs. Hogg, of Launceston.
Joan Purchas and Mrs. Kathleen Hay
sang to Mrs. Sheppard’s accompani-
ments. Each guest was given a little
spray of flowers with a sprig of rose-
mary. Tea-tables glowed with spring
blossoms.
Pauline Myee Beauchamp and Regi-
nald Kemp made their vows at St.
David’s Cathedral, the bishop officiating.
The bridal frock of heavy white satin was
moulded tightly to below the knees and
then spread in a square train. A pearl
girdle marked the waist, and the tulle
veil was caught by a coronet of orange-
blossom. Sisters Jean and Minna Beau-
champ, the two ’maids, were in trained
frocks of lettuce-green ring velvet, with
silver girdles and small halo hats of silver
lace. The wedding feast was at the Con-
tinental.
The president (Lt.-Col. P. C. Thomp-
son) and members of the Launceston
Officers’ Mess gave a cheery party in
the Drill Hall, which was brightened
with “greenery-yallery” decorations. One
end was portioned off by yellow-
covered screens to make a supper-room,
where the tables were laden with violets
and bulb blooms.
The Courthope girls, Gwen and Mar-
weet, have gone, with their mother, for
a few weeks to Melbourne. Before
leaving they gave a jolly little party at
the Imperial. Guests were all young,
and the decorations of almond- and
Japanese peach-blossom were most
attractive.
THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
For contributions to B. 22/8/’34
Miss F. L. BISHOP, Mt. Gambier,
South Australia;
R. DE BOMFORD, Box 45, Queens-
town, Mt. Lyell, Tasmania;
H. C. McKERROW, Barnsdale,
Oorindi, Queensland; and
A. McDOWELL, Springvale, Yep-
poon, Queensland,
share in the distribution. Original
“Bulletin” black-and-white draw-
ings are offered each week for
Society pars., A’#originalities, Hints
for the Farm and gags for joke-
blocks. In each case they are
accompanied by cheques.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES (Matrimonial Causes Jurisdic-
tion), No. 1003 of 1934. Between PHYLLIS
EVA MAY BASHFORD, Petitioner, and
ROBERT GEORGE NEWMAN BASHFORD,
Respondent. To ROBERT GEORGE NEW-
MAN BASHFORD, late of Swansea, in the
State of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE
that the said PHYLLIS EVA MAY BASH-
FORD has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of your
adultery with one Wilhelmina Mcßride AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Ninth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-four and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of
the petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of August, a.d.
1934. For the Registrar, (1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce. BRAYE & MAL-
COMSON, Eldon Chambers, 92b Pitt Street,
Sydney, New South Wales, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES (Matrimonial Causes Jurisdic-
tion), No. 1003 of 1934. Between PHYLLIS
EVA MAY BASH FORD, Petitioner, and
ROBERT GEORGE NEWMAN BASHFORD,
Respondent. TAKE NOTICE that the above-
named PHYLLIS EVA MAY BASHFORD has
filed her petition in the supreme Court of New
South Wales praying for a divorce from her hus-
band ROBERT GEORGE NEWMAN BASH-
FORD on the grounds of his adultery with you
She alleges that he committed adultery with you
between the months of January and October
1933 at Redhead in the State of New South
Wales and during the month of October 1933
at Wollongong in the said State and since the
month of October 1933 until the sixth day of
June 1934 being the date of the petition herein
at various places within the State aforesaid
This notice is given you so that you may have
an opportunity to apply to the Court to be
let in to defend the charge if you so desire.
A copy of this Petition may be obtained at
our office at the undermentioned address free
of charge on application by you. DATED this
Thirteenth day of August, a.d. 1934. To WIL-
HELMINA McBRIDE, late of Swansea, New
South Wales. BRA YE & MALCOMSON,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, Eldon Chambers,
92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 897 of 1934.
BETWEEN JAMES McBRIDE Petitioner
WILHELMINA McBRIDE Respondent
And ROBERT GEORGE NEWMAN
BASHFORD Co-respondent.
TO ROBERT GEORGE NEWMAN BASH-
FORD late of Swansea near Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES Mc-
BRIDE has commenced a suit against Wilhel-
mina Mcßride in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of adultery with you AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Ninth day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of August, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HAROLD MUNRO, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Temple Court, 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 987 of 1934.
BETWEEN JAMES BcBRIDE Petitioner
WILHELMINA McBRIDE (formerly Wil-
helmina Hill) Respondent.
And ROBERT GEORGE NEWMAN
BASHFORD Co-respondent.
TO WILHELMINA McBRIDE late of Swan-
sea near Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES Mc-
BRIDE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of adul-
tery. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Ninth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-four
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of August, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
HAROLD MUNRO, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Temple Court, 81 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ELEANOR ADELAIDE LEWIN, born Sydney
1860, daughter of Edward Thomas Lewin and
Eleanor Lewin. Would anyone knowing any-
thing of Eleanor Adelaide Lewin, or of any of
her descendants, please communicate with
R. E. LEWIS & BEACHAM KIDDLE, Solici-
tors, 414 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
BOURNE.—If HENRY SAMUEITwiLLIAM
BOURNE, commonly known as HARRY
BOURNE, formerly of Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
last heard of at Christchurch, New Zealand,
i« 1907, will communicate with the under-
signed, he will hear something to his advan-
tage. Any person having any information re-
garding his whereabouts or death kindly com-
municate with
WILDING & ACLAND,
Solicitors, 77 Hereford Street, ■
Christchurch, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN VIOLET CLARICE LUNN Peti-
tioner
And LEONARD THOMAS LUNN Re-
spondent.
TO LEONARD THOMAS LUNN late of No.
407 Clarendon Street South Melbourne.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
CLARICE LUNN has commenced a • suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fourteenth
day of November 1934 and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of August, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ALBERT STACEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND, WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
Wellington Registry.
IN THE MATTER of FREDERICK FARAH
GEORGE (commonly and generally known
as FREDERICK CUTTEN EDWARDS)
late of Wellington in the Dominion of
New Zealand Traveller deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order made by a Judge
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand on the
Third day of August 1934 notice is hereby
given that all creditors and other persons
having claims against the estate of the above-
named deceased person who died intestate at
Wellington on or about the Second day of
October 1933 Letters of Administration of
whose estate were granted by the Supreme
Court of New Zealand at Wellington on the
Twenty-second day of March 1934 are hereby
required to send in full particulars in writing
of their claims to the Administrator Harold
Jowett at the Offices of Messrs. Leicester,
Jowett & Rainey Solicitors 125 Featherston
Street in the City of Wellington in the
Dominion of New Zealand on or before the
Twenty-ninth day of September 1934 next
after which date the Administrator will pro-
ceed to distribute the assets of the deceased
among the persons entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims and demands of
which he shall then have had notice.
DATED at Wellington this Sixth day of
August, 1934.
LEICESTER, JOWETT & RAINEY,
Solicitors to Harold Jowett, the Administrator
of the Will of the abovenamed deceased.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 885 of 1934.
BETWEEN HANNAH CHANDLER Peti-
tioner
And WILLIAM ALFRED AMOS
CHANDLER Respondent.
TO WILLIAM ALFRED AMOS CHANDLER
late of C/o Mrs. Parr Princes Highway
Kogarah in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HANNAH
CHANDLER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of her marriage to you the
said William Alfred Amos Chandler on the
grounds of bigamy with adultery AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Ninth day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned solicitor
free of charge.
DATED the Twenty-first day of August, 1934.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
E. R. TRACEY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street.
Sydney; or 4Vj-v3 Collins Street, Melbourne
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
cany your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
NOW BEING DEMONSTRATED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
ANNOUNCING THE MOST REVOLUTIONARY PEN YET MADE
The Wonderful NEW
lEVERIESS
SWAN PEN!
NOTHING TO PULL,
PUSH, REMOVE OR
LOSE, JUST
LUAC.tJUJI I-m
m f"\
wM
mmm
\M ENGLAND
1
SIMPLER
TO FILL
and cannot
"go wrong"
The plain truth about this pen
is that it’s better and more
dependable than any you’ve
been able to buy before. Born
of a real flash of inventive
genius, it is so strong and simple
that it can’t go wrong even after
years of hard work and wear.
Easier and quicker to fill, too.
Why not be one of the first in
Australia to see and try this
wonder writer ? It’s being de-
monstrated NOW —absolutely
without obligation—at all good
STATIONERS AND
JEWELLERS in your district.
Fully guaranteed, and gives
you much more for your money.
SEE HOW IT FILLS
3ivo half-turns only
i
I.—Just dip nib
in ink and half-
turn the top of
pen to LEFT.
2. —H a I f-t u r n
back again,
and pen is
FULLY FILLED!
A MECHANICAL MASTERPIECE
dfsdf
PRICES: The New LEVERLESS
‘Swan’ costs 25/- (Black or Colours,
mounted) or 21/- (Black only, un-
mounted). Other ‘Swans’ from 15/-.
“ Blackbirds ” from 10/-. “ Jackdaws ”
from 6/6d.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6, Primrose Buildings,
255 A, George Street, SYDNEY.
CUways use.
SWAN’ INK
6 ? b<^
OCrO HOUSEHOLD PAGES V)
» SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
„ Etc. Etc. Etc. ii
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 62
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.


m
m
It Costs so little
for a Phone in\bur Home
THE REDUCED TARIFF
For Metropolitan Residences
brings THE TELEPHONE within the reach of all
QUARTERLY RENTAL - - £l-2-6
And only for each Outward Local Call
NOTHING TO PAY FOR INSTALLATION
NOTHING FOR RECEIVED CALLS
Valuable Protection and Aid.
The Telephone is the quickest way of securing
the services of the
DOCTOR FIRE BRIGADE
AMBULANCE POLICE
A Great Convenience.
It saves you going out in all weathers to shop.
YOUR ORDERS CAN BE TELEPHONED.
Adds Pleasure to Home Life.
Many of your friends far and near will be
WITHIN QUICK CALL.
ORDER A TELEPHONE TO-DAY
£
d.
This advertisement is inserted by the Aus-
tralian Telephone Development Association
for the purpose of popularising the telephone
and of seconding the Postmaster-General's
Department’s efforts to develop its use and
improve the service to the community.
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUAKU, easily adjusted, fits gin., fin. and iin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
15he PLUM RAZOR
Selected Steel, Black Handle
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle ....
Superfine Steel. Ivory Handle ••••••••
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged
frpp with each razor.)
12/6
15/6
21/-
ca*e
Seven-day sets. Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Sin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Looking Down on Sydney.
BY GEORGE PERK US.
WHEN I left home the chaps all
said, “After you’ve seen Sydney,
George, y’ won’t want to come
back to Bogabril.” They all said that
except old Tom Bulsher, and he says,
“Don’t you believe ’em, George. Syd-
ney’s got nothing on Bogabril.”
Well, dinkum, after a week in Sydney
1 quite agreed with old Tom. Things
was the same, only bigger and more of
“Asked me what I thought of the
beautiful perspective.”
’em —the talkies, the dances, the girls
and the pubs. Honest, I was dis-
appointed, and I said so.
I was in the bar at Aaron’s when 1
said it.
“Have y’ seen it properly?” asked a
natty-looking bloke standing next to me.
“Of course I have,” I told him.
“Have y’ seen the Bridge?”
I told him I’d noticed it.
“But have you seen the view from the
top?”
1 thought I tumbled to his game then,
so I said, sarcastic-like, “Sorry, I don’t
want to buy your Bridge. I bought it
last Monday, and I swapped it this morn-
ing for Wynyard Station and the Manly
ferry.”
You always want to show those kind
of blokes that you’re awake to ’em.
“Here, cut it out,” he come back. “Y’
don’t think I took y’ for a country
bumpkin? Anyone can see y’ come
from Melbourne.”
I had him there, but I didn’t let on.
“Well, what’s your game?” I asked.
“It’s like this,” he says. “If y’ haven’t
been up to the top of the Bridge, you
haven’t seen Sydney.”
He seemed a nice bloke, so I let him
buy me a drink ; and he told me he had
a museum or something in a pylon, and
he’d like me to see it.
After a few more drinks he drove me
to the Bridge, and we went into a big
“Archie went 101, but he owns
the show”
stone place that he said was the
Pylon. (The parson says I must have got
it wrong, and a pylon is the front door
of a pyramid or something; but 1 know
I'm right because it was printed on
Cass’s card, and 1 copied it down. Cass
was the chap I met at Aaron’s.)
Well, first of all I noticed a signboard,
“Lovers’ Lane.” That made me think of
Bogabril, because, of course, that’s what
we always call the cow track leading
from Green’s paddock to the milking
shed back home. Made me think of
Sarah. It’s funny them choosing the
same name.
Cass took me into a lift, just like the
swell one at the Coffee Palace, and a
bosker girl driving it took us away up
the Pylon, where another girl gave me
the nicest smile I’d had since I came'to
Sydney, except the girl I met at Bondi.
I was glad Sarah wasn’t with me.
After this bonzer girl had told me how
much the Bridge weighed and cost and
how many rivets it had in it Cass asked
me what I thought of the beautiful per-
spective. I wasn’t sure what he meant,
but I guessed that was the fancy name
they had for the girl attendant, so 1
said she’d do me.
Another beautiful perspective, a blonde
one, took us into the Gallery of Great
Men.
There was names all over the wall,
and Cass said they were blokes who got
somewhere from a standing start. I
looked for Slip Wilson’s name that won
the Bogabril Sheffield last Easter, but
couldn’t find it. Cass said the list wasn’t
complete yet, and I noticed that when 1
signed the visitors’ book he copied down
the number of the page.
I saw the temple of the Snashi Lama.
1 think that’s what it was called. I always
thought a lama was a kind of goat, but
Cass said no, he was a bloke, so I sup-
pose he was right.
While we was looking at it another
chap came up, and Cass introduced him
as Skiff the Artist. We had a look at the
“We got took together”
Walzit and the Polyphone together, and
the Japanese long-tailed rooster, whose
tail is as long as Joe Bennett’s stockwhip.
I couldn’t see much sense in that. If I
was a rooster I wouldn’t want to be ham-
pered with fourteen feet of feathers trail-
ing behind me. I know if our old
rooster at home had it he’d pretty soon
get rid of it. But Skiff says things are
different in Japan.
Then we came to the Pashometer.
This is a machine that you stand in front
of and it tells you whether you’ll go over
heavy with the women.
Skiff got on, and the needle went round
to seventy-nine.
“Not bad for me,” he said. “I only
went forty last time. It must be the
moustache.”
“See if you can beat that,” said the
perspective in charge of the thing.
I stepped on it, and, dinkum. it went
away up to ninety-one. Gosh! I wish
Sarah’d been there to see it. You should
have seen the way those perspectives
eyed me off.
proud of myself until Mr. Archie
Whitford sent the needle round to a
hundred and one. But, then, he owns the
show.
The photo.-room was good fun,
too. There were chaps there having
their pictures taken in all sorts of cos-
tumes. A very pretty perspective was
taking the photos.
_ Skiff and me was pally by this
time, and we got took together—me in
swell wide trousers, cutaway coat, - big


sdf
This illustration was taken
from a pair of golf shore
51 years old—in regular
use. Soled twice. Kiwi Tan
used. Owner: J.P., Toorak,
Melbourne.
© ‘They’re well worn but they’ve
m worn well . . . thanks to Kiwi”
POLISH
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
“WHAT S IN IT?
you ask
V
&
a
%
m
Ji
IV \ANY people are asking : “What’s
in Pepsodent that makes the
teeth so sparkling clean ?”
Pepsodent contains the best and
simplest material we can obtain for
cleaning teeth without scratching. This
material has been thoroughly tested and
favourably reported upon by authori-
ties on the care of the teeth. In a
highly technical article in a leading
dental journal the scouring material
'that is used in Pepsodent is described
as being one of the most harmless found
in an examination of leading tooth
pastes.
Ask your dentist about Pepsodent. He
knows what is best to clean your teeth.
We will gladly co-operate with him by
sending full information about Pepso-
dent and technical data resulting from
tests made.
For years we have tested, re-tested,
and improved Pepsodent, and to-day
confidently offer you the best teeth
cleaning agent we know how to produce.
May we recommend Pepsodent twice a
day for the smile that attracts ? Send
for a large trial 10-day tube of Pepso-
dent and prove for yourself how well
it cleans.
FREE—IO-Day Supply
To the Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. (Dept. S.B. ),
Box 488 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Please send me a Free 10-D ry Trial Tube of Pepsodent.
Name
Address:. -
one tube torn lerrly.
■ S3SMB
bow-tie and a top-hat, and him in a
tabby’s evening dress. You should
have seen us. Then I got taken as a
Highlander. I bet that’ll trick Sarah ;
and do I look any good?
Then Cass said, “Just have one more,
Mr. Perkus. Of course, being from Mel-
“I wished Sarah was there.”
bourne, you’ll like this one.” (He still
thought I was from Melbourne, you see.)
So Skiff and me stepped on to a
dummy Melbourne Express, and the
pretty perspective snapped again.
Honest, to look at the photos, you’d
swear we was on the train. And the best
part of the joke is I’ve never been to
Melbourne in my life.
After the photos, we passed on to the
Magic Mirrors. These are bent, and
make you look like you aren’t. There
was one that made me look as fat as old
Mrs. Stiggins that keeps the pub at Boga-
bril, and in another one I looked thinner
than old Joe Brett the postman, that every-
body used to say was so thin that if he
just put a stamp on himself he’d have
delivered himself in mistake for a news-
paper. In another one you saw your-
self standing on your head. I wished
Sarah was there.
We came to a room where they seemed
keen on sevens. Big boards told you
the seven longest rivers in Australia and
the seven highest mountains. One gave
a list of the seven largest States in Aus-
tralia. I’m going to look up a map later
to see what the other ones are.
The perspectives showed us lots of
other things ; then we got on to the top
of the Pylon (I’m still sure that’s right,
whatever the parson says), and I can tell
y’ the view was a corker. I put my eye
to one of the big telescopes, and Cass
pointed out Melbourne and Newcastle.
Melbourne is much like Sydney to look
at, but I couldn’t see any bridge.
I asked Cass to get Bogabril for me,
but he said the visibility wasn’t too good
in that direction. Then I started looking
“Look what I’ve got.”
at places nearer. One of the perspectives
focussed it on the Zoo for me, and I was
watching the monkeys and zebras.
I said, “Look what I’ve got.”
Skiff shouted back, “Look what I’ve
got.”
He had his telescope fixed on the
Domain, and when I looked, gee! there
was a bloke and a sheilah there that
thought they was round behind the hay-
stack.
The pore cows was real gone on each
other ; they’d look round in all direc-
tions to make sure no one could see, then
they’d fall to, hugging and kissing a
treat, little knowing (as they say in the
books) that four telescopes was watch-
ing them from the top of the Pylon, be-
cause Cass and another bloke had joined
in, too.
After seeing this I felt a bit nervous
myself, but I asked Cass just casual-like
if you could see the beach at Bondi
through the telescopes, and he said no.
Cass said we might as well have some
lunch now, but first we must see the
Camera Skewrer. This gave us a bonzer
view of the harbor ; but Skiff said still-
life was all very well but give him land-
scape with figures every time. So he
went back to the telescopes.
I popped back for another look, too.
A bloke can always improve his tech-
nick, you know. Anyway, Sarah won’t
be sorry I came to Sydney.
Presently Cass called us down to
lunch. I told the little perspective after-
wards it was the best feed I’d had since
I left Bogabril, and I meant it, too.
When we’d finished lunch I suggested
another look from the top, but Cass said
the telescopes was being cleaned, so we
didn’t go back.
On the way down Cass asked us to
write in the book what our impressions
was. Skiff wrote: “I liked what I saw
from the top.”
1 didn’t know what to put. I’m no
good at writing.
“Thought they was behind the
haystack.”
I started thinking over what I’d seen.
Then I thought of Sarah ; and then it
come back to me what old Tom Bulsher
said, so I wrote down: “Sydney’s got
nothing on Bogabril.”
Farewell Light,
(Near Nelson, M.L.)
You greet us when we come to you
And, leaving, flash farewell;
And if our dreams crowd home to you
It is because they tell
That we are of that lonely land
Whose golden coasts you guard,
The little, last and only land
That makes our hearts beat hard.
The steamers seek you through the dusks,
A beacon leading home;
And oh! how dear and blue the dusks
Above the southern foam.
Beyond you are the clustered lights
Of streets remembered where,
From beach to dim, wind-blustered heigh:;,
Bright homes their welcome wear.
Farewell! We see you through the years
Of memory, far, yet dear;
And memory can renew the years
And bring the picture near.
You call and we would come to you,
Who flashed that last “good-bye!”
But we turn hearts all dumb to you
And God, and wonder why!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
Outlook.
The window of my room is high among
The topmost branches of a chestnut-tree.
Below the maze of twigs—
Strangely deserted in its loveliness—
The next-door garden sprawls in privacy.
No footstep sounds along the little paths,
And no one comes to use the garden seat.
No shadow but a bird's
Or some stray cloud’s has crossed the lawn
since I
Have watched to see who kept the place so
neat.
I know each rose—each petal that appears,
Each daisy on the smooth, deserted lawn.
1 know the paths by night,
Which lilac buds will first break into leaf . . .
The tree in which the sparrows wake at
dawn.
From my high window, through the chestnut-
tree,
Whose bare brown twigs tap on the window-
sill,
1 stare in longing down,
And think how more than happy I shou’d be
(For my one room so seldom sees a flower)
If only that warm creepered house were mine—
If such a garden had belonged to me.
1 shall not see the little seedlings flower,
Nor know how bright the pattern summer
weaves
Along the garden walks . . .
I shall be lost in rustling tides of green, -
My window will be fathoms deep in leaves
TASMANIA.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


Banks
Must Make
Keasonable Profits
ism
TV'
» f
n
'HiEm
BS7
/T /
n
/
m
k
/k
-
profit-earning banks are safe banks.
Any large bank continually losing money would
menace its depositors; those who had borrowed from
it; other financial institutions and eventually the
whole community.
The nine big Australian trading banks, through effi-
cient management, are all profitable institutions, and
therefore are a vital factor in promoting confidence
and maintaining financial stability.
The earnings of the banks, however, rise or fall in
line with general business conditions. Thus, in 1929
the profits of the Australian trading banks were 7.8%
on shareholders' funds. In 1932/3, in the depth of the
depression, they fell to under 2.9%.
None of these banks can make excessive profits be-
cause all these institutions are in active competition
with each other. As in business generally, so in
banking, competition ensures adequate services to
the public at lowest rates.
Bank, of New Sotcth Wales.
94C
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award,
332 Distributing Centres in Tasmania !
“The Examiner,”
the Home Paper
of Northern
T asmania.
“The Examiner” (Established 1842),
the only daily newspaper now publish-
ed in Launceston, not only goes into
90% of the homes in Launceston, but
is distributed throughout Northern
Tasmania, in over 300 centres.
“The Examiner” is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. Ltd., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
Proprietors also of “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday Evening
Express”
M. S. Allan, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins St.. Melbourne.
W. G. Dougan, Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Pig in a Poke.
by CAPTAIN JACK HAMILTON.
WHEN Captain Andrew McFie's
pedigreed pig Sligo Asthore was
awarded the blue riband at the
Royal Show, Peter Corbie, his next-door
neighbor, did not join in the general ex-
pression of goodwill toward the winner.
The judge, Donald McFie, was first
cousin to Andrew, an accident of birth
which should not have weighed with
Peter for two very good reasons. For
many years Donald McFie had judged
pigs at the Show without a shadow of
reproach, and in the three years preced-
ing he had awarded first prize tP Corbie’s
Warragul Wonder.
Despite all this, Corbie maligned judge
and winner without reserve.
“If my cousin was judging I wouldn’t
embarrass him by exhibiting,” com-
plained the loser bitterly. “Blood is
thicker than water. Scottish blood in
particular.”
Sligo Asthore, he asserted, had been
imported from Ireland especially to best
his Warragul Wonder. When a Scot
went to Ireland for anything you could
depend that he was up to some trickery
or other. And what had Irish pigs to do
with an Australian Show, anyway?
Peter Corbie’s lamentations fell on
deaf ears. He was not popular with the
homely, honest folk of the Dandenongs.
When Captain McFie brought the
Taramac out new from the Clyde Corbie
had been his chief engineer. There had
been words about breakdowns, heavy
repair bills, double consumption of coal
and other shortcomings in the bowels of
the ship over which the skipper had no
direct control. Corbie sent in his resig-
nation immediately the vessel arrived at
Melbourne.
Still, when sailors go ashore they
will seek out an old shipmate. The fra-
ternity of the great waters overrides any
peculiarity or failing in a man’s make-
up. This partly explains why Captain
Andrew McFie, on reaching the retiring
age, became Corbie’s neighbor, Corbie
selling him a block of land entirely suit-
able for the poultry farm round which
the skipper had woven blissful dreams
since he was a hungry first-voyage ap-
prentice on a Glasgow barque.
So long as one kept to pigs and the
other to poultry, they had remained on
good terms. But when McFie decided to
turn his unprofitable hencoops into pro-
fitable pigsties like those of his neighbor
a coolness developed.
“That’s gratitude for you! I put a
man into a good thing, and what does
he do but beat me through influence?
He doesn’t know a trotter from a sow’s
ear! ”
Peter Corbie muttered the complaint
with his gaze fixed on the house next-
door, where McFie’s victory was being
celebrated. The assemblage annoyed
him by breaking into hilarious song.
“You can use all the influence you
like next year, my bold captain,” the
disgruntled one continued to himself,
“but the whole of your family tree won’t
be able to make you the winner then—
not if I know it.”
The guard of the “goods” puffed after
lumbering his seventeen stone-odd to the
corner of the bar parlor to keep an ap-
pointment with Peter Corbie. He hesi-
tated before agreeing to the proposal put
to him. The guard knew human nature.
Corbie might rat on a man if he were
cornered.
“How do I know you’ll play me
straight?”
“Nobody can get anything on you
whether I do or not,” replied Peter un-
abashed. “All you’ve got to do when
you get to the goods yard at Spencer-
street is to let the pig have its head. It
is bound to make for the only opening
at the Flinders-street corner, and if you
chase it properly it’ll be dead in the
Yarra before Melbourne is awake.”
“Who’s going to polish it off in the
Yarra?”
“Pigs always cut their throats when
they try to swim, and if it don’t it’ll
drown.”
The guard took the proffered ten-
pound note in advance and accepted a
promise of a like amount the moment
the pig was reported awash.
Soon the goods train rattled off, with
the McFie pig housed in a special caged
truck for Show exhibits.
A few hours later a solitary waggon-
ette driver opened his drowsy eyes wide
when a big white pig flew past under his
horse’s nose with an obese railway guard
in pursuit. He whipped up and followed.
It was early for man or beast to be astir.
Might get a good freight out of it.
He gave no thought to the pos-
sible effect of galloping hooves and
rumbling cab-wheels on man or beast
in flight, though he noticed, with that
keen eye for detail that cabmen invari-
ably possess, that both accelerated amaz-
ingly on his approach.
He pulled up sharp at the wharf-edge
on beholding the pig take the water in
a frenzied leap and its pursuer drop un-
conscious on the brink of the river.
Alighting from the waggonette, the driver
rendered the only first aid he believed
in. He poured a portion of his eye-
opening overproof rum down the inert
one's throat. When the Samaritan ob-
served his charge coming round, he
propped him comfortably in a doorway.
Then he made himself and his cab
scarce after paying himself ten pounds
for his trouble.
The patient had no smaller change.
Gaping their astonishment, several
members of the crew of the American
schooner Helen B. Starling, moored well
down the south side of the Yarra, came
to the unanimous conclusion that the
ancient shibboleth about pigs cutting their
throats when they tried to swim was so
much moonshine.
“Otherwise, Jake,” exclaimed the Oak-
land boatswain convincingly, after suc-
cessfully lassoing and landing a squeal-
ing porker on the wharf near the ship,
“how could we have cot sech a prime
bit of uncooked bacon as this yer?”
Jake and the rest agreed.
“Guess, we’d better hike this mainsail-
haul outer the way lively. Tail on there,
buddies,” continued the speaker as he
passed the end of the lariat along. “We’re
takin’ this yer porker for a bit of early
shoppin’.”
The boatswain and his companions
bracketed butchers with crimps and
boardinghouse-masters when one made a
top-price offer of five pounds for their
prize; but, as it represented a pound
apiece wherewith to continue a three-
days’ jag, they accepted it under protest.
While still striking their bargain they
were the subject of a debate aboard the
Helen B. Starling.
Advice having reached the Port of
Melbourne Authority that a pig was
adrift in the river in the vicinity of the
schooner, the assistant-harbormaster was
sent to claim it as flotsam on behalf of
the Harbor Trust.
In the way of moral support, in one
pocket he carried a book of port rules
containing a clause that anything found
floating at large on the river automatically
became Trust property. In another
pocket was a writ ready for nailing to
the ship’s mast in the event of any hitch
occurring.
Captain Sam Tomms, of the schooner
Helen B. Starling, did not greet the offi-
cial warmly. Never an early riser in
port, he looked on his visitor as an
intruder. And, when it was suggested
that a Harbor Trust pig which had swum
the Yarra from Spencer-street was
hidden somewhere under hatches aboard
his ship, the brawny American made his
visitor shudder at a running comment-
ary on the intelligence of port officers.
“How d’ye get that way, limejuicer.
hey? Pigs swimming! Ain’t yew shure
they weren’t flying?” he bellowed sarcas-
tically.
“Your watchman said he saw the crew
hauling it up with a rope from the ship."
Another bellow brought a shivering
negro to the cabin. He denied the accusa
tion.
“Wall, now, I guess yew’re no for-
rader, Mister Harbor Trust. Those there
men you speak of were marked off as
deserters two days agone. Absent with
out leave. Don’t want to pay ’em in port,
anyways. They’ll be here when I want
’em, sailing-day. Guess yew’ll have to
take a cruise after that there jetsam if
yew wanter land your flotsam.”
“But what about the rope they used
from the ship? The watchman”
“No, sah. No see rope. I never see
no pig neither.”
“There y’are, Mister Harbor Trust;
yew ain’t got a leg tew stand on. All
the ropes in use aboard here belong to
the Stevedoring Company handling the
cargo.”
“Could you give me any idea where
I might find the pig?” asked the official
desperately.
“Now yew’re talking. If I was yew.
Mister Harbor Trust, I’d make a bee-
line for the nearest butcher’s shop. That's
what I’d ha’ done if 1 was a sailor land
ing a loose pig afore breakfast Have
a gargle afore yew go, for luck.
The gargle was accepted with apolo-
gies and thanks.
Arrived at the meatshop, the counten-
ance of the assistant-harbormastei
beamed and rapidly clouded again. The
(Continued on nexi page.)


IRew Soutb Males
(Guaranteed by the State Government'
Assets, £27,385,450.
Reserve Fund, £1,233,568 (invested mainly in Commonwealth Stock).
Commissioners :
H. ROGERS. C. R. McKERIHAN (President). P. KEARNS.
Head Office: 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Branches:
SYDNEY, 350 George St. (Opp. Wynyard St.)
BEGA
LEETON
DUBBO
GRIFFITH
BATHURST
ORANGE
WEST WYALONG
GOSFORD
TEMORA
INVERELL
FORBES
GRENFELL
MUDGEE
PARKES
TAMWORTH
WAGGA WAGGA
NARRANDERA
ARMIDALE
77 Agencies at Commonwealth Bank Branches.
USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
Current Accounts Fixed Deposits
Loans on Overdraft to Primary Producers
I.
icr.s2
NON - RUSTING
RIM FIRE*
If you use “I.C.I.” .22 Non-Rusting Rim
Fires you’ll make certain of your game.
“I.C.I.” and “I.C.I. Express” .22 Rim Fires combine
the very latest advancements in smokeless ammunition
for small game shooting—being sure, swift and
dependable at all times.
orrrr
The new and powerful priming
composition used in these cart-
ridges is non-corrosive in its pro-
perties and protects your rifle
barrel against rusting.
With “1.C.1. Express” you obtain
higher velocities with low pressures.
377
Y&.
Obtainable Everywhere
In Short, Long and Long Rifle
iSolid and Hollow Point.
I.CI
The "Rim Fires" with the Largest Sales in Australia
Exceeding Those of All Other Makes Combined
TO ENGLAND
Fortnightly
a
k Mmi
Np
Two charming routes at your choice—•
go by Auckland (N.Z.), Suva and Hono-
lulu to Vancouver, or by Wellington
(N.Z.), Rarotonga and Tahiti to San
Francisco—thence to England across
Canada or U.S.A. by luxury trains and
modern liners.
Tickets are interchangeable on both
routes, thus giving opportunity for a mag-
nificent round trip. Stopovers arranged
for any port of call.
Passengers travelling to England by these
or any other routes may book their return
passage—via Canada or U.S.A., the South
Sea Islands and New Zealand— before
leaving Australia.
Moderate fares, comfortable ships, modern
accommodation, faultless service.
Let us quote you the most
economical rates for your trip.
£
amd Union 'Eftls
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
296 Queen Street,
Brisbane
m
Oa/
04
UL(j
Z/j
pig had come—and gone. The butcher
had left with it in a motor-truck. No
one could say where he went.
“Sit on his doorstep till he returns,”
bawled the Harbormaster-in-Chief in re-
sponse to a nervous inquiry from his
subordinate. “Don’t budge an inch till
he hands the pig over.”
Mid-afternoon brought the butcher
back after a congenial hour or two in
Sailortown with his maritime clientele.
“Your pig, y’ reckun, Brassbuttons?
Well, have another reckun. It was far
too good for this earth, so it’s been sold
to the State abattoirs for pork. Didn’t
yer know they’re short o’ pork?”
“Aren’t you aware that the pig in
question was stolen?” the official coun-
tered, trying to assume as much dignity
as possible.
“Never went into its sticky past. No
time in our business for that. Quick
sales and snappy turnovers is my motto.”
“To the abattoirs at the double and
get that pig if we’ve got to storm the
place for it!” roared the Harbormaster-
jn-Chief when acquainted by telephone
of the latest development.
“Abattoirs refuses to part with pig
until reimbursed for all expenses,” re-
ported the assistant-harbormaster after a
stormy interlude.
“See the manager and inform him that
the full powers of the Trust will be en-
listed to bring him to heel. The pig is
a Royal Show prize-winner.”
Another hectic interlude passed.
“Manager told me to go to hell,” then
went the report to Trust headquarters.
“Says the pig is booked for to-morrow’s
noon kill, flotsam or whatever other
name we care to call it.”
There appear to be two occasions
when the Government stroke is not
noticeable in a Government department
—when it is hounding a private citizen
for money, and when it is trying to pass
a liability on to another department. The
zeal displayed by the administrations
concerned in the affair of the pig from
the Dandenongs suggested that, if any-
thing, departmental-claim snowballing
produced a greater degree of celerity and
concentration than the harassing of in-
dividuals.
Little did Captain Andrew McFie
dream of the public machinery he was
setting in motion when he lodged a claim
against the State Insurance Bureau on
hearing of the pig’s disappearance. At
once the official snowballing of the lia-
bility began. With a polite note it was
passed on to the Transport Section of the
Railways— to become the bugbear of
everybody in that department, from the
humblest typist to the expert official
adviser on snowballing.
The Railways, after deliberation, in
which it was stressed that the duties of
guards of goods trains did not include
the pursuit of refractory animals, sent the
claim on to the Harbor Trust with a
note requesting a prompt settlement.
Failing to locate the seamen who had
recovered the flotsam and were still
squandering the proceeds, or to make
the skipper of the Helen B. Starling take
any interest in the fate of the pig beyond
that of an amused neutral, Harbor Trust
officials beseeched the Customs not to
grant the vessel a clearance. They also
endeavored to persuade the south-side
butcher who had handled the animal to
accept service of the writ intended for
the mast of the American ship.
The butcher’s refusal threatened to
shake the Trust to its foundations. Pro-
bably because of this, the Trust
approached the State abattoirs adminis-
tration less belligerently.
Further to conversations our assistant-
harbormaster has had with you in rc one
pig at present in your possession through
some misunderstanding, we beg to inform
you that the said pig is our property by
the laws of the river as flotsam. Please
return said pig to our officer without
delay, hindrance or imposition of any
conditions. The pig being a Royal Show
exhibit, we would be glad if you treated
this matter as urgent.
The Abattoirs responded by return
messenger:
In re pig purchased on our usual terms
—strictly cash. As expenses incurred in
connection therewith have not been paid the
manager regrets that the standing rules of
the establishment will not permit him to
concede your request. No goods must
leave the building until they are paid for.
A communication from the Customs
pointed out the gravity of detaining
a foreign ship on the evidence before
them. The only direct contact between
the ship and the pig appeared to
be a rope which did not belong to the
vessel. The department considered it
rather too slender a thread upon which to
tie a detention order liable to create in-
ternational complications.
The Harbor Trust invoked the aid of
the Minister for Public Works and
Utilities. The Minister for Public Works
and Utilities convened a conference of
various departmental heads and ex-
plained the gravity of the situation.
The Income Tax representative moved,
and the Official Receiver seconded, a
resolution that the Harbor Trust pay the
dues to the Abattoirs in order to gain
possession of the pig before raising fur-
ther argument about it. The Minister for
Health and the Minister for Agriculture
warmly supported the proposal.
“All Harbor Trust accounts must be
passed by the Finance Committee and
paid once a month,” pointed out the
Harbor Trust head, after consultation
with a cowed clerk. “The last accounts
were paid the day before yesterday.”
“Is there no account that could be
drawn upon pro tem.l" the Government
loan officer inquired on the second day
of the conference, acting on a proposal
submitted by the Navigation Department.
“Only the dredger hands’ Annual Picnic
Fund,” squeaked the cowed clerk, fear-
ful of having disclosed an official secret.
Ways and means of operating on this
allocation were being warmly debated
when the general manager of the abat-
toirs was summoned to the telephone to
answer an urgent call from the slaughter-
yards.
The pig had died . . . of starvation.
Nobody had given anybody else any in-
structions at the abattoirs about feed-
ing it.
The Minister for Public Works and
Utilities fled. The others were about to
follow suit when another message caused
them to halt abruptly.
The original claim having that day
been withdrawn from the State Insurance
Bureau, all others emanating from it had
automatically lapsed.
The conference sighed relief in sus-
tained unison!
In complete ignorance of the public-
service dilemma he had created, Peter
Corbie fished from the Mornington Pier.
Once he knew that the McFie pig was in
the Yarra he had hastened thither to be
out of the way until the Show was over.
With Sligo Asthore out of the running
Warragul Wonder would be unbeatable.
He would return to the Dandenongs to
celebrate the victory, as McFie had done
the previous year.
He was naturally surprised when he
heard that the blue riband he had coveted
had again been won by Sligo Asthore.
But, of course, he could not be ex-
pected to foresee that Captain Andrew
would substitute a cheap unpedigreed
porker for his champion in the railway
truck, ' and dispatch Sligo Asthore
secretly to Melbourne by motor-transport.
The Warb.
BY WALTER JAGO.
IT was on the corner, a shadowy place
at the foot of a long slope frequented
by the gang, that Spuds made
the acquaintance of The Carnation. A
tall young man in shabby clothes and
heel-less boots walked up to Spuds and
~
asked him for the price of a cup of tea.
Spuds looked at him suspiciously.
“It’s crook if you don’t believe me,”
the young man said, “but I’m starving—
take me somewhere an’ watch me eat;
you needn’t trust me with the dough!”
“Well, it’s a good lurk, anyway,” said
“Here y’ are, Carnation, here’s a
sprat.”
“Thanks,” said the stranger. “I’ll pay
you back some day—but what’s the idea
. „ .
Well, Spuds replied, ain’t y’ got
pink cheeks? Y’ don’t want a bloke
to call y’ Petal, do y’, or Rosie?”
On the following day Spuds saw the
pink-faced stranger walking down the
hill to the corner. “It’s The Carnation,”
be s een B row i n g tn pretty
P oor soil > 1oo > be ,he look ° £ hls ra « s '”
'P??,”,/ Spu , ds « ra f e,ed P e Car " a, '° n ;
Y didn t get y self a shave with that
S p rat „
‘< No „ The Carnation snappedj « an > y
didn’t buy meself a dinner-suit, either,
But I won’t always be in flaming rags—-
I’ll show you something in the way of
regular meals an’ fancy togs before I’m
done!”
“’Struth! How’re y’ going to do it?
Coming into a fortune?”
“No ; but I’ll do it—l’ve got a lurk
all me own.”
From nowhere came a number of
men and stood on the corner,
( Continut .. on next page.)


POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
J >
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
INVESTORS!
From £5 to £5...
Your first investment should be a
12 months’ subscription to “THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
is filled with reliable financial
information.
It caters especially for the small
man who is not “in the know.”
No other paper has such extensive
records; no other paper has such
competent writers.
Its mining information comes direct
from the fields.
Order your copy from your local
newsagent, or send 22 6 to the
publishers,
252 George Street, Sydney,
for a 1 2 months’ postal subscription.
SPECIMEN COPY SENT FREE ON
REQUEST.
Spuds introduced The Carnation.
“He’s got a bend for making himself
famous. Tell the boys about your great
idea. Carnation,, an’ p’r’aps we might
send the hat around for another feed.”
“I’d be thankful for the dough.” The
Carnation said, “but you can’t expect
a man to give his bowels away to
strangers! ”
The offertory produced 2s. 3d. “Here’s
enough to see you through the day.”
said Spuds ; “an’ if you haven’t struck
your fortune be the time that’s gone
look me up again to-morrow.”
The Carnation was dignified in his
thanks. “It’s only a loan,” he said;
“I’ll pay you all back some day.”
They discussed him when he had gone.
“We better get the strong of this warb,”
Chisel said. “Leave it to Spuds.”
They left it to Spuds, even though
they all met The Carnation frequently
and gave him small coins. Always The
Carnation insisted that it was only a loan
and that he’d pay them back some day.
It was a fortnight after the first meet-
ing that The Carnation became confiden-
tial with Spuds.
Spuds reported to the gang that night.
“Well, the game’s jake,” he told
them as they sat round his dining-
room table. “The Carnation’s in with
us, an’ we’re in with him. Knows
how to use his nut, all right. He can smell
a tiger’s foot a mile off, an’ he’s a motor
mechanic as well. We’ve been talking
about that last tow —the one with the
converted headlights an’ the tin-dish
wheels. He reckons it’s a wonky push-
together, an’ would be detected in two
cracks of lightning on any dark night
if the 'toothcombers kept their eyes
skinned.”
“I suppose that’s something dirty on
me!” Chisel snapped.
“How can it be when he doesn’t know
you did the rig? It’s on me, if anything,
an’ I ain’t above learning. Anyhow, he
reckons there ain’t any need to chop off
the numbers. All you’ve got to do is to
’cetylene on a new panel over the old
numbers on the engine block and cut out
another, set.”
Canvas was given new points in hood-
fixing ; Iron Knob was told that chang-
ing the door-handles was unnecessary,
because no owner ever knew what his
door-handles were like; and Crow
wasn’t to waste time picking the ignition-
lock any more, because The Carnation
knew a way of crossing the wires so that
you could drive the car off until you had
more time to spare.
“An’ what about me?” asked The Blue
Streak. “Is my driving all right or not?”
“As far as I know,” Spuds replied,
“you ain’t been warned by a traffic cop ;
but The Carnation ain’t seen you driv-
ing yet. If you don’t have your number
taken for parking too long in one place
I don’t s’pose there’s going to be any
complaints.”
“S’pose he showed you his engineer’s
certificate and had his papers in order?”
The Blue Streak questioned weakly.
“Everything’s jake,” Spuds replied.
At that moment the front-door
knocker sounded startlingly through the
half-empty house.
“That’ll be The Carnation,” he said,
and going to the door he admitted the
new member of the gang.
The greetings were vulgar, but not
bitter; only Chisel showed any resent-
ment. “How’s the big idea?” he asked.
“Any turn-up to-day, or are you still on
the trey-bit nips?”
“The idea’s going all right,” ..The Car-
nation replied, “but you can’t pull -off
the big stuff by just beckoning it to come
to you —it means thinking an’ working.”
They talked late into the night.' No
amount of coaxing, however, could in-
duce The Carnation to divulge his plans.
“You’ll stay here with me to-night,”
Spuds said to him, “an’ to-morrow we 11
give the tools a once-over up in Chisel s
shed.”
Early next morning The Carnation
went over the tools. He was well satis-
fied, and congratulated Chisel on his
wonderful collection. “Why,” he said
enthusiastically, “it’s like the tool com-
partment of a big liner’s engine-room.
How’s the oxy-gas?”
“Plenty of that, too,” Chisel replied—
“enough to put a manhole in the roof
of, hell.”
From that time The Carnation and
Chisel were as college chums, and the
gang’s every door was open to the new
member at all hours. No more sleeping
out in the park ; no more hungry meal
hours —he was the dinkum mate in a
profession that admitted only tried and
trusted members.
A week after The Carnation’s first visit
to Chisel’s place, The Blue Streak drove
a magnificent eight-cylinder sedan up
the lane, and after much difficulty got it
into the shed through the double back-
doors.
The Carnation was congratulatory.
“You’ve got an outfit this time that a
bloke might reasonably call a motor-
car.”
“Well,” The Blue Streak admitted, “it’s
not an old bird ; anyone can see that.”
“No,” said Chisel admiringly ; “it’s this
year’s hatching.”
“We’d better let Spuds give it the
once-over,” The Carnation suggested. “It
might be that he'll think it’s a bit too
classy to sell easily.”
“Npt on the bones in your ears!”
The Blue Streak was emphatic. “He’s
had his blinkers on this chariot for a
month. It wasn’t like that with the other
jobs, but they was nearly all crocks—
tin’ an’ rattle.”
“Oh, I dunno,” said Chisel. “That
’bus you snatched at the G.P.O. when
the bloke left the engine running wasn’t
so bad.”
“Yes, but one fish don’t make an
aviary, does it?” The Blue Streak replied
snarlingly.
“I’m not saying it does; an’, if it
comes to that, what about the sports
model the night you towed home the
baby, with me doing the steering?”
“Well, what’s three out of about
thirty?”
“Twenty-seven, to be exact,” Chisel
corrected The Blue Streak.
Each job was particularised, and The
Carnation could see for himself that the
big sedan was superior in every way to
all the rest.
Chisel was examining the engine, when
Spuds came along with Canvas and
Crow.
“Well,” said Spuds, “it ought to get
us over the stretch till your idea’s tick-
ing over, eh, Carnation?”
“Yes, we’ve got the goods here all
right. She’s a job an’ a half, I reckon.
But I’m scared about working on her in
the quiet hours. The lad who owned this
carriage’ll raise the demons of hell when
he misses it, an’ the night-scourers will
be tick-tacking the air for all the slops
in the metro.’'
“So they will,” Spuds agreed. “We’ll
have a feed with Chisel inside—
it’s nine o’clock now —an’ to-morrow
morning at six we’ll get to work chang-
ing over the ’bus from what she is to
what she’s going to be. You never heard
of the hooks being about that early.”
. /At six in the morning they began it.
The bumper-bars were taken off, the
numbers on the two plates changed and
the headlamps disconnected.
“Already you couldn’t tell her,” said
The Carnation. “It’s a crime to chuck
away those metal covers off the spares,
but it’s got to be done; they’re too
blasted yappy as they are. I think I’ll rip
them off now.”
“Go ahead, Carnation,” Spuds con-
curred. “How about that upholstery,
Canvas? Is it taking the dye?”
“Like a spoonfed goat,” Canvas
replied.
“That’s the best of a good ’bus,” said
The Blue Streak; “there’s no trouble
about altering it. Now take that squirt
we hooked from Splasher-street”
“Oh, powder the skite!” Chisel broke
in; “it wasn’t such a rotten job. A
fiver each wasn’t the worst luck we’ve
had, either.”
Suddenly the talk stopped. There was
a feeling in the air which they all seemed
to notice at the same time: something
uncanny, like the sensation of a tragedy
about to happen. The Carnation swung
around and looked out into the yard.
“Hell!” he shouted, “the slops!”
Spuds walked out to the policemen.
There were six of them.
“Anything I can do for you?” he
asked with forced calmness.
“No,” the sergeant answered, “we’ve
just looked in. You’re coming with us,
all of you—it looks as though, we’ve
cleared up the big car-robbery . jobs at
last. Here, get this on your wrists!”
He snapped the cuffs on Spuds.
The Carnation bolted for the back
door, and the moment he opened it six
more officers rushed in.
“That’s a soapy thing to do,” Crow
yelied. “What’d you want to open the
door for?”
But there was no escaping their, fate.
They were as secure as sardines, in a tin.
From the line-up next day there was
one absentee. Spuds was there, so were
Iron Knob, Canvas, Crow, Chisel and The
Blue Streak—and five others, strangers
to the gang. But The Carnation was
missing.
“You’re all here for purposes of iden-
tification,” a sergeant informed them.
“Constable, see if you can identify any
of these men.”
A young constable walked along the
line. ' “Yes, sir,” he said politely. “Six
of them are known to me. They are
Spuds, Iron Knob, Chisel, Canvas, Crow
and The Blue Streak, alias Frank Krark,
Steve Gorkins, Alexander Strap, Thomas
Arthur Waves, Robert Endsby and James
Kodrey.”
“Strike me dead! ” Spuds roared , like
a tormented devil. “It’s the warb we’ve
been feedin’! ”
The sergeant’s order came quickly.
“To the cells!”
Instantly on the command a squad oi
police turned the line and marched it
away into the cold darkness under-
ground.
Constable Strupe was wearing his uni-
form proudly. “If the police can’t stop
crime by going about in regulation duds,
he said, consoling himself, “well, it’s the
right thing to stop it, anyway.”
He walked into a pawnbroker’s shop.
“Is Mr. ISsyberg in?” he asked.
Mr. Issyberg came to the counter.
“I have a shilling for you,” the police-
man said mysteriously.
“A shilling? Vy, vot you mean, a
shilling?”
“You remember one day about a
month ago it was raining and cold and
1 was in front of your shop dressed in
rags and looking in the window. You
came out, and 1 said I was hungry and
hadn’t had a bed for two nights. You
gave me a shilling. I said I would pay
you back—you remember? I was catch-
ing a bunch of crooks ; I’ve got them
now —here’s your shilling back. Thank
you.”
Mr. Issyberg put his hand on the
policeptan’s shoulder. “My poy,” he
said, “keep it. If you beats a Jew you
beats a Jew.”
Down in the cells an officer addressed
Spuds. “Constable Strupe has a message
for you ; he says to tell you you’ll all get
your money back at the proper time.”
Spuds jumped at the bars and lashed
his fingers about them. “Tell him to
bury it!” he shouted.
Ay Di Me!
The man I love is very shy!
To kiss my lips he wouldn’t dare;
For when I ask if I am fair,
He only fiddles with his tie.
And when I woo him with a sigh,
He runs hip hand across his hair;
The man I love is very shy,
To kiss my lips he wouldn’t dare.
1 told him once he ought to try:
He gave me such an angry stare
That I was filled with blank despair,
And rushed away and had a cry.
The man I love is very shy,
To kiss my lips he wouldn’t dare!
N.S.W.
FLOSSIE.


SB
9
%
>/
&
St
M %r
A SEDENTARY LIFE
RESULTS IN
TION
Are you one of the thousands of men and
women who either through their class of
occupation or some physical disability are
compelled to lead a more or less seden-
tary life ?
If so, you will ho doubt find such a
method of living prevents sufficient exer-
cise being obtained and a constipated con-
dition naturally exists. In cases of that
type something is needed to assist nature.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are excellent for this
purpose. You will find them used and praised far
and wide. They stir the Liver, cleanse the Stomach,
and stimulate the Bowels, thus opening and toning the
clogged-up system and making it better able to combat
Life’s Little Daily Ills.
Dr.MORSES
India;
AUSTRALIA
PILLS
WORMS
A COMMON COMPLAINT WITH
CHILDREN.
HOW TO TREAT IT.
Warms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the Abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and
biting, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very dis-
tressing. Sympathetic with this is a sen-
sation of itching at the nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is
characteristic of the affection. The
Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite
is exceedingly variable ; in some cases
natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The Abdomen
is often hard, swollen and tympanetic,
the breath heavy and foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste, and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
The effects, however, often extend be-
yond the Alimentary Canal, and various
derangements of health are experienced
in consequence, either of the direct irri-
tation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion whidh they occasion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
have worms, are suffering intense pain
and distress, and are practically irre-
sponsible for the outbursts of temper,
restlessness and peevishness, and until
some more serious symptoms appeal-
nothing is done to alleviate the distress.
The symptoms of this disease are some-
what variable, but generally they are so
characteristic that no mother need have
any doubts. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if . the general conduct of the
child is such as to give the slightest sus-
picion a careful watch will afford ample
proof.
New
Package
SOc
85
m
o>
2/-
a tin.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal pre-
paration, compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the Intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
Stomath or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in
the form of a confection or lolly, have
no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on the
contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney. Price 2/- per box (6 boxes
11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
JUST PUBLISHED !
“Psalmist of the Dawn,”
By MARY MARLOWE.
There are few settings left in the world
that some novelist or other has not used,
but for this charming romance Miss
Marlowe has found one of them. Her
story, from the bustle and feverishness
of city life, moves quickly to Lord Howe
Island, palm-crested speck in the Pacific
which is a romance in itself. Miss Mar-
lowe knows her islanders intimately:
remote from the world’s hurly-burly;
characteristically ruled over by Three Wise
Men; altogether about the happiest people
on earth. The real and yet almost fairy-
tale island atmosphere gives the novel a
refreshing distinction, a compelling touch
of difference.
“Psalmist of the Dawn,” by Mary Marlowe, is now on sale at
all bookstalls and newsagents. Published by The Endeavour
Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book.
Price 4j6 (postage 3d.).
o ov
X
&
V s :*
&
**
vv?
j>V
►
V
'■
OP
* V
o° 6 >
-•»* ,# s ...••• ...•■ ' +£##*■
S- 0 .•’’ ••■’ 1°
/.AS *«. *’ . \\io^
#*


LOOK FOIt THE WHOLE ItOLLDOG
ON THE LAIIEL
to
<
as our
*4
*
o
It is easy to remember
the name
“BULLDOG,”
but the great reward
you will secure by
insisting upon this
brand is the full
benefit of
GUINNESS STOUT
in its prime condition.
It is nourishment
without parallel, and
the first and only
needful resort when
“run down.” It is
slightly more expen-
sive, but still the
world's greatest value
sdf
© Wl I
©!S
lliut
