

*£,d
1d27-2B
MATURED TOBACCO
in these 1934 Everfresh
Wrapped Cigarettes..
Photograph of 1000 lb. cask of imported
Virginia tobacco for B.D.V.'s . . . .
Large stocks are kept under Customs
supervision.
wm
s.
fi.v
V-L- E»**K>
The only Wrapped
Cigarette at
.10 FOR 6d.
or 20 for 1 /-
—and only 6d. for 10
B.D.V.’s are blended from many types of matured
Virginia tobaccos, and it is by this skilful blending . .
by the use of each type in its correct proportions at
the peak of its maturity, or “mellowness” . . . that
B.D.V.’s are made so smooth, so cool, so perfect.
B.D.V.’s give you three outstanding smoking qualities:
FRESHER . . . Several weeks stocks of all brands
of cigarettes are kept on hand by manufacturers,
wholesalers, and retailers. If these cigarettes are
not wrapped they must deteriorate in quality. But
B.D.V.’s are wrapped . . . They are unique amongst
ten-for-sixpenny cigarettes . . . protected fully by
exclusive “Everfresh” wrapping.
MELLOWER . . . because only aged and matured
tobaccos are used in the blending . . .which ensures
cool, even burning.
SMOOTHER . . . because they are made solely from
the finest imported Virginia tobaccos.
Change to-day to B.D.V.’s for real smoking pleasure!
mMMwP
sssss
'
m
m
m
SsKiSSv
V
SY. 3.48.
The Bulletin
IVestralia’s Case
Yol. 55.—N0. 2829.
Wednesday, May 2, 1934.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o UR New Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be sent, post free, to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
nu*
uu*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
• Gut Herb and Mail
Please send, without obligation, your yew Free
wpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Xante .............
My Address .
S.B. 334
Uss&tfiilarly
« o
For
Sky
/Health
ď
Because it is emollient and
healing, as well as cleansing,
Cutieura Soap is recog-
nized in millions of homes
throughout the world as the
best protection against skin
troubles.
Every member of the fam-
ily should use Cutieura
Soap regularly.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
•. is
The Great Creating Force in Business.
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
THE AGE” publishes over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
' States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
X y J%ZeAM/ty JftZC&s 9
Tia&Ae j'S&t&n&e,
Stinted, S&upe
S'S&te&n Vur£e4 f fageS f#Z
isie JjjUn&'fLp ‘jfy&jmfi
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES G~.
V ■ f f „ »
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated ‘paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and .New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney ; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
tb« mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers, wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, * completeness and service.
‘‘The Mercury” is the only Tas-
manian publication which issues an
AUDITED CIRCULATION CERTIFI-
CATE in accordance with the for-
mulae adopted by the Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address- “MERCURY,” Hobart.
STI)KE Y OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone : 15W 5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F 3348.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation tHat
has real worth' is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes arc possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
t 6 the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues, to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY, .
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative :
W. J. lIESEEHUKST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The
Australian
Art Exhibition
The Macleod Gallery,
BULLETIN BUILDINGS,
252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Bridge Street).
G. V. F. MANN (Director).
The leading Exhibition of Australian Art
—latest works by the most prominent of
Australian Artists always on view and
for sale.
Collection includes new works by Norman
Lindsay, Will Ashton, Robert Johnson,
James R. Jackson, etc.
Selected works by the late E. Phillips Fox.
Best etchings by the best etchers.
Admission Free
T elhphone : B 7971.
f WHitW-:
The COURIER-MAIL. 62,928 Copies Daily
THROUGH Brisbane flows the commerce of the
major portion of Queensland, a vast and
swiftly-growing market offering wonderful
opportunities to enterprising advertisers.
And, through Brisbane, this vast, wealthy market
can be effectively and economically influenced. The
Courier-Mail, with its circulation of 62,928 copies
daily, offers you a circulation at least 24 times that
of any other Queensland daily, and the widest distri-
bution of your advertising message.
Advertisers, both national and local, have proved its
splendid result-pulling powers, ranking it one of
Australia’s foremost media.
QUEENSLAND NEWSPAPERS PTY. LTD.
QUEEN STRE ET—BRISBANE.
Sydney Representative: R. JACKSON,
74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. FISHER.
Newspaper House, Collins Street.
SJtmmbar*
■AUDIT
•BUREAU OP-
CIRCULATIONS
▲ A
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Good Books
Here are three works which can be
recommended to any intelligent reader.
They aren’t shocking or particularly
exciting ; the authors are not interested
in the West End, Hollywood, sport, the
depression, cocktails, promiscuity or the
Douglas credit system. Few things are
pleasanter, after a time in the company
of self-consciously bright folk, eager to
emphasise their unconventionality of
thought and action, than to come to
rest among people who don’t bother to
pose. These books produce a similar
effect. They are simple in style, as books
mostly are when the writers have plenty
to say, and the first two have unusual
themes.
Homer’s Greece
Mary Butts, whose “The Macedonian”
was praised on this Page last year, began
the fashion of going to remote antiquity
for her characters. Una Broadbent, in
Perilous Grain (Nicholson and Watson ;
Bs. 6d.), has gone to mythology for hers.
In this fascinating novel we are shown
how Theseus, Medea, Jason, Herakles
and the rest might have lived and talked
if they had existed. She is kinder to
the gods and demigods than, say, Lucian,
but she treats some of them in the deri-
sive spirit of the most humorous of all
atheists. Admetos (all the principals
belong to the House of Ajolus) is at-
tracted to Herakles by his size, and
accosts him. The cheery giant is not long
in bringing up a subject which is rarely
out of his thoughts.
Suddenly he turned a look of surpris-
ing intensity on Admetos.
“How can a man become a god?”
Admetos started and bit back an angry
rejoinder just in time as he realised that
the stranger was, astonishingly, quite
serious.
“My father was a god,” went on
Herakles argumentatively—“ Zeus the Thun-
derer. That ought to make me half a
god -already.”
He proceeds to deplore his bad luck
in being bound to his cousin Eurystheus
for 12 years, and to speculate gloomily
as to whether he will have to go down
to hell to finish his service.
The method has the effect of humanis-
ing the characters. We see Herakles as
the kind of person the original no doubt
was; a genial, talkative volunteer constable
whose official uniform, or emblem of
power, was his lion’s skin, and who was
ever ready to perform a Termerian or
other mischief on evildoers. Most of
the action occurs in the tiny sector be-
tween Pherae and the sea. The King
of lolkos is a farmer. Alkestis takes
water to the men in the cornfields. The
religion of the King, his family and sub-
jects is based on the vagaries of the
weather, and they think and talk of little
else. There is a grim description of a
drought, and a moving reconstruction of
the return of Jason. He turns on the
cunning old King.
“So you tricked me, after all, Pelias
son of Poseidon. You sent me to the end
of the earth to fetch what you hadn’t the
courage to get for yourself, for a thing
that you knew to be worthless.”
But nothing happens at the time. These
Homerian Greeks, like the Greeks of
historical times, were careless of life, but
they had a well-bred dislike of hubris
in word or deed. It ends with the dis-
covery on the beach by Admetos of
Jason dead near the ruined hull of the
Argo.
Perilous Grain is one of those rare
novels that might be employed usefully
as a school or even university textbook.
It makes the world of Homer seem as
real as our own.
Tudor Sussex
Marcus Edward is the editor of The
Countryman’s Jewel (Chapman and
Hall; 155.). It was written by his brother,
the late W. Arthur Woodward, whose
home was at Plumpton. Near the ances-
tral Rectory of the Woodward family is
Plumpton Place, a moated grange which
belonged in the sixteenth century to one
Leonard Mascall, a squire who loved
Sussex and wrote
much about its
birds, animals,
trees and plants.
He is imagined
in his home. The
clothes of the
family are described, their food, the hall
strewn with lavender, rosemary and
thyme, the furniture and the decorations
on the walls. You see the house clearly
and the squire at work with his
ward Amicia on his translation of
“Maison Rustique.” There is a, shadowy
love-story. The young Puritan, Philip
Stubbes, admires Amicia, but her modern
ways shock him, and his*priggishness irri-
tates her, and she dismisses him. The
editor’s chief aim is to show what this
part of southern England looked like,
and how the inhabitants, and particularly
the occupants of a minor country house,
lived three centuries ago. His study
should chiefly delight the thousands who
have travelled to Goodwood by road.
Some visitors to the manor house write
that they are staying at Petworth on their
way from London, and the reader who
knows the country immediately visualises
them jogging along with the vast walled
park on their right, winding through the
narrow streets of the village and turning
in at the fortress-like gate on the
hill. “In imagination,” says the fore-
word, “we often live in the past,
even, as we say, losing ourselves in some
bygone period To live in past cen-
turies is, in fact, much the same thing as
journeying to distant and less civilised
countries.”
The Countryman’s Jewel brings back
a vanished society by means of countless
quaint and erudite touches, and just be
cause it doesn’t strive after charm it is
full of it.
A London Idol
George Pollock’s Mr. Justice McCardie
(John Lane ; 155.) gives a striking pic-
ture in the round of a great man.
Most casual visitors to the Law
Courts have carried away the same
impressions of eminent Judges and
CQunsel; Simon stands for cold efficiency,
Hewart for ruthlessness, Birkett for
polish, and so on. McCardie impressed
everybody as being kind. On the other
hand, he was just. The writer happened
to be in London on leave at the end of
1917, and got a seat at the Old Bailey
when Lieutenant Malcolm came before
McCardie on a charge of shooting Anton
Baumberg, alias Count de Borch. Bauin-
berg had been making love to Mrs.
Malcolm while her husband was at the
front, and he had the reputation of being
a spy, white-slaver and other unsavory
things. Those were emotional times.
All England seemed to be convinced that
Malcolm had performed a meritorious
act. . McCardie kept his head and de-
livered an attack on the “unwritten” law,
which Simon, of all men, had been up-
holding. It didn’t get Malcolm con-
victed, but it rendered the kind of
defence that got him acquitted valueless
from then onwards.
McCardie was an oddity in many
ways. He hadn’t taken silk or figured
in* politics when he was raised to the
Bench ; he was not a university product,
and his early professional years were
spent in Birmingham. He was always
ready for a row, and he despised many
of the laws he had to administer. The
divorce laws in particular. Yet, signifi-
cantly, he never quarrelled with an advo-
cate. He never started a discussion with
anybody unless he saw a chance of serv-
ing the public by doing so.
If you want to understand why the
British judicial system is respected the
world over, get this book. It describes
a man who in nearly every respect was
an embodiment of the best type of Eng-
lish Judge.
RED PAGE.
The Artist and the Depression
The Melbourne “Herald’s” art critic
(Mr. Blamire Young) recently attacked
Australian painters generally, and speci-
fically Melbourne painters. The gist of
his remarks was that when the economic
blizzard hit the artists they cravenly left
the path of self-development and sought
the nearest shelter. So abject was their
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTlSlNG”—Consistency from Day to Day.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’PHONE: M 2401.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
7.
5S
2^
Y"*
sxn
Z
£4/18/6 “Little Beauty”
Pony Plough
£4/9/6
“Little Beauty” Pony Plough, weighs only 861 b.
Sturdy and strong, ploughs furrows 7 to 8 inches
in depth and width. Price £4/18/6
Sale Price £4/9/6
liil
£43 8 feet
Windmill
£3O
No. 2 Mill, 8 Feet. Back
geared 3 to 1. Gross
weight, 5851 b.; net
weight, 4601 b. Has 6in.
stroke, six arms, six sec-
tions and 18 fans. De-
velops 3/10 horse-power
in 15-mile wind, and is
the Standard Farm Mill
for wells 35 to 100 feet
deep. Price, complete,
with 20ft. 4-post galvan-
ised steel towers . . £43
Sale Price £3O
£5O 10 feet
Windmill
£43
No. 3 Mill, 10 Feet.
Back geared 3to 1. Gross
weight, 6601 b.; net
weight, 4851 b. Regular
crank gives 6in. stroke. Mill has six
arms, six sections and 24 fans. Develops
3/5 horse-power in 15-mile wind, and is
our heavy-duty Farm Mill for wells 76 to
150 feet deep. Price, complete with 20ft.
4-post galvanised steel towers .... £50
Sale Price £43
£5 Cascade Force Pump
Double Acting
Force Tank
Pump. Cylinder
£4/15/-
of polished iron; with poppet valves,
which hold the water. All valves, beinp
under the hood, are easy to
get at. The suction and dis-
charge are threaded for 2in.
pipe. Capacity, 2000 galls.
per hour. Price £5
Sale Price . . . £4/15/-
COG
GEAR
BUY NOW AND SAVE ON THESE
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
f
ALL GENUINELY REDUCED PRICES
£412/6 New Harrow Cultivator
This does excellent work in
Strawberry fields. The beams
tion steel, light but strong,
steel handles are rigidly stayed
Tobacco and
are of I sec-
The channel
to the beams.
£3/15
These Stays keep the beams down level at all widths, so that all the
tines work the same depth. They also make the cultivator very rigid
and free from “rattle.” The double-ended diamond tines are of hard
steel, and have a small foot forged on both ends. They are held firmly
to the beams, and are adjustable to three slopes. Depth is altered
by moving the front fork bolt to the required hole. The beams open
from 1 6£ to 39\ inches. Widening is done with a quick-acting lever.
The cast-iron wheel, which has a 2in. rim, runs on a renewable steel
bush. Approximate weight, 761b. Price 82/6
Sale Price £3/15/-
£5/12/6 Horse Hoe and Cultivator
No. 8 Horse Hoe and Culti-
vator Combined. The Planet
Jr. No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cul-
tivator is one of the most valu-
£51216
able time- and labour-saving tools available for the use
of the farmer. Has a steel wheel that does not clog;
a frame that is longer and higher than others; steel
standards that are so attached as to both brace the
cultivator and withstand strain; levers that' operate
quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment in-
cludes four 3 x 8in. cultivator steels, one 4 x 8in.
cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel, all
especially hardened; will give long service.
Price
Sale Price
£5/12/6
£5/2/6
/a
)
9
-a
£6/15/- “Uni” Shelter
“Uni” Sheller,
made by Anthony
Horderns’. Cap-
£6/2/6
acity, 20 bushels per hour. Strongly
constructed wood frame, first quality
castings throughout, shaker sieve ;
the handiest size for the small maize-
Price £6/ 1 57-
grower.
d
£6/17/6 Chaff Cutter
No. i “Uni”
Cutter, made
b y Anthony
£6/7/6
Horderns’. The Uni Chaff
Cutter, with 7 Jin. mouth, cut's
two lengths, Jin. and Jin. Sturdily
built on three steel legs.
Price £6/ 1 7/6
Sale Price £6/7/6
&
22/6 Spray Pump
“Uni” Bucket
Spray Pump.
Ideal for small
18/9
spraying purposes, throws a
good powerful spray. Can be
attached to any bucket with
T handle. Price 22/6
Sale Price 18/9
Garden or Lawn Seats
For a cool, shady spot in
the garden or lawn! Garden
seats made with 1 1 hard-
wood battens and steel legs.
13/6
These seats are comfortable as well as strong.
Sizes, 4ft. Price, 13/6. 6ft. Price .. 17/6
ďf
39/6 Diamond Harrow
Diamond Harrows.
20-teeth single sec-
tion. Strongly con-
35/6
structed, teeth of hardened steel.
'UNI"
£9/11/6 Barrel Sprayer
No. 2 Barrel Spray Pump
complete. Mounted as illus-
trated. Barrel fitted to
£9
skids. Hose, 15ft. x lin. Extension
Lance, 9ft. x Pipe, cut-off cock.
Dripguard Cyclone—Duplex Nozzle.
Price, complete £9/11/6
Sale Price . £9
O Agricultural Department —Fourth Floor.
Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712C, G.P.O.


Reo is the only car
THAT CHANGES CEAR FOR ITSELF
Picture yourself driving with the utmost ease and
comfort even in dense traffic where constant
starting and stopping are necessary without
having to touch a gear lever that is Reo driving.
In the new Reo this work is performed automati-
cally silently, smoothly and without strain on
driver or engine.
This feature, which is revolutionising motoring, is
exclusive to Reo the Reo is the only car you
can drive without changing gear.
And the new Reo is a car of superb quality and
performance years ahead in design and in years
to come it will still be modern.
Arrange with your local distributor for a demonstra-
tion run. Try the new "Automatic-Gear"
experience the thrill of Reo driving for yourself.
DISTRIBUTORS:
AUSTRALIA
REO MOTORS LTD., Sydney.
THE REO SERVICE COY.
Brisbane.
DENNY BROS. LTD., Perth.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE MOTORS
PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
COMMERCIAL MOTOR
VEHICLES LTD., Adelaide
AUTOMATIC GEAR OPERA-
TION IS SIMPLICITY ITSELF.
The Reo "Automatic-Sear" does what drivers
are otherwise required to do by hand with
a gear lever.
There are no new driving habits to acquire.
NO levers no mysterious buttons.
NO action or effort on the driver's part.
As the car's speed increases it automatically
changes to high.
As the car's speed decreases under load it
automatically changes to low.
pen
NEW ZEALAND
REO MOTORS LTD., Auckland,
Hamilton, Palmerston North
McLAREN & CO., Christchurch
T. R. TAYLOR, Dunedin
REO MOTOR CAR COMPANY, LANSING, MICHIGAN
RC-15-36
T HE
5 T RE AM
ESI G N


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.li.Q.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 03
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Oft
*.
M
✓
oboleine
\
OPPCNI ' , 'iHi R 4™"' to - LTD -
BRIMFUL OF FUN AND ENERGY
thanks to Roboleine!
High spirits in children are a sure sign of vital health
the birthright of every child. If your child is listless or
out of sorts, give him a short course of Roboleine. You
will be amazed how quickly the good red blood which
Roboleine makes will transform him into a lusty, energetic
child. There are no drugs in Roboleine only Nature’s
foods concentrated in a special way. Doctors have
prescribed it for over twenty years for both young and old.
It’s just as good for adults who are run down or out of sorts.
12oz. jars only 4/6d. or 360 z. 12/- at all chemists and stores.
THE FOOD THAT BUILDS THE BODY
SEND COUPON
FOR SAMPLE
Muir & Neil Ltd.. Box 1562 E. G.P.0., Sydney
I enclose 3d. in stamps for Sample of Roboleine j
Name J
Address l
j
5.8.4
surrender that the most impressive part
of the centenary display is likely to be
canvases of men of 50 years ago.
That is to say, we are going to show
the world that the most vital period of our
artistic history was the Victorian and
Edwardian periods, and that since that
time we have gradually relinquished our
attempt to keep in step with the march of
time.
Far from the painters having suc-
cumbed, they are painting more vigor-
ously than ever. There are more painters
painting now than there were before the
depression, and there are more people
seeking teachers. One well-known
painter, who had two pupils before the
depression, now has over 30, and they
range from boys and girls of 10 to men
and women over 60. Another has
doubled his student roll-call. It is since
the onset of the economic crisis that the
Modernist movement has started, and
there are at least three masters instilling
the principles of futurism, primitivism
and expressionism into ardent regiments
of disciples, who have no immediate hope
of selling their pictures, and little hope
of ever selling them. The official
academies are working overtime and
almost every painter of repute has a
school or private pupils.
This is understandable. The colleges
and universities have continued to inject
into the social body an annual horde of
graduates unable to find employment in
the ranks of the professions or in the
realms of commerce. If there is one thing
the human entity cannot permanently
tolerate it is doing nothing. So a number
of adolescents who would have been
otherwise absorbed have sought art as
an escape from boredom. This is all to
the good because, although most will no
doubt relapse when times become
merrier, a few will be permanently en-
riched and will be incapable of giving
up the more interesting way of the artist,
short of being menaced by starvation.
Not only that, a large number of adults
who a few years ago were getting on in
business are now not getting on or
haven’t any business to get on in. Thus,
willy-nilly, they have been drawn away
from material things to the things of the
spirit. I know an out-of-work gardener
of 68 who spends hours before an easel
trying to relate a blue delphinium to a
pink background. Alongside paints a
young man on the dole who earns the
money to buy pigments and brushes by
posing in the nude. A few yards away
is the son of a broker who, in normal
times, would have entered his father’s
business. Alongside him is a young lady
whose address is Toorak, and who, in
more prosperous times, instead of paint-
ing in Melbourne, would have been win-
tering on the Riviera. Next to her is the
wife of a man who used to keep a big
house going and now lives in a small
flat. Next to her is a prominent advo-
cate of Major Douglas who is engaged
in equipping himself with a worthy occu-
pation for the coming age of leisure.
Mr. Young is therefore wrong as re-
gards the quantity of art which is being
produced. There has never been a time
when painters have so persistently stuck
to their guns in the face of every form
of official and private discouragement,
of poverty, and of misunderstanding and
opposition from the orthodox critics.
The result is to be seen in some of the
best landscapes and portraits that have
ever been painted in Victoria. Of course,
the conventional painters, who are busy
reiterating the old forms, won’t have it.
But who pays any attention to them?
F. S.
The Old Scholar Shows His Medals
The Australian Rhodes Review (Mel-
bourne University Press ; 3s. 6d.) has the
opulent format of the best type of over-
seas magazine. It is a pleasure to look
at and touch. The contents are supplied
by about 30 Australian Rhodes scholars,
and there is an interesting article on
“The Rhodes Experiment” by Sir Francis
Wylie, who became Oxford secretary to
the Trust early in the century. The con-
tributions are short; the longest, which
is by J. A. Seitz, and bears the some-
what daunting title, “Superseding the
External Examination: A Victorian
Experiment,” only runs to. 14 pages.
Most of the writers discuss their own
subjects—Dr. Harvey Sutton deals with
“Public Health and Preventive Medi-
cine,” P. R. Stevensen with “Book-
publishing in Australia” and so on —and
the platitudinarian roams unchecked.
The winning passage as regard obvious-
ness appears in “Reform or Revolution,”
by Herbert Barton:
The extremists of the Right and Left
must be resisted; resisted does not mean
suppressed. But in so far as they resort to
the raising of private armies, such as the
New Guard, this form of activity should
certainly be suppressed. But they should
be given every freedom to advance their
views.
There are others almost as good.
Sir Francis Wylie surveys the experi-
ment in detail. Rhodes scholars have pro-
vided 22 members of Parliament, 5
Judges, 33 schoolmasters, 13 Fellows of
Oxford Colleges, 2 Ministers (one Brit-
ish, one American), a bishop, a famous
astronomer and a knighted public ser-
vant. Either Sir Francis has a poor
opinion of soldiers or the scholars have
a negligible war record. None of them
seems to have led a battalion, much less
a brigade or division. This' is all the
more remarkable since, to quote G. V.
Portus (“In Defence of Clause Two”):
. Scholarship and sport together made up
only fifty per cent, of the marks he
| Rhodes] allotted to his ideal candidate.
The other fifty were to be awarded for
leadership and general unselfishness.
Few will dispute at this time of day
that the Rhodes scholar who could have
joined a combatant unit and refrained
was shrewd in his generation. ‘The
sojer’s wage is honor,” and it is subject
to a 90 per cent, cut if the hero survives
the declaration of peace. Yet it is doubt-
ful if Rhodes would have appreciated
this detached view had he been alive
in the spring of 1918.
H. S.
“Pandemonium” and Accuracy
The accusation of inaccuracy made by
“D.” (R.P. 11/4/’34) against “Pande-
monium,” Melbourne’s new monthly
venture into fields that have been sadly
neglected locally, calls for comment.
“D.” denies that * Major Douglas’s
reception in Sydney “only stopped short
of the measures taken in Adelaide against
the late Elijah Dowie.” In Adelaide
people threw stink bombs at Dowie. 1
was present. In Sydney verbal stink
bombs were thrown at Douglas. As the
article complained of referred to the
press. campaign, the allegations regard-
ing Sydney’s treatment of Douglas were
accurate. “D.” also denies that the
Major supplied a plan for the abolition
of unemployment in Australia. I heard
him distinctly do so to 2000 people in
the Town Hall, Melbourne, and as publi-
cists and professors all discussed his plan
at length in the Sydney papers he can
hardly be accused of having kept it a
secret.
“D.” says that Australian archbishops,
referring to the depression, didnT declare
that the children are being punished for
the sins of their fathers. “Archbishops
don’t say such things.” It is a fundamental
dogma of the Christian church, has the
approval of biologists, and I heard an
archbishop put it in pseudo-economic
terms on a Melbourne platform some
three years ago. May I add that, if
archbishops don’t say such things, then
they ought to, because it is quite obvious
that the children are punished for the
sins of their fathers; the problem re-
mains to define the “sin” correctly and
to decide who are the sinners. “Pande-
monium” is trying to do this to the best
of its ability.
“D.” objects further to the statement
that “the screen is the great unconscious
clinic of contemporary society, where all
the misfits and failures have their mental
bunions presented as evidences of bound-
ing health and vitality.” This statement
is in the realm of psychological analysis,
and if it is “silly” then the writer is being
silly in the company of a large number
of eminent pathologists and psycholo-
gists who have said much the same thing.
“D.” finally objects to the assertion
that Marlene Dietrich has replaced Greta
Garbo in popular favor. I hear that this
is incorrect, or, at any rate, premature.
The writer should have been more
careful, but it seems a small matter on
which to base such a dreadful warning
as that “the paper will live if those in
charge can persuade its propagandists to
get their premises right before they begin
arguing from them.”
PANDEMOS.
Derogatory Expressions
The Old Contemptibles’ Association
recently assembled in St. Matthew’s
Church, Auckland, where their flag was
consecrated by the Primate, Archbishop
Averill. It recalls one of the many libels
that have been aimed at the ex-Kaiser.
During the early part of the war, speak-
ing of course in German, he referred to
the British Expeditionary Force landed
in Flanders as an “Armeechen” —
literally “a little army.” Someone trans-
lated it “contemptible little army,” and
this version, which has been going the
rounds ever since, caused much ill-feel-
ing. “Armeechen” is simply the French
“armee” (army), with the addition of the
German suffix “chen” —a diminutive
form related to the English “kin” (as in
lambkin, manikin, etc.). The fact that
the Germans have adopted a large num-
ber of French words in their military
nomenclature indicates that at one time
they looked on the hereditary enemy as
a model on which to base their warlike
organisation.
The Kaiser’s expression simply referred
to the quantity, not the quality, of the
British troops which landed in Flanders.
Bismarck was really contemptuous
when, during the France-Prussian war, it
was feared that the British might attempt
to help the French by landing a military
force on the Continent. “In such a case,
remarked the Prussian Chancellor, we
will send a squadron of police to look
after it.”
The Kaiser is not the only monarch
who has been misquoted in his criticism
of the British. Napoleon is said to have
referred to them as a nation of shop-
keepers. The exact expression he used
was “la nation boutiquiere.” The word
“boutique” in French means a small
shop, or even the selection of wares
which constitutes a pedlar’s stock. The
expression would be better translated a
nation of hucksters.” In this case, unlike
that of the Kaiser, it was more contemp-
tuous than the conventional translation,
which has been accepted as a compli-
ment.
As another example of how a casual
expression may help to brand a whole
nation undeservedly, one can scarcely
pick up a comic paper without encoun-
tering an allusion to the stinginess of the
Scot. Forty years ago the accusation was
unknown. About that time a Scot visit-
ing London, and unused to the tipping
customs prevalent in the metropolis, re-
marked that he “hadna been a minute
in London when bang went saxpence.”
One paper made this “I hadna been a
month in London before bang went sax-
pence.” And the joke has been going
the rounds ever since.
J. D. LECKIE.
Biographers Wanted
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
has arranged to publish a series of mono-
graphs of leading Australian writers.
The late Professor Le Gay Brereton will
be the subject of the first. The Fellow-
ship would like to hear from people who
are qualified and willing to contribute
monographs, or who have suggestions to
make concerning the scheme. The presi-
dent of the Fellowship (Dr. Mackaness,
M.A., Litt.D.) is editor-in-chief, and
profits will go to the National Literary
Fund.
A Satchel of Books
Arthur Barker is the publisher of The
Treasure Book of Pleasure Cruising, by
Gilbert Rumbold. It is a kind of luxury-
travellers’ vade mecum. Tips about deck
sports, information about every class of
ship, hints on the subject of shore-going
at ports, replicas of the principal flags
that the wanderer on the faces of the
seven seas is liable to come across, re-
cipes for shipboard cocktails —these and
a hundred more things of interest to
moneyed tourists are dealt with by one
who obviously knows. The illustrations
in color are attractive, and there is a
section at the end which the owner of
the book is supposed to use as a log.
Comrades of the Storm (Hodder and
Stoughton; Angus and Robertson;
7s. 6d.) is Peter B. Kyne’s latest. It is
about Todhunter Blaine and Carol Ban-
field, who meet in New York when Tod
pawns his overcoat to feed the lady.
They go prospecting, meet Mr. Grainger
(the Cappy Ricks of the book), who has
plenty of money and a wife and two
children to spend it. Not till p. 310 do
they realise that they’re in love. Then:
Quoth Todhunter Blaine:
“In the winter-time, when the sun is low,
Two is company, three not so.”
And he made a dash for her and held her
to his heart and laid his bronzed cheek
against hers and they were silent, thus,
because neither had anything to say, nor
was there the slightest necessity for saying
it if they had. Carol was weeping with
happiness and in the Blaine eyes there was
a look that was practically saintly.
The Biffin Papers, by Harry Graham
(Bodley Head ; 7s. 6d.). Harry Graham
is another Wodehouse, only more obvi-
ous in his methods, and Biffin is like
Wooster, only he has less intellect. In
plain terms, the humor of this opus is
strained.
“You don’t remember me, eh?” the
dotard continued, wagging his beard in
a painfully roguish fashion.
“I’m afraid not,” said Biffin rather
coldly.
“We used to go caterpillar-hunting to-
gether at St. Domino’s,” the stranger
explained, while a moth which at that
moment flew out of his beard seemed
to bear silent witness to the truth of his
assertion.
“I was never at St. Domino’s,” said
Biffin cruelly.
There are 169 beautifully printed pages
of these inconsequential whimsies, and
they are illustrated on Batemanish lines
by P. Bellew.
The hero of Francis Everton’s In-
soluble (Collins; 7s. 6d.) is the narrator,
an honest, pipe-smoking young country
solicitor who talks to his dog. Cecil Man-
ning—handsome, rich, brilliant, unscrupu-
lous—is his foil. Cecil is the kind of person
who gets blackballed when he puts up
for the local branch of the R.S.P.C.A.
When Cecil’s body is discovered one
Sunday no one is particularly surprised,
and there are many clues. We confi-
dently defy any crime-fan to say without
looking at the end of the book who did
the deed and why. An additional point
in favor of Insoluble is that it contains
some attractive pictures of English pro-
vincial life.


,
m
'
V.
fef %;?
w j
Si
r i
m
m
i-.-
m
m
m
V’
'
: ■
tmmm-
MDine
-r
: 1
\,


The Bulletin
Vol. 55—No. 2829
May 2, 1934
SOME POLITICIANS ARE SO FORGETFUL.
We don’t mind your fostering your agriculture; but look here ? Dad. The Danes didn’t sink the Emden, and we don’t remember seeing the Argentinos at Villers-
Bret, or Mont St. Quentin.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen
Victoria Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
WESTRALIA’S CASE.
Australia hungers for leadership, but
gets none from Canberra. Characteristic
of the Lyons Ministry is the announce-
ment of the Prime Minister (or his
press-agent) that it is “taking action
to prepare a case in answer to
the demand of Westralia for the
right to secede.” This “action” might
have been effective if it had been
taken two years ago, when the electors
of New South Wales rid the Govern-
ment of Lang. The secession campaign
was not then formidable —it was, in fact,
still ridiculed by a great many West-
ralians. But the Government elected to
ignore it until it could be ignored no
longer. Then someone said, “Oh, we’ll
give them another hundred thousand!”
or words to that effect. The money
was unthankfully accepted, and the ges-
ture taken as a confession of guilt. The
result, combined with the effects of the
depression—which were, of course, attri-
buted to the Federal Octopus—was that
the secessionists made more progress in
six months than they had done in as
many years.
The Mitchell Government, which was
hand-in-glove with the separatist leaders,
arranged for a referendum, reckoning it
a good election stunt. The Labor Oppo-
sition, though pledged to unification, sup-
ported the referendum bill. It now
dawned on Mr. Lyons that the situation
might require his personal attention. He
descended on Westralia, accompanied by
Senator Pearce. By this time, however,
the secessionists were carrying every-
thing before them, and the Prime Min-
ister had a series of hostile receptions.
A tactless reference to “disloyalty” drew
the taunt that Westralia was overwhelm-
ingly for conscription when Joseph was
against it, and his eleventh-hour visit did
more harm than good. Certainly his pro-
mise of a Constitutional Convention won
a few thousand votes for that expedient,
but Secession beat Federation by nearly
two to one.
Since then the disruptionists have
availed themselves of the feebleness of
the crowd at Canberra to consolidate
their position. There has been no Con-
stitutional Convention, and when Con-
stitutional Reform was mentioned at the
last Premiers’ conference the Prime Min-
ister pleaded that it should not be tackled
during the depression. The Mitchell
Government, which had thought to win
os the secession cry, was, in fact, de-
feated on trivial local issues; but the
Collier Government, while still allied to
the party which says it is for unification
with abolition of the Senate, has taken
good care not to fall foul of the seces-
sionists. In obedience to their orders, it
appointed a Parliamentary committee to
draw up a petition to the King, and
when that portentous document was pre-
sented it summoned a special session of
the State Parliament, at which the neces-
sary legislation has been passed. It is
not yet certain that the unificationist
Premier will yield to the demand that
he should head the delegation that is
to convey the petition to London, but
the opportunity of a visit to Bucking-
ham Palace, Westminster, Downing-
street, Lord’s, Madame Tussaud’s and
other interesting places seems too good
to be missed.
Of course, Westralia has legitimate
grievances. All the States have. Their
politicians, irrespective of party, inveigh
against the distribution of functions
(while jibbing at an amicable rearrange-
ment on the score of their precious dig-
nity) which enables the Commonwealth
crew to show large surpluses and be
generous to themselves and leaves the
State Governments with huge deficits.
The people have greater cause for dis-
content in the glaring defects of the Con-
stitution, on which a crazy variety of
industrial arbitration, so called, has been
grafted, interpretations of which change
with the composition of the High Court.
While essential powers —trade and com-
merce, for instance —are denied to the
national authority, there is a conflict oi
powers in other fields and incessant com-
petition in some. In the result, we have
too many politicians making laws and
too many Judges making other laws —
laws which, as in the case of the basic-
wage judgments, are apt to be as con-
fusing as the laws passed by the politi-
cians—too many departments and Gov-
ernment employees, and such a multi-
plication of imposts that it has now be-
come a regular thing, in New South
Wales especially, for one set of harpies
to tax what a man has paid to another.
But, as far as State finance goes, the
Westralian Government should be the
last to complain of its treatment by the
Commonwealth. Over and above the
£473,000 credited to it for interest on
State debts, it is receiving huge annual
amounts of Federal money. This year
it is getting £600,000, which is £21,900
more than the total amount collected
last year in State land tax (£130,900),
State income tax (£169,000), State divi-
dend duty (£168,600), State betting taxes
(£47,200) and State tax on entertainments
(£62,400). Wholly because of these Com-
monwealth grants, local taxation of in-
comes is lighter in Westralia than in any
other State. This is how the friendly
Butler puts the figures for 1931-32:
For every £lOO of recorded production
of the previous year, South Australia took
in taxation £13.11, N. S. Wales £11.25, Tas-
mania £9.93, Queensland £8.94, Victoria
£8.87, Westralia £6.25.
The Commonwealth has uncomplain-
ingly borne the losses (about £150,000
a year) on the Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta
railway, and has heavily subsidised West-
ralian Airways. It is shouldering part
of the financial responsibility for the
south-west group settlements, on which
State Governments threw away millions.
And it made a great contribution to the
revival of gold-mining in Westralia. It
guaranteed a loan for the completion
of the plant which is successfully treat-
ing the • immense ore-bodies at Wiluna.
It came to light with a gold bonus. Even
now, when gold is worth £8 Australian
per fine ounce, it is refraining from tax-
ing the commodity, though South Africa
is doing so and Canada is following suit.
On the word of Richard Hamilton, 4dwt.
stone can now be worked at a profit.
This in spite of “the iniquitous tariff”—
which, incidentally, did not prevent thou-
sands of Westralian farmers from doing
well when wheat was a fair price.
The goldfielders voted for remaining
within the “indissoluble” Commonwealth.
If Westralia has the right to secede from
it, the goldfields have an equal right to
secede from the coast. And if they
broke away, North Westralia might fol-
low them —the voting up there was
almost 50-50. Still, neither contingency
is likely to arise.
These separatists are asking the King
and the Imperial Parliament for what
they cannot grant, and would not if they
could. Britain has no naval force to
spare for the defence of Westralia’s 4500
miles of coastline, and the rhetoric of
the Perth Dominion League will assur-
edly leave it cold —it already has New-
foundland on its hands. It is a pity to
see the members of the League expend-
ing so much energy and pertinacity in
the pursuit of the unattainable. They
should be striving to remould the Con-
stitution instead of attempting to smash
it. They should be helping to make
Australia a nation that will endure in-
stead of trying to dismember it.
“THE BULLETIN” IN COURT.
The Bulletin last week had the rare ex-
perience of fighting two libel actions. In
B. 11/10/’33 there was a Political Point
which read:
Measures against Communists are
promised again by the Stevens Govern-
ment. If it is really in earnest it should
begin by depriving them of privileges
which, in one way and another, cost the
public a good deal of money. It is gro-
tesque that ruffians who openly aim at
overthrowing our institutions and seizing
property by force should be allowed to
stand for the “capitalistic” Parliament and
get their names on ballot papers gratis,
and that the Crown should find their costs
when they start a riot, hoping that it will
flame into a revolution.
Two months later a Cypriote with
little English and an Australian with
five children, both unemployed resi-
dents of the Newcastle-Maitland dis-
trict and both unknown to The
Bulletin, decided that the paragraph
was aimed at them and that £5OOO apiece
would be needed to salve their injured
feelings. By some alchemy they
raised funds sufficient to oppose the
preliminary application (the question
argued before a Judge was whether the
trials should be held at Sydney, where
The Bulletin is published, or at Mait-
land) and to fetch counsel and solicitors
from Sydney to Maitland, and about a
dozen witnesses from Newcastle to that
very hospitable town.
Their leading counsel was a Mr. Evatt,
who used to be quite a good footballer.
He directed a roaring cataract of abuse
at The Bulletin and the writer of the
“libel,” and told the jury that he would
“like to see such verdicts given in cases
of this sort as would drive papers like
The Bulletin out of existence.”
The first plaintiff was Peter Spiron.
One of his witnesses was a Greek from
Newcastle who said that he had been
a friend of Spiron for five years, but that
upon seeing the paragraph in The
Bulletin, of which he was only a very
casual reader, his “opinion dropped.”
Indeed, he became convinced that his
depreciated friend was unsuitable for a
Greek brotherhood, for membership of
which he was to be nominated.
This evidence was somewhat prejudiced
when witness admitted to Mr. Norman
McGhie (who, instructed by Mr. R. C.
Osborne, of Cape, Kent and Osborne,
appeared for The Bulletin) that he had
had lunch with his jettisoned friend a
few minutes before he appeared in the
box.
There was also Mr. W. E. Campbell,
who as a member of the Newcastle Land
Board and a J.P. brought a judicial mind
to bear on the situation. Mr. Campbell
said that his “personal opinion and con-
nections with Mr. Spiron were of a very
good nature. I had found him a very
respectable, inoffensive, law-abiding citi-
zen,” but
after reading the article in The Bulletin,
him being classed as a ruffian and likely to
cause a riot' —disloyal—it practically severed
my connections with him.
Mr. McGhie asked whether that was
the way he treated his friends generally
—accept anything said about them and
cut them off. Mr. Campbell replied, “In
print, yes” ; but he acknowledged that
“Newcastle Herald”' reports of police
proceedings against Mr. Spiron had not
affected him in the same way. He added:
I mean, when this article was printed
and a man was brought up to be tried
and that article clearly stated to that
effect, and if an article was printed con-
demning the man for being such and such
a thing the decision was in the article
which was printed on the second occasion.
A sentence which explains why some
Land Board decisions are not easy to
understand.
The jury lost no time in finding for
The Bulletin. The verdict in the second
case went the same way, and was de-
livered almost as promptly.
The experience illustrates the queer
things that may happen to newspapers
in N. S. Wales. The Westralian law of
libel allows a defendant to apply for
security for costs, which may be required
if a Judge thinks the action is based on
flimsy or vexatious premises. If such a
provision existed in N. S. Wales, it is
doubtful whether either case would have
come into court. The time of a Judge
and eight special jurymen would not then
have been wasted, and two unemployed
men would not have needed to strain
their resources and pledge their financial
future in such a wildgoose chase.
MYTH-MAKERS.
The myth-making faculty of mankind
transcends all others. It has invented the
monoceros, the catoblepas, the cockodrill,
the duck that grows on trees, the tree
that screams and the plant that sings.
It has invented tailed men, half-men and
dogmen, men who feed exclusively on
smells, men whose bite is poisonous to
serpents and men who sleep wrapped in
their ears.
In the realm of geography the myth-
making faculty has performed even more
impressive feats. It has created the lands
of Ophir, of Golconda, of the lotus-
eaters, and of Gog and Magog ; also not
a few islands, including the Fortunate, the
Circean and the isle of the Seven Bishops.
Several seas and oceans must also be
listed, as well as a shoal of submerged
continents. All these things were once
firmly believed in, some of them by
rationalists like Pliny. Many are still be-
lieved in.
This, however, is a drabber age than
those which could invent such gorgeous
fantasies as the Travels of Sir John
Mandeville. It is a drab age and a
materialistic one. But being materialistic
does not make it any more subject to the
reign of reason. It only changes the
character of its inventions. And so we get
the myth about the Soviet Union.
This myth takes one form in Flinders-
lane and Bligh-street, and another in
Footscray and Redfern. In the one
case it appears as of a vast, sinister
area peopled by maniacs with enormous
whiskers who massacre a hundred arch-
bishops daily with machine-guns, whose
agriculture and industry are in confusion,
who can’t be trusted to honor an obli-
gation, but who produce foodstuffs in
such quantities as to threaten world
prices and contrive to provide a valu-
able market for goods of all descriptions.
This myth is mainly fed by pithy cables
from Moscow or Riga.
In its alternative form, the myth takes
the shape of a vast land flowing with
milk and honey, except where it is
occupied by enormous factories, hydro-
electric works, art institutions, people’s
parks and anti-God museums. In this land
everybody is perpetually smiling. Girl
mechanics smile, Communist executives
smile and happy workers smile as
they turn switches in mass-production
plants. Couples live happily together,
whether married or unmarried. Subordi-
nates do not envy their bosses ; bosses
do not bully their subordinates. The in-
habitants enjoy absolute democratic free-
dom, but obey the orders of their dic-
tator. They have a passion for peace, and
they have the finest, largest and best-
disciplined army in existence. This myth
is fed mainly by publications issued by
the very people who are the subject of
it. I have one before me.
It is called “U.S.S.R. in Construction,”
and the issue in question is devoted to the
Buriat-Mongolian Autonomous Soviet
Socialist Republic, which is situated round
Lake Baikal in the middle of Siberia. I
had a passing glimpse of the district from
a train in Czarist times and distinctly
recollect a member of the future socialist
republic. He was a tall and very dirty
Mongol seated on an extraordinarily
high wooden saddle mounted on a horse
compared with which Rosinante was a
Phar Lap. He raced the train over a
two-mile stretch into a township, and
beat it hollow. I won a bet on him.
The new republic has an area of
395,000 square kilometres. “For Czarist
Russia, this enormous territory, with its
inexhaustible stores of energy, its wealth
of raw materials, forests, fish and animals,
was for centuries a choice morsel in a
slavish state of semi-starvation.” But
now, I learn, Buriatia is blossoming with
collective farms, communes, new houses,
new people, new songs, 11 machine and
tractor stations, 18 machine haymaking
stations, 13 colleges, three universities,
a theatre, clubs, libraries, radios and
moving pictures. To substantiate the
written word there is a splendid series
of photos., including the corner of a
majestic building, a man reading in a
library, a girl typesetting, a child being
treated by electric therapy, a row of 20
motor-cars, a man’s head uplifted at a
passing aeroplane, eight ex-nomads
marching across the skyline with spades
over their shoulders, a picture of a
nomad’s tent contrasted with a modern
village consisting of six rows of box-
like wooden houses, a temple falling into
decay, a flock of sheep, and two priests
blowing the old sacred horns “whose
wailing cannot be heard for the cheerful
sound of the modern brass instruments
played by the Young Communists calling
to the last great battle”; and so on. And
everybody caught at his daily toil has
a smile upon his countenance.
Far be it from me to assert that this
picture is untrue ; nor would I wish it
to be: but I submit that it is not evi-
dence. Any competent photographer
could make an equally attractive picture
of Victoria —or Port Darwin, for that
matter. Nor do figures prove anything.
The Flinders-lane form of the myth is fed
by cables announcing the imminent death
by starvation of 8,000,000 Ukrainians,
succeeded by cables announcing that the
Ukrainian harvest is 999,000,003 poods
or versts or something ; and the Foots-
cray myth is fed by statements that the
Soviet hydro-electric power is now 49
billion ergs or microfarads or some-
thing.
In short, the great Australian myth
about the U.S.S.R. is of the same order as
the great European myths about the
Amazons, the Kraken, the sea serpent
of Pontopiddan and the Ardnainig of
Eskimo land, whose women carried their
husbands around in their hoods because
they were no bigger than children. Some
of these myths were found eventually to
have some basis in fact. The Ardnainig
ladies, for instance, turned out to be
carrying round their babies.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Persecution of Stott.
The result of the Stott case in Darwin
has justified The Bulletin’s comment
on the Government’s stupid faith in inter-
fering busybodies, who seem to be the
only people capable of impressing the
Canberra mind in Northern Territory
matters.
Largely as the result of action by
an absentee organisation which obvi-
ously knows little about Territory con-
ditions, Constable Stott, who has served
the Territory nearly all his adult life, as
did his father, Commissioner Robert
Stott, before him, was charged some
months ago with an assault and cruelty
to a native. Judge Wells dismissed the
case and made strong comment. This
did not deter the Government from
prosecuting in a second case, in which
the constable, who was immediately sus-
pended, was charged with assaulting a
lubra who was said to have died under
his ill-treatment.
To anybody acquainted with the record
of the man and the mental habit of the
native, or even with the first principles of
commonsense, the evidence was not good
enough to convict a dog caught with a
bone. The only white witness was
Edward Cahill, who admitted that he had
received an advance from an organisa-
tion called the Society for the Protection
of Native Races which has its habitat in
Sydney. The Judge said:
Cahill’s connection with the case was
suspicious, seeing that when he heard of
the lubra’s death through ill-treatment he
did not communicate with the authorities,
but merely wrote to the newspapers. People
in Sydney communicated with him and
then boasted that they had started the case
going.
They had, with a vengeance. One of
the many conflicting witnesses swore that
the constable beat and ill-used the gin
concerned for 12 hours on end, yet medi-
cal examination of the body revealed “no
signs of ill-treatment.” Almost anybody
reading the evidence would have agreed
with the Judge that the victim of the case
was absolutely innocent, and that in any
case, if the Crown really believed the
accusations, the charge should have been
one of murder instead of assault. His
Honor’s further dictum that “for people
to sit in suburban drawing-rooms and
stir up these matters is an impertinence”
should be framed and sent to the
Minister, Mr. Perkins.
Something is wrong with native policy
in the N.T. —the number of murders by
natives alone tells the story. The fault
seems to lie in the Federal Government’s
weakness and readiness to lean on
meddlers instead of on competent Gov-
ernment employees, who should be in
charge at Darwin if they are not.
4
Father Bull and the Family.
Nobody can quarrel very bitterly with
John Bull’s decision to revive within his
domestic territories the ancient arts of
tillage and pasturage. It would be a
healthy thing for Britain, as for almost
every other country, if more folk got
their living direct from the land and
fewer were engaged in “distribution and
exchange” in cities.
But John should remember that
he is no longer an islander. He has
planted members of his family in every
corner of the earth on a general vague
understanding that Dad is a cash buyer
of food from anywhere, and that, so long
as anywhere produces enough food for
him, John will confine himself mainly to
manufactures and shipping. His domestic
territories are so small and the territories
of the rest of the world so vast that this
has hitherto seemed to be a fairly sensible
arrangement.
The last previous occasion on which
Father Bull had leanings to a return to
Arcadian simplicity was when Jesse
Collings stumped England with his slo-
gan “three acres and a cow.” Jesse’s
cardinal notion was that the nation would
be stronger and better and less afflicted
by social evils if every family could live
on its own plot. It may be possible to
make a living off three acres and a cow
if the land and the cow are good and the
proprietor understands both. Father
Bull’s ability to buy cows in any quan-
tity isn’t doubted, but he’s short on acres
and farmers.
The territory of his green and ancient
England averages less than one acre per
head of population ; Wales, less than two
acres; Scotland, about four acres.
Deductions must be made in acreage for
lands unsuited for agriculture or pasture
—about half of Scotland, a third of
Wales and a quarter of England lie in
that category—and in man-power for the
very large majority, which, as the history
of allotments has shown, does not take
kindly to the land. Considering these
and other matters (including Father
Bull’s tremendous investment in work-
shops), it is obvious that Britain cannot
feed itself.
As one of O. Henry’s characters
remarked, “Where it’s all free trade and
no reciprocity, the country slides to Sheol
with a great deal of velocity.” Father Bull
has learned that by bitter experience. But
the fact remains that he makes much of
his living out of selling and shipping his
surplus manufactures to the Dominions.
If he cuts the Dominions down to stinted
quotas and liberally patronises their com-
petitors, such as the Danes and the
Argentinos, he can’t complain if the
result is, Imperially, unsatisfactory. At
the Ottawa Conference John showed him-
self to be still the cleverest member of
the family. If we could have another
conference, at which the main idea would
be that the British Commonwealth of
Nations is a family, all members might
do better for themselves.
4
The Pearce That Passeth All
Understanding.
Dear Bulletin, —The Minister for De-
fence wrote (B. 18/4/’34): “Under the
Government policy of preference to re-
turned men a large proportion of civil
servants in the Defence Department has
had war service.” Here are some of the
most important civilians in the depart-
ment, and not one of them had com-
batant service in the last, or any other,
war:
(1) The Minister for Defence.
(2) The Defence Secretary (he is paid more
highly than the First Naval Member or the
Chief of the General Staff, and is the real
ruler of the department).
(3) The Finance Member of the Naval Board.
(4) The Director of Navy Accounts.
(5) The Secretary to the Naval Board.
(6) The Assistant Director of Naval Stores.
(7) The Naval Store Officer.
(8) The Victualling Store Officer.
(9) The Armament Supply Officer.
(10) The Civil Secretary to the Captain-
Superintendent, Sydney.
It is true that a certain number of
returned men is employed, but the majo-
rity occupies such positions as junior
clerks, storehousemen, night-watchmen,
messengers and telephone attendants, at
the basic wage or thereabouts. An at-
tempt was made recently from Defence
H.Q. to dispense with two returned-
soldier telephone attendants, one of
whom has fought in the Empire’s wars
from Ladysmith to the Armistice. It
failed, because a spirited resistance was
put up by the seagoing officer in charge
of the establishment.
As The Bulletin implied in its com-
ments last week on the Defence Min-
ister’s amazingly inaccurate statement,
certain officials of the department fail to
understand or sympathise with the pro-
blems of the soldiers and sailors. How
could it be otherwise? —Yours etc.,
R.S.S.L.
4
Bruce is Criticised:.
Bruce has had uneasy hours during the
last stage of his tour. He nettled the
Cockies —or some of them —by saying
that British Ministers were set on restrict-
ing imports of foodstuffs to help their
own farmers, and that, while the Ottawa
agreements operated, it would be our
wisest plan to “send no more than we
have been sending,” and send only good
stuff. Fie has been accused of being an
advocate of restricting production. The
truth is that at the Economic Confer-
ence his was the lone voice raised against
restriction, which he described as “a
policy of despair.” Farmer Allan, of the
Vic. Ministry, has borrowed the expres-
sion to stigmatise restriction of exports.
Bruce was also taken to task by the
Stewards’ Union for arranging to make
part of his return voyage in a subsidised
American liner. His explanation was that
he had not intended to do it, but he had
been specially asked to visit Queensland
to discuss the sugar situation, and he
could not do that and keep Australian-
trade engagements made before he left
London if he travelled in any other
vessel. He apologised, and promised
not to repeat the offence.
4
Speed and Danger.
“El V.”: The agents for a well-known
car are advertising the experience of a
customer who left a Sydney suburb, with
two passengers on board, at 3.30 a.m. on
Wednesday and arrived in Melbourne at
4.55 p.m. the same day. The narrator
proceeds: —•
I returned leaving Melbourne 12 mid-
night Saturday, arrived Campsie 1.10 p.m.
Sunday—actual travelling time 12 hours 5
minutes I could have made better time
had I known the road better —and, of
course, I had to give the womenfolk a
spell.
The writer of the advertisement offers
to repeat the performance for £5O. If
he attempts it the police should inter-
vene. No matter how excellent the car,
the thing is dangerous, especially in the
dark, when much of this run was done.
Any motorist, unless in the pink of train-
ing, who drives 12 hours on end is an
uncertain quantity at the end of it, what-
ever he may think about his own capa-
city.
Total running time was 23hr. 50min.
The hero of the exploit gives the dis-
tance as 1149 miles. So that he aver-
aged 48 m.p.h. all the way, including his
passages through traffic in town and city
suburbs, on a road which, he admits, he
might have known better. To maintain
such an average he must have touched
70 m.p.h. on stretches ; certainly he must
have covered a considerable portion of
the journey at from 55 to 60 m.p.h. Any-
body who considers this safe should not
be trusted with a car. At even 48 m.p.h.
the car would be travelling at 70 feet
per second; at 70 m.p.h. it would be
travelling at 102 feet per second. And,
no matter how good the brakes, the brain
which can co-ordinate itself to apply
them within a second, especially after
several hours of speed-driving, should
be placed in a museum as a curiosity.
The writer once made a safety test
with two of the world’s most renowned
drivers. The better of them, under the
hand of a stopwatch expert, could not
beat two seconds in getting his brakes
on after the appearance of emergency.
The full contact of his foot with the
pedal automatically stopped the watch.
It is all humbug to say speeding on
public roads is safe. Nearly a thousand
people are killed and several thousand
are injured in Australia every year, and
beyond all doubt a number of them are
victims of people who believe that they
can pull up in 20 feet at any speed.
4
Congestion in Melbourne City.
The wasteful muddle that the congestion
policy can get a city like Melbourne into
in less than 100 years is exemplified in a
recent complicated case in Bourke-street.
Buckley and Nunn owned two free-
hold blocks and had a lease of the land
in between, the latter comprising a front-
age of 66 feet. When the lease expired
it was bought by G. J. Coles and Co.,
who go in for much the same sort of
business. This cut the Buckley pro-
perty in half. After protracted negotia-
tions, B. and N. obtained a lease of the
second and third storeys of the middle
building, while the Coles concern decided
to burrow deeper down. The creation
of a basement involves the removal of
7500 yards of soil, while the link between
B. and N.’s truncated premises necessi-
tated the erection of two storeys on the
old buildings and a triple strengthening
of the supports.
The best that can be said about this
is that it creates employment for the time
being; otherwise it is the last word in
foolishness. A glance along Collins or
Bourke street tells its own tale and
would make a town-planner see red.
Many of the allotments would not be
considered wide enough for a cottage in
the outer suburbs, yet spindly buildings
have been erected on them whose front-
ages scarcely permit of a decent-sized
window and a door. The result is badly
lighted offices and a multiplicity of un-
necessary brickwork and masonry. It is
a comic spectacle to see workmen build-
ing a stout wall, 80 or 90 feet high and
a few inches away from an equally stout
wall.
4
Hitlerism in the Saar.
Stirring events seem to be brewing in
the Saar Valley, which, under the Treaty
of Versailles, is governed by an inter-
national commission presided over by
a British nominee. Next year all bona-
fide residents over 20 years of age will
have the option of voting for union with
France or Germany or for maintenance
of the present regime.
The election campaign already has
begun. Hitler’s offsider Herr von
Papen told a meeting at Coblenz that
the Saar problem was not an economic
one, but a question of Germanism; that
the retention of the status quo would
not be a guarantee of peace, and
that the only alternative to an early
holding of the plebiscite would be
reannexation of the Saar by the
Reich. He declared —and it seems
to show clearly that his talk about the
non-economic nature of the question is
so much eyewash—that Germany was
“preparing to place the whole of the pro-
duction of the Saar Valley on the Ger-
man domestic market.” And a very wel-
come item it will be in the German
market, too, seeing that it mainly con-
sists of 10,500,000 metric tons of coal
which France has had the right to exploit
since the war to pay for German de-
struction .of French collieries, 2,000,000
tons of coke, 2,500,000 tons of pig-iron
and 1,500,000 tons of rolled steel.
Meanwhile, the Council of the League
reports that Herr Hitler’s cronies—who
are shouting to the world that they are
the friends of peace—are helping along
the vote by establishing a secret Nazi
Government. Their leader has nailed
a notice “Prussian State Government
Administration” over his office, and has
issued a manifesto “To my people.”
Moreover, League officials have obtained
possession of a document, “couched
partly in unseemly language,” which
forms a census of and commentary on
all officials and their leanings; and it
has been discovered that, apart from
political activities, the “secret Govern-
ment” has been issuing certificates remit-
ting duty on parcels sent through the
post to and from Germany, and adding
special visas to the regular police visa
on identification cards.
Threats to Jews have resulted in the
closing of the local Ghetto. And, when
a certain Herr Roechling was prosecuted
for notifying residents that
if you do not immediately withdraw your
child from the French school your opinions
must be regarded as scoundrelly being
later named traitors to Germany,
Herr Papen sent the culprit a compli-
mentary letter.
Altogether, the Saar Basin is a nasty-
looking powder magazine.
4
Australia’s Overwhelming Case.
Colonel P. W. Fallon, secretary of the
Federal Viticultural Council, in reply to
the remarks of the Trade Commissioner
for France (B. 11/4/’34):
What Australia claims and France opposes
is the right to use wine names — e.g., claret,
burgundy and port —for types, prefixed by the
word' “Australian” to denote origin.
There have been numerous international con-
gresses at which France has tried to get a
monopoly of these names, and another is being
held in London. At these conferences France
carries four votes in her pocket: one for France,
one for Morocco, one for Tunis and one for
Syria. At the last one, held at The Hague in
1925, France’s view was defeated. Since then
she has been busy making treaties with foreign
countries, some of which do not produce wine,
and bartering with them for the exclusive
use of English words.
“Australian Burgundy” is a recognised type
of wine—that is, a type that comes from Aus-
tralia. About 100 years ago the Burgundy
wines were brought to Australia and were
naturally called Burgundy—just as the first oak
or elm trees were so called when transplanted
from the country of their origin. France made
no protest until she saw, in the case of Por-
tugal, what an advantage the monopoly of an
English word could be.
The original meaning of the word “Bur-
gundy” has been modified to be descriptive of
a type or representative style of wine. This
meaning has been accepted for very many years
by the English people. They have been and
are in the habit of thinking and speaking of
French Burgundy, Australian Burgundy and
Californian Burgundy. It is a word that has
been used by the Empire wine industries, with-
out serious objection from anyone, for 50 years,
and used in conjunction with the statement of
origin on the label. No misrepresentation was
intended or was possible, M. Bader notwith-
standing.
The words “Burgundy,” “claret,” “hock,”
and “port” are English word-titles descriptive
of character and style, robustness, color and
so forth. They supply not the selling name or
the origin of the wine, but its classification.
Even in France one never orders a bottle of
“Burgundy” or “claret,” because many of those
wines are very poor—fourth or fifth grade, as
M. Bader says. One stipulates a certain
Chateau or brand of the type required.
As the President of the Board of Trade
puts it: “The process of a place-name gradu-
ally becoming a type-description and losing
its geographical significance is quite usual in
commerce. A currant does not necessarily
come from Corinth; considerable quantities of
Cheddar cheese come from across the Atlantic;
even so precise a description as Demerara sugar
has been definitely held by English Courts to
be applicable to all sugars conforming to a
certain description, whatever their source of
origin.”
If the French succeed in robbing the Empire
wine industries of the use of these trade terms
it will be a bad day for many thousands of
wine producers. Our vineyards will be thrown
into a condition of typelessness, deprived of the
recognised descriptive words for their produc-
tions, unable to describe their wines in the
only words in our own language that express
variety in terms that are understood by the
consumer in our own markets. It has taken
hundreds of thousands of pounds to establish
the Empire wine trade in the U.K. It would
take a like sum and many years to substitute
new type terminology. In the meantime the
trade would be seriously jeopardised. This the
French recognise, else they would not be press-
ing their claim.
M. Bader airily dismisses the contention that
“whisky” might be considered a regional name.
In effect, he argues that if an article is made
over the whole of a country that country has
no special right to the word, but if it is made
in a small region within a country or even in a
small village—Chablis, for instance —then a
monopoly can be claimed. The word “whisky”
comes from the Irish word “usquebaugh” and
was made in Scotland about the same time as
Ireland first started it. These countries, there-
fore, should have as good a title to a monopoly
of the word “whisky” as France to any of the
words it now demands as its own.
France makes no bones about changing, when
she pleases, the “regions” for which her mono-
poly is claimed. Instances of this occurred
when she altered the boundaries of “Cham-
pagne” in 1913, a proceeding which led to the
Aube riots, and the boundaries of “Burgundy”
in 1929, as reported in the “Field.”
M. Bader appears to claim another monopoly
for France, a monopoly of honor and fair
dealing. This ill becomes a French official
when he addresses Australians, whose war
effort cost them 59,000 men (most of them sleep
in French ground) and 400 million pounds.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Gentle Joe”. Attended a party the
o,ther evening (almost totally a hen con-
vention) at which the lion was a gentle-
man who was introduced as a doctor
of divinity, medicine and law. He spoke
in a rotund tone of voice, and wel-
comed questions. We sat round in a
circle and fired them at him. It was
so like a public meeting that, after
“I believ mother could see the land she was going to when she died.”
“Possibly. She was lying on her face.”
he had cleared up points about the
Pelagian and other heresies and given us
a few principles of law in various juris-
dictions, we gave him a round of ap-
plause. Then a lady asked, “What would
you advise me to put in my husband’s
tea to make him give up drinking?”
“Madam,” replied the sage, who looked
as if he could stow away a few spots
himself without inconvenience, “you can’t
make your husband give up alcohol by
putting drugs in his tea. The modern
treatment for alcoholism is highly
technical. We administer strychnine”
A great outburst of applause drowned
the rest of the sentence.
* * * *
“Private’s Batman”: Here’s the other
side. I have nothing left of my war-time
equipment but a few
scars. Of the clothes
I can only recall that
the tunic, after be-
ing used for knock-
ing about the garden
and for fishing ex-
cursions, was given
away, and that the
overcoat was lent to
a cobber and never
returned. Even the
discharge (a per-
fectly good one) has
disappeared ; so has
my R.S. badge. My
medals (including
one that was not
ordinary issue) are
somewhere—l don’t
know where. My
pension is gone, and
I don’t know what’s
become of my war
bride. I’m one of the careless ones ; but
I’ve still got the scars.
“Cornwall”: War-time gear? Mine
consists of one pair nickel spurs (re-
strapped three times); one leather
bandolier; one bootbrush (still occa-
sionally used); one canvas nosebag
(now serves to receive loose letters
on a mailcart); one Sheffield razor
with regimental No. 3733 ; one emergency
ration (meat portion of tin slightly eaten
through, cocoa end 0.K.); and one
pocket-knife (lanyard missing). I also
possess the y-gill pewter measure that
served the rum out to Otago Squadron ;
discharge-sheet in good order, and linen
identification card (enclosed). I can still
show one pair of whitey-grey cotton
socks, with Kruger coins stowed in one,
badges and other mementoes in the other.
The socks were served out at the finish
of the Boer War at Green Point, Cape-
town. And I have a legacy of two deaf
ears.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. claims that its
“Grand” Lodge, the jubilee of which
Grand Masters from all States have been
celebrating in Adelaide, was the first in
Australia. Till 1884 there were three
“constitutions,” English, Scotch and
Irish ; but then their 30 lodges got to-
gether, under Chief Justice Samuel Way.
Freemasonry itself existed before the
province did ; the S.A. Lodge of Friend-
ship was actually formed in London two
years before Adelaide was settled, and
thus will have a centenary next October,
* * * *
“Smauker”: If Dickens’s “Life of
Christ,” professedly written for his child-
™ and no, for ,he public eye, fetched
only half the price said to have been given
or ltall seems a h wasn t turned into
money a quarter of a century ago. The
novelist died in 1870 after having earned
a comfortable fortune by his pen, but
none of his sons did much good except
the late Henry Fielding Dickens, K.C.,
and the hat was sent round for grand-
children. I have in my possession a
Charles Dickens stamp —issued, I think,
in 1909 —representing one of the devices
by which money was raised. The pro-
ceeds of the sale of the unpublished
manuscript would have been a windfall
for that branch of the family, and it
would have been easier to excuse the
posthumous publication on the score of
necessity at that time than now. But
the decision seems to have been left in
the hands of Dickens’s youngest
son, with the result that nothing
was done until Henry Fielding’s
death.
“I’ve never seen such a man as you
to have everything upside down!”
“Lord Luvus”: Various methods have
been proposed for abolishing war, from
sending regiments of ladies and pacifist
generals to stand between the belligerents
to making the business so horrible that
nobody will dare to undertake it. The
editors of “War! What For?” a Sydney
publication, have taken a new line ; they
announce a monthly crossword puzzle,
designed apparently, to stimulate a pas-
sion for peace in the breast of the
competitor. Thus:. “Soldiers are ex-
pected to do only this,” the correct word
being, of course, “Kill.” “Bishops draw-
ing dividends from munitions firms still
say they are this,” the adjective being, as
you may guess, “Christian.” Anything
concerned with Russia or Japan is con-
sidered appropriate, a Russian river pre-
sumably conjuring up a vision of peace
and a Japanese mountain suggesting a
conspiracy of war-mongers.
$ * *
“Sailor”: “Bummalo” (B. 18/4/’34)
says that there are as many curry recipes
in India as there are deities. Too right
there are, and hav-
ing eaten curries
from Karachi to
Rangoon and from
Rangoon to Bang-
kok I can certify
that the flavors of
the sort you mostly
get range from
stewed rubber to old
boots boiled in cas-
tor oil and kerosene.
Those curry cranks
who have brought
the atmosphere of
“Indiah” back 'with
them should realise
that unless the in-
gredients are ground
fresh the result falls
flat. In Australia we
have to depend on
the imported can;
hence the insipidity
of our curries. But,
anyhow, who wants the stuff? The
much-boosted curry of the Orient is
really nothing more than Indian Irish
stew with something extra-fiery to give
it a kick.
* * # *
“Metis”: A retired railwayman who
died a couple of years ago in Melbourne
left a will which has just provided a court
case, though the estate was valued at a
few hundreds only. Testator directed
that his brother should receive five shil-
lings a week “provided that he has never
been convicted of any offence by any
Court,” and that his son should be a
legatee to the same extent, with the same
reservation. The son, having never been
convicted of anything, had been draw-
ing his five bob regularly, but the trus-
tees were uncertain about the brother,
who admitted a few police-court con-
victions for minor offences in the remote
past. They asked his Honor for guid-
ance. The ancient, being now 77, and
his last lapse (for drunkenness) having
occurred over ten years ago, the Judge
found no difficulty in deciding that the
testator was only thinking of possible
convictions after his death, being pre-
sumably acquainted with the previous
records of his near-relatives. It was an
excellent way of getting round an unduly
harsh provision.
* * * *
“Nakh”: If all the schemes for mak-
ing its centenary memorable were brought
to fruition there would be employment
round Melbourne for all the jobless in
Australia. The latest is a 385 ft. tunnel
to be driven from a point three-quarters
of a mile below Dight’s “Falls” on the
Yarra through a peninsula to the upper
section of the river. A lock would be
required to lift the ships navigating the
upper reaches eight feet to the higher
level. The amount of river-borne traffic
isn’t expected to turn Heidelberg into a
Manchester, and the scheme would cost
£30,000. In the meantime, the Public
Hospital threatens to close its doors
unless citizens cough up an additional
£50,000 for its essential services.
,** * *
“J.L.”: The question as to who were
the best fighters in the war (B. 11/4/’34)
was satisfactorily settled by an old sun-
downer who worked with me at the time.
After a big scrap on the Western Front
he gave his opinion: “Them English
are great fighters; the Australians are
good, too ; but, my word! those Allies
are the boys to tune them up. They beat
the lot.”
“.T.H.W.”: Recent pars, on the occa-
sional efficacy of anti-aircraft gunnery
read convincingly enough, but I doubt if
any direct hit was more than a fluke. I
don’t suggest that the gunners were not
efficient, but consider the odds against
them. The average army ’plane had an
air-speed up to 90 miles per hour, and
the shell would, on nine days out of ten,
be deflected by winds of varying inten-
sity and direction! Again, though tele-
scopic sights enlarged the flying target,
the vulnerable parts of the ’plane would
not be more than one-fifth of the ex-
posed surface. In the flying school I
trained in, the Archies were only con-
sidered annoying because of their psy-
chological effect. They made the air
bumpy, and, unless he had bombs, the
pilot couldn’t get square with, the nuis-
ance. If an Archie got close, it was a
simple matter to sideslip a thousand feet
either way. Lucky shots there un-
doubtedly were, like that of the
Gippo who, during the riots, put
a bullet into the strut alongside
my head while I was doing 75 m.p.h.
about 1000 feet up. And he used an
old Mauser ; I still have the bullet. The
only case I recall of a direct hit that
wasn’t sheer luck was that of a navy
airship, sub.-spotting, brought down in
the North Sea by shellfire from a Ger-
man submarine. The blimp pilot was fly-
ing low in a fog, and the enemy could
see the gasbag, but the pilot couldn’t see
the U-boat. A message by carrier pigeon
saved his life after he had been 12 hours
in the water.
THE ORACLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“According to the ‘Tailor and Cutter,’ Prince
Henry is the best-dressed member of the royal
family and a genuine credit to Savile Row.’’
He’ll come with credentials too lengthy to skim,
Whole bushels of golden opinions
From ev’ryone in the Imperial swim,
The sovereign himself to redoubtable Jim,
Whose special concern’s the Dominions.
Wherever he’s been, for the King and the Queen,
There were thousands his praises to utter;
He’s handsome and dashing, he’s gallant and
gay,
And, ’top of it all, he is labelled O.K.
By the critical “Tailor and Cutter.”
He’s ranked
A 1 by the “Tailor and Cutter.”
11 truckles to no one, this voice of the snips;
No Biblical prophet was braver;
At the highest and noblest it carps and it chips
For divers sartorial errors and slips,
It trims them sans fear and sans favor.
The statesman whose strides it condemns or
derides
His querulous protests may splutter,
Or treat it with silence contemptuous and stiff,
But it won’t, be assured, make a hap’orth of
diff.
To the positive “Tailor and Cutter,”
You can’t
Get back on the “Tailor and Cutter.”
It will rate even royalty, straight to its face,
Disdaining the usual slobber,
When his Majesty’s veskits are lacking in grace
Or Teddy the Next, ever forcing the pace,
Is getting too loud in his clobber.
Glib Winston’s weird tiles it detests and reviles,
But it hasn’t as much as a mutter
To make, or a fault to impute, or a barb
To plant ip Prince Henry’s immaculate garb.
“He’s It,” says the “Tailor and Cutter” —
“Top-hole!”.
Pronounces the “Tailor and Cutter.”
There’s, a welcome that waits him beyond being
weighed,
And the fireworks, I bet, will be whizzers,
For he comes with full many a proud accolade
Of merit, including the one from the trade
That works with the goose and the scissors.
How the local-clad beau will take note of his
clo’,
How the heart of the flapper will flutter
When a Prince yet again on our vision shall
burst!
A Prince of the Blood—and the absolute first
Endorsed by the “Tailor and Cutter.”
Full marks
He brings from the “Tailor and Cutter.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Cadaques”: I wonder how old the
“Spanish prisoner” swindle is ; the “rich
uncle in Fiji” must be a mere child be-
side it. At any rate, I have been reading
about (and once or twice have had direct
communications from) the unjustly in-
carcerated Iberian for over 50 years. The
tenor of his song is always the same ; it
is only the details that are periodically
altered to suit different tastes. In the
latest version the captive has £75,000
stowed away in the secret pocket of a
portmanteau which, it is hinted, is in
some Australian customs-house or possibly
a lost-luggage office. The money “is in
two cheques, payable to bearer,” which
seems a risky way of hoarding capital.
Does anyone ever fall for this “Spanish
prisoner” rubbish, even to the extent of
sending a preliminary cable to the im-
mured don’s outside associate? I sup-
pose some people must, or the letters
would hardly be persevered with.
* $ * •*
“Strict Veg.”: Whether one approves
of literary censorships or not, there are
a lot of absurd anomalies connected with
"Men simply throw themselves at me.”
“Is that why you’re so flat-chested?”
the Australian animal of the species. The
Customs may ban a book on grounds of
sedition, but if the universities can secure
a copy they may reprint it, include it in
a curriculum and sell it to students. If
a work is proscribed for obscenity or any
other reason it can still be smuggled into
the country, reprinted and sold, the only
possible offence then being infringement
of the copyright laws. As a matter of
fact, large and small private circulating
libraries have copies of most of the works
banned recently, which they issue to sub-
scribers at a specially high fee ; and if
you care to scan the shelves of various
official and public libraries you will find
copies of volumes which John Citizen is
not allowed to buy at the bookshops.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: It isn’t only the fur of
the rabbit that is used to deceive. I had a
look behind the
scenes at a pub
where turkey was on
the menu. Beside
each bird in its dish
reposed a couple of
rabbits, which had
been first steamed
and then put along-
side the turkey to
roast. When “One
turkey” was called
through from the
dining - room th e
diner had a serve of
equal parts of turkey
and rabbit; the same
thing held good with
fowl, duck and
pork. “Jt’s all in the
cooking,” explained
the chef. “When the
rabbits arrive they
are well sprinkled
with salt and left
until the following
day; after being
washed and steamed
they rapidly acquire
the flavor of any-
th in g they are
roasted with.” He handed me a plate
a few minutes later and invited me to tell
the rabbit from the turkey and pork. I
couldn’t.
* * * *
“Te Tua”: “Tui” (B. 21/3/’34) sug-
gests that Maorilanders dislike being re-
ferred to as “Pig Islanders.” For myself
I think it only amuses them ; but allu-
sions to the “Shivery Isles” are not
relished, for the simple reason that a
reputation for earthquakes does no coun-
try any good. It is my opinion that
Fernlanders really have a grievance here.
Until the big Murchison (West Coast)
shake of some few years ago, the total
roll of M.L. ’quake fatalities was eight.
* * *
“Diego”: The word “pommy” was
advanced, or degraded, a step in Mel-
bourne the other day when a magistrate
ruled, in an assault case, that the term
was offensive when applied to an English
man or woman. I am disposed to think
it a salutary ruling, although, after all,
the tone in which a sobriquet like this
is used and the almost inevitable adjec-
tive linked to it are of more consequence
than the word itself. “Colonial,” for in-
stance, for centuries never implied a
trace of disparagement —every settlement
in the world was a colony once, except
the original Garden of Eden or the place
in Central Asia where homo sapiens first
assumed the erect position —but the sus-
picion or conviction that the word had
come to be used in a sneering, patronis-
ing, scornful tone led to it being first
mildly and then bitterly resented (the
late Arthur Lynch once made an emo-
tional protest against it in the House of
Commons), and finally ruled out.
“And, what’s more, if you got on the
menu as chicken it would he a case
of legpulling.”
“Pommy,” although in the beginning it
was merely harmless slang, seems likely
to go the same way.
% A' %
“S.T.S.”: Enter for the Incredible
Accident Stakes a lonely dweller at Kan-
garilla (S.A.). On Wednesday evening
his boots were seen propping a window
open. On Saturday morning they were
still there, and his feet were found to be
in them. Having lost his doorkey, he
used the window for entrance, got his
feet caught, fell with his head touching
the floor, and remained there suspended
for 65 hours, happily unconscious much
of the time. For a man close on 70 the
strain had been too great, and he died
in hospital.
* * * *
“Eugene”: Anzac Day commemora-
tions were not suffered to pass without
an incident or two. A wreath from the
Vic. Council Against War was removed
from the Melbourne Cenotaph because
the inscription was “not in accordance
with the sentiment of the day.” It ran:
To the brave men of the world, and of
Australia in particular, who were slaugh-
tered in the World War, 1914-18. In
memory of them we pledge ourselves to do
our utmost to prevent the Imperialist war
which now threatens, and to oppose
with all our strength the. present struggle
of the Imperialist Powers for a redistribu-
tion of the world’s markets.
After the inscription had been revised
by cutting out most of it, the wreath was
readmitted. Cheap propaganda, of
course, but had the thing been left there
it wouldn’t have had a fraction of the
publicity which the action of the police
gave it.
* * * *
“Double Express”: That M.L. moose-
hunter (B. 25/ 4/’34) would have saved
himself a lot of trouble if he had
studied Canadian and U.S.A. methods of
bagging the game. As “Erua” points
out, your moose is a wary and elusive
brute, never leaving thick forest cover
save to browse on the water growths in
lakes or quiet rivers. He always travels
alone save for fleeting moments when he
meets his lady-love. There is no record
of bull moose or cow being found in
company except on these special occa-
sions. The Canuck-Yankee method is
just to sit down in moose country, leav-
ing what hard work there is to the guide.
This lad fashions a horn of birch bark
and makes a noise through it like a radio
crooner, this corresponding to the song
of a lovesick cow moose. Once the bull
hears this he comes on the double,
signalling his advance by bellows to
which the crooner responds. When the
misled beast comes into the open, he is
plugged. Not very sporting, perhaps, but
that is the accepted convention.
* * * *
“Esters”: I have been mildly interested
in the controversy over the French drive
to prevent Australian vignerons labelling
their produce with names which were
originally used by France. One objec-
tion raised is that “champagne” is purely
French nomenclature denoting wines
from a particular region. Nevertheless,
for many years Germany has been mak-
ing sparkling wines and labelling them as
“champagne.” Another objection is to
the Australian use of the word “claret”
for Bordeaux types. “Claret,” however,
is not a “local” name, as the French
claim “burgundy” and “chablis” are, but
a British derivative from the French
word claire, meaning in this case
“light.” As to district names being dis-
tinctive, that is nonsense. No wine-
drinker in France ever asks for “bur-
gundy,” “sauterne” or “champagne,” for
instance. He asks for “Romanee-Conti,”
“Chateau Yquem,” “Veuve Clicquot,” or
the produce of any other vineyard which
strikes his fancy and suits his pocket. And
what is true of French wine-drinkers
in this respect is true of the world-wide
brotherhood which regards wine as some-
thing to be worshipped and studied, and
not just swallowed.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Recently Mr. de Valera
announced that as far as he was con-
cerned nothing emanating from the other
side of St. George’s Channel would be
permitted in Ireland. The principle
hardly seems to have been adhered to in
the Irish leader’s new “Reserve Army.”
A photograph forwarded by a friend
shows a squad of this force paraded.
Apart from the fact that the uniform
looks uncommonly like that of the Black
and Tans, the men are wearing the web
pouch equipment of the hated Sassenach,
and are carrying recent models of the
L.E. rifle from the same source. Fur-
thermore, they are carrying them at the
typical British “slope,” which is used by
no other military forces I ever saw. The
French and American slope in a differ-
ent fashion, while the Russians and
Japanese affect the “short sling” on the
march. Then there is the old rifleman’s
“shoulder” or “trail,” so there were
plenty of styles to choose from without
copying Britain.
-!' A' **•
“Short-Sight”: Beyond 24 inches from
my nose I see the world and all that is
therein in perfect focus, so 1 don’t wear
specs, on my walks abroad. On a recent
sunny morning I turned into Anthony
Horderns’ with a mind to order a suit of
navy serge. Just inside the door I
entered was an image in serge. Seemed
to be a lady image, but the material of
its dress was serge, and dark blue, and it
struck me that, as women are usually
much better judges of textiles than men,
it ought to be a pretty good sample.
So, putting on my glasses, 1 stooped and
picked up the hem of the garment. A
mighty whop on my ear gave me pause.
I found myself facing an outraged-look-
ing person in the uniform of a Girl
Guide colonel. My specs, fell off, and,
backing away in response to repeated
and infuriated requests that I should do
so, I found myself surrounded by the
young gentlemen of the tailoring depart-
ment. Two held my arms, and two others
my legs. But I wasn’t cast into a dun-
geon. For once in a way the right words
came to me: “If she isn’t a beautiful
image why did she stand absolutely
still?” The lady laughed, and I left the
court without any additional stain on my
character.
TWO HUNDRED MILLION YEARS AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“During the Tertiary period, some 200,000,000 years
ago, the Antarctic seals of to-day ran about the
land like dogs and the penguins lived in trees and
were birds of flight.”
Two hundred million years ago,
Before the dim, red dawn of man,
The beasts that now as seals we know
On terra firma barking ran.
Before the Ice Age came to freeze
It was indubitably so,
And penguins flew about the trees
Two hundred million years ago.
Two hundred million years ago
The sharks that now infest the sea
Appeared in this terrestrial show
As wolves —or tigers, possibly.
The watery wastes were weald and wood;
That pigs went winging to and fro
Unlikely seems —but penguins could,
Two hundred million years ago.
Two hundred million years ago
The simian forebears of our race
Who roosted in the boughs arow ,
Found it a fairly decent place.
Could they return, this world to view,
One’s apt to wonder whether or no
They’d like it more than that they knew
Two hundred million years ago.
Two hundred million years ago!
A fairly formidable span,
Suggesting how extremely slow
The evolution was of man.
And now he flies, the clouds amid!
It seems inequitable, though,
The poor old penguins can’t —who did
Two hundred millions years ago.
H.S.W.
MIDFORD.


ď
U
M TA
Ouwen 'CC
AWorld of Difference
There is a great difference between a sealed-fresh
CRAVEN “A” and any Cigarette which has gone
“flabby” or shop-stale. All the goodness so patiently
put into every Craven “A” is preserved and maintained
by that patented exclusive wrapping of moisture-proof
“CELLOPHANE” which seals-in Factory-freshness.
SEALED-FRESH SOLD-FRESH
CORK-TIPPED. 100% VIRGINIA
G635M
POLITICAL POINTS
There was a typical Macquarie-street
wrangle when N.S.W.’s elected Leg. Coun-
cillors assembled for the first time.
Grant, the Domain spouter, began it.
He had the excuse that Prof. Peden and
Ernie Farrar had been announced as
“the Government nominees” for Presi-
dent and Chairman of Committees ; but
any pretext would have served. Eight
of the 60 elected persons were absent
from the ceremony, which is said to have
“made history.” Langsters swear that
the history will be a matter of weeks,
since A. B. Piddington (“Good Ole
Piddo”) is sure to persuade the Privy
Council that the Chamber is agin the
Constitution.
Wrangles in the N.S.W. Lang “party”
continue ; but the break-up of the fac-
tion, which “S. M. Herald” always re-
gards as imminent, and the deposition of
Lang, for which it prays, still seem dis-
tant aspirations. Why anybody on the
other side should pray for the deposition
of Lang is a mystery.
Learning that Shell’s chief accountant
was about to go abroad, the Petrol Com-
mission summoned him to give evidence
at a special sitting. Witness acknow-
ledged that his company had made net
profit of £978,000 in 1928, and that its
1932 turnover amounted to £7,750,000,
of which £2,750,000 was sent out of the
Commonwealth. Then he said a thing
which must have been read with bitter
irony by every needy taxpayer who has
been fined by the department because he
was a bit behind —the co. had not paid
Federal income tax for two years. It
had sent in its papers, but had not been
asked to pay.
State Premiers, who all have deficits,
asserted at the Melbourne conference
that the Canberra surpluses had been
deliberately restricted by the belated
issue of income-tax assessments. This
was denied, though thousands of tax-
payers could have testified that they were
not asked to pay tax on 1931-32 income
(returns were due in July, 1932) till
August or September, 1933. In view of
the admission that the Shell Co. has not
been asked for tax on any year since
1930, what was the denial worth?
Labor has at last entered into the pro-
mised land of the Greater Brisbane City
Council; it had been wandering in the
wilderness since the municipality was ex-
tended nine years ago. In the last coun-
cil the party had seven seats; by the
look of things it should have 13 in the
next, with Cit.-Nats. holding six and an
Independent the odd one. The sitting
Mayor was also beaten by A. J. Jones,
formerly a Labor Cabinet Minister.
The landslide is chiefly attributable to
the desire for a change, though the rever-
sion to adult suffrage and the readjust-
ment of ward boundaries of course
helped.
One of the surprises of the Brisbane
municipal elections was the showing of
the Communist candidate for the Lord
Mayoralty. He polled upwards of 8000 —
far and away the biggest vote ever
secured in Australia by one of his breed.
Another unexpected result was the elec-
tion of A. E. J. Austin as Labor member
for Nundah. Austin was for long the
“Courier’s” racing writer.
Butler, the S.A. Premier, periodically
rises to assert that “we have gone tariff
mad.” Unfortunately, the gentleman did
not attend the annual meeting of share-
holders in General Motors-Holden’s to
hear E. W. Holden report that there
are now 3000 employees at the Adelaide
works, and that the output would soon
be 2000 motor bodies a month —largely
sedan bodies, which are exported to Asia,
as well as supplying the Australian de-
mand. It is a fine Australian industry,
but without the tariff it could not exist.
Some of the Westralian Labor mem-
bers are annoyed with their Govern-
ment for fawning on the secessionists
when the party has been supposed to
stand for closer union, and there have
been some sharp exchanges on the Min-
isterial side at the special session “to
implement the new Dominion.” W. D.
Johnson, now a veteran, was conspicuous
in these sallies. He can’t forget 1901,
when he took part in the successful cam-
paign for Federation and became M.L.A.
for Kalgoorlie—one of the original
Labor group. Johnson has been left out
of the last two Labor Ministries, though
there was no abler administrator in the
first three.
Westralian Minister Kenneally was not
present when Premier Collier introduced
the bill about the petition to the King
for the right to secede. He was on his
way once more to Sydney to take part
“What's worryin’ Bill?”
“He belongs to the Labor party, and he can’t remember which one.”
in another round of the N.S.W. Labor
faction fight. When Kenneally’s appoint-
ment was criticised, Collier said he was
to be “a full-time Minister of Employ-
ment.” Some testy Tory member might
inquire how much time the gentleman
has given to the affairs of the West-
ralian unemployed and how much to
the faction fight.
By the usual majority verdict the High
Court has ruled that Queensland’s Motor
Spirits Vendors Act is unconstitootional.
The measure had the laudable object of
giving the infant power-alcohol industry
a lift, but it seems that it is “obnoxious
to Section 92” to oblige the garage man
to see that there is a dash of power
alcohol, made in Australia, in every gal-
lon of motor spirit he sells. Duffy, C.J.,
and Stark, J., constituted the minority,
and the Queensland Government may
take the case to the Privy Council, which,
“though threatened oft, seems fated not
to die” —as far as Australian appeals
are concerned.
The Canadian deficit of 135 million
dollars looks bad, but the Government
says it is an improvement of 22} million
dollars on 1932-33 figures. It also de-
clares that the amount includes capital
expenditure, which must seem incredible
to the Australian politician —he never
applies revenue to capital expenditure
when he can borrow. Following the
South African example, Canada pro-
poses to derive a lot of its income for
1934-35 from a special tax on gold. The
State that wants to secede produces most
of our gold, but so far from hitting the
mineowners with a special tax the Fed-
eral Octopus gave them a bonus.
The way of the Langist troupers in
Queensland is proving as hard as the
nether millstone. Beasley begged the
Trades and Labor Council to let them do
their stuff before it. His letter was con-
temptuously “received.” A telegram from
Garden imploring the T. and L.C. to
see the act was filed with the endorsement
“request refused unanimously.” Dunn
and Rosevear had almost as frosty a re-
ception in Westralia. They are now back
in Sydney warming their poor hands and
feet.
South Africa’s Parliament is having a
rare set-to over its Status Bill. One pro-
vision gives the Union the right to de-
clare its neutrality if Britain and other
parts of the Empire are at war. The author
of the clause stopped one in the eye, as it
were, when someone pointed out that the
naval base at Simon’s Town remains
under British control, and that South
Africa could not plead neutrality with
a British naval base on its front doorstep.
In their post-war delirium the Germans
tried the financial cureall which appeals
to so many Australians and Americans,
and they are still suffering from the
effects. Goebbels, their Minister “for
Propaganda and Enlightenment,” now
says their Government “will never allow
inflation in Germany again ; it will keep
the currency stable.” This ought to be
enough for Australians who have open
minds on the subject, but the quacks who
prescribe the nostrum can’t or won’t
learn from the experience of people who
have taken it in large doses over a term
of years.
On April 17 the legal gentlemen who
fix the Federal basic wage said that £3 7s.
a week was sufficient for a New South
Wales family of five. On April 26 the
legal gentlemen who attend to the basic
wage for the State of N. S. Wales said, in
effect, that their learned brothers were
wrong—£3 7s. 6d. would be a fair thing
for a family of three (ss. a week is paid out
of the taxes for each child after the first).
This will have awkward results, especially
in the Railway Department, where
roughly half the employees work under
Federal awards based (in theory) on a
48-hour week and half under State
awards based (in practice) on a 44-hour
week. Still, Australia is used to its wage-
fixers making confusion worse con-
founded.
The Defence Department has been
“attacked by the chairman of Mel-
bourne Centenary Committee for its
estimate of £3OOO as the cost of equip-
ping the State carriage for the procession
from Port Melbourne to Government
House on October 18.” For less than
£3OOO the British State carriage, with eight
white horses complete, could be im-
ported, insured and shipped back. For
a similar sum a State carriage could be
built here, used and re-sold to a circus.
According to the Minister, the fantastic
estimate was “made by my officials.”
Queensland Home Secretary Hanlon
chose an Anzac Day meeting, of all
occasions, to deliver an attack on the
Queensland press for its investigation
into Japanese shell-poaching activities on
the Barrier. He said a police report had
convinced him that the Japanese in ques-
tion were just peacefully earning their
living. In fishing on the Reef without an
Australian license and in a vessel un-
registered in this country, and in wooding
and watering on islands inside it, the
poachers have violated Australian laws,
particularly the Navigation Act, which
forbids a foreign vessel to make contact
with Australia save at a declared port
of entry ; but if this has occurred to the
Minister he apparently thinks it unim-
portant.
Stevens and co. are very slick in
approving of plans for scattering loan
money about Sydney suburbs, which are
almost insolvent as it is, but they are
dreadfully slow at making up their minds
on questions which look thorny. For a
year or more they have been trying to
decide whether or not they should abolish
the lodger vote in the city of Sydney
and let the 60-odd passed-out Leg. Coun-
cillors continue to travel on the nod over
the Government railways and municipal
tramways of the Commonwealth and
Maoriland ; and in each case they are
still wobbling. The odds are that the
deadhead will keep his gold pass and the
dosser his vote.
Bidding for votes in every quarter, “the
predatory banking interests” excepted,
Lang’s newspaper has come out with an
article in favor of mutual-life assurance.
Labor believes in the extension of the
mutual principle, and no finer example
could be advanced than the benefits con-
ferred by the Mutual Life, A.M.P. and kin-
dred societies.... Their case for remis-
sion of taxation appears to be a valid one.
And it is only two years since Lang tried
to smite these societies with a tax which,
while exempting his own mortgage on
the “Labor Daily,” would have looted
the A.M.P. alone of two million pounds.


The Siclabor pre-selects his typist.
Dole-Commissar Gardens
new chauffeur.
The new State Lottery Director.
'Voung Age
Pensioners.
The only non-revolutionary feature is
that the same people have to pay for it.
AFTER THE REVOLUTION.
“Mr. Brennan was rapturously welcomed by the Opposition on taking his seat in the N.S.W. Assembly. Like another recent recruit, Mr. Sweeney, he is an
old gentleman; and his leader declares that ‘Youth must be served.”


MONACO GRAND PRIX
I” MOLL 2" CHIRON koth using
SHELL SPIRIT & AEROSHELL OIL
5.1542
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Rabbi Cohen, who died in Sydney last
week at the age of 71, was a typical Eng-
lish Jew. Patriotism was one of his
religions. Born at Aldershot, he had
every reason to know the British Tommy,
and he loved Tommy. He was the British
Army’s first Jewish chaplain. Rabbi
Cohen arrived in Australia 29 years ago,
and, while concentrating on the welfare
of his co-religionists, he identified him-
self with every movement of national
importance. He held the V.D. decoration
for his services as chaplain in the C.M.F.
Music was his chief hobby (he published
some learned works about Synagogue
music), and he had the gentle sense of
humor which is sometimes found in
conjunction with saintliness.
Sid Mack, K.C., died as he would
have wished. At Narrabri (N.S.W.) the
other day he had a triumph comparable
to that of Sir John Simon, who got
a young lieutenant acquitted of mur-
der during the war, though the officer
had admitted his guilt. Sid Mack
was equally successful in his defence of
Mrs. Richards, the slayer of George Nott.
He was attacked by his last illness shortly
afterwards. He was a brilliant criminal
The late SID MACK, K.C.
advocate at his best, and “Mack on
Criminal Law” has long been regarded
as a standard work in Australia. Ten
years ago he had a bad motor smash.
He made a marvellous recovery, but he
was never quite the same afterwards. He
was born in N. S. Wales 66 years ago
and was a B.A. and LL.B. of Sydney
Uni. Like other members of his family
(he was a brother of Amy and Louise
Mack), he loved literature in all its
branches. A son is practising at the Syd-
ney Bar.
Two entirely dissimilar persons parted
business company when the Benjamin
and John Fuller connection was severed
last week. Ben, forceful and energetic,
has no fear of the bright light that beats
on a theatrical entrepreneur. If you tell
him he resembles Lord Lonsdale he
smiles coyly and doesn’t protest. John
asks no more of life than peace and
affluence. The old arrangement kept
him on the move between Sydney and
M.L.; henceforward he will be able
to stay at home. Officially the partner-
ship has lasted 38 years; unofficially it
has been lifelong. Old John Fuller origi-
nated their business in M.L. One of
Ben’s ambitions is to build Sydney’s first
skyscraper —a 45-storey building on the
King-Elizabeth-Castlereagh street block
where the Fuller buildings are to-day.
The 150 ft. building limit stands in the
way at present.
“M.E.”: The Duke of Gloucester, who
will come to Australia in place of Prince
George, is odd-man-out in the Windsor
family. His three brothers take after
the King in looks ; he after Queen Mary.
He accentuates the difference by wearing
a moustache. A rather stolid, broad-
shouldered young man, he hates fuss and
publicity, and is to be seen in London
more often at service clubs than at
night-clubs. He prefers the hunting-field
to the dancing-floor and takes his mili-
tary job very seriously. He is a motor-
driver in the first flight of amateurs, and
two or three of the big motor firms feel
no thrill of surprise when he drops
casually into their offices for a yarn with
the technical director. Australia should
get on well with him.
William Redmond, of Tooheys, died
last week with tragical suddenness on
his way back to Sydney from Holly-
wood. He was born in Scotland, and
arrived with his parents at the age of
ten half a century ago. He joined
Tooheys as a clerk and rose to be gen-
eral manager. Apart from his business
capacity, which was great, he understood
men and how to handle them ; had a
keen Scottish sense of humor and imper-
turbable good temper. He shunned the
limelight, worked hard for the Brewers’
Association, of which he was chairman,
and was a leading Mason. His hobbies
were travel and yachting.
E. G. Baker, who has just retired from
the job of Government printer in Papua,
is the second of the line, his predecessor,
like himself, having put in many years in
Port Moresby. Of the 25 years the G.P.
has spent in Papua 23 have been claimed
by the printing office, which has grown
tremendously in scope since he succeeded
to the desk. After all that time he is
leaving behind him nothing but pleasant
memories of a good fellow among his
many friends, white and brown, in Port
Moresby.
“Jeames” on the royal visit:
One awkward feature of the change of plans
is the difficulty of explaining how an able-
bodied young man came to be so knocked up
by a luxury tour of S. Africa that he couldn't
face a similar tour in Australia. Another is
that our Yellowplush press, after conducting
an intensive ballyhoo campaign in respect of
one prince, will have to do it all over again
in the alleged interests of the other. And a
more difficult person to ballyhoo than Prince
Henry it would be hard to find. He has been
the despair of the Buckingham Palace publicity
department ever since he lef-t Eton. It won’t
be any good to. tell the flappers arch stories
about his heart-winning virtuosity as a dancer.
He is a captain in the 10th Hussars, and “the
Tenth don’t dance.” He would have taken a
professional interest in the Australian army,
but our politicians have done away with it. He
has a kind of association with the law, being
an honorary member of the London Bar and
a Bencher of Gray’s Inn, but there’s no
romance in that. If they made me local
Director of Publicity I would run him as a
first-class specimen of an Old Etonian. He is
the only member of the reigning family who
has had a bona fide public-school education,
and it is reflected both in his reserve with
strangers and in the thoroughness with which
he attends to the job in hand. As an example,
he can ride. The Prince was never anything
more than a gallant trier, whereas Prince Henry,
as he has proved in many steeplechases and
tournaments, is as good as most cavalry officers,
British or Continental. In Prince Henry, by
the way, Australia will identify a true public-
school voice. According to Mayfair pre-
cisionists the Prince has a Cockney voice.
The passing of Colin Basil Peter Bell
robs Queensland of a great sportsman.
Born at Jimbour on the Western Downs
in 1867 of a family which has left its mark
on Queensland pastoral and political life,
he went from Brisbane Grammar to
Shrewsbury School, where he soon showed
an aptitude for rowing. At Cam-
bridge he was quickly in the Trinity Hall
boat, and got his blue against Oxford in
1888, rowing No. 4 that year and the
following. He also rowed with his col-
lege crew in the Grand Challenge at
Henley, and won many trophies for run-
ning and boxing. Back in Queensland in
1889 he went into the pastoral industry.
Later he managed Ayrshire Downs, and
since 1907 had been in charge of West-
land station for the Queensland National
Pastoral Co.
Here is the Anglican Bishop of
Dunedin (M.L.), who used to be Arch-
deacon Fitchett. He accepted nomina-
tion the other day conditionally on his
being allowed to remain vicar of Roslyn'
parish and go on living at the vicarage.
Bishop of Dunedin (M.L.) and vicar, too.
The revenue from the bishopric endow-
ment fund isn’t sufficient to enable him
to keep up the See house. His appoint-
ment caused a lively row in the Church.
The details of the proceedings in the
Electoral Synod got out and were pub-
lished prematurely in a Dunedin paper,
which stated that other nominations had
been considered and turned down.
A. G. M. Michell, whom most fellow-
Australians have never heard of, but who
made big war vessels like H.M.S. Hood
possible by the invention of the Michell
thrust block, has become an F.R.S. at
the first nomination —a rare distinction,
since most candidates go up several times
before they succeed. There are six
other Fellows in Victoria, including
A.G.’s brother, a university professor ;
S.A., N.S.W. and Queensland boast
only one each —respectively Mawson,
Edgworth David and B. D. Steele. Only
S. M. Bruce, our lone Companion of
Honor, is more exclusive in greatness
than this select little band. Joseph
Banks, Australia’s godfather, by the
way, was president of the R.S.
Ratu Alifereti Finau, who died in Fiji
early last month, was head of the proud-
est of the great Fijian clans and Tui of
Lau, the windward group of the island
cluster. His mother was a daughter of
the mighty Cacabau, who ceded his king-
dom to Queen Victoria as a protection
against American-German domination.
He was a high Government official.
Freemasonry throughout the world lost
its oldest inhabitant with the death in
M.L. at 99 of Gerald Andre Boers. He
became a sailor at 14, was a gunner with
the Russians in the Crimea after his ship
had been wrecked in the Black Sea, and
a member of the crew of a troopship that
rushed men to India at the time of the
Mutiny. Later he served on immigrant
ships, and deserted one to marry a
passenger. He and his bride arrived in
M.L. in search of gold. He got a job
in the Customs Department, owing to
his command of languages. He joined
the Postal Department later, rose to be
a postmaster, retired and drew a pension
for 32 years. His initiation as a Mason
took place in Antwerp in 1855.
Sydney can lay claim to Australia’s
oldest Frenchman —Francois Rene. He
is 92, and has been in N. S. Wales for
54 years. He was a member of the crew
of a French man-o’-war in Mexican
waters during the last days of the un-
lucky Maximilian of Austria. On the day
the Emperor was executed his personal
staff was taken aboard Rene’s ship. J- e^ e
was taken from his ship, with hundreds
of other sailors, to man the forts of Pans
during the Franco-Prussian War. He
first arrived in Australia with the sur-
vivors of the disastrous New Britain
colonisation scheme of the Marquis de
Ray.
Dr. Strong, of Melbourne, is the only
surviving member of the original Hos-
pital Sunday committee, which was
formed in 1874. He started preaching
more than 60 years ago. After a doc-
trinal difference with the Presbytery ot
Scots Church, where he was minister from
1875 to 1883, he founded the Australian
Church, and has been its leader ever
since. He helped to establish Gordon
House, the Melbourne District Nursing
Society, the Anti-Sweating League, one
of the first creches in Melbourne, the
Howard League of Prison Reform and
the Peace Society. He is still going fairly
strong at 90.
Bernard Rubin, one of the entrants for
the centenary air race, has been known
in Queensland as “the flying millionaire”
since he and his brother acquired
Northampton Downs in W.Q. Rubin has
always been a speed-and-risk fan. He
made several speedway records before
flying aroused his interest. Only because
the mails were too heavy did he miss
travelling in the ’plane in which “Scotty”
Allen, en route for England, crashed at
Alor Star and Colonel Brinsmead sus-
tained the injuries from which he died
the other day.
Dr. Angus, the central figure of what
his book (which, incidentally, will be re-
viewed on the Red Page next week) calls
the “Presbyterian heresy hunt,” was born
near old Sam McCaughey’s birthplace,
Ballymena, in the north of Ireland, 53
years ago. He is the most eminent classi-
cal scholar that any of the Australian
churches can claim. As a lecturer (he is
Professor of New Testament and His-
torical Theology at St. Andrew’s in Syd-
ney Uni.), he has been compared to
Gilbert Murray ; he has Murray’s magi-
cal gift of making bygone times seem
close at hand. Another asset is his per-
sonal charm. He is revered at the uni-
DR. ANGUS, of Sydney University,
whose teachings have upset orthodox
Presbyterians.
versity. The chief objection of the Syd-
ney Presbytery to him is that he teaches
a form of Unitarianism. His answer is
that he has been doing it for 20 years
—notably in “The Mystery-Religions and
Christianity,” which he published in 1925.
He came to Sydney in 1931 from Colum-
bia University (N.Y.), where he was
Visiting Professor of Education. He has
graduated at the Universities of Ireland,
Princetown (U.S.A.), Marburg, Berlin
and Edinburgh.


L. T. Piver PARIS
FACE POWDERS
and CREAMS
(100 per cent. Parisian Manufacture)
POUDRE
POTvyPEIA
pOUDRG
Riz
De
W*
/J
' de Riz. '
d)RFRfINOR
LTPiveR
P A RI§
m.
REMe
AZURES
CRECfi*
IFiSß^rys.
fiem
cap
UPIVfcR
P*lW
LT.PiveRX
Ehrc
PARIS
saw
i! ii
The NAME is the guarantee of quality.
£UM
a&xsssi
eß§we
mm
LTPivcnw-
PfIR.J
Pouo*.e ot
MISRAWE^S
L.T. Pivck.
• ;:
'POUDRE DE RIZ
azurea
L.T. PivSR
P AQ » s
g§
©
B
m
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SPECIAL SAMPLE OFFER:
SEND 6d. IN STAMPS TO G.P.O. BOX 1659JJ, SYDNEY, FOR SAMPLE
OF FACE POWDER, SMALL TUBE OF FACE CREAM AND SACHET.
(Mention this Paper.)


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1 -
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Contingen- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ) or,*-. q 47
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 ) ' ’
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
•15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
•25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,016,579
’29.. 9,320,824 4,505,820 984,608 238,356 3,592,040
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 fll6
Provision for taxation, £237,635 ) ’
’31.. 9,470,449 5,616,260 1,222,207 685,149 ) , 46S
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ) ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,567 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,230 2,193,469
’33.. 9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1925. . 1,397,888 227,069 362,824 ( 707,04
Written off, £lO,Bll ) ’
1927. . 1,716,059 485,709 423,964 1 son 170
Written off, £6007 ) . ’
1929. . 2,056,443 601,909 495,363 1 027 77T
Written off, £31,394 )
1930. . 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 ]
Written off, £64,047 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 .
1931.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270'
To con’t’cy fund, etc., £164,477 ■ 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,635
1932. . 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 ) 7fiB 18q
Written off, £3461 .. .. ) ’ '
1933. . 2,171,268 800,834 552,582 ) Rln4 qo
Written off, £7359 .. .. ) 81 ’
All-round healthy growth of the figures
and satisfactory margins in those mat-
ters upon which its soundness and pros-
perity depend are disclosed by the latest
accounts of Australia’s greatest life
•office. In the two departments combined,
and on the basis of original sums assured,
the amount of business in force at the
end of 1933 (£220,170,041) was £4,487,332
greater than it was a year earlier. With
bonuses added, the figure was £269,513,465
and the spring was £6,062,438. An extra
£2,005,762 of new business (£15,616,089)
was put on the books, and after paying
all legitimate claims and exes., including
£20,350 paid to the staff fund, sending
£14,331 to the contingency reserve (now
£2,266,148) and striking £54,178 off the
book value of premises, £3,340,385
(£378,726 more than for the previous
year) was added to the Assurance funds,
raising them to £89,598,496. By setting
aside large sums in addition to the strong
actuarial reserves, the board is providing
for the maintenance of satisfactory
bonuses to policy-holders in the future.
After making provision for interim
bonuses, etc., the surpluses available for
distribution as bonuses amongst policy-
holders—there are no shareholders —
compare as follows:
Ordinary.* Industrial. Total.
1920.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1926.. 2,668,323 193,776 2,862,099
1928.. 3,005,538 230,291 3,235,829
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930. . 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1032.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
The cut in the tax bill (£743,857, down
£78,373) accounted for more than half
the extra £113,037 that became available
last year. In the Ordinary department
the amount distributed was 46.8 p.c. of
the premiums on participating policies
as against 45.8 p.c., 1931 ; 58.1 p.c.,
1928 ; 30.2 p.c., 1914-18. Amongst other
factors affecting the surplus available for
distribution are the difference between
the assumed rate of interest and that
actually earned, the cost of conducting
the business and the mortality experience.
The office assumes that its funds will
earn a uniform 3 p.c. After deducting
taxes, the net return was a shade under
4 p.c. on mean funds last year. Of the
premiums the office allows 18.7 p.c. for
exes., etc., in the Ordinary and 26.5 p.c.
in the Industrial section. Excluding taxes
but including contributions to the staff
fund, exes, took 12.3 p.c. and 27.3 p.c.
of last year’s net premiums in the Ordi-
nary and Industrial branches respectively.
The mortality experience was 52 p.c. of
that allowed for. Another feature is the
growth in the consideration received for
annuities (£116,450, up £42,467). Owing
to the cheapening of money, annuities
have become more attractive than they
used to be.
The society’s assets, which total
£93,073,807, are made up as follows:
1932. p.c. 1933. p.c.
Public securities. £48,690,985 54.3 £51,639,984 55.5
Mortgages .. 20,775,002 23.2 20,822,377 22.4
Loans on policies 15,656,390 17.4 16,034,259 17.3
Premises.. .. 1,522,218 1.7 1,639,280 1.7
Other assets . • 3,036,625 3.4 2,937,907 3.1
Last year £2,948,999 was added to public
securities, £377,869 to loans on policies,
£117,062 to premises and £47,375 to
mortgages. During the last three years
£7,099,206 has been added to public secu-
rities, and the rise in their market value
means there is now a nice inner reserve
in this item.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 42,376 10 p.c. = 40,000 2,376 111,881
1925.. 47,371 10 „ „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shares .. 32,500 151.752
1926.. 54,924 10 P- c - = 41 > 974 ,~} 7.950 159,702
Staff provident fund, £5OOO )
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 —t 7 qo K , fi7 W
Staff provident fund, £lOOO ) ’ ’
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 —(. , n *u 168 641
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) I’oo4 1 ’ 004 168)541
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. =: 62,974 T 7 1 16,336 184,877
Staff provident fund, £3500 >
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. rr 55,295 —~ I, nll s 141 992
Staff provident fund, £3500 ) ’
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. 58,300 ) -. 4 .. q 14*1 401
Staff provident fund, £3OOO ) ’
1932.. 49,052 7J p.c. =43*725 1 „ 827 1 4 6 , 2 88
Staff provident fund, £2500 ) ’
1933.. 47,125 74 p.c. =43,725 —) op*) 147,188
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
1934.. 48,788 74 p.c. =43,725 1 „c fi o 149.751
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
This co., which runs four fertiliser
works, four drug warehouses and a phar-
maceutical factory in the Dominion, has
given a good account of itself. After
a run of 10 p.c. divs., p.c. has been
paid for the last three years, and that
was sweetened with £53,000 of bonus
scrip, scattered in 1929 to celebrate the
co.’s jubilee. But earlier share issues,
made at a premium, took the gilt off the
gingerbread.
During the first half of the last term
business continued to fall away, but it
picked up during the second half, thanks
largely to the rise in the price of wool,
and turnover for the twelvemonth was
approximately the same as for the pre-
vious year, notwithstanding the spring in
exchange, the sales tax and the drop in
the price of dairy produce. After set-
ting aside £24,000 for depreciation (the
same as in the previous term), gross earn-
ings were £4196 lighter:
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.c.
1925 .. 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1929 .. 199,318 126,522 63.4 „
1930 . . 202.679 130,770 64.5 „
1931 .. 177,996 115,227 64.7 „
1932 . . 145,388 96,336 66.2 „
1933 .. 131,957 84,832 64.3 „
1934 .. 127,761 78,973 61.8 „
A saving of £5859 in exes, left the net
result £1663 better at 8.3 p.c. on capital
as against 8, 8.4, 10.7 and 12.3 p.c. for
the four preceding years.
Though prospects in the dairying in-
dustry are not very encouraging at the
moment, the immediate outlook in other
directions is a bit better. Also, the Gov-
ernment’s subsidy on the manufacture
of super, continues. It seems unlikely,
therefore, that the p.c. div. will be
interfered with. Money has cheapened,
and the market is now content with 4 p.c.
or thereabouts on good industrials ; hence
it has lengthened its bid for the fully-
paid £2 shares from 58s. to 765. 6d. over
the last 12 months. At the higher figure
the return is 3.9 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div.
basis. The backing is £2 10s. 3d. in
net tangibles.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1 non i QQfi IQQQ IQQI
Capital . . £367,140 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities .. 76,650 252,463 129,268. 133,584
Factories, etc. 140,114 466,943 413,942 390,202
Stock .. .. 188,874 373,891 304,450 308,916
Book debts . . 105,283 172,094 133,825 137,870
Cash, etc. .. 133,976 33,058 55,167
The reduction of £23,740 in the book
value of factories, etc., and the growth
of £22,109 in cash, etc., are mainly in
respect of the year’s allowance for de-
preciation. The spring in the more or
less liquid surplus (£368,369) was £26,304.
Plant and other fixed assets are reported
in first-class order.
Illawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves
£ £ £ £
1923 .. 10,045 10 p.c. = 10,000 45 1,932
1924 .. 10,047 10 „ „ 10,000 47 1,979
1925 . . 9,041 9 „ „ 9,000 41 2,020
1926 . . 6,542 7 „ ~ 7,000 1,563
1927 . . 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 .. 8,626 8 ~ „ 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500.. .. 15,198
1929 . . 23.561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 . . 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 . . 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 . . 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 . . 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 . . 8,253 8 „ „ 8,000 253 41,094
It’s a snug little concern ; all but £5446
of its £lOO,OOO of capital was represented
by Consols and cash at the end of
March. So the fleet, to which another
vessel, bought from the Sawmillers’ Ship-
ping Co., was recently added, hasn’t got
to turn in much in the way of profit to
enable an 8 p.c. div. to be paid. More-
over, apart from competition from road
transport, the co. enjoys a monopoly of
the carrying business on the N. S. Wales
South Coast between Nowra, where the
railway ends, and the Vic. border and
Sydney.
Last year a good season enabled the
farmers to fill the co.’s ships with pro-
duce, and the board claimed an extra
£203 of profit. That was after striking
off £4550 more than was spent upon fixed
assets, equal to over 8 p.c. of their book
value at the close of accounts in 1933.
What effect, if any, continued restriction
of butter exports will have upon the co.’s
earnings remains to be seen. The market,
which notes that another good season is
in prospect, doesn’t think that the 8 p.c.
div. is likely to be interfered with. It
therefore prices the pound shares at 345.
6d. as against 255. 6d. two years ago. At
the higher figure the return is 4.6 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover is visibly
28s. 2d. in net tangibles.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1920. 1928. 1931. 1933. 1934.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid capital 75,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Liabilities.. 11,505 11,282 9,815 10,013 11,413
Sh perty P '.°. 49,500 60,844 54,600 53,330 48,980
Other ‘ pro- „ „
perty .. 1,717 2,807 2,895 2,790 2,595
Plant, stores, __ „
eto. .. 3,362 2,645 2,078 1,792 1,6*4
Book debts 14,078 15,936 6,652 7,551 8,704
Consols and , ,
cash .. 32,062 48,268 89,323 89,385 94,504
Liabilities, up £l4OO, include an unspeci-
fied reserve for taxation. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£91,845) was £4922. The ships
are all reported in good order and cov-
ered by insurance.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends. N Towards
Net Prcf. Re-
Profit. 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£‘£ £ £ £
1923.. 18,606 6000 74 p.c. = 7500 5,106 48,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,013 38,556
1925.. 23,661 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,161 28,395
1926.. 23,686 6000 7} „ ~ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 74 „ „ 7500 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000 22,649
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9,041
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil 1,128
Deficit.
Written off investments, £2625 .. 1,497
1933.. 17,875 Nil Nil 19,372
Insurance reserve ( £5000) taken in . . 14,372
1934.. 7,353 Nil Nil 21,725
*Half-year’s div.
The chairman sums up the co.’s efforts
for the last twelve months in this way:
During the year the management carried
out a deliberately planned publicity cam-
paign at considerable expense in order to
arrest the decline in sales and establish a
sound foundation for future profitable
trading. Your directors are pleased to
report that this campaign was successful,
and the past year, which commenced full
of difficulties, found each quarter a con-
siderable improvement over the last, and
ended with the final quarter showing a
small net profit. Since the close of the
financial year, sales have continued to
improve substantially.
Also, a men’s boot department was
added, other sections of the business were
overhauled and the display generally im-
proved. It all added to outgoings, of
course. After providing for bad debts,
taxes and other contingencies the balance
was £7353 on the wrong side, or £10,522
less than the previous year’s loss, and
shareholders were passed by again. Pay-
ments to the prefs. have thus dropped
3} years behind; the ords., mostly
held by the parent (Marcus Clark and
Co.), have had nothing since 1930;
and the book value of the tangible sup-
port and protection for capital was
reduced to £21,725 at Feb. 3 —goodwill
figures at £60,000.
Prospects of the prefs.' getting into
the picture again are encouraging.
There are 100,000 of them, 7 p.c.
cumulative less 22\ p.c. statutory cut;
they thus call for £5425 p.a. Much
depends upon whether the co. can hold
the increased turnover, and this and the
debts question (the co. trades largely on
a t.p. basis) will be governed partly by
the growth of employment and improve-
ment in conditions generally. The mar-
ket prices the scrip at 15s. 6d., as against
6s. a year ago. On the basis of a 5.8
p.c. div. the return at the higher figure
is p.c. plus arrears, when paid. The
book value of the cover is 355. Bd. in net
tangibles. It is hard to say when the
ords. are likely to get a look in.
The year’s loss is further reflected in
a slip of £6778 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£40,180, including stocks). This
and other things are visible in the next
table:
1921. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital.. £lBO,OOO £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 13,515 82,098 82,153 95,399
Freeholds .. 124,205 123,199 122,762
Plant, etc. .. 3,449 18,144 15,472 15,332
Stock . . 34,618 40,856 22,917 26,360
Book debts . . 99,519 126,350 101,514 108,735
Investments, cash,
etc. . . 11,088 9,943 4,680 484
To carry an extra £7221 of book debts
and add £3443 to the stocks item, cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £4196, while
£5914 was added to the amount coming
to sundry creditors (£34,067) and £7332
to the overdraft, etc. (£61,332, secured by
mortgage).
Luke Muras, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
21,806
1925.. 2239 Nil 2239 19,617
1C26.. 6309 Nil 6309 13,308
Pref. 8 p.c. Ord.
1927.. 7405 5286 8 p.c. = 4600 15,789
Reserves disclosed, £948 .. • •
1928.. 9658 1344 8 p.c. = 4600 3714 11,12*
1929.. 6972 1343 8 ~ „ 4600 1029 10,098
Loss.
1930.. 332 Nil 10,430
1931.. 728 Nil 11,158
Written off. £2OOO .. .. •• 13,158
1932. . 5695 Nil 18,853
1933.. 2116 Nil 20,969
The table tells the doleful story of the
structural steel and engineering trades.
Just before the present co. took it over
in 1923 for £63,594, including £19,000
for goodwill, Luke Muras’s business paid
a couple of 20 p.c. divs. Then a rush of
foreign competition, followed by falling
prices and mounting costs, spoiled finan-
cial results, and it was not until the tariff
brought the co. a little relief that share-
holders got into th? picture again. Mean-
while 35,000 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs. were
offered, of which 16,792 were taken.
Next came slump, and losses have
shown up for each of the last four years.
The 1933 loss of £2116 all occurred dur-
ing the first four months of the term ;
for the remaining eight months, though
the co. was unable to make a profit, it
escaped without further loss.
Though the losses have been gradually
sapping the co.’s liquid strength, there
is nothing to worry about in the
finances: —•
1925. 1929. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital .. £74,305 £74,292 £74,292 £74,929
Overdraft .. .. .13,436 18,591 18,321 15,810
Creditors .. .. 20,090 12,814 2,046 4,596
Freehold and build-
ings . . . . 20,256 25,516 25,109 25,004
Plant.' .. .. 18.332 21,757 17,051 16,258
Furniture.. .. 506 726 676 667
Stocks . . . . 41,001 ), n ‘ f 28,860 )
Debtors .. .. 7,089 ) G0 ’ 044 \ 3,879
Cash, etc.. . .. 644 - 231 141
Last year debtors’ balances and stocks
were reduced by £lOBO, while £2511 was
clipped off the overdraft and £2550 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The slip in the more or less
liquid surplus (£11,394) was £1209.
Though the tide has turned, and the
co. has a keen and alert management, it
may have a struggle to clear the prefs.'
slate and then keep up regular payments.
The div., which has been reduced from a
cumulative 8 p.c. to 6.2 p.c. by the statu-
tory cut, now calls for £1052 p.a. The
net tangible cover is 48s. lid. per share,
mostly in plant, worth what it can earn.
The prefs. seldom come on to the market.
The ords. are not listed.
Hughes’ Motor Service, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Rc- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
_£ £ £, £
1927.. 7130 8 p.c. = 7980 13,143
1928.. 7683 8 ~ „ 9286 11,540
1929.. 3470 4 „ „ 4800 10,210
1930.. 1932 Nil 1932 12,142
Loss.
1931.. 921 Nil 11,221
Profit.
1932.. 572 Nil 572 11,793
1933.. 825 Nil 825 12.618
It is difficult to say exactly where share-
holders stand. A cut in capital (now
£120,000) is pending ; not much notice,
therefore, need be taken of the so-called
reserves in the table or of the book value
of some of the assets. After the public
became interested in 1925, £45,000 of
fresh capital was gathered, and a blister
of £40,000 was put on the premises. The
new money was used mainly to buy
scrip in Checker Cabs (now in liquida-
tion) and for the purchase of Day’s
Motor Tourist Service, Ltd. For the
three years to the close of accounts in
1929 two divs. of 8 p.c. and one of 4
p.c. were paid, though reserves had to
be tapped to do it.
Then slump, the Transport Act and
the fall in rentals dried up Day’s profits
and those from the co.’s own garage
and car-hire business and from its
four-storeyed freehold in Phillip-street.
Shareholders have thus gone without for
the last four years, and competition has
lost none of its keenness, which is pretty
certain to mean moderate earnings in the
future.
The financial position is obscured by
the lumping of debtors’ balances with
shares, etc.: —-
1926. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £88,696 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Mortgage . • -- 39,000 39,000 39,000
Sundry creditors 8,687 5,643 4,522 3,881
Freehold .. 76,250 76,250 76,250 76,250
Cars, etc. .. 11,003 10,933 10,644 11,383
Debtors, shares,
etc .. 18,289 96,407 96,475 96,606
Cash/ etc. . . 617 956 784 669
Most of the £96,606 at which the com-
posite item appears represents the co.’s
interest in Day’s and Checker Cabs.
Since the close of accounts the board has
bought the Checker Co.’s freehold, which
had a book value of £75,893, for
£30,000 ; no hint is given as to how the
deal was financed. The whole of the
ord. capital in the Checker Co. has been
lost, and it seems unlikely that the prefs.
will rescue more than a fraction of their
money (£25,000).


Inventors. —Have yoj an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
FORESTRY AND TUNG PLANTATIONS, TIMBF;R,
MILLING. Independent and experienced services,
examinations, reports and advice. L. Macintosh
Ellis, B.Sc. (former Director of Forestry, N.Z. Gov-
ernment), Consulting Forest Engineer. Charges
moderate. Confidential correspondence invited.
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.-—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals afid other- Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
WOLFRAM ORES.—We are anxious to purchase
Large and Regular Tonnages. Write, with samples,
Norman Hill & Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers all classes ores, including gold ore and
concentrates. — Advt.
f'• /"XI ri
The Metallurgical Works of
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you write and post a sample of the
Ore or Concentrate which you have for
sale, it will be assayed for Gold content
free of cost, and price submitted.
"A sure friend in uncertain times. 1
mi
KSBSSJftSftX
WZ'Sle*
m
■v-^r-ow
She wouldn't have had
that £605
THE business of the A.M.P. representative is to
help men and women to help themselves; to
show them how they can invest their savings,
small or large, in future security. Wise men and
women listen to the A.M.P. man when he calls, and
give thought to what he says.
Here is a story to illustrate the point. Seven years
ago a certain engineer’s wife invested in an A.M.P.
Industrial policy that called for the saving of a
shilling a week; a policy to provide a dowry for her
baby daughter when she grew up. The next year
she helped the A.M.P. man to persuade her husband
to invest in a £5OO policy on his own life. The hus-
band died recently, and she received £605, the
amount of the policy, plus bonuses. She would not
have had that £605 to help her in her trouble if she
had not listened to that A.M.P. representative.
Write and say that you would welcome a visit from
an experienced representative; or, that you would
like a copy of “Investing in Happiness” sent to
you. It is a book that will help anyone anxious about
his or her financial future.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
Mt. Lyell
In declaring a basic wage of £3 2s 6d.
a week for employees of the Mt. Lyell
Co., Tas. (a reduction of 2s. lid. in the
wage now paid to most of the co. s em-
ployees), the full Bench of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court said that copper
production in Australia was doomed un-
less world conditions changed. Still, pro-
vided conditions for the co. don t get
any worse, it is not likely to close down
its mine, which provides employment
directly and indirectly for about 7000
people. Meanwhile, the co.’s interests
in the fertiliser industry promise to turn
in enough to pay shareholders a small
div.— 2j p.c. for each of the last two
years.
It is an excellently-managed enterprise,
which during the last half-dozen years
has nearly doubled its output and greatly
reduced its costs. If the management had
not thus made possible the treatment of
the low-grade siliceous deposits in the
Crown Lyell and Royal Tharsis, and
without the assistance of the exchange
premium, the co. would probably have
called a halt in mining operations. Only
about 20 p.c. of the output is sold in
Australia. The other 80 p.c. is marketed
mainly in London, where electrolytic
fetched £36 10s. last week-end as against
an average of £36 17s. for the 12 months
ended Sept. 30 last, and £B3 Is. 4d. three
years before that. Last year’s mining
and treatment costs (£471,953, including
lease rents and insurance) were £45 ss.
per ton of copper produced. It is plain,
therefore, that, even with exchange as
it is, the co. is having a very hard struggle
to make ends meet so far as mine pro-
ducts are concerned, notwithstanding the
extra bit which the gold and silver
residues turn in.
What the future holds for the red metal
it is difficult to say. World consump-
tion is now only about half what it was
in 1929. Since America supplies her own
wants, it is chiefly to the U.K., the rest
of Europe and Japan that Empire pro-
ducers have to look for markets. More-
over, Roan Antelope, the co. with huge
deposits of copper ore in Northern
Rhodesia, can profitably market electro-
lytic at less than half Lyell’s cost of
production.
Fred Cuthbert’s New Misima show
treated 3657 tons to the middle of March
for £4085 worth of bullion, with fine gold
at its statutory price (£4 4s. lOd. per
ounce). The profit was 13s. lOd. per. ton
of ore; but, with the current premium
for exchange added, the figure approxi-
mates 235. lid. per ton of ore. The co.
is thus able to pay a div. of Is. 6d. each
month, or 18s. annually, on each £1
share, in addition to building up cash
reserves. Further, when dividend cheques
are mailed to shareholders each month,
the white employee gets a cheque for a
5 p.c. bonus. Fred Cuthbert has two
valuable right-hand men in Jim Quin-
trell (underground) and Gilbert Wilkin-
son (metallurgist).
* ifc * *
Georgetown, one of North Queens-
land’s old goldfields, looks like taking a
new lease of life. The Hawkins Hill
mine has been reopened with rather
conspicuous success, and others are ex-
pected to follow suit. Also, a big dredg-
ing scheme is in the offing, sponsored by
Gold Mines of Australia, which has at
least a year’s preliminary work ahead in
testing the bed of the Gilbert River. A
small tube mill and concentration plant
would bring the old prospectors back to
the Georgetown reefs. They left because
they could only get a low recovery with
an old-time plant, the alternative being
the expensive freight to Chillagoe and
heavy smelting penalties for their
siliceous ores. So, when they couldn’t
get 2oz. stone or over, they dropped out.
Incidentally, the Forsyth operations are
only 30 miles away.
* * * *
Although known to be mineral-bear-
ing, the ranges inland from the Andro-
mache River, south of Proserpine (N.Q.),
have previously repelled most prospec-
tors because of their inaccessibility.
Since the end of 1933, however, several
parties have penetrated the area, and
some rich leaders and reefs have been
located around Mt. Hector. Also, small
plant crushers have been erected for
treating the ore. The Last Try Syndi-
cate has obtained close on 200 oz. gold
in six months. Stone is narrow, but the
last nine tons yielded 620 z. Where there
are rich leaders there may be large lodes.
* * * *
The United Rise at Monal, in the Bur-
nett district (C.Q.), has been reopened
with promising results. When previously
worked it produced close on 6000 oz. of
gold for an average of about 30dwt. per
ton. This was mostly from oxidised
stuff; the sulphide is refractory, but that
matters little these days. There is a fair
tonnage of prospective ore running from
15dwt. to 29dwt.
Deborah, Bendigo, which has com-
pleted sinking the shaft to 750 ft., will
test the 300 ft. of new ground thus made
available by crosscutting. A promising
saddle reef, 16ft. to 18ft. wide, is being
developed below the 435 ft. crosscut,
where a 57-ton parcel, much of it mul-
lock, averaged I.sdwt.; a cleaner sample
went 2.75dwt. over new plates, and values
are expected to improve. Another saddle
at 535 ft. shows black jack and galena,
and a winze from the 630 ft. crosscut is
being sunk in search of the cap of a
formation indicated by the legs cut at
730 ft. Dr. Loftus Hills and W. H.
Cundy, whose full report on the mine
will be made available this week, think
the co. has possibilities, especially at
depth.
* * * *
The New Carshalton, Bendigo, which
has not unearthed anything of value to
date, proposes to sink the shaft another
100 ft. and then crosscut in search of the
30ft.-wide spurs that had been worked in
the upper levels.
* * * *
Being alongside the Lake View, the
Associated can be economically de-
veloped and mined, and ore from it can
be treated at the Lake View plant at
low cost. The purchase will also
lengthen the life of Lake View’s mining
operations. The area taken by Lake
View was worked for many years by the
old Associated Gold Mines of Westralia.
Between 1895 and 1925 nearly 2\ million
tons was treated for a return of about
five million pounds, of which approxi-
mately three-quarters of a million was
distributed in divs. The old co. was re-
constructed in 1925, and to March, 1933,
the new one treated half a million tons
for £809,000 worth of bullion. A further
£lOO,OOO worth of gold has since been
won.
* * * *
Work on the old Wealth of Nations,
at Dunnsville (W.A.), proceeds slowly
under Goldfields Australian Develop-
ment. The property has been unwatered
to 300 ft., and the co. has applied for
another three months’ exemption from
labor conditions. It has also applied for
six months’ exemption on the Iron Duke,
recently taken over from Associated
Northern. The idea is to make a thor-
ough examination of the properties be-
fore spending any money on plant.
* * * *
Enterprise Gold Mines announces, on
expert advice, that the Callion, at Davy-
hurst (W.A.), over which it holds an op-
tion, “possesses distinct possibilities of
opening up a large quantity of payable
ore.” It is not long since another expert
said something different. The vendors
have agreed to an extension of the
option, and, as a further inducement to
the co. to carry on, have expressed their
willingness to take less for the show.
* * * *
Gold-mining has helped Westralia so
much that a visit to London by Minister
Munsie is being suggested as a means of
giving the State a further leg-up. It is
claimed that Munsie would be able to
direct the flow of capital into likely
auriferous channels. Canada sends its
Minister of Mines to London every now
and then with beneficial results for the
Dominion.
* * * *
Herman Mandelstamm is searching for
capital in London to resuscitate the Neta
and other properties at Edjudina (W.A.),
about 100 miles north-east of Kalgoorlie.
Over £4OOO has been spent on these pro-
perties, but more is needed to unwater
and test them at depth.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. has taken an
option over the Young Australia Syndi-
cate’s mine* at Cue (W.A.) for £20,000.
A parcel of 213 tons from this property
recently returned 3940 z. of gold.
Another 946 tons previously crushed
averaged 23dwt.
* * * *
Empress Gold, of Adelaide, reports
that a trial run of the new plant on the
Empress, at Coolgardie (W.A.), has been
very satisfactory. The ore from this pro-
perty returned good values in the past.
* * * *
E. Piesse, one of the old-timers, took
660 z. of gold out of three petrol-tins of
stone from McPhee’s patch, 80 miles
south-east of Port Hedland (W.A.). He
had previously done well out of alluvial
in the same area, but heavy rains forced
him to hunt for reefs.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder’s new £120,000 mill and
flotation plant are expected to be running
some time in July. During the past year
or two the co. has announced more
“strikes” than all the other cos. on the
Golden Mile put together.
* * * *
The language test, the outcome of the
anti-foreign riots in Kalgoorlie and
Boulder last Feb., was recently applied
on the Golden Mile and at Gwalia and
Wiluna. Of the 682 foreign miners
examined only two were rejected as un-
able to speak English “readily and intel-
ligently.”
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.L.A.: A good start has been made in ore
reserve building, and the diamond drill suggests
that the show has a promising future
H.H.T.: The future of the New Guinea one is
doubtful; the other shows promise....
Canoblas: Not recommended H.L.: Can-
not say; the co. does not broadcast its figures.
....P.J.: The four appear to have a promis-
ing future E.J.S.: (1) When those in
the industry decide to bury the hatchet, the
co. should make good. (2) Hang on for a
while. The outside debt is negligible, and
conditions are improving 8.W.: (1) Hang
on. (2) Making inquiries. (3) No, sit tight,
though it may be a year or so before the
ords. get a div. (4) Unless those in the trade
compose their differences, something of the
kind will become inevitable.


*
*
*
*1
*
m
»
!
wi
t
T+ BRINGS A BREATH of /
/ U OLD IRELANi) !
TOM WAILS
«THE
i
\
WATCH FOR IT
IN YOUR
LOCAL THEATRE
with-
ANNEGREY
DIRECTED B\o
TOM WALLS
ďf
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Three Little Pigs”
The chief attraction to thousands at
Sydney Regent is likely to be Walt
Disney’s celebrated fairy film. This
humorist is doing on the screen what
Lewis Carroll, Grimm and Hans Ander-
sen did in literature; he provides drama
with a laugh in it which adults enjoy as
much as children. The story of the bad
wolf and his defeat by the forces of inno-
cence is said to have a political signifi-
cance in the U.S.A.; here it will be en-
joyed for its charm and humor, and for
the cleverness of the drawings. This is
perhaps the only talkie so far produced
that future generations will like as much
as we do.
“Perfect Understanding”
Gloria Swanson and Laurence Olivier
marry on the written understanding that
either shall be free to stray if so disposed.
In due course the lady gets a divorce
citation. She has done no more than
call on an adorer at night to tell him
that, in spite of her husband’s faithless-
ness, she won’t break her marriage vows.
There would have been no trouble and
no play if she hadn’t left her car outside
his house while she roamed distracted
about the streets of London; if she
hadn’t then written a letter thanking him
for their “last night together” ; and if
the husband hadn’t identified the car and
got hold of the letter.
Gloria Swanson persistently shows all
her teeth and half her eyes as usual. She
looks too mature and sophisticated for
the part. Laurence Olivier is right in
every detail as an oversexed young West
Ender. Many American movie actors
dress as if they have been poured into
their clothes, and they stride the earth
with the kingly arrogance of shop-
walkers. Olivier slouches and puts his
clothes on anyhow, yet he would take
all the honors in an open gigolo contest.
Some of the photography in the early
sequences is exquisite. The reconstruc-
tion of No. 3 Court and its inmates
would have been flawless if it had had
a well and raised seats for the public—
in short, if it hadn’t been like an
American court.
“The Masquerader”
Here again life in England is depicted
by Hollywood-trained stars. Ronald
Colman doubles the parts of the drug-
taking M.P. and the young idealist who
enthrals the House of Commons and
wins the heart of Mrs. Chilcote' while
the man he is impersonating lies half-
senseless at the other end of the town.
No one could have done it better. Elissa
Landi also is at her best as the wife.
Her genteel mannerisms are gone, leav-
ing her for the first time in her screen
career an unconsciously beautiful young
woman. The writer liked Halliwell
Hobbes better than any of them. Hobbes
plays the difficult part of the old family
butler who transfers his devotion to the
interloper. He never loses his dignity or
goes sentimental. The settings are re-
markably naturalistic, particularly those
of the House and Clifford’s Inn.
“Berkeley Square”
If you’re prepared to accept, for the
sake of entertainment, the return of a
modern young man to the seventeen-
eighties you’ll enjoy “Berkeley Square”
at the State.
Leslie Howard plays the American
who inherits the house in Berkeley
Square. When transformed into his
namesake of 150 years back he keeps
making mistakes, having only a sketchy
idea of the habits of the time. The
sequences in which he fires epigrams
from Oscar Wilde at the Duchess of
Devonshire and confounds Sir Joshua
Reynolds by revealing the painter’s future
plans get plenty of laughs: such situations
always have since Mark Twain invented
the recipe. There’s a love story, but it
is only incidental.
Leslie Howard’s finished work as the
hero puts the other characters in the
shade. It’s easily the best thing he has
done.
“Sleeping Car”
In “Sleeping Car,” also at the State,
Madeleine Carroll loses her heart to an
elderly car-attendant. Ivor Novello is
supposed to be a charmer; in point of
fact the director might as well have
given the part to Cyril Maude. It’s sad
The man who took Mae at her word.
to see Madeleine Carroll associated with
such rubbish. Kay Hammond isn’t bad
as a little French girl, but Maisie, a
Sealyham dog, scores the biggest laugh
of the show. It arrives unfailingly when
a railway engine passes over her and
changes her from white to black.
“B'ood Money”
This Sydney Capitol gangster has
smarter dialogue and better acting than
most. George Bancroft swaggers through
it as an elderly crook made up to look 30
or so; Judith Anderson is his mistress. He
is a bail bondsman —has a big neon sign
up and an office with many girl typists
and telephones. He falls for a rich goil
with a kleptomaniacal complex, falls out
with his very sophisticated lady-love, and
nearly falls to a bomb concealed in a
billiard ball. The film has two features
that must be unique in the history of
Hollywood. In one set a widow, enter-
ing an office with her son, says gently
to the youth, “I think you should remove
your hat.” In another, George Bancroft,
after listening to a female crooner for
a few seconds, rushes for the exit.
“Scotland Yard Mystery”
A bit complicated, but on the whole
another corroboration of Creswell
O’Reilly’s claim that the British are at
last learning to make talkies. The chief
trouble is that most of the characters
look and talk so much alike that it’s dif-
ficult to remember which is which. In
the last quarter of an hour, several per-
sons having been eliminated by the
machinations of a Scotland Yard doctor
who insures people heavily, drugs them,
gets them certified as victims of heart
disease, and bribes undertakers to fill
their alleged coffins with books, the posi-
tion becomes clearer. The doctor (Edgar
Wallace’s “Ringer” was his great-grand-
father) finally tries to elude justice by
taking his own drug, entrusting the anti-
dote to his lady-love. The police open
fire on his ’plane as soon as it descends,
and of course the first thing they hit
is the precious phial. In one shot, a
Scotland Yard official resorts to torture
in order to extort confessions from con-
victed prisoners. 8.1. P. is in a position
to check up on such things, but we find
it hard to believe all the same.
“The Cat and the Fiddle”
Not the kind of thing to make little or
other dogs laugh consumedly, yet still
a fair average musical comedy. Ramon
Navarro and Jeanette Macdonald are
respectively a young Bruxellois and an
American. They are indigent musicians,
and when she composes a song about a
Night of Love they are able to get mar-
ned and move to a flat with a double-
bed in the Mae West tradition.
The film consists mostly of shots of
the hero and heroine making love and
singing at each other, and of a Bohe-
mianism which the writer never discov-
ered in Brussels, though he knows
Europe’s dullest city well.
There is an excellent first part at the
St. James, consisting, as usual, of shorts,
which follow one another with bewilder-
ing rapidity.
“A Southern Maid”
A Lyceum film. Hollywood might
have made a do of it; 8.1. P. have ex-
tracted much of the life and nearly all
the music.
Bebe Daniels does best; first as
Juanita, the San Giorgian lady who. on
the eve of her marriage, runs off with an
Englishman, and later as the beautiful
Dolores who is claimed by Juanita’s son,
also on her wedding eve. Clifford Mol-
lison doesn’t impress as a lover capable
of enticing a lady from Francesco
(Harry Welchman), and few of the others
have any opportunities. Lupino Lane is
funny betimes as Lopez, who holds every
public office, including that of chief
brigand, in San Giorgio.
“The Crime on the Hill”
An English murder yarn. Lewis Cas-
son makes his first screen appearance as
a vicar who, in face of the spectacle of
crime rampant, retains his faith in human
nature. All the others are good, with
Sir Nigel Playfair and Gus McNaughton
outstanding. The different atmospheres
in the village before and after the crime
are cleverly indicated, and the camera
work is excellent.
“Leap Year”
In this Melb. Athenaeum film British
F.O. officials instruct the G.P.O. to put
all the ’phone calls of the daughter of
their quarry (a shady financier) through
to Tom Walls’s London flat. They don’t
tell Walls, although he is a secret-service
agent on their pay-roll. Walk makes a
date with the unknown ’phone-ringer,
and they spend a night together in the
country. The succeeding four years are
spent by Walls seeking for his an-
nonymous benefactress. He makes
good use of his unpromising material.
The key to his undoubted attraction for
the ladies appears to be that he repre-
sents with excessive suavity the im-
memorial Don Juan who makes hay of
women’s hearts without really involving
his own. Anne Grey, who plays oppo-
site him, is composed in equal parts
of a lovely face and agreeable acting.
From Church to Cinema
Melbourne’s latest picture palace is the
Metro. Previous to its acquisition by
M.-G.-M. it was the somewhat shoddy
Auditorium, where somewhat distin-
guished pianists, vocalists and fiddlers
were wont to play or sing somewhat
distinguished music. Previous to that it
was a denominational assembly hall
where church fathers discussed theologi-
cal heresies, the decline in morals, the
growth of cigarette smoking, the shrink-
age of bathing costumes above the knees
and elbows, trams on Sundays, late
closing, the gambling fever, the danc-
ing epidemic, and other signs of the
corruption of youth and the immi-
nent collapse of civilisation. Still
earlier it was St. Enoch’s Church.
Enoch, who wrote the Apocryphal
book of that name, was a fiery old gentle-
man who gave an elaborate description
of the world of spirits, of the future life,
(Continued on page 22.)


■
m
■
" ; - -«
mm :.;
: 9 5
I I m m j
H
m
.
■
m
o o
9 9 ■
:. .
H
:;.r
Pplf l\
llPlPPr^
O - C -
- **&>%« ■ *
n
■R
n
■ i'
.
**«W#WS.r. .*.' mm
M
• ■,
mm
-
t\
■ ;
:•
: *
* ,r -
-'<
L' vtj* v 1 1
'■
f >" V *?"- £ &s§m
: ; • .\ ,
sgif
n
.■/'if; l : : .
: . Hlf
I
■ : .' : ■( m
W&iB:
*s&
-v.
\.
,-••• •■'
.>*■
'~"\M
KK'Vm ■
.
life*':
/
%hbts
■
Educational.
TAMWORTH
CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GIRLS’ SCHOOL
Complete Course from Kindergarten to Leaving
Certificate.
Write to Miss A. M. Parr, 8.A., Principal.
On the very top of the glorious
BLUE MOUNTAINS, N.S.W.
“OSBORNE” LADIES’ COLLEGE,
Paradise Hill, Blackheath.
Pine mansion amidst lovely scenery. Efficient
teaching staff. Pupils prepared for Honours,
Leaving Certificate Examination. Solely a
resident school of fifty pupils. Sport includes
golf, tennis, etc. Religion Undenominational.
For Prospectus, apply Lady Principal.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SCHOOL FOR BOYS.
This School was founded by the Right Rev.
Horace H. Dixon, M.A. (Cantab.), Bishop
Coadjutor of the Diocese of Brisbane. The
present Headmaster is Mr. B. G. Lawrance, M.A.
(Cantab.). Full particulars regarding the course
provided at the Senior School and at the Junior
School, also illustrated Prospectus, will be for-
warded on application to: THE BURSAR.
THE SOUTHPORT SCHOOL, SOUTHPORT,
QUEENSLAND.
ST. HILDA S SCHOOL, SOUTHPORT.
CHURCH OF ENGLAND SCHOOL FOR GIRLS.
Education is provided at St. Hilda’s from sub-
primary to Matriculation standard. Prospectus
and full particulars will be gladly supplied upon
application to the PRINCIPAL: WINIFRED
L. FITTOCK, B.A. Third term for both
schools commences 24th July.
Positions Vacant.
WANTED.—First-class Mining Engineer with
previous experience of test-boring alluvial areas.
Apply, stating salary, to F. M. HART & CO.,
Box 534 H, G.P.0., Brisbane.
THESE EAST FEW
YEARS
These last few years have, in a marked or lesser degree,
proved to all the wisdom of making some provision for the
future. All of us have experienced the unexpected financial
calls of everyday life, and, while it is impossible to gauge
accurately the needs of the future, it is possible to provide
for them.
A Savings Account costs nothing to open, and can be
opened nearly anywhere in Australia. With it and the regular
saving of money, however small the amounts, adequate pro-
vision for the unexpected calls will be made.
Cbmmonwcaltl) Savings JBanh of Huslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday
d
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
lioolclet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
ď
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying am.
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Personal and Missing Friends.
In the Will of Edith Lillian Rootes, late
of Matavia, West Wyalong, Deceased.
THE Executor of the will of the abovenamed
deceased desires to ascertain the whereabouts of
(1) MR. CLARENCE ARTHUR LESLIE
ROOTES, formerly a member of the New
South Wales Police Force stationed at
Broken Hill, and afterwards thought to
have gone to South Australia.
(2) MRS. VERA JOHANNA GRAINGER
(formerly Rootes), believed to have resided
at Ryde, near Sydney, about 10 years ago.
The Executor requests that the above persons,
or anyone knowing the present whereab'outs of
either, will communicate with him advising him
of such whereabouts. Please address any com-
munications to the Executor, care of MESSRS.
G. P. EVANS & ENGLERT, Solicitors, West
Wyalong.
WILL ARTHUR EDMUND WATSON, for-
merly of Boundary Street, South Townsville,
kindly communicate with Mr. A. E. DEAN,
Solicitor, Townsville, on matters connected
mother's estate.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Polywoggle”: Here’s a simpler way
of catching mosquitoes than luring them
under a trip-hammer and springing
the trigger. Let her —the stinging sorts
are all of the gentler sex —settle on the
bare arm. Let her sink her proboscis in
and stand on her head as she drives it
home. When her—er —abdomen begins
to swell a bit and assume a pinkish hue
take a deep breath —draw in till you’re
red in the face and the stays are crack-
ing. Hold that. Now show her
you’re master of the situation: push her
with your free finger, shove her about,
taunt her with her inability to withdraw
and, generally, let her know who’s boss.
She’ll buzz and reverse, spinning her
wheels and failing to get a grip, but she
can’t get out while the breath is held.
If you don’t linger unduly, she’s there
till she’s slapped and thrown away.
* * * *
“Barangkali”: Twenty-four live Aus-
tralian rabbits, c.i.f. Papeete, left Sydney
the other day to help (with their descen-
dants) a Tahitian planter in keeping
the island clear of long grass. I don’t
“And you needn’t come back to-morrow.”
“But I ’aven’t fixed the front yet, sir.”
know if Tahiti is cursed with the
teeming population of land-crabs that
are part and parcel of most tropical
islands, but if so the rabbits will have
a hard struggle for existence. A few
years ago Governor Ross, of Cocos
Island, imported some hundreds of Aus-
tralian rabbits and liberated them on the
island he considered most suitable for
breeding purposes. Within three weeks
the big blue kapeeting (land-crab) had
finished off the last of them. A few
kept in captivity have survived, but have
not proved prolific breeders.
* * * *
“A.W.C.”: When the boys were travel-
ling from Rosebery to Zeehan, on the wet
west coast of Tasmania, a discussion
cropped up in the tunnel as to whether
the grade was up or down. Old Bill in
the corner said it was uphill, and told
us how he knew. In the days when cop-
per was worth mining he had been to
Zeehan for a bender, and missed the
train back to Rosebery. He set out to
walk the 20 miles along the rail-
way. Tramping through the tunnel, he
heard a train approaching and suddenly
remembered there was an excursion to
Zeehan, that night. He dropped face-
down in the gully at the side,
and as the wheels rattled alongside
of him became aware that the water was
running through his trouser-legs and out
at his neck. He was perfectly sober
when he got on his feet again.
“G.A.L.”: The luckiest experience I
ever had when I used to carve out a
living for myself with a stockwhip
occurred one pouring night near Uki
(N.S.W.). The river was in flood, and
had swept the bridge away. On top of
that it was pitch dark, blowing a gale,
and the trees were falling like ninepins.
I couldn’t see further than my old prad’s
head, but I was determined to get home
for supper and a change of clothes. I
reached the river bank, shut my eyes and
gave the horse his head. In a minute
or so I found myself on the other side
—and the prad didn’t swim either. Next
morning, when the river had fallen, I
went down to see where I had crossed.
Stretched across the bank was a giant
Moreton Bay fig-tree, and on the trunk
were the hoof-marks of my old prad.
He had used the tree for a bridge!
* * * *
“Nduindui” (Samoa): “Navigators” (B.
21/2/’34) and “Apia” (B. 7/3/’34) are
both wrong as regards Samoan tattooing.
The practice has never looked like dying
out. “Apia” is correct as to the position,
“Well, S tor key, you would bring twins to the elephant.”
but the actual tattooing, of very intricate
and symmetrical design, is done free-
hand, and differs in individuals as to
pattern. It is indelibly fixed with bone
needles dipped into an ink made prin-
cipally from soot. The needles are not
necessarily in groups of four ; some of
the experts (greatly honored throughout
the group) use varying combinations and
formations, carrying as high as ten. The
whole operation is exceedingly painful.
Tattooing is optional in the case of all
women, except the village or clan virgin.
She is called the taupo, and must submit
to the operation. The pattern on women
commences on the inside of their thighs,
circles round the legs, and finishes below
the knees in another circle.
* * * *
“Myall”: A horse needn’t be broken
in to have a pulled tail (B. 21 /3 / ’34).
While brumby-running in s.-w. Queens-
land, many were the brumby tails I
found on trees. In wet weather mud col-
lects on the end, which, as a rule, sweeps
the ground. The lump of mud hardens,
and, when Carbine gallops through the
scrub, swings everywhere. Sooner or
later it catches round a tree with a strong
spike, and a squeal of pain follows as
about a third of the tail-hair comes out
by the roots. Again, what is to stop any-
one putting an unbroken horse in a
crush with a rail or two behind him and
removing surplus hair?
* * * *
“Fan Kwei”: According to the cables,
Britain is going crazy over a delicious
new fruit from S’Africa known as the
“litchie.” Description shows the thing
to be the old familiar lichi from China.
Writer first struck the fruit in the store
of a Chinese friend in Blackall, on the
Barcoo, a store which also vended dried
oysters and salted prawns, together with
firecrackers, in those days a novelty
eagerly sought after by all right-thinking
small boys. Some years later he found
lichis on sale at many Liverpool (Eng.)
fruiterers’ at a reasonable price. Dried,
the lichi is not a delectable object. The
thin, crackly shell encloses an insipidly
sweet sort of plum with a stone in the
middle. The S’African variety, especi-
ally if fresh, may be more attractive, but
I have my doubts.
* * * *
“Drover’s Portion”: A curious hap-
pening was recalled in Sydney Probate
•Court recently. One Darcy John Single
left Mudgee (N.S.W.) in 1896 in
charge of a mob of cattle for Charters
Towers (Q.), but never reached there ;
neither he nor the cattle were heard of
again. He was a beneficiary in his
father’s estate, and leave to presume his
death was granted. One would like to
know what became of that lad and his
cattle—presumably a small collection of
studs: no other sort would be travelled
from N.S.W. to the Towers. A journal
refers to “the perilous track from
Mudgee to Charters Towers in 1896 ”
It would be about as perilous as a walk
round King’s Cross any evening after
the pubs are shut. The 1896 season
was a pretty good one, so drought could
not have been responsible; and the
route Single must have taken was con-
stantly used by cattle on the move. The
more one considers his black-out the
more mysterious it seems.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: The king of all whip-
makers was old Charlie Gasher, a half-
caste. In his later years it was hard to
get Charlie to practise his craft, but
after a deal of persuasion he set to work
on a big-pfeller whip; it was to be
presented to one of the directors about
to visit the station. When the 60ft., 64-
strand whip was finished the boss re-
marked that the visitor would not be
able to crack it. “Garn,” snorted Gasher,
“tell him to stand it up in the wind. My
whips crack themselves.”
* * * *
“Sailor”: In some parts of the Man-
dated Territory horses and cattle have a
rough spin from sand-flies and mos-
quitoes. To get rid of the pests the
animals will stand out in the sea for
hours. At Pondo (New Britain) one night
I heard a great commotion along the
beach, and by the snorting and splash-
ing had a feeling that one of the horses
had fallen foul of a crocodile. Grab-
bing a hurricane-lamp and a gun I went
off up the beach to see if there was any
hope for the horse. A sudden quietness
suggested that I was too late, but I got
a surprise to find Neddy angrily stamp-
ing and swishing sand-flies with his tail.
Apart from a nasty torn wound or the
hind leg he was none the worse for his
experience. Two days later my boys
found a dead 7ft. croc, on the beach
with its head badly battered. By the
look of the injuries the horse must have
stamped it to death.
* * * *
“Wodai”: Building nests on branches
overhanging creeks doesn’t always give
the protection which the feathered archi-
tects intended (B. 25/4/’34). During a
drought in our Queensland district birds
such as the wagtail, white-eared honey-
eater and noisy miner built their domi-
ciles on low limbs of the tea-tree over-
hanging the waterholes in the creeks,
as water was practically unobtainable
elsewhere. Nearly every tea-tree had
a nest containing either young or
eggs, and often a nest would be found
vacant in the morning. One night when
fishing at one of these pools I heard a
bird calling as if in distress. Focussing
a strong torch in the direction, I found
a water-rat swimming towards the bank
with a female wagtail in its mouth.
SHEEP TRACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sheep tracks running through the grassy
hollows,
Sheep tracks trodden to a little ribboned line,
Where the kookaburra laughs and the light-
winged swallows
Cleave the paths of morning and muster in
the pine,
The summer-scented pine.
Sheep tracks twisting through the stony rises,
Where the wind-whipped banksias turn away
and cower,
Where the hot air aches and the splintered gum
surprises
The burnt-out acres with a sheaf of summer
flower,
Of honeyed autumn flower.
Sheep tracks threading where the brown creek
.kisses
Autumn-colored orchards where the leaves
spin slow;
Might we not be finding, in a day. like this is,
The apples of enchantment where the sheep
tracks go,
The little sheep tracks go,
Go through the brown fern, the green fern, the
fairy
Tunnels of the tea-tree, elfin grey and old?
Magic we might find then, unsubstantial, airy,
Following the sheep tracks through the
autumn gold,
The dusty autumn gold.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
RESOURCEFUL JIM.
The guinea (plus space rates ) is
awarded this week to D. Fryar, Two
Mile, Gympie (Q.), for the following: —
Was camped with my mate Jim
on a forestry job near Gym-
pie. Returning from a night in
town, I was surprised to see the
back of the tent ripped from top
to bottom, another large hole near
Jim’s bunk, and hoof-marks all
over the floor. “What on earth’s
happened?” I asked. “A blasted
cow woke me up by snorting in me
face,” said Jim. “That” —indicat-
ing the large hole in the back —“is
where she came in.” “And that,”
I suggested, pointing to the smaller
hole near Jim’s bunk, “is where she
went out?” “No,” Jim said —
“that’s where I did.”


“Bogaduck”: A hungry fox is amaz-
ingly cheeky. Last winter Eric Hum-
phreys, of Naracoorte (S.A.), was coming
home with a box of ferrets and & spade
in one hand and a bunch of rabbits in
the other. A friend was waiting for him
along the road. The friend saw the rab-
biter suddenly drop everything but the
spade, with which he turned and struck
in among the ferns. He went over and
found Humphreys with a dead fox at his
feet. “The brute sneaked up behind me
and tried to grab a rabbit,” he was
told. A boy in the same district took a
rabbit out of a trap and was resetting
it when he saw the dead rabbit sliding
away. A fox was dragging it off by the
ears. Only a few days ago I shot a
couple of teal on 800 l Lagoon. One fell
in the water, the other on the shore. I
sent my dog to retrieve the one out on
the lagoon. I was within a few yards
of the other when a fox darted out of
the tea-tree, grabbed the bird up, and
vanished.
* * * *
“Ozab”: That reference to “beetle-loo”
(B. 28/3/’34) brings to mind what we call
“grub-loo”—played with Mexican jump-
ing beans. These beans, when placed on
a table, will skip in a most mysterious
manner. The game is to pick the last
bean to jump. The motive power is a
“Which is the house where a man’s been beating his wife?”
“Take y’r pick, sergeant.”
small caterpillar that gets into the bean
while green, and whose jerky movements
inside the hollowed-out space cause a
sudden change in the bean’s equilibrium,
The grub is a relative of the codlin moth,
* * * *
“Spmifex” :“Dilly” (B. 28/3/’34) says
there is no memorial to Major Mitchell,
the man who introduced the canvas
waterbag known to all bushmen as the
neck-bag. Let me tell him that in
Queensland there is the Mitchell district,
the Mitchell River, and, greatest of all
natural pastures, there is Mitchell grass.
Apart from these, the Major is com-
memorated in another way. A few years
back, when I was mustering the wily
woolly, a common instruction given by
the boss musterer when splitting his men
was “Go round by th’ breakaway and
Major-Mitchell plenty.” I don’t know
what originated the expression, and I
don’t know if Mitchell himself war-
ranted it; but to Major-Mitchell meant
to work in zig-zags, to poke about a lot,
avoid a straight line, and, in some cases,
a man who was lost was referred to as
being “Major-Mitchelled.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: There have been plenty of
instances of prompt action in snakebite
cases, but a Lang Lang (Vic.) example
has points of interest. George Wells,
aged 20, was bitten on the finger by
a tiger-snake while fern-cutting. He
promptly laid his finger on a log, handed
an axe to his 15-year-old brother Don,
and gave the necessary order. The sur-
geon went white, but did the job and
then fell to the ground sobbing. A liga-
ture having been applied, the patient ran
two miles to his farm and was then taken
in to Melbourne, being made to sing all
the way to keep his spirits up. The chief
sufferer was the youthful surgeon, who
became ill from shock and took some
days to recover.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: The contention of “Jack’s
Track” (B. 25/4/’34) that markings on
tree-butts do not climb upwards with
the years is so well supported by experi-
ence that one wonders that anyone ever
questions it. He quotes mortise holes for
sliprails cut in a tree. A very common
example can be seen when the bole of
a growing tree is utilised on a fence-line
for a strainer or anchor-post at an angle.
The wire encircling the post often bites
deep into the tree as the years go on, but
never climbs upwards. Otherwise in
time the fence would look more like the
overland telegraph line than a sheep
barrier.
* * * *
“Jack’s Track”: A pannikin wash is
all right for those bushmen who have
more water than they can drink, and a
half-pint from the water-bag dribbled on
by an experienced mate is a refreshing
hand, neck and head sluice. But in the
early days in the Coolamon (N.S.W.)
wheat country, all surface water was as
red as blood and painted everything with
a ruby hue, while rainwater was scarcer
than beer. Many were the dodges to eke
out the supply. Fencer Joe Nicholls
swore he could wash his broad dial in a
match-box full of rainwater. He proved
it by forking out of his pocket a metal
match-box to the bottom of which he
had fixed a tiny tap.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: One of the most remark-
able species of the eucalypt is the white-
wash gum (E. terminalis), which forms
a striking feature of the landscape about
Alice Springs and other parts of Central
Aust. The trunk and limbs are covered
with a white dust or powder, which the
local blacks use for decorating them-
selves for corroborees. Occasionally, for
amusement, they transform themselves
into white-fellers, covering their faces
and bodies with the powder off the trees,
“Mouse-trap, ninepence? Py corrie, it pay me to tucker ie prurry mouse.”
These whitewash gums, glaringly white
in the sun, can be seen at a great dis-
tance. They generally grow about the
foot and slopes of low hills.
* * * *
“Grenouille”: The perennial frog-in-
the-rock has come to the front again, this
time in Brisbane. There has been the
usual rush of people who have seen
with their own eyes the ani-
mals taken out of the middle
of allegedly solid stone. One
individual produced as proof
a piece of basalt which had
a small hollow in the frac-
ture. Even when someone
pointed out that basalt in its
original state is molten, and
that, if a frog had been
trapped in it, then it must
have been entirely destroyed,
the enthusiast refused to re-
nounce his faith, and bore off
his “proof” in a high state of
indignation. It seems that
occasionally a frog-egg or
tadpole is washed through
some almost invisible crevice
into a cavity—the verified
examples have almost invari-
ably been found in porous
sandstone and, unable to
escape, has matured in its
prison, maintained by water
seepage and infinitesimal
food particles.
* * *
“Rangitira”: A find more
important in Maori eyes than
the discovery of another
Waihi mine has just been
made in Maoriland ; namely,
a buried box containing 70
feathers of the extinct hu'ia
bird. These black feathers,
tipped with white, could only
be worn by tribal chiefs, and
the privilege was jealously
guarded. The box was found
in a small cave wrapped
about with many folds of
flax matting, which accounted
for the perfect preservation
of the feathers. The huia has
not been seen alive in M.L.
for 50 years, and it is thought that these
feathers were hidden away much further
back than that.
* * * *
“Sansi”: Without impugning the state-
ment (B. 18/4/’34) that cloth waterbags
were used by Wellington in his Indian
campaigns, I can say with certainty that
their employment did not carry on far
beyond that period. Later records of
army work in India say nothing of the
cloth waterbag, and within the writer’s
personal ambit he never saw one or heard
one spoken of. The universal water-con-
tainer of India, military and civilian, in
pre-war days was the goatskin mussock,
carried by a man who, though on the
strength of the regiment, was a civilian
non-combatant. Curiously enough, con-
sidering the rigid bounds of caste in
Hindu India, the carrier of the mussock,
a low-caste man, contaminated not even
a Brahmin when he served the latter with
water.
* * * *
“Wallamboo”: Crocodiles’ digestive
powers? A few years ago the meatworks
at Wyndham had occasion to dump a
lot of condemned tinned beef into the
Cambridge Gulf. Some months after-
wards a 16ft. croc, was speared by blacks
on a river emptying into the gulf, and
amongst a collection of stones found in-
side the reptile were two badly bent tins
of bully-beef. Evidently the tins had
been picked up by the saurian when feed-
ing at the blood-drain from the works,
which empties out not far from where
the condemned stuff was dumped.
H? * H*
“Mako”: I agree with “Tiki” (B.
18 / 4/’34) that tinned toheroas are but
pallid ghosts of the shellfish picked up
on the North Auckland (M.L.) beaches.
But he is wrong in his assertion that
toheroa soup has only recently come into
its own. Over 20 years ago I sojourned
at Opononi, on Hokianga Harbor, adja-
cent to the toheroas’ stronghold, and the
famous soup was on the menu at least
twice a week, and always drew lyrical
comment by the diners.
* * * , *
“Flinders St.”: As one well acquainted
with that Townsville alcoholic goat (B.
"25/4/’34), I should like to place on re-
cord that not one goat but several filled
the job with distinction. I first made
acquaintance with the founder of the
dynasty in 1892. He patronised a hotel
in the middle of the city’s main street,
and always gave the barmen the tip that
it was opening time by butting into the
front doors at sunrise. Eritering, he
had his morning out of a special pan
reserved for his own use, and then hung
about until the two-legged clientele came
along. All day long he drank steadily—
always beer —and usually 'staggered to
his rest under a fig-tree up the backyard
as the shades of evening fell. He was
a proletarian goat, and scorned the
private bar, preferring to associate with
the users of the “public,” mostly wharf-
laborers. Perhaps the fact that the beers
were larger there had something to do
with it. The next one of his line I met
was that one reigning in 1910. He was
smaller than William 1., and less odori-
ferous, but just as jealous of his rights
and as prone to resent lese-majeste. The
original William had advertised the pub
so well that, when he was gathered to
his fathers —he never married —a suc-
cessor was chosen from many candidates,
just as is the case with the Grand Lamas
of Tibet. They all took kindly to the
family motto of nunc est bibendum, and
never swerved from it.
“THE TWELVE APOSTLES.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re a raffish, quarrelsome, noisy crew
That loiter about my camp all day;
They wrangle and fight till their feathers strew
The scene of many a tin-pot fray.
They’re a shabby-looking, disgraceful lot
With rasping voices and plumage drab,
And manners are something they haven’t got;
They jostle, scramble and peck and grab.
As their shrieks and chatter grow worse and
worse
My dog darts out, but they only fly
To the nearest tree, where they jeer and curse
At all that lies in his baleful eye.
Yet the imprecations they loose on him
Are mild compared to the things they shout
When they spy a crow on a near-by limb,
And hurry across to drive him out.
’Tis a lowly place they occupy,
I’m sure, in the avian social scale;
The minahs and soldier-birds pass them by
With scorn that they never try to veil.
Yet my “twelve apostles” don’t seem to care,
But cluster closely around my feet,
Contented so long as they get their share —
And more—of anything good to eat.
The butcher-bird’s whistle is sweet to hear,
The parrot’s splendor is good to see,
But these little pert birds, my friends sincere,
Liven the loneliness up for me.
Though their tones are those of a shrill-voiced
shrew
They’re comrades staunch in their own queer
way,
This chattering, quarrelsome, noisy crew
That loiter about my camp all day.
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


All
MURDOCH
Coat Sweaters
8u
MEN, once you get into one of
these comfy garments—feel
the woolly warmth, the com-
fortable fit you’ll agree that these
All-wool Coat Sweaters are out-
standing value at this price! Smart
shades include Mid and Dark Grey
or Brown Marl. Fashioned by ex-
perts, in style as illustrated, with
two pockets, taped shoulders and
double cuffs. Sizes 34in. to 38in.,
8/11; 40in., 9/3; 42in., 9/6.
Marvel
Value
. . . With the new
“Zipper”
fronts...
Undoubtedly the popular style for
1934. All-wool neat jacquard or
check design, “zip” fastener Pull-
overs for men. Dressy shades of
Grey, Fawn, Brown, Blue and Black
and White Grey. Ribbed cuffs, skirt
and collar. Sizes 34in. and 36in.,
13/6; 38in. and 40in., 14/6.
There’s 100 per cent. Wool in
Murdoch’s Exclusive
“Cawoola”
UNDERWEAR
Murdoch’s exclusive all-wool “Ca-
woola” brand Singlets. Guaranteed
unshrinkable and with short sleeves.
Medium Winter weight. Sizes 34in.
and 36in., 9/11.
Heavyweight “Cawoola” Singlets for
men, with short sleeves. All wool.
Unshrinkable. Sizes 34in. and 36in.,
12/6. Larger sizes 6d. per size
extra.
Men’s extra heavy Winter-weight
“Cawoola” All-wool Singlets. With
short sleeves. Sizes 34in., 36in., 14/6.
Larger sizes approximately 6d. per
size extra.
Underpants to match, 1/- extra on
above prices.
NEW CATALOGUE—FREE !
WE PAY FREIGHT.
Kindly write letters to Desk “R.”
13/6
Murdoch's Ltd
SYDNEY v
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L. Wilson, 80 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd., North
Terrace, Adelaide.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Future of the Market
Interest Rates and
Security Prices
Export Control
Stocks Worth Watching
To be successful, the investor must
keep one eye on economic and trade
developments.
THE
“‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal,
enables him to do this and other things.
MAY ISSUE ON SALE NEXT
SATURDAY.
Patents.
PROCESS OF MAKING ARTIFICIAL
AGGREGATE FOR CONCRETE OR
BUILDING BLOCKS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
27390/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or fpr the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel & Griffith, Patent Attor-
neys, Sydney.
Tenders.
Mackay Harbour Board, North
Queensland.
Construction of an Outer Harbour at the
Port of Mackay.
TENDERS are invited by the above Harbour
Board for the construction of a Breakwater
Harbour at the Port of Mackay, North Queens-
land.
The work includes the construction of —
Two Rubble Mound Breakwaters.
A Reinforced Wharf and Sheds.
The Dredging of a Berthage Area and Swing-
ing Basin.
A Railway connecting the proposed Harbour
with the Town of Mackay.
A Roadway connecting the nearest Main
Road to the Harbour Wharf.
And other works incidental to the above
Principal Items.
Plans, Specifications, Schedules and General
Conditions of Contract may be seen at the
offices of:
The Mackay Harbour Board, Mackay,
Queensland.
The Department of Harbours and Marine,
Brisbane, Queensland.
The Sydney Harbour Trust, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Melbourne Harbour Trust Commis-
sioners, Melbourne, Victoria.
The South Australian Harbours Board, Adel-
aide, South Australia.
The Harbours and Rivers Department, Perth,
West Australia.
The Master Warden, Hobart, Tasmania.
I'he Harbours Board, Auckland, New
Zealand. ’
The Public Works Department, Wellington,
New Zealand.
Complete sets of Plans and other Documents
may be obtained from the Secretary of the
Harbour Board, Mackay, on application by
letter or by wire with remittance of £lO per
set required.
TENDERS must be deposited in the Tender
Box at the Board’s Office, River Street, Mackay,
or posted so as to be delivered at Mackay
not later than noon on Tuesday, the 24th July,
1934.
TENDERS to be accompanied by the neces-
sary deposit and endorsed “Tender for Outer
Harbour.” The lowest or any tender not neces-
sarily accepted.
E. ELDRIDGE SMITH,
, Secretary.
Mackay Harbour Board, Mackay,
19th April, 1934.
TENDERS.
BRISBANE TIMBERS, LIMITED.
TENDERS are hereby invited for the pur-
;hase of two Sawmilling Plants, Acces-
:ories, etc., situated at Corinda, the pro-
perty of Brisbane Timbers, Limited. All
nachinery necessary to commence mill-
ng Full particulars of the
:> lanfs and Accessories to be tendered for
nay be obtained, and inspection arranged,
it the Office of the undersigned, or upon
ipplication to the Company s Office at
Zjorinda. Tenders may be submitted for
:he whole or for any part of the Plants,
;tc. Tender to intimate area of land re-
quired. Address Tenders to the under-
ligned at Box 296 E, G.P.0., Brisbane,
narked ‘‘Tender Brisbane Timbers,
limited,” on or before the 6th of June,
1934. The highest or any tender not
lecessarily accepted.—M. S. HERRING,
Receiver, C/o Queensland Trustees,
-.imited, 395 Queen Street, Brisbane.
For Sale
MERTON FURNACE FOR SALE
Perfect condition, on Siding, Sydney.
CAMELLIA CHEMICAL CO.,
GRANVILLE.
Legal Notice.
4 THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND—TO WNSVILLE.
4 the Will of ELIZABETH JANE BARRY
late of Norwood North Side Mackay in
the State of Queensland Widow Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that after the ex-
ration of 14 days from the date of the publi-
tion hereof application will be made to this
onorable Court that Probate of the Will of
e abovenamed ELIZABETH JANE BARRY
ceased may be granted to ALFRED JAMES
\RRY formerly of Norwood North Side
ackay aforesaid but at present of Mackay
oresaid Farmer the sole Executor named in
e said Will Any person interested who de-
es to object to the application or to be heard
>on it may file a caveat in the Registry at any
ne before the grant is made.
Dated the Eighteenth day of April, 1934.
GORTON & HARTLEY,
Solicitors for the said Alfred James Barry,
Victoria Street, Mackay.
Town Agents: WILSON, RYAN & GROSE,
)licitors, Townsville.
Personal and Missing Friends.
CLAUDINE BENNETT married
2RCY DOUGLAS JONES at South Grafton
1917. Information as to her whereabouts is
quired. She is entitled in the distribution of
e intestate Estate of Percy Douglas Jones,
lio died at Grafton on 18/2/1923. —W. J.
ESSELL, Public Trustee, 107-109 Elizabeth
reet, Sydney.
of Sheol, with its different divisions, the
place of the wicked and of the fallen
angels.
If he had been present on Satur-
day night when the theatre was handed
over to the people by Lud Mayor Gen-
goult Smith, described on the programme
as the city’s best-loved citizen, he would
have concluded that the Metro, with
its soft carpets leading to seats of regal
comfort, its patterned floor, its ellip-
tical dome provided with cone light-
ing, its cosmetic room for the ladies
and its gents.’ smokeroom, with their
quarry tile floors, was a local branch of the
place of which he had given a somewhat
sketchy advance account. If he had
stayed to see the principal picture, “Danc-
ing Lady,” starring the beauteous Joan
Crawford and the amorous Clarke Gable,
he would have concluded that the head-
quarters of Sheol was the United States
of America. He would probably have
then gone forth and applied for a pulpit
from which to announce the forthcoming
centenary destruction of Melbourne by
fire and brimstone. However, Enoch was
not present on Friday, or, if he was, he
remained silent; so M.-G.-M. are left in
the dark as to whether they will be
allowed to complete their projected pro-
gramme of forthcoming attractions,
which include the Garbo in “Queen
Christina” and Norma Shearer in “Lady
Mary’s Lover.”
Sundry Shows
At Sydney Savoy on Anzac night Mary
Bell Allen produced Paul Raynal’s
tragedy, “The Unknown Warrior.” It de-
picts the reactions of a young French
soldier, at home on leave after a year
in the front line, to his complacent father
and emotional sweetheart. The three
characters do little else but talk, with
an occasional spell lo light a cigarette or
drink wine. The play makes excellent
reading, but is not well suited for the
stage. Mrs. Allen impersonated the girl,
Grenville Spencer the father and Alph.
Olson the soldier. Olson got nearest to
the author’s idea, though he has a lot to
unlearn and learn.
* * *
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney,” Frederick
Lonsdale’s story of the good girl who
fell amongst crooks, has a fatal attrac-
tion for amateur histrions, though with
every fresh performance it grows ever
more trite. “Mrs. Cheyney” needs the
services of professional actors trained in
stage traditions concerning the behavior
of England’s Best People to make it even
passably entertaining. Played by amateur
lords, ladies, footmen and butlers whose
acquaintance with such fauna is confined
to the professional presentations afore-
said, it becomes a parody of the nursery
variety. Such was the character of the
Cairns Memorial Players’ strenuous en-
deavors at Melb. Garrick on Saturday.
Dorothy Bush’s Mrs. Cheyney was as
hollow as a jug, and Frederick May’s
Lord Dilling made love like a Sunday-
afternoon gallant on the esplanade at St.
Kilda. Athol Coleman, Beryl Walker,
Bee Watson and Wallace Robertson were
amongst the bevy of aristocrats. The
last of “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney”
would be no theatrical tragedy.
V
The relations between this critic and
Christa Winsloe’s “Children ,in Uniform”
in F. W. Thring’s presentation never
were strained, and they were definitely
improved by the revival at Melb. Palace
on Saturday. The semi-amateur com-
pany’s picture of the dreadful seminary
for young ladies of the Prussian nobility
reached a high level of emotional inten-
sity, which is all the more extraordinary
when one remembers that the cast has
no men in it. Yet the dark male in-
fluence is the dominant note. Coral
Brown, who is making for London,
repeated her moving performance of
Fraulein von Bernburg, and Phyllis
Baker was amazingly good as the girl
Manuela, who discharges her suppressed
affections on her teacher, is sentenced
to solitary confinement and escapes from
all the problems of life by jumping from
a window. Dora Mostyn’s sewing woman
and Helene Jacoby’s Ilse were smaller
parts of the same order of merit. Ada
Reeve made an unexpected appearance,
and had a separate little triumph as Frau
Alden, the mad dancing mistress to the
Court of the ex-Emperor.
h- h- #
Sonia Revid, the talented young Rus-
sian dancer, gave a Melbourne Garrick
audience a fresh taste of her skill last
week. There is an intensity about the
lady which captures the attention, and
her absorption in- her art has the quality
of trance. The language of the body is
severely limited, but Miss Revid, who
evidently goes to Nature for many of
her inspirations, recited pretty well the
whole vocabulary. A presentation from
Oscar Wilde’s “Salome” was powerful.
The young lady’s exultation over the be-
heading of the first Baptist would have
won the respectful admiration of the Cali-
fornian citizens who recently lynched a
white man in a city street.
# h- *
An enterprising little Torch Theatre,
to seat 120, has been started in Adelaide
by Patricia Hackett, a rising young law-
yer and a fine actress. (She is a daughter
of the old-time Westralian t newspaper-
owner.) It opened with “Salome,” and
the formerly banned Wilde play was at
once reported to the Chief Secretary as
dubious. However, his censors, visiting
it, advised that, as produced by Frank
Johnston and danced by Miss Hackett,
it was well enough. The suspicion that
censoring was needed did the show no
harm, and it ran a full week.
Since hearing “The Girl of the Golden
West” sung in English, this critic begins
to have grave doubts about the advis-
ability of translating the books of
Italian operas. Slight doubts were aroused
during the last opera season in Sydney,
when the chorus was apt to punctuate
the flow of liquid Latin with English
remarks such as “Let us in, we are the
garbage-gatherers.” The A.B.C.’s per-
formance of Puccini’s least-successful
work accentuated, because it was sung
in English, its worst faults. Puccini
knew nothing about the California
of the roaring ’forties. His musical
interpretation of events in a honky-
tonk might equally well be applied to
the story of the willow-pattern plate. It
is dramatic, in a surging, vague way, but
their nicely : curved musical phrasing
is so far out of touch with the remarks
of miners and their girls that the last
shred of illusion disappears when the
book is done into Anglo-Saxon. How-
ever, Miss de Gunst was in good voice,
and sang Minnie’s impassioned utter-
ances with distinction. Lionello Cecil
was impeded, so the announcer said, by
an attack of laryngitis, but the micro-
phone recorded him as singing rather
better than usual —and his usual is good.
* * #
Percy Grainger informed his audience
at Melb. Town Hall one night last week
that he was going to play a piece of
Javanese music by the Frenchman
Debussy, and he swore that it was so
like the aboriginal article as to be indis-
distinguishable from it. Present critic has
heard a great deal of Javanese music,
including the State gamelang of the
Susuhunan of Surakarta, and he swears,
in his turn, that it was riot in the least
like its alleged model. It didn’t even
have the same affinity as an Oriental
ballet at the Tivoli has to something in
the Orient. It just sounded like Debussy
at his old game of making music sound
like beer dripping into a jug and water
gurgling in a cistern. The pianist con-
tinued to play all last week to pheno-
menal houses.
* * *
J.C.W.’s next gift to the nation will
be “Ten Minute Alibi,” a tale of crime
for which George Thirlwell, the London
mummer, has been imported. The Firm
returns to an old practice by giving the
first production in Adelaide.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
3J
*1
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Hallway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from .. 12/6
'Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
&
V
&
*y
%' o N
?v
b/'
*
v ✓>
V?V
jfy
,v
•> 0<
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Coy. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office: Equitable Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Office: Castlereagb St., Sydney.
Vic. office: 3GO Collins St.. Melbourne.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
The Company trans-
acts every variety of
Probate, Whole Life,
Endowment,Children's
Endowment, Family
Income, Combined
Benefits (all Sickness),
Personal Accident,
Fire, Motor Car and
General Insurance.
Policies cover
Hospital Benefits.
Partial and Total
Disability Protec-
tion.
E. D. SMOUT„F.F.i.A.,
F.A.1.5., Gen. Sec.
SMOKE-OH
“Wanted, Jackeroo, for small property, live
in house; good knowledge sheep, horses, mixed
farming, milk, kill, shoe, crutch, count sheep,
drive car, 225. Apply by letter, enclosing
credentials, to , “Herald.”
But surely a jackeroo should be able
to speak Spanish and Urdu, and play
the zither?
* *
“It is said that some girls drink spirits as
a beauty treatment.” — “Herald.”
Beauty-spots.
• * *
“It was found that his will, made when he
was of unsound mind, bequeathed the whole
of his huge estate to an imaginary person.”
— “Herald.”
Leaving a lot to the imagination.
* *
“He was accused of raising cattle under an
assumed name.” — “Sun.”
In fairness to the cattle, it should be
stated that they didn’t intend to mas-
querade
# *
“The caterpillar discovered attacking bracken
near Foster last winter has been identified.”
— "Argus.”
By its footprints, presumably.
* *
“There have been many life stories of Greta
Louvisa Gustafson —Greta the Gafrbo.”
—Melbourne “Star.”
And many versions of her name.
“May I ask for the afternoon off, sir? The wife wants me to go shopping
with her.”
“Impossible !”
“Thank you, sir.”
“Better prices for pigs.”
Farmers will be glad they saved their
bacon.
* #
“Having failed in their original objective,
a band of former prohibitionists is endeavor-
ing to persuade men to take more water with
their whisky.”
A break-down gang.
PRINCE HENRY’S ADVANCE
AGENT SENDS HIS IMPRESSIONS
TO THE FIFTH EQUERRY.
V. — Brisbane.
Brisbane will be glad to see the Prince.
The Lord Mayor will take him up One
Tree Hill, from whose forest-clad heights
he will be able to look through the tele-
scopes and see the country for miles
around —even as far as the paradise of
red-nosed comedians. Need I refer to
Humpybong?
While in Brisbane his Highness must
be careful to pronounce the name of the
city with the accent on the first syllable.
Elsewhere he can call it what he likes.
Queensland people are very patriotic.
They measure patriotism by the number
of lumps of sugar one takes in one’s tea.
I suggest that the Prince take three lumps
to start with. He can increase this if the
atmosphere seems ominous.
He must not miss visiting the Glasshouse
Mountains, where all the early tomatoes
are grown, and he should also spend an
afternoon running around the outskirts
of Brisbane, stopping for short visits at
Townsville, Cairns and Normanton.
A visit to the Woolloongabba sugar
plantations should prove very instruc-
tive. If offered afternoon tea there he’d
better refuse unless prepared to take
seven lumps. The people engaged in the
sugar industry are very much in favor
of a White Australia, and those who can
speak English will probably mention this
to his Highness.
The Prince will probably be asked to
open the latest bridge. If it is already
opened he’ll be able to lay the founda-
tion-stone of the next.
In the matter of lottery tickets his
Highness must be very careful. If given
a ticket in the Golden Brisket he would
be well advised to secure one in the
N.S.W. State lottery and another in
Tatt.’s, even if he has to pay for them.
Inter-State jealousy runs very high in
matters such as this.
He must not forget a word of praise
for the City Hall. Brisbane people are
very proud of the amount their children
will have to pay for this.
Brisbane is inclined to look down her
nose at the Melbourne centenary. One
of her outlying suburbs, Cape York,
was first sighted by Torres in 1606. Un-
fortunately there was a strong breeze
blowing from the direction of someone’s
meatworks, so he sailed away and said
no more about it.
Mr. Forgan Smith, who has just left
it, told me the Prince would like Bris-
bane.
Jasby.
*
THE HYPOCRITES.
How she had admired them at first!
To her inexperienced mind they em-
bodied everything that was good and
beautiful. Their
refinement had held
her spellbound;
but they had de-
ceived her! She
brushed away the
tear that made a
furrow down her
cheek. How she
hated their ele-
gance now! With
them had come the
first worries of her
young and inno-
ce n t life. She
wished, now, that
she had never seen
them. They had
made her sit out
almost every dance
at the party last
night, and on the
back of the tram
coming home she
had cried all the
way in agony and
remorse. Sleep
was impossible
then, and with the
dawn came her
decision; she
would stand them
no longer she
would give them
up!
She would pocket her pride and take
the new shoes back.
Alphonse H.
* *
SCANDALOUS.
The inebriate stared after the muzzled
Alsatian and then addressed the public
in general.
“Poor bleshed Alsatiansh! That shows
yer what kind of a Government we’ve
gotsh. Bah! What nonshensh! They
put muzzles and leashes on harmlesh
dogs, an’ they letsh things like that go
round without doing anything! Scan-
dalish! ”
And he pointed shakily at the green-
and-red-spotted flying dragon which,
with baleful eyes fixed ever on him and
with sharp claws extended, had been fol-
lowing him all the afternoon.
T. W. N.
* *
NEWS FROM NOTTINGHAM.
“Wearing a specially-conducted boot for the
first time, Larwood practised batting at Trent-
bridge yesterday. He displayed good form.”
—“Labor Daily.”
It will readily be understood that a
well-conducted boot can make a vast
difference in the cricket relations of Eng-
land and Australia, and if such footwear
is to be used in the forthcoming Tests
there can be no doubt that the matches
will be played in the very best of good
form.
Of course, such minor details of dress
as well-behaved batting-gloves, gentle-
manly trousers, admirably disciplined
belts and genteel shirts will help to pre-
serve the traditional good spirit, but in
the long run the lion’s share of the bur-
den will be thrown upon the specially-
conducted boots, now introduced for the
first time.
B.
“Nagging takes away the appetite.”
—Brisbane doctor .
Thus enabling two to live as cheaply
as one.
* *
SIGNS OF AFFECTION.
“Infatuated girl sets fire to man’s house.”
— “Herald"
“I’m afraid she’s fallen for me,” con-
fessed Bertie. “I didn’t suspect it until
she set fire to my clothes. Shortly after
that she put a burning cigarette-
butt down my back. I knew it
was really serious when she singed
my hair and tried to brand me with
a red-hot poker. Poor girl! She’s
so fond of me that the other day, when
we were inspecting the steel factory, she
tried to push me into a vat of molten
“The boy friend’s got brains as well as money.”
“That makes it rather rough on you, darling.”
metal. She’s certainly a warm-hearted
girl, but I’m afraid that if I marry her
she’ll get me into hot water.”
Sef.
* *
CORRECTNESS IN DRESS.
“The Australians are wearing red fezes as
a disguise to keep off pedlars and beggars, but,
wearing the headgear at the wrong angle, they
have attracted thousands of mendicants.”
— Cable.
This reminds me of the time when I
wormed my way into the royal enclosure
at Ascot. My gloves were not quite the
correct shade and I was immediately
detected and subjected to a hostile
demonstration.
On another occasion I was travelling
in Scotland and, wishing to escape atten-
tion, I donned the kilt. Unfortunately,
being unfamiliar with the garb, I hung
the sporran rour.d my neck, and I was
mistaken for Bernard Shaw.
My most striking experience of this
kind, however, was when I attempted to
attend a secret meeting of the “Ghosts of
the Crimson Circle” in Yucatan. My
make-up, robes and badge were, I
thought, perfect, yet I was instantly re-
cognised as an impostor. My circles had
all been drawn in the usual way—clock-
wise—whereas those of the genuine mem-
bers were drawn in the opposite direc-
tion.
Uco„
INDECISION.
/ shall shortly commence my vacation.
Where to go ? What to do ? That’s
the thing !
Take the first train for any old station
On the off chance, and give it a fling ?
Do some fishing ? Or get in some
practice
At golf ? One invariably finds
It bewilders to choose; but the fact is
My wife is still changing our minds!
K.
FIFTY PER CENT. SANE.
/ had half a mind to get married;
Love’s tender illusions I heeded.
For weeks o’er the problem I tarried,
Not knowing quite how one proceeded.
At last off my feet I was carried—
“Ah, marry me, darling,” I pleaded.
1 had half a mind to get married—
’Twas certainly all that I needed.
P. O. M. C.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Peter Riddle, who comes from an old
racing family of the Hawkesbury, sprang
a surprise on the bookmakers at Rose-
hill when he stripped Magnitas for the
Rosehill Handicap and backed him all
round the ring. The Magpie gelding
had had only one run since returning
from a spell, and most of the Tommies
voted the race a good thing for Oro.
Opening at sixes, Magnitas was backed
down to 5 to 2, the support for him
causing Oro to ease from 7 to 4 to 9 to 4.
Ridden a fine race by George Browne,
a most capable horseman, Magnitas won
cleverly from Winawin, who took the
place of his stable-mate Balgay ; Oro was
third.
Oro may have been successful if
the big chestnut had been taken to the
front from barrier-rise. He was allowed
to drop back last, and when he did make
a move at the half-mile McCarten was
forced to go wide; then he met with his
share of bad luck at the Leger, where
Winawin was running about. In the
end Oro ran in under pressure—cut
it badly, in fact. Next time out Oro will
be the pacemaker.
Riddle led in another winner when
Watson (7 to 4), carrying the colors of
Bob Byers, won the Juvenile on a pro-
//
Bert; What ovou tvumk op the
COURSE, GEGT l vv
Qer'T * # NOTW\M<3 WOHDERPUI'*;
(3ER.t! *\ OHLV JOIMEOTVttS CLU&
vesTE.ra.oAvt
G,eRT t "|T LOOKS AS IF VOUO HAVE
TO JOINI IT ACiAIKt ,
test from Sipal. Limyris was a good
third. Watson is a half-brother to Con-
fab, and cost 140 guineas as a yearling ;
he is by Constant Son. Judging by his
finishing effort, after meeting with inter-
ference —Sipal carried him out wide over
the last furlong—he should be suited
by a distance. Caravel Girl failed over
the seven furlongs, and it looks as if she
will have to be kept for shorter events.
Pastoralist J. J. Leahy has been patient
with Archmel, one of his own breeding,
and, judging by the manner in which he
won the Granville Stakes, at 3 to 1, the
nag is worth following. After making all
the running Archmel held off Strath-
royal and Spear Belle without much
effort. Frassadale was laid early at tens.
He moved off in snail-like fashion, and
stayed there to whip in the field.
Westralian sportsman George Allen
pays periodical visits to Sydney with
Multudo. His placing of the Moabite
horse is a lesson to many owners and
trainers. In a previous visit here Mul-
tudo triumphed at Canterbury, Rand-
wick and Warwick Farm. He had a run-
away win in the Auburn Handicap, at 5 to
4, and it will take a top-hole sprinter to
down him in his present condition: he
played with the opposition. Dover Patrol
chased him home, with Charalf and Dole
following. La Vixen was the big dis-
appointment ; she was well backed, but
ran last.
Burwood (5 to 1) was suited by the
scale in the first division of the High-
weight, as he is a fine weight-carrier.
Coming from a bad position in the
straight, he wore down Canegrass in the
last couple of strides. Cylanta, who will
be all the better for the outing, was third,
just ahead of Babili, who was among
the rear division at the turn. Somebody
backed Hall Mark’s brother Some Hero
—still a failure, although he gallops on
the track as well as any candidate at
Randwick.
Little wonder that the Queensland-
owned and -trained Priapus can gallop ;
he is by Greenstead from the pony per-
former Precious Dust, who won many
races for Milton Richards. Priapus (6 to
1) gave Pike an easy ride in the second
division. The veteran dashed Priapus
away at the top of the straight, as he had
done with Multudo, and was home be-
fore the other jockeys realised that it
was time to go on with the business.
Captain Rado, who forfeited his engage-
ment in the Granville Stakes, came home
well to get second money, and the 14.2
pony Miss Rossendale was third. Earl-
minster and Fernclove were doing their
best at the finish, and are worth keeping
in mind.
* * * *
It is between-seasons on the turf in
Victoria. Nearly all the good gallopers
have gone into winter quarters, while
star jumpers are “in smoke,” so to speak,
pending the taking of entries and issue
of weights for the Grand Nationals.
There will be no real enlivenment until
the Birthday meeting at Flemington on
June 2 and 4. Winners over hurdles and
fences at that fixture will not incur penal-
ties for the Nationals ; hence there should
be interesting disclosures of form.
On Saturday Melbournites accorded
rather more liberal patronage than usual
to Ascot. Ascot used to be shunned by
the bigwigs as a “pony” course, but now
is graded as at least as important as Men-
tone or Epsom. As is tne case wmi me
former Sydney pony clubs it has almost
entirely ceased to cater for ponies. There
was only one event of that character at
the week-end.
Skidmore has stepped into the shoes
of Duncan as the most successful light-
weight jockey in Melbourne. He cap-
tured two races at Ascot and brought
his tally for the season to 444 wins.
Duncan has not appeared in the saddle
since June of last year, when he sus-
tained a bad fall off Rose Valais at
Williamstown. He attends every race
meeting in the metropolitan area and
looks as well as ever ; however, he did
not recover full use of one arm. If and
when this trouble is overcome, the little
man will seek further laurels as a jockey.
Meanwhile Skidmore is dominant. He
had his seventeenth birthday on Satur-
day ; he looks older because of his com-
posure.
Skidmore experienced no difficulty in
landing the first division of the Encour-
age Handicap on Andromeda, a three-
year-old sister to Violet Rays and Helio-
star. The second horse, Lady Norma,
started at 50 to 1. Guy Raymond, of
the V.R.C. committee, found pleasure in
the success of Andromeda, having bred
the filly at his St. Albans stud. Mauve,
the dam, was got in England, but foaled
in Australia; Polycletan, a half-brother
to her, landed the A.J.C. Metropolitan
of 1924. In the Juvenile Handicap Skid-
more found that Nutcracker could not
begin quickly. The Beau Fils gelding,
on whom odds of 10 to 9 had been laid,
seemed to have no chance of overhaul-
ing Eastern Knight and Lord Russell two
furlongs from home ; but Skidmore rode
him with such telling effect that the
favorite scored by a length, with Eastern
Knight nearly another length behind
Lord Russell. The dam of Nutcracker
is inbred, being by Trafalgar from Roll-
ingstone, whose grand-dam was a sister
to Trafalgar.
Punters came a cropper when they
backed Ogwell down to 2 to 1 for the
Ascot Five Hundred. The Devonshire
colt had finished an impressive second
to Vauntry at Williamstown, and was
considered favorably weighted at Bst., the
impost being reduced 31b. by an appren-
tice allowance. La Scala, a previous
winner of the Five Hundred, was next
in demand. This beautifully-bred filly—
she is by Manfred from Frances Tres-
sady—was in the picture as far as the
straight entrance, and then faded out.
Ogwell never looked a possibility. The
race was won by Belle Marie (7 to 1),
who has registered four wins and three
seconds in her last seven starts. Belle
Marie is by The Night Patrol from an
imported mare, Heels Over Head, a
daughter of Spearmint. W. Cook, the
former Sydney jockey, rode Belle Marie
and also was associated with the Welter
Handicap victory of Easby. Easby be-
longs to H. Farmer, whose daughter,
Mrs. W. Murrell, together with her hus-
band, died recently from the result of
injuries sustained in a stable fire.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Memories of Buttan Singh and Gunga
Brahm were recalled by the appearance
of Haban Singh at Leichhardt. He is
a bigger man than either, and, opposed
to Joe Gotch, showed that he is no
slouch as a wrestler. Besides gaining the
only real fall (with an aeroplane-spin,
then a slam, in the third) he outpointed
the American. Protesting against Gotch
being allowed to knee and punch, Singh’s
second climbed through the ropes while
the fifth was in progress, and this cost
his man a penalty. Singh again ran
rings around Gotch in the last round,
but the thing (really exciting for once)
was declared a draw. The Walter Brown-
ing-George Penchiff match at Newtown
resulted in another draw.
p i
„
/-v T S°u P u B t° ne a Manchestei
City, which beat Portsmouth 2 goals to 1
before a 95,000 crowd at Wembley,
Manchester City took the historic pot
as long ago as 1903-04 and has been
twice runner-up, to Bolton Wanderers in
1926-27 and to Everton last year. Ports-
mouth was in the final of 19-9-30.
* , * , *, * .
The second round of the Rug y
League senior games in Sydney saw the
old champions, South Sydney, beaten
by Western Suburbs at Sydney Sports
Ground. The winners scored 3 tries and
4 goals to a try and 5 goals. Western,
playing six forwards against five, had all
the better of the first spell and led 14-6
at half-time. South Sydney staged a
characteristic hard finish but could not
penetrate the Western defence. St. George
shook Eastern Suburbs up at Trumper
Park, scoring 4 tries to 3. Kangaroo
Brown came to the rescue of the tn-
colors with 5 goals, East winning by
19-16. At Marrickville, Newtown won
25-11 from North Sydney, and Balmain
downed the Students 27-13.
* * * *
The third round of Sydney R.U. foot-
ball was responsible for a magnificent
game between Northern Suburbs and
Manly at N.S. Oval, Manly winning out
by 17 to 11 (3 tries, a converting goal
and 2 p.gs. to 3 tries, one of which
was converted). At half-time Manly led
with 2 penalty goals to a try. The
heavier Manly pack was too insistent for
the home players in the second spell, and
tacked on the tries, one of which Ross im-
proved. Parramatta registered a fine
win from Western Suburbs by 18-6.
At the Weigall ground, University scored
5 tries and a goal (18) to a blank sheet
by Eastern Suburbs. Drummoyne won
from St. George by 18 (4 tries and 2
p.gs. by Rankin) to 16 (3 tries, 2 goals
and a p.g.).
* * * *
“Breakaway”; Considering the high
quality of Sydney G.P.S. football, it has
always puzzled writer why there is no
annual fixture G.P.S. v. N.S.W.R.U. In
cricket a match between the schools and
N.S.W. has been a feature for years. As
to standard of play, many school players
go straight from school into first-grade.
Such a fixture would be an invaluable
pointer for clubs seeking young talent.
* * * *
“Hooker”: Football is full of queer
happenings, but an unusual one came
along at the finish of the R.U. match
between Drummoyne and Randwick on
Anzac Day in Sydney. A few moments
before time scores were 3-3. The referee
was momentarily knocked out by a col-
lision with a player; when, after some
seconds, he pulled himself together again,
he saw O’Connor, of Randwick, cross
the line and touch down, and he awarded
Randwick the try. After that he col-
lapsed again, but soon recovered. There
was a lot of discussion as to whether the
try should have been allowed under the
circumstances, but there can be no doubt
that the decision, good or bad, must
stand, since the injured man was the sole
judge of fact at the time.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: That reference to the
football butterflies flitting from code to
code as suited their convenience (B.
18 /4 / ’34) reminds me that a further warn-
ing has been given to folk who do not
realise that participation in recognised
professional sport debars them from com-
peting in the amateur variety. In Sydney
recently the Surf Life Saving Association
asked the Amateur Athletic Association
to permit members of affiliated clubs to
compete with others who play Rugby
League football. Though it is notoriously
lax in enforcing this aspect of amateur-
ism, the A.A.A. had to say it couldn't
do it. It then made a bad bloomer by
adding that “the mere playing of Rugby
League football does not necessarily
mean an infringement of amateur sta-
tus” —all depended on whether the player
had been paid for playing. This is a mis-
statement of fact. Let ’em nominate any
man who has played Rugby League foot-
ball, whether for pay or not, for the next
Olympic Games and see what happens.
* * * *
“Magpie”: The quarrel between Col-
lingwood cricket club and the local coun-
cil over the Victoria Park ground, which
resulted in the dissolution of Jack Ryder's
team last season, has been patched up.
It arose from the insistence of the Col-
lingwood F.C. on hanging on to the
oval well into the cricket season, and
on climbing into it long before that had
ended. As the footballers were the money-
makers, the council backed them, with the
result that the cricket club was wound up.
The council has admitted it was in the
wrong and is arranging that the foot-
ballers in future shall give the cricketers
more consideration and keep away from
the park until after the cricket finals.
o Continued on next page.)
“Spocket”: Cast up in Melbourne the
other day, L. Earwaker, an English
cyclist who began a round-the-world ride
in 1927. He has hiked 40,000 miles, and
is plotting out an Australian journey
covering 18,000 miles. Most pedal -
pushers trying this stunt in the past have
done the journey against the sun. This
chap kicks off from Melbourne for Adel-
aide, and so on up the west coast, across
the north and down through Queensland
and N.S.W. On his jigger is a complete
receiving and transmitting radio ; power
is obtained from a generator driven by
the back wheel. Earwaker expects to
have ticked off 80,000 miles by the time
he is back in England.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Denham Court Handicap; Mul-
tudo ; next, Veilantif.
Farm Novice: Diamond ; next,
Juliet Glass.
Warwick Farm Handicap; Light-
ning March; next, Blixten.
Edensor Park Handicap: Wind-
bird ; next, Cylanta.


Vauxhall Victorious!
England’s Leading Light Car takes the Palm
J2S
rn
... Phenomenal Sales prove
Australia-wide Popularity
df
The Vauxhall Light Six has taken
Australia by storm, no less than 570
cars having been sold in the past
three months. This is the proud
achievement of Vauxhall, builders of finest
English motor cars for more than a generation.
Vauxhall’s genuine English precision work-
manship has given motorists a new conception
of motoring performance. To sit in this car
and to drive it is to realise that it gives you
value that is unsurpassed in its price field.
The 14 h.p. six cylinder overhead valve
engine, mounted in rubber, gives . . .
70 miles per hour and 32 miles
representing the greatest development of the
high efficiency engine.
The Vauxhall Light Six has Synchro mesh
4 speed gear box, no-draught ventilation and
other quality features, and comfort and
roominess surprising at so low a price.
per gallon
VAUXHALL
Light Six .. §As English as England
Any Vauxhall dealer will gladly arrange
for you to drive this new Light Six.
General Motors-Holden’s Limited
Prices from . . . plus Sales Tax.
Consult your local authorised Vauxhall Dealer
D1352M
Footbrawl
Wet and mud on Anzac Day gave
backers of the favorites in Sydney club
football some anxious moments. In the
Rugby Union series triumphant Rand-
wick had to go for its life to beat Drum-
moyne by 6 to 3, with a try gained right
on the final whistle. Manly scored 14-3
against Eastern Suburbs, but play showed
nothing like that difference between the
two. Parramatta made its first kill by
downing St. George 16-14, and Uni. led
Western Suburbs 18-9.
A great League game was staged be-
tween South Sydney and Eastern Sub-
urbs, South triumphing by 3 to nil.
Western Suburbs comfortably downed
Balmain 18-5, and St. George prevailed
over Newtown by 10-5. Uni. had a lucky
win from North Sydney by 4 to 3.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: Mark Nicholls has
been appointed sole selector of the Wel-
lington R.U., and may fill the same posi-
tion when the All.-Blacks come to be
chosen for the visit to Australia this year.
Mark has been a great player, and may be
a good selector. Asa football tipster, he
is in the also-ran class. When the Aus-
tralian Wallabies left for the South Afri-
can tour Mark trumpeted abroad his cer-
tainty that they would have a disastrous
spin. One thing he was especially sure
of, and that was that the tourists had
Buckley’s hope of winning a Test. They
won two.
* * * *
“Gate”: N.S.W. Rugby League is
naturally keen to extend its inter-State
season as far as possible this year.
The Rugby Union, with Queens-
landers, Victorians and the All-Blacks
coming to Sydney, has attractions
which have to be offset somehow.
Only two matches with Queensland
Leaguers have been fixed, the dates
being June 2 and 4 at Sydney Cricket
Ground. Ma now suggests another game
between the States on June 6 or 7 by
night under electric lighting. The League
crashed badly last season when it tried to
run inter-club matches under artificial
light. But the conditions of the games
then played with depleted teams were of
the farcical order, and the gates suffered
accordingly. With full sides and given
good lighting, the suggested match should
be a winner if weather conditions are
O.K. That quaint Rugby League team
“London” Highfield, which is main-
tained by a prominent London dog-racing
promoter at the White City with the
idea of accustoming Londoners to the
Northern Union game, is said to draw
quite good crowds under night flood-
lighting when the dogs aren’t running.
* * * *
“Spare Methuselah”: As one who
came near to representing the Rest v.
the Ark after the landing on Ararat, I
am mightily intrigued with the decision
of the Sydney section of the Druids to
form a special Rugby League in which
the players may engage in competition,
no matter how old they are. I have
never been a Druid and have never wan-
dered out on May Day to cut the sacred
mistletoe from the blanky oak—l am not
sure 1 have it right. All my experience
of Druids has been gained from the
opera of “Norma,” once constantly per-
formed by the Carl Rosa company in
the Liverpool of my youth. All the
Druids in that show wore long, white
nightgowns and ziffs down to where the
tops of their trousers should have been.
If the football Druids are going to ob-
serve the same costume, may I be there
to see the first match!
* * * *
“Caleb”: One interesting aspect of
Victoria’s persistency in poaching good
footballers from other States (B.
25/4/’34) is the expense and trouble
gone to by some of the collectors. A
Westralian wire announced last week
that a visitor from St. Kilda had left
again for Melbourne bitterly disappointed
because the W.A. heads refused to grant
clearances to two youths he had signed
up. St. Kilda F.C. has long been pro-
claiming its poverty. Early this season
it tried to bite the ear of the district
cricket club for a few bob to help it
struggle along. Yet it seems to be able to
afford the cost of dispatching a recruit-
ing agent all the way to Perth and back,
with other expenses tacked on, of course.
(Continued on next page.)


The Prontac
(. Patented)
■
£5
VA»V^*
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation....
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
Box 98cc, G.P.0., Sydney.
A Policy
«/ UalpJwitness f
THE P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. & C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Directors:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE 01-'FICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W’.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,600,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsev/here. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Woodfull’s Men
The Australian Eleven, by a happy
coincidence, made its landfall in Eng-
land on Anzac Day and was received
as wholeheartedly as its countrymen
were on Gallipoli by the Turks 19 years
ago, but in a more hospitable fashion.
The side seems to have landed in
good form, save for minor shipboard
troubles, but it has struck bad luck in
the breaking of the drought which has
been afflicting England since the begin-
ning of last summer. Practice at Lord’s
was found impossible up to the week-
end, and, since*'the tour opens against
Worcestershire to-day, it looks as if
players will have to get their practice in
the matches. The tourists play 10 games
before the first Test at Nottingham begins
on June 3'.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Archie Maclaren, old
enough to know better, has been telling
England that Woodfull’s men are past
their prime, a category in which he ap-
parently includes such doddering grey-
beards as Bradman and McCabe. Includ-
ing all the ancients in Australia’s first
eleven the age average is 31.40. An Eng-
lish eleven, selected on past and present
performances, and certainly including 75
per cent, of the first Test selection, aver-
ages 30.70. Not a vast difference.
* * 4c *
“Bramall Lane”: Sometimes even the
gods nod. In his recently revised “Book
of Cricket,” “Plum” Warner, official
controller of Jardine’s side in Australia,
aimed at his former colleague an arrow
which, if it had been sped from an Aus-
tralian bow, would have driven Merrie
England into a frenzy of vituperation.
Writing of the tour, Warner says that
during the third Test in Adelaide Jardine
lacked at a vital moment the foresight
usually associated with his captaincy.
“Thereafter,” adds “Plum,” “intimidation
of the most ruthless kind developed, and
the methods of the prize ring were
applied to cricket.”
* * * *
“St. John’s”: Cabled that Grimmett
will probably return to London after
the Australian tour of England to take
up coaching work at the indoor cricket
school run by Alan Fairfax. Fairfax
has done so well with his show that he
has bought out his partner and in future
will travel alone. It would be a wise
move on the South Australian’s part. At
42, he cannot have much first-class
cricket left in him, and there will
be no change of occupation, since he is
a professional coach in his own State.
Pay conditions should be a lot more satis-
factory in the big London school into
the bargain. But the Board of Control’s
Rule 24 forbids the return to England of
any player for the purpose of playing
cricket within two years from the com-
pletion of the tour. That is the hurdle
facing the googly bowler.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: New golf clubs blos-
som round and about Sydney at such a
pace that it is difficult for any scribe
to keep up with their activities except in
shorthand. The latest addition is a nine-
hole municipal course at storied Botany,
which was opened in due form last
week. The course is well-laid out, and
for its size a very sporting one. It was
built largely by relief labor, and the
council hopes to make it a revenue-pro-
ducer, which it is pretty sure to be if
charges are not fixed too high.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The people looking
after the centenary golf shivoo in Mel-
bourne are still hazy as to how many,
if any, American or other overseas
golfers will attend their circus. Two
facts only emerge from a cloud of whirl-
ing contradictions —that an American
team of six professionals has agreed to
come provided £ISOO exes, are guaran-
teed, and that the centenary gents, won’t
have them at the price.' At the same
time there is an idea that a party
of professionals from Yankeeland will
arrive in Sydney on November 7, thus
missing the Australian championships
there in October. However, Sydney
clubs, headed by the Lakes with its
£SOO purse, are supposed to have got to-
gether a nice little packet of brass for
a three-day tourney beginning Novem-
ber 8. As the Melbourne come-all-ye
doesn’t start until November 15, the Syd-
ney sideshow should give the visitors—
if they arrive—a chance to loosen up.
* * * *
“Goodna”: Brisbane golfers are think-
ing of starting a junior metropolitan
championship for boys and girls. Caddies
in Queensland are encouraged by an
annual competition for a trophy, but
junior players in Brisbane have to travel
with the oldsters if they are to play golf.
That talent in the younger brigade is not
lacking may be seen from the fact that
the Ranger brothers, both still in their
teens, fought out the final of the In-
dooroopilly club championship last sea-
son.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hampshire”: The Australian Davis
Cup players made their bow in England
at the Bournemouth hard-courts tourney.
Having drawn a bye in the first round
they meet Japan in the second early in
June. With plenty of play in intervening
tournaments, our men will have no
excuse for not'striking form.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: Australian tennisettes
are looking at each other with a wild
“I’d sooner be a wing three-quarter than a centre-forward in that pack.”
surmise following on the cabled news
that the English L.T.A. is sending two
women players to the Melbourne cen-
tenary. No names have been mentioned,
but most of us are hoping that Mrs.
Fearnley Whittingstall, the advocate of
super-shorts, whose tennis confections
have got us all by the ears (B. 25/4/’34),
will be one of them. Another likely
starter is Miss Round, one of the best
of England’s women players, if not the
best. She is an anti-shorts exponent, and
never appears in France because that
ungodly country affects Sunday tennis.
* * * *
“Kid Stakes”: The blither atmosphere
which has been the curse of cricket for
some years past is attaching itself to in-
ternational tennis. The latest manifesta-
tion is a report that Austin is not likely
to help England to defend the Davis
Cup. The accompanying propaganda
asserts that the young gentleman is such
a keen protagonist of pacifism that he has
found that the upholding of his doctrines
with pen and speech are taking up most
of his time. Also, his health is not sup-
posed to be too good, and so on. When-
ever a racecourse punter hears tales of
the sort about a fancied horse he rushes
to back it when the odds lengthen. Writer
is prepared to open a book with Austin
as a certain starter.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Lott, who is assured of
a place in the Yank Davis Cup team, has
been having a good run in the States of
late. At the Miami tournament —practi-
cally an All-American affair —he upset two
well-fancied applecarts by beating in
singles Sutter and Grant. It was Grant
who staggered tennis humanity by outing
Vines in the American singles champion-
ship last year. Grant kept up his mana,
however, by beating America’s No. 1,
Shields, 3-1 in the semi-finals.
Car and Cycle
The Royal Automobile Club of Great
Britain has notified the Australian Auto-
mobile Association that the sporting con-
trol of automobilism in Australia has
been delegated tb it. Britain continues
to represent Australia on the Inter-
national Council.
* sjl 5k
“Whizz”: Italian motor-racing is earn-
ing an ugly name for casualties. Follow-
ing on a couple of bad smashes last year
and recent minor accidents in the 1000-
mile race, there has been a serious one
in the Bordino Grand Prix of 120 kilo-
metres, held in heavy rain. Pedrazzini,
one of Italy’s leading drivers, was killed,
while Nuvolari, a driver with an inter-
national reputation, had both his legs
broken. The race was won by Varzi,
who narrowly escaped a smash after col-
liding with Nuvolari.
* * * *
“Roller”: A somewhat ingenuous
article in London “Daily Mirror”
warns Australian dirt-track motor-cyclists
against coming to Britain for the season
in view of the fact that the game is over-
crowded with the home-grown product.
The writer adds that, all the same, there
is a dearth of first-class men. This should
be an inducement to the many Australians
of first-class quality to hie them to Britain
at once. In the recent matches with
the English dirt-track team in this country
half a dozen of our riders showed them-
selves masters of the visitors, the marvel-
lous Stevenson only excepted. These
men should be just the stuff to fill the
empty spaces at the top of the game.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The people running the
Empire Games at the British end have
made a bad break by fixing the cycling
events at Manchester for the day after
the world’s amateur cycling champion-
ships at Leipzig. The Continental meet-
ing is of much greater importance than
the other, and the clash will mean the de-
barring of Empire . cyclists from the
world’s championship meeting. It is
particularly rough on the Australians
Gray and Pethybridge, who are regarded
as easily the best of the Empire wheelers.
Gray, as an Olympic winner, would pro-
bably have been a star turn at the
Leipzig meeting.
Miscellaneous
“Soop Her Up”: Australia’s solitary
curling club, founded in Melbourne last
year, has gone ahead by leaps and
bounds, and a tour of M.L. has been fixed.
Last season an attempt was made to get
the game going in Sydney without success.
The Victorians are sailing from Sydney
on June 30, and hope that ex-curlers in
the Bridge city may be able to get up a
team beforehand. The Victorians would
bring along extra stones for the use of
Sydneyites unprovided with them, and the
Sydney Glaciarium would be the con-
vincing ground. Failing a match, the
tourists hope to play an exhibition game
among themselves, and it is hoped that
Scotland in N.S.W. will rally to the fray.
* * * *
“Shell”: It has been informally an-
nounced that Bobby Pearce has consented
to defend his world’s sculling champion-
ship on the Parramatta as part of the
corroboree attending Prince George's
visit to Sydney, and the instigators of the
visit are looking for a challenger. Bob
is to get £l5OO for the trip, and among
those glad to welcome him should be the
Australian Olympic Council, to which
he owes £2OO forfeit for fracturing his
Olympic contract not to row profession-
ally within two years of the Los Angeles
Olympiad.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Sydney Grammar crew,
uplifted over its success in the Sydney
G.P.S. eights, has thrown out a challenge
to its Melbourne opposite number to row
it on the Yarra. The section of the press
whose ballyhoo has been responsible
for absurd exaggeration of the impor-
tance of this type of rowing has approved
and gone one better by suggesting an
annual race for Australian G.P. schools.
Why stop at Australia? M.L. has some
famous rowing schools —Wanganui, for
instance. Eton, Shrewsbury, Westminster
and other noted English foundations
could also be lugged in.
* * * *
“Bulimba”: One of the Sydney papers (
recently published a picture of “a new
kind of craft peculiar to Californian
waters and known as the skimmer.”
The “new craft” is just the old sailing
punt in which Queensland and N.S.W.
youths of the ’nineties, who boasted
more recklessness than cash, tempted
Providence every week-end on the
Brisbane River and Sydney Harbor.
These punts were usually built in back-
yards, of any available timber, and the
deep, dagger centreboard was, as often
as not, cut out of an old ship’s tank by
the amateur naval architects. Some of
the swankiest of these productions were
painted. For most of them a couple of
coats of tar had to do. The shallow
boxes could carry a tremendous press of
sail with a good crew, the latter hanging
on to the weather side of the punt when
she was on a wind and standing ,or
kneeling on the centreboard. Before
the wind these punts could outsail any-
thing of their size.


o'e&
mm
1
2
s m%
I m
m
mt
HI #1 11l
% m
ms
Wm
{*6666 •
i *
TOOMEvijir
%■ :
1 1
7B&
<m**< m
af
W HEN thirsty guests
arrive let Tooheys
Pilsener express your
hearty welcome. As they
depart let one last round
of Tooheys Pilsener send
them away with glowing
memories.
IN THE BOTTLE WITH THE YcLLOW LABEL


f
df
sgs
-oomz-io>3:
p MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDN E Y
D-trzouif*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Gauge and Parking adjacent.
COMPLETE SAMPLE ROOMS
AVAILABLE.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral, 1
SYDNEY.
J
i
The
STANLEY
Unbreakable
VACUUM
BOTTLE
A super vac. that is warranted
unbreakable. Made from steel,
is insulated, and always keeps
liquid piping hot or icy cold.
Will last a lifetime. An ideal
present.
Pint Size 42/-, Quart Size 57/6,
2 Quart 4 Guineas
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PI K E
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at Longreach, Toowoomba, Townsville.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
SHEEP INSTEAD OF BONUS.
“Larrapinta”: In advocating aid for
farmers to carry more sheep instead of
further aid to produce wheat at a loss,
“Valerin” (B. 31/3/’34) suggests some-
thing which has proved workable in S.A.
Many years ago the farmers on S.A.’s
west coast were in a desperate plight.
Wheat was low in price, the crops were
poor, transport costs were terrific, and
aid to put in further crops, either from
the Government or private firms, was
unobtainable. The only alternatives the
settlers had were to walk off their hold-
ings or start a new industry.
Then a pastoralist came to their aid.
To each farmer he lent 200 sheep on
the following terms: The settler was to
have all the wool and increase for two
years, then return the same number of
ewes of the same age as those which
were loaned to him, or buy them at the
price ruling when he took them over.
All the wiseheads forecast that the
pastoralist—one of the Moseley clan —
would lose his sheep. Actually, only one
man failed him ; and then Moseley didn’t
lose, as he took over the abandoned farm
and later recouped himself by selling it.
The other men pulled through with the
aid of the sheep, and the majority bought
them. The animals did a bit towards
keeping down the shoots on the newly-
cleared land as well.
Last year a friend of mine took a lot
of trouble to bring this lesson from the
past before the Government, but received
scant notice. The Government gave
further aid to enable wheat-farmers to
put in another crop—and those farmers
are now deeper in debt. But many
farmers, acting on their own initiative,
put in enough crop to supply their own
hay requirements, and sowed down all
the rest of their fallow to fodder grasses.
They are fast approaching prosperity.
A few days ago we had a splendid soak-
ing rain of an inch and a half. Now
I can hear the hum of the tractors day
and night all around me. I have asked
at least a dozen men what they were
doing, and the replies are all the same:
“I’m not putting in a foot more wheat
than I need for hay; 600 acres go down
to clover and rye grass as quickly as I
can rip it in.” One big estate, which
has had up to 2000 acres under wheat in
a season, is sowing half the property with
fodder grasses. The other half was sown
down to grass last year, and kept three
sheep to the acre for ten months.
The Governments should copy the
methods of men like this, who have
shown that they can make farming pay.
SETTING WOOL STANDARDS.
“Doubleyouay”: Wool-classing in-
structors say: “First fix your standards ;
but expect each clip to require different
ones!” I don’t agree. Wool I handle
splits into three quality combinations:
<?6/70’s; 64/super 60’s; 60/super 58’s.
After that I go on length, splitting each
combination when necessary and practic-
r. ble into three grades: good to better;
fair average (64’s up about 2iin.); and
short, according to the length each
quality usually carries.
What won’t match with the main
classes goes on its own. Thus I carry
in my eye about nine “slots.” They’re
not hard-and-fast, but they don’t range
much. You don’t always require the
nine, some clips being pretty uniform.
This way you get evenness more
easily, and isn’t evenness the highroad
to the woolclasser’s ideal: a clip all of
which deserves the utmost available com-
petition? The clip itself sets the stan-
dards as the bins or slots fill. Anything
wrong sticks out until you put it right.
Why strew your table with the first
100 or so fleeces and the front of each
bin with “standards” that aren’t in your
eye long enough to “fix”? Each pad-
dock on a big property can turn out a
variation. A selection of types from a
buyer’s list seems the better way to me.
A CRUTCHING SUBSTITUTE.
“Murrawong”: A recent press article
advocates the use of a mixture which,
it is claimed, renders crutching unneces-
sary, as it makes the sheep flyproof, does
not damage the wool and can be easily
scoured out. The mixture contains 66
per cent. Stockholm tar, and it is to be
applied hot and swabbed well into the
crutch and tail. I have never tried the
mixture, and don’t intend to ; but here’s
the experience of a neighbor who did.
Someone advised him to use the tar mix-
ture on his lambs after marking, and he
also treated some fly-struck ewes with it.
I saw his lambs a few days later and
most of them were dead lame. Where
the tarring had been overdone, as must
happen occasionally in the rush of mark-
ing, the hindquarters were stiffly encased
in it. Later on the skin began to crack
and the blowfly got busy in spite of the
proximity of the tar. The greatest picnic
of all occurred at shearing-time. It was
quite impossible to clean the crutch or
do anything at all to it. The machines
could not get underneath, and it was a
case of leaving the sheep alone or jabbing
and gouging lumps of skin out. The
expert’s language equalled the shearers’
when he saw the stack of combs and
cutters to be ground.
The claim that this mixture does not
stain the wool is equally fallacious. If
such a mixture will scour clean, why
have buyers condemned tar-branding for
years and why are chemists still search-
ing for a branding mixture that can be
scoured out?
DEPRESSION-BEATING COWS.
“W.D.McC.”: I can’t follow “Bahb
Dwyer” (B. 4/4/’34) when he says butter-
fat percentage is derived from breeding.
If that were true it would be simple to
breed a herd of record-breakers. I have
seen any number of pure-bred animals
that would keep a cow-cocky poor all his
life; and I have seen a cow 90 p.c.
mongrel yield 21b. lOoz. in a 24-hour test
at a Royal Show. The same cow produced
a daughter by a pure sire that would not
at a milking give enough to color a
sailor’s rum. As for feeding not affecting
the butter-fat result, if you put a herd
of cows in a paddock of maize and let
them eat their fill they will not produce
a quart more milk. But put them in a
millet crop and you will see an immediate
increase in milk yield, test and butter.
The only time I have seen skim-milk
upset calves was when dirty feeders were
allowed to gorge themselves.
Apropos, an appalling amount of rot
is written about rearing calves. Some
experts -urge farmers to keep their
poddies lean, asserting that if allowed to
get fat they will never be milkers and
will prove barren. All moonshine ; one
might just as well argue that a child
well-reared is not as good as one half-
starved from birth. My experience over
a lifetime is that you will get just the
same percentage of barren heifers among
the poor ones as the fat, and the fat ones
will make much better cows. The best
dairy herd I ever saw was one where
the cows were milked once a day and the
heifers were reared on the cow ; some of
the calves were as big as their mothers,
and when they came into profit were
splendid dairy cattle.
I began herd-testing 35 years ago, and
have practised it ever since. Never have
I found that the milk from a cow in a
good condition was very rich for a short
period after calving and then declined.
On the contrary, I always found that it
was a few weeks before she reached her
top. The theory of drawing on the sur-
plus fat is pretty far-fetched. Out of
500 cows that I had tested at one time,
the best cow proved to be the best
looker. Nine times out of ten it will
be found that the one that has all the
recognised points of a dairy cow will
also be found to be a good producer;
there are exceptions, but they are few.
What the dairy-farmer needs to aim at
is to breed a herd like that of W. Gunn,
of Leongatha (Vic.), who this season
had 190-odd that averaged more than
3501 b. of butter per head. Cows like these
are the only way to combat low prices.
DEHORNING.
“F 34”: At its annual meeting at Easter
the Federal council of the A.I.S. Society
decided to refuse registration to any
dehorned cattle. Other bulls, they de-
clared, may be dangerous with horns, but
the gentle lllawarra never gives his
keeper a poke. While admitting their
docility as a breed, I would feel a trifle
safer if my present herd sire had his
prodders knocked off, and accidents
never happen before the first time.
Another argument was that dehorned
specimens might be mistaken for Red
Polls. If the breed types are so similar that
horns constitute the main or only distinc-
tion, such a mistake won’t wreck the
dairying industry. And yet these con-
tentions were allowed to outweigh the
leading opinions all over the world that
dehorned cattle are more easily handled
and, because of this extra docility, are
better producers. I can’t imagine anyone
going back to the hornies after having
handled polleds for a while, so great is
the difference in temperament. Just to
add a spice of humor, the society, in a
publicity campaign, claims that the Illa-
warra is not a “hobby” breed but a
working dairyman’s breed. Well, if
breeding unnecessary and detrimental
horns isn’t as much a hobby as breeding
black tongues on Jerseys or long tails on
Friesians, what is a “hobby” breed?
After this, I take back all I thought
of our local show society, which refuses
to allow a polled Hereford to compete
in horned classes, although the ruling
authority, the English Hereford Herd-
book .Society, O.K.’d the breeding of the
particular specimen.
BLUE PANIC GRASS.
This W.Q. indigene continues to find
favor with Queensland farmers and
graziers, to whom it was first introduced
on a commercial scale by A. A. Petrie, of
Gayndah. Extensive areas planted with
it came through the last drought trium-
phantly, and its admirers claim that it
resists dry conditions better than Mitchell
grass, which it resembles in its deep-
rooting habits. Analyses show that as
stock food it has a high value, while it
is a quick grower, keeping growth
through winter conditions and respond-
ing quickly to spring. Seed and roots
for export and the home market are
now offering. Cultivation offers few diffi-
culties. In Queensland scrub soil it is
planted in rows about Bft. by 4ft.; in
poorer soils sft. by 3ft is enough. Cover
the seed lightly or not at all in showery
weather, and keep reasonably clear of
weeds until the stools are developed.
Then cut or stock heavily at any time
of the year. ’
MARKETING PROPAGANDA.
“L.A.S.”: The propaganda end of
market-gardening and orchard work
badly needs organising. The medicinal
values of fruits and vegetables are known
only to dietitians. Broadcasting and
advertising the human system’s constant
want of the sodium in apples, celery,
cucumbers, carrots, beets, etc., is the job
of the producers’ organisations in col-
laboration with the retailers. Millions of
inches on fruit bags and in newspapers
should be filled with facts about the
human body’s ever-changing needs with
season fruits and vegetables. This vital
part of the marketing problem is un-
touched.
Facts about correct combinations, about
many diseases which are due to the
lack of one or more of the sixteen ele-
ments found in ripe fruit and matured
vegetables, are available, but it has been
nobody’s business to tell Australia. Some
of this knowledge could well replace
much of the useless “education" in
schools. Girls should be examined on
such subjects.
The cooking of these products to re-
tain their value is something about which
thousands of women are woefully igno-
rant. The humble stew, for instance,
cooked with the right ingredients and
simmered without boiling, is one of the
richest meals known.
Domestic-economy institutions are
turning out hundreds of young women
(to certain unemployment) who have this
knowledge and have to forget it because
there is no outlet for it. The advertising
should be organised on seasonal lines. If
producers even supplied millions of fruit
bags free to retailers, covered with educa-
tional matter about next month’s pro-
ducts and their bodily functions, that
would be an effective start.
ANOTHER ONE-MAN
GRINDSTONE.
“I.”: To the grindstone stand at one end
fasten a 3in. by Hin. hardwood upright
15in. above the stand ; bore holes in this
diameter and 2in. apart. Then make
a frame of 2in. by lin. Oregon, 3ft. long,
with 7iin. between the 2in. by lin. sides.
At one end of the frame fix a piece of
3in. by 2in. with an iron dowel 2in.
by -fin, to fit into the holes of the upright,
in the centre of the 3in. by 2in. In the
centre of the frame fix a piece of 3in. by
Hin., bevelled away for the stone to pass
through, and another piece to fit on the
top of the 3in. by Hin- with two thumb-
screws. Any tool to be ground is to be
placed between these two pieces and held
by the thumbscrews. At the other end
of the frame nail a cross-piece to form a
handle. A tool can be ground to any
angle by raising or lowering the frame
at the end near the upright containing
the holes. On mine we grind not only
the axe and tomahawk but chisels, plane
irons, etc.
One man can grind better and faster
than any two men on an ordinary stone.
SHARPENING THE CHAFFCUTTER.
“5.8. P.”: Don’t always leave the chaff-
cutter blades on the wheel when sharpen-
ing them, though that method is all
right for a touch-up during a run. Take
them off and hold them in a vyce. Be-
sides enabling you to give them a full-
arc edge, it will show up any crack which
may occur near the bolt-holes. A cracked
blade is a menace, especially on a cutter
which is power-driven, as it is likely to
break and be thrown through the wheel
guard with disastrous results.
Don’t hurry sharpening by cutting a
flat edge on the blade. It may be quicker
than a long edge, but it will not only
ruin your chaff; it will impose extra
strain on the driving plant. Above all,
sharpen the heel of the blade just as
much as the top, and keep it the same
shape as the manufacturers made it.
(Land page continued on page 30.)


the Penn
lo^'
per day
can do for
you!
•W PSB
J J AYE you ever thought that the prob-
lem of provision for your non-earn-
ing days is really only a matter of pennies
after all?
Less than the sum that is spent day by
day in unwanted trifles —a deduction
from weekly income so small as to be
scarcely noticeable —will guarantee an
income for life when you retire.
That is the PRUDENTIAL way—to make
the pennies of the earning days provide
the pounds needed when earning days are
done.
Ask the Prudential to tell you about the
Guaranteed Income Policy, by means of
which (as an example) a man of 25, on
payment of less than tenpence a day, may
secure an income of £2 a week for life on
retirement at 65, and be splendidly
covered by a life policy in the meantime.
LIFE POLICIES IN FORCE
28,000,000
PRUDENTIAL
ASSURANCE COMPANY
LTD
B INCORPORATED IN
ENGLAND)
Head Office
for
AUSTRALIA:
HERALD
BUILDING
PITT ST.
SYDNEY


TTuTfettllefifoi.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BLUE PANIC GRASS.
Better than a silo. Hand-picked seed and
selected roots. Send stamped, addressed
envelope for valuable information and
prices. THOS. GAWN, Nerang, Q.
A foot-soothing shoe
It is light. . .there’s no toecap,
and it is extra flexible. The
upper fits smoothly. . .without
tightness over the instep arch.
The pliancy and perfect shape
of this Abbey Shoe make it
ideal for aching feet. It is
smart in appearance, with a
sole of the best-grade leather.
Three widths per size
ORDER BY POST: Both full and
half-sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fittings. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a con-
venient cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 36/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Estabiished over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Are you a Mrs. Can't?
see symptoms below
CONSTIPATION
DEPRESSION
SLEEPLESSNESS
INDIGESTION
OBESITY
BAD COMPLEXION
HEADACHES
IRRITABILITY
LACK OF ENERGY
&
m
imtiSim
Waste matter which is not dis-
missed properly and to time
remains in the system to pro-
duce poisons. These poisons
soak into the blood, spoil our
lives and our looks, and pro-
duce a host of big and little ills.
Nearly all people are liable to
this self-poisoning—unless they
adopt civilisation's wisest rule
of health, a morning glass of
Eno's 'Fruit Salt.' Eno is natural
in its corrective action, pure,
safe, pleasant—and without a
substitute. Get a bottle to-day.
Eno 'S 'FRUIT SALT'
trade mark
Au.4la
The words Bno and "Fruit Salt " ar* registered
trade marks.
Sales Agents: The British Harold F. Ritchie Co.
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
d
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 71 liours.
London & North Eastern Railway
rou LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS, THIEF & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
“SILVER
EDGE "
tfouAebtitt'
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
SAFETY!
brake
lining
You are a motorist. There
are many laws made for your
safety—rules and regulations of
road traffic and so on—-but the
fundamental basis of all safe
driving is in your own hands.
See that Your Brakes are kept
. ... in Good Condition.
Have them adjusted and examined
periodically by experienced men,
and, if you wish to maintain true
adjustment and long life,
RAYBESTOS BRAKE LINING
re-lining is necessary.
specify
when
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep. : JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE.
A. —The Larynx or Organ of Voice.
B. —The Trachea or Windpipe.
C. —The Bronchial Tubes of a
dissected Lung.
0. —The lobe of one of the Lung 3.
For over 40 years they have been
protecting the health of Australians
HUDSON'S
Eumenthol
JUJUBES
When you dissolve a Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujube
in the mouth you render the mouth and throat
absolutely antiseptic and definitely prevent any
possibility of germ infection of tbe throat, chest
and lungs.
Doctors endorse the high medicinal value of
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes, so why speculate
with so-called “just-as-good” remedies?
AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
FOR POCKET
OR PURSE,
6d. tin
FOR HOME
OR OFFICE,
1/6 tin
4
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
Frcm the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 Georgs
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
HINTS FOR THE FARM
“Murrawong”: Save the ashes from
the kitchen and steam engine and dump
a few loads in the gateways of the shed-
yards, and in any depression that will
hold water. When showery weather
comes at shearing time, you may bring
a mob of sheep dry to the shed through
gilgai country by careful handling, and
have all your good work undone in wet,
muddy yards.
“Kripple”: Don’t throw away old
hand-shear blades, some of which contain
excellent steel. Make handy knifes from
them. With an emery-wheel, run a
groove round at junction to the handle
and break off. Grind a groove along
face to width required. Grip along the
groove in a vyce and break off the back
of the blade with a hammer. Grind the
blade to a tang at the hilt and fit a
wooden handle with a ferrule to prevent
splitting. Trim up and sharpen, taking
care not to overheat the cutting-edge.
Discard blades that bend without break-
ing when being worked to shape.
“Axeman”: Stack firewood upright.
This allows the rain to run off, lessens
trouble from dry-rot or ants, and gives
green wood a better drying by making it
easier for the sap to drain.
“DayborV’: Most broad-axe men use
white or blue chalk to line out their
billets —and wonder why the lines wash
out so easily in showery weather. A
line, indelible once it is dry, can be made
as follows: Chop a piece of bark about
a foot in length from a bloodwood sap-
ling. Hold it over blazing leaves until
it is well blackened. Wet the line, rub
it on the bark and between the hands for
a minute. Then strike your line.
“Oxo”: Pigs given open grazing, and
some that are not, must be prevented
from rooting. Three ways to do this:
(1) In suckers, when born cut off the tip of
the cartilage projecting above the nostrils
(an easy bloodless operation); (2) in older
pigs, cut a V notch in front of the septum
between the nostrils ; or (3) insert a wire
ring (3in. of copper wire) through the
front of the nose. File one end of the
wire and force it through the cartilage.
Then clinch the ends together to form a
ring. These mechanical methods are effi-
cient and generally necessary. In addi-
tion, make sure the swine get plenty of
minerals and charcoal. Corncobs are
excellent for making the latter.
“A.G.T.”: To make an oil-can from a
jam-tin, cut a disc of galvanised-iron
that will just lit inside the top of the
tin, punch a fin. hole in the centre and
one half-way between this and the edge.
For the spout, cut a piece of iron 7in.
long and 2fin. wide, tapering to lin.,
roll into a tube and snip the large end
fin. all round, splaying outwards to give
more grip. Push the spout through the
centre hole and solder it in. The filler
hole —to be closed with a cork —is made
by rolling a piece of iron lin. by 2fin.
into a cylinder, fixing as before. Finally,
solder the top to the jam-tin and bore a
small hole half-way up the filler-tube,
cutting a V in the cork to register with
it, to allow ingress of air.
“Oxo”: Water-troughs? Fell a box-
tree —as big as you like —hollow out
with axe and adze, and give it concrete
ends. When using keep the water-line
as high as possible. This type of trough
will last for many years, and it keeps
the water cooler. A few fish, such as
carp, will live contentedly in its depths.
“Economy”: Spring-tooth cultivator
and scarifier points may be cheaply made
from worn-out discs. Place the disc-
plate in the fire and leave till white-hot.
Then cut or work it to shape, and harden
in water.
“A.G.T.”: To patch a thin, closed
metal drum, try screwing the patch on
with metal-thread screws. Bore the holes
half the size of the screws, then drive a
punch through till the hole is tapping
size, thus forming a burr on the inside
of the metal. When the tap is put
through there will be an additional num-
ber of threads cut in the burr, allowing
the screw greater grip.
“Yacca”: Superphosphate bags are
well worth saving to hold seed wheat
and oats and barley for feed purposes.
To prepare these, give them a good shak-
ing, turn them inside out, put 10 or
12 into a bag and throw the lot into
the dam to soak for a day. It’s a good
idea to anchor each bagful to the bank
with wire to save having to fish them out.
Afterwards hang them on the fence to
dry.
“Paul Monotony”: A stirrup leather
and two hooks with square eyes are handy
to repair a three-bolt cylinder pump.
Run the leather through the eyes and
buckle it. Remove a bolt and place a
hook in top and bottom bolt holes and
draw the leather tight. With all bolts out
the suction pipe can be lowered and
raised easily on the leather. Pipe rollers
on the eyes make a lighter job.
“Gesto”: Use sweet-potato cuttings
about 18in. long. Double them and plant
them in the loop in the ground, leaving
two ends above the surface. By this
method the plant grows less vine and
yields more potatoes.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Names and addresses of suppliers of (1) plant
for making millet-brooms, and (2) millet in
N.5.W.?— 1215. , J] .
(1) There are no agents handling broom-
millet machinery in Sydney. Local manufac-
turers import direct from U.S.A. (2) Supplies
of millet can be obtained through P. Sullivan,
Gundagai; T. Elkin, Raymond Terrace; G.
Cromplin, Tumut Plains, and J. Gooley, Horse
Ridges, via Casino —all N.S.W.
Cure for greasy heels ? My draught horses
are badly affected. —972.
Clip all hair away, wash with soap and
warm water, dry off with methylated spirit and
rub in powder alum daily, but do not wash
again. Give one tablespoonful of Fowler's
solution of arsenic in each horse’s feed once a
day. , , .
Can both wool-growing and export lamb-
raising be run on a payable basis on inside
country in TV. S. Wales ? —lO2l.
Yes, if the property is reasonably managed.
When the wool and lamb markets were at a
low ebb, as last year, it would hot be profit-
able should it be necessary to borrow a big
proportion of the capital.
Possibilities of acquiring Crown land in
Queensland for the purpose of cattle-raising ?
How to apply for such land? Would a large
capital be necessary ? Present conditions of
the industry? Causes of previous failures,
whether through lack of capital or bad man-
agement ? — 921. . .
It is presumed that you refer to the raising
of beef cattle. Application for land for this
purpose should be made to the Land Adminis-
tration Board, Department of Public Lands,
Brisbane, if it is desired to obtain Crown land.
One disadvantage in the acquiring of Crown
land is that the applicants are required to
submit to a ballot in the event of there being
more applicants than, one for each block.
There are freehold and leasehold properties
which could be treated for privately, and it
would be possible to get in touch with the
owners of these through stock and station
agents in the State, say those of Brisbane,
Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Townsville.
The capital required would depend on the size
of the holding and extent to which it had
been improved, its location and carrying capa-
city. The personal element also must be
taken into account. The principal pastoral
areas of Queensland devoted to cattle-raising
are situated in the eastern hinterland and lie
between the 20in. and 30in. rainfall belts. The
bulk of the rainfall is received in the summer
months. “Previous failures” and the arrested
expansion of the Queensland beef-cattle indus-
try have been due primarily to the low price
for frozen beef on the English market and
the inability of the State to export chilled beef.
With the entry of Australia into the chilled-
beef trade there should be a considerable ex-
pansion of the beef-cattle industry, in which
some of the agricultural regions of the State
may play an important part.
Best way to pull up posts of a wire fence and
coil the wire ? —1064.
Assuming that the fence is made of plain
wire, the easiest way is to set up an ordinary
wire-spinning jenny in the line of the posts
and thus coil the wire. If possible, operate
from a dray. Lifting of posts is best accom-
plished by using a trevella jack and a short
length of chain; alternatively tie a length of
chain around the bottom of the post, pass over
a forked stick, having as broad a base as pos-
sible, and attach the chain to the dray. The
forward movement of the horse will lift the
post. An ordinary snigging chain is required
for this purpose. If any difficulty is experi-
enced, loosen the soil round the post with
a crowbar.
(1) Can a pet rabbit be kept in captivity in
Sydney or suburbs ? (2) If so, is the keeping
of such a pet subject to any regulations by
health authorities or other local bodies? —1107.
(1) It is illegal to keep a wild rabbit in
captivity, but fur-bearing rabbits —Angoras
and Chinchillas—can be kept under Depart-
ment of Agriculture license within the coun-
ties of Cumberland and Camden. (2) Appli-
cants for licenses must satisfy themselves that
no objection will be raised by the local coun-
cils to the keeping of the rabbits.
How are N.S.W. Rural Bank land inspectors
and valuators appointed ? Salaries and quali-
fications ? —1097.
The field valuers at present employed have
all had practical experience on the land or in
land-valuing, and are mostly capable of survey-
ing. Salaries vary, being fixed by the Rural
Bank Commissioners according to each valuer’s
experience and merit.


is
mk
A
m-
, •- $ V
::- n '.
W
A&c.
* m t H r
LONDON CALLING
Particular people stay at the Langham—they know that there is no more convenient
or comfortable hotel in London. English people like the Langham—they enjoy the
simple dignity, the courtesy and service. Busy people choose the Langham so that
they may be in touch with the City and West End. Interesting people visit the
Langham—the 8.8. C. and Queen’s Hall are just across the way. You, too, will like
the Langham, it is a perfect headquarters for your London visit, and the terms are very
moderate. Single Rooms from 12/6, Double Rooms from 25/-. Private Bathroom 5 - extra.
Write now to Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l, or
cable “ Langham, London.”
Come and stay at the
Write to J. llott(Aust-) Ltd., Turner House, Jamieson
St., Sydney, for the Langham Tariff and Brochure.
LANGHAM
BUSINESS, ROBBETY, ETC.
prefs. Excise to be remitted in full for
three years ; thereafter to be adjusted so
as to allow a return of 7 p.c. on capital.
Goldmines
Five years ago in most of the Aus-
tralian cities the average man who
bought shares in a goldmine kept the
transaction a secret from his friends for
fear of ridicule. To-day the managing
director, if he can’t go himself, sends his
office boy down to the Exchange at 11
o’clock to see how Placers have reacted
to the latest news from New Guinea, and
the typist surreptitiously uses the office
telephone to order a hundred Sloanes at
six weeks. Everybody is dabbling ; and
the assistant-accountant who is familiar
with a director of Lightning Occidental
(New) Extended is the hero of the junior
clerk.
Shares are usually two-shilling de-
nominations, no liability. The typist
who bought a hundred Sloanes had to
The Newnes Proposal
The proposed Newnes oil-extraction
plant is the smallest payable size. Its
probable output of 6,000,000 gallons of
petrol annually is a bagatelle compared
with Australia’s total annual consump-
tion (about 250,000,000 gallons). But
it must be looked upon in the nature of
a pilot plant.
Let it be demonstrated that the Newnes
and Capertee shales were being treated
profitably, and capital would come in
more readily for the exploitation of the
Baerami and other deposits. The Newnes
unit itself could then be extended. But,
as the known and probable extent of the
Capertee-Wolgan shales is limited, the
value of the plant as insurance against
fuel shortage in an emergency would be
reduced if the oil-shale reserves were
worked-out too rapidly.
The Commonwealth Oil Corp.’s old
plant was put down in the wrong place.
The Capertee deposits are from 8 to 54
inches in width ; those in the Wolgan
Valley (where the plant is) are in seams
ranging from 18 to 25 inches. A high
and rugged mountain range about two
miles wide separates the valleys. After
considering whether it would be better
to transfer the usable plant from Newnes
to the Capertee side, mining and retort-
ing the shale there, ana laying a pipe-
line to Newnes Junction for the trans-
port of petrol only, the investigation com-
mittee is for carrying on retorting at
Newnes, as hitherto, thus making use of
the existing railway line and plant, and
enabling the production of crude oil as
well as petrol.
Mining on the Capertee side and treat-
ing on the Wolgan side are recom-
mended, a narrow-gauge railway esti-
mated to cost £73,700 connecting the two
units. Cracking plant at £114,400 is the
largest single item of proposed outlay,
and £84,000 for employees’ housing
comes next. Including £21,600 for the
rehabilitation of the works and railway,
£28,250 for new rolling-stock, and
£42,900 for retorts, treatment plant and
storage tanks, total capital outlay is
figured at £600,000.
Known reserves of workable shale in
the Capertee area amount to 2,000,000
tons, with probabilities of a further
3,000,000 to 4,000,000 tons. The average
crude-oil content is 106 gallons to the
ton. The proposed plant would treat
125,000 tons of shale annually, and there
would be a good 20-years’ supply of
shale ahead of it.
On the financial side, income is esti-
mated at £350,000 p.a. —6,000,000 gallons
of second-grade petrol f.o.r. Sydney at
1 lid., 19,000 tons crude oil at £2 13s. 6d.,
and sundries of £11,500. Mining costs
(£87,500) are figured at 14s. a ton of
shale on a 125,000-ton-p.a. basis, retort-
ing (£34,750) at ss. 7d., cracking and
treating (£27,890) at 4s. 5d., and transport
from Newnes to Sydney £41,680 for the
year’s output. Depreciation is taken in
at £26,700 p.a., and provides for the
extinction of the whole of the proposed
capital cost within 20 years. Total work-
ing costs are put at £268,900 p.a., exclud-
ing excise.
It is suggested that the products should
be marketed through C.O.R. (which has
over £200,000 of idle cash in the till).
Also, that the Commonwealth and
N.S.W. Governments put up £300,000 in
ord. shares and the public £300,000 in
“If your wife were buying you something for a birthday present, what would
she select?”
“Can’t help you, madam—we’ve nothing under two shillings in this department."
pay only about £2 10s., assuming that
she ever took delivery.
There have been more genuine gold-
mining floats the last three years than there
had been in the previous 20 years.
Well-known names appear on many pros-
pectuses. Nevertheless, goldmines are
still goldmines ; even assuming that good
values have been proved, it is not pos-
sible in the great majority of cases to
look more than half a dozen years ahead.
It isn’t safe to go to sleep on even
the very best gold stocks. The tendency
to classify popular gold scrip as an in-
vestment is dangerous. On the other
hand, the gold-mining industry, particu-
larly as regards large low-grade proposi-
tions, is likely to figure considerably in
Australian economy for some years to
come. Returns in many cases should be
highly profitable to shareholders. But
a goldmine is a wasting asset, and every
dividend represents a part-return of capi-
tal—unless a sinking-fund is created.
The recovery in the industry is such
that it has spread in N. S. Wales. The
distant fields of Westralia looked greener
to eastern speculators for many years;
and many Westralian mines have turned
out well at present metal prices. But
some good values in the Ma State have
been uncovered, such as at Cobar and
Tullamore, while big low-grade proposi-
tions like Sulphide Gold’s at Mandurama
show promise.
Placer Development and Gold Mines
of Australia are interested in many dif-
ferent mines, and spread their risks.
Gold Mines of S’Africa has interests in
the Rand and different parts of the world,
as has the Anglo-American Corp. Gold-
fields Australian Development Co., with
R. J. Agnew as manager, and Anglo-
Australian Development Co., in which
•Claude de Bernales is concerned, are
Westralian examples of this method of
giving the investor a flutter in several
propositions. The idea has many attrac-
tions for the small punter. In a single
reefing proposition he has one chance ;
in the others he has several.
The Queensland Motor Spirit Vendors
Act, which compelled Queensland petrol
distributors to mix a percentage of Sarina
sugarcane alcohol with motor spirit,
has been pronounced invalid by the High
Court. Section 92 of the Commonwealth
Constitution, which provides for free-
dom of inter-State trade, was the stum-
bling-block. The Shell Co. has been
marketing a blend of Shell spirit and
power alcohol under the name of “Shell-
kol” for some years, and it has been
found satisfactory by motorists. Aus-
tralian National Power Alcohol Co., of
Sarina (Q.), produces the alcohol from
sugarcane residues. Co. has recently
installed a plant for treating yeast.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Coal is being utilised in a
large variety of new methods, such as
producing motor fuel, chemical products
and plastic materials similar to bakelite ;
but they don’t mean anything great in
tonnages. All improvements in coal fuels
bring economies in the use of the basic
product. It is estimated that if Great
Britain’s requirements in oil fuel were
all obtained from coal the yearly output
for that purpose would amount to a few
million tons only. If Australia’s petrol
requirements were supplied solely from
coal-distillation, the yearly tonnage of
coal absorbed would be less than that
used by the Australian Gas Light Co.
Not one more miner would be given work.
* * * *
“J.C.L.”: A business is being built up
in the sale of apricot-stones, five tons of
which were recently consigned to the
Australian Clearing Co. Pty., London.
The apricot kernel contains a high per-
centage of an essential oil used exten-
sively in the cosmetic trade, while the
residue yields valuable chemicals used in
T.N.T.
* * :[l *
Melbourne building permits for March
were valued at £54,544 higher than for
February and £206,561 greater than
for March, 1933. The number of brick
dwellings authorised during the month
was 147, including 28 flats. Total value
was £433,947. For the year to March
31 the buildings authorised aggregated
£3,896,064, as against £2,427,223 and
£1,429,431 in the two preceding years.
“Trapper”: H. Hymanson, one of
a London firm of fur-skin dealers,
who is visiting Australia, asked
plaintively why Australians don’t
establish an industry whereby the
I fur-bearing animals could be bred
|in captivity, as the blue and the
silver fox are in other countries. He
says Australian ’possum furs far excel
most skins Australia imports. The
answer is easy. The illegal trapper and
, illegal buyer work hand-in-hand, as a
' rule, and the crook dealer, for obvious
reasons, can buy cheaper from the crook
trapper. Technically, ’possum-breeding
has been entirely successor'll.
* * * *
“Heir Male”: Now that tenders for
the Anglo-Australian air mail have been
finalised, it is to be hoped that the Fed-
eral authorities will not repeat their mis-
take of fixing prohibitive minimum
weights for air-mail postage. If the
proposed rate is Is. 6d. per ounce, it
should be possible to send half an ounce
for 9d. and a quarter-ounce for For
business letters which save the cost of
cables, etc., a minimum of Is. 6d. is
neither here nor there, but it would rule
out many a private individual, whereas
4yd. for a quarter-ounce would enable
a three-page letter to be sent. News-
papers might fairly be carried at inland
rates, plus Qantas freight charges.
Stamps, too, should be issued of a
denomination to cover all the postal
charges. At the present time, for inland
services one has to buy a threepenny air-
mail stamp and an ordinary twopenny
one, and get an air-mail label in addition.
:f * * *
“L.A.S.”: Oil of lemon is not manu-
factured in Australia. It comes from
lemon peel, and is broken down with
rectified spirit; it is the essence of lemon
used in almost every kitchen, 10 p.c. of
oil complying with the Pure Food Acts.
Most of our supplies come in small
copper canisters from Southern Europe.
Local lemon peels I recently boiled were
very rich in oil.


FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Nahk”: Unique in Rotary clubs is
the branch in Hangchow, China. This
city was once the seat of emperors ; it
had hundreds of public baths, broad
streets, a sanitary system, shops and
manufactures when Marco Polo cast his
astonished eyes on it. Under the
Manchus it became a heap of picturesque
ruins and a resort of tourists. Since the
revolution, despite the troubles of the
Government, it has recovered a good deal
of its ancient importance, has thriving
modern factories and a Chinese-owned
and -managed railway. Hangchow
Rotary was established in 1932. It is
the only Rotary club whose official
language is Chinese, the British and Ger-
man members having sufficient know-
ledge of the language to understand the
after-luncheon eloquence of Celestial
visitors. Singapore Rotary, however, still
holds the palm for cosmopolitanism. It
contains representatives of almost every
race on the planet.
* * * *
“Novi”': Reading Queen Victoria’s
diaries and such of her voluminous let-
ters as have seen print, one is for ever
coming on the queer phrase “The news
from are bad” and variants thereof.
It makes you wonder when “news”
became a singular noun —quite impro-
perly of course, but by the overpowering
will of the majority of English-speaking
people. Thackeray used it in the plural
more than once, but the fashion was evi-
dently changing in his day. Victoria
remained constant to the end, possibly
without even being aware that she was
supporting a lost cause. Which recalls
the London editor, a stickler for correct
diction, who inquired of one of his bright
young men, possibly following royal pre-
cedent, “Are there any news?” and re-
ceived the equally correct but none the
less staggering reply “Not a new.”
* * * *
“Aliquis”: “Crazy Horse” waxes
humorous (B. 11/4/’34) over the alleged
discovery that in a Hollywood talkie
(“The World Changes”) some very early
Californian settlers are represented as
surprising General Custer by not having
heard of the Civil War when he comes
to announce its eiid. In fact, the scene
is laid not in California at all but in
Dakota (or what is South Dakota to-
day). The settlement of California, what
it did during the Civil War and General
Custer’s never having been there are
matters of no concern whatever to the
picture. There are 1500 miles or so be-
tween the two States, and while Cali-
fornia was one of the first-settled and
has been ever since one of the most im-
portant parts of the continent, Dakota
was one of the last-settled and has
always been one of the least important.
So the incident cannot be held so absurd
after all.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: If film director Korda
makes a picture of the story of Christ
it will not be the first one, though his
will be the first vocal Sa.viour. There
have been innumerable silents. I wit-
nessed one in a dingy little theatre in
Rome in 1920. The screen Jesus fol-
lowed the lines of the traditional “por-
traits,” and when the lights went up I
found I was sitting next to his exact
replica. For a moment —the picture had
been sufficiently convincing—l had the
uncanny feeling that he was actually the
Messiah. He grinned at me, offered me
a cigarette and gave me his card, which
was that of a celebrated Hungarian
screen actor. In Korda’s talkie the actors
are to be unknown to theatregoers and
are to remain anonymous.
* * * *
“Simmer and Jack”: Malcolm Camp-
bell’s unsuccessful expedition into South-
west Africa in search of an alleged gold
reef (B. 11/4/’34) may not have been
the wild-goose chase suggested. Three
or four years ago the world of mining
was excited by the discovery that the
great gold-bearing formation of the
Rand did not pinch out west of Krugers-
dorp, as supposed, but swept in a wide
curve west and southward. Further
surveys now indicate that the sweep con-
tinues beyond the Transvaal and O.F.S.
boundaries and probably into South-west
Africa. Some hint of this may have
started Campbell on his trek into the
desert.
* * * *
“Emeller”: George Forbes, Priminister
of Maoriland, who recently sent a
cheery goodwill message to Australia,
differs from Seddon, Ward and Massey,
all of whom were humorless and, like
most of their kind, tried hard to be funny
in public. Forbes never wisecracks, and
he also dodges platitudes as much as pos-
sible. Plain English is his line. Some-
body asked him the other day why he
didn’t try Douglasism as a depresh
“I broke my looking-glass yesterday. Seven years of bad luck, I suppose.”
“Don’t you believe it, Mrs. Smythe. A friend of mine broke hers, and she
didn’t have any seven years. She was killed in an explosion two or three
days later."
remedy. “I would, like a shot,” he said,
“if Douglas would tell me how to work
it. We set up a committee and invited
him to come and explain, but he had a
mo re important engagement.”
*** * A _
“Strict Veg.”: The present outburst of
nationalism may be economic barbarism,
as Prof. Douglas Copland says, but it
is a boon to the printing trade. Every
newspaper office in Australia weekly sus-
tains an avalanche of propagandist htera-
ture, much of it locally produced. There
are Hitlerites and anti-Hitlerites, Semites
and anti-Semites, and so forth and so
on. Most of it is dreadful stun, and
goes straight into the w.p.b. There are
Chinamen anxious to explain just what
the Japs are doing to the Flowery Land,
and Japs equally anxious to give a fair,
impartial and objective picture of what
the wicked Chinaman is doing to the
Jap. The latest development in that
direction is the foundation in Tokio of
a society with a capital of £50,000, de-
signed to “introduce abroad Japan’s cul-
ture, and to promote cultural exchanges
with other nations, to enhance real
friendship, and to reveal to the world
the actual facts regarding our country.”
As a foretaste, shipping masters have
taken to holding exhibitions of Japanese
color prints while in Australian ports—
a worthy enough enterprise, but linked
up with the same world-wide campaign
of banging national drums.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Racehorses are popu-
larly supposed to lead towards bank-
ruptcy rather than away from it. There
are exceptions, however. A Buenos Aires
citizen filed his schedule, or whatever is
the Argentine equivalent, and the trustee
found that his only asset worth consider-
ing was a thoroughbred filly named Cote
d’Or. With the consent of the credi-
tors, the official decided to give the
youngster a chance to retrieve her
master’s fortunes. She has turned out
one of the best three-year-olds seen in
the country, and to date has won £7OOO.
One more race will ensure the creditors
getting 100 cents in the dollar, and after
that she is to be returned to her pre-
sumably grateful owner.
* * * *
“Centurion”: A bill recently passed
through the Commons providing special
penalties for people inciting the Imperial
naval and military forces to disaffection.
Isolated trouble of the kind has long
been known in both forces. In the navy
it used to take the form of throwing
gunsights and similar valuable gadgets
overboard. In the army it showed itself
in saddlery destruction by a unit of
the Household Brigade. One Grenadier
battalion in the ’nineties put up an imi-
tation of a mutiny. It was sent to Ber-
muda for some time to cool off. The
island is famous for its onions, and this,
coupled with the fact that the Grenadier
“Fusee” badge looks uncommonly like
a growing onion, gave the rest of th
service an eagerly-seized chance to ret
to this battalion as the “Onion Guards.
The name stuck to it for years.
* * * *
“Cot Case”: The traffic authorities of
Arizona (U.S.A.) have struck an ingeni-
ous method of conveying a subtle hint
to the motoring intelligence. Whenever
anyone is killed by a-road hog, the spot
on the road where the victim failed to get
out of the way is marked with a blade
cross on a white circle, this being sur-
rounded by a ring of red. A better
method would be to paint the brand ot
Cain on the speed hog’s car or even burn
it into his hide with a red-hot iron.
* * * *
“Sudden Death”: Britain is tardily re-
penting its legislation of three years ago
abolishing a speed limit for motor
vehicles, and an amending Act now
going through Parliament has returned
to a maximum of 30 m.p.h. The ideas
behind the limit-abolition were the diffi-
culty of judging speed accurately and
the delusion that motorists could be
trusted not to speed-hog. A recent check
showed that the daily fatality-casualty
average was 600! A good many wars
have been fought through with lighter
losses than that daily total.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Hubert Opperman has
been outlining his season’s programme to
a Paris interviewer. While the chiet
reason for his trip is an attack on the
Land’s End-John o’ Groat’s record, held
by the English rider Rossiter, he will
do a lot of racing in Europe. He has
left out the Tour de France, which is
hopeless for unteamed riders, but, among
other big French road events, will tackle
the Paris-Tours run of 152 miles and the
Champagne Circuit of 130. He may
appear in Italy if arrangements can be
made. Also in Belgium.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A leading English writer
on golf was recently asked to pick a team
of 10 to represent the World against the
Rest in a match of foursomes and singles
on Ryder Cup lines, save that amateurs
as well as professionals might be chosen.
His selection shows Bobby Jones, Gene
Sarazen, Hagen, Craig Wood, Goodman
and Densmore Shute, all of America,
and British pros. Mitchell, Alliss, Padg-
ham and Cotton. Order of selection is:
Jones, Sarazen, Hagen, Mitchell, Alliss,
Padgham, Cotton, Craig Wood, Good-
man, Shute.
* * * *
“Ach Donnerwetter”: Not to be out-
done by Mussolini (B. 25/4/’34), Hitler
is conscripting the populace of the
Fatherland for golf. To date there have
been only 50 clubs in all Germany, and
these mostly used by English and other
outlanders. A new regime starts on May
5, which has been proclaimed “Der Golf
Tag”; on that date German Michael,
his frau and his kinder are to get busy
on picking up the rudiments of this essen-
tially Nordic game. Novices showing
talent will be tutored at the State’s ex-
pense, golf talks will be broadcast, and
the price of golfing equipment brought
within the reach of the neediest.
* * * *
“Heil”: German Rugby clubs have to
watch their step pretty carefully these
days. The Karlsruhe club, one of the
best in Germany, has been put on the
peg indefinitely because, when playing
French teams at Nancy and Stras-
bourg, it didn’t give the Hitler salute.
The trouble is that a lot of Ger-
man clubs which habitually play in
France may find themselves in the
same bowl of bouillon. They have a
pretty sound notion that the French
would not appreciate the salute to an
individual they have little time for. Yet,
if they don’t dare the French barracker
—a pretty rough lad, by all accounts —
they will have to toe the mark on re-
turning to Germany.
GENERAL VIEW OF THE MACLEOD GALLERY. BULLETIN BUILDINGS, 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Caledon Bay Again
“Flourbag Cobra”: In the long story
of farce-tragedy which is the history of
Federal administration of the Northern
Territory, the outstanding comic relief
was the permission given by the Minister
for Home and Territories to a band of
missionaries to locate the native mur-
derers of Constable McColl at Caledon
Bay. The fantastic excursion has
been worked for all it is worth as
pro-mission propaganda. The party cer-
tainly succeeded in getting in touch with
a number of natives who admitted having
had some hand in the killing of McColl
and others. This they did because they
were well known by the natives as per-
sons from whom no immediate per-
sonal danger could be expected. The
conduct of those natives themselves
—a sophisticated lot used for years to
contact with white men and Asiatics —
when they found they were to be tried
at Darwin for murder goes far to
suggest that they had arrived there
under a misapprehension, to put it
mildly. Even the missions themselves are
divided on the subject. An article in
the “Presbyterian Messenger,” published
in Melbourne, roundly rates the fool
stunt as a grave blunder calculated to
destroy any confidence the natives may
hitherto have had in missions—a shot
mighty near the bull’s-eye. What those
much abused and overworked men
the N.T.M.P. think about it no-
body knows. They have added to
this manifestation by condemning the
missionary plea for clemency for Mc-
Coll’s murderer because he gave him-
self up voluntarily, and by the assertion
that they knew well who the murderers
were, and could have arrested them with-
out any missionary assistance, as they had
done on many previous occasions. How
true this claim is may be seen from the
fact that when the natives were brought
to Darwin they hailed as old friends Ser-
geant Bridland and Constable Heathcote,
with both of whom they had often been
in contact when the police were living
among them at Caledon Bay.
“Las-i”: As an ardent uplifter of the
Papuan native in the days when I was
privileged to administer to his well-being.
I am interested in some recent evidence
in the Papuan press which convinces me
that our dear Brown Brother, in Port
Moresby at any rate, is right up in the
front rank of civilisation, all same Syd-
nee. Shoplifting may be considered as
entirely a crime of extreme civilisation.
That is why I am so intrigued to read that
Oveata-Severa, of the Gulf division, was
lumbered for slipping a piece of calico
down the front of his trousers and then
telling the beak that he intended going
back later to pay for it. After him was
wheeled up Renagi-Amvagi, of Rigo. His
trouble was that he had pinched the
washing of one Mrs. Foley off the line.
His defence was an alibi, but he also
went up. Here we have shoplifting and
snowdropping, two particularly mean
criminal activities in the great cities of
the world, flourishing in Port Moresby—
a centre usually presumed to be far be-
hind the times, except in the infallibility
of its civil servants.
* * * *
“Kuranda”: An important step was
made towards the construction of the
great hydro-electric scheme at Barron
Falls, behind Cairns in North Queens-
land, when the tunnel which is to take
the head of water for the power-station
below the falls was completed. Twelve
feet by eight, and cut through 1550 ft. of
solid rock, it was a complete job. The
work, beginning from each end, broke
through right on the blue-print plotting.
* * * *
“Skin Diver”: Nobody loves a shark,
but many people who have been exposed
to the intrusions of the modern press
photographer will have a kindly feeling
in their hearts for one that recently
figured as villain—or hero —in a Barrier
Reef incident. A photographer was
getting pictures of a coral reef some
feet under water, and was so engrossed
in his job that he didn’t notice the arrival
of a 12ft. shark. His native boy Peter
did, however, and dived in time to scare
the beast away. When all seemed quiet,
the photographic artist went down again
to recover the valuable camera hurriedly
abandoned in the flight for the surface.
Though there was no tide and the bot-
tom was snowy sand, there was no sign
of the machine. Failing the photo-
grapher, the shark had taken the camera.
It argues that even sharks sometimes
have a sense of poetic justice.
* * * *
“X”: Chivalry is not dead in the
North. -The Darwin press reports that
on a recent Sunday afternoon two local
knights, Sir Waggin and Sir Nim, jousted
for the hand of a lady in the Kahlin
Compound before an interested gather-
ing of whites and blacks. As the result
of the contest, which was fought with
bamboo sticks, the maiden has become
Lady Waggin, but her other suitor, when
the mail left, was demanding another
tournament on the ground that rain in-
terfered with the fairness of the first
shindy. Was there a rain clause in
mediaeval tournament rules?
:|: * * *
“Offsider”: As one much exposed in
my time to the “cows,” it is interesting
to read that a specially-broken team of
working bullocks has just been shipped
to New Guinea for the N.-G. Goldfields
Co. Many stories from the old hands have
convinced me that no' four-footed beast
can conquer the razor-back edges of
the mountain tracks leading from Sala-
maua to the Bulolo —leaving out the rest
of the climb. In the early days of the
field, a North Queenslander tried to do
the trip with mules and lost nearly every
one of them. I doubt, then, if even the
sure-footed and patient old ’’horny” can
beat the mule on the mountain tracks. So
NEWCHUM : “Get on him? He won’t let me — I’ve got the poor cow scared stiff !”
I have to suppose that the bullocks will
be flown to the mountain field by aero-
plane, as mining machinery and even
racehorses have been carried. I would
give a lot if some of my old bullocky
friends of forty years ago could revisit
the glimpses of the moon and see that
being done.
$ * *
Andrew Dunn, who has died in Bris-
bane at 80, was the nearest Bananaland
has got so far to a Northcliffe. He was
born in Scotland, went to sea, and didn’t
settle in Queensland till his marriage to
a teacher in the Education Department
in 1879. He joined the Maryborough
“Chronicle” in the early part of the cen-
tury, got an interest in it, and bought
the Rockhampton “Bulletin,” the War-
wick “Argus” and the Toowoomba
“Chronicle” in fairly quick succession.
Then he and his sons got interests in the
Maryborough “News,” “Darling Downs
Gazette” and other journals. He finished
as the publisher of five dailies and three
weeklies.
* * * *
“Brown Snake”: Coincidences? Tramp-
ing out west of Hughenden (Q.), I was
picked up by a motorist. The last time
we had met was May 24, 1915, when
he carried me out of the Canadian Glory
Hole at Festubert. He was then in the
London Post Office Rifles, and I was
with the Canucks. At Mt. Isa a chap
with a German accent invited me to
join him in the dissipation of a ten-
pound note. We had met previously on
Hill 60, in June, 1916. He was with
the Wurtembergers. We had another
name for them.
“Helidon”: Cables suggest that Lord
Huntingfield, having sold his house near
Salisbury, may settle in Queensland
on Adare station, which adjoins his boy-
hood home, near Gatton, when his term
as Victorian Governor ends. Adare is a
pleasant property, with the makings of
a lovely garden, but its homestead is
scarcely of even post-vice-regal dimen-
sions. It belongs to his Ex.’s maternal
uncle, W. D. Armstrong, who was once
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
From midnight on Tuesday until late on
Wednesday evening the ceremonies in connec-
tion with Anzac Day proceeded. At midnight
on Tuesday a band of Digger pressmen paid
their tribute to old comrades. Never before
have so many men marched as did in the morn-
ing church parade. As one Digger said: “We
are passing out at the rate of 2500 a year, and
it is well to keep in touch with old pals as
long as possible.”
General Bill Glasgow commanded the cere-
monial parade, and, not content with saluting
the front rank of every old regiment and bat-
talion, he saluted as each file marched by. The
“Old Contemptibles,” that sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. which is composed of Mons
veterans, got a thunderous cheer from the
crowd, as did the 9th and 15th Battalions, which
won their first laurels on Gallipoli. The 2nd
Light Horse, led by Major Mick Shanahan, also
came in for a warm tribute from the mob.
Mick, who left a leg behind when he returned
to Australia, uses two sticks when he goes
walking. He led the 2nd from start to finish
of the procession, as he has done for many
years.
Cam Robertson travelled down from Too-
woomba to lead his 9th Battalion once more,
and was welcomed with cheers and handgrips.
A good soldier and a popular officer, he always
is sure of a great reception from his old
Diggers.
One of the features of the day’s proceedings
was the unveiling by the Governor of the
memorial tablet of the 31st Battalion in Anzac-
square. The 31st was one of the latterly
formed battalions of the war, but, placed under
the command of F. W. Toll, the South African
veteran, it made up for lost time when it got
to France. Within a jmonth after arriving there
it lost over 50 p.c. of its strength at Fromelles.
It lost another 50 p.c. at Polygon Wood. Out
of 149 officers and 3491 other ranks who passed
through its roll it lost 575 killed and 1532
wounded, and its men won the whole range of
possible war decorations, from the V.C. down-
wards.
Women, of course, played a great part in
the celebrations. Gardens were denuded to
decorate churches and memorials, and there
was a wave of luncheons served by voluntary
workers, the main of which were the Church
of England Soldiers’ Help Society, which
catered for 1700 Diggers with 170 voluntary
helpers, who provided a three-course meal;
the St. Stephen’s Cathedral Auxiliary, which
fed 700, and the Presbyterian unit, which sent
900 away fed; while hundreds more were
attended to in the Albert Hall, by the Baptists
at the City Tabernacle, by the Jewish com-
munity and the Salvation Army.
When the Diggers arrived at Toowong Ceme-
tery on Wednesday morning to attend the ser-
vice there, and found that during . the night
louts had desecrated and defaced their memorial
with scrawls and smears of red paint, they
took an oath, subsequently subscribed to by
hundreds of other indignant men, that if the
ex-soldiers could lay hands on the perpetrators
of the insult there would be a sudden rise in
the demand for arnica.
Kathleen Nolan, of Toowoomba, is wearing
a new engagement ring, and the lucky man
is Dr. Maxwell Ramsden. Kathleen is a daugh-
ter of the J. S. Nolan pair, and has inherited
much of the good looks of her mother’s family.
The three “Gilder girls” were noted for their
beauty and charm when Bob Sinclair (late of
Toowoomba), Stanley Nolan and B. Hutton
stepped in and carried them off triumphantly
to the altar.
Another engagement concerns Minna
Hogarth, daughter of a well-known Downs
family, whose fiance is that Watson who owns
Oak Park at Yarranlea.
Lady Kinnaird, who is world president of
the Zenana Bible and Medical Mission, arrived
in Brisbane last week, accompanied by her son,
the Hon. Kenneth Kinnaird. The lady is the
wife of the 12th Baron Kinnaird, and is actively
connected with various women’s organisations,
being president of the Scottish Young Women’s
Christian Association. Her daughters have in-
herited her talent for good works, for one is
married to a minister, and the other is matron
of a children’s home in Perthshire. Loads of
flowers from the Queensland auxiliary of the
Zenana Mission greeted her on arrival, and
sinpe then she has been lunched at Govern-
ment House, and generally entertained by the
mission workers and the Y.W.C.A. officials.
Brigadier and Mrs. F. F. Lambarde, of
Seven Oaks, Kent, were among recent Eng-
lish visitors to Queensland. The Brigadier is
a keen antiquarian ; heraldry is his chief
hobby. Mrs. Lambarde is keen on gardens
and gardening, and she is thrilled at the beauty
of the Queensland gardens.
Miss Pat Honor, who has been staying at
Government House for a few weeks, is packing
her bags, and will arrive in Sydney almost
as soon as this letter.
Mrs. H. W. Tilling is putting in a few
days in Brisbane before going on to Melbourne
to meet her doctor husband, who has run over
from Nairobi to spend a few weeks here with
his wife small son before carrying them
back to Kenya Colony.
Dr. Alec Paterson, who leaves for England
by the Mongolia on May 9, was farewelled by
the matron and staff of the Hospital for Sick
Children, where he has been medical superin-
tendent for some time. A handsome travelling
case and a lot of good wishes were passed over
to the guest of honor.
At her benefit concert in the City Hall, Dulcic
Sampson, the clever young Queensland pianist,
played samples of musical compositions which
ranged from sixteenth-century to ultra-modern.
This is her first public recital, and the funds go
to help her complete her musical education
abroad. Six times she has secured the highest
marks in Queensland in musical examinations;
but, better still she has that poetical touch
without which no music carries an appeal.
Sir Leslie Wilson was drummed into the
annual St. George’s Day banquet by a guard
of honor whose members, apparently, had looted
some theatrical wardrobe. They were dressed as
Beefeaters, and looked really well in their
quaint clothes. They also provided a musical
accompaniment to the arrival of the roast beef.
The Shakspearean Society also staged a
dinner in honor of their patron poet. A. D.
Graham was in the
chair, and Rev. Scott
Macdonald gave the
principal toast —“The
Day We Celebrate.”
Neat quotations from
the works embellished
the toast list. There was
a big gathering of en-
thusiasts, and, after the
speeches had been gone
through, Nancy Muir-
head uplifted a glorious
soprano, and Peter Val-
lely and J. W. Whittaker
added to the melody.
Ken Best was the
accompanist.
Mrs. A. D. Mac-
kenzie, who has been
spending almost a year
in Brisbane with her
brother, P. G. Sparkes,
and his wife, is going
back to England. There
have _ been numerous
teas In her honor, and
Mrs. N. Pike, the
latest hostess, handed
over a posy in a Vic-
torian holder of silver
when urging the visitor
to “come again soon.”
Since 1924 Miss
Bishop has been the
Federal members’ typist,
and last week the
Queensland Senators
and members gathered
in the Federal room at
the G.P.O. to hand over
a case of cutlery with
their good wishes. The
lady is forsaking the
typewriter for domes-
ticity.
Scott McLeod came down from Terrica last
week to meet daughter Joan, just back from
a holiday cruise in the Cathay. Beverly Wy-
mond accompanied her. Also on the Cathay
was Mrs. F. R. Hall, who is much improved
in health as a result of her trip.
Married on Saturday, April 27, at the Albert-
street Methodist Church, were Claribel San-
derson and Donald Pringle. Misses 1. Perkins
and E. Pringle ’maided.
Musical circles are a-twitter at the news of
the engagement of soprano Ivy Plane (daughter
of the Rev. A. C. and Mrs. Plane) to pianist
Arthur Sharman. The wedding date has not
yet been announced, but friends are of opinion
that June, the bride’s month, has been chosen.
Quite a number of Brisbane folk are arrang-
ing to run down to Grafton for the cathedral'
jubilee in July. The Bishop of Grafton was
rector of St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane, for
many years: and while there he married Maud
Anderson, elder daughter of the late J. G.
Anderson, Under-Secretary for Education. Lots
of the people who were christened, confirmed
and married by J. W. would like to renew old
friendships. Mrs. Penleigh Boyd, widow of
the artist, and h*erself a portrait painter of no
mean ability, was Edith Anderson. The third
member of the family is Dr. Arthur Anderson,
who practises in Brisbane.
Good-looking Jack Michod, who has been
the beau ideal of numerous flappers for at
least two seasons, is now definitely out of the
running so far as flappers are concerned. His
engagement has been announced to Ena Crease,
the pretty daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. E.
Crease, of Old Sandgate-road. Jack is the
eldest son of Dr. and Mrs. F. A. Hope Michod.
Another link with the Queensland of an
earlier day snapped this week when Colin
Basil Peter Bell, manager of Westland station,
and third son of the late Sir Joshua Peter Bell,
died. His wife was Sylvia Frances Needham,
daughter of the late Francis Needham, who
owned Canning Downs. His two sons are on
the land, and the two married daughters—Mrs.
Jamieson, of Yalleroi, and Mrs. Arthur Taylor,
of Isisford —married pastoralists. There is one
unmarried daughter, Lynette, who has inherited
the beauty which made her grandmother, Miss
D’Orsay, daughter of one of Queensland’s
pioneer medical men, a reigning toast in the
’sixties.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Sheep-station overseer (48), W.A., returned
soldier, has managed large properties in West
and South Aus., conversant with all details of
station management, desires opportunity to
acquire Queensland knowledge.—l3l4.
Returned soldier, Queensland, book-keeping
exp., wants job on station.—l2s3.
Queenslander (no capital) looking for a share-
farming agreement, preferably, but not neces-
sarily, dairying in Queensland, would be glad
to hear from any farmer.—l 234.
Returned soldier (late 6th Light Horse), pen-
sioner, would like to receive used books and
magazines.—1214.
Baker, Q’land, seeks opportunity to start
business; able to build own bakehouse and
oven. —1285.
To buy Henley’s Book of Recipes.—l 292.
To buy book on fishing in N.S.W. inland
waters. —1124.
Words of poem “The Automatic Mate.” —
1303.
Words, English and German, of the songs
“Deutschland iiber Alles,” “Ach du lieber
Augustin,” “Heil dir im Liegerkranz” and
“Watch on the Rhine.” —1307.
Words of Ogilvie’s verses last stanza of
which begins:
When the smoke wreaths rose on the range’s brow,
You have struggled where strong men tire.”
—1251.
Words of poem “The Taronga Park Jam-
boree.”—l2B6.
Copy of Bulletin containing story “Babette's
Nightie,” by A. H. Adams.—l 244.
Information Sought.
What is meant by “Approved by the censor
as not fit for general exhibition,” applied to
■talkies?— llB3.
By arrangement with the film importers the
Censorship Board classifies all pictures as either
“General” or “Adult.” The trade has agreed
to advertise the first kind by including the words
“For general exhibition,” with no addition in
the case of the second. The purpose of this is
to form a guide to parents and others as to the
suitability or otherwise of films for children
and young people. The words you quote are a
breach of the agreement and also misleading
and absurd.
(1) On what date did the 22| p.c. reduction
in rentals come into force in N.S.W. ? (2) If a
tenant agrees with a landlord not to insist on
the reduction would he be liable to any
penalty? —l22s.
(1) October 9, 1931. (2) No penalty, but the
Act provides that no contract or agreement
entered into after its commencement by any
tenant shall operate to deprive him of the
benefit of its provisions. Such an agreement as
you refer to rests on good faith and nothing
more.
(1) Should an appeal from a decision of the
N.S.W. Land and Valuation Court fail would
the applicant be responsible for costs of holding
the Court, valuer’s expenses, etc. ? (2) What
expenses are allowable by the Valuer-General’s
Department for felling, burning-off and grassing
scrub land ? (3) Would the opinions of three
competent local farmers as to the value of a
property carry any weight in the court ?
1108.
(1) As a general rule, the Valuer-General
asks for costs only in cases where the appeal
has been frivolous and not a serious test of
value. (2) Depends largely on local circum-
stances —for example, the expense incurred in
clearing the northern areas is as a rule
greater than in clearing southern lands. The
three salient features of felling, burning-off and
grassing are allowed for. It is largely a question
of evidence. In Reading v. The Valuer-General
one witness assessed the cost of the three items
at £l7 an acre; the Valuer-General estimated it
at £l2 an acre. (3) Their evidence would carry
weight in proportion to their experience of
land-clearing costs, sales of similar properties
in the district and so on. As a rule the best
evidence is that of a local land agent who
knows the property.
Justice Pike in a judgment some years ago
said: “With regard to town properties, and par-
ticularly shop properties, practically the invari-
able rule in these days is to base values on
rentals.” At that time rentals were capitalised
on a basis of 12| p.c. What is the percentage
to-day, and how is it arrived at ? —lll2.
Sales of similar properties in the vicinity have
great weight as evidence. Failing that, or in
addition to it, the general practice is to base
the valuation on rentals. The rate of capi-
talisation depends largely on the class of
security—a country town propeity would not
be a security equal to a good mesropolitan site.
All outgoings are taken into account. As a
generalisation, though not as a legally fixed
basis, 12£ p.c. is probably a fair basis of capi-
talisation to-day.
I have a fine couch lawn at Mosman, Sydney,
but water-couch is threatening to destroy it.
Will it die naturally or must / use sulphate of
ammonia to kill it, even though it leaves bare
patches ? —lll6.
Water-couch has been fairly plentiful this
season, following upon abundant moisture. It
does not necessarily destroy a couch lawn,
but makes the turf uneven in texture. The
best time to get rid of it is when it is first
noticed, when the roots can generally be picked
out by hand without difficulty. The present
growth will die back with the approach of
winter, as in the case of the ordinary couch
grass. Best plan for you is to sow Agrostis
tenuis (“Creeping Bent”) over the whole area.
This not only blends well with the ordinary
couch but will provide a splendid turf during
the cooler months of the year. Also it ought to
check the spread of water-couch.
Early history of the land upon which The
Bulletin office, Sydney, stood at various
periods: (1) 13 Bridge-street, (2) 24 Pitt-street,
and (3) 214 George-street ? —1266. .
(1) This stood on portion of the site ol
the Lumber Yard, which extended from
George-street to the Tank Stream (Hamilton-
street). It was here that convict artisans
worked. Dean Cowper in his reminiscences
states that, as a boy, he heard the cries of
convicts being flogged as he passed theL y ar “-
(2) When the First Fleet arrived in 1788 the
site of 24 Pitt-street was part of Sydney Cove,
which extended as far as Bridge-street. Pitt-
street was extended from Hunter-street neai 1>
to the Quay in 1853 over the reclaimed land
While The Bulletin was in possession of 24
Pitt-street it had trouble from water creeping
in. When the Ship Inn was built near by
piles 100 ft. long had to be driven into the
mud to get a foundation. (3) It was originally
a grant that was made to James Underwood,
who gave his name to Underwood-street. The
grant ran from George-street to the waters of
the Cove. On the banks of the Cove Under-
wood erected a shipbuilding yard, and it was
here that the first Australian-built ship, the
King George, was launched, on April 19,
1805. When excavations were made in the
vicinity 15ft. below the surface a spar of a
ship, a marlin-spike, and a bayonet were dis-
covered.
Anything known of an artist who did little
portrait busts and signed them Chitqua ?— 1265.
He was a Chinese who went to London in
1769 and modelled miniature portrait busts.
He was received at Court and made portraits
of all the royal children. He amassed a con-
siderable fortune. For some seasons he ex-
hibited regularly with the Royal Academy.
He returned to China.
(1) Where can I purchase a detailed map of
the Queensland coast and Barrier Reef, show-
ing the islands from Bundaberg to Bowen ?
(2) Are any of these islands permanently in-
habited—-particularly in the Cumberland and
Whitsunday groups ? If so, which ones ? (3)
Is it possible to purchase or lease one of the
smaller islands ? (4) Names of books describ-
ing these islands in detail ? —7lO.
(1) A three-sheet map, on a scale of 20 miles
to an inch, showing the Great Barrier Reef and
islands between the Reef and the coast, is
obtainable from Lands Department, Brisbane,
10s. 6d. (2) The following islands are held:
Whitsunday Group—Olden, Armit, Grassy,
Molle Group (North Molle, Mid Molle, West
Molle, Molle, Planton and Denman), Shute,
Long, Hayman, Border, Haslewood, Lupton,
Cid, Henning, Dent, Hamilton; Cumberland
Group—Lindeman, Seaforth, Repulse, Carlisle,
Brampton, Cockermouth, Wigton, Calder, Kes-
wick and St. Bees. Information is that Molle,
West Molle, Hayman, Lindeman, Brampton, St.
Bees, Keswick and Repulse islands are
occupied. (3) No. (4) The Queensland Gov-
ernment Tourist Bureau has issued a booklet
entitled “The Great Barrier Reef,” which may
be obtained from its Sydney office, 6d. Books
on the Barrier Reef by C. M. Young and S. E.
Napier respectively may be obtained at any
large bookseller’s shop.
(1) General directions for forecasting the
weather at Sydney with an aneroid barometer ?
(2) How to forecast winds? —1102.
The notations “Very Dry,” “Change,”
“Rain,” etc., are useless as indicators of either
present or future weather. These marks repre-
sent average weather conditions which pre-
vailed at the locality where the instrument was
manufactured. But movements are instructive.
A gradual but steady rise indicates settled fine
weather; a very slow rise from a low point is
usually associated with high winds and _ slow
improvement in the weather; a rapid rise is
usually associated with high winds and sharp
showers, followed by fine weather. A rising
barometer generally means wind from a
southerly direction; in summer, a cool change;
in winter, milder days. At Sydney, a high
barometer with a south-easterly wind usually
is accompanied by showers; inland, however,
the weather is fine. A rising barometer with
a northerly wind means a backing or exten-
sion of a high-pressure system and indicates
fine weather. A gradual but steady fall indi-
cates unsettled wet weather; a very slow fall
from a high point means wet weather coming,
but little wind; a sharp rapid fall indicates
strong, squally winds, heavy showers, or both.
A falling barometer generally indicates northerly
winds and hot weather in summer, cold in
winter. If a barometer be falling rapidly with
a southerly wind, it shows the development of
a cyclone with strong winds and rain and
possibly thunder and hail. A steady barometer
means little change from prevailing conditions.
In winter, if weather be fine, frosts are likely,
and, if past weather has been wet, fogs can be
expected. An unsteady barometer with short
sudden rises and falls presages thunderstorms.
Is there an apparatus one can look through
and see the human heart beating ? If so, what
is it called and how does it work ? —1209.
There is no direct-vision heart-observing in-
strument. The human heart-beat may be
registered by an instrument or oscillometer as
devised by Professor Pachon; otherwise the
X-ray screen gives detail as a shadowgraph.
An article on the former appears in a recent
issue of the “Australian Medical Journal.”
What were the highest prices paid for land
(with or without buildings ) in Melbourne dur-
ing recent years? —ll27.
In 1925 a brick shop (two floors), since de-
molished and rebuilt, at 256 Collins-street, 15ft.
lOin. by 130 ft. 2in., was sold for £41,000; in
1926 a brick shop (two floors) at 254 Collins-
street, measuring 17ft. 9|in. by 130 ft., was
sold for £45,000; in 1929 a brick shop (three
floors) at 248 Collins-street, measuring 20ft.
6in. by 126 ft., was sold for £60,000. In 1927
the Cafe Australia, at 268 Collins-street, mea-
suring 25ft. 2in. by 150 ft. on one side and
156 ft. lin. on the other, was sold for £92,000.
The site on which the new Manchester Unity
Building stands at the corner of Swanston and
Collins streets was purchased in two lots for
respectively £250,000 and £93.166 13s. 4d.
Collins-street frontage is 64ft., Swanston-street
frontage 120 ft. This represents, on the Collins-
street frontage, £5360 per foot, and on the
Swanston-street frontage £3250 per foot.
When tonsils are removed is the voice im-
paired for singing? —1211.
Removal of the tonsils does not necessarily
interfere with voice production. The essentials
in this respect are the vocal cords of the
larynx, which are distinct from the tissues in-
volved. Provided that neither soft palate nor
nerve supply to the cords is associated with the
fault, immediate benefit should result. Septic
tonsils are best removed, and many public
singers have submitted to the operation.
I have a concrete fishpond in Sydney, the
water in which is rather muddy. How can the
water be cleared without harming the fish ?
1191. „ . ,
Run a gentle stream of water through the
pond with a hose. This should clfear it in
a day or so, but if it should become muddy
again clean everything out and plant it with
aquatic plants, such as Anacharis or Vallis-
neria, in well-washed Nepean sand.
I live in a N.S.W. country town. (1) What
openings are there in ticket-writing and com-
mercial art ? (2) Amount possible to earn ? (3)
Can training be taken satisfactorily by corres-
pondence ? —B7B. .
(1) As good opportunities as in any other
trade. (2) Competent signwriters earn £6 to £lO
per week. (3) Not recommended. Personal in-
struction is much to be preferred.
(1) Where are by-laws or regulations under
N.S.W. Theatres and Public Halls Act obtain-
able, and cost? (2) Who is responsible for the
carrying out of the regulation regarding “no
smoking” ? Can a caretaker eject persons in-
fringing this or any other regulation ? (3) Is
there any guide obtainable as to the responsi-
bilities of trustees of a public hall? —1188.
(1) Theatres and Public Halls Act (6d.) and
Regulations thereunder (Is.), from Government
Printing Office, Sydney. (2) The licensee, the
lessee or the person managing the hall. A
caretaker would act under instructions in the
matter. (3) Everything would depend upon the
conditions of the trust.
Origin and brief history of the “military
tattoo” ? —1264.'
When William of Orange reorganised the
British Army he introduced the beating of
drums in a town or village occupied by troops
to call them to final muster for the day, and to
indicate the time for the closing of public
houses. Starting from the guard-room the
drummers played “First Post,” and then
paraded through the streets of the town. On
returning to the guard-room they drummed
“Last Post” to indicate the close of the period
of the tattoo.
(1) How is caustic soda made ? (2) Where ?
(3) Could I make it in Australia on a commer-
cial scale ? (4) Names of books on the sub-
ject ? —l2OO.
(1) By electrolysis of a solution of sodium
chloride. It is a laboratory process. (2) In
England and the U.S.A. There is also a quan-
tity made in Tasmania by the Mount Lyell
Co. (3) The price is so low that it would not
pay to manufacture small quantities. (4) Any
large textbook on inorganic chemistry describes
its manufacture.
Particulars concerning (1) King Island, (2)
Flinders Island, (3) Cape Barren Island, and
(4) Kent group ? What ships call there and
what are the scenic and sporting attractions ?
1062.
(1) This islet has excellent scenery, and oppor-
tunities for shooting and fishing. The season
for male pheasants is June and July. Connect-
ing service is per s.s. Marrawah from Mel-
bourne, leaving Melbourne every Saturday, and
leaving Stanley every Tuesday, calling at the
east side of the island on Sundays on the way
from Melbourne, and on Wednesdays on the
way to Melbourne. The s.s. Tambar leaves
Melbourne every alternate Monday for Currie,
on the west side, and the s.s. Narrabeen leaves
Launceston every alternate Monday for Currie.
(2) Noted for beauty. Excellent fishing is avail-
able, and good kangaroo- and duck-shooting,
when the seasons are open. The connecting
services are s.s. Narrabeen from Launceston
weekly, and air services leaving Launceston on
Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thurs-
days, and Melbourne on Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Saturdays. (3) This also has splendid
scenery. Portion of the island is retained as a
reserve for descendants of the Tasmanian abo-
riginals. The island is connected by the same
services as Flinders Island, except that the air
service is only from Launceston on Tuesdays
and Fridays. (4) Only connection with this
group is by lighthouse steamer, four times a
year.
What is the origin of the unicorn ? How
does it come to figure in the Royal Arms of
England, and what is the correct manner of
representing it ? —1229.
In early Christian art this mythological beast
is symbolical of virtue and purity. It came
to the Royal Arms via James VI. of Scotland,
who, as James I. of England, introduced it as
the left-hand supporter in place of the red
dragon of Wales. Two silver unicorns were
the" original supporters of the Scottish arms.
It, most generally, has the head and body of
a horse, the tail of a lion and a long twisted
horn growing from the centre of its forehead.
Reason for sweet-peas (sample sent ) fading ?
The plants look healthy till they start to flower,
then they wilt and in a few days are quite
dead. The ground was manured with stable
manure and the plants have been kept free
from weeds. When they are pulled up there
appears to be no life in the roots. —1262.
Due to epidemic of fungus in soil attacking
roots, which are then devoured by millipeds.
Can be checked by using Cheshunt’s com-
pound (Is. 6d. per half-pint bottle). With this
make a five-gallon solution. Water ground
once, preferably after soaking rain. This will
not save plants already affected.
I have two oil-paintings of marine scenes
signed I. Cazig (or something similar) dated
1886 beneath the signature. What is known
about the painter and have the paintings any
special value ? —1126.
Probably the pictures were painted by Jean
Charles Cazin (1840-1901), a well-known French
landscape painter. He was born at Samer,
Pas-de-Calais, and after studying in France
went to England, where he was strongly in-
fluenced by the pre-Raphaelite movement. His
chief earlier pictures have a religious interest,
shown in such examples as “The Flight into
Egypt” (1877) and “Hagar and Ishmael”
(1880); and afterwards his combination of
luminous landscape with figure-subjects, such
as “Souvenir de fete” (1881) and “Journee
faite” (1888), gave him a wide repute, and
made him the leader of a new school of idealis-
tic subject-painting in France. His charming
and poetical treatment of landscape has given
his paintings an increasing value among con-
noisseurs.
Brief Answers.
L. 1.8.: (1) Ironbark makes an excellent keel
and beech is suitable for planking, but for a
heavy-working vessel spotted-gum frames and
kauri planking are best. Oregon pine in heavy
planking is excellent if specially selected timber
is used. (2) At least 12 h.p. (3) Can’t say.
(4) Angus and Robertson, Sydney, have several.
(5) Depends on design, finish and local costs
of timber, canvas, etc S.H.J.: Under the
Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act, a pensioner
is at liberty to transfer or mortgage his pro-
perty without the consent of the commissioner,
but the transfer must be bona fide and for
value. If it is bona fide the pension rate will
not be affected. The pensioner must notify
the commissioner on Form 43 within 30 days
after the execution of the mortgage... .E.W.G.:
You do not state if the surface is external or
internal. If internal, use a liberal application
of Motty Paste. If, however, it is the blueing
wearing off the outside of the barrel there is no
satisfactory method of restoring this.... R.K.:
(1) The granting of refunds of superannua-
tion contributions to railway employees whose
services are terminated is a matter lor the
Railway Superannuation Board. (2) Applica-
tion should be made to the secretary of the
board, Wills Building, Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney.... J.S.: There are many areas of vacant
Crown land in the various land districts of
N.S.W. which may be occupied for the pur-
pose of mining by the holder of a miner’s
right, or for which application for a lease or
permission to occupy may be made under the
Crown Lands Act. Communicate with the
District Surveyor for the land district in
which you desire to secure Crown land
W.M.8.L.: (1) Briefly, a scenario is the set of
directions—words, instructions as to action,
scenery, etc. —which a director takes as a guide
when making a film. (2) “Writing for the
Screen,” by Arrar Jackson, and “How to Write
a Film Story,” by Gertrude M. A11en....
G.W.W.: No information available... .J.R.H.:
Only one of the 12 singers in your list has
sung in Australia. The others are known only
through gramophone or talkie records. Most
eminent, operatically, was Caruso, with McCor-
mack next in order. Placing of the others is
a matter of individual opinion A.S.: Cap-
tain A. H. Cobby and the late Ross Smith
C.H.J.: Yes; the law does not allow an em-
ployer to contract himself out of his liability
under any statutory enactment providing for
compensation to employees in the event of
accident... .E.R.P.: (1) and (2) Cannot ex-
press an opinion as to fees without full know-
ledge of details. If you think you are being
overcharged write to the Law Institute of Vic-
toria, 382 Little Collins-street, Melbourne. (3)
Get a printed form at the Lands Titles Office;
fee, ten shillings, or thereabout... .N.C.F. :
Wash in the way appropriate to the material.
Nothing more is needed to remove perspira-
tion odor or (in most cases) stains... .E.C.H.:
In all such computations the plurals of nouns
and tenses of verbs are disregarded J.A.F.:
Write Orient Line, 2 Spring-street, Sydney....
F.J.F.: (1) For practical purposes, £53 16s.
(2) See any advanced book on arithmetic. Ex-
planation here would take up half a column.
H.S. : If he received a week’s notice and
remained for the week he would receive
£2 165., and payment in lieu of notice should
be equivalent to that amount A.G.: Write
Adjutant-General, Indian Army, Delhi, India.
J.A.S.: Get in touch with J. Ramsay, 53
George-street, Sydney... .A.A.: A clock made
by Wasbrough Hale and Co., Bristol, in 1843,
would not be old enough to have antique value.
If in good condition, it should be worth about
£4O J. 8.: The co. states that the Olga,
2000 tons gross, entered Balmain dock on April
17 and came out on May 2, 1889. No record
of nature of repairs... .L.H.: Write Francis
Bell, electrical engineer, 25 Clarence-street,
Sydney S.W.V.: (1) Answered under “Infor-
mation Sought.” (2) Inserting notice in
“Wants” section. (3) Write Angus and
Robertson and N.S.W. Bookstall Co. both
Sydney. (4) Norfolk Island’s total area is
8528 acres....F.W.E.: J. T. Lang was born
on December 21, 1876... .J.E.H.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Dept. f<?r leaflet “Poison-
ing Green Timber with Sodium Arsenite’ .. . f .
T.W.: Several advertise in the “S. M. Herald.
Can’t recommend any particular institution....
W.P.0.: The Fairbairn influence has greatly
improved Cambridge rowing in comparison
with Oxford orthodoxy, but Oxford has twice
won nine times off the reel and will probably
have its turn again... .A.L.H.: The mortality
rate among the young children of the Boers,
who once had primitive ideas of hygiene and
sanitation, was always a heavy one. The era of
the concentration camps provided the first
statistics on the subject. The death-rate was
probably no higher in these camps, even with
the added danger of promiscuity in outbreaks
of such epidemics as measles, than it always
was in the veld farms V.P.H.: Get in touch
with Cameron, Sutherland and Seward, Mac-
arthur-street, Ultimo; E. A. Marr, 108 Miller-
street, Pyrmont; McPherson, Ltd., 51 Bathurst-
street, City; Todwilliams, 646 King-street, New-
town ; and J. S. Walls, 2 Hunter-street, City-
all Sydney. Also Morrison and Bearby, Car-
rington, Newcastle... .V. 8.5.: (1) Percy Marks,
5 Hunter-street, Sydney, is a dealer in opals.
The parcel should be sent under registered cover.
(2) “The Commonwealth Jeweller and Watch-
maker,” Sydney... .F.D.8.: (1) She was sold
to Portuguese owners and renamed Ferriera.
Her rig was changed to barquentine. After the
war she was bought by an Englishman and lies
in an English harbor under her original rig.
(2) Best known commander was Captain Wood-
get .. .Player: None of The Bulletin’s musi-
cal critics has heard all the clarionet players
in Australia, nor is there any musical authority
known to this paper who has done so. Can’t
pretend to settle questions of precedence of
that kind A.C.: From the Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney.. . .J.M.F.:
Frank Clune, hon. sec., Fellowship of Austra-
lian Writers, Marengo, Princes-avenue, Vau-
cluse W.A.L.: From The Bulletin office,
Sydney ; 6d. per copy for recent dates
L 1.8.: Other firms who will furnish Diesel
engines suitable for your purpose, in addition
to the list published in The Bulletn of April
11, 1934, are H. G. Thornthwaite and Co.,
Kembla Bldg., Margaret-street, and Dangar,
Gedye and Co., 10 Young-street, both Sydney.
H.W.D.: (1) Get in touch with a dealer.
Prices depend on many factors besides age.
(2) “The Book of Hall Marks,” issued by the
Liverpool Assay Office (publishers, J. C.
Hotten, 75 Piccadilly, London), and “The Hall-
marking of Jewellery,” by George H. Gee
(publishers, Crosby Lockwood and Co., 7
Stationers’ Hall Court, Ludgate Hill, London).
... .(Many others mailed.)


'3&M:
m
Ww
m
m
<&*<<■
m
8 h.p. De Luxe Sedan
czQighi (Scir - . -
Strikingly beautiful of line and finish, the English 8 h.p. Ford has
established also a new standard of reliability and economy in the light
car field. It has the roominess, comfort and performance of a big
car with convenient size and remarkable ease of handling. The engine
develops 21 horse-power ; it gives flashing acceleration with a speed
of 60 miles per hour and yet has a petrol economy o f 40 miles
per gallon. Mod ern refinements include synchro-mesh gears rubber-
mounted engine, safety glass windscreen in Sedan* Your nearest
Ford dealer will arrange a demonstration of this fine light car.
FORD
BH.P. ENGLISH LIGHT CAR
Also a range of
V- 8 and 4 Cyl. Cars -1 12 in. Wheelbase
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) wi
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.C.S.: Too tenuous. You need to take
pains J.P.: A jumble of words, with
punctuation marks thrown in as carelessly as
pepper out of a castor... .D.H.W.: We get
those reedy-piped nature poems by the y ar d -• • •
B.B.: Received too late to catch the April
? bus F.K.: You throw no new light on
Cleopatra or on Antony.... W.C. : That sno
way to pronounce “quietus”. . . .J.HT > .: You
don’t say anything worth writing down....
D. 0.: Too extravagant a panegyric....
P.A.: Your beer is all froth W. 8.: Sad
doggerel.... E.M.H.: With some of the pad-
ding cut out it might make a tolerable hymn,
but it’s oil our beat....R. de C.: Well
conceived, but the idea has been used bet ore.
Further, if Rollo intended to destroy the in-
vention, why bring the doctor into it?....
H.A.L.: We still don’t believe in curses....
L.R.R.: Doesn’t get there J;G.T.J.: Both
the idea and the language are stilted. fry
to write more naturally... .A.H.N.: ‘llans ot
Mice” not up to usual standard. .. .R.J.: Can-
not place any of them.... J.F.: Too many co-
incidences for one short story. . . .E.C.: That
was a real house-warming, wasn’t it? ... -A.H.:
Old-time tale unsuitable... .J.McI.: We like
the farmer to have a victory sometimes, but
we can’t swallow that one... .T.H.C.: Con-
fidence story not plausible enough... .W.H.M.:
You seem to have missed a great opportunity.
. ...R.1.5.: Normal men don’t act like that
when jilted... .R.H.W.: Well told, but not the
type of yarn wanted... .A.N.W.: Irish love
appears to be of very rapid growth... .8.L.:
Rather an elaborate approach to an imprac-
ticable practical joke.... Nan: Autobiography
of a bluey-greeny vase passed out... .Austral:
Why should a finger-print expert have “hands
like a lady”? C J.H.: Animal story not
quite good enough... .Z.V.W.: The moral is
better than the yarn.... Scio: Below the mark.
.... .E.J.8.: Not good enough, but keep on.
Wee Yin: Article trite and story lacks
interest C.D.: Yet somebody has to live
in the suburbs.... Z.P.: The clothes item
was the best... .A.D.: Easily the week’s
worst, even without your making your
New York lawyer a K.C.. ... J.S.: No “rates
of pay for excepted copey” and we don’t
believe you really spell like that... .Japp: We
still prefer the ordinary version M.G.V.:
Your characters aren’t natural enough....
G. 8.: Weaknesses are the necessity for a pro-
logue and the description of the voyage. Are
you speaking with authority when you say “the
sea air acted as an excellent aperient”?....
G.M.H.: But why take Shaw with such deadly
seriousness? D. 8.: If words are your ser-
vants you don’t keep them in good order.
G.S.: The sonnet is correct enough in form.
but the images are a trifle shop-worn
D.G.8.: Seems about the limit in black pes-
simism. .. .R.K.S.: Right-0h... .N.Y.: Just a
little too cryptic... .K.D.M.: You haven't
much gift for the humorous; the other pieces
are too near Swinburne to stand on their own
feet F.S.: Nothing wrong with persistency,
but we can’t do anything with them... .1 J. 8.:
The dust of ages lies thick on theatrical
reminiscences. “The Westerly” has a strong end-
ing but that is a 11... .C.J.C.: Bad philosophy
and worse jingle... .C.F.H.: If that’s a fair
sample of a centenary song our heart aches
for the judges who had to read 289 of them.
M.B.: We’ve read “Heroes” before in
much, if not quite, the same words... .E.M.:
Sapless stuff G.L.L.: We’re not much inter-
ested in the Foreign Legion ... .F.H.M.: Patri-
otic but unimpressive... .H.G.D.: Found the
“Ballad of Hongi the Terrible” terribly lopg as
well as dreadfully stringy... .D.C.: Don’t know
why you should call it a poem... .H.D.: Please
don’t send it again W.F.: Our opinion is
that they are hopeless. It is impossible to mail
detailed criticisms... .H.R.G.: Not enough in
it H. 0.: It lacks the stirring note E.T.:
You make quite a vivid picture, but the verse
is laborious and creaky... .G. 8.: But why the
tirade against respectability, as if it were in-
compatible with love’s young dream? ... .J.N.:
Better than most, if only for its simplicity,
but it doesn’t quite get past... .H.W.: The
idea is all right, but the execution is feeble
J.N.L.: A laborious sonnet, which does no
more than rhyme and scan tolerably ... .J.0.M.:
No, it is not “plain bilge,” nor is it a first-
class story 5.8.: Your mystery yarn has us
quite baffled C.H.S.: Frog story not funny
enough E.1.H.: Neither was quite up to
standard R.0.C.: You don’t get the atmo-
sphere... .0.8. E.: Account of a Saturday
afternoon’s brawling neither amusing nor in-
teresting... .P.R.T.: Not suitable... .D.N.L.:
If you insist on a plot like that you must give
it a convincing ending. Conversation is stilted.
. ...N.G.: Why bring the peer into it?
TO ARTISTIC AND INARTISTIC
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.M.: Too carelessly drawn and the jests
have a musty flavor... .E.R.R.: Lost count of
the errors in the sketch and have heard the
gag so many times... .J.W.D.: There are signs
of improvement in your art work, but not in
your humor T.L.: Save ’em up till Nov. 5.
P.B.: Linework too heavy; so is the joke.
. ...E.M.S.: Immature, but keep 0n.... J.F.:
Might have bought the boxing-kangaroo one if
the animal had looked more like a marsupial
D.A.L.: Your offer to supply three or four
per week “at a very low cost” is generous but
unacceptable... .S.M.: Good idea poorly illus-
trated... .E.G.: You strive too much after an
elaborate and unnecessary decorative effect.
. ...N.M.W.: Gent, rushing around with
goanna clawing at his hair was put out of
his misery... .P.H.: An incomprehensible gag;
and you seem to work with two rubber stamps:
one for women’s faces and one for men’s.
....W.J.R.: Treatment as flat as yesterday’s
beer... .8.G.: The most inartistic collection
received this year.... .H.W.: No hope with that
sort of scratchy line, plus ignorance of per-
spective... .T.M.: Drawings show glimpses of
merit and imagination, but they’re sadly lack-
ing in polish... F.J.: You employ too many
words to tell the joke and too many lines to
illustrate it... .S.V.: Took some thinking over,
but a crudely-drawn hand decided us against
it... .P.A.: Looks like the track of a demented
fly that has just emerged from an ink-bottle
W. 8.: Juvenile scribblings C.W.C.: Badly
proportioned figures.
The Month of Missing' Ships.
BY CAPTAIN JACK HAMILTON.
OLD sailors say that James Baines,
founder of the Blackball Line of
clippers, on his pauper deathbed at
Liverpool on March 8, 1889, vowed that
that month would always be the un-
luckiest for ships in the Australian trade.
In point of fact it always has been.
Throughout our history more vessels
have been lost in March than in the other
eleven months together.
Last March the luggers Mildred and
Mossman, the Bealiba and the trawlers
Unique and David Blake were added to
the grim list, which began early in the
nineteenth century, when the ship Francis
was wrecked on Newcastle’s Oyster Bank.
On March 17,1847, the steamer Sovereign,
of the Hunter Steam Navigation Co.,
foundered with all of her 44 souls —mostly
early settlers —in the South Channel en
route from Moreton Bay to the Manning
River. In March, 1854, the large wooden
clipper Guiding Star, with 480 people
aboard, met her doom in the Roaring
’Forties through striking an iceberg.
On March 9, 1869, the famous clipper
Blue Jacket was abandoned on fire off
the Falklands. Her figurehead was
washed up nearly two years later off the
Westralian coast.
The arrival of the auxiliary steamer
Queen of the Thames in Melbourne in
1870 was celebrated by a public holi-
day, and the ship was inspected in state by
the Governor. She left on the return
journey with 315 aboard, but grounded
on the South African coast. The pas-
sengers were landed, but in an attempt
to save the ship’s papers the purser and
four men were drowned.
Two other ships of this company
met their ends in the same fateful month,
the Illawarra and the Collingwood. The
lllawarra was abandoned in a gale in
mid-Atlantic on March 12, 1912, and her
crew picked up by the Bengore Head.
A U-boat commander chose the same
date in 1917 to end the career of the
Collingwood.
The day following saw the end of
Andrew Weir’s four-masted barque
Cedarbank, sister ship to the Olivebank,
which is still sailing the seas under the
Finnish flag.
On March 27, 1871, the Orient Co.’s
clipper Yatala ran ashore on Cape
Gris Nez, on the French coast. On March
22, 1883, Howard Smith’s Macedon went
to her doom on the Westralian
coast. In March, 1888, the clipper
Lanoma was wrecked near Portland Bill,
with the loss of 12 lives.
On March 26, the blackest day in
our marine annals, three fine vessels were
posted missing. The steamer Federal,
with which Mcllwraith McEacharn
entered the Australian trade, was lost
after passing Gabo on March 21, 1901,
with all hands. The Adelaide Steamship
Co.’s Yongala disappeared in a cyclone
off the Queensland coast on March 23,
1911, with 142 souls, and the passenger
steamer Koombana went down off the
Westralian coast on March 20, 1912, with
126.
On March 17, 1907, half of the White
Star liner Suevic was wrecked near Land s
End. The other half was salvaged and,
when added to, subsequently resumed
service in the overseas trade. Several
lives were lost when the P. and O. jubilee
liner Oceana sank after a collision with
the barque Pisagua off Beachy Head on
March 16, 1912. And, after being sold
to Brazil, the former A.U.S.N. mail
steamer Levuka was wrecked in March,
1927.
Other March wrecks include the Karra-
katta, off the Westralian coast in 1901 ;
the Otaki, sunk by the raider Moewe on
March 10, 1917; the Burns Philp
steamer Mindini, which became a total
loss after stranding in the South Pacific
in March, 1923 ; the steamer Paporoa,
destroyed by fire in the South Atlantic
on March 17, 1926 ; the Aberdeen liner
Pericles, which struck an uncharted
rock near Cape Leeuwin on March 31,
1910 ; the steamer Barunga, torpedoed in
March, 1917 ; the steamer Albany, which
was lost off Nambucca Heads on March
26, 1905 ; Burns Philp’s Titus, wrecked
in the New Hebrides in 1919; the
steamer Rotorua, off Start Point on
March 22, 1917; the Waihemo in the
Mediterranean in 1918 ; and the Merim-
bula on March 27, 1928, near Jervis Bay.
A fairly good break until 1933 seemed
to indicate that the March hoodoo was
disappearing. It was revived tragically
last year when the Japanese freighter
Kinsen Maru was abandoned with loss
of life in a cyclone off New Guinea.
And this year Nemesis made it a welter.


WSZ
}rg
im
sr
fSSBCIir
nr
jn
!■
prr
Jrn
WKMffite
ten
TTf
EC
ii
rr?
&
a
COMING TO SYDNEY?
—LET US SEND YOU THIS BOOKLET.
“The Australia” Rate-card now takes the form of a handsome brochure,
with cover as illustrated on the right, beautifully produced m gravu .
All the famous social life of the hotel has been captured in a series
of glamorous and intriguing photographs. Your copy awaits you
write to-day.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF:
Single Rooms from 10/6
Double Rooms from 20/-
‘THE AUSTRALIA’
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney,
“After all. there’s only one ‘Australia.’ "
SYDNEY,
N. S. W.
Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel
Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
More than seventeen thousand marched
in the Anzac procession. It started in
sunshine and ended in a downpour that
soaked Diggers’ hats and coats and found
weak spots in their soles. But with heads
up, chins out, they marched along: some
of them not so carefree as they were a
few years ago, but ah proud and formid-
able. It was the largest Anzac Day
mobilisation that Sydney has seen.
To stirring music the men who came
back swung down Bridge-street into Pitt-
street through avenues of sodden flags at
half-mast. Many a man went by holding
the hand of his small son or daughter;
little boys swelled the ranks, pridefully
wearing dead fathers’ medals. Mothers,
wives and widows looked on from the
pavement. The Governor walked ; be-
hind him the flag of the “Old Con-
temptibles” fluttered. “Fighting Mac”
and General Rosenthal were among the
cheered; so was Kingsford Smith.
Butcher, baker, policeman, tram-man —
all came, and this year the while coats
of the ’busmen were added. Prosperous
men, professional men and men on the
dole.
Into Martin-place they swung. No
cheers here! In silence, their columns
divided, they marched through the lines
of Boy Scouts and Girl Guides, all eyes
on the flower-decked, wreath-hung mem-
orial to their dead comrades. A wave of
sympathy surged through the thousands
that lined the streets as the cars bearing
the maimed came into sight and the
blinded soldiers passed. Then there was
a march to the Domain for the com-
memoration service.
To this came fathers, mothers and
widows of soldiers in their thousands.
They stretched across the grassy slopes.
Oblivious of the rain, they stood listen-
ing to the address of Archbishop Mowll,
their interest quickened when he told of
the monument he had seen on Gallipoli
in the rays of the setting sun. Chopin’s
“Funeral March” expressed things that
even an archbishop cannot say, and
then the trumpets sounded “Last Post”
and the “Reveille.” Everywhere there was
rosemary.
No longer are the mothers, wives and
widows of soldiers the sole watchers at
the service before dawn at the Cenotaph.
The idea of this service has caught the
imagination and sympathy of young and
old, and on Anzac Day 15,000 gathered
while the soldier and sailor on the monu-
ment were still wrapped in night. At
dawn the Australian Legion marched
into Martin-place, a bugle gleamed as its
notes cut the air, and the Governor
placed a wreath on the Cenotaph. The
hymn “There Is No Death” was sung,
and the Lord’s Prayer was recited.
Mrs. Frank Otter, who has been stay-
ing at the Australia since she arrived
from London to see her relations here
and in M.L., is one of the passengers on
the Cathay. She is picking up a pretty
niece, Viola Haigh, of Melbourne, on
the way. Frank Otter has died since the
tall, handsome person who was Ida Ber-
nard last visited Sydney. Frank was a
famous London wit of the early years of
the century. He served in the S. African
War with the 4th Dragoon Guards, but
could only get a base job in the World
War.
The early-morning rain took a lot of
the glitter out of the opening of Parlia-
ment. The guard of honor wore their
greatcoats ; so did the wives, mothers and
daughters of the Ministers and of the
mere politicians. Sleek and shining, the
mounted police arrived in a blaze of sun-
shine, and provided the onlookers in
Macquarie-street with the first thrill of
the day. The next thrill was the coming
of the Governor, and with him a little
company in cocked and befeathered hats.
The Legislative Council chamber was
crowded with lawmakers and their
friends. Members’ wives and daughters
sat in the galleries; everyone else sat
wherever he or she could. Lady Game was
honorably placed on the benches near
Speaker Levy in his wig. With her sat
son Philip and Mrs. Harry Budge ; near
by was Premier Stevens’s wife in com-
pany with her sister, Mrs. M. C. Adler.
Looking down from the galleries, one
saw a vista of bald and shining heads ;
then the eye was caught and held by the
plumes of Captain Pope’s hat. The Gov-
ernor’s address was short. Turning an
interested ear to it were Archbishop
Mowll, Bishop Kirkby and the Dean of
Sydney. As the Governor walked out,
one saw that the Apostolic Delegate, Dr.
Bernardini, had an aisle seat. The official
business over, there was tea and small
talk in Professor Peden’s room, where
daughter Margaret acted as hostess.
The Mayoral lady’s clothing fund will
benefit by £26 14s. from the musicale
with which she opened the campaign.
The long room at the civic fastness was
massed at one end with white and red
dahlias, at the other with white and pink.
Chairs wearing rich upholstery were
sandwiched between. Carrie Lanceley
sang wrapped in coral-red laces that
foamed at her feet. Her hat was a black
inverted caketin-like affair. Mrs. Letters
(Kathleen Logue that was) played her
violin arrayed in soft brown ; the piano
reflected Mrs. Nassoor’s red and Mrs.
George King’s black laces. Lawrence
Campbell made one realise that there’s
something to be said for elocution, and
Virginia Bassetti added her rich notes to
the afternoon’s harmony. The hostess
wore a caramel-brown costume when
welcoming and speeding the guests,
among whom were Mrs. Arthur
Scrivener, who arranged the programme,
Walter Kingsmill’s lady (in black), Hilda
Marks, former Mayor R. C. Hagon’s
lady, Miss R. M. Birkin (in beige) and
Agnes MacMahon, who counted the tak-
ings in nut-brown cloth.
May Hollinworth, the original of this
May Moore photograph, is happiest when
producing plays for one or other of
Sydney’s amateur dramatic societies.
Miss Hollinworth likes experimenting
with unusual lighting effects, and the
deathbed scene in “L’Aiglon” showed
that she understands the reaction lighting
has on a theatrical audience. “Berkeley
Square,” played last week by the Sydney
Uni. Dramatic Society, is an addition to
the list of successes standing to Miss
Hollinworth’s credit.
High and low, rich and poor came to
pay honor to Rabbi Cohen as he lay in
his coffin of unadorned black wood. This
rested at the foot of the reading-desk
from which for so many years he had
taught his people. Over it the Union
Jack flowed; and over it, too, flowed the
beautiful words of the funeral service,
chanted by the cantor. Outside, thou-
sands in Hyde Park waited patiently for
the service to end, in the meantime tell-
ing of kind and sympathetic deeds of
the dead man. And more thousands lined
the streets through which the funeral
was to pass. Three carloads of blooms
testified to the love and esteem in which
the Rabbi was held. The Cenotaph
Trumpeters formed a guard of honor,
and the coffin was carried from the syna-
gogue by members of the Chevra
Kasisha. A widow, two sons and a
daughter are left sorrowing.
Looking at you from this Dayne
photograph is Queenslander Alison Mc-
Dougall, whose book “The Silver King”
met with such success in London. Miss
McDougall, who is the daughter of the
late Mr. and Mrs. H. S. McDougall, of
Toowoomba, is at present in Spain get-
ting local color for her next novel. “The
Silver King” is a story of N. S. Wales
political life.
The Uni. Musical Society’s dance was
a merry one. Constance Hook’s hand
was responsible for the large, gaudy and
giddy posters on the walls of the Union
Refectory; the society’s songs supplied
the ideas. There was a silver swan swim-
ming on a red sea above the official
table. The ship in full sail rolling down
to Rio was too realistic for any but the
stoutest sailor to look on and enjoy his
supper; alternating panels were black-
and-whites —huge coal-black crotchets
and quavers on white backgrounds.
Among the dancers were the society’s
conductor, Faunce Allman, and president
A. S. Hook and Mrs. Hook.
Lady Game enjoyed her visit to the
Havilah Homes nearly as much as the
youngsters did. She turned the lights of
the car on and off for their amusement;
they followed as she walked about the
verandahs, and hilariously cheered her at
the close of proceedings. The smallest
boy there wasn’t shy about handing her
the presentation basket of roses and
dahlias. He liked her smile almost as
much as he liked the green sou’-wester
he carried all the afternoon tucked under
his arm. About 200 guests turned up to
this linen tea, but they came with arms
laden with blankets as well as sheets
and pillow-slips, with books and toys as
well as woolly shirts and handkerchiefs,
till it looked as though Havilah would
never again have to send out an SOS.
After a visit to the children in the kinder-
garten and the white cots, and a view of
the undulating meadows and the valleys
thick with gum-trees, there was tea in
the babies’ building all set about with
bronze zinnias and dahlias.
A ball in the civic fastness ended the
social celebrations of the twenty-first anni-
versary of the foundation of the Eastern
Star —an organisation composed of
women relatives of Master Masons. It
was a spectacular affair, and representa-
tives from Victorian and Queensland
chapters were among the 2000 who
danced and later sat down to the ban-
quet below stairs. Worthy Patrons wore
their five-color collars ; Worthy Matrons
their purple velvet sashes over white
dresses, and added their jewels of office.
Every chapter had its marshal, who car-
ried a blue bannerette, and was sashed
in blue, yellow, white, green and red.
A fanfare of trumpets heralded the ap-
proach of this colorful group, which
entered the room to the skirl of pipes.
Later they formed a guard of honor for
the 90 white-clad debs, who made their
bow to Ben Fuller’s lady, wrapped in
violet velvets. She was accompanied by
daughter Fay, whose Persian-red crepes
were served with a glittering waist-belt,
and Fay’s husband, Joe Darby. Mrs.
E. Melville received the guests in
coral-red laces. Mrs. F. Simmons’s
black crepes wore a silver lame cowl.
Over a hundred years ago an ances-
tress of Nancy Ruthven on her mother’s
side wore a rare old Limerick lace dress
for her wedding. On Thursday Nancy
wore the same dress with its sleeves
puffed high above and tight below the
elbow (she added a long creamy satin
train) for her marriage to Jack Buchanan
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral. Her veil of
Brussels lace, which came to her by way
of another ancestress, this time on her
father’s side, was mounted on tulle and
cascaded from a slim circlet of orange-
buds. An old-fashioned posy of white
roses and lily-of-the-valley added frag-
rance to the outfit. Jean Ruthven, Joy
Manning and Nancy Watt ’maided in
cowled and trained cream satins, a halo
of golden sequins on their heads, and
in their arms a sheaf of golden roses;
and little Judith Pitt held tightly a golden
basket spilling over with rose petals.
Subsequent rejoicings took place at
Yurrah, Vaucluse, the home of the H. S.
Reids, where the bride’s parents enter-
tained 200 guests.
“Peter Pan” has been one of the Inde-
pendents’ great successes, and the
“Savoy” on Thursday was filled to cap-
acity when this was staged in the interests
of the Australian Mothercraft Society.
Anne Gordon was appealing as Peter
Pan, and Marguerite Cullen-Ward made
a charming Wendy. The Governor and
Lady Game, she in parchment laces, en-
joyed every minute of the play ; and the
Alexander Gordon couple followed
daughter Anne’s movements with inter-
est. Doris Fitton sat in the front of the
house for this performance, and staunch
supporter of the Independents Harry
Tighe was also in the audience.
Blanche d’Alpuget, of the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” leaves on May 10
for a long ramble over Europe. The
traveller will take the Monowai to Enzed,
and then tranship to the Rotorua.
On Monday Violet Roche’s flat in Green-
knowe-avenue will house a sherry-drink-
ing to the departing one.
There has been a constant stream of
people finding their way to Fred Leist’s
show in the Blaxland Galleries. This was
opened last week by director of the Art
Gallery Jimmy McDonald, whose “I
long for the time when some of our
great companies will have their offices
decorated with his work” clearly indi-
cated his admiration for the artist. The
trustees of the Art Gallery have bought
“Pigeon Loft,” one of Mr. Leist’s war
pictures.
Saturday is the closing date for the
fete which Justice McTiernan opened
on Saturday at St. Martha’s, Leichhardt.
The nuns at this convent are famous for
their stitchery, and a few years ago had
as many orders as they could cope with.
The revenue went to the upkeep of their
Industrial Home for Children. Now few
brides can afford to order Limerick lace,
Brussels lace or exquisite embroidery,
and the home is feeling the pinch.


QUICK, EASY WAY TO RESTORE
THE NATURAL COLOUR OF
YOUR HAIR
PURCHASE a bottle of ALLEN’S
MEXICAN WALNUT STAIN from
your Chemist or Toilet Dealer.
Follow the directions —they are
simple and explicit—and note how
speedily your hair takes on its natu-
ral shade and lustre. So easy the
method when ALLEN’S STAIN is
used that you obtain results that
even experts could not improve upon.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN makes
an exceptional appeal as a treatment
for grey hair because it is so private,
economical and unfailing. Here is a
convenient toilet accessory that lends
charm to middle age and makes hair
beauty rich and enduring.
In Brown and Black shades.
Price, 4/- per bottle.
tyOlLurCs (.MEXICAN)
WeZtud Stcdm,
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O. Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Bed and Breakfast from 10/6
Lunch and Dinner a la carte, from, 2/-
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Manager: E. HYNDMAK.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every ■ Friday
Melbourne
Chatter
Drizzling rain fell and a biting wind
blew when Anzac Day dawned, but they
could not chill the devotion of the Dig-
gers massed about the Shrine of Remem-
brance. When at 6 o’clock Lieut.-Gov-
ernor Irvine, heralded by a long-drawn-
out bugle-note and a single ray of light
from the upper terrace of the Shrine,
placed a wreath on the Stone of Remem-
brance, 7000 were waiting to file through
the inner shrine. It was the solemn be-
ginning of a pilgrimage that lasted
throughout the day.
Time continues to leave gaps in the
ranks of the A.1.F., and many of the
Anzacs have grown old. Nevertheless,
there have seldom been larger proces-
sions, and there has never been a more
impressive one —not even when Monash
marched at the head of his old soldiers.
General Harry Chauvel led it, and
nearly 22,000 men followed him to the
flower-covered Cenotaph in front of Par-
liament House, where unit after unit
stood for a moment with heads un-
covered. A hundred thousand people
lined the streets. A.I.F. generals caught
the eye: Brand and Tivey ; Blarney and
Drake-Brockman; Grimwade, Nevill
Smyth, V.C., and Stewart. Among
the colonels were Tom White, of the
Flying Corps (Minister and author of
“Guests of the Unspeakable”), and Lord
Mayor Gengoult Smith, while a host of
celebrities watched from the dais. And
there were cheers and pitying tears for
41 blind soldiers, who walked hand-in-
hand.
Having seen her “Warning to Wan-
tons” well launched on the Australian
book market, Mary Mitchell is off to
England. Her sister, Mrs. G. H. Adams,
gave a party at her Toorak home for the
traveller, who will doubtless do a power
of work on her long voyage per Swedish
liner—she’s a girl like that. Foliage and
branches of berries from Maced on
(where Miss Mitchell wrote much of her
novel) ran the gauntlet with dahlias for
decoration. Mrs. Adams was in camel
matt satin, with a wisp of matching
straw millinery, and Miss Mitchell was
all in snuffy-brown. Their parents, the
Edward Mitchells, were there ; also Mrs.
Duke Armit and Mary, the Gerald Pig-
gotts, Mrs. Lyon Field, Dr. and Mrs.
Edward White.
Sonia Revid had a packed house at the
Garrick for her dancing show. A Russian
girl trained in Germany, Miss Revid has
no use for the high-kicking ballet, but
keeps herself and her pupils supple as
eels by her own method of exercises. A
group of her girls, all in powder-blue,
who might have stepped off some old
Assyrian vase, performed a study not to
music but to the beat of a gong. Miss
Revid’s cast of features and goblin mop
of hair make her captivating, and her
hands are wonderfully graceful. She
dances with bare feet, and sticks to flat
heels in the street. She was still under
the spell of her “Chiselled Dances” at
the final curtain, and didn’t even simu-
late a leading lady’s wiles at a load of
flowers.
Nancy Holt will ride to the hunt this
year with a ring on her finger. Nancy
is the daughter of Mrs. Frederick Holt,
of Kooyong-road, Caulfield, and the man
who provided the diamond is Stanley,
only son of the Percy Frankenbergs, of
Malvern-road, Toorak.
In Newman College chapel J. B
O’Hara gave away only daughter Nancy
to James Tehan, of Mitchell’s Creek
station, Seymour. An elongation of
angel-skin lace swept into the bridal train
from under layers of bubbling tulle veil.
Cream and gold gladioli rested upon the
bride’s arm. ’Groom’s sister Rose at-
tended in a shell-pink ’maid’s trock and
ruchings—of a shade deep enough to
match her name—upon the halo of her
hat.
Edna Bostock walked out of single
blessedness to the altar of Melbourne
Grammar School chapel, where the Rev.
St. John Wilson was waiting with a mar-
riage fetter. The ’groom who will share
it is James Dudley Hunt. Svelte ivory
velvet, long-sleeved, with low square neck
and a sweep of train, a foam of tulle veil
and the dangle of frangipanni from the
pages of a prayer-book were bridal acces-
sories. Golden baskets of russet flowers
and leaves were carried by a trio of
’maids in honey-tinted gowns and gold
lace hats. Party at No. 9 Darling-street.
Dr. Maloney, of the heart of gold and
whimsical taste in dress, was feted in the
Town Hall by several hundred friends
on his birthday. It being such an
auspicious occasion, he wore a collar,
and instead of a tie a scarf-like arrange-
ment of floral georgette. This was a
deathtrap when he came to blow out the
eight candles (one for every ten years)
on the immense pink-and-white cake.
The Bulletin stumbled on the secret
of the cake. While dainty portions neatly
wrapped in tissue paper and baby ribbon
were being handed round with the coffee
the cake was intact and unguarded in the
cellar—for it was made of painted wood.
Whether Wallace Waugh, who has
several years to go before he can hope
to wear long pants, will ever rise to dizzy
heights as a playwright remains to be
seen ; but his “Phar Lap,” broadcast on
Friday, raised a chuckle from even the
blasC The play was acted by children,
with the author as producer.
The Braille Library in Melbourne,
largest in the Southern Hemisphere and
third-largest in the world, has a printing
press. Below is Miss M. Crabbe, pictured
by Jack Cato, who with H. Hulme, an
engineer, has invented the compact and
economical machine which turns out im-
pressions as legible as those done by
hand Braille. Library volumes will still
be printed in hand Braille, but the new
press will be a great help for magazines,
circulars and the like. The machine is
unique ; hitherto Braille printing presses
(there are not many in the world) have
been large and expensive, and main-
tenance is a considerable item. Miss
Crabbe has been librarian and assistant
secretary for 27 years. She is a very good
friend to the blind subscribers, and her
cheery disposition must be an invaluable
help to them. Costs of the press were
covered by the Edward Wilson Trust,
which has made possible the expansion
of the library from a little room contain-
ing 12 books 40 years ago to the fine
brick building of to-day.
Nancy Weir, the girl pianist who stam-
peded Melbourne in 1929, has landed
the £lOO scholarship of the “News-
Chronicle,” which is first prize in the
London Musical Competition Festival.
She reached the piano after four brilliant
young women had played, and chose the
Bach-Busoni Chaconne, a composition
which has been taxing Grainger to the
utmost in Melbourne recently. The
judges awarded her the prize before she
had time to rise from the piano-stool.
Mr. and Mrs. J. Alston Wallace and
a troop of friends drank in cocktails the
health of their second son, John Peter,
and his fiancee, Susie McKellar, at 1
bright party at Menzies. May 5 is the
wedding date, Geelong Grammar School
chaoel the place.
The young man with the high forehead
is Dudley Glass, returned after 10 years
abroad to see his people and Melbourne’s
centenary, and to finish a novel. Soon
after his arrival he paid a call on Gladys
Moncrieff. “Well, Dudley,” Gladys said,
“have you a part for me?” He thought
of “The Beloved Vagabond” and took
it along to F. W. Thring—and the deed
was clinched. The original production
of “The Vagabond” was by Dion Bouci-
cault in London. Mr. Glass has written
70 songs (a few in collaboration with
Hilaire Belloc), a book of verse and a
musical play, “The Toymakers of
Nuremberg,” which ran in England ; and
in June he expects from the publishers
“Spanish Goldfish,” a children’s novel.
Since he took his arts degree in Mel-
bourne he has travelled extensively
through Europe and the U.S.A.
Adelaide loses the Hore-Ruthvens:
They left on Thursday in perfect autumn
sunshine. Never before had a vice-regal de-
parture created such a stir. The road from
Adelaide to the Outer Harbor was decorated
with flags and school-children, and suburban
councils ranged up to say farewell.
The Legacy Club had made its annual
ball a farewell affair to his Ex. and Lady
Hore-Ruthven. They arrived attended by Cap-
tain C. H. Williamson and Mr. Legh Winser,
and were received by the president (Mr.
McLeay) and the vice-presidents (Lieut.-
Colonel Ashe and Allan Colvin), with the
president of the appeal fund (S. R. Preston).
Others in the vice-regal party were Lord Mayor
Cain and his daughter, Commander and Mrs.
Symonds. Two debs., Jean Fraser and EUen
Menzies, were presented by Mrs. Dunstan.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was in a deep sapphire-
blue satin with touch of pale blue; Mrs. Dun-
stan chose black lace, veiling silver.
The same night there was a large private
dance at Medindie, when Monica Jessop and
five friends “came out” at a party given by
her parents, who entertained about 200 guests
at their house. They all danced in a marquee,
supper being served in another, the tables deco-
rated with roses and red candles in silver
candlesticks. Mrs. Jessop presented each deb.
with a candlestick. The hostess was in mul-
berry georgette, with the new scarf effect fall-
ing in long ends at the back. Her daughter
wore white chiffon with a silver stripe made
with deep white tulle godets, a frill of the
same round the Victorian berthe and shoulder
straps of silver ribbon. All the other debs,
wore the orthodox white, and carried posies.
The Victoria League’s valedictory to the
Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven took the
form of —yes, a cocktail party in the Town
Hall. It was the first time that anything
stronger than tea had been provided. There
was an unusually large attendance of hus-
bands. The vice-regals were welcomed by
deputy-president T. E. Barr-Smith, Miss
Murray, Mrs. Percival Stow, Mrs. Edgar
Brown, Mrs. John Baker and Mrs. Howard
Davenport. The hall was massed with autumn
foliage, dahlias and gladioli; Mrs. Lavington
Bonython was responsible for these decorations,
and bowls of mixed flowers on the small
tables were arranged by Mesdames J. H.
Gosse and Max Fotheringham. Everyone re-
gretted the absence through illness of Mrs. T.
E. Barr-Smith. Lady Hore-Ruthven was in
a black satin coat with brown fox collar and
a black toque.
Mrs. Clive Milne has issued invitations to
the marriage of her daughter Margot to Nor-
man Murchison Kater at St. Peter’s Church,
Glenelg, on May 15.
Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Tennant, of Glenelg,
invited about 200 people interested in racing
to a parade of yearlings at their stud farm
Grange Ormsby. At the homestead afterwards
refreshments were dispensed. Mrs. Tennant
wore a wool-embroidered woollen marocain
suit under a red swagger coat and a small
felt hat.
One night last week at St. John’s Church,
Jack Glover, son of Mr. and Mrs. C. R. J.
Glover, of North Adelaide, was married to
Josie Melville, the actress. The honeymoon
is being spent motoring in the hills.
Dr. and Mrs. Bronte Smeaton’s second
daughter Pattie celebrated her coming of age
by giving a dinner party at the Hotel St.
Vincent, at Glenelg. There was dancing round
the tables in cabaret style.
Mrs. Eric Tolley, of Unley Park, is to leave
by the Anchises on May 7 on a visit to her
mother in South Africa.
Mrs.. Kenneth Milne and Mrs. K. C. Wilson
are entertaining the Junior Emergency Corps
of the Victoria League at tea in the Went-
worth Cafe on Monday, May 7.
Perth is enjoying the autumn:
The W.A.T.C. had an exhilarating day for
its April meeting, but the trees introduced an
autumnal note by shedding their tinted leaves
over the punters. The v.-r. party was in
attendance, the First Lady airing raspberry
marocains touched with oatmeal georgette,
which were draped next Mrs. C. H. E. Man-
ning’s black georgettes and surcoat of maro-
cain. Mrs. Ross Smith’s squirrel-grey crepes
had goffered shoulder capes and skirt hem.
Dorothy Howe dotted green wool de Chine
with gold spots, and topped it with black
satin; "Ruth McWhae’s navy blue was nautical
with bands of white; Mrs. Robert Laurie’s
furs matched her warm, brown flat crepes; an
arresting quill stood erect on the saucy black
hat which surmounted Mary Burt’s bow-scarfed
black suit; an air-force blue coat semi-con-
cealed Mrs. Athol Hobbs’s ciel-blue crepe de
Chine; and Mrs. Langlois Lefroy’s black satin
served the same purpose for black silk crepes.
One late afternoon at St. George’s Cathedral,
the Ernie Halls, of Carnarvon and West Perth,
handed daughter Gwen into the safe keeping
of Arthur Hutchinson. Yards and yards of
Limerick-lace-edged tulle floated over bc-
trained ivory Chantilly, and a cream-to-gold
garland of roses ran from elbow to fingertip.
’Maids Dorothy James, Ina and Rita Hutchin-
son and Sheila Clement reflected the colors in
the brave array of golden gladioli and dahlias
which banked the altar; two in foliage green
and two in the warm tones of the blooms.
Their perpendicular-frilled georgettes emerged
from taffeta capes, collared Medici-wise,'which
rose to their gold-bowed and eye-veiled toques.
Sixty relatives and intimates were wined and
dined in the winter-garden of the Karrakatta
Club and a couple of hundred young things
came along for an aftermath of dancing in
the ballroom.
Metropolitan golf clubs struck perfeet weather
for their simultaneous openings. At Cot-
tesloe president Wingrove drove off and Cap-
tain Jacoby and his lady poured tea for the
members. Many an Angora bunny had been
shorn to put the finishing touches to feminine
outfits worn for Perth’s mixed foursomes.
Royal Fremantle and Seaview reserved their
greens for the sterner sex, but Mt. Lawley mem-
bers squired their womenfolk along the fair-
ways. Mt. Yokine wound up proceedings with
a dinner and dance in the clubrooms.
Mollie Munro chose her parents’ golden
wedding anniversary to sign her matrimonial
contract with Stewart Irwin, of Sydney. Mag-
nolia satins ran to a pearl-embroidered corsage
and a train outlined with pearls and pleated
georgette, and sixty-year-old Brussels lace
wafted overhead from a circlet of orange-
blossom. Mary Miller, Flo Broadhurst and
Gwen Francis flecked their gold satins with
fur, topped them with brown panne velvet and
carried sheaves of tawny gladioli to the Munro
home, where the 100 guests charged their
glasses.
The Myola Club’s annual at-home drew a
host of members and friends to the Methodist
Hall, Claremont, which was decked with
dahlias and Michaelmas daisies. President Mrs.
F. Bromilow, fluttering oriflamme georgette, wel-
comed Mrs. Flower, who founded the club in
’2l. Musical and dramatic numbers, arranged
by Mrs. A. J. Baird and Anita Fitz Gerald, pro-
ceeded the informal supper.
The ladies’ auxiliary committee of the W.A.
State Symphony Orchestra put on a music-
dance-and-bridge party at the Pleiades Club.
Ruth Cranfield wielded a ’cello bow, June
Irvine stepped a Rumba and members of the
orchestra played for the dancing. President
Mrs. Craven-Griffiths drew a beige lace cloak
over orchid Chantillies, and secretary Ruth
Cranfield buzzed about in sapling-green silky
crepes.
Marcia Hodges matched her floral decora-
tions when she entertained members of the
French Salon in the lounge of her home.
Cream and pink roses spread their fragrance
as Mrs. No,el Cuthbert, Madame Gelle and
Gertrude Walton read poems and prose.
A spot of news from the Speck:
Hobart Turf Club officials felt depressed on
the morning of the Elwick meeting, for the rain,
much prayed for by farmers, showed an in-
clination to choose that day to ’come down
heavily. However, the afternoon was fairly
fine and a pretty good crowd turned up—nearly
all the women in definitely wintry rig, with
small hats and furs.
The 40th Battalion’s Ball at the Garrison
Hall was gay with flags, frocks and uniforms.
One end of the hall was fixed up as a lounge,
where the brass-hats and their ribs were accom-
modated. Major and Mrs. Finlay received the
guests, and in the official party there were
Commandant and Mrs. Whitham and a whole
raft of colonels and majors with their women-
folk.
The Consul-General for France and
Madame Dussap blew in at Hobart and were
entertained at lunch at Hadley’s by the Alli-
ance Fran?aise. Tables were decorated in tri-
color with flowers and ribbons. M. Dussap
went to the Domain and placed a wreath, in
the French colors, on the Cenotaph.
The A.W.N.L. branches are getting busy
before the elections, and birthday parties
at the various centres have been made oppor-
tunities for political addresses to the women.
Priminister Lyons’s wife addressed the Laun-
ceston meeting.
Peggy, second daughter of the R. E. Lovetts,
Trevallyn, Launceston, and Jack, youngest son
of F. P. Bowden, Hobart, were married at St.
Oswald’s, Launceston. The bride’s frock of
ice-white georgette fitted tightly to the knees,
and then flared to the foot of the long un-
trained skirt. The veil of cut tulle fell from
a spray of orange-blossom which had adorned
brides of two former generations. Sheila
Crick, Hobart, ’maided in white.
When Phyllis, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Carr-Lord, of Sorell Springs, Antill Ponds, was
linked to W. J. Hawley, of Evandale, at St.
David’s, the bride wore wind-swept'ivory satin,
with a veil of old Limerick. The Carr-Lords
having been horse-lovers for generations, the
bride elected to drive from the church in a
four-wheeler cab, and guests were accommo-
dated in the same way. Sister Stella was the
bride’s only ’maid, and rejoicings were staged
at the Continental.
King’s Meadows Golf Club opened its season
on a dour day. President Ramsay and his wife
being on the high seas, secretary Warren did
the honors, assisted by Mrs. Warren.


THINGS ARE MOVING
IN THE WEST!
Visitors to the Golden West express
pleasant surprise at the state of trade,
. the outward signs of prosperity and
the progress in Western Australia,
Western Goldmines produced 80 p.c.
of Australia’s gold last year. West-
ern pastoralists have received splendid
prices for wool. The building trade
is getting back to pre-depression
days.
THERE IS TRAD E—
GOOD TRADE
for Eastern States Merchants. Reach
out for it by using the largest news-
paper in the West. The Perth
Sydney Rep.: Hal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Melbourne Rep.: Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins St.
Save Gar Battery and
Engine
Few motorists realise that easier start-
r c>,
BSi
ing and complete
satisfaction depend
on the instant and
complete combus-
tion of the fuel,
which is governed
by the heat of the
spark delivered by
the plugs.
Don’t wait for plug
trouble this winter,
enjoy consistently
easier starting, more
miles per gallon —
sweeter running
and dynamic power
through the “hotter
spark” principle of
Leggetts Plugs.
! ’opularly priced «■
all Oarages
34/10-4
Dynamw
SPAIfK
vmm
YOU'LL NEED A
JCAR IN ENGLAND
f
d
Free Booklet
Obtainable
from Any
Office of “The
Bulletin.”
Make up your mind to have the use of a car on your
next visit to England ; it is the best and cheapest
way to enjoy your holiday.
Our service covers every possible motoring require-
ment, including repurchase guarantees at fixed
percentages, special terms for export, and. all details
in connection with registration, insurance, driving
licences, etc., and saves you money, too !
INDIAN
CAR AGENCY
49, Old BonJ Sf., London, W. 1
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
■
EACH
At leading Clubs, Hotels,
Tobacconists.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., Sydney.
I
mon
to the Sunshine of the
South Sea islands
FIJI—TAHITI—HONOLULU
Delightful trips away from Winter’s gloom to enchanting
lands of sunshine, flowers, romance and. loveliness; No
holiday land in< all the world can compare with the
fascinating glamour of the alluring South Seas.
Specially reduced fares! make possible a delightful
South Seas voyage for no more than the cost of
the average stay-at-home- holiday.
Let us help you plan a care-free, economical
South Seas Vacation. Illustrated literature
with full details of fares and sailings will
be gladly supplied on request.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, 'Sydney.
328 Collins Street, Melbourne.
296 Queen Street, Brisbane.
V
•Jj-j’ti
I I
•I
, ..llp^S;
: .^wi
'W
* - :
. s//
KA
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Recent Departures.
BY HUGH McCRAE.
George Lambert. Facially, at
least, he reflected Mariette’s Rabe-
lais, fronting the title-page of “The
Works,” Bohn’s edition, 1849. Here we
see the ancestor of all his smiles, the
same family nose snuffing up the finest
witticisms, and the widely-opened eyes,
slanted to ray out their glances like lustre
from the sun.
I remember A. G. Stephens through
a period of years. A big man in sailor’s
mufti, his head so deeply thrust between
the shoulders that wherever he looked
his whole being went —a tremendous
effect, comparable to the movement of.
a piece of ordnance sweeping the hori-
zon over a town.
He wrote like a Roman Emperor in
purple ink. Few men have been so
I gifted or so shy ; fewer still so gener-
] ous. He was patiently poor, worked
hard, scamped nothing, and invariably
gave of his best. I liked him as much
as he would allow, and, I suppose, he
afforded me more time than he ought.
If I became recalcitrant, he would say,
“I don’t allow anybody except myself
to be nervous and hasty, but—on your
record—l ask pardon, and offer a hand,”
thereby putting me completely in the
wrong.
In Rowe-street he ran an estab-
lishment with five pairs of stairs be-
tween himself and the groundlings. On
the threshold visitors were greeted by the
smell of burning cloth and the noise of
irons from the tailor’s next door, but
these were compensated for by a sweet
welcome when Stephens’s daughter asked
them in.
. At this time A.G. suggested I should
illustrate some ideas in his “Book-
fellow” magazine, and having furnished
me with a drawing-board, paper and ink
he took me into his office as part of
the scheme. I had hardly time to fix
myself in a very small chair before a
subject came along. Through his nose,
reasbnantly, Stephens said, “Draw me a
Scotchman stepping out of his skin.”
I was too used to his galimatias to
show any astonishment, and, notwith-
standing my small capacity, I determined
to have a thousand tries. As a result in
about five days I had flayed the whole
Scottish nation, and was already turn-
ing my thoughts towards Ireland when
he called a retreat.
Previously A.G. had controlled a book-
shop, or, rather, a book cavern, under
a block of buildings in Hamilton-street.
To enter it you ducked below a sign
inscribed “En Souriant,” and so soon as
a proper amount of visibility had been
attained yo.u became aware of multi-
tudinous volumes, some stuck in cases
against the walls, but more dropped
'facetiously over a centre, table, baited,
with a box of cigars—at a price!,
Frank Morton called ’ Stephens “The
Great Literary Fakir.” He : was pre-
judiced. In his day A.G.S. was the lion
i figurehead of all Australian literature.
I would ; not ask for his statue in the
street,, but I do think we should have
1 his head, done in bronze, placed among
books in the Mitchell Library. More
than this. There should be a replica
in every public library throughout the
Commonwealth—not' only in Sydney but
in Canberra, Brisbane, Melbourne,
Adelaide and,in Perth:
- He had known — .*. .
' ' What was of use to know;
What best to say could say;' to do had done.
His actions to his words agreed, his-words
To his, large heart gave utterance due; his
heart
Contained of good, wise, fair, the perfect shape.
r o . *»* »• • h' , -k
J. Le Gay Brereton. How many.
writers of verse and prose in receipt of
Government pensions coming every, fort-
night are by their advent put continually
in memory of him? A father-poet, hard
working and unjealous, he praised
fiercely , and castigated; kindly. • Most
months of the year he spent in the lec-
ture-room, and those he,.had-bought'with
his toil were passed in forest valleys or
amid “sunshine on the mountain-crest.”
In 1930 J. Le Gay sent me his
“Nathaniel’s Accident,” a lecture-note,
drawing attention to- certain Aristophanic
business in Act V of “Love’s Labor’s
Lost.” This is still interesting, and I
have kept it among my papers because
of its value to myself. However;-one
of my daughters must have under-esti-
mated it, for in forwarding the paper
from Sydney to Melbourne she wrote
across the foot of it, “Very sorry. It
isn’t a cheque after all.” Had Le
Gay known this he would have
enjoyed the joke, and would pro-
bably have tried to buy a book or a
picture at five times its actual value —a
way that he had when he wanted to give.
Here is the stub-end of his last letter
to me. “If you get a chance to bear wit-
ness to ’s merits (in the press or in
any other public way) do so. He’s diffi-
dent, and the encouragement will do
him no harm.”
Brereton was not afraid of death. He
said, “It’s only passing out of one room
into another.”
Lawson had the expression of a dumb
animal, and even though he hated being
pitied it was impossible not to feel
sympathetic towards him. At the
beginning of our almost no-acquaint-
ance he would speak to me, but
because I was monosyllabic and he was
deaf he gave it up. Thereafter he occa-
sionally touched my shoulder, and we
would parade several blocks in silence.
These walks always terminated with a
strong squeeze of the hand —and so,
good-bye.
* # * *
Perhaps my most-prized belonging
is a copy of Heseltine’s translation
of “The Satyricon,” given to me
by George Robertson. Written across
the margins are Christopher Brennan’s
annotations in his own hand. Whenever
I pick up this book I grow excited. It
isn’t Petronius who gives me the thrill,
it is the sight of my friend’s pencraft-
pencraft becoming his voice upon paper,
his accents and tone.
Just before Brennan died I described
him in The Bulletin as “A star in
exile, unconstellated at the south.”
He loved this, and told me so. Our
acquaintance strengthened, but there
were frequent gaps between meetings,
because I lived in Camden, 42 miles
away, and he “existed” in town. Yet
after his death I was told by a fellow-
Camdenite, three or four paddocks off,
how Chris, had come up every recent
Saturday from Sydney to coach his
nephew in Latin and Greek; and how
on the last Saturday he had said to his
employer-host, “Will you bring Hughie
to me?” His friend immediately put on
his coat and was on the way to the gate
when he called, “Perhaps you had better
not” ; then, sotto voce, “He mightn’t like
to see me, this way that I am,” meaning
visible illness and concomitant change.
His unselfishness gained the day, and I
never saw him afterwards.
* * * *
Anybody who met George Robertson
must have known he had met a man,
and such a man! He recalled to me
Christopher North, tall, broad-shouldered
and singularly handsome. He lent
me money to go to Melbourne
with in order to lecture, and when on
my return I paid the debt he whooped
like an angel—expressing, I suppose, the
realisation of his belief that I was no
true poet. Later on he gave me his
newly-published “Australian Cyclo-
paedia,” but upon my asking him to in-
scribe the two volumes he wanted to
know “Why?” I answered, “So that I
may be sure there is something worth
reading in them.” During the absence
of Arthur . Jose in England G.R.
edited. He took me upstairs into a
third-floor room containing one table
and one chair .on bare boards. Over-
head were a number of ropes pass-
ing from wall to wall, all of them deco-
rated with —socks! Here he edited. “I
don’t know-why I pay Jose,” he remarked
jocularly. “I can do better myself.”
lust on closing-time he would take his
visitor to the' Arcadia bar. A routine of
four double whiskies, two for the guest,
two for himself —and. no “return shout.”
He was so proud that he had never been
known to let anybody buy him a drink.
s{i jJj Jjt
As well as Robertson, his friends
Brennan, Brereton, Stephens and Jose
are dead. While Brereton read an oration
over Brennan’s grave, Stephens stood
apart. Later on he complained, “I went
there hoping to be asked to speak, but
nobody asked!” Within a few months
Brereton. himself died (propter viam,
with his face to the stars, as it
was fit he should do); then, quickly
again, Stephens had gone. Stephens
left a book which contains the speech
he wanted to make at Brennan’s grave,
a better, clearer, fuller and more con-
sidered summarisation than he could
possibly, have given at the cemetery.
With the exeunt of these men town
seems empty, so that I wish, as in Horry
Walpole’s time, some cursing countess
would terrorise Peter into locking his
gate, himself on the inside, and all the
world out. “Half the guards are come
back again, and appeared to-day in the
park.”


'4®
t
fk
=^3
.-v~v^
V&&
J
iff
T»ADOS
jwwr
SOUTH SEA
HO LI DAYS
w hat a difference between just
an ordinary holiday and a cruise
to the Solomon Islands. About
five weeks of novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a
sea voyage under the best con-
ditions. Numerous ports
coral lagoons—colourful native
life —wonderful scenes. There
are no hotel expenses on the trip
and the fares from Australia
are free of exchange.
Next sailing from Sydney—May 19,
by the new motor vessel “MALAITA.”
At your request tot snail I
be pleased to forward I
illustrated folder No. 22 I
Bums,
l CO. LTD.
TELEPHONE 87901
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY . . .
Reach 50
with teeth strong and healthy
Follow these three scientific rules
1. Remove Film —use Pepsodent
Tooth Paste every morning and
every night.
2. Eat These foods—One or
two eggs, raw fruit, fresh vege-
tables, lettuce, cabbage, or celery,
half a lemon with orange juice.
One quart of milk, and other
food to suit the taste.
3. See your Dentist—at least
twice a year. He can detect the
beginning of trouble. He can
stop it then at small expense and
no discomfort.
FROM the Pepsodent Laboratories
came a new cleansing and polishing
material which is now used exclusively in
Pepsodent Tooth Paste. This material
is fine in texture and twice as soft as
material commonly used in tooth pastes.
It is Pepsodent’s policy to advance
constantly through scientific experiment.
It is a direct result of this policy that this
new improvement is brought to you.
Three outstanding virtues characterise
this notable discovery:
i. The new cleansing and polishing
material in Pepsodent stands unsur-
passed in removing stained, destruc-
tive FILM.
2. The new texture is invisibly fine. As
a result it imparts a higher polish to
enamel —a brilliant glaze or lustre.
3. The new material is safe —this is most
important of all. Safe because it’s
soft—yes, twice as soft as polishing
materials in common use.
PEPSODENT—
Special Film-removing Tooth Paste.
Removing FILM is, and always will be,
Pepsodent’s chief duty. To-day’s Pepso-
dent performs that duty better than any
tooth paste ever has before.
FILM is that slippery coating on
your teeth. It gathers germs that cause
decay. It glues them tightly to enamel.
FILM absorbs the stains from food and
smoking and makes teeth unattractive.
Removing FILM is important for beauty
and for health.
Get a tube of Pepsodent to-day. Note
how smooth and creamy it is. It is safe
. . . utterly safe ... on the softest baby
teeth and the most delicate enamel. Pep-
sodent is to-day’s outstanding scientific
tooth paste.
Pepsodent
The special Film -removing Tooth Paste
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
K2l
Use Pepsodent Tooth Paste twice a day—See your dentist at least twice a year
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements—conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expert advice is your 3 free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.
“Hear My Prayer.”
BY ELEANOR DARK.
THE Canon’s old church still stands
there across t the road with green
grass about it, and iron railings
guarding it from the street; but
between the church and the rectory
the years have rushed like a flood,
bringing petrol and concrete and elec-
tricity, so that it is only in odd
moments of receptiveness —in the early
morning, sometimes, or late at night when
the traffic is over —that one can realise
how closely bound they once were by
queer, strong bonds of something that we
may call by many different names, but
which we don’t really understand any
longer. . .
It was Aunt Maggie, the earnest virgin
whose good works my Uncle William
married with such chaste enthusiasm, who
first told me of Stonycross. It was no
longer the rectory, you see, but a board-
ing-house kept by two old ladies who,
once upon a time, went, in their best
bustles, to hear my grandfather preach.
When they learned that I proposed to
board with them their happiness was
pathetic and embarrassing, but their joy
in me, as time went on, was not un-
mixed with anxiety. At first they would
smile rather nervously and say that of
course I was dear Richard’s son. And
then they would say that times had
changed and one must be broad-minded.
And then they would ask, very timidly,
didn’t I ever go to early Communion.
And wouldn’t I like to see the tablet
erected to my grandfather’s memory in
the church?
This sort of thing bothered me so much
that I began to think I should have to
look for other quarters. It was not that
I minded their gentle proddings, but
that my unchristian ways obviously dis-
tressed them so terribly. All the same,
the thought of telling them that I was
leaving was more than I could face. I
imagined their anxious questionings.
“Was the rent too high?” “Wasn’t I
comfortable?”
Feeling worried and oppressed, I did
wander over to the church one day and
look for the memorial tablet. I had
seen my own name inscribed on various
things before now —on school honor-
boards and rowing oars and cups for
boxing—but it gleamed suddenly and
rather accusingly at me now out of
the silent semi-darkness “BRIAN
RICHARD O’BRIEN”.... “ true ser-
vant of the Lord” ‘‘his grateful and
devoted parishioners” ....
I turned and came out into the sun-
light with a queer, panicky, relieved feel-
ing that I was rescuing myself from
some unspecified danger. And when I
got back to Stonycross there was the
letter from Aunt Maggie waiting for me.
My instant thought was that it solved
my problem.
“I am so happy to tell you,” wrote
Aunt Maggie, ‘‘that Martin has made
up his mind that he wishes to enter the
Church, thus fulfilling what I am sure
you know was the dearest wish of your
poor Uncle William and myself. It adds
greatly to my happiness that he should
have so desirable a place to stay during
his studies in Sydney, and that you, my
dear Brian, who are older and more ex-
perienced, will be at Stonycross to keep
an eye on him. The Misses Barlow will,
/ am sure, make him comfortable for his
dear grandfather’s sake. I feel that with
the great tradition” ....
Well, certainly I was “older,” but that
only made me twenty-two. I let out a
whoop of joy, and slid down the ban-
nisters on my stomach in my haste to
spread the good news.
The old ladies trembled with delight.
Two grandsons of the Canon! Such
felicity! And the dear boy studying for
the Church! Here, in the very house
where his grandfather had lived so long
and righteously! They crooned and
cooed. Already, with deep satisfaction,
I thought I could see the focus of their
attention shifting from me, a mere Med.
111., to Martin, the Student of Divinity.
I awaited my cousin in a glow of
benevolence, but my first sight of him
damped me rather. I had not seen him
for years, and then only briefly, and his
uncouthness as he stood there in the hall
of Stonycross was rather startling.
I began:
“Oh—er —you’re Martin, of course.
How are you?”
His voice was quite the best part of
him —a very youthful and rather charm-
ing voice.
“I’m all right, thanks. Er —mojfier sent
her love.”
“Oh, thanks—er”
I was beginning to feel that all this
was going to be a bit beyond me, when
he smiled. Of course, he had been smil-
ing in a way before —the conventional
grimace that arrives automatically when
you greet anyone —but now his eyes
flashed into life behind his clumsy spec-
tacles, and I saw that they were blue
like my own, like his father’s and my
father’s and the Canon’s, and that he had
the family nose and the long Irish upper
hp. , . ,
“I’m glad you’re here,” he explained.
“I don’t know anyone in Sydney yet.”
After a few days I found myself liking
him. I don’t know why, for we really
hadn’t a thing in common except our
eyes and our upper lips, and for sheer
genius in being irritating I have never
met his equal. His gift for doing and
saying the wrong thing would have made
him completely insufferable to any
ordinary person if it hadn’t been for
some quality in him that only became
apparent when he smiled. What was it,
so deeply buried and yet, indomitably,
still so very much alive? A streak from
some remote forebear of the true Irish
scallywaggery? A hint of the demure
lawlessness that had landed my poor
Aunt Beatrice in the terrible position of
being no longer spoken of by the family?
Whatever it was it’s dead now—safely,
decently, blessedly dead, for it would
never have done in a bishop.
He fell instantly and passionately into
the tradition of Canon-worship. Stony-
cross was holy ground to him; he was
never tired of hearing which room the
Canon had slept in, where he had pre-
pared his sermons, where he had received
the poor and needy of his parish who
came to ask and receive aid for their
worldly needs, and thundered rebuke
for their spiritual transgressions.
It was inevitable, I suppose, that he
should at last begin an effort to convert
me. I remember the evening it began
quite clearly.
He had come out on to the balcony
where I slept, and was sitting on the edge
of the stretcher, being, it seemed to me,
more than ordinarily revolting.
I said snappishly at last:
“Look here —you’re trying to convert
me, aren’t you?”
He swallowed nervously and made one
of his wandering, futile gestures.
“It is the duty—l mean —we have to —
if you believe in Him you want to bring
others to believe, too.”
I sat up with a bounce that nearly sent
him flying, and poked him impressively
in the ribs.
“I, too, have my faith,” I proclaimed.
Even in the uncertain light from the
street lamps I saw the sudden pinkness of
his face, the earnest joy that woke behind
his spectacles ; and, realising that to him
“faith” meant only one thing, I felt rather
contrite, and hurried on:
“If you’re going to try and convert me
to your faith, I claim the right to try and
convert you to mine. That’s fair enough,
isn’t it?”
He peered at me mistrustfully.
“What is your faith?” he asked.
Sitting there in my pyjamas I ex-
plained.
Of all his annoying qualities his earnest
sentimentality was the hardest to endure.
The old ladies, certainly, aided and
abetted him in that. It was their sugges-
tion, for instance, that he shpuld have
the little downstairs room with the long
window opening on to the verandah for
his bedroom. It had been, in bygone
days, the Canon’s study; there was
actually an ancient arm-chair that had
been there in his time, and a copy of
“The Light of the World” in a vast and
gloomy frame. The old ladies, full of
awed enthusiasm, were even able to pro-
duce from some forgotten lumber-room
an old and rather rickety desk at which
(it was only reasonable to suppose) the
Canon might have written a sermon, or,
at the very least, addressed an envelope.
“The atmosphere!” they murmured
raptly from the threshold. “The never-
fading influence of a saintly life!”
Well, if there was anything in that, it
may have been, perhaps, the never-fading
influence of my father’s anything but
saintly life which goaded me into telling
that wickedly delicious little story of the
Canon’s famous faux pas.
I had a couple of friends —fellow-
students of my own year —who dropped
in sometimes to have dinner and spend
the evening yarning in my bedroom.
Martin used to come occasionally, when
I suggested it, and sit on the edge of a
chair looking acutely unhappy over our
godless conversation. The talk, one
night, had turned to the architecture of
the old house, and from that it swung
very naturally to its history and its
former inhabitants. Martin, steeped in
(i Continued on next page.)


r
m
M
WBm
--
Buy a 3/6, or more economical 6/6
bottle of De Witt’s Pills to-day. See
that the name of the manufacturers,
E. C. De Witt & Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
is clearly printed on the side of the box.
RHEUMATISM
SHARP TWINGES, SWOLLEN JOINTS
Here's relief in twenty-four hours!
Why be a constant martyr to the pain of rheumatism ? Why stay crippled
with bad backache, lumbago, and all the weakness caused by kidney trouble.
Why suffer the inconvenience and pain caused by bladder trouble when here
is a tried and trusted remedy to give you quick relief and start rebuilding
health permanently ?
De Witt’s Pills are made for the one purpose only—to get right to the seat of your pain and
weakness—the kidneys. They are not ordinary purgative pills. In twenty-four hours from the first
dose you will see how different they are, how sure is their action.
HEALTH RESTORED AFTER YEARS OF SUFFERING
Those who have suffered for years, in many
cases bedridden for months, have found in this
remedy new health and vigour. We are con-
vinced that by taking De Witt’s Pills regularly
you, too, will benefit. They can be taken by the youngest,
the weakest and feeblest, and women at all times.
Thousands of letters of gratitude for health perman-
ently restored have been received from men and women in
all walks of life —whether workers with hands or brains
who say how good De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
are. Your own chemist can tell you all about the pres-
cription and why these pills can and must do you good.
Get your supply and start to enjoy your work and
pleasures like those who are really healthy and vigorous.
Why delay this matter? Why continue in suffering? Say "I will
give De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills a fair trial.” If you will only
persevere, we are confident that this famous remedy will help you o
banish your pain and suffering and give you a store of health, streng
and vitality that will mean a new lease of life and happiness.
m
m
DeWitt’s
Kidney 6t
Bladder
Pills
Canon-lore, was on much firmer ground
than I was here. He was able to give
us the facts we wanted, but he didn’t stop
at that. After a while I couldn’t stand
it any longer, and I said:
“You know the old chap’s famous ser-
mon on the Sunday-school picnic, don’t
you, Martin?”
He looked at me in surprise and
pleasure.
“I don’t think I do. It isn’t in the
collection, is it?”
, “Well —no.”
While I told them the tale I could
almost see it happening. There was the
long, dim stretch of the cathedral, and
the sunlight, turned by the stained-glass
windows into pools of scarlet and blue
and amber, lying motionless on the floor.
The choir-boys, fidgeting hotly under
their white surplices. The congregation
sitting very still with upturned faces, and
in the pulpit my most formidable grand-
parent. His anger, his disgust, his
genuine distress and horror made him
formidable; his fine figure, his lean,
handsome face with its smouldering blue
eyes and its grim Irish mouth made him
impressive. There was not a sound, not
a breath, while they waited for him to
speak again. For he had made them see
as vividly as he saw it himself how the
Devil might work silently while none
suspected ; how a good Christian must
never rest, but be always vigilant; how,
in the very midst of a harmless pleasure
sanctioned nay, organised by the
Church itself, sin might creep stealthily,
like a thief, and strike at virtue. Their
own Sunday-school picnic—and at it no
fewer than three innocent girls had been
seduced!
Very still the congregation sat, awed,
chastened, waiting for him to speak
again.
If only he hadn’t
“Now the Dean was at that picnic”
he said.
The yell of laughter from my two
friends swept over Martin’s bewildered
head and left him thinking—hard. I
was watching him. I saw the flood of
color that marked his sudden realisation
—and I saw for one fraction of a second
the irrepressible gleam of laughter that
fled madly, like an escaping prisoner,
across his face, with outraged anger in
close pursuit. Whatever it was that he
said, standing there with hot cheeks and
fierce, disgusted eyes, we didn’t hear it.
It was only a sentence, and it was lost
in our helpless abandonment of mirth.
Then he was gone, and after a little while
we pulled ourselves together and forgot
about him.
But that evening, I believe now, was
his turning-point. It was not the story
itself that mattered, nor the fact that
his idol had been made, for a
moment, ludicrous. It was that in-
finitesimal second when he felt his own
laughter bubbling wickedly inside him —
when some other Martin whose exist-
ence he had never suspected frightened
him with a wild and almost successful
bid for liberty.
The next morning I was momentarily
startled to see how ill he looked, but I
was too busy with my own concerns to
think of it for long. The old ladies wfere
different. It was about a week later that
they brought their anxieties to me.
Hadn’t I noticed how pale he was? How
little he ate? How seldom he spoke?
And, most staggering of all, didn’t I
know that he had not been to church last
Sunday?
That did sober me. I made it my
business to see a good deal of him in
the next few days, and he was, undoubt-
edly, changed. It is hard to say exactly
what the change was —he gave me an
odd impression of being temporarily
suspended like a pair of scales ex-
actly balancing, like an empty house
in the gap between two tenancies,
like a tennis ball wobbling on a net
before you know which side it is going
to fall. He was waiting. For what? I
didn’t know, but for some reason my
conscience pricked. I asked him to come
and sit with me and my friends that
night, and warned them beforehand that
Canon-baiting was to be barred. He
came, and was very silent. So silent that
we forgot he was there. I don’t remem-
ber now what we talked about, but to
medical students there are no taboos. I
only know that suddenly, without a word,
Martin got up and walked out of the
room, and we, looking at each other
in bewilderment, felt his disapproval fall
unpleasantly upon what had been to us
a perfectly commonplace discussion. I
was annoyed. Russell, who had been
speaking at the moment, flushed uncom-
fortably, and made a little movement of
exasperation.
The next morning I tackled Martin.
“What did you walk out for like that
last night? Damned rude, it was.”
He looked at me steadily.
“I thought the conversation offensive.”
“Very good,” I said shortly. “It was
an ordinary conversation on an ordinary
subject, and until you created it there
was no thought of offence in our minds.
If you don’t like our conversation you
can keep away.”
I turned to go, but he called me back.
“I will come again, if you don’t mind.”
“All right,” I said, shrugging. “Come
any time you want to, but leave your
pruderies outside.”
After that he came regularly for weeks.
He hardly said anything at first, but there
came a night when he joined in one of
our interminable discussions. They
might begin, say, with the art of Oscar
Wilde and finish with the theory of rein-
carnation, but they were always lively,
and, I think I may say, always logical.
Martin found, to his amazement and
ours, that he had the true Irish “gift of
the gab.” He could thrust and parry ;
he, who had dreamed of no greater ver-
bal attainment than to preach, found,
intoxicatingly, that he could argue!
And, from the harmless shoals where it
had started, I could see the debate drift-
ing rapidly into deeper waters. I could
see rocks ahead, and Martin making for
them merrily ; there was, to me, an in-
stant of true drama when he saw them
too, hovered for one dreadful second,
and then crashed, winning his argument,
but denying something which had been,
for all his life, a categorical imperative
—an article of faith.
For the rest of the evening he was
dumb. The next day was Sunday, and
I came down to breakfast in flannels and
sandshoes. The old ladies only looked
at me sorrowfully as I passed their table,
but Martin, crumbling his toast opposite
me, said presently:
“Tennis?”
“No,” I said. “Russell’s taking his
boat out on the harbor. I’m going with
him.” And added teasingly: “Will you
come?”
He said “Yes,” and I stopped with my
coffee cup half-way to my mouth to
gape at him. His face was white, and
his eyes bluer than I had ever seen them.
I said, stammering:
“My dear chap, I’m awfully sorry, but
really I was only joking. I —l’m going
as soon as I’ve finished my breakfast —•
I couldn’t wait till after church. And,
anyhow”
“I’m not going to church any more.
“But” ,
“You set out to convert me, didnt
you?”
Shocked, alarmed, but more than any-
thing else irritated by his colorless face
and his queer, intense start, I said
roughly:
“In pure self-defence. I don’t care a
damn what you believe. My advice to
you is to wrap yourself up safely in
your nice comfortable dogmas. Other-
wise you’ll probably get hurt.”
And I walked out, too jarred and angry
to finish my excellent poached eggs.
Several times during the day I thought
of him. Several times I found myself
seeing the last glimpse I had had of his
face across the white, tablecloth ; again
that waiting look, but now with a hint
of fear in it, as though something he had
expected had failed him —a listening,
holding-his-breath look that seemed to
say “Dare Igo on? Can I go back?
We stayed out fairly late, and I went
home to dinner with Russell. It must
have been after eleven when I set out
in the Williant moonlight to walk home.
I pushed open the little iron gate which
always stood ajar, and stepped up on to
the verandah with my latchkey in my
hand.
What I heard can only be described
as a wail. I went quickly along
the verandah, and my sandshoes made
no sound on the stone flags. Outside his
window I paused uncertainly, for the
room was silent now. The shutters were
wide open, but the heavy serge curtains
hung closely together, and 1 could see
nothing, hear nothing.
I thought:
“Confound it, he must have been
asleep! ” And, uneasily, “Poor kid! ”
I took two steps back towards the
door.
His voice burst out again—a fierce,
desperate undertone, pleading, begging,
beseeching, praying
That was it—praying
My skin went hot and cold, my spine
crept, my hair seemed to bristle on the
back of my neck like an animal’s. I
felt sick, panicky, with no thought but
to get away—to escape.
And then I remembered how he had
walked out of the room when Russell
was talking. Was his skin hot and cold
then? Was his spine creeping, and his
whole being shrinking as mine was now,
from something that outraged his every
conception of dignity—decency?
I thought wildly: “What can I do?
Something! I must!”
I put my hand on the serge curtains.
The lost, dreadful whispering went on:
“O God, I have sinned —I have left
the path.... I’m afraid —I’m not sure
any longer.... O God, help me, help
me, give me a sign!.... O Christ, hear
my prayer!”
(Continued on next page.')


0
1884
CTo Juswali
SUNSHINE E
1934
Farmers
IMPLEMENTS
THE SUNDERCUT Stump Jump Disc Cultivating
Plough for Summer Fallowing
ďf
Light in draught. Makes a splendid tilth. Deals
effectively with paddymelon, stinkwort and heavy
weed growth.
Sizes: 10-Disc, 5ft. Cut. 14-Disc, 7ft. Cut.
1934
Sunshine’s Jubilee
It is just fifty years since Hugh Victor McKay
invented and successfully built the first Sunshine
Harvester.
To-day the works at Sunshine manufacture a
complete range of modern labor-saving machines
and implements for orchard, vineyard and farm.
SUNTYNE” Combined Grain and Fertilizer Drill and Spring Tyne Cultivator
SIZES:
SIZES:
8-Row—l7 Tynes
12-Row—2s Tynes
14-Row—29 Tynes
The “Suntyne” sows
Cultivating sft. 16-Row—33 Tynes Cultivating 9-2 ft.
Cultivating 2O-Row—41 Tynes Cultivating 12ft.
Cultivating 82ft. 24-Row—49 Tynes Cultivating 14ft.
shallow or deep, on a level, compacted seed bed, where full advantage is secured
from the stored moisture in the soil.
d
Write for 96-page General Catalogue of all Sunshine Manufactures.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
Branches: 664-666 Botirke Street, MELBOURNE. 27-39 Broadway, SYDNEY. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Harris (Qld.) Pty., Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Where my fingers had separated the
curtains a shaft of moonlight fell across
the room like a bar of white fire. The
S?" Christ in The Light of
he World blazed out dramatically ; in
he surrounding blackness He shone
there above poor Martin s adoring eyes
sorrowful, forgiving serene.
J,i?°° d + roote A h^ ln f my . br f a r th k 1
, j se . e M- artins face, but I had
heard h!s voice break on a little gasp-
and then silence. Dazed with nervous-
s 1 {[ } e Z walting f °r
real lse hat the light was moonlight that
the curtains must have parted, that there
was not a breath of wind to part them —
that something must have done it—and
so to discover me there
It took me several moments of silence,
and then the sound of his voice again,
quiet now, rapt and bemused with awe
and gratitude and adoration, to realise
that a mind half-crazed with fear, de-
manding nothing less than a miracle for
the preservation of its sanity, will not
boggle when a miracle is clearly offered,
He had said, “O God, give me a sign!
O Christ, hear my prayer!” and some-
where, deeply buried beneath his miseries,
had been the faith that the sign would
be vouchsafed.
And it had.
Taking my fingers from between the
curtains I found myself looking at them
rather curiously. Discovered in myself
an irrational feeling of shame that I, in
Martin’s place, could not have been so
gloriously deluded. Wondered, rather
feverishly, seeing the church spire black
against the silver sky, whether it might
not be possible that I, Brian Richard
O’Brien, had been really the chosen in-
strument of a manifestation of G0d?....
Those things are very long ago. The
emotional stress being over, I don’t won-
der about them any more. My cousin
the bishop is a good man, a useful man,
a likeable man (though he doesn’t
approve of me), and in a fair way to
become in time a legend, as his grand-
father was before him. So I’m content
now when I meet his austere gaze to feel
glad that there was a moon that night,
that I wore sandshoes, and that a pic-
ture happened to hang just exactly where
it did.
The Laugher.
BY LILIAN M. BROWN.
T TONDERFUL the way they get
YY toys up nowadays, isn’t it?”
said Linley. “The wife has
been laying in supplies for young Tom’s
birthday, you know, and some of these
contraptions really get you guessing.
Wonder how this little beggar works,
now?” Rummaging among the pile of
parcels on the table with benevolent in-
terest, he had extracted a brightly-hued
enamel-and-rubber gadget.
Marsden, from his chair by the fire-
place, evinced a polite enthusiasm for
the birthday celebrations. “Better pull
that knob at the end,” he suggested.
“He’ll probably turn a somersault or
something.”
Linley pulled the knob. The small
scarlet figure balanced on its orange-
painted rod did not turn a somersault.
It pursed its hitherto smiling lips and
whistled with piercing and unpleasant
suddenness.
Marsden started violently.
“You don’t look too fit, old man,”
said Linley, dropping into the opposite
chair. “Too long in the wilds. I always
say you fellows should have a bi-yearly
i eave at least and get back to the city
tor a s> bit ot excitement to keep you
S°*ug.
Marsden opened his mouth, shut it
again and suddenly made up his mind,
B et a certain amount of excite-
nt ev cn out back, he said slowly,
Remember Cowley and the way he
popped oft up Moogarrah way.
Linley nodded. And left a small for-
tune to that woman he was living with,
But there was nothing sensational about
death. Just his heart rebelling at the
l as b _ , , „ Al
In a way. But he was killed all the
same. The Laugher killed him.
. Who s The Laugher. There was no
tr iai. .
Marsden s pipe had gone out. He
fiddled with it aimlessly staring out of
the wm dow as though he had some archi-
tectuml interest in the city roofs and
s P ir^s - No, there was no trial.... The
ou bft was U P Moogarrah way at that
time, you know, and we’d had a minor
accident and were waiting for new
parts. The boys made for the nearest
township, and I thought I’d look
in oh Dobson, a chap I’d met once or
twice. He was trying to make ago of
mixed farming and failing rather badly.
An educated man, too, though a bit
eccentric. He’d asked me to drop in any
time we weren’t working, so I borrowed
a nag and arrived there one Sunday
night.
“They made me very welcome. The
wife was a different class —one of those
tight-lipped, leather-skinned little women.
Always cleaning the house and worrying
about the next payments falling due. No
time to keep trim, and rather sharp on
the kids —on the surface. Mrs. Dobson
was like that, except with young Ivor,
the baby—a star-gazing kid who seemed
to me not quite all there. She had a soft,
spot for Ivor all right. Told me, when
we were yarning on the verandah that
night, that the kid’s fifth birthday was
due on Tuesday, and she’d got some
little bits of things for him from a travel-
ling hawker. They couldn’t run to the
kind of stuff you have there” Mars-
den glanced at the parcel-cluttered table.
“Well, Dobson and Mrs. Dobson both
wanted me to stay till 1 could get on
with the job. They seemed hard-up
but wouldn’t hear of me paying anything.
I found Dobson interesting when his
crust of reserve had worn off, and I
gave him a hand about the place on
Monday morning. Then —without even
letting them know he was coming—
Cowley turned up. The mortgage they’d
raised was one of his little investments,
you see, and so far he’d made no bones
about the payments getting behind. I’d
met him before, once or twice, and he
seemed surprised to see me there. After
lunch he took Dobson off for what he
called ‘a little chat and survey.’ I stayed
behind as I obviously wasn’t wanted, and
Mrs. Dobson surprised me by coming
out of her shell and getting really bitter
over Cowley.
“ ‘He’s up to no good,’ she said, and
I remember as she said it she held up one
of Ivor’s little shirts she was ironing
and looked quite dispassionately at the
holes. ‘The moment I saw him I knew
he meant mischief —oily brute. And
Jack’s got about as much business sense
as one of the poddies and won’t know
how to stand up to him. Wish Z’d had
a chance to talk to Mr. Cowley!’
“Her venom gave me a start. ‘Surely,’
I said, ‘the man’s got a right to look over
the place when he holds a mortgage
on it. And he didn’t look like causing
trouble.’
“ ‘That’s what I’m scared of,’ she re-
plied. ‘Hidin’ something up his sleeve,
he is ; I can feel that deep down in me.
He could turn us off the place if he
liked And it’s Ivor’s birthday to-
morrow’
“She was right. When Dobson came
back with his visitor I could tell the worst
had happened. Cowley went to lie down
out of the heat, and Dobson joined us
in the kitchen. Mrs. Dobson just stood
there, looking at him and waiting.
“ ‘He’s going to foreclose,’ said Dob-
son, in the voice you’d use to mention a
change in the weather. ‘Says the place
is worth something now and it may not
be if he gives me more time to fool
about and make mistakes. We’ve a
month to get out.’
“The evening meal was a ghastly affair.
Cowley, who had announced his inten-
tion of staying the night, appeared in an
assam suit with ‘city tailor’ all over it,
and made himself very sociable and anec-
dotal. Dobson was even more taciturn
than usual, and Mrs. Dobson looked
viperish. There was something about her
I didn’t like, even at that stage. One
minute she was gossiping with Cowley—
almost flirting with him —and the next
she’d sink back into herself, with eyes
that looked as if she was watching an
inferno.
“I turned in early. The way things
had developed I felt like an intruder, but
I preferred the verandah to the room
I’d slept in the night before. That, of
course, had been given over to the guest
of honor. It was a built-on room, open
to the bit of flower garden at one end,
and on the opposite side of the house
from the verandah where Mrs. Dobson
had made me up a stretcher.
“I’d been asleep some time when I
heard it —a hellish sound. I jerked up
in bed, and it happened again before I’d
got myself in hand. It was a kind of
laugh a long-drawn-out, malevolent
sort of laugh, beginning low down and
ending in a screech that made one think
of a homicidal maniac sighting his
victim. Straightway I remembered the
look in Mrs. Dobson’s eyes. It seemed
to fit in. I guessed if the poor soul really
((Continued on next page.)


A Safeguard for Travellers
The safety and security of a Letter of Credit which enables the traveller
to draw on his account in any part of the world is only one of the many
services and advantages which The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
offers. The Bank also establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable.
It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or by telegraph. It transacts
all classes of general Banking and Exchange business. The Manager of any
Branch will gladly explain these facilities to intending travellers and place
at their disposal the information on current conditions of Exchange, etc.
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE CAPITAL
£4,739,012 10 0
4,300,000 0 0
4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay s Bank,
Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South
Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world.
Cable Address: "Thermostat,” Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ď
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/-, the regular annual subscription
rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
s. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin” for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. nor
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and resu
will be announced within two months thereafter.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so published,
in which the entrants will retain ail property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees. .
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street, Sydney, reserve the
right to withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 93rd YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
F „„„„ at Home reads “The Examiner” became it has the
Service in Tasmania, Covering the Lateat
oSLSrlnterstate and Tasmanian New, wth Illu.trat.on..
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
had gone off her rocker Dobson would
be needing help, and I hurried inside.
“The first person I saw was Cowley,
staggering out of his room into the back
passage, with an electric torch in one
hand and his face the color of Gorgon-
zola cheese.
“‘W-what was it? Someone’s being
m-murdered!’ he stuttered, and if 1
hadn’t backed I believe the jellyfish
would have collapsed on my shoulder.
“Then Dobson came out, heavy-eyed,
with Mrs. Dobson behind him. There
was a funny sort of smile on her face.
Dobson had heard nothing. He’d had
a good long drink before going to bed,
to drown his troubles, and had slept like
a log. Cowley, reassured by the crowd,
began to ramp. He seemed to think
someone had been playing a joke, and
it was clear that if he’d had any idea of
relenting and giving Dobson another
chance that was the end of it. I got the
fellow back to bed myself in the end.
Dobson seemed past caring about any-
thing, and Mrs. Dobson had gone to see
if the kids were frightened.
“I couldn’t get off to sleep again for
some time, though the rest of the night
was quiet enough. Mrs. Dobson’s eyes
sort of glowed in front of me, whether I
had my own shut or open. I was abso-
lutely sure she knew all about those
screeching laughs, and yet it could only
have been a minute after the ‘last one
when I saw her follow Dobson out of
their room, and there was nothing hys-
terical about her then. I’m not at all
the psychic type, but somehow I knew
I was going to hear that laugh again....
“I slept late in the morning, and Dob-
son and the kids were out of the way
when I went to the kitchen for a cup of
tea. All except Ivor, who was eating
bread and strawberry jam and proudly
showing his presents. There was a truck
his father had made out of a box and
old wheels, and a colored picture-book,
and one of those toy cars you wind up
with cotton.
“ ‘I got them from the hawker who
comes round once in a while,’ Mrs. Dob-
son told me. ‘They’re not much, but he
likes them.’
“Her eyes were normal again as she
watched Ivor playing.
“Cowley appeared later, very pasty and
curt to rudeness. At his invitation, I
walked with him round the paddocks.
He said nothing about the night disturb-
ance, but I noticed he glanced over his
shoulder now and again and his hands
were twitching. When he’d walked
enough he sent me off, as if I were a page
and Dobson’s poor little homestead a
hotel, to order him a cup of black tea.
I carried a tray out to him, grinning rue-
fully at my own meekness. Half-way
there I dropped the tray, and never
noticed till afterwards that the tea had
scalded my leg. The Thing—whatever it
was —had laughed again! That gruesome
chuckle and the crescendo into a shriek
of exultation sounded worse than ever
in the sunlight, but it wasn’t that that
knocked the stuffing out of me. It was
Cowley. He was lying back in his chair
with his eyeballs literally outside his
head. I’ve seen the terror of death in
men’s faces before, but not the terror
of something worse than death
“There were no complaints about prac-
tical jokes being played on him this time.
I ran Mrs. Dobson tO' earth in the fowl-
house, where she was calmly raking the
stale straw out of the nests, and she
didn’t seem too eager to come and help
me revive Cowley.
“ ‘Yes, I heard it,’ she said in answer
to my impatience. ‘lt must be a bird
of some kind.’
“She looked straight at ’me, and there
was that unnatural sort of grin on her
face again. Ivor came running up and
asked what the funny noise was, and Mrs.
Dobson cuddled him and said it was a
new kind of bird and he’d better go and
look for it. We took some whisky over
to Cowley then. All the bluster had
gone out of him, and he actually held on
to my wrist with his flabby fingers, like
a youngster afraid of the dark. Mrs.
Dobson spoke to him kindly for the first
time. I was dead certain the laugh had
come from a bit of scrub behind where
Cowley had taken his chair into the
shade, and, as Mrs. Dobson said, that
proved it was a bird all right.
“ ‘You stay with him a bit,’ she said to
me. And then, in a whisper, ‘His heart
don’t look too good to me. If he went
out to it while he’s here we’d be in a
nasty position, seeing he’s come to turn
us off the place. What a nuisance that
bird is, to be sure! ’ She put a pillow be-
hind Cowley’s head in quite a motherly
way, and went back to her work.
“It was very hot, and my mind wasn’t
too clear after the night I’d had. Cowley
seemed content while I was within reach,
and his face was gradually getting a bit
more human-looking. What seemed to
be worrying him was that he mightn’t
be fit to drive himself that day, and
naturally he wasn’t keen on staying any
longer. .
“ ‘Doctors told me to go easy with my
heart,’ he grunted. ‘Nerves all to pieces,
they say. Well, I do go easy. But how
was 1 to know Bedlam was going to be
let loose in a place like this whenever
I tried to get a rest? Do you reckon it’s
a bird yourself?’
“He spoke calmly, but my nerves
were keyed up, and I knew he was
waiting for my answer as if his life
depended on it. I don’t know what
I thought it was, but I agreed that
it must have been a bird and promised
to drive him as far as the township when
he felt well enough to start. I dozed off
after that, and in between-times I heard
Cowley muttering to himself: ‘Of course
it was a bird. First in the garden and
then in the scrub Just a bird’
“Dobson came home for his early
dinner and went off again, grunting over
our story of the second laughing fit as
though he had no time for such folly.
Mrs. Dobson took a tray to Cowley,
who Was back on the verandah and talk-
ing of our making a start in an hour or
so. He smoked one cigarette after
another, and Mrs. Dobson, looking as
though she’d never lost control of her-
self in her life, sat on the step and chatted
to him, holding Ivor on her lap. She
kept her eyes on Cowley’s face, like an
attentive hostess, and when that horrible
evil chuckling started suddenly she didn’t
blink an eyelash. It went through the
usual performance, but didn’t end on
the shriek. Right in the wall behind
' Cowley’s chair it seemed to be, and the
laugh went on and on and 0n.... The
Devil having hysterics—that’s what it
made me think of; and in broad day-
light, and with other people near enough
for me to touch them! It scared me sick
right through to the spine. So unbeliev-
ably triumphant it was
“I was sitting on Cowley’s left, and he
kept his head turned towards Mrs. Dob-
son, staring at her with his eyeballs pop-
ping again. Mrs. Dobson was rock-
ing Ivor in her arms, hush-hushing him
the way you put a kid to sleep, and
keeping his face pressed against her.
She looked at Cowley with a surprised,
concerned expression, as though wonder-
ing what was up. I leaned across and
got a full view of Cowley—the agonised
supplication in his bulging eyes. He was
clearly past speaking.
“I knew what I ought to do and I
didn’t do it. I just stood there watch-
ing. Cowley was breathing with
more and more difficulty. There were
blue blotches round his mouth Sud-
denly Mrs. Dobson leaned forward and
spoke in a mincing voice. ‘Why, surely
you’re not fancying things again, Mr.
Cowley?’ she said. ‘That bird must have
flown off somewhere. We haven’t heard
a sound of it since this morning.’
“And all the time the laugh went on,
just behind Cowley’s head I saw
him take in very slowly what Mrs. Dob-
son meant. He stared at her, and it was
as if an invisible brush smeared defeat
over his tortured face.... There was
a gurgling noise, a kind of rattle
that fitted in as an accompaniment to
the laugh, and Cowley slumped further
down in his chair.”
Marsden looked at the pipe he held
in his hand, made as if to take out his
pouch, and then forgot it and stared out
on the city roofs and spires again. Ihe
room had grown dark, and Linley
stamped across with unnecessary violence
and turned the light on.
“Well?” he said, aggressively. “I
don’t blame the woman fooling him on to
his death when her home and children
were in the balartce and he’d given thenj
no quarter. Just the way Cowley would
peg out, scared to death of a kooka-
burra.”
“It wasn’t a kookaburra. We suggested
that at the inquest, and after the post-
mortem there was no trouble about the
cause of Cowley’s death. Ol course
none of us mentioned that Mrs. Dobson
had pretended not to hear.
“She told me later, when Dobson had
gone to notify the doctor, that she
thought it would be kinder, seeing the
state Cowley was in, to make him think
he was only imagining it.... 1 didn t
discuss it further with her”....
Marsden put a hand in his pocket and
brought it out with the fingers closed.
“I wandered round the garden that
evening, after Cowley’s body had been
taken to the township, and found Dobson
burying something in a hole among the
nettles. 1 went back and dug it up later
for a souvenir, but if he missed it he never
mentioned it the few times we met
after that. They managed to keep the
place on, but he and Mrs. Dobson both
died in the ’flu epidemic next year, and
the kids are scattered in institutions,
I believe. A queer chap, Dobson. He d
read a lot of heavy stuff in his spare
time —the psychic business and all that.
And there was a strong bond between
him and his wife”
Linley leaned forward impatiently.
“But what in the name of wonder was
The Laugher?”
“One of Ivor’s toys. The one he
wasn’t given on his birthday.” Marsden
opened his hand and disclosed a small
rubber gargoyle with a wire-spring attach-
ment behind it. He pressed a finger and
thumb together and the silence ot the
room was suddenly shattered by a long-
drawn-out, malevolent laugh, beginning
low down and ending in a screech that
made one think of a homicidal maniac.


FARMING IS A
BUSINESS
The management of a Farm or Station is just as
much a business as is running a store —and the
successful farmer is he who really deals with
his affairs in a businesslike manner. To do this
involves some knowledge of business principles and
practice,
This knowledge will safeguard the station owner
and the farmer from many serious mistakes in man-
agement, buying and selling. To provide for this
urgent need, H. & R. have compiled a Special
Course of study for Farmers and Station Owners,
known as —
“The Farm and Station Bookkeeping Course”
(Business Management)
This is a sound and eminently practical course of instruc-
tion. It shows you how to deal easily and correctly with
every form of farm and station accounts, and also with
your taxation problems. It is written by practical experts
in a simple, clear and concise manner. It is taught by
the H. & R. Personal-Individual Method in your own
home at your own time, and the cost of tuition is extra-
ordinarily small.
Here is just the thing every farmer and his sons really
need, particularly the young man just commencing on the
land. Every farmer will find that the knowledge given
in this Course will, without doubt, bring to him an assured
success and save needless worry.
Send in TO-DAY for
Free Particulars to:—
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
Farm and Station Accounting Specialists
38 BARRACK HOUSE, BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, C.l.
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES AND NEWCASTLE.
f
( CUT OUT AND MAIL NOW
| To Hemingway & Robertson at . . (Send to Nearest Address.)
1 Please send me free copy of 1933-34 Edition of “Guide to Business Careers.”
| Name r Age
1 Address
, Business Subject Interested In .. * . • - *• • • 38/177.
JUST PUBLISHED !
A New Novel by the Author of “Pageant”
“THE WORLD IS YOURS”
By G. B. LANCASTER
G. B. Lancaster chose the modern Yukon as the setting for this graphic
story. In a succession of brilliantly descriptive pages, this romantic outpost
of Empire is presented with all its haunting glamor. The riddle of human
relationships is personified in Tamsin MacDonald and Kirk Regard. The
tragic love story of these two young people is unfolded in a well-
sustained atmosphere of suspense, leading to a strongly presented climax.
“The World Is Yours,” by G. B. Lancaster, now on sale at all bookstalls and
newsagents. Published by The Endeavour Press, 252 George Street, Sydney.
An Endeavour Press Book Price 6/6 (Postage 4d.)
X
&
&
\p
o
o
S>.
&
o>^
*
V
a*
&
\fi
&
. <?
"Z&y
0°
.••• ..••• a
&
.**
C^s^,


Right from the
start ....
BATTER I F&
UP H ■ mmH w ' S iWmn
*
R
FOR CARS-MOTORCYCLES-RADIO-HOME LIGHTING
From good garages everywhere, or from these central distributors:
AUSTRALIA:
NEW ZEALAND:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Rhodes Motor Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston
West Australia.. Airzone (1931), Ltd., 886 Hay St., Perth
d
ď
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST
Malaya—Philippine Islands Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore)
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong)
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia)
Fiji Islands Marlows, Ltd., Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
New Caledonia Maison Barrau
V 143.
VESTA BATTERIES
bv VESTA BATTERY COMPANY ('AUSTRALIA'). LTD.. Leichhardt, New South Wales
