

CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
■■■ I I mm
Country as well as City Interests.
I nvestments carry greatest possible security.
XHe Society that imposes no restrictions on aeroplane travel.
Yearly Bonus additions to all participating policies.
M utual —owned and controlled by the Policy-holders,
u ndoubtedly the most Liberal and Progressive Life Office.
Xhc Office to assure with for Bigger Bonuses.
0 nique advantages by assuring with the City Mutual Life.
Australia’s Security is the City Mutual Policy-holders’ Security.
Liberality to Members unexcelled.
Lowest Expense Rate, 10.7% —1934.
I nvestment yield the greatest available.
Free Accident Conditions on all Policies with Death Risk.
Empire ’s Soundest and Best Assurance Institution.
Strongest Reserves of any Society in the Empire.
Only one Board of Directors in the whole of Australia.
Careful selection of Risks, Low Mortality, High Interest Yield,
build Bonuses.
I nvestment in Life Assurance never depreciates.
Efficient and Economical Management
X he Millionaire Society that operates only in the Commonwealth.
Y oung Australians will positively secure their future by
becoming Policy-holders of this Society.
mm
i 4, «
, -Vt
mm /V .>* ■ - *• .•" -
a
II
mmu
Si
U
■
I
*» I
11 i
lil
US’. I?
It
H sit,
: U- :M
m &
ill
...
1 || ?
I UJI
v ** r i m-|r
v .1.1 Ijh Ihl * A ;U,
.iii nil if? fir
Wit 04
«»
’.ill
s**!
Ms
Hik yitwurance the Balance Wheel of Life
The one Investment that did not depreciate during the World-wide Depression
Life Assurance is the only Business Certainty
In October, 1934, a Member, 23 next birthday,
effected a Policy on his life for £3,000, and paid
a quarter’s premium of £l5/15/0.
The Bonus allotted his Policy for 1934 was
£B6/5/0!
All Policies effected NOW participate fully in
the Bonus Distribution for 1935.
Full pa ticulars mil be forwarded on application.
For the Protection of
ESTATE OR BUSINESS
FAMILY INCOME
RETIRING ALLOWANCE
BUILDING OF YOUR HOME
EDUCATION OF YOUR CHILDREN
LIQUIDATION OF THE MORTGAGE.
ASSURE WITH
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES OF THE COMMONWEALTH
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. Wm. BENNETT, Managing Director
The Bulletin
Should We “Follow England”?
Vol. 56.—N0. 2901.
Wednesday, September 18, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ẃ
■Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AXD MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 135
w
ẅ
ŵ
The Red Page
An Australian
in Spain
Nina Mur-
doch’s She Trav-
elled Alone in
Spain (Harrap;
9s. 6d.) is an im-
r. r r provement on
fvoSrf Heave,,. If ,<he title had been
h ’ l nd alonB w,,h “ ‘ h e insistence
on the risks, inconveniences and tempta-
ions which beset the foreign female in
the most courteous land on earth it
been i f tter - And a i^tie
h f gOCS - a long wa y in prose
which is reminiscent, occasionally, of
Ruskm and Harry L. Foster at one and
the same time.
Spain d°e s nm change much, ft is
s>till the land of Cervantes and Velasquez
which, to the stranger, is either pageant’
or caricature. Miss Murdoch saw both
nmnle 0 A of the
people, of the fenas, of the Romcria del
Rocio and its humors put her in the first
rank of travel writers for insight, sym-
pathy and humor ; but when she essays
to talk of history and art one is apt to
suspect that she is all too friendly with
guide-books and too attentive to lesser
encyclopaedias and to those authors who
spend their lives trying to prove that
Bacon was Shakspeare.
It would be interesting to know the
names of the “modern historians” who
say that Columbus was “really a Spanish
Jew born in Galicia.” His Genoese
oiigin and his parentage seem to be
ran ly well established. There is no
evidence that he died “miserably alone
and deserted by all his family.” His
pj e go was certainly in close touci
with him. Columbus thought enough o
his wife to provide particularly in his wil
tor her care. And it may be taken for
granted that the rest of a fairly large
number of relatives were not too far
away, since there were a rich, fat estate
to be cut up, a title or so to inherit.
In art, the lone Australian traveller
was all for Velasquez and riot at all for
Goya or El Greco, but she seems to
have seen only the specimens in the
Prado, which are not, in El Greco’s case,
the best. It is too much to say, as she
does, that what she saw of Goya’s “over-
emphasised everything in the Spanish
character that is commonplace and ii
bad taste.” It is difficult to think o
at all in the presence of the Tus
saud s Gallery of invasion-impression
which the Spanish Government rescuec
from the old man’s house. But neither
they-—“ Shooting Spanish Citizens,” “Do
de Mayo” and the like—nor his roya
portraits are exactly calculated to appea
to a lady of sensibility.
Goya was the Cervantes of art. His
picture of Carlos IV. and his family
which Miss Murdoch found like “a flash-
light photograph of the committee of a
provincial charity,” is one of the world’s
greatest caricatures. In front of it I have
enjoyed myself by the half-hour. It has all
the qualities of the perfect parody—so
good that there is a pause when you first
see it before its leg-pulling irony be-
comes obvious. However, anybody who
dismisses the “Maja Desnuda,” “the great-
est nude in Spain,” as “commonplace”
may be passed over as a critic of the
master who had more influence on
modern European painting technique
than almost any other individual. She
might have rated him higher had she
seen, for example, his drawing of Wel-
lington after Salamanca.
El Greco frankly puzzled the traveller.
His works to her were simply “colored
designs” that gave her “a sort of
pleasure.” His tones reminded her of
the “hallelujahs” of a negro spiritual
meeting and his drawing “as if he had
set his subjects at one side of a mirror
and then painted their slightly distorted
reflections.’ She found his “neurosis”
vibrating “like the sound of a pneumatic
drill, and capable of achieving with
modern subjects the same effect as Noel
Coward's “Twentieth-Century Blues.”
But she is glad to find her idol, Velasquez,
endorsing the long, narrow, white El
Greco head—which the Cretan probably
brought in his own head from Rome,
where the early Christs in the catacombs
and the Appian Way tombs might easily
have given him inspiration.
To me, El Greco is one of the world’s
most diverting old masters. You can
lake a Van Eyck to pieces and each piece
becomes a little masterpiece, but try to
do it with El Greco’s “Agony in the
Garden,” which has a strange, almost un-
earthly and luminous translucencc, oddly
familiar but no less fascinating even
when you realise that it represents merely
an actual painting of Spanish coastal
mirage-like atmosphere on a spring day
of absolute calm. You get (1) an angel
with strangely Hibernian yellow hair
apparently wrapped in a lettuce-leaf
blanket and sneaking off with the Davis
Cup; (2) Christ in a reddish plum-
colored robe reclining against the mak-
ings of Taronga Park Aquarium ; (3) a
glimpse of a gully in the Blue Moun-
tains. Each part is ludicrous by itself.
But, as a whole, the thing is a vision.
Miss Murdoch has the ability to adapt
herself and to endure, and the exercise of
her powers of observation and wit on
the habits and customs of Odessa or
Tatarbazarjic should produce bright
reading. In both those places circum-
stances would compel her to write of the
things of which she writes best.
ESTAVAN DE CASALOCA
More Sheep
and Sandhills
The sandhills-
reminis cence
school of writers
is now getting
numerous enough
- to form a society,
Mr. George Mclver’s A Drover’s Odyssey
(Angus and Robertson; 65.) is the latest
addition to a growing output. Mr.
Mdver was evidently a good drover,
and what he has set down was worth
the recording, if only as material
tor some greater master of words in the
future. He tells of a droving trip in the
earhes from Bourke to some place on
the Diamantina: 25,000 sheep and
25 men under an almost square High-
lander named Angus Cameron. Cameron
could not lead, and was once deposed
by vote of the camp, which, like all
drovers’ camps since Laban packed his
ovens and cheque-book, quarrelled on
end, but sang and killed snakes in the
intervals.
Until the book reaches the Cooper
(Q.), it is entertaining and lucid enough,
but at that point its geography becomes a
bit vague. The party seems to have
gone across the S.A. border, near
innamincka, and to have delivered the
25,000 sheep somewhere on the Diaman-
tma at an unnamed station beyond
Haddon Downs. They must have had
hearts of iron in those days—nobody
ŵ
JULIUS WANT.
Let
the Censor
Explain
There is need
for anew Austra-
lian technical
work. It should
be called The
Princ i pies of
Censorship, and
should be written by the book censor
of the Customs Department. If the
censor protests that it is not his job or
that he needs a specific basis on which
to work, he may apply to me, and I will
send him a copy of What So Proudly We
I failed, by Emil Gauvreau (Macaulay,
New York ; $3.50).
It is a tradition among the Australian
public that, however badly the work is
done, the censorship is designed to pro-
tect morals and citizenship. Publications
like “La Vie Parisienne” and Norman
Lindsay’s Red heap are excluded lest
they make us naughty. The works of
Lenin are spasmodically banned along
with reports of Comintern meetings, the
“Moscow News” and the vaporings of
Commissars so that Australians may not
be moved by them to wave the red flag,
grow long hair and further depress the
price of copra by abjuring soap.
To the undiscerning, Mr. Gauvreau’s
effort—he is hailed by his publisher as
“a famous newspaper editor and author,”
gifted with “incisive insight and poign-
ant sense of historicity”— represents
everything which should make a censor
turn black in the face and become pas-
sionately protective. It is divided into
three sections —an introduction which
seems to be a plea for the recognition
and financing of the U.S.S.R. by Uncle
Sam, a “faithful symposium” of Rus-
sian conditions as the author found them
and a few words about decadent Western
Europe and “the full merry-go-round of
the American frieze”:
Murders, suicides, gang wars, strikes,
vice crusades, lynchings, rapes, banking
and munitions investigations.
The text is backed by 30 page’s of
Russian pictures and 28 pages illustrating
Uncle Sam’s underworld at its worst.
Of Russia, save for one picture entitled
“Purge,” a mangled heap of dead,
the book gives a panorama of
happy, healthy, athletic, forward-looking,
pleasant-faced men and women earnestly
doing physical drill in bathing suits or
gazing happily at machines or harvesting
ẃ
NARINE.
An Alleged
Swindle
All that “Ulla-
b u 1 1 a” (R.P.
4/9/ ? 35) or any
other writer need
do to escape “the
swindle” of “pay-
merit upon publication” is to endorse on
his copy: Payment within one month or
copy to be returned. Stamps enclosed.
Parliament certainly cannot help in the
way “Uliabulla” suggests—by a law
making it compulsory to pay for articles
“upon acceptance.” What is acceptance?
If goods or services are ordered they are
accepted as soon as delivered accord-
ing to order ; but if merely dumped into
somebody’s backyard or front shop un-
asked for, when are they accepted? Not
till the would-be seller is advised to that
effect. He may be told to take the stuff
away : or if heavy and in the way it
may be thrown out on the public tip at
the expense of the owner. If it is known
that I am a builder of houses, does it
follow that all makers of bricks, doors,
windows, etc., may pile their goods on
to my premises on the off chance that
they will suit my design and require-
ments? It would be very kind of me
even to let their stuff lie on my premises
while they tried for a buyer somewhere
else.
“To be quite fair to small and
struggling papers” “Ullabulla” would
exempt those publications with under
10,000 circulation from his drastic law.
Well, I have known such a publication
to make over £IOO a week profit, while
others with ten times the circulation
were run at a loss till they died. He also
proposes to “exempt” from the rights to
his scheme of protection all features
tpars.,included) shorter than 500 words.
Why should the author of three pars,
or features each containing (or cut down
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation.
“THE SENIOR STORE”—“While I Live 111 Grow.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
’Phone: M 2401, Day and Night. PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address: Box 27 1 2 C. G.P.O.
NEW GEAR FOR THE CRICKET SEASON
!'■
_
Gradidge
announces the New
Model for the 1935
season.
WALLY
HAMMOND
“DRIVER”
(Autographed)
30/-
One of the finest all-
round Bats for Club
or Private use. Mani-
fold cane handles with
triple-sheathed rubber
buffers. The blades are
of finest selected Essex
Grove close-bark Eng-
lish Willow. Rubber
grip. Note the new
shock-plugs (two of
them) inserted in the
compressed canes in the
cleft to absorb jar and
shock on the stroke.
Anthony Horderns’
Price, each 30/-
A veritable forest of Cricket Bats
OPENING OF THE 1935-36 SEASON
EIGHT WORLD-RENOWNED BAT SPECIALS
STUART SURRIDGE “SPECIAL CLUB”
New season's model. Chosen Willow. Well bound. Rubbet grip.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 25/-
STUART SURRIDGE “OVAL DRIVER”
The most popular bat in the Empire. Better than ever now.
Anthony Horderns’ Price * 27/6
STUART SURRIDGE “COUNTY DRIVER”
Specially-selected Match Model of highest quality.
’ ' Anthony Horderns’ Price 32/6
GRADIDGE XXXX “COUNTY DRIVER”
Highest Standard (Grade XXXX). Test Match model.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 37/6
GRADIDGE XXX “COUNTY DRIVER”
Highest Standard (Grade XXX). Interstate model.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 29/6
GRADIDGE XX “COUNTY DRIVER”
Highest Standard (Grade XX). Club Match model. '
Anthony Horderns’ Price 27/6
GUNN & MOORE “SUPER DRIVER”
The famous maker’s XX Model. - A superb bat.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 32/6
DUKE & SONS “CORINTHIAN”
The noted English firm's first-grade quality bat.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .' 32/6
International
CLUB
“DRIVER”
19/6
A really wonderful Club Bat, mul-
tiple cane and rubber handle, rubber
grip, vellum-bound blades.
Anthony, Horderns’ Price .... 19/0
Match
Bat
SYDNEY
“DRIVER”
15/6
The cheapest full match-size hat
made. Built up cane handle, rubber
grip, well-balanced solid blade.
Anthony Horderns' Price .... 13/fl.
Walter
Lambert & Sons
announce the arrival
of the new 1935
Model mode for the
Champions.
L.N. CONSTANTINE
AND
WILFRED
RHODES
34 1-
These famous bats are
again available in Aus-
tralia at lower prices I
than ever before. Bal-
ance, power and light-
ness are their outstand-
ing features. Rubber
gripped handles of mul-
tiple canc and rubber.
Note the erinoid plug
at the base of the cleft.
A Lambert bat cannot
split at this point.
First-quality selected
English Willow.
L. N. Constantine
(Autograph). Two Star.
Blue Spot. Price, 34/-.
Wilfred Rhodes (Auto-
graph). Two Star,
Blue Spot. Price, 35/-.
■
.H.n-
If If II
THE NEW 1935-36 JUTE MAT
• JUTE MATS.
Made in two mats for standard cricket pitch. Each piece is bound securely
in solid hide at each of the four ends. The mode of weave makes the mat
reversible, thus extending the average life of the mat indefinitely. Each
mat is 9J yards long by 6 feet wide; strong brass eyelets and leather straining
lugs are inserted, and a set of spikes completes the outfit. The jute mats are
dyed a deep grass green. Anthony Horderns’ Price £7/15/-
“THE MAT THAT PLAYS LIKE TURF”
• COIR MATS.
A new and very strong mat in a close, firm weave, dyed meadow green, with
hide bounds, leather lugs and set of spikes. Anthony Horderns’ Price, £6/15/-.
We still supply the famous “Universal" Coir Mat with the herringbone weave,
the most durable mat of its type in the world. Strongly bound hide ends,
brass eyelets and leather straining lugs. Full set of spikes. Two mats (dyed
green), each 9$ yards long by 6 feet wide, complete the outfit.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .... . £7/15/-
STUMPS BATTING GLOVES
Guaranteed for 500 Runs!
ẁ
“VICTORY”
CRICKET
BALL
7 1 m Each.
Exclusively distributed by Anthony Horderns', “The
Victory” represents remarkable value in a genuine
leather ball. “The Victory” is a correct standard
leather ball, sewn in six stitched seams, and very well
finished. It is guaranteed for 500 runs, and will
stand up to the hardest use and still retain its shape
and firmness. Anthony Horderns’ Price ...... 7/-
The
KING
BALLS
7)9
Finest possible construction.
Six stitch seams with secret
centre seam undersewn.
standard weight. Fully
guaranteed.
ẃ
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each—
“ Demon King.” “Speed King.” “Red King.”
13/6 10/6 7/9
The “ECLIPSE” COMPO BALL
The finest English Composition Ball ever im-
ported. Standard s£oz. Hard wearing, per-
fect shape. Price, each 3/-
3/-
% Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W. on all Cricket Goods except
boys’ cricket material, cricket poles and spikes.
Anthony Horderns’, deliver all goods free within their delivery
area. This extends north, to Gosford, including Woy Woy
and Hawkesbury River; west to Richmond and Penrith and
south to Liverpool and Kiama.
ẅ
w
Cricket Net, 18ft. x 6ft. Price .... 19/6
Cricket Net, 18ft. x Bft. Price .... 25/6
Cricket Net, 42ft. x 6ft. Price .... 45/6
Cricket Net, 42ft. x Bft. Price .... 39/6
Poles, guys, spikes, strainers extra.
7/6
Pair.
Cool, close-fitting fabric with special quality rubber.
Black rubber spike buffers. Pull-on type.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, pair .... 7/6, 8/6
’KEEPERS’ GLOVES
271-
Pair.
These Wicketkeepers'
Gloves are made with
the palms cunningly
cup shaped and are
made from hide covered
with an overlay of
purest quality rubber.
Blocked leather finger
stalls (sponge-rubber
cushioned), padded cane
wrist flaps. All-Match
model. Anthony Hor-
derns’ Price, pr., 27/-.
Match Gloves. Prices,
pair, 16/6, 19/6, 22/6.
w
• WORLD’S CRICKET RECORDS.
This year’s edition of ‘‘World’s Cricket Records ’ is now
available. Regularly, for the past forty years, this
Almanac has been compiled, giving every valued record
and such information as Test teams and Test resiilts
since the commencement of International Cricket. Call,
write or ’phone for a copy: it is of interest to every
cricketer and cricket lover. No charge.


TO AUSTRALIAN WRITERS AND ARTISTS
The Fellowship of Australian Writers will publish a Christmas magazine
in November.
Contributions of MSS. and drawings should be sent to the editor.
Miss F. S. Eldershaw, Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Croydon. Payment
will be made at A.J.A. rates on publication.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The 'JMacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
A Remarkable Success!
‘KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG’
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the Native Tribes
of Australia.
By Herbert Basedow, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., B.Sc.
Third Edition Now in Print
KNCCMTS
ERANG
17 Pages of
Illustrations.
This interesting book was published a month ago,
and the demand for copies exhausted the first
edition; the second edition is nearly sold out and
the third edition is now in print. You should not
miss reading this intensely interesting and
itative description of aboriginal customs and rites,
together with unique personal experiences during
years of service among the aborigines of Central,
North and Western Australia.
240 PAGES. PRICE 5/-, POSTAGE 3d. EXTRA.
NOW ON SALE.
All Booksellers ami Newsagents; or from the Publisher-.
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.. LTD., Sydney and Al!
States, also New Zealand.
w
J. SMETHURST.
Brochures
from Japan
Though speci-
fically intended
for tourists’ read-
ing, some of an
excellent series of
brochures issued
by the Japanese Board of Tourist Indus-
try are sensibly being spread abroad.
They sell in Australia at Is. 6d. each,
and, judging from the five that have
found their way to the Red Page, they
are uncommonly good value for the
money.
The production in each of these five
is admirable. They range from about
70 to upwards of 130 pages, and each is
almost extravagantly illustrated with
beautiful color prints, sketches and re-
productions of photos. The text, too, is
excellent, with notes, maps, bibliography
and other evidence of careful and com-
petent editing. An editorial note to the
first brochure states that the series will
consist of more than 100 volumes, each
dealing with a different subject, but all
co-ordinated. The subjects of the five
received are “Tea Cult of Japan,”
“Japanese Noh Plays,” “Japanese
Cherry,” “Japanese Drama” and “Jap-
anese Architecture.” How carefully
authoritative they are is sufficiently illus-
trated in the foreword to the one which
deals with the drama:
The original of this brochure was pre-
pared by the National Committee of In-
tellectual Co-operation of the International
Association of Japan. In order that its
precious record might not be lost to the
world, a request was made to have it
translated into English and published as
a volume in the Tourist Library.
Each brochure has the hall-mark of some
similar authority.
JOHN B. DALLEY.
ẁ
been lost to The Bulletin. Everything
points to his having been washed from
the rocks into the sea while fishing at a
favorite spot of his near Sydney.
As he wrote under a string of pen-
names, besides his unsigned leaders and
Plain English articles, no one outside
the office could have a full idea of his
value as a staff man. He was an all-
rounder in as complete a sense of the
term as any Bulletin man has ever been.
He must Have written for every page in
the paper at some time or other—from
the Red Page, which he had been editing
for the last couple of months, and had
edited on other occasions, through the
leaders, .Society, Political, Personal (at
which he was a particular adept), and so
on to the short stories. His novels, Max
Flambard, No Armour and Only the
Morning, said something fresh in Aus-
tralian fiction, and helped to broaden it
out from parochialism.
Earlier he wrote a good deal of The
Bulletin’s Society and other verse, and,
though he probably never took his verse-
writing seriously, some of it had a quality
in what it said that is not easy to find in
the work of many better known as poets.
One example, which appeared over the
name of “John Polding” (B. 18/11/ ’2O),
is given here to complete the Red Page’s
brief supplement to The Bulletin’s
more complete tribute. It is fairly repre-
sentative of John Dailey’s verse, when he
wrote on something that stirred his feel-
ing. As the reader can see for himself,
there is evidence in it that Dailey wrote
such “topical” verse in much the same
spirit that he would write a like com-
mentary in prose ; but it has passages
of force and feeling, and it expresses,
too, what was a characteristic in him—
his admiration for the English and Eng-
land, where, at Oxford, he was educated
and, in London, called to the Bar. The
date of the verse is interesting, since John
Dailey then already expressed in it
thought on the war’s futility and the
tragedy of the ordinary man cast into
the war that later became a popular con-
cept of war altogether. The verse —in-
spired by the burial of the Unknown
Soldier —was called “Tommy”; and it
does not seem an exaggeration to say
that it says briefly quite a number of
things the saying of which at length
has since made more than one
writer’s reputation. Having himself
gone through it,
this is what John
Dailey thought on
the war just after
his experience of it:
TOMMY.
1 see him as a youngster, English-bred,
Cheery and stout and fair and thick of heaa.
They took him from the place where he
was born.
From the red poppies blazing in the corn:
The swift, clear, pebbled river with its trees
Nodding and sighing in the valley breeze,
And the green slope beside the old larch
wood
On which his yeoman father’s cottage stood.
No hatred stirred within him, no romance.
When presently he walked ashore in
France.
1 see him reach the mud and shattered teak
Which formed a road of fear past
Zillebeke.
His straight and friendly gaze rests here
and there.
Empty of terror, empty, too, of care.
Bravely he trudges through the driving rain.
Until, by unimagined dread and pain,
And a black wilderness of noise and stench,
He and his mates win safely to then-
trench.
A thousand things that trouble and defile
He bore with his indomitable smile.
Fighting one day through what was once
a town,
Anguished, he saw the avalanche come
down.
He who had never hated, never known,
Sees with clear, angry eyes how life has
flown.
He sees the vain old fools who failed to
stem
A tide of death which never could touch
them.
He went through hell because they willed
it so.
They built their fame on his unmeasured
woe.
Those who misused him while he drew
life’s breath.
They and their gauds are with him still
in death.
1 think, if such a one had had his way,
No marshal would have made a gala day,
And no diplomatist would have walked
in pride
Amongst the common ones for whom he
died.
Rather he would have had them lay him
down
Amongst the dead of some small English
town,
And, standing where the bugles blew his
knell,
Such humble folks as mourned him when
he fell.
A Satchel of Boohs
Tales of Fear is the newest addition to
the Philip Allan collection of half-crown
“Creeps” and “Panics.” Vampires—one
of them remarkable in that the head and
hands only are alive ; “the rest was no-
thing but a framework of bones which
showed white and bleached through the
rags and slime that covered it”—figure
prominently, and the transmigration of
souls has an honored place in two of the
yarns.
In Ocean Island and Nauru, Their
Story (Angus and Robertson; 7s. 6d.)
Albert F. Ellis has produced a very
readable volume about the smallest and
richest mandated islands in the Pacific —
islands where there is virtually no mater-
nal mortality, where native rights are
regarded, where there is no extreme
wealth but plenty for everybody, no
debt, a revenue surplus and, in fact,
every condition which makes a tax-ridden
Australian want to emigrate to them im-
mediately. As the discoverer of the
phosphate deposits and a phosphate com-
missioner, Mr. Ellis writes with authority
on the whole development of the islands
to the point where they now supply vir-
tually the whole of the phosphate re-
quirements of Australasia. But he has
a light and pleasant style, and, an under-
standing of and affection for the natives
and wild life which is rare, and his
book, which has an introduction by Mr.
S. M. Bruce, is a worth-while addition to
a bookshelf both as a reference work
and for an evening’s pleasant reading.
There are 54 illustrations.
For close on a hundred years the
pakehas tried to Europeanise the Maori,
and they nearly exterminated him in the
process. But while the old men of the
race fell into apathy and dreamed
old dreams some of the young men saw
visions. Under such leaders as Carroll.
Buck, Pomare and, above all, Apirana
Ngata, the Maori has been induced to
look up again. The decline in the native
birth-rate has been checked ; the Ngata
land-settlement schemes afford a practi-
cable road along which the European
and Maori cultures may march side by
side. For the full and continued success
of the Ngata plan it is essential that the
pakeha should better understand the
problems of the Maori and the wisdom
of the solution of those problems pro-
posed by the Maori leaders. In The
Maori Situation (H. H. Tombs, Ltd..
Wellington, M.L.) I. L. G. Sutherland
expounds the Maori standpoint more
ably than any white writer has done up
to the present. He emphasises what every
friend of the Maori race realises most
strongly, that the resignation of Ngata as
Native Minister because a Commission of
Inquiry into his administration placet!
more importance on book-keeping and
red-tape than on burning and enlight-
ened zeal in a splendid cause was a
disaster. Sutherland’s pamphlet might
with advantage be made a M.L. school
textbook —it gives a better and fairer
history of pakeha and Maori relation-
ships than can be obtained from any
other single source.
National Songs of the British Isles.
edited and arranged by Dr. E. H. Davies
and H. Wylde (Allan and Co.; 35.), is a
welcome addition to the singer’s library.
Principal defect of the best-known Eng-
lish and Scottish songs, such as “Sally in
Our Alley” and "Yc Banks and Braes" in
modern eyes are their abysmally trite
accompaniments. Dr. Davies has pro-
vided twenty or so of the favorites with
attractive contrapuntal piano parts, and
the old songs in their new settings arc
delightful. Unlike many so-called Aus-
tralian music publications this volume
was engraved and printed in this country,
and the work need not fear comparison
with the classic overseas editions.
Broncho Charlie : A Saga of the Saddle
(Harrap; Bs. 6d. net). Gladys .Shaw
Erskine has not done for her old hand
of the American Wild West what an-
other woman did for Trader Horn ; but
the book makes good light reading never-
theless. Charlie knew that West before
it transferred from reality to fiction, and
if his reminiscences can be taken as fact
they at least illustrate that there’s not so
much exaggeration in the bullet-riddled
yarns, the fictioneers spin.
Temple Shakspeare. Twenty-eight
vols. of the New Temple Shakspeare
have now been issued. Complete in its
40 vols., it will be as good-looking a
collection of small books as anyone who
thinks of books as furniture could desire.
Slightly smaller than the original Temple,
it is brighter in format and generally
neater to the eye. As a reading edition, it
is close to perfect. The type is so nicely
spaced that it makes easier reading than
type much larger often does. There is a
minimum of commentary and other addi-
tion to the text. Introductions by the
editor, M. R. Ridley, Fellow and Tutor
of English Literature at Balliol, are tight
bits of work, giving their information
briefly and soundly, without attempt at
fine writing. Notes and glossary, kept
to the back of each vol., are similarly
brief and sufficiently helpful. The little
books sell at 3s. in Australia.
Everyman's. Dent’s continue the' en-
larging of Everyman's Library to include
modern and copyright works with the
inclusion of Bennett’s The Old Wives'
Tale, Loti’s Iceland Fisherman, and Hugh
Walpole’s Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill.


—' i
SS
s;S
'2v
m
'
a i
■•S
ss
, ' V
15
ss
chebn
EVERY SUNDAY E WEDNESDAY
World-acclaimed violinist Leo Cherniavsky is here! Every Sunday and
Wednesday evening at 8 from Stations 2UW, 2HD and SAW he will give
his great radio recitals, presented by the Atlantic Union Oil Co,, Ltd.
In all broadcasts Leo Cherniavsky will play the music you love as few have
ever played it! Glorious music that will bring to all who hear it a keener
appreciation and enjoyment of the world’s great composers.
The supreme radio entertainment—Leo Cherniavsky and his £3OOO
Guarnerius violin!
STATIONS 2UW, 2HD, SAW
8-830
presented by
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO., LTD.,
marketers of
ATLANTIC
7Tf
m
£


" ' V
\
'
as
a
■
i-tt . *,. .*' '4
I," vv®
P 4 >*
\** % ,4 W
v jfr ". - *+
%
Yyw***?:^
&. SEPPELT a, SONS UMITEO^
SOUTH AUSTWAUA
- I
Agents for Now South Wale.: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO.. LTD.
77ietzn<4
w


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2901.
September 18, 1935.
QUESTION!
"Come along, Aussie—you’re in this.”
“Who said so?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand; Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘ All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“FOLLOW ENGLAND” (?).
The Prime Minister gave an undertaking last week
that the attitude of his Government to the Italo-
Abyssinian quarrel would be defined when Parliament
reassembles on September 23. During the same week
his Attorney-General lamented the lack of Australian
interest in foreign affairs, and said he would “like
to see the Australian point of view thoroughly
thrashed out in a special debate.” Why not kill
two birds with one stone —have the “special
debate,” preferably at a joint sitting, immediately
after the Government has taken Parliament into its
confidence, or disclosed such of the facts as it may
choose to disclose? Then the people who are blamed
for not showing a lively interest in a subject
on which information has been carefully concealed
from them would get some idea of how far the
Government has committed itself in the situation that
has arisen, and of whither Australia is going—
or drifting.
A statement of British policy was made by .Sir
Samuel Hoare, the Foreign Secretary, to the League
Assembly on Wednesday. He said that Britain was
“animated by unwavering fidelity to the League,”
and that “full acceptance of the obligations of mem-
bership” was “the keynote of its foreign policy.”
The League stands, and my country with it, for
(he collective maintenance of the Covenant in its
entirety, and particularly for steady collective resist-
ance to all acts of unprovoked aggression If the
manifold and increased burden of the Covenant is to
be borne it must be borne collectively.... If risks , for
peace are to be run, they must be run by all.
There were nations without colonial empires and
sources of raw materials that were consumed with
anxiety on that account. Britain was “ready to take
its share in a collective attempt to deal with the
problem,” but “calm, dispassionate consideration was
impossible in an atmosphere of threatened war.”
Every reference to the possibility of drastic action
was qualified with the word “collective,” but there
remains a doubt as to what “collective” signifies.
Three years ago there were five Great Powers with
“permanent” seats on the League Council. Germany
and Japan abandoned them, and Italy may leave at
any moment. Russia has come in; but Russia is
universally distrusted. If France refused to take
part in a boycott of Italy, and all the other members
were willing to “run risks for peace” (or said they
were), would that satisfy the British requirement of
“collective” action, “steady collective resistance to
all acts of unprovoked aggression”? Probably not;
but on this point the Foreign Secretary was not precise.
The Italian delegation listened to Sir Samuel
Hoare in silence, but in the lobbies it asked “Why
has Britain taken such a strong line against an old
friend when it took so weak a one against Germany
and Japan?” Against Germany, which rearmed in
spite of the Treaty of Versailles without even
troubling to denounce it, and against Japan,
which, while still a member of the League,
tore four provinces from China, another member,
and formed them into a so-called independent
State (still unrecognised by the League) under
Japanese protection. To the Italian question there
can be no convincing answer. British policy has
been inconsistent in these matters, and there is no
getting away from the fact.
In the 1896 war between Italy and Abyssinia
there was no talk of British Empire intervention ; the
mere suggestion would have been laughed at. And
there would be no talk of British Empire intervention
now if Britain and the Dominions had not joined the
League. To that extent the League has become an
embarrassment; and if the present trouble dies down
worse embarrassments or dangers may arise. Every
competent and impartial observer reports that Europe,
some of the Little Peoples excepted, is in a chronic
state of “nerves,” and in what remains of the alleged
settlements there are scores of possible causes of or
pretexts for strife. Germany may try to blot out
Czecho-Slovakia, occupy the Polish Corridor, thrust
towards its old Baltic provinces or the Ukraine, or
try to incorporate Austria in the Reich by force.
Russia may make a grab at Bessarabia, and Hungary
may seize the opportunity to regain its Transylvanian
territory; and if war breaks out in the Balkans
all the wild-cat nations of those parts will be
in it. Must the Dominions be in it also? Must
they prepare a trade and financial boycott and arm
their sons every time the precarious peace of the
Mad Continent is assailed? That, it seems, will be
expected of them so long as they remain in the
League and let the party on top in Britain at
the critical moment determine the matter for them.
To-day the party on top in Britain is the Conser-
vative party, which is allied with fading remnants of
so-called “National” Laborites and Liberals. To-
morrow it may be the Labor party. Can the
Dominions trust that party, whose favorite pastime
is girding at them? Can they repose a shred of con-
fidence in it after what Sir Walter Citrine said at
the Trade-union Congress, which he dominated?:
X The only thing Mussolini understands is collective
7 force. There is no alternative now but sanctions,
involving all the possibility of war. Congress has a duty
to the colored peoples of the world, and the duty is to
prevent a defenceless country being butchered by one of
the greatest bullies in Europe. If Germany and Italy
were allowed to break treaties with impunity, Hitlerised
Germany could carry out its projected attack on Russia.
Now is tl\C time to defend Russia by defending
Abyssinia. X.
Informed (hat the A.L.P. had declared against
Australian participation in “sanctions, involving all
the possibility of war,” the gentleman airily suggested
that “our proximity enables us to realise the issues
more vividly than does Australia.” Be that as it may.
Australia is the best judge of its own interests, and
its interests do not lie in “defending Abyssinia” or
defending Russia. And it accepts no duly to “the
colored peoples of the world” other than the duty of
caring for those actually under its protection and
leaving the rest alone. Neither will it “follow
England,” as its Prime Minister once counselled, if
following England comes to mean following Sir Walter
Citrine and the editor of the “News-Chronicle” into
crazy foreign wars.
MEDICINE IN AUSTRALIA.
Australia's first medical man, and one of its first
historians, was John White. He was recommended
by Lord Sydney, godfather of the earliest settlement,
but he thought little of the continent —“a country
so forbidding and so hateful as only to merit execra-
tion” —and did not return to it. They sent Balmain,
a surgeon, to take his place. Balmain left his name
on a Sydney suburb.
A little later they transported the 19-year-old
William Redfern, who also added to the gazetteer.
Redfern had been sentenced to death after the
Mutiny of the Nore. Reprieved, he lived to set the
standard of Australian advancement in medicine:
one of the earliest experimenters in vaccination,
he was Australian’s first hygienist. Macquarie
described him as “a very great acquisition”: “far
superior to any other in the colony, and perhaps
equal in talents to the most skilful medical men in
any other country.” And Macquarie was a connois-
seur, for doctors had been dosing him with mercury—
for “the liver” —most of his military life, and he had
been under the care of a genius, Scott of Bombay,
who had cured the Duke of Wellington of Malabar
fever —with nitrous baths so stringent that they
burned the towels.
Redfern and D'Arcy Wentworth, whose career
as a medical student had been interrupted when he
left England, were not only the leading medical men
of their day, but the leaders of the emancipist move-
ment. From their time onward, Australian doctors
and medical scientists were fully in line with, some-
times a little ahead of, the world. Though it was not
till 1880 that the first medical faculty was established
at Sydney, there were famous names before Anderson
Stuart inaugurated it. McEwan, of Parramatta, was
using chloroform a few months after Simpson had
introduced it experimentally at Edinburgh. Bancroft,
of Brisbane, discovered Filaria buncrofti, the worm
which produces filaria —parent of elephantiasis and
other horrors.
Now medical men from all parts of the Empire
have made Australia their Mecca. It is no mere polite
gesture, because great medical scientists have come from
these parts. Ernest Rutherford, whose reputation is
world-wide, hails from Nelson (M.L.). W. L. Bragg,
who won the Nobel Prize for physics with his father
in 1915 (Rutherford had won the Nobel Prize for
chemistry in 1908), was trained at Adelaide University.
Grafton Elliot Smith, anatomist, anthropologist,
Egyptologist and a dozen other things, was a product
of the first decade of the Sydney medical school. It
was this N.S.W. North Coast native who said that
“young Johnny Hunter,” another Sydney University
graduate and its Professor of Anatomy at 24, was
“the greatest anatomist in the Empire.” But Hunter
died at 26.
There have been dozens of others —Thomas Peel
Dunhill, wholly Melbourne-trained, a leading authority
oq goitre and surgeon to the King; the late Richard
Rawdon Stawell, who was to have been president of
the B.M.A. Congress in his native Melbourne; Royle,
who was associated with Hunter in the investigation
of plastic paralysis; Norman Haire, “J.P., State of
N. S. Wales, and gynaecologist, obstetrician and
sexologist”; and F. F. Muecke, the London eye, ear
and nose man. And remarkable things have been
done by Australian doctors whose names were not
mentioned in the newspaper records —such things as
the revival of a patient, apparently dead for 15
minutes, at Grafton, the removal of tangled wire from
a man's stomach at Goulburn, and marvellous opera-
tions performed on cripples brought to Sydney from
western N. S. Wales.
And the spirit of service is as pronounced among
Australian surgeons and physicians as the degree of
skill attained. Few hospitals could carry on without
“honoraries,” usually the cream of the profession,
and even then resident staffs are often sinfully over-
worked. Witness the recent statement of the house
surgeons at Adelaide Hospital that for two years
their institution had suffered from “a crippling short-
age” of staff, that nine residents had 550 patients
under their care, and that a house surgeon's weekly
hours on duty, “all spent working at top speed.”
were “approximately 120.” The fact is that there
is a saddening dearth of organisation of hospital or
medical services, or both, even where lottery funds
are available.
But the field is not all barren. Westralia imposes
a small hospitals tax, and, although the impost has
its critics, it has certainly assisted the hospitals to
show encouraging results. For example, the Perth
Children’s Hospital, once chronically hard up, an-
nounces that, in spite of a great increase in number
of admissions, “the death-rate last year was the
second-lowest on record—only a fraction above that
for the previous year.” And at a time when maternal-
mortality rates are tragically high in Australia and
Britain alike, the King Edward Memorial Hospital
at Subiaco reports that 11(H) mothers were confined
in (he institution last year, and not one lost her life.
Sydney, for its part, has a hospital fund which guar-
antees the contributor of sixpence a week a 12 weeks’
hospital allowance, at £2 9s. a week, for himself, his
wife, children under 17 years and parents, if they
arc dependants. And Queensland is discussing a
system of medical insurance, also based on a payment
of sixpence a week.
The Commonwealth Government, when consider-
ing its national-insurance scheme—presumably it
means to enlist the aid of the life offices and the
friendly societies —will have to lake medical and
hospital insurance into account. The preliminary
funds required for the general scheme, and for (he*
organisation of services and of research -now under-
taken sporadically, but here and there with fine
results—could be got by means of an issue of premium
bonds.
THE BOOK CENSORSHIP.
The. Anti-Censorship League met the Minister of
Customs in Melbourne last week and put its views
before him. It asked him to permit free entry of all
books which circulate freely in Britain. After two
hours of argument, Mr. While declared that he was
still waiting for concrete proposals from the delega-
tion ; and thereupon Mr. McMahon Ball, president of
the league, walked out of the room.
Mr. Lyons is reported to have promised to give
consideration to what was said and countersaid at
the meeting. The Young Nationalists, who are poli-
tical supporters of Mr. White, arc said to have come
in behind the anti-censorship people. So something
is moving.
But there is a tendency in these discussions to
treat political and literary works as if they belonged
to separate categories. The tendency ought to be
resisted.
If a book is a work of literature, it is a
piece of analysis which deals with some aspect of
human relationships, and it is no concern of the
censorship or the public what form the writer has
adopted in stating his findings. Thus there is no
real distinction between a novel, a political essay, a
poem or a scientific textbook dealing with the same
subject if the purpose of the writer is to state the
truth, as he understands it. A novelist may analyse
some aspect of sex in the form of a short story and
be just as objective, as pure in his motives and as
scientific in his statement as a biologist writing a
thesis. The same applies to a novel dealing with social
relations and to a political treatise on the same
subject, if the authors of both have been equally
objective.
Yet the Customs will let through a work couched
in the jargon of the scientist and consign to the
bonfire a novel in which the same ideas are stated
much less ambiguously by a great literary artist.
The reason why this happens is obvious. Cus-
toms officials are not authorities on literature any
more than they arc authorities on science ; but the
scientist has greater prestige in the community than,
the artist —he is regarded as a rather dubious charac-
ter. Moreover, when a Customs official reads a novel
he is apt to be carried by the art of the writer into
the very presence of the people and problems depicted.
This may be a painful, even horrifying, experience
if he has been brought up with the ideas of his grand-
mother and has never escaped from them. A
scientific work does not give him the same effect of
immediacy, because, for the main part, the ter-
minology is obscure and he does not relate the ideas
contained in it to his own experience. So .Science is
apt to get the passport refused to Art.
This is bad for the culture and intellect of the
country, and there is only one way out of it. While
there is censorship it should be conducted by indi-
viduals acquainted with literature and of sufficient dis-
tinction not to be frightened by political and depart-
mental prejudices. They should be capable of an
independent aesthetic judgment, or, at least, of a sym-
pathetic and liberal attitude to literature when they
do not understand it. Such a body of citizens would
be able to distinguish between art and pornography.
The present censorship frequently stops art under
the impression that it is pornography, and lets porno-
graphy through because it is unable to discriminate
between pornography and literature.
F.S.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Bold” in the Wrong Place.
The writer of the Governor’s speech at the opening
of the N. S. Wales Parliament —his Excellency read
it with the air of a wary colonel who has been asked
to afternoon-tea and adjured to admire the poodle—
finds “a steady improvement in economic conditions.”
The recent rise in the price of our wool and in the
price of our metals, as well as the fact that new
markets are being found for some of our secondary
products, will stimulate further those forces that are
making for full recovery.
He notes with like satisfaction that “employment
continues to increase month by month,” though it
isn’t increasing fast enough. And the margin between
revenue and expenditure “will be improved by approxi-
mately £1,500,000.” So it should be with the buoyancy
in wool prices, but even then the deficit will be
£1,800,000 or so.
As a result of the improved conditions, special
income and wages taxes are to be reduced on smaller
incomes, and rail freight-rates on wheat, meat, fruit
and dairy produce are to come down. And there is
to be a continuation of the “major public works
programme to develop resources and stimulate
employment” which cost £10,600,000 in loans last year.
There are to be more wheat silos, new landing-
grounds and aerodromes (really the concern of the
Commonwealth), “improvements to the transport
systems of Sydney and Newcastle” (meaning, among
other things, lots more Government buses and bus-
men, this being an anti-Socialist Government), wheat-
marketing legislation to provide for “a home-con-
sumption price” (if it can be done) and “a complete
survey of the State’s resources for closer settlement”
—which seems somewhat belated after the country
has been occupied for 150 years.
Very necessary measures arc Mr. Martin’s Com-
panies Bill, co-ordination of taxation laws and indus-
trial awards and compulsory use of wireless on intra-
state shipping, though transfer of this power to the
Commonwealth, which has brought in a correspond-
ing law, would be better. It is a conventional U.A.P.
programme, with no surprises. Instead of a “bold”
public-works policy, an overburdened public would
like to see a courageous programme of tax-reduction.
One expedient has been tried often with bad results ;
the other has never been seriously attempted.
Back to Duntroon.
In the early depression days the Royal Military
College was moved from Canberra to the heart -of
Sydney. It had been costing £52,000 p.a. to
run, and the Labor politicians in control jumped
at the chance of reducing expenses by about £20,000
p.a. At the same time, the naval college at Jervis
Bay was turned into boarding-houses.
After four and a half years, during which the
officers’ houses at Canberra have been let to politi-
cians and civil servants, the military college is to
go back to its historic site. It has been found that,
during the occupation of Duntroon by civilians,
dilapidations and reorganisation needs have developed
which will make the cost of reconditioning £30,000.
Then homes will have to be built in Canberra for
the tenants to be turned out.
If the thing costs £150,000 it will be cheap at the
price. Though the college has been maintained at a
high standard of efficiency during its exile, the centre
of a big city is no place for it. Apart from that, it
should be expanded. Up till a few years ago Aus-
tralia was rich in competent officers of fighting age,
and, in case of war, could have provided leadership
for several divisions from the ranks of the A.I.F.
Few of the war-time officers who remain fit for
service are now much under 40 —too old for junior
regimental jobs. And the technique of modern war
changes every day. A greater Duntroon has become
an urgent matter, and it could be achieved without
adding to the strain on the taxpayer by cutting down
the expenditure on “goodwill” missions and on the
useless and dangerous League of Nations represen-
tation.
4
Scaremongering Can Be Expensive.
Vic. Metropolitan Board of Works has been reduced
to advertising its case against the embargo on beef
from its sewage farm.
The board points out that the beef-measles scare,
the pretext for the embargo, is sinfully paltry ; that
over a term of years only a few people have con-
tracted the alleged disease, which is preventible by
cooking and speedily curable for an outlay of 11s.;
arid that, denied the right to sell fats from the farm,
which has returned annual profits of as much as
£50,000, it has had to raise the rates 2d. in the £. It
adds that if the farm goes out of action —which is
what is making the embargo permanent would mean
—£1,000,000 will go west and another 3d. in the £
will be needed to pay for a new sewage-disposal plant.
These representations have been wasted on the
Dunstan Government; that parish-minded crew, aided
by Laborites (who care nothing for the fact that the
Werribee farm is one of the few strikingly successful
examples of public ownership) and Yaps, has secured
Assembly sanction for continuance of the interdict.
But the Council has yet to be heard from.
♦
Things Look Brighter.
From a land man who should know: —
At all events, the outlook for wool is favorable. The
season opened with an average of 13d. per lb. for “greasy,”
and at the Sydney series £17 0s. 7d. was paid per bale —
£1,588,000 for 93,911 bales. There seems no likelihood of
"rious weakening, since Bradford has not yet begun to
buy.
Then came the rain. It descended copiously on districts
in northern S. Australia which had scarcely seen rain for 10
years; it visited pastoral areas in Queensland and northern
ẃ
ẅ
have concrete roads and footpaths, and everything
is in accordance with modern ideas of aesthetic charm ;
in other words, it is a bit too Euclidean. The result
has been that the value of slum property in South
Melbourne has declined, and thus made the slum
dwellings more readily lettable.
To say that Fisherman’s Bend has done anything
to solve Melbourne’s slum problem, which is nearly
a hundred years old, is either to be stupid or to be
callous to the reality. Premier Dunstan will have
solved the slum problem when he has found a method
whereby slum-dwellers can be provided with the
wherewithal to put down deposits on villas in Fisher-
man’s Bend, and thereafter to be able to pay the
rent. And even then there would be a residue of
individuals who would make into a slum even a
model house in the best of model suburbs.
*
Albert Among the Masters.
Dear Bulletin, —Too little attention has been given
to the homecoming of Mr. Albert Ogilvie, the Tas-
manian Premier. It seems to me that his country-
men cannot have read what he said at a rally of
the Douglas Credit Association in Adelaide or they
would appreciate him more. For example:
I have had the privilege of meeting masters of
commerce, masters of transport, British Ministers,
leaders of the Opposition, the Austrian dictator and all
the other leaders of European countries.
This shows broadmindedness, because Mr. Ogilvie’s
political brethren have always chosen to tell us that
leaders of commerce and transport —I leave the other
persons out —are excrescences whom it is a demo-
crat’s “privilege” to avoid.
Mr. Ogilvie went on to tell how bad things are
in Germany and Italy.
Look at the forced loans in Italy! The authorities
call at people’s houses, look over their furniture, and
tell them they must subscribe more.
This unnecessary display of effort is enough to shock
anybody. Mr. Lang, Mr. Ogilvie’s prophet, used to
tell the workers to “subscribe more” without troubling
to look over their furniture —he just took it in wages
lax.
Dr, Schacht was difficult to bring down to tin-
tacks he was “boasting all the time of his friend-
ship with Montagu Norman, of the Bank of Eng-
land.” Nevertheless, Mr. Ogilvie contrived to ask
“Why is it not financially possible, if it is physically
possible, to give food to these people who are starv-
ing?” Dr, Schacht was flabbergasted. He “shook
his head.”
Mr. Ogilvie left for London to attend a dinner
to Major Douglas at which
His Grace the Earl of Tankerville sat on my right
and none other than the Very Reverend Hewlett
Johnson, Dean of Canterbury, on my left. They were
typical of the persons present.
The eighth Earl of Tankerville is descended from a
man who was ennobled by Queen Elizabeth for
presiding over a Commission on Heresy. He owns
Chillingham Castle, where (he famous cattle are white,
and might not please Dean Johnson —a dean in
England is very noble indeed —who recently remarked
that it would be a good thing if a bit of Australia
were handed over to the Japanese. However, it is
nice to learn that Labor leaders are getting on, in the
world. For if these dignitaries are “typical” of every-
one at the dinner they must have been typical of
Mr. Ogilvie.—Yours etc., El V.
Are We Shiftless?
“M.G.”: Mrs. Lyons, returned from a tour of Europe
and America, repeated the story that Australians are
inclined to adopt a “good-enough” attitude towards
the tasks they undertake. For many years I
have tried to discover whether there is any basis
for this oft-told tale. All my researches and
observations have been to the contrary—have gone
to prove that, while Australia has its quota of
loafers and slipshod workers, it has a very high
proportion of earnest men and women devoted to
turning out good work as speedily as possible.
In my youth I was associated with the building
trade, in which imported carpenters were undeniably
more highly skilled than the local men. But they
were so slow that it did not pay a contractor to
engage them. For a set of shelves in a cheap cottage
they would produce a piece of high-grade cabinet-
maker’s work, calculated to last 500 years. If it was
customary to have shelves of that sort in England
then, it is certainly not the case to-day, and no London
contractor would employ now the English carpenters
who came to Australia 30 or 40 years ago.
American building trades are wonderfully fast
and obtain wonderful effects, but that is not due
to the operatives ; it is the perfect organisation up
above, which is, in turn, largely due to the immense
scale on which everything is produced. But you find
Australian plasterers regarded with respect right along
the Pacific Coast, because those who rushed there
after the ’Frisco ’quake set a standard of efficiency.
My later youth and middle age were spent in
the newspaper business. After a lifetime of experi-
ence in Australia and a thorough study in England
and America, 1 can honestly say that there is no
more devoted newspaperman in the world than the
Australian ; and that ranges from the editorial staff
to the truck-driver who delivers the finished goods.
I’ll admit that shiftless and lazy men don’t last long
in newspaper offices; pace and quality are set and,
if they don’t conform, they get out. But the same
thing applies —or should apply—in all businesses
efficiently run. Properly-handled, the Aussie is as
conscientious a worker as can be found. Ask those
in control of the road boards of N.S.W. and Victoria
—they have to deal with workers who perform labori-
ous tasks in conditions of extreme discomfort. Ask
officers of the A.I.F. There is not one who will say
that the Diggers didn’t do the job thoroughly. And
that does not mean fighting only ; it means fatigue,
which the average soldier of any nationality is apt
to dodge whenever there’s a chance.
“The Bulletin’s” John Dailey.
w


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"Spokeshavc”: For spare-time hobbies
doctors beat all other professional men.
The medical faculty of Melbourne
provided the 1500 members of the
B.M.A. who attended their congress with
full proof of this. The display was made
at the University, and comprised oil-
paintings, photographs, collections of
antiques and postage stamps, homemade
Turkish rugs, a briquette machine, water-
colors, a model schooner, a complete fly-
fisher's kit and various other odds and
ends. Only one exhibitor submitted a
device to promote medical science, and
the women practitioners confined them-
selves to displays of needlework. It is
a somewhat remarkable fact that the
physicians of our bodies go in for these
by-occupations with far more enthusi-
asm than the physicians of our souls. It
would be difficult to imagine a congress
of painters, writers, poets, sculptors,
philosophers or even physicists greeting
their colleagues from overseas with an
exhibition of model ships, postage stamps
and needlecraft.
“C.Q.”; Melbourne Public Library has
a remarkable collection of ancient manu-
scripts dealing with the science of heal-
ing. They don’t go back quite as far as
Hammurabi’s code, which prescribed the
cutting oil' of the physician’s hands if his
patient died, but a display made for the
B.M.A. meeting includes facsimiles of
Babylonian and Egyptian papyri, the
hooks of Hippocrates, Galen and Celsus
and a wide range of mediaeval works.
-|! * * *
"D.E.”: The Mystery of the Tattooed
Arm remains a mystery, and now,
presumably, the fiction-writers may do
their best (or worst) with it. The arm
was disgorged by a shark in Coogee
(Sydney) Aquarium ; it was identified as
having been attached to the person of
one James Smith, and Patrick Brady, in
whose company, it was alleged, Smith
had been last seen alive, was charged
with murder. At the trial the Crown
tendered statements attributed to Regi-
nald Holmes, whose dead body was
found in his car after the discovery of
the tattooed arm ; Chief Justice Jordan
would not admit them, but refused at
that stage to take the case from the jury.
When the Crown had done, however, his
Honor directed the jury to acquit. On
leaving the court Brady was arrested
again, the charge being that he had forged
a money-order for £4OO at Hobart.
* * $ ?-
“0.K.”: Senator Huey Long, accord-
ing to a commentator, "carefully used
bad grammar in his public addresses to
substantiate his claim to being a plain
man of the people.” Something similar
has been alleged against Jimmy Thomas,
Britain’s Secretary for the Dominions,
though whether an> public man endears
himself to the proletariat by such
methods in these days of free education
may be doubted. Australia has had
politicians before and since Parkes who
were notoriously weak in the matter of
aspirates, but it is pretty safe to assert
that they flourished (when they did) in
spite of this rather than through it. On
the other hand, a liberal command and
use of homely phrases and expressive
colloquialisms, not necessarily ungram-
matical, is a useful thing in any platform
speaker's equipment.
* * ♦ ♦
"Binduli”: Old Pat Whelan, who ran
taverns and helped to run breweries
in Kalgoorlie (W.A.) for 20 or 30
years, officiating as a coroner in his spare
time, was a really talented raconteur.
Of all his numerous stories that went
with the jerking of beer pumps and the
tinkle of glasses, the one he told the best
dealt with an experience of his in
Adelaide when he was fresh from the
Ould Sod. Pat got a job as assistant in a
big drapery store. A ship limped into
port with the cargo in her hold—mostly
drapery—slightly damaged by a leak.
Pat’s firm bought the lot, advertised an
Immense Sale of Damaged Goods Direct
from London, and found its doors be-
sieged for three weeks afterwards —the
stuff was so good and the hurt it had sus-
tained so small. Very soon it was ex-
"In recognition of your lifelong service to the firm , my directors have
requested me to present you with this — er—beautiful pen."
hausled, but the manager was full of
resource and —“Phwat do you think we
byes had to do?” Pat would ask. “Ivry
night after closing time we were sent aloft
with buckets of sea water to ready-up
enough stuff for the next day’s sale.” The
damaged goods, one gathered, continued
to go off like hot cakes until everything
otherwise unsaleable had received a
splash or two of brine to make it eligible
for the description. It was a good story ;
punctuated by the narrator’s deep
chuckles it seldom failed to brisk up bar-
room trade.
* * Z *
“Milord”: Walter Citrine, the English
trade-union leader, taunted for accept-
ing a knighthood from the present Gov-
ernment, said that he might have had
a coronet from the last Labor Ministry
if he had chosen. He added that, if Labor
Governments were dead against the
creation of titles, they ought to be con-
sistent by not conferring them when it
was in their power to do so. Still, there
was one excellent reason why, when
Labor first gained possession of the
Treasury benches at Westminster, it had
to sling a few coronets about. It was
obliged to have Cabinet Ministers and
spokesmen in the House of Lords, and
how else was it to get them? There were
people who used to think that a fatal
bar to Labor’s ever coming into power
in England was that sturdy democrats
would never consent to be ennobled.
But, when the time came, sufficient of
them for the purpose submitted with a
good grace.
# C * *
"Findy”: S.A. is, very tardily, taking
steps to get rid of the unsightly adver-
tisements that mar the beauty of the
Adelaide hills. The Government has
decreed that all such are to be removed
by September 30 from "public roads, sea
beaches, navigable waterways and all
places or things visible therefrom.” As
there is not much point in placing an
advertisement for Binks's Pills or Jones's
Soap on a "place or thing" not visible
from a road, beach or navigable water-
way, this should mean the end of the
nuisance. Whether the term "advertise-
ment" includes such challenging notices
as "Are You Saved?” and "Hell Awaits
All Sinners” is probably a question that
will have to be argued out.
* * * ♦
“Templar”: Most people know that a
sentence of imprisonment for life doesn't
mean what it says; exactly what ir docs
mean was explained by the Westralian
Crown Prosecutor in the case of Walsh
and Flynn, who arc now undergoing this
penalty for manslaughter of an aggra-
vated type. It means that neither con-
vict will serve more than 20 years, which
may be reduced to 15 by good conduct.
Even “imprisonment for the term of
one’s natural life” is not quite so sweep-
ing as it sounds, for no Government can
bind its successors to carry out the sen-
tence in its entirety ; the "natural-lifer"
may entertain some hope of getting out-
side prison walls after (say) 25 years, if
he should live so long. Why do we cling
to some of these outworn legal for
judicial) fictions? If a Judge knows, as
he presumably does, that a life sentence
is merely a misleading equivalent for 20
years, why shouldn’t he say 20 years?
❖ * * *
“Sailor"; A newspaper item about a
ship’s purser who has turned his cabin
into a flower garden set me thinking of
a French ship that called into Rabaul.
I was invited aboard for lunch. Veni-
son was on the menu, and this led me to
ask the skipper where it came from. By
way of reply he showed me round.
Housed above the poop were half a
dozen fat deer in company with a herd of
porkers; corralled in the after well-deck
was a flock of sheep, and poultry seemed
to have the run of the ship. The boat deck
and fiddley looked like a well-laid-out
Chinaman’s garden, and I wouldn’t have
been surprised to walk into an orchard
in the ’tween decks. The skipper told me
that he was tired of trying to carry cows
—either broken legs brought a speedy
end to the beasts or they went off the
milk —and goats were too temperamental.
The boat’s name was Rabelais! I know
it sounds too good to be true, but a
Lloyds register will show that this float-
ing farm does exist.
“Exdig": Haig. I read, was “an invet-
erate diarist." But every commander,
whether he liked it or not, had to keep
a diary for the War Office ; the originals
of the A.I.F. unit diaries are among those
stacked in War Records —only photo-
stated copies are preserved at Canberra.
These diaries are illuminating revelations
of personal characteristics, turns of
thought and tricks of speech. I handled
many. One C.O. was desperately con-
cerned about the dearth of liquor in the
areas where his men spent their spells ;
he was always inquiring how' soldiers
could be expected to do their best in the
line if they could not have a real holiday
out of it. Another diarist was mainly
exercised about food supplies; a third
made a hobby of camp sanitation; a
fourth threw' in such remarks as:
“The men are benefiting by their rest,
but are aching for the opportunity to
return to the line." (I should like to
have heard them discussing this statement
in their dugouts.) My own C.O.’s efforts
were shot through with such satirical
sentences as “Why is it that intelligence
officers are never intelligent?”
“Morita”: Haig's diary mentions that
at Pozieres it was difficult to estimate
the A.l.F.’s casualties because relieved
troops refused to leave the line and
fought on with other units, one crowd
ending a stunt hundreds stronger than it
officially started with. As for casualties,
in just a couple of weeks our cost was
23,000, and only a few days before
Fromelles had lost the A.I.F. 5500. The
fact is that in changing over troops of
one division were still in the line whilst
fresh divisions were attacking, but I’d
have evacuated as an unstrung shell-
shock any man who delayed even an
hour in getting out of the hell of the
everlasting bombardments, to sleep and
forget. I watched full-strength battalions
marching in, their first big attack for
thousands; it was pathetic a few days
later to see the remnants coming back,
battalions reduced to one-company
strength.
Af * * *
“Tiki": The barrow-pushing mania has
hopped the Tasman and infected Maori-
land, where a hefty young man named
Lukey, wheeling a still heftier young
man named Scholcfield, plodded through
all sorts of weather and over a vast
variety of mountains all the way from
Auckland to Wellington. Severest lest of
the jaunt was the road over Paeka-
kariki hill (the locals call it
“Piecock"), which in the early days
of motoring defeated many a car
and motor-cycle. The careful M.L.
traffic authorities insisted on the
equipage being fitted with a re-
liable brake and a pair of lamps.
The barrow-sitting partner lost
weight on the 31 days’ 530-mile
journey, but the pusher lost none. The
barrow grew heavier, as in addition to
5000 autographs it was plastered with
railway destination labels. Wellington
gave the adventurers a public reception.
$ *
“Colonel Bungstarter": Some negroes
(B. 4/9/’35) have been game enough
under gunfire. During the war a bat-
talion of Sudanese mutinied in Egypt.
The majority were surrounded and dis-
armed before they could give trouble,
but 10 of them had dug a rifle-pit inside
a hut on the parade ground, and accu-
mulated a large supply of arms and
ammunition. From this they put up such
a formidable resistance against over-
whelming odds that a field-gun was
brought up to shell them out. Against
even this they held out for several hours,
and forced the use of indirect fire by
the deadly accuracy of their shooting.
Two were alive when a party at last got
in. One used his last split-second of
existence to squeeze the trigger once
more and kill the British officer who led
the storming party. If Ethiopia gets any
Sudanese volunteers of their breed, the
Mussolini forces will meet trouble.
“Lao-dah": A naval serio-comedy
which began in Melbourne has just drawn
to a close in Ning Tinghai, China. Six
months ago the s.s. Eumerella, which
had been laid up for six years in Port
Phillip, was purchased by a Chinese firm.
After two attempts to get it away it even-
tually staggered into Shanghai. Its first
voyage with 400 passengers was a local
event, and when the old craft arrived at
Tinghai there was a Mayoral reception,
crackers were exploded and half the
population of the town crowded on
board. In the middle of the celebrations
there was an extra special display of
fireworks, and the entire ship’s comple-
ment, the passengers and the guests
crowded to the bulwarks to look. The
Mei Lee, which was her new name,
gently turned over on her side, the ocean
poured through her portholes and she
gracefully subsided on to the mud of
Hangchow Bay,
HOW TO TELL A DOCTOR.
“A glance at the B.M.A. congress shows that
doctors run to all shapes and sizes, all makes of
heads and all degrees of handsomeness; Nevertheless,
there seems a look which stamps the doctor, a
thoughtful, reflective look, penetrating and wise
withal.” — Age.
Thfcy differ in their physical extruneu
As much as any other class you meet.
There’s nothing typical about their crania.
And no distinctiveness about their feet.
Though some retain their youthful pose and
vigor,
While more arc running steadily to fat,
Their girths becoming (with their incomes)
bigger.
Yon cannot pick a Galen by his (igger
One shouldn’t bank on that.
They run to cv’ry kind of shapes and sizes.
The gents, to whom you ruefully impart
Gloomy misgivings and depressed surmises
About your lungs, your liver or your heart.
Some bearers of the /Esculapian banner
Arc blunt and short and sharp and brusque
as hell;
Some cultivate the soothing “bedside manner.”
You’ve happened on them both. I’ll hci a
tanner.
A chap can never tell.
But there’s one trait, relentlessly revealing.
Without recourse to Sherlock Holmes's aids,
Ihe man who practises the art of healing
From those who specialise in other trades.
The did', is in his look. A scientific
And plain divergence from the human flock -
Nothing oracular or hieroglyphic,
But just an absolutely sure specific
By which you know the doc.
Mow- can you list a medico? It tries you
To pick a pattern—that you can’t gainsay.
Well, let the Age (and ckc the poet) wise
you
To solve the riddle and to show the way.
One stamp, both individual and collective,
Upon their lightly-lifting foreheads lies —
Or anyhow it should, if they’re effective—
I hcy’re bound to look infernally reflective
And infinitely wise.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nakh”: The conveying by aeroplane
of an alligator and a frilled lizard,
destined for Melbourne, from Darwin to
Adelaide recalls another unusual feat of
animal transportation. A well-known
ethnologist was engaged in studying a
tribe of aboriginals in a remote part of
N.Q., and, incidental to his particular line
of research, had secured a large snake
of a variety he believed to be unknown
to science. A telegram reached him from
his headquarters in Melbourne which in-
timately concerned the welfare of the
natives with whom he was in contact, and
an immediate answer was required. The
nearest telegraph station was 150 miles
away; if he left the snake behind it
would almost certainly have been killed
and eaten by the tribe. There was only
one way out of the predicament—he car-
ried the food and water for the trip, his
wife, who was with him, carried the
snake and they tramped the 300 miles
there and back. Of course, the ethnolo-
gist might have left his wife behind to
look after his find, but then she might
have been eaten along with the snake.
* H* ♦ *
“Cauboy”: At the instance of the Gov-
ernment of Victoria, J.C.W. Staged a
gala performance of “Pina-
fore” in Melbourne in honor
of Katsui Dcbuchi, the Jap-
anese goodwill envoy. “Pina-
fore” is a mild and amusing
skit on the British Navy, and
even in its youth it did not
give even the most sensitive
admiral on the retired list
heartburn. “The Mikado” is
in the same good-humored
vein, but when it was first
produced it drew a strongly-
worded protest from the
Japanese Ambassador in
London. Even to-day, if Pre-
mier Dunstan had selected
“The Mikado” for the delec-
tation of his guest from Nip-
pon there would be awkward
repercussions and no Banzais
from the Japanese portion of
the audience. Nor would a
Japanese picture of the Brit-
ish royal family, even as palpably well-in-
tentioned as “The Mikado,” get an en-
thusiastic reception from a British audi-
ence. There are many degrees and varia-
tions in our ability to see ourselves as
others see us.
“Nakhoda”: The study of the Japan-
ese language is increasing in Australia.
Not long ago it would have been diffi-
cult to find a single speaker of the
tongue ; this year 21 students are taking
the course at Melbourne University and
the Japanese instructor at the Macßob-
ertson Girls’ High School has 60 pupils.
Those earnest students have my deepest
sympathy. Japanese is one of the most
difficult languages in the world. I have
tried it myself. The spoken tongue is
obstacle enough, but the Chinese charac-
ters which are the written form are a
life study in themselves. Moreover,
there are two phonetic systems, and
words written in these are thrown in
amongst the Chinese ideographs.
* * & *
“Baker St.”: A speaker at the Pacific
Health Conference in Sydney told a story
of an interesting little bit of Sherlocking.
A New Guinea husband and wife had
undergone a blood lest for malaria. This
revealed, not malarial infection, but
slight lead poisoning. Further investiga-
tion showed that their garden, which had
once been the site of a Government
printery, was full of old lead types ; the
tomatoes and beans growing there all
showed signs of lead impregnation. But
that was not all. One of the sorrows
of the couple had been the mysterious
diminution of the vegetable supplies.
Knowing his N.G., the doctor took a
blood test of the two trusted cookboys'.
These carried such a large lead content
that there was no doubt as to where the
missing vegetables had gone.
♦ * * ♦
“Honi Pikau”: “Erua” (B. 28/8/’35)
wants to know how I make the letters in
the Maori alphabet 14 in number. Obvi-
ously, by including the “g” ; and I shall
continue to think that a letter used in
the written language of the Maori
(although always preceded by the letter
“n’) should be included in Henare’s
alphabet. Nor am I offering Otago in
support of my theory, that being a place-
name mutilated by the incorrect spelling
and pronunciation of the ignorant
pakeha. In any case, “Erua” is wrong
in giving the correct spelling of Otago
as “Otako” ; “Otauko” is the Maori ver-
sion. After this I don’t think the drinks
are on me.
* ♦ * ♦
“Thirsk”: I never heard of primrose
wine (B. 11/9/’35), but I could lead
"Mid-Sussex” to places where there would
be no “difficulty in gathering enough
petals,” even in the days when the Prim-
rose League was rampant. I fancy “M.S.”
means cowslip wine, which, well made,
used to be acclaimed as the finest of all
English country drinks. Another which
no Bulletin correspondent has men-
tioned was elderflower wine, a sparkling,
palatable beverage which has many a
time been passed off as French cham-
pagne, and was quite as good as most of
it, Don't confuse this nectar with elder-
berry wine, a heavy, dark fluid much in
vogue in my youth as a remedy for colds.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; The news that the police
of Canton arc dragging young women
of fashion out of rickshaws and haling
them to the watch-house for wearing
Parisian costumes, and that Marshal
Chiang has forbidden split skirts and lip-
stick to the Chinese flapper, will be ex-
plicable to any Melburnian who visits
a certain Greek fruiterer’s in Exhibition-
street. This enterprising tradesman has
imported from Shanghai a collection of
huge colored oleographs to decorate his
shop, and they give a more or less faith-
“Excuse my back. Wont you, Mr. Stumpjump?”
“ Course I will, missus. Cripes, We ain't all perfect!"
ful picture of the dreadful results that
follow on the impact of a new civilisa-
tion on an old. The campaign began in
China at least a quarter of a century ago.
One J. Bland, formerly secretary to the
foreign municipality of Shanghai, and
now the leading authority of the London
“Times” on Oriental affairs, has placed
it on record that in his day European
fashions only appeared on Celestial
frames when the owners were safely
sheltered under the aegis of the British
raj. if the wearers thereof had shown
themselves inland they would have had
their clothes lorn from their backs by
an infuriated mob. The fact that a
native capital like Canton is troubled
by the same phenomenon shows that the
movement has now become nation-wide.
Nevertheless, all the sumptuary regula-
tions in the w'orld will not stop it.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The other morning a Mel-
bourne mother missed her male offspring,
who had gone out to play in the street.
A frantic search ensued ; after the
bereaved parent had walked miles with-
out success, a desire to forget her grief
sent her to that universal solace the
cinema. There she saw her son fast
asleep in a comfortable seat in the audi-
torium. It turned out that a quarrel with
a companion had prevented him from
re-entering his own home; wandering
about without a focus, he at length
reached the city, and as night drew on
thought of shelter. Like his mother, the
only shelter apart from his own home
that he knew was the cinema, so in he
went, by some means evading the door-
keeper. The cinema has taken the place
of the mediaeval church as a sanctuary
in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Kingscote”: Kangaroo Island, long
neglected, may yet come into its own as
a holiday resort. For years a bi-weekly
steamer has been the only means of com-
munication with Adelaide, but last year
an enterprising syndicate initiated a
launch service across Backstairs Passage
between Hog Bay and Yankalilla, on the
mainland—a motor service provides
transport thence to the city. Now the
Moonta includes Kingscote (the island
“capital”) in its Gulf trip itinerary, and
next month Adelaide Airways will begin
an up-aloft service between Adelaide and
Kingscote. The island provides fishing
unobtainable elsewhere in S.A., and the
rugged scenery of the coastline is an
additional attraction.
* * * *
“Spare Skeats”: Whatever be the
mystery surrounding the phrase “leg-
pulling” there can be none about “getting
the wind up,” which “Dartle” (B.
11/9/’35) says has always mystified him.
Anyone wearing kilts on a windy morn-
ing will soon set “D.’s” doubts at rest.
Also he is referred to the familiar
nursery rhyme of our childhood about
little Robin Redbreast who sat upon a
pole.
* ♦ * *
“Cauboy”: A judge at the Sydney
eisteddfod surprised many by deploring
the fact that Pavlova’s “Swan Song” was
plagiarised in Australia, although in
Europe and Great Britain it is held
sacred to its originator. 1 don’t know
how it is in Sydney, but the popular ver-
sion in Victoria is hardly one which
would have annoyed Pavlova—who, inci-
dentally, was a phenomenally jealous
woman, even for a terpischorean ; it
would probably have made her laugh.
The variant favored in Melbourtie
has a degree of originality which the
great dancer never contemplated in her
wildest flights. Just before the final
flurry a gun is fired offstage, and as the
toe-twirler sinks to the floor she presses
a bulb containing red ink and a deep
stain slowly spreads over her stricken
breast. If Pavlova’s old-fashioned ver-
sion were reintroduced in Victoria it
would hardly raise a clap nowadays.
# * * *
“G.A.L.”: “J.E.L.” in his criticism of
R.A.N. get-up (B. 4/9/’35) undoubtedly
voiced the feelings of hundreds of mate-
lots who have to wear it. No sun.
Australian or otherwise, is good for eyes
unshaded by these ridiculous caps. And
to say that there’s no cold weather to
speak about on our coasts suggests that
“L.J.H.” has never yet been on deck in
a midwinter rainstorm anywhere between
Jervis Bay and Tassie. Finally, sweaters
are not issued ; they have to be bought
by the men.
“Mr. Chucks”: What has become of
the white duck dress (not the working
rig) which was once hot-weather wear
for matlows on tropical stations? Officers
still sport their ducks, but it is long
since I saw a lower-deck rating in them.
“E.W.L.” complains of the very inade-
quate naval cap. In the days of which 1
speak seamen wore a wide-brimmed
straw when they donned their ducks.
That lid, too, seems to have vanished.
Last time I saw it was when worn by
the naval gunners on the way to Paarde-
burg in the Orange Free State.
* * * *
“Main Brace”: “Spinnaker” himself is
off his course when he seeks to correct
“Sailor” (B. 4/9/’35) about the sheath-
ing of the King’s yacht Britannia. She
is a planked job, designed by one Wat-
son, and completed in 1893 for the future
King Edward. She was the first of the
shallow-draught, skimming-dkh type ever
built; one of her main improvements
was the clipper or fiddle bow, considered
a revolutionary change in those days
from the old overhanging bow. So suc-
cessful was she in her first season that her
royal owner collected £9OOO in prize-
money, with the result that 20 more of
the same type were laid down almost
immediately. The first time her colors
were lowered in match racing was in
1896, when the Meteor, owned by the
Kaiser and also designed by Watson,
beat her in a special match, carrying
more canvas than had ever been seen on
that type of yacht before, and with a
special boom of over 90ft. to the
Britannia’s 50-odd. Jt was not until
1909 that the first steel yacht was raced.
“Sailor”: “Spinnaker” takes me to
task regarding thd Britannia (B. 4/9/’35).
1 never suggested she was after the
America’s Cup, though it is obvious she
may race in home waters. Further, he
expresses himself puzzled at my remarks
about her copper. If he looks further
into the matter he will find that the
Britannia is a composite-built ship, iron
frame and timbered walls. I’ve seen the
old warrior double the buoy at Cowes,
and if she hasn’t a wooden hull I’ve spent
my seagoing life in vain.
•» * * *
“H.A.L.”: The income-tax officials
don’t collect many bouquets, but some of
them certainly have a sense
of fairplay. A contractor
had for neighbor one of those
men who always credit other
people with making fortunes ;
the neighbor wrote to the
taxation people and suggested
that an inspection of the con-
tractor’s books would show'
that he was dodging pay-
ment of his taxes. An in-
spector called and reported
everything in order. The
head of the department took
up the informer’s letter, and
after a moment’s thought re-
marked: “I seem to remem-
ber something about this
same man sending us on an-
other wild-goose chase a few
years ago. Go and have a
look at his books.” The in-
spector did ; the result was a
sizable contribution to the
revenue in the form of penalties for tax
evasion.
•» « * *
“X.S.”: W. B. Me In nes has been
commissioned to paint the portrait of
John Batman which Melbourne City
Council feels it can’t do without. One
of its junior clerks is to pose for the
figure, as he happens to be a great-
great-grandson of the Founder, though,
since nobody knows what Batman
looked like, nobody can say whether the
youth has inherited any of his physical
characteristics. The remaining guide is
the sketch by the late Charles Nuttall,
who never met the Founder.
* :ft #
“Oran”: Settling in a little town, we
found the milkman was known as “Bill
the Jumper.” The name seemed so in-
appropriate for an obese and elderly man
that we asked the why of it, and learned
that it arose from a long-ago court case
in which Bill had been the chief witness
for the defence. It was alleged that a
pal of Bill’s had been hanging round the
home of two elderly ladies for some un-
lawful purpose and that a glimpse of
him had been caught in the backyard at
the unreasonable hour of 5 a.m.; Bill was
brought forward to swear that he had
been in the yard at that hour on legiti-
mate business, and found it empty. The
old ladies emphatically stated that their
back gate was locked at that hour, and
that William couldn’t have got into it until
6 o’clock, his regular time. The witness’s
explanation was that he jumped the gate.
It ended in the magistrate deciding to
view the barrier. Confronted by an
ancient arched contraption nearly nine
feet high he returned to court and, with
appropriate remarks, committed Bill’s
friend for trial. Only the fact that he
had eleven children saved Bill from a
prosecution for perjury ; he became
“The Jumper" to the neighborhood for
ever after.
DISAPPROVAL.
Vour loveliness is peerless; yet
Your intellect is numb.
1 o use a Yankee term, my pet.
You're beautiful but “dumb."
"Oh, goodness knows!” This hackneyed phrase
Springs from your lips when I
A plain and simple question raise
And seek a sane reply.
And now, since bliss has turned to gall.
Our brief romance we'll close;
For you provoke me most of all
With your firm “Goodness, noes!”
N.S.W .
P. O. M. C.


10 for 9 d '
20 for 1/6
Wrapped in
moisture-proof
“Cellophane”
which protects
and ensures fac-
tory freshness
always.
“Craven “A” have never
given me a sore throat”
Carreras add to their inimitable knowledge of mature and mellow
tobacco crops every development of scientific making and hygiene
in the production of cigarettes. As a result, Craven “A” give
constant smoking pleasure~without risk of harm to delicate and
sensitive throats.
CRAVENA
Made specially to prevent sore throats—
ppp '
Jtf&s '
X-5
POLITICAL POINTS
Mr. Debuchi has confirmed the report
brought back from Japan by J. G.
Latham that the Japanese have not forti-
fied the Marshalls or the Carolines.
Apropos, it has been suggested that the
British Empire mandates would have to
be surrendered if Britain and the Domi-
nions left the League, That aspect of
the case did not worry the Japanese when
they left; and they seem to be taking care
of themselves pretty well without alli-
ances.
Ogilvie has fulfilled his promise to tell
“the truth about Russia,” as he saw it,
but it doesn’t amount to much. This is
the pregnant part:
The population of Russia is 167,000,000,
all of whom are civil servants.
The population of Australia is just
6,700,000, and they arc not all civil
servants yet; but if the Ogilvies last
long enough they may be.
Westralian newspapers have another
grievance. On its last two visits to
Perth, the High Court dealt with eight
appeals from decisions of local Courts
and upheld seven. Three were judg-
ments of the Full Court and three of
the Chief Justice. The newspapers are
right in saying that it makes litigation
fearfully expensive, but the difficulty is
to suggest a remedy, if there is a remedy.
Another little Labor war has broken
out in Victoria, and that uncompromis-
ing pacifist Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R.,
is in it. The A.L.P. executive has de-
nounced the Council against War and
Fascism as a “subsidiary group of the
Communist party,” and has called upon
Labor members to withdraw from it.
Blackburn says, in effect, that he’ll be
hanged if he withdraws, so he is in
danger of being “disciplined.”
S.A. expects something substantial
from the Kidman estate, though three
other States are interested and drought
will lessen Queensland’s cut. S.A. suc-
cession duties range from 1 + p.c. to
17+ p.c., plus 25 p.c. super tax; the
Commonwealth takes up to 15 p.c. of
what is left.
The Queensland company tax begins
at Is. 9d, in the £ where profits don’t
exceed 6 p.c., 3d, in the £ being added
for each 1 p.c. But the Is. 9d. mini-
mum doesn’t apply to banks ; whether
they make 6 p.c. or less, banks have to
fork out 4s. in the £ of income. The
ruling party doesn’t like banks.
The Stevens Government is introducing
legislation to provide that, “where Federal
and State arbitration awards operate in
one industry” (and they operate madden-
ingly in many), “the Federal award shall
be the State award.” It will be a stride
towards wresting order from chaos.
U.A.P. conferences are generally tame
affairs, but warm debates on metropoli-
tan milk control seem likely to be heard
at the one to be held in Sydney. Several
branches demand abolition of the board
and reversion to the free market in
which the retail price was sd. a quart
in some suburbs, instead of 7d. and Bd.
in all. Malcontents are expected to point
out that a Ministerial M.L.C. is a big
circumstance in one of the two com-
panies that have benefited hugely from
“control,” and another Ministerial
M.L.C. in the second.
Just when the House of Reps, is about
to add to its record of 39 sittings since
the general election a year ago, Lawson,
the member for Macquarie, announces
from London that he intends to tour
Russia “dressed and equipped as a work-
ing man.” Several other Australian poli-
ticians have just come from Russia ; but
Lawson, it seems, is “eager to study the
progress of the second Five-Year Plan. ’
It’s not what Australia pays him £825
p.a. for, but, as the young man is writ-
ing “copyright” articles for a group of
newspapers, perhaps he won’t take the
salary while he is studying.
Hoare, the British Foreign Secretary,
gets great praise, especially from pro-
Abyssinian rags, for his “collective sanc-
tions” speech at Geneva (Morrison, the
British Labor member, claims that his
crowd forced “collective sanctions” on
the Government, and perhaps it did).
But Laval’s speech was shrewder. The
gist of it was that France would “fulfil its
duty as a member of the League and a
friend of Italy.” This is interpreted to
mean that France won’t join in applying
any form of coercion to Italy unless
Britain binds itself to defend France “in
all circumstances, times and places.” The
Italians, for their part, “understand M.
Laval’s position, and appreciate his
friendship for Italy”—and reserve all
their resentment for Britain.
“I am determined to fulfil our duty as a member of the League and a friend of
Italy.”— M. Laval at Geneva.
“’Eep, 'eep, 'ooray for ze League and ze sanctions! And anuzzer cheer for our
good frien’ Mussolini!”
How little these bellicose pacifists
learn from history, even recent history!
Listen to Herbert Morrison, who may
become leader of the British Labor party
in succession to Lansbury, that stout old
boy being against “sanctions”:
Mussolini now knows that the world
is against him. I appeal to the Italians
to realise that they are being led into wicked
and disastrous action by an irresponsible
fanatic with bloodthirsty tendencies....
who was guilty of political assassination
and is still torturing political prisoners. I
beg the Italians, if war comes, to rise and
destroy him and the brutal Fascist regime.
It is only 16 years since an appeal to
the Italians to repudiate the policy of
their Government was made (though not
in insulting language) by a foreigner with
a hundred times Morrison’s prestige and
in circumstances a thousand times more
favorable —by Woodrow Wilson, in
short. The only result was the seizure of
Fiume.
J. T. Heathershaw, formerly secretary
to the Commonwealth Treasury and now
Commissioner of Pensions, is going on
leave prior to retirement. He is 64. and
young for his years, but all the Common-
wealth jobs for which he is not too
ancient—G.-G.. C.J., Minister of Health.
Senator and M.H.R.—are filled.
It is suggested that the Parliamentary
pass may be extended to air travel in
the case of Commonwealth politicians
visiting their electorates—there is an
Imperial precedent for it, it is alleged.
But there are other and more pertinent
precedents: railway warrants, instead of
passes, in Britain, and docking of absen-
tees’ pay in Canada and S’Africa. A
S’African legislator who decides that the
races are more attractive than a Parlia-
mentary debate forfeits £3.
Berleis, who make what F. M. Forde
once described, with a modest blush, as
“foundation garments,” say they envy
Sargents, whose cry is that taxgatherers
take £62 for every £lOO distributed
among Sargents’ shareholders. Last
year tax-men claimed from Berleis 6 p.c.
more than net trading profit, income
taxes being equivalent to 33 p.c. and
sales taxes to 73 p.c. And that, the
managing director says, is not reckoning
in taxes deducted from dividends before
reaching the co. or taxes which it pays
on the same dividends.
i j „ .. .. . .. „
Queensland Taxpayer attributes the
stagnation ot factory enterprise in its
State to monstrous taxes, and gives
instances to show that small and large
-companies suffer alike.
A co. with a capital of £2OOO making
£5OO profit would pay £l3l ss. income tax,
£26 ss. super tax and £25 relief tax —
36.5 p.c.
A £lOO,OOO co. making £24,000 would
pay £6300 income tax, £1260 super tax
and £l2OO relief tax —36.5 p.c.. again.
Expansion of one-man concerns is
discouraged in the same way. The more
they earn, the more is taken from them,
until it actually pays an energetic man
to go slow.
A railway-rate battle is in progress
along the N.S.W.-Queensland border.
It is 496 miles from Sydney to Bogga-
billa and 284 miles from Brisbane to
Goondiwindi, yet goods are carried from
Sydney to Boggabilla much cheaper than
from Brisbane to Goondiwindi; in some
cases, for little more than a third.
Queensland alleges undercutting on the
part of the N.S.W. Railway Department,
which is a whale for trade- and traffic-
stealing. Section 102 of the Common-
wealth Constitution empowered Parlia-
ment to “forbid, as to railways, any
preference or discrimination by any
State, if such preference or discrimina-
tion is unreasonable or unjust to any
State,” but Section 102 went out of
business with the Inter-State Commis-
sion.
Westralia’s new Agricultural Bank
Commission, which has an ex-politician
for chairman, has asked the Government
to write off £500,000 of £718,000 lent to
farmers between Esperance and Norse-
man. The State will have to sacrifice a
lot more than that, for reduction of rents
and amalgamation of existing holdings
is recommended, together with new
loans (£lOO,OOO is mentioned) for top-
dressing and sheep. After 15 years of
costly individual experiments, chiefly with
public money, it has been found that the
Esperance land, except in patches, is no
good for wheat. Secessionists would
like to blame the Federal Octopus, but
in this case, as in that of the south-west
group settlements, the Octopus is guilt-
less.
Huey Long is dead of an abdominal
wound—he was shot by the son-in-law
of a Judge he was removing from office.
The assassin was riddled with bullets by
Long’s bodyguard. Assassination is un-
thinkable in British countries, but in the
wilder parts of Uncle Sam’s country —
Louisiana is one of the backward States
—it is still a political weapon. And a
demagogue who sets up a local dicta-
torship and appeals for wider 'support,
as Long did, on a programme of shar-
ing the minority’s possessions with the
majority takes his life in his hands.
Cowra (N.S.W.) “Guardian” suggests
that one reason why the Lyons embassy
found J. Bull so hard to negotiate with
was that Bull considers he has been
"had” over “the Central West’s million-
pound white elephant,” the Wyangala
Dam, It was migration-agreement
money (Lang had the use of it, at 2 p.c.,
even while he was refusing to pay
interest on another of “Shylock’s”
loans), and the State undertook to settle
satisfactorily one assisted migrant for
every £75, A preposterous undertaking,
of course ; anyway, the State has gone
'back on it.
Young Mr. Watson, who received
"£1709, remuneration,” and “£1022,
travelling expenses,” for banging the
secesh drum in London, is back with
what he calls “a natural solution.”
A single Government for eastern Aus-
tralia and a single Government for
western Australia, with provision for co-
ordination in respect of matters such as
defence, posts and telegraphs and cur-
rency.
One Government for 6,250,000 Aus-
tralians on the east, and one Government
for 450,000 on the west, of whom quite
150,000 are against separation. There
may be sillier politicians than Watson
about, but they can’t be many.
Godfrey Morgan, whose Parliamen-
tary speeches sometimes suggest infesta-
tion with the prickly-pear that grows in
his electorate, told Queensland Parlia-
ment that the A.W.U. was “dictating the
policy of the Forgan Smith Govern-
ment and had control of the Industrial
Court.” Justice Webb replied that it
was “a shocking insult and a shocking
lie,” deplorable at a time when both the
Court and the A.W.U. were struggling
to keep the peace in sugar districts.
From “II Vecchio,” who attended it:
Few people realise that an Australian
was responsible for the numbering of the
articles of the Covenant of the League of
Nations, until nine years ago a mass of un-
identifiable paragraphs. As an attentive
listener to every translated speech at the 1926
Geneva Conference, when J. G. Latham put
the numbering through, it appeared to me
the only useful concrete thing which the
Assembly achieved in a fortnight’s work. Per-
haps I should except the acceptance of the
gift of a Chinese encyclopedia which the
Peiping delegate said his country “was proud
to claim as the longest encyclopedia in the
world.”


MAKING A WELTER OF IT.


r
L
5.26-C
Wi
SHELL
Just a touch of the starter on the coldest day.
That quick response to the starter is the
result of super volatility —the quality
that is an exclusive advantage of Super Shell.
It enables Super Shell to vaporise as readily
in a dead-cold engine as most spirits do in
an engine that is already warm.
And easy starting is only one advantage.
Super Shell’s super volatility
also gives super pick-up . . . super power
. . . super mileage. You SAVE money
while enjoying advantages never offered
before 1
PERSONAL ITEMS
“El V.”: John Dailey, for all his in-
tense Australianism, was the complete
cosmopolitan. He reached adolescence
at a time when his father’s name was
known throughout the Empire as the first
Minister to send troops from Australia
to help in a British war and as Aus-
tralia’s first Privy Councillor. He
was as much at home in Paris as in
Sydney and London, where, during his
last term there, about a decade ago, he
JOHN BEDE DALLEY.
had rooms in Johnson’s Buildings in
Inner Temple-lane, on a site on which
the old lexicographer once lived. On
long June evenings John used to fre-
quent Gennaro’s, in New Compton-street.
There, it was the habit of the courtly old
Italian proprietor to distribute choice
flowers among his customers. All the
ladies got one, but only his favorites
among the men were honored with his
white camellias ; John Dailey was one.
One of John’s characteristics was an
affectionate gratitude, not only to his
father but to those who had helped his
father to eminence. Especially did he
always remember John Folding, head of
the Catholic Church in Australia for 40
years, who had been his father’s patron
in his early days, and whose second
name, Bede, he bore. His memorial to
the archbishop was sometimes to affix the
sobriquet “John Folding” to verses with
which he was especially pleased.
“S.T.S.”: The late Sidney Kidman
liked to say that he rode off into the
bush at 13, “on a one-eyed horse, with
five bob in my pocket.” He had a life-
long reputation for never drinking, swear-
ing or smoking; but after 70 he took to
cigarettes. Kidman inherited £4OO at 22,
and he and Jim Nicholas received
£40,000 in one year from Government
mail contracts. Nicholas afterwards went
to Westralia, and did well there in camel
deals, mail contracts and racing.
Cecil Murphy, found dead in his
strongroom in Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, was a kindly little man, full of
energy, prolific of quips, but as honest
as the day. He sat as a Labor man for
North Shore (Sydney) in the N.S.W.
Assembly from 1920 to 1927 —“Honest
John” Storey was his friend. After fall-
ing foul of J, T. Lang over the “Red
rules ” which were adopted at the 1927
A.L.P. conference, he lost the nomina-
tion for the North Sydney single-seat
electorate which replaced the old mul-
tiple-seat North Shore, The depression
hit him hard.
“W.E.F.”; When John Dailey joined
The Bulletin staff in 1907—he took,
the place of Frank Fox, appointed editor
of the “Lone Hand”—his colleagues were
James Edmond (editor), S. H. Prior
(“Wild Cat” pages), Arthur H. Adams
(Red Page), C. A. Jeffries (sporting
editor), Ernest O’Ferrall (“Kodak”), Alex.
Montgomery and Miss Conor O’Brien
(Woman’s Letter). Edmund Fisher was
the Melbourne representative. All are
gone, except Arthur Adams.
One of the busiest men in Sydney is
George Matthew Foster, superintendent
of the Hammond Hotels, secretary of
the Hammondville Homes Trust and
director of the 10-storey no-license hotel
which is to go up in Hunter-street. Yet
when he was a politician his name was
a synonym for lethargy. He was a
Digger Senator from Tasmania (1919-
25), and post-war inertia got him in a
chronic form. He grew to hate the job,
and was rarely seen in his place in the
House. Bets were made that he would
overstay his leave and suffer the ignominy
of having his seat declared vacant. He
resigned four months before the general
election of 1925 and took a job in a
Sydney land agency. After that he be-
came associated with Canon Bob Ham-
mond, found his mission and regained all
the energy of youth.
T. E. Whitton, part-proprietor of the
Muswellbrook “Chronicle” and Merriwa
“News” (N.S.W.), recently sold out owing
to ill-health. He lost both legs in
the war, and was in hospital for
a couple of years before returning
to Australia. Though without ex-
perience in newspaper work, he bogged
bravely in 14 years ago, mastered the
operating of a linotype and occasionally
helped on the editorial and business
sides.
Behind a quiet, almost deprecating ex-
terior, F. P. Kneeshaw, the new presi-
dent of the N. S.
Wales Chamber of
M a n u f a ctures,
hides a strong will
and a bright mind.
He has little to
say for himself in
the many associa-
tions and com-
mittees of which
he is a member,
but when he speaks
it is generally to
the point and with
finality. He was
educated at Syd-
ney Tech., joined
the Sydney Tram-
ways as an engi-
neer cadet, later
was chief engineer
to Noyes Bros, and
in 1921 became
g.m. to Kandos
Cement Co, Knee-
sh a w went to
Egypt as captain
in the sth Artil-
lery Brigade in
1915, served in
F. P. KNEESHAW, president NSW.
Chamber of Manufactures.
France and Belgium and was in-
valided as a major after being wounded
and mentioned in dispatches in 1918.
He is an associate of a number of engi-
neering institutes, is an M.L.C. and takes
a keen and active interest in U.A.P,
politics.
Frederick Mann is the fifth Chief
Justice to be appointed since the incep-
tion of responsible government in Vic-
toria. The other four were William F.
Stawell, George Higinbotham, John
Madden and William Irvine.
“D.A.W.”: The Maoris, who regarded
war as a summer sport, seem to have
inoculated the M.L. politicians with their
happy philosophy. Priminister Forbes is
a good Liberal, and his coalition col-
league Coates was once upon a time a
Liberal, but saw a brighter light. Both
are now officially opposed by Labor, but
the war is restricted to the Parliamentary
arena. When Forbes landed from a silver
jubilee jaunt and visited Christchurch on
the way to his farm in Cheviot he was
met in the gate by Dan Sullivan, Mayor
of the city, a Labor M.P. and an uncom-
promising opponent of Forbes-Coates
policy. But there were no wigs on the
green. Sullivan gave the P.M. a civic
welcome, on the grounds that Forbes
had expressed the Dominion’s loyalty to
the King and the city wished to asso-
ciate itself with that sentiment. At the
shivoo uprose Armstrong, M.P., another
Laborite and another representative of
the city in Parliament, and congratulated
Forbes on having done something to im-
prove trade relations with John Bull.
Maoriland’s pride is that its Parliament
is as gentlemanly an affair as the House
of Commons. It seems to be setting new
and higher standards in political etiquette.
Dead at Killara (N.S.W.) Lipson Han-
cock, for years g.m. of the Wallaroo and
Moonta Copper Co., S.A. Hancock was
born on the job in 1867 and succeeded
his father (“Cap’n Hancock” to all
Cousin Jacks) in the managership in
1903. The Hancock jig and the old Corn-
ish buddle operating on Wallaroo copper
ores attracted the attention of T. J.
Greenway, of Broken Hill .South, in 1895.
Greenway applied them with success to
the ores of the Barrier and solved the
sulphide problem, thus starting Broken
Hill on its long industrial career. Flota-
tion has since largely superseded gravity,
but the Hancock process was a milestone
in the development of metal separation.
Adelaide Art Gallery has lost Leslie
Wilkie, its director since 1926, dead after
a long illness. Born in Melbourne in
1879 he was a descendant of David
Wilkie, R.A., the Scottish painter. Leslie
Wilkie studied
under Bernard Hall
at the Melbourne
National Gallery,
and after a trip
abroad was asso-
ciated with the Vic,
Artists’ Soc. and
the Australian Art
Assoc. Prior to
his Adelaide ap-
pointment he was
a member of the
art staff of the
“Argus” and the
“A u s t r alasian.”
His work is repre-
sented in the Adel-
aide and Sydney
galleries, the His-
torical Memorial
Gallery, Canberra,
and in the Com-
monwealth War
Museum.
R. G, Peake,
secretary to the S.
Aus. Harbors
Board for the last
11 years, is to be-
come manager. Starting as a railway
clerk in 1891 he went to the N.T. in
’9B as auditor at Darwin. There he
was made a special magistrate, and
stayed for a time after the Common-
wealth took over. From 1917 to 1920
an uncle, A.H., was S.A. Premier.
Mr. Debuchi, who is returning J. G.
Latham’s goodwill call, is a genial-
looking diplomatist who speaks English
perfectly. He has spent most of the last
15 years smoothing out difficult situa-
tions. To Mr. Debuchi fell the task, in
1925-26, of making it clear to the Rus-
sian charge d’affaires at Tokio that “any
Japan’s Ambassador.
menace to Manchuria by Russia means
war between your country and mine" 4
he softened it by remarking that
“diplomatists never speak of war, but
this is a conversation between friends."
Afterwards he was sent to Washington
as ambassador during a period when the
atmosphere was still warm after the
immigration troubles of a few years ago.
He possesses a rare gift in Orientals, the
ability to follow the Western viewpoint—
and use it to advantage in negotiation.
“H.G.L.”: In a recent Shadow Show
(B. 14/8/’35) a critic is a trifle sarcastic
about people speaking different lan-
guages overcoming that difficulty and
finding love’s young dream and all that
sort of stuff. As the plot is laid in Argen-
tina I can assure that commentator it’s
nothing out of the ordinary. After the
Boer War the late Ernest Shadforth
went to Argentina to see what made it
go round. He could talk English and
a bit of Vaal Dutch, and he had a fluent
command of the Waggaboongas’ dialect
of the Gulf Country (N.Q.). Spanish?
Not a word. There he met a French
girl—even as did the fellow in the pic-
ture. She knew no English, and of the
Waggaboongas’ dialect she was painfully
ignorant. Did that deter' ’em? Not so’s
you’d notice. I have a couple of S.
American cousins now of whom I think
quite a bit, and one of them is so like
my own daughter that almost they could
be mistaken for sisters.
From “Laeken”:
The death of the young Queen of Belgium
is only one of a long list of family tragedies.
King Albert was killed mountaineering; a
cousin, Stephanie, married the Crown Prince
Rudolph of Austria, who destroyed himself at
Meyerling in 1888; Clementine, a sister of
Stephanie, married the Napoleonic heir who
came after the Prince Imperial, killed in Zulu-
land —he himself died prematurely just after
the war. The third daughter of Leopold 11.
became a Princess of Coburg, but, after various
matrimonial adventures, died in poverty in
Brussels. Leopold 11. was a brother of Char-
lotte, whose husband's life was ended by a
firing squad after a brief reign as Emperor of
Mexico; and Charlotte spent the rest of her
life in an asylum. King Albert’s widow
(mother of Leopold III.) is a niece of the Em-
press Elizabeth of Austria, who was stabbed to
death on the Lake of Geneva; and on her
mother’s side the Dowager Queen Elizabeth is
linked up with the royal house of Portugal
which ended with King Manoel, whose father
and elder brother were both assassinated.


loo^PUßr
VIRGINIA
vTOBACCO
•xxxwxSx*
... • m
»xv
10 to I
its a
CAPSTAN"
wwSWfiSiSKW
It
m
;■•: X
mmm
..
;
•-
Sil&ii:
■■/.■:■
iilii
m
m
m
BSSSSSS
MV'S'S.-S S']
ivXSWSiW
iHii
■■
;:-■■■;■ S
Si
is;
*
X
are now
obtainable in 3
MEDIUM FULL
121-6-5


'*■-
m
s? ortipt cokoiai a
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable for all classes of ore,
and u?,ed the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial arid low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
Send for particulars and prices bofli
machines.
iO-12 Parramatta Road. Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
, Dividends N
Prel. To Re- Re-
Juno, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 17,771 1652 8 p.c. = 8064 8155 21,157
Remaining prefs. converted to ordinaries.
All Shares.
1926.. 28,692 8 p.c. = 12,581 16,111 37,268
1927.. 36,231 8„ „ 16,499 18,732 6(5,000
Investment reserve ( £4000) disappears.. 52,000
1928.. 34,911 8 p.c. = 18,407 16,584 68,584
1929.. 43,534 8 „ „ 21,667 21,807 90,451
Endowment account, £l5OO .. .. 88,951
1030.. 43,080 8 p.c. = 23,800 19,814 108,765
1931.. 37,713 8 „ ~ 24,133 13,580 122,345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 .. 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,408 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 0,972 227,815
1934.. 30,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Unexplained reductions, £28,075 .. 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,000 4,085 216,083
Among the outstanding features of this
well-handled island trading and finance
co. has been the persistent growth of
the business, the soundness of the finan-
cial structure and the steadiness of the
div., despite the headlong descent in the
price of copra. Formed by the Car-
penters in 1914, the co. plodded along
quietly during the war years, building up
connections in the Solomons and New
Guinea. The post-war boom and de-
velopment of the Mandated Territory
provided new opportunities, of which the
management made the most.
Of the £468,326 of paid capital, more
than three-quarters has been added to the
register during the last dozen years. Over
the same period a steady 8 p.c. (sweet-
ened with a 2 p.c. bonus for the last
term, to commemorate the co.’s twenty-
first birthday) was paid from declared
net earnings averaging 13.4 p.c. At the
close of accounts in 1932 £86,000 of
inner reserves was disclosed ; at the last
balance £28,075 of the visible accumu-
lation had been deducted from fixed
assets, thus “offsetting the total book
value of the co.’s coastal shipping.” It
is plain, therefore, that everything is not
in the window.
During the last term the co. bought
two 9000-ton Diesel-driven vessels, thus
establishing its own New Guinea-Aus-
tralia-Britain service, now running
smoothly and profitably ; it increased its
aerial fleet to five ’planes; it also bought
the shares, or all but a handful of them,
in On Chong and Co., which trades in
and about the Gilbert and Ellice Islands,
and acquired the whole of the assets of
Cocoanut Products, Ltd., including plan-
tations and a desiccated cocoanut fac-
tory. The price paid for the two under-
takings has not been disclosed, but the
properties will add considerably to the
co.’s profits, the chairman says.
Last year’s net earnings (up £7294)
were 11,4 p.c. on average capital as
against 12, 11.3, 11.1, 12.5, 14.6 and 20
p.c. back to 1929. Since the 2 p.c. bonus
“is not to be regarded as a permanent
thing,” the market prices the fully-paid
pound shares at 435. The return at that
price is 3.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
with possibilities. Including uncalled capi-
tal, the cover is 275. sd. in net tangibles.
To finance the various deals 80,000
fully-paids were issued in March to other
than those then on the register, £48,537
was called on the contribs. (there is
£111,674 still to come), and only £60,116
was added to the amount coming to
outsiders:
1929. 1931. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £291,667 £301,667 £339,789 £468,326
Liabilities .. 21,904 7,333 18,071 78,187
Shipnine: property 23,128 16.075 28,165 )
Freeholds, plant, etc. 500 750 505 j
J n v e stments,
etc. .. 115,260 118,114 140,618 217,885
Stocks .. 8,047 1,238 15 72,423
Branch balances,
etc. .. 266,395 261,774 440,707 225,039
Cash .. 3,560 45,460 773
The net growth in the book value of
fixed assets was £248,816, mainly on
account of the new ships; branch
balances, which were apparently a very
liquid lot, were reduced by £215,668.
Investments were up £77,267, and stocks
£72,408.
Since the close of accounts, the co.
has bought all the 100,000 £1 prefs. in
W. R. Carpenter (Solomon Islands), Ltd.
—it already holds all the 150,000 ords.
paid to £ll2,ooo—at 28s. 6d. each, or
on the basis of seven f.ps. in W. R. Car-
penter for every 10 prefs. at shareholders’
option. Further, to make insurance a
family business, another offshoot,
Southern Pacific Insurance, has, been
formed. The whole of its £25,000 of
paid capital is owned by the parent.
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 228,118 74 p.c. =r174,385 53,733 261,470
1926.. 224,600 „ 180,198 44.402 305,872
1927.. 230,901 8 „ „ 186,011 44,890 350,762
1928.. 182,836 7 „ „ 162,759 20,077 370.839
1929.. 149,755 5* „ ~ 127,882 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 6 „ „ 139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,681
1932.. 119,427 44,. „ 104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 „ „ 116,257 9,986 460,463
1934.. 149,489 6 „ „ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,651 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
Slump, the collapse of the coal trade
and interest-reduction legislation cut net
earnings approximately in halves over the
four years to the close of accounts in
1931, when the figures reached their
lowest level. The recovery since has
been due mainly to the revival of inter-
state passenger and cargo trade. It is
difficult to say when the co.’s coal in-
terests, which used to contribute substan-
tially to the pool, will again send along
anything much in the way of divs. The
old Abermain and East Greta cos., in
each of which Adelaide Steam was
largely interested, are now merged with
the Brown interests in J. and A. Brown
and Abermain Seaham Collieries, which
paid 2} p.c. in 1934; no div. has yet
been declared for the last term. The
collieries lost the Australian Gas Light
contract, involving about 370,000 tons of
coal per annum, but collected a Govern-
ment order for 250,000 tons.
The Mananda, a motor-vessel bought
just before the slump, has proved a
sound investment, and the Manoora, an-
other 10,000-ton passenger and cargo
m.-v., took up the running in the inter-
state trade shortly before the close of
last accounts. Another factor which has
helped to lighten overhead and swell
liquids has been the sale of old freighters
—one during the last term, making eight
since 1931.
Including £lO,OOO dropped info the in-
surance account (£280,000) the year’s net
earnings were 6.4 p.c. on capital as
against 6.3, 5.4, 5.1, 4.8, 7, 6.4 and 7.8
p.c. back to 1928. The div. was kept at
6 p.c.
The market, with one eye on the co.’s
strong financial position, expects the
Manoora to help earnings along, and
prices the pound shares at 325. 9d. as
against 275. 6d. a year ago. At 325. 9d.
the return is 3.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis,
or a shade under 44 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
distribution. Excluding the provident
fund (£239,656, up £3098), the cover is
visibly 245. Id. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital . . £2,320,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors*. 245,562 76,687 74,236
Steamers, properties,
investments, etc. 2,581,147 f,, n-o l Jd<t J 1)322,532
Consols, cash, etc. 483,650 ) { 1,279,089
Shares in subsidiaries - 136,500
Stocks and stores 58,014 42,178 42,720
Book debts, etc... 142,575 88,283 408,520
*Not including provident fund, £229,317, 1933 ;
£236,558, 1034 ; £230,056, 1935.
A regrouping of the assets makes com-
parison with the 1934 figures worthless.
What is plain is that the outside debt was
reduced by £2451, despite the purchase
of a new ship. Shipping property and
freeholds now figure at £1,322,532 ; Gov-
ernment securities, debentures and cash
£1,279,089 (= Us. per share); shares
in subsidiaries, £136,500 ; shares in other
cos. and debtors’ balances, £382,917 ;
stocks, £42,729 ; incomplete voyages.
£25,603.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref.
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
£ & £ £
1925.. 21,410 4000 5 p.c. = 16,368 107,239
1926.. 5.892 4000 Nil 105,347
1927.. 30,115 4000 6i p.c. = 20,461 99,693
1928.. 30,027 4000 7 i „ „ 24,552 98,218
1929.. 31,385 4000 7i„ „ 24,552 95,385
1930. . 31,628 4000 <il „ „ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 „ „ 6.138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 2i „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ 16,368 97.245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
‘lncludes arrears.
This is Australia’s largest manufacturer
of linseed-cake and -oil. For many years
the demand for the cake greatly exceeded
the demand for the oil —every two tons
of cake means a ton of oil —and the co.
failed to get the full benefit of its expand-
ing output. But the position in this
respect has been largely remedied since
chairman Phillips induced Michael Nairn
and Co., the Scottish lino, people, to set
up here about half a dozen years ago, and
made arrangements with Blundell, Spence
and Co. to use its trade-marks.
Since the co. buys its raw material
(linseed) mainly from India and South
America, fluctuations in the exchange
value of currencies bit into earnings in
'3l and ’32 ; Still, the co. pulled through
without a loss, though reserves had to
be tapped to pay two modest divs.
Meanwhile, more attention was given to
the dairying industry, where the demand
for linseed-cake, which increases the
supply of milk and enriches the butter-
fats, continues to expand. This, steadier
exchange, smaller fluctuations in the
price of linseed and the recovery in the
pastoral and paint industries have enabled
the co. to make a rapid recovery.
During the last term the oil section
of the business showed considerable ex-
pansion. After providing for taxation
and other contingencies, and adding
£7985 net to the depreciation reserve
(£27,950), the board figured net earnings
£1276 better at £30,354, or enough to pay
the prel\ divs. and show 8.3 p.c. on the
£327,369 of ord. capital as against 7.9
p.c. and 6.9 p.c. for the two preceding
terms. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., and
the £10,886 that remained reduced the
amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles to £76,749, an improvement of
£26,996 over the last three years. That
leaves out of the reckoning the deprecia-
tion reserve already referred to. Good-
will figures at £115,748.
The financial position improved:
1928. 1931. 1931. 1935.
Paid capital.. £367,869 £367,869 £367,869 £867,869
Liabilities .. 41,419 01,113 96,042 110,121
Premises and
plant . . 158,733 162,717 163,653 162,909
Stocks .. 86,257 113,066 62,709 124,123
Hook debts .. 58,314 43,178 17,380 46,281
Cash, etc. . . 24,543 17,875 131,777 105,165
Including stocks (up £61,414), the more
or less liquid surplus (£165,395) was
£19,615 stronger than at the previous
balance. Drafts for linseed shipments
(£87,300) were only £4970 heavier;
sundry creditors and suspense accounts
(£22,824) were up £9112.
Prospects for the current term seem
bright enough. At 21s. 3d. the ords.
return 4.6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. There
has been no business in the prefs.—
20,000 firsts and a like number of
seconds, both 10 p.c, cumulative, less
22} p.c. statutory cut —for some months.
The net tangible cover per pound of paid
capital is £l4 10s. 7d. firsts, £l3 10s. 7d.
seconds, and 15s. 3d. ords.
Gas Supply Co., Ltd.
Gas To Re- Ue-
June, Sales, etc. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 21,498 3,974 10 p.c. = 3,611 363 5,248
Premiums on shares, £1250 .. 6,498
1928.. 34,673 8,341 10 p.c. = 7,890 451 0,940
1929.. 40,932 11,559 10 „ ~10,517 1042 7,991
Premium on new shares, £5913 .. 13,904
1930.. 46,231 13,759 10 p.c. = 13,743 16 13,920
Premiums on new shares, £BO5 .. 14,725
1931.. 37,084 10,433 6 p.c. = 9,329 1104 15,829
1932.. 34,969 9,367 6J „ „ 8.853 514 16,343
1933.. 36,859 10,954 0 „ „ 10,444 510 16,853
Premiums on new shares, £lB4O .. 18,093
1984.. 41,872 13,007 6 p.c. = 12,476 531 19,224
1935.. 47,014 13,294 6 „ „ 13,251 43 19,267
This co. was formed in 1926 to take
over a number of gasworks in country
centres, the idea being to reduce over-
head to the benefit of consumers and
shareholders. It now controls works at
Cairns, Mackay and Gympie (Q.),
Albury (N.S.W.) and Ararat, Bacchus
Marsh, Sale, Stawell and Warracknabeal
(Vic.). To help finance the purchases and
provide for extensions of plant, mains,
services, etc., paid capital has increased
from £56,969 in 1927 to £220,860 at the
close of last accounts on terms favorable
to shareholders.
A run of 10 p.c. divs. was paid for
the first four years ; then the rate dropped
to 6 p.c., and looks like remaining there
—much more than 6 p.c. from a public
utility is likely to result in legislative
interference these days. Also, there is
competition from electricity, which,
although it has had little effect upon the
sale of gas for heating purposes, is likely
to keep the price down.
In 1032 the co. planned for a 100
p.c. increase in sales over a five-year
period. At the close of last accounts the
increase had amounted to 61 p.c., and
the average price of gas to the consumer
had been reduced by 35 p.c., due largely
to the fall in the price of coal. During
the last term 519 (up 84) new services and
2157 (up 78) new appliances were con-
nected. The volume of gas sold increased
by 18 p.c., and gross earnings (£47,014)
were up £5142. The net result, which
benefited by only £287 of the increase,
was a wink over 6 p.c. on capital.
The expansion of the business is
further reflected in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
1927. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £50,969 £183,907 £220,760 £220,860
Overdraft .. 2,390 8,253 21,810
Sundry creditors 2,047 30,299 42,125 71,995
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. 58,703 99,930 118,477 130,084
Shares other
cos., etc. .. 121,840 139,079 103,713
Stocks .. 5,704 9,820 14,581 21,710
Hook debts, cash,
etc. . . 9,003 14,545 18,208 20,794
Mainly to meet the outlay on additional
plant at the co.’s two largest works
(Cairns and Mackay) the board went to
its bankers for £21,810, and added
£29,870 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors during the last term. Freehold
and plant increased by £17,557, and
shares in other cos., etc., by £24,634.
To lighten the debt and provide for
further expansion, those on the register
at September 21 will be offered
55,548 new £1 shares at 235., one for four.
The scrip is at 30s. 6d. in the market.
After exercising the rights the net cost
is 295., which makes the rights worth
6s, or thereabouts. The return at 295. is
4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
r Dividends >
Net Pret. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Old. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1925.. 22,349 2202 8 p.c. = 18,418 1009 22,148
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 „ „ 18,557 1545 23,694
1927.. 24,510 3490 8 „ ~ 20,084 329 24,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 ~ „ 18,929 20.588
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 „ .. 19.010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 ~ ~13,580 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,631 3500 Nil 12,954
Profit.
1932.'. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,880
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12.397 1750 Nil 1,261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil 22,374
Reserves.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. .. 4,787
Assets written down, £4787 .. .. •
Profit. (12.5 p.c.)
1935.. 8,057 (!250f Nil 1807 1,807
(Includes arrears.
During the boom the co, built up a
large mail-order connection, bought the
business of the Civil Service Stores and
Margaret Halstein, absorbed Chapmans,
a neighbor, connected the Adelaide- and
Queen-street premises by a subway and
extended and improved the buildings.
Then slump and its concomitants worked
mischief with stocks, especially slow-
moving lines, debtors’ balances and the
mail-order section of the business. The
aggregate net trading result for the four
years to the close of accounts in 1934
was a loss of £34,609. That raised the
amount of ord. capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books to £22,374. To
clear the way for the resumption of divs.,
2s. per share (£27,161) was struck off the
ords.; the spare £4787 was used to write
down the book value of some of the
assets. The £50,000 of pref. money was
untouched, but the div. was lowered from
7 p.c. to 5 p.c. cumulative, representing
a saving to the co. of £lOOO a year.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover was nearly 8
p.c. better, and the extra business was
handled without any increase in trading
exes., the board says. Gross earnings
(£136,478) were up £20,308. Visibly
exes. (£128,421) were £8862 lower, due
to an unspecified amount written off un-
disclosed intangibles and charged against
earnings in the previous term. Thus a
profit of £8057 showed up as against
a loss of £21,113 in 1934, or enough to
pay a full year’s pref. div. and show 2.2
p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands.
But after cleaning the prefs.’ slate
(£6250, including arrears) there was not
enough to warrant a distribution to the
ords.
The financial position improved:
1930. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £321,615 £321,615 £321,615 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 81,925 88,680 80,99.'!
Sundry creditors 52,467 41,837 34.866 37,851
Premises & plant 231,972 242,715 238,330 220,880
Stock.. .. 162,977 121,064 110,159 131,342
Shares other cos. 21,296 21,540 21.546 21,540
Investments . . 550 550 550 550
Book debts . . 62,063 46,065 45,467 41,727
Cash, etc. . . 4,042 12,042 5,741 6,803
A net reduction of £12,444 in the book
value of fixed assets and of £3740 in
debtors’ balances was accompanied by a
growth of £15,183 in stocks; they are
((Continued on page 18.)


,h««9'“ »*" * C<!re
Kr<i kes
. i. fi'i *
to hit th*t
U<
”*’■
o
'v*
h v if
c
(| . s ,«.^ ? ” hoi*. «** ‘ h “ ,? ”
It’s when you need to stop suddenly that
your tyres get their real testing. And
that’s why Dunlops give such wonderful
all-lhe-year-round security. The deeply
patterned helical tread grips full width,
and prevents side as well as forward skids.
eat
y
Dunlop MK Tubes fit without a kink
Buy them with every new Dunlop Tyre


A SURE F MEND IN UNCERTAIN TIME S
Sow to-day and reap
TO-MORROW
IF you are an average father of an
average family you have spent
some bewildering hours trying to
plan for the family’s future, and at
the same time trying to plan for your
own independence later on.
Every man worth his salt does this
sort of planning. This advertisement
is written to suggest that it can be done
best with the aid of the A.M.P.
“Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also
reap.” The man who sows A.M.P. assurance
reaps a certain harvest, either for himself or
his loved ones, or both. He runs no risk of
failure.
The man who wants to reap a harvest of
satisfaction and contentment should ask the
Society to send to him an expert adviser —a
confidential counsellor —to help him find the
best way to solve his problems; an adviser who,
out of a long experience, knows the way in which
other men are sowing that they may reap in due
time.
Write to-day for that adviser. Don’t put it off.
Even to-morrow may be too late.
AMP. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A..
„ Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
encouraging movements. When the
books closed the excess of stocks,
debtors’ balances, cash, etc., over liabili-
ties was £11,213 stronger at £55,028.
Stuparts, the Maryborough subsidiary,
showed a profit of £2097 as against a
loss of £lOO7 in ’34.
At 13s, the ords. would return 4.8 p.c.
on a 3i p.c. div. basis. The prets. are
priced at par. To pay the pref. div.,
plus 31 p.c. on the ords., would call for
Tiinsfi F THp net taneible cover is £5
£11,056. ine net tangime cover is t.
18s. 6d. prefs. and 18s. Id. ords.
•
. .
N as,vl
The gold section of the investment
marlrpt has received another shock
market has received a noinet s “ OCK ;
Nastvi Gold Syndicate, a Melbourne
concern testing an alleged gold-bearing
area at Raki Raki, about 32 miles east
Tu,Piii r/»r»nrtv»d vpm hioh valncc
of Tavua, Fiji, reported very high values
tup to 13oz. per ton) from the first cos-
teen, which was said to show a width
of over 30ft. of lode material. It was
that the. Inrfiv had hpen truccd fnr
claimed that the lodt had been traced tor
over a mile in length, and theie was some
loose talk about 500 ft. of backs at one
point, and of Australian and overseas
interests nibbling at the property. The
£2-paid shares rose to £57 in the market.
Then a large number of subsequent assays
showed from traces to 2dwt. of gold
The market collapsed, of course, and
people began to wonder
The board immediately sent Dr Lot us
Hllls <° investigate and report on he
? rea - * cabled summary ot his opinion
ls as follows. ..... .
The rocks and s °- called lodes exposed
jn the Raki Raki district are of the wrong
type to constitute a goldfield. The so-
called lodes should geologically never have
been expected to carry more than very
low gold values. The high gold con-
tents reported from No. 1 trench defi-
nitely are not contained m the trench
materials... .Check sampling shows only
traces of gold. All other trenches show
similar results. Nevertheless, the locality
where trenches have been sunk is near the
intersection point of two important regional
shear This would preser u favor-
abie requisites for occurrence of a possible
goldfield, but the rock system in which
this might occur would be at least 2000 ft.
below the surface. In view, however, of the
uncertai nty as to the existence and de-
tailed character of such rock system, the
possibility does not enter into range of
present practicability. I therefore recom-
mend that the area be abandoned.
On the advice of its solicitors in Mel-
bourne the co. has instructed its solici-
tors in Fiji to make a thorough investi-
gation of the facts concerning the taking
of the original samples. If the parties
concerned are not prepared to make, their
statements on affidavit, the whole matter
is to be placed in the hands of the Crown
Law authorities in Fiji.
The committee of the Melbourne Stock
Exchange has adopted the right attitude
in offering to co-operate in ascertaining
who benefited from the reports.
The Emperor
At the Emperor, Fiji, the big east
crosscut (No. 3) has been extended an-
other 30ft. to 220 ft. from the main adit
level. In sft. sections, values averaged
12dwt., sdwt. and Idwt. from 190 ft. to
205 ft,; the remaining 15ft. showed traces.
From the adit to the 200 ft. mark, values
in this crosscut average lldwt. fine gold.
In the main west crosscut (No. 4)
values average 17dwt. from the adit to
250 ft. From this point to 277 ft. average
values are low. The main adit has been
extended a further 40ft. from the most
southerly point shown in the prospectus
in values averaging lldwt., with sulphides
showing in the face. Another new de-
velopment is No. 2 opencut (about 100 ft.
north of the existing one) in No. 2 sec-
tion. Here a face of ore 10ft. wide and
30ft. high is reported to average 26dwt.
From the approach excavations about
1000 tons of ore, averaging 5.6dwt., has
been tipped into the low-grade dump.
The claim that payable values live in
the lode to a depth of at least 300 ft.
is based on Tavua Gold Development’s
borehole disclosure of 2dwt. to Bdwt.
material on the line of the Emperor lode
atapointabout 50ft. below creek level, and
about 1000 ft. south of the Emperor Co.’s
southern boundary. Where the lode out-
crops on the Emperor lease, it is about
250 ft. above creek level. It is by no
means certain, however, that the depth
of pay ore in a shear formation is even
approximately the same at two widely
different points on the line of lode, especi-
ally if the country folds.
Following the announcement of assays
averaging 4oz. per ton in No. 5 west
winze from 22ft. to 28ft., the 10s; shares
rose sharply from 225. 4d. to 275. last
week-end. The bottom of the winze is in
sulphide ore, carrying visible gold-bearing
grey telluricle. Thus far telluride has
occurred only in blobs throughout' the
field. The basic formation is andesite.
Loloma
At a meeting of Loloma (Tavua field,
Fiji) shareholders in Melbourne last
week, managing director E. G. Theodore
painted a bright future for the property,
in which a London group has become in-
terested. Development, Theodore pro-
ceeded, had been impeded by shortage
of labor and by delay in delivery of the
compressor and timber for the shaft.
E. G. Banks, the technical director,
said the lode carried good values for a
length of 700 ft., and payable values were
expected to be developed over a length of
1000 ft. or more. A depth of only 70ft.
had been reached, and the average width
of the pay ore had yet to be proved. One
crosscut from the adit level had exposed
3oz. ore over a width of 30ft., while
greater widths were known to exist in
other places. He did not anticipate that
the co. would encounter any seriious
metallurgical troubles.
All very interesting, but announcement
of results from the treatment of trial
parcels would be more convincing.
The old co. is to be wound up, and a
new one, Loloma (Fiji) Gold Mines,
formed with a nominal capital of
£225,000 in ss. shares, of which London
takes 150,000, called to Is; 6d., at a
premium of 18s. 6d. each. Each contrib.
in the old co. will be exchanged for two
contribs. in' the new co., credited as paid
to Is. 6d. each; fully-paids will also
be exchanged one for two. The idea is
to provide capital for further develop-
ment and for the installation of a treat-
ment plant. A flow sheet is in prepara-
tion, preparatory to construction of the
mill, which is expected to begin produc-
tion within 12 months.
The chairman (Eric Campbell), man-
aging director (A. A. Boyd) and inspect-
ing engineer (N. Kirby) of Mt. Morgan
Developments left Sydney for Fiji this
week to run the rule over a number of
goldmining areas under offer to the co.
there. It is also intended to set up a
technical organisation there under the
direction of Mr. Boyd.
* * * *
Ramu Gold Syndicate has abandoned
its option over alluvial ground embrac-
ing three tributaries of the Ramu River,
New Guinea. A few pits gave promising
values, but generally the wash was too
shallow and the overburden too heavy to
make the proposition worth while with
aerial freight at 6d. a pound.
Norbert Keenan, leader of the Nation-
alists in Westralia, is demanding stricter
control of the flotation and operation of
goldmining cos. He suggests (1) that the
Minister be empowered to refuse to regis-
ter mining property until the names of all
parties who have at any time had an in-
terest in it, and the prices at which they
passed it on to others, are furnished ; (2)
that these particulars be made public-
before a mine is placed on the market;
(3) that it be an offence for any
man to use the title “mining engi-
neer” unless qualified by law to do so ;
(4) that names of two mining engineers
be attached to every mining report fur-
nished for a co. prospectus. He considers
Government inspection of a mine before
flotation unnecessary. Mines which
might seem worthless when inspected
may, after a few weeks’ work, quite
easily prove to be valuable.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Wiluna may decide to smelt instead of
roast its concentrates (about 6000 tons
a month) before long. Experiments show
that a 99 p.c. extraction can be obtained
by smelting compared with 83 p.c. to 84
p.c. by the present method of roasting.
With one eye upon flux, the co. has
secured an option over the old lead-
mines at Northampton, and is testing
lime deposits in the same locality,
•* * * *
Lancefield’s August return was the best
monthly effort to date. From the treat-
ment of 9711 tons (up 2061 tons) £21,983
was extracted and banked. The working
profit was £l4lO (= £16,920 p.a.) better
at £10,756. Expenditure on capital
account was £2574, of which £973 was for
the new retreatment plant, £759 royalty
on Merrill Crome plant, and £842 for
development and equipment under-
ground. Further improvement in the
figures can be expected.
♦ * ♦ *
Ora Banda United, a £400,000 co.
floated in London last November to
take up portion of the old Associated
Northern’s property at Ora Banda
(W.A.), is hopeful of developing the mine
on a large scale. D. McCaulay, formerly
manager of Associated and now consult-
ing engineer to the new co., says that if
values continue at depth, and he sees no
reason why they should not, the present
width and length of the ore channel will
permit the economic mining of 15,000
to 20,000-tons a month. The main shaft
has been. designed accordingly. Other
mining men are less certain _about ore-
bodies and values living at de'pth in this
district.
*>*.,* * *
Promising assays have been secured by
Western Mining Corp. from its option
at Cox’s Find, near Laverton (W.A.),
which it holds in conjunction with Cen-
tral Yellowdine. No. 2 shaft, from 20ft.
to 80ft,, averaged 13dwt., and from 80ft.
to 95ft. lOldwt. The crosscut off this
shaft at a vertical depth of 90ft. also
returned lOldwt. over 14ft.
* * * *
Southern Cross options have been ex-
tended to March 31, 1936, much to the
relief of W.A. holders of big wads of
shares. The original date of expiry was
Sept. 30, 1935. The co. is one of the De
Bernales group, and is working Fraser's
old mines at Southern Cross. North Kal-
gurli United, another from the De Bcr-
nales stable, recently extended its options
from June 30 till the end of the year,
♦ ♦ ♦ *
A. E. Paton, assistant-manager South
Kalgurli Consolidated, says that the
main lode at Mt. Martin, Hampton
Plains (W.A.), has the best chance, and
that there is reason to suppose that it
will live to 300 ft. or deeper. In the
south workings a block of payable ore
appeared to be in sight between the 50ft.
and 100 ft. levels, and payable ore existed
at the 200 ft. level. The board, there-
fore, has decided to work the south end
of the property immediately, and to sink
the main shaft another 100 ft. to 300 ft.
The market is not impressed.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* ♦ * *
DAVIES Si COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Me’h.). — Advt
♦ ♦ ♦ «
ORES. Try 0. T. LEMPRiERE & C . PTY.,
LTD Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys,— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS. BSc (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * • *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rone for longer life.—Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co Ltd 331-333 Kent
Street Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street Sydney. Successfully used all c\er the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
r rated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies.
Steel etc William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


“I judge
White Horse
to he
the best...
.ST'
\ i*Bti it mci^rroro
'iw
hm ♦ JHW T»r» #**« >
Os “«■
22L
A 1
L L that are <tc«irmi« to (>*»* I
EDINBURGH lo LONDON or
other place on th«r i
»-P»ir to the 'white HORSE CELLAR
m EDINBURGH at which place they «u» he
, n , STAGE COACHewrry Moeoae
•nd Fmdat which pwforma the whole joumej
m m
■
*sasr
<■ '4 * f i ' - M/*
wmm. v
yip,»!
Blip |
. • . It’s equal to a fine liqueur
The Whisky sampler speaks with
authority and from experience.
He recognises the inviting aroma,
the peat and heather flavour, and
the smoothness to the palate
which tell him that it is White
Horse. Follow his lead and that
of particular people who demand
this Real Old Scotch, Equal to a
Fine Liqueur.
“He can even tell it
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Various Sizes of Sealed Flasks on Sale
w


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-t.”; Although they were gradu-
ates in engineering and chemistry, the
two youngsters who camped in
Tapalin Bend (River Murray) for
a vacation weren’t wise in the
ways of the bush. Consequently,
they found old Jimmy’s advice
invaluable, and frequently re-
paired to his bark-anci-bag domi-
cile to consult him on domestic
matters. They shot and cooked
two galahs, but found the poultry
unbearably tough. “Ah, yairs,”
said their oracle, “y’ should’ve
put a lump o’ quartz in the pot.”
“Quartz!” they echoed. “Would
that make them tender?” “Well,
no,” said Jimmy, “but it’s a bit
o’ a help. Y’ see, when y’ can
gel the fork into the quartz, the
galahs’ll be fit to eat!”
* * *
“Laetitia”: It’s about time someone
exploded the myth of the invulnerability
of the crocodile to rifle bullets. One
lazing on a mudbank off Moa Island,
Torres Strait, never stirred when hit with
a .303 bullet which hadn’t even been
dum-dummed. They also fall easy
victims to Binghi’s spears at night-time,
when he dazzles them with torches and
then delivers his thrust under the fore-
legs.
“Ornis”: If “Cautious” (B. 4/9/’35)
were dressed like a bird, with his clothes
liable to be turned up by every wind
from the rear, he would sit head to wind
also. In the same way no one ever saw
a kilted Scotsman try to pick up a penny
with a strong wind behind him. One
risks a lot for a penny, but not the
conventions.
* * * *
“A.E.K.”: A couple of chaps spend-
ing their first spring weekend in a two-
roomer at Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.) dis-
covered a large black snake stretched
between the wall and a sheet of galvan-
ised iron. Efforts to dislodge it were in
vain until someone accidentally knocked
a bottle from a shelf above. The reptile’s
head shot out and seized the bottle by
the neck. The weekenders had to smash
both.
* * * *
“Emsee”; Natives fairly adept at play-
ing bridge, euchre and, of course, poker
are numerous along the nor’-west
coast of Westralia. At Broome euchre
was the favorite game of the dusky
players, and, as they weren’t very careful
of the packs bestowed upon them by
white pearlers, portions of the packs
were used. Followed some embarrass-
ment and arguments as to priority of
claim when, say, two right bowers made
their appearance after one deal.
* * * *
“T.L.C.”: Let me nominate Portland
Roads, on Cape York Peninsula, as the
most desolate goldfield in Australia. It
lies some miles inland from the almost
unknown Princess Charlotte Bay, and the
only means of getting to the field is by
the Wandana, which will stop off the
beach if required and put you ashore in
a small boat. On the beach is a solitary
hut where the ore from the mines and
the goods going inland are stored. Once
ashore, your journey is only started ; it
is two or three days’ travel through jungle
and swamp and up mountainsides to the
field, and the only way of getting there
is on foot. Butter costs 3s. a pound, and
prices of other foodstuffs are in pro-
portion.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: “Oruncha” (B. 28/8/’35)
asks for the correct name of the giant
Centralian lizard. Arthur Upfield (as a
rider of the rabbit-proof fence he should
know) refers to them as prenties. In
Westralia the big fellow was always
spoken of as a “bungah.”
* * * *
“C.E.D.”: The 500 Melbourne stu-
dents who angled for yabbies in the uni-
versity lake would receive a warm wel-
come in the rice-growing area around
Lee ton (N.S.W.). The yabbic digs holes
through the banks which control the level
of water on the crop, and many such
holes appreciably lessen the volume. He
is (he cause of much work and more
blasphemy, and most rice-farmers would
choke if requested to cat one. In the
dark his eyes shine a bright red —pos-
sibly a help in his perverted tunnelling
operations.
* ♦ >i= *
“Niddcrsdalc"; If “Eureka” wants to
shift a fox out of a burrow (B. 4/9/’35)
let him try the dodge credited to the
English brock or badger when his earth
is invaded by the smellful one. The
badger is the cleanest of beasts, turning
out his burrow every few days and, in-
cidentally, giving away its location by the
“Do us a favor , old son, and take these blasted things with you."
pile of used bedding. If he can't shift
Reynard any other way the badger picks
a bouquet of the sweetest-smelling field-
flowers he can find and puts them at his
front door. This done, the fox invariably
skies the towel and seeks fresh lodgings.
* * * •
“Bombex”: Tree beehives (B. 4/9/’35)
played a part in the East African scrap
with Fritz. When that astute bird
found himself tied down to a fixed line
for the duration, he got his askaris to fill
the innumerable trees and bushes of
bushveld with the little hollow logs which
an East African bee regards as ideal
lodgings. After some thousands of these
strongposts had been established, even
a honey-bear thought twice of trying to
cross No Man’s Land, and both sides
were saved a lot of toil and trouble.
* * * *
“Barney”: So the old woman’s tale
that African elephants can’t be trained
is still believed (B. 28/8/’35). In 1910
the Belgian Government established a
farm at Api, North Congo, the manager
of which caught jungle jumbos, broke
them into harness, and used them for
all kinds of work where elephant-power
could be used. The only limit to their
usefulness was want of training and
opportunity. At Gangara-na-Badio, Bel-
gian Congo, in 1928, 74 African pachy-
derms were earning their oats, and I
s'pose they still are. General M. J. der
Maelmeester, Vice-Governor of Stanley-
ville, has displaced 3000 porters with a
dozen trained African elephants, drag-
ging bullock waggons. No, there’s no-
thing wrong with the African tusker.
« * * *
“Bogan Boy”: The passing of Kid-
man will doubtless revive the crop of
stories disparaging the tucker served up
on Kidman properties. My experience
is that the station that supplies better
food can skite about putting on a spread.
I cooked for three years on two Kidman
stations, and wish for nothing better.
When I ordered anything it was for-
warded.
* * ♦ ♦
“Capitaine”; The butcher-bird (B.
10/7/’35) is apparently the sentinel of the
bush. 1 once routed out a carpet-snake,
but before I could bag him he slipped
away and began to climb a tree. A
butcher-bird near by immediately com-
menced to raise an infernal din; the
result was that fowls of all kinds flocked
round while the sentry Hew round the
tree where the carpet was, acting the
part of showman to boot.
“Bung”: Tell “Retep” that butcher-
birds are more than circus acrobats.
Great naturalist Gould describes their
note as the finest ever heard, but there’s
no music in their screeching notes when
a snake of any size is about, and the
closer to your camp the louder the cry
until the wriggler is settled by you. If
it’s mice or centipedes he’ll give you no
chance to assist.
* * * *
“Jon”: The aged goat mentioned by
“A.J.W.” (B. 14/8/T5) would have to
lake second place to one at Gabbin
(W.A.). It started its career 20 years
ago in the days before dog-proof fences.
When sheep are attacked by dogs they
will huddle in terror-stricken heaps; but
a goat in the same circumstances will
streak for home. Taking advantage of
this homing instinct, cockies used to run
goals with their flocks, to lead them in
when danger threatened. The goats
usually carried bells slung round their
necks. This is where Billy earned his
keep. Many times have I rushed from
the house at the sound of a jangling bell
to see him go tearing past towards the
sheepyards, well ahead of his field. His
usefulness decreased as the dingoes were
cleaned out; but he still lives. The
clothes on the line are safe from him
now —as always with the very old, his
enjoyment of life is limited by his diges-
tion.
* * * *
“T.C.”: I spent interesting hours
studying the habits of the mutton-birds
in the Capricorn Group, southern end of
the Barrier Reef. Mutton-birds, like alba-
trosses, require to taxi before they can
take off, and at night when they come
out of their underground nests they barge
through the scrub and take a header at
the tin sheds that formed the living
quarters when the turtle-canning company
was there. Mutton-birds, too, are bur-
rowers, and on cold nights I have had to
kick them out from under my blankets.
♦
“Kellick”: A photo, in a Brisbane
daily of a naval officer with a beard
calls to mind that during tropic-island
cruises many naval men sport facial
decorations. But there’s a catch. Cap-
tain’s permission must be obtained before
the set is started, and also when one
wishes to recommence shaving. Regu-
lations provide that a beard must be re-
tained for at least three months. That’s
where the fun starts. Sooner than face
an irate spouse looking like G. 8.5., men
risk shaving. Many are the excuses when
up before the “bloke.” The prize goes
to the man who said, “Well, sir, I tripped
on deck, and stuck my face in a pot of
red-lead.”
♦ ♦ * *
“A.N.S.”: Describing how noxious
weeds spread, “Retired Squatter” (B.
14/8/’35) forgets the black oat, the most
interesting of them all. Seeds of this
plant migrate only in the wet. To see
how, just put one on the ground, drop a
spot of water on it and watch. It will
soon demonstrate. I’ve seen one spring
to life and, turning and tumbling like a
crazy acrobat, travel 15ft. in three
minutes.
* * * *
“Runa”: I can’t go far with “Bonne
Bouche” (B. 28/8/’35) in his enthusiasm
for the sea-urchin as an article of diet.
Our family being of the adventurous
type that will try anything once, we de-
cided to sample the spiky fare, and
gathered a dozen or so on Kaiti beach,
near Gisborne (M.L.). The spines fell
off in the boiling, as the recipe-book said
they would, but after that the experi-
ment slumped. I don’t know what the
European varieties look or taste like, but
the flesh of our local product was dark-
red in color when cooked, and salt
beyond belief.
“Swansea”: The trouble with most of
these sea delicacies (B. 28/8/’35) is that
after the chefs arc finished with them there
is very little of the original flavor left, i
was once given a recipe for pipi soup,
which my informant assured me had
found favor with the Prince of Wales
during his visit to Toronto (N.S.W.). So
many ingredients were added to the
dozen or so shellfish that went to make
the stock that it could have been octopus,
sea-urchin, or shark for all H.R.H. or
anyone else could have told.
“Imbaga”: There is no
comparison possible between
shooting with a shotgun and
a rifle (B. 4/9/’35). Most
Papuan gunboys can learn to
bag a regular roll of pigeons.
The rifle a boy was never
allowed to touch in the old
days—that was for white
men only. I must agree with
those who hold to the theory
that the club and spear
natives are never such good
shots with the rifle as some
of the bow-using Gulf and
Fly River tribes. I have
handled a few hundred of
both. “Dian” says the
Manus natives, spear-fighters,
arc reckoned the best police
material in New Guinea.
The same is true of the
Northern Division Papuan, a
club- and spearman. The
N.D. Papuan is an untrain-
ablc rifle-shot. “Dian” is
silent about the Manus men’s
shooting. The reason for the
reputation of these men in
(he police services is the
same. They are all for target and clay-
more at close quarters, and that is what
tells in native fighting.
* * * *
“D.1.C.”: Seagulls are easily tamed,
and no wing-clipping is required to make
them stay about our South Aus. garden.
The fowls fly to our window-sills to be
fed by hand ; if food isn’t forthcoming
promptly they tap vigorously on the glass
to attract our attention. When I sit
outside they fly up on my knee—especi-
ally if, with their wonderfully sharp eyes,
they spy anything edible in my hand.
Seagulls are notoriously quarrelsome, but
our pets are especially autocratic over
their own territory. The feeding of a
stranger creates great indignation ; with
screams of rage they hunt the outsider
from the place.
♦ * ♦ *
“Homo”: Despite all the recent talk
about the way to cook mullet, there is
only one correct way. Gut the fish and
split it up the backbone. Place it on a
gridiron and cook it over a small fire.
The oil dripping out will keep the fire
going, and your fish cooks in its own
juice. In this way enough flavor is re-
tained, and the mullet tastes a little less
like something out of a paint shop,
* * * *
“Mil. H.”: The horse being urged to
speed with a rattle (B. 21/8/’35) had a
counterpart in a nag owned by what used
to be the Melbourne Tramway and
Omnibus Co. Matches needed no whip,
merely the rattling of a box of lucifers
by the driver. All inquirers failed to find
out how he had become susceptible.
THE RESTRICTED
CONVERSATIONALIST.
“You’d think,” said Sam, as with his knife
he idly whittled down a stick,
“That when a bloke had finished work the last
thing in the world he’d pick
To wag his jaw about would be the yakka
that he done all day.
But, no! Some fellers harp on that, an’ do
it in a deadly way.
“There’s topics by the dozen they c’n talk on.
As the walrus said:
From ‘shoes an’ ships an’ scalin’-wax to cab-
bages an’ kings.’ Instead
Of these, or even politics, or interestin’ things
like beer,
They’ll mag about their (oil. Be cripes,” said
Sam, “no doubt some coves are queer.
“Of all that sort of chaps I know, the very
worst is ‘Blucgum’ Bob;
The handlin’ of a cranky team of fourteen
bullicks is his job,
An’ down the gully all the week he roars an’
curses ’em like mad,
Swcarin’ that they’re the blankiest of all the
blanks he’s ever had.
“On Saturdces old ‘Blucgum’ makes a beeline
for the pub, an’ there.
While oilin’ up his throttle, some poor unsus-
pcctin’ coot he’ll snare;
And till he’s paralytic he’ll keep talkin’ on
his only theme:
The virtues of old Baldy (that’s the leader of
his blasted team).
“They reckon he’s talked nothin’ else but
bullicks here for thirty years.
His boss drops frequent hints about retirement,
but he never hears.
No wonder, either; for, when ‘Blucgum’s’
workin’ life has petered out,
He’ll be as dumb as any fish for want of
things to talk about.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Ah Joe”; “Psitta’s” cockatoo at the
football (B. 4/9/’35) reminds me of a hen
in the fowlhouse adjoining our tennis
court. Regularly she sits on the fence
watching through the wire-netting, cluck-
ing with excitement when we have a hot
rally ; her head follows the ball to and
Iro like those of the observers at Syd-
ney’s White City. Sometimes her hen-
ship stands up and makes just as much
fuss as when she lays an egg. Perhaps
she then imagines she’s laid the ball.
* * * *
“Pelitor”: “Warra Warra” (B. 7/8/’35)
mentions the “new terror”—drifting sand.
The day after Quorn (S.A.) registered 64
points of rain, Langwarren station, 20
miles north of that town, recorded its
89th sandstorm for the year. Shearers at
Hookina—same district—are taking 110
combs and cutters to shear 100 sheep,
and, instead of the usual tally of 180 or
190, are all-out in barbering 60 or 70 a
day. Instead of the customary 201 b., the
skin of a jumbuck that died during a
recent sandstorm weighed 751 b. The dif-
ference was sand.
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Some months ago when
I read in The Bully of a goanna prowl-
ing in the night I let it go. But when the
otherwise well-informed “Wandered
Willie” (B. 4/9/’35) sets the farmer’s
wife after the goanna in the dead of
night, I must protest. A go. never comes
out at night. He couldn’t see, for one
thing ; but he’s a very early riser. At the
first peep of dawn he is up—but even
then not before the rooster has got his
family afoot. He is an egg-eater, and
wouldn’t give you twopence for a whole
clutch of chickens if there was an egg
about.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: “Fish-O” backed the loser
in the argument concerning the catfish
and the jew (B. 4/9/’35). The catfish is
much wider and blunter in the rear than
the eel, but the dorsal and ventral fins
unite in a similar manner to form the
tail. It is, however, from the face that
the catfish is usually identified, as the
long barbels, or feelers, look just like
pussy’s whiskers.
“Aragun”; Split-tail is the fresh-
water catfish—he emits a sound greatly
resembling the miaow of puss when
hooked. The other one, which I have
frequently heard labelled jewfish, was
always known on the fresh-water reaches
of the Clarence (N.S.W.) and its tribu-
taries as the catfish. Neithe;
variety possesses scales, and their sting,
though bad enough, isn’t nearly so severe
as that of their more villainous-looking
salt-water cousin. I’ve seen the eel-tai'
taken in waterholes, but have never
caught the other fellow away from the
river.
* * * ♦
The likeness of the dugong
skull to the human was sufficiently great
to bring about an anti-climax in Darwin
during the trial of two blackfellows. A
skull was produced in court complete
with indentations denoting fatal injuries.
However, a medical man on examination
declared that the skull was that of a
dugong.
* * * *
“Teleco”: Among the many wonders
of that giant wonder the Barrier Reef
is Beaver Cay. This little islet or sand-
bar has a habit of wandering, and won’t
stay put on the charts. During the past
10 years it has shifted at least a quarter
of a mile from its charted position, and
is still shifting. The cause of its peri-
grinations isn’t definitely known, but is
believed to be due to the combined effects
of currents, winds and tides. Beaver Cay
is only a speck even when you are close
to it, and is covered with a kind of
coarse salt-water grass.
“L.C.”: Transplanted gum-trees?
When visiting the Cold Country in 1924
I stayed at the estate of a rather keen
gardener. Growing in his glasshouse
“Excuse ME, hut you've made a sad mistake!"
(steam-heated) was a Tasmanian blue-
gum. He had been told it was a shrub
and that it needed warmth to make it
grow. Three years old then, the Aussie
had nearly reached the roof. 1 being a
Tasmanian, he asked me how high it
would grow. My reply caused him to
look anxiously at the roof.
♦ * ♦ iK
“Canopus”: My nominations for the
most common mispronunciations of
words in the Australian bush: (1) .Shear
for share (plough); (2) stock rout
(route); (3) maintainance for mainten-
ance ; (4) rare for rear; (5) loom for
loam ; (6) Venus for Venice (turpentine);
(7) festlo for fistula; (8) wether for
wither ; (9) kurrajung for kurrajong ; (10)
empire for umpire. Anyone like to add
to the list? Competition for bushmen
only. First prize, trip to Abyssinia
(optional.)
* * * *
“Airline”; So now it’s the Cloncurry
parrot! A tew years ago it was “The
Bourke” (parrakeet), followed closely by
that golden glory the scarlet-chested
parrot. Both desert-dwellers of Centralia,
and only the truly desert-wise could hope
to locate them. For a while it looked
as though the chosen few —about a dozen
men were out after them —were on a
good thing, as big prices were being paid
for the birds in Adelaide. The slump
came when city fanciers swamped the
market with aviary-bred birds of better
“Stand back, Billy—ladies first!”
plumage and appearance than their
desert progenitors. As the Cloncurry
parrot appears to thrive in captivity,
something of the same is bound to
happen in its case.
‘‘Kellick”: Divers’ paralysis (B.
28 / 8 /’35) is due mostly to carelessness.
As air is pumped into the diver’s suit
particles of nitrogen penetrate through
the pores of the skin and enter the blood.
This is the root of the trouble. Paralysis
occurs in that part of the body which
has been exercised. To counteract this, the
diver, during his stops on the way to the
surface, performs a sort of tread-water
or dog-paddle movement. If the recog-
nised tables relating to raising the diver
are adhered to by attendants, and the
diver exercises correctly, paralysis will
never occur. Accidents of this nature are
rarely heard of among naval divers.
“Mudgee”: I don't like the crosscut
saw in Norman Lindsay’s drawing of the
White girls sawing wood at Tiburon (B.
7/8/’35). Their stance and action are
good, and admittedly (hey look quite
capable of handling any sort of saw,
but-—a crosscut with the teeth all point-
ing the one way! Possibly there are
that type about Tiburon, but I can’t help
thinking that it would be mighty hard on
the girl pulling against the teeth, though
she certainly looks tough enough to
stand up to it.
* * ♦ *
“C’est Vrai” (F.M.S.): Real drama in
Malaya: A small coaster a few hours
out from Penang, a Chinaman amok and
several bloody proofs of his state. The
skipper rushes from his cabin, armed
with handcuffs and revolver. “Hands
up,” he orders. “No fear,” says John.
The skipper fires: one, two, three, four,
five—all misses. Backing away he trips ;
off goes number six, plonk into a pas-
senger, an inch or so from the heart.
The crew then take a hand, and brain
John with the butt of the empty pistol.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: “Ornis” (B, 4/9/’35) is
right to a point, but it’s only in the winter
months that kookas. will come to be fed
by their unfeathered brethren. When
grubs, snakes and lizards are abroad
Jack doesn’t want your bits of juicy steak.
It’s not a diet for him, anyhow; and
three weeks’ regular feeding on it would
turn up his toes. The broadcast kooka.
had to be forcibly fed on worms to save
his life after a prolonged diet of meat.
The butcher-bird is the exception. He’ll
beg for handouts all the year round, and
if denied will come into the house,
kick up a shindy and raid the table. The
grey thrush, to my knowledge, is the only
other fowl that will come into the house
for tucker —but it has to be winter. He’ll
desert you on the first day of spring.
“Worro”: Very ingenious was an old
chap who used to shoot ducks in the
close season. Kangaroo-shooting was
allowed in S.A. then, and he used to take
the inside out and fill the cavity with
ducks. More than once his bag was
emptied out by a suspicious official, only
to disclose an innocent-looking hopper.
* * * *
"Walkabout”: Binghi’s qualifications
don’t incline towards seamanship, even
the coastal-bred aborigines never ventur-
ing far beyond the shore ; but there blew
into Townsville (N.Q.) the other day an
all-abo.-manned lugger. With its crew of
six, the Presbyterian Mission’s Morning
Star, from Mornington Island in the
Gulf, completed a voyage of 1500 miles
from port to port. The lugger, a 45-
footer, will eventually make the return
journey with its complement of stores for
the mission. If nothing else, the cruise
proves that Binghi can navigate the deep
as well as track out his usual course.
“Sailor”; Don’t agree with “T.H.”
about thieving abos. (B. 4/9/’35). I’ve
never yet come across a true Binghi who
went in for systematic pilfering, and, as
for the tapping of the sugarbag and the
beating of the flour ditto, the odds arc
decidedly against success. Sugar has to be
mighty dry before it will run through a
“slender straw,” and invariably there is a
thickness of hardened crust next to the
bag fabric. I’d like to see “T.H.” blud-
geoning a calico flourbag with a waddy ;
nine out of ten well-filled bags will burst
even if dropped.
* * * ♦
“J.W.Mc.”: Cod are noted for the
size of their mouths, and apparently their
digestive capabilities arc equal to any-
thing their outer organ passes. Clean-
ing a 251 b. fish caught in the Barwon
I found a mussel, 6in. across when
opened, reposing in the stomach. The
gastric acids had apparently begun their
uphill battle ; the outer shell was cor-
roded and holed so much that it
crumbled at the least pressure.
♦ * * *
“E.C.”; To a pastoralist’s Broken Hill
office came an application from an out-
back station for permission to kill 300
kangaroos, and the typist, newly from
the city, took down a letter granting the
request. A month later a woman called
in and asked the girl about prospects of a
job as cook on that station, saying con-
fidentially that she preferred the place
because of the number of jackeroos there.
The office girl was sympathetic. “1 don’t
think that place would suit you now ;
it’s only a month since they got permis-
sion to kill 300 of them.”
* * * *
“Pagewood”: Length of a bird’s life?
A friend has had a kooka. in captivity
for 14 years, and it wasn’t a youngster
when caught. Ravens and crows go
to 30, and one saw 69. Magpies have
spent 15 years in captivity, plus their
years of early freedom.
♦ . * * *
“Laetitia”: Binghi shows some old
Anglo-Saxon traits in his preference for
game in a highly-matured state. Turtle
eggs are prized only when through the
passage of time the young turtles are
half-formed, and the nest when located
is left for some weeks until this state is
reached. Turtle and dugong meat is given
a makeshift drying process, with the
result that it soon reeks to the high
heaven, but is relished in this state by
Binghi.
* * * *
“Ned Kelly”: A fast new aeroplane
has been passing over Lake Macquarie
(N.S.W.) lately, and I have been greatly
intrigued by the behavior of
the local birds. Evidently
they’ve adjusted their habits to
the speed of the old bus which
used to pass north each day.
A curlew, flying fast with evi-
dent intention of passing the
skyrider’s bow, missed by a
long way; judging by the
commotion he made as he flew
around in circles he was
greatly annoyed at his failure.
The squawks of disgust which
a crow hurled after the air-
man, following a similar experience,
sounded almost human in their profanity.
* * * *
“Ymar”: “There,” said our butcher as
he weighed the meat he had just cut off.
“Good judgment, eh? Exactly 121 b.”
“Eleven and a half,” corrected the keen
buyer, a lad in his early teens. “Er—
yes, 12!” he corrected himself, warned
by a disagreeable “Wha-a-at?’ from the
butcher. The youth got to the door
before he made his second complaint.
“That last lot we got, there wasn’t much
on it; and the bones were terrible tough.”
HOBSON’S CHOICE.
There’s nothing marvellous about my Harry;
He’s short on style, and lots would turn him
down;
He’s not the wonder-man one hoped to marry
When one was just a dreaming kid in town.
And yet he has his little compensations;
He’s always kindly, if a. trifle fat.
If my choice seems somewhat queer
You must bear in mind, my dear,
He’s the only single man in Bean Tree Flat.
Well, yes, I did like Tom Macpherson, only
Those days are gone, and what’s a girl to
do?
With Harry round, it doesn’t seem so lonely;
He cheers me, somehow, when I’m feeling
blue.
He hasn’t had a college education,
But many men are none the worse for that.
Though his ways are crude, I know,
And his conversation’s slow,
He’s the only single man in Bean Tree Flat.
A Colman he is not, nor yet a Gable,
But freckles I don’t mind, nor sandy hair;
And if at times his manners at the table
Lack elegance it’s little that I care.
There’s something that appeals about the
fellow.
' I like the way he wears his old felt hat,
And the easy way he rides—
He’s a horseman—and, besides,
He’s the only single man in Bean Tree Flat.
N.S.W.
ABIE.


THE “ARTILLERY”
LOG-SPLITTING GUN
(Patented).
Revolutionises log-splitting. No boring.
Cuts labor and material down to a
minimum. If your local dealer does not
stock the Gun, write for full particulars
WINGATE & CO., LTD.,
AUCKLAND, X.Z.,
Manufacturers and Distributing Agents.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/- per night.
All meals a la carle.
Delightful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1531.
Telegrams, “Grancentral,'
SYDNEY.
L
■a
A PENNY
ANHOUR
* »
“The whole cost of fuel—freight
and cartage included— is just Id.
an hour."
(Extract from "R-an-D" Diesel
Engine user’s letter.)
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE; Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; Mac Ewan's
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturert.
MADF i.% l - Vl> £?V
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
• -VALLEY DPISbANE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Locks.
“Murrawong”: Many shearing-sheds
brand as “locks” the indiscriminate
sweepings of board and woolroom—a
mixture of skirtings, second cuts, fribs,
stained pieces and dags that may con-
tain more pieces than locks or more
dags and dirt than wool. There are
people who believe in leaving pieces in
the locks “to make them bulkier and get
a better price,” but that amounts only
to robbing the pieces on the offchance of
a speculator buying the locks to recover
the pieces from them.
In a well-classed clip, bulky wool
should be in its proper place. The
pickers-up or sweepers should handle
locks at the beginning of shearing, and
the routine should be insisted on. When
a fleece is picked up, a space should be
immediately swept clear from the pen
door around the stand. The lock basket
or pack may be some distance away, but
in any case the bulky pieces of wool
should be picked out of the sweepings,
shaken free of locks and placed with the
skirtings before being moved further.
Sweeping the lot along the board
merely results in a tangled mass that has
to be systematically picked and shaken,
takes twice as long to do and yields
fewer and inferion pieces. Board sweep-
ings should not be pushed directly under
the wool-tables. It may save time at the
moment, but it complicates the later
task of picking the bulk out of the accu-
mulated mound after knock-off time.
Where two lines of locks are made,
wool-tables should be enclosed by planks
or hessian to ensure that no board sweep-
ings find their way underneath. Table
Jocks should be second cuts and light
fribs only, the heavy sweat locks re-
maining with board sweepings.
This applies to clean country. In
western parts or in dusty country, where
each fleece that hits the table sends a
shower of dust over the locks below, the
position is reversed, and board locks are
usually the better of the two. Care
should be exercised in picking these locks
also. Skim the wool from the top, allow-
ing the sand to gravitate to the floor,
whence it should be swept away and
dumped—not shovelled holus-bolus into
the pack.
Drought-fodder Conservation.
“Ghanum”: The recent fodder-conser-
vation championships in central-western
N. S. Wales show how little drought need
count in some areas where a few years
ago it was fatal.
The leading exponent of a farm,sys-
tem —champion for four years now —is
K. Gault, of Trundle. He has 1161
acres, of which he keeps 110 acres under
lucerne, chiefly for grazing. Also, there
are 50 acres of oats and 250 acres of
wheat. His reserves include 293 tons of
trench silage made from wild oats, 41
tons of lucerne hay (five stacks), 142 tons
cereal hay in 10 round stacks and 78
tons of wheat stored in coned galvanised-
iron tank silos. These latter are mouse-
proof, carefully tended, and set a chain
apart in a permanent stackyard. Mr.
Gault’s conservation is ideal for the
wheat-sheep farmer, and is enough to
carry over 1556 sheep for a year.
In the graziers’ section, another
Trundle property, that of W. Berry
and Sons, won the championship.
On 12,240 acres they have established
2250 acres of lucerne, 1350 acres of oats,
2750 acres of wheat, and 2100 acres are
prepared for fallowing. About 1000 tons
of silage is kept in trenches, and 300 tons
of cereal hay, besides 800 tons of wheat
and oats. Here 14,627 sheep, or more
than double the carrying capacity of the
property, are provided for.
Drought should not worry the Berrys
much. It seems a pity that the
scheme cannot be extended to Queens-
land on N.S.W. lines. If a drought-
provision competition were inaugurated
in Central Queensland, it might produce
an idea more fruitful of security than
all the half-baked Government-aid
schemes now being canvassed.
Grasshoppers and Parasites.
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department
has been experimenting with the Scelio
fulgidus, a wasp parasite which brteds
in the eggs of the grasshopper. The
insect is found in Queensland as far
north as the south-western railway and
in N. S. Wales and Victoria.
Last year the wasps appeared in mil-
lions and with great suddenness in many
districts struck by the locusts.
In the Moree district they wiped out
dozens of acres of ’hopper-breeding beds.
The department has come to the con-
clusion that, while the parasite cannot
prevent ’hopper plagues, it can play an
important part in reducing them to harm-
less proportions.
Corriedale Crosses.
“Granova”: Some splendid flocks of
dual-purpose sheep are being built up
in N. S. Wales with Corriedale rams on
Corriedale-merino cross ewes.
Mate merino ewes, well-woolled and
with good backs, with true Corriedale
rams with strong, well-charactered wool.
On the ewe progeny of this mating, use
slightly finer Corriedale rams.
When sufficient Corriedale ewes are
on hand, discard the merinos. Class the
Corriedale-cross ewes into flocks accord-
ing to fineness and select Corriedale rams
to suit each flock.
The use of Corriedale rams on suc-
ceeding generations should produce big,
hardy sheep with a medium comeback
fleece.
Beware of rams with too fine a wool,
as they will produce light fleeces and
open backs. For the first few years, the
ewes will have to be culled heavily for
the sake of evenness.
This class of sheep will cut a fleece as
profitable as merino. They are excep-
tionally hardy, and will raise lambs under
drought conditions. In good seasons, the
lambs can be sold as suckers.
Picking-up.
“Dead Finish”: Certainly, a lot of
woolroom troubles originate in bad
picking-up. “J.W.’s” (B. 14/8/’35) exer-
cise for pickers-up is intriguing, and
sounds like a golf lesson. With fleeces
that hang well together, his major third
and dominant fifth may be possible, but
the “crumply” fleeces encountered in
open, sparsely timbered districts need a
decided handful to cope with the job
properly.
The amount of instruction the average
shed-hand gets is just enough to see the
job through. The classer has enough to
keep him occupied the first day, and has
to throw himself about to lick the team
into shape, besides carrying out his wool
duties.
The magnitude of the industry should
warrant interested parties initiating brief
instructional courses in picking-up, wool-
rolling and other jobs in which technique
could be standardised. Such a course
would need to be elementary, but would
ensure the classer getting something more
than newchums. Piece-picking, of course,
is different, and needs men with training.
“Byramine”: Before “J.W.” (B.
14/8/’35) starts training the picker-up,
he should train shearers to shear a fleece
so that it can be picked up. It’s no good
if a machine shearer, after completing the
“long blow,” starts to clean the off-side of
his sheep’s head, draws his right foot
along the backbone from tail to shoulder
or further, and tears the fleece almost
completely in halves. By the time the
sheep has kicked a bit and torn it in
one or two other places I’ll defy any
picker-up to do a proper job.
Lamb-marking.
“Gulligal”: I think if “Upilio” (B.
10/7/’-35) will try my method he will
save time, and also find that previous
losses, if any, were caused, not by over-
heating, but by blood-poison.
I do the main operation in two actions
on every lamb—even the smallest—then
the earmark, then the tail.
Dress the wound with kerosene and oil,
getting well into the purse to prevent fly-
or blood-poison. While out of my hands,
knife or earmarks are in kerosene.
The lambs are put into a yard that is
free from dust so that they can safely
lie down.
Shake Off the Cobwebs.
“Julius Want”; Maoriland farmers
adopted modern methods in butter pro-
duction before the war. They studied
European and U.S.A. technique and
profited. In 1914, M.L. export butter
was at a premium of ss. to 10s. per
hundredweight over Australian butter on
the London market.
The N. S. Wales co-operative move-
ment was sufficiently alarmed to send a
delegation to M.L. to discover why. The
delegation came back shouting: “Neu-
tralise and pasteurise!” There were no
cheers from the factories. Then C. E. D.
Meares, of the Coastal Farmers, sent a
man across the Tasman to get “coat off '’
experience. He returned with the same
advice, and made a tour of N.S.W. lec-
turing to butter-makers.
Within two years, 90 p.c. of N.S.W.
factories had pasteurising plants. Quality
showed steady improvement on the aver-
age for a little while. In some factories,
however, slipshod methods triumphed
over science. In others, managers
appeared to think that alkaline testing
outfits were intended as spider roosts.
The N. S. Wales Dairy Branch co-
operated vigorously, helping to amalga-
mate obsolete plants into new-type ones
capable of producing the world’s
choicest grades.
Neutralising and pasteurising have
their exact techniques ; it is not enough
to use a culture which may or may not
be pure in a quantity which is guessed.
And pasteurising, by both “flash” and
“batch” methods which then came into
vogue, succeeded only with an exact
180 deg., or an exact 140 deg. minimum
for a dead 20 minutes at least.
Since then, N.S.W. has gone a long
way. It has got to the point where its
producers glow with pride when they
hear that 78 p.c. of the butter output is
graded choice. Not choicest, of which
we should be able to produce 95 p.c. in
export quantities. The 95 p.c. choicest
stage is a long way off. And in other
States it is much further off. One day
some Australian authority will wake up
and persuade the various States to grade
factories according to efficiency and pub-
lish in detail the percentage qualities of
their output.
Then we shall know a bit more about
why M.L. and Danish butters still eat
us out of the best trade on the London
market.
Taking a Pulse.
"L.K. ’: The pulse of a horse or cow
will bfe found just under the lower jaw,
and the bigger the beast the smaller the
pulse.
A normal-sized horse has a 40-beat
pulse ; a faster rate suggests fever; a
slower, weak heart action or general
illness. Where a pulse is not normal,
have a look at the patient’s respiration.
A horse in pain breathes faster than
the 16 to 20 times per minute which is
right, and Strawberry when suffering in-
creases her ordinary 20 times to 25.
Temperature is taken in the lower
bowel. Most beasts are highly sensitive
in temperature, and the horse which
deviates much from a steady lOOdeg. or
the cow which forsakes 101.2 deg. by a
5 p.c. margin is far from being accord-
ing to Cocker.
Care of Teats.
“Olan ”: Many dairymen feel that any
old teat will do so long as it does not
interfere with the comfort of the milker,
but teats should be looked after as care-
fully as a surgeon’s hands.
.Some faults are not curable. Leaky
teats may be due to overloading,
irregular milking or imperfect sphincter-
muscle action, but cannot be cured. A
light rubber band round the base of the
teat will help.
Warts, in the early stages, may seem
as if they do not matter, but they almost
certainly cause tenderness in time, and
are finp germ harbors. If the wart is
large enough to hold it, tie a piece of
fine waxed silk round it as near the teat
as possible. In a few days there will be
no wart. If the growth is too small to
hold the string, touch it with a feather-
end dipped in butter of antimony. But
be careful not to touch the teat.
Sores on teat-tips usually come through
carelessness —milking with wet hands,
picking filth from the teats with dirty
fingernails, or the use of unsterilised
tubes on machines.
Cleanliness and gentleness are the best
preventives. When sores do come, try
this: Mix 1 drachm boracic acid with
loz. glycerine. Mix again with 1 pint
water, and put into a narrow jam jar.
After milking, let the teat sink into the
jar and stay there for a few minutes.
The mixture can be used again and again.
An alternative is a smear of zinc
oxide ointment after each milking.
Blocked teat is caused by a little flesh
ball in the passage which sometimes
comes away of its own accord. For
obstinate ones, try a teat syphon, with
one side filed sharply so that it acts
like an apple-corer. Hold the tgat in
the left hand, and with the right intro-
duce the syphon, turning it slowly and
carefully against the lump till it is re-
moved.
Before being used, the syphon should
be boiled. The little blood which will
flow should be gently milked out of the
teat, which should then be syringed with
7 p.c. boracic solution.
It is a simple operation for anybody
who knows how, but if the cow is valu-
able and a vet. is at hand it is better
to let him do the job. One slip of the
hand or one grain of infection and there
may be no teat in a few days—and, per-
haps, no cow.
Rumen Impaction.
“X.T.”: Rumen impaction is not easy
to diagnose at the outset, because the
early symptoms are pretty indefinite. A
kind of grunt when breathing, some-
times regular, sometimes occasional, is


ŵ
ẁ
Keep your feet fit!
For that they must be comfortable
. , . and this Abbey Shoe is built for
comfort. Its upper doesn’t cramp the
muscles. It brings immediate ease to
aching feet. No breaking-in ... it
fits perfectly right from the start. The
sole is made of the toughest leather
. . . the upper of supple, glossy calf.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full
and half size . . . narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide. When order-
ing, state which you need and ask,
also, for the correct Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6),
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ABBEY
Estab/ished over 80 years
316 George St, and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEQR APHIC A D Dll ESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Acid Stomach
inflicts untold misery
■
“Why am I always weak,
nervous, despondent?”
There are countless women, men too,
who for years have not known what it is
to feel really fit and well. They drag
wearily through life all unconscious of
the fact that a chronically sour acid
stomach is capable of souring one’s
entire existence. You can easily detect
an acid stomach by the following
symptoms—Always tired and low-spirited,
frequent headaches, disturbed sleep,
overstrung nerves, loss of appetite,
nausea, flatulence and indigestion. If
that is how you feel, don’t resort to pick-
me-ups but take ‘Bisurated’ Magnesia to
sweeten your stomach. This will correct
the excessive acidity of your gastric
juice and overcome the chronic sourness
of your stomach. With the “mainspring"
of your system in healthy working order
your distressing symptoms will promptly
vanish and you will soon be enjoying
normal health and spirits. Get a bottle
of * Bisurated' Magnesia, powder or
tablets, from any chemist and start on
the road to good health by taking a dose
after your next meal—the effect will be
a revelation to you. In ‘Bisurated*
Magnesia you have the supreme remedy
for stomach troubles, with over 20 years'
reputation for unfailing efficacy.
BISURATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the * Bismag’ Trade Mark
ẃ
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP. Written
in simple form for novice and experienced
player. At all bookstalls and newsagents 2/-,
or posted direct from The Bulletin, Id. extra.
FARM MANAGER
required to control lucerne area on New South
Wales sheep property. Technical qualifications
and practical experience in conservation and
grazing on irrigated and dry lucerne essential.
Reply in first instance, with copies only testi-
monials, stating salary required, to “Lucerne,”
C/o Gordon and Gotch, Sydney.
Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY
STOPS TRAVEL NAUSEA
ON YOUR VACATION TRIPS
ẅ
Neat, convenient and inexpensive,
the lightweight Globite Attache
Case is most practical for school
books. It's extra strong and rigid,
with a reinforcing lid stay. Ask
for a Globite Attache Case.
WOOL VALUES
Our first sale of 8709 bales on September 3 averaged
XlB/9/- per bale and per lb. for Large Lots.
Our aim is to secure the highest average per lb. for
the whole clip—
COMPARE OUR RESULTS
To share in these high returns, consign your approaching
clip to:
The Australian Mercantile Land &
Finance Co., Ltd.
one of the most certain danger signs.
When the beast is viewed from behind,
there is an obvious upward bend, slightly
tilted towards the left, in the backbone.
Pressing on the rumen—at left flank—
the impaction can be felt in a yielding
lump, and the dint which is made by
the hand sometimes remains for a quarter
of a minute or so.
The first essential of treatment is to
declare High Lent for the patient—no
feed whatever and plenty of water.
Sprinkle a bit of lick salt about, which
encourages more drinking. Give half a
teaspoonful of nux vomica fluid extract
every three hours in a small amount of
water.
As soon as cud-chewing begins, a laxa-
tive will complete the job.
Any case which does not yield quickly
to this treatment calls for surgery, but
the best cure of all is to see that animals
do not overeat and are always on suit-
able fodders.
Lucerne Points.
“Winfield”: Lucerne sends its tap-
root straight down; therefore, when
ploughing unirrigated land, depth is
essential—l2in. is not too deep. This
allows the young root time to develop
before reaching the unploughed soil.
Of equal importance is thorough
ploughing. Immediately the root of
young lucerne strikes an obstacle it forks,
and once this happens the plant becomes
a weakling.
At Gunnedah (N.S.W.) the roots of
lucerne can be seen all the way down a
25ft. bank of the Namoi ; but even with
its roots in moisture the plant must not
be kept eaten back continually or it will
soon require resowing.
Scarifier or Spring-tooth.
“Stump Jump”: Most farmers cannot
afford both, but the problem can often
be solved easily.
The fixed-tyne scarifier needs plenty
of horse-power to pull it. Eight horses
can only handle about 6ft. 6in. to 7ft.
of cut at a reasonable depth. If the
tynes are pivoted on the stump-jump
principle, the draught is lessened, but not
as much as if they were spring tynes. Six
horses can comfortably manage the cut
with the latter, as the work is eased to
their shoulders.
However, spring tynes won’t allow
nearly as wide points to be used as the
rigid or stump-jump scarifier—Sin. to
6in. is usually the limit, as against Sin. to
lOin. with rigid “duck-feet.” The latter
have no sideslip, so cannot rise over or
dance around heavily-rooted weeds, as
spring tynes do. They can also pene-
trate much harder and drier soils with-
out straining springs, frame, etc., pro-
vided the same width of point is used.
A rigid-tyne is a waste of money and
horseflesh in light, free-working soils,
and worth its weight in gold on heavy,
clayey ones. In odd damp seasons, it can
be used (without doing a cheap and
nasty job) instead of a plough.
On the other hand, if the prevalent
weeds are slim-rooted, the heavy draught
machine is not as necessary as if thick
“tappy” growths are to be dealt with.
A good many men, either from lazi-
ness or thoughtlessness,, waste power on
the rigid-tynes. The tynes are usually
set so that a 4in. or sin. point provides
pn. overlap. Yet, under all conditions,
they persist in using Bin. to lOin. points,
Only a heavy weed growth requires that
width. Also, most of the extra power
required goes into needlessly hardening
the “bottom,” as the frequent passage
of flat tynes cfoes.
Spring tynes, by their “trembling
action, sift the soil better, clods on top
and soil below. The same action throws
the weeds clean out of the soil for the
sun to kill. There is not much, however
in the argument that they leave an un
UoA i y A • -j
even seed-bed compared with rtgtds.
„ , _
Honey tor Export.
’Bogaduck”: All attempts to find a
good market for Australian honey in
Britain have been partial or complete
failures, and the sad part is that fresh
attempts usually go over the same ground
and make the errors which spoiled pre-
vious ventures.
The British consumer likes a honey
whose flavor is so mild as to be almost
without character according to our stan-
dards. Most of the honeys from Aus-
tralian eucalypts are too strong for the
British palate.
There are only three exceptions. There
are limited overseas markets for honey
gathered from sugar- and bluegum
trees, and an excellent market for the
honey of the yellow box. But we only
produce sufficient of these for our own
needs.
We can, however, produce honey of a
type which finds little favor here, yet
fetches quite a good price in Britain, for
there is no trouble to sell produce
gathered from lucerne, Scotch thistle,
strawberry clover, or the weed known as
“Salvation Jane.” At present, there is
not much inducement for beekeepers to
gather these honeys.
What is wanted is a business firm with
existing arrangements for storing and
handling honey to enter into forward
contracts with beekeepers to purchase on
taint-free sample.
An expert English honey-grader can
detect the faintest trace of gum-tree
honey in a blend.
Then a stock needs to be built up from
which regular shipments can be made
through the British winter.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bimbo”; When splitting posts, trouble
is sometimes experienced in getting the
first wedge or two to draw in some logs.
This difficulty is easily overcome by
using two extra wedges serrated with a
punch.
“Burrun”: When horses gnaw wood in
the stable, the cause is either lack of
mineral matter in the food —or just a
habit. Try adding a mineral mixture to
the feed, and place a lump of rock salt
in the manger to distract attention from
the woodwork. If the habit continues,
paint the woodwork with tar varnish,
1 part tar to 3 parts naphtha.
“Doitnow”: Now is the time in
N.S.W. to top-dress paddocks which need
cleaning—use at least lewt. of super,
per acre. Many noxious weeds start to
grow in the early spring, and giving the
natural pastures a quick start helps to
choke them out. Sowing with sub. clover
is another good scheme. Stock all in-
fested paddocks heavily during the grow-
ing period. Later in the year hoe out
weeds which are left. If they are thick,
keep the stock on the job and repeat the
top-dressing next year.
“Wrash”: Remove the shoe from a
horse lame with a corn. Cut the excres-
cence out with a circular sweep of a
shoeing knife. Fill the hole with turpen-
tine. With the hoof held up burn out
the turpentine. Then replace the shoe.
“X.T.”: The C.S.I.R. is beginning an
investigation to determine the reasons
for the comparatively low fertility of the
Australian merino. Dr. I. Clunies Ross
says that it is necessary to decide how
far heredity and how far nutritional and
other factors are to blame. The present
position is disquieting, for, although cross-
bred flocks are increasing and will con-
tinue to increase as a result of the de-
velopment of the fat-lamb industry,
merino wool production is showing a pro-
gressive decrease, while that of U.S.A.
and S. Africa is on the up-grade. Drops
of merinos at present are about 65 p.c.
in N. S. Wales and 55 p.c. in Queensland
—droughts have affected the figures in
the northern State. Uncle Sam, in some
districts, lays claim to 100 p.c., and in
rare cases groups have produced up to
130 p.c.
“Wundi”: In my article on weedicides
(B. 11/9/’35) sodium chloride should
read “sodium chlorate.”
“Sambo”: In drought, dipping may
serve a twofold purpose. Wool normally
contains about 16 p.c. water (even when
bone dry), and will absorb up to this
amount from the air, if obtainable. In
dry seasons a lack of moisture in the
air does serious harm. Wool consists of,
approximately, carbon, 50.27 ; hydrogen,
7.03 ; nitrogen, 16.20; oxygen, 22.80 ;
sulphur, 3.70 parts. I have been told by
an expert that wool in N. S. Wales dis-
tricts which have had to dip a second
time shows hardly any sign of drought.
Have any M.O.L. readers had the experi-
ence?


. ri
HERESTOEE
N
f*
i£
.C" ,
I i!
I y
V 81
in
n^TVfl
m wmm
‘bkv
IW f;<PO«T
LAGPR
\.-.
r* a
'V
is .•
* i'
H
K“T^
«£»
w a)
n v
WHEN GOOD FELLOWS MEET
THEY ORDER
TOOHEYS
PILSFKIFP
■ I In mm I SB


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent. Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
ft <
i r
npo
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METRO POLESydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“The Viennese boys delighted their audience
by singing the Austrian national anthem, fol-
lowed by three ‘hocks!’ for their host and
hostesses. ” —‘ 'A ge."
No doubt, three sparkling hocks.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Witness at Central Court, Sydney, de-
scribed a defendant as ‘a man who would
shake anything.’ ”
Even the confidence of his friends,
seemingly.
*l* *l*
“A young woman tells Dorothy Dix that
she has grown tired of a young man who
spends every evening in her company, and
asks for advice about how to break him of the
habit.”
The answer is, of course—marry him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Diary of an Office Boy Who Tells.
Monday.—The manager of this new
joint's a propper slave-driver. Sends a
bloke roynd to the post offis with some
speshel delivery stuff and goes crook for
taking an hour and a harf. Must think
a man’s a racehorse.
Tues. —A feller’s got to get morning
tea for the sheilahs here. Blime! If
my mob knew that they’d hoyst their
hats if they seen me in a lift. I’ve got a
snifter possie in the office. There’s a
new bilding going up over the road, and
my winder looks right on th» dogman
going up and down.
Wed. —This manager’s a stingy cow.
Asked him for half-day off to attend
uncle’s funeral. He asked what uncle’s
sirname was. Told him. He looked
up the funeral notices and said it wasn’t
there. Told him we couldn’t afford to
adverties it. Knocked me back. Any-
way, I got me own back—l nailed his
atta&h attach little
suitcase to the
floor. I’d like to
see his dile when he
goes to pick it up.
Thurs. —This
manager bloke’s
getting vindicka-
tive. Got me sing-
ing out numbers
nearly all the morn-
ing to a sheilah, on
one of them
machines. Just the
day they was send-
ing up stacks of
timber on the new
bilding, too. When
1 took all the
sheets into his
room after we’d
finished he was
out. His bowler
hat wasn’t, though.
It didn’t lake long
to smear some offis
gum inside it. He
comes back in a
tearin’ rage after
lunch and had to
wear his hat in his
office all the after-
noon. I suppose
he had to keep it
on in the resterong.
and that’s what
made him so wild.
Friday. Look-
ing for a new job.
P.S. —It shouldn’t be long now before
(hat tin of bad sardines that 1 tied under-
neath the manager’s desk starts doing
something—and something doing.
S. W. K.
►l* * *!• *
A Big Disadvantage.
Frowning behind the bandages that
enveloped his head, the patient flung the
newspaper aside, and, hurt by the effort,
gave a little gasp of pain.
He had just read an advertisement of
a method for increasing height.
He could not understand anyone
wishing to increase his height, for his
own had been his undoing. But for it
he would never have been in hospital:
he would have been treated with com-
radeship, instead of being beaten, bashed,
battered, bowled over, jumped on and
kicked.
Yes, height had certainly been a great
disadvantage to him. You see, it made
him look like a policeman. And he
lived in Surry Hills.
T. W. N.
“Petitioner said that her husband never gave
her sufficient house money. Sometimes he
punched her when she asked for some more.’’
He must have been close-fisted.
Predicament.
Sweet, though my dream-girl’s golden-
fair,
And, being blonde, you fill the bill,
I’m left suspended in the dir
Of vexing indecision. Still,
They lose, I’ve heard, who too long pause
Or hack and fill, but / regret
/ can’t make up my mind, because
You share my heart with a brunette.
Tis she, alas! who cramps my style;
’Tis she who clouds the issue, dear;
7 hough you have magic she has guile.
And I’m susceptible, I fear.
And yet could I resist that minx,
And her enslaving wiles eschew.
Td still he up the pole, methinks,
For I’m impressed by prudence, too!
P.O.M.C.
Doctor’s Orders.
“Mystery surrounds (lie discovery of a fully-
clothed man swimming in the Atlantic Ocean
160 miles from land.”— "Herald."
This affair is no longer a mystery.
When a boat was lowered from the
Crackquatania and rushed to the help
“And where did you say he hit you, ma'am?"
of the lone swimmer, its occupants were
roundly abused in a rich Caledonian
voice.
“Why don’t ye leave a puir body be,
and mind yer own business?” boomed
Andrew McSplash through his brine-
encrusted whiskers, and his disappearing
extremities were hint enough to his
would-be rescuers that he intended in-
dulging in a little submerged swimming
to escape their attentions.
The explanation was simple. A doctor
in Glesga had ordered Andrew a sea
voyage.
McM.
Going Bush.
It ever comes upon me in the first
flush of spring, this wild, recurrent
nostalgia ; a deep, insistent longing to
get far away from the concrete canyons
of the great city that crowd the soul, and
revel for a while in the old familiar
sights and sounds of the bush. To hear
again the laughter of the kookaburras,
the chatter of the parrots ; to see once
more the little koalas in their gum-tree
homes, nibbling timidly the sweet tips ;
to w'atch the great grey kangaroos leap
and bound, contemptuous of man’s petti-
ness and variety. All these things, typical
of the great outdoors, the real Australia,
I must see —to get right back to Nature
in this season when she is eternally re-
born. I go, for the urge is irresistible.
And, anyway, I always enjoy myself
at the Zoo. ’ * j^ EO
My Barber on the League of Nations.
“The League o’ Nations ain’t doin’
much good,” remarked my barber after
he had me trussed up in a sheet, face
well lathered and completely at his mercy.
“A bunch of old women, if y’ ask me.
That’s what they are. They get over
there in Genoa”
“Geneva,” I spluttered.
“That’s what I said. They get over
there in Genoa, siltin’ round the table
like King Alfred’s knights, an’ what do
they do? Talk! That’s all. Mr. Eden
says something, an’ the Froggie bloke
says something else, and then this Baron
Aloysius does a bit of yelling, and pulls
out the family photergraph album. Then
they all spend days looking at the photos.
“The pore old Abbersinian cove tries
to get a word in, an’ he’s howled down
’cos he hasn’t got no photers. A lot o’
rot! Photers., mind you! It makes me
sick. It’s a wonder they didn’t take their
stamp albums along, too, though I never
could see no sense in savin’ them things.
Me little girl’s got hundreds of ’em.
Waste o’ time, / call it. They’re no
good, anyhow; they’re all used ones, an’
even if they wasn’t she don’t write a
letter, from one year’s end to another,
’cept at Christmas-time.
“It’s bad enough for kids, but when
grown-up men, Prime Ministers and so
on, gets doin’ it —well, no wonder things
is in a mess.
“Though, o’ course, they didn’t take
stamps, only photers. Photers.! Fancy
old Disraeli takin’ photers. to a con-
f’rence! Now, there was a man for you.
Beat all this bunch
put together, he
would. He’d ’a’
gone to Genoa an’
told ’em what he
thought of ’em,
and they’d ’a’
signed up like
lambs. Wh a lever
he told ’em, they’d
’a’ signed. And not
a single photer-
graph. Just a but-
tonhole. Always
wore a buttonhole,
Dizzy did. 1 seen
it in the films.
“ ’Course, he was
a Jew. That
mighta made a dif-
ference, specially
with Mussolini and
his Nazzies bein’
so red-hot against
Jews. Lord knows
why, they’re harm-
less enough. ‘Live
an’ let live,’ I alius
says, but Musso.,
he thinks different.
“An’ now he’s
goin’ to clean up
the Abbersinians,
the pore cows! I’ve
never met any of
’em, but I knoo a
bloke from South
America once. A
nice chap, an’ as
white as me or you. They say y’ can
tell ’em by their fingernails, but I never
looked. Take ’em as you find ’em,’ I
say.
“An’ here’s Musso. goin’ to clean ’em
up just ’cos they don’t collect photer-
graphs. I don’t care what the League
says, it ain’t fair!”
JASBY.
Sin on the Steppes.
[This novel was submitted to The Bul-
letin for serial publication. By the time
it had been carefully sub-edited and all
passages to which the censor might take
exception had been eliminated, it was
found possible to publish the entire novel
in one instalment.]
Chapter I. Awakening.
Ivan Ellvanitch went down through the
dirty grey morning to the pigsties. There
the maid Theodora paused in her work
to smile solemnly on him. They were a
comely pair, he tall and angular, she fat,
greasy and coarse. “Come,” he said.
They went off together through the pine
forest.
Chapter 11. Confession.
“What shall I do,” she sobbed —“I,
a poor orphan girl?”
“I shall strangle it,” he said simply.
Chapter 111. Justice.
The dingy courtroom depressed him
with its unctuous officials. “A lot of
miserable bourgeois,” he thought. The
Judge looked savagely on him because
the Judge’s wife had been nagging him
about a dancing girl.
Chapter IV. Exile.
Ivan and Theodora paused to survey
the desolate area of snow, looking like
JILTED.
a heap of custard poured on the ground.
This was the wilderness they were to
share as home together.
Chapter V. Serge.
The man in charge of the prisoners
greeted them with a grunt. He was a fat,
wobbling man, and he was sitting in the
snow catching ileas on his shaggy chest.
His loose mouth hung open and his
piggy eyes rolled at the sight of Theo-
dora. Not often had he seen such a
woman. Theodora felt instinctively re-
pelled. “My name is Serge,” he said,
“and 1 write poetry. Such good poetry —
about the stars and fleas.” Then he
lapsed into silence, but his piggy eyes
expressed much.
“Never,” thought Theodora.
Chapter VI. The Crime.
It was night, a fit night for Serge’s
poetry.
Ivan came on them quietly. He took
Serge’s loathsome blubbery neck in his
hands and strangled him until the warm
blood oozing over his hands made him
think of the raspberry-jam he had stolen
when a child. Theodora gave a low
moan.
Chapter VII. Expiation.
“I am not afraid,” he said. “We shall
meet again, Theodora, in a life when
frustration shall be no longer our lot.
We mortals have little to lose. Russia’s
greatness goes on.”
As the bullets thudded into his flesh he
collapsed on the snow. Blood ran from
a dozen wounds. Theodora bathed her
hands in it and sat and pondered.
[The End.]
L.V.K.


ẁ
“SH.VER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
brake
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD,, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
• Petty's Hotel is an historical landmark of
Sydney. It is old; 100 years old; and yet to-day it
is gaining more and more guests through its atmos-
phere of restful comfort; its modern appointments:
perfect service. Tariff: Room and breakfast. 11/6;
Inclusive, 18/-.
r\
SYDNEY*
SYDNEY
V
York Street; Sydney
Hotel
R. J. Langley, Manager
Simoniz Your Gar
. . . . It Will Sparkle Like New
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
The Steering Column.
DRIVING FAST WITH SAFETY
INFLUENCE OF INFLATION PRESSURE
AND. TREAD DESIGN.
BY FRED BERRY.
TRANSPORT in all its phases has been revolutionised in the
past decade by the internal-combustion vehicle, and the
automobile to-day can no longer be regarded as the rich man’s
hobby, but rather as a part of economic life. The urge to-day
is for speed and more speed, and the question is not whether
speed may be permitted, but how the use of speed may be
safeguarded.
A few years ago motor vehicles aver-
aging 30 m.p.h. over indifferent highways
were the exception rather than the fule,
while to-day on the open road a cruising
speed of 60 is within the compass of
almost every modern car. Can high-
speed motor traffic be given full scope
while at the same time the rights and
lives of other road-users are conserved?
While the human element is paramount
there are certain physical and mechani-
cal factors that must be taken into con-
sideration, and of these tyres and braking
equipment are most important. Power-
ful motors fitted to X-type chassis of great
strength but of light weight have given
the motorist of to-day a vehicle capable
of speed and acceleration comparable
with racing-car practice of a few years
ago, and herein lies the hazard to other
users of the road unless tyres and brakes
are maintained in perfect condition.
So far as tyre life is concerned modern
equipment will last from 10,000 to 20,000
miles, and in the hands of careful drivers
30,000 miles is no uncommon mileage,
but motorists should realise that over
possibly one half of this distance, should
they continue using their original tyre
cases, their cars are being driven in a
dangerous condition. Immediately the
pattern is worn from the tread the car
is no longer under perfect control, parti-
cularly in cases where the road is ren-
dered wet or greasy by rain.
Taking first the factor of wear, it will
be found that, if a new tread is vulcan-
ised on a sound casing when the tyre
becomes smooth, or, alternatively, a new
and shallow tread is cut into the rubber
by a “grooving” process, there will be
little, if any, increase in the annual cost
per mile of equipment, with the added
advantage of safe roadholding under all
weather conditions throughout the period.
With regard to inflation pressures it
must be admitted that the universal
adoption of low-pressure cord types,
coupled with resistance to wear and free-
dom from punctures, has caused many a
motorist to become careless and leave
much to chance. Inflation pressure has
a deciding influence upon both wear and
roadholding, and to a lesser degree affects
passenger comfort.
Correct pressures are here tabulated:
Perusal of this table will reveal the
influence of load upon correct pressures,
a factor often disregarded. Take for pur-
poses of comparison the case of a tour-
ing car weighing one ton empty, and,
"Advanx” regrooving machine
used for cutting new tread pattern
on smooth tyres.
assuming an equal distribution of weight
on both front and rear axles, the load
per tyre would be scwt. In these circum-
stances the correct inflation pressures
would be: For 4.00 section, 261 b.; 4.50,p.c. over that required when running
241 b. ; 4.75, 221 b.; 5.00, 201 b. “light.”
Now take the car with full complement
of adult passengers, luggage, etc., ready
What happens when an under-
inflated tyre strikes a stone or
similar object. Note how the’side-
walls are crushed between the
stone and the rim.
for a week-end tour. The load per tyre
would be increased to 7cwt., in which
case the table shows that with 4.00 sec-
tion .tyres the car is undershod, while
4.50 section should be inflated to 321 b.,
475 to 30 and 5.00 to 281 b. per square
inch, an increase of from 33 1-3 to 40
Motorists who drive their cars in a
fully-laden condition without first check-
ing up inflation pressures impose stresses
on tyre walls far in excess of those in-
tended by the manufacturer, and so have
themselves to blame for blowouts and
excessive wear.
It is generally realised that air tempera-
ture has an influence on pressure, and the
question is frequently asked whether in-
flation pressures should be reduced in
hot weather. This subject has been in-
vestigated recently, and as the result of
carefully conducted experiments the
effect of changes in air temperature, ex-
cept in extremely hot climates, has been
found to be so small in practice as to
be almost negligible.
Finally, in any scheme of road safety
and tyre economy the cfliciency and ad-
justment of braking equipment must be
carefully studied. Obviously, with brakes
so adjusted as to distribute the retarding
effort evenly over all four wheels, tyre
wear will be reduced to a minimum.
Uneven adjustment, however, will not
only throw the greatest work on the
wheel carrying the “fiercest” brake, but
in the event of an emergency stop the
car will not steer truly. Should the
road surface be, wet or greasy definite
control will be impossible and the ensu-
ing wild skid will involve the risk ol
serious accident.
SIMPLE SOLUTION OF TRANSMISSION PROBLEMS.
COMPLEX ASSEMBLIES AND OVERDRIVES NOT ESSENTIAL.
' Insistent public demand has been re-
sponsible during the last decade for the
equipment of modern cars with a great
variety of transmission systems, the aim
being to relieve the operator of the
necessity for preliminary experience in
To 8 ke 8 en g “udentTof modern car per-
formance it is apparent that designers
responsible for some of these complex
assemblies have done their work with-
out giving full consideration to en-
hanced engine performance.
In the earlier days of motoring, when
a power output of 10 h.p. per litre of
engine capacity was an average rating, a
decent road performance could be secured
only by continuous use of the gear
lever. Hills of modest grades were usually
sufficient to call for a drop into third
and second, the driver changing into top
again after breasting the rise. The posi-
tion now is altered altogether, for 25 to
30 b.h.p. per litre is a common power
output for.stock cars, 50 b.h.p. per litre is
usual in sports models, whilst numberless
“blown racing motors develop m excess
°f JOO b.h.p. per litre,
Coupled with this enormous mciease
in power for a given-sized engine has
£ ee ?, a corresponding improvement in
flexibility, due to research in combus-
tion-chambei design, the careful balance
methods of engine mounting. Conse-
quently the modern three-litre stock car,
although capable of developing approxi-
mately 70 b.h.p. on full throttle, can be
driven quietly and smoothly at four
m.p.h. in top gear, though it will “pick
up” in a resolute manner immediately
the accelerator pedal is depressed.
In short, save in a few isolated in-
stances, the car of to-day is for all prac-
tical purposes a top-gear performer, and
when the necessity for a change of ratio
arrives synchromesh units render the
operation absurdly simple,
Obvious though this position must be
tQ t^ose responsible for design and
construction enormous sums continue to
be expended upon novel and tn many
cases complex transmission types when
the problem for the great majority of
users could be solved in a simple and
effective manner by alteration of exist-
ing gear ratios,
Few motorists operating late-model
cars have not felt the desire, when bowl-
j n g along the open road, to pull the gear
] e ver into a high ratio. Quiet though
the motor may be, the same effect could
he obtained at lower engine revs., and
j n some instances overdrives or high
top gears have been incorporated for this
particular purpose,
Analysing the gearbox from the oppo-
S]te an g| e —that is, the use or effective-
ness Q £ j owes { ratios—it will be found
t h an j n cars equipped with four speed
ratios the bottom gear could for all prac-
tjcai p Ur p oSes he discarded. With the
t hree-speed types commonly used on cars
Q £ mer j can origin the gear lever is not
s hjfted from top save under exceptionally
difficult road conditions.
h Undoubtedly gearboxes as such, wfll
be used for many years to come, and
assuming the adherents to four- an
three-speed types maintain then atli ,
there can be no question that bett
overall performance would follow a
carelul review ot ratios at present in use.
In the lighter-powered group of cars,
particularly those of British origin.
equipped with four-speed boxes, a low-
gear ratio lying between present low


WXv-:
m
m
'
m
m
sISiE
? I;
' I*
jik
m.
m
■■■.
nn
yWM
't
mm
m
■
v. :/-
I^Pi
• ■
s
fsßB|
w
m
wmm I
S
Ms the motor wrecker Friction working stealthily in
your motor, robbing you of speed, power, fuel and money?
Does the oil in your motor flow instantly at all tempera-
tures, v/arding off Friction's fatal grip, by sheathing the
engine in a tough, free-flowing, full-bodied film of
protection from the first touch of the starter?
If you are In the slightest doubt, place yourself
immediately under the protection of—
TEXACO
FREE-FLOWING, FULL-BODIED
MOTOR OIL
M 02.485
Mail this
coupon
TO-DAY
for booklet
"STOP
THIEF"
and FREE
Pistol
Novelty
m
/v.w'.vy
hy,
mm
Vtr/Jlfj
The Superintendent, Anti-Friction Squad, ■
THE TEXAS COMPANY fAUSTRALASIA) LTD. J
N3O Box 1593 88. G.P.0., SYDNEY. ■
(7 ncp in NS. IV.)
Please mail me your FREE booklet "Stop Thief
and Pistol ■
NAME ■
ADDRESS-
CAR MODEI —No
and second, a second between present
second and third, a third between present
third and top and a top giving about
4 to 1 ; second, third and top being
of synchromesh silent type, would,
although perhaps requiring more fre-
quent use of the gear lever, be far more
pleasant to drive. Top-gear fussiness
would be reduced, while fuel consump-
tion, engine life and overall performance
should show a marked improvement.
A similar suggestion may be made in
respect to the larger and more powerful
American types using three-speed boxes.
A new arrangement of ratios, with low
between present low and second, would
permit of a smooth and certain start under
any conceivable conditions, whilst with
top between 3 and 3.5 to 1, depending
upon power-weight ratio available, the
car would still climb the average main-
road hill without changing, and would
cruise at high speed with considerably
less fuss than is common with conven-
tional types. Again, assuming synchro-
mesh silent gears were fitted, congested
traffic would be negotiated in silent
second, providing better acceleration than
conventional top and a maximum speed
in excess of that required by the average
driver.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
H.L.H. (Condobolin, N.S.W.). — What is cor-
rect pressure for 21 x 5.25 heavy-duty tyres?
Weight of car empty 24 \cwt.
231 b. empty, 261 b. fully laden.
Three years’ progress in body design: The modern streamlined sedan is faster,
more economical, provides a wider range of vision for driver and passengers, and
is easier to clean and polish.
J.R. (Gordonvale, N.Q.). —(1) Would charg-
ing a car battery from an electric-light plant be
in order ? (2) Can the battery be charged with-
out taking it from the car and without dis-
connecting the lead ?
(1) Depends upon type of light plant. If
D.C. of 6 or 12 volts, yes; higher voltages
would require a resistance in circuit. If A.C.,
you could not charge the battery without using
a rectifier or transformer to convert the cur-
rent to D.C. (2) No. Battery can still re-
main in position, but leads must be dis-
connected before coupling up for charging.
* * * ♦
D.G.C. (Walbundrie, N.S.W.).— My ’29
sedan (27,000 miles) is giving trouble with
its rear brakes. Linings are sound, and so
is front-wheel set, hut when rear brakes are
tightened up by wing nut sufficiently to pull
up the car they drag heavily on the drum when
in the "off” position.
Symptoms indicate general wear. Brake
drums may be oval, causing drag when adjusted
tightly. Cams and bushes in the brake
assembly may be worn or the anchor bolt
(The Steering Column continued on
page 28.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
WILLARD-
the world’s
finest Battery—
cd
Willard prices have been substanti-
ally reduced, for each year more and
more motorists find that Willard's
quality and dependability make it
the most reliable battery they
can buy!
And now, with these new low prices,
you'll find a Willard better value
than ever! Obviously, it’s the bat-
tery to buy!
The world over, Willard quality
and dependability set the standard.
30,000,000 Willards have given
satisfaction!
You can buy a genuine Willard
Battery for f
as little as
(Capital city prices.)
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies Pty. Ltd., Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne and Horsham
Waymouth Service Co., Adelaide Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney, Newcastle and Lisraore
Roht. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart
©Marks motor vehicle
points never to be
subjected to haphazard
greasing.
these parts ALWAYS.
©
*Jt L
A
LEMITE
-ywt j
Ai JLMITE is the high pres-
sure lubrication system. By means of it special-
ized Alemite lubricants are applied to prolong the
useful life of motor vehicles in all parts of the world.
e CsYLCjLYie The heart of the
motor wants correct grades of oil to
meet climatic conditions and changes
as required. The very hest oil for the
crank-case is the most economical
in the long run. Let your Alemite
Service Station see that all engine
parts are properly lubricated with
ALEMITE ENGINE LUBRICANT.
Alemite Corporation.
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Cable Addres*; ALMIT . . . Chicago
Full particulars from KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
ẃ
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W .A.) ,Lf<l-.894 Hay St., Perth
‘ E. A. MACH IN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 EhzabethSt.. Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 132 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—3-33
SPARE
THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
loose. Return spring on shoes may be weak
or broken, leaving the lining in contact with
drum when pedal is released.
F.L.L.A. (Ashton, S.A.).—(l) Which of the
five cars named, and in what order, would you
suggest as best value for my use ? (2) Which
of the four oils should I use ?
(1) 1 and 4, then 2, 3 and 5 equal. (2) Pro-
vided correct grade is obtained, any of the
brands of oil named should give good results.
♦ * ♦ *
C.H.R. (Carnarvon, W.A.). —Where can I gel
an instruction book for the 1927 Oakland Six ?
Cannot obtain one. Some “Trouble Lamp”
reader may be able to help.
N.O'D. (Casino, N.S.W.). —My car is a ’34
model four-cylinder. (1) Is it possible to over-
charge the battery ? (2) When running at 35
m.p.h other cars pass me at twice the speed.
Would it be possible for my speedo to register
incorrectly ? (3) For petrol economy, what
speed is it best to drive this model ?
(1) Depends upon such factors as hours of
daylight and night driving and number of
times car is usually started up each day, but
as a general rule most batteries are under-
charged rather than overcharged. (2) It is a
simple matter to check speedo. Select a good
stretch of road and keep the speedo hand
steadily on 30 m.p.h. between mile posts; the
mile should take 2min. Repeat at 40; time
should be Imin. 30sec. There may be a few
seconds’ difference either way owing to inability
to keep needle on the set figure, but you will
quickly find any serious error. (3) 30-35 m.p.h.
should be the most economical speed.
* * * *
B.K. (Healesville, Vic.). —I have a ’26 Grey
tourer, the engine of which has a distinct knock
both idling and under load. Have examined
main and big-end bearings and found no play.
Slight play in timing wheels. Knock is just
as pronounced with spark retarded as advanced.
Cause and cure ?
Unless cylinders have been recently rebored,
knock is almost certain to be due to slack
pistons.
P.E. (Cunnamulla, Q.). —Which car of the
three named (closed type ) would you recom-
mend, taking into consideration that it would
have to stand up to rough work in mud; also
clearance, economy and resale value ?
2 and 3 equal, then 1.
* * ♦ ♦
Radio. —The auto radio set installed in
my '34 model car when first fitted gave good
reception even when the car was running.
Recently trouble has been experienced by elec-
trical disturbance from the make-and-break
assembly. Any suggestions ?
Points of make-and-break should be ex-
amined for wear and adjustment, as any
sparking will adversely affect reception. See
also if the carbon suppressor on the end of the
central high-tension lead in the distributor
head is in good order.
* * * *
S.R.D. (Ballarat, Vic.). —Is it possible to
obtain some kind of instrument for attach-
ment to cars that will tell whether the car
is in good order or whether it is in need of
overhaul ?
If it is desired to make relative tests, the
Tapley performance meter will serve the pur-
pose. This instrument can be placed on the
floor of the car or attached at any convenient
position, and, giving a variety of dynamic read-
ings, supplies sufficient information to deter-
mine braking clliciency, acceleration and general
performance of any motor vehicle.
* * * «
W.B. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). —Does polishing
the induction manifold internally have any
effect on the performance of a sports car,
and, if so, is there any practical method of
doing the job without going to the expense
of securing a flexible burnisher ?
A smooth and polished interior of the in-
take manifold is desirable in all high-efliciency
motors, as it permits a free flow of gas with-
out eddy currents and loss due to skin friction.
The process of polishing can be done quite
effectively by dismantling the induction mani-
fold, half-tilling with lead shot, and, after
stopping up each end, shaking vigorously for
A flatiron, wrapped in cloth
to protect exterior finish, can he
used in removing dents in mud-
guards, as illustrated.
15 to 20 minutes. This will fill up inequalities
in the casting and give a bright, smooth
surface. Simple method of shaking is to
attach the manifold to spokes of the rear
wheels and, after jacking up. spin for the
required time with assistance of the motor.
ODDITIES.
“Monto”; Thirty miles out from
Bundaberg (Q.) on the southward road 1
hit a root in soft sand, and smash went
the main leaf of my near-side front
spring. Did I cut a sapling and rig a
bushman’s spring? No. I drove on, the
heavily-laden roadster lurching over every
bump—and there are plenty of bumps on
those Queensland roads. The busted end
of the main leaf was resting on the chassis,
so that the rat-a-tat racket of rough-
road driving can be imagined. 1 couldn’t
get a spare north of Brisbane, and two
days after the smash, when I arrived in
Brisbane, I didn’t bother. I’d got accus-
tomed to the new style of riding, and 1
didn’t want to waste the time and money.
Sydney loomed up four days later. Three
months later I sold the old bus. Four
months later 1 saw her standing by the
kerb in George-street, and just out of
curiosity I had a look under the front
mudguard. The broken end of that main
leaf was still resting on the chassis.
* * * ♦
Those snapped axles (B.
28/8/’35) aren’t rare. Two cases hap-
pened to me, besides others I know of,
one in Parramatla-road, Sydney, on the
completion of a long tour over the Blue
Mountains in a 10-h.p. car. The other
was in Wagga recently. Both times the
breakage occurred on slowing down,
without noticeable noise. The cause is
apparently the sudden release of the
stress or twist in the axle from the engine
side. Forces of many tons per square
inch operate on the whip-back of a shaft
between a free and a fixed end, the posi-
tion affected depending on the speed and
power of the car. The phenomenon is
similar to cavitation in liquids, where
enormous forces are set up, sometimes
60 tons per sq. in. As the cause is a
coincidence, prevention or cure is not
worth the trouble.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single ar.d Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lnr.ch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), "Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.)
____ Tables or Seats may be reserved by "Phono. M 4601.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton. Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 'Jfi
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers. N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thU
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banning business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service ot Bulletin
readers. , . -
The service is entirely free. _ All you have to do is
, to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot last
Bulletin to hand. ~ . .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... .
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
w
Information Sought.
(1) When did the first Australian cricket team
visit England ? (2) Personnel of the leant ?
(3) When did the first English cricket team visit
Australia? (4) Personnel of the team? —8440.
(1) 1878. (2) D. W. Gregory (captain), F. E.
Allen, G. H. Bailey, C. Bannerman, A. C.
Bannerman, T. Horan, W. E. Midwinter, T. W.
Garrett, J. M. Blackham, F. R. Spofforth,
H. F. Boyle, W. L. Murdoch, with John Con-
way manager. (3) 1861-62. (4) H. W. Stephen-
son (captain), G. Bcnnettj W. Caffyn, G.
Griffith, T. Hearne, R. Iddison, C. Lawrence,
W. Mortlock, W. Mudie, T. Sewell, E. Stephen-
son and G. Wells.
* * * *
(1) Is it correct that bluff draw poker has
been declared by the High Court of Australia
to be a legal game of curds ? (2) If so, does
it apply throughout Australia? (3) Can a game
be played for money in a room attached to
licensed premises in W.A. without prosecution
by law ? (4) What is the W.A. law in reference
to a private residence ? —8365.
(1) and (2) Cannot say in the absence of
more specific reference. (3) Under the Licens-
ing Acts of your State (W.A.) the licensed
premises extend to every room, closet, cellar,
stable, etc., belonging or appertaining to the
house, and it is an offence for a licensee to
permit or suffer ‘‘any unlawful game or sport”
on such premises. (4) Any person “who keeps
for gain any place to which persons resort for
the purpose of playing a game of chance”
is the keeper of a gaming-house. If a private
house is used for such purpose, it becomes
a gaming-house, and the keeper is subject to
prosecution. This is not applicable to games
of chance or part-chance and part-skill among
guests or friends in a private house not kept
for gain by the host or householder.
* * * *
Ages and physical measurements of (1)
Primo Camera and (2) Max Baer when they
met in 1934 ? —8462.
(1) Camera: Age 26 years, weight 2601 b.,
height 6ft. 6|in., reach 80in., neck 19in., biceps
14in., forearm 14iin., wrist 9fin., chest
(normal) 46in., chest (expanded) 52in., waist
37in., thigh 25in., calf 18in., ankle I2in. (2)
Baer: Age 25 years, weight 2081 b., height 6ft.
2iin., reach 81 in., neck 17in., biceps 15in.,
forearm 13in., wrist Bin., chest (normal) 42in.,
chest (expanded) 46jn., waist 32in., thigh 23in.,
calf 15in., ankle 9^in.
* * * *
(1) Ages of Fred Henneberry and Jack
Carroll ? (2) How many times have they
met ? Places and results ? —8485.
(1) Carroll (whose correct name is Hard-
wick) was born on February 3, 1906, and
Henneberry on June 18, 1911. (2) They have
fought three limes. Henneberry won on a
knockout in 13 rounds at Sydney on February
29, 1932. Carroll won on points at Mel-
bourne on August 20, 3932, and at Sydney on
September 18, 1933.-
* * ♦ ♦
A singles tennis match is being played on a
doubles court with the inside posts. A player
touches the net beyond the inside posts and
claims that he does not lose the point, because
there should be no net more than three feet
outside the court. Does he lose a point ?
8449.
Yes; the net where he touches it is part of
the supports of the court.
* * * *
(1) Why was Abyssinia so named? (2) Who
founded and named Addis Ababa ?— 8455.
(1) The name is derived from the Arabic
word habasha, meaning “a land inhabited
by a mixture.” It was so called because a
mixture of Arabic tribes first settled the
country. (2) Addis Ababa is a comparatively
new city, founded in 1892 by Menelik 11. The
name means “new flower.”
♦ * * *
Circumstances of the Battle of Adowa be-
tween the Italians and the Abyssinians 3—8469.
In February, 1896, Colonel Baratieri, of
the Italian Army, took the field with 13,000
men. The Abyssinian Army, under Menelik,
amounting to about 90,000, was occupying a
strong position at Abba Garima, near Adua
(or Adowa). Here Baratieri attacked him,
but the difficulties of the country were great,
and one of the four Italian brigades had
pushed too far forward. The brigade was
attacked by overwhelming numbers, and, on
the remaining brigades advancing in support,
they were successively cut to pieces. The Italians
lost over 4500 white and 2000 native troops,
killed and wounded, and over 2500 prisoners,
of which 1600 were white, whilst the Abyssmians
owned to a loss of over 3000. General Bal-
disscra advanced with a large body of rein-
forcemcnts to avenge this defeat, but the
Abyssinians, desperately short of supplies, had
already retired, and, beyond the peaceful relict
of Adrigat, no further operations took place,
m * * *
Did the patrol sent out to inquire into the
murder of McGrath, a goldseeker, during an
affray with natives on the Karmontina River,
Morobe District, New Guinea, meet with much
opposition ? Has a Government post been
established in that district yet. and does tribal
lighting still exist there ? —8393. .
The patrol, commanded by the District
Officer, was attacked, and during the fighting
—one of the most desperate affrays recorded
in the history of New Guinea —the D.O. and
three natives of his party were wounded by
arrows; 19 of the attacking natives were shot
dead before the remainder ceased fire and
made overtures for peace. Since then an
advanced post has been established at Fmen-
tegu, and inter-tribal lighting in the district
has been kept in check.
*n ♦ ♦ *
(I) Area of Alberta province, Canada? (2)
Population ? (3) Chief cities ? (4) What repre-
sentation has the province in the Canadian
Federal Parliament ? 8425.
(1) 255,285 square miles. (2) At the 1931
census the population was 731,605. (3) Edmon-
ton, Calgary, Lethbridge, Wetaskiwin, Red Deer,
Medicine Hat and Drumheljcr. f 4) The province
is represented by six members in the Senate
and 16 in the House of Commons.
* ♦ * ♦
/ had a dispute with some fishermen who
were hauling at a N.S.W. fishing resort regard-
ing the mooring of my boat, which they con-
tended interfered with their operations. They
quoted legal rights. What are they? —B4sl.
Any person who places or moors a boat
In such a position as to obstruct licensed
fishermen from hauling a lawful net to shore
on any recognised hauling-ground, and who,
on being requested by such fishermen to re-
move such obstruction, refuses or neglects
to do so, shall be liable to a penalty not ex-
ceeding £lO. The location of recognised haul-
ing-grounds can be ascertained from maps at
the State Fisheries Office, Sydney, or District
Fisheries Inspector’s Office.
♦ * * *
Is the Northern Territory regarded as a
separate Slate in Australia? —8176.
The Northern Territory is not a State of
the Commonwealth; it is a Territory directly
under the control of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. The local authority is the Admini-
strator, who is appointed by the G.-G. Acts
of the Commonwealth are in force. Local
laws are the ordinances which are made for the
Territory by the Governor-General in Council.
There is no executive governing body.
* * * *
What provision is there in Victoria for the
legitimation of children born out of wedlock,
and how long has the law been in operation ?
—8435.
First provision was made by the Registration
of Births, Deaths and Marriages Act. 1903. This
was repealed in 1912, and an Act passed which
provided for the legitimation of such children
at any time after the marriage of the parents
on the application of the father, provided there
was no lawful impediment to the marriage of
the parents at the time of birth. An amending
Act passed in 1916 allowed legitimation to be
effected on the application of the mother if the
father were absent on war service or had died
not more than two years previously.
* * * *
What section of the N.S.W. Printing Act
makes it compulsory for a printer to keep for
six months one copy of every paper printed ?
—8438.
Section IV. It reads as follows: “Every
person who prints any paper for hire, reward,
gain, or profit shall write or cause to be written
or printed in fair and legible characters on one
copy at least of every paper so printed by him
the name and place of abode of the persons by
whom he was employed to print the same, and
every such person who omits or neglects so to
do, or to keep and preserve such copy for the
space of six months next after the printing
thereof, or to produce and show the same to
any justice of the peace who within the said
space of six months requires to see Ihe same,
shall for every such omission, neglect or refusal
forfeit and pay the sum of twenty pounds.”
* * * *
I understand that recently judgment was
given in the Federal High Court regarding
the payment of income tax on alimony.
Briefly, what was the divorcee’s argument, and
what was the judgment ? —8472
The High Court (Mr. Justice Starke), in a
judgment delivered on March 16, held that a
divorced woman must pay Federal income tax
on alimony, even if the former husband had
paid tax on it. It had been contended for the
lady that such income was exempt by virtue of
Section 15, Sub-section 3, of the Income Tax
Assessment Act. That section provides that
“a wife living apart from her husband pur-
suant to a decree, judgment or order on deed
of separation which provides that the husband
shall periodically pay specified money to the
wife shall not be liable to be assessed in re-
spect of those moneys.” It was held that the
section did not cover the case of a divorced
woman. In this case the marriage relationship
had been dissolved, and she was consequently
not “a wife living apart from her husband.”
The Judge held further that the income re-
ceived by the divorced wife did not fall within
the definition of income from personal exertion,
and must therefore fall under the description
of income from property,.on which rates are
higher.
* * * *
(1) In what year did the present N.SW.
Superannuation Fund Act become law ? (2)
Who was Premier then 7 (3) How much did the
Government have to put into the fund last
year 7 (4) Has the fund balanced itself in any
year without Government assistance ? (5) What
percentage of wages or salaries is paid into
the fund ? (6) What form of pension or fund
was paid before the present Act was passed ?
—8229.
(1) It was passed in 1916, and came into
operation on July 1, 1919. (2) W. A. Holman.
(3) Approximately £245,000. (4) The fund,
which is in a sound financial condition, was
established on an actuarial basis, the Crown
meeting the payment of its statutory propor-
tion of the pensions from consolidated-revenue
fund. (5) Contributions by public servants
are not assessed on a percentage basis, but
vary according to age, sex and salary, as pre-
scribed by Schedule 1 of the Act. (6) Apart
from the railway and police superannuation
funds (which are quite separate from the
State Superannuation Fund), the only other
fund in existence in N. S. Wales is that
created under the Civil Service Act, 1884, which
applies to persons appointed prior to 1896.
♦ * * *
Dales and rales of living wage declarations
for adult male and female employees by the
Industrial Commission of N. S. Wales since
1926 f—8460.
Dec. 15, 1926: Males, £4 4s. per week.
June 27, 1926: Males, £4 ss. per week; females,
£2 6s. per week. July 20, 1927: Males, £4 4s.
Dec. 20, 1929: Males, £4 2s. 6d.; females,
£2 4s. 6d. Aug. 26, 1932: £3 10s. and £1 18s.
Apr. 11, 1933: £3 Bs. 6d. and £1 17s. Oct.
20, 1933: £3 6s. 6d. and £1 16s. Apr. 26,
1934: £3 7s. 6d. and £1 16s. 6d. Oct. 24,
1934: £3 7s. 6d. and £1 16s. 6d. Apr. 18,
1935: £3 Bs. 6d. and £1 17s.
* * * *
Are there statistics of the materials of which
the outer walls of private dwellings in N. S.
Wales are built 7 —8496.
Figures for 1933 (exclusive of dwellings occu-
pied solely by full-blood aboriginals) are: Stone,
8979; brick, 260,686; concrete, 7012; iron,
22,135; wood, 246,206; sun-dried bricks, 1319;
pise, 2235; lath and plaster, 1146; wattle and
dab, 499; libro cement, 16,304; bark, 1238 ;
bushes and rushes, 21| calico, canvas and
hessian, 15,820; rubbcroid and other composi-
tions, 51; other materials, 60; not staled,
1739.
* * * *
What salaries were paid to members of the
Federal Territory Police during 1933-34 ?
8457.
Chief officer, £l5O (this was received in addi-
tion to his salary, £822 p.a., as Director, Investi-
gation Branch); sergeant (Ist class), £418;
sergeant (3rd class), £365; 13 constables, £4384;
and police clerk, £338.
* * * *
Why was the King’s jubilee medal awarded,
and did it carry any special distinction 7 —8148.
His Majesty the King approved the issue of
the King’s silver jubilee medal, struck for issue
as a personal souvenir from his Majesty to
persons in the Crown services and others in
the United Kingdom and in other parts of the
Empire. The medal is classified as an official
medal, to be worn, on all occasions on which
decorations and medals are worn, on the left
breast after all jubilee coronation and Durbar
medals, which follow war medals in the order
of precedence. The award of the medal does
not entitle the holder to use any letters after
his name.
* ♦ ♦ *
(1) What courses must a student desirous of
taking a diploma course at the Sydney Technical
College pass 7 (2) What classes at the college
prepare students for such an examination 7
8465.
(I) The subjects are English, mathematics
(arithmetic, geometry, algebra and trigonometry)
and physics at leaving certificate. Students
entering the chemistry diploma course must
also qualify at the same standard in a modern
language other than English. Latin may be
accepted in lieu of a modern language. (2)
Preparatory classes are provided in English,
French, mathematics and physics. Students
attending classes and passing final exams, are
held to have qualified for admission to the
diploma courses and are not required to sit for
the entrance examination for the chemistry
diploma course.
*■ * * ♦
Details concerning the capture of the brig
Stedcomb by pirates in the ’twenties ? —8434.
The Stedcomb arrived at Melville Island
under the command of William Barns in 1825.
She was captured by pirates off Timor Laut
and all the crew murdered except two boys.
These boys were kept in captivity, and one
died. The survivor, Forbes, was rescued 14
years later in 1839, and afterwards resided at
Williamstown (Vic.).
♦ * ♦ ♦
Who is "Brent of Bin Bin” 7 —8454.
In literary circles “Brent of Bin Bin” is gener-
ally regarded as a pseudonym of Stella Miles
Franklin, a writer who has spent much of her
life overseas, principally in America. Born at
Talbingo station, Tumut, N.S.W., she is an
Australian of the fourth generation. Her first
novel, My Brilliant Career, was published when
she was 17; she returned some time ago from
Chicago, where she was engaged in editorial
and sociological work, and is now living in
Sydney.
Brief Answers.
K.D.: Vickers machine-gun sections form
part of infantry battalions and Light Horse
regiments, which units may be joined, subject
to certain age limits and physical standards.
No special knowledge is required. Promotion
in these units is dependent on a qualifying
examination. Further particulars from the
adjutant, 33rd-34th Battalion, Tamworth
(N.5.W.)... .J.L.: (1) The set .by William
Hogarth is worth about 7s. 6d. (2) The re-
mainder of the books listed are of no commer-
cial value E.E.: The silver teaspoons men-
tioned have the Edinburgh hallmark, but the
marks given are not complete enough to show
period. C. F. Laseron, 56 Pitt-street, Sydney,
may be able to give further information....
H.8.W.: Old silver teapots, trays, milk-jugs,
etc., are saleable in Sydney; spoons, forks
and cruets have little value beyond their silver
weight. The value of Derby and Worcester
china depends on period. If much after 1800
it would be hardly worth while to send to Syd-
ney... .H.E.L.J.: (1) and (2) N0....R.F.:
Properts, Ltd., 73 King-street, Newtown,
Holden’s Motor Body Builders, 182 William-
street, and Sam Wright, Ltd., 567 Harris-street,
Ultimo —all Sydney—will give you quotations.
. ...W.G.C.; Write to Mantons, Ltd., 71 York-
street, and Pioneer Softgoods industries, Ltd.,
134 Broadway—both Sydney... .F. 8.: Colitis
is a chronic disorder of the large intestine
occurring as an intestinal catarrh. Both in
the mucous and granular type a simple diet is
required. Milk, meat soups with fat removed,
porridge made with oatmeal, ground rice,
arrowroot, eggs (boiled but not fried), fish
and brains are suitable. A bismuth mix-
ture may be prescribed J.M.: Informa-
tion is fully tabulated in the Commonwealth
Official Year-800k.... F.A.S.: (1) A little over
four miles as the crow flies; longer by road
or water. (2) Area of Sydney Harbor is
14,284 acres, or about 22 square miles. The
coastline is over 188 miles in length. (3)
There is about 77,030 feet of wharfage in
Sydney Harbor... .P.D,: Rorkc’s Drift is a
station in Zululand, South Africa, situated on
the Tugela River. In 1879 a British force made
a gallant stand there against the Zulus....
J.A.C.: (I) By direct application, though it
would be useless trying if you are inex-
perienced. (2) More than average intelligence
t and proved ability to write.... R.0.C.: (I)
No specific law covering such agencies. (2)
It docs not appear to be a sound method of
building up circulation. (3) N0....N.R.: See
Australian Bush Recitations, by “Bill Bow-
yang’’ (Is.), obtainable from the author, Box
164, Bowen, N.Q R.R.C.: The authorities
suggest that the Hag be forwarded to the
Prime Minister’s Department, Canberra....
L.M.R.: (1) By registration of copyright. Apply
Copyright Office, Perth. (2) Approach any ol
the leading music publishers M.A.8.: (1)
Cannot speak of its bona fides. (2) Reliable.
(3) Instruction at an art school would be
helpful T.J.: “Skeeta,” “Boko” and
“Father Riley’s Horse” are all in The Bulletin
Reciter. Inserting notice in the Wants column
for the other... .C.M.H.: Write N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture for pamphlet on
“Mushroom Culture” R.S.: The estimated
population of N.S.W. at March, 1935, was
2,641,354 L.T.: A summary of the pre-
liminary analysis of the census returns collected
throughout the Commonwealth at the 1933
census was published in Census Bulletin No.
15 on January 30, 1935. Copies arc obtain-
able from the Government Printer, Canberra,
at Is. Id. per copy, post free P.A.: The
greatest numerical increase in adherents was
recorded during the intercensal period by the
Church of England with 192,123, Roman
Catholic and Catholic (undefined) 116,336,
Presbyterian 76,255, Methodist 51,393, Church
of Christ 8180, Greek Catholic 6539 and
Christian Scientist 5863... .J.M.: Yes. General
average involves a contribution rateable to the
interests of the parties concerned. You are,
it is assumed, the consignee of the goods in
question, and the position is that, in considera-
tion of receiving delivery of them from the
captain *of the ship, you will pay your proper
proportion of the general average... .8.G.8.:
As you will require the services of a solicitor
and do not reside in Sydney, the cost would
be considerable, depending necessarily on the
circumstances. In Sydney professional costs
range upwards from three guineas or there-
about M.P.; Scolia are short lyrical poems
of ancient Greece, intended as drinking songs.
Their invention is ascribed to Terpander, while
Alcasus, Sappho, Simonides and Pindar also
composed them. The most famous scolion is
that, of Callistratus in praise of Harmodius
and Aristogeiton... .T.S.: The cruiser Aus-
tralia is a Washington Treaty ship with a dis-
placement of 10,000 tons... .G.M.: Write
Registrar-General’s Department, Perth. Cost,
5s A.R.M.: A certificate of discharge
absolves an insolvent from all debts provable
under the insolvency. Debts incurred after the
insolvency may be sued for in the ordinary
manner N.0.K.: In N.S.W. a receipt duly
stamped (2d.) must be given on payment of
all purchases of the amount of £2 or upward.
There is no exemption of purchases made at
an auction sale. Whether principal or agent
makes the purchase, whoever gives the receipt
must stamp it.... S.G.: If there is an actual
trespass such as laying hands on you, the law
gives you a legal remedy, but reasonable
espionage in a shop is not an offence in law.
If you have good reason to believe that you
are persistently and, as you say, “maliciously”
spied upon, you should complain to the
manager and identify the person or persons
referred t 0... .A.W.H.: Your mother dying
intestate, her personal estate became divisible
amongst her children in equal shares, the
grandchildren, if any, taking equally their
deceased parent’s share... .W.C.D.: The bulk
of the pearishell exported during 1932-33
was consigned to U.S.A. and the United King-
dom, the respective values of the shipments
amounting to £170,875 and £61,840, while
trochus-shell to the value of £49,291 was dis-
patched to Japan... .(Many others mailed).


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[AUTHOR'S NOTE.- Tiburon is not an existing town, hut a composite of many Australian
places. All characters in the story are fictitious, and hear no relation to any living person.]
Chapter IV. — Continued.
MRS. O’BRIEN was Forty Years a Barmaid done
in red morocco and gilt edges. She dated from
eighteen-ninety and the Dandies, when bars had
gold scroll work and the girls piled their hair on top
of their heads. Mrs. O’Brien still piled her elaborately
curled and arranged coiffure above her face and a
superb pink-and-white complexion over it. She owned
a waist. She walked on her high heels with a little
coquettish trip, and she minted money out of the
Hotel Royal as efficiently as the barmaids of good
King Edward’s day minted money out of a be-
whiskered swell. Years ago Betty O’Brien had looked
from a city bar towards the west, and with the slogan
“There’s gold in them there hills” had gone off to
extract it by the simple process of selling beer in
exchange.
“Well, what is it, Roman?” she snapped. “What
is it?”
Roman indicated the upstairs of the hotel with
one jerk of his head and Warning Hill with another.
No Redskin was ever more economical with speech
than Roman.
“Mr. Sorrell’s going out to-day,” he said, and
retired.
“Well, bless me, so he is,” Mrs. O’Brien exclaimed.
“Vera, go upstairs and tell the lady in Number Seven
that the rector will be going past Warning Hill.”
She turned and caught sight of Mary White, who had
settled back indolently in the sulky to fill in time.
“Mary, my dear!” came the voice of Mrs. O'Brien
as she fussed breathlessly across the yard. “Don’t
you think it would be nicer if you went somewhere else
to wait for your father? I really do think that with
all these rather nasty old men going to and fro across
the yard”—she lowered her voice and nodded her
head up and down significantly —“it would be nicer
—don’t you think? —if you went somewhere else.”
Mary climbed down obediently and strolled across
towards the gate, Mrs. O’Brien accompanying her
with a little pat on the shoulder.
“That’s a good girl. Not nice, you know, for a
young girl to spend her time in these surroundings.”
She called suddenly “Roman!”
“Yes, Mrs. O’Brien?”
“That damned man’s left the water-cart lying
in the middle of the yard again. Where is he? Sitting
in the kitchen, I suppose. Tell him to get out here
and get on with the job.”
Leslie O'Brien was an invalid, and Mrs. O'Brien’s
voice, from long years of habit, gave an order like
a colonel of the guards. She fussed back to the bar
and, rushing round the edge of the hall door, bumped
into Miss Daunt, the new school-teacher.
Miss Daunt was long and slim and fastidious.
Her nose was a puggy little tip-tilted affair that had
certainly been bestowed on her to keep her humble,
for she was of the type that would like to be con-
sidered regal. Her mouth was good, her chin only
fair. She had a quick way of speaking, looking at
anyone she was addressing with her head on one
side. The general impression was that Miss Daunt
was a mixture of things. She had started out as a
greyhound of the spirit and ended up half water-
spaniel, It was a rather charming combination.
“Oh! My dear! lam sorry! But if you knew
the trouble I’ve had this morning. It’s no wonder I
can’t see where I’m going.” Mrs. O’Brien adjusted her
glasses and viewed her guest’s immaculate, tall figure
approvingly.
“That’s all right. My fault,” Miss Daunt mur-
mured.
Mrs. O’Brien beamed on her maternally. “And
where are you off to now?” she inquired. “Just
taking a little stroll round the town?”
“No. I'm going to see the rector.” Miss Daunts
snub nose tilted a little higher. She did not like
inquisitive people.
“Oh, isn’t that nice?” Mrs. O’Brien's beam
broadened. “You will find him such a delightful man.
I don't suppose you know Father Shaughan, of All
Souls’, Briertown, do you? Ah, now, there is a man!
A real priest! And so sympathetic! Of course,
Mr. Sorrell is High, you know.”
“Oh, really?” Miss Daunt said for want of some-
thing to say.
“The last rector was dreadfully Low. There was
such a stir here when Mr. Sorrell put the candles on
the altar. 1 always go to hear his sermons because
they’re so short. The last man would take hours
and hours preaching about the end of the world. It
was really so depressing. You felt that you wished
it would happen and be done with it. And you don’t
like to feel like that, do you? But you’ll want to
get along, dear. Of course, you’ll be staying with
the Dwyers? The last teacher, Mr. Barnes, did.
Very nice people, the Dwyers, but R.Cs., my dear,
R.Cs.” Mrs. O’Brien shook her head decidedly as
though that settled the Dwyers. “They couldn’t have
known you were coming last night. They’ll probably
be meeting the train to-day.”
“I’m afraid,” Miss Daunt said politely, “I shall
have to hurry. The rector may start off early.”
“My dear, don’t let me keep you. And remember
that I shall be only too pleased to see you any time
you may drop in.”
She watched Miss Daunt out the door. “Such a
ladylike young girl,” she purred after her ; then turned
to a hurrying maid. “Have you changed the linen
in Number Seven, Madge? Hurry, like a good girl.”
“My God,” Miss Daunt murmured to herself.
“I wonder if they are all like that.” The small school
at Warning Hill was her first country appointment.
“Still, she was a kind old thing,” she thought.
She crossed over the road, passing, on the step
of the grocer’s shop, a group of women who whispered
and stared after her as she walked resolutely up the
main street without even pausing to gaze in the
windows of the Western Farmers’ or Central Stores.
“Gee, she’s stuck-up lookin’,” Mary remarked,
hitching young Jacky up on her hip.
Old Granny Staines mumbled and muttered to
herself as she peered after the retreating figure with
her red-rimmed eyes, and Mrs. Mulver nodded
emphatically.
Mrs. Mulver was one of those women who fit
the popular conception of a pioneer s wife. She had
come out from England under the impression that
Australia was inhabited by black savages, but her
courage had not faltered. After nineteen years of
fighting the wilderness she was convinced still that
the inhabitants were savages, the only difference being
that they were white. They didn’t even speak English
intelligently. A husband who, as she proudly put it,
“has got silver choobes where ’is inside ought t’ be and
makes arl ’is food coom oop when e swallers’ had
not been of material assistance, except in the matter
of the six children which every pioneer wife must
have clinging to her skirts. One of the pioneer
children was at the moment clinging to her hat, a
battered felt affair, which he had managed to pull
down over her eyes, so that she spoke under a
handicap.
“Ar, well, hinny,” she said, “arl them stoock-oop
looks of hers won't get ’er nowhere. If she'd got
four children wi’ the ’oopin’ corf 'er wouldn’t be
lookin’ so stoock-oop an’ starchy. ’An’some is as
'an’some does, so they say.” She extracted a piece of
barley sugar from Claude’s mouth as it threatened to
go down the wrong way and wiped the brat’s running
nose meditatively with her skirt. “Did y’ see the
noo school-teacher, Missus Will’by, love?” she called
to a woman in a sulky, rather condescendingly.
“Was that ’er?” Mrs. Willoughby, for all that she
was “a dark woman,” had the softest voice of any
of them. She drew rein for a moment, and
manoeuvred the sulky in towards the kerb. “1 hear
tell y’ had some trouble with the sergeant, Mary?”
“’E was up at our place the other day,” Mary
answered, “Says we’ll ’ave to get out.”
“Yes,” said Mrs. Mulver; “an’ if it’s them to-day
it’s us to-morrer. Not that they’ll ever make us move
if Ah knows et. Ah says ta George, Ah says, na
we’re ’ere, we steys. Ef there wcs any hooses in
loon where we could go, we’d go. But there ain’t.”
The other woman nodded agreement.
“The new constable’s a hard man,” Old Granny
Staines volunteered. “Th’ old sergeant, f all ’is faults,
wouldn’t ’ave done it unless 'e’d ’ad that Scorby to egg
’im on. Quiet as a lamb the sergeant was before
Scorby came.”
“Ya might as well drive oop wi’ me to tha
doctor’s,” Mrs. Mulver offered Mary. “There’s plenty
a room in tha soolky.”
The group broke up, Mrs. Mulver and Mary
following Miss Daunt up the road and overtaking her.
Mary, waiting in the sulky while Mrs. Mulver took
Claude in to see the doctor, had the opportunity for
another close inspection. She favored Miss Daunt
with a disinterested hostility, then climbed down to
lean over the doctor’s fence.
The doctor’s house fulfilled all Mary’s daydreams,
which were strangely practical. “I’d like to have a
house,” she thought as she pulled the heads off the
roses just inside the fence —“a house with them stripy
blinds and a garden. I would have roses in it and
little blue flowers and snapdragons. And a bath with
taps and linoleums on the floors.” She leant over
for a particularly large Marian Manifold, and slowly
tore the petals to pieces. “I would have a place to
put the clothes, not just under the bed or hung on
a nail. And I would have vases, real pretty ones
with gold and pictures on them like the ones Mrs.
Dwyer has. Not just a jam-jar. And I’d have saucers
“I'm afraid I shall have to hurry.”
and cups.” She nibbled a rose petal and muttered:
“I’d have a doormat an’ make ’em wipe their
boots.”
Miss Daunt noticed the girl in the sulky as she
went by, but, like Mary, she was interested in other
things. “That’s Warning Hill,” she told herself as
she topped the rise to the rectory and looked west.
“That’s my future hermitage.” She paused to watch
the shadows of the clouds go over a little clean ring
near its summit. Already she loved the tremendous
sweep of fields about Tiburon, the patches of red,
chocolate, chrome, sienna, grey and sepia. She pro-
mised herself a deeper and more detailed analysis
when she unpacked her oil-paints.
Miss Daunt was not very eager to meet the rector.
He would possibly question her as to whether she
was High or Low ; and, having been brought up in a
staunch Presbyterian family, she had only the faintest
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
The White family, the chief of
Tihuron’s “unwanteds,” who live in humpies
on Warning Hill. Apart from rabbits, they
are reputed to live on rusty tins and barbed
wire.
Others of the colony are the. Willoughbys,
the Mulvers, Gran Staines and Mad Peter.
Blue, Big Dutch, Old Grey and
Denny the Magsman are " travellers” camped
at the unemployed shelter.
The would-be social highlights of the town,
who wish to rid Tiburon of its undesirables,
include —
Mrs. Claufield (“1 feel a little tiny, tiny
bit hurt by the selfishness, one might almost
say the sordid ness, of Tiburon’’), Mrs. Ilford
(the hank manager’s wife), Mrs. Darch and
Mrs. Blakely {small, timid and a minor
poetess).
Mrs. Blakely has just engaged Blue as
temporary gardener.
Mrs. O'Brien, of the Hotel Royal.
Standforth Roman, a Man with a Past,
now barman and general-useful at the Royal.
Sergeant Moore and Constable Scorby,
who uphold the law in Tiburon.
Jessica Daunt, whom we are about to
meet.


idea of what High or Low might indicate. How-
ever, she rang the doorbell, and was answered by a
barking from the back of the house. She waited. No
one appeared, so she ventured round in the direction
of the barking, to find herself standing beside a tall
man in shirtsleeves and a clerical collar, who was
digging raptly in a spinach bed.
“Excuse me,” she said. “Are you the rector?”
He started, and faced round in confusion.
“I thought my wife was home,” he explained.
“She always answers the door. Did you want to
see her?”
“No,” Miss Daunt smiled at him. “I heard you
would be going out past a place called Warning Hill
and I wanted to beg a lift. I’m the new school-teacher
there.”
“Oh! ”
He thrust his spade into the wet earth and began
to wash his hands under the tap. Bill Sorrell had
intended to spend the morning pottering about the
garden, but he saw immediately that he had no hope.
She stood there confidently, like a bird, her head tilted
a little to one side. He felt suddenly angry with
the department that had sent her. “When will they
realise, he thought, “that they can't send these young
men and women away from their homes to towns and
schools where they fall into trouble from sheer lone-
liness?” He thought of young Jim Allen, who had
married a boarding-house keeper ten years older than
himself ; of little Florence Wright, who had gone back
to teaching when Bert Wright deserted her after a
three months’ marriage ; of Jean Bird, who had given
up her classes when the baby arrived and settled
down to domesticity in a four-room cottage ruled by
a mother-in-law who detested her and an upemployed
husband who sneered at her ladylike ways. “I sup-
pose she’s been warned,” he thought. "Of course,
they had all been warned.”
But this only flashed through his mind while he
was talking.
“Of course I shall be only too pleased to give
you a lilt, though I will not be setting out until after
lunch. You arrived last night, I take it? You will
find Tiburon rather quiet.”
“Oh, no!” Miss Daunt exclaimed. “It is beautiful.
Look at that magnificent wheat silo. Look at that
massing of blue-grey with the pigeons round it. It’s
beautiful. It’s absolutely beautiful.” She was stam-
mering with pleasure. “I hadn't quite seen that angle
of it before. There’s something Gothic about it. But
it’s much more primitive and sincere than most
Gothic.”
The Reverend William Sorrell looked very hard at
the wheat silo he had considered a blot on his view
ever since he came to Tiburon, and decided that it
was still a blot.
“Tastes differ,” he said with a sigh. “To me it
seems merely utilitarian.”
Miss Daunt decided to be polite.
“And is that your church?” she said, pointing.
The rector smiled his gentle smile. “It is,” he
agreed. “You mustn’t think it was built like that.
We had a hurricane here some time ago. Luckily, we
were able to prop it up. We never can afford a new
one. Heaven alone knows why.”
Miss Daunt stayed sympathetically silent. Obvi-
ously the subject pained him.
"Won’t you come in and have some morning-
tea?” he invited. “My wife ought to be home any
minute now.”
“Thank you.”
“1 am a tea fiend," he explained, “a veritable tea
fiend. Down, Browser!”
This last was to a small woolly dog attached to
a very large kennel. The animal was attempting to
break its chain in order to welcome the visitor, but
could only bound frantically and wave its tail. The
rector stopped to pat it, and as the dog rolled on its
back with its paws in the air he bent down to scratch
its ears.
“You are a disgusting creature, Browser,” he said
gently. “You are really a disgusting creature.”
Jessica Daunt was always to remember him as he
appeared bending over the little woolly dog. That
was his attitude to his congregation— -to all humanity.
“You are a disgusting creature, Browser,” he said
happily. "Come along, Miss Daunt. He has been
spoilt by too much petting.”
We called him after a friend,” he explained.
"And he was upset. We didn’t know he was a she
dog.”
The Reverend William Sorrell led the way into
the kitchen and busied himself with the filling and
healing of water in an electric jug. It was a spotless
kitchen painted a gay blue and white, with blue
curtains on the windows.
tt lam very proud of this place,” he remarked.
“I painted it myself while Mrs. Sorrell was away. I
did the bathroom, too, but I had to get help with
the bath.”
He moved to the dresser, collecting cake from
one tin and biscuits from another, talking rather
shyly about Tiburon and Warning Hill as he did so.
You 11 find Mick Dwyer a good sort,” he
said. Get him to tell you some of his snake yarns.
And there’s a chap out there—Paul White. He lives
in a very undesirable environment, but you’ll find him
very interesting if you can only get him to talk.
He works at the Dwyers as a kind of farmhand. I
often lend him books.” He chuckled. “He’s not a
very moral character, 1 m afraid.” (“Browser, vou are
a disgusting creature,” Miss Daunt quoted to herself.)
"You 11 see me again,” the rector went on. “I teach
Scripture at your little school —or, that is* I’m sup-
posed to.”
She found out later that his parish covered a
stretch of country containing enough flooded creeks
in winter and bad roads to make it uncertain exactly
when and where he might be at any given moment ;
but usually, by working almost night and day, he
fitted everything in and managed to get a bit of
gardening done as well.
The Reverend William Sorrell had been a Bush
Brother, and would always tell the story against him-
self of the time when, bogged fifteen miles from any-
where and on the verge of a nervous breakdown, he
had lain down in the car and cried, and how he had
been towed out by a blasphemous and disapproving
shearer in an old Ford called Disloyalty. Any time
after that when Denny the Magsman was broke and
in need of a feed near Tiburon, he avoided the place
in case the “parson” might attempt to pay him back.
But when he was in funds he would stroll up to the
rectory and argue with Bill Sorrell over the fence.
Polly, Bill’s wife, a plump, good-tempered tease
of a woman, came in when they were on their second
cup of tea, and instantly pretended she had seen Bill
kissing Miss Daunt through the window.
“I saw you.” she giggled. “Don’t try to deny it.
While your poor wife staggers home under the weight
of umpteen parcels, you sit on the edge of the table
flirting with the new school-teacher. That’s how far
1 can trust you.”
Bill looked honestly embarrassed.
“You wouldn't believe the trouble I have. Miss
Daunt, with the Women s Guild,” she continued.
“They come and sit in this study by the hour singly
and in droves.”
“Now, Polly!”
“It’s a fact. And they pretend they arc talking
church work! I know just how far that gets you.”
The rector regarded her happily, much as a grave
Alsatian would regard the spluttcrings and make-
believe ol a kitten. Miss Daunt enjoyed Polly. They
all got on famously together. Bill and his wife taking
it for granted that she was slopping for lunch,
“You had belter make the acquaintance of Mr.
and Mrs. Carfrac,” he advised after lunch. “He is
headmaster pf the Tiburon school. They'll probably
be offended you didn’t go straight to them.”
“Oh, gosh. Bill!” his wife exclaimed, “leave me
behind, will you?”
“Polly!” The rector was hurt.
“Tell them I’ve got one of my headaches,” Polly
said cheerfully.
The rector shook his head.
“Oh, all right,” she grumbled. “Wait (ill 1
powder my nose.”
“The Carfraes think I’m terribly flippant,” she
confided as they drove up before the school residence.
It was painted a depressing mustard color of the
same shade as the long brick buildings in which the
future citizens of Tiburon were educated. The clay
of the playground was mustard color also, and a
solitary pepper-tree beside the gate had been lopped
to a mere bunch of boughs and gave no shade.
“Mr. Carfrae is very efficient,” the rector,
remarked.
The first impression that Jessica Daunt had of Mrs.
Carfrae was teeth. The lady jutted her teeth towards
them in a smile that was almost overpowering.
Miss Daunt! Yes, we heard you’d arrived
yesterday, and I said to Colbert that I expected we’d
see you.” She gushed greetings at the rector and his
wife and ushered them into the sitting-room. “We
could have driven you out, you know. Of course,
the Dwyers won't be expecting you until to-night.
Still. I dare say they’ll be just as pleased at your com-
ing a day early. 1 said to Colbert that I thought it
showed such enthusiasm for you to come so soon.”
“Not at all,” Miss Daunt said, flushing. “It was
only that I wanted to get out of Sydney.”
C olbert Carfrae entered and greeted (he rector
without much enthusiasm, but with a great deal of
politeness. His greeting to Miss Daunt was con-
descending. He was a small man with a blue chin,
a tendency to baldness and a Napoleonic manner,
“And how do you like Tiburon, Miss Daunt?”
he asked, sitting down very carefully on a woven
cane chair with yellow satin cushions. He spread his
hands out on each knee. “And how,” he repeated, as
though the class had not given the right answer, “do
you like Tiburon?”
Miss Daunt gave the appropriate response.
“And who was your last inspector?” Mr. Carfrac
inquired pontifically.
She told him.
“Where were you practice-leaching?”
She told him.
“Ah, yes. Holden is in charge there, isn’t he?
A good man, but thinks he knows everything. And
what is your classification?”
She gave the required information.
Ah, yes. You'll find Warning Hill very different
from the city. Still, it’s excellent training.”
The rector and his wife had retired into their
shells. They sat politely in their upholstered chairs
and conversed with Mrs. Carfrae.
“Ah, yes. I don’t suppose you know McAndrew?
He was on the staff at Edgetown.”
“He was before my time.”
“Yes. Now I come to think of it, he would be.”
His tone indicated that the school ceased to exist
when McAndrew left.
"You may find Warning Hill rather lonely. Miss
Daunt. Ot course, any time you are in town we
shall be only too glad to see you.”
Of course, his wife seconded cordially.
“A sixth-class school is quite different from
anything you have been used to. Still. I dare sav
you’ll get into the way of it in time. The first ten
years are the worst. Ha! Ha!”
.. . Hi * w 'f £ joined dutifully in the laughter at his
joke, which he obviously enjoyed.
I m afraid we must be going,” the rector hinted.
Mr. Carfrae turned to him. clearly with some-
thing distasteful to say.
"You remember. Mr. Sorrell, that young man
Horace Barnes who held the appointment at Warning
Hill previous to Miss Daunt?” He spoke as though
Miss Daunt had already gone the way of all flesh.
"He is coming back here!”
“Good heavens!” Polly exclaimed. “Poor Mr,
Barnes.”
The rector also looked surprised.
“I thought he was determined to see the last of
Tiburon,” he observed.
“Unfortunately for both Mr. Barnes and myself.”
Mr. Carfrae said, “a servant of the State has little
choice where he is sent or in what awkward positions
he is placed. He will be a member of my staff for
the remainder of the year.”
It was plain that Colbert Carfrae was not over-
joyed at the prospect. “I only hope” he began.
He seemed to realise that it was not etiquette to refer
slightingly to his future assistant. “I only hope there
will be no more of the boisterous conduct of last
term.”
He spoke, however, without much conviction.
They were finally shown out in a fluster of hand-
shakes and injunctions to Polly to call again soon.
“You know.” Jessica said as they sped out to-
wards the looming bulk of Warning Hill, “I wondered
what sort of man would paint his house and school
that particular color.”
“He’s a Plymouth Rock,” the rector observed.
“What is that?”
“1 should have said one of the Plymouth
Brethren.”
“No-Sunday-sport,” Polly broke in ; “every-word-
ol -the- Bible-is-true-and-you’re-damned-if-you-say-it-
isn't. The - wife - must - obey - her - lord - and - master.
Childrcn-must-fcar-thcir-parenfs.” She slowed down.
“He talks about culture and grinds the kids for exam-
inations. They arc the be-all and end-all. He’ll be
an inspector one day or burst in the attempt.”
“Polly, my dear.”
“His wife’s the best of the two.” Polly was not
to be stopped. “She looks after the house, cooks
enormous meals for Colbert and the six children,
makes their clothes, teaches sewing, runs school
Junctions, makes cakes for school picnics, arranges
exhibitions of work, helps with the gardening, manages
the teachers, and worships Colbert. He lakes it all
lor granted and talks about the weaker vessel and
makes little jokes about the lazy time wives have just
loafing about the house. Ha! Ha!”
“Polly!”
C olbert Carfrae was at (he moment reviewing the
new school-teacher to his wife.
“Far too cocksure, (hat young woman,” he was
remarking. “Glad I haven't got her on my staff. It
will be bad enough with that young idiot Barnes. Ah,
well, she’ll learn. That type of girl is all the better
for a stay in a place like Warning Hill.”
“It seems a shame to send such a very young girl
so far away from her home,” his wife responded. “We
must do what we can for her, Colbert.”
Mrs. Carfrae’s kind heart was brimming with
little schemes for inviting Miss Daunt to afternoon-
tea and introducing her to some nice girls.
“i really think that Miss Daunt would be much
better left alone to find her own level,” Colbert
answered coldly.
“Just as you think, dear.”
11.
Mick Dwyer and Dave White were cousins, and
this, Dave considered, made Mick a close enough
relation to impose on. Mick had stood a lot before
he told Dave he was finished.
“I been tryin’ for three years to wheel that
mortgage of mine,” he said. “But now the banks
have got the hooks into me an’ they’re riding me down.
I can't carry no more weight.”
Mick Dwyer’s metaphors might be mixed, but
his meaning was clear, even to Dave White.
“I wouldn't mind doin’ something for the kids,
but I’m not goin’ to give you anything so's you can
turn it into drink.”
Mick himself, unlike his father, “Irish” Dwyer,
had never been the worse for liquor. That is, if you
exclude the occasion when he was carried home un-
conscious from a fall and poor Mrs. Dwyer had spent
the lime before the doctor came sitting on his chest
and pouring whisky down his throat. Mick had been
unconscious for hours and hours, but the doctor gave
the reassuring verdict that it was the whisky, not the
fall.
Mick had no weakness except snakes. He had
never been known to let a snake get past him, even
if he had to pick it up and smack it with his hands.
He was very expert, and could dash a snake’s head on
a rock before it could turn on him. The Dwyers
were quiet people with no claims to social prominence
except that they boarded the school-teacher at Warn-
ing Hill; and, as there were hardly enough children
to warrant the continuance of the school, they might
lose that distinction also. Mrs. Dwyer would be
heartbroken, for she liked to bring out the school-
teacher to show off, with the album of snapshots,
when she had friends to afternoon-tea.
The Dwyers loved having people to stay. Their
hospitality was tremendous, like Mrs. Dwyer, who
needed an outsize in everything to match her heart.
Her kitchen was three sizes bigger than the usual
Tiburon kitchen, and it took all the maid’s time to
keep the enormous pots shining as Mrs. Dwyer con-
sidered they should shine. Her laugh was three times
louder, and her dresses, polka dots for the most part,
might almost be measured in acres.
But her sitting-room was her triumph. It had
more sacred pictures and bigger sacred pictures than
any other sitting-room anywhere. And there were a
light oak table, a sideboard and two upholstered arm-
chairs in striped brown and blue moquette. Mick
never sat on the chairs on the rare occasions when he
ventured into the sitting-room. He just coiled down
(Continued on page 50.)


ŵ
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
ẁ
Milliard
MASTER
fOJk'AU & T LA I I A ' S • C 0 U HI L Y • M 0 M I S
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
T
O
BUY
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
TQgIPIA
RADIO
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA43S7.
RADIONEWS
DIRECTIONAL EQUIPMENT FOR 56MC.
This description by the designer of the winning D.F. apparatus in the
recent W.I.A. test is of particular interest to all concerned with the
future of ultra-short-wave transmission. The principle employed, whilst
exceptionally simple, is far more effective than other methods, and removes
the necessity for the usual cross bearings in placing the direction of a
transmitted signal. Because of the portability of a complete system for
five metres the full benefit of the directive properties of a di-pole
antenna is obtained.
The field day of the W.I.A. at Wyong
(N.S.W.) on 18/8/’35 was noteworthy
for something unusual in the way of
direction-finding demonstrations. Those
who had previously had experience
with D.F. hunts for hidden transmitters
Fig. 1. —The circuit of the D.F. receiver.
operating at 80 metres were dubious
about success with ultra-shorts, but
events proved that their fears were
groundless. The equipment used was
not, however, haphazard. It was
developed and operated, in the first
Fig. 2. —The receiver opened for inspection, showing the
solid construction.
place, by the writer, and thoroughly
tested by members of the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) amateur radio club on the
transmitter of VK2ZW from many loca-
tions in and around the district.
One of the most important features
is the fact that this system gives very
accurate “sense” readings at both short
and long ranges. This is so marked
that definite directional readings can be
obtained at a distance of only 50
yards from the transmitter. Hence the
troublesome and less accurate bi-direc-
tional receivers were dispensed with
during the chase for the hidden trans-
mitter.
The apparatus is relatively simple, and
consists of the
receiver, power
supply and portable
rotatable antenna.
The power supply
is of the dry-battery
type, completely
shielded in a small
attache case, and
connected to the
receiver by a
heavily shielded
battery cable. The
receiver is housed
in a strong alumi-
nium case, and con-
sists of a conven-
tional circuit, using
a Philips A 415
super'- regen. de-
tector, plate modu-
lated by a similar
valve as interruption oscillator, and a
transformer-coupled 8443 pentode audio
stage. The successful working of the
arrangement is undoubtedly due to the
careful construc-
tion of the oscilla-
tor, grid coils and
antenna pick -up
coils. The split
plate coil consists
of two coils, each
having four turns
of 14 gauge wire,
|in. diameter, and
the antenna coil is
mounted between
these two, having
four turns simi-
larly. Both grid
and antenna coils
are mounted on
stand-off insulators
of unique design,
about l|in. long
and turned from
“milk-rod.” The
rigidity of the mounting, combined
with the good insulating properties
of the insulators for “hot” parts of
the circuit, contributes not a little
to the excellent results obtained on
D.F. The antenna is of the half-
wave type, with the mid-point broken by
an insulator, and each quarter-wave sec-
tion is connected to twin flex,* shielded
by copper braid. The braid is “earthed”
to the receiver chassis. The twin leads
are connected across the antenna coil of
the receiver and supported on another
pair of stand-off insulators for further
rigidity. The size of the antenna coil and
complete shielding are the most im-
portant features in a uni-directional re-
ceiver of this type, and several sizes of
coil were tried until peak efficiency with
antenna resonance was obtained.
The whole apparatus can be carried
and operated easily by one man, and, as
may be seen from illustrations, the re-
ceiver is supported by straps in such a
way as to hang at a convenient angle in
front of the operator. The battery cake
is carried comfortably in the left hand,
with the. right left free to carry and
manipulate the portable antenna. The
half-wave doublet antenna with the
shielded lead to the receiver is stretched
across a lath and held at a convenient
distance over the head by a handle four
feet or so long. Thus the flat-top can be
readily turned in any direction and
placed at any angle from horizontal to
vertical.
The method used in taking a reading
for direction purposes is very simple. Ihe
flat top is held at an angle of 30deg. to
the horizontal and rotated slowly in all
directions, always keep-
ing to the same angle.
This is rather awkward
at first, but becomes easier
with practice. It is noticed
that in one direction the
signal becomes louder;
and listening to the signal
at this maximum point
gives a rather broad indi-
cation of tuning. By
turning the antenna in
exactly the opposite direc-
tion (IBOdeg.) a very sharp
minimum indication can be
observed. The direction
of the station is obtained
by taking an exact line
with the flat-top, and in
the direction toward which
this is sloping, in the case
where a reading is taken,
with the signal at maximum intensity. In
locating the hidden transmitter at Wyong,
the minimum-strength reading was always
taken, as this reading is much more
accurate than that of maximum strength.
The angle at which the flat-top is held to
the horizontal (30deg.) is rather critical,
and, should it vary greatly from this,
accurate readings may be difficult to
obtain.
The writer is indebted to Messrs,
Grimmett (VK2ZW), Young (VK2FN),
and Best for their help in the prepara-
tory testing stages, and to Messrs. Fin-
layson, Best and Cowles (VK2SO) for
. 7mm
Fig. 3. —The receiver with power equipment. The batteries
are screened by copper gauze inside the case.
their co-operation on the day of the D.F.
test.
The key to the receiver components
diagrammed is as follows:
LI —Four turns 18g., dia., |in. long.
L2 —Four turns 18g., 4in. dia., |in. long.
L3 —Four turns 18g., tin. dia., tin. long.
Fig. 4. —The complete ultra-short-wave
D.F. station carried by one man.
• L. 4—900 turns 38g. silk on lin. dowel, l-16in.
space.
* L 5—1400 turns 38g. silk on jin. dowel, l-16in.
space.
Cl —Thrcc-platc midget.
C2 —Five-plate midget.
C3—.0001 mica.
C4 —.1 tubular.
C5 —.002 mica.
C6 —Imfd.
C7 —.006 mica.
C8 —,1 tubular.
Fig. 5.—The principle on which the D.F. equipment
functions.
Rl—2-meg. grid leak.
R 2—250,000 ohms 1 watt.
R 3—450 ohms wire-wound.
VC —50,000 ohms pot.
RFC—3O turns of 30 D.S.C. on * rod, space-
wound.
SW —Filament switch.
VI, —A 415 triode.
V2—-A415 triode.
V3 —8443 pentode.
* A two-slotted winding former is made up
out of three bakelite or cardboard discs spaced
i'm. by two short pieces of |in. dowel. The
assembly is bolted through the centre by a
5-32 in. brass bolt and boiled in wax to keep
out moisture. Connected thus: Inside of L 4,
plate V 2; outside of L 4, B + 45; inside of
L 5, earth; outside L 5, grid V 2.
J. COWAN (VK2ZC).
Short-wave Diallings.
The chief event of late has been the
change of hours of the No. 1 8.8. C.
transmission. GSD, on 25.5 metres, has
held strength to the closing hour, which
is now 6.15 p.m. There has been an
improvement in most stations about
8 a.m., and the Americans have been
strong, especially W2XAF in the 31-
metre band.
CTIAA, in the same band, has been
also good when heard in the mornings,
but EAR (30m.) has fallen off, the hour
(after 9 a.m.) being rather unsuitable.
Radio Coloniale has continued
strongly except before noon, and the ses-
sion starting at 6 p.m. has been at fair
speaker strength for about an hour. The


PLAYS IT.
AS THE
Stromberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
'eaters throughout Australia
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
'Witf (i-m-li'Miur .Id. in stnni|w) for flip 30 x 20
•nth l-avkbly J!lu'l rated Construction:)! Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
=AWPIIOH =
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enjoy the best
possible reproduction.”
“Fitted in all quality Re-
ceivers.”
“Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) LIMITED
70 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY
other stations in the middle of the day
have been almost inaudible, and may be
so probably until next winter.
JVM, both morning and afternoon
sessions, has remained good, with the
best strength after 3 p.m. The German
stations now operate on the three wave-
lengths after 10 p.m. One, DJA, is in
the 31-metre band, with DJQ at the
bottom of the 19-metre band, and a new
one, DJE, in the 16-metre band. The
latter has not yet been heard. DJA has
been coming up to excellent strength
very late at night, and DJB has been
fair at 11 p.m.
Radio Coloniale has been almost in-
audible in the 19-metre band. 2RO was
on 31 metres in the morning in the early
part of a recent week, and almost hope-
less because of telegraphic interference,
but later changed down to the 25-metre
band, where it was comfortably audible.
2RO has been heard on Tuesdays
after 11 p.m. in the 25-metre band at
good strength, but as this station rarely
announces in English it is difficult to de-
termine just what are its operating hours.
This station changes about from 31 to
25 metres frequently.
Owing to experimental work with five-
metre aerials and receivers, very little
has been left for listening on the broad-
cast short-wave bands.
RNE has been at good strength at
7 a.m., but the night sessions are still
inaudible. The Soviet Republic has appa-
rently quite given up the 49-metre band,
as nothing has been heard there at any
time for many months. RVIS (70m.)
was tried one night, but static was too
fierce.
Nicjhtowl.
Some New Weston Meters.
In all instruments upon which radio
engineering depends for measurement or
Fig. 1. —Weston 681 counter valve tester.
calibration standards will be found some
form of visual indicating device. This
invariably takes the form of the familiar
dial-type meter, and is accepted as being
correct for its particular function or
functions. This confidence can be justi-
fied only if the measuring instrument
embodied in the meter is faultless in
action and calibration. Among makes of
instruments fulfilling these requirements
the name Weston stands high. From
the earliest days of radio broadcasting,
meters of Weston make have been in
demand, and in the world’s leading radio
laboratories engineers use Weston-
equipped instruments, secure in the
knowledge that no element of doubt
exists as to their accuracy. Of primary
interest to the radio dealer is the Weston
model 681 counter valve tester. This type
of instrument is indispensable to the pro-
gressive radio store, and cannot fail to
impress customers with confidence.
Fig. 2.—Weston model 665 selective
analyser.
The meter is 9in. in diameter and set
at an easy reading angle. The scale is
divided into colored arcs, marked for
quick reference. Model 681 tests all four-,
five-, six,- large and small seven-pin
valves, and makes individual tests on all
twin plate and diode combinations.
Twenty-five sockets arc provided, includ-
ing seven spare positions for inclusion as
new valves arc introduced. This and a
smaller portable model, No. 682, operate
from the 240 volt 50 cycle A.C. line.
One of the most useful Weston pro-
ducts is the selective analyser, model
665. This is made in two forms, either
for pin jack or rotary switch selection.
The former is illustrated. Both of these
analysers have the following list of A.C.
and D.C. ranges: 1000, 500, 250,. 100, 50,
25, 10, 5, 2.5, 1, with a sensitivity of 1000
ohms per volt. Current ranges are similar
in the one type, and with the other
measurements may be taken up to
IOOOma. D.C. Resistance readings are
covered between 1 ohm and I megohm.
The range of Weston panel instruments
includes every conceivable kind of meter
for every purpose. Three of these, in
the 3fin. diameter size, for milliamperes
D.C., amperes R.F. and volts A.C., are
illustrated. The radio engineer, service-
man or experimenter will find much of
interest in the extensive literature and
price lists on Weston 'equipment, avail-
Fig. 3. —Weston panel meters for milli-
amperes D.C., amperes R.F., and volts
A.C. respectively.
able from the sole Australian distribu-
tors, Warburton, Franki, Ltd., 307-315
Kent-street, Sydney, and 380-382 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.
Amateur Chatter.
The 56mc. aviation test planned north
and south from Sydney for 8/9/’35 was
postponed for various reasons, including
flu. The test will take place at an early
date, when it is hoped to secure the co-
operation of Brisbane and Melbourne
with aero stations also. The recent dis-
appointing mobile test south of Sydney is
not accepted as finality owing to the
transmission being reported subsequently
by two observers, VK2WN and VK2XY.
It is intended to organise an over-water
test from the Jervis Bay district, where,
from Beecroft Head, a clear view is
obtained to Sydney.
On the evening of 7/9/’35 the writer
was surprised to hear a harmonic on
56mc. of ZLW Wellington (M.L.), work-
ing marine traffic. The signal was IC.W.,
rising to R 5 with severe fading. If this
was a definite harmonic, and not a beat
note, it is likely that 56mc. working be-
tween Australia and M.L. may be pos-
sible at present, and organisation to this
end should be undertaken without delay.
Valuable trophies are offered by a Sydney
jeweller and a broadcasting station for
the first two-way Tasman 56mc. contact.
QRM is thickening on 56mc. over Syd-
ney, and a transmitter and receiver clean-
up is about due.
VK2NO.
All Round the Dial.
“P.D.”: Wc can all join in
“Quayeau's” lament for the lack of
humor on the air ; but isn’t it scarcp in
every sphere? To a hundred good seri-
ous books you’re lucky if you find one
good humorous work. How many thou-
A WORLD CLOCK.
The face of a new type of clock suitable for ship use which always
shows both the standard and mean solar' time at sea, without need for
adjustment. The central dial is revolved past the stationary “hands,” on
which names of places are marked according to their times. In addition to
giving the time for the particular point at which the ship happens to be,
the clock thus provides a means of instantly reading the time in any seaport
or country with which it is desired, say, to communicate. The makers
are J. H. Willis and Co., Norwich, England.
sands of totally serious newspapers are
there to offset “Punch,” “Fliegende
Blatter” and The Bulletin ! “Quayeau”
says there are hundreds of humorous
plays and stories adaptable for broad-
casting. Where are they? Any broad-
casting station would welcome a list of
them. It is no use “Quayeau” talking
about Pinero and Lonsdale. Radio audi-
ences won’t sit down for three hours to
listen to a comedy. An hour at the
most is their limit, with a preference for
a quarter-hour session. To adapt Pinero
or Lonsdale to radio you must either
sacrifice the dialogue to retain the story
or throw the story overboard in the inter-
ests of the dialogue. Between the two
stools you're almost certain to come a
cropper. 2GB in Sydney, for one Aus-
tralian station, has been searching for
Australian humor for a long time, and
so far hasn’t succeeded in finding a great
Australian radio humorist. If anybody
has 20 really funny Australian sketches
suitable for radio in his knapsack there’s
a good market for them at 29 Bligh-street.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: “A. Sambo’s” wail about
the country listener having to put up
with city advertisements on city stations
may be justified, but quite a lot of people
in Australia live in cities, and it’s no use
starting a war about it. Here’s a prac-
tical tip for “A. Sambo” and his fellow-
agrarians. Seven to nine every night
save Sunday there goes on the air over
2CA Canberra a programme from a
city station punctuated with country
advertisements and a countryman’s news
service that includes up-to-the-minute
market reports. Weep no more, “Sambo.”
* * * *
"A. Major”; The Viennese Boys’
Choir, which has been charming music-
lovers throughout Australia per medium
of A.B.C. broadcasts, is one of the
world’s oldest ecclesiastical choirs, dating
back 500 years. Mozart, Haydn and
Franz Schubert were, in their boyhood,
proud to be members of it. Maximilian 1.
gave an order on July 1, 1498, to engage
singers for his Court chapel. Originally
of eight members, the choir had grown
to 37 by 1544, and in successive centuries
continued to build its strength and fame.
The abdication in 1918 of the Emperor
Karl of Austria left the choir without
its royal supporter, and it would have
become only a memory had not its
present director, Father Schnilt, out of
his private purse, maintained it for 18
months until music-lovers of Vienna
rallied to its support. The Republic’s
loss is Australia’s gain.
Aviation Radio to Combat Sharks.
A scheme is under way to equip surf
clubs with radio equipment to take shark
warnings from a ’plane flying over
o Continued on next page.)


CONSTRUCTION!
/lv lfla/ftc Wcmcf
iiiiAffimn IPS
'■''»«■ mb
m
is
?;
m
ES
ft
ii
I'M
Wffl
mil'
!i,;«
i;v
IB
1 ■ ,: 1
mil 11
A
Till
i i
u‘
.1"
t (
n»
n»
shm
n*
■ ••
r»*
i*’
Twelve-acre Rockefeller Center, reaching
70 stories toward New York’s sky . . . back
of the engineering triumph of Boulder
Dam, waters gathering in the desert —to
form a lake 115 miles in length . . . two
mighty bridges rising to span the Golden
Gate and San Francisco Bay ... in Los
Angeles, 105,000 sport-lovers crowding the
Coliseum, arena of the last Olympiad ... a
mile-long tunnel, driven through solid
mountain rock, bringing motorists to the
breath-taking vaults of Zion Park. America
captures the romance of Construction!
Such feats hold vital interest for every
traveler—and they areeasily seen. America’s
railway systems provide fast, luxurious
trains —air “conditioned” to a perfect, even
ẅ
temperature—in which you dine, sleep and
live as in a splendid hotel. They criss-cross
the entire nation; fares and incidental
costs are unusually low—and liberal stop-
over privileges constantly tug at your desire
to explore. Add to construction-marvels,
too, their smooth road-beds and new ultra-
modern trains.
This spirit -of - reaching - upward distin-
guishes your entire voyage, together with
today’s trend of cutting-expenses-down. The
magnificent new Matson - Oceanic liners
“Mariposa” and “Monterey” link New
Zealand with California in 18 days—with
beguiling stops in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
and Hawaii. From Los Angeles or San
Francisco, you cross America by any route
that appeals.
Thus is constructed the short, modern,
interest-packed thoroughfare to England.
Every detail, and how you may arrange
them all in advance, is explained in an
illustrated informative booklet, “England
Across America”. Free, upon request, by
’phone call or letter.
.AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL and INFORMATION BUREAU
nelson line Ocsmic Lins
(Incorporated U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
Sydney beaches during the surfing
season. Such a scheme is easily work-
able, and there is no reason why any
technical difficulty should arise. The
obvious consideration should be that of
the use of ultra-short waves for this pur-
pose. Such equipment has been amply
demonstrated by experimenters, and,
because of the compactness and porta-
bility of such equipment, not only the
surf club houses but surf boats could
be fitted with receivers with very little
trouble. By the time a warning is re-
ceived on shore, some minutes’ delay is
occasioned during which the boats get
into the known position of the enemy,
but with boats lying out in the water
they are at, or very close to, the scene
of action. Apart from surf boats, why
not a specially equipped boat continually
on the cruise at each popular beach?
The Q. and A. Column.
I have an inset for an ordinary hand tele-
phone. It is of cone-shaped metal with what
appears to be a carbon diaphragm. Can this
be made into a microphone to connect to the
pick-up terminals of a radio set, and, if so,
how?— 3l3.
As the inset stands, it is actually the micro-
phone. One connection is made to the metal
case, and the other to the centre terminal.
If it is of- the modern type, it is probably
sensitive enough to use thus directly connected
to the pick-up terminals of the set, but other-
wise a microphone transformer is necessary.
This may be made from an old audio trans-
former of the 3/1 variety. If this has a
defunct primary, substitute a winding of 300
turns of 30 D.S.C. In some cases this may
be overwound without removing the old primary.
The secondary connects to the pick-up ter-
. minals, and in series with the primary and
microphone must be a small battery, for which
purpose a 4i-volt pocket-lamp type will serve.
“Dipolar”: A London mews cable on
the problems of television stresses the
certainty of friction between television
and movie interests. This is because
films are an excellent medium for tele-
vision, and the reproduction of screen-
plays in miniature in the home will be
popular. The motion-picture companies
may resist any such arrangement on the
ground that it would be detrimental to
cinema theatres. Consequently it would
not be surprising if the television authori-
ties were ultimately to find themselves
confronted with the necessity of prepar-
ing their own films. No doubt the time
will come when perfect home viewing of
screen material will be possible by tele-
vision. When it does, despite the efforts
of the movie kings, it will flourish as
the “talkie” did to the exclusion of the
“silent.” If the television people have
to make their own films, this will be no
obstacle. It is only a matter of time
when television coffers wil be as deep as
those of King Celluloid.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of. communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the "‘MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.E.D.: There’s some humor in it, but your
verse would need a lot of patching to make
it readable... .H.J.8.: Your hero from the out-
back “where the stockmen ride like deamons,
the potential V.C. winner who “hitched to
hear guns booming,” was gently laid to rest m
the basket... .E.N.: Many of your rhymes are
too daring, not to say outrageous, but there s
a promise of better things when you find your
feet... .E.R.M.: Nothing in U....T.A.: Ring
off R.J.E.: No kick in it.. ..R.G.: Quite
sound philosophy, but very rickety verse....
W.C.: The subject is a very difficult one,
and you haven’t quite succeeded with it....
Tcnens: All three miss.... W.L.: The theme
is old, the joke on the second page was told
of the Duke of Wellington, and the counter-
feit note turns up every week or 50....
L.A.H.; Your notes came from the same forger
as W.L.’s E.J.: Your dream and its sequel
left us unimpressed... .8.H.: “Storm
flying north again... .M.M.: You haven t
given it any atmosphere of reality, and the
ending is very weak... .L.K.: Now, if you d
made the buzzards snip the Overhmd lelcgraph
with their beaks and signal lor help, that
would have been a story... .K.G.: Too slight.
....E.A.H.: It’s merely a glimpse... .A. H.:
Still cannot find a home for the goddess....
H.P.: Not enough humor... . R.V.: Sonnet
“To My Bookcase” shelved... .J.F.: Ihey run
fairly smoothly, but the matter doesn’t impress.
E.C. (Canada):. Not suitable.. . .A.A.C.:
The kerbstone merchant’s remark to the heiress
seems to hit the nail on the head: —•
Good-bye now, I hope that you the opera music
cheers '
While I to the hotel bar go for counter lunch and
la-ers.
G.G.: Afraid Wordsworth’s sonnet on the
sonnet rather cut the ground from under your
feet.... Kauta: The reaction of Sandra is far
too overdrawn... .S.H.: Doesn’t quite get
there P.W.: Not enough to make a story.
W.W.H.: The style adopted appears rather
stilted F.A.D.; Has some good stuff, but
it’s patchy....Z.V.W.: A long way 0ff.,..
H.S.D.P.: Can’t see that the scantics had
anything to do with the p10t....W.8.: Ihe
last thoughts of condemned murderers always
leave us cold Tamdir: Not in our line.
N.L.D.: Came fairly close C.W.S.:
Yes, it is like that C.L.: Your effort to
immortalise Trunkcy in verse was a gallant one,
but the w.p.b. got it all the same... .Kcwpic:
Autograph albums being out of date, there
seems no place for it.... W.M.H.: Yes; pay-
ment made on written application, giving date
and page of issue... .F.W.: It is quite musical,
but just falls short....E.: No space for odes
on Sydney Harbor J.McG.: Phrases such
as “of formless unknown made” are sufficient
to kill any verse L.R.B.“Where the whip-
bird swings his thong”—it sounds like a
lisping chorus or a new test for drunkenness.
....H.G.: The bashful bachelor and the
wheedling widow are now united in the basket.
. ...W.8.: If you want to see how well that
sort of story has been done, read W. W.
Jacobs’s “The Monkey’s Paw” E.W.:
Worm-that-turned yarn won’t see the light
here F.M.: Tne trick ending didn’t carry
it through... .A.G.: Crude... .W.N.: Rather
raw .and somewhat monotonous R.F.S.:
We don’t like asinine-English-Johnny yarns
any better than dream stories A.L.P.:
Hardly a word of it rings true... .E.R.J.W.:
Could see the finish a mile off U.E.A.C.:
It didn’t need eight pages to tell us who the
stranger was,.. .H.R.S.N.: Merely an elabora-
tion of an old jest... .M.W.: A hackneyed
depression plot D.F.L.: You labor hard to
make a small point J.N.: A trite example
of the “premonition” school.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.T.: The number of blots and smudges
you can squeeze into a few square inches is
amazing A.R.J.: A stale gag 8.W.: Why
are all the figures on the right-hand side so
thin and cramped? F.T.; A very old B. E.
Minns joke C.J.: Neat drawing, but neither
of the figures said anything amusing H.S.:
Apparently a pumpkin, a beer barrel and
two pot-sticks served as your model for a
human figure C.D.M.: Wake up, Rip!
Cartoon on that subject should have been sub-
mitted three months ago G.W.: Fisher-
man-and-scarecrow gag is on our black list of
chestnuts P.P.: Not a winner among the
half-dozen T.M.: Stick to your studies.
. ...A.K.L.: Don’t want copies or colored
sketches... .J.R.: Hopeless V.D.C.: Not
keen on the two faces or the “he-she” joke.
J.C.W.: Before submitting caricatures get
someone known to us to certify to the like-
nesses A.L.: You have some weird ideas on
the shape of the human figure N.F.: Tone^
are not sharp enough, and jokes lack brightness.
W.B.S.: Can see no cheques fluttering your
way T.R.; Good idea, inexpert treatment.
“Wanderer’s”: President Crockett, of
the Afrikander C.A., reckons that, with
ordinary luck, his side should cut 50-50
with the Australians in the coming Tests.
These are to be of four days, from 11.15
a.m. to 6 p.m., with a break of one
hour and the usual quarter fior tea. Aus-
tralia has played six three-day Tests with
the Afrikanders in the Union; three
were won and three drawn. Of 19 played
in England, Australia and S. Africa, the
’Boks have won only one —that at Adel-
aide in 1910, by 38 runs. This year's
English results show what a difference
turf wickets in, the Union have made to
the batting. From now on the Africans
a factor to be seriously considered
in world cricket.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The going at Randwick on Saturday,
though not as bad as had been antici-
pated when it was raining, was a bit soft
in places, and perhaps the form is not
altogether to be relied upon. Anyway,
the results were all against backers.
The remodelled tote was in use for the
first time. Punters soon cottoned on to
the system—odds for a win shown at the
bottom of the yellow streak correspond-
ing to your horse’s number, and odds
for a place at the top —and they voted it
very ingenious. But all the money staked,
paddock, Leger and flat, is brought into
one pool on ass. basis, and there was
grumbling among people in the paddock
when they found themselves deprived of
sixpences formerly paid. In one case
backers of a placed horse received £1 16s.
when the actual return should have been
£1 16s. lid. Taxation is far too high
for this sort of thing to be accepted
meekly.
Lough Neagh, who has had many trips
from Brisbane to Randwick, made his
20 opponents in the Tramway Handicap
look like a tired mob of sheep. 1 His
recent form had been good, and he was
second in this race last year; yet he was
allowed to drift to 25 to 1, and £l9 13s.
was paid for 10s. on the straightout tote
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
—£4 9s. for a place. Nicely ridden by
the Brisbane jockey Shean, the chestnut
cleared out at the Leger and beat King’s
Head by four lengths, with Gay Blonde
a length and a half away; the time was
Imin. 26|sec. Gay Blonde had a rough
passage; she is now favorite for the
Epsorm Dark Sky, who had made the
pace with The Marne, was fourth. The
favorite, Synagogue, after being in a
winning position at the turn, tired badly
and finished ninth. He got into a soft
patch, and that settled him.
Lough Neagh carried Bst. 41b. and goes
up five pounds in the Epsom. It was a
capital performance on the chestnut’s
part; he covered more ground than any
other runner. Australia Fair, after mak-
ing a smart run in the straight, tired in
the last furlong. Sarcherie never got into
the picture. Grand Mogul showed speed
to the turn, and then petered out. He
was not the only three-year-old to dis-
appoint during the day.
Rogilla failed to complete the hat trick
in the Chelmsford Stakes. Badly away,
he was slow to make up his ground, and
found Sylvandale too good in the cir-
cumstances ; indeed, Contact came along
and beat him in the last stride for second
money. Sylvandale was favorite at 9 to
4, Rogilla being at 5 to 2. Sylvandale
went up to Silver Standard at the six fur-
longs, dropped the colt at the three, and
was not afterwards headed. Contact’s
run from the Leger was a creditable
effort, and he may be hard to beat in the
Metropolitan, but this Page has a notion
that both winner and runner-up are a bit
overrated. Latharna, backed from tens
to 9 to 2, ran a fair fourth. He was one
that the conditions did not suit, and he
was a bit groggy after the race.
Sporting Blood, from M.L., was
thought by many to be not quite ready
to run out a strong 10 furlongs in the
Spring Handicap. They were wrong.
Darby Munro saved the son of Hunting
Song—Gazi for a final burst in the
straight, and timed it excellently ; in the
result Sporting Blood won easily from
Kagal and Break Up, who had made the
running to the turn. Sporting Blood
started at 9 to I—English odds. The
favorite, Dromos, was forced wide at the
mile pole. Though obviously beaten a
mile from home, he struggled on to get
lourth, and will be all the better for the
run.
Sporting Blood is in the Epsom and
Metrop with Bst. 71b. and Bst. 6lb. re-
spectively. He is a powerfully-built
horse, and his Maoriland credentials (he
won the Derby, beating Synagogue, the
Canterbury Cup and the St. Leger) are
excellent.
Bodyguard (10 to 1) won the Novice
Handicap in good style. Sir Caledon and
Worthy Hero cut at one another and
then retired, leaving Greek Play to take
the lead. He went under quickly to
Bodyguard, a four-year-old by Rossen-
dale—Breastplate, who is in the Metrop.
with 6st. 81b. Bodyguard’s success broke
a run of bad luck for trainer Russell
Brennan, who turned out the big fellow
in fine trim.
The track was cut up when Narbethong
waltzed home in the Welter, at 25 to 1.
He took charge turning for home, and
went on to beat Golden Gate and
Scratchmere Scar. Cherry King, backed
from fives to 5 to 2, failed ingloriously,
and Curator was under the whip from
the three furlongs. He travelled very un-
kindly under pressure. Tapestry was
doing well when it was too late.
* * * *
The Bulletin now fancies Sir John for
the Epsom and Sporting Blood for the
Metropolitan.
»■ * * *
Sydney racegoers sometimes wonder
why Melbourne trainers so seldom bring
teams across the border and deliberate
long before they fetch one horse. The
races held in both capitals on Saturday
help to explain.
The mid-§eptember meeting at Rand-
wick is one of the most important of the
year: results of the Chelmsford Stakes
are preserved in the record-books. For
the Chelmsford, Tatt.’s Club proudly
advertised that it was giving £lOOO ; for
the Tramway and Spring Handicaps—
each a recognised public trial for Epsom
and Metrop. respectively—£soo apiece.
There are many more important meet-
ings at Melbourne than the one at
Moonee Valley; yet the Valley club hung
up £1025 for a three-year-old race (the
M.V. Stakes), £lOOO for a steeplechase
and £5OO for a handicap corresponding
to the Spring Handicap. And when it
had to divide the Maiden and Welter
Handicaps it added £2OO to each, making
it £4OO apiece. The owner of the winner
in each division got £6O more than the
owner of the winner of the principal
event at Rosebery on the Wednesday.
The fact is that a man with a good
horse can make far more with it in
Melbourne than he can in Sydney, with
its close-fisted proprietary clubs and its
shortsighted Government, whose racing
taxation is so steep. The A.J.C., of course,
maintains its prestige, but Sydney has no
amateur clubs corresponding to the fine
Caulfield, Williamstown and Moonee
Valley organisations. And, though s.-p.
betting exists in Melbourne, it doesn’t
flourish to anything like the Sydney ex-
tent. The sport offered by the amateur
clubs has a great popular appeal which
is lacking in Sydney except at the AJ.C.
nieetings ; and, of course, even the A.J.C.
is handicapped by over-taxation and by
the seedy racing which comes in between
its engagements. There are comparatively
few “battlers” in Melbourne compared
with Sydney, where a large proportion of
horses in the game is leased. Even
members of the A.J.C. committee follow
the leasing custom —one gentleman has
the excuse that he breeds more horses
than he knows what to do with—which
assuredly does not make for the good
of the sport.... , , . „
The three-year-old race at the Valley
was run over furlongs. It was marked
by brisk betting and a very fine finish,
and once more Voitre’s numerous fol-
lowers had to thank that jockey’s excel-
lent riding for the privilege of collect-
ing, His mount was Valialnt, Chief (5 to
2). Voitre jumped the Heroic out
first, covered no unnecessary ground and
saved him for a final run. ‘. .
1 , • >.•'
Meanwhile, Garrio (3 to 1), ridden by
young England, was giving a rather extra-
ordinary exhibition. Left five or six
lengths at the. start, Garrio was rushed
up to the field,'and, though he dropped
back at the home turn, having to go
round several horses, he came like a
streak of lightning again in the straight
He actually took the lead, but Voitre,
desperately at work on Valiant Chief, got
that colt’s head in front just as they
reached the post. Carnarvon (3 to 1) was
doing better than either over the last
bit, and the judge could not separate
J. P. Arthur’s colt from A. T. Creswick’s.
The clock showed Imin. 35£sec.
Bimilla was one of the eight starters,
and was backed at fives, but failed to
see out the distance. There is a possi-
bility of Carnarvon going to Sydney for
the A.J.C. Derby ; and Feldspar is now
to be a starter. The probabilities are
that Melbourne colts will be first, second
and third.
Last in the V.A.T.C. Heatherlie Han-
dicap a week before, Hyperion was first
in the Budgeree Handicap ; and the crowd
did not forget to remind his party—he
is trained by Holt for W. H. Vincent,
the Westralian mining man —of the vast
improvement. The demonstration was
far from mortifying Skidmore, who rode
the son of Pantheon —Opera ; in fact, the
ingenuous youth came in grinning
broadly. Hyperion, who was friendless
at 20 to 1, had the race won long before
the completion of the one mile 450
yards ; he carried 31b. less than his Caul-
field Cup weight, Bst. 101 b., and he im-
mediately. became a strong Caulfield
fancy. He was the third-best three-year-
old last year, and he is now perhaps the
second-best four-year-old.
There were 18 runners, and it was 6
to 1 the field. Hostile (8 to 1) was a
fair second, and only a neck behind him
was Shadow King, now in his eleventh
year, and far from done yet. Panto,
Burlesque, Spearflash and Windmar
were among the failures, but Panto ran
pretty well.
W. R. Kemball won a double —with
Cape Fair (7 to 1) in the Hurdle Race
and Air Race (25 to 1), a Windbag filly,
in a division of the Welter. Valiant Chief
and Character (9 to 2), winner of the
steeplechase, were the only favorites that
did not fail, and in neither case need the
bookmakers have lost on the race.
* * * *
Marabou’s brilliant success in the
Heatherlie Handicap at Caulfield en-
abled Sydney pencillers with Epsom-
Metrop. books to rake in a bit of easy
money. They promptly made him their
Metropolitan favorite, and, though bet-
ting on doubles is not what it used to be,
speckers coupled the Marconigram horse
with everything reckoned to have a
chance in the Epsom. They paid for
their precipitancyMaribou was taken
out of the Metrop. on Thursday, Silver
King had previously been scratched
tor the Epsom ; so it was a black week
for punters,
* * * *
Bahram has preserved his unbeaten
record ; he won the St. Lcger by five
lengths, and his rider, Smirke, says “he
could have won it with twelve stone.”
Solar Ray and Buckleigh—neither a
starter in the Derby—were placed.
Enthusiasts are now proclaiming the Aga
Khan’s colt “the greatest horse of all
time.” That is a fall’ order, but he has
certainly been a goldmine to his saintly
owner; nine races worth £43,086, and
as many £5OO stud fees as the owner
cares to take. For Bahram is to race
no more.
{Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
In the first semi-final between Rich-
mond and Carlton at Melbourne Cricket
Ground, Richmond, had set up a 31-point
lead by the end of the first quarter. That
decided the issue, especially as Carlton’s
kicking for goal was poor: Richmond
19-11, Carlton 14-20, “Sowth” plays Col-
lingwood next Saturday.
In Adelaide Sturt won the first semi-
final, beating Norwood by 18-16 to 12-9.
Sturt has not been licked since June 15.
* * * *
Northern Suburbs beat Manly for the
Sydney Rugby Union premiership, 22-5.
Apart from the set scrums the North
forwards were everywhere the better,
and Manly half-back McLaren found it
hard to get the ball away. In the backs,
100, the Northern tactics were better
suited to the muddy field. Gibbons got
the ball out quickly, and the five-eighth,
Ide, and his centre, Hull, kicked to the
open, relying on the speed of wing men
Sturt (he followed on for two tries) and
O’Brien. Manly tried to keep the three-
quarters moving, and its only try —a
scissors movement started by Sutton and
Primrose—was the best of the day ; but
a dozen other movements were spoilt by
bad handling. Recklessness on the part
of Manly forwards towards the finish
helped O’Brien to swell the total with
easy kicks for goal—three tries, two con-
verted, and three penalty goals to the
one converted try.
It was North’s second premiership, and
it has won the second- and fourth-grade
competitions also. Attendance and gate
receipts, £426, were the best for any
Sydney grade or inter-State match since
the war.
* ♦ * *
The All-Blacks won the first match of
their English tour against Devon and
Cornwall at Devonport. The forwards
had to give ground in the scrums, but
stood up to it in the loose, and the
three-quarters were fast and certain. It
was 35-6.
* * * *
In the dullest game of the season East-
ern Suburbs had no trouble in winning the
Rugby League premiership final by 19
to 3 against South Sydney at the Cricket
Ground." Without Brown, who is nurs-
ing a. damaged leg, East looked a merely
useful good side, but even that was too
much for South’s clumsy labor.
FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Camellia Stakes: Sir John; next.
Dark Sky.
Guineas: The Chanter; next,
Allunga.
Hill Stakes: Peter Pan, if a
runner; otherwise, Young Idea and
Synagogue.
Spring Handicap; Mainlaw ; next.
Sarcherie or High Cross.
Highweight Handicap: Cabalist;
next, Bombus.


The Prontac
( Patented)
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The “Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation . . .
The “Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
PREPARE for PROBATE
ẅ
NOW
Few property owners think of Probate Tax
until too late. Dependents bear the brunt of
this neglect. Part of the estate is often sacri-
ficed to pay this heavy tax—the value of the
estate is permanently impaired. Furthermore,
all income from the estate is cut off during
the assessment period—a very real hardship.
P. & C. Probate Assurance pays the tax and
provides money to dependents immediately
and ensures their receiving your estate intact.
Don’t neglect the protection it offers—-full
particulars sent on request.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
Co-operative Assurance Co. Ltd.
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director ; Chairman of Director!:
H, FELL. HON. A. K. TRETHOVAN. M.L.C.
w
MARLOW & CO.,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers' Service
Station,
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired. Exchanged,
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
$
#■
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY. LTD., Proprietors
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Looking at least a stone and a half
heavier, though there was only 101 b.
difference in the announced weights,
the colored American Leo Kelly failed to
stop the colored Australian Ron
Richards at Leichhardt. In fact, an
excited crowd (there must have been
£BOO in the house) saw him well beaten
on points—behind in 13 of the 15 two-
minute rounds fought. In the first three
rounds Richards landed many straight
lefts that made Kelly’s swings miss badly,
and, though a rib-bending right hurt him
in the fourth, he went on beating his big
opponent to the punch. Over the last bit
Ron tired, and in the fifteenth he was
down, though he took no time. Up
again, he kept Kelly at bay. The coon
is a stiff puncher, but slow.
Ambrose Palmer was present at the
fight, and the crowd, knowing that he
was leaving next day for London to
meet the British cruiserweight cham-
pion, gave him a wonderful reception.
Sydney has no parochial prejudices
where boxers are concerned, and not
since poor Darcy departed from the scene
has it had a greater ring favorite than the
smiling Fbotscray pug.
Footbrawl
“U.Q.”: Bunion, the Fitzroy player,
who for the third time has won the
Brownlow medal awarded by the Vic,
Football League to the best and fairest
player in the League game in Mel-
bourne, has the ideal temperament for
a footballer. In addition, he bears a
Christian name which would be a re-
straining influence even on a Fitzroy
barracker. It is Haydn.
sis * * *
“Richmond”; An unusual happening
in a match between South Melbourne
and Fitzroy has set the experts by the
ears, Nash kicked a goal for “Sowth”
just on the final bell. The umpires
allowed the goal, but later cancelled it,
“Sowth” thus losing six points. When the
acid was put on the matter at the weekly
meeting of the V.F.L. it was decided
that the ball was bounced just as the
bell went, and was —in a football sense —
a corpse.
* * <: *
“Hooker”: The Sydney R.U. season
closes with the probability of another
North Shore senior club entering the
competitions next season. This is Rose-
ville, long a powerful Kentwell Cup side,
and with a large district to draw on, in-
cluding secondary schools like Knox,
Barker’s and St. Aloysius, which all play
good Rugby. Northern Suburbs club is
being consulted, and a decision will be
reached by the end of September. It is
proposed to make Chatswood Oval the
centre of the new district.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Interesting comment was
made by Hodgson, the Wallaby forward,
after taking a busman’s holiday to watch
the Sydney League semi-finals, his own
team being out of the Union picture.
Hodgson hits the nail on the head with
the conclusion that it is much easier to
“shine” in League, though he does not
give the reason—the fewer men on the
field, with the consequent extra room to
move. There are other just criticisms
which confirm the general impression
that the League will have to alter some
of its rules, notably the “play-the-ball”
rule—a blot on the game—and go back
to the lineout, sooner or later. The
eternal scrum, scrum, scrum, with the
ball never being put in and the referee
meekly acquiescing, is a weariness of the
flesh.
Ins and Outs
“Der Jong”: The South Africans must
have sighed with relief when “stumps”
ended the last match of their English
tour against Leveson-Gower’s side.
Practically an All-England Eleven, the
L.-Gs. scored 457 in the first knock at
Scarborough. The ’Boks did no better
than 240, but Cameron, with a magnifi-
cent forcing innings of 160, hit defeat
over the fence in the follow-on: 8 for
382. England played out time, and the
match was drawn.
* * * *
Victor Richardson will skipper the
Australian team in South Africa, with
McCabe as offsider. The latter’s selec-
tion automatically puts him in line for
the leadership of N.S.W. in the future.
Harold Rowe, of Westralia, will be
manager. It was known that Oldfield
wanted anything on earth but the cap-
tain’s or v.-c,’s job, so the appointments
ran according to the expected schedule.
The cricketers’ contracts for the South
African tour arc the same as the last lot
for England—no writing, no broadcast-
ing, no wives, and residence in Australia
for two years after return. South Africa
is paying the whole shot, and the board
is not financially concerned. One sees a
ray of hope here for those players who
are hoping that the ’Boks may give our
lot a bonus at the end of the tour as well
as the promised £3OO. Apparently the
board could do nothing to stop such
largesse, though it would no doubt try.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Hopes that a motion put
forward by Tassie and Westralia that the
press be admitted to the Board of Con-
trol meeting would be carried were
dashed. It was known that the Wcstra-
lian and Speck delegates intended to
make things lively for N.S.W. over the
“ What's the matter with Sandy? Has he lost his ball?"
“Worse than that. He's holed in one!"
proposal to throw both States out of the
board. Even when the doors were
locked people hung round hungrily
hoping to see delegates from N.S.W.
come flying out of the window ; but it
was not to be. There must have been
some strenuous talk, however, for voting
against Ma’s proposal was 10-3. N.S.W.
has since haughtily announced that, be-
ing a lady, she will do nothing rash like
withdrawing from the board. In the
future she intends to seek out constitu-
tional methods of getting the manage-
ment of the show into her own hands.
The Nineteenth Hole
Victorian amateur champion Harry
Williams played splendid golf at King-
ston Heath in retaining his State title.
Ryan, Grimwade and King were among
his victims ; in the final he beat King,
2 and 1. And with Payne he won the
foursomes.
* * * *
"Hie”: Brisbane Council has angered
prohibitionists by resolving that the club-
house on the municipal links shall have
a bar for dispensing hard stuff. Ex-
Mayor Jolly, a founder of the course,
and always a great barracker for it, pro-
tests that the club has no authority or
control over the clubhouse or its staff,
and threatens to resign the presidency
if the license is granted. Granted it
will be, of course, for aldermen and
their friends must have somewhere to
slake thirsts on Sunday mornings.- Even
in Brisbane the police have been getting
nosy about the pubs, and a man’s life
must be saved somehow.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Ferrier and Hatters-
ley are to play an exhibition match at
The Lakes (N.S.W.) club against Bolgcr
and Kelly on September 21. Proceeds
will go to the fund for the Australian
tour to America. The tour must start
in November, and so far little more than
£6OO is in hand.
“Sandringham”: A. G. Roberts, presi-
dent of the Victorian Golf Association, is
bewailing the apathy shown by his mem-
bers towards the proposed tour of the
U.S.A. by a team of professional golfers.
Roberts says he has done his best to
stir up club delegates, hut with little
success to date. Worse still, Victorian
professionals are not keen.
Racquet and Bawl
“Jachris”: Perry has had a hectic
week. On Wednesday, competing in the
U.S. singles, he was beaten in straight
sets by Allison, who went on to win the
championship. After the match it was
stated that Perry “had jarred the right
kidney loose from its attachments” dur-
ing the first set. By next day the interest-
ing victim had recovered sufficiently to
marry a moving-picture actress.
* $ * *
“Kooyong”: Counting up the baw-
bees, the Australian L.T.A. reckons its
Davis Cup tour profits now stand at
£BOOO. The last team earned £lOO in
M.L., £2500 in the Davis Clip tie with
France, £390 at the French champion-
ships, £9OO in Germany, £625 at Wimble-
don and £5OO is expected to come from
South Africa. Total expenses are just on
£3OOO.
* * * ♦
‘‘Holy City”: Though he had for-
feited his Queensland title, Moon showed
some of his old form in the Southern
Queensland championships at Ipswich,
when, after looking a gone-a-million case
against Hancock in the second set, he
came with a long run, and won 6-3, 7-5.
Miss Hardcastle, Queensland’s new hope
among the girls, won the women’s singles,
beating the local champion, Mrs. Kamp,
by two sets to one.
<: * it ♦
Hotham”: The Australian tennis
heads seem determined to get a couple
of American girls along for their season,
and have cabled Norman Brookes to try
again for Helen Wills-Moody and Helen
Jacobs, or one or other and a less
famous drawcard. Both ladies have
already blankly refused to come. Nor-
man’s best chance would be to get in
touch with the captains of the kidnapping
industry in Chicago and arrange for
delivery of the girls c.i.f. in Sydndy.
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: The long-standing feud
between exponents of the “narrow” 18-
foot sailing boats and the fanciers of the
old, flat “milk dishes” has been settled,
each lot deciding to go its own way. The
attempt by backers of the old measure-
ments to disqualify the new-style craft
and their owners has thus failed, while
the prospect of the old-fashioned type,
which has been sailing in inter-Stale
races for over 40 years, disappearing
has been obviated. Each division will
stage a championship meeting, the old on
Port Jackson in January, and the new
on the Brisbane River at the same time.
In the end it would seem that the less
costly and more easily worked “narrow”
type will predominate.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: A writer in a Sydney
paper has been musing on what becomes
of sporting trophies, large and small, and
cites cases in which valuable shields and
cups have disappeared. In the long-ago
days when the lads of the village decked
their watch-chains with medals marking
their prowess in all sorts of pastimes,
many of the gold varieties found their
way to Uncle. Others gave the things
to their best girls, who had them made
into bangles and the like. The best col-
lection I ever saw adorned the tattooed
lady in a scientific and athletic show I
once ran —we had a stuffed dugong as
offsider to the T.L. in the scientific
department. Her husband was a strong-
man-wrestler-chainbreaker in his public
moments, and had gathered many
medals, which his spouse had made into
a massy necklace. The gem of the col-
lection was a gold medal as large as a
five-bob piece, which was worn as a
pendant to the necklace. The lady would
condescend to explain to polite inquirers
that her husband had won it by swallow-
ing several dozen eggs, shells and all, in
a scientific demonstration at Townsville
(Q.).
* * « *
“Fifty Up”: Amateur billiard players
like the writer heaved a sigh of relief at
hearing that the British Control Council
had decided that with the lilywhaites the
ball would have to be forced over the
baulkline only every 400 points, instead
of every 200, as with the paid players.
Of course, most of us could manage the
200 limit if put to it, but that would be
infringing dangerously on the domain of
the professionals. Nothing like keeping
a dividing line between the two classes —
it is so much more select.


The Mail
is in 61,940
South Australian
Homes every
Week-End
these people
with money to spend
your advertising brings
big results. South Aus-
tralia is always ready to
buy.
Representation :
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House, Collins
street
SYDNEY—P, A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—P. A Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
f
tS.
i
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND.
e
dcoi®*
oi“
oMll' 1
lc»t °l
tin
!l° u
oicn
led
oin
teres
dial'!<
are
cOi
VVe
j) y° u
lean’ 1
oli° n
le»t
oi«s
ance
FOI
ol>
oTm
perform
iotn
the-J
ads
nt
‘OH
,(>
Tiu
an
c»*
on-’ 1
eq
req l *
ti»»‘
p>m
fritcl*
bli9 a
at y° l ‘
at#*
fllOl* 1
load
a"o c
in
tOT
o v0«
nci
uour
.I.l'
free
idtfc
STB
vice
s<’>
\N*
plus
cO>"
motob
fo«"
t
€
FROM YOUR
FORD DEALER
...J
N
*1
m
m
SfS* i 4 A
x
8K
FORD V- 8
TRUCK FEATURES.
Full-Floating Rear
AXLE.—The most dependable
and accessible type of truck
axle construction. Axle shafts
ore load-free and have only
one function which is to turn
the wheels, the load being
carried directly on the heavy
axle housing.
Straddle-Mounted
PINION.—The driving pinion
is straddle-mounted between
heavy-duty roller bearings,
and the ring gear is backed
by a bronze thrust-plate. This
exclusive design ensures con-
stant ring gear and pinion
alignment under all road and
loud conditions.
New Truck-Type
CLUTCH.—The new clutch
which utilises centrifugal
force added to a fixed spring
pressure makes disengage-
ment easier at idling speeds,
and provides increase, in
pressure as the engine speed
increases. This design en-
sures maximum resistance
to clutch slippage.
Handsome Coupe-Type
Cab.
New Front-End
Assembly.
Improved Weight
Distribution.
Improved Cooling
System.
New Quick-Stopping
Brakes.
Crank-Case
Ventilation.
EQUIPMENT Includes:
Safety Glass
Windscreen
Oil-Bath Air Cleaner
Front Bumper
Without Extra Cost.
The only way to find out whether
a truck will do your job is to test
it with your own loads over your
own roads. Ford dealers have such
complete confidence in V-8 truck
Performance and Economy that
they are ready and willing to
arrange an “on-the-job” test to
prove the outstanding capabilities of
Ford V-8 trucks under all conditions.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Factory production has been greatly
increased to meet the growing
demand for Ford V-8 Trucks.
Immediate delivery can be arranged
by your local dealer. Place your
order early. Do not accept less
than V-8 Performance and Econ-
omy in your truck service. Special
Ford finance plan provides easy
and convenient purchase terms.
A
FORD
PRODUCT OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE
v , ' i ••
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA). K) 1.300
□ /
;
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“S.T.S.”: In writing about William
Watson, nobody seems to have remem-,
bered Owen Seaman’s couplet about the
new poets of the eighteen-nineties, whose
names, as it chanced, all ended in “son.”
Said 0.5.:
Lo! where upon Parnassus’ slopes they romp—
-Ihe sons of Wat, ot David, John and Thomp.
* * * *
‘Ess Jay”; It was almost certainly at
Athens that the first shrine to an un-
known soldier was erected. Pericles, in
an oration before the open tomb wherein
such a one was laid, said that the soldier
“had the greatest sepulchre of all, a home
in the minds of men.” Is anything really
new?
* * ♦ *
“Carnoustie”: I have been trying to
read a book on golf by Abe Mitchell,
the most eminent Hebrew in the game.
Like all other works of the kind, it is
deadly-earnest twaddle which even golf
maniacs cannot follow. One point the
author makes, however, will go to the
heart of every mug golfer. He adjures
his readers to start the swing “in the
perfect faith that all will come right.”
That is the mug’s invariable practice, and
he usually adds to his supreme confi-
dence by shutting both eyes and trusting
to faith to do the rest,
* * * *
“Delia”: This golf happening is in-
credibly reported from the U.S.A. A
big hitter pulled his tee shot in a country-
club competition, and this broke a win-
dow in the clubhouse, upset an oil lamp
and set the place on fire. Pulling him-
self together, he teed up again and drove
in the direction of the club fire alarm,
which stood close to the second green.
The shot went true, broke the glass of
the fire alarm and brought the fire
brigade on the toot. The committee is
now considering his position as regards
penalties.
♦ * * *
Dr. Schlacht, who came out strong
against the Jew-baiting propensities of
the more irrational Nazis, has now
“pledged himself to follow the Leader
with unfailing confidence.” He says
Hitler has “stopped the antagonism be-
tween employer and employee,” and that
is certainly an achievement. Still even
to secure this blessing, democratic
peoples will not hand themselves over to
dictators.
* * * *
“Talisker”; I have been waiting, like
the apprehensive Scottish meenister, for
someone to blurt oot the truth concern-
ing those Highland clans. The Act
which proscribed them and their parti-
colored garments in 1745 has never been
repealed, so they have no legal existence
according to the ruling of a Scottish
High Court in 1860, when suit was
brought to determine the position. There
is no McHaggis of Haggis, and the people
who don the philabcg at Highland gather-
ings are liable to be stripped of it and
sent home in their shirt-tails.
“Colonel Bungstarter”; To those who
knew Thursday Island in the days of 40
years agone, it is now but a haunt of
ghosts. The cocoanut palms sigh their
memories of Yankee Ned roistering on
the beach; of Frank Jardine, trim and
dignified; of Reg Hockings quelling a
riot of Japs and island boys with nothing
but his Elizabethan personality; of a
hundred more real men who lived danger-
ously. But what a place for winter holiday-
ing! From April to November the south-
east trades blow their cool sailing breeze.
For the fishermen there is everything,
from whiting to swordfish, within an
hour’s run of the pretty little township.
On Cape York, 20 miles away, there is
splendid duck-shooting; wild pigs and
crocodiles, too. Miraculous submarine
coral gardens, picturesque, lofty islands,
snowy beaches, villages of smiling,
pleasant islanders —all are no more than
a day away. No more pleasant place
exists wherein to dodge the ’flu-haunted
southern winter.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Farleigh”; It is doubtful whether the
Battle of Adowa, which the Italians
are so determined to avenge, made much
impression on the outside world, except
as an example of what might happen to
any European Power in Africa. A writer
in Sydney “Telegraph” describes it in
extravagant terms as “the most disastrous
defeat ever inflicted on a white army by
a black,” and adds, that the beaten com-
mander became the most unpopular man
in Italy. The Italians certainly sustained
a bad drubbing—estimates of their killed
and captured vary from 8000 to 10,000
—but the Shoans are believed to have
suffered almost as heavily before the
weight of their numbers told. And
General Baratieri, who had some pre-
vious successes against the Abyssinians
to offset hi§ bad judgment and bad luck
at Adowa, might have come off worse.
He was tried by court-martial five months
later, but was acquitted of all the charges
brought against him.
* * ♦ *
“Chevroford”: It seems to me a great
mistake has been made in compelling
Standard Oil to repudiate its con-
cession over Abyssinia. Concessions
to financiers represent the new order
of things in the matter of inter-
national relations. If the American syn-
dicate had been allowed quietly to get
to work in rehabilitating the Emperor
Haile Silassie’s domains, in a few years
Ethiopia would have had roads, railways,
crossword puzzles, birth control and
cinemas, and nobody need have been
any the worse for it. Mussolini’s method
represents the old order. It involves the
subjugation of the country by a large
army, a great deal of unnecessary suffer-
ing and a century of bitterness. But
Foreign Offices think only in terms of
their grandmothers, and there was a
general cry of horror when the exist-
ence of the concession was made known.
Officials immediately set to work to
make Mr. Rickett ashamed of his benefi-
cent enterprise. What they should have
done was to invite Mussolini to take a
share in the syndicate and offer him a
seat on the board.


w
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY e«son Ltd • SYDNEY I
McPHERSONS PTV. LTD., Melbourne., Adelaide,. Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy. .... , ,
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletins criticism (10/1/ 34). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., liTD.,
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA • 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident. Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; Warwick House, St. Georges Ten ace, Perth; F. J. _mith.
Resident Secretary.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
ENJOY i
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
(A good Single Bed-
room, with Hot and
Cold Water, ’Phone j
and Reading Lamp, i
from 7/- per day; c
Double Room at I
Double Rates) '
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Managsr.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Self-examination
Despite many obstacles, we have made
encouraging headway —even in the last
live years. Greater understanding between
employer and employee exists to-day than
in years gone by. The depression itself
has taught some hard but valuable
lessons, and Henry Ford’s principle that
a manufacturer cannot sell to the people
unless they have money to buy has been
assimilated by many employers. Where
salary cuts were the order of the day
during 1930-32, concerns which did
all they could to maintain wages have
reaped a full return in the loyalty of
their staffs.
Manufacture has gone ahead greatly.
Textiles of all kinds are at present
turned out', electrical fittings, motor
tyres, machinery, iron and steel in greatly
increasing quantities, felt hats, chemicals
and explosives, even Australian-grown
tobacco and products, and whisky.
Our metals, including zinc and copper,
are all treated in the Commonwealth.
Rice is grown at Leeton (N.S.W.), and
there are possibilities in the Queensland
cotton industry.
We have an excellent coastal shipping
service. Complaints are still heard that
passenger fares are high ; still, they are
low enough for successful competition
with the railway service that extends from
Cairns to Geraldton. Great strides have
been made recently by the various lines
operating. Adelaide Steam has two large
motor-vessels in service, Huddart Parker
has the Westralia, Melbourne Steam will
shortly have the Duntroon, and Mc-
Uraifh McEacharn will bring out a new
mo tor-vessel in the 10,000-ton class by
the end of this year. A twice-weekly
service between Brisbane and Adelaide is
to start —two companies are already run-
ning to the new timetable —which will
render coastal travel more popular still.
Australia at present doesn’t make
motor-cars. This industry is still too
much in the expansion stage, even over-
seas, to warrant large capital outlay here
on plant which may become obsolete in
two or three years. But manufac-
ture will probably come before long,
possibly in the way that overseas tyre
manufacturers eventually set up sub-
sidiary factories here. Already we have
large assembling- and bodyworks. And
aeroplane manufacture is projected.
Production of power-alcohol is pro-
ceeding in Queensland, but we have so
far discovered no economical source of
oil fuel. The Newnes proposals could no
doubt be put into operation at a pinch,
but at the present lime, if the expressed
opinions of those who should know can
be relied upon, extraction of the oil from
the shales —the richest in the world —
could not be done at competitive prices.
But many Americans anticipate that in
their lifetime oil-shales will have to be
resorted to for fuel even in U.S.A., so
that Newnes should at least be looked
upon as a potential asset.
Whakatane Paper Mills, Ltd.
Timberlands Woodpulp it used to be,
then a bond-selling concern. All bonds
were converted into shares in 1933, and
now the co. is after £400,000 in 7 p.c.
(participating to 10 p.c.) pref. capital in
order to complete its plans for establish-
ing a pulp and paper mill in Maoriland.
Establishment of the plantations was
begun 10 years ago, and in the conver-
sion from bonds to shares the Finns
insignis reafforested areas were capital-
ised at £55 an acre, which meant a
writing-up in the books. There are
1,841,418 ord. shares issued, paid or
deemed to be paid to £1,587,513 ; issued
pref. capital at June 30, 1935, was £54.000
£1 shares paid to £33,000.
The co. at last balance-day had
£238,718 in cash and Government bonds
and £274,905 of uncalled capital. Lia-
bilities—ignoring suspense accounts—
amounted to £58,163.
Estimated cost of the mill and equip-
ment, the site of which is at Port Whaka-
tane, at the eastern end of the Bay of
Plenty, is £544,300. It is expected to be
in production within 18 months, and the
projected initial output is 20,000 tons of
pulp and paper per year. The pros-
pectus estimates profits at £160,000 p.a.
on the initial output, rising to £345,000
on a tonnage of 46,000.
Additional capital outlay, working
capital necessary, etc., is estimated at
£340,900.
The co. and its subsidiaries have
69,000 acres of softwoods in various
stages of growth, the nearest plantation
being 25 miles from the proposed mill.
The prospectus gives its opinion that, by
“D'y' think this layin'-on of 'ands ever cured anythin'?
“ Dunno; but if I could lay me ’ands on a coupler bob I'd cure me flamin'
thirst."
pulping 15-year-old timber and replant-
ing, after about seven or eight years
from now the plantations would support
an annual output of 150,000 tons of paper
and pulp a year.
H. H. Corbin, the co.’s consulting
forester, says that though Finns insignis
pulp is well recognised as suitable for
making Kraft, only in the past two years
has the adaptability of the wood for
making newsprint been proved. Research
carried out in America in 1933 had re-
sulted in the production of sulphate
pulp, “which bleached satisfactorily.”
The resin content has been against pines
of the insignis type as regards newsprint-
making, and much will depend in this
co.’s case upon whether the American
experiments can be successfully paral-
leled in commercial practice.
If all goes well with the co.’s scheme
—and it is hoped, for the sake of the
millions of Australian and Maoriland
investors' capital invested in pine planta-
tions, that it will —it should develop into
one of Maoriland's most important
secondary industries. It is to the credit
of this concern that it has lost no time in
going about its job. But those who put
up pref. capital to help finance the ven-
ture should be prepared to wait a
good deal more than 18 months for
dividends.
Support for the contention that prices
of many goldmining stocks are governed
to a great extent by the money avail-
able for speculation, and not always by
the merits of the stocks themselves, is
given by a study of recent movements
in Westralian and Fiji quotations. For
18 months or more Lake View and Star
4s. shares had not got below 30s. on Aus-
tralian ’Changes. The ruling price for
a long while was about 335. Now,
despite satisfactory development work in
uncovering new bodies of ore. indicat-
ing a cheerful future for this well-
known producer, the shares have fallen
to 28s. or thereabouts. North Kalgurli,
Boulder Perseverance and other Golden
Mile shows are all weaker. The obvious
reason has been the concentration of
speculative capital on the Fiji front.
People have been selling their other hold-
ings to take an interest in the South Seas
flutter.
« ♦ * *
Natural Gas and Oil Corporation has
the goods to show at its Balmain (Syd-
ney) borehead. With a pressure of 161 b.
at the surface, the gas roars out in bluish-
colored column on the opening of a
valve. It burns with a yellow flame not
unlike that of kerosene, is without smell
and is in other respects dissimilar to the
gasworks product. It has something like
double the heating capacity. There is
1000 ft. of water and sludge in the bore
(which is down to 4177 ft.), and an expert
estimate is that the pressure at point of
contact with the gas-bearing stratum
(soft, porous rock, capped with a hard
layer above) is 8001 b. to the square inch.
Operations have been suspended pend-
ing the arrival of a 30001 b. pressure
valve from U.S.A. in October. Much
will depend on the depth of gas-impreg
nated stratum. The drill should disclose
this bv the beginning of November.
* * * *
One of the chief concerns in the gold-
share market, apart from some appre-
hensions about speculative Fiji stocks,
has been the weakening of shares in
companies interested in the Avoca field
(Vic.). This is a deep-lead proposition
in respect of which high hopes were held.
The indications were sufficiently attrac-
tive to bring English companies into it,
and Placer Development, the Canadian-
registered show with large interests on
the Bulolo and in S. America, took work-
ing options over the New Middle Creek
and New Pyrenees properties. New
Middle Creek shares afterwards touched
£27 ; last week they were down to £4.
New Pyrenees shares have also fallen
heavily. Placer scrip has weakened —
from £33 for the $5 shares to £5 10s.
for the new SI denominations. Nothing
definite has been announced, but it
looks as though, at the best, the pro-
jected working arrangements between
Placer and the other two cos. may be
considerably modified. In March New'
Middle Creek directors were confident
that Placer would exercise its option,
“to the great benefit of shareholders.”
But mining is an uncertain pursuit.
* * « *
Mount Morgan, Ltd., to which the
bears have been giving some unsuccessful
attention lately, has added a threepenny
bonus to the quarterly dividend of six-
pence. The mine is one of the largest
low-grade propositions in Australia, there
being in the vicinity of 8,000,000 tons
averaging over 4dwt., of which over
2,000.000 tons represents s.6dwt. stone —
which, of course, means that the remain-
ing 6,000,000 tons goes, on present esti-
mates, something below 4dwt. But costs
are low, and improvements in mining
and milling are expected to bring the
whole of the ore reserves into the scope
of profitable treatment. The board's
aim should be a much larger production
while gold prices arc favorable, though
an increase beyond the present 20.000-
tons-a-month capacity must inevitably
take a lot of organisation.
* * * ♦
Whatever the eventual result of the
gold discoveries in Fiji, the expenditure
of some hundreds of thousands ol
pounds in developing the properties
taken up must have a definite effect on
business conditions in the islands.
Banana-growing isn’t so profitable as it
was, but copra prices, though lower than
they were six months ago. are higher than
this lime last year. Altogether, concerns
like Morris Hedstrom and B.P. (South
Sea) should benefit. For those who want
an interest in the Fiji gold boom they
are probably the safest bet,
♦ * * *
“A.D.”: Establishment of direct trad-
ing connections with oil-producing coun-
tries which might buy from us is pro-
posed. Oil has been picked for the
reason —amongst others —that it is an
essential commodity not produced in
Australia, and that our trade balance
with countries from which we at
present obtain our supplies is heavily
against us. It has been put forward
that, though Russia and Roumania
may buy our wool in moderate quantities
indirectly, they are not represented
here individually at auction. The
effect of such lack of representation was
made plain last wool season, when Ger-
many and Italy were practically absent,
though it was later found that Germany,
indirectly, bought almost as much wool
during the season as it ever did. Some
negotiation with oil-producing countries
with which we have little trade either
way might, it is argued, benefit not only
the wool-producer, but the beef- and
wheatgrower as well. But Russia and
Roumania grow more wheat than they
can use, and every country that has sur-
rendered to yarns about the fortunes
awaiting the adventurous in the Soviet
market has been disappointed.


ŵ
Q
“71
m
'
V*
m
v' ■
fm
■ ii:
■ x.: : .
s-is;S
■■: v,;
; •
Ml 1
W
m
■:■■■■:■ . <
& 4
-
■ •:
W
- w*
mm
mM m HM A ip
% mm
Piai :
-v- ■$ : % -I - &
&W&’ i : <•: • *■. WS*
%
>xp
3w%te : . :«:■ xf;% ;
WK%<Hvu
(1) The Tennis Thirst
Hard-fought, nimble-footed quick-
witted tennis creates a grand thirst
for a long vigorous LIGHT drink to
cool and give new energy quickly
. . . a long squash with a generous
dash of Vickers.
Muscular and mental fatigue drop
from you after a drink in which
Vickers is the basic comoonent.
You’re grand company for whatever
comes next on the programme.
VICKERS GIN
sasftss a^s®


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SHOH'S
“Public Hero No. 1”
At Sydney Cameo. A swift-moving
melodrama exploiting U.S.A. police
methods in smashing gangs. Chester
Morris, of the Secret Service, goes to gaol,
suffers 21 days’ solitary, and risks a suc-
cessful dash to freedom under fire with
Joseph Calleia, of the Purple Gang, just
to gain the leader’s confidence. Con-
tinuing as one of the gang, Chester falls
in love with Joe’s innocent sister (Jean
Arthur). Lionel Barrymore is satisfac-
tory as a doctor reduced by the demon
Drink to physician-in-ordinary to the
gang, and the happy ending isn’t more
incredible than is usual in such fantasies.
From every standpoint the best of the
week’s bag.
“Vagabond Lady”
A light romance, at Sydney Cameo.
Robert Young is the sort of gay-hearted
younger brother one only mentions when
necessary, and then with muttered apolo-
Chester Morris in “Public Hero No. I,”
at Sydney Cameo.
gies. He returns from sailing the Seven
Seas to disturb the peace of dad’s mam-
moth emporium and his staid brother
Reg Denny’s romance with Evelyn Ven-
ables, their childhood playmate. Robert
wins Evelyn’s love for himself. However,
in duty bound he takes her on his little
sailing craft to get her to the preacher in
time to wed his brother. Aboard, with
her father and the crew dead-drunk, she
has to help Robert handle the sails,
which leads to a fight. Of course, this
makes Mr. Young realise his love for
the lady,
“The Farmer Takes a Wife”
. A story of the days when the railway
was just commencing to threaten the
prosperity of the Erie Canal. Janet
Gaynor is a cook on a barge. Henry
Fonda is a young bargemaster whose
heart is not in the business —he wants to
be a farmer. His courtship of Janet,
a whole-souled canal loyalist, is undemon-
strative to the point of dumbness. Settings
look convincing and are picturesque, fog
scenes in especial being highly effective.
Eventually H. Fonda whales the daylights
out of the canal’s principal bully and
wins the girl. “Where’s yer kitchen?”
asks Janet, and they plod toward it over
a ploughed field. Slim Summerville pro-
vides mild humor as an itinerant dentist.
At Sydney Plaza.
“Welcome Home”
An American small town is invaded
by four grafters, led by James Dunn (his
associates are Raymond Walburn, Wil-
liam Frawley and Arline Judge), during
a reunion week. On finding that one
of the four had done some independent
fleecing in the place previously they are
loath to stay, but circumstances prevent
an immediate get-away, and all have em-
barrassing moments. The homecoming
of a distinguished native son puts them
on their feet again. The old chap is
bored with the celebrations, and happy
with the grafters, two of whom he saves
from lynching. The four depart, if not
in glory, with at least a deep feeling of
relief. Plenty of chuckles in this, the
characterisations being excellent. At
Sydney Plaza.
“Oil for the Lamps of China”
The theme is duty to one’s employer
versus duty to one’s wife. The fellow
who is torn between the two is Steve
Chase (Pat O’Brien), employee of an oil
co. in China, whither he takes his wife
(Josephine Hutchinson). Mrs. Chase has
to put up with all sorts of hardships; their
baby dies, and his employers refuse Steve
deserved promotion. But his wife sees
that he gets justice. There are elements
of improbability in the tale, but some of
the minor characters are well limned, and
the scenes of life among the Chinese are
interesting. At Sydney Regent.
“Front Page Woman”
Also at the Regent. George Brent is a
star reporter, Bette Davis a sob-sister.
They are employed on opposition papers,
and are continually trying to outwit each
other. What could be better than a
murder case (in which all the sleuthing
appears to be done by reporters) to prove
which is the better of the two? Brent
wins the first lap, but Miss Davis
counters by discovering the missing
corpse. Brent finds the weapon of
destruction; Miss Davis unearths an
eyewitness of the crime. So it goes on,
to the accompaniment of a torrent of
wisecracks and the antics of Roscoe
Karns as a comic press photographer.
The lady reaches the winning post a
length ahead of her rival, and then, of
course, decides to marry him. Brisk-
moving and entertaining.
“Society Doctor”
At Sydney Lyric, Chester Morris, a skil-
ful young surgeon who nearly succumbs
to the temptation of becoming a “society
doctor,” is the star performer. The
early part, largely devoted to badinage
between Morris, another young medico
and a pretty girl-nurse, scarcely gives
promise of the sensation to follow. It’s
worth waiting for. Morris is shot in the
stomach. Two famous “society doctors”
agree that the wounds must prove fatal,,
that any attempt at operation must prove
Lionel Barrymore in "Public Hero
No. I."
unsuccessful. Morris doesn’t; similar
operations have been carried out on
animals. Mirrors are arranged so that
he can see the wounds, and under his
direction —the harrowing spectacle is en-
livened by his remarks anent the doctors
and students in the gallery—the bullets
are removed. Truly a great man.
“Rocky Mountain Mystery”
Zane Grey wrote this yarn, so that
probably explains why Randolph Scott,
a mining engineer by profession, and by
inclination another Sherlock Holmes,
wears cowboy’s chaps and a gun. Cer-
tainly there’s no other reason. Apart
from such details it’s a passable thriller,
with plenty of deaths and fist-fights
galore. Also at the Lyric. Oh, yes, there
is a nice girl, Kathleen Burke.
“The Thirty-nine Steps”
A novel by Canada’s new G.-G. pro-
vided the title and general outline of this
British-Gaumont thriller, and the thing
Joseph Calleia in “Public Hero
No. I."
affords good entertainment. Robert
Donat, who, with Madeleine Carroll,
occupies the centre of the stage most of
the time, has humor and adroitness and
makes the most fantastic adventures
appear probable. Settings, which in-
clude scenes in music halls, on the .Scot-
tish moorlands and on the Forth Bridge,
are admirably managed, and the general
technique of presentation is in some re-
spects—notably in its attention to small
details —ahead of the current Hollywood
standard. Godfrey Tearle as a master-
spy, John Laurie as a Scottish crofter
and Wylie Watson as a music-hall per-
former, “Mr. Memory,” contribute con-
vincing character sketches in minor
roles. Coming to Sydney State.
“Don’t Bet on Blondes”
Warren Williams is the imperturbable
go-getter in this essay on the inevitable
success of go-getters. He commences as
a bookie and then goes into insurance.
Guy Kibbee, as an old Kentucky colonel,
induces him to write a policy insuring
against loss through marriage of his
daughter (Claire Dodd), a leading actress,
who supports Kibbee. To cover his bet
Williams marries the girl himself. Wil-
liams being imperturbable is a fine spec-
tacle, but it can be overdone. In this
case it is overdone about 99.9 p.c.
“Werewolf of London”
A dreary attempt to cash in on
“Frankenstein” and “Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde.” Not even the sage Mr. Warner
Oland, who counsels a Gilsullivan Scot-
land Yard about the awful qualities of
the mariphosa flower, can make the thing
convincing, because the mariphosa flower
is so obviously made of cardboard or
tin, the scenes in Tibet could be made
anywhere, the equipment of Mr. Henry
Hull with a large set of canine teeth and
hairy hands is done clumsily and Valerie
Hobson’s reactions to the strange be-
havior of her husband are so mild as to
suggest that she is in the joke. The
creation of drama of the thrilling sort
calls for more imagination than is here
exemplified. A Stevenson or a Shelley,
though long dead, can supply the in-
gredients. Left to itself Hollywood, with
all its dollars, falls flat.
Some First Nights
Something new and interesting in musi-
cal expression can always be expected
from Frank Hutchens and Lindley Evans
in association, and their two-piano recital
at Sydney Con. Hall on Friday night was
no exception to the rule. The Bach
numbers, some of them arranged by Mr.
Hutchens, sounded very rich. Two ex-
cerpts from Casella’s “Marionette Suite,”
a “Piece in B Minor,” by Guy Ropartz,
and the waltz from William Walton’s
“Facade” were exercises successively in
piquancy, humor and ponderous thought.
+ 4*
Probably the best-staged show in town,
the All-electrical Exhibition opened its
doors at the Exhibition Building, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday. Present writer
once went up to the attendant at a stand
of Hillman cars at an automobile show
and asked the whereabouts of a friend.
‘T’ve just arrived,” said the Hillman man.
“Ask the Essex.” This relegation of the
human element to its proper sphere in an
age of mechanical things goes even
further at the exhibition of electrical
progress and development. Doors open
when one approaches them, sewing
machines start whirring if one waves
one’s hand, and one can light a room or
start off a burglar alarm merely by step-
ping across the threshold. The nearest
approach to a being perfectly adapted
to the coming age is the robot, weighing
half a ton, whose naked limbs are com -
posed of stainless steel. The robot gets
up, sits down, waves his arms and
answers such questions as "What is your
age?” and “How much do you weigh?”
With a little more education he might
qualify for a school leaving certificate
and for admission to a cinema. Com-
pleted by a top-hat and with a copy of
the pharmacopoeia in his interior, he
might be eligible for admission to
the B.M.A. The addition of some
gramophone records supplied by his
party managers should equip him to
stand for Parliament. But, from the
technical point of view, there are things
far more remarkable than the robot at
the all-electric show.
+ *l* -!- 4*
“Patience” brought into the spotlight
the weaknesses of the Gilsullivan co. at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, Evelyn Gar-
diner is, as usual, satisfy!ngly deep-
voiced, if a trifle too arch, as Lady
Jane, but Winifred Lawson’s Patience is
a vocally-tired dairymaid. Gregory
Stroud fulfils the best Savoy traditions
as Archibald, the idyllic poet, but, truth
Paul Kelly in “Public Hero No. I."
to tell, this satire on an art movement
long dead is as meaningless as Sanskrit
to the modern citizen. Reginald Bun-
thorne, the fleshly poet, may at one time
have borne some faint resemblance to
Oscar Wilde, but under the care of Ivan
Menzies he is merely the agitated ghost
of a comic character. Nevertheless, these
sessions pass in the usual deeply-religious
atmosphere, and the most trifling bit
of business and the most trumpery ditty,
as well as the good songs, receive an
encore, and even double and triple ones.


DON’T MISS THE BOAT
G o B y
p&o
it’s more comfortable!
AGENTS
MACDONALD HAMILTON &C?.
Joint- Pdssenqer Booking Aaenrs-Toußisr Class
GILCHRIST WATT4SANDERSON I?
Preliminary Announcement
To be published in a few weeks by
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS:
oA CLUSTER BEES
By TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
Specimen Plate from “A Cluster of Bees.”
STRUCTURAL DETAILS OF MEROGLOSSA.
T
3 a
«\V s
8 VT Z
ITpolto>JPavmckit 1
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, £ i/i/-; plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please reserve for me c0p. ... of "A Cluster of
Bees.” by Tarlton Rayment.
NAME
ADDRESS
Current Artbursts
At Anthony Horderns’ Gallery, Syd-
ney, there is spread a magnificent show
of prints of paintings by noted impres-
sionist artists. Nearly all the French
innovators and experimenters are repre-
sented ; and there are also some charm-
ing things that have escaped notoriety,
such as the lonely Irish, cabins of Paul
"The Peasant," by Van Gogh, one of the prints at present
on view in Anthony Horderns’ Gallery.
Henry and some delicate and beautiful
work by Emile Dorrde. Among the
French stylists a tremendously powerful
still-life by Cezanne and two remarkable
portraits by Van Gogh—a self-portrait
and the old peasant reproduced on this
page—stand out as logical vindications of
an original outlook. Cezanne is fre-
quently imitated in Australia ; Van Gogh
hardly ever, and he deserves thanks for
having devised a style so difficult to
plagiarise. All the enfant terrible classics
are there —the Monets, Manets, Mattises,
Pissarros, Picassos, Gauguins, Renoirs
and works better remembered by their
subjects than by their authors’ signatures.
Just outside the charmed circle of the
swashbucklers of paints is a reproduc-
tion of a painting by Munnings, R.A. —
King George and
Queen Mary driv-
ing in a park in a
barouche. The
four greys that pull
the vehicle are cor-
rect to the sheen
on their well-cur-
ried flanks; King
George’s head,
though you could
cover it with a
threepenny bit, is
so well-defined that
you could almost
count the hairs in
his moustache. The
English trees and
the English sward
couldn’t have come
from any other
country. The
horses live, the car-
riage moves, the
occupants have
dignity, the setting
of the scene is
harmonious, and a
succeeding genera-
tion will find in the
study an authentic
historical docu-
ment of a sort that
couldn’t be done
by photography in
the present state
of that science. So,
from the point of
view of verity and archaeological
accuracy there is still something to
be said for the painter who follows
all the formulas and goes on what
he knows must be there rather than
on what he sees in one glimpse, as against
the stern iconoclast who is interested
solely in interpreting his own soul.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
tiff
m
!? 1-4
(( i. 3
Pi!!!
55
31 1
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from, . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
BRANDALERrS
ẁ
'PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BEANDAUER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
Inexpensive Health
—through Correct Food & Exercise
Write for details of the
DUPA/N SCIENTIFIC HEALTH
POSTAL SERVICE
Founded 1900. George Z. Dupain, Principal
449 a PITT STREET - - SYDNEY
\IOH
CO
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tantf.
The delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, fating Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from iln
G.1’.0.' Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per da>
Inclusive tariff from !«/- per da.'
Lriineh and Dinner, ala carte, from -
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager far full iMrliculars.
ẃ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A star gleaming on a tunic rearing
with gold epaulets, the white plumes of
his cocked hat scarcely stirred by the air
heavy with suspended rain, Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthven ran his eye over the white-
helmeted ranks of the Royal Australian
Artillery guard of honor outside Parlia-
ment House. President of the Legisla-
tive Council John Peden, in wig and
robe and snowy bands, added his bit to
the pageant of opening Parliament; so
did aides Holford and Ponsonby with
their furry headpieces and shining
swords. In fact, it was the male birds’
hour, and any man entitled to sash him-
self in maroon or gold, wear a decora-
tion or pin a wig over the spot where
his hair is receding came out in full
regalia.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was there, listen-
ing attentively while her husband said his
bit from his high-backed chair on the
dais in the Council chamber. Her frock
of black satin showed pleated inlets of
ivory. A long string of pearls swung
gently ; her coat was black and looked
broadtail. Her neighbor on the bench
was Premier Stevens’s wife. She, too,
wore black, lush with silver fox ; daugh-
ter Gwen’s mastic angora flew a cape.
Mrs. Bruxner turned up in navy, and
Mrs. Hugh Main in brown ; the bank-
ing Riddles were punctual, and her navy
hat was flat as a plate. At the teh party
which always follows the opening Pro-
fessor Peden had the support of Mrs.
Ranald Peden. Her woollen frock was
candy pink and finished off with a navy
stock.
The pink hyacinths in the coat of
Tom Bavin’s lady and the skyey blues
worn by Sheila Chaffey were commend-
able ; Mrs. Alan Foott, over from Mel-
bourne, was with mother Mrs. A. T.
Anderson. Green was her choice.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite asked a
sleuth whether he thought the crash-
ing of the heavy lampshade at Parlia-
ment House was a Communist outrage.
He said, “Oh, no. It was probably just
overtaxed! ”
Neville Barker’s show filled Rubery
Bennett’s bright gallery with artists one
afternoon last week. To the gazer around
the room, the absence of age was notice-
able. Eric Baume, who did the opening,
prophesied a day when, realising the value
of dreams, Australia would believe that
woolgathering was as important to its
growth as a nation as woolgrowing. Rae
Lindsay was so heartened thereby that
he started to sharpen his pencil for an-
other series of art articles.' Women
gazers exclaimed over the artist’s feeling
for fabric and color. Neville’s wine
colors and lilacs are poems in paint. His
girls have an Aubrey Beardsley length of
limb.
Mrs. H. Woods, of Neutral Bay, is
beginning to feel all gala. To-day she is
off by the Monterey to join son John in
Hollywood, and right next to her cabin
is the honeymoon suite of Madge Elliott
and Cyril Ritchard. Having filled in
questionnaires and stood up successfully
to the viva voce examination of the
authorities, Mrs. Woods can now sail for
the land of the free. She has only one
worry, and she thinks she should write
and point out to the dossier compilers
that there is one omission. They forgot
to ask her her weight.
Palest ivory was the Mechlin lace of
Madge Elliott’s wedding-dress, so cobweb-
fine its structure that a puff of wind (or
so it seemed) would have blown it to
ribbons. For foundation it had rich,
suave moire, surmounted by crisp tulle.
It had an upstanding boat-shaped neck-
line and puffed elbow sleeves. It
cuddled the figure to the hipline, whence
it creamed full and free as a waterfall in
the Rhone Valley. Ground-length in
front, it flowed into a train, flounced
(and unhemmed) five yards long. This
frock had surprising little touches of a
master hand: for instance, the beauti-
fully embroidered true-love’s knot in
palest blue on the underside of the moire
skirt. A tulle veil, like snow caught in
the act, drifted from a high pearl
coronet; and Madge, slim, fair and blue-
eyed, was the right bride to wear the
fairy-princess outfit.
Followed her ’maids in their classical
blue chiffons —they wedded two tones
of the delphinium, their heads draped
with blue saris edged with blue pearls--
little girl trainbearers, replicas of the
grown-ups excepting that their frocks
were velvet, and small pages in blue.
Lilies were in the bride’s arms, and in the
hands of the bridesmaids were prayer-
books through which fell a trail of
mauvy-bluc orchids to the hems of
their frocks. Tail-handled baskets brim-
ming with forget-me-nots and pink
hyacinths swung on the children’s arms.
Along the aisle of St. Mary’s, snowy with
lilies in tall baskets and peach-blossom,
the procession passed to the smaller
chapel, where Madge Elliott became
Mrs, Cyril Rifchard. This was a bower
of lilies and peach-blossom and palest-
pink hyacinths.
Later, 300 guests rushed along to
Elizabeth Bay House, where Madge and
Cyril stood in the drawing-room, smiling,
smiling till the last congratulation had
been said. More and more lilies met the
eye, and two yucca plants, heavy with
bloom, flanked a tall, gilt-framed mirror.
On the stairway, under the high dome,
Fox Movietone made a picture of the
wedding group. A perfect hedge of lilies
topped the landing, and at the foot of
the stairway were great bowls of lilies
(they photograph best of all, that’s why).
In the ballroom against a background of
white and pink azaleas blazed the
wedding-cake, a glittering pagoda of
vellum and silver icing, on a silver stand.
Photograph of the bride by Dorothy
Welding.
St. Augustine’s at Neutral Bay is quite
sorry for the manner in which it has
lost its temporary padre, Hubert Gordon
—he developed a suddenly rebellious
appendix. St. Luke’s attended to that;
and now with his wife and step-daughter
Noreen he is at the station home, Gost-
wyck. Patsy Dangar, who has been visit-
ing aunt Mrs. Roy Bell in Queensland,
will join the family party during the
week.
Mrs. Staal, wife of the Dutch Consul,
gave a recital at the Women’s College
to aid the good work of the University
Settlement. This was the lady’s swan
song to Sydney, for she and her husband
leave Australia this week. The recital
was divided into French songs of the
Middle Ages, a Breton and a Court group.
For each set Mrs. Staal changed into
frocks of the period, and introduced
her songs with vivid explanations. All
that was to the good ; so was the music
of pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith. Not
so good were the long, long waits in
between, nor the wet, wet night, nor the
scatter and patter along the garden path
to the shelter of the college door.
Reminiscent of the large commissionaire
with the even larger umbrella outside
the Ritz in London were the attendant
sprites waiting to guard guests from the
showers as they stepped across the
pavement.
The women’s frocks were really lovely.
The college principal, Camilla Wedg-
wood, in black velvet patterned with
gold, greeted the guests. Mrs. Charles
Lloyd Jones’s white ermine cape (more
than knee-length and dangling innumer-
able little tails) evoked regret that the
clause about stealing had been slipped
into the Ten Commandments. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s Madonna-blues were a rich note ;
the tall Mawson lady, over from Adel-
aide, was in black. The Philip Streets
and the Mungo MacCallums were im-
portants. Mrs. Reg Stafford, from
Mudgee, came wrapped in mink ; Chief
Justice Jordan’s wife warmed her cobalt-
blue satins with cocoa ermine. Olive
King, Mrs. Ross Notf, handsome in
black lace, Mrs. Jimmy Burns, Miss
Tildesley, the French Consular Meyers
and good-looking Mrs. Oscar Paul were
later seen among the wassail-drinkers
in the blossom-decked common-room,
where supper was served.
Pausing in Sydney on their way to
America are the interesting Kingsbury
couple. He has been with New
Guinea Gold Fields, Ltd., for some lime
as geologist. She has made their flat at
the Astor as pleasant and friendly as
herself. They go to America by way of
Asia.
The Enzed Women’s Association is
celebrating Dominion Day with a ball.
The State Assembly will resound with
kia-oras on September 26, and Maori-
land’s new Trade Commissioner Taylor
and his wife (the lady of this Ravmond
Sawyer picture) will be the guests of
honor.
Anthony Horderns’ have struck a novel
idea for their spring dress parade. The
stage is turned into two shop windows
with backcloths of white satin. The man-
nequins pose in these, and then step
out, to pace jauntily down the long
gangway. A garden-party frock that will
get Cupid busy is of pink stiffened
chiffon, its hem banded in cinnamon-
brown. Then there is a flower-scattered
evening frock ; the horticulture is green
and red on a background of black
mousseline de sole. Red and green pop-
pies are bunched at the waist, and a lei
of same outlines the neck. The Venetian
gay sash of brown, gold and green that
gave a carnival touch to an evening frock
of stiffened Chantilly was a delight. Linen
suits with swing-back coats or capes, rich
surah silks, blouses of the tunic family,
crisp and fresh with spring, will simply
compel a dip into the pay envelope.
During the week Betty Higgins raised
her soprano in song at the Forum Club,
thereby evoking a chorus of favorable
comment. Joan Chartres, who was to
have been piano soloist of the recital,
had an accident to one of her hands, and
at the last minute Patricia Mewton took
over and played Bach and Scriabin in
expert style. Margaret Chalmers, prob-
ably Sydney’s most experienced accom-
panist (she’s official to the eisteddfod),
played for Betty’s numbers. Dagmar
Roberts, her stage setting and costumes
of the early nineteeenth century, held
Savoy audiences with her Chopin recital.
America’s new Consul-General Moffatt
and his wife, just arrived in the Mon-
terey, have moved with their two chil-
dren, Edith and Peter, into Greenknowe
Cottage, Darling Point, The lady belongs
to the Cabots, of Boston —those Cabots
of whom a wit wrote: “The Lodges
speak only to Cabots. And the Cabots
speak only to God.”
Knight Henry Braddon handed Lady
Hore-Ruthven a gold key to open the
new wing of the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital. So many beginning citizens
greet' the brave new world at this address
that the institution can always do with
another wing to spread over them. This
one is named the MacCulloch, in memory
of one of the hospital’s founders, who
was also one of its honoraries for over
30 years. All shining and immaculate
with the latest in fittings, including an
X-ray department, the new building
almost overawed the visitors; but the
police band played gallantly and blithely
on the ground floor. The third floor has
been furnished by the munificent Dixson
family, so it was opened by Mrs. R. C.
Dixson. The second floor, furnished in
memory of the late Mackcllar lady, was
opened by Dyneley Fell; but the first
floor was opened by her in whose honor
it had been named —Agnes Caroline
Clarke, matron of the hospital. All these
happenings look place at the end of the
annual meeting in the Fullerton Memo-
rial Hall. One of the afternoon’s pleasures
was seeing W. G. Layton on the plat-
form, happy and well after his long bout
with the ’flu.
Popular Mrs. Pickburn, founder of (he
Garden Club, and widow of Judge
Pickburn, will be married again next
month. Her engagement was an-
nounced a few days ago to Osborne
L. de Lissa, an Australian who has
lived a long time in England and
now represents James Beresford and Son.
of London. The well-run club will not
lose Mrs. Pickburn. After their marriage
she and her husband will make it their
headquarters.
Such a lot of dinners had to be eaten,
so many speeches had to be made and
listened to that Mr. Debuchi must have
been glad of a day with our dumb friends.
He look it on .Saturday, and with Sir Alex-
ander Hore-Ruthven went to the races.
But, of course, there was an official lunch
there, too. Mr. Debuchi has made a hit,
and the Millions Club dotes on him. The
nicest party given in his honor was at
Craig-Y-Mor, the home of Japan’s
Consul-General Murai. Everybody in
the political, shipping and commercial
life of Sydney (in other words, our social
register) rushed out to the Point Piper
house which under three flags (Japan’s,
Britain’s and Australia’s) suggested at
first glance the shores of the lake at
Geneva. Consuls and their wives heavily
gilded the party, which had quite a
kick in it, the fare ranging from cock-
tails to (among many others) seaweed
savory. Consul Murai bowed deeply to
each guest; his wife, her golden kimono
rich with embroideries, smiled gently,
and a quartet of Japanese ladies in their
national dress added a picturesque touch.


Personal and Missing Friends.
BARDEN. —information is desired by the
Public Trustee as to the names and addresses
of (he next-of-kin of JAMES BARDEN, who
died at Sydney on March 15, 1934, intestate.
Deceased was an ex-soldier, No. 3487, 53rd
Battalion, A.I.F. —M. C. NOTT, Public Trustee,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
ROBERT ARTHUR GREGG Deceased (who
is claimed to be identical with Robert
Cooley born in County Wicklow Ireland
and whose wife’s maiden name may have
been Ncwland).
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated 31st day of May
1935 and made in a suit (No. 459 of 1935)
intituled “In the matter of the Estate of
Robert Arthur Gregg formerly of Surry Hills
Sydney in the Stale of New South Wales de-
ceased intestate Between the Public Trustee
Plaintiff and Joshua Cooley Defendant"
whereby the following inquiry was directed
namely An inquiry who were the Statutory
next-of-kin of the abovenamed Robert Arthur
Gregg deceased at the date of his death (i.e.,
the Bth day of April 1927) entitled to his
Estate and whether any of them have since
died and if so who arc their respective legal
personal representatives NOTICE- IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be en-
titled under the said inquiry arc to send by
post prepaid to the undersigned so as to reach
them on or before the 31st day of January
1936 their full Christian and surnames addresses
and descriptions and full particulars of their
claims or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Decretal
Order unless the Court or a Judge thereof
or the Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders. The Claimants are to attend per-
sonally or by their Solicitor before the Master
in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth
Street Sydney on Tuesday the 18th day of
February 1936 at 11 o’clock in the forenoon
being the time appointed for adjudication of
their claims. A claimant not residing in New
South Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notice to the Claimant
can be sent.
DATED the 9th day of August, 1935.
LOBBAN, McNALLY & HARNEY.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
17 Martin Place, Sydney, Australia.
TO THOMAS KING, formerly of Ardlona.
Killaraght in the County of Sligo in the
Irish Free State and his children.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High Court
of Justice in the Irish Free State made in the
matter of the Estate of EDWARD JOSEPH
ORMSBY COOKE deceased Ellen Monson and
Christina Shouldice Plaintiffs John Anderson
and Daniel C. Devine Defendants all persons
claiming to be next-of-kin of the said Edward
Joseph Ormsby Cooke late of Tubbercurry in
the County of Sligo deceased who died on
the Sixth day of May 1933 and in particular
the abovenamed Thomas King a maternal
grand-uncle of said deceased or his children
are on or before the 4th day of December
1935 to come in and prove their claims at the
Central Office Four Courts Dublin or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said order.
The 11th day of December, 1935, at the
Examiner’s Office, Four Courts, Dublin, is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating on the
claims.
DATED the 13th day of August, 1935.
JOHN HEALY, Examiner.
MICHAEL E. FITZGERALD, Solicitor for
Plaintiffs, Ellen Monson and Christina Shoul-
dice, Strokestown, Co. Roscommon, and 27
Molesworth Street, Dublin.
Melbourne
Chatter
Hundreds of worn-out people are re-
cuperating after the breathlessly hectic
B.M.A. week. The social round com-
menced, on one day at least, with an 8.30
breakfast at the Victoria Palace, and
did not finish before the early-morning
milkman. Then there would be a couple
of hours’ sleep, a game of tennis, a
club luncheon, a drive or a tea party,
three or four cocktail parties, a dinner
and a dance—perhaps two dances. One
of the hardest things to do was to eat
enough to be polite ; it’s such a guilty
feeling, this nibbling at a beautifully-
cooked dinner and treating the bits left
on one’s plate as if they didn’t exist. For
no matter how strong-minded one is
those hot, spicy morsels served at late-
afternoon parties are the undoing of
meals to follow. Giving dinner and
luncheon a complete miss was found a
successful scheme by many people.
The women meds. had a strenuous
time, for they attended lectures all the
week. Most of the male meds. went to
the lectures, and took only small swigs at
the social racket, but some of our busiest
general pracs. got to neither lectures nor
parties. As for hostesses, they gave
up worrying during the middle of the
meeting, and when they had time to think
at all they just hoped for the best. Very
lew of the visitors were young couples ;
it was a gathering of the well-established,
the middle-aged and the elderly.
Perhaps some enterprising person will
take out a patent for a “cocktail stool”
—something more elegant than the prac-
tical shooting-stick, with perhaps a flat
rubber leg instead of a sharp metal
prong. The gadget would be a boon at
such foot-aching functions as have
figured on the official programme for
the B.M.A. meeting.
If brains are measured in ratio to the
grandeur of academic robes, the National
Galleries were stuffed with grey matter
for the reception given by the Govern-
ment of yictoria in honor of B.M.A.
representatives. There were quantities of
fur and dazzling splashes of red, green,
gold and purple as hoods and linings
to fundamental black. The effect of
the women's dresses was somewhat
dimmed by the necessity for wraps,
for our galleries are chilly vaults.
For two hours the long procession
wended its way under the remote gaze
of King Edward VII. and Queen Alex-
andra, past the somnolent presence of an
Egyptian mummy and almost under the
hoofs of St. George and the Dragon
(but their view was partly obliterated by
a large policeman). A ladies’ dressing-
room was rigged up between drop cur-
tains and the weapons of African war-
riors, and silk hats and overcoats deco-
rated impromptu hooks around cases of
lovely old silver.
The crush gradually worked its way
upstairs to clasp the hands of the Pre-
mier and Mrs. Dunstan and knight James
Barrett and his little lady, who came
prepared for the trying ordeal of hours
of standing with a high stool covered
with turquoise taffeta to match her frock.
Among the bigbugs were .Sir H. Purves-
Stewart. who was consulting physician to
King Edward VII., and H. S. Souttar,
who was accompanied by a daughter
nearly as tall as himself —the lass has a
merry smile and the open-air look of a
sportswoman. Mr. Souttar is the cancer-
research man, knows more than most
people about beam therapy, and thinks
it highly probable that cancer will
eventually be the natural end of human-
ity. Sir William Wilcox was vivid in
reds and purples and a multitude of
decorations. Dr. and Mrs. Newman
Morris were present, Mrs. Morris swoop-
ing a long train of sapphire moire. Two
women who looked striking without
coats (they didn’t even collect blue noses)
were Mrs. Tom Brennan, of Rabaul, in
black net with a rope of hair twined
round the crown of her head, and Mrs.
Charles Osborn, with a layer of nut-
brown net across her back and some
tartan ribbons near the waistline.
Mrs. Rupert Downes looked particu-
larly lovely in lilac (incidentally, the
same shade decorated the hood worn by
Major-General Downes); daughter Rose-
mary wreathed her hair with flowers
made of mother-of-pearl. Mr. and Mrs.
Bright Banister were in the throng, she
wearing a black cloak snug at the" neck
with Arctic fox. Adjacent to Prof.
Marshall Allen’s scarlet hood was the
ermine cape worn by his wife. Mrs.
Hughes Jones wrapped a white coat over
a flowered dress. With Dr. Long was
his daughter Margaret, whose little extra
touches were fuchsias and lacy mittens.
Visitors from Warwickshire were Dr.
and Mrs. Bradley, she very elegant with
her white hair and gown of blossom-
pink lace. Dr. Joy Seager wore blue
and a white cape. A white satin gown
covered with sequins and “pigeon-egg”
pearls and a posy of violets complete
with an old-fashioned silver filigree
holder were the choice of Mrs. Newman,
who came with her medico husband
from Liverpool.
As the last of the guests walked up
the gallery steps the early arrivals were
leaving to go to other parties or were
making their way towards supper, served
in the McAllan Gallery (with still hock
as a special) or below in the catacombs
(fruit cup and coffee). Smoking was
taboo, which accounted for the flicker
of matches as every man stepped out
of the main portals homeward-bound.
A highly effective touch about the presi-
dent’s reception held in connection with
the B.M.A. conference was that the main
hall doors, closed to early arrivals, who
gathered in the foyer, opened suddenly
on the president’s arrival to disclose a
stage turned into a garden, clumps of
ferns upon the balcony and carpets and
chairs strewn about at random to give
a drawing-room atmosphere. Knight
.lames Barrett and his lady received in
the middle of the room. A very sensible
couple they arc, for again the high stool,
this lime covered with apricot taffeta, was
a support for their tired feet and prob-
ably just as tired nerves. After the filing
past, 3000 guests sank thankfully into the
gallery seats or stood about in the main
hall watching movie films before supper
came on both upstairs and down.
Among the notables were ex-presi-
dent Dr. Watson Smith and Dr. Edwin
Bramwell. of Edinburgh (“the brain
man”), tall with broad shoulders, white
teeth, a gracious manner and an elegant
wife clad in grey lace and a fluffy feather
boa. Dr. loy was noticeable for his mop
of snow-white hair. Mrs. G. W. Baton,
wearing pale amber and pink camellias,
accompanied her professor. Dr, Stewart
Ferguson’s wife wore vivid emerald-
green, a foil for her auburn head. Mrs.
lock Williams, in white scattered with
black velvet flowers, Mrs. H. J. Williams,
in whisks of black net, Mrs. Frank
Stephens, wearing a blush-pink wrap, and
Mrs. W. B. Stephens, in mulberry and a
white fur coat, accompanied medico hus-
bands. Among Westralian visitors were
the D. D. Baton couple and then-
daughter Margaret, the Gilbert Troups,
Dr. and Mrs. Douglas McWhae, she in
pink interspersed with a silver thread.
Both Harry Lawson and his lady were a-
tinkle with medal decorations. A brother
and sister in the throng were Dr. Randell
Champion and Elsie, and, among other
younger folk, Elizabeth Stawell, in tea-
rose chiffon and a long blue velvet coat,
and her sister Ann, whose gown of a
deeper shade of pink was cut with draped
cape sleeves.
“James Barrett, you have been elected
president, and I hand to you the Fiery
Cross of British Medicine, knowing that
you will worthily maintain the high honor
and traditions of the British Medical
Association/’ Thus among academic
pageantry the retiring president, Dr. S.
Watson Smith, inducted his successor.
The G.-G. added congratulations. The
new president’s gracious little lady (her
picture is by Broothorn) is beloved of
three generations for her sympathy and
sincerity, and for the wide scope of her
interests.
B.M.A. visitors went bush last week
when the Victorian branch of the asso-
ciation gave a ball at Earl’s Court. The
aromatic scent of fresh gumleaves per-
vaded the corridor, turned for the occa-
sion into a forest pathway, from the
entrance steps to the staircase leading
aloft to the dancing floor. Kangaroos
and emus (stuffed) gambolled about in
the scrub, real cockatoos squawked on
their perches, and little lovebirds cuddled
up together in their cages, looking rather
frightened at the strange goings-on of
such noisy humans. These budgerigars,
with their vivid plumage and display of
affection for one another, completely cap-
tivated the overseas people—even the
koalas went short of attention for
them. President of the Vic. branch of
the B.M.A. Major-General Downes and
Mrs. Downes received the guests at the
entrance to the ballroom. A batch of
15 debs., daughters of Melbourne medi-
coes, had the floor to themselves for one
dance after their formal presentation.
Among them were Betty Adamson, in
white net with pink rosebuds twining
round her head and over her shoulders ;
Marjorie Sutcliffe, with a large Medici
collar upon her white organza dress ; and
Margaret McCutcheon, frilly at hemline,
neck and shoulders. Color schemes which
did not conform to the regulation debu-
tante white were the honey-gold taffetas
rustling about Sheila Summons, the pink
matelasse caped and draped by Mollie
Shaw (Nathalia, N.S.W.), and the blue
taffeta with silver glimpses worn by Marv
Davies.
Here is Lady Dunhill, who, with her
distinguished husband, has been in Mel-
bourne for the B.M.A. meeting. Like
most of the other overseas visitors, the
couple arc making a very brief stay in
Australia. This week they leave Mel-
bourne for Adelaide, and next week they
will be on the Indian Ocean, homeward-
bound. Broolhorn made the portrait.
The final pop of medicinal effer-
vescence was a ball in the Town Hall
given by the A.A.M.C. The maroon em-
bellishments of the medical men, the
gold braid of the Navy, the Army’s
“robin redbreasts” and the pale-blue
stripes of the Air Force made spectacular
medley under hanging baskets of
ferns suspended miles above from the
roof. On the edge of the official
carpet Col, and Mrs. Fowler and
Surgeon-Captain and Mrs. Carr ex-
changed salutes with the guests. A lovely
white gown accompanied by a halo band
of lacquer flowers made Mrs. Esmond
Phillips (wife of the Second Naval Mem-
ber) one of the most elegant figures in
the room. From Flinders came Capt.
and Mrs. Franklin, she in sea-green satin.
It was quite late in the evening before
Major Harry Furnell managed to get a
dance, for not a point in the organising
escaped his secretarial eye. Mrs. Furnell
was in tomato crepe with criss-cross
drapings across the back. Col. Heslop
and Col. Smart seemed to be enjoying
themselves. Mrs. Smart was in a medley
of black flowers and lacquer-red motifs.
A visitor from Salamaua was Dr. Bruce
Sinclair, who says our jazz is much more
thrilling than New Guinea tom-toms.
Dr. Alfred Oldham and Dr. Hugh Brain
both escorted wives clad in black lace
and net. Mrs. Dave Ross was in green
chiffon, and Col. Blake’s wife wore black
and two white camellias. A lass with a
sari—it’s a fashion which has never
caught on much beyond the mannequin
parades was Jeannette Morton, of
Wagga, who hid her locks and her slim
self with lame and pale-green ninon.
Cara Barrett was in blue figured taffeta.
If frills could provide their wearer with
the power of flight Noel Boyd would
have soared aloft on her double layers of
black net ; her blonde hair was pinned
up in plaits and she danced with fiance
Russell Gourlay. Supper was served in
two sittings downstairs ; there were one
bar aloft and another smaller one in the
"prima donna’s dressing-room” at the
back of the stage, to which an open-
sesame had to be obtained.
Out-of-doors diversion was provided
for B.M.A. visiting womenfolk by tennis,
both tournaments and friendly games,
arranged by Mrs. B. T. Zwar, Mrs. Eric
Gutteridge and Mrs. C. G. Shaw, drives
to the country and lifts to Moonee Valley
last Saturday in cars belonging to mem-
bers of the Ladies’ Club. Privileges were
acceded by affiliated golf clubs, and the
women whose baggage included golf kit
took themselves otf to the Peninsula
Country Club to compete in the Notts
Ladies’ Challenge Cup, which was in-
augurated by Mrs. Owen Taylor, of Not-
tingham, in 1926. The actual cup re-
mains the property of the 8.M.A., and is
played for every year, but a miniature
replica goes to the winner. Mrs. R. P.
McMeekin provided a similar trophy on
the Peninsula golf day; it was won by
a Melbourne associate. Mrs. J. Lewis.
Sydney visitor Mrs. Bettington and Mrs.
J. J. Black, of Metropolitan, were among
other prize-winners.
‘ Patience” starts off at a disadvantage,
for she has to live down her goody-goody
name. Winifred Lawson, as the milk-
maid, wears a Dresden shepherdess cos-
tume of golden taffeta which no hygienic
dairy would tolerate; there are bunchy
panniers, trimmings of flame-colored ruch-
ing and a Dolly Varden hat loaded with
roses. When pursuing the Fleshly Poet
(Ivan Menzies) the Twenty Lovesick
Maidens robe themselves in the Grecian
manner; afterwards, the transfer of their
affections to the Idyllic Poet (Gregory
.Stroud) sends them into whalebone
waists and necks and leg-of-mutton
sleeves of the ’nineties.
In the audience were Mrs. Bill Wil-
liams and her daughter Ainslie, who both
cherish an affection for these light operas.
As a wind-up to her Conservatorium
studies several years ago Miss Williams
travelled through all the States with a
Gilsullivan co. Mrs. Leo Quick wore
white satin and a long cloak of Paris-
blue velvet trimmed with Arctic fox.
Dot Buxton, in blue with pink camellias
at her throat, and Barbara Dougharly, in
green with a garden plot of violets pinned
to her black velvet wrap, were among
lasses who were escorted by lads of their
acquaintance. Mr, and Mrs. Lindsay
Mildred were in the stalls. Titian-hcadeJ
Joan Reynolds was in taffeta patterned
with large and languorous water-lilies


?■ ;
m
i i The evening
K./Vi. cup o{ tea ...
if it's good tea ... brings
with it a feeling of content-
ment and optimism ... and
a very real appreciation
that there's no place like
home 1
Make it a rule to end the
day well . . . just as you
start it... with a good cup
of tea.
have a acrid
Tcil
T-HalO-35 v
ISSUED BY THE TEA MARKET EXPANSION BUREAU
'V
S TEA TIME
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of “The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative! R. Jackson, 71 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
Xondon Representative: A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Kalgoorlie has been enjoying the races,
and a ball given by Hannan’s Club on its
own premises was not the least agreeable
feature of the round. Smilax and Chinese
lanterns festooned the ballroom, colored
lights outlined the verandahs and a
red, white and blue awning canopied
the supper-tables. Mrs. W. Marmion’s
garnet georgettes were a-flash wdth
crystal; black, green and rose mingled
in Mrs. E, C. Rosman’s spotted
chenille georgettes; Mrs. R. B. Ash
swathed a blue sash round her smoky
phantom crepes; Gwen Williams built
her blush-pink ninons on Victorian
lines; dusty-pink flowers bloomed on
Consie Mathews’s off-white satins; Mrs.
Reg Summerhayes set a plisse-tulle fichu
above her azalea-pink taffetas; Mrs.
Athol Nome’s flame matt crepe was
fretted with gold lace, and Mrs. W. A.
Corbett had a gold thread in her floral
chiffons.
Mt. Yokine golfers rallied all their
friends to dance at their Anniversary
Ball. The clubhouse was a-twinkle with
red and blue lights, and festoons of the
gay bulbs marked the route to the
supper marquee. Mrs. F. MacLaren’s
ivory-striped matelass6 was in the com-
mittee’s presidential chair; Mrs. Bond
Barker decked her bronzine satins with
coppery flowers; Mrs. Oscar Zehnder
tied a silver girdle round her flame blis-
tered taffetas; Dorothy Royce was neat
and sweet in creamy phantom crepe, and
the train of Lorna Booth’s painted floral
satins was lined with green.
For the Bredmeyer-Bell wedding at St.
George’s Cathedral the bride’s tunic suit
of candied matelassd was topped with a
matching hat and flowing cape, from
which peeped a posy of violets. Maude
Bell attended with daffodils held before
liquid-honey oatmeal silk.
A three-candle cake, representing presi-
dent Mrs. Lancaster’s years in office,
held the central position on the tea-table
of ,the Perth Croquet Club’s close-of-the-
sea'son social. Games and competitions
were played ; then Mrs. Lancaster handed
over the prizes won during the season,
and presentations were made to hon.
sec. Mrs. Owens and hon. treas. Mrs.
Semmens.
The Pharmacy Ball was a cheery affair
at the Embassy, where Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh Howling (a superfine loom wove
her filmy black laces) did the honors.
Mr. and Mrs. D. G. White, she with
a gold pattern traced on black taffetas,
Dr. and Mrs, Campbell Wilson (her
matelassds were softest pink) and Mr. and
Mrs. F. J. Wood were in the official loge,
Mrs. Wood’s brocade tissues catching
the eye.
Christian Brothers’ College Old Boys
took partners along to dance at the Em-
bassy and sup at tables fragrant with
pink and purple sweet-peas. President
Dr. Horan had his lady’s black-and-
oyster crepes alongside ; Mollie Lalor’s
leaf-green georgettes were embossed with
silver and gold ; hailstones glistened on
Olga Behn’s amethyst taffetas; Phyl
Blott was there, and Pat McDermott,
Kathleen Shanahan, Helen Dobson and
Edna Holdway.
Masks and foils were hung round the
walls of the Fencing Club’s hall, and a
streamer-bedecked trapeze railed off a
parking area at the club’s dance. Mrs.
A. Saunders, set about with black ring
velvet, and Margaret Saunders, in navy-
and-white-figured crepes, were in box
seats.
Mrs. Ken Broughton, Virginia Ballan-
ger and Allie Marfleet helped the Uni.
Rugby players to put on their successful
dance at the Stirling Institute. Pam Hay-
ward, Alison and Ainslie Rae and Jean
Fothergill were a quartet of sought-
after dancers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Bishop Thomas and his wife had lovely
spring weather for each of their
two garden parties at Bishop’s Court.
There were about 150 guests on each
occasion. The host and hostess received
beneath an archway of roses on the
western lawn, Mrs. Thomas wearing a
navy marocain tunic ensemble and a hat of
navy straw. Daughter Katherine Thomas,
whose marriage with the Bishop of
Melanesia will take place in November,
combined pervenche-blue floral chiffon
and straw hat to tone with a beige wool
crepe coat. The beautiful old garden was
gay with spring flowers. Afternoon-tea
was served in rooms decorated with daf-
fodils, sweet-peas, camellias and arum-
lilies. Miss Thomas gave a violin solo
during the afternoon, accompanied on
the piano by the bishop. As it was Synod
week, the clergy and their wives were
well represented.
Lord Mayor Cain and his daughter,
Mrs. Dunstan, assembled clergymen and
their wives in the reception-room of the
Lady Mayoress to welcome Archbishop
Mowll, of Sydney, and Mrs. Mowll. Mrs.
Dunstan wore a dubonnet-toned ensemble
with a velour hat to match and a silver-
fox fur. Mrs. Mowll and Mrs. Nutter
Thomas both wore black tailored suits.
Archdeacon and Mrs. Houison were
among the guests, the lady in a burgundy
ensemble with wide-brimmed straw hat
to tone.
The Lord Mayor’s Fund benefited as
a result of John Martin’s staff ball at
the Palais Royal. Silhouettes of animals,
gaily colored, decorated the stage, and
the official box was arranged with huge
scarlet pottery bowls filled with tall
antirrhinums in pink and amber tones.
The supper-table for special guests in
the adjoining box was decorated with
daffodils, primroses and boronia in crys-
tal bowls. Among the guests were Lud
Mayor Cain and Mrs. Dunstan, the
Dudley and lan Haywards, and Mr. and
Mrs. F. Sugg.
At a bridge party organised by Mrs.
Harold Bickford for the S.P.C.A. the
girls wore the smart hunting costumes
that looked so effective at the Hunt Club
Ball—white satin skirt, scarlet jacket,
hair poudre and large black velvet hat.
They sold sweets and chances for an
Irish-terrier puppy—won by Mrs. Howard
Toms.
TASMANIA.
The Art Society’s Winter Exhibition
was held in the society’s rooms, and
showed a good body of work, with a few-
new names among old favorites. Things
were brightened up by a party one even-
ing, with music and recitations and a
short' talk by artist Mabel Hookey on
her experiences in Japan. Edith Holmes,
Madge Walker and Joseph Connor were
congratulated on receiving good notices
for their work exhibited in the Contem-
porary Group (Sydney) exhibition.
Peggy, daughter of the W. R. Mc-
Intyres, Launceston, and David Water-
worth were married at St. Aidan’s
Church. The bride wore a charming
gown of parchment ring velvet, very
closely fitting, with medium-length train
and veil of old Honiton. Jean Fitz-
hardinge (Sydney) ’maided in pale-gold
ring velvet, and wore a wreath of gold
and blue pansies on her head. Little
Jill Gray was a dainty cushion-bearer.
Festivities followed at the Mclntyres’
home, Araluen.
Major and Mrs. Robinson, at their
home at Anglesea Barracks, celebrated
the host’s military promotion. Stocks
and masses of other spring flowers deco-
rated the rooms. The Commandant and
Mrs. E. M. Williams and a big throng
of military and other folk filled the
house. The hostess was in a smart
black-and-scarlet turnout.
The Lyceum Literary Circle welcomed
Mrs. Stourton and farewelled Zita
Zarina at a party in the club’s rooms.
After the handing of bouquets and the
interchange of compliments library
competitions followed. A friendly wire
came from Mrs. Lyons (the P.M.’s wife).
Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre, Mrs. N. P.
Booth and A. B. Foster finished their
difficult job of judging at the W.E.A.
Drama Festival after the Launceston
performances, the southern ones having
been given some time before. Hobart,
Launceston, Ulverstone, Burnie and Oat-
lands branches competed. Several of
the plays were original. Two of these,
by Hobart competitors, tied for first
place in the open class, and the first four
places were taken by the Hobart branch.
The work, according to the final judg-
ment, was all of a better quality than
last year’s, and better produced.
The Tas. Sanatorium committee, with
knight John Evans as prime mover,
engineered a ball on board the Zealandia
at Hobart. The ship was transformed
into a bit of Japan for the occasion,
with effective Oriental decorations. There
were 29 tables for bridge, a sit-down
supper and the deck was crowded with
dancers. Court mourning was respon-
sible for Lady Clark’s absence. Mary
Caulfield organised the main part of the
show.
Agnes Stops (Eng.), voluntary organ-
iser of the Women’s Institute, which
marches with the Country Womens
Association in Australia, paid the SpecK
a visit and formed branches in various
places, besides giving addresses at tue
chief centres.


- ■
~7iecct -to- ynyd&flf-
w.uT&dt:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
• . . Red Label
the
to*
iITR* 01
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
iHE B.V.D. CO. INC. NEW YORK.
B.VD
.UNDERWEAR
COLONIAL MUTUAL NEWS
Find £1,986 at oncel
—an urgent and pressing debt which must be
paid . . . you can’t do it!
Yet this was the problem confronting the family of a former
well-known Melbourne architect, who died suddenly while on a
business trip overseas.
Probate Duties on his estate, which consisted almost entirely o
properly and shares, amounted to £1,986.
But for the fact that his life was assured by a Colonial Mutual Life
Probate Policy, it would have been necessary to sacrifice his home
and other assets for a fraction of their true value in order to
provide the necessary cash.
SMS*
TO BE
SOLD
n
it
• * »t-
Obtain particulars now of this policy, which will guarantee
immediate cash payment of Probate Duties on your estate
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
i * i il'l t'L.ACii, bVuilt.Y. J. Anderson, Manager-
Head Office : Melbourne. Branches in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Tasmania, New Zealand, South Africa and Great Britain
NORTH OF
twenty-EIGHT
Damages Against the Police
' X T.' : a case with odd features was
that in which W. J. Rowe, an engineer,
sued Sub-inspector lessen and Detective
Muller tor £2OOO damages for false im-
prisonment or, alternatively, malicious
prosecution.
Plaintiff had been dismissed from the
Queensland Forestry Department. He
alleged that he had been “framed,” and
afterwards accepted £5O compensation.
Two years ago he met the Premier outside
the Executive Building. There was an
argument, and he struck the Premier.
He admitted that previously he had
smashed open a door in the Forestry
Office, and had hurled a water bottle
against the wall.
Alter the assault on the Premier,
according to Rowe’s evidence, two de-
tectives told him he had to go to
the CL branch, and there he heard
Muller say: “Smith won’t lay a charge
and Rowe won’t make a statement.”
Jesscn, he declared, responded: “We
won't let him go. We will vag him” ; to
which he heard Muller reply: “Wc
can t do that. He has £5 10s. on him.”
He was then arrested on a charge of be-
ing of unsound mind and detained in a
mental ward for four days before he was
released.
Counsel for the plaintiff argued that
in not taking their prisoner before a
magistrate the police left themselves
without justification. 7'he police denied
that they had acted unlawfully or with-
out reasonable cause. The jury took
four hours to make up its mind. Then it
awarded Rowe £350 damages against
Jessen and Is. against Muller.
The oldest geographical society in the
world —that of Paris—has honored J. P.
Thomson, doyen of Australian geogra-
phers, with its Great Medal, which is
struck specially in honor of a recipient
and had never before been awarded to
an Australian. Dr. Thomson, who is 81.
is the honorary secretary of the Royal
Geographical Society of Australasia—for
many years Australasia meant Queens-
land, since organisations in other States
were moribund. Even when interest was
at its lowest, he nursed the society
through. In his early days he was some-
thing of an explorer, his thirst for
Pacific knowledge having been stimulated
while he was Government surveyor in
Fiji 50 years ago. He was given the Peek
Award of the R.G.S. in 1902, Toronto
made him an honorary LL.D., and since
1920 he has had “C.8.E.” after his
name.
* * * *
"The Palmer”: The driving of the last
spike on the Hornibrook Highway, join-
ing Sandgate and Brisbane direct by a
14-mile road to the Redcliffe peninsula,
ends another era in Brisbane life. Till
after the war the road to Redcliffe, which
owns the nearest white sand beaches
handy to the city, was so bad that only
hardy motor-drivers would tackle it; the
bulk of visitors went by tourist steamer.
In those days it was possible to walk the
Redcliffe beach in an off-season without
seeing a soul. With the opening of a
decent road via the Pine, it became as
busy as Cronulla (N.S.W.). And the new
sea bridge will make it like Bondi inside
a decade.
“Kindlein”; I won’t allow “Calliungal”
(B. 28/ 8/ ’35) to award the championship
for enterprise to the urchins who drove a
car from Sydney to Central Queensland.
I reckon the IU-year-old Sandgate lad
who disappeared from home the other
day and was discovered three days later
in Marburg, over 50 miles away, earns
the belt. He slept on the roadside three
nights, and calmly told his anxious father
when recaptured that dingoes hadn’t wor-
ried him but wallabies had interfered
with his rest.
* * * *
‘Ap David"’: Dead at 83, Daniel Jones
was the pioneer of the cotton-growing
revival in Queensland. He came from his
native Wales over 70 years ago, was one
of the earliest pupils of Ipswich Grammar
School (the oldest public secondary
school in the North) and one of the
original two inspectors of plant diseases
appointed by the Queensland Govern-
ment. From his youth, he had faith in
cotton as an Australian crop, but it took
50 years of propaganda to persuade
Let me tell you , Mrs. Broody , our people come from the best squatters
in the country
enough other people to constitute an
industry. In 1925 he was sent to Liver-
pool by the Cotton Growers’ Association,
and in 1927-29 was a member of the
Cotton Board. Just before he died, he
was elected a life member of the Royal
National .Society after 40 years’ member-
ship. His bearded, slightly-bent figure
had been a familiar sight in Brisbane
streets for half a century.
“ lando”; If the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment does not hurry up, The Bulle-
tin’s prophecy of disaster for some
’plane traversing the North will be
realised yet. After people have been fly-
ing across the country for 16 years there
is still no system of beacons to guide a
lost pilot across the monotonous Barkly
Tableland and the country north of the
MacDonnells. Landing grounds are still
hundreds of miles apart, and relief food
and medical depots there are none.
When a Monospar came down north of
Alice Springs a few days ago a member
of the crew had to leave it and walk for
nelp. There should be very rigid regu-
lations about wireless for passenger
planes in that country—every mile of it
holds death. Each should be compelled
to carry emergency water and rations.
And the Government should hasten to
adopt U.S.A. standards and provide
emergency clearings on which ’planes
can land every 50 miles of so on mail
routes.
* * * *
"Proserpine”: A company formed in
Mackay is shortly to begin shark-fish-
ing with a motor vessel launched in
Sydney. The Bureau of Industry has
recommended that the Government guar-
antee the promoters’ bank overdraft of
£2OOO. Later, if the co. increases its
capital, it may be backed with £5OOO of
public money.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
When Hugo Brassey and his wife
(she was Crista von Bodenhausen, a
baroness in her own right and a kins-
woman of Queen Mary) left Brisbane
for Dunk Island, which they intend to
turn into a tourist resort, they were
accompanied by large supplies of food,
fishing tackle and furniture for the
chalet. Freddy Treuthardt, who married
artist Enid Dixon, is Hugo Brassey’s
partner in the venture. They plan to
build adobe huts for the accommodation
of tourists. Enid did not accompany
them. She is too busy looking after the
freuthardt son and heir, who is only a
lew days old. Later on, when he js
mature enough to travel, she will join her
husband.
One thing the Queensland Government
has done which earns it honor from
gentle-minded people. All the islands
off the coast have been proclaimed bird
sanctuaries.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, our veteran prima
donna, celebrated a birthday during the
week, and her friends rallied round her
with gifts and good wishes. Mrs, Wilson
is a link with colonial beginnings, for her
mother was Marie Burgess, the daughter
of one of the first free-settlers in Van
Diemen's - Land —Madame Carandini,
known as Australia’s first great operatic-
contralto—and Mrs. Wilson herself was
one of five musical daughters,
Berenice Archbutt, who was Berenice
Cadell-Garrick, has been spending a long
holiday in Brisbane with her people;
but she is returning to Asia by the
Changte. Her small daughter has in-
herited a goodly share of the Hunter
family beauty. Grandfather was Herbert
Hunter, a well-known pastoralist, and
great-grandfather William Miles gave
his name to one of our western towns.
Wednesday, September 11, was the
twenty-first anniversary of the taking of
Rabaul. Commander J, Beresford, in
Brisbane with the N. S. Wales bowlers,
and Mrs. Beresford (she belongs to Bris-
bane) celebrated the anniversary by
entertaining a few of the Commander's
old naval confreres at luncheon. Com-
mander T. A, Bond, who captured the
wireless station at Rabaul, and the two
Camerons were among the guests,
Mrs, J. P, O. Cowlishaw and daughters
Mabel and Phyllis are back after spend-
ing six months in the U.S.A., England
and the Continent. Norway delighted
the tourists, who are raving about fiords
and midnight suns and other things that
stay-at-homes don’t see.
Lots of Brisbane friends were interested
in the marriage of Gladys Reay, daughter
of Percy Reay, for so long editor of the
“Sunday Mail.” .She married recently
in Melbourne S. J. Power, who is on the
staff of Melbourne “Age.” Dusty-pink
was worn by the bride, who carried pink
and blue hyacinths. Frank Worth, a
cousin, gave her away, and Mrs. Stanley
Power was matron of honor, with
Stanley Power as best man.
Hylda Hamilton and Bill {trimmer will
have said their “I wills” at St. James’s
Church, Toowoomba, before this sees
print. Hylda is the elder daughter of
the C. A. Hamiltons, of Mary-street,
Toowoomba, and the Krimmers are as
well-known on the Downs as is St. Paul’s
Cathedral in London. Mary Hamilton.
Jessie and Violet Krimmer and Del
Freshney were the ’maids.
Golf girl Janet Gardiner got home
this week from Melbourne, where she had
been struggling with the champions. She
loved her stay south, and speaks glow-
ingly of southern hospitality. "Mrs.
Norman Brookes, Mrs. Marriott and
Mrs. Norton Grimwadc all passed the
sandwiches for the visitors, and Ladv
Huntingfield came along to some of the
dos, after following the play for several
days.
Mrs. Mary Leggett, mother of our
Mayoress, Mrs. A. J. Jones, died recently,
aged 91. Born in Adelaide, and married
at Mt. Gambier (S.A.), she came as a
young woman to Queensland, when tier
husband began farming on the Burnett.
Mr. Leggett died some years ago, since
when Mrs. Leggett lived with Mrs, Jones.
Philip Hargrave celebrated his thir-
teenth birthday in Brisbane, and had
enough presents to fill a railway truck.
He was particularly delighted with a
camera, and soon was in the Gardens
trying it out on various beauty spots.
Six times to England and back is Mrs.
J. Blaikie Webster’s record. She and her
husband go to London on business every
year, and the Savoy Hotel is their head-
quarters. While they are in Brisbane
they live in Mrs. Eve Lissner’s pretty
Spanish colonial home at New Farm.
Pat Callaghan, who went with them this
time as secretary, had a lot of luck. She
is staying in London, as she has got a
Job with the Mining Trust, Mr. Webster's
London Co.
May Dash, daughter of the Minister
tor Transport and Mrs. Dash, had her
Iwenty-firsl birthday recently, and the
parents celebrated the event by giving a
party for her. The members of the
Tourist Bureau came to light with a set of
crystal, and there were numerous other
gifts.
A burlesque mannequin parade at Mrs
Boyd Irwin’s home at Ashgrove gave a
crowd of guests a hilarious afternoon
and put a handful of shekels into the
cashbox of the Ashgrove* Girl Guides.
Mrs. Stewart Dick did the announcing
and managed the gramophone.


In 1858 as in 1935
or
3
Each of the years since Lysaghts
was founded has meant added ex-
perience. It is this experience
which enables Lysaghts to make,
galvanized sheets which are
thoroughly dependable—under all
conditions. There is a special
grade of Lysaght’s galvanised-iron
for every job.
FOR ROOFING
Sheoifil .
RED
ORB
IVS ACHTS GALVANIZED IRON
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide. Fremantle.
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. •• £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Out of the Past:-
MISTRESS MULTIPLE
By J.H.MABBOTT
Lieutenant-colonel george
MOLLE, commanding his Majesty’s
46th Regiment of Foot, sat at the
table in the orderly room of the Bar-
racks at Sydney, one December morning
in 1816, in earnest conference with the
adjutant and the sergeant-major.
The adjutant. Captain William Blake,’
hearkened respectfully to what the
colonel was saying. Stiff as a ramrod,
Sergeant-Major Multiple held himself at
“attention,” his malacca cane tucked
below his left arm, three paces in front
of his commanding officer, and also
listened to the serious remarks which that
gentleman was delivering. There was
nothing that was not soldierly about Ser-
geant-Major Multiple. His mere aspect
irrefutably confirmed the Duke of Wel-
lington’s dictum that the non-commis-
sioned officer was the backbone of the
British Army. He might have been
taken as the very symbol of that undying
truth.
“You see, Blake —and you, Sergeant-
Major,” Colonel Molle was saying, “how
extremely difficult my position is in this
matter. His Excellency has left me no
alternative. None whatever. The general
order is clear and unambiguous, and
there is no room for misunderstanding.
Here it is. I will read it to you again,
and if either of you can find any other
meaning in it than that which seems
most obvious to me, pray do not
hesitate to say so. 1 must confess that I
dislike the idea of punishing this young
man as severely as 1 fear I must for
what was, after all, hardly anything more
than a foolish indiscretion of youth—
especially, Sergeant-Major, as he happens
to be your brother-in-law —but how I
am to avoid doing so in the face of this
order, Ido not know. Listen.”
He picked up a copy of the “Sydney
Gazette” from the table, and read the
following ukase of Major-General
Lachlan Macquarie, C. 8., Captain-
General and Governor-in-Chief in and
over his Majesty’s Territory of New
South Wales, and Commander of the
Forces.
“It having been brought to the, notice
of his Excellency the Governor that a
practice has lately obtained of certain
Private Soldiers of the troops now in
garrison at Sydney and Parramatta most
improperly- discarding uniform for civi-
lian attire whilst absent on leave from
their barracks —and in some cases whilst
absent without leave —the said Delin-
quents and Offenders against Military
Usage and the King’s Regulations hav-
ing the effrontery to keep suits of private
clothing in houses of the town, he there-
fore directs and commands that all such
offenders, when detected, shall be pun-
ished with the utmost and most severe
penalties which lie within the powers of
the Commanding Officers at Head
Quarters, and with the several detach-
ments throughout the Colony, to inflict
without recourse to Courts Martial.”
«T HAT,” said Colonel Molle as he
i laid the “Gazette” upon the table,
“seems to me to be quite clear. It alto-
gether covers the case of Private Tem-
pest. He seems to have gone to the Good
Intent Inn —by the way, what a black-
guardly ruffian that fellow Nutting is, to
be sure! —to have gone to this disreput-
able tavern, where he borrowed some
clothes from a sailor, stripped off his
uniform, put them on and then sallied
forth into the town just after dark.
Almost immediately, this Constable —ah,
Bayley—recognised him in Pitt-street,
apprehended him, and had his jaw broken
by Private Tempest for his pains. The
case is clear and simple—and is aggra-
vated by the two facts that Tempest
was absent without leave and that he
lost his uniform, which was stolen at
the house of this ruffian Nutting. There
seem to be no extenuating circum-
stances. How say you, Blake?"
“Well, sir,” answered the adjutant
—“only the lad’s previous good char-
acter and the possibility that he may
really have been hocussed at the
Good Intent, it is quite possible that
Nutting, who is capable of anything,
may have done (hat, and then changed
Private Tempest’s clothing, with a view
to sending him to sea in one of those
two whalers lying off the Cove. That
sort of thing is quite in his line of
business, lam told. It is likely enough
that Tempest was drugged, came to him-
self before he could be disposed of and
went out into the town, where he en-
countered the constable. He must have
still remained under the influence of the
poisonous grog Nutting sells when he
assaulted the policeman, for it’s quite
unlike him to become violent, isn’t it,
Sar’nt-Major?”
‘‘Yes, sir. He’s a quiet lad. A little
too quiet, to my way o’ thinking. Would
be better with some more pepper in him.
He’s not one who goes looking for
trouble, though he can use his fists.
I’ve given him a few lessons myself
when he’s been at my quarters. He has
a very good idea of th’ science, sir. But
he’s a quiet, inoffensive lad gen’rally."
“That is all I can urge, sir—on Private
Tempest’s behalf —that he was not him-
self.” The good Bill Blake was obvi-
ously worried about it.
THE colonel shook his head doubt-
fully.
“That’s all very well, Mr. Adjutant—
but we cannot be blind to the fact that
he was a.w.L, to begin with. Nor that
he lost his uniform. He was doing wrong
when he fell into further crime—and the
result of that crime, of changing his
clothing, was that he lost his uniform.
I need hardly remind you of the enor-
mity of that offence. No. In view of
his Excellency’s very precise and specific
order, I fear that I can do nothing less
than send Private Tempest to the hal-
berds, as well as awarding him a term
of cells. I am sorry for your sister,
Sergeant-Major. ’Tis, indeed, a pain-
ful thing for Mistress Multiple. But I
must do my duty, and I must obey his
Excellency’s order. However, I’ll defer
sentence until Orderly Room to-morrow,
and in the meantime will give the case
my most earnest consideration.”
He rose from the table.
“There is nothing else, Blake?”
“Nothing further, sir.”
The adjutant and the ser-
geant-major saluted as the
great man went out. They
remained in further earnest
conference.
<<¥ F ye please, ma’am,
* there's a young woman
outside who says she wishes
to speak with you most
partic’lar.
Mrs. Macquarie closed the book she
had been reading beside one of the open
drawing-room windows of Government
House.
"Who is it, Matthews—do you know
the woman?”
"If ye please—yes, ma’am. Tis th'
wife of Sar’nt-Major Multiple—th’ Regi-
mental Sarn’t-Major o’ th’ 46th, ma’am.”
"Oh—very well. Show her in here,
if you please, Matthews.” Mrs. Mac-
quarie sighed as she moved the novel
from her lap to the little table
on which her workbox stood. She
well realised that her visitor’s business
would most probably be a request for
her intercession with the Governor over
some matter personal to the visitor. She
was used to the coming of those who
sought such favors—her gentle sympathy
with distress and sorrow was so well
known that hardly a week passed with-
out her receiving such petitions.
The sergeant-major’s wife was quite as
good a specimen of femininity as he was
of manhood. From the crown of her
red head to her heels, she was as fine a
type of woman, physically, as was to be
found in Australia. She was a Devon-
shire woman, and had the characteristic
complexion of cream and roses which
has made the West of England famous
for pretty faces. She was about thirty
years of age.
“My sarvice to ye, mem,” she said to
Mrs. Macquarie as she bobbed her
shapely body.
“Pray take a chair, Mistress Multiple.
And what is if that you wish of me?”
replied the Governor’s lady.
“ Tcs but that ye might put in a little
word for me wi’ Gov’nor Macquarie,
mem. Mebbe I’d better ha’ said would
ye ha’ th’ goodness for to ask of his
Ex’lenzy would he be so kind an’ con-
descendin’ as to let me ha’ a word wi’
him. Tcs a very serious business, mem,
I do assure ye. Very serious, indeed.”
“Pray, Mrs. Multiple—may I ask —that
is to say, I think I could approach Mr.
Macquarie with greater confidence if you
would be so good as to inform me what
is the nature of —what the matter may be.
1 could do it better justice, I think, if I
knew something of it.”
“Certainly, mem —certainly, Mrs. Mac-
quarie.”
Mistress Multiple recounted the facts
already known, concluding: “Dickie tells
me he’s certain he was hocussed.”
“Mrs. Macquarie, mem, our feyther
was drum-major i’ th’ regiment fifteen
year. I was born in barracks at Col-
chester, an’ Dickie in India, and I feels
th’. disgrace ter’ble. No doubt, young
Dick deserves it —me husband says he
does. But I hate th’ thought of it —not
for that it’ll hurt Dickie’s hide, Mrs.
Macquarie—but th’ shame, mem, th’ dis-
grace of it!”
Her fine brown eyes filled with tears
—but Mrs. Macquarie well realised that
here was not a woman who would weep
to gain her ends, but rather one who was
moved by honest emotion because of
the dishonor that was likely to come to
her brother. Her sympathies went out
to Mrs. Multiple immediately.
“And you’d like to speak to Mr. Mac-
quarie yourself, Mrs. Multiple?”
“Indeed yes, mem. Just for to plead
poor Dickie was hocussed —or he'd not
ha’ suffered 'em to change his clo’es like
they done. He'd not ha’ done it hisself
—he’s too good a soldier. Even th'
sarn’t-major, me husband, says that of
him —an’ he’s a hard man where sojerin's
consarned. D’ye think, mem, th’ Goy-
’nor'd see me if ye was to be so good's
to ask him?”
Mrs. Macquarie hesitated a moment
or two, and then stood up.
“I can but ask him, Mrs. Multiple—
and I will do so. Please stay here, and
I’ll go see what my husband will do.
He is not a hard man. Please believe
that. But he is a soldier, and—and you
know good soldiers? They are not like
us women. Sometimes they do not see
things correctly. Tis a little difficult to
put them right. Sometimes,” she sighed,
“sometimes very difficult, indeed.”
The view from the front door of that
sink of iniquity, the Good Intent Inn.
was a very charming one. You looked
over the town from the crest of the
western ridge of the valley in which lay
little Sydney, out across the harbor
towards the Heads. Mr. Thomas Nut-
ting, the landlord of the Good Intent,
lounged upon a bench at his doorsidc
and gazed out upon it meditatively as he
enjoyed the solace of tobacco in a black
and unsightly clay pipe that was entirely
in keeping with his black and unsightly
countenance.
A villainous looking fellow was Mr.
Thomas Nutting, with features that did
not belie his character. He wore a black
patch over one eye, and an old cutlass
wound further marred the perfection of
his beauty. He had come to New South
Wales in Governor King’s lime, as a
sequel to the capture of his smuggling
lugger, the Good Intent, by a Preventive
cutter, and had only escaped hanging
for the reason that he had been a spy
in the service of Mr. William Pitt, and
had from time to time furnished the
British Government with useful infor-
mation concerning the French fleet and
what was doing in the ports of Dun-
kirk, Calais and Boulogne. He was
equally useful to the Emperor Napoleon
as regarded the British fleet and the
ports of London, Dover and Folkestone.
He had been transported under a life
sentence, but services rendered to the
Government at the time of the abortive
Irish rising in 1804—services of the
secret intelligence order, to put it
politely—had earned for him a condi-
tional pardon and a license to conduct
the infamous tavern which had been the
means of his questionable livelihood for
several years past. It was a thieves'
kitchen, and a disorderly house of the
worst description, but had somehow
escaped extinction, principally for the
reason that its proprietor was at all times
ready to sell his customers whenever they
happened to be “wanted” by the authori-
ties —which was fairly frequently.
Round the end of the yellow-plastered
cottage came marching determinedly
Mrs. John Multiple, wearing a coal-
scuttle bonnet and a plaid shawl, be-
neath which her arms were folded oyer
her ample bosom. Thomas Nutting
looked up as she halted in front of him,
and, when he realised her good looks,
leered at her appreciatively.
“Well, me pretty dear,” he said, re-
moving the pipe from his thin lips and
spitting genially between her feet, so
that she took a hasty step backwards—
“an - what can 1 ha’ th’ pleasure of
a-doin’ for ye. Bigod, 1 like y’r looks,
me lass. Won’t ye step inside an' taste


DEAFNESS
A
The New Audi Ear
The latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No I lottery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Hcudbaiul.
The Ideal Instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
Ti Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: BSltm.
Take a
DUCHESS
TO EUROPE
Cross the Atlantic on a
speedy, luxurious “ Duchess ”
Steamer. C.P.R. cuisine . . .
comfort . . . personal service.
A new conception of ship-
hoard life. Not a dull mo-
ment. Moderate rates.
Write for details and illus-
trated literature.
Any 'J'onrist Hooking .Agency or
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
217 Ccorgc Street, Sydney.
Swt aJlum(jkclfac
If any illustration in The Bullbiin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
> w <>*ks
\
mm
i
z'
Pour ear to °
Y OU’VE heard how “Dulux”
—ihe finish that has super*
sedcd enamels is working
, miracles in home renovation. It’s
just as miraculous for cars. Be-
cause it is so easy to apply, lie-
cause it dries so quickly; because
it gives a gleaming lustre that no
other finish can approach; and
because it will not crack, chip or
peel, it is the finest finish you can
possibly give your car. Ask your
refinisher about it.
The
MIRACLE
FINISH.
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
BALM
riSTCb
yf A Product
▼ makers of
of British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty., Ltd.,
famous “Duco” Lacquers and No. 7 Specialities for
the Motorist.
*
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
HK. I
Ik 1 '
UNION!
“The scenic route ”
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., Sydney ; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
a drop o' prime grog! There ain't no one
in the house jest now —we'll be all alone.”
It was very quiet at the Good Intent
at four o’clock in the afternoon. Busi-
ness did not become really brisk until
after dark. But Mrs. Multiple, appar-
ently, was in no mood for vinous dal-
liance. She produced a heavy horse-
pistol from beneath her shawl, and cov-
ered the astonished landlord of the Good
Intent.
"I’m not y’r ‘dear,’ ye d d scum.”
said Mrs. Multiple angrily as she aimed
the formidable weapon at the black
patch over his left eye—“and I’ve half a
mind to put a bullet into y’r ugly head
lor naming me as such. Blast y’r inci-
dence! Now, you listen to me.” •
"God's bones!” exclaimed Mr. Nut-
ting apprehensively. “Put that thing
away, mum. What th' hell”
"Shut y’r mouth, ye warmint!” Mrs.
Multiple threw a ring of fierceness into
her tone that caused the landlord of the
Good Intent to cower a little upon his
bench. “You listen to me. I’ve zummal
lor ye to do, and I'll zee ye does it, zo
sure as God made little apples. Ye’ve
to coom wi’ me to Gov'mint House.”
"To Gov'mint 'Ouse!" grunted Mr.
Nutting in alarm. "What lor?”
* "For to tell Mr. Macquarie 'twas you
that hocussed my young brother Dick
yesterday, an' robbed him of his uni-
lorm. He’s like to suffer For it, an' th"
Gov’nor’s just told me he won’t inter-
fere unless I can prove to him as you
took advantage o' th’ laad. I be a-goin’
lor to do that out o’ y’r own dirty
mouth, ye slinkin' blaggard. Doan’t ’ee
make any mistake, 'tes Jane Multiple
ye’ve to deal wi’ now, me laad—not
young Dickie Tempest. Tell me —
where's that uniform?”
“Tis inside, Mistress Multiple. I’ll
go get it for ye. I was but a-lookin’ after
it tor th’ young sojer.”
“Inside, ye rogue, an’ get it. And
il ye makes a single move I doan’t like
th look 01, I'll shoot ye dead. Now
then—quick march!”
Unsteadily, Mr. Nutting rose to his
leef. He glanced at her resolute, hand-
some face, and went into the dark in-
terior of his house, Mrs. Multiple fol-
lowing closely, with the muzzle of the
pistol in the small of his back. When
they came out into the sunlight again.
Mr. Nutting carried a parcel, wrapped in
sail cloth and tied with rope-yarn, under
his right arm.
“Now,” commanded Mrs. Multiple -
"ye’ll march across to Gov'mint House,
where I told his Ex'lenzy I'd ha’ ye
within the hour. And, when he asks ye.
ye'll tell th’ truth —else, so help me God,
111 kill ye stone-dead. D'ye understand,
ye gallus-bird?”
“Yes, mum,” responded Tom Nutting
shakily. “F’r th' love”
“Shut up! Quick march, now—an’ re-
member I’m behind ye, wi’ th’ pistol
all ready underneath me shawl.”
THIRTY minutes later, Mr. Nutting
* confronted Governor Macquarie, and
took little comfort from the frown with
which that potentate regarded him. On
the Governor's table the canvas parcel
lay unfastened. A scarlet jacket, a
shako, a pair of blue regimentals
and white cross-belts were open to the
view. Mrs. Multiple, stern, handsome
and resolute, stood beside the table. The
Governor was speaking. He was speak-
ing with emphasis and bitterness, and the
landlord of the Good Intent quailed and
shrank beneath his biting eloquence.
“A joke, you say it was! 1 don’t be-
lieve you. Your character is well known
to me, my man. Tis but such an affair
as this, proven against yourself out of
your own mouth, that is necessary to
confirm me in my resolution to close
your infamous tavern. You will lose
your license. 1 shall send you yourself
to the Coal River—and woe betide you.
Nutting, if I hear ill report of your con-
duct there. I am not sure that I should
not prosecute you for stealing this uni-
form, the property of his Majesty—in
which case, you would undoubtedly
hang. But I will give you a chance of
reform —though I doubt whether there
is much hope of your ever achieving any
reformation. That is all 1 have to say to
you, my man. You may go.
“Mistress Multiple”—he turned to the
sergeant-major's wife as the abject Mr.
Nutting slunk from the room —“permit
me to offer my congratulations to you
on your courage and resolution in bring-
ing that rascal to book. I know your
husband. A fine soldier, ma'am. And
you, if I may say so, are a fitting mate
for such a man. As to your brother, I’ll
communicate with Colonel Molle. He’ll
not be flogged—but, of course, he must
be punished. I trust you will show him
the error of his ways—and cause him to
understand how much he owes to your
sisterly devotion.”
“Your Ex’lenzy,” said Mrs. Multiple,
“I've told my Jack—l mean Sarn’t-
Major Multiple—he's to give the young
warmint a proper dressin’-down. He’ll 1
be sorrier for hisself nor what the'
Colonel’ll make him, I’ll warrant, y‘r
Ex’lenzy. Good marnin’. zur —an’
thankee kindly.”
“Good morning, Mistress Multiple—
good morning, and good luck,” smiled
Macquarie.
Shinbone and Moss.
To extricate the river from the willows,
One golden with the loot of ravaged
farms,
One autumn-auburned flowing through
the winter,
Compels me like a trumpet-call to arms ;
But both are locked with stones and
moss and fern,
Congealed in stubborn silence with their
fellows.
No word can burn ;
No wind or wave or eyes’ white wedge
can splinter.
Here reaches only half the lone, cold sun
With flickered greens and indecisive
yellows.
Plainer it is! Upon a cold white hone,
A cold white hone green moss is feeding
on,
Sharpens the greenlight, focuses the gloss.
Here at the tree’s root, dead a long age
gone,
Shinbone is white and weather-chewed
and dank ;
And so much like, and both so like a
stone,
Is my own shank,
/ clutch my flesh to feel if it be moss.
And here's the truth of that bleak
sharpened sun :
One day TU be no more than that green
bone.
AH day has stone pushed up through flat
and hill.
And sky pushed down with pressure of
hard slate ;
And the tombed skylark slabbing song’s
while wedges
Could only groove and grieve, not pene-
trate.
On sapless grass a foiled and sandstone
color,
Lack-lustre sheep were more than sand-
stone-still
Than dead grass duller.
And dead and greenstone-heavy were the
hedges.
Now by the river half the lone, cold sun
Makes fit fuller dumb rock and river’s
will.
Here gold-beard sun may drink and half-
\ atone
Tor tree and stream thus knotted in dark
doubt,
But the gnawed hone will green and
moulder on,
And in the pools the cool, mysterious
trout,
Like moving stones, will move among
the stones.
Less sure than water of the uncertain
sun.
Darkly my hones
Chill vegetable lips will feed upon ;
Now make their peace, now triumph and
acknowledge
The cold, sweet company of moss and |
stone.
MAORI LAND. DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
At the End.
Here we shall stand at last, beneath this
dark
Coil of the cliff, above the starry sea.
Presently we must turn, across the park.
Past the rotunda : we shall not he free
A pain as now we are free: we shall go
• hound
Again to time and circumstance and
change :
Nevermore shall this yard of earth he
found,
Nor this minute come again; nor this
sweet, strange
Discovery we have made he new hut
now.
/ see against the water your moving
hand,
Like a white bird, and against the cliff
your brow:
We shall not know again this timeless
land.
No tide runs now, our very hearts are
stilled.
Your gesture stayed: in this eternity
My life is charged and filled and over-
filled.
The clock strikes twelve, returns again
the sea.
And, like the rushing tide, the world
beats in.
And the wind rises, thoughts rise. We
must go.
The clock strikes twelve.
Holla, who walks below ?
S.A.
D. P. MCGUIRE.


RHEUMATISM
Watch those first Sharp Twinges of Pain, and TAKE ACTION NOW I
Almost before you are aware of your peril, you may find that Rheumatism has
you in its merciless grip, and the result is not pleasant. Don’t let Rheumatism
conquer you. Don’t hesitate and waste precious time while the ailment get a
firmer hold upon you, but go to your chemist now and get a box of De Witt’s
Pills—the remedy that has been successfully used in all parts of the world.
You cannot choose a better remedy. Read this remarkable letter sent us by
a grateful user. Then ask your chemist. He will tell you that De Witt’s Pills
contain ingredients which will prove beneficial in cases of rheumatic trouble.
You may think your case is too far advanced for De Witt’s Pills to
help you. Don’t make this big mistake. If rheumatoid arthritis has already
distorted your limbs you cannot expect a cure, but De Witt’s Pills will
ease your pain and possibly check the progress of the disease. Going
to the other extreme, you may think you can do without De Witt’s
Pills because you only experience rheumatism in a mild form
occasionally.
DON’T BE DECEIVED
Those early symptoms need attention, and you will be acting
wisely if you get a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist at the
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
rv
URICrACip
m
first opportunity. The cost is trifling, and surely it
is worth while taking one or two pills when you
know that by doing so you will enjoy better health
now and ensure freedom from pain in years to come.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness under
the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen feet
or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains , gravel
or stone , These symptoms usually precede attacks
of Rheumatism, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or
serious Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting a box of
De Witt’s Pills from the chemist and taking them
as directed. Sold only in the blue, white and gold
boxes, price 3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6.
m
Mr. M. Preston, of 193, Elizabeth Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N. S.W., says: “I cannot speak too highly of
De Witt’s Pills. I can honestly say they gave me instant
relief. Having suffered for many years from kidney trouble
and rheumatism, I tried a large number of remedies without
result, until I gave De Witt’s Pills a trial One bottle was
sufficient to show results, but I continued using them until my
trouble had completely gone.”
De Witt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
Honesty Is a Relative Affair:-
THE CLAIMANT
BY. E. DITHMACK.
DINNY MAHAFFEY was thinking,
as he travelled the long road home
from town, that cattle were fetching
a wonderful price. Never in all his born
days had he known fats to reach such a
place in the market.
Dinny’s thick-set figure and florid face
bespoke prosperity. His slightly bowed
legs and small feet, encased in black
elastic-side boots, belonged to the typi-
cal cattleman. He rode his horse lightly
and carelessly, keeping a careful scrutiny
on all stock along the road.
He reached the reserve, running lush
and green from the foothills to the creek.
Cattle and horses were grazing in con-
tent, the mountains blue in the afternoon
light, serene as Dinny’s own heart.
Heavily timbered ridges backed away
from the flats, the green treetops motion-
less against the sky.
Dinny’s shrewd eyes observed every
beast he passed. There was not a brand
or earmark in the district but was as
familiar to him as a note of music to a
player. One glance at the breed, one
glance at the earmark or brand, and
Dinny could tell you in an instant whose
animal it was, complete with age and
pedigree. ,
Therefore, when he saw the red heifer,
he drew rein and sat looking at her in-
credulously. She stopped feeding to raise
an inquiring head and give back his stare,
her long tail swishing indolently.
Dinny rode slowly round the animal,
looking in vain for any mark of identi-
fication. Placidly she resumed her feed-
ing.
“Well, I’ll be hanged!” Dinny said.
He found his mouth going dry, a tight-
ening to his throat. There was a troubled
feeling of covetousness in his heart. Once
again he circled the beast, scarcely be-
lieving the evidence of his eyes. A
beautiful little heifer about two years
old, and absolutely a clean skin! Dinny
moistened his lips.
On all the vast reserve the silence was
intriguing. No one was about —no house
within miles. Not a soul to witness his
returning home with a stray unbranded
beast!
Dinny began to urge the heifer for-
ward cautiously, then suddenly he shied
away from her as though she had
charged. A catch! That’s what she
was! A decoy put there to tempt the un-
wary into theft. There’d been a lot of
cattle-stealing lately—hadn’t he himself
suffered? —and this was someone’s trap
set to catch the culprits.
Well—Dinny kicked his horse forward
and started for home —they wouldn't
catch Dinny Mahaffey napping! More
than likely it would be the work of Angus
McNaught, out to trick him. A dirty
fellow, Angus!
As Dinny rode away he turned re-
peatedly in the saddle to look back at
the heifer as she contentedly fed. She
was a beautiful little beast!
THE next day Angus McNaught saw
her. He stopped and stared. Then
he rode around her, scarcely believing
his eyes. He scratched his few hairs in
puzzlement.
No brand, no earmark, not the slight-
est sign of identification.
The heifer lifted limpid eyes to survey
the angular Scot. Her plump, well-pro-
portioned body, her clean skin and fault-
less ears made her a tangible temptation
Angus couldn’t make it out. The
owners must be mad, he thought, to let
an animal like that roam at large, a
temptation to every passer-by.
He began to devise ways and means of
getting her away to his paddocks un-
seen, then he turned suddenly cold. A
temptation! Of course, that was it. What
a fool he’d been not to see that at once.
He hurriedly sprang into the saddle
and glanced around, expecting every
minute to hear Dinny Mahaffey’s low
chuckle from the creek. That’s who had
put her there, of course, trying to catch
him out!
In the weeks that followed, other
cattlemen drew rein to examine the
heifer and pass on in distrust. All
coveted her ; none dared risk the theft,
but waited expectant of her disappear-
ance.
Still the red heifer fed on, her soft
eyes and satiny head raised in inquiry
each time a horseman approached.
Spring came, with the grass high and
sweet and the mated birds filling each
new day with melody. On the creek
bank the bottle-brush trailed dangling
blooms in the water, the honey-birds—
swift and busy—tweet-tweeting in the
branches. Out on the reserve the red
heifer found a fuller meaning to life as
her first calf drew nourishment from
her.
Dinny was the first to see it, desire
rampant in his heart. The heifer stood
with upflung head, suddenly alert, sud-
denly defiant.
Dinny rode home. “That heifer on
the reserve has a bull calf," he told his
son Tim. “A foine little thing ’tis, too."
There was longing in his voice.
Tim threw a stick for his dog to catch,
and pondered.
“Maybe it doesn't belong to Angus
McNaughf at all,” he said at last.
“Tisn’t likely he’d risk losing a good
little beast like that,”
“He’d risk losing anything to put me
in the wrong,” Dinny warned. “Don’t ye
be afther touching that baste, Timmy, or
’tis the feel of me number ten boot ye'll
know.”
Tim retrieved his stick and threw it
again.
“ Tisn't likely I’d be fool enough for
that,” he retorted. “But suppose it’s not
Angus McNaught’s after all?”
“ Tis, I tell ye,” Dinny shouted. “D’ye
lake me for a fool altogether that ye’re
afther conthradicting me?”
Angus McNaught also saw the calf,
and a like desire seized him. The heifer
turned, like a stag at bay, as the horse-
man rode around her examining the call.
Came Billy Dyer and Grey, Fleet
and Maloney, each eyeing the pair with
envious heart, each riding away distrust-
ful of his neighbor.
Spring passed into summer, with the
calf a joy to behold. On the hills the
long grass waved whitely ; the mountain-
tops at night were lit by fires that smoul-
dered and burned, mingling with the low-
hung stars. Rains came, drenching the
thirsty earth, sending the creek bound-
ing with a new song and tingeing the
ploughed fields with green.
SUMMER and autumn passed. Winter,
with winds that whistled and moaned
and a damp mouldiness of earth. Now
were gone the fussily busy birds; only
the dingo’s howl came across the
silence of night. When the stars gleamed
down frostily and the moon, round as a
cartwheel, tipped over the edge of the
hills, the red heifer and her calf rustled
in their beds of drying bracken, warming
one body with another. Through the
short days they picked through the dry
grass for tufts of luscious green beneath,
but feed was scarce, and they lost some-
thing of their condition.
In the spring the heifer calved again.
This time Dinny took home the news
that it was a heifer calf.
The young bull was now big enough
to fend for himself, and was no longer
tied, by need of food, to his mother.
Dinny was aware of that.
“ Tis a foine big animal,” he said to
Tim as they drafted their cattle into the
yards. “Perhaps next week, Timmy,
when the moon's at the full, we’ll be
afther getting the young fellow in and
fixing him.”
“Well, that’s something no one'll
know,” Tim said. “Later on we might
be able to slip him away with a mob
and get a fiver or more.”
“We’ll see,” Dinny prophesied.
There was an orange moon to guide
them the night they set out. Tim had
chained up all the dogs but one, whose
silent work made him invaluable.
“Now, take them stiddy,” Dinny
warned Tim. “Just kape ycr ears open
for old McNaught. Tis more than
loikely he’ll be on the watch.”
“I don’t think so,” Tim said. “Who-
cver’s pul the beast-there will be tired
of watching by now. Anyway, we c’n
say we're getting in our own.”
“On a moonlight night!” Dinny
scoffed. “Yc do as 1 tell ye now.”
The Mahaffey home being nearest to
the reserve, they yarded a mob that night
without observation. The young bull
was drafted into a crush and bellowed
his protest to an empty world.
' “Turn him out now,” Dinny ordered,
wiping his hands. “I’ll know him whin
I see him again.”
Angus McNaught felt increased wari-
ness when he saw the castrated calf.
“It’s no’ the wor-rk o’ neebors,” he
concluded. “ Tis someone that owns
him and will no’ be losing by him later
on.”
The round of seasons came and went.
The red cow calved again.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
KEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
»> ynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismorc.
NICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong;.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, Including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Kon-Proflt, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc,
WHY BUY BONUSES 7
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn it will stick readily. Follow your usua>
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD.. MELBOURNE
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE-OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up ..
Reserve Fund .. .. ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1.000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, K.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
)rafts and Letters of Credit issued on London
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
328 pages of maps In nine colors—Bo,ooo*wor<l
gazetteer —l2o,ooo-word story of the earth
value for 7/0! Available only to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s Issue—Now on Sale-Price Od.
%2t/
if
to*
j
onthip
Australia’s Leading Financial JournaL
September Issue Now on Sale.
THE WEAKNESS IN THE MARKET
SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS
CLOUDED INTERNATIONAL OUTLOOK
IRON AND STEEL MERGER
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
/J /?/C£ 21- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
PubfiThid bv Thf*n, u n H Ur % yOU ma l ha , Ve lhe i° urnal posted direct each month.
' übllined by The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
md
■
The “HUSH" PLUSHER
A REFINEMENT IN SANITATION.
Dispenses with separate cisterns.
Takes up little room.
Compact and easy to keep bright.
Thousands in use in Australian cities.
A Darks patent, and made by them only.
Open Daily 8 a.m. Late Shopping, Friday, 9 p.m.
’PHONES;
Sydney—M27sl-M2331 (18 lines).
Melbourne—Central 8380-91, 10431-3 (15 lines).
/MAKS;
324-330 Pitt Street SYDNEY
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
Suddenly the red steer was missing.
Consternation shook the district. The
red cow and her calves had remained so
long unmolested that each man had come
to look upon them as being his, if so
be he cared to take them. This move
by some outsider heralded a climax.
"1 told you we should have sent him
away with a mob.” Tim fumed as they
yarded a lot of calves for branding.
"We might as well have had the benefit
of him as anyone else.”
” Tis loike some lhafe in the dark,”
Dinny stormed, ‘i was only waiting for
the next draft to go away and he’d have
been there, too.”
"You've been saying that for the last
six months,” Tim snorted. “Nothing
venture, you know.”
His arrogantly red hair seemed aflame
as he took off his hat to throw at an
obstinate beast. His big raw-boned
hands and freckled face were unlovely
to Dinny at that moment.
"If ye'd the pluck of a louse,” he
accused, “ye'd have ventured yerself wid-
en! waiting for me.”
Tim looked at his hands as he took
the brands from the fire.
"I'd no fancy for breaking stones,”
he retorted. “What’s a beast, more or
less?”
‘Oh, just—just (hat he was there for
anyone (o take,” Dinny said inade-
quately. “Be rights he was ours.”
The air was full of the smell of seared
hide and burnt hair. Bellows of fear
and protest, mingling with the barking
ol dogs, made bedlam.
Angus McNaught came riding by and
dismounted at the yards. His keen eyes
scanned the mob for the red steer.
"Are ye afthcr looking for a baste
that’s disappeared?” Dinny asked
sweetly.
Aye.’ Angus was slow and thought-
lul ol speech. “ 'Tis no’ in ycr yar-rd I'd
be seeking, Dinny,” he said. “A red
steer, rising three years.”
“Wid yer brand on, Angus?”
"Aye—wi' ma br-rand on, Dinny.”
Angus watched operations until he
was satisfied ; then, mounting, rode on
his way.
HINNY, with plenty of good country
** and not sufficient young stock corn-
ing on, set off one morning early for
the saleyards, some thirty miles distant.
He was accompanied by Tim.
There were pens of heifers and pens
of steers; pens of bullocks and of cows.
Dinny climbed on to the rails and
examined the class ol cattle he desired.
Dust came in odd whirls ; the cries of
captive beasts and cows bellowing for
their offspring filled the air with lament,
Dinny, seeing a particularly fine pen-
lul of steers, climbed the rails and peered
down. A pair of baneful eyes met his.
a head, rising above (he others, outthrust
belligerently.
Dinny gripped the rails.
"Well,” he gasped at last, “and how
did ye get here, ye divil?”
The agent came up, fussily anxious.
“That’s a fine lot. Mr. Mahaffey,” he
tempted. “They’d just about suit you,”
"No, be hell, no!” Dinny shouted,
anger mounting to his face. “D'ye think
I'd be afther paying a fiver for that
baste whin f could’ve had him for the
throuble of taking? Tim! Where the
hell are ye, Tim? Come here.”
ft took Dinny some time to get over
the shock. “Not even branded.” he
raved. “Who'd have thought the station
people would’ve come at taking a baste
they didn’t own, and selling it wid theirs?
Such scoundhrels as they be!”
Tim agreed feelingly.
"The first foine night,” Dinny said,
"we'll be afther getting in that cow and
her other two calves. If others can do
it, so can we.”
Angus McNaught, hearing of the sale
of the unbranded steer, decided likewise
So did Grey and Billy Dyer and
Mahoney. It was a case of who would
get in first when the moon shone at the
full.
Then came the rain. It poured in
desolating sheets, thrumming on the
roofs night and day, obliterating the
moon and making sodden ground.
“She’ll keep,” Tim consoled. “If we
can t get out, neither can anyone else."
Angus McNaught, sitting in the light
of a kerosene lamp, totalled up the result
of the sales. It would be worth a risk —
at the price cattle were going.
Fine weather came with the wanine
of the moon. A week passed. A cusp
of new moon appeared in the sky and
Angus saw to his yards. The moon grew,
filled out, approached the full. Dinnv
and Tim stood on the verandah each
evening, watching it go down behind the
hills.
“Next week, I should say,” Tim said.
We want a fairly late moon.”
They saw Angus McNaught and his
man ride past.
“Bedad now, and 'tis loike he’ll be
sooner than we," Dinny chafed. “Get
y'r horse. Timmy, and kape him in
sight.”
Tim caught up with Angus as he
reached the reserve.
'‘Going into town, Mr. McNaught?”
Tim asked,
“Aye.”
“A meeting, Mr. McNaught?”
“Aye.”
“It’s a fine night, isn't it?”
“Aye.”
“I see”—Tim's tongue began to grow
stiff—“l see the red cow’s still on the
reserve.”
“Aye.”
Immovable as a rock on the moiin-
taintop, the old man rode on, glancing
neither to right nor to left. Tim fell
back a pace when the reserve was passed
and called in at the first house on the way.
“I’m going in here, Mr. McNaught,”
he called.
“Aye,” said Angus,
len minutes later Tim was racing
home with stricken face. Old Dinny met
him at the gate.
“You want to look out,” Tim said.
“There’s redwater among the cattle.
I hey lost six beasts down the road
yesterday, and everyone’s got it in their
herds.”
“Timmy, are yc shure?” Dinny asked.
“Sure as death,” Tim said. “We’ll get
out in the paddocks to-morrow and see
if it’s among ours yet.”
T* IE moon grew to a golden splendor.
* It covered the earth with a serene
white light while hopeless cattlemen rode
their paddocks burning the carcasses of
fine dead beasts. Where the wind fawned
on the grass, the earth was saturated
with the odor of decay. Against the
moonlit sky the smoke rose in long
spirals where the pyres burnt. No one
escaped. The disease swept through the
herds, wiping out in a few months thou-
sands of valuable cattle.
On the reserve Dinny met Angus Mc-
Naught. Together they reined in and
sat looking at the dead body of the red
cow and her two decaying calves.
“Faith, Angus,” said Dinny, “we’ll
not quarrel about who shall have them
now! ”
Angus shook his head solemnly. “No,”
he said. “Death claims where others
willna dare.”
He dismounted stiffly and began kick-
ing together some bits of wood and
grass. “Will we help me to bur-rn them
the noo, mon?” he said.
Ransom.
Evening: it ripples coo! to our held feet
like the bay’s blacker crests, which idly
crawl
along the stone seawall;
and as these, multitudinous, repeat
a moonlight counterfeit,
so the new darkness crumpled against
this town
hears in its every fold that brave deceit
which lets the world seem playtime, and
our scars
{won in low skirmish) badges of pure
renown.
This is the moment there returns to us
late memory of old bargains with such
stars
as made the night-skies of man’s infancy
fearful to walk in, hut miraculous.
Nor has that wonder gone: we square
our debt
by sheer surrender to stark mystery,
staining its altars with spilt ecstasy
which in our fathers was a howl to the
moon —
round lit doors, ransomed, we do not
forget.
FIJI.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Phoenix.
They said —“In the ways of Shadow
O'er long we trod;
We have won to our Eldorado,
A ml shrined us a god !
"We have graven him gold for a token,
Heaped gems dawn-clear.
The pride of the Dark is broken.
The power of the Fear!
"The stone we have cloven asunder!
In the hill-heart trod,
A cavern of gold and thunder.
We have wrought our god!
“The crags are a garment re tided.
And the east burns clear!
The dirge of the Dark ended.
The threne of the Fear!”
But my heart as a veil was shaken.
As a reed was torn,
With the cry of the faith forsaken.
Be there none to mourn ?
And the voice of a lost dream crying
At the Gates of Horn,
For ever a god is dying
When a god is horn.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


"THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Ago” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for‘the accurate information
which day by dav covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busiscss life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States dr—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
When planning your
Advertising Campaign
in
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Remember the
tShnitf
is the
HOME PAPER
of the people with
the money to spend.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingeilo House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
Che mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense: not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
‘‘The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only' Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,”- Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone; 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE; F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F3348.'
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
i *■- In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post" brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington's Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your tnessage info the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in Wages trom tne mmes alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only papec
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; B. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
339 Distributing Centres in Tasmania!
“The Examiner” (Established 1842), the
“The Examiner,”
the Home Paper
of Northern
Tasmania.
only daily newspaper published in
Launceston, not only goes into 90 p.c.
of the homes in Launceston, but is
distributed throughout Northern Tasmania,
in over 300 centres.
“The Examiner” is
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
W. G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
W.A.’S
Leading
Station !
6AM is Western Australia’s leading
commercial station. It is on the air
longer and has a greater radius than
any other similar station in the State.
from satisfied advertisers prove
the value of 6AM.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
on his haunches like a cat, and would crouch there
comfortably while he spoke of the things that interested
him —the time the horse fell down the mine, for in-
stance, or when Andy found a snake in the chaffcutter.
Mrs. Dwyer pretended to be ashamed of his
blackfellow ways, as she called them ; but Mick had
been used to crouching inside the big fireplace of the
shanty where he grew up, just as his father had done
in. Ireland, and sfill did, even though now he could
afford armchairs. It was enough to recall the stories
of leprechauns and “good people” to see Mick and
his father crouch, one each side of the fire, with
the light playing on the old man’s white hair and
wrinkled brown face.
Mrs. Dvfyer felt that with a school-teacher to
board she had not really lost touch with the great
world. She had worked in a textile factory as a girl,
and to hear her talk about her life “in the city” made
it seem a most glamorous existence. She was always
comparing the sunlit sweep of fields around Warning
Hill with the trams and streets of the city, much to
Warning Hill’s detriment. She could never persuade
Mick to accompany herself and the children on their
annual Sydney holiday, and she nearly died of lone-
liness while she was away, although she stubbornly
protested that she had “the time of her life.”
The evening of Jessica Daunt’s arrival Mrs. Dwyer
spent most of the time asking her about the various
city landmarks.
“I suppose you’ll miss the-shops, Miss Daunt,”
she said as she closed up the last of the photograph
albums with which she had been entertaining her
guest. “I always think it’s so nice to go and look in
the shop windows. I was seeing in (he sales catalogue
that marocains have gone down to five shillings a
yard. Real first-class marocain at that.”
Miss Daunt was polite about marocain.
“When I was livin’ in Sydney, 1 had a
marocain dress that cost seventeen and six a
yard,” Mrs. Dwyer went on. “But, of course,
those were the days when I spent all me wages
on meself. I was a terror for dresses. This
one was a kind of pink— not a light pink,
but a deep pink with a kind of red through
it. Even Mick said it suited me. ‘Why,
Sheila,’ he said, ‘you look like a sunset.’ But,
of .course,” she sighed, “I always think you
can’t buy things the same when you’ve only
the patterns in the catalogue to go by, and
ready-made things never did suit me since
I got stout. Though I usen’t to be so stout
when Mick married me. If you’ll believe me,
I’d no more hips than he, has now. But (here! What
with the children and one thing and another, you can’t
expect to stay as neat a figure as you’d like. I always
say to Mick that it’s a wonder he don’t take up with
some pretty young girl, but he says, ‘Sheila,’ he says,
‘the more there is of you, the more I like you.’ ”
“Yes, of course,” Jessica said for something
to say.
“Now, when I was in Sydney last,” said Mrs.
Dwyer, reverting to her original topic, “I says, while
I’m down, I’ll be seein’ what 1 can do to get thin, an’
I went along to a place where they put you in steamy
baths. And you’ll never believe, Miss Daunt, the way
I perspired. ‘Let me get out of this,’ I says to the
girl that's looking after the place. If that is what you
do to get thin. I'll stay as I am. It’s bad enough to
get in a sweat when you’re working about the place,
but to pay for it is another matter.”
Miss Daunt made sympathetic sounds. It seemed
to her that she was being beaten down by the scarlets
and golds, the purple, crimson, blue and green of the
sacred pictures; and Mrs. Dwyer’s figure blended
-with all the other figures on the walls. They were
all looking at her and shouting at her with loud, jolly
color and loud, jolly voices.
“I’m terribly tired,” she said apologetically. “1
think, if you don’t mind. I’ll go to bed early, seeing
that to-morrow is my first day at school.”
There was a holy picture at the foot of her bed
and another at the head, but she shut her eyes tight
and went determinedly to sleep.
Jessica trudged to school with the children.
Chapter V.
I.
JESSICA trudged the three-quarters of a mile to
the schoolhouse next morning accompanied by
Colleen, Michael and Bridget, all with their lunches
in their hands and their books under their arms,
through a biting gale too cold to let the frozen sky
relax in rain. The school stood half a mile off the
road, and anyone who had not been told where to
look would certainly have missed it. A one-room
weatherboard structure, with a verandah round it and
honeysuckle over the verandah, it would have seemed
rustic and quaint at any other time.
Jessica marched past the forlorn little group on
the verandah with a gay “Good morning and opened
the door. The place had obviously not been cleaned
since before the vacation, and there were indications
that passing travellers had slept in it. Apart from a
stove, 2l row of double desks, <1 blackboard, a dusty
shelf ’with three dog-eared exercise books on it, a
table and a chair, the room was empty.
“Now. children,” Jessica called brightly, ‘see it
you can pick up some sticks and well light a fire.
Colleen, who is supposed to clean the school?
“Mrs. Mulver used to do it last year, miss, but
sir told her not to do it any longer cause she stole
the soap, an’ sir said he was tired of paying to have
the school cleaned out of his own pocket.’
“All right. Now, will you light the fire, Colleen?
“1 haven't any matches. Miss Daunt.”
Miss Daunt had. Her private supply. The place
would not look so bad with a fire. She reviewed her
flock. There were eleven of them in all, ranging from
seven years to twelve years of age. Oscar Mulver was
twelve, a big shock-haired lout (mental age, about
seven, Jessica decided). Willie White was about eleven
(degenerate psychopath! Goodness, what am I going
to do with him!). Colleen, eleven—pretty, freckled,
snub-nosed Colleen. Then there were Michael and
Bridget, restless and very intelligent; Evic and Bobby,
the While twins, restless and not intelligent; Bert
Mulver, penetrating and inquisitive, even
with a cold in the head ; Lynette Mulver,
with an untidy straggle of fair hair and
an obvious disposition to fawn on teacher
like a half-starved little mongrel; Clar-
ence Staines, with a face so heavily
freckled that if you had subtracted his
face the freckles would have stood by
themselves; and Wilfred Willoughby,
rather wistfully alone. The only
children who had decent shoes were
the Dwvers. The Whites and Wilfred
were barefoot, but the Mulvers had
shoes, though down-at-heel and bursting
little shoes.
There was no difficulty in setting their
lessons and supervising them. They
were quite docile —too docile. At eleven
o’clock Jessica dismissed them, and they
filed out on to the verandah and sat. still
docile, on the edge and shivered. Pres-
ently Colleen came round to the door.
“Will you teach us a game to play, please, Miss
Daunt?”
“Why? Don’t you know any?”
“Yes. But we've played all we know until we’re
tired of them.”
So Miss Daunt taught them “Sheep, Sheep, Come
Home,” and raced with them happily.
“We’re afraid of the wolf!” they shouted.
“The wolf won’t be home till ten o’clock to-night,
so sheep, sheep, come home!” called Colleen, the
anxious mother sheep ; and the wolf, in the shape of
Oscar Mulver, sprang on the sheep with howls of
glee as they ran.
At lunch-time it was the same appeal.
“Please, Miss Daunt, will you teach us another
game?” And they played prisoners’ base and stag-ee.
But it was rather exhausting.
(To be continued next week.)


THE EDITOR’S
DILEMMA.
The editor would like to publish the manu-
script. The subject is interesting and the
thought good, but the paragraphing is poor,
giving the effect of lack of unity; there are
some obvious grammatical errors, and the em-
phasis is wrongly distributed. The writer
apparently has been at pains to enlarge his
vocabulary, but has not learned how to con-
struct sentences; he is involved and redundant,
and he misses the climaxes that would make
what he has to say sparkle.
The editor hesitates. By rejecting the MS.
forthwith he would save time, but he would
lose an article his readers want. Can he
blue-pencil the offences out, and put some
strength in? He reads the first two pages
again and finds that he cannot. His dilemma
is solved. He rejects the MS.
“WRITING FOR THE
NEWSPAPERS.”
“Writing for the Newspapers” is a Course
of training prepared and conducted conjointly
by Bernard Cronin and E. H. Welford. It
concerns itself with the difficulties of inex-
perienced writers as indicated in the pre-
ceding paragraphs.
Ihe Course consists of eight lessons. It
covers all the requirements, general and par-
ticular, of newspaper paragraphs and articles.
It is a complete training, including not only
the writing of articles and paragraphs, but
also selection of subjects and methods of treat-
ment for different kinds of publications.
The chapter headings of the eight lessons
are: General Requirements, Subjects and the
Source of Ideas; Paragraphing an Article;
Unity and Examples; Punctuation; Distribu-
tion of Emphasis and Brevity; Hints and
Errors; the Range of Consciousness; Conden-
sation and Expansion; the Effective Vocabulary
and the Business Side of Writing,
Throughout the Course the pupil is re-
quired to conform to newspaper practice and
to write articles and paragraphs under strict
newspaper conditions. The lessons themselves
deal with the many common faults which may
spoil an otherwise acceptable article. The
exercises arc searching and the standard of
work demanded of the pupil high. Each para-
graph and article written by the pupil is
criticised in detail from the editorial stand-
point and as a piece of writing, with the
object of bringing it, if possible, up to publica-
tion standard.
The Course gives just, the help and stimulus
which the inexperienced but ambitious writer
needs.
If you are interesteo and will communicate
with E. H. Welford at 398 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, he will send you further particulars of
this Course of training, and will be pleased to
discuss with you your writing experience and
aspirations.
E. K. WKLFORD PTV., ETD..
“Good English and Good Writing,”
Managers of
The WELFOKT) COURSE IN
ENGLISH, by E. H. Welford and
A. W. B, Welford, M.A. (Cantab.),
The BERXAEI) CRONIN STOBV-
WRITING COURSE, by Bernard
Cronin.
WRITING TOR THE NEWS-
PAPERS —a course in the writing
of paragraphs and articles for
Australian newspapers and
periodicals,
CHITICAJ, SERVICE TO
WRITERS. Criticism of indivi-
dual MSS. and advice on publica-
tion by Bernard Cronin.
Particulars of any, or all, of these
courses will be sent post free on
application to
E. H. WELFORD PTV., LTD.,
398 Blinders Lane, Melbourne.
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden.
K
Lieut. -General
Lord Baden-Powell,
•C. 8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout,”
is fa
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch.”
The Rt. Hon. J. H. Thomas,
Secretary of State for
the Dominions.
“ Pelmanism
difficulties.
smooths away all
The Signatures
The signatures in this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
(lie Telman Institute. Signatures
differ as, much as faces differ, and,
like faces, they often surprise us
"'ken we meet them by their un-
llkeuess to our conception of them.
U'e arc sure that readers of “The
iiulletln” will he Interested In these
signatures of well-known T*.*Unau-
ists.
& <
DR, F. W. NORWOOD,
of the City Temple, Loudon,
Who describes I‘elntuiiisin us
‘■The Key to a .Man’s Career.”
iNTKHXATIONAL AWARDS
to the I‘einian institute;
Liege .... 1930 Xaney .... IDXJ
Geneva.,.. 1D33 Paris ID;*;{
The more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
are:
( onmtt ration
OliNorvation
■lmlgmeiit
Decision
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ea*e
C'ov
and a Reliable Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 33,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
Tlie Pelman Institute Is a world-wide
organisation of 30 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are In London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
3!)(i Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
(Dame Sybil Thorndike)
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to the needs of the average man
and woman.
Ihe obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early in the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study.
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that they were once afraid of.
They seek and get better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, in
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress,
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice.
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitutes a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear on the
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent, 11255.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a. copy
of “Tine Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
Or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
390 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Xame
Address
■l3B
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist.
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Sursrerv,
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economic:.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
w
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(■Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
.t'V
s 6;
\*
w 6
•^ xS ’ .•■ . • v- ' V v-
*** ...•••■ ...-•■■ e *%&sr*?‘
*>V vV o<
.cl


VyirurLq
AUSTRALIA'S
COMMUNICATION
NEEDS
m ' :
'jlj
I*s
w 1
Mi
»«*
J>
ft
|M
•oR
n
n
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
aiictpal IA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
Speedy and economical wireless telegraph
services are indispensable to a country’s
progress.
Since its inception in 1913, A.W.A. has
anticipated, rather than followed, the
needs of the Australian public for modern
wireless telegraph facilities.
The Company established and to-day oper-
ates the Beam Wireless Telegraph Service,
Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone, and the
Beam Picluregram Service between Aus-
tralia and overseas. A.W.A. also operates
the Australian Coastal Radio Service and
the Pacific Island Services in New Guinea,
Papua and Fiji.
Wireless services are also conducted on
ships at sea for the safety of life and for
the interchange of public wireless tele-
grams between ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-
important factors that have resulted in
giving the public satisfactory service. To
this end every new phase of wireless
has been scientifically investigated and
developed.
The Company invites inquiries in respect
to any of its wireless communication
services, and will count it a privilege to
be of service.
