

SECURITY
is the watchword of the City Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Limited.
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society's New Building, in
course of erection.
For years and years the
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
has paid LARGER BONUSES to its Policy-holders
than any other Life Assurance Institution in Australia.
The City Mutual Life is the only Old-established
Mutual Millionaire Society which confines its business
ENTIRELY TO AUSTRALIA,
and its funds are invested in unquestionably sound
Australian securities.
A CITY MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY STANDS FOR
GREATER SECURITY AND BIGGER RETURNS.
■
GEO. E. BRYANT,
Chairman of Directors.
W. BENNETT,
Director*
The Bulletin
Chain Stores
Vol. 56.—N0. 2876.
Wednesday, March 27, 1935.
Registered ai the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Sleep For Bab/
Rest For Mother
r
When Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment are
used. All mothers should know
that when little ones are sleep-
less, fretful and cross because of
pimples, rashes, irritations and
dialings of infancy and childhood
Cutlcura will quickly soothe
and heal. Bathe the affected part
with Cuticura Soap and
hot water, dry, and gently apply
Cuticura Ointment.
For Quick Relief Use
CUTICURA
Our New Library Catalogue is Now Ready
and will be sent post free, to any address
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
The Block, ’ 424-426 George Street,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for
t» uu at HOMF
at HOMTI
Particulars Free to You!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERB AND MAUL
Please send, without obligation, particulars of
your Special Course in STATION BOOKKEEPING,
as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 335
The
Progress'
Centre of Tasmania’s
and Prosperity.
HE EXAMINER is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished m Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
THE EXAMINER” is in its 93rd year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
FiiU information, copies, advertising rates "The Examiner,” "Weekly Courier” and "Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
271
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy
of your advertising expenditure in
Victoria use
“THE AGE”
“THE AGE” publishes about
1,000,000 advertisements
annually
Advertising rates on application to
the principal Service Agents in all
States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Red Page
The Week’s Best:—
SPY!
incredible as
any hook so far
written relating
to the war, Spy,
by Bernard New-
man, is one of
the most absorb-
mg of (hem all. Set forth as fact, its
statements are supported freely and in-
variably by names and dales; chapter
and verse are given in every instance ,
and yet the story Newman has to tell of
his adventures as a spy is wild as the
wildest of spy-books—even of spy-fiction.
Regarded strictly as an ad venture-book,
it should, were if only better written,
shoulder from library shelves books that
have been reiterated for centuries. It
is as hard to put down as a Scotchman's
fiver; but it hasn’t a vestige of literary
merit of any abiding quality. It is to be
approached in the same light as is some-
thing of extraordinary interest in a news-
paper.
Il begins with a brief introduction, in
which, alter stating that “It is high time
this spy business was debunked,” New-
man does a little debunking: “Several
hundred books on secret service have
appeared since the war; of these, about
one per cent, have been strictly accurate,
a larger proportion founded on fact, but
the greater part have been the sheerest
of fiction—while pretending to be true!”
In particular, he debunks the glamorous
lady spy (“il she met a howitzer and a
yogi coming down the road together she
would not know the other from which”) :
the drugs in the general's cotfee ; sex for
information’s sake; all suchlike junk.
After this comes, briefly, his work in
France as a dispatch-rider and an infan-
try lieutenant. Then he is into Ins stride.
The first of the wild doings occurred
when Newman was intelligence officer in
France, it is right in the tradition of
fictional spying. He was taken by ’plane
and set down beyond the German lines.
His objective was Lens his mission to
blow up the railway line there. He did
the job ; a smash and a collision fol-
lowed. He could easily have got away to
his rendezvous with the 'plane. Instead,
he stayed, helping the injured. He was
taken back to his supposed German unit
as a probable deserter, immediately be-
came suspect, was courl-martiaHed and
was sentenced to be shot. From the con-
demned cell, he escaped by the rather
irreligious expedient of knocking the
prison chaplain out and pinching his
clothes. He completed the disguise by
dyeing his hair with the ink he had been
using to write his last letters home, fin-
ishing off the job by snipping off a piece
of the reverend hair and sticking it to his
top-lip with the gum from a dozen
envelopes. (Before the war Newman was
a West End actor, and it was the stage
training, not only in this instance, bui
throughout, which pulled him through.)
A girl who helped him had to pretend to
the searching patrol that she was a pros-
titute, carrying the masquerade to the
bare lengths of facing them stripped.
Eventually, Newman got back, to be
picked up by the ’plane.
Leave to England and D.S.O. from the
King’s hand followed. At the time in
England was a German cousin of his,
as a prisoner of war. There was some
resemblance between them ; and the cir-
cumstances altogether'gave rise to New-
man’s vital idea. Just before having been
taken prisoner the cousin, as he told New-
man, was about to he transferred to the
intelligence section at German Staff
Headquarters. With the connivance of
authority, Newman assumed the identity
of his cousin, was sent as (hat cousin to
another prison camp, and from there,
with a German naval officer prisoner,
escaped. The naval officer had arranged
for a submarine to pick them up, and' in
this way they got to Germany, where
Newman, alias Adolph Neumann, had
the Jron Cross fastened to him by the
Kaiser and duly became attached 10
G.S.H. There he worked unsuspected
for three years till die end of the war,
sending, in plenty'of. time among other
such invaluable information warning of
the impending thrust at Verdun. His in-
formation was taken seriously in Eng-
land, but ignored by the French com-
mand, at the subsequent cost of heaven
knows bow many French lives.
"I want a really informative hook on the
British Secret Service for a boy of about
eleven years.”
Al ter the first of the tanks had proved
the menace they might be, Newman went
to England, in the rote, of course, of a
German spy, to make inquiries into this
new, menacing weapon. He learned that
the War Office had received a long report
from the British General Headquarters
condemning the tanks utterly. They were
inefficient and useless, and worse, the re-
port said. He learned also that it was
intended to ignore this report, and go
ahead with perfecting the tanks. If, he
reasoned, he could get the original copy
of this adverse report back to Ger-
man Headquarters the German leaders
would be thrown right off the scent. How
to do it without raising suspicion? He
got word through to German Head-
quarters asking them to send him an ex-
pert burglar. The report, with other
papers, was locked in a safe of a high
War Office personage ; the burglary—in
the course of which the butler had to be
knocked out duly came off ; the report
was taken to Germany ; Newman was
thanked by Ludendprl and when the
second tank attack came it was a greater
surprise than the first!
in the three years Newman made
several of these trips to England. One
of them was to save the life of Lloyd
George. On this mission he went by
’plane, dropping out of it with a para-
chute at night. There was need for
hurry. It had been discovered at Ger-
man Headquarters that a patriotic fanatic
with designs on Lloyd George's life had
left Germany for England. Knowing that
if some such English emissary had
entered Germany and assassinated the
Kaiser the crime would unite every single
soul in the land in a national revulsibn
and hatred unparalleled in history, the
German leaders argued that (he killing
ol Lloyd George would have precisely
the same effect in Britain. So Newman,
who knew the fanatic, was sent over in
haste to save Lloyd George, He did, in
circumstances which would sound far-
fetched in the wildest thriller, and which
included intercepting a box of cigars
dosed with aconite, impersonating Lloyd
G -and having a hand-to-hand ■ ail-in
fight with the Thoroughly mad assassin.
More seemingly incredible still is ihe
story ol how Newman, after evading the
issue as long as possible, visited bis
“people” that is, the Neumanns in Ger-
many, and succeeded in passing him-
sell off as Adolph Neumann to
Adolph Neumann's father, mother,
sister and a secret fiancee, who had,
since last seeing Adolph, given birth
to Adolph’s son, and who now in-
sisted on (heir love being as corn
plete as it had previously been.
Ihe gold-mounted biscuit for the
hook’s incredible passage, however,
goes to the author for his statement
(hat he did not write his story for
publication. That, even a crater
couldn’t swallow. The whole tone
of the book seems to shout that it
was written for no other end and
written in haste, at that.
Newman advances the claim that
he personally hastened the end of
the war by subtly playing on Luden-
dorf’s nerves in conversation, daily
applying (he principles of Cone to
convince the leader that the German
side was beaten. Also, he asserts
that it was not the defeat, nor the
confiscation of territory, nor humilia-
tion which rankled and rankles- in
the German heart: it was the corpse-
factory and other such lies fabricated
for propaganda.
Such a story as he (ells, if it has an
anti-climax, deserves a good one, and his
gets one on its merits. When he called
at the War Office after the war to collect
several years’ pay, it was seriously put to
him that, as he had been paid all along
by the Germans, he should be credited
with only the difference between the two
rates of pay!
Cecil Mann.
- f Spy, by Bernard Newman (GoUanez; 7s. 6d
English price).]
The
Lawrences
in Australia
“Lawrence re-
ligiously read
The Bulletin,
He loved it for
all its stories of
wild animals and
people’s living ex-
periences. The only papers Lawrence
ever read were the ‘Corriere della Sera,’
in the past, and The Bulletin. I won-
der whether this latter has retained the
same character it had then; I haven’t
seen it since that time. It was our only
mental food during that time.”
That is from an Australian chapter of
Frieda Lawrence’s Not 1, But the
Wind . . . (Heinemann; English price
IQs. 6d.), a book of memories of her
husband, D. H.
Lawrence.
When they
were at Col-
ombo in 1922
(hey decided to
find wh e t her
the climate of
Australia would
help Lawrence
toward health.
After a brief
slay in Wesl-
ralia, where the
novelist revised
M iss M. I ,
Skinner’s Tire
Boy in iln' Bush,
D. U. L.
(hey went to Sydney, put their luggage on
n Ira in, and decided to sl op at the first
place that attracted I hern. This was Thir-
ronl, and there they remained for some
months, seeing scarcely anyone except
the people from whom they bought food.
Lawrence began to write Kangaroo,
which he called “a mad novel of Aus-
baha, in (he intervals of enjoying
walks beside the Pacific and bathing.
I he new hook contains many of Law-
rence s letters, the majority written in
German (now translated! to his mother-
in-law, who lived in Metz. “Sydney is
a great line town,” he said in one
written mainly in English, “half like
London, hall like America. The harbor
is wonder! til a narrow gateway between
Iwo clifts (hen one sails through and is
in another little sea, with many hays and
gulls. The big terry steamers go all the
time threading across the blue water, and
hundreds of people always travel-
ling. But Sydney town costs too much,
so we came down into the country. We
are about 50 kilometres south of Sydney,
on the coast. We have got a lovely little
house on the edge of the low cliff just
above the Pacific Ocean—/)*/- gross?
oder \tille Ozean, says Frieda. But it is
by no means still. The heavy waves
break with a great roar all the lime:
and it is so near.... Here it is winter,
but not cold. But to-day the sky is dark,
and it makes me think of Cornwall....
"But it is a queer, grey, sad country
empty, and as if it would never be
tilled. Miles and miles of bush —for-
lorn and lost. It all feels like that. Yet
Sydney is a huge modern city.
“I don't really like it, it is so raw —
so crude. The people are so crude in
their feelings—and they only want to
be up-to-date in the ‘conveniences’—elec-
tric light and tramways and things like
that. The aristocrats are the people
who own big shops—and there is no
respect for anything else. The work-
ing people very discontented—always
o Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —our policy which knows no deviation .
Mfiwe Offer
Japanese Tcmpfc
the onfy pieces
‘THE SENIOR STORE.
0
Sip* V J
Stone
Australfa
Introduce the Dream-like Beauty of a Japanese
Garden into your own with one or two of
these genuine Japanese Stone Garden Lanterns.
They are chiselled from volcanic stone, the
peculiar properties of which hold moisture and
feed Mosses and Lichens, and are exquisitely
carved to interpret the moods of the Japanese
people. One of these Maru Yukimi models in
the centre of a fish pond, or on the summit of
a grassy mound, like a quaint temple on a hill,
will provide an exotic charm. We have only
seventeen, and when they are sold others
will not be available.
PI
PM
m
i
»*
£l5
Height, 3ft. 6in.
Price, each, £3O.
Special Price, ea.,
£l5.
WJ*%s
■
mm mm
£l7/10/-
Height, sft. 6in.
Price, each, £35.
Special Price, ea.,
£l7/10/-.
£2l
Height, 6ft.
Price, each, £42.
Special Price, ea.,
£2l.
£2l
Height, sft. 9in.
Price, each, £42.
Special Price, ea.,
£2l.
V
■? '
,-LL PS
m
a I
“T
c^9
5
cc
, ■'N
7f MW- * )
M
‘•;3
SS&ywfe- -;
W&*
a
*. ■»
C^^SCT'
At right—
£l9/15/-
Height, sft. 9in.
Price, each,
£39/10/-.
Special Price, ea.,
£l9/15/-.
Height, 6ft. 4in.
Price, each, £45.
Special Price, ea.,
£22/10/-.
m
i
Fine
Art
Gallery —
Fourth
Floor
Above— £lB/5/-
Height, sft. Sin.
Price, each,
£36/10/-.
Special Price, ea.,
£lB/5/-.
IBP
m
■ ■ ~ ■
Above —£18/15/“
Height, sft. 6in.
Price, each £3 7/10/-
ySpecial Price, each . . £lB/15/-
Below —£ 6/5/-
Height, 2ft. lin. Price, £l2/10/-.
Special Price £6/5/-
Height, 2ft. 4in. Price, £ 1 7/1 0/-.
Special Price £B/15/-
Height, 3ft. 6in. Price, £27/10/-.
Special Price ...... £l3/15/-
Height, 4ft. Price £47
Special Price £22/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STS., SYDNEY
’ Phone: M 2401.
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE BOOK OF THE MONTH IN ENGLAND
Cabled advices from London convey the information that the “Dai Jy Mail” selects “Landtakers,” the Australian novel by Brian Penton, as the best book of the month.
In a three-column review it says that the author has chosen a mighty theme —Australia striving to find herself —and that his pen was
equal to his vast opportunities.
His gifts make memorable this vivid and stunning story. “Landtakers” is a worthy picture of a vast savage area which has been the
setting in which Australia’s sons could find her soul.
Its fast conception is like a pageant of crude colors, turbulent, and sometimes violently vigorous.
NDTUCERS
THE
Brian Fenton, one of Australia’s best-known feature-writers and a journalist of international reput , attemnted
entirely new in Australian literature —something different. In “Landtakers the author achieves wh P
but never attained —the tracing up from its roots of that hitherto elusive thing, the Australian nationa • g
Australian novel has met with remarkable success in Australia and is already in its third edition. fmm thp PuhlkKort-
“Landtakers,” by Brian Fenton. A novel of 500 pages, on sale now at all Newsagents and Booksellers. Price 7/6 (postage 6d. extra), or
s: :: 252 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ENDEAVOUR PRESS
M. Forrest
threaten more strikes —always more
socialism.”
Yet', after saying harsh things, Law-
rence had to admit in other letters that
the Australians were “awfully nice,
casually”; very trustful and kind, and
quite competent in their jobs. They
were always vaguely and meaninglessly
on the go, but one did not feel the ten-
sion and depression of Europe. Every-
thing was happy-go-lucky, and nothing
really mattered, but they let the little
things matter sufficiently to keep the
whole show going. In a way this was a
relief from Europe, but Lawrence felt
that he was a foreigner. The life of a
new country made one material and out-
ward, and the inner self died out. At
Thirroul he, the son of a coalminer, felt
at home because most of the men were
miners. One nice thing was that nobody
asked questions ; it was nice not to have
to explain oneself as in Italy. He did
not know a soul on the eastern side of
Australia, and for the first time in his
life he felt how lovely it was to know
nobody in the whole country.
The book, the most revealing yet seen
about Lawrence, strengthens the impres-
sion that' he had not a fair go from life,
and that he had more than his share of
torment from the gadflies of censorship
and of wowserism generally. Living n
Cornwall at the time of the war, he and
his wife were harassed because of her
German birth, and eventually, she tells
us, they were warned to leave. Much
of Lawrence’s life consisted of a fight
for health. In one mood he boasted that
he was strong against opposition, but in
the end he was broken. Genius, it seems,
was to him a curse.
Douglas Young.
The death of
M. Forrest, while
still in the com-
fortless harness of a freelance writer,
calls up a vista of writing that began
somewhere about 40 years ago. This
vigorous woman grew up, like so many
of our women writers, on a country sta-
tion, and found her way towards writing
by the method of trial and error and the
editorial sanctions. She was not alone.
Her younger sister, Ethel Mills, seemed
the more promising of the two, writing
short stories like “The Moon Flower”
which at the time had their own courage
of subject and attack. After gathering
a considerable reputation here from her
stories published in special issues, such
as the Christmas Bulletin, Ethel Mills
went to London about 30 years ago, and
seems to have given up writing altogether.
Meanwhile, M. Forrest had kept on
steadily. Her stories, serials, poems,
paragraphs and newsletters have been the
mainstay of many a weekly magazine
page for 30 years and more.
The output of certain freelance writers
has always seemed to me an incredible
phenomenon. Admittedly writing for
money, these writers have always given
far more of themselves than any money
could pay for. M. Forrest’s pieces, for
instance, constantly surprised you by the
germinal quality of their latent idea ; you
felt she had given too much, used some-
thing for an ephemeral purpose that
might have been developed, some day,
into a lyric with rare qualities.
One is led to wonder continually what
M. Forrest might have done with her
lyrical and richly imaginative qualities
if she had not forced herself to capitalise
them so rapidly. In her early book of
poems, Alpha Centauri (1909 or so), she
wrote with a most promising vigor and
a suggestion of freedom. In her collec-
tion published half a dozen years ago—-
a selection from enormous books of
press-cuttings—she had here and there a
lyric with some tautness and concentra-
tion, in addition to ballads and decora-
tive pieces with a resemblance to those
of Alfred Noyes. This is not to sug-
gest that in theme or manner she imitated
Alfred Noyes. His romanticism was
probably her own, his pirates her prin-
cesses, his “arras” and red-satin heels
her natural properties too. It is neces-
sary to add that there was the same tire-
less, apparently effortless, ease of shap-
ing and rhyming in both cases.
Like Ethel Mills, M. Forrest long ago
showed an interest in the short story, her
personal studies and sketches for that
form appearing in The Bulletin and
then in the “Lone Hand” when it began.
Here again it was hard for her to decide
on the subjects most appropriate to her
powers. It was only in the last decade
that she began to publish novels. These,
in spite of a conventionality in the story,
were able to hold the riches of her ob-
servation: passages of landscape that de-
served a better setting are memorable;
the complex, lovely jungle of places like
Mount Tamborine and the dawn on a
bush camp. All that was wrong with
her “popular” novels was that they were
too good, moving on several planes in-
stead of keeping to the commercial one.
M. Forrest remained still the over-
generous, uncalculating freelance.
Nettie Palmer.
Snowden Sees
It Through
It is evident
that Philip Snow-
den is not the
stuff of which
great Prime Min-
isters are made.
He is too ready to admit faults and ig-
norances to do public justice to himself
and too easily moved to condemnation
of his enemies and associates to be a
leader. The second and last volume of
his Autobiography (Nicholson and
Watson; 215.) brings out these traits in
his character vividly. The book covers
an absorbing period in post-war Labor
history, and is important in that it is the
first time that story has been presented
authoritatively.
It deals with the whole of the years
from the war till the formation of the
National Government and Snowden’s
break with Ramsay MacDonald.
When the Labor party was first called
on to take office, and MacDonald framed
his Cabinet, the resultant yell of anguish
shook the party. Out of 20 members,
“thirteen belonged to the non-trade-union
section.” People like Lords Haldane,
Chelmsford and Parmoor, Sydney Olivier,
a former Governor of Jamaica and a
knight, and Birdwood Thomson, a briga-
dier, rubbed shoulders with Vernon Hart-
shorn and Stephen Walsh. This allayed
the terror of the aristocracy, which must
have been very real since
A countess rang me up to ask me franti-
cally if it were true that the first thing
the Labor party would do would be to
cut the throats of every aristocrat and steal
their property. *
Each of the leaven, however, was
Labor at heart.
Snowden, as Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer in this galley, became the chief
financial figure of a nation of several
hundred million people with “only a
vague idea what a financier should look
like.” And he wondered, when Montagu
Norman, governor of the Bank of
England, came to call on him, if he
would be “the hard-faced, close-fisted,
high-nosed individual” of socialist car-
toons. Actually, he found him like a
“portrait of a handsome courtier of the
Middle Ages.... his external appearance
was the bodily expression of one of the
kindliest natures and most' sympathetic
hearts it has been my privilege to know.*”
And he had the international mind:
To him, more than to any statesman in
Europe, is the credit due for the partial
restoration of the economic conditions of
Europe. I never hear uninformed remarks
about the callousness of international
finance but 1 think of the injustice done
....to the high and unselfish motives of
the governor of the Bank of England.
It is plain that
it would not take
Mr. Snowden
long to get him-
self expelled from
a Lang party.
The room
which Mr. Snow-
den occupied as
Chancellor had a
throne in it and
Gladstone’s dis-
patch box and a
set of William
and Mary chairs.
In these sur-
roundings he pro-
ceeded to organise
Snowden.
the collection and expenditure of the
£800,000,000 a year which the British
Government turns over annually. He
carried his first Budget to the House in
the battered dispatch box of the Grand
Old Man, and—shades of Australian
Labor! —brought the Labor side of the
House down with a proposal to reduce
taxation by £40,000,000! It becomes
evident that Mr. .Snowden would not
have been merely expelled from the Aus-
tralian Labor party. He would probably
have been quietly extinguished.
The Labor Government, of course, was
a failure. The Zinovieff letter finally
settled it, and when it returned to power
again after the 1926 general strike it was
a failure again.
The one bright spot in its shambling
career was finance. That was Snowden's
“pidgin,” and the highlight of his life was
his tenacious fight over Britain’s rights
at the Reparation Congress at The Hague
in 1929. Harassed by strong men like
Briand, almost abandoned by his dilet-
tante leader, the sturdy, lame little York-
shireman fought the question out with
Europe. No short review can do jus-
tice to the modestly told chapters on the
incident which made him a hero who
was received on his return to England
with almost the same acclaim as if he
had been Charlie Chaplin or Rudolph
Valentino ; but his final interview with
the chairman of the conference, M.
Jaspar, who came bearing gifts, illus-
trates his tenacity:
He returned... .with a further £50,000.
“You are doing first-rate,” I said, “be
not weary in well-doing.” Before mid-
night he had come within £240,000 of the
British claims He was in despair. He
said: “What do you say when a horse
will not run for your Derby?” “You
mean ‘scratched.’ ” “Yes,” he said, “I
am ‘scratched.’ I cannot do more. You
have emptied our pockets.” “Go through
your pockets again,” I said very kindly;
“I am sure you will find enough T eft to
cover what remains between us.”
Muttering that Mr. Snowden was a
“new type,” Mr. Jaspar left. By mid-
night he had found the “necessary.”
Snowden broke with the National Gov-
ernment after Ottawa. An ardent Free-
trader, he told Ramsay MacDonald that
he was pursuing a policy which “will
lead to the disruption of the Empire,
and which is fraught with great danger
to our international relationships.... The
Dominions are to dictate to us where we
shall buy and where we shall not buy....
The Ottawa agreements have surrendered
our fiscal autonomy.” So, a diehard, he
reached the point where he “had no
party allegiance” and was free to join
Mr. Lloyd George in the autobiographic
shades.
M. H. E.
A Satchel of Books
The Silver Horn, by Gordon Grand
(10s. 6d. net), is a collection of sporting
stories, all of them admirably done, and
one or two, “Major Denning’s Trust
Estate” in particular, quite excellent.
They are, as are all these “Country Life”
books, very finely illustrated —this one
with pencil and pen-and-ink drawings by
K. F. Barker. The stories revolve about a
U.S.A. hunts club. All are sentimental,
though not sticky ; virtue triumphs ; the
dark horse wins—but what purpose
would there be in starting a dark horse in
a story if he didn’t?
To anyone who wants a handy pocket
Shakspeare this Page commends Dent’s
New Temple edition. It is being done
in 40 volumes, and the lot will fit into
about 18in. of shelf. Yet the type
is clean and clear ; and compact in each
of the vols. is a sharp commentary on
the text by the editor, M. R. Ridley,
M.A., Fellow and Tutor of English Lit-
erature, of Balliol College, Oxford; a
choice of the most penetrating criticisms
that have been made on the plays and
poetry, sensibly arranged notes and a
glossary, which leave the text unen-
cumbered, Eric Gill’s engravings are a
doubtful addition. Eric is a ghoulish
artist. His taste is for skeletons slightly
draped, a curious sort of decoration to
the work of one who dealt in bone-and-
muscle people. The edition really isn’t
up to the earlier Temple, but that is in-
creasingly hard to get, complete.
Joseph O’Neill’s novel Land Under
England (Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.) has a highly
eulogistic preface by “A.E.” Also, it is
a Book Society recommendation. Also,
the publisher states on the jacket: “Only
once during the last six years have we,
speaking in propria persona, described a
novel, to be published by us, as a work of
genius. We now so describe Land Under
England .” What on earth is happening
to critical judgment? The work is a dull,
pretentious first-person fantasy, palpably
mannered, grievously overwritten, repeti-
tive and verbose. Its intention is clear
enough. It seeks to be a satire on
Fascism, Communism, Hitlerism and the
sundry other Isms at the moment mass-
levelling humanity; but the man who
does not already feel, even as a truism,
the little it has to say in this regard is
of the stuff on which such movements are
feeding. In order to say that indepen-
dence of mind is impossible under the
clammy rule of our contemporary Ism-
istical Masters, O’Neill sends a poorly
constructed and hence incredible charac-
ter on a silly, sloppily sentimental and
ridiculous quest for his father, via a
trapdoor leading, after a glissade in dust
and ashes, to a miraculous land under
England, where the mass-levelling has
reached the stage in which the people
have no individual minds, but act, under
a dictatorship, as a sort of corporate
mind. The last words of this work of
genius are, appropriately, “ ‘Yes, mother,'
I said.”


ft‘°m ij
EYE LOTIONT
Foi
H. A.
• InEla med Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
ROSE & Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
Cbe Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
•‘The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, In Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Warwick
Building, 15 Hamilton Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
.* *
:#<V •■X
HxStK-:
'M-
{. v'''"' <*■
. •■ 'J*
m^r-:
W*
£
:■:■■ 5
y.* *
: '*:•*!>. V'« ••> ¥><&„ *.
-» t»* V: • ♦, • 41
- / •»* , ' , (&■ -K
' y v V« > * - .'V'®''' l^1
• " V&'** -
:••■' x ** • >
-> ~ , ~,J? i- 4.' % <
■ - N ~ 4^*,& , ; << \v,
- > Jt piftciplpßoa{ ,>• •• •• .••■ ••
\ <•**&>, 'X '
«
; jsi
txldl; 4
v vl
|":T.I
- <1
lllililf
i
w
M Mi "n
iliiili
iiiii
fj : :■•&: ; xk
> •
W *>
■
m
Li
m
m
Make come TRUE her dream of
CAR PERFECTION
O UCH a beautiful looking car inside
and out —and so comfortable! ♦ ,
is it any wonder that the 1935
Standard creates a favourable impres-
sion at first sight?
Added to its beauty and comfort are
features that have been tried and
proved by 20,000 owners of 1934
Standards. For quietness and smooth-
ness in operation, there are Synchro-
Call and see these new STANDARDS —take the wheel for a trial run.
Four proven models, the “Nine” “Ten,” “Twelve” and “Twenty”
—all in smart Roadster. Tourer, Coupe and Saloon body styles
mesh gears for top, third and second
speeds. Brisk acceleration and plenty
of power makes a Standard easy and
pleasant to drive in traffic, and on the
open road. Rigid strength of chassis
is provided hy the X-Braced frame
and the patent rubber-mounted engine
(“Buoyant Power”) ensures freedom
from vibration and insulates the
power unit from the chassis and body.
Distributors:
RUCKLE & HARDEN LIMITED,
119-129 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: FL 2688
CO-OPERATIVE MOTORS LTD.,
131 Collins Street, HOBART, Tas.
Telephones : 3061, 3062
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
81 Franklin St., ADELAIDE, S.A.
Telephone'. C 2136
S'iiCjsish
IMffl
Factory Representative:
ROBERT F. LEE,
58-60 Margaret Street, Sydney
Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, PERTH, W.A.
Telephone-. B 5174 (4 lines)
TALBOT & STANDARD MOTORS
PTY. LTD.,
568-574- Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Telephone : F 2154 (3 lines)
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO. LTD., COVENTRY.
ENGLAND
THE CAR IT PAYS TO FAY A
Earth Stopped, by T. H. White
(Collins ; 7s. 6d.), holds just enough fun-
poking at an English country house party,
with shootin’ and huntin’, and sufficiently
amusing caricatures of peers, professors,
neurotic women, pseudo-Communists and
the like to make a chucklesome time-
killer.
Wilfred Saint-Mande’s War, Wine and
Women remains one of the most authen-
tic, as it is one of the most vigorous, of
war books written from the ranker’s point
of view. Frankly autobiographical, artis-
tically crude, it crudely represents the
crude picture of war. It is devoid of the
bitterness that characterises the abundant
works of all those little neurotics who
went forth to be warriors, got the shock
of their lives and returned to snivel on
a 10 per cent, royalty basis. It is a manly
work of Rabelaisian gusto. Saint-
Mande’s latest novel, Halcyon Days in
Africa (Partridge; Bs. 6d. net), is also
autobiographical. Though Saint-Mande
does not appear in person, it would
seem that after the war he went
to South Africa and was shocked by the
indifference, not to say contempt or
worse, in which England was there held.
His novel makes this disquietingly clear,
but the criticism would have been infi-
nitely more forceful had Saint-Mande
abandoned the pretence of writing fiction
and attacked directly.
Uproarious comedy for about half the
distance, Graham Sutton’s Damnation of
Mr. Zinkler (Cape ; Angus and Robert-
son ; 7s. 6d.) relates the arrival in Hell
of Zinkler (American movie-maker), Kit
Grenfell (mountaineer) and the girl Jo
Carberry in a strain that would tempt a
statue of Dean Inge to hilarity. It is a
well-appointed and decidedly original
Hell, which is run by a benevolent dic-
tator with a sense of humor, and in
which the only punishment inflicted is
the necessity to face facts avoided in
life. These early experiences—especially
Zinkler’s plans for crashing into the film
business in Hades City—are rippling
stuff, and even when, later, the author
is in obvious difficulties, he has only to
conjure Zinkler on to the scene to set
the ball rolling again. But Grenfell is
a shocking prig, 300 pages of whose com-
pany is pretty hard to bear, and Jo never
succeeds in being more than a puppet.
Hades City, too, seems to be a marvel-
lously architectured but unpopulated
shell. Altogether a piece of fiction that
might have been a work of genius, if
the author had genius, or perhaps even
if he’d only taken a little more time, or
made up his mind beforehand whether
he was going to conduct the story or let
it conduct him.
Follow My Leader (Arnold; 7s. 6d.
net). A generous collection of those
joyous brief essays which appear as
third leaders in the “Times.” Prefaced
with an introduction by Sir John Squire
and finely turned out, the book is hereby
unreservedly recommended to all who
own to a taste for light essays or good
humor. '
Continuing to enlarge the least expen-
sive and most extensive of current
“libraries”—that is, “Everyman’s”—which
now totals 911 vols., representative of
500 authors, Dent has lately added
Table Talk by Various Writers, from
Ben Johnson to Leigh Hunt (a represen-
tative collection of the actual dinner and
other table talk, grave and gay, of the
two named, together with Selden,
Pope, Walpole, Foote, Sheridan, Person,
Rogers, Sydney Smith, Coleridge, Haz-
litt and James Northcote and Byron);
Short Stories, by Maupassant (a select
32 of them); Prose and Poetry of Heine
(a collection of pieces as varied as any-
thing in the library); a selected Poems
of Dryden, and Kant’s Critique of Pure
Reason.
The Saar and the Franco-German
Problem, by B. T. Reynolds (Arnold ;
7s. 6d. net). Rendered out of date
almost on its appearance, and mentioned
here chiefly as a sardonic reminder of
the haste of current European events,
Its interest now is as a historical prelude
to a problem that has been pretty con-
vincingly settled.
_
“G.H.M.”: On the back cover of The
Bulletin has been recently advertised by
Angus and Robertson a 10-volume
“Masterpiece Library of Short Stories.’
1 would greatly appreciate your opinion
on its contents and value, as it seems to
be too cheap to be any good.
[On the contrary, the edition is first-
class value for the money. The library’s
10 vols. include stories from virtually
all countries, and represent all times,
They are clearly printed and neatly
bound. — Red Page.]


/ :
....
■
m i
c f 'I I
mam «
.JtBB
a
H
/T
I ■-
■
K
■
<■>■*•'. ; aal
Mi
m
w,
: :
B
I
M
..
M
■
• ::• :■
■
.
m
mSm.\
- ~ r
> :
IB
mm
: : ■'
i
I
IH
m
Vi
A
»
wiliitffi
‘' *-
■■■UflMFSsn
: •
sHIhHHI
- S‘| * -
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2876.
March Zl , 1 335.
JOB-CONTROL ON THE SHIP OF STATE.
“A few hours before the opening of the new Vic. Parliament, in obedience to a resolution passed at a secret meeting dominated by the central council of the party
organisation, of which Mr. Hocking is president, the three Country-party Ministers, one of whom was Deputy Premier, quitted the Argyle Ministry.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via ‘All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
PENSIONS IN TWO DOMINIONS.
The Lyons Government is abandoning the feeble
attempts it has made since 1932, and embodied in a
mass of hesitant enactments, to compel selfish
people in comfortable circumstances to support aged
parents instead of putting them “on the State,” and
to recover portion of the huge expenditure on these
pensions from property left by pensioners.
In 1932-33, as a result of the checks, 12,000
pensions were surrendered, and the number of pen-
sioners decreased by 6400. It was the first decrease
on record ; in the three preceding years there had
been increases of 14,000, 22,000 and 15,000.
Removal of one of the restrictions led to the total
going up 11,500 in 1933-34. This year there has
been another large addition (the expenditure for eight
months of the financial year was up £610,000), and
the process will now be accelerated.
For the year to June 30 260,679 persons received
allowances under the Old-age Pensions Act, the outlay
amounting to £10,963,000. The population, exclusive
of full-blood aboriginals, was 6,650,000. In Maori-
land, with a population of 1,480,000, exclusive of
Maoris, the corresponding payments (to 37,507
pensioners) totalled £1,350,900; and it would be
safe to wager that the Maoriland outlay will be less
than one-ninth of the Australian this year.
One reason is that Maoriland does not pension
invalids as such, although it has pensions for widows
with children, sufferers from miners’ phthisis and the
blind, as well as a system of family allowances. Again,
its politicians, having Scotch traditions, have been
less generous with other people’s money than the
gentlemen at Canberra. Its maximum old-age pension
began at £lB p.a., and has never been higher than
£45 10s. —it is now £43. The Australian maximum
started at £26 p.a., moved to £39 in 1920, to £45 10s.
in 1923 and to £52 in 1925. It remained at that
figure for nearly six years. It is now £45 10s. p.a.,
and is to be £46 16s. p.a. presently. The average
pension paid last year was 335. Bd. a fortnight.
Restrictions as to previous conduct and present
private income and property are also less liberal (if
that is the word) in the Dominion across the Tasman.
On the other hand, the Maoriland law has a provision
not in the Australian Act; where the applicant for
a pension has two or more wholly dependent children
under 15 the pension age is reduced to 60 for men
and 55 for women, and the £43 p.a. may be increased
by £l3. In Maoriland, as in Australia, the depression
economies were harder on certain classes of war
pensioners than on old-age pensioners, though there,
as here, the Diggers took them philosophically. To
2.1,314 war pensioners Maoriland paid £1,246,400 last
year, whereas 266,954 in Australia received £7,048,500.
The difference in outlay under the military and
old-age pensions enactments was £104,500 in Maori-
land and 'no less than £3,914,500 in the Common-
wealth.
Maoriland has a national provident fund which
eases the strain on the taxpayers, besides satisfying
the needs of self-reliant people who dread the thought
of lining up for a non-contributory pension or dole.
It is open to “any person between the ages of 16 and
50 whose average income during the three years prior
to joining has not exceeded £3OO p.a.” There is no
medical examination, admission being simply a matter
of filling in a form and paying the first weekly contri-
bution. The benefits include maternity allowances,
payments to widows and the fatherless and pensions
at 60—“ of 10s., 205., 30s. or 40s. a week, according
to the scale of contributions.”
Australia will have to go in for something of the
kind. Old-age and invalid pensions absorbed
£1,649,000 more than the proceeds of Commonwealth
income tax last year, though on property income in
excess of £3700 the tax was Bs. 8.4 d. in the £l. The
margin will probably be greater this year and greater
still next year, especially if —as seems likely—success
crowns the efforts of those who would lift the pension
to £2 a fortnight and keep it at that, regardless of
whether the cost of living rises or falls. With wool
down below lOd. the old-age and invalid pensions
expenditure will reach £12,000,000 by June 30, and
may easily rise to £14,000,000 in a twelvemonth.
It is Australia’s duty as a democracy to be as
generous to old people and invalids as its means
allow, but a country may go broke trying to be too
generous.
CHAIN STORES.
The subjoined article comes from the Bureau of
Modern Merchandising, which is “thoroughly repre-
sentative of chain-store interests in Sydney”:
The deputation which waited upon the Acting Common-
wealth Treasurer and asked that a turnover tax be imposed
upon chain stores (B. 13/3/’35) was reported in the daily
press to have been from retail traders. The Retail Traders’
Association of N.S.W. has advised Mr. Casey and the press
that it was in no way a party to the representations of the
deputation.
Mr. S. McKellar White, president of the Federated Tax-
payers’ Associations, has also issued a statement that these
organisations are strongly opposed to any form of punitive
taxation, particularly of a sectional nature.
Surely in a country where business is so obviously over-
taxed it is unthinkable that further impositions be made.
They would inevitably mean more unemployment and an
increase in the cost of living.
When any consideration is being given to suggestions
that the operations of chain stores be restricted it should be
remembered that the reduced incomes of the majority of the
people make it more necessary than ever for them to purchase
on the most economical market. Those who appreciate
“service extras” and who can afford to pay for them will
continue to support the usual run of independent store-
keepers. The masses will purchase from the chains, which
have eliminated service frills and passed the savings on to
them.
The “cheap stuff piled on the long counters” may be
“an omen of ruin” to some storekeepers, but only because we
have entered a new era of merchandising in which the
essential is to supply the public with quality goods as cheaply
as possible and with a minimum amount of delay.
Let the independents cease their protests against the
operations of chain stores and endeavor to bring their own
businesses into line with these modern merchandisers. The
owner of the hansom-cab who revolutionised his service to
his customers by buying one of the newfangled motor-cars
stayed in business and prospered; the cabby who sat on
his old box-seat protesting against the unfair competition of
the horseless vehicle found himself left far behind in civilisa-
tion’s march of progress.
Progressive independents who have applied chain-store
principles to their businesses have increased their efficiency
and are trading successfully in the face of chain-store
opposition.
It is said that chain stores have advantages over inde-
pendents in the matter of buying. Have the critics of chain
stores ever realised that, if 20 units of a chain can buy
to better advantage than an independent, how much more
advantageously 100 or 200 independent retailers buying on
a co-operative basis could operate?
Such a co-operative organisation could retain the
services of merchandising experts, real-estate specialists,
window-dressers, expert buyers and the like, and the nominal
contribution which an independent storekeeper would be
called upon to make towards their remuneration would be
offset many times by the increased efficiency and added profits
in which their services would result.
Some years ago chemists realised the tremendous advantage
of bulk buying and of co-operation, and to-day their Whole-
sale Drug Co., apart from supplying its members with
manufacturers’ and other lines on the most advantageous
conditions, regularly pays them handsome dividends.
Has The Bulletin man who walked through a chain
store and counted 170 girl and young-women employees and
only 10 men paused to consider the number of adult males
behind the scenes —buyers, carters, packers, management and
office staff? Many of these male employees receive wages and
salaries far in excess of those paid by other retailers.
Some chain stores have staffs consisting of practically all
men, and even in those which have the greatest proportion of
female labor the ratio is usually not in excess of four females
to one male. If The Bulletin man took a walk through
Sydney’s largest factories and departmental stores he would
find that in many cases the large percentage of employees are
women, usually in far greater proportions than in chain stores.
The proportion of juniors to seniors is clearly defined by
the law, and the “variety” chain stores have a record with
regard to the retention of the services of juniors after they
become seniors which places them far ahead of the average
independents or other employers of labor. For example,
Woolworths and Coles have never, since their establishment,
dismissed an employee because he or she has passed into
senior classification. They also employ more seniors in relation
to juniors than required by the law, and the minimum age
of their employees is 16, although the Shop Assistants Award
provides for the employment of juniors 14 years of age who
need only be paid 9s. 9d. a week.
The average wage paid to the female employees of a
leading “variety” chain store —and it is typical of them all —•
is over £2 a week. These employees receive better conditions
and privileges than those prescribed by the law.
In any case, if the chains did dismiss juniors as they
became seniors, why should they be singled out for criticism
when the Government and other employers find such action
necessary?
Let those who wish to see more seniors or more males
employed agitate for legislation which will make such con-
ditions generally applicable throughout all industry and com-
mercial enterprise, and if they be successful it will be found
that, as now, the chains will be amongst the first to conform
with the law.
The Bulletin remarks that chain-store companies have
done famously throughout the years which have been sorrow-
ful to thousands of Australians. Surely it does not regret
the fact that all commercial enterprises have not found them-
selves in a difficult position. The depression did not help
chain stores any more than it helped The Bulletin or the
“Woman’s Mirror” to increase their circulations. Chain
stores did feel the effects of the depression, but, because of
their vigorous policy of development and of increased public
support, they extended their operations.
Some of Australia’s chain stores have been founded for
well over 50 years. In the “variety” group Coles were
established in 1919, Woolworths in 1924; Selfridges, the
newcomers, have been trading under two years.
If precedent furnished by other countries is to be accepted
as justification for impositions on chain-store operations, then
just as logically we could adopt socialistic, Fascist, racketeer
and every other class of legislation that other countries of
the world have passed from time to time. The various States
of the U.S.A. which introduced anti-chain-store legislation
in the form of taxation found in many cases that they had not
the power to make such an imposition, and, after repealing
the measure, they reintroduced it, making it generally
applicable to all retailers.
One of the dangers which confront a large commercial
organisation is that its growth will outrun public understand-
ing, and the people will see and fear its size without under-
standing its service. All great progressions in the past which
have shown themselves of inestimable value to mankind have
been subjected to misplaced opposition similar to that which
now confronts the chain stores, usually by disgruntled people
whose immediate interests are affected by the competition
which has been created or else by people upon whose feelings
th disgruntled ones have played.
The independent trader finds he is losing support to a
competitor who is satisfying the public demands for quality,
service and price, whose capital is Australian, whose profits
are spent in Australia, who is selling a huge proportion of
Australian-made goods and whose trading has helped the
establishment of Australian industry. ,
Let him remember that “The greatest good tor tne
greatest number” is democracy’s keystone, and if, as have all
other great progressions, chain stores benefit the greatest
number and offend the few, then history’s lesson is tor the
few discontents to readjust their ideas and apply the principles
of chain-store merchandising to their operations, or in some
other way capitalise the immense and well-ordered demands
of these institutions for labor, goods and services.
The Bureau writer, it will be seen, wastes no pity
on the man who has lost or is losing his business
because a chain store has been planted in the neigh-
borhood, or on those other men who have lost or
are losing their jobs. He is unmoved by the situation
of storekeepers who have helped the country by
carrying debtors during the depression, and who
cannot cut their labor costs by employing a large
proportion of young females. And such information
as he gives is not very precise. “The average wage
paid to the female employees of a leading ‘variety
chain store —and it is typical of them all—is over £2
a week.” How much over?
The Bulletin can do better than that. Wool-
worths are mentioned by the champion of chains.
That concern paid 25 p.c. on ordinary shares in 1929,
30 p.c. in 1930 and 25 p.c. in 1931, besides 10 p.C;
on preference shares in each year. In 1931 and 1934
it distributed bonus scrip—so lavishly that 337,077 of
its 421,969 ordinaries now stand in the books as
bonus shares. The last annual balance sheet showed
£100,418 of profit, after transfer of £50,000 to taxa-
tion reserve. This £100,418, less pref. dividends
(£14,500), was equal to 101.2 p.c. on ordinary capital
when the bonus issues are taken out of it. Yet
“the masses” have benefited as well as the share-
holders, for the chains “have eliminated service
frills and passed the savings on to them” ; the chains
have ushered in “a new era of merchandising in which
the essential is to supply the public with quality
goods as cheaply as possible.”
In Woolworths’ case there seems to be a flaw
in the argument; but perhaps the age of miracles
has come again.
THE UNEMPLOYED BOY.
The recommendation of the Federated State School-
teachers’ Association that “the school-leaving age
throughout Australia should be raised to 16,” and
that “adequate childhood endowment should be pro-
vided,” had a fairly good press. Last week a number
of Anglican archbishops and bishops went one better
with a resolution not only that the leaving age should
be raised to 16, but that “young men should be main-
tained in training afterwards till employed.”
There is an almost mystical belief, particularly
amongst certain ecclesiastics, in the virtue of planting
book-learning in the minds of the young. The process
doesn’t seem to add materially to the sum of human
happiness. In India, Egypt, Spain and almost every
other country where attempts to undermind Govern-
ments are endemic, discontented students invariably
take the lead. For every one person who is fitted to
benefit himself and others by scholastic learning ten
or more appear to derive little from it but grinding
inferiority complexes.
Since the depression a new reason has been found
for cramming the young with doubtfully useful know-
ledge ; it keeps them out of mischief. There are over
50.000 jobless youths in Australia who are available
to be saved in this manner at the taxpayers’ expense.
Some of those who leave school at 14 might be given
chances to maintain themselves which they don’t at
present possess. By doing away with the obstacles
which prevent most Australian boys from being
apprenticed to a trade till they are 15, for example.
But it has to be admitted that the openings in industry
are few and far between. In the skilled trades —
printing, wood-working, metals and a dozen more that
might be mentioned —there is little demand for boys
between 14 and 17. Girls are increasingly employed.
A Melbourne paper revealed recently that “to-day
there are 1100 fewer boys and 620 more girls employed
in Victorian factories than in 1927.” It is much the
same in the other States.
The land doesn’t offer many opportunities either.
Said W. T. Robinson, president of the Grafton
(N.S.W.) Show Society, to some Rotarians who had
suggested sending unemployed city boys to farms:
It is useless trying to force youths on the land
when the sons of farmers are leaving farms. Any
scheme which has for its object the increasing of
primary produce, of which there is already a surplus,
is not worth spending time and money on.
The fatal age for boys, by general consent, is 16.
According to T. Nance, who conducted a youth-
employment campaign in Sydney last year;
We have been able to place boys up to the age of
16, but over that age it is extremely difficult. It seems
quite impossible to find work for lads of 18.
The left-overs may be seen in all the cities and
in most country towns. Some get dead-end jobs—
caddying, shoe-shining and the like ; some seek casual
work and occasionally find it; some give up the
struggle and loaf, deteriorating, in the absence of
regular habits and discipline, till they reach a stage
where they couldn’t work efficiently if they got the
chance. Britain is said to have half a million of
such lads: a result of the dole, coupled with the
peace-time Briton’s traditional objection to anything
in the nature of military conscription.
The average Australian taxpayer can’t for the
life of him see why, in order to cope with this situa-
tion, he should be saddled with the cost of more
teachers and more endowment schemes—inevitable
concomitants of raising the school age. If the surplus
50.000 must be maintained and trained at the public
expense, it would far better to maintain and train
them as citizen-soldiers. The only compulsory force
the Commonwealth has had formed the backbone
of the A.I.F. 20 years ago, and, by the present look
of things in Europe and Asia, Australians will be
lucky if they are not called on to defend their lives
and possessions again long before another 20 years
have passed.
HENRI SINGEMOINE.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hocking the Kingmaker.
Melbourne’s Garden Square.
Once more the suggestion of a garden square for
Melbourne, made at various times by engineer J. T.
Smith, has come into the picture. Smith’s scheme
would provide Melbourne with a central square —a
luxury which becomes almost an absolute necessity
for a big city.
Smith advocates roofing over the whole area of
Princes Bridge railway station and the adjoining rail-
way yards, which stand to-day 20 to 30 feet below
the street level. This would provide a vast square
between the Yarra and the cathedral in Flinders-
street, and a square which could be laid out with
decorative gardens and statuary to make a veritable
beauty spot at the entrance to the city. The cost
would be small in proportion to the advantages
offered, and, in place of a jungle of crossing lines
and a forest of signals, the approach to Melbourne
would be uninterrupted in picturesqueness. As it
is, there is a sudden tumble into the sordid mechanism
of a railway yard at a low level after passing the
glorious vista of St. Kilda-road.
Apart altogether from aesthetic advantages, the
square would provide Melbourne with a central spot
where people could wait in the open air. No longer
would it be necessary to lean against lamp-posts or
Until last week the Country party was allied with
the Nationalists in the four States in which it exists,
and was represented in three Governments. The
people of Victoria must approve of the arrangement
in their State, for they have given the associated
parties thumping majorities at two Assembly elections.
But the U.C.P. constitution places excessive powers
in the hands of a so-called central council, which is
against’ participation in any Government unless its
minority party has all the portfolios. The idea is
that concessions can be extorted from one of the
bigger parties by political blackmail.
To the mass of Victorians the members of this
central council are unknown, even by name, but the
“chief president,” a Mr. Hocking, of Toorak, has
achieved a certain notoriety by engaging in acrimoni-
ous arguments with members and sections of the
party, and being repeatedly worsted. At various
times he has fallen out with Federal U.C.P. members ;
with the people of G unbower, who elected Mr.
Martin in spite of him ; with the State Parliamentary
party, which admitted the “unendorsed” Martin to
the party-room; with Dr. Harris, who, though
U.C.P. leader in the Upper House, was expelled for
refusal to sign a pledge ; even with his own treasurer.
At this month’s poll the U.C.P. gained three
whole seats, one with Nationalist second votes. The
wine of unwonted success evidently went to Mr.
Hocking’s head. Mr. Tunnecliffe, the Labor leader,
reversing the traditional policy of his party, offered
to assist the U.C.P. to turn the Argyle Government
out. Though a general conference of U.C.P. branches
is due at the beginning of April, the elated Hocking
summoned a meeting of the central council and the
Parliamentary party to consider the situation.
The meeting was held last week. At its con-
clusion Mr. Hocking said to the reporters, “We have
decided to go out —to discontinue our association with
the Argyle Ministry.” Though the proceedings and
the ballot were secret, it has transpired that the
resolution was seconded by a Mr. Kelly, a member
( r the central council and a defeated candidate at
the late election, and that members of the central
council furnished most of the majority.
So on the morning of the day on which the new
Parliament met, U.C.P. Ministers Dunstan, Allan and
Goudie walked out of the Ministry, Mr. Dunstan
had five days before accepted the Deputy-Premiership.
Dr. Argyle filled the vacancies with Nationalists and
met Parliament. While awaiting the threatened no-
confidence motion, he did not reproach his colleagues
who had obeyed the lesser of two loyalties, but spoke
seriously and with dignity of the effect that a succes-
sion of weak Administrations must have on the affairs
of Victoria.
Mr. Tunnecliffe is doubtless chuckling at the
simplicity of Mr. Hocking and his friends. He is only
using them to wound the U.A.P., and when that
immediate purpose is accomplished he will go after
a redistribution of seats. Very probably the Young
Nationalists will help him to get it. In that case,
instead of there being 39 country constituencies with
half the electoral population and only 26 metropolitan
seats, the metropolis will have nearly equal power,
and instead of there being 20 U.C.P. Assemblymen
there will be no more than 12, probably divided into
two factions, as they were before.
Though the offer of Labor support has fired
the imagination of the obsequious Mr. Dunstan, a
Dunstan Government cannot last long. It and its
uncertain new allies will be in a hopeless minority
in the Leg. Council. A rural rehabilitation plan
prepared by the three U.C.P. Ministers was to have
been the chief work of the present session. There
is now no guarantee that it will survive a second
reading in the Upper House.
It is asserted by the egregious Hocking that the
decision of his secret meeting “cannot be reviewed
by General Conference.” General Conference ought
to have something to say about that.
*
Relief Taxation in Queensland.
Queensland unemployed statistics look pretty good;
Trade-union figures showed 38,320 out of work in
1932 ; the number has been reduced to 22,940. The
unemployed percentage stood at only 10.7 p.c. in
December last against 10.1 p.c. in 1929, though it
has risen a little since.
In seven months to the end of January the
Government collected £296,820 in unemployed-relief
tax. Mr. Bulcock, the Minister for Agriculture, has
promised “a great reduction in relief and other taxes.”
A great reduction is needed, and as imposed now the
relief tax is not even fair.
As the Taxpayers’ Association points out, the
departmental method applied to “capitalists” is to
collect tax “practically a year in advance.” “Tenta-
tive” assessments are sent out. Last year high wool
values ruled, and many graziers were able to show
a net income, on which they were Assessed. This
year wool and stock prices are low, but they have
received assessments for 1934-35 on the basis of 1933-
34 values. Many of them are now struggling with
drought.
♦ ;
Coroners’ Verdicts.
The British Home Secretary (Sir John Gilmour) told
the House of Commons a few days ago that
a committee, under the chairmanship of Lord Wright,
had been appointed to inquire whether it was desirable
and practicable to make changes in the law and practice
applying to coroners’ inquests.
At present, here as in Britain, a coroner is empowered
to find not only that a murder has been committed
but that it was committed by a named person. It
means that one who is acquitted of murder by a
Criminal Court may bear the stigma for life of
having been convicted by a Coroner’s Court—a juris-
diction in which hearsay tittle-tattle is admitted.
Because there are no rules of evidence in a
Coroner’s Court, the proceedings are unusually spicy,
and scandal-sheets report them at length. Australia
has had many examples of how the system operates.
If a murder has revolting features—if a child was
the victim, say—the accused is liable to be found
guilty by the public before the real trial comes on.
If accused is a pretty woman crime-reporters wax
sentimental, and potential jurors who read their
lachrymose stories get an impression that she i$ a
sufferer from secret wrongs. In either case justice
suffers.
The coroner’s sole province, as The Bulletin
has been saying for years, should be to determine
the cause of death. The discovery of who wielded
the knife, administered the poison or what not is
a matter for the police, the Crown Law officers and
a criminal jury. This is one of the changes in pro-
cedure which are certain to be recommended by Lord
Wright’s committee, and the States of Australia
would be the gainers if they adopted it out of hand.
* .
The A.N.A. Comes Back.
For the first time for many years the A.N.A., which
formerly divided control of political power in Victoria
with David Syme, reveals a promise to take its place
once more in the counsels of the country. Possibly
this body did more to advance the cause of Federa-
tion in Victoria and South Australia than any other
factor. It kept out of party politics but stood strongly
for Australian nationality. Every Australian must
take off his hat to the work it did in the years
preceding Federation.
But, Federation having been achieved, the A.N.A.
went to sleep, content to function as an ordinary
friendly society. For years it discussed matters of
no greater moment than the fees of lodge doctors and
subscriptions to dispensaries. Of late, some of the
younger and more live members have been stimulated
to work the A.N.A. back to its old position, and
the conference just held revealed a hopeful tone.
Governor-General Isaacs, a lifelong member, was
present, and the gathering passed off with a vigor
which it had not shown for a generation.
, There is room for a fighting A.N.A. of the old
type—room for it in every State.
hang about “under the clocks” of the Flinders-street
station. The Continental atmosphere which so many
people demand of Australian cities would have a
chance of development.
The time is not long distant when the western
gate of the city will need reconstruction. At present
it consists of the Flinders-street station, an archi-
tectural atrocity forced on the late Tom Bent in hard
times, whereon a tin wall in .one spot is painted to
represent brickwork. Anew Flinders-street station
worthy of the immense traffic must arise sooner or
later, and with the garden square facing it the southern
gateway of Melbourne would be something to regard
with pride.
Very nearly was the railway yard roofed a few
years ago by a Government which set out with the
idea of erecting shop-fronts on the Flinders-street
frontage. Fortunately the suggested vandalism was
Squelched in infancy. If the scheme is carried out
it should be carried out properly. There are many
precedents for underground railway stations. The
Grand Central of New York, through which millions
pass daily, is practically underground.
*—
Australian Museums.
Dear Bulletin, —Let me say a word in defence of
the Australian museums so mercilessly condemned
(B. 13/3/’35) by a writer who says they are mostly
“dismal vaults which smell of decay.” He goes on
to refer to the Sydney Technological Museum as
being “carefully hidden in a suburb” and containing
“a small, sad collection of static curiosities.”
Museums that store perishable stuff smell of
preservatives— not of decay. “Dismal vaults” isn’t
fair. Both the Australian Museum and the Techno-
logical Museum in Sydney are, as museums go, well
lit. Most of the exhibits in the Technological Museum
are static, but I really don’t see how the very excellent
survey of Australia’s natural resources provided by
this institution could be improved by making the
animal, vegetable and mineral specimens jump about,
The main idea of this museum seems to be to
answer any questions that might be asked by a manu-
facturer who wants to use Australian material. It can
show him the nature and variety of the stuff and its
uses, and the experts attached to the museum make
it their business to know processes. The work of
R. T. Baker on Australian timbers, of Baker and
Penfold on eucalypt products, and of Hawkesworth
in connection with wool has attracted world-wide
attention, and the museum has facilities for labora-
tory tests and analyses that are continually being
used by manufacturers and other industrialists.
As to Hargrave, the Sydney Tech. Museum
houses 12 of his later aeroplane models. That it did
not secure one of the early box-kites he constructed
was not its fault nor the Government’s. The survey
of the history of human flight presented in the
museum is intelligently devised and attractively set out.
It is hardly correct, either, to say that the Harris-
street museum is “carefully hidden in a suburb.” A
tuppenny tram fare takes the visitor to the front door
from anywhere in George-street, and the attractions
of the museum have been brightly advertised in
suburban trains for several months past. The Stras-
bourg clock model draws many visitors daily, and
there are working (moving) models of various sorts
of motors and a loom.
Nobody interested in the institution will deny
that it ought to have a more central site, that it
should be purged of much irrelevant matter, that it
should be given an annual grant sufficient to enable
it to keep pace with the march of science (its electri-
city section is poor, and it has no radio section); but
even when these obvious defects are rectified it won’t
be fair to compare it with Munich, which serves not
a town but a population eight times that of Australia,
or with South Kensington, which, like the British
Museum, serves an Empire.
S. F. Markham and Prof. H. C. Richards reported
three years ago to the Carnegie Corporation that
Sydney Technological Museum is the best in the
Southern Hemisphere. They had seen most of the
world’s museums, and they did not regard the Sydney
show as small or sad. —Yours etc.. Technix.
♦
Bankruptcy Costs.
I. D. Keenan, the Queensland Official Receiver, in
reply:
The estate referred to in B. 27/2/’35 came under admini-
stration in bankruptcy after the widow had carried on her
late husband’s business for 11 months. At the date of death
the deceased estate had unsecured liabilities of approximately
£2400. The whole was left to the widow (and executrix).
During the 11 months she paid off about £IOOO of unsecured
liabilities, but in doing so she incurred fresh liabilities to the
extent of £llOO or £I2OO.
It was found that a difficult question of law had arisen.
It was very doubtful whether the creditors who had supplied
goods to her should be paid in full before the creditors
existing at the date of death received anything, or whether
those creditors should gain the benefit of the whole of the
estate, thus leaving the creditors of the executrix without any
dividend.
The Official Receiver called a meeting of all the creditors,
and strongly recommended to all that they avoid litigation and
the consequent costs, which were likely to be heavy, and that
all should share and share alike.
Unfortunately, the two sets of creditors would not agree,
and preferred to resort to litigation. The litigation reached a
stage where heavy costs had accumulated, and it appeared
likely that the whole of the estate would be eaten up in costs
before finality could be reached. The Official Receiver called
a further meeting. At this, held nearly 12 months after the
first one, the creditors agreed to the proposal that they
should share and share alike out of what was left; so that
claims for dividend at £3585 12s. lid. represent both sets of
creditors.
Your contributor, if a creditor, was well aware of these
facts. He was also well aware that, through the efforts of
the Official Receiver in regard to income-tax claims amount-
ing to £526 10s. 10d., the Commissioner agreed to waive his
right to preference and to come in with the general body of
creditors, share and share alike. This, in effect, meant that
between £3OO and £4OO was saved for the benefit of the
general body of creditors.
Obviously there is no dispute or adverse comment about
any of the items of disbursement except “Other Law. Costs,
£662 11s. lOd,” the other items of disbursement being either
statutory or selling charges or money expended in protecting
the assets for the benefit of the creditors.
Australian Authors.
Dear Bulletin,—I quite agree with the remarks of
“Henri Singemoine” (B. 13/3/’35), and would appre-
ciate the opportunity of assuring him that the purpose
of Australian Authors’ Week is not to glorify the
work of local writers beyond its true value, but to
make a greater proportion of the Australian people
conscious of the fact that their country does possess
writers and publishers whose books are worth reading.
The Australian writer has always been at a
disadvantage in finding a market for his work. Of
recent years the position has improved tremendously
with the advent of new publishers, the augmented
production of existing firms and, above all, the
growing system of simultaneous publication of a
book in Australia and overseas ; but several things
continue to militate against the sale of an Australian
work. There still exists among our own people a
blind belief, possibly inherited from the early days,
that the local product cannot be otherwise than cheap
and shoddy, and that a British or foreign imprint is
equivalent to a stamp of culture. There is also a
distinct feeling that if our writers would ignore their
native country in their works they would be more
cordially received by overseas publishers.
The improved format of the locally-published
book has broken down a great deal of the prejudice
against its cheap appearance. Nevertheless, there are.
still people who do not realise that they can buy for
6s. an Australian novel which, if published in England,
would be retailed there at 7s. 6d.
There are no fortunes to be made by authorship
in Australia, but it is an interesting fact that from
the sale of a locally-published 6s. novel the author
receives more than twice as much as if the book were
published in England and sold here as a colonial
edition at 8s. 6d. In the past our novelists were
forced to emigrate to find a market, and gradually
became lost to us. ‘We do not desire the public choice
of reading to be unduly swayed by patriotism ; we
are endeavoring to show by our exhibition what has
been done by Australian writers to arouse a keener
interest in what is being done, so that when “a Brad-
man of literature” does arise—as assuredly he will —
we can keep him with us.-
J. J. HARDIE.
hon. sec.,
exhibition committee, Australian Authors’ Week.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jackaburra”: You wouldn’t think
many people would write and post letters
and forget to sign ’em, yet the mail-order
house for which I toil averages about
one such a day. An alert assistant fre-
quently effects identification by the writ-
ing and address, but sometimes even he
is stuck for clues. A lady wrote that she’d
posted an order a fortnight before and
hadn’t heard anything of it. Apparently
she was aware of her casualness, for her
concluding sentence read “Perhaps in my
hurry I forgot to sign my name.” And
there the darned thing ended ; it didn’t
bear any name, either.
* * * *
“Dogsbody”: “Fort Lytton” is too
dogmatic in his assertion (B. 20/3/’35)
that the ancient mariner had his leg
“ Well, Auntie, what about a trip across the Bridge?"
"Oh, dear, no! You don't get me on those newfangled things."
pulled about axes being used to clear
the rigging of ships navigating the Bris-
bane River. Even to-day, particularly on
the hairpin bends, the river is too narrow,
this despite the building of retaining walls
and cutting away some thousands of
tons of rock. Another point which he
has overlooked is that the deep water
channel doesn’t follow the centre of the
stream; it generally hugs one or the
other bank. Hence it is easy to pic-
ture the old deep-draught square-riggers
fouling their yards on undergrowth and
trees on the more precipitous banks.
* * * *
“R.P.C.”: Most Australians regard St.
Patrick’s Day as the particular business
of the Irish. Things were different in Scot-
land—before the war, at any rate. On the
Tayside March 17 was known as “Scotch
and Irish Day,” and bands of youths
roamed the streets looking for fight.
The brief inquiry, “Scotch or Irish?”
preceded the onset. The cautious man
always tried to guess the nationality of
his interrogators before replying. Tradi-
tion hands the palm for the soft answer
to a Southron who was carrying a
whisky-bottle. Deliberately misunder-
standing the query, he looked at
the bottle regretfully and murmured,
“Neither. It’s kerosene.”
“Copper”: Talking about profits on
pennies (B. 13/3/’35), a party of Britons
paid a Brisbane shipping office £l2O
in English pennies and ha’pennies the
other day as fares for three persons from
Queensland to England on the Moreton
Bay. It was estimated that the depart-
ing Britons made a profit of £3O out of
their collection. That, of course, doesn’t
take into consideration the valuable time
wasted and the currency value locked up
while collecting the hoard.
“Banker”: Re those 1864 pennies.
Perhaps “Denarius” goes back be-
fore my time, but when I joined a
bank in a Melbourne suburb in 1906 the
story of the gold content was deeply
rooted in my contemporaries. A Jew in
Prahran was said to be a buyer of any
quantity at five shillings each, which
seemed conclusive. Anyway, I eagerly
sought the opportunity to “relieve” on the
counter so that I might examine all the
copper coins. The habit of youth still
persists, and even now, though the young
Queen’s head becomes rarer and rarer,
I cannot refrain from looking at the
date. Yet in 30 years I have never come
across an 1864 penny or halfpenny. Were
there any minted at all in that year or
did some practical joker start the yarn?
“M. Turlutu”: Mr. O’Reilly seems
worried about the correct fdotage to be
allowed for picture kisses. In my days
as censor for pictures to be viewed by
the ratings of the Swiss Navy—they were
only silents, but that doesn’t affect the
question with a real kiss—we allowed
seven teet ' Sailors - o£ course - don,t get
“ S-s-so s-sorry — I must have had an attack of kleptomania."
the same amount of practice in such
matters as soldiers —that is why they are
termed the Senior Service ; the name of
Silent Service was conferred by them-
selves, with, I fear, ulterior motives. It
is not deserved. Anyhow, one of my
colleagues, a Swiss admiral of 63, wanted
12 feet. I borrowed the official stop-
watch, and led him to a Geneva barmaid.
“Carramba!” he exclaimed as she re-
leased him. “Je tinkit longtime”—Swiss
speak all languages—“byadecripe, soeda,
40 pedes! ” The watch registered six feet.
He said it was too much for the lower
deck and officers must keep their heads
in any emergency.
•!' * * *
“Pantagruel”; A mild symposium in
the dailies followed the remark of a
Sydney Judge that he would rather have
the opinion of a police sergeant about a
man’s sobriety than that of four doctors.
Retiring Police Commissioner Childs
projected himself into the controversy
in support of the judicial dictum.
Childs suggests that a policeman is
better qualified than a doctor to say
when a man is inebriated because
he sees his subject in the full tide
of his bacchanalian activities. A
single touch of a cop’s hand upon a sus-
pect’s shoulder generally tends to par-
tially sober the victim of excess, or at all
events makes him desperately anxious to
pull himself together. On the other hand,
the doctor only sees the man afterwards,
when he has been shot into the cells and
the process of sobering up has already
begun ; hence the medico is much more
likely to be deceived. There is a certain
ingenuity in the theory, which the Com-
missioner supported by an instance from
his own experience when he was a young
constable. None the less it brings us no
nearer to a reliable and comprehensive
test for drunkenness.
“Second Divvy”: That N. S. Wales
Judge who said that he preferred the
diagnosis of “one policeman to that of
four doctors” in a drunk charge re-
minded me of our C.O in France. The
old man always began by believing the
prosecution. But he applied a test: Was
accused so sozzled as to be incapable of
carrying out his duties? The finding
depended on the military usefulness of
the offender. Duds (I am speaking
chiefly of officers) were liable to be sent
to a base, if not back to Aussie, for
hiccupping out of their turn. The C.O.
spurned the evidence of the M.O. As
against which a bright lad who celebrated
his D.S.O. by getting paralytic in the
nearest town, using obscene language to
Y.M.C.A.-ites, outing an interfering
town major and returning to duty with
a civilian hat (his own having been lost
in the fray), was merely requested not
to do it again. The C.O. accepted the
testimony of the reveller’s sar’-major
(who had helped to put his superior to
bed) that “the officer was fully capable
of performing his professional duties.”
“M.G.”: One
of the speakers
at a recent
gathering in Mel-
bourne drew at-
tention to an
abuse long con-
doned —the prac-
tice of actors and vaudevillians in holding
up a stammerer for public entertainment.
There is nothing funny about ridiculing
an afflicted person, and the audience
which laughs at this sort of humor shows
shamefully bad taste. The stage stam-
merer should be warned off. The censor
interferes with many things less demora-
lising.
'!• *l' -i'
“General Prac.”: One soothing aspect
of the production of quadruplets by a
Maoriland mother the other day (B.
20/3/’35) was the complete absence of
press ballyhoo. How different was the
case of the Dionne quintuplets in Canada
last year! The kiddies’ parents were
poor French-Canadians living in an
obscure hamlet; but, once the news of
the births got about, all sorts of people,
from all over North America, bore down
on the humble cabin—reporters, camera-
men, sellers of infant foods, magi bear-
ing gifts of cradles and layettes. Of
course, the rarity of the occurrence
accounted for all the pother. Human
twins occur once in 80 or 90 fertilisa-
tions, triplets once in every 8000. Quad-
ruplets are 20 times rarer still, and the
Lord knows when we’ll read about an-
other batch of quintuplets. But they
will come again, as they have come
before.
“El V.”: “Mulga Mick” (B. 20/3/’35)
has omitted one use which makes The
Bulletin dear to the savage. Rolled
round half a stick of trade tabac, the
cover adds pungency, aroma and clouds
of smoke to his postprandial whiff.
Of course, covers are easier to come
by than interiors, which are prized
by marsters and kept well guarded, but,
even at that, what tales of peculation
could be written round the acquirement
of old-time “red pfeller cigarettes”!
Once at Natava (N. 8.) there was a
fight that nearly ended in murder—
some dirty thief from outside stole the
treasure over the head of a houseboy who
felt that all robbery in his own house
should be reserved for his benefit.
“D.”: Under modern conditions a
citizen who aspires to peace of mind
has to spend about half his time paying
insurance premiums. Practically every
family man has a life policy, and many
go in for accident insurance. It isn’t
safe to employ an uninsured servant.
Burglary insurance is advisable, and, to a
house-owner, lire insurance is necessary.
The car-owner who doesn’t insure
against third-party risks is asking for
trouble. And there is illness insurance.
Specialists (instrumentalists, dancers,
singers) have to insure the members or
organs by which they earn their livings.
There is no safer game than golf, yet
a player is liable to injure someone, and
to be sued. An Irish golf club had to
pay £2OOO to a caddie whose eye was put
out by a member. This club carried the
third-party risk ; most golf clubs don’t.
HOSPITAL HUMOR.
•‘At the South Sydney Hospital inquiry, Dr. Ryan
■said that he saw no harm in taking dyes from the
poison cupboard and painting another doctor pink.
Things like that had happened in hospitals from
time immemorial.”
You mustn’t think the noble art of healing
The sick and suffering and sore distressed
Impairs a doc.’s capacity for dealing
In droll, facetious quip and mirthful jest,
Or stops him from occasionally feeling
As ready for a frolic as the rest.
The wisest, gravest, most industrious men
Must have some relaxation now and then.
Ah! Dulce est desipere in loco.
How regularly that Horatian tag
Rises as plain before me as the boko
Upon a “book,” the antlers on a stag,
When’er I hear a culprit getting “toko”
For something in the nature of a jag.
And when your work is finished where’s the sin
Of using any place desipere in ?■
Where did it start, the idle, baseless rumor,
Given apparently so long a run,
That setting limbs or cutting out a tumor,
Or any job in hospitals that’s done,
Should blunt the operator’s sense of humor
Or spoil his appetite for wholesome fun?
Why shouldn’t he be mildly frivolous
When hours of ease arrive—the same as us?
In this enlightened century, with science
Ever revealing some new thrill and throb,
And holding soberness in firm alliance,
It’s pretty clear no leech would hold his job
For long who set conventions at defiance.
Like Allen (Benjamin) and Sawyer (Bob).
’Twould never do, such noisy revelry,
For any modern surgeon or M.D.
A model of decorum and discretion,
He paints the burg no more in carmine ink—
They’d briskly boot him out of the profession
For eccentricities like that, 1 think —
And when his joie de viyre finds expression
In coloring another doctor pink,
He finds it strange why interfering folk
Should fail to recognise a harmless joke.
N -s.w.
T. THE R.


“A.C.C.”: Tas. R.C. has installed am-
plifiers on its course. During an interval
between races recently, stentorian tones
were heard asking the owner of motor-
car number so-and-so to proceed imme-
diately to the car enclosure. All eyes
were anxiously turned in that direction,
expecting a robbery or an outbreak of
fire. The conclusion of the announce-
ment gave a much more simple explana-
tion: “The baby is awake!” How’s that
for service?
* * * *
“Whitehall”: “Keg” (B. 20/3/’35) says
a pup held up motorists in George-street
till a policeman deposited the animal on
a footpath. Such humanitarianism, he
implies, was un-Australian ; “of course,
it is quite possible that all the partici-
pants in the incident were English.”
Nationality had nothing to do with it,
and neither necessarily had humanitarian-
ism. Under the regulations, if a motorist
runs over an animal he has to stop, give
his name and show his license to a police-
man, if one is about, and perform other
tiresome duties, including, possibly,
taking the injured animal to a vet.
Afterthought: Kegs are often to blame
for such reasoning as “Keg’s.”
* * * =:■
“Finnegan’s Gully”: That New Eng-
land fossicker who used to wade into
water up to his armpits and shovel out
tin wash on to the bank (B. 13 /3 / ’35)
was following an old practice when the
water could not be diverted or pumped
out. On the old Gira goldfield in British
New Guinea many of the creeks were
chains of small, deep holes containing
rich wash. With these “blind stabbing”
had to be resorted to. There was no
question of armpit depth here. Armed
with a long-handled shovel, the digger
lowered himself into the icy mountain
water, and, taking a deep breath, scooped
up as much wash as he could while
breath lasted.
“Kwakprak”: The cabled story of a
woman, paralysed for 10 years, who,
after an injection of a new drug, was able
to jazz in half an hour is the sort of yarn
which does cruel harm to real sufferers.
Anyone who has had even a fortnight of
enforced complete quiet in bed knows
how long it takes the disused muscles
and muscle-sense to regain accurate con-
trol. Either the lady was a case of hys-
terical pseudo-paralysis or the story is
not true ; months would be needed, even
if she had muscle-treatment meanwhile.
The same sort of flamboyant exaggera-
tion is likely to do harm to the infantile-
paralysis treatment introduced by Sister
Kenny at Townsville (Q.). It is a psy-
chological business, based on self-hope
and cheerfulness—more than half the
battle in any nerve complaint. No good
nurse like Sister Kenny would claim it as
a miracle, even if the Acting-Prime
Minister, himself a real doctor, believed
in miracles—-other than political.
“Mick Maggot”: The lucky digger of
to-day who wants to “make whoopee”
(as hospital doctors term it) over his
good fortune is less lavish and more sen-
sible than his forebears who lit their pipes
with banknotes and bought liquor for
themselves and everybody in the neigh-
borhood. At Tennant’s Creek, a chap who
had struck it rich gave his hospitable im-
pulses free rein the other day by enter-
taining all and sundry for two hilarious
days and nights with a whole bullock,
quartered and roasted, and a lorry-load
of beer. Probably both he and they en-
joyed the fare much more than if he had
merely made a free house of a pub ; cer-
tainly they got more for their money. In
Anthony Trollope’s “John Caldigate,” a
Victorian digger is telling two newly-
arrived young Englishmen how he has
several times helped to drink champagne
out of buckets. “I’d sooner have beer
in a pewter,” says one of them. “It isn’t
that,” explains the other; “a nobbier of
brandy’s worth both of them; it’s the
glory of outfacing the swells at their own
game.” The Tennant’s Creek man, with
his roasted ox, may have had something
of the same sort in mind —a reminis-
cence of the celebrations at some ances-
tral hall in the Old Country when the
heir comes of age —but it is difficult to
quarrel with the hospitality that took such
an essentially practical form.
“Marcellus”: F. C. B. Vosper, the
long-haired democrat who founded the
Perth “Sunday Times” (B. 20/3/’35),
little knew what a rich claim he was peg-
“It’s vewy nice. Tommy, but Weally I'd Wather have had em'Walds."
ging out for others to develop. He never
made the paper pay, and his widow left
for South Africa a few months after his
death, selling it for a song. Few men
packed more varied activities and experi-
ences into a short life than Vosper, who
was a Cornishman and had made him-
self well known on Queensland fields
before he headed west in the early ’nine-
ties. Eight or nine years later he seemed
to have the ball of success at his feet.
He had served a term in the Assembly
as member for North-East Coolgardie
and made himself something of a terror
to the Forrest regime. Then Federa-
tion came along and Vosper announced
his candidature for the Senate. With his
natural gifts and his enthusiastic follow-
ing on the goldfields he would almost cer-
tainly have topped the poll had not a
fatal illness struck him down. He was
only 32 at the end.
“Sandys”: “Mena’s” lass (B. 13/3/’35)
who took snaps of her friend posing as
Eve will have to be careful where she
has them developed. I left a reel with a
Collins-street firm. When I called for
it, all eight pictures were blanks. The
girl didn’t know why. I went higher,
and was told that the film was “thor-
oughly indecent, so they had destroyed
the negatives.” It was a new censorship
to me ; and I could get no redress.
“10-2-4” remembers:
Sitting the other night in a super-mOTie I
was weary and ill at ease. Not physically;
mentally. It was an intermission, and I was
conscious of the absence of something, of
many things. Boys attached to trays of sweets
and ices swam up and down the aisles, hushed
as mutes. Patrons sat in the circles in cata-
leptic silence. Now and then somebody stole
in and sat down —stone sober.
Suddenly I remembered: this used to be the
interval. Hurricane draughts tearing in through
wide-open doors. Raucous yells of “Oranges!”
A buzz of excited conversation, rising to a
roar as well-known limelighters were identified
in boxes and elsewhere. Drunks reeling hilari-
ously in, falling over knees and trampling on
feet as they fought their way to seats which
usually turned out to belong to others. (It
can’t be done on milkshakes and cigarettes,
however Pompeiian the lounge.)
An insistent sound like the distant whimper-
ing of cats; the orchestra is tuning up. Ami-
able talkativeness giving way to indignation as
the night wears on and the proceedings show
no signs of beginning except for the bumping
and crashing sounds made by the sceneshifters.
“Up with the rag!” It doesn’t go up, and
perhaps a manager in a dress-suit that looks as
if it had been slept in for months appears
to explain why. . , .
The old style of entertainment had its dis-
advantages, such as colds in the head, rheu-
matism, pneumonia and the like; but how
warm and human it was spiritually! A well-
run movie-palace has almost as many inhibi-
tions as a genteel boarding-house.
* # * *
“Sandys”: “Whitehall” (B. 6/3/’35) is
right about the Englishman’s benevolent
treatment of domestic animals, particu-
larly his dog. But what about his atti-
tude to the fox and the stag? These
animals, he seems to believe, were created
solely for his pleasure. We Australians
are often thoughtless about animals,
and occasionally cruel to them; but I
am thankful we do not see nauseating
paragraphs in our papers such as this
from a London newspaper: “Daily
dinners for dogs, compounded scientific-
ally with the correct amount of vitamins
and varied in their ingredients, are now
being sent out to the dog inhabitants
of Mayfair at their homes in green dishes
with tight-fitting lids by Lady
from her dog parlor in Dorset-street.”
$ v
“Alpha”: Touching messages that
went wrong in war-time (B. 13/3 / ’35).
There is a story of a nervous subaltern
who, intending to report “Enemy patrol
in sight,” fired the wrong Verey
cartridge. With awful visions of the
results of “Divisional artillery will
open fire” before him, he sent back
the anguished appeal, “Have sent up
wrong flare. What shall I do?” Long
before the message could have reached
company headquarters, the answer
floated back, “Climb up and pull the
thing down.”
v V *l :
“D. Disc”: It is the sewage discharged
into the open sea at various points ad-
jacent to Sydney’s surfing beaches which
attracts the sharks. In the earlier days
of surfing (from 1906 to 1912) there
were no shark attacks at the beaches ;
the volume of sewage discharged into
the sea was then considerably less than
it is now. But the Parramatta River
was the scene of several shark tragedies,
the monsters being attracted there by
refuse dumped in the river from boiling-
down works. Meshing along the coast
from Cronulla to Broken Bay, and paying
a bounty for sharks over 3ft. in length,
would be of little utility; shark-proof
enclosures, as at Coogee, are the only
things which will keep surfers definitely
safe.
“Currency”: In the old days
it was customary to write
“sterling” or “stg.” after the
pounds amount when drawing
a cheque. It wouldn’t do now ;
since exchange went against
Australia, banks in their
cheques and drafts have cut it
out entirely. The Common-
wealth Bank goes a step
further. Possibly
some smart lad pre-
sented a cheque drawn
by an Aus t r alian
branch to the Lon-
don branch and de-
manded English cur-
rency; anyhow
cheques issued are
now stamped “Pay-
able in Australia
only.” Old-timers find
it hard to come to a
full stop after writing, say, “Five
pounds.” Came across one drawn by a
bishop recently; it was worded “Pay
cash the sum of five pounds exactly.”
* =!: * *
“Selma”: The guard on the Bondi
(Sydney) tram was having a little trouble
with the inebriated gentleman in the back
seat, whose voice presently uprose
accusing the official of having stolen some
of his property. “Well,” said the other,
as one who humors a peevish child, “wot
have 1 pinched?” “Me antelope,” com-
plained the passenger. “Antelope!” said
the astounded guard ; “you must be in the
horrors already.” But the sozzled one
insisted that he had that day purchased
an antelope, which he was taking home,
presumably as a peace-offering, to his
wife, and when he left the tram he was
still complaining bitterly of having been
robbed. He had barely vanished when
a newly-arrived passenger was observed
to kick with disgust a damp and dis-
reputable paperbag, much trodden under-
foot, into the passage. It contained the
missing property, a ripe and badly-
damaged cantaloup.
“Salmon Gums”: “Aster’s” bike thief
(B. 27/2/’35) evidently didn’t graduate
in the P.M.G.’s Department, or he
wouldn’t have been nonplussed by a little
thing like loose handlebars. As clerk in
a telegraph dispatch office, it was my
duty to report all accidents to machines,
with such details as were available. One
day a lad presented his bike for inspec-
tion with the handlebars detached.
“Hangin’ on to a tram,” he elucidated.
“Got ’em caught in a bracket and pulled
off.” “Come a cropper?” I asked. He
seemed surprised. “Not much, but I
had t’ pedal like blazes t’ catch the tram
an’ get ’em back.”
“ Don't you Worry ahoui me, dad. I’LL be all right."
ALLEGORICAL.
“That multiplicity of rhyme
That helps the meanest theme along.”
— “Answers to Correspondents” (B. 20/3 /'?>!>).
The Muse I never cease to woo
For looks is not a star;
“She is not fair to outward vie"
As other maidens are.”
So, lest her homeliness should mar
My lightly-lilting ditties
And give aesthetic souls a jar,
1 doll her out in pretties.
Her face would find admirers few,
I fear, behind a bar;
Her figure, between me and you,
Is sadly angu-lar.
Her contours wouldn’t carry far
With beauty-show committees;
Hence, day by day, I have to spar
To deck her out in pretties.
For rhyming fal-lals, old and new,
I seek the bards’ bazaar,
And rake the bargain basement through
To keep her up to par.
1 set them in the battered car
Where all my metric kit is
And, homing, tune my old guitar
To sing her praise in pretties.
And should your Muse prove lacking, too,
In charms that bring the billet-doux,
Twould be a thousand pities
To bid the dame a long adieu.
Give her a chance in pretties!
N.s.w.
IFORD.


fd
FACTORY-FRESH
m
m
•-««*■
when you open the packing
1 The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keeps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. Thai is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”—10 for 9 d - and 20 for 1/6
**
HIO2OM/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
POLLITICAL POINTS
Argyle will go out of office with an
enhanced reputation. After an initial
blunder—the proposal for five-year Par-
liaments —he fought a sturdy election
campaign, and his refusal to yield to
civil-service threats helped the allied par-
ties almost everywhere. The sudden
withdrawal of U.C.P. support has de-
prived him, not only of the Premiership,
but of a trip to London for which every-
thing" had been arranged; but he has re-
proached no one —not even Hocking, the
U.C.P. president. Mindful of future
possibilities, he has kept his head and his
temper. Diggers have no cause to be
ashamed of the only A.I.F. man who has
become Premier.
Hocking, boss of the Vic. Country
party, is a city chap—he lives in Toorak.
In the Gun bower by-election last year he
backed a storekeeper against Martin, and
lost his temper when the storekeeper was
licked. Martin, though re-elected un-
opposed, is still under Hocking’s dis-
pleasure, and was not allowed to vote
when the Toorak farmer and his friends
ordered Dunstan and co. to get out of
the Argyle Ministry and look sharp
about it.
If Argyle were as impish as the late
George Reid or as bitter as Lang, he
could have saved his bacon, and at the
some time made Hocking and Dunstan
look foolish. An offer of redistribution
of seats expanding the Federal plan
would have brought Labor behind Argyle
and transformed the U.C.P. into a very
dazed Opposition, wondering what had
happened. But Argyle has no humor
of the Reid brand, and he is utterly
without gall.
North Westralia is to be represented
in a Perth Labor Government at last.
McCallum, the Minister of Works, hav-
ing become a bankah at £2OOO p.a., Cau-
cus has voted Frank Wise into the Minis-
try, Wise was a Government agricul-
tural expert when he stood for Gascoyne
on April 8, 1933, and ousted Ted
Angelo, who had held the seat as a
Nationalist for many years. He will
bring knowledge into the Administration,
a commodity of which it is sorely in need.
Money collected in sales tax on
second-hand goods, illegally according to
a High Court judgment, is not to be re-
turned. “About £250,000” is involved,
and “the Government can’t afford to re-
linquish the amount,” so the familiar
validating Act is to be passed. Austra-
lian political practice has given valida-
tion a new meaning. To validate is “to
ratify and confirm” peculation.
The gods are kind to Forgan Smith.
Part of Fortitude Valley, a Labor
stronghold, has been transferred to Wind-
sor, narrowly won last time by Charles
Taylor, Moore’s Speaker. Brisbane gets
a new electorate framed from the edges
of Brisbane and Toowong; it will prob-
ably be Labor. Best of all from Foggy’s
point of view, Murilla, safely held for
quarter of a century by Godfrey Morgan,
Foggy’s most active critic, disappears.
Dalby gets some of the pieces, and
Labor’s chances may be strengthened
I here.
At Versailles the Germans agreed to
limit their army to 10 divisions, totalling
104,000 officers and men. There was to
be no conscription nor any air force.
Now an air force has been set up and
conscription for all arms has been de-
creed, while, according to the French
War Minister, the re-created army, nom-
inally of 36 divisions, “will shortly
number 720,000 men.” The treaty was
signed on June 28, 1919 ; it was repu-
diated on March 16, 1935.
“Shares in German armament firms,”
the cables say, “have risen sharply.”
Which makes suspicious-minded people
wonder how much Stock Exchange opera-
tions dictate the public policies of Euro-
pean nations. The inner group surround-
ing Hitler could have easily turned its
knowledge into a cool million by operat-
ing the bourses of different nations.
According to Acting-Treasurer Casey,
the cost of collecting Commonwealth
income tax last year was “less than
£250,000” and the cost of collecting land
tax “less than £90,000.” He admits that
the latter sum was “about Is. 6d. in the
£” ; but what’s Is. 6d. in the £ to politi-
cians or taxgatherers?
The Q.C.E., as Queensland Labor’s
G.H.Q. is called, has been active at
the expense of unwanted candidates, es-
pecially in Warwick. One gentleman, a
railway station-master, was refused en-
dorsement because, he says, he had criti-
cised the Q.C.E. for refusing it on an-
other occasion; another, a police pen-
sioner, because it was
questionable whether
he could take his seat
if elected. The
station-master is furi-
ous, but the police-
man is philosophical,
saying that he will
ask the party to re-
move the disqualifica-
tion of police pen-
sioners.
In spite of the
much-advertised “re-
missions,” the Com-
monwealth taxes on
property income still
go up to Bs. 8.4 d. in
the £. This rate
applies to incomes ex»
ceeding £3700; but
lottery prizes of
£5OOO to £25,000 are
exempt. There used
to be a p.c. tax
on these prizes; it
was removed “to help
Tasmania,” and the
three other States
which have gone into
the lottery business
have benefited. It
should be reimposed,
even if the proceeds
are reserved for State
undertakings like hos-
pitals ; and it would
cost only a trifle to
collect.
U.A.P. Federal mem-
bers from Sydney
have suddenly become inquisitive about
the Australian co. which combines car-
selling with motor-body-building and em-
ploys 5000 or 6000 Australians, nearly all
adults, at good Australian wages. One
young tribune wanted to know whether
the concern had not shown a profit for
1934. He was answered to the effect that
there had been a profit, nearly all on car
sales, but that profit was £332,600 short
of net losses for 44 years, beginning with
£516,400 in 1931. That same year a
chain-store co. whose employees are
mostly young females made a great dis-
tribution of bonus shares, and this last
year it showed upwards of 100 p.c. on
ordinary capital, exclusive of bonus
shares. But the McCalls and Harrisons
don’t seem to be curious about chain-
store finance.
Starke, J., has ruled that a woman re-
ceiving alimony from the husband she
has divorced is liable for Commonwealth
income tax on the yearly sum —in this
case, £lOOO. Taken by itself, that seems
fair enough; but the husband had
already paid tax on it, and will evidently
still remain liable. And as alimony is
not earned income the lady will be
assessed at property rates, which in Vic-
toria and the Commonwealth are much
higher than the rates on personal earn-
ings. In fact, the Commonwealth and
Victoria impose four taxes on income of
£lOOO from property.
Justice will never be done to all classes
of taxpayers until there are one simple
Income Tax Act, one lucid Assessment
Act and one decentralised department to
assess and collect.
Tas. Premier Ogilvie, off to England,
told a gathering that he would ask the
British Government for a tribunal to in-
vestigate the financial relations between
Commonwealth and State Governments:
Sent from England, such a tribunal
would have the confidence of both parties.
Presumably the same sort of confidence
that Ogilvie’s party showed in Niemeyer.
The Federal police force, which was
hatched out of the Warwick egg cast at
W. M. Hughes during the war, is to
become a body worthy of the name.
Canberra has decided upon the imme-
diate enrolment of sufficient stalwart
MR. EPSTEIN DOES A. STATUE OF MR. LANG.
men to “safeguard public undertakings
importance/’ A start is to
be made in Victoria, where 50 slops are
to be sworn in. The Commonwealth has
a military force and the six States have
police forces. Together these should be
capable of carrying out all the duties
suggested for the new recruits in blue.
Tinder Victorian law an nrdinarv cer-
tier Victorian law an ora na y e
tificate of death is not sufficient where
a body is to be cremated ; there must
be a more evbanctive evamination hv
be a more exhaustive examination by
a medical man. This examination has
cost as much as £4 45., and people are
_ . ~ . ,
protesting. The profession allows that
£2 2s. is a fair thing, and it is probable
that no higher tee will be now charged.
It might be made statutory.
In l<m the average butcher at Rris-
in uw me average ourener ar tins
bane abattoirs received pay amounting
to £474. Stickers got £435, sawmen £366,
laborers wiping beef £299. And they
were not satisfied ; they went on strike.
By contrast, Queensland Government
railways have been inviting applications
from graduates in civil engineering for
the position of field assistant; net annual
salary, £270. Melbourne University is
advertising for a demonstrator in organic
chemistry at £285 net. Perhaps univer-
sity unions will yet live up to their
name, as interpreted in brawny circles.
Thus M. F. Bruxner, N.S.W. Minister
for Transport:
Instead of producing a few things qf
very high standard, we will have to go in
for a high, all-round standard of produc-
tion, both in stock production and in
agriculture.
He might apply his dictum to his obsoles-
cent railways and tramways.
“Grasspan”: Friends of the Diggers in
Melbourne are agitating for an alteration
of route in the Anzac Day march.
Hitherto, it has finished with a steep
climb up Collins-street hill and a gradual
rise thence to the Exhibition Building.
The physical effort for the men —some
of them growing old, some of them
crippled and some of them ill-nourished
of late—is a cruel one, and one which
people not possessed of the Digger spirit
would not hesitate to dodge.
How is it that a good Nordic like
Hitler submits to the Nazis adopting a
Mongolian emblem? The swastika is
found among many ancient decorations
of all races, except the Nordics. It is
most commonly used by the American
Indians, especially those of Central
America; and, according to all ethno-
logists, they are Mongolian in origin.
In Melbourne last week a man whose
brother had given him a number of
income-tax stamps was charged with
fraud because he cashed them at head
office. The stamps had been paid for
by the brother; they had not been can-
celled, and neither the State nor anybody
else had lost a farthing by the transac-
tion, “There is no legislation to permit
a person to give the stamps away,” said
the department; but the Judge pointed
out that there was no legislation to pro-
hibit such gifts. The verdict was “not
guilty.” A private person who initiated
such a prosecution would stand a good
change of being hit for heavy damages,
but a Government department is appar-
ently above the law.
Senator Nye (U.S.A.) has put forward
possibly the best move to ensure peace
yet suggested. During war-time he
would limit all incomes to £2OOO a year,
corporate profits in excess of 6 p.c. to
be taken by the Government and all
essential servies commandeered. This
would wipe out the war profiteer, and,
with the war profiteer hamstrung, what’s
the good of war?
Another little revolution :
There has been an interesting revolt of Lang
Laborites against the Inner Group. Afraid
that a banned trade-union secretary might beat
its nominee for a seat on the new Water
Board, the Inner Group caused a letter —signed
“Jas. J. Graves, general secretary, A.L.P.” —
to be sent to “the Labor aldermen of No. 1
constituency” (they are the electors), ordering
them to bring their ballot-papers to the Trades
Hall and vote in the Inner Group’s presence.
One pointedly objected at a council meeting;
others must have taken the letter along to
Premier Stevens, for he read it out in the
Assembly in the course of introducing a bill
postponing the elections. There was yelping
from Lang Assemblymen, and the Boss himself
snarled; but it was soon found that the feel-
ing aroused by the attack on the secrecy of the
ballot was too serious to be trifled with. So
when the bill reached the Leg. Council it was
put through without a word of protest from the
Inner Group or any of its dummies, though
Graves himself is a member.


PRIME
MEAT
" comrade lyokis , meet,
comrade Mac Donald , V'
//
This is where our meat
WOULD BE SOLD,
IF IT <sot THIS EAR,
"This t£> Rotten Row,Joe
" SO YOU WERE SAVING, "
u
That ie. the:-er-
Bmly Tower , vx
u I 1
He was the first
TO Mention Dvjtv
And mow they c&mt
c,et it out op their
heads "
ThIG \S PICCAO'I_UV M
" Wh/\t time. does the Show Stmrt ? '
//
They SEEM A ©IT tight across
THE BEAT, 3TASI "
° DIMMIT, JoE ;
OH prokt"'
SO THIS IS LONDON!


Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
V.
John Heine
SYDNEY Zr Son Lfd • SYDNEY
McPHERSONS PT V. LTD., Melbourne., Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
BANK YOUR SAVINGS WITH
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
AND WATCH YOUR MONEY GROW
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Forestry Investments
exceeds
Reserves—
The Company's provision for maintenance and
realisation of the plantations (including
funds of half a million pounds in possession
of the Trustees for the Subscribers) exceeds
£250,000
£3,800,000
£900,000
AREA PLANTED: 156.415 ACRES—OVER 100,000,000 TREES.
Bankers; Bank of New South Wales and Bank of New Zealand.
Head Office for Australia: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London,
Bombay. Singapore, Shanghai, Sourabaya and Hongkong.
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona! Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
SPERSONAL ITEMS
Richard Emery, dead in Adelaide at
close on 94, was the last survivor of the
11 boys who in 1847 started St. Peter’s
School, AC. of E. affair from the first,
it opened in the schoolroom of the old
Trinity Church.
Add to the list of retired poets (B.
13/3/’35) J. Alex. Allan. His “Wine-
Shop Madonna,” published in 1911, is
among the few books published in Aus-
tralia which have been hand-wrought.
He confines himself to prose nowadays,
and recently published a “History of the
Modern School.”
“Trevdee”: J. B. Henstridge, a printer
of Dimboola (Vic.), is a replica of the
Prime Minister in looks, manner and
speech. One day Joseph Aloysius was
basking on the Frankston beach when a
Dimboola man came up to him and said
he was “getting more like Lyons every
day.” It was , the first intimation the
P.M. had of his double’s existence.
Drouin, Gippsland, saw its largest
funeral (20/3/’35) when 140 Diggers
escorted to his last resting-place Sergeant
Bill Boyes, D.C.M., M.M., a section-
mate of the late Albert Jacka, V.C. Bill
was for many years president of the
Drouin sub-branch, R.5.5.1.L.A., and a
councillor of the Buln Buln Shire. A
sufferer from several war disabilities, he
collapsed in the street on his way home
from a council meeting.
A new Commissioner of Police.
A Frith tribute to W. J. Mackay, the
braw laddie frae Glasgow who joined
the N. S. Wales police force on April 1,
1910, and had the laugh over all of them
on Saturday, when he formally took over
as Commissioner from W. H. Childs. He
had a lot to do with eliminating razor-
slashers and basher-gangsters from the
Sydney scene.
“D.” on bores;
It is significant that in a plebiscite held by
London “Daily Express” to discover England’s
deadliest bore the first two places should have
been filled by non-politicians—G. B. Shaw and
Amy Mollison. Sir Oswald Mosley, who came
third, is more limelighter than politician; a
London equivalent of Sydney’s Eric Campbell.
It doesn’t mean that politicians are less boring
in England than in, say, N. S. Wales, where
jaw-cracking yawns follow the assertion either
that Lang is right or Stevens righteous. Elec-
tion to Parliament carries with it a bore’s
license. Outside the Boy Scout movement, the
Bar, and society as understood by the scandal-
sheets, N. S. Wales has few bores in the British
sense; i.e., publicity-lovers whose doings are
constantly obtruded on the public. I would
nominate as Sydney’s Public Bore No. 1 Mus-
solini, with particular reference to the Ass.
Press photo, of him grinning in profile. Hitler is
a close second, and Sir John Simon (showing
most of his teeth), Ramsay MacDonald (soul-
fulness) and Baldwin (rugged honesty) are
bracketed third. If inanimate things can be
classed as bores, the misty snaps of Big Ben
and the outside of the local Legislative Assem-
bly, which in most of our dailies accompany
references to British and N. S. Wales politics
respectively, are in the running for first place.
Victor Courtney, who, with J. J.
Simons, has taken over the Perth “Sun-
day Times,” began his journalistic career
on that paper as a cub in 1911. Now
he returns to it as editor.
“R.J.R.”: Friends of Hugh McCrae,
the poet, would hardly associate him with
banking, yet it runs in the family blood.
His father, George Gordon, was a bank
clerk for a time in Victoria, and, a
nephew, Kenneth, is in the Union Bank
(Melb.). This member of the family is
a collector of historic documents relating
to the McCraes, Arthur’s Seat and early
Melbourne. At the recent opening of a
new road to Arthur’s Seat, by the way, a
granite tablet was erected to the memory
of the pioneer McCrae, who settled in
the neighborhood nearly a century ago.
“El V,”: Herbert Brookes, brother of
Norman, who has given. Melbourne Con.
a new wing, was trained as a civil
engineer. He was in mining for a term,
got some pastoral experience, married
a daughter of Deakin, has been presi-
dent of the Associated Chamber of
Manufacturers, a League delegate, an
adviser to the Imperial Economic Con-
ference, member of W. M. Hughes’s Fed-
eral Coal Control Board, of the Tariff
Board and vice-chairman of the A.B.C.
Protection took him into politics. Music
is one of his passions.
The death of Malcolm Cameron
marks the first break by death in
the representation of Barker (S.A.) since
Federation. Langdon Bonython, the
first member, recently gave £lOO,OOO to-
wards completing S.A. Parliament
House, and so stirred up one of
the biggest and bitterest controver-
sies in the State’s history. John
Livingston, the second member,
who, like Bonython, is an octo-
genarian, can be seen at any Cale-
donian Society gathering in the south-
east. Cameron, the third member, was
61 when he died —six months after retir-
ing from the seat.
Tabloid biography:
In 1884 E. E. Sneyd became a telegraph
boy in his home town, Brisbane. He was
at Charleville post office during the 1891
shearers' strike. Twenty years ago he received
his first permanent postmastership at Bowen.
In 1923 he came to Wynnum as p.m., and now
he retires after 51 years’ service. His grand-
father, Samuel Sneyd, was governor of Queens-
land’s first prison stockade at Eagle Farm.
“M.G.”: The dedication of a tablet
to Marshall Hall’s memory at the Uni-
versity Conservatorium made some old-
time Melbournites grin. He was loathed
by the unco’ guid 30 years ago. They
railroaded him out of his professorship
in those dark days, not because he wasn’t
a fine musician and an inspiration to his
students, but because he had published a
book of verses which the taste of the day
regarded as improper in spots. Hall im-
mediately started a conservatorium of
his own, and Melbourne presented the
strange spectacle of the private school
having more prestige thau the official
one.
For a generation sympathetic Vic-
torians have been feeling sorry for “poor
Walter Kirby,” who was struggling along
trying to make ends meet with that lovely
voice of his. Kindly old ladies used to
go out of their way to invite Walter to
dinner on the assumption that fie lacked
proper nourishment. Now Walter is
dead, and his will has been proved at
£19,000. How he made it nobody knows.
Practically the whole of the money goes
to religious charities, with the exception
of a thousand to found a musical scholar-
ship at the University.
The Rector of Melbourne Xavier.
Father Hacked, rector of Melbourne
Xavier. He taught for seven years at
Clongowes, the famous Irish college, and
later at Crescent College, Limerick.
Before his present appointment he had
worked for 10 years as p.p. at St.
Ignatius, Richmond. His brother, Francis
Hacked, wrote “Henry VIII.,” an Ameri-
can best-seller.
“H.M.’s” story:
Edward Devine, who, as “Cabbage-tree Ned,”
was the recognised emperor of coachdrivers
in Victoria, is to be given a monument.
An employee of Cobb and Co., he piloted at
the zenith of his career a mammoth vehicle
capable of holding 70 passengers. He was said
to be the only man capable of handling that
vehicle’s 22 greys. Born in Tassie, he settled
in ML. on his retirement.
Silas Spragg, dead at 82, was secretary
of the celebrated Sweating Commission
which toured M.L. in the ’eighties. Its
report on labor conditions formed the
basis of M.L.’s subsequent factory legis-
lation. While chief reporter of “Han-
sard,” Silas Spragg was examiner to the
law court official shorthand reporters, and
he helped to found the M.L. Institute of
Journalists.
The late “Wi” Duncan, of Rotorua,
was a physical marvel. Son of a negro
mother and a Maori father, he had
amazing physical powers. In his
famous footrace from Rotorua to
Tauranga he covered 41 miles over
a rough and hilly coaching road in
under six hours. “Wi” helped the
first party of Europeans to explore
Lake Rotomahana, the hot lake
fringing the Pink and White Ter-
races. When the present King and
Queen visited Rotorua in 1901
“Wi,” attired in full Maori war-
paint, ran in front and with rolling eye-
balls and waving taiaha gave the royal
couple a precursor of the Maori welcome
that awaited them in the settlement.
Some April birthdays;
Archbishop Le Fanu (Perth), Primate of Aus-
tralia, 65, and A. C. Davidson (Bank of
N.S.W.), 53, on Ist; Rabbi Freedman (Perth),
61, and knight Walter Young (Adel.), 63, on
2nd; Dean Aickin (Melb.), 66, and E. C. Riddle
(CommonwciiUh Bank), 62, on 3rd; Brig.
M. W. J. Bourchier, M.L.A. (Vic.), 54, painter
James Ashton (S.A.), 76, and Wing-Commander
Frank McNamara (first Aus. airman to win
V. 41, on 4th; British Trade Commissioner
Dalton (Syd.), 53, on sth; T. J. Collins,
M.H.R, for Hume, 49, on 6th; Brig.-Gen. Iven
Mackay (Syd.), 53, on 7th; artist Arthur
Streeton, 68, on Bth; Tom Trumble (late Aus-
tralia House), 63, former Prime Minister J. C.
Watson, 68, R. M. King, M.L.A. (ex-Min.
Educ., Q’Jand), 66, C. A. Bernays (former Clerk
of Parliament, Q’land), 73, and John Stonham
(editor, “Commonwealth Official Year Book’ ),
65, on 9th; poet Bernard O’Dowd, 69, Brig.-
Gen. McGlinn (Melb.), 66, and Freda Bage
(Q.), on 11th; Dr. Wm. Maloney, M.H.R.
(Melbourne), 81, and S.A. Senator Mick O’Hal-
loran, 42, on 12th; Justice Douglas (Q.), 52,
and Tas. Gov. Ernest Clark, 71, on 13th; W. C.
Hill, former M.H.R. for Echuca, 69, on 14th;
Stanley Bruce, 52, Maj.-Gen. Gordon Bennett
(Syd.), 48, ex-Mayor Alfred Simpson (Adel.),
60, and Q. Premier Forgan Smith, 48, on
I.sth; Gen. Chauvel, 70, and Col. E. F. Har-
rison, M.H.R. for Bendigo, 55, on 16th; Rev.
John Walker, 80, H. C. Brown (Sec. Dept, of
the Interior, Canberra), 61, and author Vernon
Knowles, 36, on 17th; Wm. Dixson (founder of
Dixson Gallery, Syd.), 65, and Archbishop
Head (Melb.), 61, on 18th; Melb. Uni. Chan-
cellor MacFarland, 84, on 19th; W.A. Premier
Collier, 62, and Tas. Senator J. B. Hayes, 67,
on 21st; Littleton Groom, M.H.R. for Darling
Downs, 68, Prof. Charteris (Syd.), 61, W. L.
Baillieu (Melb.), 76, and Clifford Hay (N.S.W.
Premier’s Dept., Syd.), 57, on 22nd; Q’land
Senator-elect Cooper, 44, knight Arthur Robin-
son (Vic.), 63, Capt. F. J. Bayldon (Syd.), 63,
Prof. W. J. Dakin (Syd.), 52, and Judge Macin-
doe (Vic.), 52, on 23rd; medico-knight Maudsley
(Melb.), 76, on 25th; ex-Q’land Senatpr Drake,
85, knight W. J. Sowden (late Adel. “Register”),
77, Col. White (Min. for Customs), 47, Mac-
Callum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.), 67, H. J.
Stewart, M.A. (Wesley Coll., Melb.), 59, and
singer Florence Austral, on 26th; G. J. Cohen
(Syd.), 93, knight Henry Braddon (Syd.), 72,
W. Lieut.-Gov. Mitchell, 69, Prof. W. E.
Agar (Melb.), 53, Hewlett Ross (Melb.), 78, and
former Speck Premier Walter Lee, 61, on 27th;
Justice Dixon (High Court), 49, on 28th; knight
Geo. Julius (Industrial Research Council), 62,
and Prof. E. G. Waterhouse (Syd.), 54, on
29th; Justice Eyatt (High Court), 41, Prof.-
knight Harrison Moore (Melb.), 68, Capt.
Edgar Johnston (Controller of Civil Aviation),
39, and Prof. Shann (Adelaide), 51, on 30th.
Dr. Kagawa, now evangelising in
Sydney, must come as close to being a
practical Christian as any living person.
His books are best-sellers in Japan, and
he has drawn over £25,000 from them
in royalties ; but he is as poor as when
he left the Kobe Theological Seminary
in 1909. The whole of his earnings have
gone to support his social settlements in
Kobe, Osaka and Tokio. In his early
years as a minister Dr. Kagawa worked
among the destitute in Japan, sharing their
privations, and he led the strike which
ended the Japanese equivalent of Eng-
land’s Combination Laws. His novels
DR. KAGAWA.
consist largely of attacks on slum life,
and he was hated for many years by the
official classes. He has no personal
rancors himself. An inspiring preacher,
he is also a humorist who makes his
points glumly—a Japanese Dr. Downey.
He has a wife and three children.


Handy Hints
for the
Farm
Every effort has been used to make the
book of the greatest value on every kind of
farm. The experienced farmer will know
hundreds of the things in it. It is those he
doesn’t know or has forgotten that will make
it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head
office of “The Bulletin,” 252 George Street,
Sydney; or from any branch office: 247-249
Collins Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; James Place, Adelaide;
33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street,
Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.
Contains over 1,000 practical Hints
from tKe Hand pages of
faJZulletCa
INVESTORS!
From £5 upward
Your first investment should be a
12 months’ subscription to “THE
‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
is filled with reliable financial
information.
It caters especially for the small
man who is not “in the know.”
No other paper has such extensive
records; no other paper has such
competent writers.
Its mining information comes direct
from the fields.
Order your copy from your local
newsagent, or send 22/6 to the
publishers,
252 George Street, Sydney,
for a 12 months’ postal subscription.
SPECIMEN COPY SENT FREE ON
REQUEST.
3-
H
:
<m
m
m
m
V; >■-
<sJH
I
■
ui %
O
CA
V-
-1L
vu
o
-A
O
'
‘ ••• : 'l •?.
.-■
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited.
BALANCE SHEET, 31st AUGUST, 1934.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised .. £12,000,000
Capital issued . . £12,000,000
Less : Reserve lia-
bility thereon .. 8,000,000
£87,501,525 11 2
£46,562,556 9 6
ASSETS.
Specie ‘on hand and cash balances..
Bullion and advances on bullion. •
Money at call and short notice
in London
Investments
British Government, Common-
wealth of Australia Government
and New Zealand municipal
securities
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
a t London office.. ..
£8,705,818 5 7
80,528 0 11
330,000 0 0
2,806,942 0 4
1,839,223 15 7
. £13,768,512 2 5
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in London (after making pro-
vision for bad and doubtful
debts and contingencies) ..£32,417,658 10 # 6
Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. .. 286,600 0 0
London leasehold
premises at cost £142,304 19 4
L e s s: Reserves
against same
and accrued in-
terest . . .. 52,519 2 9
_ 89,785 16 7
£46,562,556 9 6
London, Ist January, 1935.
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 28th February, 19:14 .. .. • ■ .. ..£224,032 4 0
Less: Dividend, July, 1934 . . . . .. . . .. ■ ■ • • • • • • • • 120,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of .. .. .. .. .. •• •• •• ..£104,032 4 0
Profits of the past half year, after making provision in respect of bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies .. .. •• £542,710 10 3
Less: Salaries and allowances to the Australian and
New Zealand staff . . . . . . . . .. £241,450 10 2
General expenses in Australia and New Zealand—
including rent, rates, stationery, etc. .. .. 68,509 19 6
Directors’ fees .. .'. .. ..£4600 0 0
Income tax paid thereon .... .. 1376 14 9
5,876 14 9
Salaries of London office staff, audit fee, rent,
rates, stationery and general expenses .. .. 24,563 13 7
United Kingdom, Australian and New Zealand taxes 95,316 11 11
435,717 15 11
106,998 14 4
Balance of undivided profits at this date .. •• •• •• •• •• ..£211,030 18 4
E. W. PARKER, HUGH FLOWER, A. MAXWELL, Directors.
W. A. LAING, Manager. S'. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act 1929,
we report to the Members as follows:
We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the books at Head Office and
have had access to the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from
Australia and New Zealand. We have verified the correctness of the Cash, Money
at Call and Short Notice, Investments and the Bills of Exchange held in London, and,
having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of
opinion that such Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the
Company and the said Branch Accounts.
London, Ist January, 1935. WHINNEY, SMITH WHINNEY, Auditors.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT.
General Manager for Australasia W. A. LEITCH, Esq.
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
Manager at Sydney (corner Pitt and Hunter Streets) J. G. A. RAE, Esq.


m omm cordials
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/» and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12 45 p.m.), Dinner from 6.30 p.m. (Sunday, 6.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Doe* he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W, BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
P. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPMOBIL
Light and Portable MOTOR PUMPS.
a
PUMPMOBIL
Weight about 1401 b. Automatic
Priming—Reliable and Efficient. Especi-
ally suitable for Prospecting and all
Sluicing requirements.
Particulars from
NELSON & ROBERTSON,
12 Spring Street SYDNEY.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> & £/ &
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1,886 1,886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 f 308 2,194
1930 83,387 20,489 8 „ „ 44,506 18,392 20,586
Deficit.
Written off shares in other cos., 1183,588.. 63,002
Loss.
1931 695 10.261 J Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934' 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 . . 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238. . 6,549
1935 75,530 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
*Eight months,
flncluding 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords. f.3J p.c.
§ Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28, 1935.
This is the holding co. which welded the
interests of Metters and K.F.B. in 1927,
when values generally were at about
their peak. It exchanged its own scrip
for shares in the other two on a net tan-
gible basis, including some £54,000 for
inner reserves which then existed. Pres-
ently another subsidiary (K.F.B. Pty.)
was formed and put up a factory at
Footscray (Vic.). The history of the old
cos., particularly Metters, and early per-
formances after the merger were very
encouraging. But as usually happens in
the early stages of a slump, and especially
where large plant is involved, it was im-
possible to drag overhead back in propor-
tion to the drop in turnover, which, for
the three operating cos. combined, fell to
about one-third of what it used to be.
Hence the subsidiaries registered losses
aggregating £163,195 for the three years
to the end of 1932.
Next year they earned a small profit,
thanks to the revival of the building trade
and to savings following an overhaul of
the organisation. But a deficit of
£155,290 stood in the way of this co.’s
ords. To wipe out the deficit, write
£157,238 off the book value of share-
holdings and provide £6549 as a reserve
for contingencies, 7s. 6d. per share
(£319,077) was lopped off the ords., re-
ducing paid capital to £828,835 in
297,050 £1 7 p.c. prefs. (subject to 224-
p.c. statutory cut) and 850,856 ords. of
12s. 6d. each. The prefs. were not inter-
fered with.
Last year the subsidiaries netted
£81,280 (up £74,810), of which £75,530
was passed on to the holding co., enabling
it to pay 4} years’ pref. divs. (£75,353),
cleaning the slate to date. The £75,530
was sufficient to pay the prefs. a year’s
full contract rate (7 p.c. = £20,794) and
show 10.2 p.c. on ord. capital as it now
stands (£531,785). Thus, subject to main-
tenance of satisfactory earnings, the way
is now clear for payment of a higher
rate of ordinary div. than would other-
wise have been possible.
Because of all this the market prices
the prefs. at 265. 7d. as against 20s. 6d. a
year ago. Allowing for the final div.
(3s. Bd. per share), the return at the
higher price is 4.7 p.c. on a 5.4 p.c. div.
basis, or 6 p.c. should the distribution be
lifted to 7 p.c. The ords. at 14s. 6d.
(11s. 3d. a year ago) would return a
shade over 5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
The book value of the net tangible cover
is £3 os. sd. prefs. and 14s. Id. ords.,
mostly fixed assets, worth what they can
earn.
Here is the position as the aggregate
balance-sheet figures of the subsidiaries
show it:
IQOQ IQQI IQQQ IQQJ,
Paid capital. . £904,531 £904,531 £904,531 £722,170
Sundry creditors 227,483 207,016 185,843 159,682
Freehold . . 400,665 390,508 382,408 303,128
Plant, etc. . . 350,453 340,937 319,817 288,524
Stocks . . 420,039 323,176 300,021 306,940
Book debts .. 232,184 116.205 135,278 178,864
Shares other cos. 35,723 35,723 35,723 27,350
Cash .. . . 576 1,329 740 586
The reduction of £182,361 in capital was
accompanied by a net unexplained addi-
tion of £84,933 to reserves (now
£162,013). The other £97,428, together
with the year’s allowance for deprecia-
tion, etc., was apparently used to reduce
the book value of freehold (down
£79,280) and plant (down £31,293); there
is no mention of any sales. This may
have some connection with the absorp-
tion of the K.F.B. business, which had
become a drag, by Metters. Including
provision for contingencies, the year’s
surplus earnings enabled the cos. to
carry an extra £43,586 of debtors’
balances, add £6925 to stocks and clip
£26,161 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£354,064)
was £68,139.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
r~ Dividends ,
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 15 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500 5,142
8 p.c.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13.200 10,727
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13.200 12.637
4 p.c.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 0,600 14,525
1928.. 0,966 2082 4500 Nil 14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041"' 2250* Nil 6,483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 22,420
1934.. 3,069 2082 1500 Nil 22,333
*Half-year’s div.
For more than a dozen years after it
took over the Pearson Law business in
1911 this manufacturer of shirts, collars
and other men’s wear, made very en-
couraging progress. Then aggressive
competition, which means price-cutting,
and the abolition of piecework in 1928
spoiled results. The system was reintro-
duced, and with the help of a vigorous
sales offensive things began to look up
again, but the whole outlook suddenly
changed.
To reduce outside liabilities, stocks and
book debts had to be worked down at
the worst possible moment, while ex-
change and the tariff—the co. has to im-
port much of its raw material —and the
hand-to-mouth policy of retailers aggra-
vated the difficulties. Hence the losses
of 1931 and 1932. The figures since
suggest that the board lost no time in
assaulting its problems. But competition
has forced a steady reduction in selling
prices, while it has been impossible to
pull outgoings back in proportion.
Although the business held fairly well,
last year’s gross earnings (£65,805) were
£10,649 lighter. Exes. (£62,136, includ-
ing something for contingencies) were
got back £5669. The net result (£3669,
down £4980) was enough to give the A’s
a full meal (£2082) and the B’s one-third
of their annual requirements, leaving
£16,256 (= 6s. 6d. per share) to come at
the end of 1934. Excluding the tax
reserve (£693) and provision for London
exchange (£10,090), £22,333 of the
£165,000 of ord. capital was then unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:
1927. 1930. 1933. 1934.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 237,849 147,355 128,079 101.748
Premises .. 116,929 109,378 108,888 111,406
Plant, etc. .. 77,328 64,400 57,218 53,165
Book debts . . 124,692 75,090 91,292 95,728
Stock.. ... 182,202 150,378 106,473 77,748
Cash, etc. . . 3,250 720 773 470
To knock £26,331 off the outside debt,
carry an extra £4436 of debtors’ balances
and add £2518 net to premises, stocks
were reduced by £28,725. Including
stocks, the growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£72,198) was £1739.
There are 29,736 A 7 p.c. and 50,000
B 9 p.c. cum. prefs. of £1 each and
330,000 10s. ords. The A’s at 225. 6d.
return 6.2 p.c., and the B’s at 235. 7.8 p.c.
plus arrears. The ords. are priced at
2s. 3d.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Oil. serves, serves.
£> £>£>£>£>
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c. = 32,500 8,000 2819 2,819
1926.. 54,747 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 4747 7,566
1927.. 57,553 10 ~ „ 40,000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and insur-
ance reserves taken in, £60,065 .. 75,184
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
Reserves brought to light, £44,756 .. 124,059
Reserves capitalised. £lOO,OOO .. 24,059
1929.. 64,045 10 p.c. = 50,000 10,000 4045 28,104
1930.. 62,242 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 2242 30,346
1931.. 61,784 10 „ „ 50,000 10,000 1784 32,130
1932.-46,736 6 „ ~30,000 7,500 1 , 7 o« „ aa r
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 J 1/60 33,800
1933.. 48,660 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,500 *
Reserved for bad debts, £7500 j ib 0 ' ,7 * 526
1934. . 49,915 p.c. =32,500 7,500 ) . ...
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO j 1910
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 ..162,441
1935. . 52,165 7 p.c. =35,000 7,500 1 .„ Kr nQS
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO j 460-> 1b7,( 9b
Though the board has never put over-
much in the window, shareholders have
been very well cared for (bonus scrip
issues of ’24 and ’2B make divs. for the
last seven years worth double the de-
clared rate to old holders); and some
tidy sums (aggregate, £254,133) have been
shaken out of the family stocking dur-
ing the past 11 years. The last £120,000
was disclosed during the 12 months cov-
ered by the latest accounts, because,
owing to the provisions of the new Com-
panies Act, “it was thought desirable to
more definitely exhibit reserve accounts
in the balance sheet.” It appears to
have come largely from the etcetera in
“sundry creditors and provision for
taxation, etc.,” down £87,849, and partly
from a revaluation of fixed assets, up
£48,027.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
1924. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. 257,197 149,699 170,486 82,637
Property, plant,
etc 445,518 396,656 403,771 451,798
Stocks . . 17,514 20,296 16,924 18,167
Book debts . . 35,190 35,688 37,202 36,051
Advances . . 52,954 248,431 273,915 200,656
Debenture
trustees .. 71,479
Cash, etc. . . 24,733 12,494 11,115 73,315
Most of the £73,259 by which advances
were reduced went into cash and Gov-
ernment securities, up £62,200. Visibly
the more or less liquid surplus (£245,552,
including stock) was £76,882 stronger
than at the previous balance. A feature
of the figures over the last decade is the
extent to which the co. has gone into the
hotel-finance business, thus widening and
anchoring turnover.
Apart from this, it is largely to growth
of employment that the breweries have
now to look for increased turnover. The
number of trade-unionists unemployed
in S. Aus. reached its peak (35.4 p.c.) in
the third quarter of 1932 ; the figure was
28.9 p.c. for the last quarter of 1933, and
23 p.c. for the final three months of
1934. For the year covered by the latest
accounts, gross sales (£60,229) improved
£8619, and rents, etc. (£41,745), were
£2600 better. Exes. (£51,412, including
an extra £6204 repairs, etc.) took £9377
of the increase. Including an unex-
plained addition of £1593 to the insur-
ance reserve, the net result was 10.4 p.c.
on capital as against 9.9, 9.7, 9.3, 12.3
and 12.4 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was
lifted half a point, making it 7 p.c.
With a wink in its eye, the market
prices the pound shares, visibly covered
by 265. Bd. in net tangibles, at 48s. 6d.
as against 38s. 6d. a year ago and 28s.
12 months before that. At 48s. 6d. the
return is 2.9 p.c. on a 7 • p.c. div. basis ;
the investor who looks for a shade over
4 p.c. on his money counts on a 10 p.c.
div.
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profit. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£££ £ „
July, ’25 . . 18,242 19 p.c. = 13,063 5,179 1 58 .22<
Jan., ’26 . . 14,945 20 „ „ 13,750 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 . . 15,227 20 „ ~ 13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 .. 15,710 20 „ „ 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 .. 17,785 20 „ „ 13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., ’2B . . 17,799 20 „ 13,750 4,049 170,943
July, ’2B .. 15,085 20 „ „ 13,750 1,335 172,278
Jan., ’29 .. 15,375 20 „ „ 13,750 1,625 173,903
July, ’29 .. 15,527 20 „ „ 13,750 1,777 175,680
Jan., ’3O . . 15,074 20 „ „ 13,750 1,324 177,004
July, ’3O .. 17,448 20 „ „ 13,750 3,698 180,702
Jan., ’3l .. 3,281 14 ~ „ 9,625 174,358
July, ’3l .. 1,141 Nil 1,141 175,499
Jan., ’32 .. 6,747 8 p.c. = 5,500 1,247 176,746
July, ’32 ..' 8 242 8 , 5,500 2,742 179,488
Jan., ’33 . . 9,679 10 „ „ 6,875 2,804 182,292
July, ’33 .. 14,346 10 „ „ 6,875 7,471 189,763
Transfer to inner reserves, £7471 . . 182,292
Jan., ’34 .. 13,258 12 p.c. = 8,250 5,008 187,300
Transfer to inner reserves, £5OOB .. 182,292
July, ’34 . . 11,921 12 p.c. = 8,250 3,671 185,963
Transfer to inner reserves, £3671.. 182,292
Jan., ’35 . . 14,313 12 p.c. = 8,250 6,063 188,35.)
Transfer to inner reserves, £6063 . . 182,292
This well-ribbed produce, agency and
carrying business, which is scattered
throughout the back country in N. S.
Wales, paid divs. averaging approxi-
mately 13 p.c. for 20 years to the end
of Jan., 1931. Over the same period
£45,000 of gift scrip was handed out, a
special cash bonus of £25,000 was paid,
£55,195 was brought from hiding and
put in the window, and another £20,000
of inner reserves was used to write down
the book value of premises. Then, for
the first time since 1895, shareholders
were passed by. But sails were soon
trimmed to altered trade winds, and
earnings responded as conditions became
more settled.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, gross earnings (£102,420)
were £4205 better. After setting aside
£5OOO for the taxgatherer, the net result
was £1370 lighter at 19 p.c. on capital as
against 20, 13, 5.7, 15, 22.2, 22.1 and
25.8 p.c. back to 1928. The div. was
kept at 12 p.c., and the £9734 left was
whisked away to inner reserves. Visible
accumulations are £44,792 in excess of
paid-up share capital; so the two com-
bined need net only 5.1 p.c. to cover 12
p.c. on capital alone.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
r January s
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £137,500 £137,500 £137,500 £137,500
Liabilities .. 131,331 78,239 66,808 80,065
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 51,236 47,209 47,192 51,039
Stocks . . 129,410 82,924 92,880 100,016
Book debts . . 217,913 173,004 150,557 152,059
McCulloch Co. 68,022 51,189 41,336 41,900
Cash & invest-
ments . . 7,943 48,914 69,295 72,££5
Debtors’ balances (up £1502 last year)
is the item that catches the eye; the
figure was £65,854 less than it was in
1930. Including stocks and an advance
(£16,900) to McCullochs, surplus liquids
amounted to £261,645 (nearly twice paid
capital) when the books closed.
The fully-paid 50s. shares fetch £8 on
the market. At that price they return
3.7 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 4.3 p.c. on his
money counts on a 14 p.c. distribution.
The cover is visibly £5 16s. 3d. in net
tangibles.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ C £ £ £
1924.. 49,464 1200 121 p.c.=31,805 16,459 60,733
1925 ~ 57,842 1200 14 ~ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42,480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 ~ ~46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~46,292 15,801 153,708
1930.. 39,410 1200 11 ~34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 6,, ~18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 „ ~15,793 2,424 159,970
1933.. 22,998 8 „ ~15,638,7,360 167,336
1934.. 23,886 12* „ ~19,354 4,532 171,868
During the loan-scattering era, this well-
handled cash-order, furnishing and fur-
nishing-drapery concern developed into
a money-spinner. It is still under the
same control, and, subject to economic
developments, looks like being a good
dividend-payer in the future. The issue
of bonus scrip is not likely to be a feature
again—for some years, at any rate. For
the 18 years to the close of accounts in


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl. _
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores,
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestone)
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS. —Graphine, Plastic Babbit »nd other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications. .
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Co pa y a
offices, viz.:— „
Smelting Works and Refineries; PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W _ street
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street Melbourne Office. 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla. ..
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) tr either our Sy<dney or Polrt Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on y«ur account at enrren Kembla.
alus exchange and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872. ,
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place. Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine. Fire and Accident Insurance covered at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: 74-76 Eagle Street. Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN. General Manager.
For Sale.
COMPLETE ROASTING, CYANIDE AND
ASSAY PLANT, capacity 40 tons per week.
About 10,000 tons Sands and Slimes, averaging
about sdwt. Good extractions can be obtained
by capable man. Particulars from A. C.
CHAPPEL, Peak Hill, N.S.W.
NOBEL;
NOBEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL;
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining.)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS.
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
MELBOURNE. VIC.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.; R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.; Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.; J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; C. E. Campbell.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited,
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company Limited.
1930, the ords. received divs. averaging
12.7 p.c., sweetened with £222,400 of
bonus scrip, making paid capital £329,667.
Also, over quarter of a million had been
invested outside the business in more or
less readily realisable securities. So,
when slump, unemployment and mora-
toriums played havoc with the trade,
the co. was able to return £174,833 of the
capital—more than shareholders had sub-
scribed —without leaving itself short of
working funds or without closing the
door to a relatively high rate of dividend
from reduced earnings.
Last year the revival of building
activity and refurnishings in the flat busi-
ness gave turnover in the furniture sec-
tion a lift, while growth of employ-
ment did earnings in the cash-order
department no harm, either. But competi-
tion kept margins fine, and the spring in
the declared net result was only £BBB,
after providing for contingencies. Still,
there was enough to show 15.4 p.c. on
average capital as against 11.7 p.c. and
7.3 p.c. for the two preceding years, and
the div. was lifted from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
to which a 24 p.c. bonus was added, mak-
ing 124 p.c. for the year. The £4532 that
remained lifted reserves £17,034 higher
than capital; so the two combined need
turn in only a shade under 6 p.c. to cover
124 p.c. on capital alone.
Finances are snug:
1924. 1933. 1934.
Paid capital .. .. £275,005 £154,834 £154,834
Sundry creditors .. 40,815 72,782 57,491
Overdraft . . .. 19,182 8,103 95
Property and plant .. 14,152 118,176 116,933
Stock and hire agreements 107,376 96,035 90,110
Book debts .. . . 84,867 35,148 40,894
Shares, debentures and abort
loans . . . . . . 123,046 1
Mortgages . . .. 85,525 (184,857 171,401
Government securities.. 19,744 J
Cash, etc 274 676 056
To clip £23,359 off the amount coming
to outsiders and carry an extra £5746 of
book debts, investments were drawn
upon for £13,456, stocks and hire agree-
ments were reduced by £5925, and £1243
more was written off than was spent on
property and plant. The improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£245,475) was £9704.
The market says the pound shares,
which have a visible backing of 425. 2d.
in net tangibles, are worth 50s. The return
at that figure is 5 p.c. on a 12i p.c. distri-
bution.
Gold-scrip Market
Despite higher prices for the metal
and settlement of the strike in Westralia,
which resulted in a loss to the industry
there of about half a million in gold
production, the market for gold scrip in
Australia has lately been very sick.
Chief cause has been the volume of un-
digested tiansactions, though political and
other developments, locally and over-
seas, have influenced the position, too.
Speculators continued to take a flood of
new issues for quick turnover at a profit;
and mostly those who got in on the
ground floor in concerns which were
something more than a mere gamble at
flotation have not been disappointed. In
many cases, however, optimistic antici-
pation of future developments, helped by
speculative forward transactions, forced
prices beyond their economic limits. The
foundations were pulled from under this
price structure when developments
failed to live up to expectations.
Much damage was done in this respect
by the short-lived boom in Yellowdine
(here little of value has been discovered
outside areas taken by De Bernales
interests) and Batlow flotations. In both
of these Adelaide had become deeply
interested. Then the disappointment at
Ora Banda Amalgamated and delays in
plant erection caused further uneasiness.
Presently speculators’ margins began to
disappear in one stock after another, thus
forcing scrip liquidations. Bears seized
the opportunity and increased the selling
pressure. The psychological effect influ-
enced the whole market for mining
stocks, and the price of shares in such
well-established producers as Wiluna,
Mt. Morgan, Bulolo, Lake View and
Star and other stout concerns on the
Golden Mile (W.A.) and elsewhere all
eased.
The general downward trend of prices
now appears to have spent its force.
Overselling by bears carries its own cor-
rective ; sooner or later they are obliged
to buy to cover.
The Granites
Interest in The Granites goldfield, Cen-
fralia, has been revived by a proposal
that the Federal Government should sub-
sidise prospecting there by C. H. Chap-
man. One idea is to employ lads in
groups of five, each under the care of “an
experienced prospector,” to hunt for the
yellow metal within a radius of 200 miles.
The grounds upon which it is sought to
justify such a rash experiment have yet
to be made plain. If employment is the
only one, it is inadequate. There is cer-
tainly nothing in the sorry history of
this desert field to justify the Govern-
ment in now subsidising an extensive
prospecting campaign there.
Ever since Allan Davidson, geologist
and explorer, prospected some 8000 sq.
miles of the country in question at the
end of last century it has produced little
more than shattered hopes and sub-
stantial losses to many speculators. In
1905 three prospectors, Stuart (speared
by the blacks), Murphy and Sullivan, got
12oz. of gold at The Granites. Twenty
years later Schultze and Patterson got
260 z. there —Schultze died on the spot.
Up till 1932 the place is reported to
have yielded about 400 oz. of gold. In
July, 1932, Mr. Chapman, who had been
in the well-boring business at Roma, set
out from Brisbane for The Granites and
elsewhere at the head of a well-equipped
exploration party. He obtained options
over the Burdekin Duck and other
claims ; and half an ounce of gold was
reported from the core of one bore, put
down on a narrow vein. Following a
report that the outcrop of the lode, 4ft.
to 50ft. wide, could be traced for six
miles, there was a rush for the place ;
and shares in Granites Gold, N.L., rose
from £l, at which they were issued, to
£BO in the market.
Meanwhile, several experienced min-
ing engineers had inspected the field and
turned it down. Because the Government
had failed to send a geologist, news-
papers got Professor Madigan, of Adel-
aide University, to overhaul The Granites.
He spent about 13 days there, and in-
spected some 107 miles of auriferous
country. Thousands of acres, he said,
had been pegged without any justifica-
tion beyond optimism. The best return
he got from 19 samples was 6dwt. per
ton; a shaft sunk 40ft. gave 2dwt. at
the bottom.
Nothing has happened since to warrant
modification of the unfavorable opinions
formed by Prof. Madigan, and no public
money should be spent on the Chapman
venture.
There are now 500 men on Tennant’s
Creek goldfield, some 320 miles north of
Alice Springs, and more are arriving
daily. Rich returns are being obtained
from shallow workings, and the place
deserves more attention than it has thus
far received from the Federal authori-
ties. One crying need at the moment is
a Government battery. Ground has been
pegged for many miles north, south, east
and west of the telegraph station. A
two-head stamper has been operating for
the last 12 months, but it is now hope-
lessly inadequate for the needs of the
place, and there is no cyaniding plant,
which means that a lot of gold is lost
in the sands. A privately-owned battery
is in course of erection, but the owner
has enough stone to keep it going for
years. Some leaseholders have been forced
to accept low prices for their ore ; others
have a lot of gold-bearing stone ready
for crushing, but lack cash for further
development of their claims. Leases on
the field are changing hands at high
figures, and cos. are being formed to
undertake development on a large scale.
* * * *
Queensland’s gold yield for February
was 11,617 fine ounces, an increase of
54600 z. over February, 1934. It is the
biggest monthly output since production
recovered. The position is due mainly
to the Golden Plateau, Cracow, which,
with a few outsiders, totalled 51500 z.
Mt. Morgan put on an increase of
900 oz.; Mt. Coolon is slowly dropping
back.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Australia has concluded
the field investigation of its Charters
Towers concession. It had E. I. Laun,
Inspector of Mines, on the* job for a
while, and also a son of the Westralian
geologist Blatchford. The heads in Mel-
bourne are now considering the pros and
cons for reopening some of the main
workings on the Brilliant and Day Dawn
lines of lode. At present, local interest is
focused mainly on the Swedenborg and
Black Jack, two of the principal outside
mines in former days. The Swedenborg
shaft is down 650 ft. on the underlie, with
patchy ore, but some of very good
quality. Black Jack has about 70 tons
of stone in the paddock.
* * * *
The presence of the Phcenix slates and
the occurrence of several associated
quartz formations having been definitely
proved by the New Gympie G.M. Co.,
the directors have decided on a double-
barrelled programme. The shaft will be
sunk to the second bed of slate, which
was very rich about the Ellen Harkins.
At the same time the Phoenix slates will
be crosscut to prospect the No. 4 reef in
the shaft. Since this reef is nicely
mineralised, prospects of good gold in
the plumbago seem excellent. An old
Gympie authority states that the country
got in the shaft is as promising as any-
thing further south.
* 4= * *
Lieut.-Governor Mitchell, Ministers
Munsie and Troy and a party of
Perth financial, mining and commercial
men were recently taken 1000 miles, there
and back, by special train to the official
opening of the London-controlled Mt.
Magnet Co.’s plant, at Mt. Magnet. They
saw a modern gold-extraction outfit and
the makings of a good-sized mine. At
the midday champagne spread Munsie
reiterated that the policy of the Govern-
ment was to give every encouragement
to the investment of capital in mining.
References were made by chairman
Hubert Parker, M.L.C., to the contem-
plated reopening of the Youanmi, fol-
lowing the results of extensive bor-
ing. The London boards of Youanmi
and Mt. Magnet include Lord Lee
and L. Amery, ex-Secretary of State
for Dominions. Youanmi used to be
one of Westralia’s largest gold producers,
working higher-grade ore than most
mines in the State. It was forced to
close down owing to high costs during
the war period. The drill recently pene-
trated several wide gold-carriers beyond
the limits dreamt of by the old co.
According to core assays, the average
grade of 12dwt. per ton, proved by treat-
ment of 300,000 tons of ore in the past,
was maintained in the new ground. In
one of the deepest bores higher values
were obtained.
,** * *
From London: The underwriter is
reported to have been left with over 90
p.c. of the 700,000 ss. shares offered at
par in Ora Banda United. The failure
is attributed to the miners’ strike,
but other factors, such as the Yellowdine
slump and the uncertain outlook in
Europe and America, contributed. The
shows included in the float were the
Gimlet South and Mopoke, Ora Banda
(W.A.). The vendor (B.A.N.Z. Co.) got
£40,000 apiece for the properties and a
substantial wad of shares.
H* *l*
Gold Exploration has sold some of its
recently-acquired areas at the north end
of the Golden Mile (W.A.) to Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., for £58,148, plus an
option over 100,000 10s. shares in the pur-
chasing co. at 15s. each. If a new co. is
formed to work these leases, Gold Ex-
ploration will have the right to subscribe
in cash for 25 p.c. of the first issue.
About £20,000 is said to have been ex-
pended to date by the Exploration Co.
on the shows in question.
*
The Mt. Martin Co., Hampton Plains
(W.A.), has treated 954 tons of ore since
its mill started up in November last for
1490 z. of gold over the plates and
2.Bdwt. in the tailings. Ore reserves are:
Positive, 4000 tons averaging Bdwt. and
5000 tons, 6dwt.; probable, 10,000 tons
of 4dwt. Investors expected a bit better
from the ore treated ; the next clean-up
is expected to yield Bdwt.
*** * ■
Kanowna (W.A.) pug deposits have
again proved impervious to treatment,
and the Yeates recovery process, which
found supporters in Adelaide, has been
scrapped. The co. will now concentrate
on the development of reefs on the
property. One bore has disclosed colors
at 16ft.; others are to be put down be-
fore development begins.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.G.: Though simple in principle, the treat-
ment of mercury ores would entail the erec-
tion of an expensive plant. There are no
plants in N. S. Wales prepared to treat cinna-
bar. Write O. T. Lempriere and Co., 25 Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney, concerning purchase of
mercury ores or concentrates.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Mclb.). —Advt.
L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (.Bate Director of
Forestry to the New Zealand Government), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer. Consultations, Reports and
Valuations for Investors, BONDHOLDERS and
operators All New Zealand and Australian forestry
ventures, timber, tung plantations. Fees moderate.
8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
4: * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL DISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE. DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW SHOWS.
“The Scarlet Pimpernel”
Seen at Western Electric’s Sydney
theatrette, and on public view at the
Embassy,
The casting of this British production
is beyond reproach. The Prince of Wales
(Nigel Bruce) and his fat friends ; Lady
Blakeney (Merle Oberon) ; the villainous
Chauvelin (Raymond Massey) and his
homicidal fellow-countrymen look, speak
and dress their parts to the life.
Leslie Howard, as Sir Percy, outshines
them all. He has perhaps a more attrac-
tive voice and articulation than any other
film star, and he keeps his handsome,
if somewhat weak, features in repose in
all circumstances. The complete “Family
Herald” aristocrat. His polished ease
shows up the gaucheries of his snarling
enemy in a highly unfavorable light, and
as regards brains the Frenchman is, of
course, right out of the running.
Some of Sir Percy’s feats strike one as
needlessly spectacular. Virtuous heads
are falling fast in Paris. The safety of
innumerable aristos depends on the Eng-
lishman’s ability to keep Chauvelin in the
dark as to the identity of the Pimpernel.
Sir Percy is pretending to be asleep when
Chauvelin 1 enters, and presently goes to
sleep, too. Suppose the spy is pretending.
But Sir Percy never could resist a school-
boy prank. He writes a note telling
Chauvelin that he has been visited by the
Pimpernel, leaves it on Chauvelin’s
stomach, and is able later to enjoy the
spy’s bewildered rage.
It’s all like that; one familiar melo-
dramatic situation after another, from Sir
Percy’s escape from Paris disguised as a
French crone to the disappearance of the
baffled villain through a trapdoor.
The settings atone for the weakness of
the story. The changing of the Guard
at St. James’s, shots of eighteenth-cen-
tury houses which vanished long ago
from the London scene, and some in-
teriors appealed most to the writer ; but
all the pictures of Georgian England and
revolutionary France are interesting and
in period, and most of them are beauti-
ful.
The guillotine is rather overworked.
After a single view no movie-fan would
be likely to forget that it was function-
ing briskly. But who shall say that this
isn’t true art, that these grisly shots of
the knife falling and falling won’t pro-
duce that catharsis of the public soul
which Aristotle held was the end of all
drama?
“Music in the Air”
Old stuff to Sydney and Melbourne,
which saw stage productions a long while
ago and promptly forgot them. The big
scene is where the dear old composer
with feathery white hair hears his music
(Jerome Kern’s) over the radio. Cecil
Kellaway made a better job of the musi-
cian than does A 1 Shean in the talkie ver-
sion, but even he couldn’t convince
a Sydney audience that Kern is
Leslie Howard as Sir Percy Blakeney in
“The Scarlet Pimpernel.”
“America’s greatest living composer
(vide advertisements) or that these
mechanical little jingles could give a
maestro anything but a pain in the neck.
The romantic side is well done. John
Boles and Gloria Swanson, the operatic
stars of the story, have voices that com-
bine pleasantly; and their singing falls
naturally into the story. Douglass Mont-
gomery and June Lang are models for
all musicomedy boy-and-girl sweethearts.
Joseph Cawthorn, as Uppmann, music
director of the opera, gives a speech at
rehearsal about fledgling singers who
essay to start at the top instead of the
bottom of the ladder —with such force
that it sounds like an honest opinion sin-
cerely delivered. His little burst of
oratory ought to be printed, framed and
hung in a conspicuous position in every
school of music. Sydney Con.’s opera
course students shouldn’t miss this film.
Seen at a preview in Fox’s Sydney
theatrette, and now showing at the State.
“Under Pressure”
Victor MacLaglen and Edmund Lowe
have been taken off deep-sea diving and
plunged into a tunnel under New York’s
East River, where men are men; the
pressure corresponds to what has to be
sent down an airline at 40 fathoms, and
there is a fierce race between rival gangs,
working from opposite ends. Messrs.
MacLaglen and Lowe, first and second in
command of the working squads on a
job which seems to have been deserted
by its responsible engineers, are seen in
a perpetual state of high excitement.
When their tunnel isn’t leaking in the
roof and sending geysers into the ferry
fairway it is catching fire and burning
with all the vigor of a vast distillery.
In one of these flurries Lowe conks
MacLaglen on the head with a spanner
and carries the whole crew to safety
Leslie Howard as the Scarlet Pimpernel.
through floods of burning petrol. In
another MacLaglen goes back through
the air-locks and rescues Lowe. In con-
sequence, they become bitter enemies,
and Charles Bickford, who has charge
of the gang at the other end, might have
won the race had not MacLaglen, though
paralysed in both legs through pressure,
hauled him through the gap where the
tunnellers met, and pounded him into
insensibility.
A touching reconciliation marks the
close of this excursion into mining tech-
nology. The ladies who cheer the heroes
on are a little less convincing than the
male principals. Seen at a preview. Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
“Jealousy”
“Othello” up to date. The warrior is
a heavyweight pug (George Murphy).
His Desdemona is Nancy Carroll. No
lago is necessary, Murphy gets knocked
out in a fight that is the crowning point
of his career. He marries his girl, though
stone-broke ; she has to go to work; in-
flamed by jealousy he murders her em-
ployer, and the lady is accused of the
crime. Just as > she is about to be ac-
quitted Mr. Murphy, whose intellect,
never strong, has been submerged by total
loss of memory, rushes into court and
confesses all. So they take him to the
electric-chair. On the way he implores
the chaplain to count him out, which the
obliging ecclesiastic does, omitting
prayers.
At the count of nine the scene dis-
solves. Mr. Murphy is back in the ring,
saved by the gong. He resolves to doubt
no more. At Sydney Capitol.
“Wings Over Everest”
At the Embassy. The idea of flying
over Mount Everest in British army
’planes was conceived in 1933 by Col.
Etherton and Lieut.-Col. Blacker. Lady
Houston supplied the funds. The film
shows the building, testing, etc., of the
’planes ; their arrival in India ; the flight
to the advance camp in the foothills at
Purnea, and the take-off in a 60 m.p.h.
gale. The views of the 70 peaks of the
Merle Oberon as Lady Blakeney in
“The Scarlet Pimpernel.”
Himalayan range, topped by Everest, are
perhaps the most impressive that have
been captured by a movie-camera. It
ends with a laconic conversation between
one of the pilots and an Air Commodore,
which is quite in keeping. There isn’t a
vestige of ballyhoo from start to finish.
“Kentucky Kernels”
A Wheeler and Woolsey, at Sydney
Plaza. Unemployed magicians, the pair
are in a bad way, when an infant film-
star (“Spanky” McFarland), who has in-
herited an estate in Kentucky, falls into
their hands. The child has a passion
for smashing glass—the psychoanalysts
probably have a name for it. He attacks
Woolsey’s spectacles, motor-car wind-
shields, conservatories, etc. and lands
his friends in a feud. Disguise as
a clergyman at a shotgun wedding,
Wheeler collects the guests’ firearms,
covers them with a handkerchief and
produces a litter of rabbits; but it’s
touch-and-go to the end. Not their best,
but highly amusing for all that.
Some First Nights
Bizet’s “The Pearl Fishers” came to
the surface at His Majesty’s last week.
Melbourne needed an opera like that in
order to appreciate the others. Driven
by the absurdity of the story to pick
holes in something, present critic begs to
point out that the Cingalese are not
Brahmins, but Buddhists. Nor do storms
in that part of the world knock off pro
tern. to enable a priestess clad in a Euro-
pean ball dress to stand on an electrically-
lighted traffic button set on the foreshore
and spangle the calm with top notes. The
love of two village dandies clad in
dressing-gowns for the priestess of
Brahma has some verisimilitude, but
Austral’s disappearance into a hut with
Ben Williams when she ought to have
been on duty at the traffic button was
dramatically inept; moreover, Brahma’s
vengeance (a tidal wave which engulfed
40 innocent supers) occurred off stage,
Raymond Massey as Chauvelin in “The
Scarlet Pimpernel,” at Sydney Embassy.
whereas it ought to have swept away the
principals in full view of a righteously in-
dignant audience. There is no plausible
excuse for asking unoffending playgoers
to watch Bizet floundering about in his
ridiculous libretto simply because the
piece contains some bright passages for
a soprano, but it is a tribute to Austral’s
remarkable versatility that, after all, an
excuse was almost unnecessary.
* * *
The Electrical and Radio Exhibition
at Sydney Town Hall opened on a Fri-
day and was inspected on the Saturday.
Amalgamated Wireless and the Post
Office seemed to be the backbone of
the entertainment-—A.W.A. showed the
switchboards and control panels of the
new 2SM station, and the P.O. had done
its best to demonstrate the whole gamut
of its activities. But in the main tele-
graphic section the only moving part was
a clerk operating a typewriter—just an
ordinary one with no telegraphic con-
nection. “How the Post Office Puts
Through Trunk Calls” presented a
tableau of young ladies and gentlemen
pleasantly chatting. But automatic tele-
phone mechanism was being earnestly
demonstrated, and a “Mickey Mouse"
movie was flickering merrily. The
“Master Brain” and “Sex Appeal"
machines —pier sideshow affairs —were
functioning, but the A.B.C. studio on
the back gallery was deserted. This
annual fixture badly needs a stage
manager.
¥
The N. S. Wales State Symphony
Orchestra, a combination culled from the
Con., the A.B.C. and other Sydney in-
strumental organisations, gave its first
concert of this year at Sydney Town
Hall one night last week. Attendance
was pretty good, audience was en-
thusiastic, and fare was well varied,
though perhaps a little too ambi-
tious. The overture “Die Meistersinger ’
was, though not beyond cavil, a
well-rounded performance. Strausses
“Don Juan” and Rimsky-Korsakoffs
“Scheherazade” lacked life, and sug-
gested either insufficient rehearsal or
some lack of sympathy on the part of
the baton-wielder, Dr. Edgar Bainton.
Two of Dvorak’s Slavonic Dances were
essayed, and both sounded a bit duller
than they should have. “The “William
Tell” overture, which all the players
know backwards, was in every respect the
most satisfying offering. This band must
do some humdrum walking before it can
fly, but there’s no reason why it shouldn’t
fly if its backers continue to supply
feathers, and this critic doesn’t blame its
director for shooting at stars.
* x *
The Waiata Maori Choir seemed rather
astonished at the warmth of the welcome
it received at Sydney Assembly Hall on
Saturday night. All the singers have
pleasant voices, and in solos, concerted
numbers and such traditional songs and
dances as the haka, the poi game and
the canoeing chant they made a good im-
pression. So many encores rewarded
these men and maidens that they were
unable to go through their full pro-
gramme.


"You Pay
Your Money
and
sT«ra£xpnpss
333
df
So little money to pay, so remarkable
a choice in return!
Three separate pocket-packet sizes of
Three-Threes —nines, eighteens, twenty-
sevens—all at the rate of NINE for
sixpence. < *
You’re in excellent company smoking
Three-Threes. Wherever you go you see
the handsome scarlet and gold Ardath
packets in the hand of keen smokers.
Ardath’s famous blend, cork-tipped or
plain, fourfold wrapped for perpetual
freshness.
Three-Threes represent quality
value! •
and
w
The Secret
the
is
m
333'. BLEND
'i
* f
fywQIH&SS
CIGARETTES
NINE
■fcrr 6“
WHAT VALUE
EIGHTEEN
■ -fcnr \'~
A HANDY. HANDSOME PACK
'TWENTY-SEVEN
.fcrr 1/6
imagine! 27 333 s IN ONE PACKET !
THE IDEAL PACKET FOR THE BIG SMOKER
Also flat fifties, flat hundreds, and round
airtight fifties.
CORK TIPPED and PLAIN
6914 B


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hereward”; Regarding that yellow
snake with a neck-frill (B. 13/2/’35). A
rotten log came down the face in a fail
of earth at our tinmine at China Camp
(N.Q.), and as it struck the ground a big
black snake started from it and made off.
Also, a bright-yellow one—sft. or 6ft.
and moderately thick. Yallerbelly wore
what I took to be rudimentary ears, stick-
ing out like a frill. There was no time to
examine it; it was away into the bushes
like a flash. An old blackboy turned and
bolted for his life, yelling “Run, run, boss
he bad pfeller.” Mine is the only snake
of the kind I ever saw —or heard of until
I saw “L.J.L.’s” par. Although very
scarce it must have a wide range—it’s a
far cry from China Camp to Holbrook
(N.S.W.). Or, of course, it may be the
only specimen—it is some years since I
saw it, and it may have kept on
travelling.
“Worm”: This snake story comes
from Grafton (N.S.W.). A farmer was
tackled by a snake. He cut it in two with
a spade, but the front half pressed on to
the attack, and only called it a day when
it was slain. There used to be an old bush
superstition that if a snake was cut in
two the pieces invariably joined again if
left to themselves. Writer’s belief was
finally shattered when a western Queens-
land serpent was separated from its latter
end and took refuge under a house. The
tail half was carefully preserved by the
junior members of the family—ours, not
the snake’s —and displayed every morning
for a week in hope that the business end
would come out and resume the old rela-
tions. In vain ; and our half became
so odoriferous that the grown-ups inter-
fered and wrecked an interesting experi-
ment.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Gripes, the new hand is
like lightnin’ with the axe,” Dave re-
marked after the first day’s work felling
timber. “Pretty fast', is he?” dad asked,
pleased. “ ’Struth, no,” Dave replied.
“But he never strikes twice in the same
place.”
* * * *
“E.R.1.”; A travelling windmill-expert
called on me in one of the queerest-
looking cars I have seen. The engine and
chassis were from an old Overland 91.
The mudguards were made out of flat
galvanised-iron, unpainted ; the body was
taken from an old waggonette; the
hood was calico, and, I should say, was
purely his own design—and make. The
caps on the wheels had once contained
Nestle’s milk.
* * * *
“Carlton”; The goanna which was
caught devouring the inhabitants of the
snake paddock at Melbourne Zoo (B
6/3/’35) set an example which has been
followed only too quickly. After the
go. was removed in disgrace, several
families of young tiger-snakes were re-
leased on the world. These also began
to diminish, and to the amazement of
the Zoo heads the offenders proved to
be the large frogs with which the ponds
in the snakery were equipped. The idea
was, of course, that the frogs would pro-
vide music and refreshment for the
snakes, but the innocent-looking hoppers
have entertained other notions.
“4 x 2”: The red deer are still on the
Darling Downs (B. 6/3/’35). In the
Warwick district the clearing of the
timber from the Downs drove them to
ranges, where they can sometimes be
seen, if the wind is favorable, camped
with mobs of cattle. In the earlier days
they did considerable damage to the
crops, but shooting parties thinned them
out. It takes a good stalker to get within
shooting distance nowadays.
* * * *
“Alpha”: The domestic cow is per-
fectly harmless when well; so is the
shark. The fellow that charges on sight
is a sick fish. Any sign of weakness is
•the signal for all unattached barnacles
within coo-ee to attach themselves to his
hide and sour the invalid’s already
morose temper. The only cure is to steer
for fresh water in a tidal estuary, and
kill the parasites by a douche in the un-
familiar element. In the open sea,
where sharks are healthy, few attacks on
the “man overboard” or swimming
Kanakas are recorded. Nearer the river
inlets pearl divers, swimmers and fisher-
men are always liable to meet an angry
patient or hungry convalescent travelling
to or from hospital, with unsatisfactory
“Oo, GIRLS —’ere comes Gertie with the milk shakes."
results, probably, to ail concerned. If
man were a tasty morsel, in the ordinary
course of events Jantzens would be
museum pieces.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Hori, spending a
night in Waiwaiwai, was pleased to
notice an entertainment in progress in
the village hall. Approaching the door-
keeper he asked what was on. “Shaks-
peare’s ‘Twelfth Night,’ ” the man re-
plied. Hori’s eyes opened wide. “I must
see him,” he said enthusiastically, “He
must be werry good. Twelve nights in a
place like t’is! Py korry!” And he
hastily produced some silver.
* * * *
“Cam” (Patagonia): “Puss” is right
in suggesting that “the hare may become
as great a danger as the swarming
rabbit” (B. 14/11/ ’34). In 1918 a mis-
guided German released some Belgian
hares on his estancia in Patagonia,
not far from the Straits of Magellan.
The third attempt to establish them
was successful; the result is that
they have spread all over this vast
country. From Ultima Esperanza, on
the Pacific to the Atlantic Coast, and
as far north as Chubut, Rio Negro
(they may have reached Bahia Blanca by
now). The severe winter in the south
kills a number on the pampas, but on
the sandy coast they have adapted them-
selves to local conditions, using old wild-
cat, skunk and tucu tucu burrows. Un-
fortunately, just when the imported pests
began to breed there was a great demand
for the Patagonian fox, which was nearly
exterminated; otherwise it would have
made short work of the few hares. We
have to fence our gardens and cultiva-
tion paddocks—oats and alfalfa—with
wire-netting; these pests eat the best of
the feed. I have caught hundreds of
them here with greyhounds, usually carry-
ing three or four home, tied to my
saddle, for the dogs. They often
weigh up to Bilb., and four young ones
in embryo are quite common.
. . . . . .
(stt | ~ a yf •
old Maoriland Wl naddock I heard a
£od to the wheel of
the mower had passed over a nest with
six leverets in it Mother was absent,
i , ,• * . ,t ,* j r rUrtii/Mio
rem’arks as veracitv I am quite
remarks as to my veracity, 1 am qu
willing to admit it might have been a
day nursery or a
" .
Spimfex . If Coolhaia is gather-
mg statistics about men surviving and
not dymg of thirst B. 13/2/35), he can
add Arthur Campbell, of Glencoe station
Mt. Isa (Q.), to the list. About 1921
Campbell’s horse fell with him in the
ranges and broke his leg—a compound
fracture which fish-hooked itself when the
man tried to drag himself. In accordance
with an established rule, a search was
started after Campbell was 24 hours over-
due, tracking him in that rough country
—rough and hard as the hobs of hell are
supposed to be. He was five days there
before they found him —five days with
a broken leg and with his wound fly-
blown. Campbell told me afterwards
that he always reckoned any man who
was a man should be able to go five days
without a drink, though in his estimate he
hadn’t allowed for broken limbs. He
felt it was up to him to prove his asser-
tion. He did! Every morning, just to
test himself, and on the off-chance, he
used to coo-ee in case someone might be
about. The rest of the time he spent in
conserving his forces. He chewed bark,
ate grass, got what moisture he could
and hung on grimly.
* * * *
“Ornithos”: “Bally” (B. 30/1/’35) is
slightly out. There is no Kyabra pub on
the Adavale-Windorah road (Q.). The
only wayside hostels on that route are
Tampoon and “Jack-in-the-Rocks.” The
former marks the western boundary of
Bulgroo, while the latter is in the stony
hills to the east, on Milo country. In
the early days both places were Cobb and
Co. mail changes, and many a time has
old “Cracker-Jack” Larkin pulled in with
that flourish of the whip that earned him
his sobriquet. When last I was there in
’3l, Tampoon was still doing business,
but “J.-in-the-R.” was just another land-
mark of the pioneering days.
“Kirby”; Tell “Ikey” (B. 20/2/’35)
that he can safely bet on one frog as a
weather prophet, and that is a little
brown chap whose habitat is a tree. A
week before the drought broke at Christ-
mas, 1923, I heard dozens of these in
full chorus. An old hand predicted rain.
although the sky then was clear —“yer
can always bet on them tree-frogs,” was
his argument. We got the rain, and I’ve
noticed since then during dry spells the
tree-frog pipes up a few days before
rain. The croakers “Ikey” heard in the
bails were the big green chaps —they’re
liars.
* * * *
“4 x 2”; I can back up “Vesta’s” yarn
(B. 6/3/’35). I have seen staid and solid
citizens in Queensland country towns
playing poker for matches till the early
hours. In, one town it was necessary to
be there by 6 p.m. to get a seat at the
table. Only waxies were considered, and
no mercy was shown to the onlooker un-
wise enough to use a match from one
of the heaps to light his smoke. I have
seen fellows cleaned out and refused a
light at midnight, when all shops were
shut. More than once have I pushed my
cycle home unlighted because I, too, was
cleaned out. There was no malice
attached to the procedure —it was just
the unwritten law of the game.
* * * *
“Newmoon”: Seagulls flying round a
ship are fascinating to watch, but rail-
way passengers don’t often get the privi-
lege. At Oamaru (M.L.) all the South
Island main trunk expresses stop for
refreshments, and the gulls have become
aware of it. As the trains enter the
station they are escorted by flocks of
the fowls, screeching for the titbits they
have grown to expect from passengers
who have lunch-baskets.
* * * *
“Sappho Suds”: Ted Übank has
brought three specimens of a newly-
discovered bird
from the Upper
Ra m u to Sala-
,maua (N.G.). With
the latest effect so
loved by flappers
—a wide and gay
bow-tie under the
chin this seven-
inch-long annan-
utu, as the natives
call it, is a most
exquisite little fel-
low : black body,
small sharp beak,
wings like black
chenille velvet and
a second set of
deep peacock blue
immediately under
the head, like a
wide satin bow.
On the small head
and along the neck
is what looks like a
band of gold-and-blue sequins. It took
months for the interested miner to collect
the three that were shot. The natives,
in spite of many attempts, couldn’t cap-
ture a live specimen.
❖*' * *
“Humo”: Evidently crocodiles inhabit-
ing the rivers in Manus, New Guinea, are
exceptions to the rule that such relish
only “gamey” food. Recently a six-
year-old native child, with its mother,
was washing on the bank of a Manus
river, when a crocodile swept into the
stream and took the piccaninny. There
was a hue and cry, and half an hour
later a monster croc., measuring 17ft.,
was landed, and when opened up re-
vealed the child, two ’possums, a half-
grown pig, and seven fish averaging 6Jlb.
each. None of this assortment had
been swallowed more than 24 hours, and
all were unmarked other than by normal
digestive process.
% Jfc Jf:
“Intex”: Glad to hear there’s to be a
week in Sydney for Australian authors,
the most interesting specimens of fauna
I’ve found during 10 years of residence
in Australia’s Biggest Bloat. Though
forced by pressure of economic circum-
stances to collect fox-terriers, budgeri-
gars and rosellas, I would, if properly
endowed, concentrate on Australian
authors. There’s no animal that better
repays a bit of petting. Accustomed as
they are to trotting or flying through life
entirely surrounded by people who don’t
understand their barks or twitters, their
gratitude when they do strike a zoologi-
cal authority like myself who can listen
sympathetically is very touching. But
you get over that by saying “No” very
firmly, and soon complete confidence
dawns. When they find that you have
read their works, have carried on un-
shakenly notwithstanding, have no money
and no hold over any publisher, a quick
light of understanding dawns in their
eyes. “You, too!” they cry. And then
they speak of men and books and the
whimsies of life in such a way that you
wish they could write as well as they talk,
or vice versa. Anyway, you feel an affec-
tion towards them, and resolve that when
their Week comes along—it commences
in Sydney on April 8, but it’s really a
national affair—you’ll buy at least one
book by an Australian,
TILL THE SHED CUTS OUT.
T have seen the shearers leave us with a parting
grip of hands,
And the board is ghostly silent where the
expert stripped the stands.
I shall miss their cheery voices when the pink-
and-grey galahs
Line the leafless trees or chatter in the spread-
ing coolabahs.
There’ll be weary weeks of waiting till the blue
wings beat again,
When the mountain parrots plunder in the
fig-trees after rain,
When the apple-gums have blossomed by the
long jade-green lagoon,
And the station herds are resting in the
shade at summer noon.
When the melodies of morning fill the branches
overhead,
And the fly-worn sheep are mustered for the
crutching at the shed,
Then I’ll search the blue-ridge clearing with
a welcome in my eyes
For the cars from Goondiwindi as they round
the homestead rise.
There’ll be new songs at the galley while the
cooking fires burn,
And new yarns to wake our laughter when
the shearing hands return.
Though it’s double-time and bustle for the
station rouseabout,
There’s a lot to keep him happy till the
shearing-shed cuts out.
Q-
P. James Irvine.


“Pretty Cocky”: The cockatoo’s infi-
nite capacity for getting into trouble and
emerging scathless while others bear
the brunt (B. 6/3/’35) has been again
exemplified, in N.S.W. this time. Cocky
was addressing the inhabitants of the
fowlyard on the Lang Plan or some-
thing when an eagle attempted to get
away with him. His elderly mistress
rushed to his assistance, and was well
battered by the eagle’s wings, the bird
attacking her again after being beaten
off the first time. The old lady was hav-
ing a bad spin when a foxy butted in
and grabbed the eagle by the tail. The
brute cleared out, leaving most of his
tail feathers in the terrier’s mouth.
Cocky refereed the scrap, and explained
it round by round to the medico called
in to mend his missus.
* * * *
“J.8.J.”: Does docking tend to shorten
the tails of sheep’s progeny? For 14
years I have spent a fortnight each year
on a Westralian farm, and the tails of
lambs there to-day are definitely shorter
than on my first visit. A good part of the
present flock are descendants of those I
saw in 1920.
* * * *
“F.A.4”: Watched a bullfight re-
cently, a dinkum go between well-
matched herd
beasts, red and
roan. They ap-
proached one an-
other carefully,
enormous muscles
rippling, eyes flash-
ing. A ton and a
quarter of bone
and brawn sud-
denly moved like
the flit of a swal-
low. But the other
bull swung round,
squarely facing his
opponent, hooves
firm in the dust,
and he met that
charge, took the
weight of it and
countered with a
side-twist of his
head—not an inch
of movement in
the horn, but
oceans of power.
Then the red, in
an endeavor to
swing his hind-
quarters into line,
struck a stump.
Every muscle on
the roan’s huge
body stood out as
he plunged for-
ward. His charge
screwed the red’s
head and neck and
left his whole side
exposed. It hap-
pened in a flash.
Roan disengaged
his horns and dived
on that exposed
side. But during
that slight pause
by the roan to free
his horns the red
had swung his
shoulder almost directly under him—•
I thought the beast was down —and
as the outside of the foot made con-
tact with the ground a heave of the hind
' leg threw him high in the air and to one
side. Roan’s horn left a mark from
shoulder to thigh ; but what’s a scratch
to those chaps? My dog broke up the
fight.
* * * *
“Plankton”: “Amph” (B. 6/3/’35)
mistakenly includes newts in this coun-
try’s fauna. The tailed amphibians, in-
cluding salamanders and newts, are
found only in Europe, Asia and America ;
America has 66 species. The giant sala-
mander of Japan has been known to
attain a length of over sft. Its eyes are
so diminutive as to be practically useless.
t- * * *
“C. Coral”: “Yes,” said Jimmy Susu,
“we been go right ’long Barrier this
trip, look for trochus shell. But too
many them Japanese shampan been
there ; he carry close up 40 man and
plenty small boat, I think. He no care
which kind shell he pick up. We
get big fine s’pose we get small
kind trochus shell what go
through that measure they been
give we ; but Japanese man, he
pick up all that kind, too, and he
no get trouble. By-’n’-bye he
take everything ; leave nothing for
we. We been tell Guv’ment
plenty time, but they no take
notice along we—they don’t do
nothing! Soon we not be able
buy kai kai and license belonga
dog and gun.”
* t- * *
“Gabo”: A common sight to
mariners on the Australian coast
is gulls with only one leg. The
other has gone to make a meal
for a barracoota during some un-
guarded moment when the bird
has been resting or swimming on
the surface. The loss of a leg
doesn’t appear to be detrimental
to its well-being in any way, nor
to affect its power of landing and
remaining perched precariously on
any salient point of a rolling ship. Need-
less to say, one is never seen with both
legs snipped off, although that must often
happen.
* * * *
“Diana”: Our little white mother cat had
been missing for four days. We found her
in a crow-trap a mile from the house—her
fellow-prisoner was a large and hungry -
looking crow. Inside the trap, a worn
path showed where each had stalked the
other, eternal vigilance being the price
of safety. We killed the crow, and Kitty,
a shadow of her former plump self, was
received with rejoicing, though her little
family had been destroyed in her absence.
* * -f *
“C. Coral”: Marine scarecrows for
birds (B. 20/2/’35) are not uncommon.
At Thursday Island launches at anchor
“Your face seems mighty familiar.”
are adorned with a string of empty tins
or other noise-producing devices. They
are there to scare gulls and other birds
from roosting in the rigging.
“You foolish man! Go and put your boots on or you'll catch your
death of cold!”
“Billo” (Buna Bay, Papua): Casso-
waries (B. 20/10/’34) are fairly* common
as pets in the N.D. of Papua, though
I suspect with a view to the pot.
One such bird some years ago turned
rogue, and was responsible for two
deaths before being dispatched. A
native constable was sent out to cope
with it, but in the best traditions
arrived too late. Incidentally, a nesting
cassowary can make quite a decent job
of putting the wind up a “coon.” Horn-
bills, white cockatoos and parrots are all
on the list of Papuans’ pets.
* * *
“W.P.T.”: “What’s the idea of puttin’
on a bathing-costume to go riding in?”
dad asked Sheila, from St. Kilda, spend-
ing a holiday on the farm. “Dave told
me I’d have to ride barebacked,” she
replied, “and this is the only suitable cos-
tume I could think of.”
* * * *
“Airline”: “Dr. Mivart’s” par. (B.
13/ 3/’35) strikes a responsive chord.
Snaring rare birds in the desert country
west of the Musgrave Ranges (S.A.), we
often saw companions of the prisoners—
mostly Bourke parrakeets—flying around
the cages and making every endeavor to
reach their less fortunate brethren. Once,
while we were making in to the nearest
mail terminus, 100 miles away, the jolt-
ing movements of the camels loosened
a door of one of the cages. One solitary
Bourke escaped ; but did he' attempt to
take advantage of his new-found free-
dom? Not he! He followed us until
we camped that night, came up for a
drink and a feed like the friendly little
fellow that he was, and looked so utterly
woebegone that out of pity we recaptured
him and put him back with his mates,
much to his delight. Of course, the ex-
planation is not hard to find. Grega-
rious, these birds are at a loss once they
become separated from the main flock.
* * * *
“Humo”: An exciting method of fish-
ing is practised by the Admiralty
Islands natives when catching that large,
mackerel-like fish the atun. In the early
morning the fishermen sail out in their
canoes to the edge of the reef, where,
with small-meshed nets hung round their
necks, they dive down to the cavernous
holes below. These are usually at a
great depth, making the divers’ task of
netting the small multicolored fish ex-
tremely hazardous; not infrequently
drownings occur through a diver becom-
ing lost in the pitch-blackness of a cave.
When the large, partly-submerged baskets
fastened on' the side of each canoe are
full, the fleet moves out to sea in search
of a school of atun, which, when sighted,
is pursued until the fishermen approach
within 30 or 40 yards of it. The fleet
turns about, and the small fish are thrown
out to entice the school to follow. At
a signal lines are cast; the atun strike
with rapidity, and in a very few minutes
the air and the canoes are alive with
gleaming silver bodies. Only half the
fish hooked reach the boats. As soon
as they begin to bite sharks of all de-
scriptions, measuring from five to twenty
feet, invade the school, and attack the
baskets of small fish. Although the sea
may teem with the monsters the natives
remain quite placid even when a canoe
is swamped, the crew neck-deep in water
and the ravenous brutes helping them-
selves to the fish in the submerged craft;
but should a shark be wounded the dis-
turbance caused by the voracious mon-
sters tearing each other to shreds re-
duces the natives to terror.
* * * *
“Buka”: Derris root has been used as
an insecticide in the Flowery Land for
generations. Of late years it has acquired
wider fame as a harmless slayer of fleas
and a means of circumventing ticks. As
a consequence there is a demand for
the plant at a good price, and, as it is
cheap to grow, provided conditions are
right, derris farmers—particularly in the
Solomons —are dreaming of a bright
future.
* * # «
“Herpeton”: Many bushfolk are
divided on the relative merits of dogs
and cats as snake-catchers. A great deal
depends on the cat or dog. Cats
seem to take naturally to collecting
snakes ; dogs often have to acquire the
taste, and preliminary experiments . are
apt to be disastrous. My experience is
that sooner or later the cleverest dog takes
the count, but it is rare for a catcatcher
to be killed by its quarry. This is due, I
think, to the much greater speed of the
roof-haunter when sparring for an open-
ing, and to the thick, close fur, which
often prevents the bite of the short-
toothed Australian snakes getting home or,
if it does, absorbs much of the dis-
charged poison. There is one solid draw-
back to the cat snake-catcher, however.
He or she delights to bring the quarry
into the house in a more or less live state
as a guarantee of good faith. The dog
kills outright and leaves the corpse on
the field of battle.
FOR A MAGPIE FRIEND.
Morning in hospital comes too soon,
But endurable when it holds the essence
And sweet beginning of convalescence,
When the nightmares vanish like stars at noon;
When drug and unrest have an unmourned end
And from window or other vantage point
One welcomes a world once more in joint;
And so we come to my magpie friend.
For he sits on a pine-tree’s topmost spar
To carol his hymn to the morning sun
And his evensong when the day is done,
Surveying meanwhile all things that are.
Of our joy or sorrow, our virtue or sin,
Not much escapes him, sitting there,
And he piped me a “Tough luck, Digger!”
I’ll swear,
The gloomy morning that I came in.
But now from balcony twenty-nine
I wave “cheerio! ” to my new-found mate
And Mag. responds (or so 1 translate)
“Hullo! Hullo! Aren’t we coming on fine!”
Yet things there are that disturb his pose
Of devil-may-care and cheery friend
And limit his song, for he must contend
With civilisation’s machine-made noise.
Our cup at times seems overflowing;
By day and by night in the hollow below
Trains rumble in slowly or groaningly go,
And whistle or bellow their coming and going.
And philosopher Mag., on his swaying bough,
Says (so it seems) in the welter of noise,
To the sick and fretful: “Stick it out, boys!
You’ll have to get used to it, anyhow.”
But nature and skill have seen me through
The sombre gates, now healed and whole;
Good-byes are said as we homeward roll,
And I look for Kooracca to bid adieu;
Then I hear (I’m sure of it!) over my head:
“So long, Digger! Well, you’re in luck;
But I must watch out, another lame duck
(Poor woebegone devil!) has got your bed.”
"
s.a.
Bill O’C.


HTS
LYS
&
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
ac of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
LiiiiiiuAlj^ f A'iil
s a
m
0
• J £4
B
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants. Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
THE SUCCESS COMPETITION.
“MOTHER.”
The following won a Bulletin
drawing for “E.E.,” Ocean-street,
Woollahra ( N.S.W .) :
My mother, over 40 when she went on
the land, was born at Parramatta of
pioneering stock. She married a dreamer.
His visions did not materialise, but
mother, with little capital and eight
young children, possessed fortitude,
imagination and a remarkable capacity
for hard work, and did not know the
meaning of the words failure and fear.
She rented a farm —125 acres —badly-
infested with thistles, Bathurst burrs and
briar bushes. There were a few acres
under cultivation, a fairly good orchard
and a very dilapidated farmhouse.
A few years later, the owners of the
property wished to sell it. This was
before the instalment-plan of buying was
general; but my mother made an offer to
pay yearly instalments of double the rent.
Her offer was accepted, and in a few
years the farm became her own.
Soon after the family went on the land
there was an outbreak of pleuro-pneu-
monia among the dairy herd. My mother
had 30 milking cows at the time. She lost
17. After that came the drought of the
’eighties.
The waterholes dried and there was
only a trickle from the iron tanks around
the house. Fortunately there was a
spring at the back of the farm. It was
inaccessible to stock, beneath a rocky
declivity. Twice a day mother took a
bucket and watered the stock, carrying
the water up the pinch and filling wooden
troughs for the thirsty cattle. She saved
her horses and cows when neighboring
farmers lost practically every head.
The railway ran along our rear boun-
dary fence. Mother took a reaping-hook
and cut the coarse, rank grass growing
along the line and threw it over the fence
to the starving stock. Poor fare, but it
helped to keep the cattle alive until the
rain came. After that it was not long
before we had a dam. We could afford
to sQorn droughts afterwards.
In the course of 20 years, my mother
paid off her farm, cleared 100 acres of
weed-infested land and turned it into
good grazing country. She built a new
farmhouse with new outbuildings, put
new fences all round the property, planted
fruit and shade trees, made kitchen and
flower gardens and increased her cultiva-
tion paddocks fourfold. In that time she
had two more children of her own, and
she adopted two orphans—one three
weeks, the other 14 months. Both are
now useful members of society.
Of course, we children helped a little;
but my mother was the brain behind all
the success. Early in her farming career
she saw that dairying alone would not
bring in enough money to feed and edu-
cate her large family, improve the place
and meet the yearly payments. She went
in for sidelines —fowls, guinea-fowls,
ducks, geese and turkeys. Nothing was
too big for her to tackle, nothing so small
as to be beneath her notice. She bought
pollard and bran by the ton and catered
specially for the Christmas and Easter
markets. One year she sold 40 gobblers
at £1 apiece.
Pigs proved another profitable line. We
always had sucking-pigs at Christmas-
time as well as half a dozen fat pigs for
the local butcher.
The calves from the milking cows were
poddied. There was usually a demand
for prime vealers around Christmastime.
Another cheque to be banked.
We grew lucerne, oats, barley, maize,
sorghum and other crops. Mother always
put in more than we could use ourselves ;
there was always some improvident
farmer glad to buy the surplus.
My mother was ambitious for her
sons. Only one stayed on the land. One
became a bank manager, one a school
inspector, one an engineer, one a lawyer,
one a surveyer. She was very proud
of them. One grandson is a Church
of England bishop, another an R.A.N.
commander.
When my mother died the local bank
manager said: “Your mother was a fine,
fearless woman. She met her obligations
like a man. She never hesitated to help
a lame dog over a stile nor to speak a
word in defence of the absent.” A good
epitaph surely!
SUPERFINE WOOLS.
“Sheepo”: Remarks made by P. S.
Taylor, merino-breeder and S’African
Show judge, bear pertinently on what
“Murrawong” says (B. 30/1 /’35) about
the future of superfine wools.
Woolbrokers should leave sheep-farmers
alone... .They told us to breed fine wool
until the farmers bred it so fine that there
was no wool on the sheep. If the trade
wants us to breed fine wools, they must
pay another sixpence per pound for it.
In spinning, all else being equal, in-
variably superfine wool is produced on
clean country, where faults in the wool
are fewer than in the more robust type
produced elsewhere, but buyers are not
paying the prices due in comparison with
those for broader fibres.
Obviously, the finer the wool the
higher the spinning capacity and the
greater the value. So why is it that no
appreciable difference is seen in the
prices paid for 70’s as against those for
super 60’s? The great bulk of super-
fine wools averages little better in
price per pound than good types of 60’s-
64’s.
WOOLBINS.
“Murrawong”: It often transpires that
some of the worst features of woolsheds
are emergency structures which have
continued in use for years after the
emergency has disappeared. Few sheds
could not be made more workable
by a few hours of reconstruction.
Circumstances may demand more
woolbins. The usual result is that the
layout of tables is interfered with to
utilise a passage or a corner with old
galvanised-iron or hessian. The excres-
cence stays. Or perhaps the classer takes
over the piece-bins, and the piece-pickers
are moved to a corner where they have
to pull aside their table and knock off
work to let the presser get at the wool.
The only workable type of woolbin
is the double-ender, where the classer
or picker works his wool in at one end
and the presser removes it from the
opposite end without interrupting the
work. Many sheds have the bins built
round the woolroom, backed against the
wall, and, while it may be possible to
carry on with the fleece-bins under this
system, it is different when piece-pickers
have to pull up, remove their table and
stand aside while skirtings are piling up
to let the presser get a bale out. The
excuse that these bins will be pressed only
during smoke-ohs is all right in theory,
but never adhered to in practice.
ON BUYING CULLS.
“Mirrametta”: A small man making
a start with limited means should every
time buy culls, so long as they are
sound and healthy. I take it for
granted, of course, that the fellow will
go as near the type he wants as his
cheque-book will permit. Buy young
stuff, buy cheap and get numbers.
The money saved in buying cheap
females put into extra-quality sires.
Get the best that your bank account
will allow. The good sires and the in-
ferior dams will level up in a generation
or two and make an f.a.q. flock or herd
of it.
I’ve done it with sheep, cattle and
saddle-horses. The headaches start when
you’re trying to improve that quality.
F.a.q. stuff pays in ordinary times, pro-
vided a man has the numbers; and,
though higher-class stuff might pay better,
costs and expenses are also higher.
One noted breeder said: “I’ve been
half my life working up my flock to its
present standard, and I expect to spend
the other half of my life holding them
on that standard.” And yet mugs
with cheque-books rush in gaily and
think they are going to do what a man
with half a life’s experience considers
the more difficult task of the two. A
cheque-book has no chance against a
breeder with instinct and discernment.
“Warramulla”: That all young ewes
offered for sale must be culls, as inferred
by “Murrawong” (B. 6/3/’35), is as
wide of the mark as his idea that all
cast-for-age ewes must be good nannies.
In W. Queensland, which has had an
intermittent drought for the past decade,
no sheep-classing of note has been pos-
sible ; consequently, the culls offering
have been negligible.
Still it has always been possible to
pick up a straight line of young ewes.
It is this class of sheep that novices are
advised to use as the foundation of the
future flock, even though twice the old
ewes could be acquired for the same
outlay.
The young sheep with constitution
will come through a bad time that
would settle a big percentage of the
aged sheep. This is a dead loss to the
beginner, in addition to the labor costs
trying to keep them alive.
Anyone who has had experience of
trying to keep old ewes on their feet in
a dry time will appreciate this. The fact
that there may be some undesirables
among the young sheep is true of all
mobs. These can be disposed of while
they are still young.
Starting with cast-for-age ewes, an
assured season with plenty of grass and
no setbacks is required if the newcomer
is to hold his own. If this is not on tap,
the lambs from the old sheep may com-
pensate for the losses. This can go on
until all the aged ones are dead, and
the owner finds he is practically where
he started, excepting that he has a
mixed lot of younger sheep.
The idea that cast-for-age ewes must
be good is not always right. It is the
usual custom to class sheep as two-
tooths, selling the culls and putting the
balance into the flock as “classed ewes.”
In practically every case, these sheep
never come into the classer’s hands
again, and are held until sold as cast-
for-age.
Any defects which may have been
latent as two-tooths will show with age,
and, if overlooked when classing, these
faulty sheep will still be in the mob when
sold years later. Every mob of sheep
invariably includes undesirables, so this
argument is no reason for not starting
off with young sheep.
Beginning with youngsters the owner
has a reasonably good chance of coming
through a bad period with the bulk of
his mob, which will continue producing
him lambs for many years. It takes a
dead old nannie all her time to breed
maggots.
IMPACTION.
“Spring”: It is a result of dry condi-
tions and lack of green feed. Post-
mortem shows that a blockage has taken
place between the fourth stomach and
the small intestinal tract. In the pad-
dock, the sheep will look dopy, off feed,
and will be seen lying about disinterested
in life.
Give the mob green lucerne if possible,
and be sure they get plenty of water. If
no green feed is available, mix up the fol-
lowing lick, which I have proved quick
to cure, no matter how dry the feed.
To 1861 b. of butcher’s salt add 101 b.
of Epsom salts, mixing them well to-
gether whilst dry. Then mix into a
sticky solid mass with molasses —not
too watery when using. Use neat if pos-
sible, and warm it beforehand if neces-
sary. Don’t add any water.
Place in the salt troughs and bring the
sheep to it for two consecutive days.
They may not be keen at first, but
soon take to it readily. This will end
the trouble.
BRAN VERSUS LUCERNE HAY.
“Stump Jump”: “J.B.N.’s” eulogy (B.
13/3/’35) of wheaten bran is excellent,
but does not cover the economic dis-
abilities of the stuff. It is used by an
enormous number of dairymen, very few
of whom can make it pay at the Aus-
tralian price of £5 to £6 per ton. It is
not a rich concentrate like cottonseed
(35 p.c. protein), peanut and linseed meals.
And, again, unlike ground oats, while
superior in many respects, it doesn’t pro-
vide a home market for stuff grown on
the farm.
It is about time bran’s true value as a
tonic was recognised and its use as a
concentrate curtailed. That would pos-
sibly bring its price down, when regular
feeding with it would again become
economic.
It is my idea that primest lucerne
chaff is more than equal to good bran
as a food, pound for pound. Here is
an analysis of average best qualities:
Protein. Carbohydrate. Fat. Fibre.
Lucerne 15 p.c. 44 p.c. 1.5 p.c. 23 p.c.
Bran 11 p.c. 45 p.c. 4.5 p.c. 10 p.c.
Whilst not so rich in phosphorus, the
mineral matter of lucerne is more com-
prehensive and adequate for the milking
cow’s needs. It is not lacking as a laxa-
tive, and is a good body-warmer. I’ve
seen bran entirely cut out and replaced
by lucerne hay (chaffed) in a big dairy
herd. The stock ration of ground oats
and oaten winnowings was kept up. The
cows milked better and came through
the winter in higher condition than when
fed on bran.
Bran then cost £7 per ton, whilst
lucerne, chaffed, ran to £2 and a few
shillings, all costs included. Chaffing it
is not so troublesome when once you’ve
learned the knack.
VICTORIAN FLOUR WHEAT.
“Curragh”: Victorian wheat-farmers
are perturbed because flour-millers con-
demn Free Gallipoli, their most popular
and prolific wheat. Its low glutinous
content is said to be affecting the stan-
dard of flour. A few seasons ago a
similar controversy raged in Westralia
over the merits and demerits of Gluclub
when that high-yielding wheat was con-
demned by the Department of Agricul-
ture, while the millers were threatening
dockage.
The timely appearance of the newly-
bred Bencubbin, of high glutinous con-
tent, strongly disease-resistant and a
greater yielder than Gluclub, silenced
(Continued on page 24.)


Extra Superfine Grey Calfskin
LEATHER COATS
With an exceptionally high-grade soft finish. Same as exported to U.S.A. and
have never before been offered in Australia. Cannot soil. ill wear for
years and still retain their New and Smart Appearance. Lined with Silk to
tone, which makes them Extra-light Featherweight and Attractive Garments.
Obtainable also lined with Ipswich Woollen Check Velour.
One Price Only, Men’s £6/15/
LEATHER
COATS
Direct from Sydney's Leading Leather Coat Manufacturers at
Wholesale Prices.
ONLY GENUINE HIDES USED.
EVERY COAT GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS.
Warm Waterproof Lasting
LADIES' FASHIONABLE
LEATHER COATS
Made from special ladies’ weight Genuine Calf-
skin. Shades of Mid Brown, New Season’s Tan,
Wine, Red, Light Bottle Green, Navy, etc.
Guaranteed fast colors.
4*
GUINEAS
MEN'S QUALITY HIDE COATS
Finest Workmanship and Finish throughout.
Smart, warm and waterproof. Mid Brown or
Nigger Brown Shades.
A Special, Guaranteed 5 Years.
796
SPECIALLY SELECTED SUPER HIGH GRADE, 99/6.
Perfect
Photography
at a
New
Low Cost
Worth a Guinea,
ONLY 4/0
BBS
m
9*
M
m
AMERICAN
HIGH-SPEED
CAMERA
The “Univex” Pocket Size Camera, equipped with special Synchromatic Speed
Lens, takes Portraits and Snapshots equally well, and it s so easy to locus.
No special attachment needed for Close-ups.
Ultrachrome Films, Bd. per spool
(6 photographs).
MAIL ORDERS POST FREE.
*
GSSUS,
aajuejßng
aajußjßn>[)
I sXe a 001
j.no
.sAbq 001
mo
mssm
w*
TENNIS
RACQUETS
LATEST MODELS.
The “ARROW SHOT”
Latest Australian Model FLAT TOP Racquet.
The Grosvenor Racquet Company has excelled itself in the production of this
excellent Racquet, which has a First-grade 3-piece Laminated English Ash Frame with
a Walnut Inlay. It may be strung with the New Style Diamond Stringing, or, it
preferred, the usual Straight Stringing. The “ARROW SHOT” represents the result
of the best brains and experience in Tennis Racquet manufacture, and is a- Racquet
of the highest standard and quality. Leading world players use a flat top, and
contend that it gives greater control when making difficult backhand a rici I ore nan a
strokes. It is also an added asset when playing the half-volley. The “ARROW SHO l
is strung with the highest-grade Gut procurable, which carries a guarantee of 100
days, and 60 days on Frame.
77/6 Value for 52 6.
The Alexander “Cressy Perfect” or “Cressy Wizard”
The Spalding “Kro Flite” or “Top Flite”
75/-
75/-
The Slazenger “Floating Power” or “Cavalier,” Flat or Oval shape.
75/*
All the foregoing Racquets are strung with Edwards’, Khpspringer or Bentley’s
First-grade Gut.
100 days’ guarantee on Gut. 30 days on Frame.
The “PERFECTO”
LATEST MODEL.
The Champions’ Choice.
The “PERFECTO” is Oval Shape, and has a 4-ply English Ash Frame, with three
laminations. It has absolute perfection of balance, and is free of all surplus weight.
Particularly graceful lines reduce air resistance, adding tremendous speed to every
stroke you play. The “PERFECTO” is strung with a high-grade Gut carrying a
guarantee of 100 days, and the Frame for 60 days.
75/- Value for 52/6.
Men’s Clothing, Riding Breeches (Men’s and
Ladies’), Leather Coats, Tennis and Sports Goods,
Boots, Tents, Tarpaulins and numerous other High-
grade Goods at Lowest Prices. Write for free
Catalogue.
ALL MAIL ORDERS
POST FREE.
FREIGHT EXTRA on heavy articles such as Tents,
Tarpaulins, etc
fd
429 GEORGE STREET
(Comer Market Street),
SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years. ’Phone: 85748.


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Rest for tired, aching
feet
There’s relief for wearied feet
in this flexible, lightweight
Abbey Shoe. It has no toe-
cap and fits with perfect com-
fort because of its specially
designed, true-to-Nature upper.
No tightness or cramping any-
where. All the foot muscles
are given full play. They can
relax soothingly. This Abbey
Shoe, too, is smart and service-
able.
Three widths per size
ORDER BY POST: Both full and
half-sizes available—each in narrow,
medium or wide fittings. Specify
width and length. Ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a con-
venient cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 38/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 36/6
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 430
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
SADDLER-MADE
brsevxugs
Better Made, Better Fit.
No. 4AG, Bleached Strong
Navy Canvas, Grey Wool
Lining and “Stays-on”
Fixings.
sft. 6in., 34/-; sft. 9in., 35/-;
6ft., 36/-.
No. A, Super Bleached Flax
Canvas with Fleecy Wool Lining
and “Stays-on” Fixings.
sft. 61n., 42/-; sft. Din., 43/6; 6ft., 44/6.
HIND-LEG STRAP
Style No. C.
No. CSG, Extra Strong
Navy Canvas, Grey F
Wool lined and Hind- VHeTs
leg straps. \Mw VS
sft. 6in 28/6
sft. Din 2D/6 ~
6ft 30/6
Add 2/D per Bug for Post or Freight.
Write for Samples of Canvas and Full
Price List of Bugs—we have them as low
as 8/- each.
Our Catalogue No. 8338 has D 6 pages of
horsey things—7o saddles to choose from
—Stockwhips from 8/ Cowboy Saddles
—Harness, etc.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS,
395 GEOBGE STBEET, SYDNEY.
wmm
o
Runs seven-valve Radio
Elec. Iron for Poiueek,
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user who
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following:
SYDNEY.—Moffat Virtue, Ltd.
ADELAIDE. —Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co.. Ltd.
PERTH. —Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEEN SI AAI D , BY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD
Cultivate a National Outlook with
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
Australia’s National Illustrated Weekly.
Pictures, Sporting Notes, Literary Reviews,
Household Page, Children’s Section and
Special Articles tor the Pastoralist and Parmer.
On Sale All States. Price, 6d.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original
O YOU KNOW
That the Rural Bank was established in
1899? €J That it has assisted 54,728 per-
sons to establish farms? €J And 33.823
families to acquire homes? <J That the
keynote of its policy is "Service"? CJ That
although guaranteed by the State Govern-
ment against loss, it has at no time made
a claim on Consolidated Revenue? €| That
it has reserves in excess of £1,250,000 in-
vested outside the business? <J That it
offers complete banking facilities to all
sections of the community?
%e RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
1
f
Head Office:
14 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Sydney Branch:
350 George Street
k
mm
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superflne Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Jin., Jin, and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oik case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
the latter’s supporters, and Cluclub has
been relegated to obscurity. If Free Gal-
lipoli is so markedly degrading Victorian
flour, it, too, must go. Other wheats of
greater value will be found to replace it.
FAILING PASTURES.
“N.Q.”: Rabbits, as “Albarmount’s”
sole reason for failing pastures (B.
27/2/’35), must be ruled out. Bunny has
yet to become a boarder in central and
western Queensland, The depreciation of
Mitchell and Flinders grass plains isn’t
due to him and his hosts. Nor is “Corrie-
dale” (B. 27/2/’35) more than partly
right when he names overstocking as the
root of the trouble. It does assist in
undermining feed values and carrying
capacities of natural pastures, but science
has definitely stated that during the past
decade the pastures of the Common-
wealth have been robbed of over one
million tons' of protein.
Obviously, with top-dressing imprac-
ticable on large areas, what has been ex-
tracted from the pastures must be sup-
plied by artificial foods if the health and
well-being of stock are to be considera-
tions. Asa means towards this end scien-
tific research has evolved the essentials
necessary in licks.
Tests carried out by graziers with proved
licks have shown that the expenditure of
providing science’s formula has been well
rewarded. Apart from the general health
of the sheep themselves, wool growth has
been advanced and lambing percentages
have been increased, as also has the
weight of wool cut per head. The grazier
who does not provide his sheep with the
elements deficient in the pastures is going
to fall a long way short of getting close
to what should be his maximum returns
per head.
FIRE-BRANDING.
“S. Pendant”: “Thousands of pounds
are lost annually through fire-branding
valuable hides,” says “Beefo” (B.
(B. 13/2/’35). I knew a grazier who,
having read of these losses, branded all
his cattle on the jaw.
At the sale it was announced that, as
these cattle were so branded, a higher
price should rule, the hides being more
valuable. Laughter greeted this —the
cattle reached only average price.
The old chap is now back “on the rib,”
branding with less trouble and getting
the same prices.
A butcher once told me that in one
consignment he sent several good un-
branded hides, but the cleanskins, aver-
age quality, brought no higher price than
the branded ones.
“Beefo” says that the law should com-
pel the cattleman to brand on the glue
pieces. Only if tanners or dealers are
prepared to pay extra for such hides is
there a chance of the “thousands of
pounds” being saved.
FENCING ROCK FIELDS.
“Lion”: S’African experience may
assist those who have got to fence rocky
places permanently and as cheaply as
possible. I did much of it there, and it
was very successful.
Using ordinary drills for the purpose,
make a hole just large enough to take
an iron standard in the rock and about
lOin. deep. Place the standard in and
pour melted sulphur into the hole until
full. If it has been made properly, it
won’t take much to fill it.
This method sets the iron tight into the
rock, and stock cannot rub it out. Fit
netting as “Pick” suggests (B. 6/2/’35).
Crude sulphur is O.K. and cheap.
A COTTON HINT.
“Nasus”: Let the cotton-picker take
a petrol- or kerosene-tin —an old
holey one will do—and cut out
opposite sides and turn down edges.
Fix in a wire handle from end to end.
Then punch a hole about Sin. from the
top edge on each side of the ends, bend
strong wire into four S hooks, put one
in each hole on the outside. Pull a corn-
sack over the tin to the hooks, hook it
on, and the outfit bag is complete.
It saves the weight of a bag across the
shoulder, etc., as it is placed on the
ground between the rows. All cotton
as picked from each side is thrown into
the bottomless tin. When a move is
made the mere action of lifting the
handle will make the cotton fall into
the bag, leaving the tin ready for the
next lot. The bag when full is quickly
unhooked, and the next bag is easily
hooked on.
STOMACH WORMS.
“Jay”: This month and next is the
period when stomach worms (Hcemonchus
contortus) are particularly troublesome
to sheep. The first signs are falling off
in wool yolk. Sheep tend to be mopy
and listless, and the skin underneath the
wool turns a dull chalky color.
The best treatment is a drench made
up of two parts carbon tetrachloride
and three parts paraffin oil, administered
with an ordinary drenching-gun. (Inci-
dentally, although perfectly safe with
sheep, carb. tetra. is unsafe to use on
cattle, being particularly dangerous to
milking cows.)
For the treatment of lambs, one part
carb. tetrachloride and seven parts oil
is a safe dose. Before treating be sure
to remove them from wet, swampy
ground, and provide infected sheep with
an unlimited supply of good lick.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Gumblegubbin”: Graziers in Gren-
fell and one or two other N.S.W. dis-
tricts bell odd members of their flocks to
scare foxes. Those who have tried it
say the trick is an excellent protection
for lambs.
“Airline”; To file down anew axe
make a square cut in a tree at a con-
venient height and fit the back of the
axe into it. If the cut is too wide wedge
the axe in, but usually the weight you put
on the face of it while filing is sufficient
to hold it in position. File well back
from the cutting edge and don’t leave
any shoulders. Most axemen finish off
with a stone, but some prefer a file edge
for ringing, although it leaves a rougher
cut.
“Upilio”: At mating time yard sheep
each night to ensure a good drop. Last
year I yarded one paddock, and the
result was a 12 p.c, better get than in the
adjoining paddock of similar ewes of
the same age and condition.
“Borambil”: Sheep blinded with pink-
eye often die from thirst and want of
treatment once they lose the mob. A
neighbor whose sheep were badly in-
fected saved losses by putting a bell on
a leader of the mob, so that the blind
ones could follow the sound to water
and yards.
“Wrash”: After forking the roof of
the lucerne stack to a pitch as steep as
possible, spread wire-netting over it, and
weight down with stones or heavy rails
hung to its sides. This will so compress
the outer layer of lucerne that the stack
will shed any rain.
“Korumburra”; Concrete slabs can be
made in stacks one on top of the other.
I have made over a dozen at a time that
way. Separate each slab with at least
two thicknesses of newspaper. Smooth
off the surface of the top slab. It makes
a nice table-top for the dairy, to wash
up-on, and is better than wood. Con-
crete posts can be made in stack fashion
too, but put a thin board between each
post. It is better than having them scat-
tered about all over the place.
“P.P.”: If there is a difference in the
heights of sulky wheels, as is sometimes
the case after the tyres have been cut
and shut several times, put the larger
wheel on the nearside. This minimises the
effect of the road camber on the vehicle.
If the smaller wheel is on the nearside it
accentuates it.
“Pinto Pete”: When working a mul-
tiple horse team do not attach couplings
indiscriminately, but fix one to the near-
side of every horse. Interchanging the
horses does not then mean the unfasten-
ing and refastening of couplings. There
is always a spare one on the nearside
horse.


SMOKE-OH!
The trouble with Britain’s attitude to-
wards disarmament is that she has not
always stuck to her guns.
¥ *
Lang is Scotch for Long, and Long
seems to be American for Lang.
¥ ¥
It is obvious that when a man says
he is “sick of the whole blooming busi-
ness” the business isn’t blooming.
H* H*
Landlords are getting the courage of
their evictions again.
¥ ¥
“A man by a steward’s mistake travelled
from America to Sydney on a third-class ticket
in the first saloon.”
He’s not the first to travel luxuriously
by an accident of berth.
“The tracking of the ladies was smart and
colorful, black being much favored.”
This is carrying garishness a trifle too
far.
¥ ¥
“Wanted, strong boy for perfumery factory.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
A very strong boy, we suggest.
¥ ¥
“The mackerel will take a free bait.”
—Sydney paper.
The MacKerel?
“As Shakspeare put it, M am a woman.
When I think I must speak.’ ” — “Sun.”
Only then?
WHAT’S THE ODDS!
Wonderful the amount of limelight
bookmakers receive these days.
It was different when I used to call the
odds. Still, we had our moments.
I remember the Christmas meeting at
Deadhorse Hollow in ’96. The Bracelet
was looked upon as a bowl-over for Off
Theory, and no fielder would lay him,
although punters had armfuls of money
to wager. Suddenly I jumped on my
stand, blew my nose nois-
ily and yelled, “Ten to one
you can’t place them.”
You should have seen
the stampede. The other
bookies reckoned I was
mad, and well they might,
as there were only three
horses in the race, with
Off Theory a certainty to
win and Cat’s-paw just as
big a certainty to run
second.
“Ten to one you can’t
place them first, second
and third,” I roared as I
wrote the tickets so fast
that my blue pencil turned
red with shame and my
change clerk had to bor-
row another bag to hold
the money.
The race was run ; the
favorite romped home,
with Cat’s-paw second and
the rest of the field, To-
damslo, third. A hungry
crowd waited around me
as I went on calmly smok-
ing a cigarette.
“What about payin’ out?
We want our money!”
were the cries that came
from them.
“Well, you won’t get
it!” I replied calmly.
“Why?” It was
bloodthirsty shout.
“If you read that notice-
board,” I said smoothly,
“you’ll probably know
why,” as at that moment
I saw an official hastily
writing on the board—
“ Third horse disqualified;
121 b. short in weight.”
That was judgment foi
you. And it only cost me
a fiver and the jockey’s
fine.
J. M. C.
I didn’t want to go to Siberia. I’d no
desire to see the place. It looked too
wide on the map. But Rasputin thought
it would do me good. The Czar agreed.
They suggested 80 years’ residence. 1
asked them to shorten it, and just give
me life, but the Cossacks lashed me with
knouts and dragged me away.
“You’re lucky,” said one of the knout-
wielders. “Not long ago a fellow got
a double century. He still owed us 199
years when he died. The most you can
owe is 80, and you’ll probably work a
couple of those off before you die. You
look fairly strong.
“Anyhow,” he added confidentially,
“there’s going to be a revolution in about
20 years’ time, and all sentences will be
cancelled then, including expired ones,”
“But,” I replied, “my sentence won’t
have expired by then.”
“No, but you will.”
So off I went to the salt mines. It
took four months’ solid walking to get
there. The horrors of that journey!
Fortunately it was a warm summer, and
the snow was only three feet deep most
of the way,.
The salt mines were an eye-opener to
me. I’d always thought salt grew on
trees, like pepper, but it doesn’t. You
have to dig it up like coal, only not so
black.
Besides prisoners there were also horses
in the mines. They used to pull along
the empty trucks to replace the full ones
pulled away by the men. Through their
habit of licking the walls of the mine,
the animals used gradually to become im-
pregnated with salt. When they died
they were sent back to Russia and sold
to British sailing-ships as “salt horse.”
The guards used to encourage the prison-
ers to develop the licking habit, too, but
most of us refrained.
I suppose I would have died there if
it hadn’t been for Stephan. Stephan was
one of the guards—a big fat fellow. He
took quite a fancy to me —used to give
me his chewing-gum when he’d finished
with it, and show me lots of other little
kindnesses. Brave fellow! I owe him
my life.
“Quick,” he said to me one dark night.
“Jump in.” His horse-sled, with four
other passengers, was waiting. Off we
set at a furious pace. Tobolsk was soon
left far behind us. We skirted Omsk.
Then came the wolves —a huge pack of
them. In accordance with the usual
“Ah! There's yer ’usband comin' down
now, Mrs. Muggins."
practice we flung one of our number off
the sled. This held them up for a while,
Tomsk was passed. The wolves drew
near again. Another passenger was jetti-
soned, and on we sped. Travelling day
and night we were putting up a marvel-
lous performance. Another and another
victim the wolves claimed. Beyond
Irkutsk it seemed that all was well; but,
no, the relentless grey devils came on
again! .
Stephan was lashing the horses furi-
ously. I summed up the situation,
Should I sacri-
fice myself? Ob-
viously it would
be a wasted
effort. My skinny
frame wouldn’t
delay the wolves
a minute, whereas
Stephan, good
plump St e-
phan . . ,
I gave a sud-
den push and
over he went.
Some days
later I reached
Vladivostok.
Jasby.
•¥*
THE RIGHT
SPIRIT.
With nearly 80
other workers he
had been in-
formed that his
services would
not be required
for at least three
months, perhaps
four.
He took the
news with a
smile. His wife
was equally un-
perturbed when
he told her —not
a murmur about
how they would manage or whether they
might have to go on the dole.
“Why shouldn’t we have a trip like Mr.
and Mrs. Lyons?” she asked brightly.
“Capital idea!” he declared.
So another Federal politician began to
make plans for a cheap holiday on full
pay during the recess from April to
August.
Angus O’Cohen.
* *
“Mr. Lyons’s party is now heading for the
Straits of Messina, with a strong northerly
wind, which causes the ship to roll heavily,
but, so far, there has been no seasickness.”
The leader, at any rate, should be used
to going from one side to the other.
* *
FREEDOM FOR INFANTS.
“The latest feature of the up-to-date baby’s
peram. is a built-in radio-set.”
This is a great idea, and should do
much to raise the standard of culture
among infants. For generations babies
have been nauseated with the
sickly sentimentality of “See-
Saw, Marjorie Daw,” the
blood and thunder of “Little
Miss Muffet” and the self-
righteousness of “Little Jack
Horner.” Now they will be
able to choose for themselves
and shape their own indi-
vidualities. It opens up vast
possibilities.
What theatre, for instance,
will dare to display the
notice “Children in Arms
Not Admitted” when said
children in arms are keen
critics of the opera and are
familiar with the song hits
from the latest plays and
pictures? And will there be
any justification for refusing
the vote to a child who can
show that he has listened in-
telligently to every broadcast
soeech of every candidate
during the election cam-
paign?
From the point of view of one who
has always protested strongly on behalf
of the defenceless infants against the
ridiculous gibberish directed at them by
grown-ups, I think the innovation a
grand idea.
The response of a radio-tutored child
to its doting aunt’s “Diddums little
tootsie-wootsie wantums ickle dummy?”
is not hard to imagine.
Uco.
* v
A PRIZELESS ESSAY.
“The N.S.W. Police Department has offered
a prize for the best essay from sub-intermediate
children (approx, age 15 years) on the subject
‘Recreation as an aid against juvenile
delinquency.’ ”
I think recreation is a great aid against
juvenile delinquency. If juvveniles went
in for more recreateon there would be
much less delenquency among juviniles.
Trouble is that juvinils have so much
school work and home work and other
work to do that they don’t get time for
recration, and this leads to all sort of
deliquecy. Now, I think the way to stop
all juvinile deliquency among juvveniles
is to give them more time for recreation,
and the more recretion they have the less
they will go in for delinquecy and the
less they go in for dilenquecy the less
delinquencys they will commit, because
most juvenile delinquinces are caused by
juvveniles not having enough recreasion.
Therefore, if juviniles are aloud to
have all their time for recreaton they
won’t have any time for-deliquency and
"Say, sport, I Want t' take lesso ns."
there won’t be any dilequecy at all, that
is, among juvveniles there won’t be.
1 think this proves that recreation is an
aid against juvenile delinquency.
Tommy B.
A CURIOSITY.
At last the “Sunday Snivel” has found
the unique mother. In a special inter-
view with the “Snivel” representative the
proud woman said, “My little daughter
Beryl has been photographed from every
angle and in every attitude. I have exam-
ined these photographs with the very
greatest of care, but I still can’t see any
resemblance to Shirley Temple.”
D. S.
ARCHITECTURALLY SPEAKING.
“Every man, still, is the architect of his own
fortune.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Architect, perhaps; but if he has a
wealthy father to give him a good foun-
dation, friends and relatives who are
bricks to him, a roof over his head when-
ever he wants it, and a girl, marriage
to whom will cement his fortune, he
doesn’t need to be his own builder.
H. M.
*£•
“Very late, at about 11.45, a bridge expert
arrived to adjudicate on points at issue.”
— “Sun.”
The midnight Hoyle.
•V’
“The ‘Lily’ mentioned, petitioner explained,
was a girl who was engaged to marry his man-
servant.”
A Lily of the valet.
* *
“Everything went for nothing when the paper
showing the aggregate was lost.”— “Herald.”
A total loss.
THE VANISHED GLORY.
As I gazed at him my mind leaped
back two thousand years. He sym-
bolised the glories of Ancient Rome.
I saw the legions marching; saw
Rome as she was—her triumphs, her cul-
ture, the Forum and the gigantic Coli-
seum, gladiators, Christians thrown to
the lions.
A brutal age with brutal men? Ah!
but Time’s softening hand had touched
it all with romance and taken the sharp
edge of realism from many things. They
were men in those days, without doubt.
I walked nearer to the innocent cause
of my reverie. He smiled.
“Yes, sair? You wanta buy da nica
da banan’?”
I bought one, and as I walked away
I cynically peeled the skin from the illu-
sions of history.
Rich. J.
SOLILOQUY.
Exshtremely drunk, I hear you vow
That you’ll love Phyllish evermore;
But let me tell you, here and now,
That she’sh the one that I adore.
Shtill — hie—l shouldn’t give a rap
That such a shtate of things should be,
Shimply becaush, my dear ole chap,
I’m you, and you’re — hie—only me !
T. W. N.
THE FATALIST.
Mary had a little lamb
Which cared not one iota
If Governments decided on
A duty or a quota.
It took no heed of threats of force,
Or ominous predictions;
It knew its end was with mint sauce,
With or without restrictions.,
B. M.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Motor mechanic, N.S.W. (47), 30 years’
driving and mechanical experience, wants posi-
tion of trust or responsibility. Can give fidelity
bond. Refs. —6086.
Young lady, Sydney, wants typing work.
Used to plays and novels. —6098.
Lady, U.S.A. citizen, capable nurse, would
accompany family voyaging to America or Eng-
land. Refs.—6oBl.
Englishwoman, going to Canada April or
May, would be pleased to help other travellers
in return for small remuneration. —6080.
Whereabouts of Chas. Laughton Ellis, late
Wongong (W.A.). Sister, Armadale (Vic.),
inquiring.—6106.
To buy copies of “National Geographic”,
magazines for 1933 and 1934. —6097.
Words of verse written to go with Will
Longstaff’s “Midnight at Menin Gate.” —6082.
Information Sought.
Has the average age of man increased since
the dawn of history ? If so, by what has it
increased ? Has the stature increased or
decreased ? —6084.
Average height and expectation of life have
been deduced from statistics recorded over the
last century. In height there is no appreciable
change, though war, pestilence, etc., coincide
with a lowered national stature that nature
gradually equalises. This was demonstrated by
the lowered average height of the French after
the Franco-Prussian War, 1870-71. From age
records (London) over the period 1850 to
1930, expectation of life has increased from
40 to 60 years, approx. Improved hygiene,
official control over infectious disease and the
dissemination of knowledge with regard to
health and diet are factors that influence this
result.
On the wooded heights above Manly, N.S.W.,
there is a roughly carved stone figure of a
kangaroo. Is it the work of aboriginals ?
5623.
The kangaroo was carved in the rock on
the instructions of Henry Gilbert Smith, about
1875, as a landmark. Smith, who owned much
of the land in Manly at that time, had the
pine-trees along the seafront planted.
(1) Who designed the Archibald Fountain ?
(2) Who designed the Anzac Memorial? (3)
When the winning design of the Anzac
Memorial was published there was shown a
female figure crucified. On inspection of the
memorial the other day I could find no such
figure. Why was this part of the design
omitted ? —5902.
(1) M. Francois Sicard. (2) C. Bruce Dellit,
architect; sculpture by G. Rayner Hoff. (3)
The official explanation is that this sculpture
and another were not proceeded with owing
to lack of funds.
(1) Remedy for redness of the nose after
eating (not drinking) ? (2) What can I do
about a red spot on my chin? —sBo7'
(1) Nervous gastric faults and flatulence con-
tribute to redness of the nose, and exposure
to weather extremes aggravates the trouble.
Diet simply, curtail condiments and heating
foods, and sip a glass of hot water first thing
each morning. Take an alkaline bismuth-
and-soda mixture before meals if acidity is
pronounced. For local treatment, bathe the
face night and morning with tepid oatmeal-
water ; dab congested areas with equal parts
liquid witch-hazel and calamine lotion after
drying. (2) Cover the chin blemish with a
flesh-tinted greasepaint to tone with the normal
skin color. Dark complexion requires tint 3,
3i to 4 (man).
Cure for ingrowing toenails? —6096.
Keep the nail cut square along the outer
edge, and scrape the middle surface thin with
emery-board or file. Do not cut the inner
edge; insert a piece of cotton-wool beneath
each corner if the ingrowing tendency persists.
Meanwhile, paint daily with tincture of iodine
for relief of pain. Choice of footwear is
important; a straight-edge last is best if the
foot is broad; toes must not be cramped.
As the result of a recent fall a soft swell-
ing has developed. My doctor tells me that
a blood-tumor accounts for the lump, but so
far no treatment has been given. What is the
usual procedure in such cases? —s94l.
A hsematoma or blood-tumor is an occa-
sional result of injury; it arises when a blow
or fall has ruptured a blood-vessel without
breaking the skin. It differs from a bruise in
that blood from the lacerated tissues collects
and remains as a fluid swelling. Inflammation
is usually absent, but the tumor tends to
harden with deposition of blood-fibrin in its
wall. Local treatment is seldom required, but
infection is possible through abraded skin or
by medium of the blood-stream. In old or
debilitated subjects a sloughing of the tissues
may occur; otherwise there is no immediate
danger.
Are warm soda-baths of benefit to elderly
rheumatic sufferers ? If so, how are such
baths prepared ? —5788.
The warm soda-bath is of benefit in rheu-
matic conditions due to uric-acid accumula-
tion. After middle age the eliminatory func-
tions become sluggish with curtailment of
exercise; the tepid bath stimulates circulation.
Acid secretions are removed from the skin by
the soda addition, but the drying process must
be vigorous, provided there is no definite
neuritis. To prepare the soda-bath add a large
handful (4oz. to 60z.) of bicarb, soda (baking-
soda) to a moderate bath of warm water.
Preferably take the bath before retiring at
night.
(I) Is epilepsy treated in Sydney by snake-
venom injections ? If so, what have been the
results ? (2) How does the venom act ? —5974.
(1) Not in Sydney. (2) Calmette (France)
describes the serum in relation to snakebite
and toxins contained in the venom. Destruc-
tion of red blood corpuscles and tissue elements
is indicated, together with definite action on
the nervous system. These influences are acti-
vated respectively by (a) haemolysins, ( b )
cystolysins and (c) neurotoxins. Benefit in
epilepsy is not clearly proved at this stage
of the experiment.
Is it an accepted medical fact that a person
who has had cancer of the lip will not be a
subject for cancer elsewhere in the body ?— 1
5907.
No. Cancer of the lip, on the contrary,
suggests predisposition to cancer. Definite
evidence is wanting on the subject of infection
and heredity as a cause, but family predisposi-
tion appears to be correlated with cellular
tissue growth peculiar to the type or in-
heritance. Many authorities affirm that cancer
occurs primarily in tissues that have undergone
some previous degenerative change. Recent
research suggests a disturbance of balance in
pituitary gland secretion, but much work
remains to be done before anything definite
can be established.
I have a row of pine-trees in which one
has died; beetles bored into the trunk just
below the surface of the ground, causing the
trunk to become rotten. (1) Is this the South
African boring beetle ? (2) What can I do to
prevent the other trees from being attacked ?
—5935.
(1) Without specimens it is impossible to say
what species of borer is responsible for the
damage. The South African borer beetle is
not known here. (2) There is no known method
of preventing the attack, and, in any case, the
borers may be only attacking the tree after it
has commenced to decay or become sickly
from some other cause." .
What is Positivism ? —5823.
A kind of religion founded by the French
philosopher Auguste Comte (1798-1857) which
insists that the only kind of real knowledge
we possess is the knowledge of things- that
exist around us. Theology is discounted as
akin to belief in the supernatural. According
to Comte, the human mind in its search for
experience passes through three - stages—theo-
logical, metaphysical and scientific. Positivism
offers a short cut to the third stage, and
preaches a new regulation of human society and
very; careful education of'" the young. It is
anti-militaristic, and aims at fostering the
spread of scientific truth and:the growth of the
altruistic side of human nature.
Any information regarding the surname
Crumpton ? —6105. - -
Derived from crum, or crump, meaning
crooked.- Crumpton, Crompton and Crampton
all mean the crooked Farmstead or manor-
house. There is a Crompton in Lancashire.
In the Lancashire Assize-Rolls, 1246-47 a.d.,
a Brun de Crumpton is\ mentioned.
(1) In what form are copper, silicon or
magnesium added to aluminium to form an
alloy ? (2) Are the two metals melted together
or apart ? (3) Precautions taken to prevent
the heat of the higher-melting metal from
oxidising the lower-melting metal ? (4) Books
on the subject ? —6074.
(1) to (3) In manufacturing aluminium-
bronze only the purest metals should be used.
The copper is melted over a gas or oil fire
in a plumbago crucible, being covered with
charcoal to prevent oxidation. A coal fire will
absorb gases and produce an unsatisfactory
alloy. The aluminium is dropped through
the charcoal into the molten copper, and it
combines with the copper as soon as its melt-
ing point is reached, setting free latent heat
and raising the temperature of the mass. The
crucible is now removed from the fire, the
molten metal skimmed and poured into ingot
moulds. Special methods are employed in
the case of silicon j and magnesium. (4) Best
is “Aluminium and Its Alloys,” by M. G.
Corson, published by D. Van Nostrand and
Co., New York.
How to prevent and cure sandfly-bites ?
6068.
Smear exposed parts with strong solution of
Epsom salts. To alleviate irritation when
bitten apply a lotion of equal parts liquid
ammonia and witch-hazel, freely as required.
A tepid soda-bath at night is of value. Cit-
ronella or lavender oil is the usual preventive
application to ward off insect pests.
(1) Where are the leper islands, or settlements,
in Queensland situated? (2) Which of these
is nearest the Queensland coast?. (3) How
could an engagement as nurse be obtained ?
(4) Transport arrangements ? (5) Are doctors
stationed in such places ? —6065.
(1) and (2) There are no leper islands. The
Government lazaret is situated on Peel Island
in Moreton Bay. (3) Apply to State Health
Department, but vacancies are rare. (4) A
Government motor launch runs daily between
the mainland and Peel Island. (4) A medical
officer from the State Health Department
visits weekly.
What is the unemployment relief lax from
£1 to £250 income per year in Queensland ?
5921.
On incomes not exceeding £lO4 per annum,
3d. in the £1; from £lO5 to £2OB p.a., 6d. in
the £1; and from £209 to £499 p.a., 9d. in
the £l.
(1) Difference in time of sunrise and sunset
between Sydney and Eden (Twofold Bay,
N.S.W.) ? (2) Difference in lime of tides be-
tween, Fort Denison and Twofold Bay ? —6047.
(1) Changes from day to day. At the spring
and autumn equinoxes the sun rises at Eden
five minutes later and sets five minutes later
than at Sydney, but at the summer solstice
it will rise four minutes earlier and set 14
minutes later, and at the winter solstice rise
14 minutes later and set four minutes earlier
(2) Approximately 23 minutes earlier at Two-
fold Bay than at Fort Denison.
(1) What is the form of government in
Afghanistan ? (2) Nature of the country ? (3)
What railways are there, and what are the
roads like? (4) Is the climate healthy? —sB34.
(1) Autocratic—by the Ameer. (2) Rough
and largely impassable. The country is land-
locked —a tangle of precipitous mountains,
barren, sterile and lacking water. (3) No rail-
ways and few roads. Winter snows check com-
munication from December to April. (4) Not
particularly. During Lord Roberts’s march
from Kabul to Kandahar a difference of 80
degrees between day and night temperatures was
recorded. In summer, cholera and dysentery
are prevalent; in autumn, malaria; and in
winter a good deal of pneumonia occurs.
Whose death “eclipsed the gaiety of nations,"
and where does the phrase occur ? —5827.
That of David Garrick (1716-79), the great-
est English actor of his time. The allusion
occurs in Samuel Johnson’s “Lives of the
Poets”: “But what are the hopes of man? I
am disappointed by that stroke of death which
has eclipsed the gaiety of nations and impover-
ished the public stock of harmless pleasure.”
How do artists prepare water-colors for very
thin clear washes of color ? —5970.
Use only cake colors, and grind them in a
saucer until as fine as possible. Mix the tint
in a saucer and let it stand awhile. Pour off
the top color, discarding all sediment, and
’ paint with what is poured off. This is generally
only necessary for skies and similar delicate
large washes.
Any information about an artist named Ellis
Silas ? —5968.
He was the grandson of a well-known musi-
cal composer and the son of Louis F. Silas,
a painter of the romantic school. Started in
England as a marine painter and came to Aus-
tralia some years before the war. He joined
the A.I.F. and was at the Landing at Anzac,
which resulted in a book of sketches published
with the name “Crusading at Anzac.” He
was commissioned by the Australian Govern-
ment to do some painting for the War Museum.
He went back to England and was honored
with a royal audience. After a few years in
London, during which he exhibited at most of
the leading shows, he went to Papua and spent
some years painting in the Trobriand Islands.
This work was exhibited both in Sydney and
London., He contributed sketches to the
Bulletin.
Source of the lines :
A light broke in upon my brain!
It was the carol of a bird;
It ceased, and then it came again,
The sweetest song ear ever heard.
—5962.
Byron’s “Prisoner of Chillon.”
Napoleon said something pithy about journal-
ists. What was it ? —5936.
“A journalist is a grumbler, a censurer, a
giver of advice, a regent of sovereigns, a tutor
of nations. Four hostile newspapers are more
formidable than a thousand bayonets.”
(1) To whom does- Browning’s “The Lost
Leader” refer? (2) Who was Waring (“ What’s
become of Waring....”) ? —5944.
• (1) To Wordsworth, who, once liberal, grew
conservative with advapcing years and opposed
educational and other reforms. Browning,
questioned in 1875, wrote: “I can only answer,
with something of shame and contrition, that
I undoubtedly had Wordsworth in my mind —
but simply as a model; you know an artist
takes one or two striking traits in the features
of his ‘model’ and uses them to start his fancy
on a flight which may end far enough from
the good man or woman who happens to be
sitting for nose and eye. I thought of the
great poet’s abandonment of liberalism at an
unlucky juncture, and no repaying consequence
that I could ever see. But, once call my fancy-
portrait ‘Wordsworth’ —and how much more
ought one to say!” (2) Alfred Domett, who
went to Maoriland, where he mingled poetry
and politics. He was Premier for a year. His
best-known poem is “Ranolf and Amohia.”
Who wrote the lines :
Like one, that on a lonesome road
Doth walk in fear and dread.
And having once turned round walks on,
And turns no more his head :
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.
—5828.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge in “Rime of the
Ancient Mariner,”
Who said “The natural and simple won’t
do for sonnets, odes and the sublime. The merit
of these is their obscurity, and it is quite
sufficient if the author himself thinks he under-
stands them” ? —5936.
Fabricius.
Source of the following lines in (/ think) one
of Robert Brough’s repertoire of plays: “How
do you like my dress, Pimple ? I think I look
something * like Cherry , in the” ? —5978.
The lines are spoken by Miss Hardcastle in
Goldsmith’s “She Stoops to Conquer,” Act 111.
The correct version is: “Tell me. Pimple, how
do you like my present dress? Don’t you
think I look something like Cherry in the
‘Beaux’ Stratagem’?”
Who was the fictitious character who passed
through purgatory and was placed in a coffin
in a cave ? —5977.
Sir Owen. See Southey’s “St. Patrick’s
Purgatory” (from the “Fabliaux” of M. le
Grand).
Who were the accepted lyric writers in the
time of Pindar ? —5976.
Besides Pindar, the Greek lyrists were Alcasos,
Aleman, Anacreon, Bacchilides, llysos, Sappho,
Simonides and Stenchoros. Horace was the
one outstanding lyrist among the Romans of
that age.
Names of some of the best poems in English
about dogs ? —5841.
Robert Browning's “Tray,” Elizabeth Brown-
ing’s “To Flush, My Dog,” Byron’s “Boat-
swain,” Hardy’s “An Important Personage at
Home,” Hon. W. R. Spencer’s “Beth Gelert”
and A. C. Swinburne‘s “At a Dog’s Grave.”
Also, there is at least one anthology of pieces
about dogs.
Who was the author of the satirical poem
based on the “Victory Ball” ? —5863.
Alfred Noyes.
Origin of the lines:
Now the hare is snared and dead beside the snow-
yard.
And the lark beside the dreary. winter sea ;
And the baby in his cradle in the churchyard
Sleeps sound till the bell brings me.
—5767.
“A Lament,” by Charles Kingsley.
Names , of 1 some of the most famous men
Florence produced ? —5967.
Dante, Boccaccio, Botticelli, Machiavelli,
Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Cellini.
Who was the author of the book “Man’s
Law,” translated, 1 think, from the Dutch ?
—5850.
Probably you refer to “Le Droit . Dcs Gens,”
written by Emerich de Vattel, and published
at Neufcnatel, 1758. He was the son of a
minister of the Reformed Church, was born
at Couvet, Neufchatel, 25/4/1714, and died
28/12/1767. Trained for the church, he entered
the diplomatic service of Saxony, and for 18
years was Saxon representative at'Berne. His
book systematised thfe doCtfines. of Grotius,
Puffendorf and Wblf.
Brief Answers.
E.D.: (1) Queensland Uni. matric. exam,
passes are acceptable for matriculation in
Sydney Uni. provided the candidate has passed
in the subjects and at the standards prescribed
by the latter uni. (2) and (3) See Sydney Uni.
Calendar ... .J.F.G.: “Disston Tool Manual
(price 3s. 6d.), obtainable from Henry Disston
and Sons, Gibbens-street, Camperdown, Sydney,
contains a great deal of information on the
subject A.A.: The British departure from
Freetrade took place in 1931 ; the present
National Government made the change....
J.A.C.: Write N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation, 62 Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.P.: In
Longfellow’s “Hiawatha”... .H.E.: Place a
small packet of Lux in a rather large
basin, pour over it half-cup boiling water,
then beat well. When smooth add 1 dessert-
spoon olive oil and a few drops of oil of
lavender; beat till creamy and store in covered
jars... .H.C.: Paprika is the dried fruit or
pod of one of the capsicums or so-called
peppers, ground finely and used as a condi-
ment. It is sometimes called “Turkish pepper.
Any florist can supply seeds, and you could
probably grind the dried fruits yourself;
warmth and water are necessary to the growth
of the plant.. . .J.L.: Scrub the roller with a
strong solution of common washing-soda and
hot water; rinse thoroughly with clean cool
water to remove all traces of soda.... A.8.C.:
No certain method of increasing adult height.
Physical culture and exercise are of obvious
benefit in youth. Growth may continue to age
of 25. Best join a class where movements —
bending, limb-stretching, etc. —will be graded to
suit your case. Medicinal treatment is not re-
quired in health... .F.A.: Reply (5522)published
issue 27/2/’35. Covering letter posted, giving
details required... .H.W.: Generally accepted as
an extreme measure —not favored here. In first
instance the vas deferens, or excretory duct, is
severed. Essentially a minor operation, with
no adverse effect. Other case permits several
methods; abdominal operation necessary in
most... .R.S.E.: Exact method of treatment
not yet published. Write the Director, Paralysis
Clinic, Townsville, Qld., for particulars
C.H.K.: Can find no record of a ship named
Charlemont or Charlemagne being wrecked on
the Australian coast... .J.F.: Shapurji Sak-
latvala is the only Communist who has been
elected to the House of Commons.. ..S.H.:
See advertising section of the “Daily Com-
mercial News and Shipping List,” published
in. Sydney N.W.M.C.: Write Under-
secretary, Department of Territories, Canberra,
F.C.T M.D.: The freight rate from Lon-
don to Australia on aeroplane engines is 755.
(sterling) per ton of 40 c.ft. or 20 cwt., which-
ever rate is the greater... .D.G.M.D.: It is
entitled “Yesterday,” and words and music
are in “Songs of Yesterday” (25.), published
by Palings, Sydney... .B.B.: Particulars are
obtainable from the Metropolitan Hospitals
Contribution Fund of N.S.W., Asbestos House,
York and Barrack streets, Sydney... .W.8.G.:
Latest figures are obtainable from the Federal
Bureau of Census and Statistics, Canberra,
F.C.T A.N.F.: None conducts annual com-
petitions. Several conduct competitions from
time to time. See list in “Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook”... .8.P.J.: A bats-
man’s average is computed by dividing the
number of runs scored by the number of com-
pleted innings. “Not-outs” are not completed
innings. A bowler’s average is computed
by dividing the number of runs scored
from his bowling by the number of
wickets taken.... H.J.: Tell him it was
■agreed that payment should be made on
the first of the month and his delay causes
inconvenience. At the same time write to
or see the other trustees and ask them to use
their influence in securing prompt payment.
You do not appear to have any legal remedy.
. ...E.G.8.: The Engineering and Water
Supply Department, Box 641 F, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, may be able to supply the informa-
tion... .T.M.8.: Better to buy the coat. No
tanner will do one skin from a steer... .R.A.:
It is a long and difficult process that could
be carried out only in a well-equipped tannery.
. ...J.L.8.: Department cannot prophesy as
far ahead as 1939... .J.K.C.: (1) Yes, if in
the meantime it has not been occupied and
the occupier acquired a title by prescription
(20 years’ uninterrupted enjoyment of the land).
If you establish your title you will have to
pay all accumulated rates. (2) Not if your
title is g00d... .C.M.8.: Altitude above sea-
level of 2000 ft. is not advised in valvular
heart disease. Excessive humidity also should
be avoided. Choose a temperate, semi-coastal
climate removed from direct sea moisture....
E.D.: Progress is satisfactory. Revert to
prescribed diet and antacid powder if pain
recurs. Meanwhile avoid extremes, sip a glass
of hot water each morning on rising, and take
mild salines daily as indicated. Don’t worry
about cancer J.R.M.: The process demands
suitable apparatus and technical skill in com-
pounding ingredients. lodine especially is
unstable, and liable to effect a chemical change.
Pressure —with or without heat—would be
required for the solid mass or dry lick. An
excipient for small bulk amounts is 5 per
cent, powdered acacia gum with syrup of
glucose to mass. Write Vita-lick, Ltd., 107-9
Kent-street, Sydney, for quotation... .V.A.K.:
Write Mick Simmons, Ltd., George-street,
Haymarket, Sydney... .G.W.M.C.; Fish which
should be in the vicinity of Ettalong Beach,
Woy Woy (N.S.W.), during April are bream,
whiting, flathead, flounder and jewfish H.G.:
Write Taxpayers’ Association, 360 Collins-street,
Melb W.S.: That dish-washing and -drying
machine is obtainable from the Wood Manu-
facturing Co., Bankstown, N.S.W H.W.T.:
Samuel Johnson in “Vanity of Human Wishes.”
It should read: “He left the name, at which
the world grew pale, to point a moral, or adorn
a tale”... .H.T.G.: Gertrude Stein’s address
is; Care of Liveright Publishing Corp., 386
Fourth-avenue, New York.... H.S.: (1) There
is a good demand for sound buffalo skins at
about 44d. per lb. (2) Suggest you get in touch
with the Administrator, N.T C.0.L.:
When an order is made by the Court for the
payment of the amount in default and the
defendant does not pay he is deemed to have
acted in contempt of the Court and is com-
mitted to prison until payment is made, for
a period not usually exceeding twelve months.
H.R.E.: (1) Matric. exam, is the standard
required. (2) Apprentices are not permitted to
manufacturing chemists or drug houses, the
Act confining the right to take apprentices to
registered pharmacists conducting open shops.
(3) Pamphlet issued by the Pharmacy Board
of N. S. Wales posted T.D.: “The Man
from Snowy River” and “Conroy’s Gap” are
in “Collected Verse of A. B. Paterson,” price
85.... .(Many others mailed.)


m
J V
<s>
i
HA***
V
\uil
m
M
s
s*
W/
Wfc
f *
*
IP
W
\\
Glad to see
you've fitted
a ‘Cyclone’ Gate * „ . ...., ll( ,.-
mine swings as true to-day
as when I hung it . . .
20 YEARS AGO
WE have many records of “Cyclone” gates hung twenty years
ago—some over thirty years ago—and still practically as good
as when they were new. During all those years they have needed
no maintenance.
These records were established with old-styte gates—and the new
“Cyclone” Gates are stronger in every way. They are electrically
welded throughout. Frame and cross members form one solid
piece of steel tubing. No bolt holes into which water would
penetrate and rust the frame.
Hinges are unusually solid— can’t loosen or pull out. The cross
cables are of HARD-steel wire, held rigid by upright cables.
Let us tell you more about these stock-proof Gates. The coupon
here will bring you literature describing all styles and giving all
dimensions. Fill it in now !
" Cyclone” is not a type of gate, but is our registered trade mark
and can only be legally applied to gates manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE Co. Pty. Ltd.
THE GRACE BUILDING, 77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
And at Meloourne and Adelaide
Chain-and-knob Fasten-
ers hold “Cyclone” Gates
securely closed, no matter
how much the posts get
out of plumb. Note how
the ring falls over the
bolt head —it can never be
knocked off accidentally,
or be lifted off by cattle.
The Bottom Hinge ex-
tends completely through
the post, and is fastened
with a nut; the Top
Hinge also bolts right
through the post. The
hinges can’t loosen or
pull out.
c
7301
POST
COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of “Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
B, ?.7/3/’36.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted ; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.J.H.: But we don’t see how royalties
can prevent this silly stuff being written or
cabled about them. The real are
the papers which publish it....W.P.: “En-
closed please find poem which my newsagent
advised me to send to you.” Suspect your
newsagent of leg-pulling... .D.R.L.: There’s
some swing in your verse, but it needs more
polish and a lot more point... .8.E.N.: We
question the existence of any market in Aus-
tralia for what you call “this sort of thing.”
It is too long-winded for the average reader.
....G.W.S.: You may have a “deep, melo-
dious voice,” but your singing pipe is a very
thin and reedy 0ne.... J.T.K.: Mournful in
its bathos... .L.A.R.: Not a color in the
dish... .E.W.L.: Very immature rhyme....
E.E.: Your characters don’t arouse interest....
E.C.S.: That coincidental meeting after many
years is a tempting plot. It tempts thousands
every year J.M.: Thanks; but we prefer
paying for new ballads to reprinting old ones.
....J.W.P.; But there certainly weren’t “half a
hundred towns” in the neighborhood of King
Arthur’s Avalon P.M.: A bit of slanginess
is no defect, but you tend to overdo it....
E.M.: Never heard of the township, but we
shouldn’t like to associate it with “lightsome
ladies”... .M.S.: There are some quite good
lines, even if you echo Praed a bit too obvi-
ously. But the ending is very shaky E.D.:
Nothing wrong with the refrain, but you take
a heap of liberties with the ballad form....
The Jay: Had to christen it Walker....A.R.P.:
Don’t monkey with that unshackled verse
till you’ve mastered the other sort, which
mightn’t look it but is easier to do well
C.E.G.: Liked the last two lines of each, but
the rest moves leadenly... .J.M.Q.: Climax
doesn’t come up to the list of speculation....
M.G.D.: “A Modern Sermon” so befogged
that the Religious Editor got lost in it. Seach-
parlies, with ten bottles of provisions, are out.
F.E.C.: “Hope” too much like its obvious
model. Other better, though not good enough.
T.W.I.W.: Misses —even this column
L. Rangor: Glad to hear from you, Dowson;
we’d heard you were dead. But why plagiarise
yourself? J.M.C.: Not our sort, but you
ought to be able to place them... .S.D.M.:
Take note that the daffodil season is hereby
declared closed. Hang it, you’re the fourth
this morning... .Don Q.: Dragging in “you
see” for rhyme’s sake is dreadful. Don’t
fancy the thing much, anyway G.A.L.:
Neat in their way, which isn’t ours E.E.:
Not our style A.T.P.: Quite agree with
your final sentiment... .E.S.: There should be
a law to prevent childhood lovers meeting after
30 years. It’s fatal C. 8.: Off our beat.
E.J.S.; A fair yarn of unreal life
E. : Fell at the last hurdle... .Nev.: Have
read better pig stories... .J.D.S.: It sounds
true, but that isn’t everything. It doesn’t
keep one interested C.R.S.: “Sunshine” is
in a well-worn track; “Fame” we have seen
before and still don’t like... .D.L.T.C.: Not
enough humor F.C.F.; Rather tired of
“smart” racing yarns... .H.R.: Yet they say
there’s nothing like leather!... .R.H.L.: A
labored effort, and even if the best were
made of the idea it would have little
appeal... .Z V.W.: One of these days a
writer will discover an elephant that isn’t
scared of mice.. ..K.M.: Not suitable
E.J.F.: The drunken gorilla made no
apparent attempt to amuse... .H.C.M.: Not
up to standard. Subject at fault rather than
the treatment... .M.H.: Well done, but not
quite the type/.. .J.M.8.: Not far off... .F.R.;
You must have a penchant for tragedy, to
squeeze all that into 900 words... .M.L.: Try
a Maoriland paper F.G.S.: Theme oldish
.... J.C.M.: Very well, then, Heros hasn’t won
the Standish. Now, let the globe whizz on
C.H.: Plot seems very unlikely
F. Not up to standard... .N.A.P.:
The man who is cut off with a shilling
is too much a story-book character....
Rat.: None of the sketches fills the bill.
The story is a weak copy of Steele Rudd....
A.R.: Doesn’t convince. The boys aren’t
natural... .Bern: Idea good, execution not so
g00d... .C.E.8.: You may be able to place
it elsewhere... .C.L. : The doings of Harold
and Charles aren’t sufficiently interesting....
A.S.V.: Much too long E.8.G.: Not for
us. Try a woman’s paper, but shorten it first.
. ...M.T.: Dull, and doesn’t hold the interest.
... .G.W.M.: No room for them... .J.D.:
Not suitable... .K.McC.; Too slight, but
may get in elsewhere.... FA4: Doesn’t make
the grade... .A.D.: Can’t quite swallow the
man who mistook Goulburn for Sydney. Not
that we wish to cast any reflection on Goul-
burn... .G.M.8.: Can only suggest that you
try dad again... .A.L.C.; Sentiment all
right, but the tale is written as though for the
instruction of the young 8.A.: “Hamlet”
has been burlesqued so often already.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.: No good sending caricatures of people
in your State unless you can get some respon-
sible party to vouch for likenesses A.BJ.;
Nice decorative background, but the figures in
front are eyesores... .K. 8.: From what freak-
show did that pair escape? ... .L.W.: Kinder-
garten art and antiquated jokes... .J.J.S.: Store
the bathing beauties and submit when summer
comes again D.C.: Those two Domain
dossers are old friends L.H.: You are
using the wrong class of paper for your close,
detailed work.
“K.N.”: A Sydney woman, Mrs.
Jessica Lee, writes interestingly from
Cornwall, where she is staying with a
nephew on his seventeenth-century farm.
The walls of the old house are four
feet thick, and the oak staircase, which
has served for 300 years, is five feet wide.
One of the house’s old masters (he lived
there for 80 years) was a great hunting
man, and there is a tradition that a
favorite mare, Jessie, often walked up
the old staircase and into his bedroom
with him in the glad old days when gin
was gin. In a field near the house the
mare is buried under four elm-trees with
a granite* headstone inscribed “Jessie,
1842.”
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Australia’s old friend Benno Moisei-
witsch is conducting a master course for
pianists at the Guildhall School of
Music. Benno’s first wife was violinist
Daisy Kennedy, of South Australia. Now
she is Mrs. John Drinkwater, and was
seen looking very lovely at the London
premiere of John’s play “A Man’s
House.”
* * * *
According to the Rev. J. Danglow, the
Melbourne Rabbi, 70,000 refugees have
fled from Germany since Hitler assumed
power; 7000 of them possess academic
distinctions. Strangely enough, the Gen-
tiles among the fugitives numbered over
14,000. To-day all are scattered in differ-
ent European countries, except 10,000
Jews who have gone to Palestine.
* * * *
“Toorak” cancels his sub.;
“In Russia, where a vast and primitive
agricultural country has been transformed within
a generation into a highly industrialised State,
, . , . . •
the engineer has enjoyed a unique opportunity
of giving his imagination and skill free play,
In the time of transition, he was literally
idolised by the enthusiastic young Russian
apprentice.” Where did I read that? In the
“Moscow News”? In “Soviets To-day”? No,
in a Melbourne “Argus” leader! I will read
the foul rag no more, and I am going to
move that it be excluded from the reading-
room of the Melbourne Club.
* * * *
“Ex-Sahib”: If the Gaekwar of
Baroda is to be one of the five leading
princes of India to take the title of king
at the forthcoming Jubilee Durbar (B.
13 /3 / ’35) it will be some solace for the
penalty he paid after the Coronation
Durbar. It was said he had turned his
back on the King-Emperor. Actually, he
advanced to the dais to pay homage and
made a deep obeisance, but in backing
collided with a pillar. In confusion he
faltered, and turned to ask an official
for direction. Thus an ill-fate made him,
all unwittingly, seem to turn his back
on King- Newspapers took hold of
the partial truth and condemned him, in
spite of his letter of explanation to the
A. y
viceroy.
* * * *
.„ T , .
Airline : In almost every Wild West
book 1 pick up the hero produces a fish-
ing-line, catches half a dozen trout and
, np „ t i v hlnw<; dm head off a brace of
then neatly blows the head oh a brace oi
quail while the coffee is coming to the
boil. If ever I decided to write in a
similar strain I’ll take a trip to Maori-
land to gather my material. In many
parts of the back-country you can
tickle enough trout to make a hearty
meal and slay all the quail you can eat,
together with wild duck, Canadian
geese and various other imported game
(all more or less protected, but that’s a
mere trifle to an author); while if you
feel in need of something really sub-
stantial there are red-deer, chamois,
wild cattle, pigs and goats galore, and
even an odd moose or two. They are
mostly regarded as pests!


"SILVER
EDGE••
%wAa&fr
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the
uncanny feeling of pressing
your brake pedal and nothing
happens? Do not wait for
this experience to be yours.
but have your brakes watched
and adjusted at definite
periods in the same way as
you attend to the oiling of
your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with RA YBESTOS
BRAKE LININGS and so ensure reliability, uni*
form wear and safety,
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England
Factory Rep.: John Arnold > G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne
The Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation Limited
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne, and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings, Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Australian Corporation,
transacting all classes of Life Assurance, including;
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate, Non-Profit,
Annuities, Personal Accident and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
E. F. LOGAN, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
The Steering Column.
OWNER-DRIVER MAINTENANCE.
HOW A TOP OVERHAUL IS CONDUCTED.
By FRED BERRY.
A LTHOUGH air purifiers, oil and petrol filters have made it
possible to run car engines for long periods without more
than superficial attention, there is no question that those drivers
who pay strict regard to maintenance of “tune” will be fully
repaid for their pains in terms of enhanced reliability and greater
economy in operation.
The driver not possessed of some mechanical training
may frequently be deceived as to the condition of his engine
because the modern motor, developing tremendous power, will
propel the car with one or two cylinders in poor condition. The
collection of carbon in the combustion chamber, with conse-
quent lowering of efficiency, is such a gradual process that the
trouble is seldom detected.
There are, no doubt, many owners of
cars who prefer to have all mechanical
adjustments made at their favorite garage
or service station, but there are also a
great number who do these jobs in their
leisure hours, either because they are
enthusiastic amateur mechanics or for
financial considerations. More would
derive additional pleasure from their
motoring by dabbling with the numerous
interesting adjustments except for a pre-
conceived idea that close secrets are in-
volved in “tuning” an engine, and that
Where carbon deposit accumulates in the car engine. Parts
that must be carefully cleaned and reconditioned in a top
overhaul.
these mysterious rites are practised by
experts only at night and behind locked
doors.
The writer, after many years of com-
petition work and racing, can assure
motorists that there is neither a secret
nor a royal road to high motor perform-
ance —it can only be obtained by pains-
taking attention to a number of details ;
in short, it is the little things that count.
The amateur mechanic can with con-
fidence set about putting more “pep”
into his motor, and, without attempting
an elaborate overhaul, can attend to such
straightforward jobs as decarbonising,
tappet adjustment, ignition setting and,
perhaps, carburettor adjustment.
Looking for Trouble.
With internal - combustion engines
cleanliness is essential, and a dirty com-
bustion chamber is an expensive luxury.
Modern engines will run unadjusted for
lengthy periods
without break-
down, but those
drivers who carry
on after the 15,000-
mile mark without
a top overhaul are
simply asking for
trouble. Further-
more, apart from
the aspect of eco-
nomy, decoking at
regular in t e rvals
goes far towards
maintaining good
road performance
in terms of accel-
eration, hill-climb-
ing, maximum
speed .and petrol
consumption.
Lower
Efficiency.
Accumulation of
carbon in the
combustion
chamber reduces
the effective area
of cylinders, dam-
ages valves, pistons
and rings, fouls
the lubricating oil
and generally de-
tracts from efficient
operation.
For the infor-
mation of those
desirous of con-
ducting a top
overhaul it should
be made clear that, as almost every
engine used to-day is fitted with a de-
tachable cylinder head, no apprehension
need be felt as to the ultimate result of
the work provided reasonable care is
exercised and instructions faithfully car-
ried out.
Before commencing actual work on the
job careful preparation should be made
so far as tools and spares are concerned,
in order to avoid delay. A few boards
should be nailed together to rest on when
working under the chassis, and an ad-
equate supply of old rags to keep hands
and gear free from grease will avoid
frayed tempers and perhaps injury to
hands. Laying all tools out in an orderly
fashion will save time, while, if one’s
nails are scraped along a bar of soap
before commencing, the toilet on the
completion of the job will be much more
successful than would otherwise be the
case.
Methodical Procedure.
Before dismantling, run the engine for
a few minutes in order to thin out the
lubricating oil. Unscrew the drain plug
from the bottom of the crankcase and
run all this oil out —in a tin, not on the
floor. While draining, unscrew the plug
or tap from the base of the radiator, and
so drain the water from the cooling sys-
tem. Then shift tins out of the way.
Remove the bonnet over the engine by
taking off a nut under the dash and lift-
ing the whole cover away.
Spark plugs can now be taken out, but
before doing this make quite sure that
In cases where valves are not provided
with slots for grinding-in purposes, a
suction cup as illustrated will serve the
purpose.
the wires leading to the plugs are se-
cured in a permanent fitting so that it
will not be possible to fit wires on any-
thing but the correct plug when the job is
being assembled again. If there is any
doubt, make a series of nicks with a pen-
knife in the rubber casing of the wire or
on the brass terminal near the plug, so
that they may be readily identified. No.
1 plug is always nearest the radiator.
Cooling Systems.
The rubber-hose connection between
cylinder head and radiator is now dis-
mantled—method will depend upon
design of the particular engine. Some-
times the water outlet on the cylinder
head is a separate casting held in posi-
tion by two bolts. If this is so, undoing
these bolts and prising off the casting
will obviate disturbing the hose connec-
tion, and possibly save the necessity for
a replacement. Care should be taken in
this operation to see that the gasket or
packing between castings remains intact,
otherwise a new one will be required
when reassembling. Where no provision
is made for the removal of this separate
casting the radiator should be loosened
where it is anchored to the chassis, the
hose clip nearest the cylinder block dis-
mantled and the rubber hose carefully
prised off with the aid of a chisel or
screwdriver.
With these units dismantled, remove
the cylinder head. The procedure now
depends to some extent upon whether the
motor is equipped with side-by-side or
overhead-valve gear. As fully 80 p.c.
of the cars to-day are designed with side-
by-side valves, this type will first be
taken.
Lifting the Head.
In order to provide greater accessi-
bility, there is a tendency to-day to posi-
Sequence in which cylinder-head nuts
should be removed and restored to
position.
tion the distributor gear above the cylin-
der head, and in this case the spindle
from the timing shaft passes down
through both castings, cylinder head
and cylinder block. This gear can be
dismantled simply by slacking off a nut
immediately below the distributor casing
and withdrawing the whole assembly.
There is no occasion to worry about re-
placement, for there is only one position
—happily the right one. With this clear,
the head may be lifted.
Make sure that neither exhaust nor
inlet manifold interferes with the re-
moval of this casting. Take a box
spanner exactly fitting the nuts on the
cylinder head, and, beginning at the
centre, go over the whole series, slacking
them off one turn only at a time until
finally removed. After these have been
taken off and put safely away in a tin or
box, lever the cylinder head off care-
fully by using a length of wood for the
purpose. Do not drive a screwdriver
into the joint between the castings, for
not only may this cause the casting to
crack but it will damage the cylinder-
head gasket. After levering the head up
a little way, the fingers may be pushed
under each end, and by rocking from
Tappet and valve assembly in side-by-
side type, showing method of adjustment.
(a) Tappet, (c) locking nut, (b) adjusting
nut, (d) valve stem.
side to side and pulling upwards at the
same time it should be readily lifted off.
Put this casting aside for cleaning
later. On top of the cylinders will be
seen a packing or gasket used in making


m
m
t m
1'
Wmm
wma
mm
IK
I
HEAT-TEMPERED
TO WITHSTAND
HEAT AND PRESSURE!
The huge hammers of industry are wonderful tools.
Made of tough HEAT-TEMPERED steel, they with-
stand endless punishment.
In the same way, HEAT-TEMPERED Texaco Motor
Oil stands up to a blazing inferno of heat and con-
stant pressure in the modern high-speed high-com-
pression motor —saving wear and money.
Texaco Motor Oil is distilled from specially
selected, heat-resisting crudes and heat-treated to
make it tough and longer-lasting still. It gives
safer, surer protection and quieter, cooler,
smoother motors; quicker starting and more
powerful performance.
WARNING: Protect yourself against substitution.
See that the oil you get is CLEAN. CLEAR.
GOLDEN!
TEXAC
MOTOR OIL
CRACK-PROOF . . . LONGER-LASTING
Only one Grade — FIRST GRADE!
Only one Quality FIRST QUALITY!
H. 0.1-485
a gas-tight fit. This gasket is made from
a sheet of asbestos pressed between two
thin sheets of copper or brass, and is
called a C. and A. (copper asbestos)
gasket. Provided care is taken in re-
moval, this may be used several times, so,
with the blade of a table knife, work it
away from the cylinders until free.
Avoid lifting one side more than an-
other during removal, for the thin copper
is readily torn by the studs.
Decoking.
Now proceed to remove the carbon,
the object of this overhaul. Fit the
starting handle, turn the engine until two
pistons come up level with the top of
the block, fill the other cylinders with
clean rag in order to prevent carbon
falling in, and then, with a suitable flat
tool, such as a blunt carpenter’s chisel,
clear off all carbon from the piston heads.
Do not jab at this work, but use a firm,
pushing motion, as, where aluminium
pistons are fitted, the metal may easily
be damaged. With these two pistons
cleaned and the carbon brushed away,
turn the starting handle again until two
How valve clearances in overhead types
are adjusted by setscrews in lock nuts
on rocker arms .
more pistons are exposed, and so on until
all pistons have been attended to.
While the scraping tool is in use, get
the cylinder head and thoroughly remove
all carbon from the combustion chamber.
Motorists should here be warned against
using emery cloth to finish off either the
piston heads or combustion chamber, for
small particles of emery may be detached
and do considerable damage to the re-
ciprocating parts.
Valve Types.
In side-by-side motors the valves will
be seen in the cylinder block, and in
order that they may be removed the
valve-cover plate or plates behind the
carburettor must be dismantled.
Before valves can be handled springs
must be removed, and a valve-extracting
tool will be found of very great assist-
ance. Using.this tool, the springs can
be easily compressed, and the hands left
free to withdraw cotters from the bottom
of the valve stem. Lacking a valve-
extractor, a tyre lever or long screw-,
driver may be used, resting upon a block
of wood to act as a fulcrum while the
springs are compressed.
Before the valves are finally withdrawn
make sure that they are numbered con-
secutively on the heads so that they may
be replaced in their original positions
when reassembled. After they are with-
drawn soak in kerosene, and when all
dirt and carbon has been scraped off
polish stem and head. It will be seen that
the side of the valve head is usually cut
at an angle of 45deg. This is called the
“face” of the valve, and it is the gas-
tight fit of this face upon its seating in
the cylinder block that is so essential
in making the motor pull well. Conse-
quently, avoid scratching or damaging
this face when cleaning. In extreme
cases, where the valve searings and faces
have worn oval or pitted, it is sound
economy to have them faced up truly
again by the use of proper tools. In
ordinary service, however, a gas-tight
(Continued on next page.)


Hints for Amateur Mechanics.
'BURRED-UP
CYLINDER BLOCK
How not to remove a cylinder-
head gasket. Unless drawn over
studs evenly stud holes in the
copper sheeting will be burred
over, effectively preventing a
gastight joint when used again.
Aluminising Cylinder Heads.
Read “The Bulletin” Motor Editor’s article on
Aluminising cylinder heads ( B. 26/12/’34).
Metal Coatings, L>td., have the latest
equipment to carry out this class of
work, which they guarantee.
PRICES:
Four (4) cylinder heads, 10/-
Six (6) cylinder heads, 15/-
Same day service.
All other classes of Metal Spraying.
Wheels protected against rust for the life
of your car from 5/- to 7/6 per rim.
Same day service.
METAL COATINGS, LTD.,
16 Bridge Road, Stanmore, N.S.W.
Telephone: L 2533.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
50QQQQQQQQQQQQ&Q
m
mma
INDIGESTION
Sufferers —Act on
this advice To-day
NEW-PRINCIPLE REMEDY
BRINGS NEW HOPE!
Miserable, indeed, is the man or
woman whose stomach does not work
properly. Even the first symptoms of
something wrong are distressing—
palpitation, wind, flushing, belching, or
griping pains. But when this condition
has been allowed to persist without
check, the continued acidity actually
attacks the fabric of the stomach.
Then you get chronic dyspepsia, pain-
ful gastritis, colitis, and the dangers
of ulcerated stomach or bowel, with
intense pain day and night.
While the distressing symptoms of
wind, palpitation and flushing are bad
enough, the unfortunate sufferer begins
to learn what real agony means when
the stomach is inflamed or ulcerated.
Constant gnawing pain and the dread
of an operation is always in his thoughts.
No wonder people who have obtained
relief by using De Witt’s Antacid
Powder write us such grateful letters.
You dare not neglect
that griping pain !
To those who have any pain or
distress in their digestive organs, we
confidently recommend De Witt’s Ant-
acid Powder, This preparation acts
in a three-fold way.
Firstly, it neutralises the excess acid
which the stomach continually pro-
duces, and allays the irritation.
Secondly, the ulcers are coated with
a film of colloidal-kaolin. So finely
powdered is this kaolin, it is easily
spread over the entire surface of the
stomach, protecting the inflamed lining
from the hot, burning acids.
Thirdly, it actually digests portions
of your food, thereby still further taking
the load off the weakened stomach, and
finally, the ingredients in De Witt’s
Antacid Powder build up an alkaline
reserve in the body, that, with ordinary
care, there will be no recurrence of your
trouble. Then your pains leave you for
good ; you enjoy your food and it does
you good.
Every day that you delay in getting
a supply of this new and wonderful
preparation means a day of unnecessary
snffering for you.
DeWITT'S
ANTACID POWDER
Recommended for
INDIGESTION
ACID STOMACH
GRIPING PAINS
PALPITATION
ULCERATED
FLATULENCE
HEARTBURN
GASTRITIS
DYSPEPSIA
STOMACH
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores, in sky-blue Canister,
Full Month’s
Treatment —
2/6
Be sure you get the genuine DeWitt’s
Antacid Powder, in the sky-blue
canister. Prepared by the well-known
house, “DeWitt’s,’' which has supplied
medicinal remedies to the public for
fifty years.
fit may be again restored by the process
of “grinding in.”
Patience and Care.
Grinding in valves, while not de-
manding any great skill, is an operation
calling for much patience, and unless
done thoroughly might as well be left
alone. In carrying out the work valve-
grinding compounds are used to assist
the process, and these compounds are
of two classes —those in an oil medium
and water compounds. Although the
former have almost invariably been
used for many years, there is much
to be said in favor of the modern
type of water compound. Whichever
kind is decided upon, a little is smeared
upon the face of the valve and the seat-
ing in the cylinder block. Now place the
valve back in position, insert the point
of a long-handled screwdriver in the slot
on the valve head and rotate one half
turn back and forth, exerting only a
little downward pressure. You will feel
the grinding compound cutting into the
iron. After turning a few times the
operation will become harder, so every
few turns lift the valve from its seat and
begin in a new place. Much of the suc-
cess in valve grinding depends upon the
continual lifting of the valve and start-
ing from a new position every four or
five half turns.
Time Savers.
A knack worth noting when doing this
work is to slip a weak spring over the
valve stem before placing it back on its
seating, for the slight upward pressure
will lift the valve away when weight is
taken off the screwdriver, and so make
the operation much easier.
After grinding in for some little time—
depending, of course, upon the condition
of the valve-remove, wipe the faces
thoroughly with a clean rag soaked in
benzine, smear the faces lightly with a
little Prussian blue, replace and give a
quarter turn. If, on withdrawing, a per-
fectly unbroken ring of Prussian blue
is found, that particular valve is good
enough to put aside as finished.
After all valves have been done they
can be immediately replaced, valve
springs again secured and tappet adjust-
ment proceeded with.
Replacing valve springs without the
correct tool mentioned earlier is a difficult
and tiresome operation. The work can
be simplified, however, by placing the
valve springs in a vyce, compressing
tightly and tying up with two or three
lengths of thin strong cord ; thus the
compressed valve springs may be slipped
over the stems, and after the cotters have
been fixed the cord is cut, when the
springs will resume their normal position.
Restoring “Pep.”
Tappet adjustment, where provided, is
most essential after a valve overhaul, by
reason of the fact that grinding has
altered the clearance between tappet and
valve stem. Provision is made in the
majority of engines for very precise ad-
justment by means of two hexagonal nuts
on the tappet head. A pair of thin fixed
spanners of an exact fit for these nuts
is to be found in< the tool-kit, and these
are essential to carry out the work suc-
cessfully. First slack off the bottom or
lock nut, and then, by holding the bottom
squared end, the top or adjusting nut may
be turned either up or down as required
until the desired clearance is given. The
instruction-book will state clearly the
clearance necessary for your particular
motor, and also whether the final ad-
justment should be done with the engine
hot or cold. As a general rule, however,
a safe working clearance after grinding
in would be six-thousandths of an
inch, and, in the absence of proper
feelers, two thicknesses of Bulletin
paper will suffice. Place the feeler or the
double paper between tappet and valve
stem and adjust until you can just pull
the paper away. This done, hold the
adjusting nut with one spanner and
tighten the lock nut firmly with the
other. Of course, tappet adjustments
must be done when the valve gear is at
its lowest position, ancl the starting
handle will naturally have to be turned
several times during this operation.
Some tappets, particularly in the Ford,
are solid, not being provided with nuts
for adjusting purposes. Here, clearance
is maintained by using a stamped steel
thimble slipped over the end of the valve.
Into this thimble may be packed steel
discs to accommodate clearance; or,
where the valves tend to “ride,” the bot-
tom of the stem can be ground away.
With valve grinding and tappet adjust-
ment completed the engine can be as-
sembled. Examine the cylinder-head
gasket, and if in good condition smear
lightly with grease and slide carefully
over studs into position. Slip the cylin-
der head on and put the nuts on the
studs finger-tight. When drawing these
nuts up with a tube spanner begin at
the centre and work evenly towards both
ends. Never pull up any one nut to the
fullest extent, but go over the whole
series until all are drawn hard down.
Assembly Order.
Replace the radiator connection, and
where the hose has been forced away
from the casting smear the inside with
gold size before tightening up the clamp.
Replace distributor head where the
design has necessitated its removal, and
securely tighten the cotter holding it in
position. Replace spark plugs after
thoroughly cleaning them, and see that
the copper washers around their base are
in good condition. Attach the wires from
the distributor to each plug, making sure
that each wire goes to its corresponding
plug. Refill the crankcase with oil and
the radiator with water. Replace bonnet
and the job is complete.
In cases where overhead-valve gear is
incorporated, the procedure of decarbon-
ising is exactly similar to that already
described, excepting with regard to dis-
mantling of the valve gear.
Where push rods are employed to
operate the valve gear it is merely neces-
sary to spring these rods aside and, if
the holding-down bolts are then access-
ible, proceed as with side-by-side motor.
Sometimes the valve-rocker assembly has
to be dismantled before this is possible.
Where overhead-valve gear incorpor-
ates cam gear in addition, either the tim-
ing chain or timing gears are involved in
the process of dismantling, and in these
circumstances care must be exercised in
the process in order that no deviation
from standard setting is made when re-
assembling.
The Trouble Lamp.
W.M.F. (Kenya Colony, Africa). —All my
motoring is done at 5000 ft. to 9000 ft. altitude,
and I desire to increase the power of my 70
Chrysler and if possible decrease fuel con-
sumption. Would you advise machining an
eighth of an inch off cylinder-head ? I do
not mind if engine is rough under 10 m.p.h. —
I live on top of the Main Escarpment.
Eighth-inch off head is risky. Better order
special high-compression head from nearest
agent. This will boost power by approximately
10 p.c. without interfering with performance
or fuel consumption. Stick to your home-
made extra-air device. It is as good as any
other.
A.L.B. (Newcastle, N.S.W.). —My ’26 six-
cylinder Overland has a defect somewhere in
the transmission. When the car is running at
between seven and ten m.p.h. it develops a
jerky sensation similar to that caused by worn
universal joints, but these have been checked.
When clutch is disengaged a tinkling sound
comes from the flywheel housing. Also,
although a new crown wheel and pinion have
been fitted to the differential, it hums above
25 m.p.h. What’s the remedy ?
Clutch is multiple-disc type, and trouble is
due to loose plates both in spline centre and
outside guide pins. These must be free from
wear and a perfect mechanical fit in order to
avoid noise. As your diff. trouble is inter-
mittent, crown-wheel supports must be out of
alignment. Pinion bearings should be care-
fully checked, particularly the main double-
row ballraces.
J.B. (Tully, N.Q.). —1 have converted my
'll “Advanced Six” Nash into a truck and
fitted extra spring leaves. (1) How could it
be geared lower for pulling over heavy going ?
(2) What would be a safe load ? (3) Where
could I get necessary parts ?
(1) Smaller wheels or new crown-wheel-and-
pinion assembly will provide lower gear ratio.
(2) 12cwt. to 15cwt. (3) Willsfords, Ltd.,
Phillip-street, Sydney.
Economy (Brisbane). —I bought a new 6 -cyl.
14 -hp. Vauxhall roadster, late 1934. Mileage
is now 1800. I get only 23 m.p.g. Am an
experienced driver, and never exceed 35 m.p.h.
(1) Should the car do better than 23 m.p.g.,
and what may I reasonably expect ? (2) If a
smaller jet is fitted will it affect general
efficiency regarding pulling, starting ', etc. ?
(3) What do you suggest, and where should
1 go for necessary adjustments, if any ?
(1) Yes, the roadster should give between
28 and 32 m.p.g., depending upon road
conditions. (2) If existing jet is too large a
smaller one may improve pulling, etc. (3)
Possibly the engine is not yet properly run-in.
Do a further 500 before making any altera-
tion from standard setting. Then get the
Brisbane service agents to slightly advance
timing, check valves and experiment with jets.
R.G. (Launceston, Tas.). — I want a “man-
sized” car with first-class top-gear perform-
ance, plenty of leg-room and built-in luggage
carrier. Of the cars described by you the two
that appeal to me are (cars named). (1) Are
both really comfortable over rough roads ?
(2) The performance of ( a ) seems outstand-
ing, yet you appear to prefer (b). Why ?
(2) Price of (a) with high-compression head ?
(4) Wheelbase of (a) ? (5) Is not (6) sold in
two higher-priced models ? If so, do they
give such better performance as to justify pay-
ing more ? (6) Is front-wheel suspension on
both safe when cornering ot speed ?
(1) Yes. (2) ( b ) is about 4cwt. heavier.
(3) and (4) 116 in. wheelbase, Australian body,
£495, plus tax; 123 in. wheelbase, imported
body, £675, plus tax. (5) No better perform-
ance, but longer wheelbase and bigger cars.
(6) Yes.
B. (Henley, S.A.). —After slipping into
neutral and easing off power the engine of my
’29 6 -cyl. 'car inyariably stops. This is most
annoying in traffic; but otherwise the car-
pulls well. Can you help ?
The trouble may be due to the adjustment
of the throttle stop being set too slow; incor-
rect adjustment of idling-jet setting, which must
be determined by trial and error; or air-leaks
in the induction system, valve guides or mani-
fold.
F.A.T. (Bookham, N.S.W.).—• The clutch of
my Fordson tractor will not disengage properly
when cold, and gears are very difficult to get
in. Can I remedy without dismantling ?
Undo the four screws holding the inspection
plate on clutch housing, and then make the
necessary adjustment by turning the setscrew
in arm attached to clutch assembly.
J.M. (Kerr’s Creek, N.S.W.).—My ’25
Morris-Cowley has done 20,000. Oil pressure
is satisfactory when engine is cold, but after-
running some time the needle comes back to
zero. If driven fast in second gear it some-
times shows 1 or 2. All oil-pipes are fight.
Cause and cure ?
Trouble is due to worn bearings permitting
oil to escape freely when the motor is hot.
Provided the sump is kept full there is no
need for worry, as the oil pressure will come
back to normal when the bearings are next
taken up.
C. (Koorawatha, N.S.W.). Please
advise method of tightening the torque-ball
adjustment on my 1-h.p. car. Nut has been
taken up to fullest extent, yet there still remains
a fair amount of play.
Correct method would be to fit a new ball-
housing, but a temporary repair can be made
by slacking off the adjusting nut and packing
the housing with brass shims to accommodate
the wear.
Ash (Ipswich, Q.). —Some of the red liquid
in my petrol gauge has disappeared. (1) How
does the gauge operate ? (2) How is liquid
added to the gauge ?, (3) What liquid is used ?
(1) Accompanying illustration explains
graphically the working of dashboard petrol
gauge. (2) Add drop by drop by means of
eye-dropper to open end of the tube (see
sketch). (3) Telegauge fluid, a special liquid
of very high specific gravity.
Motor Oddities.
“Kotuku”: Bill Jones, who doesn’t pro-
fess to know much about the mechanical
part of his car, or how the darn thing
works, is, nevertheless, a firm believer in
what he calls “keeping her tight,” and
each Sunday morning he can be seen
busily plying spanner and screwdriver.
Recently the calm of a Sabbath morn
was shattered by an explosion which
sounded as if the four tyres of Bill’s bus
had burst simultaneously. Somewhat agi-
tatedly he asked me to pop over and
have a look at her. I tried the starter,
but, with the exception of another loud
bang, the engine remained dead. ’ Bill
assured me that, barring the tightening
of a nut or two, he had in no way inter-
fered with the engine. On trying the
starting-handle, I found the compression
to be non-existent, so removed the cover
of the valves, which were of the overhead
type. It was then that Bill admited, some-
what reluctantly, that on noticing a little
play between tappets and push-rods he
had screwed them up hard.


CONVERT
Your Broadcast Receiver to
ALL-WAVE
with a
M '
EASY installation,
EASY tuning,
EASY band selection
with COLORCODE
selector.
DUI SHORT-WAVE
CONVERTER
D.W. RADIO CO.
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest
The SLADE-PATON (Neon Type) VALVE TESTER
-
Modern Multi Element Valves positively require a Valve Tester to show high resistance
leakages between the elements of » Valve, as more often than not this is the cause oi
noisy and intermittent reception and distortion.
On the SLADE-PAXON a turn of a rotary switch will pick out and test each element
of a HEATED Valve, identifying a short or leakage, and recording same on the JNEOA
even if it is as high as 500,000 ohms or more.
Other unique features are:—
(1) Calibrated Chart In booklet, that includes practically every Valve sold in Australia.
Pull range of standard American as well as over 60 of each of the following: Philips,
Milliard and Osram Valves.
(2) Direct reading coloured Dial, with GOOD-BAD sections in conjunction with scale
showing percentage readings of each.
(3) Line check with line adjustment.
(4) Only Five Sockets. Will test all future releases that plug in.
(5) Heavy panel of three-quarter inch English ebonite in oak case.
(6) Tests all second plates and Diode plates.
Price, £ll/17/6 Trade net.
Short and leakage unit for older model, in black leatherette case, price £2/1/6 net.
Available all leading Distributors or
SLADE-PATON, Radio Test Equipment Manufacturers, LANG ST., CROYDON, SYDNEY
’Phones: UJ5381-TJAI96O. Send for FfIEE Booklet, “12 Uses for an R.F. Oscillator.”
RADIO NEWS.
THE MARTIN A.C. THREE.
BY DON B. KNOCK.
This is a specially designed short-wave and broadcast receiver suitable
primarily for headphones, but with sufficient audio gain for loudspeaker
reproduction of strong signals.. Although it is A.C. operated, it is
completely free from hum, and is just the type of receiver to suit the
needs of constructors and experimenters.
Expense is the stumbling-block for
many who would like to possess one of
the many excellent multi-valve all-wave
or dual-wave receivers on the market to-
day. The fact that these receivers do
something else, if only as an alternative,
besides cover the broadcast range of 200
fig. 1.— Th e circuit diagram of the Martin A.C. Three, a humless regenerative short-wave and broadcast receiver.
to 550 metres as used in Australia, makes
them attractive. The price, however, is
prohibitive to many pockets, and so con-
sideration must be given to the best that
can be done in the way of a versatile
radio receiver for a moderate price. It
Fig. 2.—The receiver viewed from the
detector side.
isn’t a difficult proposition, but care
must be taken over the design and con-
struction.
To get the best return from what the
average constructor-reader is likely to
be able to afford in the way of a flexible
receiver means from the first that it must
be of the regenerative type. The whole
thing really depends upon the efficiency
of a detector circuit which is to be used
in its most sensitive possible state. If
anything is out of gear and the detector
oscillation is unstable, uncontrollable or
noisy, the receiver cannot possibly justify
itself, and becomes an abomination.
A remarkably good performance can
be obtained from a short-wave receiver
of the most humble pretensions if it is
functioning as it should, and to be sure
of the best results it is only necessary to
observe a few commonsense rules.
The experienced designer of such re-
ceivers aims to keep noise-level originat-
ing within the receiver itself to the lowest
possible pointto make construction as
inexpensive as pos-
sible without impair-
ing results by using
poor or unsuitable
material; to give
pleasant reception
by means of head-
phones, with regula-
tion of the volume
to the required level
to suit any pair of
ears ; and to have a
reserve of audio
power sufficient to
operate a loud-
speaker on the
stronger signals if
desired.
There should be no argument about
the loudspeaker side of such a receiver,
for it is primarily the kind of receiver
one wishes to use in quiet seclusion by
means of headphones, at times when
domestic silence is desirable. In such a
case, however, the little receiver is usually
installed in a home where there is already
a household broadcast receiver. The new
gadget becomes the secret pride of the
operator, who knows what unexpected
joys lie behind the dials, and the rest of
the household may or may not be inter-
ested. There is the other side of the case,
and that is where the little receiver must
serve as the household entertainer in
toto. If broadcasting is wanted it is a
matter of seconds to change the coils
and provide sufficient volume to fill any
average room on most locals. It may
not be selective enough to cut in between
some of the more congested distant
country stations at the 200-metre end of
the range, but what of that? It will,
if working as it should, provide ample
separation of the main stations. As a
short-wave receiver just as much enter-
tainment can be obtained from the
prominent overseas stations as with the
big commercial product sporting a multi-
plicity of valves. If the enjoyment is to
be shared, it is just as easy to use more
than one pair of headphones.
The receiver described in this article
follows the principle of the Wide-World
series of receivers, using an electron-
coupled detector, designed by
the writer. I. B. Martin, Syd-
ney radio engineer, is respon-
sible for the original, and it will
be seen from the illustration
that the layout follows closely
the Wide-World Four (B.
2/1/’35).
Circuit Details.
Simplicity is the keynote,
and, though it is possible to
make quite an elaborate and
completely screened job of the
receiver in the construction, the
basic circuit is such that most
technically-minded readers will
be readily familiar with it. The
heart of the receiver is the de-
tector, and upon the behavior
of this, despite the presence of
the tuned R.F. stage, depends
the results possible. The 2.5-
volt valves are used with a 57
detector. The methods of ob-
taining controllable regeneration
in an oscillating detector are
widely varied, and experi-
menters usually have their own
particular fancy. If any of
these methods are properly em-
ployed, they can be fairly
effective, but of all schemes
the function of the electron-
coupled detector as used in this and the
Wide-World receivers is favored by the
writer for sweetness of control, high
sensitivity and lack of detuning at high
frequencies. In this form the detector is
free from what is described as “wobbula-
tion.” If the detector functions in an
unsteady manner the signal appears to be
very unstable and difficult to hold. No
receiver relying upon its detector for ex-
treme sensitivity can be anything but a
horrible box of noises if the detector is
performing gyrations internally. With
an R.F. pentode valve such as the 57,
with oscillation obtained by placing the
cathode a little above earth through a
coil coupled to the grid circuit, and the
voltage on the screening grid variable by
means of a smooth-running, noiseless
potentiometer, remarkable sensitivity,
with elimination of the undesirable fea-
tures mentioned, can be obtained if grid
and plate potentials are correct.
The detector in this receiver is pre-
ceded by a tuned R.F. stage, separately
controlled, using a 58. The coupling is
through a small compression-type con-
denser, marked CC in the diagram, with
the plate of the valve fed through a
three-section honeycomb short - wave
choke. The condenser CC need be only
a very small capacity, and usually
35mmfd. is ample. This depends to a
certain extent upon the effectiveness of
the screening between the R.F. and
detector stages. The more complete this
screening is, with little or no tendency to
interlocking, the higher can be the capa-
city at CC. With more capacity here, the
greater is the voltage at the grid of the
detector valve, with consequently in-
creased R.F. signal gain. For general
purposes, however, and where the R.F.
stage is separated only by a single verti-
cal metal panel, a small mica dielectric
condenser such as is used in superhet in-
termediate transformers will be ideal.
A volume control is provided in the
cathode circuit of the 58, and, although
this is a passenger when the receiver
is used on the short waves, it is of
material advantage if it is used in the
metropolitan area for broadcast recep-
tion. It is not enough to rely upon back-
ing off the voltage on the detector screen
Fig. 3. —Seen from the rear. The
layout of the major components is
indicated clearly in this view. Note that all valves,
including the rectifier, are in screening cans.


Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
• All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
folly tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—— S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.), ——
4 Rowe Street. Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin' 1 Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, ColviUeco, Sydney. •Phone: Btm.
by means of the regeneration control as
a means of regulating volume. Distor-
tion is a certainty if the screen voltage is
reduced to a point where a strong local
drops enough in volume to be pleasant,
The aerial-coupling condenser C is, for
general purposes, a five-plate midget
variable, but, if the receiver is to be used
several hundred miles from the nearest
broadcasting station, this can be increased
Fig. 4. —With the Aero-type dials, the front panel and controls
present a pleasing symmetrical appearance.
to a 23-plate midget with advantage.
Only a small capacity is necessary in
either case for short waves, using the
usual type of aerial with an average
length of 60 feet. The variable conden-
sers Cl and C 2 should have a maximum
capacity of .000175 at least to cover the
broadcast range of 200 to 550 metres
with the coil data specified for this pur-
pose. An excellent condenser for re-
ceivers of this kind is the Jackson
.0002 (Murdoch’s, Ltd., Sydney). No
attempt has been made to gang the two
tuned circuits. It could be done, but in
so doing introduces complications which
Fig. 5. —The controls underneath the
dial knobs are, left to right, R.F.
volume, regeneration and audio level.
are better avoided. The R.F. stage tunes
fairly broadly, and the extra control is
no handicap.
The output valve is a 2A5, and in the
grid circuit is a .5-meg. potentiometer
used as a volume-level regulator. This
control is not absolutely essential, but is
an advantage if the receiver is to be used
in close proximity to a local broadcast-
ing station. Resistance coupling is used
between the detector and the audio stage,
and is fully effective because a high
voltage is available from the power unit.
If a receiver of this nature is designed
for batteries, a high impedance audio
choke becomes essential, otherwise the
B-battery voltage would have to be in
the vicinity of 400 to get enough voltage
at the plate of the detector through the
coupling resistor. Attention should be
paid to the detector screen-grid control
circuit. This is slightly modified in com-
parison with previous circuit descriptions
of a similar nature. The 50,000-ohm
potentiometer is connected across the
voltage-distributor network, and the vari-
able contact (the centre terminal) is by-
passed to earth by a 2mfd. condenser.
This effectively kills any tendency to
noise in the potentiometer even if it is
not of the best design, but at the same
time the high capacity is likely to side-
track a lot of signal voltage unless pre-
caution is taken. This is done by in-
cluding in the screen-grid lead a 10,000-
ohm resistor, with a .Imfd. condenser
from the screen-grid side to earth. The
voltage control is thus decoupled from
the screen-grid itself. Decoupling is
also used in the plate circuit of the de-
tector. In series with the .25-meg. re-
sister is a 50,000-ohm resistor, with a
.25mfd. condenser to earth between the
two. The R.F. choke in the plate circuit
is also a three-section honeycomb, and
the .Olmfd. condenser a mica, and not
a paper dielectric type,
Instead of the usual cathode biasing of
the audio pentode, back biasing is used,
and this feature
contributes ma-
terially to the
hum-free head-
phone behavior
of the set. There
is always the
chance of intro-
ducing some re-
generation in the
grid circuit of an
indirectly - heated
pentode val v e,
where the usual
cathode resistor
and by-pass are
used, with resul-
tant A.C. hum
superimposed in
the grid circuit.
This can be fore-
stalled by decoup-
ling the cathode,
but the back-bias-
ing method is re-
1a t i vely simple
and possibly
more effective.
The three Bmfd.
electrolytic condensers are insulated from
the chassis and taken to earth through a
300-ohm 100-watt resistor. In the voltage
network the 30,000-ohm resistor consists
of two 15,000-ohm wire-wound voltage
dividers in series, and the 10,000- and
5000-ohm resistors are of the two-watt
metalised type. The output from the
audio stage is via a 50-henry choke and
.25mfd. capacity. Thus the headphones
or speaker have no high voltage through
the windings, and the wearer of ’phones
is not subject to accidental shocks upon
touching the ’phone terminals. Three
terminals are provided at the output, so
that two pairs of ’phones may “be used
in series if required. If only one pair is
used, the centre terminal is disregarded.
Power Supply.
The power-supply unit is standard in
every respect. The transformer has a
385 volts per side high-voltage second-
ary, a 2.5-volt winding at four amperes
and a five-volt winding at two amperes
for the ’BO rectifier. A transformer with
a current capacity of 80 milliamperes is
suitable. The filter choke is the usual
30-henry, and also of the same rating.
Coil Details.
The coils are made with the same
specifications as those of the Wide-World
Four receiver, being wound on Marquis
four-pin ribbed formers, with connec-
tions for the detector coil as in the
diagram. Plug-in coils are favored from
Fig. 6. —Showing the relationship of
the grid and cathode coils on the
former, for the detector circuit. The
coil for the R.F. stage corresponds to
the grid coil of the detector.
the constructor viewpoint, owing to the
absence of confusion with switching, but
there is not the slightest reason why a
fixed-coils assembly should not be used,
and- the wave-length ranges altered by
switching. In such a case, however, the
layout of the receiver would be some-
what different, to accommodate the
grouped coils. Details follow:
De- De-
R.F. tector tector
grid grid cathode Wire
Metres. turns, turns, turns. gauge.
14 to 28 4i 4i 4 26 D.S.C.
26 to 50 10 10 5 26 D.S.C.
48 to 100 22 22 5 26 D.S.C.
Broadcast.
200 to 550 155 155 8 {*> gfc Sib!
The cathode and grid coils are spaced
from each other about |in. The ranges
are, of course, approximate, and will vary
a little according to the tuning con-
densers used, but the ranges shown
should overlap. In the light of develop-
ment commercially of the dual-wave re-
ceiver, the 48- to 100-metre range may
be considered of little value. Neverthe-
less, there are included in this range the
Siberian station RVIS on 70.2 metres
and the interesting feature of the amateur
80-metre band during the winter months.
Constructional Points.
It is better to provide a base with
ample space for components above and
below than be faced with the trouble of
having to crowd everything into odd
corners. A reasonable size for the chassis
is 1 lin. by lOin. by 2yin., and it should
be made preferably of aluminium, which
is much easier to work than steel. Some
constructors go one better and use a
chassis of copper or brass, with the ad-
vantage that soldering direct can be done
easily for earthing points, but a receiver
so made becomes expensive. In the
original, Efco Aero dials are used, and,
as these have the circular clock window
scale, it is necessary to provide for set-
ting the panel forward on brackets to
clear the dials. The variable condensers
must be mounted well back on the base,
as these dials take up
a fair amount of
room. Their excel-
lence of motion com-
pensates adequately
for any extra trouble
in assembly. A front
panel measuring 12in.
by Sin. will be suit-
able with the base size
mentioned, and the
screening partition be-
tween R.F. and de-
tector stages will be
7in. by siin., with a
yin. bend-over along
the 7in. length for
bolting to the base.
The power trans-
former, rectifier, elec-
trolytics and filter
choke are also
screened off from the
R.F. and detector
stages by fitting an-
other vertical panel
1 lin. by siin. across
the base at the rear
of the other parti-
tion.
The valve sockets
used for the two
coil mountings should be of the best
possible type, with smooth but non-
failing contacts, and, furthermore, they
are not fitted flush with the top of the
chassis. They are fitted on small stand-
off insulators of bakelite Hin. long. If
these (Peerless) are not available, valve
sockets of the Marquis reversible kind
can be mounted on square wooden
blocks of the same height. Raising the
coil mountings thus, permits running
leads in the R.F. and detector-grid tuned
circuits more directly than would other-
wise be the case. Many short-wave re-
ceivers fail to function properly because
of unnecessarily lengthy wiring. A
straight length of wire has inductance,
and this shows up at high frequencies.
With the diagrams, illustrations and parts
list, the reader has the necessary infor-
mation for the duplication of a particu-
larly fine little power-operated short-wave
and broadcast receiver. The original is
a sheer delight to use, and it has the
advantage that it will provide many
hours of quiet enjoyment in looking over
the short-wave broadcasting channels,
with the alternative of normal broad-
casting when required. Short-wave
broadcasting is here to stay, and opinions
that there is little to be found in the
way of entertainment from short waves
are nonsensical.
D. B. KNOCK.
Amateur Chatter.
The annual international W and VE
contest organised by the American Radio
Relay League is concluded, and the ama-
teur 40-metre band o’ nights was a
hive of activity with Aussies, Maori-
landers, Canucks and Yanks all breaking
each other’s necks to get at each other.
Despite the fact that such a well-adver-
tised contest was under way, the birds
THE MARTIN A.C. THREE.
PARTS LIST.
One chassis, aluminium, llin. x lOin. x 2£in.
Front panel, 12in. x Sin.
Interstage screen partition, 7in. x with
half-inch angle. _ . ,
Rear partition, llin. x s|in., with half-inch
angle.
Two Jackson .0002mfd. variable condensers.
Two Efco Aero dials.
Four valve screens.
Valve sockets: Three 6-pin, one 4-pin.
Coil sockets: Two 4-pin, with eight Ifm.
stand-off bakelite distance-pieces (mounted
above chassis). . . ....
Coil formers: Eight 4-pin Marquis ribbed Itm,
diam., plug-in.
One 50-henry audio choke.
One five-plate midget variable condenser (aerial
coupling).
Four .Imfd. Chanex tubular condensers.
One 35mmfd. compression-type condenser (CC).
One .OOOlmfd., mica condenser (detector grid).
Two .Olmfd. mica condensers (audio coupling
and plate of 2A5).
Two .25mfd. 500-volt working, Chanex con-
densers.
One 2mfd. 250-volt working, Chanex condenser.
Two 500-volt peak, Bmfd. electrolytic condensers.
One Bmfd. dry electrolytic condenser.
Two three-section honeycomb R.F. chokes.
One 10,000-ohm potentiometer.
One 50,000-ohm potentiometer (Stromberg
Centralab).
One 500,000-ohm potentiometer.
Two 50,000-ohm 2-watt Chanex resistors.
One 2-meg. grid leak.
One 10,000-ohm 1-watt Chanex resistor.
One .25-meg. 1-watt resistor.
One 10,000-ohm 2-watt resistor.
One 5000-ohm 2-watt resistor.
Two 15,000-ohm wire-wound voltage dividers
(used in series).
One 300-ohm 100-watt Chanex resitor.
One power transformer, 80ma., 385 volts per
side H.T., 2.5 volts 4 amps., 5 volts 2 amps.
One 30-henry 80ma. filter choke.
Five bakelite knobs.
Terminals, wiring flex, solder, etc.
Valves: Radiotron —one ’5B, one ’57, one 2A5,
one ’BO.
One pair 2000-ohm headphones.
One permagnetic speaker.
26 D.S.C., 36 D.S.C. and 28 D.S.C. wire for
coils.
Fig. 7. — Underneath the chassis of the Martin
A.C. Three.
that sit on the fence and clutter up this
international band with sad imitations of
the human voice were relentless. A casual
observation of test contacts one evening
revealed the presence of ’phones, one
good and others of the loop or modu-
lated oscillator kind, with total disregard
for the men who were striving to pile
up the points in the contest.
This should not be so, and, if inter-
national handshaking among the ama-
teurs of this turbulent world is to pro-
ceed as it should, the self-imposed kind
of QRM must go. To countenance any-
thing in the nature of restriction upon
already over-restricted amateur frequency
territory calls down a storm of protest,
but in the case of unpoliced ’phone in
what is the most useful of international
allocations it is sheer shortsightedness to
let it go on haphazardly. U.S.A. bans
its amateurs from the 40-metre band
on telephony, but in Australia a gener-
ous P.M.G.’s department makes it an
“open go.” The trouble is with the ama-
teurs themselves, and co-operation, plus
organisation, is the only remedy. Surely
the rabid ’phone merchants could agree
mutually to keep off 40 during these in-
ternational tests! One feels sure that if
international ’phone tests were to become
the vogue the brasspounders would be
kindhearted about it. If stations are
engaged genuinely in overseas ’phone


Say Good-bye
to Condenser
Troubles
L "0
Fit your set
with the tried
and proved
c^T
vnvn «nv
mi nciv/i
MEIsMiICIMOO
l/MOnciM] ' MOM
X3iWD
A guarantee of dependability
and long life. Non-inductive,
internally shielded, and with low-power factor,
Chanex Paper Dielectric Condensers are manu-
factured in pigtail and can types.
The name “Chanex” is famous in the indus-
trial field for accurate service and dependa-
bility. Special-purpose condensers of every
kind have been made, and data on such will
be gladly sent on request.
Manufactured by:
DUCON CONDENSER PTY., LTD.,
Bourke Street, Waterloo, Sydney.
tests, there would be little cause for com-
ment, but the fact remains that the majo-
rity of the amateurs on ’phone in the
region of 40 metres indulge in nothing
much more ambitious than “back-fence”
contacts. For such work the five-metre
band is ideal, and is yet pitifully under-
populated. If an experimenter can make a
telephony transmitter to perform on the
The new transmitter completed for
VK2NS at Bathurst (N.S.W.) on
the eve of the 1935 B.E.R.U. con-
test. Mr. Trevor Evans’s smile
is probably due to the fact
that he communicated with 57
Americans on the first night of the
contest. He is a previous B.E.R.U.
winner, as the trophies show.
lower frequencies, and cannot do the
same thing on the ultra-highs, he isn’t
worthy of consideration as an experi-
menter. There is nothing mystifying
about getting a first-class station into
operation on five metres, or even on 2\
(if and when permission is given in Aus-
tralia). It is merely a question of sheer
commonsense and a knowledge of the
fundamentals one is supposed to be con-
versant with in order to be licensed.
Visitors to Sydney at the time of writ-
ing are D. Nourse, well known as
VK2DQ, of Broken Hill, and Pete
Adams, VK3PX and formerly VK2JX.
The latter appears to have forsaken the
southern metropolis in favor of the
Harbor City indefinitely, and will no
doubt be active again under a VK2 call
—most likely on five metres. VK2DQ
is on his way to visit VK4RV, of Cunna-
mulla (Q.), and is putting in a lot of
lime meeting friends only known previ-
ously over the air. Sympathy is offered
to the relatives and friends of H. D.
Price, known to the amateur radio world
as G6HP. He came into contact with
high voltage at a television station in
England, and was electrocuted. His
friends were legion internationally, and
amateur radio is the poorer by his un-
timely passing.
Big Bill Moore, Federal president of
the W.1.A., is casting longing eyes on
five metres, but wonders how on earth
he will ever be able to wade through
the voluminous pile of correspondence
needing urgent attention if he ever goes
on the air. ’Twas ever thus. Those
who do the hard work in organising
amateur affairs are fortunate if they ever
have time to push the key as well as
the pen. Trevor Evans, of pioneer traffic
station VK2NS, has a new transmitter
in operation on the DX bands. Despite
the fact that it puts a lot of R.F. into
the sky, it looks a first-class commercial
vack-and-panel affair into the bargain.
?r There is a slight slackening in five-
metre activity in N.S.W. at the moment,
and it boils down to the hard fact that
ope cannot conduct tests or work with
stations if those stations are not on the
air. No doubt the international DX test
is responsible for the lull. VK2BP, of
Hazel brook, has not been heard for some
time by the writer, but this is due to the
directive aerial system now being at right
angles to the direction of Hazelbrook.
Another array for the western direction
will shortly be erected in anticipation of
forthcoming tests with VK2NS via
VK2BP.
Nothing has been heard in Sydney of
VK2TX, Wyong, or any Newcastle
Stations. VK2UG has erected a zepp
itype aerial in place of the twisted pair
cloubtlet, and his transmission is, if any-
thing, stronger and clearer at the writer’s
location. Reported that VK2OO is erect-
ing a rotating beam for five metres with
a cartwheel and axle as the basis. A sug-
gestion for the next amateur field day in
N.S.W. is that it might be made entirely
a five-metre day. The location of a
hidden transmitter working on five
metres would be a much tougher pro-
position than on 80 metres, but five-
metre D.F. work during a field day was
recently conducted with success by a
group of English amateurs. The writer
learns with regret that Mr. Price, G6PC,
who has been in Sydney for a year or
so representing his English firm, is likely
to return to England in the near future.
All VK2s who have met him vote him
a good fellow, and wish him luck and a
speedy return.
VK2NO.
Ultra-short-wave Communication
Record by Brisbane Amateurs.
As this issue goes to press, a telegram
from Mr. M. O’Brien, of experimental
radio VK4MM Brisbane, tells of five-
metre work between Brisbane and Too-
woomba on Saturday, 16/3/’35, thus:
“VK4HR, input power 2 watts,
VK4WI, 17 watts, R 6 and R 9 respec-
tively, Toowoomba aerodrome to-day ; 71
miles with Hull reflectors, also
’plane duplex same route. Beat it,
old-timer. 56mc. does it. O’Brien.”
This distance of 71 miles beats the
Sydney-Hazelbrook link by approxi-
mately 21 miles, and so the Queens-
land amateurs are leading in the
quest for DX on the ultra-shorts.
What’s What in Radio.
In the presence of various authori-
ties the foundation stone was laid
for the building in which the new
220 kw. power transmitter at Lahti
(Finland) will be installed. The
new station will retain the wave-
length of 166 kc. The transmitter
will have much in common with the
English transmitter at Droitwich,
which recently came into operation.
This new station will probably be
ready before October, 1935. The old
transmitter at Lahti, which com-
menced operations with 50kw, in
1928, was the most powerful broad-
casting station in Europe.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
{Manufacturers’ products considered worthy
of attention are tested and given an
unbiased report in this section.)
A few years ago the Australian
radio trade and those interested
technically in radio looked to the
overseas laboratories for a lead in
the design of broadcast receivers.
It was, quite recently, generally
conceded that our radio engineers fell
short of the standards set by American
laboratories, and that imported all-wave
receivers were much better than any-
thing attempted here. To a certain extent
this was true until a very short while ago,
but it is gratifying to note that in 1935
a very different state of affairs exists. In
America and Europe, the all-wave re-
ceiver with a coverage including the
whole range between approximately 14
and 600 metres is more or less essential.
There are commercial services operating
in channels which are unused in the
Southern Hemisphere in a broadcasting
sense. Between 50 and 200 metres, there
is in Australia little or nothing of broad-
cast interest to the casual listener, other
than the doings of amateur telephony
stations, mostly around the 80-metre
mark. Consequently Australian radio
engineers rightly concentrated on the use-
ful international channels as an alterna-
tive to the normal 200- to 550-metre
broadcast range, and, with the experience
of three or four years’ laboratory tests
over the short-wave bands, produced the
dual-wave superhet. The name is prop-
erly descriptive. The receiver has only
two switch positions. One is the normal
broadcast range, and the other an over-
lapping range from about 14 to 50 metres.
As such, the dual-waver misses nothing
from London, Berlin, Paris, Moscow and
all the more important overseas stations,
for they are all within the scope of the
short-wave coverage. After testing Aus-
tralian-designed dual-wavers of recent
breed the writer is convinced that over-
seas engineers can teach Australia no-
thing in the production of what consti-
tutes a noise-free superhet with an un-
cannily good performance on the short
waves in addition to faultless broadcast
entertainment.
The latest model in dual-wavers sub-
mitted to The Bulletin for test is the
D.W.644, and it is a splendid example
of an individually-built receiver. It is
the kind of job which could not in any
circumstances be haphazardly mass-pro-
duced. The engineer responsible is H. A.
Warby, head of D.W. Radio Co., and
one of the first in Australia to tackle the
problems of short waves for the public
in earlier days. The co. is well known
for the lines of short-wave converters
made to attach to existing broadcast re-
ceivers, and has grown from a small firm
to one with a most up-to-date factory
with extensive laboratory equipment.
The D.W.644 is designed around the
new series of Philips valves, and uses the
following: R.F. stage, AF2 ; frequency
changer, AKI octode ; LF. stage, AF2 ;
detector, E 454 ; output stage, E 463, power
amplifier pentode; rectifier, 1867, in-
directly heated.
The latest Efco release in dials is fitted,
this being a unique and mechanically
faultless push-pull two-speed Aero type
with a remarkably smooth action, and in
conjunction with the dial is the manufac-
turer’s patented “Colacode” system of
wave-range indication. There are two
distinctive colors, red and white, illu-
minated by lamps behind the dial, and
the color visible shows which range is
in use. There are the usual tone, volume
and switching controls, and operation of
the receiver is very smooth. An inter-
D.W. Model 644. Six-valve dual-wave
superheterodyne. 19-53 metres and 200-
550 metres by wave-change switch. Valves:
Philips AF2 (R.F. and LF.), AKL E454,
E463, 1867. Price, £35, Makers: D.W.
Radio Co., 210 Willoughby-road. Crow’s
Nest, N.S.W. ’Phone: X4927.
esting feature is provision for a trans-
posed aerial feeder input in place of the
ordinary aerial-earth connections, as re-
quired, and gramophone pick-up ter-
minals are fitted. The variable condenser
is Stromberg’s latest model F, this hav-
ing an exceptionally low minimum and
high maximum capacity, and with isolan-
tite ball insulation of the stators from the
frame. This latter feature precludes any
possibility of trouble in a moist atmo-
sphere. The coils are very carefully ad-
justed to track over the whole tuning
range, and, in the case of the short-wave
coils, individually padded. Under test,
during a particularly staticky evening,
there were very few stations that could
not be identified and heard on the broad-
cast range, the wide variation of the tone
control cutting off on the lower side much
of the atmospheric disturbances. This,
with the very low noise level made pos-
sible by the octode frequency changer,
plus the high R.F. gain, made the
D.W.644 a genuine pleasure to test, even
on the worst of summer evenings. On
the short-wave side, the realisation was
forcibly brought home that, given a re-
ceiver that can do the job well, the “lack
of entertainment” myth about short-wave
broadcasting is exploded. To the com-
plete exclusion of the atmospheric din
raging at the lower frequencies it was
just a matter of tuning, at the appropriate
times, to Paris, London or Berlin, and
listening to these stations uninterruptedly
and with the volume control well re-
tarded. At no time was an external aerial
used, the inside wire being only 25ft.
long. This performance speaks well for
the requirements of the average flat-
dweller, where an aerial is of necessity
anything but an aerial. To enumerate
the interesting technical points of this ex-
cellent receiver would take much space,
but in brief they include Litz wound
LF. transformers. Sin. Amplion type-Q
speaker, delayed A.V.C., 3 watts undis-
torted output, Efco wave-change switch,
and first-class components throughout.
The D.W.644 sells at £35 complete, a
most reasonable price for a very high-
grade modern radio instrument. The
makers are D.W. Radio Co., 210 Wil-
loughby-road, Crow’s Nest, N.S.W.
’Phone X 4927.
The Q. and A. Column.
I intend using a car B eliminator on my
Radiola battery model 130/?, to dispense with
B batteries. The makers of the eliminator state
that it needs an extra tapping to be used from
a six-volt battery. (1) Will this be satisfactory ?
(2) If not, could the eliminator be altered to
be used with a 110 -volt direct-current lighting
plant ? —243.
(1) The question is not quite clear. If the
unit is designed for a 12-volt battery such
alteration would be necessary, and is easily
done by the makers. (2) A unit to run from
110-volt D.C. supply is practicable, but would
involve extensive alteration to the present one.
/ have built up a receiver as in the enclosed
circuit diagram. This specified a .00014 mfd.
tuning condenser. (1) Would this make much
difference to the coverage of the coils ? (2) Is
it possible to wind a broadcast coil suitable for
this receiver? If so, please give details. (3)
Can you see any flaws in the circuit responsible
for lack of audio volume ? This is not all one
would expect from five valves. —246.
(1) A little. The short-wave ranges may not
overlap, but the coils can easily be adjusted to
overcome this. (2) Yes. Thirty-five turns of
32 D.S.C. for LI, 155 turns of 38 D.S.C. for
L 2, and 130 turns of 38 D.S.C. for L 3. (3)
Yes. The 2A5 is not the best valve for use as
second detector. A 57 or 287 would give more
audio gain. Your circuit shows no potential
on the screens of. the first detector and oscil-
lator, also the second detector. It is presumed
that this is a draughting error, as the receiver
could not function thus.
I intend building the Communicator A.C.
Three ( B. 30 /1 / ’34). (1) Can steel be used
instead of aluminium for the chassis ? (2) /
have a Magnavox 6 in. speaker for a single 1A 5.
Is this suitable in place of the midget speaker ?
—247.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Lopsided Victorian Electorates
The commission appointed to redistri-
bute the Victorian seats in the House
of Representatives has done capital work.
Metropolitan boundaries have been so
adjusted that each division represents
from 56,000 to 58,000 electors ; in coun-
try districts, the differences range be-
tween 48,000 and 50,000 electors.
The evenness of the new distribution
stands in marked contrast with the shock-
ing anomalies in Victorian State elec-
torates. Labor-leader Tunnecliffe, re-
turning thanks for his return, asserted
that, though Labor and the U.A.P
parties had polled almost the same num-
ber of aggregate votes at the election just
over, Labor won only 17 seats and the
U.A.P. 25. In his own electorate, Col-
lingwood, he had sufficient votes to spare
to have won three other electorates for
Labor.
Why not employ the Federal commis-
sion to redistribute the Assembly elec-
torates on the same basis? — Grasspan
(Vic.).
The Right to Blackball
At' the forthcoming N.S.W. election I
suppose I shall face my usual problem —
whether to give a vote to the best of a
bad lot, spoil a ballot-paper or risk a
fine for not voting. I should like to see
provision made on the ballot-paper for
a negative vote against all candidates, if
a voter considers none of them fit to
represent him in Parliament.
In any electorate where a certain pro-
portion of negative votes —say, 25 per
cent. —was cast, a fresh election, from
which the original candidates would be
barred, would be held. Such a provision
would cramp the autocratic ways of par-
ties, with their pre-selection rackets, and
encourage men of an independent turn
of mind to offer themselves as candidates.
Even if an election were never upset
by the negative vote, the possibility would
have a restraining influence on political
blatherskites and tricksters,
and might eventually wake up
the great body of electors to
their responsibilities.—Angus
O’Cohen (N.S.W.).
Warning from America
Study of the American scene
is recommended to Australians
who feel that it would not do
any harm to indent Asiatics for
tropical work. When Uncle
Sam began his career of in-
dependence there were 59,527
free colored persons in his Repub-
lic and 700,000 slaves. The free
black grew beside the bondman, and
when the Civil War ended there were
4.500.000 Africans. Now, there are over
12.000. plus half a million other
colored persons and countless thousands
who have a touch of the tarbrush but
would not admit it for worlds.
Arkansas has 472,220 negroes and
1.279.000 whites. In Florida one person
in every three is black, apart from
creoles. In Georgia there are 1,206,000
blacks and 400,000 more whites. Ala-
bama has 900,000 Africans in a total of
2.348.000. The kingdom of Huey Long
possesses 700,000 negroes and 1,096,000
whites; in Mississippi the blacks exceed
the Europeans by 80,000 —935,184
against 855,000. South Carolina, also,
has more blacks than whites, and, in
other southern States, the Caucasian pro-
portion is only two in three.
No one who has seen these “common-
wealths” wants to have them duplicated
in Queensland, the N.T. and North West-
ralia, and no thoughtful American who
comes to the Commonwealth has any-
thing but praise for the White Australia
policy.— El V. (N.S.W.).
Getting the Dole
Becoming destitute, I applied for the
dole. The Labor Bureau sent me to the
Treasury buildings; there a clerk in-
structed me to get an alderman, a politi-
cian or some businessman to vouch for
my length of residence in Queensland.
The alderman I approached, although he
knew my family, refused. A politician
also knew the family, but I felt diffident
about exposing my position. After four
days I found a kind businessman. His
endorsement was waved aside, and I was
sent to the electoral office (in the same
building) for a roll certificate. Within
three minutes I returned with the now-
satisfactory evidence. The indigent have
no redress against official humbugging.—
Drift (Q.).
The Economics Professor
There is a crying need for extension
of the demarcation principle from trade-
unions to university professors —especi-
ally professors of economics.
Economics is merely the application
of figures to public policy. Under a
logical system of pure economics no two
professors could advocate different views.
In actual fact, it is difficult to find any
two in agreement on broad principles,
let alone details. The trouble is that
every professor of economics declines
to stick to his subject; he always wants
to be a professor of psychology as well.
Your economics professor starts off by
stating his figures and their relation to
each other. He follows by making esti-
mates of the future based on scientific
probabilities. There his work should
end. But he is not content. He sums
up the feelings of the public, present and
future. He works in love, hate, cupidity,
sex appeal and every human emotion as
lavishly as the writer of a movie scenario,
and permits these guesses to influence
his summing-up. At every turn he drags
"'Possum—always ’ possum! Ani't you ever, goin' t ’ catch, a snake?"
in psychology. The time is ripe for
some psychology professor to demand
that the professorial board instruct him
to keep his place.
The professor of engineering doesn’t
presume to air his views on the treat-
ment of ankylostomiasis ; the professor
of history doesn’t demand that the factor
of safety of steel be amended ; , the pro-
fessor of music doesn’t give his students
his own ideas of theology. Yet the pro-
fessor of economics has the effrontery
to profess his ability to peer into the
hearts of the whole population and, know
what they will do in 1938. He is. the
Delphic oracle of modern times, and,
judging by results, not half as accurate
as the ancient lady who sat on the tripod.
—M. G. (Vic.).
Homework
“Wusslean” (B. 27/2/’35) might hustle
his boys through prep, in an hour and
a half, but I agree with “Como” (B.
6/2/’35) that, working in his own home,
the average student goes on till 10 p.m.
The brilliant boy works after ten ; the
lazy child will not even put in the two
hours —he gets to school half an hour
earlier next morning and borrows the
bright one’s book.
“Teachers rarely set more work than
the average child can manage easily.”
That wasn’t my experience. The five-page
week-end essay to be done in half an
hour took me something like three hours,
including drafting, rough copy and
copperplate if I wanted my usual “18,
Very Good,” and an occasional “19, Ex.”
And we didn’t have a wireless in those
days, and I worked behind a closed door.
The instruction is at fault. A boy has a
different teacher for each subject; and
each teacher is obsessed with the notion
that his subject is the most important.
So he tries to cover too much in a single
lesson, leaving the class to fill in details
and swot up at home, besides doing un-
important and uninteresting exercises.—
M. R.P. (S.A.).
“Assisted” Farmers
Last year all S.A. farmers requiring
help from the Government were obliged
to assign all their worldly goods to the
Assistance Board. An inventory was
taken of; everything on the farm
(sparrows and rabbits excepted), and the
farmer was bound not to sell, lend,
hire, give, destroy or exchange any
article without first obtaining the board’s
sanction. If not classified as beyond re-
demption he received super, to put in a
crop, also an order for food and a little
clothes (though not in all cases), and
protection from creditors.
. Twice ; a. year a'city chap visits the
“assisted” farmer, notes his progress and
instructs hiirdgenerally in the best way to
run his farm. The wonder is that a man
who owns nothing, gets nothing for his
labor and has a city boss works as
honestly and conscientiously as he does.
The reliefrworker has the right to de-
mand his pay in cash ; the , “assisted”
farmer receives a food order on one
store. . At the end of the year he delivers
up his wheat, which is sold for him, the
money being distributed among his
creditors. The Government has first call
always.— Ruralia (S.A.).
The Tourist Trade
Norfolk Island, Lord Howe Island and
other Pacific beauty spots (B. 27/2/’35)
could find salvation in the tourist traffic
if it were organised properly and if the
Commonwealth insisted on getting a
better return for its subsidies of £41,000
p.a. to Pacific mail services.
Lord Howe Island, two days’ steam
from Sydney, can be. reached by a
monthly service in a steamer that is small
and out of date. Return fare is £l2
£3 a day ; a C. and D. ship, carrying
a dozen or so passengers in single-berth
cabins, with private bathrooms, does it
for 275. per day. The accommodation
on the Howe-Norfolk vessel - would be
called third-class oh a liner ; and there
are other disadvantages.
On a recent voyage from the islands
s.s. Morinda was advertised to reach
Sydney at 8 a.m. on a Monday. On
Monday it was advertised that she would
arrive at ,’8 a.m. on Tuesday. At 8 a.m;
on Tuesday it was bruited abroad that
she would be'in at'lTa.m. Relatives and
friends assembled at the entrance to the
wharf. Some of them were allowed to
huddle inside the gate ; others had to
stand in the mud outside it. At noon a
rumor spread that the ship would cer-
tainly be in between 12.30 p.m. apd
1 p.m. There was a general air of recov-
ery among the wilted welcomers. At
12.30 a fresh contingent, informed by
telephone, arrived and added their
execrations to those of the pioneers when
it was announced that zero hour would
be 1.30. It was 1.55 for the waiting
crowd.
The Australian National Travel Asso-
ciation, which talks by the hour about
its efforts for the tourist traffic, should
travel to Norfolk Island and Lord Howe
once in a while. — El V. (N.S.W.).
___ *
Transport Strangulation
Fresh testimonials to the efficiency of
the Queensland Act for the Strangula-
tion of Commercial Transport appear
almost every day. One of the latest
refers to a matter of removing six tons
or so of second-hand machinery from
Stanthorpe to South Brisbane. The
quote for road transport, door to door,
was £l2, but before the deal was com-
pleted the new strangulation tax came
into operation, and the tendering car-
rier was forced off the roads. The rail
freight from Stanthorpe to Brisbane came
to £27 7s. Bd. (the Commissioner of Rail-
ways is chairman of the Strangulation
Board which puts on the road taxes), and
removal costs, to and from stations at
each end, totted up another £6 —£33
7s. Bd. in all, as against £l2 by road. —
Colonel Bungstarter (Q.).
Women in Armor
To those whom Nature has rendered
independent of its tyrannies, the corset
figures vaguely as an inoffensive pink
garment of feminine apparel. The truth
is that it combines all the elements of
professional torture. The infernal pres-
sures, the cruel jabs, the agonising
pinches!
The thing functions best (and worst)
when you are in a sitting position.
Lowering yourself gingerly into a chair
at the dinner-table you receive a vicious
pinch on either leg from your back sus-
penders. Grandma drops her serviette.
As you dive to retrieve it a painful dig
fore and aft reminds you that such liber-
ties are gone for ever. The meal seems
interminable, and grandma’s comment
that “You’re sitting up much straighten,
dear,” doesn’t serve to soften either the
armor or your mood of hot rebellion.
No pen has written, no tongue has
told the story of the epic fight against
avoirdupois. Better a thousand times
the torment of a corset; but, hipless
man, slim and shapeless flapper, you
know not how lucky you are!
Nautilass (Vic.).
Sydney Shipping Charges
The volume of shipping in Sydney for
the year to June 30 last was the second-
highest on record. Yet there was a drop
in the net income of the port from
£BBO,Oll to £855,959.
Of course, a considerable proportion
of the 16,354,219 tons of shipping that
went in and out during the twelvemonth
consisted of liners which made pleasure
cruises without cargoes. It meant that
many a 20,000-tonner was credited with
two entries and departures instead of
the one it had commercially.
Still, the fact remains that the Harbor
Trust dropped £24,052 in one year —and
in a year of fairly general trade recovery
at that.
Prior to April, 1931, cargo was allowed
seven days’ free storage on the wharves.
After that April (the depression being put
forward as a justification) the Trust in-
troduced storage charges of Is. a ton, to
become operative from berthing, which
worked out at just on £lOO a ship. In
practice, the charges affected only a sec-
tion of Sydney’s shipping; certain com-
panies allied with stevedoring concerns
which lease wharves are able to store
cargoes free. The system loses the Trust
a great deal more than it earns from
those companies which haven’t the use of
leased wharves,
The Melbourne arrangement is more
profitable as well as more equitable.
There, a minimum charge of £2B per
ship is made fori the first day, plus £4
shed rent for each subsequent day, to all
ships. An Australian shipping co. has
worked out some figures showing how it
suffers in Sydney relatively to Mel-
bourne: —
Sydney. Melbourne.
Voyages 1. 15 22
Tons in 1 20,644 27,810
Tons 0ut..... 7,368 18,035
Shed rent .......... £1442/7/2 £9Ol/7/6
Voyage average £96 £4l
So some companies are hard hit by
the Sydney Harbor'Trust’s device for
improving its revenue, and the device
isn’t even showing results. — Blue Water
(N.S.W.).


FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
r
Granville Handicap: Sally ; next,
Salted Almond.
Juvenile Stakes: Hadrian; next,
Gleaming.
Westmead Handicap: Myra Tip ;
next, Vista.
Club Handicap: King March;
next, Limyris.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Leggy in his coltish days, Peter Pan
has developed into a beautiful five-year-
old ; and the chestnut is as good as he
looks. Not in proper racing condition
and having his first rum since November,
he exhibited pronounced superiority to
the opposition in the Randwick Stakes
at City Tatt.’s meeting. He carried 9st.
lib., cut down Silver King at the dis-
tance and carved out the mile in Imin.
36Jsec., the last four furlongs in 46|sec.
Silver King was second, Journal third.
Peter Pan started at even money —a
good price in the circumstances. It
looks as if success in the w.f.a. races at
the autumn meetings is only a matter of
his appearing in good shape and avoiding
accidents.
Silver King showed that his Moore-
field form was wrong. He set a solid
pace, and, when tackled by Peter Pan,
fought on gamely. He still has a Don-
caster chance, but Bst. 91b. may pull him
up. Journal, the Sydney Cup favorite,
pleased owner-trainer Jack Cush by
coming with a run that deprived Rogilla
of third prize. Rogilla looks all right,
and has galloped freely enough on the
tracks, but his form in Victoria and on
Saturday suggests that he has seen his
best day. Kuvera faded at the finish
after being prominent most of the way.
C\ertl '' Look, what youve brought,
PINCq-PONGi . vn
Bert ’. ? thet look.
LIKE GtOLF TO ME .
Gert! CaNT too TELU BT
DIFFERENCE !N THEIR VsIEUaHT ■
Bert: ''not since. \ stated my
PHYSICAL. CULTURE course"?
The Denman Stakes included a number
of Doncaster runners. Roman Spear
(8 to 1) who has Bst. in the mile, just
scraped home from Myra Tip and the
pacemaker, Tom Pinch. Right on the
placegetters were Care Free, on the rails,
and Vista, on the outside ; they were so
Sh‘w e ’nmmnTwho has Pl a C de-
cided chance in°he Doncaster, was put-
hng in long strides in the straight, and
hs. cTre ftee fooked
last. Care Free o g g
ea en * ....
. . .
City Tatt.’s Cup furnished a surprise,
First Balloon scooted away at the half-
mile, and before the riders of the others
woke up she had a big lead. However,
Fairoic (20 to 1) got up in the last stride
and beat her, after young Ward had lost
his iron near the judge. Limyris was
third ; she had been allowed to drop out
at the half-mile instead of being taken
up to the leader. Whittingham was
anchored by his weight.
....
Limoux (14 to 1), who was not as well
supported as his stable-mate, Cockpen,
won the first division of the Novice in
rather good style from Glenwitch and
Allugo. Sailing and Captain Rado, the
joint favorites, let their backers down.
The former had too much weight. The
Captain lost his chance through being
slow to leave the barrier. He was dis-
appointed in the straight when going tor
a run on the rails, but was not then in
a position to win.
Havilah Belle, trained by former jockey
Ryan, won the second division at sevens.
She was all out to beat Spear Belle and
The Raider. Bartle on The Raider may
have done better had he let Djojka do
the bullocking; when he did take
command The Raider - was left without
a run.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt must
have been surprised when his colt Fan-
fare opened at 7 to 4 in a field of 25
in the Youthful Stakes. But any price
was a good price, for Andy Knox
bounced the colt away, and he went on
to defeat the Newcastle-owned and
-trained Man-o’-Mark and Allunga with
ease. The well-backed Filoselle missed
the jump, and did well to finish fifth.
A Doncaster possibility is the Spear-
head gelding Prowler, who has 7st. He
carried Bst. 131 b. in the Club Welter on
Saturday, and drifted from sevens to
twelves when the big money came for
Celebrate. Prowler was always in the
leading bunch, and beat Double Dutch
by half a neck —it could have been
lengths —while Tatyoon was third. Cele-
brate and Cercello had bad runs.
* * * *
Moonee Valley racing enhanced the
high reputation which Voitre had already
established in Melbourne. He rode two
winners—Eastern Chief in the Moonee
Ponds Handicap and Buteman in the
second division of the High weight Handi-
cap. Eastern Chief belongs to Caulfield
trainer P. B. Quinlan, on whose horses
the jockey from Maonland has been
strikingly successful. Quinlan and his
turf associates bet courageously when
there appears to be warrant for it.
Eastern Chief was lucky to capture the
Moonee Ponds Hand,cap. Clever horse-
but now Seed by Andy Morrow, ex-
perjenced a wre tched passage. He got
buried in the ruck, and seemed a hope-
less distance from the leaders with three
furlongs to cover. To go round a closely-
packed fi e ]d was ou t of the question,
j ac k O’Brien had to stake everything
on getting a run on the rails. The \\-
mile journey ended over what is known
as the “long straight,” on the inside of
the course proper. Nellie’s Tip is nippy,
and almost managed to squeeze through,
The judge decided in favor of Eastern
Chief by half a head, with Prismatic a
head farther off ; Voitre s vigor a
turned the scale. First prize was £6OO
and a tro P hy valued at £25 ’.
Voice's win on Buteman in the second
division of the Sherwood Highweight was
easil earned The Drake colt, raced
, hi§ breeder “S. A. Rawdon,” took
a§ SOQn as the barr ier lifted and
neyer e the op p OS ition a look-in.
Adam skirving who trains Buteman,
b his connection w ith the turf in
many years ago.
’ ‘.
The first division of the Sherwood
Highweight went to Havana, ridden by
Ray Wilson, who was attached to the
“Rawdon” stable when Waterline loomed
large as a galloper. Wilson incurred the
displeasure of the V.R.C.' stewards and
was deprived of a license for a consider-
able period. He only recently resumed
riding. There are few better lightweight
jockeys in Victoria. Havana, owned by
C. T. Godby, had no trouble in defeat-
ing Sarokos, Voitre’s mount.
Redditch made his reappearance in the
Rothwell Steeplechase after an interval
of seven months. A. Loddon Yuille,
keeper of the Australian Studbook, owns
the cross-country champion, and went
over from Sydney to see how he would
handle 13st. 21b. over a two-mile course.
Redditch splendidly answered the question
put to him ; though vanquished by the
favorite, Royal Challenge, he put up a
great race. Royal Challenge had a pull
of 341 b. in weight; this enabled him to
draw clear of Redditch in the dip, about
half a mile from home, and when
Alkaroo (stable-companion of La Trobe)
crashed at the last fence Royal Chal-
lenge went on to score by lengths
from the topweight. He took a quarter
of a second off the course record for two
miles over fences. Alick Fullarton was
on Redditch, and will do the chief riding
for F. W. Hoysted in jumping events this
year. Fullarton reckons that the steeple-
chase at Onkaparinga (S.A.) on Easter
Monday is a good thing for the son of
Red Dennis.
McShortodds had no reason for satis-
faction over the Valley results. His only
turn-up was Knocktemple (12 to 1) in
the Ardmillan Hurdle. Knocktemple, a
son of Spearfelt, is a promising recruit
to the jumping game. Lou Robertson,
trainer of Farndale, took the youngsters’
race with Don Miguel, a son of Los
Gatos, winner of the Sires’ Produce
Stakes at Rand wick in 1925.
St, Valorey, twice winner of the Bris-
bane Cup, registered his first success in
Victoria by annexing the Knoll Handi-
cap, for apprentice jockeys. The stable
made a big haul over the Valais gelding.
* * * *
Capris went off during the latter part
of her visit to Melbourne, and is not to
start in any of the big April handicaps,
No doubt a spell will do the chestnut
fillv good, and if everything goes right
with hpr chp mw reach the tOD of her
with her she may rea £ n iioroi ner
form in the spring. She looks the cut or
an Epsom horse, and, although she is
sure to get a few pounds more than the
7st. 131 b at which she was handicapped
in the Doncaster, the weight is not likely
tn trouble her
*’* * *
“G.S.”: There is an impression that
Kuvera has never been over the two-
mile journey. He has ; as a three-year-
old he was fourth (with Bst. 21b.) to
Rogilla, Nord and Gippsland in the
1933 race for the Sydney Cup, which
was run in very fast time—3min. 23sec.
As a five-year-old he has been handi-
capped for the Sydney Cup at Bst. 91b.,
and he has certainly not been harshly
treated. On several occasions—notably
in the C. B. Fisher Plate, in the King’s
Cup which he won at three years and the
one in which he was third to Rogilla
and Peter Pan—he was finishing fast
at the end of a mile and a half, and
there seems no reason why he should
not go another half-mile at a good bat
in company which seems likely to be
ordinary.
*‘* * *
Dromos twice beat Myra Tip in four-
furlong gallops at Randwick last week,
Good gallops for a horse that has only
7st, 51b. in the Doncaster. Knox rode
Dromos on each occasion, and may have
the mount on Easter Saturday.
There are 28 left in the Liverpool
Grand National, to be run at Aintree on
F J. iday * . Last . y^ ar s . -7i?° cfJ 1
Miller is topweight with 12st. 71b., 51b.
up. One ot the best chasers seen in
England for many a year, he has started
in leppmg races 26 times for 17 firsts,
two seconds and four thirds. Still, the
odds are against his winning twice in
succession; it has rarely been done.
( Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
Harold Robertson, former goalkicker
for South Melbourne and brother of
Austin, the ped., died last week in Mel-
bourne, aged 39. Robertson in 1919 put
up a record, which stood for 10 years,
by kicking 14 goals in one match. He
was a first-class swimmer withal.
* * * *
Frank Maher (B. 27/2/’35)
never led Essendon to the top of the
Vic. premiership ladder ; he was a mem-
ber of the Essendon premiership sides of
1923 and 1924, captained by the late
Syd Barker, but did not become skipper
till later. This year the ex-Digger’s ser-
vices as coach were sought by Fitzroy
and Oakleigh, but Carlton gets him.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Sydney will see an unusual
Australian Rules match on June 29, when
N.S.W. will play a team from the Vic-
torian Amateurs on Sydney C.G. Ma is
to keep the first £2O of the takings, and
70 p.c. of the net balance is to go to
the amateurs, who will have their hotel
expenses in Sydney paid. The amateur
and professional bodies cannot meet in
Victoria under pain of death. Appar-
ently crossing the Murray makes all the
difference.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby Union starts its district
competitions on April 20. There will
be no matches on Easter Monday, but
a round will be played on Anzac Day.
Victorians are invited to play in Sydney
on June 1 and 3, another Ma State team
figuring against Queensland in Brisbane
on those dates.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: By the necessary two-
thirds majority, N.S.W. Rugby Union has
practically adopted the League kick-into-
touch rule. The voting was 49-23 for
the following clause:
When the ball pitches into touch from
a kick other than a P enalt y klck or kick
from wjthin 25 yards of the kipke r’s
goal-line, the opposite team shall bring it
ou t as in (1) or (2) at the spot on the touch-
line opposite the place where the kicker
was when he kicked the ball.
It will raise international complications,
as 11 were - bas re f used to coun-
tenance the rule, and the International
Board has forbidden it. South Africa,
tested during the visit of the Wallabies,
scoffed at the proposed change,
* * * *
Amateur Pro. : For a follower of
the Australian game, Bondi-ite (B.
20/3/’35) displays a remarkable mastery
of all the Rugby Leagues stock argu-
ments against the Rugby Union. He says
the League was founded by men who
wanted to make money out of their skill,
In cold fact it was the financial specula-
tion of a pony potentate. He states that
“the Union mandarins induced the Ama-
teur Sports Federation to declare the
League ‘black.’ ” No need for that. When
the English Rugby Union pronounced the
League a professional body, years before
the game invaded Australia, the Inter-
national A.F., with which the Australian
body is affiliated, endorsed the ban under
it's rules ; the Australian body automati-
cally followed suit. The mere formation
of a club to play the professional game
put its members outside the pale of foot-
ball amateursim.
( Continued on next page.)
“Hotham”; The excellently-managed
yi c t or i an A.A.A. could not avoid a loss
of £5OO on the Centenary Games, but,
as the commi t tee had set aside £4OO from
tbe £jqqq reserve accruing from the
Pe , tzer tour jn 1930) most of this was
wiped off . T he association faces the
with a credit ba i an ce of £B6O.
A y Scbo ber was elected hon. sec. in
place of R> Weir, retiring after 12
years’ service.


r
F
SPECIAL
OFFER
OF
TROUT TACKLE
10% DISCOUNT
OFF ALL TROUT TACKLE DURING
STOCKTAKING SALE, COMMENCING
MARCH 18, ENDING APRIL 30.
A golden opportunity to secure highest-grade tackle at bargain prices.
When ordering, we would advise making a second choice, as our stocks
will not be replenished before next season. Secure the best bargains by
ordering early. Latest illustrated catalogue post free..
COWLES and DUNN
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
'Phone: M 3388.
fdfd
11 HOLES
/Mm THIS YEAR
yjr
v->
a*~
v~
<*
P
W
¥
KRO-FUTC
c
c
/£ r- r
Goes 10yds. further
Unconditionally guaranteed for
72 holes of play...with the new,
additional advantage of being 10
yards longer than any "Kro-Flite”
we have made. Multi-dot, in
Mesh and Dimple mark- O/
ings each
e^fpaldirup
KRCKFLITE
.' ' I
Urdei the Whip
Spearfelts went cheap at the yearling
sales in Brisbane. Though Spearhead’s
greatest son is easily first on the Queens-
land sires’ list, the best price bid for
his progeny was 300 guineas. J, Nash
went to that amount for a brother to
Sir Monarch, by Spearfelt—Neeowee, by
Linacre ; and so did Byers for a half-
brother to Arvadown, by Spearfelt—
Arvakur. Two fillies in the batch from
Greenmount, one out of a Greenstead
mare and the other out of a daughter to
Magpie, were knocked down for 55
guineas apiece; 14 averaged only 136
guineas. By contrast, a bay colt by The
Buzzard —Terentia, dam of Lough Neagh,
brought 700 guineas. The Buzzard, like
Spearfelt, has a lot of Carbine blood in
him, and to buyers of yearlings he has
the additional merit of having been im-
ported.
The day after the yearling sales two
Spearfelt three-year-olds, Feltona and
Narvillier, and a two-year-old. Lord
Spearfelt, won at Albion Park. Rather
unlucky for Jennings, the owner of
Spearfelt, that the races did not precede
the sales ; but perhaps if they had pre-
ceded them it would have made no great
difference.
At Kensington (Sydney) on Wednes-
day the red-and-black livery of William
Kelso was carried first past the post on
three occasions. Babili (7 to 4) led all the
way in the Welter Mile, Misnomer (6 to
1) did the same thing in the first division
of the Flying Handicap, and Nord (7 to
1) completed the treble in the principal
handicap. They were all ridden by Kelso’s
own “boys.” Pike, the most famous of
all the Kelso apprentices, had the mount
on Babili, and Weiss was on Misnomer ;
Weiss rode two other winners, a second
and a third. Nord, by the way, was bred
by Kelso, and Misnomer was bought by
him for 50 guineas. Now a three-year-
old, she has had seven successes.
A winner that impressed this Page at
Kensington was Farrite, who produced a
strong run in the Jumpers’ Flat. If this
country moke can jump he will make
things interesting at Randwick for
Greensea, Underwood and Abbot’s Lad.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Jack Munro is back at the Sydney
Stadium as g.m., Charles Lucas having
resigned. IVJunro was in control at
Rushcutter Bay in more prosperous
times. He retired to go into the tin-
hare business, which, because of the
eccentricities of Sydney politics, he
found unprofitable. Lucas first came to
Sydney as manager of a Westralian abo.
pug known as “Black Paddy.” He stayed
on in England after the war, in which he
served with the A.1.F., and established
contacts with British boxers. Some of
these he may bring out next summer to
meet Australians at the Sports Ground,
having secured authority to stage con-
tests there.
* * * *
There was a time when Jack Carroll,
though as polished a boxer as he is now,
found it hard to get matches in Sydnev.
“Won’t draw,” was the explanation. This
absurd prejudice against the Victorian
has vanished, and now he is making a lot
of money beating doubtfully second-
rate American welterweights. He has
whipped two within the last month, and
another is to be served up in a week or
two.
“Uriah the Hittite”: U.S. Boxing Com-
mission has laid down the rule that con-
tests of fewer than 15 rounds shall not
carry championship honors in future —
which is probably only right. But one
of the most short-sighted regulations in
boxing contests is the limitation of
rounds, both in length and in number,
in amateur bouts. The idea is to prevent
excessive punishment, yet the opposite
obtains. When each man knows that he
has to win in four rounds of two minutes
each, he makes every second of it as will-
ing as he can. He won’t take the risk of
a decision fight and goes for a knockout
every time. “Most surprising,” you fre-
quently overhear on leaving an amateur
fight; “there’s always more blood and
hair flying in these goes than there is
among the professionals.” It isn’t sur-
prising at all. The men haven’t the same
skill in watering down attacks, and they
make every post a winning post.
Footbrawl
“St. Colombes”: One of those miracles
that will insist on happening was re-
corded in Paris on Sunday, March 17,
when a German Association football
team defeated a French side by three
goals to one before 40,000 people
“Did you Write these tips for the races, dad?”
“Yes, son. Why?”
"'Cos they're rotten. Lazy Liz and Adam's Apple why, they couldn't
head a duck!”
and got away with it without protest
from the losers. Officialdom, prover-
bially pessimistic, had posted heavy police
reinforcements round the ground, but
these were not called on. A big
German contingent bared its shaven
scalp when the French team marched on
to the tune of “The Marseillaise.” Simi-
lady the French crowd dipped its lid
when the strains of “Deutschland iiber
Alles” rose on the air.
“Hoots Awa”: The cable miscreant
pulled the usually impeccable leg of the
Sydney “Herald” the other day by mak-
ing the journal state that in beating Eng-
land in the international Rugby Union
match Scotland had enabled Ireland to
win this year’s international Rugby pre-
miership and the Calcutta Cup. The Cup
is not for the Irish, or Lloyd George’s
countrymen either. It goes each year to
the winner of the match between England
and Scotland, no others being allowed
to intrude.
❖ % sJj $
“Birkenhead Park”: British papers are
full this season of the growing tendency
by Rugby footballers to do things on the
field which cost their side points in
penalty goals-—England’s score of 14-3
against Ireland recently included three
p.gs. It is claimed that this marks the
tendency to bad sportsmanship which is
allegedly becoming common in tennis
and other games, not forgetting good old
bodyhne cricket. Much of the trouble
is really caused by the modern tendency
to over-elaboration of the rules. Those
regarding the scrum in particular are
now the despair of umpires and players
alike, and have 50 different interpreta-
8 008- ... * * *
“Stand Off” : Australian Rugby foot-
ball looks like losing one of its finest
forwards in the person of Love, who, hav-
ing passed his veterinary surgeon’s finals,
will practise somewhere up-country. He
has represented Sydney Uni., Combined
Australian Universities and N.S.W. as
well as Australia. A. K. Kennedy, the
flying winger, also drops out of the Syd-
ney Varsity side as the result of taking
an Arts degree. A dangerous scorer on
his day, the little man has been capped
for N.S.W.
* * * *
“Ellis Park”: A British Rugby team
may go to South Africa in 1936. It is
years since the Britons have been able
to make any impression on the ’Boks, at
home or abroad, but they will have the
good example of the All-Blacks and the
Wallabies against the Afrikanders to give
them heart.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Lakeside”: Paul Runyan, captain of
the American professional golfers re-
cently in Australia, urges the American
P.G.A. to invite Australians to play a
return match in America for the N.S.W.
Lakes Cup, now held by the Yanks.
Runyan has many nice things to say of
Australian players, particularly Stewart.
He thinks that Diegel was the only
American to show his true form on th’i.'
side, a judgment which does not make
our chance of recovering the cup look
rosy.
“Corbie”: Canberra is suffering an-
other epidemic of crow golf-ball stealers,
and players are asking for a special crow
rule to relieve them of penalties. Some
players regard the moving of a ball by
a crow as a rub o’ the green, especially
when it is in their favor, and there has
been a lot of snarling over this attitude
by those who have been taken off the
fairway and planted in the rough. Per-
haps St. Andrews might find a remedy.
Apropos, though there are plenty of
“hoodie-craws” to be seen about Scot-
tish links, especially the seaside ones, the
birds have never gone in for ball steal-
ing. Either they are too well disciplined
or else they are aware of the danger in-
volved in trying to rob a Scot, especially
a Scot who plays golf.
“Sandringham”: The Victorian golf-
ing heads have published the year’s pro-
gramme ; it begins with the Victoria
club’s open meeting on April 2 and ends
with the junior final of the pennants on
November 2. An important change in
the pennant competition is the introduc-
tion of the knock-out system, which will
give players who do not aspire to pen-
nant glories a chance to see something
of their own courses on days other than
Sundays. The amateur championship
starts at Kingston Heath on September
6 ; championships for boys and girls will
be staged.
“G.S.”: Who told “Springwood” (B.
13/ 3/’35) that Johnson was going as pro-
fessional to Leura (N.S.W.)? Johnson
denies it, and really he ought to know.
Racquet and Bawl
Norman Brookes, who was to have
gone with the Davis Cup team as non-
playing captain, has had a severe argu-
ment with influenza. He has given the
Orontes party a miss, and now proposes
to go to Europe via America, leaving
Sydney by the Monterey and flying
across the U.S.A. from ’Frisco. This
schedule should land him in England a
couple of days after the team arrives.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: That hardy
veteran Viv McGrath told a Sydney inter-
viewer before he left with the Davis Cup
o Continued on page 38.)


till more
PERDRIAU’S DOUBLE-TOUGHNESS
STANDS THE RACKET OF TODAY’S
HIGHER SPEEDS
Ssa£
I >
i,^
iM
Si
'm
wv f >
m- i
-m
.. V vv -..-.....,
BETTER TRACTION TOO!
Perdriau’s "flatter” road-contact makes
all of the tread hold on the road—giving
a grip which ensures faster acceleration
and more positive braking even on
the most treacherous surfaces.
refinements extras in road
grip, blow out resistance, com-
fort and beauty. As the local
Perdriau dealer will tell you,
it’s simply a matter of more
for the same money. He has
your Perdriau size at the same
low price as an ordinary tyre.
Perdnau
fit
i
rMoulded ” Kinkless) Tubes Exact fi “ ing and Perfectly “balanced” for mileage and
safety. A 1935 Dunlop Perdriau product.
When motorists everywhere are saying things
like ”Perdriau has given me thousands of
miles more”—”Never had tyres that lasted
so long” well, its a mighty good recom-
mendation. Yes, RECORD MILEAGE is the
big reason for the ever increasing preference
for Perdriau. No other tyre has double-
tough tread rubber. No other tyre has
this double resistance to the wear and
tear of the road.
Combine with this fact Perdriau’s other


The Prontac
(. Patented )
TENNIS RACKET
STRINGING DEVICE.
The "Prontac” Frame protects your
racket against distortion during the
stringing operation ...
The "Prontac” Hand Tensioner
shows the exact poundage being
pulled on each string; it does not
damage the gut nor hurt your hands.
All Sports Dealers, or write
WILLIAM LEWIS, LTD.,
143 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 98CC, G.P.O.
-NOTICE-
Make a note of these addresses for
yourself and your friends.
LONDON S FOUR UP-TO-DATE
FAM.LY& RESIDENTIAL HOTELS
Within 3 minutes Hyde Park and Tube.
Daily terms as required. Passenger lifts.
Garages. Central heating. Hot and cold
running water. Exchange telephone and
gas fires in all bedrooms. Bridge. Bil-
liards. Table Tennis and Dancing.
HOTEL INVERNESS COURT
1-9 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park, VV .3.
Is one of London’s finest old Mansions.
Personal attention and first-class cuisine
Guaranteed. Accommodation for 1-0
guests. Terms: Single from 4 guineas.
Double from 7 guineas. Bedroom, Lath
and Breakfast from 0/6. Telephone:
Bayswater 1444.
LANCASTER COURT HOTEL
66-69 Lancaster Gate, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Its New Extension of 50 rooms adds
many spacious and attractive reception
rooms. Terms from 34 guineas Single.
64 guineas Double. Bedroom. Bath and
Breakfast, from 8/6. Tel.: Padd. 0131.
BERKELEY COURT HOTEL
39-31 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park. W. 2.
Telephone: Padd. 8022.
AND
PARK ROYAL HOTEL
35-38 Leinster Gardens, Hyde Park, W. 3.
Telephone: Padd : 0712.
Accommodation for 150 guests.
Hotels of refinement (adjacent to each
other), with young and cheerful society.
Delightful rooms arranged as bed-sitting
rooms. Owing to their popularity you
are advised to secure accommodation —if
possible—in advance. Terms: Single from
3 guineas. Double from 5 guineas. Bed-
room. Bath and Breakfast from 7/6.
The above Hotels are under the personal
supervision of the Managing Director,
Mrs. J. E. Stevenson.
IN NEW ZEALAND
marketing experience can
be bought at the lowest
cost by concentrating on
the capital city—WEL-
LINGTON —w here the
“Evening Post” offers a
complete coverage.
“The Evening Post”
goes regularly into 95 % of
the homes in Wellington
city and suburbs.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros. Proprietors)
For particulars and rates apply
to any accredited advertising
agency.
fd
ROSS/or HEIGHT/
ICllent, age 19J, gains B ins. in C weeks,
f 21 „ 5 in 5 mths.
" 20, 3J in 16 days.
.. 30. 2. in 4 weeks.
, 40, .. li ~ in 6 BOSS SYSTEM I
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3]ins. NEVEB FAILS I
Hundredt of Testimonials from oil over the world. I
Fee S 2 2e. complete. Details Free. Write now
► A. K. ROSS, Height Specialist, a J
* Scarborough, Eng. iP.O. liox 15.)
No Appliances
—No Drugs.
No Dieting.
CONTRACT BRIDGE —by Ena Burrow*,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At all bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
"The Bulletin.” I<L extrr.
z
Craig *Aitken
WholpsalpDislribuMJ
Sydney N.S.W,
[
’,^k'
SINCE 1834
Banking service evolved from experience
gained over a century of trading, based on
British Banking practice, is offered by
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £59,000,000
EVERY CLASS OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Head Office:
343 George Street, Sydney.
C. DARVALL,
General Manager.
Legal Notices. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 386 of 1935. .
BETWEEN ELLEN SUSANNA BEGGS Peti-
tioner „ , T „. xir .,
And ARCHIBALD ANGUS LIONEL
BEGGS Respondent. _
TO ARCHIBALD ANGUS LIONEL BEGGS
late of Broken Hill. .
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN
SUSANNAH BEGGS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on tne
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the propei
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of June One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-five and in the event ot
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of c o ar g6.
DATED this Fifteenth day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROBERT W. NICHOLL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney, Agent for E. R. HUDSON,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Broken Hill.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 252 of 1935.
BETWEEN JOSEPH PITCHFORD Petitioner
And LAVINIA ROBINSON PITCHFORD
Respondent. „
TO LAVINIA ROBINSON PITCHFORD
late of Kembla Heights in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that JOSEPH PITCHFORD
has commenced , a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOT ICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Fourteenth day
of June One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-five and in the event of you not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
will be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitor
free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of March, 1935.
For the Registrar.
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
COLIN BIGGERS, Solicitor, The Metropoli-
tan Building, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
In the Estate of Michael Macnamara,
Deceased.
ALL persons claiming to be next-of-kin of the
abovenamed MICHAEL MACNAMARA who
have not already notified their claim to the
undersigned are hereby required to send to the
undersigned their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claims before the Thirtieth day of
April next.
The deceased was born about 1810 in the
County of Clare, Ireland, and came to Australia
about the year 1836, and died in Sydney on the
7th June, 1880.
LAURENCE & LAURENCE,
Solicitors for the Estate of
Michael Macnamara,
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
IO JAMES DENNISTON LOCHORE, father
of ROSE LILY LOCHORE, who died
Intestate in New Zealand on the 28th day
of September, 1934, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under the said
James Denniston Lochore.
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
required to send to me on or before the Ist
day of May, 1935, your claims to share in the
estate of the abovenamed Rose Lily Lochore.
failing which such estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this Bth day of
February, 1935.
CHAS. E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
MR. HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MR. MERVYN ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
team that a home-loving tennis-player
like himself found eminence in the game
far from a bed of roses. For three years
in succession, McGrath says, he has been
on Davis Cup tours, and in between is
being rushed round Australia. Still, the
hurried life has its consolations. With
luck and improvement in play Vivian
may one of these days get an invita-
tion from Mr. O’Brien, of America, to
become a professional and attain those
giddy heights of affluence in which all
professional athletes are known to end
their days.
* * * *
“Roland Garros”; The International
Tennis Federation rejected the British-
Czech proposal to allow amateurs to
appear in tennis films for cash and
retain their status. The voting was 42
to 41 ; a two-thirds majority was needed
to carry the change. The allotment
of voting power to the different coun-
tries was altered. Australia, Germany,
America, France and Britain now have
12 votes each and five delegates. Maori-
land, Italy, South Africa, Canada and
Czecho-S. have nine votes apiece, with
four delegates.
“Centre Court”: Though obscured by
the great film controversy, there were
other matters of importance discussed at
the meeting of the I.T.F. One was the
South African proposal to place an extra
line behind the baseline to prevent foot-
faulting. The Federation buzzed the
motion out, with the proviso that those
interested may try it privately if they
wish. A proposal to allow amateurs to
give tennis lessons for pay, privately or
in newspapers, was handed to a sub-
committee for report.
* * * *
“Newlands”: The South African four
for the Davis Cup are Kirby, Farquhar-
son, Bertram and Hendrie; Malcolm,
who was here with Kirby, has missed
the bus. Kirby and Farquharson are a
fine doubles pair, and both gave our
men plenty of trouble in England last
season. Kirby did not reproduce that
form in Australia.
$ * * *
The Vic. A.I.F. centenary tournament
is fixed to open on April 24 (Anzac week)
at St. Kilda tennis club. Many of the
Diggers were able to put in a fast ser-
vice, as the occupants of the enemy
trenches well knew, and there are still a
host of A.I.F. men performing creditably
on the different courts. A dozen big busi-
ness firms have come to light with valu-
able trophies, and the events comprise
singles and doubles championships of
Australia and a doubles handicap. Entries
close at Anzac House, Melbourne, on
April 15, and the proceeds of the tourna-
ment are destined to assist the Vic. War
Veterans’ Homes Fund.
Miscellaneous
The West Indies gave England an un-
holy hiding in the fourth Test, winning
by an innings and 161 and clinching the
rubber for the first time in the story of
the series. W.I. closed with 7 for 535,
Headley, indisputably one of the world’s
best half-dozen batsmen, flogging the
bowling for 270 n.o. Paine, with 5 for
168, came off best of the English bowlers.
The W.I. fast bowlers dominated the
English batsmen, outing the side for 271
(Ames 126) and 103. Unlucky Wyatt
went out in the first innings with a broken
jaw. Constantine and Martindale took
most of the wickets. The result was a
great triumph for the W.I. n since the
tourists comprised about three-fourths of
England’s best side.
“Cottesloe”: The N.S.W. cricketers are |
returning from Westralia unbeaten, but
their tour was a financial flop. Attend-
ances at all three matches totalled only
14,000. This will mean a heavy loss to
the Westralian association, which hac
hoped much from the visit.
* * * *
Dead in Sydney, at 74, Dick Calla-
way, one of Australia’s greatest umpires
for many years and an unrivalled
authority on the game. One of a family
famous in N.S.W. cricket, Dick was never
a great performer himself, but his work
as umpire in State and Test matches
made him known to every player in Aus-
tralia and to those visiting it from other
lands. He was a man of charming per-
sonality, and his trips to the other States
with N.S.W. and Australian teams—in
his day it was the custom for a touring
side to take an umpire with it—gave him
an intimate personal knowledge of most
of the great players of his day. He wrote
well on cricket, too.
* * *
“Colac”: After being postponed last
year in favor of the Centenary Thou-
sand, the old Warrnambool-Melbourne
road race for pushbikers is to be revived.
The L.V.W. will run the show for
Dunlop-Perdriau, who have been behind
the race since 1901, and it will be on the
usual handicap lines. The date, some
time in October, has yet to be fixed ; the
prize list is as solid as ever. Time medal-
lions, which have been coveted for 30
years, will again be issued to those earn-
ing them.
* • * *
“King-street”; Alec McCallum, some-
time Westralian Minister of Works, and
now chairman of the new Agricultural
Bank Board, would be a warm favorite
for a Parliamentary Old Buffers’ race if
our legislators ever went in for such
things. In his younger days he was one
of the legion of professional pedestrians.
He abandoned the cinder track during
one of the periodic slumps which pre-
ceded the Donaldson-Postle boom.
* ' * * ❖
“Fitzcray”: Victorian baseballers will
see a bit of variation on their fixture
list for the season ; teams from the Japan-
ese warships visiting Melbourne in April
are to play in Melbourne and Ballarat.
The association cleared £76 for the year,
and has a £532 surplus of assets over
liabilities. Baseball, as in other States,
suffers from the inability of the ’bailers
to maintain enclosed grounds of their
own.
:|; sjc :*e
“Blade”: There was an unusual hap-
pening at a Sydney regatta when two
crews, Mosman and Police, rowed a dead-
heat in a maiden-eights race. An hour later
the clubs rowed again, but with the best
will in the world neither was able to doff
its virginity. There was no time for a
third attempt, so a puzzled club com-
mittee referred the matter to the Rowing
Association for allotment of points on
the “Let George do it!” principle,
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: The surprise of the bil-
liards year has been the resurrection of
Willie Smith, who defeated Davis the
other day, both starting from scratch.
Commenting on this, Walter Lindrum
told a Melbourne interviewer that a six-
handed match might be played in Lon-
don, Smith, Davis and Newman against
Walter Lindrum, McConachy and
Horace Lindrum. Horace is to accom-
pany uncle overseas, and it is pleasing to
see that he is to get his chance at last.


Should the Exchange
Rate Be Lifted?
Are Trade Statistics
Reliable?
Influence of Credit Upon
Interest Rates,
Outlook for Share
Prices.
These and other problems vital to the
investor are discussed in the
MARCH issue of
THE
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
Australia’s leading financial journal.
Now on Sale.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 94
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities foi the transaction of all general banking business
The Union Trustee Company ot Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay. R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G. H. Shipwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET}
Patents.
DEVICE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18590/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to .make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia
on reasonable terms. Particulars of the inven-
tion obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S
BEST BATTERY
RADIO RECEIVER
B
R
E
V
I
L
L
E
If wide popularity arid record-breaking
sales are any indication, the
BREVILLE 46 Superheterodyne 6-
Valve Battery Receiver stands
supreme. Special features* eliminate
fading, give better tone and greater
volume, and ensure perfect long-
distance daylight reception. The most
outstanding feature is its Battery
Consumption, which is More Econo-
mical than any set produced in this
size. In a handsome
Oxford Cabinet at
£36/.5/-
Write to Desk S.B. for full particulars.
Queensland Distributors:
PIKE BROTHERS
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
And at Townsville, Toowoomoa, jjismore.
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
A Shaking-out
From the time the Scullin and Lang
Governments were turned out of con-
trol, in the Commonwealth and N. S.
Wales spheres respectively, until Septem-
ber, 1934, there was practically an un-
broken rise in the price of Australian
Consols. Interest returns on nearly every
class of investment fell. New loans were
floated carrying the lowest rates for
many years, and the yield on one-year
fixed deposits was brought down to about
2 p.c.
In September, 1931, Broken Hill Prop,
shares were changing hands at 12s. 6d.
Burns Philp, which has paid an un-
changed 10 p.c. throughout the depres-
sion, could be bought into at 335., show-
ing a yield of 6 p.c. Queensland Insur-
ance shares returned 5.7 p.c. at 355. ;
Associated News ords. were being bought
by the bagful at less than 25.; Austra-
lian Glass ords. could be got at 265., re-
turning 4.5 p.c.; Colonial Sugars (old
shares) were at £36, yielding 6.7 p.c.!
David Jones ords. were 10s. or 11s. ;
Farmer ords., ss. ; G. J. Coles, 265. 6d.:
Melb. Herald ords., 325. ; London Stores
ords., 12s. ; Mauri Bros, and Thomson
ords., 10s. ; Melbourne Steamship, 14s.
Peters Delicacy, 17s. ; Carlton Brewery,
235.; Tooths, 18s. 6d. ; Tooheys, 15s.
In Adelaide, Sons of Gwalia shares
could be got at ss. Bd. North Kalgurlis
were around 4s. 9d., Lake View and
Stars 10s. 6d. and Wilunas 9s.
Weakly-financed persons often had to
sacrifice their investments in the dark
days of 1931. Far-seeing people bought
up better-class shares at dirt-cheap rates.
Others had the money but not the cour-
age ; they put their savings on fixed de-
posit, and soon the banks became em-
barrassed by a glut of this type of money.
England left the gold standard in 1931 ;
Australia was, and continues to be, 25
p.c. further off it. The price of gold
started to rise, and commodity prices in
Empire currencies stopped falling,
Lang went out of power in N. S. Wales
in May, 1932, and there was an imme-
diate revival in confidence throughout the
Commonwealth. Wool started to recover
in 1933 ; so did industrial share-prices.
Lake View and Star and other soundly-
established Westralian goldmines com-
menced showing profits greater than the
Broken Hill silver-lead mines.
From the abnormally depressed levels
of 1931 all classes of shares began to
recover. Industrials benefited from the
higher price of wool; producing gold-
mines got a new and remarkable lease of
life out of the higher price of the yellow
metal. The U.S.A.’s departure from the
gold-standard and devaluation of the
dollar brought further prosperity to gold-
mines throughout the world.
Many speculators, large and small,
bought depressed industrials and gold
stocks and showed phenomenal profits
within a few months. Doubling and
trebling one’s capital within a year or
so was easy. Men neglected their cus-
tomary occupations to dabble, generally
in industrials to begin with, but later the
old prejudice against gold shares was
overcome, and investments took second
place in Stock Exchange dealings. Share-
brokers soon waxed fat on gold-share
commissions.
During the last 12 months we have
gone through a period of excessive specu-
lation. A lot of that fixed-deposit money
has come on the share market. The
excesses have been mostly as regards
unproved mines. Overcapitalised con-
cerns, often overloaded with promoters’
considerations, have been thrust on the
market; for a time they went off like hot
cakes, the public coming back for more.
Then the output of new floats over-
took the demand, many speculators rely-
ing upon borrowed money to carry as
much scrip as they did. Instead of a
preponderance of buyers continuing—
the main cause of the boomlet in 1934 —
the tables have since turned the other
way. Despite a record price for gold the
share market in Australia has been weak
since the beginning of this year. As the
slide became more pronounced, weak,
overbought punters were shaken out.
Some sharebrokers had to sell their
clients’ holdings to cover their loans, and
last week something like a panic de-
veloped on the Australian ’Changes,
Even concerns like Mt. Morgan slumped
heavily.
The industrial market, too, having lost
its speculative _ support, has relapsed
noticeably. It is also somewhat over-
"Well, my man , what do YOU want ?”
"The boys are 'avin' a dance over at the pub, and were one girl short.
Wolabout it ?”
bought, but the trade outlook definitely
called for caution here, and it is not
merely a market collapse. The trend of
interest rates, also, is upward; Com-
monwealth securities have steadily fallen
in price since September.
As far as gold shares are concerned,
if engineers’ reports can be relied upon at
all, goldmines with ore in sight sufficient
to show profitable returns on 1934 share
prices should be worth buying now The
market is sick and repentant, but gold
is still over £9 an ounce. We have not
had a gold boom in Australia yet, but
we have just had a gold-share boom. The
present shaking-out may be a good thing
for genuine mines in the long run.
A Commonwealth Bank Warning
The half-yearly report of the Common-
wealth Bank Board is not so cheerful. It
says that Australian recovery has so far
been “internal only”; that, while the
Commonwealth accounts show a surplus,
State Budgets have yet to be balanced,
and that “the deadweight debt continues
to grow substantially.”
Mention is made of the “temporary - ’
restrictions on meat exports to Britain
and the severer ones on Australian trade
with some European countries:
The position as a whole is one which
cannot be regarded with equanimity—
especially when the present low price of
wool is borne in mind.
Wool, of course, was the most material
factor in giving us a favorable trade
balance last year. In the absence of a
substantial rise in price, there must be
an unfavorable balance this year. Export
value for the six months ended Dec. 31
showed a shrinkage of £16,000,000.
Governments are reminded that, while
it is almost impossible to avoid abnormal
Government expenditure to deal with
large-scale unemployment, “there are
limits to such a policy, particularly while
Budgets remain unbalanced.” Moreover,
“injudiciously spent, such funds can
retard recovery.” But nobody is likely
to listen with platforms being put to-
gether for campaigns in Queensland and
N.S.W., and the time coming round when
the Premiers will meet again to milk the
Canberra cow.
Those collections of sales tax on
second-hand goods declared by the High
Court to have been illegally made (B.
13/2/’35) are to be validated by retro-
spective legislation. “About” quarter of
a million is involved, and Mr. Casey says
the Government can’t afford to return
the money. A wiser man than Mr. Casey
said “111-gotten gains never prosper.”
Sales of second-hand articles in future
will be exempt from tax.
* * * *
An expert has been touring Denmark
with samples of Australian, Maoriland
and English butter. He admits that
Maoriland butter is getting “dangerously”
near Danish in quality, and urges the
Danes to aim at improving their pro-
duct. At the same time the Federal Gov-
ernment deems it necessary to reorgan-
ise control of the Australian indus-
try, in anticipation of a move on Britain’s
part to restrict imports. A conference
has been called for April 13. One organi-
sation to control inter-State and export
trade is proposed. There are also pro-
posals to “give Australian butter the
subtle flavor of Danish.” Meanwhile
“Kangaroo” grade, salted, has weakened
to 70s. a hundredweight in London.
N. S. Wales Parliament is to go into
recess without dealing with the Com-
panies Bill, introduced over three months
ago. The proposed legislation, with the
exception of a few new clauses, is based
on the tried and tested English Act. There
has been ample time for discussion, but
discussion there has been practically
none. Meanwhile N. S. Wales investors
are virtually without company-law pro-
tection.
The output of gold in the Transvaal,
despite the gold premium, has shrunk
steadily since 1932. The reason is that
lower-grade ores are being concentrated
upon—ore that perhaps would not pay
with gold at its old price. Production
for 1934 (10.5 million fine ounces) was a
million fine ounces lower than the record
figure for 1932, and 531,0000 z. lighter
than for 1933. But the value was £71.6
million, as against £67.6 million the
previous year. Native labor employed
by members of the Witwatersrand Native
Labor Association totals 252,036.
The U.S.A. continues to suck in the
world’s gold. At January 23 its monetary
gold stocks stood at 8308 million dollars,
the highest level in history. Over 380
million dollars’ worth of gold has been
bought since November 5. The con-
tinued flow of gold to N’York seems to
be due to the undervaluation of the dollar
and to the U.S.A.’s protective policy.
Melbourne City Coun-
cil is being asked by taxi
companies to leave the
flag-fall rate at Is. 6d.,
as at present, but to fix
a standard rate of 4d. a
mile (as against the
present maximum of
6d.), and to reduce the
waiting fee from 6s, to
4s. an hour.
i\t
The external trade
balance for N. S. Wales
to the end of February
shows a slip of
£11,600,000 sterling com-
pared with last year, im-
ports exceeding exports
by f 1,538,980. The value
of exports was down by
over £6,000,000, while
imports were up by more
than £5,000.000.
McWhirters, the big Valley (Brisbane)
department store, which showed a loss
in 1933, has staged a quick recovery. A
4 p.c. dividend was paid for 1934, and
for the first half of the current term that
rate has been maintained. The directors
anticipate a satisfactory year.
Barron Falls (Q.) Hydro-electric Board
has been granted permission to borrow
£30,000 on debentures to finance the con-
struction of an underground power
station, part of the hydro-electric scheme.
Interest is not to exceed 3* p.c.


“WEAVER WONT WOBBLE.”
When Mr. Reggie Weaver, of “Weaver Won’t Wobble” celebrity, was
performing in the N.S.W. Ministry of Health, a country correspondent wrote a
mild request for information. He was answered a day or two after Mr. Weaver
had made a dashing appearance in Parliament in the part of Terrible Feller —as
“S. M. Herald” put it, he uttered “allegations of incompetence, dishonesty, neglect
and other offences against some hospital boards” —and this was the answer;
-euc vvo*
i $
MCW SOOTH vVAttS
SYDNEY. 7th December, 1934*
Dear Sir,
In reply to your letter of 3rd instant I have to
advise that a Bill has already been prepared to deal with the
herbalists", but it has not been placed before
the House for the reason that there are a large number of
charlatans trading in the name of herbalists, and the difficulty
is to introduce legislation which will eliminate what might be
termed the quack" and protect the legitimate herbalist.
If the legislation is not drastic it will leave room
for a large number of "quacks" to continue trading upon the
credulity of the community. On the other hand, if it is sufficient
ly rigorous to catch them it would, perhaps, interfere with the
legitimate trading of many herbalists who are rendering good
service to the public.
Yours faithfully.
Miniate* for Public Works and Health,
Mr. Weaver was still wobbling when Premier Stevens reconstructed the Ministry
and left him out.
THE PRIZE DRAWINGS.
Prizes of original “Bulletin” black-
and-white drawings are offered each
week for Society pars., Aboriginali-
ties. Hint's for the Farm and gags for
joke-blocks. In addition, all matter
published is paid for at the ordinary
rates. Awards for contributions to
B. 20/3/’35: —
M. J. O’REILLY, Mt. Wellington,
Tasmania;
MISS ANN DEUTSCHER, Charlevilie,
Queensland;
ERNEST H. HOMANN, Tech. School,
Wonthaggi, Victoria; and
F. C. WILLS, Karamia, Rawson-
street, Wollongong, N.S.W.
A MIXED GRILL.
“G.M.”: Safety regulations all over
Australia should be tightened to prevent
people diving into shallow water. No
summer passes without deaths and many
serious injuries from this cause. Hot
days attract inexperienced bathers, depth
of water is most deceptive seen from
above, and the strangers dive often into
a foot or two of water and are taken out
dead or disabled. Every bathing pool
or enclosed bath should be compelled
to erect warning notices where the depth
is insufficient.
* * * *
“Lex”: “There have been other cases
in which N.S.W. police officers have
abused their powers” (B. 20/3/’35). The
Sydney dailies reported one last week.
“benevolent-looking old gentleman
with white hair, who was accompanied
by a young lady,” entered a restaurant
and asked for sparkling hock. It was
refused, the time being after 6 p.m.
So far, so good (the benevolent-looking
one was a disguised policeman); but,
according to witnesses, the visitor went
on clamoring for hock, and got it. The
Crown said it was charged on the bill; a
“cashier, waiter and two other witnesses”
said it was given free to keep the
customer. There must have been
some doubts in the Appeal Judge’s
mind: he let one appellant off his £3O
fine and told the others that he “would
recommend the Minister for Justice to
reduce their fines.” I submit that when
one request for illegal liquor had been
resisted the policeman should have ceased
tempting the waiter and others to break
the law. Not only in justice and
decency, but for the good name of the
force.
* * * *
“Shep”: The suggester of the swag-
man’s load for modern infantry (B.
13/3/’35) might have seen his theory
in practice in France amongst the Chinks.
They had discarded regulation gear, if
they ever had any, in favor of outsize
Matildas, humped on their backs,
slung around their necks or from
poles, or balanced on their heads. They
couldn’t march, wanting too much elbow-
room, and straggled along in any sort
of formation. Mechanical transport
should rid the P. 8.1. of packs with
blanket and waterproof, steel helmets
and respirators, and enable him to move
in comfort, getting his gear back out of
transport trucks at the end of each
march, as the majority of officers
retrieved their valises. We lugged steel
hats and respirators all over Flanders
and the Somme, discarding clothes we
should have carried, but only around the
line, when we weren’t loaded up like
camels, did we need them. Every pound
of the infantryman’s load counts in a
10-mile march.
* * * *
“Drift”: “Quali” (B. 13/3/’35) men-
tions dairy settlement at Clump Point.
In this district 60 years ago settled the
Cutten brothers. An English family of
surveyors, they had bred stock on a More-
ton Bay island until burnt out. For their
northern estate they indented 600
Kanakas, built a sawmill and established
a coffee and a maize plantation, orchards
and vegetable gardens. They became
self-supporting. The first blow fell with
the advent of the White Australia policy
and the deportation of the island boys.
During the war the abolition of the
coastal-steamer service spelt final doom.
In the grove of giant mango-trees ad-
jacent to Bicton, the house built after
the 1918 cyclone, a small graveyard
marks the gradual decrease of the Cutten
family over the last 50 years.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The shark seems to be as
übiquitous in the north this year as in
the south. Off Cape York recently a
blackboy left a bit of his leg on the reef,
and a racing crew above Victoria Bridge
in the heart of Brisbane had its boat
bumped by something with a row of
teeth like a circular saw. The last shark
tragedy in Brisbane was nearly half a
century ago—-somebody was grabbed
and rescued in Petrie’s Bight near where
the new bridge is to be built.
COMPANY REPORT
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS
LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
2he Directors’ Report, to be submitted to the annual meeting of shareholders,
to he held in the Board Room of the Company, City Road, South Melbourne,
on Friday, March 29, 1925, at 12.30 p.m., will state :
YOUR directors are pleased to sub-
mit the balance sheet for the year
ended December 31, 1934. The
result overall is satisfactory, and shows
a consolidated net profit of £402,335,
after making adequate allowance for de-
preciation, taxation, bad debts and other
contingencies.
The wide range of the company’s
activities, covering car and truck assembly
and sale, passenger car body manu-
facture for our own and other makes of
cars, commercial body manufacture, re-
placement parts sale, body service
stations and chassis parts and equipment
manufacture, necessitates careful analysis
of the results achieved in the various
divisions.
Almost the whole of the year’s profit
was made in our car, truck and parts
selling divisions, a result made possible
by the general revival in business con-
ditions, resulting in an increase in our
sales of 104 per cent, over our 1933
volume.
Works Reopened
This increase made it necessary, during
the year, to reopen our assembly plants
in Sydney and Brisbane, partially to re-
establish our assembly operations in
Adelaide, and we are, at the moment,
in the process of reopening our assembly
plant in Perth.
We have taken these steps because of
our confident belief that the motor-car
and -truck market is rapidly improving,
and because of the popularity of the
cars and trucks we are marketing. It is
interesting to record that we are to-day
receiving a higher percentage of the total
number of vehicles registered than at any
time in the company’s history in Aus-
tralia.
We have again found it difficult to earn
a -satisfactory return on the investment
in passenger body manufacturing. The
profit made by the body manufacturing
division at our Woodville works for the
year under review amounted to £lB,OOO
on a net investment of £832,105. How-
ever, it is pleasing to be able to report
that we are now producing bodies to a
high standard of quality, and that the
heavy expenditure of over £60,000 made
during the year on new plant and equip-
ment, in revision of layout and modernis-
ing of tools has resulted in a higher
standard of operating efficiency, which
justifies our confidence in the future of
the division.
Bodies Give Employment
It is felt desirable to emphasise again
the value of body manufacture to the
Australian economy.
Our employees in Australia number
5450, and of this number 3900 are
engaged in passenger car body
manufacture.
Our total salary and wage bill in Aus-
tralia during 1934 amounted to almost
£900,000, and of this amount over
£600,000 was paid to employees in our
body plant. Our purchases of Australian
material during the year amounted to
£1,400,000, of which amount £750,000
was for the requirements of body manu-
facture. The operations of other Aus-
tralian body-builders show figures
equally impressive in their contribution
to Australia’s economic welfare.
Apart altogether from the importance
of the industry to the Commonwealth in
the reduction of imports, the employ-
ment given, the Australian raw materials
consumed and the surprisingly great
number of factories dependent on it as
an outlet for their products, there is the
incalculable benefit of the technical,
engineering and production training
being given to thousands of our artisans
engaged in body manufacture.
Commenced to Export
A further important feature is the
commencement of an export body busi-
ness with such countries as Java, Egypt,
India, etc. This year we should export
from 1000 to 1500 bodies, which, while
not expected to produce any great profit,
is looked on by the Company’s directors
as an important contribution to the solu-
tion 6f Australia’s unemployment prob-
lem. as well as a pioneering development
in foreign trade which will prove of
considerable value in the future to Aus-
tralia’s industrial development. We be-
lieve that this export business is cap-
able of considerable development, and
trust that the Government will stress its
importance with our Trade Commis-
sioners and the country’s representatives
when negotiating Trade Treaties.
Motor transportation, whether in the
form of cars, lorries or buses, is an in-
dispensable factor in modern everyday
life, and an essential medium in the de-
velopment of Australia. When thinking
of transportation units, the public thinks
almost exclusively in terms of makes of
vehicles, and considers, at the most,
whether they are of British or foreign
manufacture.
Mainly Made Here
Rarely is thought given to the pos-
sibility of the vehicles being more
Australian than English, Canadian or
foreign.
It is interesting then to point out
that, of the list price of a Chevrolet
sedan, 78.5 per cent, is Australian, 9.35
per cent, is Canadian and only 12.15
per cent, is of foreign origin. In the
case of a Buick “40” sedan, 77.16 per
cent, is Australian, 1.62 per cent, is
Canadian, and 21.22 per cent, is foreign.
These figures are illuminating, and
clearly show the extent to which Aus-
tralian industry and organisation are
contributing to the production of the
country’s transportation units.
The motor industry in Australia,
granted the sympathy and co-operation
of the respective Governments, presents
a remarkably fertile field for industrial
development, increased employment and
continuously increasing consumption of
Australian raw materials. The continued
development of the manufacturing side
of the industry is as essential for de-
fence purposes in the future as are good
roads for economic development, and we
believe that the people of Australia are
keenly appreciative of the necessity, not
only of retaining what has already been
accomplished, but of further developing
its wonderful natural resources on the
land and in the factories.
Bigger Stocks Carried
During the year the leasehold property
in Brisbane used for assembly purposes
was purchased, and the former service
depot property sold, which accounts for
the variation in the figures shown in the
balance sheet for freehold and leasehold
property. The company now owns
properties in Australia valued at over
half a million pounds.
Stock on hand and in transit shows
an increase of £920,773 over that of a
year ago, whilst Sundry Creditors have
increased by only £400,639.
It is pleasing to note that the debit
standing in the profit and loss account
until this year has been liquidated, and
the account at December 31, 1934, is in
credit. The directors therefore decided
to pay two years’ dividends on the 6
per cent, preference shares, thus estab-
lishing the satisfactory position of having
no dividends in arrears.
Three Directors retire in accordance
with the Articles of Association of the
Company, the retiring Directors being:
J. D. MOONEY, Esq.,
SIR WALLACE BRUCE,
SIR JOHN BUTTERS,
who, being eligible, have offered them-
selves for re-election.
E. W. HOLDEN,
Chairman,
It is interesting to note that this large
industrial undertaking is now recover-
ing some of the serious losses incurred
in the years 1931 and 1932, as the fol-
lowing figures indicate:—
Year ended June 30, 1931.
Net loss £516,473 12 1
Year ended June 30, 1932.
Net loss 349,913 19 10
6 months ended Decem-
ber 31, 1932. Net loss 2,721 11 7
Year ended December 31,
1933. Net profit . . 134,160 16 9
Year ended December 31,
1934. Net profit . . 402,332 15 6
Net loss over period of
4£ years . . , .£332,615 11 3


TO MEN
nearing
MIDDLE-AGE
f
Beware Age 40 When your Life
Line starts threateningly to Decline.
The average life ends at about 55. At 40,
the pace noticeably slows—and worrying
signs appear. These tell of kidney and
bladder breakdown; failure to eliminate the
system's poison wastes, especially of uric
acid. Back, loin and groin pains appear,
swollen joints and limbs; increasing need for
urination: possibly severe inflammation of
the bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism,
which cripples and weakens the heart. Keep
your kidneys and bladder in health by taking
Harrison's Pills, the signed remedy of a Lon-
don doctor. These will free you from aches,
pains, stiffness, and that growing weariness
and weakness arising from your kidney and
bladder strain. Harrison's Pills will give you
a new sourcu of strength and health at a time
when neglect may prove irreparable. Doctors
and nurses recommend Harrison's Pills, while
chemists ever} where sell them at trifling cost.
COME to Sydney
and STAY
&
$
at
s
$
do
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient —
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
'Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
THE
lIMITCn insurance
U 111 I E.II COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
. Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
11. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager. Asst- Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS. Manager.
The New SIMONIZ KIEENER RESTORES
Car Beauty Quickly and Easily
5% First Mortgage Deben-
tures of £25 Each.
Currency 20-25 years. Interest at 5 p.c. p.a.,
payable yearly for full period of currency of
Debentures, by coupon attached to the Deben-
tures. Redemption by ballot, in cash of l-sth
of total in each year between 20th and 25th
rears, phis an accrued and annually added bonus
of 5 p.c. p.a.. (apart from the interest) for two
years, making redemption double the original
value at maturity. Adequate security and interest
payable by lodging coupons at any Dank.
£lOO Debentures worth £125 in 5 years
100 ~ „ £l5O „ 10 „
100 „ £ll5 „ 15 „
100 „ £2OO ~ 20
Plus 5 p.c. annual Interest.
Debentures procurable for cash, or on easy terms
alternatively, £5 deposit and £5 per quarter,
or £5 deposit and £2 per month, or £2/10/-
deposit, £2/1 ft/- first instalment and £1 per
month. Interest starts first of month following
payment of each £25. Individual subscription
limited to £lOOO. Allotment in order of receipt
of applications. Redemption in cash plus Interest
and bonus in the event of death of Debenture
holders after 5 years.
Inquire for prospectus add further particulars
from
EMPIRE TIH3 OIL PRODUCTS LTD
12-14 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
’Phone: ISWIKIS.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: J. P. Thomson was honored
at a civic reception in Brisbane the other
day to celebrate the 50th anniversary of
the founding of the Queensland Royal
Geographical Society, which was achieved
mainly by his effort, with the, help of
A. C. Gregory, the explorer. The doctor
—he has an honorary LL.D. from
Toronto—was born 80 years ago in Shet-
land, was Crown Surveyor in Fiji in the
early 'eighties, observed the transit of
Venus there in ’B2, was given the British
R.G.S.’s Peek award for eminent ser-
vices to geography in 1902 and got a
C.B.E. in 1920. He has published over
200 articles and pamphlets on Australian
geography, and is a corresponding mem-
ber of half the geographical societies of
the world.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: All guid Scots
and Hebrew tradition to the contrary, it
sometimes pays to refuse good money.
A fruit-farmer near Ipswich (Q.) gave
some pineapples to a neighboring fos-
sicker, and refused to take payment for
them, the other man being out of work.
The fossicker said he would buy the
other chap a share ticket in the next
Casket if he wouldn’t take the money.
The fruitman suggested that if he felt
like that the better way would be to put
in two bob more and share a full ticket
between them. The fossicker did, and
the ticket won them £6OOO. By a curious
coincidence, the stroke of luck arrived
during the “Back to Ipswich Week.”
* * * *
“X.T.”: The latest holiday resort to
begin providing a tourist accommodation
house is Lake Cootharaba, into which
the Noosa River opens about 80 miles
north of Brisbane. It used to be a
unique fishing spot a few years ago, and
I suppose it still is. In my day the chief
pests were bream up to about a pound in
weight which used to bite incessantly,
preventing us from catching the 401 b. to
601 b. jewfish which were our main ob-
jective. The lakes—-there are more than
one —would make a fine seaplane base.
* ❖ * *
“Maron”: They do things properly in
the tropics, and are proud of it. Hence
this social item, which has taken about
three months to filter through from one
of the most remote of our mandated
islands:
Jock and Mrs. had the big Christ-
mas-tree at one of their renowned parties.
The tree was an excellent piece of work,
and made a great show. Their party lasted
two days, and probably would have been
longer had it not been for the failing flesh.
It’s the beastly equatorial climate that
debilitates these poor exiles.
* * * *
“Vic”: Dr. Halberstater told the
Townsville Medical Congress that the
great increase in trachoma (granular
conjunctivitis) cases locally was probably
due to “a badly deficient diet and lack
of vitamins.” Many patients who came
from stations had subsisted on corned
beef and damper, and hospital dietetics
were “sadly lacking.” It is amazing. Most
Queensland soil will grow a few vege-
tables, and certainly there is little of the
driest part of the west which will not
support lemon, lime and, orange trees.
Every year there must be hundreds of
tons of fruit and vegetables from the
rich coastal country allowed to. go to
waste which could be dried or packeted
and sent to stations. Who can imagine a
shortage of vegetable vitamins within
reach of a district where the guava has
been declared a noxious plant?
* * * *
“Kandi”: The Canberra Government
is at last to build its sampan-catching
yacht. It has only taken a couple of years
to make up its mind. The vessel will
cost £6OOO, and have a range of 600
miles. The latest sampan, manned by a
polite crew, has turned up 28 miles off
Cairns, near Michaelmas Reef. She was
80ft. long, powered with a 975-800-h.p.
Diesel engine, had a fuel capacity of
7000 gallons, had away from Japan
18 months, and was well loaded with
shell. Her navigation instruments were
the very latest, and she was reported by
the Cairns fishermen who boarded her to
have naval books and pictures on board.
Her captain showed familiarity with the
Queensland coast. When Mr.
Parkhill and his minions hear that
some stranger of this sort is pearl-
ing on Australian grounds 600
miles away, they presumably will
send a polite wireless asking her to await
their arrival. This will be their only
chance of catching her.
“An ’ 'oo d'yer think ' d be be'ind YOU?”
“Rostrum”; When the late Lionel
Walker was auctioneering in Brisbane,
there were few to equal him. There came
into the yard at a horse sale the most
decrepit of aged crocks. Whimsically,
having minutes to spare, Walker opened
out on. it. He expatiated on what might
have been its breeding, hinted in glow-
ing terms at its future, and, taking an-
other deep breath, he eulogised some
more. Just as he was working up to his
peroration, he felt a tug at his arm. He
broke his discourse and looked down at
an old farmer standing beside him. “I
don’t think I’ll sell ’im now, Mr. Walker,”
the proud owner whispered. “I didn’t
know ’e was that good.”
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
A silver-mounted bag of notes was
handed to Freda Bage at the dinner to
commemorate the 21st birthday of the
Women’s College. C.J. James Blair,
University Chancellor, replied to the
toast of the University, proposed by
Mrs, T. H. G. Jones, and Marion Mac-
lean, who presided, made the presenta-
tion.
Middenbury, the home of Pat O’Shea
and sister Ella, brimmed over with bright
young things for the annual regatta of
the G.P.S. Old Boys’ Rowing Club. Pat
is patron of the club and Ella patroness,
and both of them presented trophies for
competition. A dance at Lennon’s Hotel
wound up proceedings nicely. Pat
O’Shea has just presented a £lOO cup for
competition among the teams in the Met-
ropolitan Tennis Association.
Alice Thomson went to Melbourne to
be one of Noel Clapp’s eight brides-
maids. Noel’s mother was Vivienne
Noel, daughter of one of Queensland’s
well-known Judges. Her friendship with
the Thomson family dates back to
B.G.S. days.
Mrs’. R. H. Steacy, once Elsie Denham,
elder daughter of former Premier Den-
ham, has arrived from Vancouver. She
married a Canadian Army chaplain dur-
ing the war. She has brought a tall
daughter, Mary, to meet the family.
Lorraine Henderson, the violinist, who
has just returned from Germany, and
Audrey Anderson, who has Continental
training, will begin broadcasting piano-
and-violin recitals next month.
Little piles of mosquito-bane burned
round the open-air stage at the Univer-
sity, whereon the “Masque of Fair
Women” was staged during the Women’s
College coming-of-age celebrations. The
only person who was not worried by the
pests was Joan of Arc—in armor.
Patient Griselda was badly bitten, and
Mary Queen of Scots and Madame Curie
slapped vigorously. It was a good show,
all the same, and producer Rhoda Fel-
gate, the Sibyl (Esther Jones) and Rumor
(Joyce Close) —the last two had the only
speaking parts—deserved bouquets.
Dorothy Stevenson, one of Peggy
Chauncey’s star dancing pupils, is going
abroad to study with Anna Pruzini, a
friend of Pavlova’s.
When Margaret O’Connor, in gold and
white, married Reg Rees, St. Ambrose’s
Church was crowded. Mrs. C. H.
Cormac lent a century-old veil, and
Elizabeth Ann O’Connor, in blue and
silver, ’maided. Afterwards Mr. and
Mrs. Denis O’Connor held a reception
at the Hotel Carlton, where roses and
frangipanni beautified the tables.
A party of men friends rallied round
Harry Noble at a bucks’ dinner at the
Belle Vue on the eve of his wedding to
Edna, Bob Hancock’s daughter.
Mrs. Jack Meehan (Dodie Cuppaidge,
daughter of the late Dr. Loftus Cup-
paidge, of Gympie), who is returning to
Perth, had a busy week seeing her
mother off to England and attending
farewell teas. Husband Jack Meehan
has been appointed assistant-manager for
Shell in Perth, and Mrs. V. L. Meise
gave a party, at which the guests were
wives of Brisbane’s Shell office executive.
Over 50 years ago Envoy Robert
Thompson, of the Salvation Army, fell
in love with a pretty girl, but she
married someone else. The other day
the couple, happily reunited, were mar-
ried at the Salvation Army Citadel, the
bridegroom now being 72
and the bride (Mrs. Mary
Malam) 67. Linda Whittick,
the ’groom’s niece, was
bridesmaid, and Mr. J. Bir-
kett was best man. Hundreds
of people greeted the elderly
couple with cheers.
Wearing a black-and-white
plateau beret with her white
cruise crepe frock, which also
showed touches of black,
Mrs. Malcolm Bruce host-
essed a smart tea-party at
Rowe’s in honor of Mrs. J. N.
Kidd, who left by the Monterey on
a round-the-world tour. The guest-
cards were miniature lifebelts, in white
and green, and the centrepiece of the
table was a baby liner, afloat on a bur-
nished silver salver, with sea-green tulle
billowing all round.
On the same.afternoon, at a gay green-
and-gold table, Macgaret Murphy and
Bridie Webber clinked cups with depart-
ing Alice Scanlon, who is off to Europe.
The latest engagements include Agnes
F. McDougall, daughter of the Ronald
McDougalls, of Cooyar, to Gordon
Frederic Bailey, son of the F. T. Baileys,
of Braeside, Southbrook. The bride-elect
is a granddaughter of the late Justice
Harding.
Keith Travis, son of Mr. and Mrs. R.
W. Travis, of Sale (Vic.), has chosen
Moya Helen, second daughter of Judge
and Mrs. W. T. Coyle, of Double Bay,
Sydney. Also off the eligible list is Dr.
William P. Kelly—he is to marry Sylvia
White, only daughter of the late Hugh
White, of Albury, and of Mrs. White,
of Wavedey, Sydney.
At Rowe’s one afternoon last week
two large parties, each hostessed by
a Mrs. Hancock, were in full swing at
adjacent tables. Neither even knew the
other, and they are in no way related.
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Hancock were holding
a reception after the wedding of daugh-
ter Edna to Harry Noble, of Talwood,
and Mrs. J. Henry Hancock was giving
a farewell tea to Mrs. T. Davies, who
left for England on the Orsova.
Dr. Joyce Wharton’s parents, Mr. and
Mrs. H. J. Wharton, are going to live
in Melbourne, to be near her. Misses
A. and K. H. Bowder gave a farewell
party for them in the Portland lounge.
Our vice-regals look very fit and well
after their holiday in Asia, although Sir
Leslie did pick up a nasty influenza germ
coming down from Papua, and had to
cancel all official engagements for a few
days when he arrived here.


dfd
EASTER in SYDNEY —Royal Show —Autumn Races
H!
□
T
ft
t-
UfgJ! Y
£■
n*
Make your headquarters THE AUSTRALIA
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
—truly a gala season that each year attracts visitors from every State
. . . and, of course, “The Australia” is ever the centre of all the
social gaiety.
NEW REDUCED TARIFF:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Our regular patrons should confirm their reservations.
Telegraphic Address: “Austraotel,” Sydney.
“THE AUSTRALIA”
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
fd
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Manoora, with Lady Hore-Ruthven
aboard, was expected to enter the Heads
with Saturday’s dawn. Word had gone
forth to that effect. On Friday Girl
Guides on hill and plain polished belts
and buckles in readiness for the next
morning’s guard of honor. The St. John
Ambulance Brigade, too, by five o’clock
had all in readiness. But the Manoora
slipped into Port Jackson on Friday
around about the dinner hour. Though
in sight of home. Lady Hore-Ruthven
very sportingly decided to do her land-
ing as per programme, and remained on
the ship for the night. A dash around
the harbor in the police launch, in
company with the Governor, who had
popped over to the Manoora, helped to
crisp things up after the wilting heat of
the day, and the lady found tremendous
interest in picking out the points of the
lighted foreshores. This is not Lady
Hore-Ruthven’s first meeting with Syd-
ney —that happened years ago when her
husband was aide to Lord Dudley, and
there have been several visits in between.
An hour or so before Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s arrival the Man-o’-war Steps
were blue with Girl Guides ; so was the
pathway that led from the gateway across
the road almost to the front door of
Government House. The sun blazed
down. Miss Kate Egan (a lovely narrow
collar of muslin and fine lace outlining
her dark-blue crepe frock), Olive Kelso
King, ambulance enthusiast Mrs. John
Maund and the little Edgeworth David
lady, who is the Guides’ State Commis-
sioner, were early gatherers at the river.
The Guides’ banner, its blue-and-gold
rivalling the day, was unfurled. Ministers
and their wives arrived —Mrs. Hugh
Main, Mrs. Bruxner in black-and-white
with her Colonel. Mrs. Mowll brought
a white frock, black satin gloves, big
eyes and her tall archepiscopal husband
to the assembly. Sunshades snapped up.
Mrs. Spooner held a black-and-white one
above her navy frock and white
camellias. Knight Phillip) Street’s wife was
there. Mrs. Chaffey with her husband
and Labor Minister Dunningham tucked
a little laughter into their waiting. Cap-
tain Holford glittered very brave in blue-
and-gold and sword.
The Manoora drew close, sirens
sounded and a few seconds later Lady
Hore-Ruthven stepped ashore from the
glittering launch. Her arms were filled
with deep-pink roses; her frock was
of water-lily pinks and lagoon greens ;
her brimmed hat, of dark-blue straw,
wore two big pale-pink daisies flat
to the crown in front. The lady, the
Governor, the Premier, the Navy Popes,
the Harry Budges, everybody—smiled.
Men bowed, ladies bobbed. Miss Ivay
Price (godchild and private secretary to
the new G.H. chatelaine) was in this
group. Lieut.-Commander Gifford and
the new aide, Capt. Ponsonby, hovered.
Lady Hore-Ruthven said she hoped the
Guides hadn’t been waiting too long, and
almost at the suggestion a little Girl
Guide, Kathleen Thatcher, toppled back-
wards, fainting, and slid over the edge of
the landing into the water. Edna Bourke,
of the Mosman Rangers, beat Captain
Holford to the water by one jump. In
the space of seconds all three were got
out again, the fainting girl was put into
the Premier’s car and driven home, Edna
Bourke was taken to Government House
for a change of clothes, and the Cap-
tain, too, hied him to the house on the
hill for a bit of refurbishing. When
next you meet Captain Holford, if his
trousers look a bit shrunk and the glory
of his gold braid dimmed, salute him for
the Girl Guides.
This is a picture of Lady Hore-Ruthven
taken just as she stepped off the Manoora
on Saturday morning. Later she walked
by way of the Botanic Gardens from
Man-o’-war Steps to Government House,
where she found old friends and piles of
flowers and greetings awaiting her. She
is going to be popular in Sydney, for
she loves horses, gardening, tennis, golf
and dancing. One of her final junketings
in London was the Victoria League Ball
in Dorchester House, at which she hos-
tessed a large party, David Game among
them. The problems of our unemployed
are already exercising her mind. “It
must be so difficult for them to keep
themselves clothed,” she remarked sym-
pathetically. The Governor’s wife has
already Heard of Canon Hammond, our
Bush and District Nurses and the C.W.A.
In stature'she is tall, in voice gentle, in
manner serene. Already a small brown
terrier has been established in her house-
hold. His name is Yonka, which is
abo. for “little fellow,” or maybe
“master of the house”—as he is a very
small dog it probably means the latter.
Hood photograph.
When Mollie Newton Daly recently be
came Mrs. H. Miesch, old Sydneyites re-
called the story of her great-grandad,
Christopher Newton. Back in the
’eighties, Christopher, a Sydney mer-
chant, was the proud possessor of one
of the triggest steam launches on
Port Jackson; it had been presented
to him by a group of British manu-
facturers and merchants in recogni-
tion of his honesty. Christopher early
in his career (through no fault of his
own) had had to compound with his
creditors in England. Luck later
smiled on him, and one day he set sail
for England with £40,000, which he spent
settling liabilities long since legally wiped
out. His creditors were so charmed that
they handed over the steam launch (the
parts came out from Paisley and were
assembled at Berry’s Bay), complete with
inscribed silver plate, and a diamond
ring and a bracelet to Mrs. Newton. The
ring and the bracelet are still in the
family ; the silver plate was long since
stolen by harbor thieves. Mollie’s grand-
father on the distaff side was W. H.
Piggott, M.L.C., of the old-time law firm
of Piggott and Trickett, now Piggott,
Stinson, Macgregor and Palmer.
With book and psalm the new kirk
of St. Stephen was dedicated on Satur-
day, when Archbishop Mowll, the Pre-
mier and Mayor Parker upheld the Rev.
James McLeod. The new building is
much more imposing and spacious than
the grey church in Phillip-street, but
not so pictorial. It stands on the site
of old Burdekin House in Macquarie-
street opposite Parliament House, its
Gothic brownstone face and slender
copper spire turned in a sort of benign
admonition on the lawmakers. The
church is flooded with golden light;
some of the windows are amber, and all
are of the leadlight family.
But it is the richly-veined panelling of
the church, the woodwork in the pulpit,
the font and the gallery that take the
breath away. All of Queensland maple,
it glows deeply red like some rich vin-
tage. Carpets and velvets of deep blue
stretch along the aisles and cover the
Moderator’s chair. The seats of the
maple pews are long rubber cushions —
not air-inflated —solid but springy.
There’s a vice-regal pew, with plenty of
room for the Governor’s long legs, set
with a handsome polished table. Pas-
sages and steps are of marble ; and one
side of the wall in the vestibule is occu-
pied by a marble war memorial, dignity
in its plain line. There’s a Memorial Hall,
named after the famed and loved John
Ferguson. It has a stage, and is capable
of seating a fair-sized audience. Near by
are a session-room and the Rev. James
McLeod’s own study. Everywhere is the
mellow glow of polished wood, the trust-
worthy strength of jarrah. Portraits of
church notables hang upon the walls,
and there are amber leadlights opening
on to the scurry of Macquarie-street and
a bookcase of rich and distinguished
mien worthy to shrine the most weighty
of theological tomes.
Nerida Cohen came along and con-
fronted The Bulletin camera, the bloom
of her success in her final law examina-
tions fresh upon her. She’s a Lismore girl,
articled to Piggott, Stinson, Macgregor
and Palmer, and during the six years she
has been collecting her B.A. and LL.B.
degrees she has been resident at the
Women’s College within the Uni., which
house of Minerva has harbored Cohens
for a decade or more. Like her sister
Ruth, who was an enthusiast in the musi-
cal movement at the University, Nerida
is a musician—violin.
Three hundred white peacocks preen
themselves on the terraces of a garden
where camellia- and azalea-trees set in
enormous Etruscan pots, hoary in years
but still rich in bud, meet the gaze. These
are the surroundings of the villa La
Sciarre, one of the many mansions pre-
sented to Mussolini, and in turn handed
on by him to the nation. The villa is
now used as an institute of Germanic
studies. Prof. Waterhouse, speaking at the
Modern Languages’ first luncheon, told
of these glories, and of the comfort of
the Berlin Club for international students,
of the wealth lavished by the different
nations on the University city in Paris,
where each nation maintains a pavilion to
house its students. All of which was pre-
lude to a suggestion for an Australian
Club of International Culture. Director of
Education Ross Thomas, who was two
doors down toying with ham and tongue
and lettuce-leaves, took up the idea with
avidity. He said we had a Conserva-
torium of Music ; why not one of lan-
guages, a sort of temple of international
understanding? He promised that he'd
pop along to the Minister of Education
with the idea. Dr. Paddy Moran smiled
encouragement, as did. Italian gram-
marian Bentivoglio, Mrs. Edith Glan-
ville, who travels the world over and is
just off on another jaunt, and about 100
ardent ones who juggled half a dozen
languages while requesting and passing
the salt, pepper and mustard.
Queenslander Mrs. Coungeau will next
month have the joy of seeing “Auster,”
for which she wrote the libretto, profes-
sionally produced, Alfred Hill is the
composer, and the music is both drama-
tic and melodic. About 12 years ago
“Auster” was presented at Sydney Town
Hall under Mr. Hill’s baton, chorus sup-
port being supplied by the Apollo and
Con. choirs. Sydney will soon greet the
opera under the Fuller banner. Mrs.
Coungeau’s home for many years has
been on Bribie Island. She has written
much Bulletin verse, and has an in-
dividual touch with a lyric. Much of
her girlhood was spent abroad, but
shortly after their marriage in Bucharest
she and her husband came to Australia.
The opera book has been built from Mrs.
Coungeau’s long poem “Princess Mona.”
Canon Howard, so long associated with
the C. of E. Grammar in Adelaide, is
Mrs. Coungeau’s brother.
President of the United Associations
Mrs. Kenneth Street is head of the com-
mittee which is organising a reception to
Lady Hore-Ruthven. This will be the
official welcome hand of the women's
organisations of New South Wales, and
will fill David Jones’s ballroom with kid
gloves and high heels on April 3 at
eight o’clock. Miss A. Hart, in the
United Associations’ office in Challis
House, will answer all inquiries.
Quite a curl was put into the C.W.A.
weekly tea in the Botanic Gardens by
the presence of the vigorous Percy
Roberts, migration officer of the Bar-
nard© Homes. His grizzled locks bare
to the vagrant breeze, his felt hat under
his arm, he paced up and down while
he told of the work in Australia. Alto-
gether 1540 girls and boys have come to
their southern home ; that many of them
are of thrifty habits is evidenced by the
credits in their savings bank accounts. In
Australia and Canada these total over
£90,000. Ninety-nine per cent, of the
Barnardo boys are, Mr. Roberts says,
on the land.
Now what can the Feminists do in this
man-made world? On the Manoora
there’s a room set apart for men, and
woman can no more enter it than she
can attend a Masonic meeting. It is all
easy chairs, moss-green carpets and fur-
nishings and plate-glass windows. The
man traveller forced by the sex from his
first line of defence, the smoking-room,
has fallen back oh this second and im-
pregnable stronghold. But the women
are not forgotten. A translucent green
clock set in a wall mirror is a striking
decoration of the suite in which the Gov-
ernor’s lady travelled. This comprised
bedroom, parlor and bath, is panelled in
sycamore and decorated in pale-gold
tonings. The bathroom’s fittings are in
daffodil porcelain. The liner has a win-
tergarden, a glassed-in ballroom and an
outsize sports deck and is replete with
chromium fittings, plate-glass and lacquer.


BEAUTY AT MIDDLE AGE
7"HE refining quality of middle age
is enhanced by hair beauty, which
is but a matter of preserving the youth-
ful lustre. Unsightly grey wisps
should be promptly treated with
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN. In the privacy of the home
the stain is applied. So easy—so safe
—so pleasing. Beautiful hair provides
one of the chief allurements of femi-
ninity, and ALLEN’S STAIN restores
the natural shade with such perfection
that it is being used in leading Beauty
Salons throughout Australia. In
Brown or Black shades, 4/- per bottle
at all Chemists.
StPCdLemis cmexican;
VkUmJtSiain,
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Koom and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH.
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
For Sale
BOUND Bulletins —Seven volumes in six-
monthly periods from January, 1931, to June,
1934. In new condition. Price, each, 15/-.
E.L.T., c/o Bulletin, 247 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Burleigh House Hotel
173 Cromwell Road, Condon, 5.W.5.
Lift, 50 Bedrooms, each fitted H. and C.
Inc. Terms: 3 Gns. Single; 25 Gns. Dble.
Excellent cuisine. Beautifully appointed
Public Rooms.
Plaxman 2371. Scotch Proprietress.
I
MEMORISE
. . . With EASE
Pass Examinations. Speak
without Notes. Grip Lodge
Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent.
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Government of Victoria got out
its nicest blotting-paper for the opening
of Parliament. Sheets of it in a charming
pale pink (more restful to the eye, though
perhaps not so conducive towards con-
centrated work as the common white
variety) lay upon the ruby tablecloths.
The most vivid note about the ceremony
was Colonel Helme Pott’s “curry-and-
rice” uniform. A homely touch was
provided by a baby with chubby
cheeks and fair curls, who was quiet as
a mouse until Frank Clarke arrived.
Neither the wig nor the President’s
habitual expression of severity daunted
the youngster, who gurgled with delight.
But Lord Huntingfield’s plumed hat and
the equipment of the Navy, Army and
Air Force upset the applecart, and the
baby, howling lustily, was removed.
Included in the bodyguard under the
v.-r canopy were Major Nimmo, Captain
Barbour, Wing-Commander McNamara
and Flight-Lieut. Thomas, who endeav-
ored with varying degrees of success to
produce expressions of extreme solem-
nity. Dressing among the spectators was
dull, and umbrellas were parked behind
velvet curtains and doors difficult to
locate a second time in such a honey-
comb of galleries. Lady Huntingfield,
while negotiating the House steps, held a
black umbrella over her navy suit. With
her were Tasmania’s v.-r. Lady Clark, in
electric-blue lace and a wide navy hat,
the Argyle lady, in a black suit and foxes,
and the President’s lady, an alert little
figure sitting up very straight in her
tailored navy suit. Mrs. Esmond Lillies
wore shagbark tweeds, Mrs. Claude
Couchman was in brown and Mrs.
Austin Embling had a cockade in her
black hat.
“It’s too bad,” said Mrs. Scroggins, who
chars for a doctor’s wife in Malvern ;
“I promised to take me sick sister—the
one who’s just got over the diptheria—to
the pictures. I forgot all about the wed-
ding—l wouldn’t have missed it for any-
thing.” Mrs. Scroggins has flat feet,
“bad legs” and a “heart,” but she would
have loved standing in the rain for hours
outside St. John’s in the hope of catch-
ing a glimpse of Noel Clapp’s bridal tulle.
One woman was parked on the church
steps when the rest of the world was
having breakfast, and throughout the
morning crowds continued to arrive with
thermos-flasks, sandwiches and umbrellas.
Some of the shops in Toorak village took
a half-holiday. Bride Noel certainly had
her hour, and on her wedding-day pushed
the warlike rumbles of Europe right off
the front page of the Melbourne dailies.
As is usual at weddings, the men faded
into the background. Bridegroom Geoff
wiped his fevered brow while receiving
congratulations at the reception held at
the Harold Clapps’ home in Toorak.
Walking up the aisle, the Commissioner
of Railways was not nearly as composed-
looking as the tall, slender bride whose
fingers rested upon his arm.
With a swish of silken robes and a
clang of chains of office 3000 brethren
met at the Town Hall to witness the in-
stallation of the Governor as Grand
Master of the United Lodge of Victorian
Freemasons ; thus for the fifth time a
v.-r. representative has ascended the
G.M.’s throne.
While the Governor mingled with the
Freemasons, Lady Huntingfield went to
“The Pearl Fishers.” Her appearance
was quite informal. In a bead-sprinkled
blue gown she occupied an aisle pew in
the front row of the circle, gladioli mak-
ing a splash of color in her presentation
bouquet. Alongside were Lady Clark,
wife of Tasmania’s Governor, and Mrs.
Helme Pott. The Horace Stevens couple,
she in tiers of powder-blue chiffon,
viewed the proceedings from a box. After-
wards in the foyer the appearance of a
’maid and usher in all the trappings of
the Smith-Clapp wedding caused a con-
gestion of traffic.
While Margaret Fancourt, Denise
Finch, Ruth Rogers and Nancy Greene
paraded in the latest whims of fashion,
Barbara McKewan, very slim in black
velvet, served a buffet dinner in her eyrie
above Collins-street, The meal started
off with cocktails poured from a shaker
ice-bound in a glistening ’berg; pro-
ceeded through several aquatic courses,
past chicken, piping hot, to Russian salad,
the same color as the deep rose sash
which girdled a pink evening dress. The
gown was of taffeta, with a new bouf-
fant skirt which sustained the tone-note
of nearly ripe strawberries, just as the
really ripe ’berries were being served
with cream. Belts gone crazy with width
gave a kick to many dresses. Betty
Hickie wore one of silver kid upon a
black frock. Another, also of silver, was
buckled by Miss Fancourt round a cream
metal-flecked garment. Miss Greene had
some of Tarzan’s leopard skin knotted
round her throat as she walked in a
tweed suit. Denise Finch stepped
straight out of Eastern Europe with wide
Tartar sleeves in her black tunic and a
Cossack cap of lamb’s wool. One of the
dresses worn by Ruth Rogers was a
cloudy mist in two blues, with the
wearer’s shoulders lost in a spangle-
studded scarf.
Until the opening ceremony of the
new wing of the Conservatorium it was
not known which good fairy had waved
the magic wand. Knight James Barrett
in his official speech divulged the names
of the donors who had lain doggo for so
long—Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes.
The wing is dedicated to the late Prof.
Marshall Hall, and on a tablet which
Mrs. Brookes unveiled is engraved the
tribute “His soul is aflame with music.”
The new building provides accommodation
for 17 extra teaching rooms, a lecture
room, a library and has made possible a
new organisation. Students need not
depend any more on lunches out of
paperbags, for there is to be a cafetaria.
Sarita Gras-y-Fort speaks perfect
English with a slight but captivating
accent, and she says that in her native
Spanish a countryman would detect a
suggestion of foreign accent. She and
her sister, Mrs. Francis Xipell, were born
in Melbourne, but were taken to their
parents’ homeland at such a tender age
that they had no recollection of Aus-
tralia to prepare them for their migration
here in their very-early schooldays. Miss
Gras-y-Fort speaks French and is study-
ing German, but she confesses to having
“nn annlication for grammar” The
no application ror grammar. ine
Francis Xipell couple are at present in
Snain which thev find a sad countrv
.Pam, wmen tney nna a saa coumry
since the revolution; many old family
friends are livine on the sales of their
menus are living on me saies oi tneir
jewels, laces and embroideries. Miss
Uras v-Fort is fond of music and tennis
Uiasy hort is ionu oi music ana tennis
and taking her mother and her small
niece and nenhew on all-dav motor trios
niece ana nepnew on uimy motor trips
to the beach or hills. She is engaged to
Dr. John O Sullivan. A Dickinson-
Monteath portrait.
There was a gathering at the Shrine
one morning last week when the Rotar-
ians met on the steps of the northern
approach at an hour when city workers
are filling their pens and sharpening their
pencils in preparation for the day’s toil.
In parties of 200 the Rotary members
and their wives were conducted through
the sanctuary and to the grove of friend-
ship, where Rotary founder P. P. Harris
planted a memorial tree. Later there was
a luncheon at the Exhibition Building,
with G. J. Coles in the chair and knight
Henry Braddon as principal speaker.
Mrs T. Brett, Mrs. F. C. Calthrop,
Mrs. J. S. Brunton, Lord Lambourne,
Sidney Robinson, C. E. Pearson and
John Mercer are receiving visitors in the
Fitzroy Gardens. They have not the
whole conservatory to themselves. Lady
Ann is there in a gown of softest pink,
Winifred Arnoll Davis wears cloth-of-
gold, Edith Barber is white as driven
snow and the Black Knight is breath-
taking in his deep, dark red. Overhead
are hanging baskets overflowing with
begonia creepers, kinsmen of the family
below, and just inside the door is a single
orchid very aloof and distant. One
should not miss the reception.
With her shoulders hidden in a com-
plication of white ruffles, an American
lass, Mary Saenger, faces an Athol
Shmith camera. Since Mary and her
younger sister, Mrs. Mark Graham,
whose home is now at Port Fairy, have
lived in Australia they have had several
trips back to the U.S.A. with their
parents. Miss Saenger went to Mel-
bourne Grammar School. Now that the
winter is approaching, hunting and skating
will be her chief recreations. Last week
she was one of the glittering eightsome
who attended Noel Clapp,
The salt and pepper of travelling are
the bon voyage parties, when globe-
trotters are made to feel that people are
really sorry to lose them, and the wel-
come-homes, which give the returned
wanderers a nice warm feeling round the
heart. The William Noalls had such a
home-coming last week. Mr. Noall had
been to England, and as his ship sailed
into Colombo there was Mrs. Noall wait-
ing under a date-palm to accompany her
husband on the last lap back to Mel-
bourne. The Ken Menzies couple, of
Polloch, Nagambie, made the pair wel-
come among the loveliest flowers at No.
9. Mrs. Noall wore a seductive purple
orchid upon the cape-piece of her duck-
egg-blue suit, and the hostess had a metal-
lic gleam at the throat of her brick-red
tailored dress. Her mother, Mrs. Edward
Yencken, wore a black taffeta coat over a
black lace gown, and Mrs. Ogilvie-
Smith (Mrs. Noall’s mother) was also in
black, with the addition of silver-foxes.
Mona Nugent has a wanderlust which
she will not be able to gratify for some
time, for she has lately been appointed
to the Conservatorium staff. Miss Nugent
had three years’ study abroad, and on
her return spent several months tripping
round the six capitals singing over the air.
In these broadcasts she was associated
with Madame Madalah Masson, who is
now in China. A few weeks ago Miss
Nugent a letter from Madame
with a Yokohama postmark which gave
news of a trip to Honolulu and California
and a tour as an orchestral pianist
through Japan. So far her fingers have
paid her way and left a bit over. Singer
Mona Nugent gives her first vocal recital
since her return from abroad in the
Assembly Hall on April 9. Marshall
Sumner is assisting.
“Old Mr. Sundown in Fairyland” is
the title of the children’s cantata, music
by Mini Hill, words by Leila Pirani.
Old Sundown meets all sorts of exciting
people: the Waratah Witch, in red with
even her face painted to match her
robes; the North Wind, wrapped in a
sheet, with a wisp of grey beard ; soap-
sud sprites (very easy for mother to dress
—white pyjamas and woolly pompoms),
and wattle fairies. Materials for all cos-
tumes can be bought in a country store at
small cost. Miss Pirani has stage-sense
and a flair for playing character parts.
Judging by the furnishings of her lair in
Collins-street, she is not susceptible to
nightmares. Japanese masks with pop-
eyes and long skinny whiskers stare at
her from the walls, Chinese gentlemen
in ivory glower from above the dressing-
table. A Javanese mask has red eyes and
an evil smile, and a Maori tiki is 3ft.
long.
Mrs. Hill is a talented pianist. Her
husband, Alfred Hill, conducted the
orchestra for his “Auster” at the grand
opera season on Monday night. A few
months ago his “Hinemoa” was received
here with approbation.
The Tristan Buessts mixed a before-
dinner appetiser in honor of their guest
from Pekin, Adrian Holman, who is
making a brief stay in Melbourne before
going on to England. The host and
hostess made introductions at their home
in Clowes-street among gold lights and
hangings and pink, gold and bronze
flowers. As gay as the autumn blooms
was Mrs. Buesst’s tunic of nettle-green
satin dashed with bronze, which slipped
over a black skirt. Among the guests
were Mrs. W. Parbury, with a white
Quaker collar upon her black dress;
Dorothy Puckle, who, but for a flam-
boyant feather, was all midnight blue;
Eunice Umphelby, in a paler shade of
blue ; the Gerald Pattersons, the Lindsay
Plantes, the Marcus Martins and the
Mark Pattens.
Men using lifts in the Bank of N.S.W.
building have been advised to retain their
hats, for the bank’s technical advisers
have worked out in cubic inches the
amount of space occupied by elbows
when hats are removed in crowded lifts.
But what’s going to happen about
feathers? Every feminine crown this
winter must have its quill, and the longer
and more dangerous the quill to near-by
eyes and noses, the smarter the hat. Moie
birds than ever before have come home
to roost in Dame Fashion’s aviary.
Feathers so soft and fluffy that they look
like the down of ducklings are poked
among petals in halo haircombs. Florists
abroad have thought up something new
for weddings: a sweeping ostrich plume
at the back of the bride’s bouquet and
soft osprey fronds mingling with the
’maids’ posies.
Suits tailored with masculine accuracy
must give Enid Hollins confidence in her
work, for she always wears them behind
the footlights. In “London Wall” her
grey suit fitted neatly into the scheme of
a sleek dark Eton crop and the efficiency
of Miss Janus, a typist of 10 years’ stand-
ing in a lawyer’s office. Loveday Hills
was a joy as Miss Bufton, the lass who
swallows cocktails during her lunch-hour
and comes back to the office the worse
for wear. Beryl Weeks, as Miss Hooper,
indulged in a passion for bright scarlet
clothes which would have been quickly
stamped upon by a self-respecting legal
firm. Olympic diving champion Greta
Mott humped her beautiful shoulders
into the purple taffeta of eccentric spin-
ster Miss Willesden, who at the last
moment revoked her will whereby she
had left a substantial legacy to “a resi-
dence for retired virgins.” Miss Mott’s
first try at a character part was a worthy
effort. William Reynolds, as Walker,
the boss of the legal firm, was the best
of the men. The Cairns Memorial
Players presented the effort at the Gar-
rick.
A new first-aid implement intended for
the motorist who chops wood and cooks
chops by the wayside or for the man who
goes without sleep to wade through cold
swamps with a duck-gun is an iodine pen.
It works like a fountain-pen, and is a use-
ful and easily carried gadget for the first-
aid kit of out-of-doors people.


jOvccU*
EE
Price. 3d*
APRIL 2, 1935.
No. 19. TUESDAi
wanawmai
WM
mm
m
Mm
9i
W 1
i-..- - r klji-
H
IF YOU HAVE A WEDDING COMING YOU NEED THIS MIRROR!
SPECIAL Kovdtfc* io DresKS tor F«P««ro A o
CONTENTS The Bride’* Bridesmaid*’ Bride and A Brassiere Trouweau
IT Coronet Headgear Maids w Net Undiee
€«pses Sold Every Week
m
m
%
m
Sv ■ ;
vXv
V . " '••
:vi>S
<» ‘
* i
*s«
CASTER is the season for Brides, and here
is the Bridal Number of the “Woman’s
Mirror” you have been longing for! Every
woman will be intrigued by the contents of
this very attractive issue of Australia s most
popular weekly magazine for women.
BRIDAL FASHIONS
BRIDAL PATTERNS
BRIDAL CORONET
BRIDAL HATS
All profusely illustrated.
WEDDING DAY LOVELINESS
A Health and Beauty Feature.
SLIMMING AND SNUG
How to Knit Winter Undies.
£lOO FOR AMATEUR PHOTOS.
£lOO FOR REAL-LIFE STORIES.
Special Pattern Service, also Free
Pattern of 40in. Uplift Brassiere.
ON SALE FRIDAY
3d.
DON’T MISS NEXT WEEK’S ISSUE.
Five Knitting Designs. Prize-winners from
the recent Knitting
Competition.
An Evening Dress for
10/-
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Royal Perth Yacht Club’s lady skip-
pers’ race attracted a crowd of followers
to watch the sails bellying in the fitful
breeze. Mrs. Les Clements shaded her
eyes with a soft pull-on felt to steer the
Pandora to victory, the Rotohine coming
a close second, with Mrs. John Har-
grave’s silk shirt and wrap-on linen
tweed skirt next the tiller. The finale
to the day’s festivities was a dance at
the clubhouse, where Commodore C. H.
Lamb received the guests. Mrs. Clements
changed into misty blue-and-white floral
georgettes, and Mrs. Hargrave into per-
simmon chiffon ; Lorraine Godden’s leaf-
green marocains were spotted with
white ; pink and blue flowers bloomed
on Diana Davy’s white satin; Mrs.
Harry Vincent’s black silk nets were
wrought with Valenciennes lace ; a strong
wind had swept over Phyllis Thiel’s pink
satins, and the Saw sisters, Pat, Gwen
and Isla, were all on deck.
The main celebration of St. Patrick’s
Day was the performance of “On the
Run” at His Majesty’s. The musical
comedy, locally written by “Gerald
O’Sullivan,” comprises four acts of dia-
logue, neatly stringing together a suc-
cession of popular Irish airs. Producer
Anita Fitz Gerald ably managed the 70
players, Sidney Smith directed the
music and Joan Gillard arranged the
ensemble. Lorna Sidney Smith’s singing
as Moira made a popular appeal, and
Stan O’Brien scored a hit in the comedy
role of Spencer Tracy. Fred Moore,
May Hart and Fred Burke were a trio
of headliners.
Archdeacon Huddleston tied the Ver-
schuer-Orr matrimonial knot at Perth
College chapel. Doris Margaret liber-
ally pintucked her bridal opalescent
satins, carried shaded pink roses on her
arm and tied a natty eye veil around her
small French headpiece. Matron-of-
honor Mrs. Gordon Blythe was a sym-
phony in pink from jaunty little hat to
shower of roses and gladioli. Rejoicings
were at the Esplanade.
The Freshers’ Dance at the Uni. was
a bright affair. After a handful of profs,
had presented the newcomers to the presi-
dent of the Guild of Undergraduates the
lights went out, and a red devil appeared
with a bodyguard of gowned torch-
bearers. To an accompaniment of war-
cries these led the way to the lily pond,
where his Satanic Majesty extorted an
oath of allegiance. Then all went back
to the refectory for dancing.
Lawyer Ned Moss shared the honors
with his fiancee Joy Hill at several pre-
matrimonial functions. Mrs. Robert
Bunning and her daughter, Mrs. Dan
McKinnon, who is to be matron of
honor at the wedding, poured cocktails
for a mixed gathering at the Bunning
home in Cottesloe, and Ross Ambrose’s
shivoo was for both sexes, too, Barbara
Evans’s cinema party was for the fair
sex only, as were Sheila Lotz’s and
Dorothy Summerhayes’s morning-teas
and Barbara Clarke’s hostessing.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide will soon be like Goldsmith’s
deserted village, so many of our social
lights are departing for London. As to
cocktails, it will not be safe for anyone
on board to suggest one, the travellers
have had such a surfeit prior to leaving.
Mrs. Dudley C. Turner, of Mount
Lofty, gave a luncheon party for knight
Goldfinch and his lady, of Sydney, when
they passed through in the Mooltan re-
turning from England.
The Music Salon’s sixth meeting at
Birk’s Piccadilly drew an overflowing
attendance. Mesdames E. W. Holden,
Frank Willcox, M. H. Downey and
Stanley Verco were hostesses, and every-
thing ran smoothly. The 250-odd guests
were seated without delay, and the pro-
gramme started on time. Beryl Kekwick
and Alan Coad sang. Kathleen William-
son, Lewis Jones and Ronald Porter
played trios, and Trixie Shepherd con-
tributed pianoforte numbers. Dr. Harold
Davies gave a brief talk on music.
The first large dance of our season will
be the Polo Ball at the Palais Royal, for
which a committee of 70 members is
working hard. A. C. Rymill is the secre-
tary. There will also be a polo picnic.
Mr. and Mrs. Cedric Hayward have issued
invitations for a cocktail party, and there
is to be a dinner at the Hotel St. Vincent
at Glenelg, when the hosts will be 12
members of the Adelaide Polo Club.
TASMANIA.
Cynthia, daughter of the Eustace Cam-
erons, and Louis Thun, of Reading,
Pennsylvania, whom she met when
travelling last year, exchanged vows at
Mona Vale, Ross. The lovely old home
looked its best. The ceremony was held
in the chapel in the grounds, and the
congregation included about 200 guests ,
the bridegroom’s parents came from the
U.S.A. to give their blessing. The bride
walked from the house to the chapel in
white angel-skin patterned with silvei
leaves. Tiny frills edged the skirt and
the hem of the tunic. The bodice had a
little Medici collar, and was fastened with
small silver buttons at the waist; the
veil descended from a chaplet of peach-
blossoms and miniature water-lilies.
’Maids were Margaret Lewis, Barbara
Lawrence and Sheila Strahan (Melb.).
Their attire combined bois-de-rose soft
satin and cherry panne velvet, and they
wore clusters of peach-blossom in the
hair.
The newly-weds crossed the lake in
front of the house by boat, and picked
up their car on the other side when
leaving. The day wound up with a dance
in the house at Mona Vale.
The Premier and Mrs. Ogilvie were
overwhelmed with farewells and presen-
tations on the eve of their journey to
London for the jubilee. Hobart Hospital
Board made Mrs. Ogilvie its special
guest of honor, and handed her a gift.
She has been a member for some time.
A new idea in send-offs was the point-
to-point affair arranged for Geoff Chap-
man and Cecil Murray before they sailed
in the Nestor for S’Africa. Evan Crane
dined the travellers at her own home;
then the party moved on to the Herman
Hutchinsons’, where Nancy was hostess
for an hour or so. Then on to the J. E.
Thorps’, Augusta-road, and thence to a
campfire supper arranged by Sybil Sale
at her home in Glenorchy.
Betty Sale put up a record for the
associates at Kingston Beach links, do-
ing 18 holes in 74, one stroke fewer man
Betty Perry’s record.
A jolly country dance was given by
the Russell Ibbotts at their home,
Strathaven, the other night. The show
was in honor of Mrs. Humphrey Old-
meadow (Mrs. Ibbott’s sister, now domi-
ciled in Westralia, who has been here on
a visit). Mrs. Ibbott was in blue
georgette, and Mrs. Oldmeadow wore
pale yellow. The verandah was screened-
in for dancing, and supper-tables were
decorated with silver bowls of crimson
dahlias and gladioli. A big contingent
went up by car from town; the
countryside supplied the rest of the
guests.
Miss May Dobson, daughter of the
former C.J., has been visiting Hobart
after an absence of 35 years, renewing
her acquaintance with old friends and
old landmarks. The Dobson lady, now
living in Melbourne, looks forward to
celebrating her 100th birthday this
autumn.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Brow
Height of
Grand Opera
A rid iculous
feature of the
campaign to make
our hard - pressed
taxpayers subsi-
dise permanent
opera in Australia
is the story that the operas we have
heard this year possess a cultural value.
Grand opera, the argument goes, is high-
brow, like Shakspeare’s plays. The truth
is grand opera is mid-brow, and occa-
sionally low-brow, like the average talkie.
The most popular works, as usual —
the only ones theatregoers would have
patronised at all if they hadn’t been
assured repeatedly by press agents
that it was the right thing, socially
and culturally, to enjoy opera—have
been the old, old stagers, “Faust,”
“Trovatore” and “Rigoletto,” “Tosca”
and “Butterfly.” Particularly the Puc-
cini operas, which make the same appeal
to the masses as film and literary thrillers,
sentimental and sadistic.
There may be merit —real merit —in
the voluptuous music of “Boheme,”
“Tosca,” “Butterfly,” though many musi-
cians deny it; there is none in the
stories which are the excuse for the
music. The librettists chosen by Puccini,
Verdi, Bizet, decided to give the public
“muck.” These preposterous stories, with
their hideous deaths, executions and tor-
tures, and their idiotic love episodes, be-
long to another age—an age of crude
melodrama. If one of them (“Carmen,”
T raviata,” “Fanciulla del West”) were
put on the stage, much less on the screen,
as a play and acted by a typical operatic
cast there would be howls of derision
from the very people who take them
seriously as operas.
Quarter of a century ago the world of
European fashion, led by a score of
sovereigns and their courtiers, crowded to
opera houses and wept over the sorrows
of Mimi, Marguerite and the rest; and
the public followed suit. Since then, this
type of opera has been steadily receding
in favor outside the Latin countries, where
musical taste has always been in inverse
ratio to the capacity to enjoy luscious
melodies. The devotees of Italian opera
never did care for the best: Puccini’s
masterpiece “Turandot,” for example,
has only been heard in Australia once.
Now nobody who matters, musically
speaking, goes near the majority of
Italian operas at all. The post-war (1923)
attempt to revive at Covent Garden the
works in which Melba, Tetrazzini,
Caruso and the De Reszkes shone was a
failure. Last season London listened to
“Fidelio,” “Schwanda,” “Arabella”; it
didn’t hear even one opera by Verdi,
Gounod, Bizet or Puccini, and that is
fairly representative of cultivated modern
taste outside Milan, Naples and Argen-
tina.
If some Australians want to hear the
florid music of 30 or 40 years ago there
is no reason why the taxpayers as a
whole should be required to pay for
melodrama and overacting. The popu-
lar numbers can be enjoyed as much at
recitals, over the wireless and on gramo-
phones as m a theatre —the more so as
there is no unity between the words
and music of most Italian and French
operas of the second half of the nine-
teenth century. It goes without saying
that grand opera in Australia would be
a heavy financial burden. It wasn’t
rushed, outside society circles, in Eng-
lish-speaking countries in its palmiest
day; now it is almost as out of date as
the hansom cab.
H. S.
Defenders .
Moonlight pierced by the pine’s dark
steeple
cries out for aid denied to none.
Put my armor on.
Farewell, dear love, awhile you held me.
Turn down your eyes that so compelled
me.
1 must go back to my own people,
the lonely stars, the forsaken sun.
N.S.W.
Robert D. FitzGerald,
Australian
Film Stars
Abroad
If Australian
pv od u cers are
looking for
genuine, experi-
enced Australian
film stars they
will find them in
dozens in London. The leader of
the team, Merle Oberon, would be
well outside their purse levels, but there
are others who might rise to the
bait of a homeward trip, especially if
stage work offered as well. Nancie
O’Neill has just won praise for her
part in Jack Buchanan’s new picture,
“Brewster’s Millions.” Before that she
had a long run at Daly’s with Seymour
Hicks. Vera Pearce is in both stage
and screen demand, and is working 14
hours a day between the two of them.
She is a riot in the Bobby Howes show
at the Hippodrome. Eve Gray has just
finished the leading role in an impor-
tant new film, “Murder at Monte Carlo.”
Judy Kelly has had numerous jobs in
various theatres, her last one being in
the operating theatre with a surgeon who
assaulted her appendix. Cyril Ritchard
has a fairly big part in “Danny Boy,” a
film which has just been released. Errol
Flynn, late of Sydney University, plays
the juvenile lead in “Murder at Monte
Carlo” and thereby, with Eve Gray’s
assistance, makes it quite an Australian
picture. On the strength of his good
work in it, he has just signed a seven
years’ contract with Warner Bros, at
Hollywood, about the best offer an Aus-
tralian has had from this side.
Incidentally, it is an Australian who
is leading the musical side of British
films to-day. The best British film of
the year, “The Man Who Knew Too
Much,” had its musical side done by
Arthur Benjamin, now at the Royal Col-
lege of Music. His music is a distinct
advance on the stuff we have been hear-
ing hitherto.
London.
Keith Barry.
An Art
Appointment
Recently the
“Argus” remark-
ed that Bernard
Hall “brought to
Melbourne th e
valuable tonic of
a fresh vision,” and Lionel Lindsay fol-
lowed this up by suggesting that Pro-
fessor Tonks should be asked to select
somebody, preferably of the Slade school
of draughtsmanship, as Hall’s successor
at the Art Gallery.
A fresh vision never yet came from
an academy, and Hall was trained in the
Another decorative piece from the
Hordern show —“Marie et Jeanne,” a
Lee Hankey water-color.
orthodox schools. He was steeped in the
traditions existing in his time of the
Royal Academy. A hard worker, a
conscientious man and an extremely
narrow thinker, he accepted those tradi-
tions quite without resistance. If he
made any excursions into the unknown
and the unexplored it was not in the
domain of painting but of literature. He
was the leading exponent in Melbourne
of the theory that Bacon wrote the works
of Shakspeare, and he argued this
theory in the public prints with great
passion. In fact, he wrote more on this
subject than he did on painting.
Hall had his virtues. He had a pro-
found reverence for tradition, which,
however, he misunderstood. In painting
he was a reiterator. But the true artist
is never a reiterator. He is never con-
tent to repeat as a convention the forms
which other men have used before him.
Those of Hall’s pupils who were not
content to repeat a convention left him.
Max Meldrum made the first important
breakaway. Of late years sundry stu-
dents have revolted in the direction of
modernism. The vast majority have
been unresisting, and the result has been
that visitors from overseas have been
surprised to find that our exhibitions, as
a rule, display, not a “fresh vision,” but
a remarkable resemblance to the general
run of Royal Academy shows during the
last half-century.
If Max Meldrum were made director
he would produce a genuine revolution,
but a genius has never yet been placed
at the head of such institutions as the
National Gallery.
"Undine,” an Arthur Rackham sepia
drawing in Anthony Horderns’
( Sydney ) show of decorative pic-
tures, examined by “A.D.W.” on this
page.
What, therefore, is best to be done?
It is surely nothing but our national in-
feriority complex which has prevented
anybody recommending W. B. Mclnnes
for the post. Mclnnes can paint the
heads off most, if not all, the painters
currently exhibiting in England and
France. As acting-director he has
shown that he has the courage to
stand above parties in the purchase
of pictures, and demonstrated that
he can take an unprejudiced attitude to-
wards his fellow-painters.
F. S.
Pictorial
Furnishings
Fiercely is the
view debated, but
1 hold it as an
axiom that pic-
tures were made
to decorate walls
or book pages, and that when a wall
is made as a prop for a picture, or
a book written to provide reading
matter next to illustrations, energy
is wasted. The business of art is to
entertain the eye and ear and inspire
the soul. Many people have found
life pleasanter because Beethoven
wrote sonatas or because Corot
painted trees ; others have had faith
restored and courage renewed be-
cause some writer sympathised with
the pathology of just such a case as
theirs. They cherish at least a
gramophone record of the sonata if
they can’t play the notes ; a repro-
duction of the Corot if they can’t
obtain the original; certainly a copy
of the book. Music-room furnish-
ing, wall furnishing, library furnish-
ing.
Anthony Horderns’, of Sydney,
devote intelligent attention to fur-
nishings. Their departmental managers,
each in his sphere, can talk as
deep to deep to the profoundest experts
of their craft. Their tact is as re-
markable as their erudition. Tell
the mildly melancholy Marsden that
the little collection of English water-
colors now gracing the walls of the gal-
leries over which he presides contains
no superlative marvels of technique or
expression and he doesn’t quarrel with
you. “Think,” he says, with the rapt look
of a seer, “of the many rooms with nice
old - fashioned, comfortable furniture
where the quiet beauties and the unmis-
takable English atmosphere of this Helen
Allingham, that William Callow and
those Hughes-Stantons would strike
exactly the right note. And these Lee
Hankeys ... in a rather well-lit little
room . . .?”
“Very pretty,” you say, “but I’d pre-
fer something with a dash of colonial
interest.” But Mr. Marsden is not out
of bananas. Regard you this paintng
by George French Angas of Snapper
Point, Port Phillip, done 80 years ago.
And you will note that Francis Hodg-
kinson, whose “La Dame d’Honneur”
caught your eye favorably, was born in
Maoriland? “Would they have painted
any worse had they stayed in Austral-
asia?” you come back. “Possibly better,
but there are many tastes, and one must
consider them all,” Which nobody can
deny.
A. D. W.
Current
Arthursts
Every art show
contains some
work which is
highly priced, yet
which seems to
everybody but the
artist vastly inferior to others of more
moderate cost. In many instances it is
obvious that the artist bases his price,
not on what he has achieved, but on the
work spent on the picture. For instance,
“The Goulburn Valley,” which Charles
Wheeler exhibits at a collection at
Sedon’s, Melbourne, is labelled 30gns.,
while Wheeler’s other two pictures, which
seem infinitely better, are priced 16gns.
Similarly, Louis McCubbin’s cheapest
picture, “Grey and Silver,” would win
far more admiration from both those
who know and those who don’t
than his “Burning Off”—nearly double
the price. Other pictures which attract
attention at the exhibition are two land-
scapes by G. Colville, which reveal a
marvellous improvement on his recent
work, W. D. Knox’s “Kinglake,”
A. M. E. Bale’s “Golden Autumn” and
W. B. Mclnnes’s “Dandenong.” In the
water-color section Harold Herbert’s
“Lome,” Fred Leist’s “Wader,” John
Goodchild’s “Old Cottages” and Ralph
Warner’s “Fishing-boat”—especially the
last—are the most attractive.
Most of the works of “The Seven
Water-colorists,” exhibiting at Melb.
Athenseum, might have been 100 p.c.
better if the artists had spent another year
in mastering their medium. Most notable
are the Central Australian scenes of Rex
Batterbee and John Gardner. Batterbee
reaches his top note with his “Opal
Lights of Morning,” Gardner with his
“Finke River,” though both have ven-
tured into civilisation successfully, Batter-
bee with “The Dandenongs” and Gard-
ner with views of Portland. Of Geoffrey
Anderson’s contributions a fantasy,
“Flinders-street,” is the most capably
handled. James Farrell reveals a fine
color-sense in “Springtime at Kalo-
rama,” and James McMahon succeeds in
depicting the turgid brutality of Lake
Tyers in flood. Dudley Ward is tech-
nically the best colorist of them all. He
knows how to lay on his washes, and
in “Pyramid Rock, Phillip Island,” has
turned out an excellent picture. Un-
fortunately, there is a weakness about
some of his works which makes the
cruder but more imaginative drawings of
other exhibits more attractive.
Margaret McLean exhibits half a hun-
dred small oil sketches at Newman’s,
Melbourne, including scenes around
Bruges. The most attractive pictures
on the walls are the garden scenes
in South Yarra —decorative in their
arrangement of harmonising color.
R. Malcolm Warner, of Melbourne, 22
of whose pictures adorn the walls of
Sydney’s Grosvenor Galleries, has been
praised in the public prints for the
luminosity of his washes, the reserve of
his color, the competence of his draughts-
manship and the richness of his effects.
He has been held worthy of a place with
the greatest British exponents of his art,
and has been told that he is one of the
most significant Water-colorists working
in Australia. An impressionist landscap-
ist hasn’t much chance to show draughts-
manship, and any sort of light color
wash in a sky looks luminous contrasted
with a foreground framed in solid blacks.
Reserve in color isn’t any particular vir-
tue. The great artist is the one who can
let himself go where Nature takes him.
Many of Warner’s pictures struck this
critic as being deliberately keyed down ;
in most the foregrounds seemed a bit
heavy. There are, however, some very
delightful compositions in the collection.
“Bridge at Tawonga” and “The Fertile
Valley” click, and “Rainy Day, Phillip
Island,” though it doesn’t suggest rain,
is a road vista, viewed from the middle
of the highway, which leads the eye along
a good four miles of pleasant country
and stimulates the imagination.


THE GUARANTEE of an Old-Established House Is Behind These
DIAMOND ENGAGEMENT RINGS
Tlie gems were critically selected by Angus & Coote’s European Buyer, and mounted here
on the Parcel premises. Perfect cutting and sparkle distinguish each
*l5
i
£l5
liar r
Most desirable Ring of 18ct. White
Gold, with dainty filigree under-
rail. Two lovely diamonds are
set in platinum. All th"'-p rivijs
ammond—st willed shoulders.
SAKE DELIVERY BY POST
IS AXGI S * COOTE’s
KESPONSIBIEIT V.
fr m
£3O.
PI BE PLATINUM
King of exquisite beauty, made
by an artist-jeweller. Won-
derful value for only £2O.
£22/10/-
Oraeeful Two-diamond Ring,
most handsomely mounted in
18ct. White Gold and Plati-
num. Note richly carved band.
c
■
n
p
£lO.
Better value is impossible.
Solid 18ct. Gold King, with
two bright diamonds, securely
mounted in platinum.
ALX RINGS HAVE THE
DIAMOND-SET SHOULDERS
£23/10/-
PURE PLATINUM
Ring of extra-flno value. A
lovely diamond and prettiest
possible mount. Every detail
perfect. Quality guaranteed 1
diamond, and Angus & Coote s
efficient methods secure you 30
per cent, a*n value.
£l7/10/-
PUBK PLATINUM
throughout. Exclusive Single-
stone Diamond Ring. Diamond-
studded modem shoulders.
£l4/10/-
Three-diainoud Ring with
diamond-studded shoulders.
18ct. White Gold and
Platinum filigree mount.
£l2/10/-
This Diamond Ring, with its
pretty filigree under-rail, is of
18ct. White Gold. The set-
tings are platinum.
£3O.
PURE PLATINUM
Ring with magnificent white
solitaire diamond, set off by
the twinkling diamonds in
the mount. Prettily carved!
A BROCHURE OF LOVELY RING DESIGNS, ILLUSTRATED IN COLOUR, IS SENT QUITE FREE TO ANY ‘BULLETIN”
READER. FULL DESCRIPTIONS ARE GIVEN, AND VALUABLE INFORMATION ABOUT RING-BUYING IS ADDED. JUST
SEND YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS, AND MENTION “THE BULLETIN.”
ANGUS & COOTE
500 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
VAT
saif 69
in town
f
7)
'tel ~<'l
I
fl'\ !
u ' mi
setve oJI
at home
setve 69
Next time you have a glass or
buy a bottle of whisky switch to
Vat 69. Find out how smooth
and mellow a pure liqueur
Scotch Whisky can really be.
It’s better but costs no more.
VAT 69
Pure \itqueur
SCOTCH WHISKY
Wm. Sanderson & Son, Leith,
Scotland. Distillers since 1863.
Heartfelt Yarn of a Bonehead Grappler:-
GOZO
By-CON DREW.
THE TOUGH LADS PICTURED BY SCORFIELD
1 AIN’T ever told you fellers about that
wrestlin’ chap Gozo that me and
Shakespeare Harry was managin’ in
Sydney. We’d been running a couple of
dud fighters just previous to that, but,
as we didn’t feel like actin’ as Santa
Claus for a pair of ring orators whose
long suit was talkin’ and eatin’, we de-
Smokin’ a fourpenny joss-stick.
cided to give them the go-by and lake
on managin’ wrestlers for a while.
This chap Gozo was a 19-stone gorilla
who could tear a horseshoe in half. He
had a chest like the stern of a ship, and
his head looked as if it had been ham-
mered into his shoulders with a maul.
He could wrestle all right, but he had
no more brains than the Headless Horse-
man. If it was possible for him to do
anything wrong he’d do it. He lost the
first bout we got him by mistakin’ the
referee’s leg for the other baboon’s
durin’ a mix-up on the mat, and heavin’
him clean out of the ring. In the second
match he was leadin’ by a street when
he suddenly ambled back to his corner
and sat down thinkin’ that the bell had
gone.
The referee stepped over and crowned
the other gorilla. He thought our bird
had turned the battle up.
ME and Shakespeare were gettin’ pretty
fed up, let me tell you, but, as Gozo
had touched us up for a quid or two, we
thought we’d give him one more gallop
before we switched him off.
We found it no easy job to get
him a match. The wrestlin’ pro-
moters were full of him. They
objected to staging matches for
an orang-outang who threw referees
out of the ring. They were mighty par-
ticular in them days.
There was a chap I knew called Lou
Sampson who was runnin’ a boxin’-hall,
and I thought that he might be induced
to put on a wrestlin’ bout, so down 1
go and have a chin to him. Lou was
siftin’ in his office with his feet on the
table smokin’ a fourpenny joss-stick
when I arrived at the hall, and I gave
him an earful of how things were.
“Hm,” said Lou when I had said my
piece ; “ain’t that the bloke who nearly
killed the referee?”
“It is,” says I, “but it was done quite
unintentional. It’s an accident that might
Leadin' by a street
when he suddenly
ambled back to his
corner.
happen any
time.”
“That’s just
th e trouble,”
says Lou. “It
might happen
any time, and
them directors
of mine are
mighty parti-
cular birds.
They ain’t too
sweet on wrast-
lers, and if
that baboon of
yours was to
put over some-
thi n’ that
wasn’t exactly
in the rules
they’d be apt to
canemyankles,
as it were.”
“He won’t put over nothin’ funny,”
says I. “Shakespeare and me have put
him through the hoop for them faux pas
he made, and we’ve got him so as he’d
eat out of your hand.”
Lou flicks the ash off his seegar and
thinks for a minute.
“This Gozo feller of yours,” he asks.
“Is he square?”
“Eh?”
“Is he straight?” says Lou. “I
wouldn’t stand for nothin’ crooked.”
“He’s as straight as a gunbarrel.”
“You’re sure of that, eh?”
“Certain,” says L “He’s so straight
he couldn’t hide behind the Leanin’
Tower of Babel.”
“And you say he can wrestle?”
“He can.”
“All right,” says Lou. “Match him
with someone who can put up a good
show with him, and I’ll give him a try-
out on Saturday night week before the
big fight starts. It’ll do instead of the
preliminary bouts.”
The Gorgonzola
Gorilla.
“That’ll be fine,”
says I.
“It’ll be fine,”
says Lou,
“if Gozo or
what ever
you call him
don’t pull
one of his
funny stunts
and crab the pitch.
I tell you those
directors of mine
are mighty damn
particular.”
“You don’t ob-
ject to him throw-
in’ his man out of
the ring now and
then?”
“He can throw
him through the
roof if he likes,”
said Lou, “so long
as he don’t commit an offence agen the
rules. If he puts up a show that goes
well with me directors I’ll undertake to
match him with a topnotch grappler
who’ll draw a big crowd, and we’ll cut
the usual 50-50 of the gate. But,” he
says, “he has to convince me direc-
tors.”
- “Right,” says I. “Leave everything
to me.” And with that I buzzed away.
THERE’S a big chesty gent,
struttin’ around who
called himself the Gorgonzola
Gorilla, and me and Shake-
speare matched our bloke with
him. Shakespeare reckoned
he was just the sort of bloke
to put up against Gozo be-
cause he didn’t have a mam-
moth interlect either, and I
agreed with him.
I agreed with him all the
more the night we took Gozo
down to the hall and the two grapplers
sat in the ring waitin’ for the word to
hop in. The Gorilla looked a gorilla,
especially about the head. He had one
of them melons shaped like a candle
snuffer, and when they were dishin’ out
necks he must have been planted behind
the kitchen dresser. He looked the cut
“Don’t do nothin that is likely to get
you disqualified.”
of a wrestler just the same, and I had
a kind of a feelin’ that it wouldn’t be a
walkover for our bloke.
Just before they went in Shakespeare
leant across the ropes and said to Gozo,
“You foller this feller around and don't
give him no peace, but don’t do nothin'
that is likely to get you disqualified. You
understand?”
“I unnerstan’,” grunts Gozo.
“Right,” says Shakespeare. “What
you’ve got to do is to slap him on his
back for the count and keep your head.
You’ve got a chance of showin’ what
you are made of to-night, and if you
please Mr. Lou Sampson’s directors
they’ll match you with a real good man.
and there ain’t no tellin’ how far you’ll
climb in the grapplin’ game. There ain’t
no objection to you throwin’ your oppo-
nent out of the ring, but don’t get inter-
ferin’ with the referee. Now, in you go,”
says Shakespeare, “and good luck to you.”
WELL, I’ve seen some good wrestlin'
goes in me time, but the bout them
two birds put up beat everything else to
a frazzle.
Our boy landed
with a thud.


■m
m
m
O&.
rO«
ef-2
fc 'That'S.
ess?
s° Ur */7 1 3
*: t *-' ■
ftTOfc •
w
-CJ'
cs^ 4 -^
OE--
v>^
S£
5*
HOLLAND
Jw/VS
fjp
ii- -
<P ITALY
EGYPT
RAVELLERS CHEQUES
PAYABLE THROUGHOUT
THE World
For the convenience of travellers to all parts
of the world, the Bank of New South Wales
now issues Travellers' Cheques in amounts of
£2, £5 and £lO English currency.
These cheques can be exchanged for local
currency in any country that the traveller is
visiting.
Bank of New South Wales Travellers' Cheques
are obtainable through any branch of the
Bank or at the special Travel Departments
provided for travellers at the Bank's Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane Offices.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
For Safety and Convenient
Carry
Bank of Nezv South Wales Travellers?
Cheques .
-osymoi
m
◄
Ok
&
Thrift is not a mean vice, as
has occasionally been said.
Rather is it a mean between
two vices the vice of
luxurious wastefulness and
the vice of stingy hoarding,
for the full meaning of the
word as a virtue comprises
not only the saving of
money, but the wise spend-
ing of money.
We have learned that money is not an end in itself—but
stands for many worthwhile things. Mostly, we earn money,
but sometimes it is the symbol of a gift of love and interest.
On the other side, money gives us what we require for three
things—the necessities of life, the amenities of life and the
emergencies of life. Perhaps it is the last two which chiefly
justify the existence of Savings Banks.
The money earned, or given, having provided the necessities,
the convenient interest-producing Savings Bank account makes,
easier provision for the others.
Commonwcaltl) Savinas JBank of Bustralia
First crack out of the box, the Gorilla
dived for Gozo’s legs and threw him
clean over his head. Our boy landed
with a thud that shook the buildin’, but
it didn’t hurt him none. With a bound
he was on his feet, and he clamped a
headlock on the Gorilla that would have
strained the staves of a cask. The
Gorilla stood the pressure until it be-
came unbearable; then, with a mighty
heave, he tore his head clear. Half a
second later Gozo grabbed him again
and threw him heavily face down on the
mat. He was on top of him almost as
It was a hurricane go, all right.
soon as he landed, but for a man with
a head like the Gorilla’s he was a r/iighty
quick thinker. Reaching batik, he
grabbed our bloke by the back of the
neck and heaved him clean across the
ring. His head hit a post and nearly
snapped it in two. Of course, it didn’t
damage Gozo, and in a second the pair
were at it again, scraggin’ each other for
all they were worth.
In a grand mix-up in the centre of the
ring the Gorilla butted our boy in the
pantry. Gozo replied by slammin’ him
down on the mat, and they tore and
pulled at each other like a pair of infuri-
ated bears. Twice Gozo nearly pinned
his man, but he got out of danger
each time.
It was a hurricane go, all right,
and most of the time the fans
were on their feet. It was goin’
so well that Shakespeare and
me shook hands with each
other. We knew we were
set for gold-
fish for break-
fast. Now and
then I took a
squint at Lou
Sampson to see
how he was
taking it, and
I seen by the
look on his
dial that every-
thing was on-
keybaloo.
S u d d e nly,
when the affray
had been ragin’ for about five minutes,
the Gorilla made a grab for his favorite
head-hold and missed. In a flash Gozo
nailed him with a double wrist-lock and
spilled him on to the canvas. He got
a lever hold on the Gorilla and tried to
roll him on his back, but the Gorilla
broke the grip.
Then suddenly Gozo changed his
tactics. Springin’ to his feet, he grabbed
the Gorilla under the armpits and
started to swing him round. He
swung him slowly at first, just as you’ve
seen a Kiltie preparin’ to throw a
hammer. It was an amazin’ exhibition
of strength. I seen the muscles stand
out on Gozo’s back as he swung him
faster and faster.
All of a sudden he let go, and the
Gorilla shot like an arrer from a bow.
Over the ropes he sailed, and over the
heads of the astonished pressmen, to fall
kerflop in the third row of chairs.
He never came back to the ring, and
no one blamed him.
“Fine,” says Ito Shakespeare. “At last
our bloke has done somethin’ right.”
Then we collected Gozo and took him
down to the dressin’ room.
We’d hardly got him under the shower
when the door burst inwards and in
comes one of the ushers.
“Hello,” says I with a chuckle. “Come
to have a look at the future wrestlin’
champion of Australia, eh? What does
Mr. Lou Sampson think of him?”
“I didn’t ask him,” says the usher.
“He told me to give you a message.”
“Spill it,” says I, slippin’ Shakespeare
a wink. “Good news won’t keepl”
Over the heads of the astonished
pressmen.
“He told
me to tell
you to take
that baboon
of yours
out of here
and keep
hi m out,”
says the
usher.
“ What?”
says I. “I
don’t quite
get you. He
won, didn’t
he? Gor-
struth,” says I. “What does
he want?”
“That’s what he said,”
said the bloke. “The Gorilla
fell slap on one of his pet
directors and flattened him
out like a pancake. He
reckons he’s done with wrest-
lers for good.”
Now, wouldn’t that give
you hobnails on the dia-
phragm?
SEA DREAM
By-EMARY.GURNEY.
Balancing precariously, he stood
up and surveyed the sea
watched for a while the sinister
fin of a shark which circled
inquisitively round and round
the Silver Ace before making
off with leisurely swiftness, out
of nothing, into nowhere.
THE staccato roar of engine and pro-
peller failed so suddenly that it was
some seconds before Carrington
realised what had happened.
The little ’plane shot forward still, but
the earflaps of his helmet effectually shut
out the rush of the wind, so that it
seemed to him that he was suddenly
alone in a vast world of sea and sky
and silence.
Curiously, in that moment of realisa-
tion he was not conscious of any fear,
but only of a faint amazement that this
should be the end of his brave adventur-
ing.
Brave? Foolhardy! None but a
fool would have started out in a single-
engined machine, be she never so good,
on so mad an adventure —the location
of an unknown Pacific island where lost
treasure would be found.
ALONE with the sea and the sky and
the silence, his wonder grew that
he, Carrington, could have so completely
lost his head over a girl.
The little ’plane brought his mind
back to the present, wobbling a bit in
an air current. He glanced at the instru-
ment board. They were losing altitude
with alarming rapidity. The sea was no
longer glassy and infinitely distant, but
so close that he could see the little white-
capped waves that raced with sullen
swiftness on each other’s tails. Beneath
them, the greenish deeps seemed to boil.
He withdrew his gaze sharply. He was
no coward, but in that instant he sensed
the unrelenting cruelty of the sea.
Then the moment of panic and nausea
passed, and he was himself again, alone
with silence and death.
“Funny!” he thought. “I’d never
imagined the Old Chap with the Scythe
walking on the waters!”
He peered over the side again and
saw that the water was so close that he
could see beneath its surface the dark,
swiftly-moving bodies of fish.
“There’ll be sharks,” he mused.
The next minute the ’plane was down
in the sea.
“A perfect landing!” he thought;
laughed aloud at the thought, for the
weight of the engine dipped her nose in,
so that the waves leaped greedily into
the cockpit.
“And after this —what?”
His supplies of food and water were
in the rear cockpit, but the portable wire-
less was in the fore one, under water.
SITTING alone with the immensity of
the sea and sky, he mused on the
madness that had sent him there—his in-
fatuation for a woman who was, to say
the least of it, soulless. It was borne
in on him that the dark beauty who had
sent him on this journey to heaven —or
hell —would care mighty little that he
would never be heard of more.
She would wait, with polite and insin-
cere regret; wear black, which became
her mightily ; and then marry Rendell
Hitching, who had five thousand a year.
She had reckoned, of course, that he
himself would be worth considerably
more if he did happen to find, and return
safely from, the lost island where un-
told treasures were; which was why she
had insisted that he fly there, since two
other parties, in well-equipped ships, had
already set sail on the fantastic quest.
The ’plane, christened by her the
Silver Ace, heaved and rolled with the
heaving and rolling of the waves. Over-
head, the sun was a ball of fire.
Presently his attention was distracted
by a school of flying-fish which leaped,
gay and iridescent, high out of the
water. One landed on the tilted under
wing, but slithered off again. The school
passed.
“Shan’t vary the monotony with swim-
ming!” he reflected, pushing his helmet
back off his forehead.
God—but it was hot! So hot that he
was bone dry, although in landing he
had been soaked to the skin.
Balancing precariously, he stood up
and surveyed the sea.
The vastness, the endlessness of it, as
they were descending, had been a little
frightening ; but the circle, of it, viewed
from the water, was limited enough to
be wearying. Small enough to cramp
(Continued on next page.)


fd
UNION
For the King’s Jubilee
Fortnightly Sailings,
UNION S.S. GO., LTD.,
247 George St„ Sydney; 59 William St., Melbourne.
ROYAL MAIL LINES
a
n
IN THE light of comparative prices,
it cannot be said that our charges
are low. We are, according to
present day standards, expensive.
But we would mention, as an
axiom, that we use only the very
finest materials and linings; for
cheap clothes are but poor economy,
they neither tailor well, nor do
they last long.
It would be possible for us to
produce a suit for six or seven
guineas. A machine-sewn suit. Our
Cutters, who are artists, would not
be able to obtain that perfect style
for which handsewing alone is
responsible ; but nicely pressed off,
the suit would fit well and look
well —for a month or two.
It might be argued, except by the
most particular of men, that 4 or
5 guineas extra is a lot to pay for a
little extra touch of style. It is.
But style is not the only quality im-
parted by handsewing. It is in the
retention of shape and style that
the essence of first class tailoring
becomes apparent. For as soon as
the press has worn off a machine-
made suit, it begins to lose its
shape ; before long it will look like
a rag. Whereas a handsewn garment
will, if anything, improve with wear,
retaining its style for decades, until
it becomes a relic.
Only a handful of firms employ
hand-labour, for it is a very costly
item. Were we satisfied that
machine labour were as good,
should we be so foolish as to pay
three times as much for production ?
We employ only the cream of the
West End Log journeymen tailors
because they are worth every penny
of their costly labour.
These items —materials and hand-
labour, together with the fact that
we employ the most skilled cutters
in the trade, make our clothes ex-
pensive. Not extravagantly so, for
our , organisation is run on the most
economic lines, and our percentage
of gross profit remarkably small.
One POPE & BRADLEY will out-
last two or three machine-made
suits, which means that this com-
paratively high initial outlay is
eventually an economy.
LOUNGE SUITS FROM 10 GNS. DINNER SUITS
FROM 15 GNS. DRESS SUITS FROM 16 GNS.
POPE & BRADLEY
TAILORS
14 OLD BOND STREET
LONDON
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought i o know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co,,
252 George Street, Sydney.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hilt
market, where £20.000 is distributed each
week in wages trom tne mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. L,. Wilson, 80 Carrington
Street, Sydney; L. Marks, Newspaper
House, Melbourne; News, Ltd . North
Terrace, Adelaide.
one’s style—and no knowing which is
sea and which is sky, he thought;
watched for a while the sinister fin of
a shark which circled inquisitively round
and round the Silver Ace before making
off with leisurely swiftness, out of
nothing, into nowhere.
HE returned to his seat on the edge of
the cockpit and looked at his watch,
winding it mechanically.
Half-past three. Then he had been
down an hour. If every hour before he
entered into eternity was as long in pass-
ing, it was going to be a most
monotonous business. It was up to him
to devise some manner of passing the
time more profitably than simply sitting
waiting for death.
After all, a man wasn’t dead until he
was dead ; and, heat or no, he had never
felt less like dying than he did at the
moment.
Annoyed and a little bit awed, but
disgustingly healthy.
He brought his gaze back from the
infinity of sea and sky and stared down
into the cockpit; because, unconsciously,
he was straining his eyes in every direc-
tion for a glimpse of the sail that he
knew would never come.
Among a multitude of parcels wrapped
in waterproofing were a pick and shovel.
Thought of them made him grin.
They would never dig for treasure ;
would not even dig a grave.
HE shook his shoulders impatiently, and
slid into the cockpit.
When he returned to his seat on the
edge, he carried the notebook and the
red fountain-pen that Madeline had pre-
sented him with on his departure.
For a while he stared broodingly at
the nothingness of sea and sky; and
then he wrote, in a neat, laborious hand,
REFLECTIONS WHILE WAITING FOR
ETERNITY.
Having written it, he grinned approv-
ingly, and then resumed his contempla-
tion of the empty distance.
Presently he sighed deeply, and re-
turned to the compilation of his reflec-
tions.
“Life and death,” he wrote, “are twin
phenomena, and equally remarkable.
The latter probably holds the greater
significance, since it is inevitable ; but
the former is the more desirable. Death,
in retrospect, is of no moment, but life
is always vital. To be of interest to the
human consciousness, death must be pre-
sented closely, and upon the state of the
human consciousness depends the fact as
to whether it will come as awesome and
detestable or as a peaceful and lovely
guest. At the moment, I hear his foot-
steps on the sea, and, being in good
health and spirits, I loathe and dread his
, final coming; though, at the same time,
11 am fully aware that before he steps
; over the horizon I shall curse him for
his niggard haste. Death by exposure
and starvation is unpleasant, they say ;
since, before the end, there are phases
of hallucination and madness. I shall,
1 think, lash myself in the cockpit while
1 am still conscious, since 1 have a
peculiar dread of sharks”
Here, unexpectedly, the ink gave out,
and after an indignant interval he tossed
the pen into the sea, and continued with
the stub of a pencil.
“It is extraordinary how one’s values
change in a short period—almost within
; an hour. When I started on this mad
I adventure, death, in retrospect, did not
matter in the least; since the One
| Woman would not face poverty for me.
! Yet, though the sun has risen only once
I since then, the One Woman does not
matter at all, and death, no longer in
retrospect, is dreadful and important;
but not as important as life, which is
reeling out behind me as the rails reel
out behind a train and slip away, to
vanish into distances loved and lost.
“Thirty-six-hours. She kissed me —or
rather permitted me to kiss her, coolly
and chastely, before witnesses ; though
she must have had as shrewd an idea as
I everyone else had that my return was
| improbable, not to say impossible, since
j the Silver Ace could carry only sufficient
1 benzine to take me to this mythical
island, the position of which 1 was to
advertise to the world at large, and then
hold off all comers with an old service
j revolver, while they outfitted an expedi-
tion which would come and rescue me,
and, incidentally, untold gold. I don’t
| know whether Madeline ever really
believed in the island or the gold. 1
1 know that I did not; but, since I did
! not matter to Madeline, they did not
i matter to me. Back of my mind was
some quixotic notion that she would at
least be sorry when I had flown from
her into the sunset and nothingness . . .
A marvellous thing, the human mentality.
It was a wonderful evening when I left,
' winged up from the beach, and turned
out to sea. There was a path of wild
i red light on the water, and I went down
it, not even glancing back to where the
lights of Brisbane were dying out behind.
“Below me, as I gained altitude, the
spindrift that whipped from the combers
was blood-red, and, away to my right,
the rim of the shore was blood-red, too,
with an ebon rim of hills looming above ;
but the extraordinary part of the affair
was that, once the machine was in the
air, I forgot all about Madeline! Not
only did she cease to matter, but she
ceased to exist; and, for the first time
since it had been mooted, I began to
believe in this crazy adventure. With
the roar of the engine in my ears 1 was
suddenly convinced that there was an
island, and that I should find it. Of the
supposed treasure I did not think at all;
nor of how or when, if ever, I should
return. They were matters of no
moment. The adventure, and the peace
of the sunkissed island, with long waves
creaming up the shore. Adventure! Not
for a moment did I doubt that I should
make my objective ; and then the idiot
engine failed suddenly, and here I am,
down in the sea! And have thought for
the first time of Madeline, whose parting
gift, an inadequate and, I suspect, cheap
fountain-pen, I have just chucked into
the sea! It is a sad truism ; but I have
not thought of her with regret, but only
with a slight surprise that anything as
shallow as she is could have gained such
an extraordinary hold over me. I have
always regarded myself as a he-man
among men ; but the only way I can
explain the matter to myself is that, after
all, I must have a neurotic streak.
“She is a marvellous thing, Madeline.
The perfection of her face is reflected on
the sea, darkly, mockingly smiling ; and
the curves of her body are etched against
the sunset in lines of livid flame. The
flame holds me breathless ; her curves
leave me cold and considering. Before
the end, in all probability, she will walk
towards me down the path of the sunset
which lies on the water, limpid and lumi-
nous, and more wonderful than any-
thing I ever dreamed; lovely enough,
almost, to compensate for the fact that
sooner or later Madeline and the Old
Man with the Scythe will wander down
it to possess my worthless soul.”
THE sunset failed suddenly, and he
broke off, shivering a little in the
intense dark that trembled between the
death of day and the birth of the glamor-
ous night. After long hours of weariness
ous night.
Around him, the empty ocean writhed
and tossed like a soul in everlasting tor-
ment. The stars went out, and the moon
rose, capping the waves with phos-
phorus, so that they stood out starkly
against the sky, oily and treacherous.
He woke to a grey sky, overcast and
threatening, presaging bad weather.
He surveyed his world —and was un-
dismayed.
After all, if the Silver Ace were
pounded to bits in a storm, the Old Man
with the Scythe would have to hasten
his laggard step, and that moving on
from life to life would be swift and easy
instead of long-drawn and terrible.
The sun came up out of the ocean,
sending phosphorescent ripples along the
oily surface of the waves.
He ate biscuits and tinned tongue and
drank sparingly from his small supply
of water, watched a great grey bird
wing across the face of the glaring sun
and vanish into the haze of the sky.
“If I had wings! ” he thought, with his
twisted humor. “Well —haven’t I?
Broken wings!”
He watched the sombre waves come
swelling from the horizon, to break with
a sullen little plop against his broken
wings. Odd that so small a thing could
so disconcert the irresistible power of
the never-resting sea.
“I have always loved the sea,” he
wrote, “but now I’ve a curious obsession
for the stability of mountains. The sea
is getting on my nerves —plop, plop-
plop! The calm of the hills is some-
thing to marvel at. The sea may be
eternal —but what a restless eternity,
the restlessness of lost souls; but the
hills are an assurance not only of im-
mortality but of peace. Three days ago
I saw them at dawn, incarnadined . . .
light that faded to a wonder of lavender
and lilac and blue ; the hollows shaded
with lavender grey, the heights glowing,
radiant, eternal, peaceful. One ought,
of course, to have a religion, but I have
been too much concerned with living to
bother much about what will follow
when I have ceased to be. Ceased to
be? I wonder! I wonder! For the
first time, I wonder!
“Supposing that, in spite of all reli-
gions, death is the absolute end? Does
it matter, would it matter, if one had
done one’s best?
“One thing I have against religion—the
atmosphere of bargaining: goodness for
reward, wickedness for punishment.
Should not one be decent just because


BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of BustraUa
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1934.
LIABILITIES.
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits per
Contra ..
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . .
Note Issue Department
£141,501,259 36 2
ASSETS.
£ s <1
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 072,127 8 10
Australian Notes 5,228,129 10 0
Money at Short Call in London 17,496,539 5 2
Funds held temporarily in Lon-
don on account of Conver-
sion Loan . .. 897,000 0 0
Short Term Loans in Australia 12,948,492 0 2
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities 9,501,404 14 3
Commonwealth Government
Securities 27,508,526 11 7
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 1,521,720 0 1
Bills Discounted, Loans ind
Advances to Customers and
other Assets 9,818,823 2 9
Bank Premises 1,075,647 6 6
86,728,410 5 4
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra 534,518 7 4
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. .. 87,262,928 12 8
Note Issue Department.. .... 54,238,331 3 6
£141.501,259 16
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS
f'r.
£ s d
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 113,150 7 7
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 113,150 7 7
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 12,395 5 4
,, Development Fund . ; .. .. 12,395 5 4
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury .. 408,075 12 6
£059,766 18 4
£ s d
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1934—
„ Banking Business 226,300 15 2
„ Rural Credits Department . . 24,790 10 8
„ Note Issue Department .. .. 408,675 12 6
£659,766 18 4
RESERVE FUND.
£1,925,341 7 3
£ s d
By Balance 1,812,190 19 S
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits of Banking
Business 113,150 7 7
£1,925,341 7 3
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 22nd February, 1935.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Notes in Circulation 50,300,107 0 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 3,319 10 0
Special Reserve—
Premium on Gold Sold.. 3,894,904 13 6
Other Liabilities 40j000 0 0
£54,238,331 3 6
ASSETS.
£ s d
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve 15,707,537 0 0
Money at Short Call in London 4,984,633 6 2
Debentures and other Securities 32,369,301 7 6
Other Assets .. 1,176,859 9 10
£54,238,331 3 6
Certified Correct,
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Begird,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 22nd February, 1935.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st December, 1934.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Reserve Fund 2,009,262 7 7
Depositors’
Balances 126,010,455 14 0
With Interest
Accrued 1,280,561 2 1
127,291,016 16 1
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities .. 4,145,427 11 6 |
£133,445,706 15 2
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Cash Balances and Monev
at Short Call 14,901,387 7 11
Australian Notes 152,342 10 0
Government Securities .. .. SO,914,898 18 5
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities .. 32,559,382 17 2
Other Assets 3,005.078 9 6
Bank Premises 1,312,010 12 2
£133,445,700 15 2
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
Dr.
£ s d
To National Debt Sinking Fund.. 76,903 5 6
„ Savings Bank Beserve Fund.. 76,903 5 6
£153,806 11 O'
£
s d
By Profit for Half-year ended
3lst December, 1934, after pro-
vision for payments amounting
to £102,789 12s due to S’tate
Authorities under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agreements . .153.S06 11 0
£153,806 11 0
RESERVE FUND
To l’alance
£ s d
2,000,202 7 7
£2,000,203 7 7
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits
£ s d
1,932,359 2 1
76.903 5 6
£2,009,262 7 7
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. E. DICKTNSCN, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDT.E,
Governor.
Sydney, 22nd February, 1935.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-Genera) of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of
the above accounts have been given
MADE IN ENGLAND
BRIT. RD. N 0750681
Ask for
.Blue
Gillettes
2/- per packet of 5 blades
FIT ALL GILLETTE RAZORS
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1 QQ4 (SECOND
j. EDITION)
FEATURING All THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
01 posted direct from “The Bulletin.'
252 George Street. Sydney. Bd. extra.
decency is part of that beauty which
one calls God? Be kind, because kind-
ness is also a part of the loveliness that
is living? Be steadfast, because stead-
fastness is one of the things that really
matter? Be brave, because the ability
to face all things unflinchingly is a part
of the Godhood in man?
“To know I have faced life and its
adversity with courage, that I have the
strength within myself to face death with-
out undue flinching, is something that
for some reason gives me infinite satis-
faction, and the fact that quite soon I
may have ceased to exist in any way in
nowise minimises that satisfaction. It
has been worth while, as all of life has
been worth while; even my infatuation
—I cannot call it love—for Madeline ;
even this lunatic adventure, which looks
as though it is going to be the close of
the chapter, if not of the book. We
should, I think, live this life with such
courage and such wisdom that it should
be worth while in itself, independent of
the hereafter —or lack of it.”
THE haze overhead grew thicker as the
* sun swung up the sky. Beneath,
though the waves did not increase, the
subterranean boilings seemed to gain in-
tensity, so that the Silver Ace began to
roll sicken ingly.
He laid the fat notebook aside. The
island, according to report, was ade-
quately supplied with cocoanut palms
and water. “And turtles and yams, man-
goes, pigs, pigeons, etc.,” he reflected.
“’M, I don’t think! And am I sud-
denly terribly sane, or slipping over the
borderline?”
At noon he got out of his clothes and
crawled forward to the submerged cock-
pit out of the glaring heat.
The water was refreshing. He spent
the afternoon half-sitting, half-lying on
the tilted wing where the waves could
wash over him, listening to the rising
wind fluting through the struts, moaning
away on horizons that were invisible to
the eye.
EVENING came, red with dusky anger,
so that the sea was ensanguined,
murky, fulvous.
All round the horizon wild storms
ran, with lightning shuddering in great
sheets and jagged streaks of flame. Ever
and again a small scud came whipping
by, so that the Silver Ace heeled over,
burying herself deep in the water.
Somewhere near dawn a furious gust
of wind and rain, a burst of jagged light-
ning and thunder. As it came he could
hear the lash of rain whipping the sur-
face of the sea. A spasm of laughter
took him.
The Old Man with the Scythe, running
before the storm . . .
He stood up, balancing precariously
on the pitching fuselage. The waves
leaped up, the rain swept over them in
a solid sheet, the wind got under her
wings and twisted her, turned her over
and over.
He went down and down into the
gloom of the everlasting night. As he
went down his heart was singing with
triumph:
“Envoie ! I am not afraid!”
Quite suddenly, spent and weary, he
was floating easily on the oily surface.
Somewhere he could hear the retreating
hiss of the driven rain, the patter of pass-
ing, running feet.
A HUNDRED yards away, the fore-
part and engine broken away, the
fuselage of the Silver Ace floated, her
undercarriage lifted towards the sky,
across which the storm wrack went scud-
ding before a mighty wind.
He shook the water from his eyes and
turned towards the doubtful haven of
that fragile wreck. His clothing impeded
progress, but his leather coat buoyed him
up like a lifebelt.
Dawn came, blood-red, followed by a
day of scorching heat.
By night he was a little light-headed,
and, realising it, lashed himself by his
belt to the undercarriage. While he did
it he felt something hard and flat in the
breast pocket—the fat notebook contain-
ing his Reflections . . .
“I wonder,” he thought, “what Made-
line would make of it?”
Through the night he still had lucid
intervals ; but the heat of the following
day brought very close the lagging foot-
steps of the Old Man with the Scythe.
The evening was still, with a sunset
path of silver and gold on the calm sur-
face of the sea.
He shouted and sang in his delirium.
With the dusk he fell silent and waited.
Presently two figures came towards him
down that bright way.
The Old Man with the Scythe and.
always keeping just a step ahead of
him, a woman.
“Madeline!” he shouted.
But it was not. Madeline was dark as
night; this woman was fair as the dawn.
Her eyes were tender, and around and
about her birds circled —small gulls, cry-
ing like lost spirits.
“Land,” he thought, laughed aloud
and reached his hands to the pair who
advanced so slowly.
Behind them a roseate island loomed
—palms and a smooth hill, ebon against
the glow of rose and silver and gold.
The long, sweet hush of combers on
a shallow shore.
His barque went in on the slow, huge
breakers, grounded gently against a
beach of dreams.
“Hallucination!” he thought. “Death
is a gentle thing.” *
HE woke far up the beach, under the
shade of palms. On the shore the
morning sun slanted softly. There was
a cool breeze from the sea.
A fair woman sitting beside him, and
beside her an old man with snow-white
hair.
“Hallucination!” he said again.
“Dreams! Sea Dream!”
The woman leaned forward and bent
over him smiling.
“This is the Island of Dreams,” she |
assured him whimsically. “We feared
that you were dead” . . .
My Political
Life
By W.A. HOLMAN
GROW WHEAT
FOR WAR!
The Govern-
ment adopted a
scheme suggested
by Carmichael on
his return to Australia a few weeks after
war had broken out. He had come direct
from Germany, getting away from hos-
tile territory just in time to prevent un-
pleasant possibilities.
Carmichael, who had never previously
been in Europe, had never seen an army
or an army corps before, and had no
connection with any phase of military
or naval effort. Still, his reason was
clear and his judgment sound, and he
refused to be infected by the prevailing
optimism. He made himself highly un-
popular by Cassandra-like prophesyings
of a long period of inaction and failure,
aind had the prescience to insist on our
preparing for stages of the war which
very few imagined would ever be reached.
He thought Britain might be starved out.
“What we had better do,” said he, “is
to start growing food, and the more of
it the better. Let us point out to the
farmers that their duty is to bring fresh
areas under wheat this year, and to en-
courage them to do it let us guarantee
a price of 4s. a bushel [in those days a
very good price] for all wheat grown on
newly-ploughed land.”
Having put this excellent suggestion
before the British Government, which
approved it gratefully and enthusiastic-
ally, I turned my attention to the very
considerable difficulties which lay in the
way of its adoption. Our Labor sup-
porters were not disposed to see money
earmarked for the benefit of capitalistic
wheatgrowers. Our opponents depre-
cated such a step at such a moment as a
mischievous meddling with the smooth
working of well-known and beneficent
economic laws. The farmers themselves
did not see an entirely friendly motive
underlying an arrangement which lured
them on to special exertions and addi-
tional risks for a quite uncertain return.
Although we were going to guarantee
4s. for every bushel reaped on new land,
o Continued on next page.)


S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE
To recognise the services,to Australian literature of the late Samuel
Henry Prior, editor of “The Bulletin** for 18 years, his son, H. K. Prior,
has provided £lOO per annum for a prize, to be known as the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every year for a work of fiction.
Entries for the first competition will close on June 6, 1935, and results
will be announced within two months thereafter. ■.
The trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work, together with
any others which they may deem worthy. The winning novel will be published
within two months after the announcement of the results.
Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of works so. published,
in which the entrants will retain all property rights, except world book rights,
which will be controlled by the trustees.
Any bona-fide Australian resident or any person born in Australia,
New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be eligible to enter, for
the competition, novels which must be the original work of the entrant and
previously unpublished, either wholly or in part, in book or serial form.
Manuscripts must be submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and
address of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope, which
will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
,
The judges selections will be final, and competitors must accept as
binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of the contest.
Ihe trustees, whose address is 252 George-streef:, Sydney, reserve the
right to, withhold the prize if no novel submitted is, in the opinion of the
judges, worthy of an award.
Queensland’s
Outstanding Media
Queensland offers to National Advertisers
two media whose leadership, in their
respective fields, is indisputable.
The Courier-Mail
far exceeds in circulation any Queensland news-
paper, and has proved to be the most powerful
selling force for the Queensland market.
• i-
The Sunday Mail
easily leads in the Sunday held, and has proved itself
a worthy associate of ‘‘The Courier-Mail” in many
national campaigns.
The combination of these two outstanding news-
papers cannot be equalled in Queensland, neither
in the extent of their cover nor the lowness of cost.
Make them the basis of your Queensland campaign.
Queensland Newspapers Pty., Ltd.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Sydney Representative: R. Jackson. 74 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Representative: R. D. Fisher, Newspaper House, Collins Street.
liOiulon Representative: A. J. Chard, ft'! Fleet Street.
neither we nor anyone else could
guarantee that next year there would be
any bushels on any given piece of land.
It might be a drought year in whole or
in part, and the harvest might fail
altogether at any given place. Finally,
our financial suuporters were extremely
dubious as to the possibilities of finding
the money if new wheat were grown in
abundance and if some naval disaster—
which at that moment everyone had in
mind as one of the immediate possibili-
ties—closed access to London.
THEN THE 1914
DROUGHT
During 1914
Australia was the
scene of an ex-
ceptionally severe
drought, and. for the first time for many
years had not grown enough wheat to
feed its population. The enormous un-
certainty as regards. shipping which was
destined to afflict us all through the war
had already begun, and made the flour
trade panicky. Gambling in wheat
futures was going on widely, and famine
prices seemed likely to rule.
After consideration lasting over several
Cabinets we decided to commandeer all
the wheat in the State. We passed an
authorising Act, and the necessary proc-
lamations were made. The first appro-
priation under our new powers was made
on December 18, 1914, when 152,000
bags were seized at a cost of 4s. 2d. per
bushel, and another one, when it had be-
come apparent that the whole supply was
required, a few weeks later, vesting the
entire balance in the hands of the Gov-
ernment at the then ruling price of ss.
per bushel.
This was the first legislation of this
kind operating on such a scale, as far as
I know, within the Empire. At later
dates, as similar Acts were passed by
other Governments, the public mind was
gradually familiarised with the idea, but
the difficulty of pioneering in this field
of war-precaution was extreme. We
achieved the immediate and bitter an-
tagonism of the speculators, and expres-
sions were directed against us which were
only surpassed in violence by the terms
in which the Governments of the other
States were attacked by their supporters
when later, in all Australia, New South
Wales alone had cheap bread.
THE ACT
CHALLENGED
The Common-
wealth and the
other States
moved consider-
ably later; we led the way, for good or
ill, in every step during this period. The
rest of the legislation of the country was
framed largely upon the models we fur-
nished.
Our new Act had at once to run the
gauntlet of the Federal Courts. Repre-
sentatives of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association took a case before the Inter-
State Commission, which pronounced the
Act invalid, i.e., beyond the powers of a
State Parliament, because it interfered
with inter-State trade (which can only be
controlled by the Parliament of the Gom-
monwealth). We appealed immediately,
and the High Court unanimously decided
that the State Government had acted
within its powers in passing this legis-
lation.
The predictions made that the farmers
would go out of business if the Act was
passed were falsified by the other portion
of our policy, and in 1915 a larger har-
vest was gathered throughout the State
than had been known in New South
Wales before.
THE STATE
BAKERY
Another experi-
ment connected
with food control,
of minor import-
ance intrinsically, but of great interest
as an illustration of the principles in-
volved, was the establishment of a State
bakery in 1914. Prior to that time certain
master bakers had united to put up the
price of bread to the Government. We
resolved, while we were handling the
general problem, to supply the hospitals,
gaols and other services with bread of
our own baking.
The bakery was a success from the
commencement. It paid handsome
profits each year, duly certified to by the
Auditor-General, while supplying the
State institutions at a reduced price.
During our time, and in that of the
Nationalist Government of 1916, the
bakery did not supply the general public,
that.being no part of our scheme.
On the Storey Government coming into
office State bread was for the first time
sold over the counter in opposition to
private industry. This, no doubt, roused
the employers to make a special effort to
see the bakery wiped out, and on the
return of the Nationalists in 1922 the
private bakeries asked that tenders
again be called for a supply of bread to
public, institutions. This time private
enterprise exerted itself not to put the
price up, but to reduce it. So low were
the tenders that the State bakery was
undercut, .and the new Government —
somewhat precipitately:—made arrange-
ments for disposing of the enterprise
—one of the few that had undoubtedly
paid its way.
FADDISTS
ASSERT
THEMSELVES
During - the
opening months
of 1915 a change
came over the
spirit of the
State. The fad-
dists began to show that they regarded
war-time as their golden opportunity.
The air was filled with the clamors of
those who urged such panaceas as the
closing of hotels, the interning of Ger-
mans, the purchase of nothing but Aus-
tralian-made goods, the dismissing of
public servants who had any taint of
enemy blood in their veins, the imme-
diate carriage of an Eight Hours Bill.
The lunacy which imagined that the
fate of the war in Belgium could be
seriously affected by the closing hour of
a hotel in George-street or the dis-
missal of a watchman at the Works De-
partment seemed to me to be too over-
whelmingly obvious to need demonstra-
tion. Allowance has always to be made
for the honorable fanaticism of the liquor
reformer, but some of the other pro-
posals made had not even the recom-
mendation of an imbecile sincerity.
It seemed to me that what Australia
had to do was to get on to the actual
field of conflict as many men and as
much munitions as it could. It was
obvious enough, even to modest spec-
tators at our distance, that the struggle
on which we were embarked was even
more serious and likely to be even more
appalling than had at first appeared. No
end to it was now visible except that
which might be secured by force —force
applied continuously and overwhelm-
ingly. Our duty, therefore, was to help
to supply that force by offering freely of
our soldiers and our inexhaustible supply
of foodstuffs, and, where possible, actual
munitions of war as well.
THE RECRUITING
POSITION
Recruiting had,
from the begin-
ning, gone on in
the slowest pos-
sible way. Thousands of volunteers had
been rejected. The simple idea of attest-
ing each man who offered, registering
him for service as called upon and in
the meantime sending him back to his
civilian occupation occurred to nobody.
The military authorities would take no
one whom they could not immediately
place in a training camp, or make a
member of a fully-organised unit, or
clothe, or drill, or in some way stamp
with the mark of the moment, whatever
it might be, which showed he was a sol-
dier. From week to week they deter-
mined, so it seemed, the total number
of recruits they would accept, not by any
consideration of the actual resources of
the country, but by the number of tents
or training instructors or battalion
cadres, they had managed to get in hand.
No really effective steps were taken to
send forward the powerful military aid
which even at that early stage we all felt
to be latent in Australia.
No one could foresee then the remark-
able excellence which Australians and
Maorilanders were later on to display in
the field; but it was clear that, when
Great Britain could no longer call up
trained or partly-trained men —Reserv-
ists and. Territorials —and had to fall
back, as under Kitchener’s scheme it
was already beginning to do, on civilian
volunteers, Australia’s first 50,000 would
be better material than the Old Country’s
tenth or twentieth 50,000.
INTERVIEW WITH
PEARCE
In the course
of the 1915 in-
ter-State confer-
ence I got an op-
portunity of a long conversation with
Senator Pearce, and found to my amaze-
ment that he was not trying to get addi-
tional recruits, because at that moment
he regarded the output of the Defence
Department’s small-arms factory as the
upper limit upon Australian contribu-
tions to the Allied strength.
“No use sending men home without
rifles,” said he. “We have only so many
rifling machines, and the total output is
so many a day. To take on more recruits
than this is merely wasting money.”
Why not, then, I asked, work these
rifling machines the whole 24 hours and
seven days a week? This was quite im-
possible. The workmen were a specially
picked band of very highly-skilled men.
Their like was not to be found in Aus-
tralia. Already they were working a
10-hour day. They would do no better
with a longer day (which was probable
enough), and further extension of the
productive operations of the'organisation
was out of the question. Ordinary fitters,
watchmakers, machinists, etc., were abso-
lutely unequal to this work.
I took it upon myself to doubt very
definitely the correctness of the infor-
mation which had been furnished to the
Minister of Defence. At lunchtime that
day I arranged with Davies, the able
head of our Works Department, to join
us. He ridiculed the ideas that had been
put before the Minister by his military
chiefs, and undertook, if permitted, to
find within a month men enough to
double the output of the factory. The
offer was never actually accepted; but it
helped to clear away one difficulty that
was beclouding the mind of the Federal
Government.
The Gallipoli test proved the military
value of the Australian troops to be very
high. In the circumstances the Ministry
should, it would seem, have strained
every, nerve. to increase the flow of re-
cruits offering.
The reader of this narrative will be
quite prepared for the fact that the Min-
istry did nothing of the kind. It sat at
the seat of custom and took such re-
cruits as offered and went with un-
ruffled leisureliness about the business of
organising them and forwarding them to
the scene of• operations. If many offered
it sent many; if few offered it sent few ;
but whether there were to be many or
few was looked upon as one of those
dispensations of an inscrutable Provi-
dence with which a Government has no
call to interfere. Two things resulted
from this; first, the commencement of an
agitation, which rapidly strengthened
throughout Australia, in favor of some
form of draft in place of the voluntary
recruiting which was giving such fluctu-
ating and, on the whole, unsatisfactory
results ; secondly, a determination that in
New South Wales we would take up the
work of recruiting ourselves.
[Another chapter from Holman’s Life will
be given in next week’s Bulletin.l


i
J V
1(5
WCxliutTir.
■
tit \r'i n
Vat 5 OOh^bs^
•r.J
*
mm
lllit
m
r.
m
m
■■
■
■
m
iEil
MB
■
■
ig
i
■
1
ii
H
■
MM
i
«
m
m
rm
M
mm
mmmm
wmmmmmmmmmmm
awe js
e
OKaUuins
*j!Ae W
m
JSJCU
w
(3
-J*
•7
a
-O'
33-2.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM;
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-),
X
>-V’ ...
# s .-••■ j i&yt
** y ..•••- ...-•>


w. JNO. BAKER ltd.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
CUTLERY, EAR MARKS AND VETERINARY
INSTRUMENT MAKERS
W.JNO.BAK E R
feiJ
W. JNO. BAKER DAGGING,
BOTTLE AND SKINNING OUTFIT,
Outfit consists of Red Tang Double
Hollow-ground Dagging Shears,
Boundary Rider’s Skinning Knife,
Steel for Sharpening and |pt. Tin
Bottle. The Sheath is made of the
very best leather, riveted through-
out for lasting wear, with Loops to
attach to saddle, and doublehand
girth strap.
No. 17 —Outfit, with plain Beech
Handle Knife and Steel, com-
plete, 39/6; postage, 1/9.
No. 19—With strong Rosewood
Handle Knife and Steel, com-
plete, 42/-; postage, 1/9.
Mill II R
QRTH STRAP
MvW
W. JNO. BAKER DAGGING
SHEAR, IN SHEATH, to carry on
saddle.
No. I—Sin.1 —Sin. Shear in Sheath, 13/9.
Postage, 1 /-.
No. 2—6 in. Shear in Sheath, 14/9.
Postage, 1/-.
No. 4 —7£in. full-size Shear and
Sheath, 17/6. Postage, 1/3,
AJ
COMPOUND.
as
WJEH
mm
1 a
Esmm
W. JNO. BAKER TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCU-
LATOR. A well-made, first-class Nickel-plated
instrument, combining the blunt cut and the
crushing block. Its simplicity and thorough
effectiveness in operating commends it to both
the novice and expert. Price, 55/-.
THE HUNTER DOUBLE LEVER SHEEP DEHORNER, extra
Strong. Length,, overall, 30in. Price £4/4/*
Postage: N.S.W., 2/9; Interstate, 5/6.
P2O—W. JNO. BAKER DOUBLE EDGE FOOT ROT
SECATEURS. Solid Metal Handles. 1 Oin. overall.
Price, 11/6 each. Postage, 6d.
0.:.'
GENUINE TURKEY STONES, Prices, 8/6 and 9/6.
Postage, 9d.
TROCARS FOR HOVEN CATTLE. Length overall,
Complete with 2 Sheaths. Price, 9/6 each.
ALUMINIUM SHEEP EAR LABELS
Very Light. Never Rust.
BAKER'
3000
I %
OPEN.
CLOSED
STUD LOCK (REG.) PATTERN ALUMINIUM SHEEP
EAR LABELS. .These can be closed with a Flatnose
Plier, and will not pull open. 15/« per 100.* In lots
of 500 or more, 12/6 per 100.*
Pliers for Closing Labels, 4/- each.
The above Prices include name or initials and numbering*
w rfi y ii
:
% ■
GIRTH STRV
W. JNO. BAKER DAG-
GING AND BOTTLE OUT-
FIT. This Outfit contains
sin. Red Tang Double Hol-
low-ground Dagging Shears,.
f-pint Tin Bottle, and
small Oil Stone. The
Sheath is made of the best
picked leather, and riveted
throughout. Has loops for
attaching to saddle; also
double-handed girth strap.
No. IS—The above Outfit
complete, 23/6; postage,
1/3.
■ s
BLOODLESS EMASCU-
LATOR. Length overall,
12in.; width of jaw, 2|in.
Price, each .... £3/15/<3
Postage, 2/-.
This size is the most suit-
able for all-round work.
Smaller size for Sheep.
Length overall, 9in.; width
of jaw, l|in.
Price, each .... £2/19/6
Postage, 1/-.
\
50 —W. JNO. BAKER STATION
)R FARMER’S KNIFE, the stan-
ard favourite of the Australian
lushman ; 4in. Stag Haft, 13/6
ach.*
TREBLE AGE.
HAND. FORGED STEEL SHEEP AND CATTLE EAR PLIERS, any design, made to order in accordan ;e with Stock Department’s requirements.
W. JNO. BAKER LTD., 3 HUNTER; ST., SYDNEY.
