

I"!!';;
m
A
P
yii^ ;
r ViuXa
Fop Summer Starts
this Winter -
W
G
1
//
TIC
p| ESPITE the severest drop in engine temperature you will still start instantly
on Atlantic Ethyl I
, The superior volatility of this modern fuel more than copes with sluggish winter-
( bound engines ... it permanently wipes out starting fuss and delay. Add to this
the tact that Atlantic Ethyl's high anti-knock content guarantees increased speed
and more miles per gallon without knock or engine strain, and you will clearly
realise why Atlantic Ethyl gives you all the power your car was built to give.
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD. E 12.48.35
The Bulletin
Government by Regulation
Vol. 56.—N0. 2895.
Wednesday, August 7, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for 1935 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to:
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
426 Georga Street. Sydney.
Or Dymock’s Railway Bookstalls.
u
UylM
Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HERE AND MAIL.
u; P i eaS ni obligation, yaw New Free
iopp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System op Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name _ _ a
My Address
S.B. 435 ' .*
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
lo recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be, awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition
as follows:—-
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6 1936
and results will be announced within two months thereafter! The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Auatralian residem or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accorrtpany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections wnll be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising oat of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is' 252 George-street,
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, w’orthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
“EARLY
ONE
MORNING”
Somewhere in
this book, this
mosaic and
anatomy of child-
hood, built and
fiul together out
„ , . of fragments of
scores of childhoods, which Walter de
la Mare lias called Early One Morn-
you, whoever and whatever you are,
will find a hit, or a lot of bits, which
will seem to have been filched from your
own secret fantasy.
Were you, for instance, saved from
Owning when a child? It happened to
William Page, “a lad of promising parts.”
Pour times in nine years William was
hauled out of water in the nick of time,
and in due course was hanged for high-
way robbery. Then there was Bunyan,
who was twice saved from drowning,
only to go to gaol and write The Pil-
grim x Progress. It you sang in the
church choir when young, so did the
atiocious Landru, “who went womaning,
say, as a poacher goes rabbit-
ing.” If you loved music and animals,
so, too, did Charles Peace ; but you may
take comfort for having been a little liar
—as you probably were!—from the fact
that Darwin, whose after-life was de-
voted to truth and who was avid for
facts, was such an adept in lying that he
carefully planned his lies, producing new
and charming varieties of primroses by
watering them with Colored fluids, and
pinching fruit Irom his father’s orchard
so that he could announce to his family
the discovery of it as if it had been
stolen.
But enough of sin, which “in such a
context as this resembles the decoration
of a Christmas tree with midget gibbets,
skulls and crossbones.” Not that our
memories may be altogether comfort-
ably stirred by contemplation, with side-
glances at ourselves, of the holy, either,
as we have noticed with the atrocious
Landru, and may feel in a different way
with Ruskin, of w'hom; “Verse by verse,
patriarch by patriarch, genealogy by
genealogy, he was nourished on the Eng-
lish Bible,” and “became afflicted with
such a horror of the Sabbath that it
would come over him as far back in the
week as Friday.” Still, looking back, he
described his childhood as “serene and
secure,” which certainly is, as Waller de
la, Mare has it, “an unusual tribute from
a man to his early childhood.” Southey
may find more of us at home with his
bitter complaint of having had to share
his aunt’s bed. Or we may recall what
prodigies we were as we consider that the
popular conversation-opener of this
present moment was uttered more than
hall: a century ago, when Richard
Garnett, aged five, emerged from under
a crumpled "Times” on the floor to
Startle a visitor by thus appearing and
stagger him with the question: “And
what is your opinion of the Abyssinian
question?”
Of such prodigious performance
Walter de la Mare reminds us of many
instances, most of them the early poeticis-
ings of subsequent poets, including
Cowley, whose “Pyramus and Thisbe,”
written at the age of 10, Edmund Gosse
described as “the poem of a little boy of
unparalleled precocity,” and of which
Gowley himself wrote; “I should not
bee angrie to see any one burne my
'Py ramus and Thisbe.’ ” Some may
never achieve that critical discern-
ment, but there must be many—now,
perhaps, quite respected members of the
community- well qualified to appreciate
C owley’s feelings from the basis of their
own “Pyramuses and Flushes.” And
there must be many, too, who will under-
stand the even lesser poet who, as so
many of us do, poeticised young, and,
guiltless of any further trespass of the
kind, tried subsequently to suppress his
“Poems," without success, and survived
them 76 years.
For that reason, because there are so
many who do write verse early, and,
what is sadder, publish it. the poets’
young effusions are less singular, as
they may seem less picturesque,
than the prodigy performances of the
musicians; Handel at the age of eight
was writing a weekly composition and
could m’ake music on the organ, haut-
boy, clavier and violin. Haydn starteu
earlier Still, and Mozart at the age of six
was louring Europe professionally with
his sister, who was ten and a half.
But here in music, as elsewhere, 13 is the
age to look back on. Beethoven’s first com-
position appeared when he was 13, and
Wagner at 13 had translated that number
of books of the, Odyssey , If you went to
college at 13, Bacon was there at that
age before you (and left it “carrying with
him a profound contempt for the course
of study pursued there”). If you were
at school and not so hot in your per-
formance at 13, Isaac Newton was there,
also, at that age, and “stood very low.”
If you left school at 13, so did Shaks-
peare (probably) and Thomas Hood.
Rembrandt at 13 was working in the
studio of a painter, and Nelson was
already aboard ship. Cook went to sea
at 13 ; Faraday was apprenticed at 13 ;
and it was at this age, too, that Joan of
Arc became conscious of the voices
crying from heaven.
Or we may look back in general terms
not so much on ourselves as on those
who had to do with us, and how they
did it. And one here and there may
recall a father of the manner of Cellini’s
who, seeing “a little animal resembling
a lizard, which lived and enjoyed itself
in the hottest flames” of the good oak
fire burning in the room, pointed this
phenomenon out to five-year-old Ben-
venuto and immediately boxed the boy
on the ear: “I fell a-crying, while he,
soothing me with his caresses, said, ‘My
dear child, I don’t give you that blow
lor any fault you have committed, but
that you may remember that the little
lizard which you see in the fire is a sala-
mander, a creature which no one that
I have heard of ever beheld before.’ So
saying, he embraced me and gave me
some money.” Or this treatment, not
as a reminder, but as an urge to be. up
and doing: “My master,” said Dr. John-
son, “whipi me. very well. Without that,
sir, 1 should have done nothing.” Or
Samuel Butler, of his father, briefly:
“He never liked me, nor I him.” Or
Ruskin again, who was summarily
whipped for this curious trinity: if he
cried, if he did not do as he was bid, or
it he tumbled on the stairs.
Or we may remember curious rem-
edies applied to us ; but, however fan-
tastic these might have been,- Scott had
been there before with what looks like
the daddy of all such things; “Among
the odd remedies recurred to to aid my
lameness, someone had recommended
that so often as a sheep was killed for
the use of the family, I should be stripped
and swathed up in the skin, warm as it
was flayed from the carcass of the
animal. In this Tartar-like habiliment I
well remember lying on the floor of the
little parlor in the farmhouse, while my
grandfather, a venerable old man with
white hair, used every excitement to
make me try to crawl” ; in which “kindly
attempt grandfather was sometime
assisted by Sir George MacDougal, in
the picture-like dress of a colonel of the
Greys, "kneeling on the ground before
me, and dragging his watch along the
carpet to induce me to follow it. The
benevolent old soldier and the infant
wrapped in his sheepskin would have
aftorded an odd group to uninterested
spectators. Scott was about three.
Of such fragmentary curiosa as the
foregoing has Walter dc la Mare
fashioned this excellent book, it must
not be thought of as an anthology. It is
nothing so lazy It is a blending, a flow-
ing narrative, giving that impossible but
always desirable impression that it had
been written at a sitting ; and the essence
of it is Walter de la Mare’s own writing,
his distillation of all these things seen
and heard and written of and talked
about by illustrious and notorious and
other one-time occupants of “that en-
chanted island full of strange noises, and
haunted by a Caliban.”
It has been called already a mosaic,
an anatomy and a distillation, so it might
also, with license, be called a picture;,
and as such, in its shaded parts, it re-
minds us .of what a little time it is, even
in what is called our civilisation, since
childhood was so unconsidered that, for
example, boys were sold to master
chimney-sweeps for two or three guineas
—“the smaller the child the better the
price”-—and were induced to the work
of going up through the suffocating
blackness by the promise of a piece of
plum-pudding at the top, or, more effec-
tually, by thrusting pins into their feet
or lighting some straw underneath them.
The time, 1817 ; the boys, from four to
eight years of age ; the place, England.
A chimney of that date might be made
only seven inches square; “and, that
being so, not only a tiny but a naked
child was necessary.” “A master sweep,
Thomas Allen, testified that he had been
articled in 1795 at the age of three and
a half. ‘I have been obliged myself to
go up a chimney naked, but I do not
like to see my children do so.’”
At which expression of sentiment we
might look a little wryly; but still there
is the germ in it of the change of heart
in regard to children which has slowly
come over us since, though we do have
to remember that it is left to' us to-day
to have to look upon, and think about,
the present occupants of the island—as
“cannon fodder.”
{Early One Morning, by Waiter de la Mare
(Faber and Faber; from Angus and Robert-
son; 31s. 6d.).J
Against
Censorship
The Customs
Act of 1901 gives
the Minister for
Customs power
to exclude, along
with other mer-
ehandise, “blasphemous, indecent or
obscene works.” A proclamation of 1921
adds to the list of prohibited imports
publications which incite to the use of
force or violence, and the “dragnet”
clause proscribes literature wherein “a
seditious intention is expressed or a
seditious enterprise advocated.”
So broad is the Common Law defini-
tion of sedition that a literal interpreta-
tion could stifle all political criticism.
Much has already been stifled. We may
make a guess as to Lenin's opinion of
Ramsay MacDonald, but we may not
read it. Brave New World satirises a
planned world, and The Results of the
First Five Year Plan (Staling gives an ob-
jective account of a plan in operation
Both are forbidden.
To make impossible the continuance ot
the system, the Book Censorship Aboli-
tion League was formed last year in
Melbourne. It has always had sup-
porters in other States, and now branches
are being formed in every capital.
Some ill-informed defenders of ad-
ministrative regimentation of opinion
point to the Book Censorship Advisory
Board —set up in 1933 as a sop to a
public opinion outraged by the banning
ol Brave. New World. But we peed not
attribute to the board, laboring painfully
at its unnecessary task, our deprivation
of such acclaimed works as The Well of
Loneliness (Raddiffe Hall), Farewell to
Anns (Ernest Hemingway), Moll Flanders
(Daniel Defoe), All Men Are. Enemies
and The Colonel's Daughter (Richard
Aldington), nor of such classics as The
Golden Asse of Apuleius. The Love
Tales of Ovid and Boccaccio's De
eameron (cheap editions). Certainly it is
not responsible for the bantling of The
Conditions of the Working Class in
Britain (Alan Hutu, Ihe Revolution of
1905 (Lenin), British Imperialism in
India (Joan Beauchamp), nor for the
holding up” of Ralph Fox’s Commute
ism, part of the Twentieth Century
Library Series, published by the Bodley
Head.
In the course of a public address de*
live red last March, Robert Gamut.
chairman of (he board, said that the
Customs Department referred books to
the board only when in doubt. Books
that had been banned might not have
been so referred, or, if they had, the de-
partment might not have followed the
board’s advice. He knew nothing of
Customs practice regarding political
works. The attitude of the board to-
wards “immorality and indecency” was
that any writer with a real message,
making a sincere study of life, must be
given the utmost freedom of expression.
“Consideration to-day is now given on
a broader basis than ever previously since
Federation,” said Mr. White at Wesley
Church. But it was not till 1921 that
Australia had a political censorship of
political works. It was in 1932 that the
Lyons Government reproclaimed the
“dragnet” clause, which had been
dropped by the previous Administration.
It was between December, 1933, and
January, 1935, that Mr. While added 91
works on sociological and political sub-
jects to the 66 of the previous consoli-
dated list. :
It has been said that arson is one of
the oldest forms of literary criticism.
The products of the greatest minds of all
time have at different periods and in
various countries invited the attention of
the public hangman. Openly in Ger-
many, and secretly here, officials are still
building the pyres of intellectual free-
dom. Hiller invites (he exponents of
Nordic Kultur to gather rejoicing round
the bonfires. Mr. While, too, would
have us concentrate on “what is [in his
opinion] best in our literature,” but the
Customs Department conducts its sacri-
ficial rites in private.
No list ot banned books is available
to the public; but from time to time
seizure notices reach the bookseller-
notifying them that certain publication;
are “forfeited to his Majesty.” Such
notices have been issued in respect oi
the books previously mentioned. Yet.
though some of them are banned of
Hitler, they, and many others proscribed
here, are still available to the English
reader. Hence the modest immediate
objective of the B.C.A.L. —commended
by the Australian Science Congress and
many other responsible bodies—“the
right of entry to Australia without cen-
sorship of all books published and freely
circulating in England.”
That banned books are to be found
on the shelves of universities, of publk
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation
ANTHONY
’Phone: M 2401, Day or Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
HORDERNS’
GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY. Postal Address: Box 2712 C. G.P.O.
m
r %
■ s»
Sp 7
«
5 *7*
m
. /a -■
WE
%
m
>.■
•*■*'
aoWfiT
ir:
asa
British Seamless Axminster Squares
Don’t wait! Buy Carpets during this Sale and secure them at genuine savings. British Seam-
less Axminster Carpet Squares showing in a distinguished assortment of colourings and designs.
Superfine Quality—
Size 7ft. Gin. x Oft. Price ... £5/17/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £5/7/6
Size Oft. x Oft. Price £7/2/0
Anthony Horderns' Sale Price '.. £O/9/6
Size Oft, x 7ft. Gin. Price £B/17/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £B/3/6
Size Oft. x Oft. Price ClO/12/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £O/15/-
Size 10ft. Oln. x Oft. Price ...
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price
Size 12ft. x Oft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
Size 12ft. x 10ft. Oln. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
Size 13ft. Oln. x 10ft. Oln. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ...
Size 15ft. x 12ft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
£l2/7/0
£ll/7/0
£l4/5/
£l2/10/0
£lO/35'-
£l5/5/-
£lB/12/0
£l7/2/0
£23/15/-
£2l/15/-
Heavy Quality
Size Oft. x Oft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . .
Size 7ft. (Jin. x Oft. Price ...
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ...
Size oft. x Oft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
Size lift, x 7i't. Oin. Price ...
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
Size 9ft. x 9ft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .. .
Size 10ft. Oin. x Oft. Price .
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .. .
Size 12ft. x Oft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ....
Size 12ft. x 10ft. Oin. Price ..
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . .
Size 13ft. Oin. x 10ft. Oin. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price ...
£4/12/0
£3/19/0
£5/0/0
£4/19/6
£O/10/-
£5/18/0
£B/5/-
£7/15/-
£O/15/-
£B/19/6
£ll/5/-
£lO/9/0
£l2/19/0
£l2/2/0
£l5/5/-
£l3/19/6
£l7/5/-
£l5/17/6
• Medium Quality
Size 7ft. Gin. x Oft. Price £3/35/-
Anithony Horderns' Sale Price £3/5/-
Size Oft. x 6ft. Price £4/0/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £B/10/8
Size Oft. x 7ft. Gin. Price . £5/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £4/10/6
Size Oft. x Oft. Price £O/15/
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £3/10/6
Size 10ft. Gin. x Oft. Price £7/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price - .. £6/10/6
Size 12ft. x Oft. Price £B/15/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £7/10/6
Size 12ft. x 10ft. Gin. Price £lO/7 0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £O/5/-
Sizc 13ft. Gin. x 10ft. Gin. Price £ll/12/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price £lO/10/-
m
4
Hall and Stair Carpet In specially -
selected designs.
|27iti. body. Price, yd., 15/9. Sale, 12/8
ilBin. border. Price, yd., 12/-. Sale, 9/8
f27in. stair. Price, yd., 15/9. Sale, 13/S
Axm ins ter
CARPET
ISs.|4' 3
British Imperial AMmiister
Carpet in a range of popular
designs. This type of Carpet
is suitable for Squares, close-
covering rooms, also for stairs
and halls.
27in. body. Price, yd. .. 15/9
.Sale Price 14/3
iSln. border. Price, yd., 12/-
Sale Price 11/-
27in. stair. Price, yd., 15/!)
Sale Price 14/3
3«ln. stair. Price, yd. .. 25/-
Sale Price 22/-
54in. stair. Price, yd. .. 37/6
Sale Price 34/6
Hall Carpet
British As minster Hall Carpet.
271 u. wide. Price,, yd., 11/(i. sale, 10/3
3(>in. wide. Price, yd., 17/11. Sale, 15/9
*4 MS yp *
m
mi
% > twfn :
Hair Carpet. Plain Groy centre.
Blue, Bed or Brown line borders.
Width, 1 Sin. Price, yd., 7/6. Sale, 7/2
Width, 22Jiu, Price, yd., 8/9. Sale, 8/S
Width, 27in. Price, yd., 10/6. Sale, »/«
Width, 36in. Price, yd., 13/11. Sale. 12/11
#■
4 'S i
British Axminster
m
V.
561 24 7 6
Rugs and Mats
No. 2 Quality—
Size 4ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. Price. 22/-. Sale Price. 18/11.
Size sft. 3in. x 2ft. Sin. Price, 29/6. Sale Price, 26/-.
Size Oft. x 3ft. Price. 39/6. Sale Price. 34/6.
“Palace” All Wool Reversible Rugs in attractive design's
British manufacture. These Rugs are suitable for anv
room. Size 4ft. 4in. x 2ft. 2in. Price 15/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price It/ti
British Axmiuster Bugs and Mats iu this season's i
designs. Similar to illustrations. Fringed ends.
No. 1 Quality—
Size 2ft. Sin.
Size 2ft. 6in. x
Size 3ft. x Ift.
' Size 4ft. Gin. x
Size sft. Sin. x
Size Gft. x 3ft.
Size 6ft. Gin. x
Ift.
Ift. Sin.
104 in.
2ft. Sin.
2ft. Sin.
4ft. Gin.
Price. 6/6.
Price. 8/11.
Ptice. 15/11-
Price. 2G/G.
Price, 3G/G.
Price. 47/G.
Price. 7C/G.
Sale Price.
Sale Price,
Sale Price.
Sale Price.
Sale Price.
Sale Price.
Sale Price.
3/11.
8/3.
14/11.
24/6.
34/6.
44/6.
07/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
'Phone: M 2401
Day or Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.
• Carpets
Fourth Floor.
Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.
Non-slip Mohair
RUGS and MATS
8/11
»/;«
12/-
11/8
10/0
15/3,
24/-
23/«
88/0
3«/«
52/0
40/(1
mS'j
Mohair Rugs and Mats with fringed ends and
non-slip rubber backs. Full range of wanted
shades. No. 1 Quality—
Size 2ft. Oln. x Ift. Price .
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price
Size 2ft. 81n. x Ift. .tin. Price
Anthony Horderns' Sale Price
Size Bft. x Ift. (tin. Price ...
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price .
Size 4ft. x 2ft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price .
Size sft. 4in. x 2ft. Oln. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price .
Size Oft. x 3ft. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Kale Price
“Tree” Brand
RUGS and MATS
‘s^s'J
“Tree” Brand Mohair Rugs and Mats with non-
slip backs. Popular colours are available.
Size 2ft. 4in. x llln. Price 5/0
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price
Size 2ft. (tin. x Ift, Price 7/n
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price 7/n
Size 2ft. Sin. x Ift. .'tin. Price 10/11
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price tit/a
Size lift, x Ift. Oln. Price .... l.'j / 11
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price li/r.
Size 4ft. x 2ft. Price 22/0
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price *>l/
Size sft. 41n. x 2ft. Oln. Price ' 30/0
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price . -{jV.
Size Oft. x ,’ift. Price 48/0
Anthony Horderns’ Hale Price 43/-
Inlaid Linoleum
214
He thoroughly recommend this Inluid Linoleum
for use in rooms that have hard wear. It is in
three qualities. Super Marble Inlaid Linoleum.
Prices, yard 22/9 18/U 14/!>
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, yard-
21/3 16/11 13/.U
Moire Inlaid Linoleum, (!ft., self colour.
Price, yard 11/9. Sale Price, yard 11/3
Printed Linoleum
7^
7'e
British Linoleum in several designs. 72m. wide
I hree qualities— No. 1 No. 2 No S
Prices, yard 7/11 (5/11 5/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, yaVd—
-7/6 0/6 4/11
Coir Door Mats
"7a «./
36
Lny one for every doorstep and save. Coir Door
Mats, strongly woven and finished.
Sizes, inches .... 24 xl4 27 xl6 30 xlB 533 x2O
Prices, each 3/9 4/9 3/9 7/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices—
; , 3/6 4/6 3/6 6/9
® 'Linoleums —Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.


New Markets for Writers.
Napier, Gardiner & Go. read and advise on
all classes of literary, work-books- plays,
serials, ■ short stories, articles and verse—and.
if suitable, arrange for publication in Aus-
tralia and overseas.
They relieve the writer of the business side
of his work and make available specialised
marketing knowledge. All rights arranged.
Advice given to aspiring writers in Australia,
New Zealand, the Pacific Islands and else-
where.
Particulars on application to
NAPIER, GARDINER & CO.,
Literary Agents,
79 Pitt Street, Sydney
(AND AT LONDON AND NEW YORK).
Telephone: BW5188.
1935 ' SEPTEMBER 1935
SUN MONiiTUEi WfiDTHUIi FRItSATI'
r§ir9l!Toiaflll2l!l3l[l4]
Hslil6Vl7illB]pl2gi2ll
1221123-[241‘2511261! 27l[2Si
i29i!Monnnn
YOU MUfn- THIS DATE !
The Finest Serial for years commences in
'ftfyuUetia
“TIBURON,” by KYLIE TENNANT,
The First Prize Winner in the S. H. Prior Memorial Competition, is a
serial that will grip the reader from first to last chapters.
libraries and of State and Federal Par-
liamentary libraries is little to the point.
Such institutions, such limited number of
copies are accessible to comparatively
few. But we may consider the views of
leading librarians. Leigh Scott, librarian
at the Melbourne University, has said;
“The present ridiculous censorship sys-
tem has placed us in the position of
having to refuse to provide students with
prescribed books or of disobeying the
Commonwealth Censor. As an educa-
tional institution, we prefer to serve the
’students.” John Metcalf, of the N.S.W.
Public Library, returning from overseas,
remarked: “Australia is looked upon
abroad as a benighted country because
of our book censorship.” Of the ban-
ning of Fascism and Social Revolution
(R. Palme Dult), the London “News
Chronicle” observed; “The Australian
Customs is at it again Does the
ban-man, I wonder, ever read beyond
the jacket of a book? Dutt’s is an
appeal to the mind —-and is, for that
sorry reason, hot good ‘propaganda.’ ”
THEA LUCAS.
Freud on
Misfits
The ideas about ‘
poets being mis-
fits set out bv
“Kim” (R.P.
10/77’35) depend
enti r e ly on a
famous passage from Freud’s Introduc-
tory Lectures. “Kim” merely sentimen-
talises the issue with - reference to
“machine-made poetry,” “the new Third
Sex—the Machine,” and poetry which is
“the. work of .the mind, not of the heart.”
This is muddy thinking, just as “there
will soon be no need at all for poets and
their wares” is muddy thinking. There
nevei; was any “need” for “poets and
their wares.” The basis of all these
bright thoughts is Freud; and he ex-
presses himself maybe a little more
clearly in his own words : —
The artist is an incipient introvert Who
is not far frotn being a neurotic..... He
wants to achieve' honor, power, riches,
fame and the love of women. ;But he lacks
(he means of achieving these satisfactions.
So, like any other unsatisfied person, he
turns away from reality, and transfers all
his interests, his libido, too, to the elabora-
tion of his imaginary wishes, all of which
might easily point the way to neurosis.
A great many factors must combine to
present this termination of his development;
it is well known how often artists especially
suffer from a partial inhibition of their
faculties through neurosis. Apparently
their constitutions are strongly endowed
with an ability to sublimise and shift the
suppression determining their conflicts. The
artist finds the way back to reality in this
manner.
The psychoanalyst’s is a destructive
mind, intent on killing illusions and delu-
sions, because they interfere with bodily
health ; he puts the artist on his defence
by suggesting that the artist is an un-
healthy animal, and that the only thing
the artist thinks worth living for is an
illusion, a by-product of ill-health.
Artists help to supply evidence. “We
must cultivate our hysteria,” says Baude-
laire. “I must not marry,” says Beet-
hoven. Two accomplished English poets
confess that their inspiration comes when
influenza or other sickness or anaemia
breaks down moral resistances. “Poetry
is the conquest of character by person-
ality,” says Herbert Read. So what can
the poet object to the psychologist?
Only that, of all the world’s hysteri-
cals, there was only one Baudelaire ; of
all the world’s bachelors, only one Beet-
hoven ; all the world’s influenza patients
have produced only one Shropshire Lad
and one Waste Land; and of all the
world’s neurotics, nervous wrecks, social
outcasts, etc., only a few in hundreds of
millions have been artists. What the hear-
say psychologist denies the artist is the
one thing which makes him an artist —his
technique, his craft, his studies. I say
“the hearsay psychologist” because
Freud, himseif a collector and connois-
seur, makes no such stupid mistake. The
passage I have quoted goes on: —
The artist is not the only one who has a
life of imagination. The twilight realm
of fantasy is upheld by the sanction of
humanity, and-every human soul looks- here
for health and sympathy. But for those
who are not artists the ability to obtain
satisfaction from imaginative sources is
daydreams which may become conscious.
ff one is a real artist, he has more at his
disposal. In the first place, he understands
, to elaborate his daydreams so that they
, osc thejr cssentiaUy personal clement,
which would repel strangers, and so enables
‘
them to yield satisfaction to others. He
also knows how to disguise them so that
they do not easily disclose their origin in
their despised sources. He further pos-
sesses the puzzling ability of moulding a
specific material into a faithful image of
the creatures of his imagination, and he is
able to attach to this representation of his
unconscious fantasies so much pleasurable
gratification that, for a time at least, it is
able to outweigh and release the suppres-
sions. If he is able to accomplish all this,
he makes it possible for others to obtain
solace and consolation from their own
unconscious sources of gratification which
had become inaccessible.
The most important point in the fore-
going for “Kim” to observe is that “the
artist is not the only one who has a life of
the imagination.” To Freud, “imagina-
tive life” is significant of an “unsatisfied
person”; an unsatisfied person is a mis-
fit ; and it is quite a matter of fact that
every man and woman in the world is
to some extent a misfit, and that more
civilisation entails a greater degree of
imaginative life, that is, an even worse
fit The artist, according to Freud, is
simply a misfit who knows it, who is
„Zl
city for expressing himself which othe
have not. To say that. * we have neither
need nor room for misfits, or that ‘ we
. „ pvpn hp „ hlp f cnntrol” their inci-
shall even be able to control tneir inc
dence, is very modern and eugenic, bi
neither commonsense nor sound scientific
doctrine.
And there is another point of view
from Freud’s, just translated into Eng-
lish from the French of Charles Mauron,
which very concisely, and with admirable
lucidity, sums up art from the attitude
of the artist and the attitude of the critic
or connoisseur. “We add aesthetic joys
to our life as we add condiments to oup
soup, to give it a little more flavor,” says
M. Mauron; and with that charming
French candor he goes on to explain
how complicated the ingredients of these
condiments-can be, and how varied and
how exquisite the resulting tastes. (The
work of Charles Mauron referred to
is Aesthetics and Psychology, translated
by Roger Fry and Katherine John;;
Hogarth Press ; Roycroft Library, Syd-
ney : 6s. 9d.)
R.MCCUAIG.
A Satchel of Books
The Story of Louisa Alcott, by Cor-
nelia Meigs (Harrap; 8s. 6d. net).
Awarded a medal in America for “the
most distinguished contribution to
American literature for children,” this is
quite good as that sort of Life of the
author of the still curiously popular
Little Women.
Written in clear, simple language, well-
iilustrated with photographs, is Lawn
Tennis Simplified, by Ted Budrodecn
(Mick Simmons, Ltd.; Is.). A virtue ol
the instruction given is that it is not dog-
matic —the beginner is encouraged to
develop his own natural style rather than
to attempt strokes found successful by
persons of different build. The chapter
on court etiquette ought to be pasted up
in every pavilion.
R.D.B.’s Procession, by Ralph D.
Blumenfeld (Ivor Nicholson and Watson ;
16s.). Blumenfeld, in the course of a
brilliant journalistic career, has known
pretty well every world figure worth
knowing. Here he presents his pick ol
them in a bright gallery—all that can
be cavilled at is that there isn’t enough
of any one of them for the portrait to
matter much. Still, entertaining reading.
Riders in the Dark (Collins ; 7s. 6d.).
Typical Daniel Ward Wild-Wester, aris-
ing from the shooting of Old Tunstall.
big cattleman of the Oregon, and his
adopted son Ray going forth to hunt the
murderers. Good stuff of its kind.
Persia: Romance and Reality, by O.
A. Merritt-Hawkes (Nicholson and
Watson ; from Angus and Robertson :
21s.). Manchester woman’s detailed
record of- a visit to Persia. A good deal
of trivialities, and the author a little
inclined to gush, but holding a solid
proportion of information about the
country as it is to-day, with the influ-
ence of the “West” becoming more and
more apparent.
The New America: The New World.
bv H. G. Wells (Cresset Press; from
bymock’s; 3s. 9d.). An admirable
longish pamphlet, full of fight and pro-
vocation. Wells looks to America as an
influence for great world good with
hope rather than with confidence. For
Roosevelt he has the highest admiration,
but sees him to-day as one who awaits
an expression of America’s true national
feeling before he himself can or will act
Wells, though here centring upon the
American scene —“the spectacle ol a
great material civilisation, halted, para-
lysed”—takes the world at large in his
sweep, and presents in remarkably few
words a comprehensive picture of it.
with pungent commentary. A little book
that demands earnest attention.
The Background of American Educa-
tion as an Australian Sees It, by H. 1.
Parker, M.A. (Melb. Uni. Press; 2s.).
The Tas. official educational psychologist
compresses the fruit of a lot of shrewd
observation into his little brochure. Part
of the background is the American atti-
tude to authority. “We are all criminals
in America,” said a Detroiter to Mr.
Parker; “they make laws so fast that we
can’t keep up with them.” Mr. Parker
concludes that the U.S.A. is tollowing
Franklin Roosevelt, not because it craves
for a leader, but because Roosevelt offers
action, and under his direction the nation
is moving rapidly—to what goal doesn t
The names and addresses of the
authors of the following entries in the
S. H. ■ Prior Memorial Prize are
wanted: No. 36, ‘‘Dead Finish, ” by
“Ninety-four”; No- 92, “Island of
Desire,” by “Lyall Romaine”; and No.
145, “The Prospectors of Calvin’s
Gullyby "Max O’Roon.”
seem to be important. The doctrine of
child-freedom is widespread among
American parents, and parental restraint
is very much the exception to the rule.
Under the “progressive” plan of educa-
tion, now making great headway, the
pupils have more say than the teacher
in the direction which studies shall take.
But everything still depends on the
Teacher.’ .
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Results of the First Year s Competition
We, the Judges appointed by the Trustees for the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize First Year’s Competition, having read and considered
among us the 215 manuscripts submitted, award the Prize to
“TIBURON,” by “JURGEN”
Although there is but the one Prize, we feel that two other manuscripts
submitted are of sufficient merit to be placed nominally in Second Place
and Third Place. They are: —
“Jungfrau,” by “Francis Street,” Second Place
“The Heritage,” by “Eleventh Hour,” Third Place
Three other manuscripts are considered to be of sufficient merit to
warrant High Commendation: —
> ' * HIGHLY COMMENDED:
“The Bridle Track” b y “Pituri”
“The Papuan” by “Anthony Preston
“The Wind on the Water” by “Andromeda”
A number of other manuscripts are of sufficient merit to warrant
commendation: —.
COMMENDED:
“Blue Jeremy” by “Obelisk”
“Calm” by L Q ?£f e V
“Cinema” • by J^. att „
- “Dark Family" by Dandelion
“Dream’s Parody" by Mary Stewart
“The Heretic” Au ‘ ter „
“If You Can Dream” by “The Dreamer
'‘Joanna and Her Children” by “Victoria Ireland
“The Sea God’s Son” by “Duff McBride
“Sheep Kings” by Monte
“Smoked Mackerel” by Estate;
“Thbse Clutching Hands” by Michael Kurn
“Virgin Earth” by “Karbulba ’
The above represents a careful reading and full consideration of all
the manuscripts submitted.
T. D. Mutch.
Guy E. Moore.
Camden Morrisby.
Stewart Howard.
July 29, 1935. c - Mann -
Having opened the sealed envelopes after the Judges had completed
their work, we certify that the authors are: —
“Tiburon” Kyl «e Tennant
“Jungfrau” Dymphna Cusack
“The Heritage” A. Smith
“The Bridle Track” J. J- Hardie
“The Papuan” M. H. Holcroft
“The Wind on the Water,” Myra Morris
“Blue Jeremy” Charles Cimino
“Calm” F. S. Hibblc
“Cinema” William M. Moloney
“Dark Family” Robert Tate
“Dream’s Parody” Mary Finn
“The Heretic” Walter E. Adams
“If You Can Dream” .. Frank Bailey
“Joanna and Her Children”
Ada A. Holman
“The Sea God’s Son” .. Charles J. Duffy
“Sheep Kings” Joyce T. West
“Smoked Mackerel” Peers Elliott
“Those Clutching Hands,” K. McDonnell
“Virgin Earth” .... H. Drake-Brockman
H. K. Prior, Chairman of Trustees.
# W. E. Fitz Henry, Secretary to the Competition.
July 29, 1935.


GREATESI
7
EVER PUBLISHED
\JEVER before has such a mass of knowledge been
put into one volume! Webster’s New Inter-
national Dictionary (Second Edition, 1935) is no mere
guide to spelling, pronunciation and definition ... it is,
as well, a universal question answerer. It gives quick,
accurate, encyclopedic and up-to-date information on all
subjects. It is fascinating in its interest . , . unequalled
in scope . . . with a vocabulary thousands of words richer
than in any other. No matter what your occupation,
trade or profession, you will hnd valuable assistance in
this genuine new Webster. It is an essential in every
home and office ... in every school and library. For
students of all ages, Webster’s is an all-knowing, special
teacher whose services are always available.
Completely Re-made!
The past 25 years have seen an amazing development
of man’s practical and cultural knowledge . . . and a
corresponding growth of language. So, Webster’s
Dictionary has been completely re-made. The Second
Edition, 1935, is new from cover to cover. And it now
includes a complete and up-to-date reference history of
the world . . . 300 pages of text, with an exhaustive
index, all additional to the 600,000 regular entries.
The Supreme Authority
Webster’s Dictionary is universally recognised. It is
genuinely international. With its thousands of special
articles, its biographical, historical, geographical and
other sections, and its profuse illustrations, Webster’s
New International Dictionary is the key to every science,
every art, every branch of man’s thought and activity.
SEMn
MS
PUAL
e Mry
ifp
0
pi <&
UP 0 ,
&***
%
i«s&*
tfi* 1
0
Size of ,Volume;
Height 13in.
Width !tin.
Thickness ... 6iu.
Pages 3650
600,000 entries
Greater by 122,000 than any other similar dic-
tionary, and including the largest vocabulary
ever published.
207 special editors,
all of them leading experts, co-operated to
produce the new Webster. Special information
was obtained, also, from hundreds of authorities
of all nationalities.
12,000 illustrations
Pictures that are an education in themselves.
Magnificent plates in colour and half-tone are
included.
Geographical section
35,000 entries that cover the whole world.
Current official names, populations, areas, etc.
... all are found here.
Notes on 13,000 famous lives
I he pronouncing biographical dictionary gives
information on men and women from classical
times to the present.
Synonyms and antonyms
An admirable work, prepared expressly for
Webster’s.
Reference History
Embracing (1) a general history of the world
from the earliest times, (2) the history of each
country or nation. In each division there arc
narrative and chronological sections.
Special articles
A wealth of information on thousands of
subjects.
TOTAL NUMBER OF PAGES, 3650.
GET THE BEST . . . FILL IN
AND POST THE FORM BELOW!
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME
A FIRST PAYMENT OF
u>itA REFERENCE HISTORY OF THE WORLD cSeccmd 1335
ofa firt
the. maartUyny afi a uscrttl
-yoti un/J jvnd i/ Ln UJe/rt&4 '4
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me ‘‘Webster's New International Dictionary, Second Edition, 1935”
I enclose a first payment of 15/-, and agree to make 10 further monthly payments of
£l. The price for cash within 30 days of delivery is £9/15/-.
NAME
ADDRESS
OCCUPA TION
BUSINESS ADDRESS
B. 7 »/'35.


■■
f: "
m &
m
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol 56.—N0. 2895.
August 7, 1935.
ANTICIPATING CHRISTMAS.
"Victorian Premier Dunstan has brought in a Budget providing for ‘salary-restoration’ to 18,500 ‘Crown employees’ (politicians included). For the taxpayer there are
only more taxes.”
“Is there anything for me?”
“Certainly, my boy, certainly—right in the bottom of the bag. And greener lemons you never saw.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 8197 J.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
WbstraLlA: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Stale cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via "All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
IT WON’T DO, MR. STEVENS!
The N.S.W. Stevens Government, reporting on its
third full year of office, announced that its third deficit
amounted to £2,846,000 (it would have been £3,632,000
but for a special Commonwealth grant of £786,000, to
be reduced 75 p.c. this year) and its loan spendings to
£10,607,000. Together they work out at slightly over
£5 per head of population, and it seems a queer way
of “restoring the finances.” Had Britain pawned its
future at the same rate it would have been
£230,000,000 to the bad for the year.
But, in spite of its prodigious expenditure, the
Government seems uneasily conscious of having fallen
down on one of its jobs, the technical training of
youth. It has been informed by the inevitable com-
mission that its system of technical education is “ex-
tremely efficient” as far as it goes, but that it doesn’t
go nearly far enough. For example, the technical
college buildings in Sydney are “inadequate and out
of date,” and Newcastle’s are in no better case. For
Newcastle and Sydney alone an additional £7OO,(KX)
is required for land, buildings and equipment.
The Government is not unmindful of the claims
of untrained youth, but it realises that it can’t go on
accumulating £3,000,000 deficits, on which interest has
to be paid, or spending loan money at the rate of
£10,000,000 or £11,000,000 a year. The realisation
has been forced on it by the attitude of the Common-
wealth Bank, which objects to carrying huge deficits,
and by the obvious disinclination of investors to meet
the incessant demands for loans. It recognises also
that the taxation it levies directly has reached its
limit. But it has got to do something or get some-
thing done, and it wouldn’t be an Australian Govern-
ment if it didn’t pass the buck to a committee, council,
commission or board.
So it proposes to hand over control of technical
education in Newcastle and Sydney to “district
councils,” The district councils are to be “expected
to finance the purchase of land, the erection of build-
ings and the acquisition of equipment,” and they are
to have rating and borrowing powers. A rate of one-
sixteenth of a penny in the £ on unimproved capital
value is mentioned. It is on no account to exceed
one-sixteenth of a penny in the £, just as the wages
tax was on no account to exceed 3d. in the £, or
the sales tax 2\ per cent. The assurance comes from
the Premier, along with a lot of mush about his sorry
expedient being “a bold and courageous scheme of
full development and greater activity.’ Yet the
Premier should know that landowners in Sydney and
Newcastle —“in other districts technical education will
still be administered by the department”—are in no
position to meet further annual calls on their purses
nor the municipalities to endure competition in an
overworked field.
The Minister of Local Government has been
asked by the Taxpayers’ Association to relieve dis-
tressed landowners of part of the burden of unpaid
(and, in many cases, unpayable) rates. According to
the figures placed before him, £1,085,100 is owed to
Sydney suburban municipalities, £720,790 to country
municipalities and £792,400 to country shires. The
Water Board, for its part, had £255,600 outstanding
on June 30, 1934, and has vexed the Government by
cutting off supplies. And the City Council is getting
up a deputation to place its case before the Govern-
ment that wants to set up a new rating body.
It says it has to add 4d. in the £ to the city rate
because it can get no rates on Government properties
valued at £5,000,000 which would return £109,000 a
year if they were privately owned, though the Gov-
ernment compels it to make massive contributions to
Main Roads Board expenditure from which it derives
no benefit whatever. Incidentally, the Commonwealth
Bank, though constitutionally exempt from rates,
makes a point of paying them on all its buildings.
For five years to the end of June rates and taxes
took 93.2 p.c. of the revenue of a company with a
Sydney office and shopping block. In another case a
city business which has incurred losses of £BBO in
the last two years has to pay £9263 a year in rates.
And even while the Government was sending up its
trial balloon in the “S. M. Herald” office, which it
always employs for that purpose, a shire council —
Warringah—was trying to make a retired magistrate
bankrupt for non-payment of rates which he said
he could not pay. He pleaded that the proceedings
endangered his pension, and, saying that “it would
be monstrous to destroy a man’s pension for £66 of
rates on land worth £500,” his Honor adjourned the
case.
It won’t do, Mr. Stevens! This country has seven
Parliaments, a “super-Parliament” and swarms of
local authorities, industrial tribunals, boards and
commissions that make laws or issue regulations
having the force of law, and it w'on’t submit to
another executive and taxing body being added to
the heap. If education has become too big a job
for Stevens and co. to handle —and this seems to
be the case in all the States —let them transfer it to
the Commonwealth, together with their income tax,
which yields slightly less than their annual outlay on
education. The Commonwealth can find the greater
expenditure needed everywhere (this without continu-
ing the sorry farce of maintaining six Education
Ministers, each with a personal staff, or inventing
half-baked “councils” and new local imposts) and the
States can’t. After all, schooling and vocational
training (“education from the primary school
to the university”) are national matters, and should be
under national control. They are under national
control in France and Scotland, and have been for
centuries; and in no country among the mass of
the people can you find better-trained hands or better-
furnished brains.
A NEW BRITISH NAVY.
A new era in naval history began with the destruction
of the German Navy after the war: 26 capital ships,
131 cruisers and gunboats and 315 submarines.
Britain in 1920 had 42 capita] ships, 11 of which
had been built during the war. Its biggest ship was
the Hood, a 41,000-tonner, with 15-inch guns. The
Hood set a new standard which Uncle Sam decided
to emulate; so four U.S.A. battleships—32,ooo-
- with 16-inch guns —were laid down in 1917-18
and six more —of 43,200 tons, with 12 16-inch guns
—in 1920. Six battle-cruisers and a fleet of fast light
cruisers were authorised at the same time.
Japan became alarmed. It had only four 30,000-
ton battleships of war-time vintage, two with 16-inch
guns, and six others, from 27,500 tons upwards, with
14-inch guns, built between 1911 and 1913. And a
large proportion of the U.S.A. fleet had been trans-
ferred to the Pacific at a time when the Oriental
situation was severely disturbed and there was fighting
for the control of Chinese ports.
Came the Washington Conference. It resulted
in a treaty, signed in February, 1922, which allowed
the U.S.A. to complete two of the 32,000-tonners on
the stocks, France and Italy to acquire a big ship
or two and Britain to build two of equal fighting
power—the Nelson and the Rodney, 33,000 tons,
16-inch guns, were finished in 1927. Otherwise, the
contracting Powers agreed to retain only the follow-
ing capital ships and tonnages:
Ships.' Tonnage.
Britain .. .. 22 580.450
U.S.A 18 500,650
France .. .. 10 221,170
Italy .. .. 10 182,800
Japan .. .. 10 301,320
Fortifications were limited. New cruisers were
restricted to 10,000 tons with not more than 8-inch
guns. New aircraft carriers were not to be more
than 10,000 tons. Battleship guns were not to be
over 16-inch calibre.
In 1930 a further treaty was signed in London
whereby the U.S.A. gave up three more capital ships,
Britain five and Japan one. Allowances for replace-
ments of obsolete ships were made on all sides up
to the limit of the treaty, which was to lapse in
December, 1936. But the situation had been rendered
easier by the fact that the British Government had
not availed itself of its full defensive rights, and the
U.S.A. had calmed Japan’s fears by moving its battle-
fleet back to the Atlantic.
With the approach of the end of the treaty term
conditions ceased to be calm. The German measures
announced early in this year caused unease. Japanese
fears were renewed by the promulgation—semi-
officially—of a U.S.A. building programme, to cost
nearly £150,000,000 sterling, and the return to the
Pacific bases of the U.S.A. fleet. It celebrated its
re-establishment at Honolulu by an “offensive opera-
tion” which involved an attack on a distant enemy
objective with a landing force of 45,000 men.
Germany was found to be building a dozen
submarines, and it was discovered also that two ships
on the stocks, which were supposed to be 10,000-ton
“pocket battleships” —cruisers within the actual limits
set by the Washington agreement, but armed and
equipped for long-distance work as no ships of the
size had ever been —were actually 26,000-ton battle-
cruisers of such range and power as to menace every
European colony in the world. They violated the
restrictions imposed by Versailles.
Hitjer denied any offensive intention. He pro-
tested that 35 p.c. parity with Britain in naval con-
struction would satisfy him. This arrangement was
welcomed in Britain, though it is not free of danger,
since Germany, on that basis, could dominate every
navy, except the British, in European waters, and
regain supremacy in the Baltic.
Britain’s position was discussed in the Commons
a few days ago. The First Lord of the Admiralty
said that, in view of the expiry of the Washington
Treaty, it was proposed to accommodate naval
arrangements to probable strengths in 1942. Unless
new agreements could be made, building would be
“entirely unrestricted.” .
Since the Washington Treaty was signed, British
naval strength, relatively to that of other nations, has
dwindled to the lowest point known for centuries.
Nevertheless, the Royal Navy still has a reasonably
safe margin over any foreign navy, except the Ameri-
can, and~ the Admiralty has framed a conditional
emergency programme which is designed to improve
the position considerably. Seven of the 15 capital
vessels (Warspite, Barham, Malaya, Queen Elizabeth,
Royal Sovereign, Resolution and Revenge) are due
for scrapping in 1937. All are slow, according to
the most modern standards —the fastest can do 25
knots. Royal Oak is due to go in 1938, Repulse and
Valiant in 1939, Renown in 1940, Ramillies (29,150
tons) and Hood in 1941. After that, only the Nelson
and the Rodney may remain on the modern list, and
they are purely “home-water” ships.
It takes at least two years, and usually four
years, to build a first-class battleship or battle-cruiser,
and after next year every party to the Washington
arrangement will be free to do as it pleases. So, unless
a new treaty is framed, the emergency programme
comes none too soon.
It is proposed, if necessary, to replace all capital
ships due to become obsolescent by 1942 and to add
33 cruisers—which, allowing for retirements, should
bring the numbers close to Jellicoc’s safety margin
of 70. There will be 63 new destroyers, three aircraft
carriers and 21 submarines.
When this programme is completed, the Royal
Navy will be, to all intents and purposes, new. If
some of the reconditioned ships are maintained, as
they probably will be, seeing that the later ones will
be serviceable units for a few years yet, it will
approach its 1922 strength.
At least one of the battle-cruisers might be spared
for the Pacific. A sort of precedent has been estab-
lished by the sending of the Sussex to Australia, and
the presence of a capital ship in southern waters
would make Australia and Maoriland feel a lot more
comfortable.
GOVERNMENT BY REGULATION.
The war revived it. Since the Parliamentary system
originated in the middle of the fourteenth century.
Parliamentary government has alternated constantly
with “government by rescript and proclamation.”
The late Lord Harcourt, recognising the familiar
symptoms early in 1918, warned England that a new
battle for freedom would have to begin after the
Germans were beaten : “a battle against jacks-in-
office who derive their authority not from their capa-
city but from the Orders-in-Council which are the
source of their creation.” Lord Chief Justice Hewart
made the same point in more forcible language (The
New Despotism) five years ago.
Prime Minister Hughes saw most of his powers
under the War Precautions Act torn from him between
the Armistice and 1923, but officialdom remained
firmly in the saddle all over the Commonwealth.
The people’s liberties were interfered with on the
war-time pretence that petty tyrannies were necessary
to save the country. A stage has been reached when
both Commonwealth and .States are largely admin-
istered by Governors-in-Council and statutory boards.
N. S Wales has 21 boards and commissions,
not counting what the .State Year-Book, 1932-33,
refers to as “a number of marketing boards consti-
tuted in respect of primary products under the
Marketing Act.” The Milk Board, by restricting
supplies in what, with a multitude of dairy farms on
three sides of it, should be the most abundantly-
supplied city in the world, has made milk shamefully
dear. The Transport Commission is out frankly to
hamper motor transport in the interests of the Gov-
ernment railways and tramways, and to strangle it
where competition would be awkward for them. Few
have a good word for either. As Professor Bland
observed in an address to the N.S.W. Institute ol
Transport last week, an address in which he com-
mented on the “epidemic spread by those who love to
exercise authority”:
The interest of the community should be the first
consideration.
Under Government by regulation it never is.
South Australia is the first State that has tackled
the scandal on practical lines. An honorary com-
mittee was appointed by the Government last March
“to consider the powers of subordinate legislation
exercised by or under the direction of the Governor-
in-Council, Ministers of the Crown, local governing
bodies and other public or local authorities, and
to report what additional safeguards are desirable or
necessary to secure the supremacy of Parliament.” It
has just submitted its report. The committee found,
inter alia, what every Australian businessman and tens
of thousands of Australian workers have been com-
plaining about for the past 17 years—that “there is
a lack of Parliamentary control over subordinate
legislation, and no method whereby the public may
object to the policy of any regulations,” Here, briefly,
are its chief recommendations:
The same care should be exercised in framing
regulations as is used in drafting Parliamentary bills.
In the framing of regulations dealing with any
section of the business community there should be
consultation with that section.
“When a bill is before Parliament its provisions are
publicly debated. This publicity is entirely lacking
when regulations are made. The committee is of
opinion that, in order to remedy this position, legisla-
tion similar to the Imperial Rules Publication Act should
be enacted in South Australia.” (This Act provides
for 40 days’ notice of an intention to make rules.)
A joint committee of both Houses should be empow-
ered to sit, whether Parliament is in session or not, for
the purpose of scrutinising regulations and disallowing
any which are harsh or unnecessary.
And the committee recommends the passing of legis-
lation already introduced into the Legislative Council
giving Parliament the power to disallow regulations
at any time on the resolution of both Houses.
Legislation on these lines in both Federal
and State spheres would do much to restore Parlia-
mentary sovereignty to Australia. Dicey said of “the
sovereign in a Federal State”: “He is not like the
English Parliament, an ever-wakeful legislator, but >
monarch who slumbers and sleeps.” No truer words
have been written on the subject, as Australians have
cause to know. Some of our Parliaments have been
delegating their powers to boards and commissions
for so long that generations have grown up which
don’t know what a Parliament looks like when it is
awake,


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Eaglehawk Plunger.
Vic. Premier Dunstan’s Budget is rather reminiscent
of the punter having a bad day who plunges on the
last race.
Outstanding is his generosity to “Crown em-
ployees,” among whom politicians are now included.
With the “restorations” announced last year, and not
fully provided for in the 1934-35 accounts, “Crown
employees” are to get concessions which will add
£270,000 to 1935-36 expenditure. Much is heard of the
grievances of the public servants, and in some cases, no
doubt, the pruning knife has been applied too severely;
but at the worst the public servants are incomparably
better off than the mass of the outside population.
Since the depression began at the end of 1929 they
have always had a living, and thousands of outsiders
have not. If they have had to curtail their expendi-
ture, thousands of equally worthy people not in shel-
tered callings have had to live on their savings in
good times or on the dole.
For the taxpayers there are only lemons. They
are to be “compelled to give receipts for all pay-
ments of £2 and over,” and to pay a new impost
(“2s. 6d. for each £50”) on share transfers—oil or
“metalliferous mining” scrip excepted. No provision
to deal with the miscreants who defraud the revenue
by barter has been outlined, but presumably that will
be dealt with by regulation.
The Victorian public debt has reached
£174,000,000, and deficits since 1929 amount to
£7,451,500. Last financial year, which was mostly
under the control of the Argyle Ministry, the State
finished with a deficit of £170,000. Mr. Dunstan
anticipates finishing 1935-36 with £435,000 on the
wrong side —not, of course, including £4,500,000 of
loans to be spent on “reproductive works.” The pace
was set by the Loan Council, which estimated £450,000
as a fair thing for a Victorian deficit; the Dunstan
Cabinet has budgeted for £15,000 less, and feels
proud.
♦
From the Acting Prime Minister.
This comes with “the compliments of the Right Hon.
Dr. Earle Page, Acting Prime Minister,” and is termed
“a final and complete answer to the propaganda
against the proposal of the Australian Agricultural
Council, representing the seven Governments, to
secure a due proportion of producer-control of the
butter industry”;
The statement of these propagandists' was that the
Governments were superseding the present control of the
butter industry by Government control, and that the decisions
of the proposed altered Board of Control would be subject
to revision by the Standing Committee on Agriculture and
the Australian Agricultural Council.
A ridiculous and untrue statement. The proposal of
the Governments was to place six direct elected representatives
of the producers on the Dairy Produce Export Control Board,
to remove the f.o.b sellers’ representative from that board, and
to leave the powers and discretion of the board unaltered in
every respect. There was not the slightest suggestion or inten-
tion that the activities of the board in the exercise of its
statutory powers should come under the review or discretion
of the Standing Committee on Agriculture or the Australian
Agricultural Council.
The dairy conference called by the Federal Government
admitted that there should have been more producer repre-
sentation on the Dairy Export Control Board, and recom-
mended that three additional representatives of the producers
should be appointed. What the Governments have done
through the Agricultural Council is to recommend that six,
instead of three, producer representatives should be added
to the Export Control Board.
The propaganda against the Governments’ proposals
to give this greater representation came—-mostly anonymously
—from either disgruntled butter merchants or ex-servants of
producers’ organisations.
The concluding paragraph is in the first person:
I am impelled to make this statement as such reputable
journals as the Sydney Bulletin and the “Farmer and Settler”
have swallowed these false and misleading premises of the
propagandists.
Interesting, no doubt, but scarcely a reply to
“Boards, Committees and Councils” in B. 31/7/’35.
Still, The Bulletin is glad to have the assurance
that it is a “reputable journal.” The description was
questioned by the Acting Prime Minister’s present
subordinate, Mr. Parkhill, when Dr. Page (then merely
the candid friend) was speaking in support of his
demand for a £20,000,000 reduction of taxes, now
evidently forgotten.
♦
Mechanising Politics.
Seven more or less idealistic gentlemen presented
themselves as U.A.P. candidates for the Fawkner
(Vic.) by-election. Six had had no experience of
“practical politics”; the seventh (and youngest), Mr.
Holt, had contested two elections unsuccessfully.
They all went along to a pre-selection gathering, and
found it reminiscent, in some respects, of the kind
of company meeting at which shareholders criticise
the management and the management listens in
cynical silence until it produces a mass of proxies
which re-elect it by a huge majority.
As one story goes, a charming Toorak ladv
turned up with 31 votes, an absolute majority.
They were all for Mr. Holt. Another candi-
date received 20 votes and a third two. Among
the defeated candidates were the only two returned
soldiers in the field and the only two residents of
Fawkner, which has an electoral population of 50,000.
Defeated ones unversed in the methods of the
machine age in politics started to investigate, and
discovered that there are more things in party selec-
tion than Horatius ever dreamed of. They found,
for one thing, that the Women’s National League
goes into these contests with a horseshoe in its dainty
glove—that, whatever happens, it demands half the
voting power and gets it. Further, that the mere
male section is divided between U.A.P. members and
Young Nationalists. It is only necessary for the
women to win one waverer from the U.A.P. or the
Young Nats., and the thing is done.
Naturally there was a rumpus, and Cr. A. H.
Woodfull, ex-Mayor of Prahran, announced that he
would stand without “endorsement.” Mr. Woodfull
asked, a trifle belatedly, why there should be any
pre-selection when preferential voting is provided
His argument is sound, but he should have
applied it before submitting himself. The .trouble is
that prospective candidates, like electors, are ignorant
of the methods of political parlies in gaining, not
objectives, but seats. Many wake up when it is too
late, as Mr. Woodfull did. He did not nominate.
Mr. Holt, it should be added, is not to be blamed
for the queer proceedings in which he figured. He
had to conform to U.A.P. methods of choosing candi-
dates, come out without “official” support—which
might conceivably injure him in his profession of
barrister —or stand down, thus sacrificing legitimate
political ambitions. He will assuredly win the seat
(his only opponent is a Labor gentleman who was
“selected by a ballot of members of the A.L.P. central
executive”), and he will probably make a good
member —his bearing suggests that he will be no
Yes-man. But, as one of the present High Court
Justices said when he was trying to fight the machine,
pre-selection should be outlawed. Ex-Attorney-
General Macfarlan is evidently of the same opinion,
and if his reforming zeal hasn’t flickered out he may
suggest something—perhaps the addition of clauses
forbidding pre-selection to preferential-voting laws.
* .
Our Relations with Japan.
From Moshi-moshi:
These diplomatic missions work wonders. Since Mr.
Latham’s historic visit to Japan we have received numerous
official and semi-official overtures from the Great Eight
Islands, and still the exchange of courtesies goes on. The
climax will be reached when an Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary reaches these shores in the person of
Mr. Debuchi.
1 met Mr. Debuchi when he was Assistant-Secretary of the
Foreign Office. He is the perfect diplomat, and looks
the part; in appearance he is more like a suave Latin than
an Oriental. His English is excellent, and his knowledge of
the world of affairs is of an order which makes the other
man realise how little he himself knows.
Yes, Mr. Debuchi will be a success in Canberra, Sydney
and Melbourne, but Australia should not allow that to
prevent its getting Japanese relations in the proper perspective.
Let us fall back on cold facts—economic facts —before we
find ourselves committed to a trade treaty which we may
rue.
The balance of trade is very much in our favor. There-
fore, Japan argues, we must buy more Japanese goods.
Nothing of the sort. It is only because we have a favorable
balance with one country that we can afford the luxury
of an unfavorable balance with another — e.g., U.S.A.
Japan’s unfavorable situation in the sphere of Australian
trade is undoubtedly offset by favorable circumstances in its
buying and selling elsewhere. Put quite simply, Japan’s
need of Australian goods is greater than Australia’s need of
Japanese goods. And we can increase our Japanese pur-
chases only at the expense of our imports from the U.K.
That will be one of the effects of any trade agreement with
Japan, however carefully drafted.
Japanese spokesmen, official and otherwise, have fre-
quently referred lately to some discriminatory tariff action
or other they are going to take —against Canada, not
against Australia: Australia at the moment is the white-
haired boy. In other words, to prepare the way for a trade
treaty which will benefit Japan, the diplomats of Tokio
are playing-off one part of the British Empire against another.
The Japanese, by and large, are a likeable people—
extremely so. But as a nation they have a world mission,
and it is well for us to understand what this world
mission is. When the Emperor Meiji restored Imperial rule
and established constitutional government, he made an oath
containing five clauses. In one of these he swore to do
away with “ancient evil customs” and to “bring light to the
dark corners of the earth.” Every Japanese believes that
the predominance of the white races is an “ancient evil
custom,” and that only when this is abolished will the earth’s
“dark corners” become enlightened. In other words, Japan’s
mission is to lead the non-whites of the world upwards from
dominance by the whites —not necessarily to conquer the
whites, Japanese will tell you, but just to be on terms of
equality with them.
What has this to do with Australia’s trade relations with
Japan? Everything, when it amounts to a choice between
appeasing Japan’s desire for increased exports and curtailing
our intra-Empire trade. Let us be good friends with the
Japanese by all means. They don’t mean us any harm, but
if it came to a show-down any colored race would get the
preference over us every time, just on principle. Good
friends with Nippon we should be, but not at the expense
of Old Man Bull and Brother Canuck.
*
Australia’s Oldest Hospital.
Australia’s first hospital was built at Dawes Point,
Sydney, in 1796, and it survived until 1816—a gloomy,
almost airtight, barracks, more like a morgue than
an infirmary. It was convenient to the gallows and
the Barrack-square, but when Lachlan Macquarie
saw it he was shocked.
Macquarie had spent a lot of time in hospitals
himself, and had taken enough mercury to make him
an authority on such things. Hence, on October 30,
1811, the foundation of a new building was laid in
Macquarie-street “by the Projector, his Excellency.”
This smacked roundly of the military barracks at
Culaba (Bombay)—two-storeyed, with wide, pillared
verandahs and plenty of windows, far ahead of its
time. It was financed by the grant of a spirit-importa-
tion license to Garnham Blaxcell, Alexander Riley and
Darcy Wentworth, who was principal surgeon—hence
the name Rum Hospital, William Redfern was
assistant, the staff was next to nothing, and patients
did their own cooking and washing in the wards.
In the ’forties the British Government handed the
building over to N. S. Wales, 20 years after Governor
Darling had collared the north wing as the first
Australian Legislative Council —it still serves as the
basis of the edifice in which Mr. Lang roars.
The hospital was placed under a board of direc-
tors, but the institution was not incorporated till 1884.
A new building, which looks like a bad dream of the
Tuileries, was opened in 1894. The ninetieth annual
report of the hospital has been issued while a com-
mittee is sitting to decide what shall be done with it
when Macquarie-street is remodelled.
It is a very different institution from the infir-
mary of the ’forties. For all its external ugliness, its
wards are wide and airy, each with self-contained
provender arrangements which make organisation
easy. It has on its staff 96 honoraiy doctors—leading
men in all branches of the profession—as well as 27
resident medicoes. There are a dozen special clinics,
a clinical school and a pathological institute —founded
with a donation of £25,000 by Kanematsus, the wool-
buyers, in memory of their chief partner. The assets
are valued at £389,000.
The 1934 records show 7090 indoor admissions,
18.754 new outpatients, 62,704 casualty cases treated,
6886 operations performed, and 5288 deep X-ray
therapy treatments given—-890 patients were handled
in the radium deparment.
The hospital does not resort to Golden Jest
methods of collection. Expenditure on normal
services was kept down to £94,874, against receipts
of £98,258 ; the Government provided £63,000, but
allowing for depreciation and capital expenditure there
was a deficit for the year of £549. There is still a
great deal to be done, especially in the provision
of specialist facilities for the treatment of complex
cases. But the institution has a businesslike manage-
ment, and it should be possible to reorganise it, when
rebuilt, on lines which will make it one of the Empire’s
finest hospitals.
—♦- ———•
His Majesty’s Mail.
Charmingly illustrative of the happy-go-lucky ways
of the Post Office and of Sydney methods of granting
bail—as often as not it is allowed to persons charged
with murder —was the case in which Joseph Harold
Ryan was charged with having stolen (or, alter-
natively, received) £lO,OOO in bank notes, the property
of the Commonwealth Bank, at Queanbeyan on Mav
1, 1931, by removing a mailbag in which they had
been forwarded from Sydney and substituting a
dummy.
Ryan was arrested not long after the robbery.
He absconded from bail and migrated to distant lands.
After long reflection in exile, he surreptitiously
returned a few weeks ago, feasted his aching eyes on
the sights of King’s Cross and gave himself up.
The Crown case depended largely on the evidence
of Percy Edward Jacobs and George Morris. Curtis,
K.C., who defended Ryan, described them as “unmiti-
gated liars.” The Crown Prosecutor, T. S. Crawford,
admitted that they were “miserable wretches as soft
as mud.”
But it is on such soft material that a master mind
works, and the Crown suggests that the master mind
is on trial here.
The notes, according to the Crown, were, on
April 30, 1931, lodged at the Registration Branch of
the Sydney G.P.O. for transmission to Canberra.
Evidence was given that on May 18 £lOO worth was
found in Ryan’s bedroom, £2OO worth in a locker in
a safe deposit and £7600 worth in a paddock near
Jamisontown, Penrith (N.S.W.).
The notes, it was shown, had been placed in a
registration bag in the G.P.0., and there, as Judge
Curlewis said, they “passed through many hands —I
counted 12 in the Post Office alone.” Enclosed within
an ordinary mailbag, they were sent to Queanbeyan on
the Cooma mail and dumped at 4 a.m. on the open
platform, “unguarded.” And “there were no lights
in the Canberra brake-van when the mails were loaded
into it.”
Jacobs described himself as a motor mechanic.
His story was that in March, 1931, he told Ryan
that someone in the Post Office thought it would be
easy to rob a mailbag, and that one Lynch arranged to
get “a registered bag, containing possibly £2OOO or
£3000,” marked. Jacobs and Ryan went to Quean-
beyan and saw three bags for Canberra taken out
of the train. Later, in Sydney, he saw Ryan with
a new canvas two or three seals and a name
tag. Lynch, who was present, asked Ryan to drive to
a stationer’s shop to buy a black crayon to mark the
bag. He himself went to Melbourne, where he was
arrested. Convictions? Yes; and they dated back
to 1911. He (Jacobs) got two years in 1928 for
conspiracy in money-order frauds, 23 months in 1931
tor receiving and six months for being a suspected
person. For about nine years before 1925 he was
employed “carrying mail matter for the Post Office.”
Morris said that in 1931 he was “unofficial post-
master” at Jamisontown. He detailed alleged conver-
sations with Ryan and Lynch about “certain money
for Canberra and other postal matters.” Later Ryan
came one morning and they buried £7600 in his
(Morris’s) paddock, where it was found by police
headed by Mr. Mackay, now Commissioner. Morris
had pointed out the spot.
Ryan, in a statement from the dock, said that
he never had seen Lynch in his life before he was
arrested ; that the evidence of Jacobs and Morris was
a pack of lies, and that before the police came
Morris had visited him, ostensibly to discuss a motor-
car purchase. Morris was left alone for a few
moments while Ryan went a message, Ryan drew
the inference that during his absence Morris planted
£lOO in his rooms.
Lancelot Lynch, called for the defence, said he
had been charged in connection with the robbery
and acquitted, being then restored to his original
position in the Post Office, which he had now
served for 21 years. So far from its being true
that he had ever had a new mailbag in a car with
Ryan or had asked to be transferred to the mail
branch, he had never seen Ryan in his life till 18
days after the robbery.
Lynch’s evidence doubtless made a powerful
impression, and his Honor described Morris and
Jacobs as “utterly lost to all sense of honor and
decency.” The jury found Ryan not guilty on both
counts.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
"Keg”: Who said the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Road Transport was not busi-
nesslike? When a mass meeting of its
employees was called recently to formu-
late a protest against departmental
methods, it put extra trams on the road
to cope with the extra traffic.
♦ * * *
“General Prac.”: It does me good to
note that a Sydney suburban butcher has
been fined for adding sulphurous acid
to a mess of minced meat. Butcher’s
minced meat is a poor apology for a
meal. Sulphurous acid is used for the
manufacture of cellulose, ultramarine
and bleaching agents for straw, bristles,
waxes, oils and wool. Swallowed in
small lots, it causes running of the eyes,
“veiling of the cornea” (which means an
impairment of vision), coughing and
bronchitis.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; The Art Gallery of S.A. gave
iiself a good advertisement lately while
allowed the use of a vacant showcase
right in the King William-street doorway
of the new Colonial Mutual building. Jt
showed each week some fresh treasure
of glass or china, with a brief notice that
this was only one of hundreds to be seen
at the gallery. There were some news-
paper murmurs about the risk of
vandalism or accident; but nothing un-
toward happened, and anyway the case
was soon hired for a dress-goods display.
, Art has a poor chance against Millinery.
“Mid-Sussex”; A street photographer
was fined the other day, but perhaps the
brotherhood will take heart again when
it hears what an old Sydney lady had to
say about it. The dear soul had been
snapped as she walked up Market-street,
and turned to her escort. “What do you
think?” she beamed. “I've had my
photograph taken by the press five times
to-day. It’s so thrilling!”
* * * *
“Shep”; I note that some Sydney Uni-
versity students have been answering a
questionnaire as to whether they would
enlist for active service if they were
wanted. Forty-four per cent, said they
wouldn’t, and 41 per cent, said they
would ; but a more honest answer than
either would have been that they couldn’t
tell what they would do. I remember in
my last term at school in 1912 our
teacher giving us a frank talk on war.
He spoke of crippling wounds and fevers,
how only a fraction were decorated as
heroes, how many never returned and
were apparently soon forgotten. When
he then asked how many were keen to
go fighting we were pacifists. Before 1
came back from France they sent me a
photo, of the still-incomplete school
honor roll, and that lecture was brought
home to me as I ran down the list of
names on it. Most of them were offi-
cially too young to leave Australia till
about 1917, yet a few fought on Gal-
lipoli, and many paid the supreme price
in the Somme hell in 1916. I will hazard
that the Uni. pacifists of to-day would
act, if the emergency came, just as the
youthful undergrads, of 1914-18 did.
* .1! * *
“’Badian”: In his dissertation on
colored society in the 'Loo (B. 31/7/’35)
“Hamer” refers to “a Creole-looking
man.” Few words are more misused.
The French in the West Indies applied
it only to pure whites born in those
islands or in Louisiana. Among famous
Creoles was Josephine Beauharnais, who
achieved some notoriety by marrying one
Napoleon Bonaparte. Outwardly, at
least, Josephine was as white as her
spouse, who, as a Corsican, has been
accused of having African blood in his
veins, acquired from Moorish pirates.
* * * *
“Jem”: “Rupert Robot’s” par. (B.
26/6/’35) about the vagaries of Jay Peas
recalls my friend Mick Murphy of Wire-
grass, who, on his first day of magis-
terial office, illegally married a couple
and, a quarter of an hour later formally
“divorced” them. The son and heir of
old Woolbags had been disowned be-
cause he wanted to marry a housemaid at
the pub, but the Bush Brother was miles
out of town at the moment, so Mick,
who had an old score against Woolbags,
"Well, what do YOU Want?"
cheerfully volunteered to do the job.
After having “married” the pair Mick
strolled into the bank and informed a
startled manager of his prowess. “Good
God, man!” cried the banker, “you
haven’t the power to marry without a
special license.” Mick stood dumb for
one minute, and then made post-haste
for the pub, where he explained the situa-
tion to the “married couple.” He never
told us how they received the announce-
ment.
* * * *
“Mr. Wemmick”: That judicial com-
ment on straw bailors (B. 31 /7/’35) had
the merit of drawing some interesting in-
formation from the police about profes-
sional finders of bail. According to the
Hops, there is a class of moneylender in
Sydney which specialises in advancing
cash bail, exacting a tremendous rate of
interest. Moreover, these guarantors
have the hide sometimes to apply for the
return of their money when their man
has bolted, and they have been known
to get it.
* * *
“Plato’s Brother”: Queensland Pre-
mier Forgan Smith recently indicated
the Government’s intention to do some-
thing toward improving the tourist traffic
to the Great Barrier Reef; a few days
later the “Courier-Mail” came out with
a semi-official announcement that what
was contemplated was an invitation to
an author of international reputation
with the idea of his writing a book about
the Reef. It hinted that the choice
had fallen upon Zane Grey. Next day
Randolph Bedford, with all the fire
and acidity of his Bulletin days, asked
why not also a book on Cooper’s Creek
by Ethel M. Dell. He derided the idea
of any good coming to the Reef through
a romance about Alkali Ike shooting
Two-gun Mike to save the Lazy B for
Alkali Ike’s beautiful daughter, and
there wall be many to agree with him
and go further. There are Australian
writers who have spent years studying
the Barrier Reef at first-hand. A man
with the descriptive capacity for such a
book might even be found in Foghorn’s
own State.
$ * * *
‘ Mac”: My “theory” about the evo-
lution of the kilt from the tunic and
cross-garter was derived from the illus-
trations in Hutchinson's Story of the
Nations, which were specially painted
for the text and certified as correct by
prominent historians. Consequently,
when I see Alexander 11. in tunic, cloak
and cross-gartercd troon, for example, I
cannot accept “Cateran’s” word (B.
24/7/’35) that I am really looking at a
fine-screen half-tone block of someone
in an Indian sari.
* # * *
“D.”: From the “S. M. Herald”:
“Loyalty,” said Mrs. Mackinnon, is
one of the most beautiful words in the
British langauge.”
How well 1 remember when I thought
so too! But beauty in words is entirely
a matter of associations. To me, since
the war, “loyalty” has come to mean
politicians blethering about the Empire
with their minds on the K.B.E. market ;
jubilee medallists; regimented children
singing the National, Langite or Red
Anthem (for loyalty is exploited by every
section); and out-of-work Diggers—the
only ones who risked anything for loyalty.
“Pacifist” is another beautiful word that
has been ruined by its associations. It
used to conjure up thoughts of the most
inspiring message that was ever given to
man. During the war it meant a con-
chie ; after the Armistice a pacifist be-
came a Bolshie, and the disfigurement of
the word was complete. There isn't a
word in the language that remains beau-
tiful for a year or so after it has been
politicalised.
* * * *
"Don B.”: It is not so many years
since immigration propagandists in
Britain found themselves hard put to
it to convince “chooms” that Australia
was not a land of perpetual Now
so many snow areas are being discovered
and exploited that it looks like rivalling
Switzerland as an ideal spot for winter
sports. The sudden rise of this form of
athletics has led many to repeat the age-
old story of changing climate; there
were no snow sports when they were boys.
But the snow areas have been opened
up only in recent years. A generation
back they lay beyond the mountains, and
nobody knew they were there. Even
Mount Donna Buang, only 30-odd miles
from Melbourne, was so cut off from
civilisation that only a few knew of its
existence. But exploration and the
motor-car have changed all that. On a
recent Sunday 1000 cars passed through
the nearest township. Warburton. on
their way to the snows of Donna Buang,
and there were 1700 cars on the summit
later in the day, while half as many
were held up on the road to keep the
gangway open. The youth with skis
over his shoulder is almost as common
in Collins-street now as the youth with
the tennis racquet.
* * * *
“Fives”; Reference to Syd Deamer's
start in journalism as a reporter on the
Sydney “Sun” reminds me that, before
that, he and another returned soldier
blossomed out in Sydney as newspaper
proprietors. Their weekly was designed
to record the sporting activities of all
Sydney schools, primary and secondary.
Writer held the high position of special
blurb provider, his job being to visit two
or three schools a week and interview
the sportsmaster—a wearisome experi-
ence, though he was fold at Balmain of
the cricket promise of a boy named
Jackson. Coming out of a big Western
Suburbs school one lunch hour I noticed
the kids thronging out of a stationer's
cramming a paper remarkably like our
“.School Sportsman” into their pockets. It
put me in good spirits until the shop-
keeper enlightened me. “That ain’t your
paper,” he said—“it’s ’Blue Bits’” (a
weekly devoted to the mysteries of pony-
racing). “Surely those brats aren’t
punters?” I asked. “Not them,” was the
reply. “They buy it for the spicy stories
on the back page.” The "School Sports-
man” had a brief career.
* « * *
“Tenor”: Wireless has destroyed the
leisurely march of a song from the cities
to the back country. Time was when
it took two or three years for a song
to travel from Brisbane to Bedourie, even
if it was a red-hot favorite. I read ol
“Bananas” in the home of its origin. I
heard it being hummed, whistled, sung
and played in the cities about ’23, but it
was ’26 before it arrived at the back of
Boulia. It was much the same with
“Only a Leaf,” which took Brisbane by
storm about 1900. Early in ’O3 I heard
it as a new song in a shed near Winton,
and the performer was looked upon with
a deal of admiration. But nowadays,
with wireless blaring day and night, the
man at Booroolooloo is placed on an
equal footing with the baldhead in the
front row of the stalls.
# * * *
“Ex-Beggar”: Amid all the talk about
chain letters and contravention of the
Lotteries Acts it doesn’t seem to have
occurred to anyone that the letters may
be illegal for a different reason alto-
gether. Doesn’t it clearly come under
the head of “soliciting alms”? The fact
that the 10s. (or whatever the amount
asked) goes to a third person is no more
justification for begging than if I stand
on a street corner and ask passers-by to
put money in my grandfather’s hat. If
the sender claims that he is offering some-
thing in return, I’ll admit that he is mak-
ing some kind of an offer, but it is one
that he has no power to fulfil. The
return depends upon the actions of some
thousands of other persons over whom
he has no control, and whom he does
not even know. That he himself has
sent 10s. to an earlier beggar has nothing
to do with the case; he personally is
making no offer to anyone.
if * * *
“Oxmead”: One of those ladies who
periodically supply the Empire with
explanations of the persistent celibacy of
the Prince of Wales got this into a
Sydney paper the other day:
I am perfectly certain that, if he walked
along the Thames Embankment and saw a
girl absolutely destitute and married her,
the whole Empire would take her to its
heart.
It requires a powerful imagination to
feature the Prince finding his soul's
affinity in rags on the Thames Embank-
ment. Still, I suppose the lady had Tenny-
son's King Cophetua in mind for a pre-
cedent. I always had a vague idea that
the impressionable monarch was a
mediaeval Dane until the Thames Em-
bankment par. revived my interest in this
precipitate and silent courtship)—on the
lady’s part. Then I found that the twin
souls were really Africans —hard as it is
to picture “dark hair and lovesome mien"
in one of that race—and that Tennyson
borrowed the story from Shakspeare.
How much and how chivalrously he re-
fined it may be discerned from the
original in “Love’s Labor’s Lost.” "The
magnanimous and most illustrious King
Cophetua set eyes upon the pernicious
and most indubitable beggar Zenelophon '
—and in modern parlance fell for her;
she vamped him. But as to what hap-
pened to the beggar-maid after she be-
came a queen, the authorities are silent.
Somehow I doubt if the courtiers took
her to their hearts as enthusiastically as
was expected.
DISCIPLINE.
“In an address at the Trades Hall Mr. Lang
stressed the importance of returning to Parliament
men who were amenable to discipline.”
They should, of course, have ready tongues
And ringing tones their creed to tell.
Anil one may reckon leather lungs
As equally desirable.
Bin, mind, before the chance you sci/e
lo give this sort of chap a spin.
You ought to feel assured that he’s
Amenable to discipline.
A Labor member may possess
A brain of worth, a heart of gold;
I ittlc they'll profit him unless
He docs exactly what he’s told.
To recommend himself to me,
The favors 1 dispense to win,
The sturdiest democrat must be
Amenable to discipline.
My lightest word is law, he’ll find;
He mustn’t dare my will to cross;
The noisiest Caucus tags behind
Obediently while I’m The Boss,
it’s learned, whene’er I make a move,
To follow me through thick and thin,
And woe to him who doesn’t prove
Amenable to discipline!
The candidate who gets a chance
To bear the party flag on high
Must realise I look askance
On followers who reason why.
I crack my whip, and like a shot
The well-trained pack comes tumbling in,
And out the blighter goes who’s not
Amenable to discipline.
The wheel will turn, it’s pikestaff-plain,
The pendulum again will swing;
And things will come our way again
As certain sure as—anything.
And this is all I’m praying for,
When next my term of rule begin,
Disciples and a Governor
Amenable to discipline.
N.S.VV.
T. THE R.


“Kellick": A very odd coincidence.
Recently Liverpool (N.S.W.) camp was
occupied by men of the R.A.N. under-
going instruction in land warfare. At
nights there were lectures on various sub-
jects by competent officers. Lieut.-Com.
Porter, “putting over” the Battle of Jut-
land, recalled that “when the Indefati-
gable blew up there were but seven sur-
vivors, only one of whom was a sea-
man.” Unknown to the speaker, there
was present in his audience Able Seaman
Elliot, the man referred to.
* * * *
“Vic”: I met McTavish in the street
laughing quietly to himself. “Mon,”
says he, “d’ye ken the day?” “ Tis the
last day for income-tax returns,” 1 ven-
tured. “It is,” says Mac, “an’ ’tis a
bonny occasion. Ma auld woman, noo—
in December, ye ken, she wins a hun-
dred poond in th’ lottery. ’Mac,’ says
she, ‘ye’re ower flushed. Ah’m thenken
th’ drink’ll carry ye off yet.’ And she
puts th’ whole bang lot in insurance on
me life. An’, och” —Mac giggled—“she
caught th’ influenzee, an’ noo she’s deed.
An’ ” —he burst into a roar —“Ah find
she’s spent three hundred poond from
oor savings insuring me agin accident,
forbye she thought a fram’d be killin’
me soon on account o’ th’ whusky.”
The roar developed into a yell as Mac-
concluded : “An’ me income f’ the yeer’s
three-eighty poond.” His face fell
suddenly: “ Tis a peety me salary was
no raised. Mon, I hate to lose th’ dee-
duction fer funeral expenses.”
"Patient Forty-seven's asleep. would you mind drinking this for him?"
“Coif”: The policeman who traps
sellers of liquor at forbidden hours by
posing as a thirsty civilian is seldom
popular with any grade of society. So Mel-
bourne is quite bucked over the setback
given by the Camberwell (Vic.) Bench to
a bunch of bobbies who went to a restau-
rant as civilians and called for beet.
They got it, but when, after defendant
had been convicted, they applied for the
cost of the beer, prices of their admission
and tram fares, the Bench reckoned
it over the odds, despite assurances that
this was the usual procedure. It allowed
the tram fares.
* *
"Kurffirst”: Prince is an anomalous
sort of title in Europe. Outside Britain
and Spain it may mean anything or
nothing. However, Prince Schonburg-
Waldenburg, now in Australia, is one of
the very few authentic German royal
“Prinzes” and no mere “FUrst” (rank-
ing below dukes) or courtesy-
title holder. His tiny Saxon
kingdom has gone the way of
all German principalities, but
even Hitler has not been able
to divest him of his long list
of Christian names —-“Marie
Charles Leopold Salvator
Ernest Antoine Joseph Francis
Xavier Frederick Boniface
Bcnno Jaime.” Bound on a
deep-sea fishing expedition, he
seems to be a fine, open-air
type of young man ready to
try anything in the sporting line once —
even cricket, which he played on the ship.
* * * *
“Selma”: Certainly the idea still lingers
that it is dangerous to awaken somnam-
bulists suddenly (B. 31/7/’35). Speaking
generally, it is true enough, but there is
one safe means of awakening the victim,
and that is by contact with water. I
know a small girl who walks frequently
in her sleep, and who, if awakened by any
other means, suffers from nervous pros-
tration for hours. But she can step into
the pan of cold water the family always
places at the foot of the stairs before re-
tiring. waken and go calmly back to bed.
* * * *
“Sinnik’s” scheme:
The more I consider the failure made by
Lyons, Gullett and the rest to sell our goods
in England, or even induce a Briton to face
the rigors of Canberra as G.-G., the more con-
vinced I am that the thousands lavished on
the expedition were foredoomed to be wasted.
Picture Lyons trying to sell a car or Gullett
insisting in throaty Parliamentese on the merits
of a vacuum-cleaner! 1 wouldn’t give either
of them a chance in a thousand. Economic
nationalism having reached the stage it has,
Australia needs as trade ambassadors, not
tired (or even fairly energetic) party hacks,
but alert go-getters. The sort of iron-jawed
hustlers who can go out into our open spaces
disguised as Randwick trainers and sell a
farmer Peter Pan cheap for cash. England’s
governing classes are largely composed of senti-
mentalists, and most of them are timidly re-
luctant to offend loyalists from the Dominions.
But they have to be handled intelligently. I
knew an expatriate who, by never taking a
house or flat or staying at the same hotel for
more than six months, dodged paying English
income tax for 15 years. Bowled out, owing
to an enemy’s treachery, he reduced a high
official at Somerset House to tears with a
picture of what would happen to his innocent
wife and family if he had to pay up. What
a man for a trade envoy!
“Exdig": The presence in Australia of
Col. Nunneley, who was commandant of
the internment camp for German ps.-0.-w.
of the officer class at Donnington Hall
recalls the old “furphy about the alleged
luxurious treatment of these prisoners.
A special branch of propaganda was re-
sponsible. In the aerodrome at Hon-
deghem, deserted as being too close to
the line when the Germans made their
push in 1918, there were found stacks
of booklets said to have been set up and
printed by German prisoners for friends
in Germany. The photographs showed
the prisoners lounging in the library,
rowing on the lake and in other ways
luxuriating in captivity. This stuff.
“Many happy returns to the Jolliboy twins. This call comes to them
from their mum and dad and dear old grandfather."
dropped over the German lines by our
'planes, was apparently designed to show
the fighting Germans how much better
off they would be as prisoners of war :
perhaps it did incline some of them to
surrender. But some of the Diggers
with me, taking the booklets seriously,
were nearly mutinous over them.
* * * *
“J.M.”: Touching the complaint (B.
17/7/’35) about the unreality of the
story in which fantastic squatters coolly
gamble for thousands in an outback
pub, reality isn't what overseas maga-
zine editors want, or their readers,
either. This is what the editors of a
great American magazine sent to me
recently: “What we want are fairy-
tales written so craftily that they appear
real. We have very few rules, but we
are prepared to break any of them to
let in a good story.” The picture of
the squatters sitting in the pub parlor
with a fortune in the kitty gave the
story color, and the situation isn’t beyond
the power of imagination, although the
writer didn’t believe it, the editor didn’t
believe it, and probably none of the
readers did. The last, after all, are the
persons whose tastes have to be studied.
They buy magazines to be beguiled, not
instructed. That’s why editors buy that
stuff for them. That’s why writers, who
know differently, write that stuff.
* * * *
"Hiketea”: Maorilandcrs know some-
thing about mead (B. 26/6/’35), but
experiments of pioneers
have been somewhat
discouraging. An en-
terprising be e k eeper
near Christchurch, find-
ing that his honey had
dropped in price, turned
it into the old English
drink. When he began
selling it to the neigh-
bors, the police stepped in. confiscated
400 gallons and caused the brewer to be
fined £3O.
* * * £
“Whitehall”: A N. S. Wales politician
pointed to a couple of luxury cars.
“Ministers must have them,” he re-
marked. “Why?” “They would be
harassed if they walked about the streets.
Constituents. Beggars. Cranks with
grievances. Wire-pullers. Why even a
private member like myself” It is
the alleged justification for a convention
that is responsible for more ill-will
towards Parliaments and the democratic
system generally than any other form of
political ostentation. In London on a
fine day, when Parliament is sitting, you
can see Baldwin. Chamberlain and other
Ministers with faces as familiar as Big
Ben’s turning out of Downing-streel on
foot on their way to Parliament, stroll-
ing across the _Green Park to Pall Mall
in unmolested’ freedom. The spectacle
of a British Minister's wife shopping in
a Government car, which is fairly
common in most Australian cities, would
shock London to its marrow. It would
shock Sydney and Melbourne also if
they hadn’t got used to it. Meanwhile
the underlying spirit of resentment is
intense. So much so that the first U.A.P.
Premier who scraps his departmental
cars, hires taxis for special occasions,
and at other times uses trains, trams and
the streets, as Henry Parkes and the
other old-timers used to. might well
become a national idol.
* * * *
“Dan’l Boone”: I am afraid “H.A.L.”
is a bit mixed when he says (B. 31/7/’35)
the backwoodsman's rifle was a smooth-
bore. These weapons were mostly made
in Pennsylvania, and, though the round
bullet was small compared with the “16-
10-the-pound” slugs for old Brown Bess,
it was about 40 calibre. The greased
patch was used to make the bullet take
the rifling, for it was small enough to be
dropped down the barrel without the
patch. In the older rifles, such as some of
our own troops of that day used, the
bullet had to be hammered down through
the grooving with a wooden mallet on
the iron ramrod —a long job. The Ameri-
can rifles were loaded in much less time,
and their more rapid fire was one of their
advantages. I like the bit, though, about
every British soldier being shot between
the eyes—it has the true Yankee touch.
* * * *
“D.J.” on dialects;
The English professor who told “G. Trotter”
(B. 31/7/’35) that “the change in the dialect
of Londoners was due to the fact that East
and West had mingled in the trenches” strikes
me as a superficial observer. East and West
didn’t mingle in the trenches to any extent:
West nearly always got a commission and saw
no more of East thereafter than a post-
war Guardee does of one of his regiment’s other
ranks. Anyhow, so many English, Scottish,
Welsh and Irish dialects were to be heard in
the trenches that the East End one tended to
get lost in the turmoil. I have met ex-imperial
soldiers who never heard a Cockney accent till
they came to Australia. Finally, English
accents in all the classes are constantly chang-
ing. Educated Elizabethans mouthed their
“i’s” like a well-known type of radio announ-
cer: “shiivc” was “shrave” to Shakspeare. In
the eighteenth century and for some generations
afterwards “i” became “ee” in fashionable
London circles. Simultaneously peers and
their families often used country dialects. It
happens to an extent to this day. I was at
Oxford with a youth of ancient descent and
considerable wealth who was careful to pro-
nounce “wine” “woine”: it distinguished him
from the arty undergrads., whose genteel affec-
tations he despised. There have been flights
from gentility on the part of English aristos.
in almost every age—hence the habit which
untin* people developed of dropping their
“g’s” and “h’s” in the nineteenth century. The
accent of the London poor has changed out of
all recognition in the last 40 years; compare
Sam Weller and Herbert Mundin in “Caval-
cade.” Since the war another change has
become noticeable from end to end of Eng-
land : millions are using more or less bogus
versions of the “public-school accent.” A re-
feened voice is as easy to pick up as a line
of patter on modernist art or poetry, given
plenty of models. Such voices are to be
heard in Australia, but the war is not to blame.
The impetus, here as in England, is being pro-
vided by English talkie stars and radio an-
nouncers with self-consciously English acents.
QUITE DEFINITELY SHORTER.
"Kathiug-gowas this season will be quite definitely
shorter. ” —Fashion item.
Although we still bemoan the call
That grim Depression paid us.
Though optimists are apt to pall
And pessimists upbraid us,
I feel that brighter days are near,
That life will be to me more dear
In every phase and quarter,
Because to-day there comes to me
My morning paper’s guarantee
That bathing-gowns this year will be
Quite definitely shorter.
I know the damsel of the sands
In all her snappy stages,
Her progress in surf-suited bands
Across the dailies’ pages,
When in a gown that lacks a back
She aims to burn herself as black
As any Darwin lubra.
But, black or white, she'll still enjoy
Herself and life without alloy,
And shoot, beside her latest boy.
The breakers at Maroubra.
Here’s to the siren of the surf!
She is the only reason
I tight the litre of tote and turf
When comes the summer season.
I watch her as in twos and threes,
With perms, a-tossing in the breeze.
She comes with Bert and Stanley,
By ferry, bus, by car or tram,
To join the feckless, reckless jamb
With Pat and Pete and Perce and Pam
Upon the shore at Manly.
And now what bliss to be aware
That when I east a fond eye
Upon the maidens slim and rare
That throng the beach at Bondi,
Jo whom 1 said “See you some more!”
Farewclling them the year before.
I’m sure to find it sorter
Confirmed, my airy prophecy,
Though spoken then so carelessly.
For summer comes when gowns will be
Appreciably shorter.
N.S.W.
IROY.


A Factory-freshness, distinguishing
Smoothness, Coolness, and Flavour,
await you in every tin of Craven ‘A*
Cigarettes . . . they never vary and
they are absolutely non-irritating.
10 for 9 d —2o for 1/6
Wrapped in moisture-proof
Cellophane for factory-fresh-
“They
have not
provoked
a single
Cough
from me”
JI94SM/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats—
5
1/
POLITICAL POINTS
Mainly through the good offices of
British Minister Eden and the French
Premier, Laval, Italy and Abyssinia have
agreed to let the Wal-Wal issue go to
arbitration again ; and the League Coun-
cil is to “consider all aspects of the dis-
pute on September 4.” It doesn’t mean
that there will be no African war ; but a
month has been gained, and every minute
counts.
Lang, misquoting Professor Giblin,
says “default on overseas interest pay-
ments is inevitable for Australia.” A
thought by Wish out of Sour Grapes.
“Twelve new positions, with minimum
salaries totalling £4222 a year, have been
created in the Department of Com-
merce,” now fun by Dr. Page. First-
fruits of the doctor’s “national councils,”
no doubt.
Dunstan reckons last year’s loss on the
Vic. railways at £559,000. Receipts in-
clude £526,400 voted from tax-revenue to
finance reductions in freight charges and
operations on “non-paying” lines; but,
even so, the result is over a million better
than that of the competition-strangling
N.S.W. department.
Now it’s Corser, M.H.R., who is say-
ing that “the C.P.N. must go.” The
C.P.N. was the answer to the newspaper
editor’s prayer for “united action against
the common enemy” {i.e.. Labor), and at
the late appeal to an enlightened elec-
torate its Nat. wing was reduced to three
(3) seats.
Delegates to the Enipire Surveyors’
Conference were ‘“amazed” that Aus-
tralia has “2,000,000 square miles of un-
surveyed land.” And well they might be
after comparing Australian maps with
those of Siam and of Burma,' which
are reproduced accurately and geodeti-
cally on a four-mile-to-the-inch scale,
with 25ft. elevations shown.
Victorian politicians are among the
“Crown employees” for whom more pay
is provided in Dunstan’s Budget. The
definition should interest Stevens, especi-
ally as, when introducing the bill tighten-
ing up soldier-preference, he insisted that
the original Act applied, and applies still,
to the Crown. It will be awkward if
Wilkins, the one-legged Digger who lost
the Bathurst seat, is nominated for the
Senate vacancy as a Crown employee
entitled to preference.
Only eight of the 13 Commonwealth
Ministers could be assembled for last
week’s series of Cabinet meetings, held
in Sydney, and one dropped out with
’flu. Of course, it had to be Casey, who,
faithful soul that he is, was summoned
from “the administrative capital” in the
depth of winter and arrived at the Min-
isters’ capital with a cold.
Melbourne “Age” gives a general sup-
port to Scullin, but must find him very
trying at times. It declared the other
day that Australia urgently needs a
battleship, “in guns, armor and speed
among the best in the world”; but
about the same time its protege was char-
acterising “the purchase of a cruiser
overseas” as “indefensible.” It was
Scullin who scrapped compulsory train-
ing, and, purblind pacifist that he is,
that’s how he would leave Australia —
“indefensible.”
The Commonwealth made small
annual allowances to Bamford and
Mathews, Ms.H.R., in their declining
years, and is making others to the
widows of ex-Minister E. J. Russell and
McGrath, formerly Chairman of Com-
mittees. It may be asked to vote an-
other to the widow of Walter Kings-
mill, ex-President of the Senate. Kings-
mill was in public life for 37 years (1897-
1934), with a break of only 18 months
or so. He always lived in a modest way,
and it is a lasting proof of his faithful
performance of his duties that he died
poor.
The latest achievement of the Nazis,
according to the cables, is to declare
“black” the “lascivious” lemon, and to
order all true sons of the Fatherland to
consume only the 100 per cent. Nordic
rhubarb. What would happen to a
Berlin restaurateur who dared to put
jewfish on his menu is horrible to con-
template.
Justifiable outcries against the menace
of abandoned open mining shafts have
arisen in Victoria since the death of a
boy at Bendigo. There is no reason why
every shaft should not be covered to-
day. In the past, the only method of
preventing danger was to fill up the hole
at considerable expense ; now ferro-con-
crete has so developed that it would be
a simple and cheap device to case over
every such opening with a solid lid that
could not be shifted except
by a plug of gelignite. Any
capable pair of concreters
would do such a job in an
eight-hour day.
With great expenditure of
effort and invidious language
about “Independents” (one
of them was Rosenthal, of
Mont St. Quentin), Sydney’s
Citizens’ Reform Association
got its nominees in for the
City Council vacancies, but
each failed of a majority on
“Mr. Lang has launched a penny fund to finance an overwhelming Labor victory’ at
the next Commonwealth elections?"
“Please put a penny in the old man's hat!"
the first count; McCall, M.H.R., indeed,
scored only 899 primaries out of 2282.
Obviously the young man doesn’t carry
as much weight in the city as Citizens’
Reform thought that he did, nor does
Citizens’ Reform. Only 38 p.c. of the
electors voted in Macquarie and 42 p.c.
in Fitzroy.
Taxation departments have a nice
sense of delicacy. A “prosecuting
officer” whose duty it is to squeeze the
last due farthing out of N. S. Wales
laggards signs himself “John Rook.” He
should offer to transfer his name by
deed poll to one of the political caste
that maintains the 12 income taxes.
Strathfield (N.S.W.) Council is noted
for financial stability and fair dealing, so
when AJd. Firth, its representative on
the Local Government Association, de-
nounced what he described as “one of the
most wretched swindles ever perpetrated
by the City Council,” the general body
of aldermen was all attention. It seems
that, before perforce handing over its
electric-lighting concern to the County
Council shortly to be chosen, the City
Council cut street-lighting charges 10 p.c.
to 35 p.c., awarding itself the 35 p.c.
How this joint will get along when its
monopoly is dragged from it the Lord
only knows. It can’t even run a public
golf course without losing £BO or £9O a
week, though its links are the most cen-
tral and cheaply accessible in Australia.
Westralian Labor has another griev-
ance. It asked Downing-street to let its
periodical wrangle with the Leg. Council
go before the judicial committee of the
Privy Council so that the question of
predominance might be settled ; and was
told it could be done only with the con-
currence of both Houses. This has
prompted S.A. Parliamentary draftsman
E. L. Bean to mention that in his State,
and in Westralia and Victoria likewise,
even where money bills are concerned,
“the Constitution contains no machinery
for enabling either House to force its will
on the other.” The Commonwealth
Constitution does: the Senate is for-
bidden by Section 53 to “amend pro-
posed laws imposing taxation [which
must originate in the other House] or
proposed laws appropriating revenue or
money for the ordinary annual services
of the Government.”
A brisk argument between P, J.
O’Shea, the new chairman of the Q.T.C.,
and Home Secretary Hanlon has been
interesting Brisbane. O’Shea, who is a
solicitor, pronounced it unfair that his
club should “provide a beautiful course
and excellent prize-money to keep
hundreds of gambling in the city,”
and suggested that s.-p. bookmakers
should be gaoled. Hanlon replied that
“the idea” was “an absurdity,” and coun-
tered with the fatuous suggestion that
“clubs should give better service” —
whatever that may mean —or “admit
people to the course free,” He was in-
comparably more effective in objecting to
the Post Office placing its machinery at
the disposal of lawbreakers —even “trunk-
line telephones,” he said, “are booked for
entire afternoons by ‘these people.’ ”
A Westralian royal commission which
had Willcock, the Minister of “Just Us,”
for chairman has recommended liberal-
isation of the Leg. Council franchise and
substitution of 15 provinces returning
two members for 10 returning three;
also compulsory voting for the Assembly,
extension of its life from three years
to four and admission to the
voting lists of half-castes and “per-
sons in receipt of assistance from the
State or from any charitable institution.”
Abolition of the salutary provision re-
quiring members accepting office to go
before their constituents is also sug-
gested. But the present Parliament is on
its last legs, and there is small chance
of its accepting any of the proposals.
Scullin points out that the benefits of
the conversion forced ip 1931 are fast
disappearing because of the new loan-
drunk:—
Annual interest on debts held in Aus-
tralia was reduced by the conversion
from £29,470,000 to £22,840,000. It is now
£27,400,000.
A serious matter unquestionably; but,
having inferentially condemned borrow-
ing, this great financial reformer pro-
ceeds to justify it:
In times of depression, when unem-
ployment is great, public works must be
expanded.
That’s Scullin all over.
The U.S.A. has 96 Federal Senators,
representing 48 States. Opponents of the
New Deal are complaining that 10
States with 20 Senators pay three-fourths
of the income-tax revenue collected from
individuals. Tn Australia taxpayers in
the three big Slates, which have only 18
of the 36 Senators, pay nine-tenths of
the Commonwealth income tax and con-
tribute to the three small States, in special
grants alone, more than their local
income-tax collections. Yet the only
complaints heard are from small-State
politicians, Ogilvies, Dwyer-Grays and
MacCallum Smiths, whose yarn is that the
big States oppress them so sorely that
they’ll have to secede.
Though interest on Commonwealth
loans is not taxed by the States, “interest
received on fixed deposits effected in the
F.C.T. by N.S.W. residents, N.S.W. com-
panies or other companies carrying on
business in N.S.W. is subject to tax for
both Federal and State purposes.” So it is
set down in the Directions to Taxpayers
which citizens of this overtaxed country
have been trying to assimilate. It is
doubtful whether the State impost is con-
stitutionally enforceable, and as a place
yearning for enterprise and population
’Berra ought to object.
Some of the meanest things recorded
in Australia these days are being done
by Government transport departments,
particularly in N.S.W. Witness the one-
man Government buses that career along
hilly Mosman streets, the periodical
boast that the Government railways have
grabbed a bit more of the furniture-
carriers’ trade (by means of savage taxes
and shabby espionage) and, now, the
announcement that a Government restau-
rant is to be opened in one of the under-
ground railway stations serving only the
city and subbubs —in a neighborhood
swarming with hotels, cafes and tea-
shops. The losses will, of course, be
charged up to the taxpayer, but the
theory in these departments is that the
taxpayer has a bottomless purse and will
stand anything.
(J. E. Webb and J. B. Dailey, 252 George-
street, Sydney.]


CRACKER GOES TO THE DOGS.


«
TOM
A
£
5.27-C
SHELL
Even after a winter night’s exposure
your engine leaps to life at the first
whirr of the starter if you’re using Super
Shell.
The Super volatility of this remarkable
spirit gives faster winter starting than has
ever been possible before.
It fires as easily when dead-cold as previous
spirits did after idling and warming-up.
And easy starting is only one advantage.
Super Shell’s super volatility also gives
super pick-up . . . super power . . . super
mileage. You SAVE money while enjoying
advantages never offered before!
PERSONAL ITEMS
Brisbane claims the oldest survivor of
the Indian Mutiny in John Mair, of Red
Hill. John was born in Scotland 96 years
ago.
A genuine old-timer was J. B. Fry,
lately dead in S.A. His favorite recol-
lections were (1), as a baker’s boy,
taking breakfast rolls to Charles
Dickens; (2) seeing, as a boy in the
Navy, the taking of Sebastopol.
“Hatch”; Dennis Connelly, originator
of Billy and Tilly, the Australian native
bears in M.-G.-M.’s new film cartoon,
was one of The Bulletin’s discoveries.
After doing much good work in Aus-
tralia he went to London “Daily Mail.”
At 40 the former cartoonist has a big
staff of artists and draughtsmen under
him in his English studio.
Harold Luxfon, ex-Lord Mayor of
Melbourne, succeeds the late University
Chancellor MacFarland as chairman of
directors of the National Mutual Life.
T. Luxton, M.L.C., the new chairman’s
father, made a pile in mining and
acquired James McEwan Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne’s leading hardware store, amongst
other valuable assets.
From “Northcliffe Ho” (Lend.):
If Hugh D. Mclntosh doesn’t make a suc-
cess of his milk bar at 68 Fleet-street (the
predecessor, it is said, of 800 others in London
and the provinces) it won’t be for lack of
friends. The dynamic little Sydneyite acts as
a rallying point for a strangely-assorted circle.
Lord Decies and H. G. Wells; Sir Harry Curtis-
Bennett, K.C., and Sir Harry Preston, Brighton’s
sporting hotelkeeper; Sir Edward D’Egville,
of the Empire Parliamentary Association, and
Jack Joel, of Barnato Bros. —all have entertained
Hugh D. since his arrival here. Noel Coward
stood him a cocktail party, Ralph Blumen-
feld, of the “Daily Express,” found a pub-
lisher for his autobiography, and “Dick” Shep-
pard (Canon of St. Paul’s and London’s most
popular parson and preacher) promised to open
his first milk bar and boost the others. C. B.
Cochran and Lord Lonsdale have also rallied
round. Cochran’s secretary explained the posi-
tion to me: “Mclntosh would shock Upper
Tooting or even West Kensington, but he’s an
unceasing delight to the West End of London.”
A former Bulletin contributor, Hep-
burn Tindale has fluttered Perth
(W.A.) by becoming its only Euro-
pean Moslem. The young man has lived
a various sort of life. Educated at Guild-
ford'Grammar School (W.A.) and Bal-
liol and a High Church Anglican theo-
logical seminary, he drifted to West
Africa as a Governor’s secretary, and
then lived in the Celebes, N.T. and New
Guinea.
Dr. Henry Cordon (90), who has died
at Perth (W.A.), was m.o. of the Stanley
expedition to “Darkest Africa” which
rescued Livingstone in 1871. Cordon,
who had been a missioner in China, was
for 32 years in charge of the Baptist
Tabernacle in Liverpool, England, After
the war he came to Australia, and until
last year was still officiating as a minister.
Adelaide has lost a first-rate news-
paperman in Evan Kyffin Thomas, dead,
suddenly, at just 69. Grandson of Robert
Thomas, founder of the “Register,” he
was on the staff at 19, one of the pro-
prietors at 33, and general manager later.
When it became a co. in 1929, he was
chairman of directors for the little time
it lasted till absorbed by the “Adver-
tiser.” A solid man of business and a
cultured speaker, he was prominent at
all press conferences. His main hobby
was the Poultry and Kennel Club, of
which he was president.
“Bogan’s Boy’s” reminiscence:
The late Sir Alexander Thomas Cockburn-
Campbell (Alec to the mob) was managing
Manbulloo station, N.T., when I first met him.
In addition to being handy with his fists, he
was a crack revolver shot. During a celebra-
tion at Emungalan, the railhead, he pulled a
fun out, and, throwing up his right leg,
red under it and sent a shot into a reveller’s
wooden leg. “A fluke,” was the owner’s
comment. “Don’t you believe it,” retorted the
baronet, and, tossing the revolver into the air,
he caught it in his left hand, elevated his left
leg and completed the ruin of the leg from that
angle.
Solomon Stern, dead in the U.S.A. at
eighty, was the man behind that appalling
flop the Big Blow mine near Coolgardie
(W.A.). A mate in those days was
Herbert Hoover; they worked together
afterwards in Africa, China and South
America. The ex-President chartered a
plane to fly to the old chap’s funeral.
Maurice Sutherland, who- has died in
Brisbane at 82, was another claimant to
the honor of being the A.l.F.’s oldest
soldier. He was almost certainly the
oldest who saw front-line service. Join-
ing up at 61, he served with distinction
on the Peninsula and in France. His
constitution was phenomenal, and he
looked 20 years younger than his age. A
son arrived at Gallipoli after he did.
Kylie Tennant, whose novel “Tiburon”
won the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, was
born in Manly 23 years ago, and edu-
cated at Brighton College. She won a
couple of medals for elocution, got her
leaving certificate at 16, and tried radio.
firing of that
she landed in
Melbou rn e on
her eighteenth
birthday and took
a job selling
tobacco, papers
and lemonade on
Barker rai 1w a y
station. Back in
Sydney after eight
months, she went
to the University,
where she sup-
ported herself be-
tween lectures by
journalism, sell-
ing typewriters
and writing soap
advertisements.
After a year there
she tried chicken-
raising with a girl
friend at East
Hills. Here she
learned how to
live 'on 10 shil-
lings a week in a
iconverted tram-
car. About three
years ago she
started out to see
N, S. Wales on
foot. In this way
she came to
marry L. C.
Rodd, a Cano-
windra (N.S.W.)
school - teacher,
whom she had
first met at the
University. Since
her marriage,
apart from a
tramp to Brisbane
and one or two smaller jaunts, she has
spent most of her time writing. The
Bulletin took her first short story,
“Rabbitin’,” about 18 months ago.
Others have appeared at regular intervals.
She spent four months in a Canowindra
hotel bedroom writing “Tiburon”—which
is not Canowindra but rather the essence
of the country town everybody knows in
the New South Wales mid-west.
Dymphna Cusack, whose novel was
placed second to Kylie Tennant’s,
is on the teaching staff of Sydney
Girls’ High School. A member of the
Players’ Club, she recently won a play
competition conducted by the Anzac Fel-
lowship of Women with “Anniversary,”
which was produced at Sydney Con.
Her novel—a modern tragedy—is set in
Sydney.
Alice Smith, whose book gained third
place, has contributed many verses and
stories to The Bulletin. She earned
high praise from A. G. Stephens when
he was running the “Bookfellow,” Born
in Sydney and educated at Claremont
College, Randwick, she has spent much
of her life in Fiji, where her father was
a plantation manager. Her novel is about
Fiji and Sydney.
J. J. Hardie, one of the three authors
who were highly commended by the
judjges, is the author of Cattle Camp
which ran third in the 1929 Bulletin
prize novel competition, and Lantana.
He has also written a book on wool-
classing -and shearing-shed management.
Born in Scotland, he has spent the better
part of his life in Australia, mostly out-
back. He served in an English cavalry
regiment and in the Tank Corps during
the war. Monte H. Holcroft is a Maori-
lander. One of his novels was highly
commended in the 1928 Bulletin com-
petition, and Beyond the Breakers and
Brazilian Daughters have been published.
Myra Morris has contributed regularly to
The Bulletin and “Woman’s Mirror”
since she commenced writing. Her pub-
lished works include three books of
verse— England and Other Verses, Us
Five and White Magic.
“Monaro”: Edgar W, Percival, the
Australian flier, gave an amazing demon-
KYLIE TENNANT.
tration last month of the power of the
’plane. Single-handed he piloted one of
his Gulls from Gravesend (Eng.) to
Oran (N, Africa) and back—23oo miles—
between breakfast and dinner. He ate
a sandwich and drank a cup of coffee
en route, and found time whilst in Oran
to sell another of his ’planes. He used
146 gallons of fuel, and the trip cost him
£11; the steamer fare would have been
£3O 14s.
From Sydney Trades Hall:
Emil Voigt, whose silence while in Berlin
is reported from London to be causing anxiety,
first appeared on the Australian horizon 14
years ago when, as “Mr. Voigt of London,"
he addressed J. S. Garden’s N.S.W. Labor
Council. He signed the introduction to
J. Howie’s “Reds in Congress,” became secretary
and director of the N.S.W. Labor Research
Bureau, and was private secretary to Albert
Willis while the latter was Government leader
in the N.S.W. Legislative Council. He also
was secretary and a member of the committee
which drafted the “Red rules” on which Mr.
Lang “crossed the Rubicon” at the 1927
A.L.P. Conference. In recent years he has
managed 2KY, the Lang party’s broadcasting
station. He has been an athlete, and is per-
sonally likeable.
“Bendy”; A. N, Smith, who has died
after a brief illness in Melbourne, was
a Londoner who knew as much about
Federal politics and politicians as any
man on the Australian Inky Way. He
covered the Federal conventions for
papers all over the world, and for 27
years afterwards he jotted down every
move of the Federal political game. In
his spare time he was a city father at
Hawthorn (whose history he wrote), and
four years ago he published a book about
the first 30 years of Federation. A son,
Neville, is news-editor of the “Argus’s”
evening venture, the “Star.”
Melbourne sculptor Wallace
Anderson is giving the finishing touches
to his statue of “Murphy of Anzac”—
otherwise Private “Simpson” (otherwise
ship’s-fireman Kirkpatrick), who car-
ried the wounded on his donkey. It is
to be sent to Europe to be cast in bronze.
Anderson’s statue of the Digger carry-
ing the kerosene-tins—now in the War
Museum —-should be perpetuated in
bronze at the same time. He turned it
out when he was fresh from the battle-
field, and the whole spirit of the Digger
is embodied in it.
From “Ex-P.8.1.” (Perth):
Roger Pocock, founder (in 1906) of the
Legion of Frontiersmen, who has arrived from
S’Africa, proposes to form a Westralian squad-
ron of the legion to link up with those already
existing in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Hobart. Original membership was confined to
veterans with experience of wild life on the
frontiers of the Empire. In 1914 there were
12,000 members, of whom 8000 were shortly
on active service. In March, 1915, Lt.-Col.
Driscoll, D. 5.0., obtained leave to raise a
service battalion of the legion which subse-
quently became the 25th Battalion Royal
Fusiliers, and was dispatched—under Driscoll’s
command —to German East Africa, F. C.
Selous, D. 5.0., the big-game hunter, was one
of the officers who fell in East Africa. In
1917 the membership of the legion had risen
to 14,000, most of the increase being in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland.
Prof. Henry Brose, of Nottingham,
now in Australia on a lecture tour
is the S.A. Rhodes scholar of 1913 ;
science, running and music were
then his strong points. His best
bit of luck was being caught in Ger-
many at the outbreak of the war and
interned at Ruhleben. Taking up the
new study of relativity there, he attracted
the attention and then the personal
friendship of Einstein, whose interpreter
to the British public he has since been.
Coming back in 1926, as a Doctor of
Philosophy, to lecture in Sydney, he met
and married the actress Jean Robertson,
an old Adelaide friend.
Alban McLachlan, the tall, bearded
deputy-chief of N. S. Wales Education
Department, who has retired after 47
years’ service, was the most highly-placed
of three*generations of teachers. Three
brothers and a sister were in the service,
as well as several nephews and nieces.
Two of his sons served with the
A.T.F. : one returned, McLachlan, the
son of a pioneer Northern Rivers teacher,
worked his way up from a little bush
school, and was invaluable to the depart-
ment because of the knowledge he had
amassed while doing so. Shy and retir-
ing, he was the despair of news-hounds.
He will be remembered for his sympathy
with youngsters going out to their first
bush assignments and for his unswerving
sense of justness. Golf was his sport
till he took to gardening in earnest; he
was western champion of N.S.W. once.


ti' '
I
lC ') "T—<
FOR PEOPLE WHOSE CARS ARE SELDOM IDLE
this Distinguished, Economical, MEDIUM-SIZED Car
—las
V
► J
&
m
m
■ ip
tt
i.
!:*: •
lillili
mmm
mm
mm
L
m
1
' i
PEOPLE needed a new kind of car
. . . one in which they could
enjoy a real sense of luxury, yet
do the mileage they wished without
taxing their pockets. And Yauxhall
has created it . . . with a lavish hand
... in the 1935 Yauxhall Light Six.
Make a point-for-point comparison of
the Yauxhall Light Six with any other
car of comparable price, quite regard-
less of wheelbase . . . and you’ll find
that the Yauxhall Light Six scores on
both comfort and economy. Not a
point has been overlooked that a
modern-day car must have to give
you maximum comfort. Knee-Action
without extra cost is the first su-
premely important feature. The acces-
sible In-built Trunk and Spare Tyre
Compartment (on both Saloon and
Tourer) are others that you will find
indispensable once you have enjoyed
their convenience. As for the stream-
lined bodies —they’re insulated against
noise—sealed against dust —with gen-
uine leather upholstery and No-draught
Ventilation amongst their many refine-
ments. You need to see the Light Six
for yourself—to ride in it and drive it—
to experience its swiftness of accelera-
tion and the way its sporty, low-centre-
of-gravity design enables it to hug the
road and corner. You’ll discover a car
you can drive with pride and pleasure
—as well as with considerable profit
to your pocket.
GENERAL M O T O RS-H OLDEN’S LIMI TED
VAUXHALL LIGHT SIX
with Knee-Action
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
r -* 1
| -*
• *
■
■ ■•
*„T*
, - 'y* ‘'
”, j v> * *:
, .S' - *4ttfiK!
~ ■ i „
■ -• ■
i*
maw
m
, ■'-- ■
1H *- ’&m m, * t ¥
GENERAL VIEW OF THE MACLEOD GALLERY. BULLETIN BUILDINGS. 252 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends, Written Re-
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Oft. serves,
£ £ £ £
Premiums on new shares, £233,876.. ( 767 570
1925.. 300.536 fu p.c. = 87,102 10,000 } ’
Premiums op new shares, £204,917.. I . ~,
1926.. 319,707 15 p.c. =119,359 20,000 ) ,0 ’
Premiums on new shares, £288,328.. 1,209.469
1927.. 341,711 15 p.c. =149,726 25,000 1,381,700
Premiums on new shares, £254,338.. 1,030,098
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1.690.486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,098
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiumh on new shares, £76,000.. 2,332,149
1981.. 308,450 H i p.c.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932.. 199,670 5 p.c. =lOO,OOO 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
•Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
The lift in the div. and all-round im-
provement in this co.’s figures helped to
put fresh heart into the market, which is
now giving more attention to bank scrip
generally. For the decade to the close
of accounts in 1930, the div. was steady
at 15 p.c. p.a., followed by Hi p.c. and
then 5 p.c. till the final half of the last
term, when it was raised to 6 2-3 p.c.
p.a., making 5.8 p.c. for the year.
The market immediately added Is. to
its bid for the fully-paid 10s. ords., rais-
ing the price to 18s. as against 15s. 7d, a
year ago. The return at 18s. is 3.2 p.c.
on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for a shade under 4 p.c. on
his money counts on a 7 p.c. div.,
already within reach. At £9 16s. the
£lO-paid prefs. return 4.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible backing is
£3O 10s. prefs. and 21s. Bd. ords.
Before 1920 there was a long dry
spell, during which the management very
thoroughly puttied up the cracks which
the upheaval of the ’nineties had put in
the structure. Shareholders have since
subscribed £3,808,682, one half capital
and the other half premiums, which were
added to reserves. Divs., therefore, are
worth no more than half the declared
rate on all but £95,659 of the £2,000,000
of ord. capital. The prefs. (£2,117,350)
shared in the new issues, which were in
the nature of bonuses to shareholders,
because the scrip commanded a high
premium in the market.
Gross earnings, which came down by
annual steps from the peak figure of
£1,157,784 in 1930 to £879,998 in 1934,
were £36,534 better last year at £916,532.
The net result benefited by £19,304 of
the increase, reaching. £228,458, or 3.5
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined). After paying the
pref. div. (£84,694) enough remained to
show 7.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against
6.2, 6.4, 5.7 and 11.1 p.c. back to 1931.
The recession in earnings was due to
the shrinkage of margins. The volume
of advances contracted faster than the
volume of deposits, the interest-bearing
portion of which continued to expand ;
the shrinkage in the average rate paid
for all deposits was greater than the
shrinkage in the charge made for ad-
vances, some of which the banks are still
nursing. The fall in export prices affected
exchange earnings, the pickings from
inter-State and other clearances dimin-
ished, there was a steady recession in
returns from Consols until the beginning
of 1935, and Treasury bills at 1J p.c. (6
p.c. in 1930) are no longer profitable.
During the last term there was marked
improvement in the position. Consider
these figures;
Liabilities.
1929. 1934. 1935.
Notes .. .. £244,027 £178,986 £19,750
Bills, etc. .. 1,717,110 1,175,909 1,194,945
Free deposits.. 10,182,121 9,952,822 10.643,103
Fixed deposits 13,998,925 14,596,183 14,207,431
Assets,
Liquid assets.. 8,933,551 9,560,186 9,367,792
Advances .. 22,260,876 21,725,548 22,100,325
Premises .. 904,300 1,161,576 1,164,315
An expansion of £374,777 in advances
was accompanied by a contraction of
£388,752 in interest-bearing deposits and
a growth of £690,281 in current accounts.
It all reflects increased business activity.
The drop of £159,206 in the note issue
was on account of the Maoriland busi-
ness ; the Reserve Bank of N.Z. is now
the sole note-issuing authority for the
Dominion. Since the tax on these notes
was 4\ p.c., practically no profit remained
for the banks from this source.
The net reduction in liquids was
£192,394:
1934. 1935.
Coin, bullion, notes, etc. .. £3,682,890 £3,299,966
Money at call, London .. 20,000 150,000
Commonwealth Treasury bills 2,141,812* 1,755,000
Govt, and other securities.. 1,981,452 2,627,822
Bills receivable, etc., London 1,412,868 1,242,083
Due from other banks .. 305,824 277.326
Stamps ... ... .. 15,840 15,595
£9,560,186 £9,367,792
•Includes M.L. Treasury bills.
The drop of £380,000-odd in coin, bul-
lion, etc., and of an almost like amount
in Treasury bills was connected with the
purchase of the trading banks’ gold by
the Reserve Bank of N.Z. Since this was
accompanied by a growth of £646,370 in
Government and other securities, it
should mean a better net return from
liquids, which amounted to 35.9 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public when the
books closed. The bank was then hold-
ing approximately £4 of the public’s
money for every pound of its own.
Queensland Primary Producers' Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
6,563
1926.. 17,166 8 p.c. = 9,503 7,663 14,226
Unexplained addition to reserves, £592.. 14.818
Special bonus of 2s. per share, £12,678.. 2.140
To depreciation reserve, £665.. .. 1,475
1927.. 12,885 8 p.c. - 9,909 2,476 3,951
1928.. 28,919 8 „ „ 12,874 16,045 19,996
1929.. 20,985 8 „ 15,216 5,769 25,765
1980.. 17,889 8 „ „ 16,496 1.393 27,158
1981.. 18,577 8 „ „ 16,998 1,579 28,737
1932.. 19,049 7 „ „ 15,603 4,046 32,783
1933.. 16,898 6 „ „ 13,864 3,034 85,817
1934.. 21,598 0 „ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund, £l5OO. 41,534
1935.. 23,314 .91 p.c. = 14,760 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £lOOO 49,082
This is the co. which took over John
Bridge’s Queensland business in 1920. It
now handles more of the State’s clip than
any other broker. The div, is limited to
7 p.c. until at least 20 p.c. of the com-
mission charges are rebated to con-
signors, which, of course, puts a differ-
ent complexion on things for sharehold-
ing clients. During the boom, when a
run of 8 p.c. divs, was paid, the rebate
on wool commissions rose to 40 p.c., fat
stock to 30 p.c. and produce to 20 p.c.
Then, owing to contraction of turnover,
etc., no rebates were made in 1932, but
they were renewed in the following term,
and repeated again for the next two at
the rate of 25 p.c. for wool and fat stock
and 20 p.c. for produce and property.
The amount involved is not mentioned.
During the last term the co, received
112,492 bales (up 246); it sold 136,249
bales (up 53,693), leaving a carryover
of only 5004 as against 29,804 at the
previous balance. But the Brisbane aver-
age price was only 10.38 d. per pound in
the grease as against 15.51 d. for the previ-
ous season. Because of this, lighter cattle
sales (due to the slaughtermen’s strike at
the Brisbane abattoir) and the low price
for sheep, there was a contraction of
£84,657 in the year’s turnover:
Wool Sold, Annual
Bales. Turnover. Movement.
1927.. 66,559 £2,292,936
1928.. • 75,045 2,803,130 + £510,194
1929.. 85,896 ‘ 2,714,334 88.796
1930.. 80,736 2,021,939 692,395
1931.. 116,111 1,907,366 114,573
1932.. 122,557 1,741,789 165,577
1933.. 118,084 1,801,726 + 59,937
1934'. . • 82,5561 2,841,731 + 1,040,005
1935.. 136,249 2,757,074 84,657
After allowing for rebates, the net result
(up £1716) was 8.7 p.c. on average capi-
tal, as against 9, 7.3, 8.8, 8.7 and 8.6
p.c. back to 1930. Half a point was
knocked off the div., reducing it to 5-i-
-p.c., because of the “general downward
trend in interest rates,” the board says.
A new branch was opened at Cunna-
mulla early in the term, and another at
Quilpie in November. Headquarters
were transferred to the new premises at
the corner of Creek and Adelaide streets,
Brisbane, in October, and about two-
thirds of the building is now occupied.
The year’s net addition to the book value
of fixed assests was £27,137:
1926. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £114,059 £229,773 £243,095 £272,407
Liabilities* .. 165,124 264,835 365,460 522,402
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 113,625 153,817 183,850 199,721
Plant, etc. .. 9,908 16,361 20,062 31,328
Advances .. 180,013 372,180 461,606 528,906
Cash, etc. .. 1,086 636 452 101,579
‘lncludes provision for taxation, etc.
To meet the capital outlay, shareholders
put up an extra £29,312. The growth in
liabilities and the cash holding may have
some connection with advance payments
by brokers (£242,937) and the extension
of the selling season. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£108,083) was £11,485.
Although the worst western drought
the State has experienced for over 30
years has broken, and wool, sheep and
cattle prices are firmer, stock losses have
been heavy, and the current years clip
may be lighter.
The scrip, covered by 235. 7d. in net
tangibles, is not listed.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Be- Be-
.Tnne, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 90,557 20 p.c. = 100,000 56,931
1925.. 81.514 Hi „ „ 56,250 25,264 82,195
1926.. 76,603 15 „ „ 75.U00 1.603 83,798
1927.. 68,572 Hi „ 56,250 12,322 96,120
1928.. 76,074 74 „ „ 37,500 38,574 134.694
1929.. 53,914 10" „ „ 50,000 3,914 138,608
1930.. 84,303 10 „ „ 50,000 34,308 172.911
1931.. 53,471 8J ~ „ 43,750 9,721 182.632
1932.. 42,807 5 „ „ 25,000 17,807 200,439
1933.. 47,761 24 ~ „ 12,500 35,261 235.700
1934.. 52,165 10.7 „ „ 37,500 14,685 250,365
1935.. 59,642 8.9 „ „ 31,250 28,392 278,757
The directors have decided to return
a further 4s. per share to shareholders,
reducing paid capital to £250,000 in
500,000 10s. shares. The co., whose 36-
mile track links up Broken Hill with the
S. Aus. railway system at Cockburn, has
been hauling concentrates, mining re-
quisites, passengers, etc., for the last
48 years. During that time it has dis-
tributed £437,200 of bonus scrip, raising
paid capital to £500,000. But the future
of the co. depends upon the life of the
big silver-lead mines at the Barrier —
probably 20 years or more, subject to the
course of metal prices, exchange and
costs. To provide for the return of
capital a special reserve was created in
1929, into which £12,500 was tossed last
year, lifting it to £93,227, and the money
has been invested in Government securi-
ties. Six shillings per share (= £150,000)
was returned in cash in December, 1932 ;
so the present 4s. means that half the
capital has been paid off within four
years.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1918. 1932 1934. 1035,
Paid capital.. £250,000 £500,000 £350,000 £350,000
S u n d r y
creditors .. 46,250 38,865 88,799 36,877
Fixed assets.. 204,346 488,500 483,069 480,291
Fuel and stores 39,926 20,837 23,316 19,960
Sundry debtors 65,399 89,445 38,934 43,642
Cash. etc. .. 117,793 180,905 89,887 12fc,641
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
a growth of £3078 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors, were reflected in an
increase of £4708 in debtors’ balances
and £32,754 in cash, etc. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£129,406, excluding stores) was £34,384.
There was a spring of 20,436 tons in
the quantity of goods carried, due mainly
to a better outturn of concentrates at
the Barrier:
1980. 1933. 1934. 1935.
Goods Carried. Tons. . Tons. Tona. Tons.*
Coal .. .. 108,609 8,092 7,517 8,539
Lead con’fcnates 363,367 t 228,456 249,249 255,194
Zinc oon’tratea 304,128 f 208,484 213,377 225,231
Other goods .. 78,040 67,329 . 77,816 79,431
Total .. 854,144 507,961 647,959 668,395
•Compiled! from weekly returns to 26/6/’35.
fConcentrates accumulated in previous year owing
to shipping difficulties, eta
Gross earnings (£133,952) were £4291
better, and exes, (£82,019) were £B5l
lower. Taking unexplained movements
in reserves into account, the net result
improved £7477, reaching 17.4 p.c. on
capital as against 14.8, 13.6, 8.5 and 10.6
p.c. for the four preceding years. Divs.
totalled 8.9 p.c., and another Is. per
share (= £250,000), to be sent out on
August 28, will reduce reserves to
£253,757.
Subject chiefly to output at the mines,
prospects of the co. being able to return
all its capital and continue paying good
divs. appear bright enough. The realisa-
tion of Government securities (£119,020
in the books at last balance) for the capi-
tal return may be expected to reduce
earnings by £3OOO p.a. or more. The
market prices the shares at 30s. 9d.
Allowing for the return of capital, the
gross yield to the investor at this price
on the basis of a Is. 6d. distribution in
the current term would be 5.6 p.c.
The Australia Hotel (Sydney)
, Dividends , Nominal
Pref. Re-
Juno, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. senes.
£ £ £ £
1925 .. 43,678 1980 10 p.c. = 25,373 74,5X7
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,577
1920 .. 54,253 1980 10 p.c. = 38,488 117,362
1927 .. 55,138 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 131,603
1928 .. 51,660 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 142,366
1929 . . 59,312 1980 10 ~ „ 38,917 160,781
1930 .. 43,065 1980 9 ~ „ 35,025 166,841
1931 .. 1,999 1980 Nil 166,860
Loss.
1932 .. 4,745 1733* Nil 160,382
Profit.
1933 .. 15,789 1650* 24 p.c. = 9,729 164,7.02
(6 p.c.)
1934 .. 27,855 1980 6 „ „ 23,350 167,817
1935 .. 28,614 1980 6$ „ „ 25,296 168,655
*5 p.c. from Oct. 1, i 931.
For a long time the board had been
anxious to provide an entrance to the
hotel from Martin-place. So, about six
years ago, it bought the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank’s old premises for
£150,000, and went outside for most of
the money. The building was demol-
ished, but before a new one could be
put up slump arrived, leaving the co.
saddled with a property which has since
mopped up in rates, taxes and interest
a substantial part of the earnings of the
hotel itself. Hence the loss in 1932—it
was the first since Sydney bought out
the English interests for £2 a share about
quarter of a century ago—and the
failure of net earnings since to advance
more rapidly than they have.
The change in the finances following
the purchase already referred to is shown
in the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1928. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Stock .. .. £15,235 £6,119 £6,617 £7.585
Book debts, etc. 35,206* 3,874 7,365 4,837
Cash, etc. .. 1,400 1,099 1,400 1,40‘J
Liquid assets £51,841 £11,092 £15,382 £13,822
Liabilities . . 44,382 155,240 138,044 181,442
Excess liabilities £7,459t£144,148 £123,262 £167,620
Property and
equipment ~ 652,524 702,524 702,524 748,05.1
‘lncludes investments. fLiquid surplus.
A year ago shareholders authorised the
board to borrow up to £200,000 to finance
erection of the new Martin-place exten-
sion and to provide for alterations to
the old premises. The work, now well
in hand, is reflected in last year’s net
addition of £45,529 to the book value of
fixed assets and £42,798 to the debt.
While interest rates remain low, share-
holders’ prospects are better served by
the co. financing the work on overdraft
and/or mortgage than by issuing fresh
share capital.
Provided there is no further setback
in conditions generally, completion of
the new extension should make a marked
ditference to the co.’s net earnings, which
have already responded nicely to im-
proved conditions. After paying the
prefs. their full contract rate, enough of
last year’s net earnings remained to
show 6.8 p.c. on the £389,169 of ord.
capital as against 6.6 p.c., 3.6 p.c. and a
loss for the three preceding terms. For
the 15 years to the close of accounts in
1929 divs. averaged 9.5 p.c., and
£229,292 of the £422,169 of share capital
is bonus scrip handed out since 1910.
The market prices the ords. at 28s. 6d.
as against 12s. three years ago. At the
higher figure the return is 4.5 p.c. on a
6J p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 245. 3d.
return 4.9 p.c. The net tangible cover
is £l7 2s. lid. prefs. and 275. 4d. ords.
Intercolonial Investment and Land (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920.-. 40,158 8i p.c. = 26,667 18,401 102,891
1926.. 41,856 9) „ „ 29.803 11,553 173,944
1927.. 42,317 10 „ „ 31,372 10,945 184,889
1928.. 45,058 10 „ „ 31,872 13,686 198,576
1929.. 45,946 10 „ „ 81,872 14,574 213,149
1980.. 43,006 10 ~ „ 31,372 11,634 224,788
To realty depreciation reserve, £35,000.. 189,783
1981.. 23,798 61 p.c. = 20,392 3,406 193,189
1932.. 21,080 5 ~ ~ 15,686 5,394 198,583
1933.. 12,843 5 „ „ 13,526 197,900
1934.. 13,358 5 ~ „ 13,094 264 198,104
1935.. 13,783 5 „ „ 13,094 689 198,853
This co, has been subdividing Sydney
suburban properties and financing home
builders for the last 50 years. During
the 10 to the close of accounts in 1920
it scattered £247,266 of bonus scrip, rais-
ing paid capital to £313,724. For the
next decade divs. averaged 9 p.c., with
wide margins. Then slump, extra taxa-
tion, reduction of interest and rents and
moratorium legislation altered the out-
look, and 4s. per share on the fully-paids
and Is. 6d. on the contribs. were re-
turned to shareholders, reducing paid
capital to £261,874 in fully-paid 16s.
shares. The div. dropped to 5 p.c. ; it
has remained steady for the last four
years, and seems likely to do so during
the current term.
Beoause of the disabilities imposed
upon property-owners by moratorium
legislation, the co. is not keen on lending
on real estate, or on selling rent-produc-
ing properties, on its former usual ex-
tended terms. Here is a bird’s-eye view
of what has happened so far as balance-
sheet figures show it;
Property Cash
and and In-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915.. £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
4920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 44,271
1927.. 32,739 466,870 74,726 33,941
1929.. 21,984 480,369 67,412 45,411
1930.. 17,216 460,723 84,440 52,796
1931.. 15,178 428,543 93,558 81,252
1932.. 10,907 385,432 113,675 97.699
1933.. 5,336 332,046 140,997 60,028
1934.. 4,395 287,539 157,431 85,578
1935.. 2,765 244,745 171,639 113,174
Last year advances were reduced by
£42,794, while properties and premises
increased by £14,208 and cash by £27,596.
To what extent, if any, cancellation of
contracts was responsible for the growth
in the property item is not ascertainable
from the published accounts. But official
valuations for rating purposes are said
to exceed book values, and provision for
contingencies is considered to be ade-
quate. From the smallness of the out-
side debt and the size of the cash holding
it is plain that the co. is in a position to
take care of a much larger volume of
business than the board deems prudent
to accept at the moment.
Last year’s gross earnings were £1672
better at £33,209. Exes. (£19,426) were
up £1248, of which £lOB6 was on account
of taxation (£9517). The net result was
5.2 p.c. on capital as against 5.1, 4.9.
6.7, 7.5, 13.7 and 14.9 p.c. back to 1929.
In the market the 165.-paid shares are
fairly steady around 20s. The return at
20s. is 4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 28s. Id. in net tangibles.
{“Wild Cat” continued on page 18.)


I
I
§
9
S
§
>
.
*.
IS
•nr
fix
ii
noi *
■■- ■ ; >:
ft
Lrirr %
'■■■■■
%
i M
mm*
W:
:-.-v -A
<*o° 4>
■■•*><*»>
a
■
v-
v : ' :
■:> >•••••
50
///
ICKERS
GIN
Aa S l€£-th ii t tce 1750


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
.
wmgmm
mSm
ill f
PS*
n
I- ' V
if
MM
>
■ : .• • •
Can you look yourself
IN THE EYE?
A PROFITABLE, and often pleasant, business is looking
oneself in the eye. It is a sort of personal stocktaking,
and ought to be done every six months or more
frequently.
lake yourself, reader. Can you look yourself in the eye and
say that you have made wise provision for the future? Can
you assure yourself that all would be well with your wife and
youngsters if anything should happen to you? Can you pat
yourself on the back and say that you have made adequate
provision for your own old age?
There are tens of thousands of men who can say: “Yes, all
anxiety as to the future is lifted off my shoulders by my
membership in the A.M.P. If I were to die to-morrow my
family could carry on. If I live to 60 there will be the income
on which to retire.”
Why not put yourself in a similarly happy position? Why not be done
with anxiety once and for all? Make a start. A.B. started with small
policies and, because all down the years A;M.P. bonuses have been
so large, he has built up his assets in this remarkable way. Make a
start. Send to the nearest A.M.P. office for an experienced counsellor
to advise you. If you live too far out for the Society to send a coun-
sellor, it will get in touch with you by mail.
Write to-day. Next month—even to-morrow—may be too late.
AM P. SOCIETY
A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Actuary.
W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE; 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, WELLINGTON.
Low-grade and Complex
tin ores.
We are anxious to purchase Ores and Concen-
trates assaying 10 p.c. Tin and upwards. M me
XORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
S9i
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table, also Mcßichpals -
and Tin-saving Machine. Call for a demonstration. Can also quote tor a
classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries, amalgamating ta ,
classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock aind *
other explosives and accessories. Electric motors and switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Besides giving a splendid account of
itself, Fred Cuthbert’s New Misima
mine, Misima Island, New Guinea,
shows enough promise to warrant opera-
tions on a much larger scale than at
present. For the year to April 30 the
co. treated 14,762 tons for a gross return
in Australian currency of £37,522, or
50s. lOd. per ton as against 40s. Id. for
the previous year. All-in costs were
20s. 6d. a ton, up Is. Bd., due to the
extra expense involved in making ready
for a change-over from two to three
shifts on the treatment plant. Share-
holders received a regular Is. 6d.
monthly, or 90 p.c. of their capital
(£14,000). The rate was lifted to 2s. a
month in May, and a further increase is
expected when the third shift gets to
work and more feed is put through.
When the books closed creditors and
accrued wages totalled £3716. The cash
holding amounted to £18,957 ; there was
thus 21s. 9d. a share net in the bank.
Measured ore reserves are slightly higher
at 81,340 tons, assaying 555. lOd. it
is thus worth £227,074 in Australian
currency, and there is good reason to
believe that a lot more payable stone
exists outside the measured limits,
Various interests have recently been
nibbling at the show,
*. . *.. „ * „
Shareholders m Australian Gold De-
ve opment are to be given an option to
subscribe, apparently at par, toi 100,000
sh ares (£5O for each A.G.D. share held)
the new co. being formed in Mel-
bourne to take over the Emperor, Fiji,
details of the capitalisations, includ-
* n B the face value of the shares, have
not yet been announced. On the assump-
-o°n that they will be 10s. shares, fully
called, there have been unofficial dealings
at 20s. T. R. Victor said he tried to
obtain a greater allotment, but other in-
terests had to be satisfied. Ihe Emperor,
he continued, was a difficult lode to sum
up. Some people classed it as a vol-
canic plug, others as a large hydrother-
mal spring, which, he considered, was
very near the mark. Definite north and
south shearing, extending for 1300 ft., was
known. The lode had been proved for
a length of over 1000 ft. ; the greatest
width was 400 ft., reaching the limits of
values on either side. No quartz was
present, the ore consisting of andesite,
felsite, kaolin and other highly siliceous
material.
* * ♦ *
A London group, acting through E. L.
and C. Baillieu, the Melbourne share-
brokers, has become interested in
Loloma, on the Tavua field. Fiji. A new
co., Loloma (Fiji) Gold Mines, N.L., has
been formed with a nominal capital of
£225,000 in ss. shares, of which London
will take 150,000, called to Is. 6d.„ at a
premium of 18s. 6d. each, and will be
entitled to appoint one director to the
board. Each contrib. in the old co. will
be exchanged for two contribs. in the
new co., credited as paid to Is. 6d. each ;
fully-paids will also be exchanged
one for two. The idea is to provide
capital for further development and for
the installation of a treatment plant. The
property, which is still in the develop-
ment stage, has yielded some exception-
ally high assays to shallow depths over
good widths.
* * * »
Gt. Boulder’s latest annual estimate of
ore reserves is 356,370 tons, averag-
ing 7.638dwt., which is substantially
greater in quantity but of about the
same value as a year ago. General man-
ager Ernest Williams says unforeseen fac-
tors necessitated changes in treatment
practice in the new mill, which began
in July, 1934. The alterations called for
heavy capital expenditure, and payment
of an interim div. has been postponed
until later in the year. Still, mill capa-
city will be increased from 12,000 tons
to approximately 15,000 tons a month,
which should help to increase profits.
The co.’s accounts show that its share
of bullion from the mine, together with
gold premium and exchange, amounted
to £303,615 as against £297,927 for 1933.
In addition the profit in cash and shares
from flotation of Southern Cross De-
velopment, Ltd., amounted to £lO,OOO,
and from the flotation of Murchison
Gold Development, Ltd., £17,500. Aus-
tralian and London exes., less interest,
underwriting commission and transfer
fees, amounted to £244,443, leaving
£86,671 net, against £82,109 for 1933.
Since the close of accounts the co. has
sold Boulder Mining and Finance Corp.
several blocks of shares in Yellowdine
and other cos. for £55,000 cash and
414,000 fully-paid ss. Boulder Mining
and Finance shares.’
* ..* i)t *
Claude de Bernales, having raised mil-
lions in London for goldmining in West-
ralia and elsewhere in the Common-
wealth, has secured for Australian
Mines Management and Secretariate,
Ltd., the supervision of shows both in-
side and outside the De Bernales group.
Already it has 26 mines in the West,
three in Victoria and one in Northern
Territory under its control. The co.'s
technical staff includes a corps of mining
engineers, geologists, petrologists, machin-
ery and boring experts, surveyors,
etc. There is a fleet of motor-cars to
move them from place to place, and a
plane to fly hither and thither in search
of new outcrops.
*** , *
Boulder Mining and Finance, the latest
addition to the De Bernales group, has
an available cash capital of £475,000
sterling. It is proposed to exchange
£400,000 into Australian currency, which
will give a local credit of approximately
£500,000. This sum will be available for
development and exploratory work on
properties acquired or under option, and
to provide the co.’s quota of capital for
further development and equipment of
Yellowdine, in which it holds a sixth
interest.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. has acquired
ground north and south of Lady Shenton,
Menzies (W.A.). The Shenton Co. is
boring at the south end of its main work-
ings, and the corporation is drilling close
to Shenton’s southern boundary. Results
from these bores, which are being put
down to prove the continuation of the
Shenton shoots; are expected to have a
good effect on the market.
' * ,'■;** * * \
After drawing a blank at Yellowdihe,
Yellowdine Gold Options bought ,the
Three Boys mine at Southern Cross Tor
£17,000 cash and a wad of shares.
Now the co. has placed the properly
under option to L. G. Cutbill, represent-
ing London interests, for four months,
with the right of a three months’ exten-
sion for a cash consideration. The pur-
chase price has not yet been announced.
Unofficially, £25,000 sterling, plus 100,000
shares paid to ss. sterling in a co. with
a nominal capital of £250,000, has been
spoken of.
♦ * ♦ ♦
At Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) pros-
pects for the current year are that profits
will show a further advance. Vigorous
development is being continued, and
discoveries to date suggest that values at
depth will be all right. Ore reserves have
been raised from four to nearly five
years’ supply of 30s. stone, despite treat-
ment of 136,500 tons last year. An
encouraging feature is that a geophysical
survey has revealed promising areas which
are to be explored by diamond-drilling.
*■* * *
Adelaide-controlled North Enterprise
has £7OO in hand and nothing to spend
it on. The co. abandoned the New
North Callion, Davyhurst (W.A.), which
it was formed last year to take over. A
large amount of work showed fair-grade
stone ; the southerly trend of values and
the exploration and development work
ahead were the stumbling-blocks. The
co. is casting about for anything promis-
ing.
* !|> * *
Over the last few weeks shares in Greta
(Tas.) Hydraulic Sluicing have tumbled
from 3s. 3d. to 4d. in the market. When
the co. sluiced to bedrock, it found a
rough and uneven bottom of broken
slates, which prevented recovery of more
than a fraction of the gold in the wash.
Slucing has been suspended, pending a
closer examination of the bottom by
pitting.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.M.: (1) Divs. are limited to a maximum
6 p.c., and new shares must be offered at
auction. (2) Berlei, Farmers, Kandos, Morris
Hedstrom and Winchcombe Carson are worth
consideration A.C.: If safety of capital is
important, look the other way Katoomba :
Neither bonuses to policy-holders nor dividends
to shareholders are yet in sight F.L.L.; (1)
and (2) Neither shares nor bonds are quoted
in the open market. At the moment the
shares appear to be the most valuable. (3)
Yes. ,
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Ilassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys;
Asbestos "House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* •* * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
1 * * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately .for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites, Electrical Supplies,
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street. Sydney.— Advt.
* * ■ * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se.- (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD.. Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.


BALANCE SHEET of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
at 3Qth JUNE, 1935
Including London Office at IBth May, 1935; Darwin (Northern Territory) at 31st May, 1935; New Zealand, Currie (King Island), Bowen, Cairns, Home Hill, Ingham. Mackay,
Proserpine, and Townsville ( Queensland ) Branches at 17th June, 1935.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share £2,117,350 0 0
4.000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share 2,000,000 0 0
4,211,735
Reserve Fund
Exchange Adjustment Reserve
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in Circulation
Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including Reserves
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest .. .. .. ..
Balances due to other Banks
Contingent Liabilities, as per Contra
£6.567,173 8 8
19,779 15 0
1,192,315 7 5
24,850,534 0 2
2,629 11 8
981,364 8 7
£33.613.796 11 6
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes and Cash at Bankers .. .. .. .. £3,299,966 5 9
Money at Call and Short Notice in London
British War Loan Stock
Short-dated Commonwealth Treasury Bills
Australian and New Zealand Government, Municipal and
other Public Stocks and Funds, and other Debentures,
less provision for Contingencies
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances and
Drafts in transit .. ..
Notes and Bills of other Banks
Balances due from other Banks
Stamps
Bills Discounted and other Advances, less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts .. 22,100,325 10 7
Real Estate, consisting of Bank Premises .. .. . .. 1,164,315 0 0
Liabilities of Customers and others in respect of Contingent Liabilities,
as per Contra 981,364 8 7
£33,613,796 11 6
£9,367,791 12 4
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances —Head Office, and 530 Branches and Agencies £553,094 7 4
„ Rent and other Charges .. .. .. .. •• •• •• •• 134.980 0 5
„ Net Profit for the year .. .. .. .. •. .. •• •• 228,458 111
£916.532 9 8
To Reduce Bank Premises .. .. .. .. .. .. ■ .. £20,000 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 4 p.c. per annum on Preference Shares, paid
February, 1935 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend at 5 p.c. per annum on Ordinary Shares, paid
February, 1935 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 50,000 0 0
„ Balance .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 199,823 8 8
£312.170 8 8
By Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Reserve for
Contingencies, out of which account provision has been made for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, Fluctuations in Investments and other Contingencies,
and after making provision for Income, Land and other Taxes ..
By Balance from last year ..
„ Net Profit for the year ..
£916,532 9 8
£916,532 9 8
£83.712 6 9
228,458 1 11
By Balance
it
.5
£312,170 8 8
£199,823 8 8
I. PERCY FREDERICK GRAHAM GORDON. General Manager of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do .solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund; the
Exchange Adjustment Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the ; Bankis, to’the best of'my knowledge
and belief, true in every particular. < i. v
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY WEBB, Shipowner, .Melbourne; ROBERT
CHANCELLOR MEARES, Solicitor, Melbourne: ACHALEN WOOLLISCROFT PALFREYMAN, Manufacturer, Melbourne; WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, Merchant, Melbourne;
ARTHUR SYDNEY BAILLIEU, Investor, Melbourne. •
And 1 make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act df the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a
false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjurv. , ■. '
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 23rd day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five. '
Before me—J. J. C. CROWE t 1 P. F. G. GORDON.
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1915.” ' t
We, JOHN LANGLEY WEBB and WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, of Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do hereby certify that in our
opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state Jof the Company’s affairs.
'I On behalf of the Board,
i ■ V' ~ " ; •. . ’ • ( JOHN L. WEBB.
Dated at Melbourne this 23rd day of July, 1935. s W. H. SWAN I ON.
BACKACHE
Makes you Look and Feel so Old
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE
But act quickly. Get a box of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills from your chemist, and take them as directed. This
is the right thing to do, for De Witt’s Pills contain ingredients
which enable your kidneys to extract the harmful uric acid from
your system—just as Nature intended they should —and when
you get rid of this harmful uric acid, your back will cease aching.
Nothing else will do. You cannot obtain the same results
by any other means. Rubbing with embrocations or liniments
would probably aggravate the trouble, and add to your suffering.
But relief quickly follows the use of De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills, and you know the pain is not likely to return,
because, by taking De Witt’s Pills, you have got rid of the cause.
ACT QUICKLY
I r
HEAUNY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
:un
URIC, ACI p
y. 5
Don’t wait, or the pain will get worse. Don’t experiment with
things you think may do you good. Get the remedy that has
been used with success all over the world for nearly fifty years.
Heed the good advice of those who have already
used the remedy.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness
under the eyes, heaviness of the limbs,
swollen feet or ankles, foul breath,
scalding pains, gravel or stone. These
symptoms usually precede attacks of
Rheumatism, Backache, Sciatica, Lum-
bago or serious Kidney Trouble, and
much suffering and expense may be
saved by quickly getting a box of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, price
3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6
from your chemist to-day.
m
a
%
*.o>V
wm
TAKE TWO TO-NIGHT
Take two of De Witt’s Pills to-night, and
in the morning you will see, feel and know
for certain that they are doing you good.
J
Kidney &
Bladder
dsf


ABORIGINALITIES
“Baa”; The sheepman’s life is just one
darned thing after another. After the old-
man duststorm in South Aus. the fleeces
of many of the sheep were filled
with dirt. In one place where 25 points
of rain fell after the dust the woollies
were changed into armadillos to all out-
ward appearances, the dust turning to
mud and becoming so heavy when it
dried that the sorely-tried jumbucks
couldn’t stand up under it. Distressing,
no doubt, but what an opportunity for
starting mixed farming on a small scale
by sowing mustard and cress on the
sheep’s back and then driving the crop
to the local market!
* * * *
“Spittacosis”: Have seen albino birds
and beasts of many descriptions, but
only one such blue-bonnet parrot. Albin-
ism seems rare amongst the parrots.
This one lived in a patch of wilgas near
Coonamblc (N.S.W.), and I used to see
him often. My great ambition was to
shoot him (I was about 13 then), but his
eyes were too good.
* * * *
“Ecrevisse”; “L.L.” should moderate
his wrath on the subject of crayfish in
Australia (B. 24/7/’35), for he is incorrect
at every point of his contradiction of
“Tom Willie.” He says there are no
fresh-water crayfish in Australia. There
are many varieties, from the yabbie to
the big Murrumbidgee “lobster.” Also,
he says that our only crayfish is the salt-
water variety, beloved of the drunk. That
Bacchanalian oriflamme is the spiny lob-
ster ; on the Breton coast, where he is
thick, he is known as langouste. In South
Africa they tin him and send him to Aus-
tralia, where people are too tired to do
it themselves.
sj: jf* #
“Comic Strip”: Among the offences
for which natives in the N.G. Mandated
Territory have been convicted during the
past year is one “wearing clothing
above the waist.” This recalls the bother
there was among the Conservatives of
Ancient Egypt when slave girls were
given permission to wear anything at all;
the donning of even a figleaf was
roundly denounced as the thin edge of
the wedge of socialistic legislation. Any-
how, Rabaul fines people for wearing
clothes above the waist and Australia
fines its bathers for not doing so. Which
is right?
* * :5c *
“Kali”; Macdonald's swamp, the
annual Mecca of duck-shooters from
both sides of the Murray, should prove
a payable proposition for some small
dredging company. On the day before
the opening of the season all roads from
N. S. Wales converging into Swan
Hill and Kcrang are crowded with cars
bringing sportsmen from hundreds of
miles, and the Victorian roads present a
similar picture. By daylight there are
hundreds of cars parked near the lagoon,
and usually over 3000 guns are at work.
The roar of shots is unceasing until the
last frightened bird has left the swamp.
Many tons of lead must lie in the swamp
within 200 yards of the bank.
* * * *
“Oversea”: One of the points about
Australian scenery that astonish the
tourist is the delicacy of the coloring,
particularly in the vicinity of the plains.
The unusual pastel-blue of the hills, the
pale pinks, mauves and yellows of the
sunsets, full of color when there is not
even a cloud in the sky, are surprising
to those from overseas, who usually have
an impression that Australia is a land
of violent coloring. Even a returned
Maorilander, though his native birds are
rarely anything but quiet in plumage,
finds the M.L. landscape almost too
colorful, and the blood-and-fire sunsets
overpoweringly brilliant. The beautiful
and delicate Australian sunset skies, com-
bined with the blue haze that seems to
prevail all over the continent at nightfall,
form a perpetual delight for the visitor,
(hough I have never found a mention
of them in any guide book.
* * * ♦
“S.T.S.”: “No one I ever knew would
eat perch” (B. 3/7/’35)? Incredible; or
else “Sparc Walton’s” Yorkshire lish are
quite different from those I used to catch
in a mill-pool in Staffordshire —not so
very far away. Let us consult the experts.
“Passynge holsom,” says the famous
Treatyse. “Beautiful firm while flesh ;
a dish for a king,” says Francis Francis.
“S.W.” must have confused them with
chub, roach or dace, all of which the
“ Hadn't We better move the radiator , ladies? The
leg of the table is getting quite warm."
new Angler’s Week-end Book lumps
together as “indistinguishable from a
dish composed of a packet of needles,
some wet cotton-wool soaked in mud,
and a little powdered glass added.”
“Kotuku”: Like trout, perch are pro-
tected by the game laws of Maoriland.
and the license issued entitles the holder
to fish for trout, perch and tench. The
perch is the most voracious fish in M.L.
rivers, I have seen perch fighting—no
fisherman’s lie, this —in dozens round
the bait I don’t know whether this
species is the same as the Australian
perch, but many Otago people consider
them more edible than trout.
♦ * ♦ *
“F.Y.7”: A quaint outcome of the
drought in Queensland was an application
to the Industrial Court for the fixing of
prices for beef and mutton purchased by
pastoralists outside their own runs for
shearers’ food. It was explained that in
many places the drought had so reduced
condition in station sheep and cattle that
they were uneatable, and that when
approached for fat animals outside
holders asked profiteering prices. Dur-
ing an old-time drought on the Barcoo
shearers protested against the quality of
the mutton by carrying an emaciated
sheep’s carcass with a lighted candle
inside it down to the head station three
miles away. The boss had killed a very
skinny bullock that evening and, hearing
of the demonstration, hung it on the
gallows with a couple of hurricane lan-
terns inside. The road from the shed
led past the gallows, and the apparition
quite cramped the style of the sheep
deputation.
* * * *
“Bowen Downs”: “Jethro Tull” (B.
24/7/’35) considers I was “out” in
my reference to the historic Queensland
cattle-stealing case; but I can’t follow
him. I didn’t mention the name of any
station in my par., so it is unnecessary
for “J.T.” to loftily assert it was Mt.
Cornish. lam fairly well acquainted
with the story. The late Lumley Hill,
who managed Mt. Cornish at the time,
was a lifelong family friend, and my
father and an uncle were present at the
trial. Also, I saw the leader of the
party in the flesh, as I have said, and
have met two or three hundred folk who
went with him to Adelaide, or said they
did.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gaston”: While sympathising with
“J.D.’s” plea for the appearance of trout
and Australian game in Sydney shops
(B. 24/7/’35), I fear his dream will never
be realised, because the Sydney man in
the street —and the same is true of the
Australian generally—will not eat any-
thing outside his usual routine of steak,
chops, sausage-an’-mash, ros’beef, boiled-
mutton - an’ - caper - sorce and pie - an’-
tcmater-sorce, with fowl, barnyard duck
and occasional turkey for variation.
Before the war there were shops up
King’s Cross way where , wild duck
and hares could be got in season.
One would go a long way now before
seeing them hung in the windows as they
used to be. As for trout, the trouble
would be getting supplies. The only
regular suppliers of fresh-water fish arc
the catchers of Murray cod and his
cousin the golden perch. Even in Mel-
bourne, much more fish-conscious than
Sydney, I have never seen trout displayed
for sale.
“The Other D.”: The first man to
open a game shop in King-street,.Sydney,
will go broke. You can buy teal at Mel-
bourne and Sydney restaurants, but
orders are few and far between. Trout
may be something of a luxury in Britain,
but I’ve yet to hear of a fresh-water fish
which approaches our Murray cod or
perch as a table delicacy. In any case,
wild duck, quail, etc., are protected for
part of the year, and the only way to
assure continuity of supply with trout
would be by netting them. Anybody
doing that would risk (and deserve) being
shot on sight.
* * * *
“Geraldton”: Westralia is again threat-
ened with an emu invasion. Intelligence
warns farmers in Ajana and adjacent dis-
tricts that a force of some thousand long-
legged fowls is working down from the
Murchison, and the Government is
being asked to erect a ring fence round
the threatened district. Meanwhile
guerrilla warfare is in progress, and the
kids at Ajana school are reported
to have killed 400 of the invaders
in the last two months. Help is not
expected from the Federal Government,
as on a previous occasion. Appealed
to then, the oppressors sent a machine-
gun squad, but later had the effrontery
to ask payment for the ammunition ex-
pended. The sturdy peasantry refused to
part, and the matter has not yet been
settled.
* * ♦ *
"The 0.D.”: Can a snake crawl
straight backwards? On Tapalin vine-
yard (Mid-Murray district) years ago
there was an iron tank sunk in the ground
into which water was run through a pipe
about a foot long and 2in. in diameter;
the water ran down a furrow to the pipe,
which was practically horizontal. Time
after time snakes were trapped in that
tank, having crawled through the pipe
(the top of the tank was always covered).
Did they, when they reached the inside
end of the pipe, find themselves unable
to move straight backwards and perforce
have to fall into the tank? What’s the
verdict?
* * * ♦
“Grasspan”: Eden (N.S.W.) is an ideal
site for an ideal city, but what a lack
of imagination has been revealed in the
naming of the streets! Any surveyor or
alderman with poetry in his soul would
never have overlooked the opportunity
of carrying out in detail the main prin-
ciple involved in the naming of the town.
Down the centre would run Adam-street,
with Eve-street crossing it to make the
principal intersection and Temptation
Park forming a civic square. Cain-strect
and Abel-street would be the next impor-
tant thoroughfares, and Satan-avcnue
would lead the traffic which entered
through Creation-road out to Expulsion-
road. Other main streets would be called
after Gabriel, Michael and Azrael;
smaller but still important ones, Rib-
street, Nostril-street and Figleaf-crescent.
I hope to see Eden aldermen take my
tip—l give the idea free of fee or royalty.
* * * *
“Ringer”: That frog cartoon of Scor-
field’s (B. 10/7/’35) brought chuckles;
but why does he use the word “stampede”
in his advice to Dave when droving
them? “Stampede” belongs to the pic-
tures and the story-book. “Rush” is used
every time in the bush among stock.
* * * *
“Curly”: By quoting big names “Hal.
Aust.” is only clouding the issue and
further exposing his ignorance
of the dugong (B. 10/7/’35). 1
am certain the gentle Banfield
never killed a dugong just to
demonstrate to a casual visitor.
“Hal.” compares the dugong's
head with that of a seal. Has a
seal a snub nose, button nasal
valves, blubby lips, top incisor
teeth, ears, and has the mature
male a moustache?
* * *
“Hoopla”: Let me into this
argument about bush calls.
“Whack-oo!” is having a bit of
a vogue among fellows who
know no better ; “Hoy!” is right
enough within limited distances ;
but to bring ’em back with a
run and to call ’em three days
after they’re dead there isn’t
anything yet invented to beat the
old cry of the abo. and the
western bushman. That, as
nearly as it can be expressed in print,
would be spelt “Whooo-ah-yah! ” To
give that its full effect it has to come
from well down in the chest —deep,
resonant and ringing. No throat or
mouth cry is worth tuppence a dozen
as compared with the sound that comes
from deeper down.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Schoolma’am Sue”: Perhaps “Gryl-
lus” (B. 19/6/’35) can advance a new
theory about Gunning (N.S.W.) earth
tremors; local people have advanced a
dozen during the last two years. The
latest is that Lake George, said to be
rapidly filling with salt water, holds the
secret of the “ ’quakes,” which of recent
weeks have lasted longer and occurred
more frequently.
* * * *
“Cachalot”: As “Bray Rock” says (B.
10/7/’35), that fairy-tale about thresher-
sharks fighting whales is a weariness of
the flesh. It has been revived with
variations; near Burleigh Heads (Q.)
“two giant whales” fought one another
before a gallery of some hundreds of
holiday-makers, one being a “thresher-
whale” and the other a sperm. There is
no thresher-whale known to naturalists,
and there is no living thing on or in the
seas, save man, which dares to tackle the
formidable sperm whale, unquestioned
king of the ocean, to whom even the
savage killers give a wide berth. What
the Burleigh Headers saw was probably
a killer having a shy at one of the many
whalebone whales which travel this coast
on their way to tropic waters for an
interesting event. Even then it is rare
that one killer will take on such a job.
for Orca gladiator is a confirmed pack-
hunfer.
THE COMING OF THE RAIN.
From Burketown to the Bulloo,
From Bcdourie to the Bay,
From the Norman to the Narran—
Which is down the Border way- -
There’s a faint green carpet creeping
O’er the downlands day by day.
There’s a roaring in the rivers.
Where the rushes ran to seed.
And the wild duck drifts triumphant
Past the deadly river weed;
There’s a chattering in the channels
Where (he croaking bullfrogs breed.
There’s a pale-grey pall of moisture
That, from east to west and back,
l eaves a silver ribbon glist’ning
In the ruts of every track;
And the dark-lined dawn in waking
Shows the rainclouds raven-black.
And from every plain and paddock"
There'll be joy for one who secs
All the greenery in the stubble
And the glory of the trees
As they set the new leaves dancing
To the bidding of a breeze.
For, from Burketown to the Border,
With the wealth of winter rain
We will pay the price of famine,
We will cut the cost of pain,
By the faint green carpet creeping
O’er the downlands once again.
QUEENSLAND.
B.R. MURKAY.


“Jacko”: West Darling (N.S.W.)
sheepmen are chuckling over a formal
notice they have received from the Minis-
ter of the Interior—it calls for tenders for
grazing rights on the Broken Hill aero-
drome. In common with other drought
areas in the West Darling district, the
aerodrome is as bare as Mother Hub-
bard’s cupboard.
* * * *
“Groper”: The interrelation between
plants, often poles apart in the evolu-
tionary scale, is sometimes curious.
Pinus insignis plantations around Perth
were marked by slowness of growth ; all
the saplings were straggling and weakly.
Similar plantations at Hamel, about 60
miles to the south, showed progress rapid
and vigorous. A forestry student inves-
tigated and noticed that the Hamel plan-
tations carried numerous fungi of the
puffball variety. The experiment was
then made of transferring earth contain-
ing spawn to Perth. An almost imme-
diate acceleration of growth resulted.
♦ # * *
“Daru”: That statement that mum-
mification was not practised in New
Guinea (B. 17/7/’35) needs qualification.
In the days when the whole island was
New Guinea, D’Alberti, the Italian
explorer-ethnologist, claimed to have dis-
covered mummified remains in some vil-
lages up the Fly River in what is now
Papua. As reported by him the bodies
had had all the flesh removed, the skin
remaining stretched over the bones.
Though, like many N.G. and Papuan ex-
plorers and pseudo-explorers who came
after him, D’Alberti was an adept with
the long bow, he was a genuine man of
“Got a job f'r a reel man With air on ees chest?"
“This may suit you— ‘Vacancy for a male attendant at the Day
Nursery. ”
science and could be relied on when
making statements of this kind. There
seems to be no record of what he did
with his mummies, but, like much else
of his extensive collections, they probably
found their way to Europe.
* * * *
“Ethno”: The simplest explanation of
those light-skinned Papuans—loo,ooo or
200,000 of them —found on the plateau
by that exploring party would seem to be
that they are descendants of Polynesians
who had possibly been the original occu-
pants of the island and had been driven
skywards by Melanesian invaders. Against
this theory are the facts that they have
apparently reached a higher degree of
civilisation and are so numerous that
even in past ages they must have out-
numbered the invaders. Their woolly
hair, again, is distinctly Melanesian,
though intermarriage through the cen-
turies might account for that. The Poly-
Mela cross is common throughout all
the islands —even in Honolulu you meet
many Hawaiians who have some remote
black ancestor with woolly hair. The
question may be helped to solution by
a study of the language and customs of
these “new-caught sullen people.”
* ♦ * ♦
“Imbaga”; A member of a Parlia-
mentary party that recently spent its
valuable time picking up
misinformation on the
spot in Papua and New
Guinea told a Sydney re-
viewer that the Papuan
police all spoke the Port
Moresby native dialect,
and that the Administra-
tion was trying to make
this {Motu) the general
language throughout
Papua. Even for a travel-
ling politician the story is
unusually garbled. The
Armed Native Constabu-
lary come from all over
Papua to be trained at
the P.M. depot. Speaking
many languages for intercourse with each
other, they soon adopt “Police Motu” —
a hotchpotch jargon made up of adap-
tations from their own lingoes and what
they consider is Motu. This practice
received encouragement in days gone by
by while officials who thought it smart
to pick up the easily-acquired jabber and
speak it to their police. But at the very
beginning of his reign William Mac-
Gregor laid it down that officials, especi-
ally in newly-opened districts, should use
every endeavor to introduce English
among the natives. Where the instruc-
tions were carried out, no difficulty was
found in getting the “boys” to acquire
passable English. MacGregor’s rule is
still enforced, and to-day, taught as it
is in every subsidised mission school, the
use of English is becoming widespread.
♦ * * *
“Tiki”: Australian as it is truly spoken.
An anguished wail went up as Joe’s
head came into sharp contact with some-
thing of similar hardness. He tenderly
touched the spot. “Donged me scone,”
he grunted. Then, as he felt it rising a
trifle: “Gripes—l did crack me bloomin’
nut!”
♦ * * *
“M.G.”: Strange that none of the Aus-
tralian psychics has dug up the mystery
of the Government Residency at Norfolk
Island and the musical ghosts which
turn on an honorary radio for the enter-
tainment of the occupants. While the
late General Parnell was Resident, every
member of his household grew accus-
tomed to hearing a piano playing, appar-
ently in another room. But there was
no piano in the house, and as each
room was visited the music seemed to
come from somewhere else. Nobody
was scared, and the mystery came to be
accepted as part of daily life ; and it was
only when a visitor from Australia in-
quired where the music was coming from
that it emerged from the commonplace.
There was no weird story of convict days
or murders of early-Victorian maidens
addicted to tjie harpsichord or anything
tragic or romantic to be gathered from
the mass of traditions in the island. The
music just came and went unannounced,
and probably still does.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Torres Strait Binghi in-
sists that the crocodile has four eyes, and
as evidence points out the orifices above
the ordinary optics, which certainly do
“ Bllme , y' oughla gel a longer car!”
appear as empty sockets. Can any Abo-
Jiar furnish a plausible theory as to the
function of these apertures, which at one
stage at least seem to have served as
eyes? In a composition given at a native
school every budding black essayist
described the saurian as having four eyes.
* ♦ * *
“Loulalo”: I know little of the cour-
age and endurance of Binghi on the
sports field (B. 5/6/’35), but in the
surgery I have found him the most
nervous of patients. Curiously enough,
a missionary friend from the Solomons
was impressed by the stoicism of the
islanders who came so often to her dis-
pensary to be sewn together again after
an encounter with an extra-savage wild
pig. But for real stoicism I have never
encountered the equal of John Chinaman.
I once helped to sew up a Chinese whose
wounds made me ache with sympathy.
He stood almost three-quarters of an
hour of excruciating pain and never even
twitched a muscle.
S' * * *
“Ah Joe”; Speaking of phosphorescent
fungi, I always hang some in my tent
when out camping. They last well, and
(I’m a humane cuss) the moths they
attract don’t singe their wings.
* * *
“Western”: Wheelbarrow marathons
having apparently petered out, why not
something in the kids’ two-wheeled cart
line? Here’s a record to be
broken. In the dark days
of the Westralian timber in-
dustry, the head sawyer on
a concession had an argu-
ment with the boss, who
ordered him off the lease,
refusing transport over the
concession railway line for
the dismissed one’s family
and goods and chattels. Not
to be beaten, the sawyer got
a big packing-case, made a
pair of shafts and a wooden
axle and sawed two seg-
ments off a big karri log
for wheels. Into this cart he
packed the five children and
all portable chattels —and
sometimes the missus when
she grew footsore —and
pulled and pushed the lot 42
miles to the State railway.
That wasn’t the nearest
station, but he kept going
just in case the boss, who
really didn’t want to lose him, had a war-
rant out for his arrest for pinching the
two segments of karri.
* ♦ * *
“C.C.C.”: The country about Cunna-
mulla and Thargomindah fs.-w. Q.) is
one of the best areas for artesian water.
Some of the biggest flows in Queensland
have been got there, and also the smallest
bore in the State. It’s at a selection on
the road from Eulo to Dynevor Downs,
and is true artesian. The depth is 90ft.
and the casing one-inch. The flow is
just enough to fill a 12ft.-high 400-gal-
lon tank in about 24 hours—the home-
stead supply—with a little over to main-
tain a couple of hundred yards of green
couch grass along the road.
"Airline”: Birds aren’t the only
creatures that follow axemen in the bush
(B. 10/7/’35). Suckering in the same
locality as “Retep,” we had a large fol-
lowing of feathered friends until the
camp cat woke up to the easy hunting.
Now puss follows us from tree to tree
all day, systematically prospecting the
country we cover. With the birds
polished off, hollow logs are his main-
stay now, and the rabbits he drives out
in a day would keep a freezer going.
Notwithstanding the recent rains,
drought conditions here at Daymar (Q.)
are, if anything, more acute than ever.
So, along with puss, we have a large fol-
lowing of English bees (no doubt domi-
ciled in some of the big hollow box-trees
in the vicinity), which settle on the trunk
of the free the moment the suckers are
knocked off and eagerly gather the sap
which escapes—probably their only
water supply these hard times. Ants, too,
lose no time in locating the precious
fluid, and “bashed” trees are soon black
with them.
:|! * * *
“Ravensbourne”: That champion
buckjumper (B. 3/7/*35) recalls a fine
fellow that used to hang about the head
station at Lome (C.Q.). There was a
standing offer that anyone who could
ride him through the horse-paddock gate
on to the road could have him. Many
made the attempt, but few remained long
on his back. If anyone did the joke was
sprung. When he saw he was bested
the brute just lay down and wouldn’t
shift for all the rice in China. He was
still undefeated when I last saw him in
1891.
* # * *
“Western”: Periodically Australian
newspapermen write in withering vein
about the poor, credulous Britisher who
swallows tall yarns about “wild” Aus-
tralia, Within the last couple of months
Westralian police have held three inquests
on three separate male skeletons—two-
found within a 50-mile radius of Perth,
one just outside Fremantle, and the other
on the south coast. Identity was tentatively
established. But the fact remains that all
three men slipped out of existence with-
out anyone noticing their demise —which
could hardly happen in a country which
wasn’t still just a little bit “wild.”
* ♦ if *
“Gilbulla”: Those New Guinea mum-
mies (B. 17/7/’35) remind me of a
weird experience in s.-w. Queensland
that befel an old bushman I used to
know. Caught by heavy rainstorms late
one afternoon he camped for the night
in an old deserted humpy. The weather
was cold, but he soon had a good blaze
going in the fireplace. A few hours
later a noise awakened him. Presently
the big pile of old ashes at the back of
the fireplace heaved slowly up and up.
A bony limb emerged, then a wizened
human head appeared, and a grim figure
rolled over suddenly into the glowing
fire. That settled the scared camper. He
stayed outside shivering in the rain until
daylight before making investigations.
The disturbing figure was the mummified
corpse of an abo. raised in a crouching
position, covered with the ashes, and
apparently left to become thoroughly
dried out.
THE “PY KORRY” LIBEL.
“These ‘py korry’ artists and their Maori pars.!”
• — B. UP/’So.
Another well-matured illusi-on
Busted to bits and put to sudden rout!
Another artist’s figment blown upon!
Another gag that must be counted out!
Our Maori brother still retains, no doubt.
Habits that make the missionary sorry
And forms of speech that might be done
without,
But at the worst he never says “py korry!”
What though his ancestors in days agone
Lived but to spear and bash, to club and
clout,
And slew their foes to dine on them anon,
Twould be ungenerous to Abut and snout
The present race because their forebears stout
Deleted and devoured the Morion’.
And, anyhow, in storm or ’quake or drought,
The modern Maori never swears “py korry!”
“Whaffor?” may still remain the sine non
Of Chows that vend the cabbage and the
sprout.
And “Gib it tickpen” serve you for a wan
Reminder there are abos. roundabout.
But though weird slogans still the Maoris
shout
At football, ere they fall upon their quarry,
They’re never guilty in the fiercest bout
Of such a vulgarism as “py korry!”
You artist blokes, and chaps for gags who
scout,
Be fair to Hcnarc and just to Hori.
I hey’ve still some traits that grate on the
devout,
But at the worst they never say “py korry!”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
s) m
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
e- Son Ltd.
SYDNEY
MCPHERSONS PIV. LTD., Melbourne.. Adelaide, Perth#
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
TOP OF BARRACK STREET.
Only about one minute from the
G.P.O. and Wynyard Square Railway
Station. Every comfort and detail
assured to Guests, Tourists and their
Friends. You pay for your room
only, Single Rooms from 4/6,
Double Rooms from 9/• per night.
All meals a la carte.
Del ghtful Dining-room and Lounges.
Garage and Parking adjacent.
Telephone 8W1631.
Telegrams,' “GrancentraV
SYDNEY,
J
.
ttr.BWs.re.MfcW
mSip
R®«S2
ds
"The R-an-D” Diesel has plenty
of power, being able to drive
four stands and grinder at three-
quarter throttle comfortably.”
(Extract from user’s letter.)
Full details from any oj the following:
ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and
Tractor Co., Ltd.
PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson,
Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the Manufacturers.
*. aaade in Queensland by
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LTD
■VALLEY' BRISBANE • , tss
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL
Drought Rations and Research.
“El V.”: One move which might save
a lot of sheep in the next drought would
be the development of two or three
national drought rations.
Not much has been done in sheep-
feed research in Australia —Nature is the
main experimenter. Normally, sheep live
while there is feed and die when there
isn’t. Their mortality from fodder troubles
usually divides itself into deaths due to
sudden changes from dry to succulent
rations, poisoning by plants and im-
paction. Hoven and “succulence
troubles” generally occur in mobs on the
road or in trucks. Impaction happens
most often when water is scarce and
food dry and coarse. A long period on
scrub or the scrapings of a sunbaked
station is the usual preliminary. But this
again is a disease of reactions. Jt comes
when constitutions vitiated for months
are suddenly confronted with a square
feed. It has the same effects as slow
starvation,, followed by a big meal, may
have on men.
Any ration designed to meet general
needs must be as concentrated as pos-
sible.
It need not give perfect nutrition, it
must be cheap to freight and easy to
carry, and it should be an offset to
astringent scrub fceds--living on scrub
for a sheep must be something like eat-
ing corned horse without damper for a
man.
The more moisture it contains the
better. A sheep can do with compara-
tively little internal wet. Instances in
which they go two to three months with-
out a drink provided there is fair
moisture in grazing are ngt uncommon,
and on prickly-pear (moisture content
over 90 p.c.) the known record is over
two years without a drink —on the edge
of the St. George country (S.Q.).
Sugarcane seems to offer n base.
Turnips, with their heavy water content,
suggest another if they could be com-
pacted without dehydration. Most stan-
dard grains arc useful. Maize is the most
economical. Its large grains cause less
loss from scattering than others. Oats
with more husk are better than wheat, but
wheat and lucerne together are worth
while. But with all grains, when fed on
droughty ground, sheep are bound to
pick up dust and sand, which may cause
death.
However, no grain is any good to a
sheep over a long period, except with
silage, straw or bran —which is excellent
for breeding ewes and makes a good
supplement, trough-fed with chaff, to the
eternal drought meals of lopped timber.
Linseed and oil meals arc rich in nitro-
gen and minerals, but they have a long
way to go to approach the ideal.
There is a fortune waiting for anybody
who can invent an, ideal drought fodder
or evolve a drought-resisting plant which
will he of service without becoming a
pest.
Molasses and Sheep.
“Warramulla”: Experience in artifi-
cially feeding stock in n.-w. Queensland
during the drought makes me plump for
molasses. Given any roughage, sheep
will more than hold their own with its
help.
A mob in this district had only sparse,
dry natural feed. Straight molasses was
given them in troughs. They took to it
at once. 'Each morning, young and old
alike waited for the ration.
One mob of poorly conditioned ewes,
with lambs at foot, kept up a supply of
milk to the youngsters until the rains
came on very rough feed and molasses
in their drinking water each morning.
The lambs were good and strong.
When the ’molasses is mixed with
water, care is needed, as after about
four hours ferment sets in, which has a
scouring etfect on sheep. Troughs should
be cleared out after each feed.
Molasses has a low food value, being
deficient in proteins, but practical results
sometimes confound technical wisdom,
especially with sheep. (Samples of “heart-
leaf” poison bush have been sent south
for analysis, and no trace of poison can
be found —yet its effect in killing sheep
is, at limes, nearly as sudden as cyanide.)
The opinion of an old-time neighbor is
that “anything that will put a coat on a
horse, as molasses does, must be good.”
The mob mentioned were fed for
an average of Jd. per head per week,
exclusive of labor, but including heavy
rail and road freight.
Dorset Horn Mating.
“Rambil”: Dorset Horn rams will
mate at any time of the year—a most
desirable quality for fat-lamb production.
With 700 five-year-old merino ewes, I
joined Dorset rams in November, again
in March, then in July. In May, 540
lambs were marked; in August, 120; in
January, 190. 1 have used Dorset Horn
rams as fat-lamb producers since 1927,
and results have been good. Approxi-
mately the whole of the drop from Dorset
on merino ewes was marketed as suckers
in August-September.
A neighbor (Central Tablelands,
N.S.W.) started fat-lamb raising five
years ago. He bought early-shorn merino
ewes, off shears, and joined them with
Border Leicester rams. His first 90 p.c.
drop of lambs came in Aug.-Sept.; and,
having some clean lucerne paddocks to
put the suckers in till the grass-seed had
fallen, they were marketed prime and
fetched good prices. But they were
dropping lambs when they should have
been in the trucks. He switched to
Southdown rams ; but still results were
slow.
Then he bought Dorset Horns, and
now gets early lambs with the same regu-
larity as when merino rams are used.
He maintains that the Border-Leicester-
mcrino and the .Southdown-merino cross
spring lambs arc better than the Dorset-
merino, but these crosses do not suit
autumn lambing.
Does Careful Classing Pay?
“G.F.D.”: I have always been an
advocate of careful clip classing, but
stories of others getting good prices for
unpicked broken fleece, etc., made me
experiment in May last.
From the wool of 700 ewes I picked
the broken, and I put all the broken from
the last 300 of this same line in the bulk.
Result, picked broken, 15|d. ; pieces
off broken, 12£d. —average, 14.4 d. per
pound. The unpicked broken brought
15d.
All lines were sold in bulk, and had
none of the broken been picked I would
have been £3 15s. better off, besides
saving the wages of a piece-picker.
I know that woolbuyers condemn the
non-picking of broken, but a woolgrower
cannot be blamed for preparing his clip
in the way that brings him most profit.
From a line of wethers in the same
clip, I put three bales of 58-60’s (includ-
ing belly wools) together, unpicked. The
line, as a star lot, brought 13+d., and the
whole line averaged 13.27 d.
I’m afraid that, while prices run like
this, buyers will complain about badly
prepared clips in vain.
Woolshed Lighting.
“Murrawong”: Many a woolshed
should carry the motto on its wall:
“Light is cheap ; time and bad classing
are dear.”
Not only the woolroom but the board
should be well lighted, especially in those
sheds that shear from June to August.
One small grazier I know who shears
in July has been converted to the right
viewpoint, by facts.
This season work was started as soon
as there was light enough for the classer
and shearers—-the clock set at 7.30 a.m.
Throughout three weeks’ shearing,
there was never enough light to work
a full day.
On a clear evening, 15 to 20 minutes
were lost; if the sky were overcast, 30
to 50 minutes.
At the cut-out time lost totalled six
hours, which actually made the shearing
last a day longer than necessary. The
cost was £4 18s. in wages and an extra
day's mess 265.; total, £6 4s. The money
lost in this way over a number of years
would have provided a glass roof for the
whole of this small shed.
Windows and skylights should be
placed to give indirect light. The best
position is on the south side of wool-
tables, etc. Any windows through which
the sun shines directly on shearers or
wool-tables should be screened by
hessian or made opaque.
Zebus in Australia.
“Old Bill": Can anyone tell me how
the zebu is getting along in North Aus-
tralia? For the past two years, experi-
ments have been going forward, but the
excitement seems to have died down and
the humped import has not yet set the
Burdekin or the Linmien on fire in spite
of his advertised ability to keep free of
ticks, buffalo fly and a host of other
pests.
He has made great strides in Brazil,
where I note that one big meatworks
buys tens of thousands every year, but
neither history nor my own observation
suggests that he will score as well here.
Most of our early imports were Bengal
or Cape cattle—about the same thing.
But where are they to-day? So soon as
a few first-class British sires and dams
arrived, their doom was sealed.
There are various types of Indian
animal which range downward in size
from the huge Gaur, the tallest cow in
the world —handsome, placid and Jersey-
colored, without the look of the drov-
ing beast and not inured to wide spaces,
inclined to dairy rather than beef-bone
and quite out of symmetry with the
packer’s carcass. The smaller type,
common in the Punjab and in Bengal, and
the tiny, athletic animals of Mysore —
they are raced like ponies and would add
a new industry here to the dogs and the
gees—are more suitable, but not without
constant application of British blood to
keep carcass weights and shapes reason-
ably right. In Brazil zebu beef is second-
grade for export —we have too much of
that already.
Even in India, Indian cattle are not
taken as seriously in industry as enthusi-
asts would have us suppose. While the
bulls are vigorous and prepotent, cows
run to sterility—a characteristic which
may be due more to their easy lives,
since religious reverence allows most of
them to lounge in the shade, living on
the fat of the land, instead of grazing as
healthy animals should.
The Brazilian authorities stress the
fact that the basis of success in zebu-
breeding lies in constant influx of sires
from their native land—a condition
which also applies to Shorthorns and
Herefords in Australia.
It seems to me that, with a foundation
of 12,000,000 cattle mostly of Shorthorn
blood, the best line of research for us
would be towards determining exactly
what makes the Indian breeds pest-resis-
tant, so that we could reproduce the same
conditions in our established animals.
Possibly, a system of light zebu infusions,
insufficient to permanently change the
natural conformation and good qualities
of British breeds, might do it.
Rope Greenhide.
“Beefo”: For rope-making, halter-
shanks, etc., well-cured hides will last
years longer than uncured.
The hide from a white beast is best.
Wash the hide well on (he evening of
killing, and hang it over the yard rails
for the night. Before sunrise peg it out
under cover, sprinkling it with 21b. of
coarse salt.
After two days sweep off surplus salt
and cover the surface to A in. with un-
salted melted fat.
After a week, with a bar of ordinary
kerosene soap, scrub long and hard. The
longer the scrubbing, the better.
Remove the pegs, fold the hide up
flesh side to flesh side first —and store
away from weevils for a week. It will
then be ready to work.
Twisted or plaited ropes from hides
thus treated, and greased and stretched
after each usage, will last a lifetime.
Export Butter Quality.
“Julius Want”: The S.A. Butter Fac-
tory Managers’ Association at Adelaide
and the Nalangel Herd-testing Associa-
tion, Colac (Vic.), recently discussed
butter quality.
One Victorian manager said that the
bad quality of Victorian butter ■ affected
the N.S.W. overseas market. He said
Western District dairymen were “too
conservative,” and he summed up the
position thus:
Faulty cream grading and competition
for supplies are being held up as the
causes of low quality. The solution is
the production of choicest cream, which
means improved farm-hygiene conditions.
But there was an improvement since
last year—7o.7 p.c. of export Western
butter packed as choicest in May last
year was graded below 92 p.c. In May
1935, 80.7 p.c. was graded choicest.
The S.A. managers expressed “the firm
opinion” that much of the inferiority in
their State was due to the practice of
separating creams of higher butter-fat
content. The Agricultural Department is
to be asked to set suitable limits to
butter-fat percentage.
This, however, is merely a palliative.
As the Deputy-Agricultural Director
(Mr. Spafford) pointed out to the con-
ference, M.L. has increased its dairying
output tenfold in 35 years, and this sort
of organisation can be combated only
by raising quality through better and
more standardised factories and cattle,
better pastures and the setting of more
stringent grading standards.
N. S. Wales has a lot to thank its
Agricultural Department, herd-book
societies and co-operative organisations
for in these matters.
Other States will have to learn some-
thing from it and more from competi-
tors overseas—Denmark in particular—
against the time when Siberian produc-
tion —a growing menace before the war
(Continued on page 24.)


CU*? n h o !NE^
•'w ANU u
Massey Harris
High-grade
Farm Implements
A complete range of labor-saving implements
and machines for farm, orchard, vineyard and
grassland.
Write to one of the addresses below for a
copy of the 96-page General Catalogue and
Price List of all Sunshine and Massey Harris
Farm Implements. They will be sent promptly
—free and post free.
*>
hi
c v * & y^
»«*
A-
S.
Illustrated above is the
SUNDERCUT
Stump Jump Disc Cultivating Plough
This popular implement is made in two sizes:
10-Disc, cutting sft.
14-Disc, cutting 7ft.
The best fallowing implement. Deals effectively with
heavy weed growth. Can be fitted with a seed and
fertiliser box.
This illustration is of the
SUNTYNE
Combined Grain and Fertiliser Drill
and Tyne Cultivator
The machine that sows and cultivates on the great bulk
of Australia’s grain farms.
Sizes: 8 row —17 tynes—cultivating sft.
12 row—2s tynes—cultivating 7ift.
14 row—29 tynes—cultivating 82ft.
16 row —33 tynes—cultivating S^ft*
20 row—4l tynes—cultivating 12ft.
24 row—49 tynes—cultivating 14ft.
Sows shallow or deep. Compacts the seed bed.
Pictured below is the
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft . Cut, Self-propelled
Will harvest four acres in an hour. Petrol consumption approximately half a gallon to the acre.
Also available the popular SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER, 6ft., Bft:, and 10ft. cut, in
both ground wheel drive” and ‘engine functioned” types. Sunshine Header Harvesters and
Auto Headers are renowned for their ability to rescue the grain from down and tangled and
thistle-infested crops.
H.V. McKay Massey Harris Pty.Ltd.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS
SUNSHINE
m
■ '■ ■■
*
w>
\W
ere
ranr
i#
riS
W
m
m
I!
if.
AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES.
654-664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
27-39 Broadway,
Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace,
Adelaide. .
Corner Murray & King
Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND
DISTRIBUTORS;
H. V. McKay Massey
Harris (Qld.) Pty.,
Ltd., Stanley St. and
Glenelg St., South
Brisbane.


Why do I of ten
feel like fhis?
■
The Answer to a Question
Many Women are Asking
Thousands of women, and men too, live
in a perpetual state of ill-health and are
at a loss to know the reason why. In
ninety-nine cases out of every hundred
the cause is acid dyspepsia. With the
stomach in a constant state of sourness
you are bound to get the following symp-
toms—Always tired and low-spirited,
frequent headaches, disturbed sleep, over-
strung nerves, loss of appetite, nausea,
flatulence and indigestion. To restore
normal health it is necessary to overcome
the habitual sourness of the stomach and
this can be most effectually accomplished
with ‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia, the supreme
stomach remedy with over 20 years’
reputation for unfailing efficacy. A tea-
spoonful of powder, or 2 to 4 tablets,
three times daily after meals, never fails
to work wonders. If you have the symp-
toms described above,why not try putting
your stomach right ? Get a bottle of
• Bisurated ’ Magnesia, powder or tablets,
from your chemist and start your
recovery to-day by taking the first dose
after your next meal —its restorative
effect will be a revelation to you.
BISURATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Sto
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the ‘Blsmng’ Trade Mark
f
Molhersills
SEASICK REMEDY
STOPS TRAVEL NAUSEA
ON YOUR VACATION TRIPS
.
3 1
ET
7
V
Banish discomfort!
Wear an Abbey Shoe . . . Hawless
in fit and finish . . . made to guaran-
tee thorough comfort from the first
time on. Here’s an Abbey model of
clean-cut, smart design ... a long-
wearing shoe with an upper built so
that every muscle of the foot has
room to move. The sole is made of
toughest leather. Your foot can be
fitted perfectly.
ORDER BY POST
There are four widths in each full
and half size . . . narrow, medium,
wide and extra wide. When order-
ing, state which you need and ash,
also, for the correct Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 449.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
SCHUTE
BEILIUCSi,
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
/JLH3I3H / SSOd
llcnt, age 19i, gains 5 ins. in 6 weeks.
#■ ,',21 „ 5 „ in 5 mfchs.
#t „ 20, „ 3| „in 16 days.
•> ». 30, „ 2 „ in 4 weeks.
~ .. 40, U „ in 6 „ ROSS SYSTEM
Increased my own height to 6ft. 3|ins. NEVER FAILS
Hundreds of Testimonials from all over the world.
Fee £2 2s.
►Malcolm Ross Co "t d cin f t . T “ i ;, i, “" v >
Height Specialist, Scarborough, Eng. (P.O. Dox 15.)
Ko Appliance!
—No Orage.
No Dieting.
dsf
WILCOX; SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
—revives, and the Argentine comes into
the market with its vast resources of corn
and lucerne, as it undoubtedly will if it
loses much of the meat trade.
Time to Sow Lucerne.
“El V.”: In N.S.W. this is the month
to get lucerne in, and, where there is
stock to be fattened or milk to be pro-
duced, the more the merrier. A few
years have completely altered the social
status of this standby of the ages, which
Romans and the modern farmer alike
extol and which North Africa used to
know as “the plant.”
Before the war it was taken for
granted that lucerne would grow only on
certain soils because it needed plenty of
lime and heaven knows what besides,
and its capacity for improving succeeding
crops after the first was looked on as
due to its better command of available
water.
i ne last generation has taught us the
bacterial theory—something which all
the ages of alfalfa-growing had not
before revealed. It is a mutual scheme.
The bacteria, forming nodules on the
roots of legumes, gather anti reed nitro-
gen to their hosts, and the plants pay a
living wage out of their juices.
This is the reason why lucerne does
not favor ill-drained, non-organic, acid
soils. It flourishes under soil conditions
which go with rich nitrification and suit
the bacteria.
There is a good deal of argument
about bacterial inoculation of soil. In
the U.S.A., till recently, it was a general
theory that the introduction of bacteria
cultures was a great help. It may be —in
Australia opinions differ, and many ex-
periments have shown mixed results.
Although river flats with free water
from 10ft. to 30ft. below the surface are
the best country for lucerne, it is not a
sure bet that it will not grow in any,
non-acid soil. The only way to find out
is to try.
Farm Paints.
“Whitewash”; Try these paints, the
results of recent experiments by the
Electrolytic Zinc Co., Risdon (Tas.): -
Cement —Milk.
Portland cement, 191 b.
Milk, (skim or whole), Igal.
Cement —I m itation-m ilk .
Water, Igal.
Sodium phosphate, Boz.
Casein, 14oz.
Portland cement, 191 b.
Thin with water as desired. It gives a hard,
dense coat.
Lime —Imitation-milk.
Water, Igal.
Sodium phosphate, Boz.
Casein, 12oz.
Hydrated lime, 7^lb.
Thin with water to consistency.
Ingredients should be mixed in the order
given, and the paints can be either
sprayed or brushed on.
Sweet-potato Diseases.
“Flynn”: It is true that sweet potatoes
have few diseases (B. 31/7/’35), but they
can give some trouble. Hawkmoth is
one. The caterpillars (to be found on
the foliage) are brown or green with
black lines on the back, spots on the side
and an unmistakable curved spine on the
rear of the body. They are about 3in.
to long at maturity before they
change, after self-burial under a couple
of inches of soil, into purplish pupae,
from which moths 3in. or thereabouts
across emerge. These fellows are greyish
with pink marks. They are not much
nuisance ordinarily, but, if they are, lib.
arsenate to 40gal. as a spray will fix
them, provided the spraying is thorough
both under and over the leaves.
The weevil ( Cylas fonnicarius) is a
greater nuisance. Both as grub and beetle
it attacks tubers, growing or stored, and
the beetle adds green veg. to his ration
in the form of leaves and stalks. The
grub is a small, fat, legless fellow, but the
beetle is lean, robot-like, ant-shaped and
metallic, with a bright red patch behind
his head. He is about long.
His life story begins when the weevils
lay tiny eggs on the plant and tubers.
Before becoming pupae, the grubs are
hatched on the plant, and tunnel through
it and the root alike, turning them into
a rotting mass. Growth takes a month
from egg to beetle stage.
Weevil-free seed is a good first pre-
caution —the beetle is C 3 as a flier.
Clean ground, with all rubbish and rot-
ting tubers or vines cleaned up in winter,
is the second-best precaution, and rota-
tion of crops is the next. If, after that,
beetles are seen at work, the same brew
as that used for the hawkmoth should
do the trick. It helps to dip young
plants in the solution.
Brisbane Show Entries.
“X.T.”: Entries for Brisbane Show are
a record this year. There are 1521 horses
—232 ahead of last year, including 190
Clydesdales, which suggests that the farm
horse is coming back into its own as
fast in Queensland as in other States.
Beef cattle entries are 203 —42 more
than last year, including 21 polled Here-
fords—but this figure is disappointing in
a State which “expects to provide 90 p.c.
of the next year’s beef quota,” even
allowing for exhibitors’ special difficul-
ties in a large State. Even before the
war the 41 entries in the beef Shorthorn
classes would have looked poor.
Dairymen, however, have no cause to
be ashamed. A total of 768 cattle to be
shown includes 321 of Australia’s own
Illawarra Shorthorns.
Pig entries have jumped 50 p.c. to
479, and farm produce exhibits will
number 100 more than last year —plus
dairy produce competitive exhibits 411,
apiculture 140, wines 151 and fine arts
and women’s industries 1155.
At the present rate, Brisbane will need
a new showground soon.
Wool Growth.
Mr. Frank Whiddon, an experienced
wool-scourer, has written a handy book-
let, Concerning Wool Growth (Harbor
Publishing Co., 3s. 6d.), which contains
a thorough summary of the processes
by which wool grows to perfection and
shows by example the damage done to
the grower’s pocket by such faults as
wasty tip and tenderness.
He gives examples in hard cash of
how greasy wools exactly alike except
in tear —which is the proportion of wool
top to noil in combing production—can
affect the price 6 p.c. or more. Growers
will find in the book a good many hints
on wool improvement.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hope Vale”: For muddy patches
round the farmyard nothing is better than
a sprinkling of the charcoal that col-
lects round the forge.
“J.G.S.”: A cheaper and easier hand
gong than “M.P.’s” (B. 19/6/*35) can be
made from an old plough disc. Hang it
on one end of the clothes line with a
piece of wire. Use a bit of iron as a
striker.
"Seenitall”: “Bimbo” is asking about
dressing-weights of sheep (B. 24/7/’35).
T saw a Romney Marsh ram tip the
scales at 3611 b. live weight, which beats
his 1701 b. dressed weight. I also knew a
pet wether that lived to be 19 years old,
and cut a 91b. fleece the year it died.
Anyone beat that?
How far the farm horse is
coming back into favor is shown by the
N.S.W. branch of the Clydesdale Society.
Since 1931 membership has increased
from 123 to 312, and since the R.A.S.
this year 51 new members have come in.
At the Commonwealth Wool and Pro-
duce Co.’s sale a few days ago, bids of
175 and 145 guineas were refused for
two sires, and there were sales up to 100
guineas, which was paid to H. J. Richard-
son for the stallion General Keynote.
“Aerogenes”; Ensilage has recently
been sold hereabouts —Gatton (Q.)—for
1 Is. a ton. This transaction provides
concrete evidence as to the value of en-
silage. If the price was satisfactory to
both parties, it must be profitable for
most dairy farmers to make silage for
themselves.
“Hope Vale”; “Pick’s” sheep-race (B.
17/7/’35) is too long and would slow
down the job—l have reduced mine to
half that length. It is too wide—lambs
would turn round in it. An adjustable-
width race is by far the best. It is a good
plan to board the floor of the race to
prevent its wearing to a trench.


HOTEL
Bent Phillip
METROPOLE
I Young Streets, Sydney
A
V '
TvTTT? f
L
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rales —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
“Urgent Problem of Hailing Births. Mr.
Hughes Emphasises Duty of Government."
Mr. Lyons considers example is better
than precept,
+ •!• 4* 4*
The Melbourne man who is pushing
a passenger to Sydney in a wheelbarrow
apparently hasn’t heard that the time of
the Sydney express has been reduced by
37 minutes.
4* *l-* 4-. 4*
A Double Life.
Oodles is the quietest of men. Mak-
ing conversation with him is an impos-
sible task. He can’t talk about anything,
he never tells jokes, and he’s hopeless
at repartee.
But at certain times he is the most
fluent speaker in the country. He cracks
irrelevant jokes, reels off long discourses
about nothing in particular, and inter-
rupts other speakers with weak wise-
cracks. That is when in his capacity as
a barrister he is looking after some
client’s interest at so much per minute.
Sef.
•H -I*
Chain-letter Tragedy.
Tommy, the office boy, crept stealthily
into the sales manager's room. On (he
table lay a pile of incoming mail. The
lad picked up half a dozen envelopes,
felt them carefully, hesitated, thrust one
into his pocket, restored the others to
the heap and left the room as silently
as he had entered it.
Guiltily he returned to his own room.
He knew that his action was that of a
thief.
“But,” he argued, “what would one
ten-shilling note matter to old Jones? His
“Geologists say this is the oldest laud in Australia."
“Well, anyWay, the boys are pretty fresh."
chain-letter mail was bringing him in
dozens every day. He wouldn’t miss
one.”
He ripped open the envelope and
pulled out the contents. Instead of the
expected 10s. there was a letter.
"Dear George [it ran], —
“Father died on Tuesday. Mother is
prostrated with shock, and is not expected
to last out the week. She cries for you
constantly. The mortgagee has fore-
closed on the farm, and we are to be sold
up on Friday. The children”
Tommy could read no further. His
hand trembled.
"Dammit,” he said as he flung the
letter into the fire. “I’ll have to go back
and get another.”
Uco.
Not Introduced.
“Why should the policeman have spoken to
me at all? We had not been introduced!”
—Correspondent in Brisbane “Courier-Mail ."
The man in blue furiously waved the
car into the kerb. “Hey, you there!
Pull up!”
The raised eyebrows of the girl in the
driving seat halted him in his stride.
Remembering his position, he paused
awkwardly beside the car.
“Know this lady?” he demanded sud-
denly of the male passenger. The man
nodded.
“Then introduce us!”
The passenger turned to the driver.
“Miss Jones, meet Constable—er—er—
[glancing at the helmet] Ninety-seven.”
“How do you do, constable?” the fair
motorist acknowledged, looking directly
at him for the first time.
“How d'you do, Miss Jones?” There
was a pause.
“Sorry, Miss Jones, but when I put
my hand against the traffic that means
“Crouching room in an igloo."
stop. It’s the jolly old department’s in-
struction, though I agree that it is silly.
But since 1 addressed you without being
introduced” . . .
K.T.
“The choir sang with taste and feeling ‘Deep
River,’ ‘The Rosary,’ ‘Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot,’ and ‘Sylvia.’ ‘Sea Chanties’ and
‘Smilin’ Thru’ were applauded.”— “Herald.”
Apparently the audience placed no
store by taste and feeling.
4 1 4*
An Unfair Analogy.
“Packed like sardines?” snorted Simp-
son. “Don’t you know that a sardine
doesn’t wear boots, has no elbows or a
desire to read the
evening news?
Don’t you realise
that the sardine
when packed is
dead? That he is
embalmed in fric-
t i o n-r educing,
shock - absorbing
oil and laid away
by a kindly canner
who takes every
care and responsi-
bility for his safe
transit?
“The sardine,”
Simpson went on
oracularly as he
lurched against me,
“is not made in
assorted sizes. An
all-wise Providence
has decreed that
one sardine should
be so like another
as to dovetail into
a tin with the
maximum of exac-
titude. They fit.
Streamlined, so as
to offer the least
possible resistance
to external objects,
the sardine is immune to all the shock
and knocks Here’s my street. So
long.” Moving his feet off mine, Simp-
son elbowed his way out of the crowded
tram.
W. S.
“Italy purchased 10,000 tons of castor seeds
to be used in connection with the lubrication
of aeroplane engines.”-— Cable.
On hearing this news the Emperor of
Abyssinia is reported to have remarked
“Oh, yeah!”
•|»
Mixing ’Em.
“The bombshell exploded by the Board of
Control may yet prove to be a dud.”— “Sun.”
Dropped from the aeroplane of cricket-
ing authority, the perfectly-functioning,
motionless engines of which, racing on
all cylinders, refused to allow it to rise,
this dud of an unannounced announce-
ment exploded with a terrific, silent re-
verberation, causing the ever-narrowing
ripples on the placid turbulence of the
lake of public opinion to spread in
rapidly expanding circles.
The full emptiness of the effects of this
quiet detonation among players who may
be compelled to look back on the shat-
tered, ominous hopes of future tours
may easily be difficult to gauge. One
thing, however, is certain. When the
noiseless sounds of this unexplodcd blast
have ceased echoing, there is sure to be
put in motion a movement to stop as
we once were, with the board and players
in harmony, and to ensure that there will
be no repetition of an unfortunate inci-
dent that can in no circumstances ever
occur again, and in the handling of which
the board has bungled with both feet.
S. W K.
“Disgraceful scenes were witnessed outside
the public hall while the Matrons and Spinsters’
Ball was in progress.”— “Herald.”
It is our experience that these two
classes are responsible for most of the
troubles for which the sex as a whole
is blamed. '■
•I- * * *
Another Conversation Piece.
Scene: Outback store. Enter burly
bushwhacker, who rests elbows on
counter and bellows:
“God doh ?”
Storekeeper: “Yair, goddoh.”
8.8. ( anxiously ): “Good- oh?”
Store ( assuringly ): “Yair, good- oh.”
8.8. ( quite satisfied): “Good-oh!”
Store ( happily ): “Good-oh! ”
(.Silent exit of bushwhacker with pur-
chase. Storekeeper chalks on wall:
“Tim Malone, I hoe.”)
WUSSLEAN.
*l* .J. .J,
Winter’s Reverie.
Ensconced in my favorite armchair
before the dying fire, its pale embers
but a ghostly shadow of their erstwhile
crackling and leaping virility, 1 am given
over to reflections.
How like our lives is that fire. Its
first weak spark gradually fanned
into the flame of strength, the short,
fierce conflagration, and then the slow
decline to ashes and oblivion. Whence
came the spark? Where goes the flame?
Such poetic thoughts, however, are not
mine. / merely wonder what weirdly
illogical system of reasoning impels a
woman to poke the fire from the top!
Keo.
Consolation.
/ loved and lost you. Ah, my dear,
When triumph was so very near,
It grieved me to resign all
Title or claim, right or demand
I pressed to win your heart and hand.
But though I lost you, pet, it’s sweet
To know that ere I met defeat
/ reached the semi-final.
P.O.M.C.
Brightening Up Our Winter
Playgrounds.
I have been asked to draw up a plan
for the improvement of the winter resorts
at Buffalo and Kosciusko. The follow-
ing suggestions, if adopted, would, 1 con-
sider, popularise both places:
Geographical Changes.
1. Shift them to points closer to Mel-
bourne and Sydney respectively, or,
alternatively,
2. Shift them to points
further away from
Melbourne and Sydney
respectively, and there-
fore closer to Sydney
and Melbourne respec-
tively.
3. This is a compromise—
a combination of
points 1 and 2.
4. Make one big attraction
of them and locate it
on the Vic.-N.S.W.
boundary.
It is, however, unlikely
that vested interests will
agree to any such changes, so, assuming
that the present locations are retained, 1
suggest: ,
Climatic Changes.
1. A Public Refrigeration Company
should be formed to guarantee snow
and ice at both places continuously
between the months of April and
September.
2. Arrangements should be made for the
importation or construction of
reasonably large glaciers and the
provision of blizzards and other icy
blasts.
3*. Politicians and other hot-air mer-
chants to be strictly excluded.
Nomenclature.
To place Buffalo on an equal footing
with Kosciusko, a more suitable name
should be adopted, preferably that of a
Polish patriot. 1 suggest Pilsudski.
Fauna.
Suitable animals should be imported
to lend tone and local color, say Polar
bears and Swiss guides for Kosciusko,
and penguins and Laplanders for Buf-
falo.
Transport.
This must certainly be altered. Motors
must be replaced by (a) reindeers at
Kossy and ( b ) huskies at Buffalo.
The former will be invaluable for
hiring out to city departmental stores at
Christmastime, and the latter will be
handy for film companies' producing
Klondyke pictures.
Accommodation.
The present chalets must go. They arc
too comfortable for people who wish to
rough it. In their place I would substi-
tute igloos at Buffalo and skin tents at
Kossy. People who wouldn’t give a
“thank you” for a featherbed, electric
light and central heating would fall over
each other to bid top price for crouching
room in an igloo.
These few suggestions would, I claim,
add greatly to the popularity of our
“Swiss guides for Kosciusko .”
winter playgrounds, but 1 suggest finally
that, as a special attraction during the
month of August only, a Midnight Sun
and an Aurora Australis should be
secured and displayed week and week
about at the two resorts.
JASBY.
Ideal.
Two roads that fill my son! with strife
Enticingly before me run.
Ah, we! flow perfect were my life
Could I unite them into one f
For, oh ! how sweetly I would drown
My sorrows if my darling Nell,
Instead of shaking milk in (own.
Would serve the beer at Dave’s hotel.
T.W.N.


ADAMS* (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STRET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
ILiimch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), .Dinner from. 5.3 Q p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 9a
. branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. W ales, also representation
through .the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \\orld, thi«
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all, general banning business.
Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The Service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
requires typing work, MS. preferred.—7B6B.
Two partners wanted to assist with capital
in developing goldmine; reef 3ft. wide,
mine equipped with crushing machinery to
treat two tons per hour.—7B4o.
Station book-keeper (29), N.S.W., single,
all-round exp., desires position, anywhere.
Refs.—7Bss.
Gentleman, frequent visitor to Sydney, wishes
to engage accommodation with family living
privately. Telephone essential. Refs. —7831.
To rent, at reasonable cost, cottage, all con-
veniences, Springwood (N.S.W.), from August
24 for fortnight.—7B69.
To buy The Book of Dan, by Steele Rudd,
and John Bull and His Island, by Max O'Rell.
—7825.
To buy copy of Hullo, Australians! by
Seymour Hicks.—7Bl3.
To buy back numbers of London “Mercury.”
—7870.
To buy books on horses, racing, trotting,
hunting, riding, veterinary science, breeding and
so forth. —7872.
Information Sought.
Particulars concerning the highest building
in the world ? —7762.
The highest building in the world is the
Empire State Building, Thirty-fourth : stceet and
Fifth-avenue, New York; 1250ft. high, it has
102 stories (85 floors of office space) and is
topped by an airship mooring mast towering
to a quarter of a mile above the street. It was
built on the site of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel
by a company headed by A1 Smith, the Demo-
cratic leader. There is 2,158,000 sq. ft. of
rentable office space in the edifice, and the
assessed value for municipal purposes is
30,000.000 dollars.
* * * *
Is Le Queux’s “Rasputin” a record of actual
history ? —7437.
Le Queux’s book is fiction, and takes con-
siderable liberties with historical facts.
* * * *
Details regarding an artist named Folingsby
who was in Victoria about half a century ago ?
—7732.
George Frederick Folingsby was born in
Ireland in 1830. As a young man he was in
U.S.A., where he was engaged on “Harper’s
Magazine” and other illustrated journals.
After 25 years in Munich, he came to Australia
in 1880, and became very successful as a
portrait-painter and teacher in Melbourne. He,
was Director of the National Gallery schools
from 1882 until his death on January 4, 1891.
* * * *
What is the amount at credit of the Federal
(Loan Council ) sinking fund? Where is .the
money, and how is it being used ? When will
it be used (and how ) to repay loans outstand-
ing ? Same information as to W.A. sinking
fund ? —7511. .
The Federal -sinking fund is administered
by the National Debt Commission. It does
not come under the management of the Loan
Council or the Commonwealth or State Gov-
ernments. It is usual to speak of the sinking
fund as one fund, but the transactions of the
Commonwealth and each State fund are kept
separate. The National Debt Commission has
bank accounts at the Commonwealth Bank
separate from the ordinary Government
accounts. The Commission does not accumulate
its funds, but uses them in various ways for
the redemption of public debts, such as re-
demption of loans on maturity, purchases of
securities on the market and repurchase of
securities tendered in payment of Common-
wealth probate duty. The large sums applied
in purchases on Stock Exchanges ensure a
regular market for security-holders and main-
tain a steadying influence on prices. When
securities come into the hands of the Commis-
sion they are immediately cancelled, but further
contributions are made in respect of' these
cancelled securities so as to maintain the value
of the fund at compound interest. The receipts
of the Commission for 1934-35 approximate
£8,500,000. The estimated receipts for 1935-36
are £9,000,000, being £4,000,000 for Common-
wealth debts, the whole of which is provided
by the Commonwealth, and £5,000,000 for
States’ debts, of which the Commonwealth pro-
vides £1,380,000 and the States the balance
of £3,620,000. Following its usual practice, the
Commission allocated this si*m for expenditure
in the three markets, London, New York and
Australia, in proportion to the debt domi-
ciled in each of those markets. The foregoing
remarks apply equally to the Westralian section.
* * * *
Is there an award covering firemen-drivers in
N.S.W. country sawmills; if so, what are main
features, and where can a copy be obtained ? —
7624.
Engine-drivers in sawmills in the country are
covered by the provisions of the Engine-drivers,
etc., General (State) Award of June 22, 1928,
and variations of December 28, 1928, and Sep-
tember 21, 1934. Basic wage for adult em-
ployees under the heading “Elsewhere” in
Clause 5 is now £3 5s. per week. Further par-
ticulars can be obtained from the Dept, of
Labor and Industry, Sydney. If the employee
and the employer are both members of a union
or association that is a respondent to the Ped-
eral award, that award would apply in lieu ol
the State award. Inquiries as to the Federal
award should be addressed to the Deputy Regis-
trar, Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and
Arbitration, Courthouse, Darlinghurst.
* * * *
What are “fisli ladders,” as mentioned in an
article on Californian rivers ? —7846.
Fish ladders, or fishways, are built for the
purpose of aiding migrating fish on their
journey to spawning areas to pass dams on the
streams, and generally consist of a series of
pools rising like steps from near the down-
stream base of a dam to the crest, the water
being allowed to flow through the pools in
an even amount. The migrating fish jump out
of the water, often to a height of four or live
feet, from one pool to the next. Californian
law makes it compulsory for fish ladders to
be constructed when, in the judgment of the
commissioners, one is required, or alternatively
hatcheries may be constructed. The largest fish
ladder in the State of California is the San
Clemente, which is 70ft. high.
* * * *
What diseases infest gladioli, and how can
they be overcome ? —7758.
Gladioli are subject to soft rot, hard rot and
scab. For the two former there is no known
cure, but scab may be checked by dipping the
bulbs for about 15 minutes in a solution made
up of half a pint of formalin to 12 gallons ol
water, or by soaking for 20 minutes in a solu-
tion made up of 15 grains of bichloride of
mercury to a gallon of water. Scab is brought
about by a number of causes, the principal
beihg freshly manured ground or the' breaking'
of the plants by strong winds. Should the
latter be the case, lift the bulbs immediately
(even if only half-grown), and, after placing
in one of the above solutions, dry and put away
until next planting-time.
* * * #
How to apply for a position as an attendant
in a N.S.W. Government mental hospital, and
qualifications ? —7771.
Apply direct lb the Medical Superintendent
of the hospital at which appointment is desired.
Qualifications ar&: Age under 30, good physique
and health, height not less than 5ft. 8in., and
fair education. Satisfactory references as to
character are required. The policy of the
present Government is to give preference of
employment to married men.
sjc >'c # *
Who was Brahms’s father? Was he a
musician 7 —7764.
The composer’s father was Johann Jakob
Brahms (1806-1872), who .was himself a
musician. He had filled the office of municipal
musical director in his native town of Heide,
in Schleswig-Holstein. For many years he was
an orchestral musician in Hamburg, playing the
double bass in the Philharmonic concerts and
a horn with the Hamburg city militia.
* -; * * *
(1) How is the N.S.W. Board of Fire Com-
missioners constituted ? (2) What is the voting
power of the various bodies in the election of
their representatives to the board ? —7786.
The board consists of a president appointed
by the Governor for a term of five .years and
seven members elected for a. term of three
years—one by the councils of the Sydney and
suburban municipalities, one by the councils
of the other incorporated areas to which the
Act applies, three elected by the fire insurance
companies, one by the members of volunteer
fire brigades, and one by the permanent fire-
men who arc members of the Fire Brigades
Association of N.S.W. The votes are appor-
tioned among the councils according to the
amount contributed to the fund administered
by the board, on the basis of £100 or under,
one vote; over £100 and not exceeding £500,
two votes; over £500 and not exceeding £1000,
three votes; over £1000, four votes. Each
insurance company and each volunteer and per-
manent fireman is entitled to one vote.
* * * *
In weather charts, Antarctic disturbances are
shown with falling barometric pressures to the
extreme south. Do they keep on falling in
higher southern latitudes, or is there another
belt of high-pressure systems circling the South
Pole ?— 7469.
To the south of the broad low-pressure belt
which is traversed by Antarctic disturbances
pressure rises to the polar anticyclone, cover-
ing the Antarctic continent and the adjacent
seas. Surface winds around the Antarctic
continent and on it are from the south-east,
contributing at times the famous blizzard
winds.
* * sfc *
What are the largest oil-, water-color and
mural paintings and black-and-white pictures
executed by Australian artists ? Their sizes, and
where do they hang ? —7754.
William Moore, in The Story of Australian
Art, lists them thus: ‘‘Opening of the First
Commonwealth Parliament,” by Tom Roberts,
" in St. James’s Palace, London (18ft. 6in. by
lift. 9in.); ‘‘Arrival of Burke, Wills and
King at the Deserted Camp at Cooper’s Creek,
April 21, 1861,” by John Longstaff. in the
Melbourne Gallery (14ft. l|in. by 9ft. 3in.);
“Somme Valley,” by Louis "McCubbin, in the
Australian War Museum (22ft. by 4ft.);
“Prospect Reservoir,” by Arthur Streeton,
owned by the Water and Sewerage Board. Syd-
ney (18ft. by 4ft. 6in.); “United States Battle
Fleet in Sydney Harbor, September, 1925,” by
Charles Bryant—the largest harbor picture—
presented to the President of the United States
(10ft. by 7ft.). . The largest water-colors are
those by George Rowe in the William Dixson
Gallery, his panoramic view of Hobart in 1858
being sft. 2in. by 2ft. sin. The largest mural
paintings are “War,” by H. Septimus Power
(two panels 25ft. by Bft. 6in., another panel
being 10ft. by 2ft. 6in.), and “Peace After
Victory,” by M. Napier Waller (28ft. by Bft.);
both works are in the Public Library, Mel-
bourne. The largest black-and-white picture is
the panoramic view of Melbourne in 1841 by
Samuel Jackson, in the Historical Collection,
Public Library, Melbourne (18ft. by Ift. 6in.).
* * ♦ *
Conditions governing entry of portraits for
the Archibald Prize ? —7712.
The prize is awarded to Jhe best portrait,
preferentially of some man or woman distin-
guished in art, letters, science or politics,
painted by any artist resident in Australasia
during the 12 months preceding the date
fixed by the trustees for sending in the pictures.
Principal conditions are: Paintings must be the
original work of the competitor, and must be
painted during the 12 months preceding the
date fixed by the trustees for sending in the
pictures. Portraits should be as far as practic-
able painted from life, and may be of any size.
No direct copies from photographs will be
considered eligible. Miniatures are admissible,
and portraits may be executed in any medium.
Full details from Director, National Art Gal-
lery, Sydney. Closing date for 1935 prize is
December 31.
!|! * * *
What are the Unfederated Malay Stales, and
what are their relations with Great Britain ?
Have they the same currency, etc., as neighbor-
ing British possessions, and whom do they
mostly trade with ? —7750.
The Unfederated Malay States are Johore,
Kedah, Perlis, Kclanton and Trengganu. The
relations of Johore with Britain are defined by
a treaty dated December 11, 1885 ; and by an
amendment to this treaty made on May 12,
1914, the Sultan agreed to accept, and to act
upon, the advice of a British officer called the
General Adviser. The rights of suzerainty, pro-
tection and control of the other four States were
transferred from Siam to Britain by the Anglo-
Siamcse treaty of March 10, 1909. In all lour
States the rulers are advised in the administra-
tion by State Councils and by British Advisers
appointed by the British Government. In
these States the currency, weights and measures
are the same as in the Straits Settlements and
the Federated Malay States. Their trade is
almost entirely carried on with the Straits
Settlements. , .
» * * *
Would it take more power to work a 2-\in.
pump on 3 in. pipes than a similar pump on
l\in. pipes, assuming the length of the pipes
in both cases is 200 ft. ? —7760.
If the same h.p. were used to drive both
pumps, that having the smaller pipe would
deliver a smaller quantity of water per minute
owing to the greater friction loss in this pipe.
In order to deliver the same quantity a greater
h.p. would be necessary in the case of the
smaller pipe. For the pipe to deliver
the same quantity of water per minute as the
3in. pipe, the velocity would have to be four
times as great. Practically speaking, it would
not be possible to work the pump at its normal
capacity using a Hin. pipe, on account of
friction loss.
* * * *
Composition of aluminium paint ? —7787.
Powdered aluminium, mixed with a solution
of gum j lac in water, gives a metallic paint
which, covers well and which may be tinted
with aniline dyes soluble in water. The solu-
tion of lac is made as follows: Soda crystals
Boz., borax 86z., gum lac 21b., water 1 gal.
Boil the water and soda crystals and borax
together, then add the lac; keep boiling till
lac is dissolved. If this solution comes too
thick, add more water and borax (loz. borax
to 1 pint of . water). To this solution, alumi-
nium, finely powdered, is added in sufficient
quantity to . produce a paint sufficiently fluid
to apply with a brush. If required to spread
easily, add loz. glycerine to every gallon,
c * * * *
The gums of my teeth have been in such a
slate for two or three years that blood can be
sucked out of them, or sometimes appears itself
without any concious act of sucking. Other-
wise the teeth appear and feel healthy. Any
remedy ? —7729.
The gum disorder is due to a form of gingi-
vitis, or local inflammation; this is initiated
by septic infection or constitutional disease
associated with malnutrition. Get a dentist to
examine for the presence of pyorrhoea. Mean-
while give attention to general health, use
tincture of myrrh and borax (a few drops in
a wineglass of tepid water) as a mouth wash
after meals, and rinse the mouth with an alka-
line antiseptic at night. A soft toothbrush is
advised for the present; irritation of the gum
margins must be avoided.
* « * *
I perspire excessively in the hands. Is there
any means of preventing this ? —7676.
Bathe night and morning with borax soap
and hot water; after drying, rub freely with
liquid witch-hazel or methylated spirits, and
dust over with a simple talc. A 2 per cent,
solution of formalin in water may be applied
occasionally if the trouble persists. Belladonna
and other drugs may be taken internally under
medical supervision.
if * * *
What is prophylaxis ? How is the word used
in medicine ? —7849.
The prevention of disease is known as pro-
phylaxis; the adjective prophylactic is applied
to any agent so used. To take a simple ex-
ample, quinine may be used as a curative agent
in malaria and also as a prophylactic against
the disease in malarial districts. In the pro-
phylaxis of typhoid fever are included purity
of water supply, notification and isolation of
cases, and inoculation of those exposed to the
infection.
if * * K
How long did it take to make the works for
Big Ben, London ? —7633.
Construction was commenced in 1852 by
the firm of E. J. Dent, and finished by 1854.
The clock was not installed in the tower until
1859, and was not set going till the following
year.
Brief Answers.
W.M.S.: The line “They left the vine-
wreathed cottage and the mansion on the hill
is the first of George Essex Evans’s poem “The
Women of the West’’... .K.T.F.; At June 30,
1934, there were 4808 artesian bores in Queens-
land, of which 1434 were flowing. The aggre-
gate continuous flow of water was estimated at
267,782,410 gallons per day... .P.T.F.: Worksby
C. E. Montague include A Hind Let Loose. Dis-
enchantment, Fiery Particles, The Right Place.
Rough Justice, Right Off the Map and Action
and Other Stories R.N.: Cost of boarding-
house registration in Brisbane is as follows;
Is. per room per annum, minimum 55., maxi-
mum £5. (Rooms to include all except kitchen
and bathroom.) Transfer fee from one pro-
prietor to another, one-half of original fee....
G.W.F.: The religious professions in Northern
Ireland, as recorded at the census of 1926,
were: Roman Catholics 420,428, Presbyterians
393,374, Protestant Episcopalians 338,724,
Methodists 49,554, others 54,481 H.V.: J. S.
MacDonald has been Director of the National
Art Gallery of N.S.W. since 1929. Previous to
that he was art critic on the Melbourne
“Herald.” He served with the A.I.F D.T.:
The Spanish schooner Estremina was captured
by the brig Harrington on the coast of Peru
in Ocobcr, 1804. She was brought to Port
Jackson on April 9, 1805. There was consider-
able doubt of the legality of the seizure. Ulti-
mately she was ordered to be sold by the Court
of Vice-Admiralty, and in June, 1806, she was
bought for the public service at a cost of
£2lOO by order of Governor King M.F.H.:
Sir Thos. Mitchell, one-time Surveyor-General
of N.S.W., was born at Craigend, Stirlingshire,
Scotland, on June 16, 1792... .W.J.A.: Hya-
cinths succeed to perfection in cool districts,
but can be grown even in N.S.W. warm
climates in a sheltered situation with an easterly
aspect, protected from westerly winds, or in
pots or bowls for indoor decoration....
C.M.E.: Although dianthus arc actually bien-
nials, they will last only one flowering unless
cut back severely before seeding. To get the
best results, fresh seed should be sown each
year... .K.C.: Yes, ABC of Queensland and
Australian Statistics, obtainable from Govern-
ment Printer, Brisbane T.0.H.: Ollicer:in-
charge, Correspondence Courses, Technical
College, Ultimo, Sydney, will furnish
full details on request... .L.S.: The nearest
that can be got to “d’Entrecastcaux” in Eng-
lish is “dahn-trey-kahs-t0w”.... M.L.: You
should inform the trustees of the truth. A will
is interpreted in accordance with the clear in-
tention of the testator. All you have to do is
to show that you are the person intended to
be benefited by your father... .J.C.G.: (1)
If a new dividing fence is required, each ol
the adjoining holders may be required to con-
tribute towards the cost of its erection in a
proportion not exceeding one half. (2) Write
Agricultural Department, Sydney... .H.P.S.;
(1) Yes. (2) No statutory provision against
doing so. (3) Must bear the date on which the
declaration is made and signed. ...H.D.: Write
A.J.C., 6 Bligh-street, Sydney S.D.: The
Roads and Other Poems, by Paul L. Grano,
is obtainable from the author, care Aquinas
Library, George-street, Brisbane... .A. 8.: Fair
Rents Courts were established in N.S.W.,
under the N.S.W. Fair Rents Act, 1915, for the
regulation of rents of dwellings let at £3 per
week and under. The jurisdiction was extended
in 1926 to retail shops at rentals not exceeding
£6 per week, but it was curtailed by an amend-
ment passed in 1928,which providedalsothat the
Fair Rents Act would cease to have effect on
July 1,1933... .H.N.: See “Commonwealth Gov-
ernment Gazette” for April 14, 1932... .G.L.:
The aboriginal name for Mosman’s Bay was
“Goram-Bullagong,” for Neutral Bay “Wirra-
Birra,” for Bradley's Head “Burroggy” and for
Clifton Gardens “Koree”... .T.W.: The mean
standard of the temperature (in shade) at
Sydney for each of the 12 months of the year is
as follows: Jan. 71.6 deg. Fahr., Feb. 71.3,
Mar. 69.3, Apr. 64.7, May 58.8, June 54.7,
July 52.8, Aug. 55.2, Sep. 59.2, Oct. 63.6,
Nov. 67.0, Dec. 70.0... .M.C.M.: The Glencoe
Massacre of the Macdonalds, a Jacobite clan,
was carried out by 120 soldiers of a Campbell
regiment on Feb. 13, 1692. About 60 men were
slain, and many women and children, turned
out naked in a freezing night, perished....
J.H.V.R.: Specimen is of no value... .W.A.:
(1) Unemployed-relief tax was first imposed in
N.S.W. on July 1, 1930, on all incomes in
excess of £1 10s. per week. (2) Rate of tax
increased to Is. in the £1 on January 1, 1931,
when exemption was raised to £2. The rates
were varied on October 1, 1932, to: £2 to
£2 10s., Is.; £2 10s. Id. to £3, Is. 6d.;
£3 os. Id. to £3 10s., 25.; £3 10s. Id. and over.
Is. in the £1; exemption, £2 per week. (3)
The present rates of tax commenced on Decem-
ber 1, 1933: exemption, £2 per week J.S.:
Write Air Board, Defence Department, Mel-
bourne... .A.F.A.: Ordinary waxed thread
is used. For waterproofing, also for thread,
use yellow beeswax... .C.H.: Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Department for pamphlets
“The Propagation of Banana Plants” and
“Advice to Intending Growers of Bananas.”
W.T.C.: Write Air Board, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne H.W.H.: At the 1933
census there were 3,367,815 males and 3,262,785
females, making a total of 6,630,600 persons.
. ...C.W.C.; Write Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Department, Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney.... M.A.C.: Obtain booklet on the subject
from Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-street,
Sydney... .G.W.: (1) You may either discharge
the mortgages and offer the property free of all
encumbrances, or offer it subject to the mort-
gages. You would have difficulty in securing
a purchaser in the latter case. Best course
would be to put the property in the hands of
an estate agent. (2) Second mortgages carry
a higher rate of interest than first; the rate you
refer to would be subject to a reduction of
22| p.c. if in operation prior to the Interest
Reduction Act of 1931... .8.A.L.: During the
last Parliament (N.S.W.) the Moratorium Act
was extended to the end of 1938. Your
banker’s advice was correct... .J.K.G.: As it
was through the direct agency of B that the
sale was brought about, he is the person who
should receive the commission. Cannot see that
C has any claim that could be enforced
A.F.N.; Guelph (Many others mailed.)


&
niinaiiii
si
ifil
&£
uutmm Mabm
is a fascinating time. The weather is ideal, crisp
and clear and the countryside is a mass of varie-
gated colours —Maples and Copper Beeches, in
their red and golden tints, and gorgeous
Chrysanthemums are in full bloom.
In addition to these natural charms, the Australian C,
owing to the low exchange, is worth 25/- in Japan.
ROUND TRIP STEAMER FARES
Sydney to Yokohama
First, £9O; Second, £56/15/-
(No Exchange)
PASSEKCERS >I4Y LIVE O/V BOARD AT ALL PORTS
Joint E. & A. Passenger
Agents:
Gibbs, Bright & Co
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
Sydney. Melbourne.
Brisbane, Adelaide.
S S NELLORE leaves Sydney
September 14
5.5. TANDA leaves Sydney
October 12
5.5. NANKIN leaves Sydney
November 13
&
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.8.0'C.: Snappy; in fact, a shade too
snappy.... J.M.S.: It came very near.... J.H.:
You’ve handled the subject cleverly and real-
istically, but it made us feel a bit qualmish our-
selves... .C.M.W.: Thanks for corrections,
anyhow, even if the careless substitution ol
“coo” for “moan” doesn’t seem a very alarm-
ing misquotation.,. .J.F.P.: It had sevcial
readings, and we passed it out a little icgict-
fully J.H.G.: Goo.d enough philosophy, but
it doesn’t quite click... .11. H.; You have an
accurate car for rhyme and a fair one for metre.
Now try to say something that hasn’t been
said, in different words, scores ol times before.
H.H.: Doggerel, and hard reading, even
when it is about bunyips... .R.A.P.: Ingenious,
but it won't quite d0....C.P.: Ihcrc’s wit in
it, but you are careless metrically. Lines like
At length the boy friend did arrive
and
In cold daylight’s relentless glare
disclose obvious false quantities. Have another
try....M.L.: There’s something in that blank-
verse piece, but the unusual metre handicaps
it L.M.: “I trust tlic enclosed has some
value.” None to us —or y0u....C.L.: “If there
is any encouragement for this you will prob-
ably get more poems from me in future.”
“Angels and ministers of grace defend us!"
from a second helping... .T.E.M.: Your verse
is as lyrical as the ledger leaves on which it
is inscribed... .A.M.W.: Not one of the six
comes within coo-ee of being suitable for pub-
lication 8.5.: What’s this? :
With evening come the zephyrs,
The zephyrs from the sky,
The throng of heaven’s voices,
And Outdoor’s lullaby.
I fain would know their secret
And on their bosom flee,
To gambol on the waters
And spaces wide and free.
Off with you, then... .E.D.S.; Not even the
description of a battlefield as “Satan’s shell-torn
den” saved it from the basket J. 5.8.:
Afraid it’s a trifle belated... .W.0.D.: “Trou-
badour” came nearest, but even that was yards
off J.J.: Your conception of free verse
gives us a pain in the neck... .C.E.D.: The
melancholy end of Phar Lap set dozens of
bards strumming their lyres for us, but you are
the first to chip in with a dirge to Redditch:
A fighter and a hero,
A comrade brave and true,
As staunch as any Nero,
We sob farewell to you.
But why drag in Nero? ... .L.G.; Not very
amusing; subject seems out of date, anyway....
H.V.P.: Interesting as a personal experience,
but it doesn’t make a yarn... .A.C.: “The Lure
of the Silent Spaces” consigned to the silent
tomb R.M.; It doesn’t impress C.K.P.:
The laughs are too far apart.. : Not
suitable S.N.: Too long; the interest flags.
. ...W.W.A.; Unconvincing. You don’t ex-
plain why the police should suspect Brown in
the first place... .E.C.: As dead as the sub-
ject W.T.D.: Reveals the Wellsian influence
to which you refer, but only Wells can get
away with that sort of thing... .G.W.S.: More
“off” than “0n”... .H.McF.: Doesn’t ring the
bell A.D.: Unsuitable, but pretty good in
its way 1.M.: Not quite enough interest in
it J.F.K.: Too, too romantic P.M.;
After all, what is there to be ashamed of in
visiting a restaurant in one’s office coat?....
E.M.G.: Not quite B.B.: Not suitable.
J.F.; Idea original, but yarn doesn’t quite
carry it off J.V.W.: Neither subject has
sufficient appeal... .P.A.: The “quack” story
is better than the revolution sketch, but both
are immature J.E.S.: The same sort of thing
has been said so often... .S.C.M.; Not for
us, but you might try it elsewhere A.H.S.:
Came fairly close... .E.M.E.; Neither got past.
M.M.: We have a definite objection to
yarns dealing with mummied hands, Egyptian
curses and kindred delights... .W.M.: But we
prefer them to missing wills hidden in secret
drawers W.0.D.: And to unexplained ghost
stories A.J.Q.: Of interest to few outside
your boarding-house... .P.A.J.: Too obviously
a story with a purpose... .C.C.: Try a Maori-'
land paper H.H.: “Why should I rail at
life’s jest?” No one is going to speak like that
in our columns (this one excepted, of course).
E.W.: Try something less melodramatic.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.0.C.: To depict a man fleeing from a
bull is no easy task for an amateur, but
you should have done better than that
G.H.C.; Fougasse has illustrated the same idea
infinitely better G.F.M.: “Please send copy
of paper in which drawings appear.” Optimist!
N.M.C.: Saw nothing in it to merit a
cheque A.8.W.: After a long examination
we decided that the figures represented a mother
and her child. Are we correct? R.W.: Where
have you seen a full-blooded abo. with an im-
perial beard? N.L.: That joke lost its fresh-
ness half a century ago W.W.: As an illus-
trator of butter-boxes you might make a crust.
P.TJ.: Harsh outlines and a stodgy gag.
A.B.: Glad to hear that it will be, if re-
jected, your last effort... .T.W.8.: The sozzled
boarder is sleeping it off in the basket
J.P.: It is easily seen that you have never
seen a crocodile entering a pub door R.C.:
No hope for the fellow with legs twice as long
as his body W.H.T.: A mass of misplaced
lines P.R.: Careful student’s work. Keep
on trying H.8.C.: The lad shows promise
but needs lessons F.R.M.; Off our beat. Let
us see something like what we print
J.H.: You belong to the hit-or-miss school.
D.K.: Didn’t they teach you anything
about anatomy where you learned art?
N.C.: Looks like a disorderly pile of stags’
horns G.F.: The trouble is that you didn’t
use the eraser enough.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Jo’burg”: The bright spot in the
jubilee celebrations at Lusikisiki in Pon-
doland was a speech by one of the
native chiefs. He referred feelingly to
Queen Mary, “whose good cooking has
kept the King well and strong, so that
his health has remained good.” •
* * * *
“Shuttle”; The lively pastime of
Badminton is catching on in Sydney.
The game is played on a small
version of a tennis court with shuttle-
cock and battledore over a high net.
It is fast, and calls for pace and
skill, since it consists entirely of volley-
ing. In Britain the game has long been
of considerable importance, and the fact
that it can be played indoors in any
large room is not the least attractive
feature.
* * • *
"Cider”: England is not as far behind
the cricket times as many aver. Play in
the Worcester-Somerset match was ac-
companied by a “radio scoreboard.”
The mike was placed' in front of the
scorer, and he announced scores, batsmen
and bowlers as the game went on, a
loudspeaker on top of the pavilion
spreading the tidings to all and sundry.
This is said to be the first time radio
has been put to use for such a purpose
on a cricket ground.
♦ * * *
“Glcnelg”: Adelaide has invented a
game it calls night cricket. It is played
under electric light on a ground 50ft. by
50ft. A score of 100 in seven minutes is
a fair thing, and 800 is a decent innings.
There are up to 18 players a side, and
the pitch is 18ft. by sft. A boundary
fence for “out over the fence” is sft.
high. White tennis balls and standard
bats shortened by three inches are used;
bowling is underarm with 12-ball overs.
Scoring is done with an abacus, each side
batting for 70 minutes. Any sort of
pitch will do if decently level.
* * * *
“Alcztraz”: Melbourne is making a
solid effort to establish holiday—presum-
ably seaside —camps for country residents
during the summer months. Several
enthusiasts are working up the scheme,
but it will be a heart-breaking job trying
to raise private subscriptions sufficient to
do the work properly. In U.S.A. the
holiday camp is regarded as a function
of the municipality, and the organisation
is so perfect that the city contrives to
give many of its citizens the benefits of
the camp at a minimum of cost. When
1 was in San Francisco that city was hold-
ing a camp at Hetch Hetchy, in the
mountain area of California. The camp,
1 was assured, was self-supporting ; yet
any citizen of San Francisco could take
advantage of it for a fortnight with his
family, and the cost was only £2 weekly
per adult. Bulk handling of building
material, furnishings and food cut down
the costs.
The imperilled Muscovite:
Exploration of the backblocks of the Cau-
casus Mountains has revealed some remark-
able communities—spillovers from races which
have migrated westward and passed on through
the centuries. It is estimated that in this
region there are 36 different races, each speak-
ing a distinct language, and some numbering
not more than 1000 people. But all of them
did not come from further east. In 1926,
on the shores of the Black Sea, was discovered
a community of full-blooded negroes—descend-
ants, it is believed, of slaves shipwrecked on
their way from Istambul markets to the
palaces of the Georgian princes. They speak
an African lingo, and live as their forebears
lived in the Dark Continent. But the most
curious find was made by a mining engineer,
one Douglas, in 1912. Examining the geo-
logical formation of one hill, he heard some-
thing that made his Scottish blood thrill—the
skirl of the bagpipes. Round a pile of rocks
stepped a braw Hicland laddie, kilts and a’,
with the pipes under his arm and marching
with the proud bearing of the genuine Scot.
But when the engineer addressed him as Mac
he looked blank, and the interpreter of the
party elicited the information that he was a
member of the Avarian tribe, which had been
living there from time immemorial and had
never heard of Bonnie Scotland. In 1920 a
representative of the London "Times” made a
more thorough investigation of the Avarians.
He found them to be slow of action but ex-
tremely determined. Careful and efficient, they
were chary about undertaking any job, but
when they took it on it was carried out.
Shrewd bargain-makers, they never wasted a
trifle. In addition to these distinctly Caledonian
traits, they danced the sword-dance and the
gillie callum, their songs contained musical
phrases common in Scottish minstrelsy, and
one of their popular sports was tossing the
caber. The weird dialect they spoke con-
tained several words approximating to the
Gaelic. As the Avarians arc now comprised
in the Bolshevik Republics, it seems only a
matter of time before they own the whole
U.S.S.R.


“SILVER
EDGE”
{J&uAv&k,
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
as to e converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
nigh loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
fot Raybestos, which has proved itself over many years of service .
RAYBESTOS-Bf LA r O LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
MAM PI ON
WINDSOR;
CANADA
spAmmmptmm
Obtainable at
all leading garages
The Steering Column.
TEST OF WOLSELEY 14/48.
RELIABILITY AND ECONOMY OUTSTANDING
FEATURES.
By FRED BERRY.
A MONG the older school of motorists the name of Wolseley
conjures up memories of superlative workmanship and
extreme reliability, but post-war models for some reason or
other did not appeal very strongly to Australian drivers.
New blood has been infused into the Wolseley organisation
in recent years, and a group of sports models has been pro-
duced that has achieved outstanding success both in compe-
tition and in everyday use. The 14-h.p. model tested recently
over the “Bulletin” course is a car deserving of more than casual
attention from those who desire a British car capable of good
all-round performance and in which economy is a pronounced
feature.
A correct assessment of the 14/48
Wolseley cannot be obtained in a five-
minute drive round a square. On a 100-
mile lour, however, the quiet virtues of
this car become apparent, and the driver
who knows how to make use of the gear
lever finds third gear equal in acceleration
to that of cars of the higher-powered
group, whilst in top the Wolseley bowls
along without fuss or vibration at
between 45 and 50 m.p.h., which appears
to be its convenient louring gait.
p „i- , p , ° f
.Ju. b , . y , reedom ff orr l P®tty
trouble?, have been kept steadily in view
by the designer, who has aimed at owner-
dnvei set vice and accessibility, whilst
from a mechanical viewpoint the whole
job is typical of the best British engi-
neering practice.
In the past noisy transmission and
squeaky bodywork have handicapped
some British cars when driven under
Australian conditions, but so far as the
Wolseley is concerned the bodywork,
while plain in design, is free from
14 /48-h.p, Wolseley sedan, with Australian body, tested over the BULLETIN course.
squeaks and rattles, and, excepting a
slight hum in the differential, gears are
quiet, while top and third, synchromesh
type, arc silent at all speeds, and
can be changed without “crashing” at
any speed.
The 6-cyl. engine, mounted on live
rubber supports, is of the overhead-valve
type, with a bore of 61.5 mm. and stroke
of 90mm., giving a cubic capacity of
1604 c.c. R.A.C. rating is 14 h.p.,
and 48 b.h.p. is delivered at maximum
revs.
The crankshaft, carefully balanced,
runs on four main bearings, con. rods,
piston rings and gudgeon pins being
carefully matched and weighed in order
to provide smooth running at all speeds.
Pistons are lightweight “central seal”
type, with three rings located above the
gudgeon pin.
The overhead-valve gear is operated
by a camshaft mounted in seven bearings
and driven from the crankshaft by a
silent roller chain. Exhaust and inlet
valves are on opposite sides of the cam-
shaft, and by means of an accessible
adjusting nut on each rocker the “cold”
clearance of three thousand is simply
obtained. The wearing faces of the
rocker mechanism are specially hard-
ened in order to maintain clearance and
keep the motor in tune over lengthy
periods.
To obtain maximum power valve
timing must be given special attention,
the camshaft being marked on the chain
wheel flange which indicates that No. 1
cylinder is on. T.D.C., and the inlet valve
should then begin to open. As the
timing chain is likely to stretch, this
adjustment could with advantage be
checked every 10,000 miles.
Gudgeon pins are of fixed type, locked
in the connecting-rod small-end by means
of a set screw.
Lubrication is by full-pressure system,
a gear-driven pump feeding oil to the
main and connecting-rod bearings,
timing chain and overhead-valve gear.
Pistons and cylinder walls are lubricated
by splash from the rotating connecting-
rod bearings. Feed pipes are located
outside the engine, and an efficient oil
strainer, readily demountable for clean-
ing purposes, is placed in the return oil
line. The oil filter is in the centre of
o.h.v. timing case, a most accessible
position, and the dip-stick level indicator
is in the conventional place in the bottom
half of the crankcase.
The petrol tank, of eight gallons capa-
city, is swung between rear chassis
members, and fuel is drawn by means of
an S.U. electric-operated pressure pump
to an S.U.-type horizontal carburettor,
fitted with a gauze
air cleaner and
silencer. A con-
trollable jet fitted
in the carburettor
base permits the
driver to vary fuel
supply by mean
of a dashboard fit-
ting to control mix-
ture strength when
on the road, to
facilitate starting,
and to secure
greatest economy
under any running
conditions.
The electrical
system works on
12 volts, coil and
battery being used
for ignition. The
distributor head is fitted with centri-
fugal automatic spark advance, and
an external vernier adjustment permits
immediate alteration of ignition point
to accommodate various grades of
fuel. The dynamo is of special design,
driven by belt from a crankshaft pulley,
and together with a regulator unit allows
a variable output according to the state
of charge or discharge of the battery. In
addition, the regulator provides for an
increase of output to balance the current
taken by lamps or other accessories when-
ever they are switched on. Red warning
lights Jet into the instrument panel show
when ignition is switched on without the
motor running, and also when the charge
from the dynamo does not equal battery
discharge.
The name badge on the radiator is
illuminated when the headlights are
switched on.
Projecting through the floor-boards at
a point immediately in front of the
driver’s seat is a master safety switch
which enables the battery to be com-
pletely isolated from the electrical equip-
ment as a means of protection when
parked, when carrying out alterations to
equipment or in the event of a short-
circuit in the wiring. A safeguard of
very practical advantage.
Cooling is of conventional type,
assisted by a mechanical pump driven by
gears from the crankshaft.
Transmission is through a single-plate
dry clutch with fabric facings to a four-
speed-and-reverse unit-type gearbox with
ball-type central change-speed lever.
Top- and third-gear pinions are helical
cut, fitted with synchromesh cones for
easy and silent engagement. Built into
the rear end of the gearbox is a roller-
type free-wheeling unit of robust con-
struction. This unit may be locked out
when desired by operating a con-
trol mounted on the steering-column
bracket.
Final drive is through open propeller
shatt fitted with Hardy-Spicer universal
joints front and rear. Helical-cut teeth
are used on crown wheel and pinion, and
the differential assembly, as a unit, can
be withdrawn from the banjo-type back-
axle housing after pulling the axles and
removal of rear universal joint. The
Neal arrangement of motor and gearbox, Wolseley 14/48.
rear axle is of the three-quarter-floating
type, the driving shafts merely trans-
mitting power and not supporting the
weight of the car. Final reduction ratio
is 4.89 to 1.
A foot pedal actuates simultaneously
a pair of brake shoes on each road wheel,
control being by Lockheed hydraulic
system. Particular attention has been
given to brake-drum design in order to
secure maximum efficiency, and also to
give ready accessibility to brake shoes—
an important feature in owner-driver
maintenance.
A hand lever actuates emergency
brakes on the rear wheels, a single-point
adjustment being located adjacent fo the
lever.
Steering is cam-and-lever type, adjust-
ment for wear being made by removing
the side cover of the gearbox and tak-
ing out one or more shims.
The chassis is of the undcrslung com-
pound double type, with rigid bracing.
Long and wide semi-elliptic springs arc
fitted, underslung at rear, each being
equipped with a Newton hydraulic shock-
absorber. Wheelbase is 102 inches and
track 4ft.
Internal fittings and instrument panel
of the Australian-built body are very
pleasing and of good quality, the coach-
work being faithfully carried out and
very neatly designed.
The car tested was a standard four-
door saloon, driven by R. L. Tyson, of
Dalgetys, Ltd., N.S.W. distributors, the
speedometer reading standing at 5151.
Consequently the engine had been
thoroughly run in and was smooth and
Synchromesh gears in neutral position ;
note third and fourth speed dogs on
either side of central cones.
without noticeable vibration throughout
its speed ranges. Weighbridge docket,
24|cwt., included full fuel tank together
with driver and observer.
Through busy city traffic no fault could
be found with steering or manoeu-
vrability ; but, although top-gear accelera-
tion lacked the snap expected in
modern cars, the synchromesh silent
change to third —a simple and effortless
operation—provided very good accelera-
tion and a maximum speed of 55 m.p.h.
in that gear—a decidedly handy ratio.


USEFUL DATA ON 14/48 WOLSELEY,
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. in 19 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 12 4-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in third in 8
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 6
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 19ft. Sin.
Maximum speed, 61 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 31.1 m.p.g.
■
r
“SEND OUT
A WILLARD-
no more ordinary
batteries for me”
Battery dead —a cold rainy night and miles trom
home. The few shillings saved buying a battery of
unknown make and quality turned out to he expen-
sive economy.
That’s why every year more and more motorists
buy Willards— they’re dependable. Willards have
a World-wide reputation for quality and cost no
more than many less dependable batteries.
Willard
SEE
YOUR NEAREST
WILLARD DEALER
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
iiiiii
;
nr\
viy
m
»
I
feSS
OEM
TO EQUAL IT
ITS DIfFEEEHT
s *
V.iQ
NEPTUNE OIL CO. LIMITED ... All States
STOCKED BY ALL GANGES THROUGHOUT AUST.
More Motorists than Ever
Simoniz Their Cars
The New Kleener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
Passing through Parramatta and on the
onen road through Baulkham Hills a
steady speed of between 40 and 45
m d h was maintained. Slowing down
to a steady 15 m.p.h. at Pitt Town the
car coasted 695 yards in neutral before
coming to a standstill, proving freedom
of and correct alignment of all wheel
bearings, transmission details and brake
equipment.
Through Windsor
and ap pro ac hing
Richmond, maximum
speed was tested over
a measured mile with
flying start, time
taken, 59sec., averag-
ing 61 m.p.h. The
car held the road well
at this maximum,
steering was safe and
the engine was without
noticeable vibration.
Continuing through
Richmond and
approaching Kurrajong Mountain the un-
made by-pass dirt road through Grose
Vale was taken. Owing to rapid drying
after recent heavy rains the surface was
rough and corrugated, consequently some
“front end” chassis vibration was experi-
enced, while on thc steeper grades
third gear, which proved to be very
quiet, was used occasionally.
The speed climb of 2 1-5 miles of
Kurrajong Mountain was then timed
from a standing start, and on this diffi-
cult test the Wolseley performed splen-
didly, the lime taken, 4min. 17sec.-quite
fast when maximum speed is taken into
Crown wheel and differential assembly
of the 14f48 Wolseley.
account —being due mainly to excellent
pulling and snappy acceleration in second
and third gears, together with good steer-
ing and road-holding properties on the
many difficult corners. No indications of
overheating or boiling were observed
either during or at the conclusion of the
climb.
Returning down the mountain emer-
gency hand-brake equipment was tested
on a loose gravel surface from a speed
of 15 m.p.h., the car pulling up smoothly
within 10 feet.
Taking the cross-country route via
Castlereagh to Penrith, further perform-
ance tests were conducted. Inherent
flexibility of the motor while driving in
top gear was first tested by covering 350
yards as slowly as possible, followed
immediately by a similar distance on
full throttle. On the slow-running sec-
tion the time taken, 3min., averaged 4
m.p.h., while the accelerated section was
clocked in 21 3-ssec., averaging 33.3
m.p.h. The finishing line was crossed
with the speedo. showing 45 m.p.h.—
both good performances when low engine
power and high back-axle ratio are taken
into consideration.
Acceleration from a steady 10 to 30
m.p.h. in top, third and second gears
was then checked, times being respec-
tively 12 4-ssec., Bsec., 6sec. From a
standing start to 50 m.p.h. was clocked
in 19sec., first, second and third gears
being used.
Four-wheel braking equipment was
then tested from a steady 25 m.p.h., the
car pulling up smoothly and without
swerving in 19ft. 3in. —a splendid per-
formance.
Turning circle on both left and right
locks measured 40ft.; ground clearance
was 6in.
Fuel used for the complete test of
120.8 miles was 3 \ gallons, an average of
31.1 m.p.g. (37.7 ton-miles), which, taken
in conjunction with an average speed
inclusive of all tests of 34 m.p.h., indi-
cates a high order of economy in
operation.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
D.V. (Walcha, N.S.W.).— Where can I obtain
literature dealing with the servicing and repair -
mg of Ford cars ?
Write Hastings, Deenng, Ltd., Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
R.S.L.—(I) 1 intend buying a sedan car to
be used exclusively in the country on long
trips and over very rough roads. In what
order would you place the five cars (named) ?
(2) Is there any truth in the rumor that two cars
(named) are being fitted with flimsy bodies of
light material that will not last ?
<■) I f d 5 ; “■? 2 - 3 a " d . 4 - ® N .°-
Nowra. (1) P'™*!'”
in starting up a car which has been standing
for some lime, say overnight, and particularly
at this time of the year ? (2) Can any damage
he done to the car by incorrect methods in
starting up ?
(1) With ignition switch “off,” set choke
and throttle to most suitable position, spin the
engine three or four revs, and then switch on
The engine should then fire and keep going,
Rev. engine at from 200 to 400 r.p.m., and push
choke control in, gradually keeping just ahead
of stalling mixture. Maintain this engine speed
until water temperature indicator begins to
"S' osTn.pca.ura become Tady
(2) Yes. The first five minutes from a co d
start may result in greater wear than would
be the case in 500 miles normal touring under
correct temperature conditions. Oil must be
given ample time to become fluid and reach
all parts of the motor before heavy loads arc
imposed. Over-use of the choke will also be
responsible for rapid and excessive wear of
cylinder bores and bearing surfaces.
L.H. (Inverell, } Opinion ‘he
two c,d t ? (2)
Has the Morris range been tested by The
r uuftin ye t ? (3) Who are the Sydney agents
f or m.G. cars ?
(HA and B in that order. (2) No. (3)
Y ork Motors, Ltd., William-street, Sydney.
* * * *
j (Longreach, Q.). — Since my ’33 sedan
\ ias been overhauled after 18,000 miles, peltol
consumption has dropped from 22 to 18 m.p.g■
Valves, ignition, timing, carburettor ana fue
line are in perfect order. What s wrong .
yo U \ S avelhs“loluS
thc problem. If this fails, check petrol tank
i ea ks round the seam or for stone punc-
tures
'** * *
J.N.S. (Stanmore, N.S.W.).— My six-cylinder
American sedan ran perfectly for 15,000 miles.
Rebently I have found the motor spluttering
whenever I drive on full throttle for more
than a few miles. If I slow down for a while
the engine gives full power again, and runs
normally unless driven full out, whin the same
thing occurs again. Cause and cure
Symptoms indicate a partial blockage m
M
„ o te time taken to refill bowl,
~ h £ u , d not bc more than 2 0 to 30 seconds,
r j s taken, then either the diaphragm
> n tbc fuel pump is not doing its work effi-
cjentiy or some foreign substance has entered
t hc petrol pipe inside the rear lank. In the
latter case, first try to effect a cure by blowing
through the pipe line from the carburettor end
with either compressed air or a tyie pump.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Bog In”: A front-wheel hub can be
filled with white metal to take the place,
in an emergency, of a collapsed ball race.
A car was successfully driven thus from
out near Boulia to Charleville (Q.).
Apart from a little heating at the start
it gave no trouble.
# * * *
“Coventry”: For no apparent reason
Lizzie’s engine stopped. I climbed out,
recranked it, climbed in, but she conked
out again. This cycle of movements was
repeated several times, and investigation
revealed another new trick of the capri-
cious old lady. My weight caused the
seat to block the vent-hole in the petrol
lank filler-cap (situated beneath the seat),
thus preventing the flow of petrol. A
small block of wood between the seat
and tank prevented a recurrence of the
trouble.
“Jay”: Jim'Young, of Darwin, recently
completed 2038 miles of bush travel in
eight days’ travelling time, coming
through with only two punctures and a
broken rear spring. He drove Judge
Wells and other members of the N.T.
Supreme Court from Darwin to Alice
Springs to hold court. The outward
trip took three and a half days; the
party spent four days at the court, and
the return trip was made leisurely in
four and a half days.
* * * *
“Kieta”: Was stranded miles from
nowhere with a broken feed-pipe to the
carburettor on a gravity-fed bus. Tried
wrapping a rag around it, but only got
about 150 yards, and the leak was as bad
as ever —and petrol was precious. Turned
off the juice, and had a hard think. Was
feeling in my pocket for a cigarette to
{Continued on page 30.)


A Financial Service to
Trade and Travel
The National Bank of Australasia, Limited,
assists the movement of goods between
countries. It brings to the aid of traders a
wide range of facilities for financing import
and export trade. Letters of Credit, Transfers
of Money by Cable or Mail, negotiation of
Bills of Exchange, purchase and sale of
Foreign Currencies, with provision for either
prompt or forward settlement, and many other
useful services are provided.
The Bank has 324 branches in Australia and
two branches in London, while its Banking
Agents are to be found in commercial centres
the world over. The officers of the Bank
welcome enquiries and are pleased to explain
the most suitable ways to use the many services
provided.
Travellers to or from Australia may take
advantage of the Bank’s Travel Service, which
covers many requirements, including financial
arrangements, bookings, accommodation, pass-
ports, tax clearances. Full information may
be obtained at any of the Bank’s branches.
6>6c
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Assets exceed £47,000,000.
ONTOUCH ED
L
E
U
UNTO
Before you take a blue Gillette Blade from its final wrapping,
hold it up to the light. You will see that the blade is 'anchored'
just a traction of an inch within the folds of the paper, thus removing
all possibility of the perfect edges being damaged. An ingenious
machine picks up each blade, wraps it and puts it in its packet.
Yours is the first hand to touch the blade. This is just one example
of the meticulous care taken to protect the keen cutting edges
provided by Gillette's new electrical tempering process. If you
haven't tried blue GILLETTES, get a packet to-day.
FIVE FOR 2/.
OF ALL DEALERS
BLUE
GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES
made in England
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub-
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous Journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
HOOD DRESSING
Now obtainable in half-pint cans.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
% QOJ. (SECOND
1 EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do it.
At all Newsagents, 3/-
or posted direct from The Bulletin,
9&9 Oporsrf- 'trwt Svr*T)PV !?rl
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column."
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
Queensland’s
Premier Newspaper
5!
S
i
m-
m
THE
TELEGRAPH
The Most Progressive
Paper in Australia.
Large and steadily increasing circu-
lation in city and country ensures
wide coverage to advertisers.
In reader interest.
The Telegraph Stands
Supreme
CARRIES MORE CLASSIFIED
ADVERTISEMENTS THAN ANY
OTHER DAILY IN QUEENSLAND
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
ease the situation, and felt a packet of
chewing-gum. My worry was over.
Placing the lot in my mouth I turned
the gum into pulp, plastered the result
round the fractured ends of the pipe,
bound several layers of friction tape over
the join and did the rest of the trip
without further loss of petrol.
* • * *
“Greenhide”: For oddities in body
construction, commend me to the tastes
of Indian potentates who don’t know how
to spend their money fast enough. Back
in 1915, a Dodge that ran around
Mysore was fitted with a bonnet shaped
like a swan’s body, the head serving as
mascot and radiator intake simul-
taneously. Some enterprising salesman
had persuaded a dusky prince that the
shape was suited to the Indian climate.
When the novelty wore off, the bus was
sold to the Government. It was last
seen in Mespot. Its hind wheels were off,
and the motor was rotating two sets of
paddle-wheels to propel a raft of sup-
plies up the Shat-el-Arab for a Digger
unit.
* * * *
“Diffy Box”; After teaching her to
drive for three months, 1 thought a few
lessons in night driving should complete
the course, so 1 showed her how to switch
the tail-light on. That was easy. Then
the headlights ; but they seemed to worry
her, so I asked why. “I understand how
to switch them on and off,” she said,
“but how do I lilt them?” It was my
turn to look worried, and I asked her
what the idea was. “Well,” she ex-
plained, “to drive up or down a hill, of
course! ’’
& *l' * t-
“Roberto”: While motoring from
Sydney to Bathurst we came to a road-
way which had just been retarred and
gravelled. We were travelling about 25
m.p.h. A car overhauled us going 60.
As it did so we thought someone must
have fired a gun at us! We shut our
eyes, and on opening them found there
was a handful of pebbles on the floor of
the car. One had pierced the wind-
screen clean through without breaking it.
**■ * *
“Henry”: Faith and a Model T can
take a man a long way. Bishop
Wilkinson, of N.Q., about T 9 or ’2O had
charge of the diocese of Carpentaria,
which started at the coastline and went
out to the Back of Nowhere. He decided
to have a look at Nowhere. He passed
Camoowcal, going west, and he went by
Avon Downs, which was then the last
of the telephone lines. From there he
passed into the unknown. No sooner
had, he gone over the boundary than an
urgent wire came recalling him on a most
important matter. There were no ’phones
where he had gone; horses couldn't
catch a Henry. A fellow from the
’Weal set out after the Bish. in a fast
car and caught Wilkinson on the
Buchanan Plain. He was 30 or 40 miles
from a drink or a shade, buzzing along
merrily, and it wasn’t till his attention
had been drawn to the fact that the
Bishop realised he was running with one
tyre flat, one cylinder missing, one big-
end gone and his radiator spitting like a
scalded cat.
Then and Now.
As late as 1909, when car design
might be said to be fairly recognisable
by modern standards (says the “Prac-
tical Motorist”), we might have read:
“I shall not attempt to disguise the fact
that lyres arc likely to be the most con-
siderable expense when (he motorist comes
to possess a car. The owner of a 100-
h.p. model offered a great firm of tyre-
makers £lOOO a year to keep his car
supplied in tyres, and met with but a
chilly response.” Again, we could read
that “the owner of a 20-h.p. car must
spend about £lOO a year on tyres, and
the owner of an 8-h.p. car cannot com-
plain if his tyre bill is £3O or £4O a year.”
To-day, the owner of a 100-h.p. sedan
is rather peeved if his annual tyre bill
exceeds £25 p.a., whilst the baby class
considers a fiver a year rather extrava-
gant.


RADIO NEWS
Our
Broadcasting,
and Others’
After studying
various broad-
casting systems of
the world, I feel
that the Aus-
tralian one offers
the best satis-
faction to the listener. Of all these
other organisations visited, I have
found the 8.8. C. the most satisfac-
tory, in that, although a Government
monopoly, it endeavors to give all sec-
tions of the community a reasonable run
for (heir money. Us talks departments
leave something to be desired, but its
first-grade entertainments are unrivalled
in Europe.
The main trouble about the 8.8. C. (as
Beecham is reported as saying) is that it
is London first and the rest of England,
Scotland, Ireland and Wales nowhere.
London cherishes the notion that nothing
is any good that comes from anywhere
else, and, although it tolerates occasional
provincial amusement, in the main it is
content only with its own standard.
The 8.8. C. monopoly forces listeners to
have what it gives or go without, forces
artists to take what they arc offered or
have nothing. However admirably it
may be run now, or any other lime, such
a monopoly may be a source of danger
as well as power. In Germany, where
the same sort of thing works, you can
hear only one point of view on the air,
and in one or two other European coun-
tries, like Russia, the same thing holds
good.
Holland and Belgium go in for adver-
tising without advertisements. The
stations are owned by parties, sectarian
and political ; and, although no direct
propaganda is allowed, the indirect
advertisement is so valuable that it is
eagerly sought after, France has the
nearest approach to Australian condi-
tions, with the official Radio Paris, from
which no advertising is allowed, and
other stations, like Radio Normandie,
from which it is freely heard. The little
State of Luxembourg is more widely
known than ever before in its history,
because of the fact that its broadcasting
station is the advertising one for neigh-
boring countries as far afield as Eng-
land. On Sundays especially, England
listens to Radio Luxembourg with great
enthusiasm, a fact which the 8.8. C. is
at last recognising, and about which it
has decided to do something in the way
of counter-attractions.
The strength of the Australian system
lies in the power of competition to pro-
duce better results. The Government
stations offer a guarantee of reasonable
standard, and the advertising stations
have to sec to it that they do not go
below that standard. Artists (and, there-
fore, listeners) need not grovel before
any particular authority, and can offer
their goods in the most favorable market,
a state of affairs which is a good deal
more wholesome than that prevailing in
some of the countries in this part of
the world.
Whatever improvements the A.B.C.
may need (and its work is pretty good
on the whole) I hope it will never lose
its charter. It has a great value in
Australian broadcasting quite apart from
the programmes it offers.
LONDON.
KEILH BARRY.
“Top Rail": On a percentage of lis-
teners to population basis, Australia
stands very high in the world—sixth of
all countries, with Maoriland a pretty
close seventh. U.S.A. tops the list with
fall figures are for last year) a total of
20,750,000 licenses in a population of
127,900,000, or 162.23 licenses per thou-
sand. Follow Denmark, with 160 per
thousand r Great Britain, 147.25 ;
Sweden. 118.03; Holland. 108.86; Aus-
tralia. 101.89; Maoriland, 95.55 ; Ger-
many, 94.22 ; Switzerland. 87.75 ; and
Canada, 78.52. The U.S.S.R. is well
down the scale, with only 13.82 per thou-
sand, and French Indo-China bottoms
the list, with 0.04 per thousand. In
only> one place where figures were col-
lected was there a decrease between 1933
and 1934. That was Newfoundland—a
drop from 13.3 to 9.96.
Racing
Broadcasts
I don't believe
thatracing broad-
casts are respon-
sible in the small-
est degree for the
falling-off of race-
course gate receipts, and racing authori-
ties, as well as those in control of other
sports, would be well advised to do a
little intelligent thinking before closing
down on the radio. Thousands now
follow form, and chat glibly about
weights, times and riding tactics, who,
had there been no broadcasting, would
have taken about as much interest in
racing as they do in chess. All these
people are potential customers of the
courses, and if (hey don’t become actual
customers racing authorities are failing
to take advantage of the good work
radio is doing for them.
Racing, like every other sport, is
doomed unless it can attract a constant
stream of new recruits to the ranks of
its regular followers. To do this it must
advertise, or propagandise, if the term
is preferred; and the broadcasting of
race descriptions by a competent com-
mentator is propaganda of tremendous
effectiveness.
Against the radio will probably be
advanced the fact that many one-time
“Static ? No, one of my aerials has got the 'flu.”
frequenters of the courses now spend
their Saturday afternoons at home listen-
ing-in and betting by ’phone. No one,
however, prefers hearing a race described
to seeing it run ; these listeners-in do so
only as the alternative to abandoning
their interest in racing altogether. The
radio keeps alive an interest that other-
wise would be transferred to some other
hobby, and the punter will be back on
the course as soon as circumstances
permit.
But what about the betting shops?
Well, the worst that can be said of the
radio is that it makes easy something
which would be done in any event, and
probably done quite as effectively.
Betting shops flourished before radio was
heard of, and the banning of race broad-
casting now would cause only temporary
inconvenience. Anyway, what justifica-
tion is there for believing that, if the
shops were wiped out, their bereft pat-
rons would immediately adjourn in a
body to the nearest racecourse?
The fact is that people stay away from
the races either because they are not
interested in racing or because they can’t
afford to go to the course. A reduction
in admission charges, betting tax and
tote deductions would do something for
those who want to go, but can't. The
others must be lured to the courses by
a judicious tickling of their interest.
Banning race broadcasts, as the first step
in a campaign to revive racing, would
be just about the last word in misdirected
effort.
S.A.M.M.
Radio and
Newspapers
The remark of
C. Ma c d onald
(B. 3/7/’35) that
he had heard
more than one
thinking person
give if out as a matter of absolute con-
viction that radio will oust the daily
newspapers within a generation is really
surprising, for such a belief could be
entertained only by a complete nitwit or
an over-optimistic broadcast station pro-
prietor.
Even if, in the years to come, broad-
cast programme directors learn how to
cater for the public taste, the evolu-
tionary process through which the
human race will have to pass while the
sense of hearing is developed to the high
plane of receptive efficiency which the
eye now holds will take many genera-
tions to develop. I am not forgetting the
possibilities of television. Television will
not alter the basic principle which en-
sures the safe passage of newspaper pro-
duction through many centuries of the
future —that complete freedom of selec-
tivity of matter which the newspapers
alone can provide. Again, there is that
vital factor of quietude which is becom-
ing more and more necessary as the ner-
vous system of human races tautens
with increased intellectual development.
The radio cannot entertain, nor can
it inform, without wearing upon the
nervous system of a body. Radio has
a definite place and a wonderful future in
the scheme of things, but it is not for the
purpose of diminishing newspaper cir-
culations. And so long as newspapers
maintain their circulations nothing can
possibly detract from their value as ad-
vertising mediums.
On the question of radio advertising,
and in view of the fact that Australian
broadcasting stations in the B class have
such a penchant for making use of
cheaply-procured American programmes,
it is of interest to learn some of the latest
developments in the radio-advertising
field in America. Censorship of certain
advertising announcements is hanging
like a Damoclean sword over certain
American programmes. “Variety,” that
eardrum and foghorn of the American
amusement trades, in a recent article
stated that “Censorship is a semi-actu-
ality of the present and a serious threat
to the future of radio.... There are
shoals and dangers ahead for radio on
the programme question.”
In America the radio programmes
which have given offence are the direct-
selling type as opposed to the indirect or
institutional advertisers. Some time ago,
in an article titled “B-class Blah,” I drew
attention to the somewhat similar position
here. My suggestion that the remedy lay
in the hands of the advertisers, in so far
as they should have their copy prepared
more carefully, was ridiculed by subse-
quent contributors on the subject.
Through the vast American networks
of the air advertisers of the indirect or
institutional type like General Motors and
Ford have built up excellent goodwill for
themselves, even though the automobile
executives have frankly admitted that
they could not measure with any con-
clusive finality just what direct benefits
flowed from radio programmes.
ALEXANDER LIPPMAN.
All Round
the Dial
“Fisher’s
Ghost”: When a
ship arrived at
Havre recently
six “radio re-
porters” were on
the job, and gave French and other
listeners what amounted to a lively page
or so from a verbal newspaper. I
have read of radio reporters nosing
round for news in other countries, and
occasionally landing a scoop before the
papers. Here it is necessary for an
“announcer” to be invited ; though, if the
matter did not throw the programme out
of gear unduly, a station might consider
broadcasting an earthquake in Melbourne
or the story of the whale that swallowed
the Fleet. The only red-hot news items
that ever arrive when least expected are
the scralchings and police calls for miss-
ing somnambulists. If we can't have
news other than British Official Wireless
and the dailies at second-hand, why not
an occasional novelty? Even an Un-
known Lecturer on an Unknown Sub-
ject would be a change.
“Showman”: Scores of radio per-
formers in Australia receive no more
than a guinea for an evening's perform-
ance, and have to spend most of the
evening in the studio, as their work is
spread over a period of several hours.
One actor complained recently of the
hours of rehearsal for a broadcast musi-
cal show —13 separate rehearsals for one
show, and a total payment of three
guineas. In America, radio artists are
asking for a minimum fee of 15 dollars
for a 15-minute broadcast with jone re-
hearsal, with a minimum fee for evening
broadcasts (with a day rehearsal, neces-
sitating two visits to the studio) of 35
dollars.
“G.M.”: Dictionary publishers will
have to revise the pronunciations they
give if radio announcers are going to set
the standard of the spoken language. It
is not only the “centeenaries” and the
“peeahnos” that fly in the face of cus-
tom. The eccentricities reach even the
broadcasts of football matches. Prahran,
in the mouth of one announcer, becomes
“Prah-rahn,” Melbourne is “Mel-bawn”
and even Northcote is cast over the air
as “North-coat.” Why this intense
anxiety to cut out announcers who speak
the language of the people among whom
they live? If an announcer has an Aus-
tralian accent, 99 out of every 100 of
his listeners have one, too, and a serious
statement is made ludicrous with intru-
sions of “heah” and “theah” and refer-
ences to “brate lates shaning.”
“Greenhide”: Best concerts are a mix-
ture of vocal items, winds, strings and
brass. The audience leaves under the
impression that it would like to have
heard more of each item on the bill of
fare, and comes again. When the A.B.C.
stages a concert, listeners get a surfeit
of each kind of performance. Instance,
a brass band concert without interludes,
a piano and violin recital of an hour and
a half, one hour of strings with piano
accompaniment, one solid hour of a
gypsy orchestra, a military band concert
of some duration, one whole night of a
symphony orchestra, and so on. The
highly-trained expert can focus his atten-
tion on his pet subject for hours at a
stretch without fatigue. The normal
human being is incapable of concentrat-
ing on anything for much more than
twenty minutes. If the elements of the
present A.B.C. programmes were mixed
up and shaken well before performing
each night, there would be a chorus of
approval from listeners, who wouldn't
realise that they were merely listening to
what they hear now.
“Fisher”: Whether the entry is a debit
or credit is a matter of taste, but radio
has entered community singing on the
musical ledger. Five years ago few, apart
from choral society people, cared two
straws for part songs with a bit of body
iu them. I recall Lawrence’s early efforts
to popularise community pinging in Ash-
field (N.S.W.), and the Herculanean task
he had to make the crowd pipe up, in-
stead of listening to the others making
goats of themselves. Now, it has spread
well beyond 2BL. Every little holiday
resort near Sydneys has a sing-song in its
galvanised-iron hall, and a number of
folk-choirs have sprouted as a result.


BUY IT WITH YOUR
SAVINGS ON
BATTERIES.
Milliard Battery Valves are world
famous for efficiency and economy—
their use in the MULLARD MASTER
Units makes frequent battery re-
placements unnecessary. A new visual
type dial dispenses with the
battery-draining dial light,
and a “battery reserve switch"
makes every battery
useful long after it
would normally have
refused to function.
I IB
m
u S I ». A I I
1 S • C O U U *T
35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
«§ee.
tfvU>
ON THE
lends
I OF THE
BATTERY
YOU BUY
i
I'mini)
WIDDIS DIAMOND DKV
CEDES PTY., LTD.,
119 Hawke Street, West
Melbourne, C. 3. FI 175.
Or. Dalgety Road and Town-
Place, Miller’s-Point, Sydney,
N.S.W.
What The P 5 Is:
The P 5 has the great ability to deliver
efficient current down to the lowest voltage
stage.
2. There is no overnight collapse with Pi>—
it will continue to “carry on” after others
have stopped.
3 The very gradual decline of P 5 will give
ample warning before new Ps’s are
required.
4 Thus P.j guarantees increased service, abso-
lute dependability, and unvarying con-
sistency
THE P 5 LABEL IS ON THE
ENDS OF ALL GENUINE
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES
kA ODERN radio revolves
1 around the Philips Super
Series valves, which includes
the remarkable Octode.
Set manufacturers throughout
Australia are now designing
their latest receivers around
these valves, thus giving the
public radio of the finest pos-
sible standard.
When buying a radio see that
it is equipped throughout with
PHILIPS
SUPER SERIES VALVES
5R29
Don B.Knock’s
EXPERIMENTAL TELEVISION IN
QUEENSLAND.
For the last two years, in Brisbane’s
old Observatory Tower, Wickham Park,
Tom Elliott, X-ray and sound engineer,
has conducted a comprehensive television
research station. Quite early in his ex-
Mr. T. M. Elliott at work on a television transmission ; the
scanning disc is shown in the centre of picture, with the
photoelectric cells on right.
periments informative results were ob-
tained, and to-day Mr. Elliott is running
daily television transmissions to a few
dozen enthusiasts.
Commencing with transmissions of
objects taken from a roll of sound-film,
and later televising close-up stills of
Scanning disc of transmitter running at
750 r.p.m. at 12½ pictures per second.
screen stars, the investigator was after a
while able to provide his televisors with
animation, and claims that, allowing for
necessarily inferior equipment, his Bris-
bane transmissions are equal to those of
certain overseas stations with which he
is constantly in touch. Mr. Elliott is
convinced that ultra-short-wave high-
definition television, which, with its
limited range, would necessitate the
establishment of relay stations at regular
short intervals in order to provide a
widespread service, would be too costly
for a country of Australia’s vast spaces.
Therefore, he has concentrated on low-
definition 30-line television for develop-
mental purposes in Australia.
The transmitting equipment at the old
tower comprises perforated scanning
discs, one of 30 holes and another of
180, driven by a 240-volt A.C. motor at
750 r.p.m. Behind the 180-hole disc a
1000-c.p. mercury-
vapor projector
lamp sends light
through the disc
perforation s
directly on to the
object to be tele-
vised —the method
being commonly
known as the
“(lying lightspot.”
In front of the
subject to be trans-
mitted a bank of
photocells is placed
and connected to
an amplifier, giving
an almost-perfect
frequency of from
25 to 100,000 cycles.
This in turn is con-
nected to the main
amplifier and then
conveyed to the
radio transmitter.
At the receiving end the picture ob-
tained is actually an illusion —an image
composed of thousands of flying parts.
The receiving apparatus consists of
scanning disc and mirror drum in con-
junction with another mercury-vapor
lamp, in the current of which the tele-
vision signals cause fluctuations with a
sympathetic variation of light. These
light variations can be seen in the lamp,
but an intelligible picture can be formed
only by reassembling the strips dis-
sected in transmission. Here the scan-
ning disc again comes into play, inter-
posed between the vapor lamp and the
viewing screen so that the light from the
tube falls upon the screen through only
one at a time of the many perforations
in the disc.
The receiving disc must be an exact
replica of the transmitting disc, rotating
Looking into the televisor, which is showing the item being
transmitted by radio.
at exactly the same speed. It must com-
mence scanning at the same instant as
transmission is commenced. Only in
this way can the strips into which the
picture is broken in transmission be re-
assembled in their correct relationship
and a perfectly reconstructed picture
viewed on the screen.
Pictures obtained in the Brisbane tele-
vision transmissions are about 9in. by
4in. One of Mr. Elliott’s greatest dif-
ficulties is the overcoming of a slight
marginal loss of detail by distortion —a
whitish blur around the edge of the pic-
Televised photograph of Brisbane’s old
Observatory tower, Wickham-terrace,
actually transmitted and received by tele-
vision in Brisbane.
ture. Gradually, however, this is being
eliminated, as is evidenced by the accom-
panying televised picture of the Observa-
tory Tower, actually transmitted and
received by television in Brisbane.
AERLAI.
Synthetic Music.
Not limited to the reception of music
via the ether, the fundamental principles
of radio have been used by almost every
industry, especially by manufacturers.
The production of music by radio equip-
ment is another field closely allied to
radio. The fundamental theories of
sound synthesis have been used by Ger-
man engineers in the development of the
Trautonium —a musical instrument.
According to Dr. Trautwein, the tones
of every musical instrument are com-
posed of a fundamental tone which de-
termines pitch and a series of overtones
which determine the
tone-color. In pro-
ducing sound with
the throat first the
fundamental tone is
determined by the
period of vibration
of the vocal chord.
These chords do not
vibrate continuously,
but execute sharp
impacts similar to
those produced by
the repeated blows
of a hammer upon
a metal plate. The
sound thus produced
by the vocal chords
reaches the mouth
in impulses. The
mouth in turn, by
virtue of its shape,
which varies with
muscular adjust-
ment, has a natural
period of its own. Therefore, the sound
emitted from the mouth depends upon
the cavity formed by the individual.
which also determines the strength of
the harmonics produced.
Dr. Trautwein constructed a musical
instrument based upon this theory, using
radio circuits with the fundamental
vibration effected by a neon tube. Lately
the Telefunken Co. has taken over the
production of the Trautonium, and re-
vised it.
The contrivance has a keyboard and
musical scale for operation when the
melody issues from an ordinary loud-
speaker. A large range in variation of
volume is available, and a foot-operated
control gives the musician complete con-
trol of the strength and timbre of the
measure.
Tt is reported that this new invention
will simulate the tones produced by most
musical instruments. In the case of a
violin this has two distinct sets of har-
monics or overtones —one of which is
produced by the air chamber inside the
body of the violin, and the other pro-
duced by the vibration of the body it-
self. These two sets of harmonics may
easily be obtained from the Trautonium.
It has been predicted, moreover, that
the manufacture and the sale of these
instruments will bcome one of the major
avenues for the radio industry.
D.N.L.
DX Possibilities on 56mc.
“T. and R. Bulletin” (England) refers
in the June, 1935, issue to the possibility
of DX conditions prevailing on the ultra-
short-wave band of five metres. “The
reception of 56mc. harmonics around
1100 G.M.T. from commercial stations
DLO, DFJ, CNR and others unidentified
has led us to predict possible DX com-
munications on this band. Similar
effects were noticed over distances of
only 40 miles during portable experi-
ments carried out in 1934 between G6NF
and other stations. These combined
observations indicafe that ultra-high
frequencies are being influenced by
certain conditions, not unlike the effect
of the upper ionised strata on lower
frequencies, and that stations well beyond
the optical range of a receiver may some-
times be heard under conditions similar
to those experienced on the lower fre-
quencies.” The chance of unexpected
happenings with five-metre signals should
spur on widespread activity on this band
among experimenters, and, although the
2Y- and 1 {--metre bands may have an
appeal for certain forms of experiment,
it is the five-metre band which should
first be thoroughly investigated. There
is so much to be done in this direction
alone, and the number of Australian ex-
perimenters is so limited, that skipping
about from one to another u.-s.-w. band
can achieve little. Individual results are
of small use on these very high frequen-
cies ; co-operation is the thing.


That Strikes an answering Chord in Every Musician.
Featuring Philips Super Seri.s Valves—A.V.C.- Calibrated 2-speed Dial—Colacode
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Road,
CROW’S NEST.
dsf
A 6-valve
Battery-operated
DUAL-WAVE
MODEL 844
Receiver by
TELA-VERTA
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/*
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES ,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
&
”.. Not too loud ... that's right
... now isn't that wonderful...
right from London.... She's the
best little set going, this flir-
zone of mine. Get's me every-
thing overseas, interstate and
local, as clearly and without
interruption as anyone could
wish".
There's no doubt about it
this excellent little flirzone
opens a new era both overseas
and local broadcast bands....
AIRZONE
MODEL 652
6-Valve Mantle Superheterodyne Type
DUAL WAVE RECEIVER
fin entirely new development by flirzona fl SIX VALVE DUAL WAVE
RECEIVER in a mantle type cabinet. Stands only 18 inches high, 13
inches wide and 9 inches deep, giving a compactness hitherto unknown
in this type of set.
Its powerful 6 valve superheterodyne circuit gives extreme sensitivity
and selectivity and ensures splendid reception of stations far off that
cannot be dialled by many other sets. Full automatic volume control
reduces fading and prevents blasting when tuning.
It has three gang, large type condenser, fully floating on rubber, as
well as a fully floating chassis, cushioned on rubber.
A CLEAR, NATURAL TONE and remarkable volume has been obtained
by special cabinet design and an improved speaker mounting.
The wave range covers both the standard broadcast band 1500 to ~»0u
K.C., and the short wave band from 15 to 50 metres.
A 4i inch aero dial with AIRZONE SMOOTH ACTION TUNING and
station call signs are printed on the dial.
Cabinet work is smart and entirely in keeping with the high standard
of the receiver itself.
PRICE:
£36-17-6
All current Airzone Sets sue suitable for
the new wave-lengths of September Ist.
Easy Terms
are offering
everywhere.
AIRZONE RADIO IS OBTAINABLE FROM THE
LEADING RADIO DEALERS. MUSIC HOUSES
AND DEPARTMENTAL STORES OF AUSTRALIA.
Country Dealers apply {or fiirzone fully protected franchise.
Manufactured by Airsone (1931) Limited, Camperdovon , Sydney• 8.35*115
dsf
Amateur Chatter.
The Bananalanders have again given
the N.S.W. ultra-short-wave men a run
lor their money by piling up another
DX record on five metres. This time the
range is extended to 103 miles, and the
feat was accomplished by resorting to
the air. Communication, which was
duplex, took place between a ’plane and
a ground station located on Mt. Gravatt,
the 'plane being flown by VK4AL, who
is flying instructor of the Queensland
Aero Club. A verbatim account by a
reporter in the ’plane appeared in a Bris-
bane daily—in Queensland the efforts of
the genuine experimenter are first-class
news value, whereas in N.S.W. his status
Cl, 30minfd. each section. C2, 15mmfd. C3, .0001. C4, C5, .006. C6, .005.
C7..01. Rl, I meg. R2,30,000 ohms. R3, 50.000 ohms. R4, 5000 ohms. R5.
50,000 ohms variable. R6, 50,000 ohms. R7, 1000 ohms variable. R8, 500 ohms.
Loop, 7½ in. diameter.
appears to be different. An invitation
recently extended by the writer to a
representative of a Sydney daily to speak
over the Sydney-Hazelbrook five-metre
link was not even acknowledged. Con-
gratulations are due to the men in the
northern State, who went to the trouble
of erecting eight-wire beams on a moun-
tain-top, on the success of the experiment.
Plans are being laid for an onslaught
on this record of 103 miles at the earliest
opportunity in N.S.W., and the fashion
of taking to the air will be followed.
An example of how much can be made
of little, with intelligent application, is
a comparatively recent station, VK2ZD
Camperdown, N.S.W. 2ZD is using no
comprehensive gear or beam aerials, but
whenever he tests on five metres his
signal reaches over all Sydney with
plenty of strength. The aerial is a half-
wave vertical doublet only 10ft. above
ground, and the transmitter quite modest.
Evidently due attention has been paid to
matching aerial and transmitter, with
beneficial results. VK2JU is also reach-
ing out in fine style since raising his
aerial system a few extra feet. VK2NU
(the writer’s portable) is also testing again
with the indoor matched-impedance
aerial described B, 22/5/’35, and ob-
taining the usual good results. The
location chosen for this test station is the
best in the Sydney area, as each and
every station on the sm. band can be
heard with nothing less than R 7. The
same applies to transmission.
VK2BP is definitely off the ultra-
shorts. and this is a tragedy for the
N.S.W. men engaged in tests. He is back
at R.A.A.F. reserve work, and thus the
most valuable key position is lost for
the organisation of DX tests. His deser-
tion of the sm, band is due to the fact
that beam arrays will not stand the
winter gales for long at his 2500 ft.
elevation, and any old wire will do for
80m. and 40m.
The interesting news from England that
sm. DX should be possible owing to
reception of harmonics from Canadians
and Germans on this band raises a point
in connection with 7m. television. If
some unknown influence decrees that
long-distance ultra-short-wave communi-
cation becomes possible, then there is the
chance of future interference between
the English, French and German u.-s.-w.
television systems unless the frequencies
are far removed. Such a possibility is
remote, but one never knows.
Although the super-regenerator (if
properly functioning) is excellent for
breaking ground on u.s.ws., there can
be no doubt that a specially designed
superhet for fixed-station work is nearer
the ideal. The writer intends to make
up a superhet on the lines of the Gordon
model described recently in “R 9”
(U.S.A.), but using 954’s and 955’s as
R.F. detector and oscillator. The Jones
resistance-coupled I.F. superhet described
in “Radio” (U.S.A.) is also worthy of
attention. VK2LZ is using one, and
reports excellent results. The W.I.A.
sm. field day takes place at Wyong,
N.S.W., on August 18, and the variety of
receivers and transmitters on this occasion
should be interesting. For those wishing
to make a D.F. receiver for this day,
the diagram illustrated (from “Wireless
World,” Eng.) should be useful.
VK2NO.
What’s What in Radio.
British experts consider that by 1936
television progress will begin to settle
down to ordered and less exciting lines,
when continued refinement and slow but
sure improvement will give way to ex-
pansion. The examiners of the British
Patents Office are reported to be having
a hectic time, as one concern alone is
firing in television patent applications at
the rate of 50 a month!
* * # *
Following upon Commonwealth and
State Government action providing that
small vessels on the Australian coast
must carry radio, the need has arisen
for the training of ships’ officers to
operate the equipment. A.W.A. has
established a class of instruction for
navigating officers, and three shipping
cos. have commissioned A.W.A. to
train their officers, who will be required
to obtain a Limited Certificate in radio-
telegraphy and to pass an examination in
sending and receiving by radio at 10
words per minute. They will also be re-
quired to have a knowledge of the ad-
justment of automatic distress-call
apparatus, with which their ships will be
fitted, and a knowledge of the regulations
governing distress calls and the handling
of messages.
* * * *
The Warwick (Q.) broadcasting station
4WK was opened on June 28 by Little-
ton Groom, M.H.R. The station, which is
heard over a wide area and can be re-
ceived with considerable volume in Syd-
ney, employs the modern series modula-
tion and was designed and constructed by
A.W.A. It has a power of 50 watts un-
modulated in the aerial. The wave-
length is 333 metres (900 kilocycles).
Casual Comment.
“Power”: “Crystal’s” “rifle-shot” (B.
10/7/’35) may be on the target in his
first sentence, but from there on he
registers a bad miss. In all large cities
where the trams are not supplied direct
with direct current, they are supplied
with direct current through rotary con-
verters or rectifiers from alternating cur-
rent circuits. The transformers for the
rotary converters or rectifiers do not
supply house currents. Power engineers
will smile at the thought of one tram
altering the periodicity or throwing their
rotaries out of step.
* * * *
“Toowong”; A Brisbane ham who
likes to winter on the 3.5mc, region has
run into a heap of trouble—blamelessly.
The ham is crystal-controlled, and his
wave is rock-steady. Yet the receivers
tune him in all over the broadcast
regions, and he must shut down. The
old bete noire of superhets is again with
us, more aggravated as time goes on.
Manufacturers with an eye to sales and
a public with both eyes on capital cost
have unwittingly co-operated to create
such a state of affairs. Image suppres-
sion is unknown on the models in ques-
tion ; and, to make matters worse, the
owners of the new toys are of the type
who mutter something about home being
synonymous with castle and grab the
'phone. The salesman never comes to
advise the ham and have tests run, and
the owners won’t shift the aerials that
he has erected. What is wanted in Bris-
bane is another 2ME.
* * * *
“Alpha”: Some of the old-timers were
sensitive sets. Was looking over a three-
valve job to determine why it had taken
to whispering where it had formerly
shouted —to the discomfiture of a whole
neighborhood. “Reckon the valves are
done?” demanded the owner. “Perhaps,”
I answered ; “but where does your aerial
come into the set?” “Never had one,”
he replied ; “nor an earth either.” It soon
had, and the valves seem good for an-
(Continued on next page.)


vim*
m
%
&
W
vr.
s&i
' //%'-
-<-%
»;>'
r®?7
'■%
/V-#?
5^
Vi'
k WU
SAGACITY, faithfulness, and
being erer-ready when needed,
are the qualities inborn to
the pedigree sheep dog.
These are also the qualities
of an EVER-READY Battery.
• • •
Fit an EVER-READY Super*
dyne or Heavy Duty battery
to your radio, or put an
EVER*READY refill in your
torch. Enjoy the long life
and faithfulness of a reliable
EVER-READY
E.P.2
[Fver Ready
TORCH REFILLS & RADIO BATTERIES
MANUFACTURED BY THE EVER-READY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY AND LONDON
Colville Wireless Equipment Co.
—— S. V. Colville, M.lnst.R.E. (Aust.). ■
4 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Specialist in Battery-operated
Receivers and “Bulletin” Con-
structional Articles
Telegrams, Colvilleco, Sydney. ’Phone: 82261 .
other life or two. In these days of selec-
tive superhets it is easy to forget that 10
years ago a trial of strength in the coun-
try involved seeing how many stations
could be logged without earth and aerial.
A really good receiver in this sense could
land both of the Sydney stations at 300
miles. Modern superhet owners never
seem to believe facts like this.
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Is the 6D6 valve obtainable in Australia ?
If so, where and at what price ? (2) Is the 76
valve obtainable in Australia ? If so, where
and at what price ? (3) Is the new Ultra-midget
50 mmfd. padding condenser obtainable in Aus-
tralia ? If not, please suggest a substitute. —
299.
(1) and (2) Yes. Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co., 47 York-street, Sydney; 16s. and
15s. each respectively. (3) The brand is
unknown in this office. Try Radiokes, Ltd.,
Tracy House, Cleveland-street, Rcdfern,
N.S.W., which has an excellent line of isolantite
insulated padders of all capacities.
* * # *
(1) / have a two-valve Reinartz receiver using
a Marquis ribbed coil, and have trouble in
separating different stations. How can this be
remedied ? (2) Would a larger coil be any
better ? —303.
(I) Tuning the aerial circuit separately would
help, also the simple trick of using the grid
coil tapped, with the aerial connected to a tap-
ping approximately half-way along, and through
a .OOOlmfd. series condenser. Apart from
this, some form of pre-selection circuit would
be necessary, and the unit described in B.
19/9/’34 would be applicable. (2) Yes, if
properly designed. The gauge of wire should
also be on the heavy side, and the turns spaced.
If Lite is used, so much the better.
* * * ♦
I wish to build a multimeter similar to the
one described in B. 29/5/’35, but using a
Hickok model 46-JD.C. milliameter. (1) What
should the values of the resistors be to read
500, 250, 50 and 10 volts respectively ? (2)
Shunt values for reading 100, 25 and 5 milli-
amps. ? (3) The values of series resistor D and
potentiometer Y ? (4) Can I insert a fuse as a
safeguard against accidental damage to the
meter? If so, what type and where? —3ol.
(1) The necessary resistors will be 500,000,
250,000, 50,000 and 10,000 ohms respectively.
(2) and (3) Shunt values can be given only
approximately, and, if possible, these should
be obtained from the agents for the particular
meter. Values will be in the region of 0.272,
1 and 6 ohms. A oto 5000-ohm potentiometer
will serve for Y. (4) A fuse can be made from
a very short and narrow strip of tinfoil in-
serted in the negative lead to the meter.
* ♦ * ♦
/ can get the agency for two makes of radio
receivers in my Q. township (makes stated),
and would like your advice as to which is the
belter. —302.
Preference cannot be stated on this page, for
obvious reasons. Form your own opinion by
testing the receivers one against the other,
comparing results for daylight sensitivity, noise-
level comparison and tonal reproduction. The
first-named make is an overseas production, and
there may be difficulties in the way of keep-
ing up the supply.
Latest in the Trade.
The most remarkable value for money
yet offered in test equipment is a neat
but comprehensive combination analyser
and D.C. multimeter, made up by Price’s
Radio Service, Angel Place, Sydney. A
calibrated meter of high-grade design is
fitted, showing all necessary volt, ohm,
and milliampere readings, and provision
is made for checking external milliampere
readings. All necessary valve sockets
and adaptors are included, and there are
two panel switch controls. Examination
of the instrument showed it to be intelli-
gently and well designed, and at £6 it is
within the reach of the average purse.
“Bulletin” Test Review.
[Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section. ]
Since the firm of Thom and Smith,
Dowling-street, Sydney, commenced busi-
ness a few years ago the name Tasma
has become recognised as representing a
front-rank Australian maker of radio
receiving sets. Wherever one goes in
Australia, Tasma radio equipment in
power and battery form is to be found.
In the range of Tasma receivers are
de luxe productions selling around the
£4B and £36 marks. Now an addition has
been made to the series in the form of
the model 295 at £27 10s. This model,
illustrated, is a dual-wave five-valve
octode-equipped superhet, and is as good
as it looks. A beautiful piece of cabinet
work houses a well-engineered chassis,
graced by the Tasma bandspread tuning
dial. This dial is conducive to correct and
easy tuning. If becomes second nature
for the operator to be conscious of the
smaller indicator as a useful adjunct,
and thereby between-station tuning is
greatly facilitated. On the short-wave
bands, the feature is particularly valu-
able. The control panel of the Tasma
295 is only slightly tilted in a recess, so
that the dial, of large dimensions, can
be seen from anywhere in the average
room.
This receiver, under test, gave a re-
markable performance for five valves,
with a high degree of signal to atmo-
spheric noise level. To simulate the handi-
cap of conditions under which the
modern receiver is used, a deliberately in-
efficient inside aerial was connected.
Local and distant broadcast and over-
seas short-wave stations could be tuned
in with no effort, with less than half the
volume range. It requires little imagina-
tion to guess the admirable overall per-
formance possible in a suburban or
country location with an external aerial.
Audio output is from a 42 pentode,
handled by a Magnavox speaker, and
the reproduction is enough to satisfy the
Tasma model 295, five-valve octode-
equipped superhet. Valves, 6D6, EKI,
75, 42, 80. Dual wave-range. A.V.C.,
£27 10s. Makers, Thom and Smith, Ltd.,
55-57 Dowling-street, Sydney. ’Phone,
F2117.
most critical ears. Automatic volume
control is included, this feature showing
to advantage in the proximity of local
stations.
Controls are reduced to a minimum,
there being one each for volume and
wave-change in addition to the dial con-
trol. Tasma model 295 has been pro-
duced for dual-wave reception at reason-
able cost; it is a first-class performer in
every respect, and will satisfy either coun-
try or suburban requirements. When
such a product is obtainable at such
reasonable cost all listeners should be
tempted to share the entertainment to
be had from short waves as well as from
the normal broadcast range.


FOR ROSEHILL ON SATURDAY.
Parramatta .Mile: Prince High-
born ; next, Legislator.
Flying Handicap: Thebcz; next,
Bulldozer.
August Handicap: Ramrod ; next,
Gladswood.
Wentworthville Stakes: Duke
Caledon; next, Barak.
SPORTING
NOTONS
Under the Whip
When Sixteen Annas arrived in Mel-
bourne he was just “another of those
brush hurdlers from Sydney.” After he
had won thrice on successive Saturdays,
his third victory being at once the easiest
and most important, racing people who
scoffed a month ago are now proclaim-
ing him a champion. The judgment of
others is merely that he is the best in a
bad year.
Certainly, in point of numbers it is
many seasons since the V.R.C. and the
V.AiT.C. had such poor competition for
the rich prizes they offer for their big
races over the sticks. Only seven in
the Grand National ; only nine in the
Australian Hurdle. Considering his com-
fortable victories at Caulfield and
Moonee Valley and his light weight, 10st.,
together with the fact that Hynes again
had the mount, 7 to 4 Sixteen Annas was,
a good price ; still it has to be remem-
bered that in a Brush Hurdle at Rosehill
on July 24 the Sydney ring, which has
never been, accused of being over-
generous, offered 7 to 4 the field in a.
field of four. That race was won by
Greensea, who has proved himself the
master of Sixteen Annas over the brush —
up to two miles, anyway.
It was 6 to 1 bar Sixteen Annas. Dress
Suit, Mystic Peak and the National
Steeple winner Riawena were all quoted
at that price, though a point longer could
be got here and there. Dress Suit and
Riawena both fell, Riawena at the
last jump. Mixing hurdling with steepling
has been fatal to many a good horse
(though it can be done at Caulfield), but
Riawena survived, perhaps to break her
neck another day. Fer de Lance, for
whom there was a bit of money at 10
to 1, broke down.
The accidents made no difference to
the result. Sixteen Annas wanted to go
to the front from the beginning, and
Hynes let him, though with a good hold
of his head. Finding that restraint was
making the horse jump clumsily, the
jockey decided that the nag knew best,
and Sixteen Annas soon set up a long
lead. The last time round it was made
plain to everyone on the course that he
had only to stand up to win. He took
one or two obstacles in rather a slovenly
fashion, but he gofover them, and that
was the main thing. Once over the last,
he. was slowed . down, but even then
Fulham, the runner-up, could get no
nearer to him than eight lengths, and most
watchers thought the judge's estimate
conservative. A very weary Laniroi (20
to 1) was third, six lengths behind Ful-
ham ; he had been second mdst of the
way. They and all the rest were over-
shadowed by Sixteen Annas, with whom,
in prize-money and wagers, :Neil Mc-
Kenna has in a couple of months made
enough to retire on, if to retire.
The distance was 3i miles 20 yards,
and Sixteen Annas covered it in 6min.
Nothing sensational about that,
but the track was anything but fast, and
had he been pushed the chestnut could
have knocked the odd seconds off at
least. There should be flat-racing : possi-
bilities in so sound a stayer, especially as
he has only just turned six years. One
remembers his sire, Shillinglee, running
an'excellent race in a Sydney Cup, and
beitlg toupled in many doubles when the
weights came out for-the Melbourne Cup,
but he failed to train on, and the turf
saw no more of him. There are very
few stayers about, and, if he doesn’t have
a sticky finish hurdle-racing, Sixteen
Annas may conceivably turn out another
Realm or Marmont.
Hynes is to ride Buckler in the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase on Saturday, and this
Page expects Buckler to win, with Char-
acter and Fulham in places. None of
the three started in the Wilga Steeple-
chasers Flat Race, which went to a 25-
to-1 chance in Wakerife, with Winging
Home and Green Don, outsiders also,
next. Wakerife is in the Australian
Steeple, and may have a decided chance.
Attente was favorite, but he is a cranky
customer, as Sydney punters know too
well.
Apart from the Australian Hurdle, the
bookmakers had much the better of their
argument with backers. The day began
badly for the latter 1 with the success of
Royal Messenger (15 to 1) in a division
of the Crimea Trial Stakes; and, though
Dusky Native had demonstrated his lik-
ing for Caulfield, and had a record of
six wins in eight attempts, he was allowed
to go to tens for the Mornington Welter,
which he won handily. And only Holt
and his immediate followers profited by
the victory of Press Gang (12 to 1) in
the Moondah Plate, the general impres-
sion being that he needed another race
or two, and that in any case 9st. 101b.
would be too much for him with the going
as heavy as it was. Press Gang had a
rough passage—for that matter, so did
several other horses—but his courage and
Webster’s cool head triumphed over
difficulties.
Last season’s two-year-olds looked
good to Bulletin writers, and the best
of them will give no end of trouble to
the older brigade, Peter Pan perhaps ex-
cepted, in the spring and autumn. This
was indicated by Feldspar’s defeat of a
pretty good field in the Malakoff Stakes.
It was anticipated by A. T. Creswick,
who bred and owns the colt (he is by
Heroic’s brother Thracian out of Quartz),
for Feldspar was solid at fives, though
Metro (a close second) and Jeldiwallah
(third) were at shorter prices. Holt
started Panto, the Caulfield Cup favorite,
and Gordon’s Leap, but Panto was far
too burly to do himself justice. Robert-
son saddled up Marabou as well as Feld-
spar ; though at any old price, like Panto,
Marabou’s finishing run impressed.
*** • ♦
Form pointed so strongly to Kaylah
winning the Flying Handicap at Canter-
bury that’ her supporters were pleasantly
surprised when 5 to 2 was called. The
Booth stable was backing Pavarti all
round the ring, and at flag-fall in most
places... she was a better favorite than
Kaylah. But the Magpie mare made
hacks of Pavarti and the rest. She was
clear three furlongs from home, and was
not extended afterwards. A 50-to-l
chance, Polejte, was .second, and another
outsider, Parquet* from M.L., was third.
Pavarti being a poor fourth. Pavarti
must have shown Booth something, but
hitherto she has failed to produce it with
the colors up.
Jockey Thomas outwitted the other
riders in the Canterbury Handicap. Tak-
ing little First Balloon to the front—he
didn’t want to have her there all the way—
he slowed the field down at the half-mile
pole, and cleared out turning for home.
Despite her 9st., First Balloon had the
opposition struggling in the last furlong,
and won by two or three lengths from
Turbulent —late out of the ruck —with
Pantilla a length and a half back. Fluent
was fourth. The early favorite, Head
Boy, was lugging badly all the way ; he
finished second-last. It was an excellent
betting race, First Balloon, Head Boy,
Fluent, Enamor and Turbulent being all
at fives.
Forestry, a stable-mate of Journal, put
up a track record for nine furlongs when
he scored easily in the Campsie Handi-
cap at 6 to 1. His dicky legs have given
a world of trouble, first to Jamieson and
then to Cush, but he can gallop, and salt-
water treatment has worked wonders.
The favorite, Verlina, and Sarsign (8 to
1) filled the places. Confab was anchored
by his weight, 9st, 71b.—he is a light-
framed fellow. Toriwa came home well,
but Dick Wootton’s Prince’s Daughter
was a flop. ,
Backers were right on the spot in both
divisions of the Park Stakes, St. Globe
(evens) and The Brewer (6 to 4), both
by Treclare, winning. It was the hat
trick for The Brewer, whose effort was
that of a good horse. Hopelessly placed,
as it seemed, at the turn, he gave
Goorka a big start in-the, last two fur-
longs and beat him in fast time.
Darby Munro had scored on Lady
Baeda at Victoria Park, and he again
landed first prize on the Wolaroi mare
in the first division of the Highweight.
Starting at 9 to 2, she beat Canegrass
and Chemosh. The Breeders’ Plate
winner, Wise Boy, stopped to a walk
after leading into the straight. The
second division went to Rosaban (5 to
2), who surprised by leading the favorite,
Moonray, reputed to be one of the
smartest horses in training at Rosehill.
Anchor was third, followed by Cool Spell
—an early winner.
0 Continued on next page .)
Footbrawl
Strangely enough, inter-State matches
make little appeal to Melbourne fol-
lowers of football, and only 10,000
attended the match between Victoria and
South Australia on the M.C.G. The
absence of four of the five leading clubs
in other States led to Victoria fielding a
team apparently inferior to that which
won in Adelaide a few weeks back;
South Australian hopes therefore ran
high. They were dashed, the local lads
winning by 17-17 to 13-12. Victoria went
out from the jump and headed the visitors
each quarter, though the match was a
well-contested one. The best play was
accomplished by Beames (who kicked six
goals) and Bunton on the Victorian side,
and by Colyer and Cockburn for the
losers.
The two Melbourne teams touring Tas-
mania both got home. Richmond de-
feated Southern Tassie and St. Kilda
'Northern —though only by a single point.
* * * *
The touring South Melbourne and
Collingwood teams gave 12,000 Aus-
tralian" Rules enthusiasts a great show for
their money at Sydney Cricket Ground.
Except for a while when South piled on
a succession of goals in the third term,
it was always close. Only a point in
South’s favor —separated them at the end
of the first term, and at half-time scores
stood: Collingwood 51, South 47. South
was 21 to the good when they next
changed ends, and lasted well enough
to win 109 (17 goals seven behinds) to
95 (13 goals 17 behinds).
* * * *
The Maoris drew a crowd of 15,000
the largest that ever witnessed a Rugby
Union game in Melbourne—for the
match against Victoria. Improving on
their Sydney showing the visitors ran
out winners by 28 to 16. Their three-
quarters made no mistakes in their hand-
ling and, the forwards getting plenty of
the ball from the scrums, half-back Har-
rison set them going continually. In
loose work the Victorian pack held their
own, Bridle distinguishing himself once
more, but the backs were shaded.
“G.M.”: A big proportion of the
15,000 consisted of Australian-game bar-
rackers who were willing to try anything
once. The scrum was a mystery to most
of them —“looks like a bloke feedin'
fowls,” was one description. Again, there
was deep mystification regarding the off-
'side rule, and why one of the Vies.' should
stand off and let the Maori mark the
ball instead of trying to beat.lrifh, in the
air was inexplicable. The first tackle
brought a wild howl of resentment from
one corner,- and a demand that the referee
should give a Tree and the only
point which appeared to commend itself
was the throw-in and the line-out—fea-
tures which might well be incorporated
iff the,'Australian game. By half-time,
experimenters started to trickle away, and
the match finished with a -genuinely en-
thusiastic crowd of Rugby enthusiasts.
Before the Rugby match a goahkick-
ing competition took 1 place between
Hyland, a local Rugby player, and Val-
lence, of Carlton (Australian game). Val-
lence, who kicked drop, scored seven
goals running from various distances up
to 80 yards. Hyland, who placed the ball,
covered good distances but was weak in
marksmanship.
* * * *
Once more the three leading teams in
.Sydney’s Union competition have been
beaten. Randwick has been joined at the
head of the list by Parramatta, North
and Manly—last at the end of the first
half —and University and Drummoyne
are only one point lower. Manly, the
forwards keeping well up on the ball, and
the backs faster and more enterprising
than the students, was never headed by
University. McLaren and Primrose, half
and five-eighth, cut through time and
again ; Wansey, moved to the wing in
place of Kelaher, played a very fine
game. It was 32-14 ; six tries, four con-
verted and two penalty goals, to two tries,
one converted and two p.gs. Parramatta
forwards were responsible for another
win ; this time over Randwick. Parra-
matta scored seven tries—three by
Cerutti —to five. Kicking, in a strong
wind, was bad ; the winners got three
goals, one a penalty, and Randwick two —
28-19. North had an easy win over St.
George, 24-12, and East surprised by
downing Drummoyne 11-3.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: According to a Syd-
ney Rugby League official just returned
from M.L., Rugby Union players there
are frothing at the mouth in their eager-
ness to turn professional. He suggests,
as a sort of cocktail for the tour of an
Australian League team, a series of
matches between Rugby Union converts
and true-blue Leaguers. It is an ambi-
tious scheme, but, outside Auckland and
its environs, the trouble would be find-
ing enough true-blue Leaguers to make
up a team.
(Continued on next page.)


m
v:
FOXES
GOOD MONEY TO
BE MADE NOW
Skins are fetching «P to
£7/1/- per doz. on the Sydney
market. ■ Increase yonr bag
by using the new Fox Call.
No special skill required to
correctly imitate the squeal
of a rabbit. Having “called”
your fox. make a certain kill
with
THE XK W O / Post
FOX HECOY, free.
"WINCHESTER Super-Speed Cartridges
•22-CAL. RIMFIRE, STAYNLESS, KOPPERKLAD.
25%
GREATER
VELOCITY
60%
MORE SMASHING
POWER
LONGER RANGE
TM^wSPEL
100. 1000.
Short . . 2/8 26/-
„ H.P. 3/- 28/6
Long ... 3/6 33/3
„ H.P. 3/9 35/9
Long-rifle 4/- 38/-
L.-R. H.P. 4/3 40/-
FREIGHT EXTRA
COWLES & DUNN,
•PHONE: M 3388. 71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Under the Whip
Three members of one family figure
on the 1935-36 list of Randwick trainers:
William Kelso (“Old Bill”), his eldest
son and namesake (“Young Bill”) and
his second son Jack. This is believed to
be a record for Randwick; there are
only 52 No. 1 trainers altogether.
* * * *
“Jamwood”; Long ago a “sport” with
beaver-like proclivities burrowed from a
a river bank under the weighing enclosure
of an adjoining N.S.W. country race-
course, bringing up beneath the scales.
Here, by an ingenious device, the weights
were manipulated in the interest of a
“battler” with a steed handicapped to
carry big burdens, and the noble animal
had a succession of wins until something
went wrong with the works. Came a
race in which the faithful steed had lOst.
71b. The jockey nonchalantly stepped on
the scales, and the indicator showed
7st. 71b. The careless young man stamped
a foot impatiently, and the indicator shot
up to lOst, 71b. Events then moved rapidly.
The hole was found, and a shivering
black boy was dragged from right beneath
the faithless scales. All concerned were
disqualified for life, but after 10 years
or so the battler—he died the other day
—was whitewashed. That was the begin-
ning of a scales-tampering epidemic which
no State escaped. It was even alleged
that an attempt was made to beat the
favorite for a Melbourne Cup by taking
2st. off the only opponent who looked to
have a chance of beating him ; but the
V.R.C. never confirmed the story.
* * * *
V.R.C. profits were down £5124 last
season, the reduction being from £8687
in 1933-34 to £3563 ; but the achieve-
ment looks better than it seems. Just on
£16,000 was spent on improvements, and
£17,909 was added to prize-money as a
centenary gesture. Prize-money reached
the noble figure of £90,715.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When Gaston le Cadre arrived for
fights a( Leichhardt his manager said he
was welterweight champion of France;
and perhaps he was —before the war. In
his first bout with Bishop he battled like
an old-age pensioner, and in his second
(and last) with Jimmy Day he proved
inferior in every branch of the game. A
right to the chin rocked him in the
eighth, but he was on his feet at the end
of the fifteenth, though well whipped.
Gaston has gone back to California.
* * * *
“Whoosh”: Associated Newspapers
and Sydney Stadium, fastest of friends
for many years, have fallen out, and,
though the shindy has been one-sided so
far, people are enjoying it. There is the
thrill of the unexpected in reading that
the Rushcutter Bay joint had “the un-
blushing effrontery to put on a wrestling
match that insulted the public intelli-
gence” and is making “an impertinent
effort to dethrone the lightweight cham-
pion of Australia, Herb Bishop,” and that
“matching Osborne with Blatch for an
Australian championship” is “the height
of folly,” And reports of Stadium fights
have been cut to the bone; the “Sun”
disposed of the Henneberry-King mill in
a two-line par. The favor withdrawn
from Rushcutter Bay has been trans-
ferred to Leichhardt, which is importing
regular consignments of dark and. white
meat, but one of the parties to the feud
rather overdid it by commending “the
negotiations for a match at Leichhardt
between the brilliant Frenchman Gaston
le Cadre and Jack Carroll.” The cause
of the quarrel is unknown, but it is sup-
posed to have something to do with a
rival newspaper project.
Footbrawl
“Rover”: What is there in Australian
football which drives players and spec-
tators on the slightest provocation to
stoushful riot? In a match between
Newtown and South Sydney reserves the
game passed quickly into a series of
stand-up fights between players, the two-
and-two positions of the opposing teams
on the field lending themselves admirably
to a box-on. The umpire could do no-
thing, and South Sydney stopped the riot,
which with the spectators joining in was
getting general, by walking off the battle-
field. It is one more argument in favor
of The Bulletin’s oft-repeated conten-
tion that the Australian Rules heads must
amend their laws to permit the umpire
to rush Plugge off the ground as soon
as he begins to get ugly. At present the
ump. can only “report” an offender.
Referees in other football codes rarely
have to face such trouble as that
described.
# • jj: jjc *
“Stand Off”: The Maoris have made
such an impression that there is already
demand for another visit from them.
It will have to wait. Next year an
Australian team goes to Maoriland, and
in 1937 the Springboks invade Australia.
We had two visits running from Maori
sides in 1922-23, and then the Maori tour
of Britain and France broke into what
promised to be a series. In view of a
recent contention in Sydney that the
Maoris were not of international class it
may be noted that of 31 matches in Eng-
land, Wales and France the tourists won
22 —including a victory over France. No
internationals were played in Britain, but
the leading counties and the best of the
crack clubs were met. Two games in
Melbourne, one at Colombo and four at
Vancouver on the way home were extras,
and were all won.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: "’Wick” (B. 31/7/’35)
wants to know why the point-value
of the dropped goal in Rugby Union
should not be reduced. Because it
is one of the most attractive features of
the game, and because drop-kicking calls
for a considerable amount of skill,
compared with the easily hoofed punt.
Opportunities for a drop at goal are rare,
and I in my football days was continu-
ally on the lookout for a chance.
“ ’Wick” casts further light on his foot-
ball mentality when he refers to the
solid slogging of the forwards as com-
pared with the passing rushes of the
“You must be the Worst caddie in this club!"
“THIS club? Te Other gentlemans say te Worst in ANY club!"
backs. In good football forwards should
be as competent to carry out passing
rushes as their backs, though I am sorry
to note that this phase of Rugby is being
ignored to-day.
* * * ♦
“Gladiator”; It never rains but it’s
another Flood. Vic Hey, the Sydney
League footballer, recently went to
Toowoomba (Q.) to play with a club
there, having been offered a partnership
in a firm of electrical fitters —Hey’s trade.
Now the Leeds League club has offered
him a four-figure signing-on fee —with,
of course, the usual conditions of match
fees and employment. Leeds has always
treated Australian players well, but pro-
fessional Rugby in Lancashire and York-
shire is a tough proposition. A game in
which players get a bigger fee for a win
than for a draw or a loss has its un-
pleasant possibilities, as imported players
—not popular with local talent —have
often, had reason to realise.
* * * *
“Gate”: There is still argument among
Rugby Leaguers over the dispatch of a
Queensland-N.S.W. team to Maoriland,
but the Board of Control has adopted an
itinerary which allows the team to reach
Auckland on September 21 and play
its first game that day. Only three other
matches are on the programme, which
suggests that all the talk of a propaganda
tour south of Auckland province was
so much hot air.
* * * *
“Gate”: Rugby League secretary
Miller’s report on his missionary trip to
M.L. is a long and revealing document.
It says his code must have
other than club competitions and games
with Queensland if it is to stand up to
the Rugby Union. Much of the report is
an almost tearful ffca to the Australian
Leagues to spread die professional code
in M.L. for all they are worth.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”: South Australia thinks it
has a potential champion in 19-year-old
R D. Crook, who won the Kooyonga
club title from another very promising
youth, Ackland-Horman. The game
drew a big gallery, and Crook, who is
a student at the University, impressed
everyone with his style and steadiness.
About the same time, Kate Rymill was
winning another State associates’ cham-
pionship. With a brother, the young
lady has also taken an Australian four-
somes title.
* * * *
_ “Sandringham”: The Victorian profes-
sional title was won all the way by E
Naismith. His opponent in the final
was an ex-State champion in W. J.
Fowler, but Naismith was five up and
four to go at the finish in spile of drizz-
ling rain and soaked greens.
* * >K *
“Claypan”: Crows, magpies, seagulls,
goannas and emus have at one time or
another in Australia shown a fondness
for stealing golf balls. What is nearly
the last straw has been supplied by a
Canowindra (N.S.W.) horse. Man’s first
servant was busy making cup lies in the
fairway when a ball landed near him.
He picked it up in his teeth, and after
a gallop round dropped it much nearer
the hole than it was at first. The owner
of the ball described it all as an interest-
ing experience. His opponent was not
so appreciative.
' * * * *
“Divot Digger”: Oatlands (N.S.W.) has
no use for the pothunter who dodges
club competitions, thus remaining on a
long mark, and then sallies out in open
four-ball events. When it entertained
Perrier it limited entries to 14-and-under
handicaps. Ferrier, by the way, though
playing on the course for the first time
equalled the professional course record
with 70, bettering the best amateur figures
by one.
* * * ♦*
“Jachris”: Dates for the open event
at The Lakes (B. 31/7/’35) have been
changed to avoid clashing with the
N.S.W. champion of champions tourney,
down for October 26 at the N.S.W. Club’s
La Perouse course. The Lakes will now
hold its shivoo on the 18th and 19th.
* * * *
i “Derry”: The Irish open golf cham-
pionship was won this year by Ernest
Whitcombe, who beat brother Reginald
by three strokes in the play-off over 36
holes after they had tied with 292, Regi-
nald missed being the third of the family
to take the title. Ernest won in 1928,
and another brother, Charles, in 1930.
* *■ -1= *
“Woogaroo”: Brisbane golf clubs are
clamoring for the head of N.S.W. pro-
fessional golfer Kelly. During a visit
Kelly was asked to comment on some
of the Q. courses, and the result has in-
furiated the Bananalanders. The stab is
the deeper because several of the Bris-
bane clubs are convinced their courses
are in the world’s best class, and want
to know why Australian championships
aren’t held on them.
* * * *
“Graball”; Entries for the Australian
championships in Adelaide are not up to
expectations. Sydney writers are grab-
bing this as an excuse for advocating the
withdrawal of future championship
meetings from South Australia. They
assert that Adelaide is too far away for
players in N.S.W., Queensland and Tas-
mania (?) and that Melbourne and Syd-
ney ought to be the only venues for the
big meetings. We now have the Ma State
cricketers, golfers and Rugby Unionists
doing their best to concentrate all control
of their respective games in Sydney.
Melbourne is certainly referred to, but
many Ma Staters are asking “why drag
that in?”
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”; Britain had no trouble
in retaining the Davis Cup, the Yankees
failing to justify the tipsters, who gave
them the doubles and were prepared to
wager on at least one single. Britain
got away well with the opening singles.
the doubles went to old warhorse Hughes
and the young gunner subaltern Tuckey.
three sets to two ; then Austin outplayed
Budge, and Allison did his best against
Perry. Five matches to nix—America s
worst defeat in the series. It was Eng-
land’s first doubles win since Gore and
Roper Barrett beat Brookes and Wild-
ing in 1907.
* * =•• *
“Cut Shot”: Norman Brookes’s dream
(B. 31/7/’35) has come true ; the Inter-
national Tennis Federation has adopted
his proposal for a third (the Pacific)


Patents.
IMPROVED PROCESS FOR THE
EXTRACTION OF SUGAR AND THE
LIKE FROM BEETROOTS AND THE
LIKE AND APPARATUS THEREFOR.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
1222/31 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN PROCESS OF
ROLLING SHEETS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
29006/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
Get a “Cyclone/*
And leave them alone
Mr. Go-Peep has lost his sheep,
And doesn’t know where to find them.
Then you’ll ALWAYS know
where to find them!
SOB
SAFE bind, safe find. Save the trouble of searching for
lost stock, and the risk of disputes with neighbours —of
impounding—of law-court cases —by using the fence that
never develops any of the usual fencing faults.
“Cyclone” Ringlock is the most perfect and practical fence
known. The Ringlock Joint cannot be snapped by any strain
of handling or usage, yet enables the fence to follow every
rise and dip of the ground without buckling or twisting.
Of HARD steel, guaranteed from top to bottom and end to
end, “Cyclone” is beast-proof, wear-proof, weather-proof.
It needs few posts and no droppers, and its erection requires
only a quarter of the time necessary for erecting a plain fence.
Don’t replace or patch any stretch of fence without checking
up the low cost of fencing with “Cyclone”
Fill in the Coupon below for our catalogue which gives full
details of all types of “Cyclone” Ringlock Fence.
“ Cyclone” is not a type of Fence but is our registered trademark and can only
be legally applied to Fences manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY. LTD.
THE GRACE BUILDING, 77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
clone
Ring-Lock
FENCE
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of "Cyclone" Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
B. 7 mns.
Davis Cup zone, with two sub-zones,
divided roughly by the Equator. The
winner of the Pacific zone will play the
winner of the American, and the winner
here challenges the successful nation in
the European zone. The Federation’s
action has to be endorsed in full meet-
ing, but there should be no trouble about
that. It is suggested, however, that the
Pacific winner should have the right to
play the American in the country of the
Davis Cup holders. .
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The proposed
Pacific Davis Cup zone will include
Japan, India, the Philippines, China and
perhaps Java north of the Line, and
Australia south of it. This practically
means that Japan and Australia will play
the final alternately in each other’s coun-
try, unless one of the other competitors
is equal to a miracle.
* * * *
“Hotham”: At the monthly meeting
of the Victorian L.T.A. it was learned
from Norman Brookes that there would
be some £lBOO coming from the Davis
Cup match with France. The match in
Germany also promised a good divvy,
but the problem of getting the cash out
of Hitlerland remains unsolved. There
is no hope of seeing the Germans or
the American girls in Australia this year,
though Von Cramm has definitely
promised for 1936-37.
# * * *
“Centre Court”; The close of the big
Wimbledon tamasha, after unprecedented
attendances, reminds me that the first
all-England championships—there was
then no Davis Cup, of course —were
held 58 years ago. The advertisements
invited all amateurs ; entrance fee was
a guinea, and there were a gold cham-
pionship prize for the winner and a
silver one for second man. Players were
expected to find their own racquets—
think of this, you moderns who come on
with half a dozen under each arm! —and
shoes without heels had to be worn.
Balls for practice could be hired from
“the attendant.” The show was a howl-
ing success. Two hundred people paid
a bob a head to watch, and the stagger-
ing gate of £lO resulted.
Miscellaneous
The fourth England-South Africa
match, held at Old Trafford, was drawn.
Thanks to determined swiping by Robins
(108) when his side was failing badly,
England’s first shot reached 357, Bake-
well helping with 63 and Leyland with
53 ; Crisp took 5 for 99. The Africans
came back with 318, Viljoen getting his
second Test century, 124 —the other
was against Australia in Melbourne —
Cameron 53 and Dalton 47. Bowes
claimed six wickets and the venerable
Tate two. Wyatt closed his second in-
nings when, six were gone for 231 (Ham-
mond 63 n.o. and Bakewell 54 ; Vincent
4 for 78). The South Africans had
hours to get the runs, and got the rasp-
berry instead ; two for 165 (Mitchell was
48 n.o. and Nourse 53). The final Test
begins at the Oval on August 17. Eng-
land may make a tie of the series by
winning.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: I can’t help thinking
that the Board of Control put up a pretty
good defence against the outcry raised
against it for blocking certain cricketers’
hopes of a trip to India. If Tarrant had
stuck to his original undertaking to in-
vite only players who had dropped out
of Sheffield Shield cricket, or who hadn't
yet arrived there, it would have been a
different matter, but he didn’t. Another
argument raised by the malcontents is
that the board isn’t concerned with Shef-
field Shield cricket and that, if the State
cricket associations were quite willing to
set free certain players for the trip, the
board had no right to interfere. But in-
directly the board is keenly interested in
inter-State matches, seeing that they pro-
vide the guides to form and efficiency
by which Test teams are picked. Nothing
is more certain than that the M.C.C.
would never countenance the idea of
allowing a team of English professionals
to go overseas when their services might
be needed in the county championship
matches. For that matter the counties
wouldn’t let them go either, not even if
a maharajah footed the bill. And ama-
teurs couldn’t go.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Counting in a couple of
games played after the final Test, the
Indian hockey team in M.L. won all 28
matches, with scores reading 318 goals
to 28. The tour was a big financial suc-
cess, the cable reporting 20,000 at one
match —which sounds a deuce of a lot
for M.L, even if Union football is the
attraction. The visitors are playing N.
S. Wales country sides before going to
Melbourne. There may yet be a match
with Australia there on August 16 and
other games in Adelaide and Perth on
the way home.
* * * *
“Jigger”: Clark McConachy bolted
again in his native Maoriland when,
playing an exhibition match with Walter
Lindrum, he ran up a break of 1178 —
a new world’s record under baulkline
rules. Mac topped the four-figure mark
under these rules in Brisbane a couple
of years ago—the first to do so.
* * ♦ *
“Sprocket”: Belgian cyclists scored
well in this year’s Tour de France and
the international challenge competition
which formed part of the long spin. The
Tour was won by Maes in 141 hr. 29min,
19sec., 47 competitors finishing the long
and punishing run round France. Four
of the first five places went to Belgians,
an achievement which secured them the
challenge competition, decided on the
times of the first three riders from coun-
tries in the general international classifi-
cation. France was second and Germany
third.
* * * *
“Huon”: Tasmanian rowing has long
suffered from dissensions between North
and South, with the result that on several
occasions both divisions of the tight little
isle have boated crews in the inter-State
eight-oar race. Things have got into
such a tangle now that Tassie asks to be
exempted from visiting Perth when the
King’s Cup meeting is held there, on
account of the expense. Perth objects.
Already Queenslanders need not go to
Westralia, nor Westralians to Queens-
land. If Tassie has its way the big race
will resolve itself into a matter of four
competitors instead of six or, on occa-
sion, five. With its fine record in the
event W.A. is, naturally, keen on main-
taining its prestige.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: All the overseas athletic
trips are not to be left to the men. Aus-
tralian hockey girls have accepted an
invitation from the U.S.A. to come along
next year and do their worst. It sounds
all right, but the girls will need to be
careful. Think of Joe Lyons’s face if
the dears were kidnapped in a bunch and
the bill for ransom sent to the Federal
Treasury!


‘‘Australia ’s Premier
Sports Organ isa tion
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and
Revolver Shot and recognised authority
on Firearms and Ballistics, is attached
to Mick Simmons’ Shooting Depart-
ment staff. Write him for his expert
advice on any matter pertaining to
firearms and shooting.
MODERN
Sporting Rifles
dsf
No, I—THIS MAINE RIFLE, 22-cal.,
holt action, V-back sight; for short,
long, or long-rifle cartridges. Round
barrel, 18!n. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the mili-
tary weapon, and guaranteed
accurate. Weight, about 22^6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action similar
to No. 1,24 in. barrel, pistol grip,
adjustable rear sight. Weight, o|"|/
about 411 b
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12A—WINCHESTER SINGLE-
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 60, for 22
Short, Long or Long-rifle Klmflre
Cartridges; 27in. round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, bolt
action, ladder rear and metal bead
front sight. Weight, about Af\/ m
4-Jlb V*
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 14—W IKCHKSTEK
HAMMERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 61, 22-cal.,
24in. round barrel, pistol grip
stock, ladder rear sight, gold
bead front sight, slide action.
Magazine handles 20 short, !•>
long or 14 long-rifle cartridges.
This rifle will handle adequately
and safely the new high power
Super Speed 22 -CT/lft/-
R.F. Cartridges. *** ■
Carriage Paid.
No. 4—-MOSBBERO S.S. 22-CAL. K.F. BITXE.
MODEL 10, bolt aetion, 221 n. round barrel,
walnut stock, bead front and ladder real
sights, with swivels and web sling. Q Q/ M
Weight, about 41b
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. S—MOSSBERO S.S. B.F. RIFLE, MODEL
14, 22-cal., holt action, 241 n. round barrel,
walnut stock, bulge fore-end, hooded ramp
front and peep receiver rear sight; with
swivels and leather sling. Weight, AC /
about 51b
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPUING FIELD S.S.
RIFLE, MODEL 52, 22-cal., bolt action, 22in.
round barrel, gold bead front and AC |/
ladder rear sight. Weight, about 4Jlb.
Postage, 3/3; Other States, 4/-.
World Famous
SHOT GUNS
No
No. 3— HOLMS’ “THE RELIABLE” H.8.8.L.
GUN, 13G., top lever, bar action, 32in. steel
barrels, both choke, rebounding locks, cross
bolt, snap fore-end, half C‘\tL/'\VL/_
pistol grip, walnut stock .. <*» i. J.
Carriage Paid.
Xo. 34 —AMERICAN D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 13G., S2in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks’ top lever, cross bolt; tested for cn
nitro. Weight, about 7ilb
Carriage Paid.
No. 38—WINCHESTER D.8.8.L. HAMMER-
LESS GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke; top lever, walnut
stock, pistol grip, chambered for 2}ln. cart-
ridges. Weight, about 71Tb. £lB/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 29-FOX STERLING WORTH D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever, walnut stock, pistol
grip. chambered for 2|in. cartridges.
Price ’. ... ,“ b r t T ;‘ b : £1217 6
Carriage Paid.
SHOOTING CATALOGUE.
Latest Edition just released. Write for copy.
Post free.
MICK SIMMONS
LIMITED,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, and all Branches
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS,
AND AGENCY COMPANY. LTD.
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C. Chairman.
Rt. Hon. Sir J. G. LATHAM. F.C., G.C.M.G., K.C., Vice-chairman.
Hon. H. ALAN CURRIE. M.L.C.; JOEL FOX. Esq.;
Sir STEPHEN MORELL, K. 8.; ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS.
For Presentation to the Eightieth Ordinary General Meeting of Share-
holders, to be Held on Thursday, the 15th day of August, 1933.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Eightieth Report.
The accompanying Balance Sheet shows a Net
Profit for the year of £12,247 13 6
Add amount carried forward from last year. . 13,256 10 5
Your Directors regret to have to report the losa by death on
January 1 last of their esteemed colleague, Mr. Ivor Evans. He was a
director for I 1 years, during the whole of which period he rendered most
valuable services to the Company, and took the closest interest in its
affairs and well-being.
Since the close of last year’s accounts, valuable new estates hav?>
come to the Company, indicating that its success should be well
maintained.
By order of the Board,
C. T. MARTIN, Manager.
“COMPANIES ACT 1928”
BALANCE SHEET AT JUNE 30, 1935.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital-
-200,000 shares of
£2/10/- each..£soo,ooo 0 0
Less unissued.. 50,000 0 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled..' 360,000 0 0
Capital paid up in
money .. ..
Mortgage of company’s freehold
and accrued interest ..
English, Scottish and Australian
Bank —overdraft
Reserve fund
Profit and loss account .. ..
£90,000 0 0
31,611 11 3
998 0 10
80,000 0 0
20,104 3 11
£222,713 16 0
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the Assets *
of the respective Trusts (see
contra) £132.059 1 6
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the
Treasurer of Victoria .. .. £lO,OOO 0 0
Real Estate, Bourkc Street Prop-
erty, at cost 140,031 0 2
Sundry Debtors for Commis-
sions, etc. (after providing for
bad and doubtful debts) .. 69.917 3 3
Fixtures, Fittings, Oflicc Furni-
ture and Chattels (after pro-
viding for depreciation) .. .. 2,765 12 7
£222,713 16 0
Moneys advanced to Trust
Estate, for which Assets of
the Trusts are held by the
Company (sec contra) .. ‘-£1^05916
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the Year Ended June 30, 1935.
To Directors’ and Auditors’
Fees, Salaries, Advertising,
Stationery, Office and other
expenses ,; £33,981 15 3
To Federal and State Income
Taxes for year .. .. •• •• 2,724 16 6
To Mortgage Interest, etc. .. 1,345 6 9
To Balance, Net Profit for year,
carried down 12,247 13 6
£50,299 12 0
1935 —February 1
To Interim Dividend of 6 per
cent £5,400 0 0
1935—June 30
To Balance •• •• 20,104 3 1
£25,504 3 11
By Commissions, Rents, Interest
on Investments, etc., after
providing for contingencies ..
1934—June 30
By Balance
Lc.s further Divi-
dend of 6 per
cent £5.400 0 0
Less writing 10
per cent, off
Office Furniture
Account .. .. 210 0 0
1935—June 30
By Net Profit for year, as
above
£50,299 12 0
£50.299 12 0
£18.866 10 5
5,610 0 0
£13,256 10 5
12,247 13 6
£25.504 3 11
The Certificate by Directors and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate,
required by the Companies Act 1928, accompany the Official Report and
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Daylight-saving
A mere suggestion of giving daylight-
saving another spin has brought out
Melburnians to denounce it frenziedly.
Yet Australia is one of the few civilised
portions of the earth in which daylight-
saving is not part and parcel of daily
life. Throughout Europe and America,
it is such an accomplished fact that not
a" voice of criticism is ever heard. The
amount of actual money saved in gas
and electric-light bills should appeal to
a hard-up community. The trouble with
the experiment here was that it did not
last long enough to let the public get
used to it. People continued to base
times oq the old system, and found
naturally that they were short of sleep.
With greater experience they would have
habituated themselves to the change, as
the Europeans and the Americans have
done. — Grasspan (Vic.),
“Terrors” of the Outback
lon Idriess, on a recent visit to the
outback, found “countless millions of
rabbits” devouring everything in sight
and “countless millions of rats” doing the
same thing, despite cars which “pass over
a crunching mass of rats.” “Following
the rats come thousands and thousands
of cats, domestic cats gone bush and mul-
tiplied for generations.” (What is a
generation of cats?) But prospective
settlers should note that the cats are
much less numerous than the rats.
On top of all this, Mr. Idriess deals
with what is referred to as a “new
terror.” Shifting sand. It smothers the
country, causing homesteads to be aban-
doned, and is beginning to spread over
north-west N.S.W.
This “new terror” has been grappled
with ever since the first settler oulspanned
in the far west. I saw the tops of build-
ings just showing through the sand drifts
when on Cooper’s Creek in the early
’nineties. Any of the devastating forces
mentioned would seem likely ultimately
to overwhelm us, and it must be a
i matter of mere conjecture which of them
| —rats, cats, rabbits or sand—will reach
the seaboard first. The strange thing
about it all is that it should be left to
an itinerant story-teller to warn the
nation of its impending doom.
I read further that “one beast to every
25 square miles, year in and year out,” is
the carrying capacity of this plague-
ridden land. Pity the musterers looking
for the stray beast in its 16,000 acres.
Just in passing, Mr. Idriess mentions that
millionaire Sidney Kidman, the greatest
rancher of them all, built up his fortune
in this land of desolation and despair
from an original capital of sixty pence.—-
Warra Warra (N.S.W.).
The “Sesqui-centenary”
There is no excuse for the attempt to
organise nation-wide celebrations for the
150th anniversary of the foundation of
Australia, which will occur in 1938 —the
year in which loans totalling £83,000,000
fall due.
The sponsors of the “sesqui-centenary”
—to use the barbarous word they have
combed the dictionaries to find —are
Sydney people, and they will meet with
considerable difficulty in any efforts
they make to gain support from the other
States.
Melbourne’s centenary celebrations
have concluded in an atmosphere of un-
paid bills and writs. South Aus.’s will
be held next year. Westralia let off fire-
works in 1929, Tasmania about 30
years ago. The Ma State’s big year
arrived in 1888, when most of the sesqui-
advocates were either still waiting to be
born or too young to take any official
part in the proceedings. When the
second centenary year arrives they’ll be
either dead (and forgotten) or too old
to get a kick out of such vanities.
There is no particular merit in exist-
ing for 100, 150, 200 or even 1000 years.
Merit is measured by achievement.
Abyssinia claims an unbroken history of
3400 years, yet its contribution to the
knowledge and welfare of mankind is
negligible.
Australia’s achievements in the rela-
tively short period of white occupation
measure up well, but no good can come
of celebrating anniversaries almost as
frequently as some South American
countries change their postage stamps—
and that is how it must appear to out-
siders who know nothing of our separate
States.
So far the arrangements have all been
tentative —feelers have been put out to
grope for a royal visit, an attempt is
being made to secure the Empire Games
for Sydney (they could be held there
“sesqui” or not) and other suggestions
are invited.
The best suggestion that can possibly
be offered is that the whole idea be
abandoned. —Findy (N.S.W.).


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued ' .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ... 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. £1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London- Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C..!.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
A VALUABLE JOURNAL FOR INVESTORS.
August issue Now on Sale.
A FEW OF THE COMPANIES REVIEWED:
Aust. Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
N.Z. Paper Mills, Ltd.
Union Theatres (Vic.), Ltd.
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Walter Reid & Co., Ltd.
Jantzen (Aust), Ltd.
Vic. Butter Factories Co.-op Co., Ltd.
Bank of New Zealand.
Malley’s, Ltd.
Marchant’s, Ltd.
Queensland National Bank, Ltd.
Carroll Musgrove Theatres, Ltd.
N. Coast Steam Navigation Co., Ltd.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
For £l/2/6 per annum you may have the journal posted direct each month.
Published by The- Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
ENJOY
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
/
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and 5
Cold Water, ’Phone I
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at |
Double Rates)
HOTELSYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager. $
BUSINESS, ROBBERY,ETC.
No Bouquets
In a mutual life-assurance concern, the
principle of which is community co-
operation in providing death estates and
avenues for safe investment, the assured
in a good office generally has reason to
fed disappointed if he or his heirs arc
not to receive on maturity of the policy
a sum equal to or greater than that paid
into the office in premiums.
Control of expenses and careful invest-
ment of funds is the principal explana-
tion behind satisfactory bonuses. If the
office makes a bad investment it shows
up in bonuses (it can’t strangle competi-
tion to make up for it); if expenses get
out of hand they arc reflected in the
same way. Bonuses, which come out of
surpluses, when compared with pre-
miums are (he test of life-assurance
management.
Unfortunately, we cannot compare life-
assurance finance with public finance on
anything like even terms. But the prin-
ciple is to some extent the same. Gov-
ernments represent community co-opera-
tion (of a compulsory nature) in provid-
ing funds for essential services, pensions,
politicians’ and civil servants’ salaries,
defence (sometimes) and capital and over-
head for “works.”
A test of the control in Government
finance is the comparison of taxation
with revenue surpluses and deficits.
Many things arc liable to throw the
appraisement out of focus, such as un-
usual calls on the public purse for un-
employment and distress on the one
hand, or quasi-revenue expenditure
charged to capital—as too often happens
when borrowing is free—on the other.
But we can, if we take a week off and
investigate the public accounts (Com-
monwealth and State), get an approxi-
mate idea of what we pay such heavy
taxes for. The cost of government and
pensions is terrific. Life offices gener-
ally are able to deal with their multitudes
of policy-holders in the six States of the
Commonwealth (the A.M.P. alone has
over a million) with one head office
and, occasionally, small local boards in
other capital cities. The control from
head office is supreme. This method
must give the least expense comparable
with service, otherwise the offices
wouldn’t employ it. The Commonwealth
has seven Governments, six of which
fight like cats and dogs when loan money
is being whacked up, and six of which
overlap or duplicate most of the Com-
monwealth services and taxing bodies.
Sometimes, principally in regard to taxa-
tion, the States overlap.
Commonwealth and State taxes aver-
aged £l3 12s. lid. per head of the popu-
lation in 1933-34. N. S. Wales then
levied £2 Os. 2d. a head in wage taxes, as
against 18s. 2d. in Victoria. Yet despite
these extortions five of the six States
(notably N. S. Wales) have still to bal-
ance revenue with expenditure (and that's
even forgetting about the £60,000,000 or
so of accumulated deficits, including that
of the Commonwealth), and so would
the sixth but for tremendous “special”
Commonwealth grants. Notwithstanding
the levies, the railways in most States are
functioning on the present financial basis
only by stifling road competition and
harassing farmers who want quick, cheap
transport to market their goods.
Rates and taxes in cities and suburbs
are so high that flats are ousting cot-
tages as investments—a definitely un-
pleasant trend. Probate and succession
duties are so heavy, and the demand for
prompt cash in settlement so lacking in
consideration, that pastoral properties are
often financially crippled, or sold up, in
meeting them. What makes the collec-
tion of death duties even more oppres-
sive is that the last two Government
loans raised are expressly precluded as
acceptable payment (at par) of Com-
monwealth death duties!
Little wonder, all things considered,
that politicians and the bureaucracy get
no bouquets from private enterprise.
Broken Hill Prop.’s £670,442 net profit
for the year ended May 31 was £242,855
up on the preceding year, after providing
£541,949 (£133,971 more) for deprecia-
tion. The net showing was 57 p.c.
greater than in the previous year, and
equal to 22.5 p.c. on capital. The rate
of dividend proposed is yet to be an-
nounced. As pointed out on this page a
month ago, the outturn of pig-iron for
the year was up approximately 49 p.c., and
that of ingot steel 37 p.c. Prices of pro-
ducts have recently been reduced. Alto-
gether. an inspiring jubilee year and an
inspiration to other industries.
♦ ♦ * *
N. S. Wales provides more of the ex-
change “bonus” than any other State.
For the year to June 30 exports of
“ Whereja get th' car, Dave?"
"A city bloke offered it t' me f'r two 'undred, an', seein'
'e'd shouted me a drink, 1 couldn't very well refuse."
merchandise were actually £3,353,000
(stg.) short of the imports bill, whereas
the favorable trade balance for the
Commonwealth (it isn't so favorable if
the overseas interest charge be taken into
account) was £16,000,000 (stg.). The port
of Sydney has something to do with the
Ma State’s spendthrift appearance;
some of the goods unloaded at the
Harbor City are for Queensland and
other States. But even allowing for such
merchandise still in transit N. S. Wales
lives up to its overseas income more
closely than the rest of the Common-
wealth, and, incidentally, contributes sub-
stantially to Westralian gold-mining and
to the export industries of other States.
Some recent balance - sheet profits,
mostly covering the 12 months to June
30, with comparisons:
1934. 1935.
Broken Hill Pty £427,587 £670,442
John McGrath (motors and
investments) 11,710 15,077
Meggitt, Ltd. (linseed, etc.) 29,078 30,353
Peters (Sydney) 43,383 55,720
Intercol. Invest, (land and
rents) 13,358 13,783
Kandos Cement 40,478 76,470
Equity Trustees 14,951 11,973
P.J. and Manly Steam .... 23,411 29,491
Hotel Metropole 18,757 22,152
Australian Cash Orders .. 36,602 37,708
Total £659,315 £963,169
The above are nearly all classifiable as
industrials ; the exceptions are the trustee,
land and cash-order cos. They, with the
exception of Meggitts, are the only ones
which don’t show substantial increases in
profits. Bank earnings exhibit only a
slight upward trend, though the sugges-
tion here is that they are heading for
better things. Pastoral cos., of course,
all show lower profits on the year.
♦ • ♦ *
The N. S. Wales coal trade is recover-
ing slightly. The quantity raised in 1934
was 7,783,000 tons, compared with
7,118,000 tons and 6,784,000 tons in the
two preceding years. Figures for the
first six months of 1935 are further
evidence of improvement. Coal hauled by
the Government railways (excluding rail-
way consumption) during the six months
to June 30 was up 19 p.c., and exports
from the State were about 8 p.c. better.
The industry labors under many dis-
advantages, one being the not-very-sym-
pathetic attitude of the Government.
Royalties are exacted on leasehold coal;
in some mines this represents the differ-
ence between profit and loss, and employ-
ment and unemployment. There arc
more ways of solving the problem of thc
jobless than by splashing loan money
about on public “works.” Quite a few
industries at present in a shaky condi-
tion would absorb men on the dole if
intelligent co-operation by Governments
were possible.
* * * *
Sydney Stock Exchange prices gener-
ally are back to pre-depression figures, at
present being higher than at any time
since July, 1929. As quite a few
stocks (notably pastorals and banks) are
still depressed, it means that some com-
panies (especially B.H. Prop., Aust. Glass
and Burns Philp) are valued at unpre-
cedentedly high levels on ’Change. There
should be a great future for Australian
industries, given reasonable conditions.
But, though there is an immediate pros-
pect of higher dividends in the case of
many concerns, investors are at present
accepting very low returns. It is prob-
ably all right if they are looking to the
future. But punters are apt to find
the market go cold on them when they
are dealing on a purely speculative basis
and can’t afford to hang on. General
market buoyancy is usually dangerous,
and there is always a top price.
* * * I!<
Though butter exports from N. S.
Wales for the year to June 30 totalled
57.6 million pounds weight as against
59.2 million in 1934, the value was
slightly higher at £2,155,178, as against
£2,133,101. The outlook for the industry
so far as markets are concerned con-
tinues to improve.
*** . ♦ ,
Australian butter prices rose strongly
(by ss. a hundredweight) in London last
week. Prices range from 925. to 965. a
hundredweight, equal to 115 s. to 120 s.
(Aust,), subject to freight and selling
charges. Commonwealth production
shows signs of recovering from the low
winter levels.
* * * *
Wheat prices have recovered consider-
ably. Sydney sales have been around
3s. 3d. a bushel, and in London Aus-
tralian grain is fetching between 255.
and 275. a quarter. Wool sales overseas
continue encouraging.
>l< * *
Construction of General, Motors-
Holden's £200,000 factory at Fisher-
man’s Bend (Vic.) is to be put in hand
as soon as the ratifying bill goes through
the State Parliament. The buildings will
cover 20 acres, and will take 12 months
to erect. The factory will make use of
Melbourne Harbor Trust’s wharf (at
present idle), which cost £300,000 or
thereabouts. Something like 50,000 tons
will be handled each year. G.M.-H.
employs 9700 people, and pays over a
million a year in wages.
* * * *
An indication, in a way, of the
recovery in Commonwealth trade is the
buoyant sales-tax revenue. From July
11, 1931, to October 26, 1933, the rate
was 6 p.c. Since then it has been 5 p.c.
in 1932-33, on a 6 p.c. basis, the yield
was £8,435,067 ; last year, on a 5 p.c.
basis, the harvest was £8,554,076. Taking
concessions into account (certain goods
have been made exempt from time to
time) a 16 p.c. to 20 p.c. recovery in
internal trade is suggested over the past
two years.
* * * *
Gold has remained steady in London
for some weeks now at around £7 an
ounce. Variations in the price have
been insignificant, despite the crisis in
Holland, which should have had a
strengthening effect on sterling and a
weakening influence on the sterling price
of gold. The Australian exchange re-
mains at a 25 p.c. discount compared
with English currency, and no reduction
is at present in sight.
* * * *
H. R. Lysaght, chairman of the English
co. interested in Lysaght’s Newcastle
(N.S.W.) works and Nettlefolds Pty. at
Sunshine (Vic.), said in Birmingham the
other day that there were no workmen
in the world more competent or hard-
working than the Australians engaged
in these two industries. The New-
castle works have a capacity of 100,000
tons of galvanised-iron a year, and em-
ploy 1500 men. The Sunshine firm makes
screws, rivets, etc., and supplies practi-
cally the whole of Australia in these pro-
ducts. Both works have been operating
at full capacity over the past two years.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOH
SOWS
“Escape Me Never”
Made in England, but essentially Con-
tinental in story, production and photo-
graphy, “Escape Me Never,” at Melb,
Athenaeum, is a type of film that Aus-
tralians rarely see. Margaret Kennedy,
author of the stage play, in all her works
is dominated by the peculiar mentality
that pervades the literature of Northern
Europe. Over all is the spirit of bitter-
ness, and the final black-out leaves every-
body thoroughly unhappy. Perfectly pro-
duced by Paul Czinner, the acting
throughout is almost faultless, and a
bold and successful experiment has been
made by having one cameraman for in-
door and another for outdoor work.
The angle shots, popularised by the Ger-
mans and Russians, have been used with
telling effect. Elisabeth Bergner carries
half the weight of the show. She is an
actress of rare ability and a wide com-
pass ; comedy, tragedy, pathos, rage,
flirtation and passion alike come to her
as second nature. Her part is that of a
wild, semi-criminal waif, half-English,
who, still in her teens, is cast a widow
with a baby into the streets of Venice.
Keeping house platonically with a fellow-
derelict, a young English composer, she
eventually loves and marries him —to
discover that he is an utterly selfish black-
guard who aims to seduce the fiancee of
his benefactor brother, and who behaves
with unspeakable brutality to his wife
when her baby dies. “I’ll try to be dif-
ferent,” he pleads at the end. “I don’t
want you to,” she protests. “I want you
just as you are.”
Hugh Sinclair as the composer gives
an excellent picture of the fanatical
genius who tramps over all and sundry
to gratify his own vanity. Griffith Jones
is the brother, Penelope Dudley Ward
the weak fiancee.
“Girls, Please,” a slapstick English
comedy with Sydney Howard in the prin-
cipal part, completes the programme. It
is the usual Sydney Howard stuff, cheap,
but laughable in spots.
“The Girl from 10th Avenue”
Subsidiary to ‘“Call of the Wild”
at Sydney State. lan Hunter, society
man, seeks to drown his jilted love in
hooch and himself in the river. Picked
up on the streets by Bette Davis, he is
weaned from his dissolute ways. His
former love (Katherine Alexander) re-
appears, and he turns to her ; but, shucks,
who could withstand Miss Davis’s soul?
Bette Davis dispenses charm with ease
and naturalness as the lilywhite one,
Alison Skipworth raises titters as her
worldly-wise chaperon, and lan Hunter
hiccups unimpeachably as the squiffy
amorist.
“Go into Your Dance”
A backstager at Sydney Regent. A 1
Jolson is a celebrated music-hall artist
who is given to “walking out” on his
shows, so the perdoocers blackball him.
Ruby Keeler, a dancer with a fine pair of
legs, and Glenda Farrell—Al’s sister —
work for his regeneration, and succeed, to
an accompaniment of catchy tunes and
well-managed ballets. A racketeer and
his naughty little wife help to brighten
the proceedings.
“Dinky”
Also at the Regent. Jackie Cooper,
who plays Dinky, is at a “military
academy”—marching, dress uniforms,
football, dormitory scene and youngster
who looks down on Dinky for his
plebeian tastes. Amongst other social
offences Dinky pals up with some
urchins from the orphanage next door.
Worst of all, Dinky’s mother goes
to prison for a fraud of which she
is innocent. Dinky doesn’t know, but, of
course, the miserable child already men-
tioned spills the beans. So Dinky runs
away to the orphanage. Then there’s a
football match, Orphanage (Dinky cap-
tain) v. Academy. Dinky’s mother is let
out, her innocence proved, and Dinky
wins the game. Great stuff for philo-
progenitives and kids.
“A Village Tale”
Scene is pitched in one of those one-
horse mid-Western hamlets where the
day’s greatest event is the arrival of a
train, and where the general store is a
communal meeting house. Kay Johnson
is an unhappily married woman, pitied
by Randolph Scott, a prosperous farmer.
Attempts to involve the pair in scandal
lead to much turmoil. Scott finally gives
his chief slanderer an awful hiding, Miss
Johnson’s unsatisfactory husband fades
out of her life, and the way is clear for
a Scott-Johnson romance. Acted with
plenty of gusto, and the movement is
“CALL OF THE WILD,” AT SYDNEY STATE.
Jack Oakie and Clark Gable watch Reginald Owen, who insists upon his tub.
brisk enough to hold the interest. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Call of the WUd”
This film version of Jack London’s
story —seen at Sydney Western Electric
theatrette —is an engaging blend of new
and old, sophistication and simplicity.
The plot is the one about the rebellious
girl who learns to love her master.
Loretta Young is the girl—as neat and
brushed-up as she is lovely, howsoever
wildly the Alaskan blizzards blow.
Clark Gable is at his best as a manly
young gold-seeker who, thrown by per-
verse fate into the society of Miss Young,
becomes her adorer. They are flippant
in the modern fashion, for the most part
Jack Oakie plays two entertaining
characters. Beginning as a sodden wreck
with a boozy story about a lost mine,
he is suddenly transformed into another
Mark Tapley, ever ready with a wise-
crack or comic caper; the life of the
party in all circumstances. In this part
he derives from the second villain of
stage melodrama —the genial ass who used
to reform and turn his colleague’s final exit
into degrading farce. Nothing so snarl-
ingly villainous and so completely futile
as the villain (Reginald Owen) has been
seen since the talkies came in. Buck, the
dog (co-hero with Gable), snaps at the
boastful, effeminate scoundrel, who there-
after lands himself in a series of false
positions in trying to get possession of
the noble animal and shoot it.
Writer felt genuinely sorry when the
villain met his deserts; there isn’t a dull
moment while he is on the screen. There
are few dull moments anyhow. Peril
succeeds peril in strange and often beauti-
ful snow country, and just as the spec-
tator is expecting the usual ending the
end comes—and it is so unexpected that
it provides a thrill in itself.
“Bulldog Jack” ~
Though Bulldog Drummond figures in
this fantasia, “Sapper” had nothing to do
with the plot. Capt. Drummond fades
out of the picture very early. Jack
Hulbert, in his silliest silly-ass vein,
masquerades in his stead, and, aided by
an imbecile Algy Longworth and oceans
of good luck, rescues a lady in distress
( Fay Wray) and foils jewel thieves whose
headquarters are in a railway tube in
Bloomsbury, under the British Museum.
There is a great deal of running up and
down spiral staircases and struggling on
tube trains. Dialogue is feeble and vil-
lains are unconvincing. Hulbert has little
difficulty in routing a dozen of the mis-
creants with boomerangs during a fight
in the British Museum—which is un-
usually empty at the time. At Sydney
Lyceum.
“The Unfinished Symphony”
Also at the Lyceum. This film, which
has a mixed German and English cast,
explains why Franz Schubert didn’t finish
his B Minor Symphony. It seems that a
thwarted love affair was to blame. Flut-
tering little Emmie Passenter, the pawn-
broker’s daughter, used to see that
the composer got the highest rates on
the articles he pawned, borrowed
clothes for his adornment, even bad-
gered the Court conductor on his
behalf. But the Countess Caroline, who,
when she first heard him play,
giggled in the middle of the performance
and was properly rebuked, won his heart.
There are several shots of Schubert pining
in the customary manner, and the end-
ing is banal. Hans Jaray is a good-
looking but stilted and colorless Schu-
bert. Marta Eggerth makes the Countess
a live person, though she is inclined to
overdo her advances. Helen Chandler
is appropriately wistful as Emmie. The
musical score is delightful, and so are
many of the outdoor shots.
“Reckless”
This Melbourne Metro film has been
planned to show Jean Harlow as a
straight actress. Miss Harlow has been
super-vamp, gold-digger and interpreter
of pretty courtesans as deficient of brains
as they are of character. Here, for a
change, she is a good chorus girl who
marries a rich young man, and finds that
true love is only to be found with the
“follower of racing” whom she marries
after her husband’s suicide. The mesalli-
ance reveals the snobbish attitude of the
old families around Newport Sound
towards the bride, and the bride triumphs
melodramatically in telling them off from
the footlights of a crowded theatre. A
dramatic actress might have made this
scene convincing; Miss Harlow is not a
dramatic actress. So used is she to play-
ing characters without character that she
finds it difficult almost to impossibility
to feel at home as the virtuous heroine.
The support is splendid—William Powell
as the racing man, Franchot Tone as the
rich man’s son, May Robson as the girl’s
grandmother (a gem, this) and Ted
Healey as the tough racetrack hanger-on.
Some First Nights
“The Desert Song,” one of the most
tuneful musical comedies written since
the war, was revived at Sydney Royal on
Saturday night by a co. which, while not
as strong as some of its predecessors is
nevertheless sound. Marie Bremncr
appears in her old role of Margot. The
Red Shadow doesn’t find her quite so
light an armful to carry off as of yore,
but she is every bit as sweet and graceful.
Sidney Burchall’s Red Shadow is digni-
fied rather than dashing, and his Pierre is
as dumb as Pierre should be. His voice
is at its best in “One Alone.” Freddie
Foss (his first appearance in Australia) is
handicapped by that bugbear of com-
edians in revivals, the fact that most of
the gags are stale. It may be this that
makes him appear to overdo things. Any-
way, as Bennie, he gets laughs in plenty,
as does his opposite number, Nellie
Barnes, whose work improves from show
to show. Lionello Cecil, in the part of
Mindar, makes his d6but in musical
comedy, and scores heavily with “One
Flower,” the most effective lyric in the
play. Other principals are Cecil Pawley
(Sid El Kar), Hilton Porter (Capt. Fon-
taine), Cecil Kellaway (General Bira-
beau). Laurel Streeter (Azuri) and Jean
Duncan (Clementina). The ballets are
good; the tap dance drill in the first act
is a masterpiece of precision, and the
chorus is splendid.
* * *
The performance of the “oldest living
opera,” Gluck’s “Orfeo,” by students ol
the Sydney Con. Opera School on Satur-
day night was very much better stage-
managed and mounted than is usually
the case with such productions at the
Con, Hall. Gluck’s music ideally fib
the words sung, and the stage representa-
tions of the Elysian fields and the realm 1
of Pluto introduced no jarring note.
The role of Orpheus was taken by Nance
Marley, a young contralto of promise
who made the most of her opportunities
in the well-known “Che faro senza Euri-
dice.” The chorus and orchestra showed
their mettle in Act 1, with “Who Is This
Mortal?” and gave good backing to the
principals throughout The production
went far to explain the enthusiasm ol
Berlioz for this opera, which he revived
in Paris nearly 100 years after its first
performance. It has a dramatic quality
far higher than can be deduced from the
few excerpts from the score which are
ah that Sydney has previously heard
of it.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
The
Artists of
Melbourne
While the Em-
pire Art Loan
Exhibition lasted
in Melbourne the
Art Gallery was
one long make-
believe of admira-
tion of paintings, and the poor
artists of Melbourne looked on,
dazed at the sudden success of pic-
tures with a generally inartistic
pqople, and wondered if art at last
had really come into its own.
Melbourne buys enough pictures
to enable about five painters to live
solely on the sale of their pictures
(present writer is one of the about
five). All the rest hold down small
jobs of one kind or another. In
short, art sales, in Melbourne are
dead. With the exception of one
or two big men the artists have
been having a washout. For a long
time now there have been runs of
art shows without the once-upon-
a-time fine red-seal response. Gone
the days when a fairly good
painter could get his thirty and
forty guineas. This does not apply to
Streeton, who has been able to sell and
get very big prices for his work (he sold
an eight-hundred-pounder during the
depression hangover, and he did well
at his recent exhibition in Melbourne).
But even Streeton does not collect the
large sales that were always his. Harold
Herbert, the great water-colorist, still
asks big prices, but does not get the
financial following he once received at
his glorious shows. Several men, such
as Meldrum, Colahan, Archie Colquhoun
and Jorgensen, have sold to the Art
Gallery, and have also sold privately, and
they are not complaining ; but counting
it all in all, and remembering the
number of other exhibition-holding artists
in the city (men with fair names), what
real general genuine support are they get :
ting from art-loving Melbourne?
Yet the artist goes on painting and
hoping for a turn of the tide. What
faith is his! Imagine a motor firm
or some other large business concern
holding a show, year in, year out, after
finding that folk did not want their
goods! The artist provides a free show
about once a year, sometimes with free
catalogues, and the manager of the gal-
lery helps to produce a show where people
may enjoy themselves to their hearts'
content, talk art. look highbrow, pose,
pretend, and be seen, because they are
art-lovers, and the poor artist has bought
canvas, paints, spent time, gone grey,
bald and sober providing the entertain-
ment.
It would not be a bad idea if numbers
of art shows were prohibited, and some-
thing might also be done about all those
who hang on to the game—those people
who love art, use it as a stepping-stone
into the limelight, get on art committees,
suggesters of this and that about art,
those encouragers who wish to make all
Australia artistic, who sometimes get a
little job out of it, and draw a salary
talking about us, who love pictures and
who never think of spending a guinea
on one. These people, with the help of
untrained persons who believe they can
paint and hold dreadful shows, aided
by the many queer modern schools,
groups and freak “stunts,” have just
about frightened those buyers who were
doing their bit. Of course, having less
money to spend helped, and most of the
one-time big buyers have put their
shutters up completely. But the newer
generation, who should have been the
present supporters of their artists, are
not having any. They don’t want pic-
tures (this includes those who can afford
to buy pictures), but they are quite ready
to be in the fashion by attending an art
loan exhibition, if it is “the thing” to
go and see it.
We provide quite a lot of excitement,
interest, talk and newspaper discussion,
but that is about all we get towards our
rent, smokes and morning egg. What
money we get we get by selling our
work cheaply—well, anyway, I do, and
"A Temporary Partnership,” drypoint by Cecil Aldin, possibly the most
faithful of recent English depicters of animals.
there are others—and also because I
myself and a few others have a certain
number of steady private buyers of pic-
tures who support us.
When I read in the press of the agile
manoeuvres of certain trading concerns
and others to protect their own class, of
the schemes and plots to regulate the
supply and demand of their goods, I grow
tired when I hear people prattle: “Ah,
but art is different.” Why should it be? It
is a job. It is work, labor, and requires
time if it is to be done properly. And
buying it does not cheapen it; selling
well and making money does not ruin
an artist or his work. It may suit the
amateur and art followers to make it a
plaything, a hobby and an excuse to
appear before the public, but to the pro-
fessional painter his pictures are to him
a necessary item in the life of the com-
munity, something that should be part
of our national life, as important as the
newest building, something to be recog-
nised as a necessary unit among other
necessary items that are made. The best
way to encourage art is by helping the
artist—by purchasing his goods.
I would not make this complaint, but
when 1 hear all this art humbug, know-
ing what a rotten time most of us have
been having and are still having, I feel
it’s time to bust the ridiculous art-appre-
ciation bubble. A couple of very well-
known artists who held shows in Sydney
might say that Sydney is just as bad.
That may be so, and it is probably so in
other big cities of ours, but what makes
me so tired is Melbourne's insincerity
about its art.
DAUBER.
Fisticuffs in a Flea Circus.
You! You call yourself a flea!
You’re not the bootlace of a flea!
You talk to me —
You!
Yeah! No wonder cash is slow . . .
You drive the people from the show.
/ oughter know —
Huh!
Yah! While you are hilled as clown
We’ll do a starve in every town.
Ah, garn siddown—
Biff!
Yow! Ow, what y’ hit me for?
Biff! Bang! . . . You’ve broke me flamin'
jaw.
By gosh, I’m sore —
Snifj.
Yet y’ don’t tell me y’ think
/ meant all that ? Well, strike me pink !
Let’s ’ave a drink —
Yesh ! Bes’ clown we ever ’ad . . .
Jes’ fancy gettin’ me in bad!
Pals, ain’t we, lad ?
Hie.
N.S.W.
RIP.
Art and the
Talkies
N o twithstand-
ing the appear-
ance occasion-
ally of a film of
real merit, such
as, let us say.
“The Man of Arran,” it is vain to hope
that the talking pictures will become a
medium of artistic expression. The hope
is defeated by the economic factor in
their production. Technical develop-
ment has no bearing on the case —ex-
cept to draw attention to the difference
between the rich possibilities of the film
and its poverty of attainment. Three-
dimensional photography, for instance,
would be an achievement in itself, but it
would not make for belter pictures.
Sincerity is the soul of art, and no
gilding of the dross by way of expensive
sets, clever camera work, brilliant act-
ing and pretty faces will compensate for
lack of that essential quality, nor hide its
absence from the discerning eye.
Art is a comment on life, and each
comment, within the limit of its inten-
tion, must be a statement of the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the
truth. The picture audience would
baulk at such thoroughgoing comment.
Its demand is for a statement —and an
evasion. It likes to dab its eyes during
the course of the story or be moved to
synthetic indignation, but it demands to
be sent home in a comfortable frame of
mind. It pays its good money for this
form of distraction; and Big Business
sees that it gets it. Big Business must!
To illustrate: Take the novel. Its
cost of production and distribution, as
compared with that of the talking pic-
ture, is practically nil. Its appearance
before the reader involves the labor of
the author and a small outlay on the
part of the publisher. If one edition sells
with reasonable readiness the publisher
is satisfied, even if not elated. And
the same applies to the author. The eco-
nomic factor allows of author and pub-
lisher addressing themselves to a small
body of discriminating patrons. While
this condition does not ensure that every
novel will be a work of art, it does per-
mit of the existence and enjoyment of
novels that are. The foregoing state-
ments apply with even greater cogency
to the drawing, the short story and the
poem.
But with the talkies the economic
factor is in control. The film studio
can't afford to put fifty or a hundred
thousand pounds into the production and
distribution of a picture that would
appeal only to an aristocracy of taste.
Its production costs are enormous ; its
distributing system extends round the
earth. When a film is commenced a
world market is postulated. Success
depends on an appeal to the critically
somnolent mass. It needs to have the
critical intelligence of the world card-
indexed—and it has! It knows that if
the story of the film, let us say, deals
w'ith the struggle between qualified sur-
gery and quackery the problem must
be solved —for the audience —by a wed-
ding at the end between the surgeon’s
dashing son and the quack’s lovely
daughter. This enables the audience to
blow its nose and go happily home.
Critical appreciation of life and art is
the gift of the few. It rests on the in-
trospective faculty; and is not neces-
sarily the companion of commonsense.
the acquisitive instinct, professional acu-
men or education. The bricklayer may
have it and the university graduate may
not. It is frequently latent, and may be
roused or drugged by what it en-
counters ; but it is definitely not a quality
of the general mind.
Because it is not, and because what its
myrmidons, with due modesty, call the
film industry depends for its very exist-
ence on a successful appeal to the
common pocket through the common
taste, the artistically satisfying film will
continue to be a rarity. The industry’s
best product will be an elaborate con-
fection, mildly diverting ; but artistically
either negligible or fraudulent.
The fact that the industry can com-
mand the resources of civilisation and a
considerable part of the world’s best
talent only makes the spectacle the more
disheartening to observe.
F.D.D.
Sanity and
Art
I agree with
Adrian Lawlor
that there’s no-
thing to be gained
except uproar by
slamming “It is”
against “It ain’t”; unlike him, I don’t
propose to fill a column by doing so. He
tells me the higher archaeological criti-
cism has abolished Praxiteles. My
troubles. The work remains. As to my
assertion about Matisse, my authority
was T. W. Earp, as I stated originally.
Mr. Lawlor says Earp is in error. That’s
not my funeral. The rest of Mr. Lawlor’s
amusing shillelagh-flourishing must re-
main a solo performance. I’m too old
for dervish-dancing.
A.D.W.
Current
Arthursts
In the eight-
eenth century, a
Parisian pre-
cieuse maintained
that no artist
could produce
his best except in his own country.
Australian poet Louis Esson has
gone further and asserts that he is
unable to obtain genuine inspira-
tion unless he lives in the suburb
of Carlton (Vic.). Harold Herbert
confounded these advocates by
turning out his best water-colors in
France, but John Haley, of Lon-
don, scores one against him with
his current exhibition at Sedon’s
Gallery, Melbourne, There are
only 24 oil-paintings and two
water-colors, all small, in the show,
and the pictures of English land-
scape are of immeasurably better
quality than the remainder, depict-
ing Maoriland. “Evening at Hor-
sham,” “Coming Storm” and
“Sussex Downs” are probably the
pick of the lot, well-composed,
colorful and excellently lighted.
Of the Maoriland pictures, there
is a wealth of color and a sense of
mystery about “Morning Shadows,
Gisborne,” and “The Old Barn” is
soundly treated. “Morning Light,
Porirua” is a delightful water-color
skyscape, so charming that it is a
matter for regret that there are not
more.
Floral pieces and landscapes comprise
the 42 oil-paintings which A. E. New-
bury exhibits at Melbourne Athenaeum.
Most striking pictures of the show are
the two vases of zinnias, glorious in their
color, well composed and standing out
in bold relief against a dark, harmonious
background. Another collection of
gladiolus blooms makes a successful com-
position, but both in this and in hydran-
geas the tones have been kept overlow.
In the large landscapes, Mr. Newbury
continues to follow the principle which
has animated his later works —the prin-
ciple of leaving the masses flat and, from
the standpoint of others, artists and
public alike, unfinished. The most suc-
cessful of these is “The Devil’s Bluff at
Anglesea,” showing a splendid sweep of
brown-timbered hillside standing before
a blue sea. But it is in his small Corot-
like landscapes that the artist has
achieved the greatest success. There are
half a dozen of these little gems in the
exhibition, the pick of them being “Wind-
swept Trees.” In every case, the scenes
represent dull days ; it will be interest-
ing to see the artist attack a landscape
in bright yellow sunlight.
John Eldershaw, the Tasmanian artist,
is holding an exhibition in Gainsborough
Gallery. Brisbane, of 15 water-colors
which reveal strength in a delicate
medium. Apart from his first-rate tech-
nique, robustness and sureness, his work
has a fine individuality and delicate emo-
tional touch. Eight Australian land-
scapes and seven Continental subjects
provide a great variety within the small
compass.


HAIR NEED NOT BE GREY
THE modern convenient way of
treating grey hair is based on
commonsense, simplicity of treat-
ment and privacy. Get a bottle of
ALLEN’S MEXICAN WALNUT
STAIN and apply according to direc-
tions. No treatment could be easier
or more sure of satisfactory results.
ALLEN’S WALNUT STAIN arrests
the progress of years as far as your
hair is concerned, and gives that fresh,
well-preserved appearance so becoming
to the famous film stars. Get a bottle
from your Chemist. Obtainable in
Brown and Black Shades. Price, 4/-.
ALLEN’S (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
ROMANOFF- CAVIAR
The Royal Appetiser since 1839.
Sold by Leading Stores.
Served at all Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. BECKMANN, 20 Bridge
Street, Sydney.
Luxurious Comfort
at a Reduced Tariff.
Tbe delightful WENTWORTH HOTEL
is pleasantly situated, facing Bridge
Park, yet is only two minutes from the
G.P.O.* Telephone, hot and cold water
to every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/C per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per da'
Lunch ami Dinner, a la carle, from v -
per meal.
The Wentworth Hotel,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager for full particulars.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Royal Art Society’s latest patron.
Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven, hopped
down from the box seat of State affairs
to open its fifty-sixth gate along the track
of Australian art. In spite of a bliz-
zard that threatened to bite off any nose
that ventured away from home, the Edu-
cation Department’s Galleries were
crowded with artists, buyers and friends.
President Lister Lister, whose big canvas,
“Nature’s Mirror,” compels the gaze, had
to entertain the Governor and official
guests at tea without the aid of Mrs.
Lister. A North Shore hospital is busy
mending a cracked ankle for her, poor
thing.
The Erik Langkers were among the tea-
drinkers. If Charlie Chan spoke truth
when he said that fortune knocks at the
smiling gate, then those two will need
to prop open the gale of their Lane Cove
home. And what better to prop it open
with than one of friend E. Finlay’s pot-
tery jars? They stood in beauty on table
and cabinet about the stage. Howard
Hinton talked to Nevill-Smith about his
street in Old Mexico and his Californian
ghost town. Mary Edwards, Syd Long
and Alfred Stephen formed an interested
trio.
Betty Balfe, with her two long, fair plaits
(to be shorn in a week or two when her
portrait is finished), did the pictures with
an equally attractive girl friend. The tall,
lean and blue-eyed Salvana stood near
the short, broad-shouldered, dark-eyed
Hanke, winner of last year’s Archibald
Prize. He has a free and fresh sports
girl in this show who proves irresistible.
Mrs. T. MacMillan, Dora Wilcox Moore
and Charlie Bryant’s sisters were among
the viewers, the last-named, of course,
quietly simmering over brother’s picture
of the Jubilee Day procession. Clever
Violet Bowring was there, and the Gerald
Marr Thompsons. Dr. Abbott and Dr.
Rosebery were others who gazed and
were gazed upon.
Travellers along the North Shore line
and mountain roads have been gladdened
during the last two or three weeks by
bursts of golden glory. The wattle-trees
have tossed their brilliant heads in the
sun, and a few, more retiring, have shim-
mered green and gold in quiet corners.
In short, the trees were as on their toes
as a row of ballerinas, all ready, when the
calendar waved his baton on the first of
August, to scatter their beauty through
the whole State. Still, president of the
Wattle League Cheel thinks we could
wear our national emblem with a greater
air. Sydney wore her spray happily
enough last week. Coat lapels were gay
with it, though it might not have proved
a nosegay to some whose head-plumbing
needs a bit of attention. Boy Scouts were
early on the job handing it out at Cen-
tral, Wynyard and the Quay. Clouds of
it shone in hospital wards; and about
St. Peter’s Church, St. Peters, there were
35 trees planted.
Stand at the salute. Matron Boissier,
who has been chieflainess of Prince
Alfred’s for 18 years, is leaving the old
health stronghold. For 30 years Matron
has been connected with Prince Alfred’s.
She has been decorated with the Royal
Red Cross (for war services) and an
M.B.E. In the shepherdessing of her
flock of nurses she has won widespread
love and admiration ; the hospital’s ex-
trainees’ party in her honor was some-
thing to be remembered, and the one
arranged by the nursing staff managed to
make a dent on the annals of P.A., both
for size and enthusiasm. One afternoon
in the green-and-primrose recreation-
room in the nurses’ quarters Dr. Bertie
Schlink, chairman of the hospital board,
presented the retiring matron with a
cheque from the board of directors.
There were speeches and flowers, all set
in the minor key of farewell.
Colin Stephen’s Helen is wearing a
diamond-surrounded sapphire in token
of her engagement to Colonel Rutledge,
of Gidleigh, Bungendore. Colin Stephen
is the well-known chairman of the A.J.C.,
and his late wife was one of the Knox
family, so country and town social circles
can identify both matrimonial conspira-
tors on sight. Wedding bells are to ring
out in October or November.
In the Carmelite Convent at Dulwich
Hill a lady of France, Rev. Mother Marie
du St. Esprit, rejoices over the 50th anni-
versary of her landing in Sydney and
the golden jubilee of the foundation of
the Carmelite Order here. Fifty years
ago the present prioress was one of an
intrepid group of 14 nuns who left
France for Australia. Hardships they
suffered, and once there was even talk
of the little community returning to their
homeland, but last week saw their faith
and perseverance crowned. High Mass
in the monastery chapel was attended by
hundreds, and the consulates, most of
which were represented, were paid the
compliment of having their flags hung
from the chapel walls. Archbishop
Sheehan said the mass, and delivered
a special message and blessing from the
Pope. Among the thousands of visitors
during the jubilee celebrations were
Church of England and Salvation Army
representatives.
China’s consulate has lent some pic-
tures of rare dignity and architectural
beauty to the Poster Exhibition in David
Jones’s auditorium. If you can’t travel
by rail or steamer, as staring headlines
and mighty vessels and galloping ex-
presses implore, then you can travel by
poster. Spain. Latvia, Lapland, Maori-
land, snowfield and burning sands, castle
and schloss, cathedral and mountain
peak—open your eyes and enjoy the lot.
After the speeches the Charlie Lloyd
Jones couple staged a tea-party in the
Blue Room.
Marjorie Hambridge, a North Shore
line girl who returns to-morrow by the
Maloja, has been studying the violin for
some years at the Royal Academy in
London. This is Marjorie’s fourth trek
between England and Australia, and soon
she will face the ocean waves again, as
her stay in Sydney is a visit to father
and mol her before going back t o study
in France and possibly Germany. Her
first English recital was given some little
lime ago in the concert-room of Law-
rence Hall, the lovely house on Ham
Common that in the Princess Royal’s
girlhood was the famous school at which
the young princess was a pupil. Be-
fore leaving England for home Marjorie
made her curtsy to the King and Queen
at Buckingham Palace.
Rhodes Hambridge (Marjorie’s
brother), doing medicine at Cambridge,
is, with 15 other students of the same
year, spending vacation running an un-
employed camp in Yorkshire. There are
160 men in it, who do a few hours’
work in the morning, and whose after-
noons and evenings have to be filled in
with recreational employment, sports or
entertainments. Rhodes is acting as
medical adviser. Here’s a pen sketch of
last Ascension Day: There being no
lectures, most of the lads were present
at the church services. At the end of the
service in “John’s” the choir boys, and
as many others as could, went up into
the tower, and there, as has been the
custom since the beginning of things,
the choir sang a twelfth-century hymn,
“Jesu Hath Ascended.” From the tower
could be seen the Backs, thick with blue-
bell, buttercup and daisy, and in the
distance the spires of Ealing.
Jo Fallon started a chain letter the
other week, and hanging on to the chain
was a pendant of cocktails. Jo sent out
his letters broadcast among his intimates.
in every letter he gave the name of two
friends. To each of these the receiver
of the first letter had to send a com-
munication telling each frankly the re-
ceiver’s opinion of them. Wonder if
any of the bunch that gathered at
Graham’s told the whole truth in their
letters? Not to be believed! No girl
was seen flashing a stiletto from the
garter at the other cat; and there was
no ringing the night bell of the butcher’s
for a cut of beefsteak for a blackened
eye.
The world has two queens who rule
in their own right. One of them. Queen
Salote of Tonga, came to Sydney last
week. Her arrival caused quite a stir,
for there is always a thrill in the visit of
royalty; and when the royal personage
can claim an ancestry that goes back a
hundred years before Norman William
landed in England the cameras click
overtime, there are civic receptions, and
courtesies arc extended from Govern-
ment House. The Queen of Tonga is
tall, and carries herself regally. When
she speaks her voice is a rich, beautifully
modulated contralto.
She is a happy queen, ruling over a
happy kingdom. Among her 29,000
subjects there is neither poverty nor ex-
cessive wealth, and (a woman managing
the purse) there is no National Debt. The
royal palace is pleasantly set among trees
and lawns. It has wide verandahs and
balconies, and is one of the few two-
storey buildings in the whole of Tonga,
Queen Salote (the name is equivalent to
our “Charlotte”) is a member of the
Methodist church, and it is to attend the
Methodist centenary celebrations in Mel-
bourne that she has travelled so far from
her island home. During her visit she
was the guest of padre Burton and Mrs.
Burton at the training college at Haber-
field.
The audience literally blew into the
vestibule of the Con. on Saturday night.
Still, in spite of a wind that came
straight off Kosciusko, some of the girls
wore sandals and trailing satin and crepe
frocks topped by little satin jackets.
Others were dressed as if for a sleigh
run over the steppes of Russia. The
Conservatorium Baintons were early
arrivals; so were color-music enthusiast
Hector, Alice Prowse (in black) and Eileen
Boyd (in cream satin and a fur coat that
an Eskimo might have envied). The
Chief Justice Jordans were there, and
Mrs. Roland Foster, swinging lustrous
pearl earrings that even Cleopatra would
have hated to turn into a vinegar cock-
tail.
The Con.’s pupil from America, C.
B. Breithaupt, was in the chorus, so Mrs.
Mrs. Breithaupt and mother, Mrs. Rein-
hard, were in the audience. Nance
Marley wore the Tyrian purple cloak and
gold, key-patterned tunic of Orpheus
with grace, and her arm movements were
as compelling as her notes. Marie Ryan
was a demure Eros, but seemingly on the
unemployed list as an arrow-propeller.
However, her sheaf toned in nicely with
her gilden wings. Eurydice trailed white
robes, and died like a lady. Irene Vera
Young’s pupils were graceful and re-
strained furies and demons. It was the
first production of Gluck’s “Orfeo” in
Australia.
Margaret Peden's marriage to Maurice
Ranald Emanuel will be a quiet family
affair at St, Philip’s, on Church Hill.
But on this occasion the bridegroom and
not the bride will have a change of
name; Mr. Emanuel will thereafter be
Mr. Peden. Margaret is the elder daugh-
ter of President of the Legislative Council
J. B. Peden, and brings a ton of learn-
ing to the match. A B.A. and a diploma
of education are among her possessions.
She is also a first-class cricketer (she cap-
tained Australia’s women’s eleven against
the Englishwomen last year) and a
hockey-player of renown. The ’groom-
to-be is a graduate in science and engi-
neering and a citizen of Roseville. A
pre-wedding reception in the union re-
factory at the University will be the
centre of congratulations.
Canon Hammond went off to Mel-
bourne last week to collect a cottage for
the hamlet that bears his name. Old
Melbourne Grammar boys are handing
it over—not in bricks and mortar, but
in cheque form. Old Melburnians think
the Canon should be king of New South
Wales. During his schooldays he was
not only captain of the school, but
captained its cricket, its football and its
rowing. After he left school he was a
great runner and walker. Memories of all
that will be tucked into the cheque for
£lOO the Canon will bring back to Syd-
ney. There’s going to be a little movie
picture made of the dinner which accom-
panies the cash. The padre, who was
caught browsing over a bargain counter of
books, confessed to needing more books
for the Hammondville library. The
Railway Institute has been its good fairy
so far, with no fewer than 3000 books.
Omar might have been thinking of
Sydney’s Automobile Club when he
wrote “There was a door through which
I might not pass.” Fast the portals
which divide them from the full-blooded
members the associates may not come.
But the club is organised on the sham-
rock plan—there arc the men’s, the
women’s and the associates’ sections all
springing from the one friendly stem. The
women’s doorway lured a regular proces-
sion of males last Thursday, and, within,
the feminine touch was evident in the
(lower arrangements, artistically carried
out by Mrs. K. Slessor in the club colors
of red, blue and gold.
She, like all the other members of the
women’s committee, pinned a rosette of
these tones with the club badge to her
frock, which was black, giddily blooming
with spring blooms. President Mrs. Teb-
butt was handsome in a navy ensemble
and wide-brimmed millinery; Mrs. H. Y.
Russell (her husband is one of the club's
importants) greeted the first day of
August in palest beige; Mrs. Spring
Brown played the viola, that sweet in-
strument that recalls angels in old Italian
sky scenes, or George Moore, according
to the mind of the beholder. Music and
tea of the best were served.
Sydney has had its first mannequin
parade done in the style of Paris and
London. The enterprising Mr. and Mrs.
Pellier set the fashion, and the thing
went merrily to the chink of rounds of
cocktails. Trays of the little golden
drinks were constantly slipped under the
nose. You could have ginger ale if you
preferred it. Three things clamored to
the fashion consciousness: the color
navy, the loveliness of silk linen, the
presence of the daisy.
Daisies clustered thickly on the puff
sleeves of the sort of dress any young
man would like to take walking down
a shady dell; bunches of them gazed
demurely from the lapels of the coat
which is the accompaniment of every
walking dress. Skirts of these ensembles
are quite short; evening frocks still trail
at the back, but leave the toes free.
Many of the daytime coats swing from
yokes; the fullness is obtained from
pleats or gathers. Often they are longer
at the back. All dark day frocks show
white muslin or linen necklines. The
hats are adorable.
After the chiffon came something
from the chiffonier —a bird-and-wine
supper in the Forum Club.
Commander Gifford has retired from
the active A.D.C. list, and is definitely on
the job of organiser for Prince Alfred’s
He made his maiden begging speech a!
the tea parly given by president of the
Automobile Club W. J. Bradley. Hi>
plea was for the furnishing of the 140
rooms in the new additions to the nurses'
home. Twenty pounds will furnish each
room (well, we always did think the
nurse’s lot a Spartan one). Mrs. J.
Jacobson, one of the guests, took the
graceful hint, and promised to furnish
one.


T’ u ~ CHaln Hotel
WS 5?!u?;
*\\LV l'' ''
i?SJi|!JS i
la
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
132-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone; F 4141 (10 lines).
70 YEARS REPUTATION
Melbourne
Chatter
The brightest spot of color in Mel-
bourne last week was Ottie Falkiners
waistcoat; not a knitted woolly but a
tailored garment of scarlet tweed. It
was finished off with matching braid and
buttons, and across the front hung a
gold watchchain. A sombrero completed
the get-up. “Wear More Wool’ is the
Sheep Show people’s explanation of such
splendor.
Crowds of country people came to
town for the show (officially known as
the 57th Annual Exhibition of the Shcep-
hreeders’ Association). Men whose lives
revolve round King Jumbuck suffered for
one day at least from mild indigestion
caused through bolting their food so that
they could get off early to-Goldsbrough
Mort’s upstairs warehouse, where the
most aristocratic of animals were on view.
Persuading a grand champion of the
flocks to pose for his photograph is just as
finicky a business as getting something
pictorial and artistic out of a wedding
group. The most excited feminine visitor
on the opening day of the show was Mrs.
Bill Andrews, of Koraleigh. Her eyes
sparkled above a blue suit and ice-blue
jumper as in imagination she draped
over her shoulders the ribbons of one
grand champion, nine firsts and nine
seconds. The sheep which so distin-
guished themselves came from Murray
Downs, where Mrs. Andrews was born
and spent her childhood.
Sheep Show visitors did not have to go
far out of their way to the T. O. Guthrie
couple’s cocktail party. The gathering, to
which numbers of country people were
invited, took place at Menzies, where Mr.
and Mrs. Guthrie are staying while on
their jaunt from Richavon, Donald. The
hostess wore a dress of oakleaf-tinted
woollen rep with a splash of white upon
the revers and a little cinnamon-stick cap.
The Robert Ramsays, the Lionel
Weatherlys. Mr. and Mrs. T. Maidment,
the Philip Russells and the Neil McCul-
lochs were in the throng. Among town-
folk present was Linda Byron Moore,
who has made a plucky recovery after
her very serious operation.
The hunger which dancing seems to
instigate is amazing. Notwithstanding a
splendid supper at the Genazzano Ball,
bacon and eggs were sizzling about 2 a.m.
on the buffet balcony at Earl’s Court.
Later still a cauldron of hot soup re-
vived spirits which showed no visible
signs of willing. Half a dozen debs.,
each on the arm of a partner, walked
slowly up the room to drop curtsies
before Mrs. W. J. Newbury and to move
through a valeta. a dance of the same
period as their tight little old-world
posies. Mrs. Phil King wore blossom-
pink satin, very heavy and lustrous in
texture. With her bouffant frock of
black lace and tulle Mrs. Tom King left
unadorned her hair, which was twisted
into a knot on the nape of her neck.
Wilma Murphy rustled with patriotism
—red, while and blue starched frills
around the neck and hem of a white
organdie dress. A youthful frock was
Belh Marron’s white chiffon, sprinkled
with creamy satin globules, and some-
thing more sophisticated was Kathleen
Lloyd’s blue creation attached to infini-
tesimal shoulder-straps and cut with a
gently flared basque over a snug hipline.
With the whirl of a decorated pro-
peller, with an airship zooming about
overhead, and a thousand balloons aching
to escape towards the stratosphere, the
Flying Corps Ball took off at the Palais.
Tail-lights in several colors twinkled up
aloft, and the bowsers were reached
through pink-and-blue screens at the side
of the dais where the official people con-
gregated. The Chief of the General Staff
brought Mrs. Laverack, whose black
gown changed its mind at the kneeline
and swirled into a foam of tulle; the
Air Vice-Marshal was with Mrs.
Williams, whose midnight satin was
embellished with a spray of primroses ;
the Secretary of Defence escorted Mrs.
Shepherd, striking as always in black
and a shoulder rope of scarlet flowers.
Group-Captain “King” Cole and his wife,
whose larkspur-pink gown and deep
petunia velvet wrap provided a color
scheme joyous to the eye; and the
president of the Aero Club and Mrs.
Guy Moore, the lady in brown and biege,
were a few of the others who had stances
on the official platform.
Caravanning in winter appealed to the
adventurous instincts of Marjorie
Wreford (pictured here by Broothorn)
and her sister Helen, Examining a map
of Victoria for something romantic the
pair came upon the densely wooded and
unexplored mountains round a tributary,
of the Snowy River where a pinprick
marks Suggan Buggan, once a cattle
station. Thereupon the girls harnessed
two horses to an old fruit-cart, and had
five splendid weeks camping oul in sleep-
ing-bags or, if it were very wet, curling
up in the cart. At Buchan they left (he
last shops behind ; at Wulgulmerang the
road ended, and lonely settlers con-
tributed fresh meat and bread to the
caravan’s larder. The girls left the cart
and rode the last few miles to Suggan
Buggan. On the return journey their
luck was out; one of the wheels gave
up the ghost and the cart had to be
abandoned. The pair are planning an-
other trip, but it will be in springtime,
by packhorse. Marjorie and Helen, who
live at Heidelberg, are daughters of the
Wreford knight and his lady.
The C. W. Turner couple, she with a
swathe of black velvet over her hair and
the most glamorous mauve orchid in the
room, brought along a dinner-party to
the Flying Corps Ball. Mrs. S. Scrivenor
kept out of the draughts with black
velvet and a dramatic dash of turquoise
at the neck. Squadron-leader Swin-
burne’s wife was in flame chiffon. One
of the loveliest gowns was Mrs. H.
Benton's white satin, which was cut with
a winsome little basque, an intricate
corsage with draperies coaxed around
the throat, and diajmond brooches here
and there to fill up gaps. Visiting one
another’s tables were Mrs. L. Luiggi,
blonde, black velvet and diamonds;
Larry Hartnett (whose attractive wife
was at the time scaling the precipices of
Buffalo); Ruth Bullen, in mauve-and-
gold striped lamd, and Squadron-leader
and Mrs. G. Mackmolty, she with her
neck invisible under black tulle and white
camellias. From Mrs. A. E. Chadwick’s
fur wrap came the perfume of a spray
of pink carnations. A speck of purple
under the collar of Mrs. G. Banting’s
blue lace gown denoted a diminutive
piece of purple ribbon attached to a
small silver cross, an M.B.E. awarded for
services during the war.
Harold Gatty, the guest of honor at
the Flying Corps Ball, had neither uni-
form nor medals to add to the dazzle.
He doesn’t belong to the Air Force, but
graduated from Jervis Bay before going
to the U.S.A., where he distinguished
himself by accompanying Wiley Post
round the world in eight days. While
staying at Ravenswood Mr. Gatty dis-
covered that one of his neighbors was
Mae West. He says that the famous
Mae is not as bad as she’s painted, but
she is an amazingly clever actress, and
has found that notoriety pays—which
opinion fits in with the lady’s horoscope
as quoted by an American magazine.
Mae, having been born on August 17,
is one of Leo’s daughters who the
astrologers say are “extremely noble.”
This clears up everything. If Miss West
displays her ample charms a little freely
it’s just noblesse oblige.
There should have been mountain
peaks at the Swiss Ball so that yodelling
could have been done from Alp to Alp.
As it was the yodellers stood side-by-side
between two of the Saxon knights-in-
armor who populate Earl’s Court.
Members of the Alperosli Choir, wearing
short-sleeved, black velvet coats, banded
in red-and-white and embroidered with
an edelweiss motif, and on their heads
tight little caps of black patent leather,
gathered round conductor J. Studer (vice-
consul for Switzerland) to produce har-
monious part-singing on the theme of
“Libertd et Pa trie.” The Swiss flag
and emblems from the various cantons
were draped over the walls. On the offi-
cial table was a wine-carrier hand-carved
in wood in the form of a bear sitting up
with glasses in each paw and more
glasses and a decanter of burgundy
attached to its back. Those who liked it
could procure a dash of absinthe in their
drinks, and at supper there were many
kinds of salads with a pinch of garlic
here and there, and a cold collation made
from brown bread and six different kinds
of Swiss sausage.
Mr. J. A. Pietscker (his wife was un-
able to be present) was guest of honor.
Mrs. R. Vanderkelen in bougainvillaea
satin with a swirl-about cape, and a
basque hipline accompanied the Consul
for Belguim. Mrs. T. Baenziger wore a
quaint little ermine cape with an allover
pattern among the white furs of coy
black tail tips. Secretary Frances Free-
man was in lemon georgette, and Ann
Outhwaite marked the occasion with a
black velvet gown cut in pinafore style
worn over an embroidered blouse of
white muslin.
The lass whose smile has been caught
by Kenneth Parker’s camera is Mrs.
Vivian Price’s daughter, Judy. Miss
Price, who graduated as a stage man-
nequin with Delysia, will take part in
the “Spring Show” dress parade to be
held at the Embassy on the 15th in aid
of St. Vincent’s. Her next footlight
venture (other than playing French parts
in the semi-private Cercle ChanteTClair)
will be in Mrs. Frank Andrew’s four-act
drama “The Door Opens,” to be pro-
duced by Norman Wister at the end of
the month. The play, which deals with
the early-colonist days in Tasmania, has
already been broadcast. Proceeds for the
forthcoming season go to one of Mrs.
Andrew’s pet charities, the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
“One Frenchman is a chatterbox, two
are a conference, but when three come
together it means a good dinner and
everything that follows.” So said Mrs.
H. K. Reddin (and she should know,
being a Frenchwoman) in her address on
behalf of the French group at the Inter-
national afternoon. TTie French flag and
the Stars and Stripes hung upon one wall,
but in place of the sickle and the hammer
—which banner is not procurable in
Melbourne—Mrs. Mortill draped a piece
of Russian embroidery behind the chairs
of the hostesses representing the three
countries. The guest of honor was the
Rev. Ananta Rao (Batchelor of Divinity),
who is in Melbourne for the Methodist
Conference. There’s an air of poise and
sincerity about Mr. Rao, and a fluency
in his speech, although he has only lived
four months in England.
The club’s tea was something of a
spread. Mrs. M. J. Canny and Mrs. A.
M. Coates handed round cookies and
cinnamon cake, Mrs. Saffo James carried
a dish of flaky white hvorost, and
pirogki, a strange concoction of rice and
cabbage wrapped up in pastry; Mrs,
Matheson offered brioches, babas and
choux a la creme. One of the most
attractively dressed people present was
Mrs. Ken Stewart, whose ensemble of
La France blue tweed had a long cape
swinging from tabs buttoned crosswise
over the front of the dress beneath.
What provocative dashe§ of color are
provided by vegetables! So far the
carrot has not graduated from the
kitchen to the decor of a party, but the
marrow and the pumpkin have socially
arrived. Mrs. Lucius Conolly took one
of each, added a pineapple and piled the
three into a wicker basket for the adorn-
ment of the “loft” up above the garage,
whence drifted the overflow from one of
last week’s cocktail parties. Mr. and Mrs.
Conolly entertained a multitude in honor
of the Alan Devereux couple, new
arrivals from England, who will make
their home in Melbourne. Proceedings
commenced in the dining-room, where
there was the greatest congestion, and
continued in the sun porch, all tiger-skin
rugs, cane furniture and gay cottage
cushions, to flagged garden paths lined
with neatly-trimmed round trees loaded
with hard little knobby oranges. Instead
of the usual hat the hostess wore a
coronet of pearls with her bouffant-
sleeved black velvet gown. The guest of
honor was in navy blue. The Hal Watts
were there, she in a marl-grey suit; Mrs.
Norman Cozens came in black, with a
small toque and a brief fur coat. Bill
Christie brought his wife, all in brown
and a slouch hat. In the throng also
were the J. M. Pittendrighs and Barbara
Bryans in black with a bunch of orchids
blooming on her silver fox cape. Among
the “young bloods” were Tom Patterson,
Bully McEwan, lan Heath and John
Forsaythe.
Of large proportions was the W. L.
Russell Clarke couple’s late-afternoon
party at their home in Domain-road.
Son Michael, just returned from Oxford,
was the pivot round which chatty gossip
revolved from dusk, with cocktails and
savories, to night, with coffee and fruit-
cake. The hostess attached mauve
orchids to her gown of pastel-blue crepe,
and her daughter-in-law, Mrs. John
Russell Clarke, wore a gown as springlike
in its silky texture as in its pattern of
leaves and flowers. Stiff organdie neck
and wrist ruffles were a decorative feature
of Marjorie Clarke’s rust-red dress.
N.S.W. visitor, Mrs. Alex Sloane, wore
red carnations and boronia on the lapel
of her blue suit. Mrs. Tom Grantham
had a green feather and a jade pin
piercing the crown of her black hat. Mrs.
John Fisken was all in black, and Mrs.
George Landale covered her head with
a feather toque procured in one of Dame
Fashion’s overseas lairs.
Melbourne motorists were up early on
Sunday to fill thermos flasks with hoi
coffee, to collect sandwiches, not for-
getting a nip in the hip-flask, to start up
a sluggish engine and set off to see the
snow. Those who stayed curled up in
bed till lunch-time encountered dis-
appointment—there were so many cars
on the roads that they couldn’t get
within snowballing distance of Gisborne
or Donna Buang. Macedon, too, was
under a white blanket. At Buffalo the
snow-plough worked all night to keep
the road clear for traffic. At Mt. St.
Bernard it was burrow a hole for your-
self to get in and out of the buried
hospice. For weeks the young and
vigorous have been doing physical exer-
cises to get into good nick for Hotham, for
this is no place for soft muscles. Even
good skiers are tired after 10 miles
struggling on foot from the bus at Har-
rietville; the mountain road is kept
clear in summer, but not in winter.
Novice skiers arrive at the chalet practi-
cally dead, although more competent
friends have shouldered their packs and
poured rum down their throats. Despite
hot baths and massage the next few
days are one groaning ache. But it’s all
an experience, and everyone returns
after having had a “just too marvellous”
holiday.
Despite a freezing wind and a spatter
of rain a large crowd turned up for the
Rugby, Maoris v. Victoria. Those who
brought rugs were most comfortable,
but noses got bluer and toes gradually
turned into icicles as the Maoris piled
up goals.


is. r v■* . '
■
>• .
■ :
I • ' •• '
&■ .. ;:
i‘* - : ■
»t ; • ■
. V* ,
<-' ■
:/■
*
■'» ■
w*S s
*
7,]V^
m
KNIGHTS OF THE
BOOMERANG
Episodes from a Life Spent Among the Native
Tribes of Australia
By Herbert Basedow, M.A., M.D., Ph.D., B.Sc.
In this book, Dr. Basedow relates facts that are stranger
than fiction. Close association with these remarkable
nomads of the north provided countless opportunities for
the writer to observe their quaint habits and customs.
It is as one of themselves that Dr. Basedow wrote this
fascinating story of the Aborigines’ lore, tribal ceremonies
and customs; pitched battle and duel; bird and animal hunt.
It is a narrative in which broad comedy, touching pathos
and tragedy blend into a living and beautiful pattern.
Nobody will ever again see all that is described in
“KNIGHTS OF THE BOOMERANG.”
17 Pages of Illustrations. 240 Pages.
PRICE, 5/-; Postage, 3d. extra.
A “BULLETIN” PUBLICATION.
ON SALE, THURSDAY, AUGUST 8.
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
BRANDALER'S
BBS!
m
2 e>
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample bos
C. BRANDAUKR & CO.. Ltd , BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
PENS
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
TO MEN
nearing
MIDDLE-AGE
c
V
Beware Age 40 When your Life
Line starts threateningly to Decline.
The average life ends at about 55. At 40,
the pace noticeably slows—and worrying
signs appear. These tell of kidney and
bladder breakdown; failure to eliminate the
system's poison wastes, especially of uric
acid. Back, loin and groin pains appear,
swollen joints and limbs; increasing need for
urination; possibly severe inflammation of
the bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism,
which cripples and weakens the heart. Keep
your kidneys and bladder in health by taking
Harrison's Pills, the signed remedy of a Lon-
don doctor. These will free you from aches,
pains, stiffness, and that growing weariness
and weakness arising from your kidney and
bladder strain. Harrison’s Pills will give you
a new sourca of strength and health at a time
when neglect may prove irreparable. Doctors
and nurses recommend Harrison’s Pills, while
chemists everywhere sell them at trifling cost.
Missing Friends
NELLIE SCOTT (nte Parsons).—lf Nellie
Scott, widow of the late Ninian Bannatyne
Stewart Scott, or her son Charles, with com-
municate with the undersigned they will hear of
something to their advantage.—NOßMAN A.
MILLER, Solicitor, 100 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
IN RE ROBERT GILLAND MILLER, for-
merly of Pareora, Canterbury, New Zealand. —
INFORMATION is required as to the where-
abouts of the abovenamed, who was last
heard of in Sydney in the year 1924. Anyone
who has seen or heard of him is requested
to communicate at once with the undersigned.
TRIPP & ROLLESTON,
Solicitors, Timaru, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 331 of 1935.
BETWEEN MABEL GALVIN Petitioner
And THOMAS HENRY GALVIN Re-
spondent.
TO THOMAS HENRY GALVIN late of
Narrandera in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MABEL
GALVIN has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirty-first day of
October One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
five and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
solicitor free of charge.
DATED this First day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. L. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. M. LAMPART, Solicitor, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
128 pages of maps in nine colors—Bo.ooo-wor<;
gazetteer—l2o,ooo-word story of the earth
43/- value for 7/6! Available only to readers of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue—Xow on Sale —Price 6d.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The Hunt Club races attracted the
largest crowd seen at Belmont Park for
many moons. President Lud Mayor
Poynton extended welcomes to official
guests, with Mabel Teather’s trim navy
ensemble alongside. Sheila Hayes quiv-
ered with excitement in her sea-blue
cloth as two of her geegees flashed past
the winning post, sister Eileen had a
down of bunny wool on her misty blues,
Mrs. Watson Williams carried scarlet
brolly and bag with her black costume,
a brick-red shirt peeped from Muriel
Lee Steere’s grey tailored suit, and blue
cape ensembles found favor with Jean
Smith and Joyce Burridge,
A host of supporters sailed along to
the Royal Perth Yacht Club’s dance,
where Commodore Col. Lamb was at
the helm. The main clubroom was
cleared for dancing, and the galley was
housed on a lower deck. Mrs. Felix
Levinson navigated a passage in gold-
striped black matelassd with spinnaker of
lam<L three water-lilies floated in Dorothy
Howe’s lake of sea-green matt crepe,
a silver thread rippled over Gladys Had-
ley’s ice-blue cotelle, Mrs. Geoff Lynn
set sails of silver larruS, and Mrs. Frank
Downing’s ninons were white as the crest
of surf.
The Law Students subpoena’d some
hundreds of friends to attend their dance
at the Embassy. President Howard-Bath’s
better half witnessed proceedings in
trained and flared floral crepes, Prof.
Beasley’s lady appeared in orchid velvets
appliqued with blush pink, Mollie Lear-
month’s apricot and gold handpainted
satins were in the official box, and so
were Jean Lang’s sage-green georgettes,
which went with a cape of flame cello-
phane. Molly Rowe’s white taffetas
shone with lame, and Dorothy Jackson
sprinkled diamente over her black taf-
fetas.
Mrs. C. Y. O’Connor, widow of the
engineer of the goldfields water-supply
and Fremantle Harbor, celebrated her
86th birthday at an afternoon-tea-party
given by her youngest daughter, Mrs.
Ernest Lee Steere. Guests were received
in the drawing-room of the Mount-street
house and tea was served in the billiard-
room. Presentation flowers were show-
ered on the guest of honor.
The Alexander Park Tennis Club’s in-
augural dance at the Masonic Hall, North
Perth, drew a large attendance of mem-
bers and representatives of kindred
clubs. President Tyler’s other half shim-
mered trained peach-pink satin, Mrs. P.
Collier, junior, traced a floral design in
beads on her Alice-blue ninons, Ursula
Glance ran a self-stripe down the length
of her eau-de-Nil crepes, and Mary
Burton’s black velvets were flecked with
gold.
The Orsova steamed off with a goodly
complement of Perth’s well-known
aboard. Lola Stuart-Smith’s single ticket
will carry her to England, Dorothy Sum-
merhayes, whose wedding takes place the
morning the ship arrives at Colombo,
was accompanied by Gladys Hadley, who
is to act as bridesmaid, and Mrs. Basil
Murray, with daughter Mrs. Jack Morri-
son and Mildred McDougall, will attend
Molly Murray’s wedding on the same
day.
Enid, daughter of Canon and Mrs.
Marshall, has promised to attend to
parochial duties with the Reverend G.
V. Johnson, of Lancashire. Another
bride-to-be claimed by a ’groom from the
Cold Land is Judith Black, of Alley sta-
tion, Sandstone, who has announced her
engagement, in England, to John Yorke
Sharpe, of the Royal Artillery.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Over 700 danced at Prince Alfred
College’s ball at the Palais. Headmaster
J. F. Ward and the president of the Old
Collegians’ Association, P. R. Claridge,
each with his better half, received the
guests. Mrs. Ward was gowned in
amethyst marocain, fitting to the figure,
and worn with a shoulder cape of silver
lame. Mrs, Claridge was in a pastel
figured satin in pale-green and maize
tonings, cut on princess lines. Others in
the official box were Dr. and Mrs. C.
E. Dolling, recently returned from a trip
abroad, Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Trott, and
Dr. L. Davey and his wife. The barn
dance was revived, and the “old boys”
enjoyed themselves thoroughly.
The Uni. Union dance in the refectory
was well attended, and the huge fire of
Yule logs at the end of the ballroom was
a very welcome feature. Prof, and Mrs.
H. J. Wilkinson received the guests, the
hostess in pale-green self-striped romaine.
Mrs. Rex Matters was a graceful figure
in white marocain on princess lines, Mrs.
Mills wore powder-blue georgette, and
Prof. Wood’s wife chose scarlet crepe.
White broom and almond blossom
figured in the decorations.
To celebrate her twenty-first birthday.
Barbara Leitch entertained about 80
guests at a cocktail party at the Fitzroy
home of her parents. The young hostess
chose blue crepe with diagonal velvet
stripe ; Mrs. Leitch was gowned in black
chiffon velvet, and Mary Leitch sported
a Marina-green wool frock trimmed with
dyed squirrel.
Mrs. Denis Heath (Ada Bonython that
was), who has arrived from England with
her small daughter, was guest of honor
at a dinner- and theatre-party given by
Mr. and Mrs. Bill McGregor. The
buffet dinner was bright and informal,
the floral decorations camellias and
forget-me-nots. “Roberta,” at the Royal,
came afterwards.
Mayoress Cain gave an informal at-
home to members of the Croquet Associ-
ation and South Park club in her room
at the Town Hall. Decorations in
almond blossom and malacoides gave a
touch of spring. Mrs. Cain wore a
brown marocain ensemble with a brown
mink fur cape, and a hat of brown cello-
phane straw. Her daughter, Mrs. H. Dun-
stan, sported a smart burgundy-toned
frock with velour hat to match, and a
silver fox fur. Afternoon-tea was served,
and Mrs. Cain presented Mrs. Rauth
with a crystal rose-bowl.
At the Adelaide Musid Salon’s gather-
ing, the annual business meeting pre-
ceded a concert. John Horner provided
pianoforte items. Dr. Ray Newling and
Betty Botten sang, and Mr. Harold Par-
sons, just back from a trip overseas, con-
tributed a chat on music abroad.
Sheila Helpman, who recently returned
from London with her mother after
visiting her brother Bob Helpman, who is
now in the top rank as a dancer and is
shortly to appear in revue in the U.S.A.,
gave a supper-party for members of the
“Roberta” co. at the home of her mother,
Mrs. J. M. Helpman, Toorak. Madge
Elliott, Cyril Ritchard, Frank Leighton
and Leo Franklyn were the chief guests.
Autumn tints were used for the decora-
tions.
Ernest Rolls has dropped in on
Adelaide with a promise to resurrect and
convert West’s Theatre, originally a
panorama, next a skating-rink, and then
one of the earliest picture-houses.
Swimming against the stream of current
events, he is going to turn it back from
cinema to theatre.
TASMANIA.
The Alexandra Women’s Hospital ran
a big bridge drive to raise funds. Mrs.
D. McLaren was chief organiser, and
the party was at the Continental, with
over 100 tables occupied. Lady Clark
was there, and decorations of primus,
wattle and other spring forerunners gave
promise of winter’s end.
Lady Clark was at the Lyceum Club's
concert, when the guest of honor was
Margaret Fletcher, the club’s oldest in-
habitant. A fine birthday cake, presents
and flowers almost snowed Miss Fletcher
under. Mrs. Benson, her daughter Mrs.
Deas Thomson, and Mrs. Royle Taylor,
with two or three pupils, were respon-
sible for the musical programme.
Hobart music-lovers have been having
the time of their lives, First, we’ve had
Percy Grainger giving recitals from 7ZL
broadcasting station, and now come
Florence Austral, John Amadio and Ray-
mond Lambert “over the air.” After
them we are to have the Budapest String
Quartet.
The southern division of the A.W.N.L.
held its sixth anniversary review, fol-
lowed by a supper and music in the
league’s rooms. Col. E. Harrison, of
Bendigo, and Mrs. Mary Parker made
speeches, the lady cutting the three-tier
cake with its six candles at supper.
Nancy Swan is being entertained by
all her young friends before her mar-
riage early this month. Joan Reid and
Mrs. Trevor Gibson were among the
latest of her hostesses. Miss M. Sim-
mons and Mrs. W. E. Senior also had
parties.
The Speck’s attractions have proved
irresistible to one of the crew of the
little yawl Te Rapunga, owned by Cap-
tain Dibbern, which paid us a long visit
last summer. G. Schramm bought a wee
farm on the north-west coast, and has
brought a bride from Maoriland to help
him run it.


ds
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles In 7* hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
1014 U'.UKV, SPEED, COM I-OUT.
Descriptive booklets and full information
supplied on application to
BURNS. PIIILP & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney, ami Branches.
6 Goulburn
Street, Sydney, N.S.W
fa
h
nr
nr
C. t_ tj
Vl
out lad
{ lm . • •
joti,
o
com
SYDNEY
h r a i ut -i WM
come* to
, gJ-le like* ted^u!
*o
he look* at
Tariff: Room and Breakfast, 11/6
Inclusive, 18/-.
R. J Langley, Manager
Complete Coverage
in
Western Australia
with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly
the Journal with the
HOME
CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House,
Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Sibi”: The Governor of Victoria
(Lord Huntingficld) had a great time in
his native district when he went to visit
Gallon (Q.). His uncle, W. D. Arm-
strong, once Speaker of the Queensland
Assembly, still lives in the house in which
vice-royalty was born, and there arc
many living who played with him as a
boy. He seems to have been the ordi-
nary sort of Gallon lad. Somebody re-
called an occasion on which he made the
local flock of turkeys drunk, but in those
days nobody expected him to return as
Australia’s first Australian-born full-
blown Governor.
* * * *
“Kieta”: Old-timers of the Pacific will
turn in their graves to hear that Fanning
and Washington islands (in the Gilbert-
Ellicc colony) are advertised for sale in
London. Both are tropic isles of the
novelist’s dream. Fanning, discovered
in 1798 by a whaler, was annexed by
Britain 100 years later; Washington, a
year after that. Both have lagoons—
Fanning’s a lovely stretch of calm sea
water which used to be full of fish;
Washington, enclosing fresh water. The
original “king” of Fanning and Washing-
ton was Will Greig, a Scotsman who
settled there with a mate 80 years ago.
Both married Polynesians and imported
Gilbert Island labor. The little king-
dom prospered until one of the later
owners drifted away. The Greigs re-
mained, sharing their interest with Father
Rougier, a French priest, until a com-
mercial age created Fanning Island, Ltd.
There are 536 inhabitants, including 37
Europeans. Both might become impor-
tant —they are directly on the air route
between Honolulu and Suva.
* * * *
“Vic”: N.S.W. is not the only State
where the building mania has infected
(he Government. Not long after Queens-
land was founded, “with sevenpence in
the Treasury,” an enormous Parliament
House full of echoing corridors, Minis-
terial bedrooms, Legislative Council
committee-rooms, refreshment-rooms and
what not began to rear its handsome
head. Since then the vast Treasury,
Executive, Insurance and other palaces
have come to dominate Brisbane, which
has never been able to build an art
gallery, and which has a public library
which a back-country Texas cow village
would blush to own. A few years ago
a fresh series of skyscrapers in Anzac-
square was begun. Three “units” have
been built —the third, nearly finished, will
eost £92,ooo—and before the year is out
another £90,000 block will be on the way ;
and there is still another to come—all
erected by a Government department by
day labor —before the Government
thinks about shifting the Supreme Court
and the University and doing a few
other odd jobs. Presently the huge 1400-
mile-long State will break up, but at any
rate Forgan Smith will have his monu-
ment,
* * * *
“El V.”: Any Queenslander with a
sense of gratitude and £5 could do
worse than contribute to the fund to
place Archie .Meston’s portrait by B. E.
Minns in the Queensland Art Gallery.
It is a good portrait, though it is impos-
sible to do full justice to Meston’s tall,
gallant, tight-buttoned figure, his neatly-
oiled cavalierish locks, his uncompromis-
ing waxed moustache, his tower of a hat
set jauntily on a lion’s head, and his in-
evitable cravat, like a silk mattress, with
its imposing stick pin, in any medium
except the human memory. He was the
epitome of his generation, in which every-
one with social aspirations tried to look
as much like a cavalry officer as possible,
to be speared at least once, and to know
a few tags from Horace. No job in the
pioneering line ever daunted Archie, and
he had an abounding faith in the Aus-
tralian future. “Blackfcllows’ country!”
he once shouted as he shook his gold-
knobbed cane at a libellous Briton.
“Dammit, we’ll be another Rome and
come over and steal your Sabine women
in a century or two!”
# ♦ * . ♦
“Bajool”: M. B. Duffy, of the Com-
monwealth Bank Board, points out the
“There y'are, Pam.Thoughl you said Souter could only draw CATS!”
need to build a Queensland coastal high-
way to connect Townsville and Cairns
with the southern States. He thinks that
the influx which would result if travellers
could come direct by car from Sydney
and Melbourne to the North would “well
repay the cost.” Apparently, he forgets
that while half a dozen Queensland
coastal cities have to depend on the sea
and slow-coach N.C. railway for connec-
tion with their own capital and each
other, Brisbane has desperate needs.
Hitherto the residents have had only
two bridges and three ferries to get
them across their river, so £2,500,000,
which would have paid for a good road to
Cairns, has had to be spent on providing
still another bridge. Even when that is
finished the turn of the North may not
come for a long time —no, sir, not when
head-office civil servants are compelled
to work two and three in a room in
buildings as much as 40 years old and a
big metropolitan building programme is
“urgent.”
* * * *
“C2N”: Camboon, one of the oldest
and most famous of cattle stations be-
tween the Burnett (Q.) and the Dawson,
which was founded in 1856 and bought
by the Coochin Coochin Bell family and
Colville Hyde 61 years ago, has been
sold. Until the ’seventies it carried both
sheep and cattle, but under the Bell
regime it was given over entirely to cattle,
and for many years its Herefords were
famous. The new owners, Hamilton and
Rogers, propose to dog-net the old
place to keep out the Dawson dingo, the
noisiest and most persistent of his race,
and bring back the woollies, i ..
* * * ♦ '
“X.T.”: I am glad that I no longer
dwell in Brisbane. In my youth it
was a friendly, happy-go-lucky village,
where a junior reporter could dine
with two Judges and a Premier in per-
fect amity off a dish of meat pies—pie
and tea for 4d., and plenty of kidney.
And if you met a friend in the roadway
and had something of import to impart,
you merely looked round to see that
you were not on the track of Badger’s
trams and let the cabs and the sulkies go
round you. I have even pulled up a
dogcart in mid-street to have a little talk
on a quiet afternoon. But last week the
lingering flavor of the old time died in
streets which have come to look like an
imitation of the “avenoos” of a Middle
West Yankee corn city. Jay-walking has
been added to the list of public mis-
demeanors, and Brisbane is laid out in
colored lines which inhabitants follow
with the air of hypnotised roosters while
an army of instructing policemen go
through the motions of sheep-drafters at
every vantage point.
* ♦ * *
“Zedo”: Hugo Brassey, a godson of
the wife of the N.S.W. Governor and
grandson of Lord Brassey, Governor of
Victoria, 1895-1900, has married in
London the Baroness von Bodenhausen.
The pair propose to settle on Dunk
Island (N.Q.), the old Banfield domain.
E.J.B.’s old house is to be turned into a
restaurant for tourists, and “Mexican”
huts will be built for hire by visitors.
“Cum Laude”: While the destruction
of old Macquarie buildings in Sydney is
contemplated, they are an inspiration
to Queensland University. The Uni. is
about to build a library of which the
mother appears to have been the Sydney
Mint, though there is a concession to
modern taste in a barefaced portico and
distracting features —including side-
entrance stairs—which break the classi-
cal line of the fa?ade.
* * * *
“Angstrom”; The Queensland Cancer
Trust has been presented by Herbert
Austin, the car magnate, himself an
Australian, with “a low-wave therapy
plant”—-all deep X-ray therapy outfits
work in the region of the Gamma rays,
than which only Avernus itself is lower.
It will be a welcome gift, sinte appara-
tus of the type is scarce in Queensland,
though Sydney has some of high power.
Any philanthropist with £6OOO to spare
can make his name immortal in any of
half a dozen hospitals which depend on
facilities several hundred miles away for
non-surgical treatment of deep-seated
cancer.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
The Governor and his lady have
broken vice-regal tradition this year by
taking a cottage at Caloundra—which
provided Vance Palmer with the back-
ground for “The Passage”—instead of
going to Southport, as usual.
The Journalists’ Ball was a hilarious
affair, and Billy Maloney, who produced
the various stunts and edited the “Ter-
rible Tabloid.” which was on sale, at
midnight, was its mainspring. The pro-
ceeds go to the A.J.A. distress fund.
The Bankers danced more sedately at
the City Hall. There were no debs, (by
request), but the committee, headed by
M. G. Hayman, of the Q.N., had
arranged a delightful cabaret pro-
gramme. The vice-regals were there.
Sixty-three misses will be joint hos-
tesses at the Girls’ Ball at the S. Brisbane
Tech, in Show Week. Nell Hayman is
secretary, and Barbara Hart treasurer.
Ella O’Shea made her first appearance
as official hostess at the Q.T.C.’s July
meeting. But she left her brother Pat
to do the honors at the tea-party on
the committee-room verandah, and
joined the vice-regal party for the cup
that cheers. Her silver fox furs were
the envy of female beholders.
Followed by three attendants in filmy
old-world frocks the color of pink
almond-blossoms, Jocelyn Hudson, with
train and enveloping veil, floated up the
aisle of St. John’s Cathedral to say “I
will” to Gordon Ridgeway. A. S.
Hudson gave his daughter away, and
Mrs. Kevin Lahey, Dell Harris and
Judith Herring (from Bendigo), bear-
ing sheafs of pink Iceland poppies, were
matron of honor and bridesmaids.
Adrian Cooper was best man. After a
reception at the Hudson home at Clay-
field, the newly-weds left for Sydney.
After 10 years of suffering in the
Anzac Hostel the “Last Post” has
sounded for M. P. E. Shields, who served
with the sth Machine Gun Coy., A.I.F.
Almost constantly in pain, he never lost
either his sense of humor or his interest
in outside affairs, and was a regular
habitue of big cricket and football
matches, which he attended propped up
in a car. He leaves three sons.
The Victorian Association of Queens-
land entertained novelist Jean Campbell
and Lady Snowden at a dancing and
bridge party at Lennon's. About 80
guests were present, and Mr. and Mrs.
H. T. Halliday received them.


W. ■ ■■ '
WiS
Hi
■
m.
■m
mm
if
sfflg
m
mm
m
: *SS
*>x;v
iw.'lv!
m&M
m
■
ass
r
am-,
%
U.
■**k
A
•b-lit
&
*
a-
<2>
K
Stl
X;X;.Vv
: f
N;>i
THE NUGGET
CASEY
ALL the way from the 1800 level
to the surface Smoky Stevens was
preoccupied. He rolled a small slug
which was practically pure gold—just
held together by thin veins of stone —
beneath his tongue, and pondered deeply
on a problem of importance.
Being a man infinitely cautious, but
never given to undue vacillation, it took
him only the few moments of the clat-
tering ride in the cage to come to a
decision. The dim lights of the plats at
various levels sped past, and the vague,
unintelligible yells and comments of
parties waiting to be pulled up assaulted
his ears unnoticed.
When the cage stopped jerkily and
bounced lightly at the end of its quarter
of a mile of wire to take aboard the two
workers who were timbering at the 1500,
he crushed himself further into his corner
to make room without comment or greet-
ing. The five other dusty men in the
cage were too busy swapping mine jokes,
lies and racing information to notice his
absorption.
When their iron elevator spewed them
forth at the shaft’s mouth and dropped
like a plummet into the depths again, he
had made up his mind.
Instead of to the mine change-room, he
walked to the office.
“I want me money,” he said to the
clerk. “I’m finishin’.”
“Well, Smoky,” said the lad at the
window, surprised, “there’s a fine thing!
Got something better?”
. “No,” said Smoky. “But 1 couldn’t
get nothing worse. I’m going to the
coast.”
“Well, good luck,” said the boy. “When
are you finishing?”
“I’ve already finished,” explained
Smoky. “I’ll let Jim know in the change-
room, and he can pick up another man
in the mornin’. Can I get my few quid
in the mornin’?”
He was informed that he could, and
went away. In the change-room he
broke the news to the shift boss, who
took it philosophically. He did not
worry to inform anyone else.
WASHED and changed, tramping on
his homeward track between the
dumps and slimes, he expelled his pellet
of gold from beneath his tongue, exam-
ined it in the sunlight, grunted in a non-
committal manner, and plodded on his
way, thinking out the next move.
All that day until knock-off time there
had been no thought in his mind of
change or of leaving his very profitable
occupation. But just before the cage
had arrived at the 1800 level to take
them up the Slav who worked with him,
and who Was known as Gus, because
to Australian ears the first syllable of
his complicated name sounded more like
that than anything else, had drawn him
aside, and whispered to him startling
information.
“The dees is on to you,” had whispered
Gus.
And Smoky had, without pause for
consideration, accepted it as true. It
was about due, for one thing ; and there
was no reason to doubt the Slav. He
and Gus were good friends, and Gus
would in no way profit from a misstate-
ment. Also, Gus had a “nose for news.’’
Several men who had ignored his warn-
ings had had time to repent of it in gaol.
It had occurred to Smoky that conceiv-
ably Gus was an informer, but with
some distorted sense of sportsmanship
which compelled him to give his victims
a chance.
Smoky was going to take full advan-
tage of his chance, whether it was granted
him through goodwill or sardonic humor.
This gold-stealing was a great racket —
but once the Gold-stealing Investigation
Bureau got on one’s tracks it was time
for a cautious man to quit. Of course,
some considered the six months’ penalty
for a first offence to be hardly worth
worrying about, but years ago in another
State Smoky had allowed three of
another man’s sheep to send him to
gaol for a similar term, and he had
found it far too long. The truth was
that Smoky did not like gaol. Besides,
within the memory of man. he had an
unblemished record, which might, if pre-
served intact, be of use to him in some
future gentle graft.
As far as he could see. all that re-
mained now, as regards these goldfields,
was for him to dispose of the unsold
gold he had and depart as rapidly and
quietly as possible.
IN his camp he cooked and ate a meal.
Then he stripped the place of all that
he wished to keep, unearthed the deposits
of gold which were concealed in various
places, and packed his belongings in a
couple of large trunks.
He saw no reason why the very next
evening's express should not bear him
out of danger and to a delightful “spell"
on the proceeds of three years’ earnest
pilfering of gold on the fields. Reflect-
ing on these pleasures to come, he sat
heavily on the second of the trunks to
squeeze its bulging jaws together.
Then, suddenly, he stood upright, with
a whistle of satisfaction. He had had a
bright idea.
Now, he decided, was the time to put
into operation a plan for his own enrich-
ment which he had thought out months
before, and with the idea of which he
had flirted many times.
The plan had been inspired by talcs
he had heard of the magnificent swindles
of long ago—the stories of the gold bricks
and salted claims which had so easily
deceived the gold-mad newchums of a
couple of decades earlier. He had always
regretted that the press and the literary
profession had educated everyone up to
those jokes before his time. But much
pondering on the matter had resulted in
his conceiving a fraud which he was
confident would take in not only “mugs,"
but even the shrewdest of gold-buyers,
if properly managed. It would, of
course, only work once, and that fact
had, so far, prevented him from using it.
However, now he needed it to work
only once, and, besides thickening his
bank-roll considerably, it would cause
bitter loss to Parsons, who was the
eventual buyer of perhaps seventy-five
per cent, of all the stolen gold on the
fields, and whom he hated, for no very
good reason, but quite sincerely.
SMOKY decided to postpone his de-
parture for a day.
He unpacked the necessities that he
would require for the period, and then
spent almost the whole of the night
“dollying,” treating and melting into
slugs the small amount of gold he had
which had not already been thus handled.
He whistled as he worked, and he wore
the smile of the confident experimenter.
He was engaged on a task after his own
heart.
Towards morning he finished the job,
and slept for a few hours. But he was
up with the sun and busy again.
In the morning light he melted lead,
and did queer things with hammers and
heat and tinsnips and an old brass dish
which had been lying around the camp.
He made abstruse mathematical calcu-
lations involving volumes and areas. He
melted down a slug of lead in his gold
retort. And then, after much labor and
hammering, he succeeded in constructing
a brass shell, rather crudely shaped to
the inside of his retort, which thus held
the slug of lead fairly neatly. Placing
the lead in it, he cut a brass top to lit
it, and, pocketing the lot, went into town
for lunch.
Having fed to his satisfaction, he col-
lected his pay at the mine and sought
a cycle-shop.
“Can you,” he said to the mechanic,
"braze the top on this without spilling
any of the lead?” And he held out the
brass bowl, with the slug in it, and its lid.
The mechanic examined the queer
contraption from all angles.
“I can,” he said, “but what the devil
for?”
“Never you mind what for,” said
Smoky. “You do it, me boy, and I’ll
pay you for it, and we’ll both be satis-
fied.”
In due course the mechanic did it. It
was not a pleasant job. Getting red heat
around the edges of the brass, without
having the bottom drop out of (he bowl
with the weight of the now-molten lead
was tricky, to say the least of it. He
frequently burned himself, and dropped
his tools, and swore at the fool who
wanted such a fool thing made. But
being a good mechanic he managed it,
so that that evening Smoky took to his
camp with him a small, battle-scarred
lump of metal which appeared to be
brass, but was as heavy as lead.
After lea that night he was once more
a busy man. Using the retort he had
used for the lead, he melted every
pennyweight of his gold. When it was
nicely liquid, but no hotter than neces-
sary, he dropped his slug of brass-covered
lead into the middle of it, held it off the
bottom and under the surface of the
gold with a thread of hair-line nichrome
wire, and cooled it off as quickly as pos-
sible before any of the brass could have
drifted into if, as the lead would cer-
tainly have done without the harder
casing. It was then only a matter of
breaking off the tail of nichrome wire,
and Smoky had what appeared to be a
wonderful lump of gold. And the weight
was so near to right that, except in a
test with scales and measurements, no
man could tell the difference.
Smoky slept soundly, conscious of a
job well done.
NEXT day he idled until the afternoon,
when he repacked his bags, took
them to the railway station, bought him-
self a ticket to the coast, and left the
bags there while he went into the town.
He sought out the large shabby house,
tactfully situated in an area neither too
populous nor too deserted, where lived
Parsons, the gold-buyer.
in the back room where that mam-
moth of the gold-buying business con-
sented to see, under stress, his clients —
whom he normally preferred to deal with
a long way from home —Smoky told his
story to the poker-faced Parsons.
“Y* see, Joe,” he said, “the dees have
got on to me somehow, and I’m quittin’
for good. I’m off to the coast to-night,
and I'm in a real hole. You know 1 do
a bit of buyin’ meself sometimes, and
right now I’ve got the best part of fifty
ounces, all ready to make sovereigns out


BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LIMITED)
AT JUNE 30, 1935 (including the figures of the London Branch by Cable).
LIABILITIES.
Capital Paid Up £4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund 1,800,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 4,739,012 10 0
Notes in Circulation
Hills in Circulation
Deposits' and other Liabilities..
Profit and Loss Account ..
£9.039,012 10 0
13,703 0 0
1,173,911 4 0
49,101,296 10 3
239,814 18 10
£69,657,787 3 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
A u s t r a lian
Notes and
Cash at
Bankers ~ £7,892,626
Money at Short
Call
S h o r t-a a t e d
Treasury Bills
of the, Com-
monwealth of
Australia
British 1 and
A ustra lian
Gov eminent
Stocks and
other Securi-
ties ..
Bills Receiv-
able in
London and
Hem ittanccs
in Transit.. 2,111,077 2 1
Notes and Bills
of other
Banks .. 465,193 1!
8 9
1,160,000 0 0
3,866,000 0 0
086,760 0 6
Bills Discounted and other Debts
due to the Bank
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc.
■ £21,460,656 13 0
36,940,263 0 1
1,247,812 10 0
£59,657,787 3 10
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim Dividend for the half-year
ended December 81, 1934, at the
rate of 5 per cent, per annum,
paid on January 29, 1935 .. £118,475 6 3
~ Bank Premises Account .. .. 26,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with
as follows:
To Dividend for
the half-year
ended June 30,
1935, at the rate
of 6 per cent,
per annum ..£118,175 6 8
~ Amount carried
forward .. .. 121,339 12 7
239,811 18 10
£383,290 6 1
By Amount brought forward from
June 30. 1034
„ Profit for the year ended June
80. 1036
X 110,353 6 0
368,037 0 1
C 3 ■>3.300 6 1
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman.
O. DARVALL, General Manager.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the cash in
the Head Office of The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, and have: compared the return:-
of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
Sydney, July 18, 1935.
p. w. mxsoNi
C. TT. DOYLE J
Auditors.
-f.
•r
l\
V
•,«"
\
“ The scenic route”
Fortnightly Sailings .
UNION STEAM SHIT (0.. (.TO..
47 George St., Sydney; 09 William Si., Melbourne.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
§ conciss and BallaWa * w ,#r
.S and «.*» **«“
u-faufy una tkw
a*a Ur**,
* r "^ T
„■ -—' j IJI
-*' • 1
./ i - *3**
• <*
&*££ taeoiK T“
■• ; e*e*wwr« . ■ %
* pdr- - **"
By H. RAWSON snVINSON, F.CA,
eS **
Now !
Before you prepare your Federal and
N.S.W. State Taxation Returns purchase
a copy of
Income Tax Returns
By H. Rawson Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aus,),
just published by the Endeavour Press,
and meeting with great success. This
valuable and informative book may save
you much worry and many pounds in
taxation.
Simple, concise and reliable, it makes
compiling taxation returns an easy matter.
PRICE, 5/- (postage 3d. extra).
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George St., Sydney
of. An’ I got to get rid of it quick.
C’n you take it?”
Smoky hauled out the huge slug which
was dragging down one side of his coat,
and Parsons’s expressionless eyes almost
—but not quite—goggled. It never
occurred to him, however, to doubt the
slug. Smoky was an old customer, and,
though the size of his present offering
was startling, there was no real reason
why he should not have fifty ounces.
Parsons knew that he did occasionally
buy cheaply from men who did not
know where to sell at ruling prices.
Without hesitation, he made an offer.
“I’ll take it,” he said. “Three quid an
ounce.”
“Hell!” said Smoky, and started to
rage, because buyers were, at the time,
paying four, with the mint price at over
seven.
"Three,” said Parsons. “Take it or
leave it. It’s too big for me, anyway.
I’m only taking it to help you out.”
“Yes,” snorted Smoky, “you'd help me
out as often as I liked at that price,
though, wouldn’t you?”
Eventually, however. Smoky accepted
the offer. If three pounds was low for
gold, it was undoubtedly a good price
for ounces of lead and, brass.
There was no need for Parsons to
make any tests, beyond the merest
scratch with a file. He knew gold when
he saw it and when he weighed it in
his hand. He put it on the scales, and
paid Smoky one hundred and sixty-five
pounds in five-pound notes.
ONCE more in the street, with only
an hour to fill in before the train
went. Smoky gloated. He hadn’t thought
that it would be so easy. The? profits of
it made his total capital over six hundred
pounds, and he felt that six hundred was
a nice round sum with which to embark
on a fresh career a long way from the
goldfields. As he strolled towards the
station, he pictured the face of Parsons
when he found out, and chuckled softly.
Good enough for the swine!
Since the express was a “dry train,”
and Smoky was in funds and in the
mood to relax, it occurred to him that a
couple of bottles of beer would be good
company on the journey. He stepped
into a bar and ordered a couple. Fum-
bling in his breast pocket, he produced
one of Parsons’s fivers with which to
pay for them.
“Here,” said the barman. “What you
cornin’ at. Smoky? Where did you get
this one?”
He handed it back.
Smoky’s eyes bulged. His neck began
to swell.
“It's a dud?” he questioned ; but he
knew that the question was unnecessary.
“And a poor one,” said the barman.
Now Smoky was not normally a
choleric individual. He was something
of a philosopher. But he knew how
remote was his chance of ever getting
good currency from Parsons in exchange
for bad. The whole deal being highly
illegal, he had no redress.
The sudden plunge from the satisfac-
tion of the trickster to the chagrin of the
trickee was 100 much for his temper.
He lost it completely.
With a bull-like roar he grabbed the
fiver and plunged out of the bar, leaving
the beer on the counter. At a flat gallop
he arrived back at Parsons’s place, where
he precipitated himself violently into the
presence of the master of the house.
Then occurred a scene of violence and
abuse to chronicle which would be
painful.
He raged and swore, considerably
shocking Mrs. Parsons, who was one of
the chief upholders on the goldfields of
the sterner beliefs of Presbyterianism.
He accused her spouse of being a low
trickster. He punched (hat gentleman
heavily upon the nose, thus producing
a spark of animation in his sphinx-like
countenance. And after a scuffle in which
nobody was greatly hurt, he made the
needlessly dramatic gesture of hurling
his thirty-three fivers at the head of the
buyer. After all this he found it neces-
sary to rush for the train, and departed,
muttering.
HALF an hour later, when Smoky was
reclining in his second-class berth,
beerless, and reflecting sadly on the
fallacy of “honor among thieves,” and
after Mrs. Parsons had examined the
eloquent nose upon her husband’s expres-
sionless face and ascertained that its
injuries were neither permanent nor likely
to prove fatal, the gold-buyer held up to
the fading light the five-pound note which
had failed to buy two bottles of beer.
“Well, I wonder where the devil that
came from,” he mused, and proceeded
to make sure that the others were all
good ones, which they were.
Then he took out Smoky’s slug, and,
while admiring it, tossed it playfully up
and down. There seemed to be some-
thing funny about it. It gave the impres-
sion of hitting the palm twice. He shook
it beside his ear.
It duljy rattled.
When he replaced it in his safe, his
usually expressionless face wore a smile.
It was the smile of a just man who has
seen justice poetically done.
Another Out-of-the-way Story by This Young Writer:-
RFUNION
IN MY GARDEN.
By A.CONNELL
IT was early spring when I first met
Celesta. She was kneeling amid the
willows, with her head inclined over a
still pool so that she could inspect her
pretty little features. It may have been a
conceit, but if it was it was one that did
not irritate ; and. anyhow, I preferred to
read only curiosity in the tranquillity or
her pose.
She looked up when she heard my
awkward approach. She said angrily:
“You’re trespassing.”
“I’m not,” I informed her. “It's you
who's trespassing.”
‘Tm not,” she was insisting, and she
grew tearful with a pretty petulance.
We both turned when we caught the
sound of someone wading up the stream.
I saw a youth part the dense willows and
come towards us. He was a year younger
than myself. I thought—eighteen, per-
haps—and good-looking in a pleasant,
sturdy way. His trousers were rolled
above his rounded calves, and his shoes
dangled by their laces from his shoulders.
He went straight to Celesta and closed
his big hand over hers.
“Cel,” he said, “what are you crying
for? Did he make you cry?”
She nodded. “He says I’m tres-
passing,”
The youth looked at me with frank
displeasure. “Why did you have to say
that?” ■
“Because I’m right,” I said. “I’m a
Scott, and this is part of our land. If
her name’s Carroll then she belongs on
the other side of the stream.” Then I
added unwisely: “Did you enjoy you
paddling?” And 1 pointed at his drip
ping feet.
He was justifiably angry. He punchet
me, and 1 was instantaneously
that he must have more muscle in one
arm than 1 had in the whole of my body.
I went down on to both knees. 1
pushed myself up again and threw my-
self at him, foolishly striving to. protect
my pride in front of the strange girl.
He knocked me down again, with a
kind of worried impatience. When 1
came to my feet. 1 saw Celesta holding
on to him with little white hands.
“Frank,” she was saying. “Frank!
His leg”^—- r
I saw that she had noticed my lame,
almost useless limb.
Frank blushed a hot scarlet. ‘Tm
sorry,” he said. “I didn’t know.”
My jaw was painful, but it was hard
to dislike him, so I said: “It’s all right."
They were standing hand in hand now.
still faintly hostile to me. I think I
should have seen even then that Frank
was made for Celesta and Celesta was
made for Frank just as surely as the sun
and the day are united. Perhaps I did
glimpse the fact, for I said, as though in
retaliation at a hurt inflicted on me:
“But this is Scott land,- and you both
are trespassing.”
I had hoped to have the last word,
now that I knew I was safe from further
physical harm; but I experienced one of
my quixotic changes of mind, and was
(Continued on next page.)


Will ijoii see their
happinesswith Pride?
v ,j
m.
Picture a family re-union in
days of the future . . the happy
atmosphere of success . . your
children grown up . . fulfil-
ment of your hopes. Education
and the finer things of life
which financial stability makes
possible, can be secured by
Insurance with this Company.
GENERAL INSURANCE C? UP
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
DEAFNESS
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
13 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100,
SrrfJ
r
r
=-
■ -n-/ -
g I
HEW* Jfl
t
ejf.
~s
>
JSS
K‘
BUTTER
IN New South Wales alone almost 35,000 tons of
butter are consumed yearly, and 26,000 tons are
exported. The industry is valuable to the State.
For years careful attention has been devoted to herd
and pasture improvement, and regular employment
is provided for thousands of Australians by the butter
factories (mostly co-operative) which receive the
output of the surrounding farms.
Many of these factories (as well as the farms) are
being financially assisted by the Rural Bank, an
Institution which depends on its own resources and
upon the support and co-operation of the public
for the funds that make the credit possible.
The Bank accepts Fixed Deposits, opens cheque
accounts for all reputable persons, companies, and
firms, and affords most sympathetic treatment to
all its borrowers.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President). H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
[
This is the third of six advertisements illustrated by
Quinton Davis. An attractive brochure containing the
complete series may be obtained on application to the
nearest branch of the ‘Bank.
1
suddenly sorry for the advantage I had
taken. So I added:
“But it’s all right. You both can come
over the stream just as much as you
please.”
AND they did come, many times, in
the years that followed. They came
—Celesta from the Carroll estate, and
Frank from his poor home near the
marshes. We swam together, shared
hobbies, had our little quarrels, overcame
the gulf that Celesta’s maturity seemed
destined to create, and passed tran-
siently in and out of Windsor’s uninter-
esting society.
But our triumvirate never was perfect,
because of that truth that came to me
in a kind of delayed dawn: Frank was
meant for Celesta and Celesta was
meant for Frank
And I? 1 did not see where 1 came
in. It was as though I dwelled away
from them with a curtain dividing us—
a curtain through which I could see and
hear them, and through which they,
sometimes, half-heard and half-saw me.
WHEN Celesta was twenty and I was
twenty-four, the Carroll family
shifted residence to the city, for reasons
which I cannot now remember.
The break was a tremendous one. It
was easier, I think, for Frank, because
he could talk and did not have to con-
ceal the true extent of his loss, while
I —l must keep silent and pretend that
all my sympathy was with him.
Frank had grown into a man with a
line, ingrained strength. I envied him
that strength and health, so opposite to
the useless apathy that my withered leg
forced on me. Frank could resolve and
calculate, accomplish purposes and act
determinedly
Such as the time when he left one
night to take up a position in the city.
He had time to speak only a few
words to me, and in the morning 1
could not remember them because of the
blank loneliness of deserted woods and
empty meeting-places.
Celesta was gone. Frank was gone.
Time does not halt, of course. 1
watched its passage in the subtle changes
of the willows, the seasonal ebb and flow
of the stream, until, a year latef, Frank's
telegram came. It said briefly: “Celesta
and I married to-day. Happiness?”
I still loved Celesta. It could never
be any other way. 1 loved Frank too ;
and the thought of the two of them to-
gether, always having each other’s
presence, while I went through life in
my empty fashion, was almost unbear-
able. It was many hours before I could
frame an answer and feel that, in how-
ever slight a degree, the sentiment was
true. I sent; “All the happiness there
is.— John.”
It was trite, but I could not manage
more.
CARRIE, who had looked after me
since I was a newly-orphaned child,
grew restless with the change of season.
She would come down through the
woods searching for me to tell me that
dinner was ready ; and when she had
found me she would lean her gaunt body
against a tree and look at me with her
anxious pity of my disability.
Carrie was clumsy and untalented, but
she had an inestimable gift of compas-
sion ; and in her dull way she was only
just realising the vast futility of my
existence, and the thought hurt her, as
though the fault somehow lay with
her.
She said once: “We could have a
specialist to see your leg. He might do
something”
“What?” I asked,
“I don’t know. But we could try, I
wish we could try.”
I pitied her because she pitied me.
“If you want to,” I said, “you can try
to find one who will make the trip.”
The same day Carrie communicated
with a Doctor Lasser, and he made the
trip from Sydney and examined me with
the peculiar disinterestedness of his pro-
fession.
He conducted an operation in my own
home.
I was to remain in bed for eighteen
months.
Towards the close of this period
Carrie, who had nursed me through the
months as though I had been a child,
grew gaunter with expectancy; and at
last some of her anticipation transmitted
itself to me, and I waited in breathless
suspension for Lasser to make his final
examination.
Finally he said: “I admit failure.
The wins.”
He was impersonal; I could detect no
trace of disappointment or sympathy in
his words.
At my side Carrie put her hand over
her heart, and I heard the masculine
huskiness of her breathing.
I said in sick despair: “I can’t walk?”
“Sorry,” Lasser said. “I did my best.
You’ll still be able to get about, of
course. But the twist stays with you.”
That was that. Eighteen months were
wasted. Or perhaps they were not more
wasted than the rest of my life, I thought
cynically.
I sent a telegram to the address on
a casual letter I had had from Frank
some nine months back:
"Have had disappointment. Can you
and Celesta come down for Friday? 1
want to see you together.— John.”
The answer did not come until twenty
hours had passed:
“Will come. Meet us if you can.—
Frank.”
I could not go to the station person-
ally, because as yet I could not use even
my good leg; but I sent Carrie with
careful directions.
1 had learned to use a wheel-chair,
and in this I took myself down to the
stream where I had first met Celesta, a
child of fifteen pensive over the water’s
mirror.
I waited with no consciousness of
impatience.
It was tranquil here. There was a
mingling and building of sunlight and
shadow that reminded me of the interior
of a cathedral, and 1 felt the warm
crowding of pleasant memories—Celesta’s
voice, her touch, her presence ; Frank’s
strength ... ,So recent it seemed—so
near . . .
It was in such considerations as these
that I found peace.
1 HEARD voices. I looked up and saw
Frank and Celesta coming down the
path. They were walking apart, but
when they noticed that I was regarding
them they linked hands.
There was a strangeness in the gesture
that for the moment I could not
interpret.
Celesta came to my chair and put her
hands on my shoulders. She said:
“John.”
I had wished that she would look aged,
artificial, coarse, anything that would
release me from my bondage ; but with
her standing beside me now 1 saw that
her beauty had only waited for maturity
for its full birth.
Frank shook my hand. Outwardly he
was the same, but I sensed that he had
grown a little in perception and that his
emotional field had broadened, for his
expressions of regret when he saw that
1 was a useless invalid still were fuller
than 1 had ever heard him voice before
—not more sincere, you understand (he
had always been sincere), but keener.
He stood on the other side of me
while f explained my disappointment and
my request for them to visit me at such
short notice. 1 tried to finish quickly, for
1 found little pleasure in a recital of my
troubles and supposed that they would
find less.
“Sit on the grass,” I told them. “Sit
there together as you always did.”
They hesitated, looked at each other,
then did as I had told them.
I wondered about their actions, and a
species of unease developed in me.
I began to ask questions concerning
their marriage. Frank said apologeti-
cally: “Sorry about not letting you have
an invitation, John. It was sudden, and
we knew you—we knew you couldn t
make the trip.”
I said that I understood.
Celesta was staring down at the stream,
her face expressionless. She said: “This
is a lovely place.”
Frank looked at her profile, and some-
thing in his eyes puzzled me anew. I
grew impatient with the strain I detected
in our reunion.
“This is where we first met,” I said.
“Do you remember? I reprimanded
you, Celesta, for trespassing. Then” —-
“Then Frank came and supported me,
Celesta said.
“Anyone would, Frank said, anu
stopped. Celesta gazed at him thought-
fully as though she found the compli-
ment unexpected.
Still 1 could not see the truth.
“The place hasn’t changed much,’ I
said to Celesta. “The same stream, the
same trees ... It was under those
branches, that you always used to meet
Frank.”
“Yes,” Celesta said. “Under those
branches.”
Something utterly poignant sprang
into her eyes, and she said carelessly;
“I suppose you’re fond of this place,
John?”


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via "The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
T
\
V
■-/
Ss
/I
\V
r-i;
■sjt3
>^7s^==
- 2
z
um
Stromberg
-Carlson
Chromo-phonic RADIO
MODELS FOR EVERY PURPOSE
EVERYWHERE
Cl
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
<9
$
<9
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King’s Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soil. ALL
( lIEMISIS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERHiMS LTD.. MELBOURNE
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP. Written
in simple form for novice and experienced
player. At all bookstalls and newsagents 2/-,
or posted direct from The Bulletin. Id. extra.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised arc those at which the
books are published in boudoir. Prices outside
the British Isles must he fired bp the importing
bookseller
Totemism and Exogamy
A Treatise on certain early forms
of Superstition and Society.
By J. G. FRAZER. D.C.L., LL.D.,
Litt.D., F.B.A. In Four .Volumes.
Second Impression. 50/-.
This book has been out of print
for some years and has been re-
printed in response to many
requests.
White Man’s Country: Lord
Delamere and the Making of
Kenya
By ELSPETH HUXLEY. With
Illustrations and Maps. 2 Vols.
25/-. ,' • '
“An interesting and remarkable b00k....
In part it is the biography of an exceptional
man, in part it is the history of a gallant and
chequered British settlement... .Mrs. Huxley
Is to be congratulated on having supplied the
need with industry, sympathy, and a gift of
stylo which is excellent sauce to the meat."’
—The “Times.”
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
Jake
By NAOMI ROYDE SMITH.
“It is very well done....a distinguished
piece of work.” —Ralph Straus (“Sunday
Times”').
Young Renny
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
“Readers of ‘Jalna’ and the other books
will.find that this one, set 20 years behind
them, matches as perfectly as though the chain
had been continuous.” —“Manchester Guardian.”
Now 2/- and 2/6.
The Fountain
By CHARLES MORGAN.
One of the most outstanding novels
of recent years.
Also his
Portrait in a Mirror
3/6. _
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
Advertising Efficacy for Nearly a Century! !
“The Examiner”
is the oldest and
most efficient
advertising
medium in
Tasmania.
For 93 years “The Examiner,” the oldest
daily paper in Tasmania, and now the
only one published in Launceston, has
been THE Advertising Medium for
Northern Tasmania. It is a record of
Advertising efficacy, based on known
results, and establishes its claim of being
5* 2*2
THE ADVERTISING MEDIUM FOR NORTHERN TASMANIA.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY.. LTD., 71-75 Paterson Street, Launceston.
S. ALLAN, National Bank Chambers, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
G. DOUGAN, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
"Don’t think me silly,” I said, “but
to me it’s like the beginning and end of
life. Everything I know best.”
Frank stood up. “Celesta.”
“Yes?”
“Celesta, can I see you alone?”
She seemed to study his face inquir-
ingly. “Yes,” she said, and they went
up the path. They were so wrapped in
some problem that eluded me that they
omitted to make apologies.
I waited. 1 could almost see the
shadows move. They did not return. I
felt a vague vexation that I should have
been so deserted.
I turned up the path to try to find
them. I think they had not realised that
I could move about in my chair.
On the bend I halted. A little way
ahead of me I saw Celesta and Frank.
They were moving towards each other.
1 heard Frank say: “Cel, I’ve got you
back?”
She nodded, but I could not distin-
guish her words. A breeze dislodged a
few dry leaves on to their shoulders, but
they did not notice. I saw Celesta kiss
Frank, and her touch w ; as almost
spiritual.
The whole scene was too idyllic for
my growing cynicism, because
I knew now. I knew that some human
weakness had parted them, that they
had come together to please me, and
that a necromancy of my garden had re-
w'rought their oneness.
1 thought of Celesta free and claim-
able. I thought of the old law—Celesta
for Frank, Frank for Celesta —and I did
not know whether to regret or to rejoice.
I turned my chair, went back down
the path for twenty yards, then started
forward again as noisily as I could, so
that they would think I had just come.
A Lady-killer Tells His Tale:-
THE SHEEK.
By WATCOMBE PETITOR
BERT rode in towards sundown. He’d
been oiling a windmill.
“Is she 0.K.?” a stockman asked.
“Yeh, I fixed her. There’s a bagman
making across the small paddocks.”
We wondered who it could be. None
of the regulars was due, and strangers
missed our track. He hit the hut at
supper-time, and we saw it was young
Tom Molloy. He was 35, but his old
man was Tom, too.
“Thought you were on Übinera,”
someone said.
“Left there a year ago, and bin down
among the whites. Any chance of a
job?”
“Well,” said Bert, “you better have
some tucker and camp here to-night:
then see the boss in the morning.”
After supper we got Tom’s yarn.
AST year we drove a mob of cattle
" from Übinera to the Alice an’
trucked ’em to Adelaide. Old Hardy took
me down with ’im in the train. Gripes!
Sheilahs! You want to go down there
with y’r next cheque. I meets two the
first day. I ’ad on me big ’at an’ con-
certinas, an’ was walking down King
William-street. These two sheilahs laughs,
so I stops an’ pitches to ’em. We was
outside a jooler’s; so I makes ’em wait,
an’ I goes in an’ buys two wrist watches,
an’ the bloke chucks in a scent-bottle
an’ pepper-pot, too. They didn’t know
’ow to thank me, an’ we goes walking
down the street. I wanted a smoke, but
didn’t like using me makings, so I asks
’em to wait whilst I get some real ones.
When I comes out they was gone. Musta
got tired o’ waiting. I ’ad a good
time, but never saw them again.
“When I gets back north, I tells the
blokes it’s Adelaide fer me every time.
“The next mob we takes down to the
railhead, Tom Hardy, me an’ some nigs
go. We ’as a good trip, an’ Tom says
we’ll ’ang on in Alice fer a few days.
We puts up at the pub, an’ I meets a
bloke from the city who’s painting the
post office, so we cobbers up. I ’ears
that two new maids is coming up by
that week’s train to work at the pub,
so me an’ Bill goes down to meet it. 1
picks ’em, an’ breasts up and says; ‘You
the new girls fer the pub?’ They says
Yes.’ ‘Well,’ says I, ‘where’s yer dun-
nage? I’m the ostler.’ Then, spare me
days, I sees one o’ these tabbies is who
I give one o’ the watches to, so we was
like old cobbers. She couldn’t under-
stand ’ow she missed me that morn-
ing in Adelaide, an’ she’d come up here
because the doctor said that she wanted
a change of air.
BILL an’ me shoulders their gear an’
off to the pub, an’ promises to
meet ’em after tea. Whilst we was wait-
ing, I goes in to ’elp wash up, but the
old woman kicks me out an’ says the
girls mustn’t chatter an’ flirt when they’re
working. I goes outside then, an’ pitches
through the window.
“Every night for a week the four of
us useter go down under the bridge
an’ talk.
“One night Gwen —that was my sheilah
—was crying. She wanted t’ go back to
Adelaide, ’cos the old woman 'ad bin
rousin’, an’ she couldn’t go without any
money. Her cobber was goin' too. an’
’ad enough fer ’er fare. ‘Well,’ I says,
‘1 c’n soon fix that,’ an’ ’ands ’er a few
frogskins. ‘Will the old woman let you
go, though?’ I asks. ‘No,’ she says ; ‘we’ll
’ave to sneak away.’
“The train used to leave before day-
light, so in the night they sends their
belongin’s down a rope to me an’ Bill.
Then they creeps down, an’ we all sits
in our room till train time. We goes
to the train early, an’ sits in a carriage,
an’ she says if she was my wife we
could live up on the station, so 1
promises to marry ’er, an’ she’s going to
write every mail. She borrows another
coupla notes —well, you ’ardly call it
lendin’ when it’s yer future wife—an’
kisses me good-bye.
“I goes back to the pub, packs up an’
squares up, an’ steps on it, so 1 can
catch Tom Hardy before ’e gets ’ome.
“She writes three times, an’ then musta
lost me address or ’ad no money fer
stamps, so 1 sends a fiver to ’er address
—G.P.O., Adelaide—but that brings
nothin’. The blokes on Übinera starts
pullin’ me leg, specially Jack Ludlow,
the 'ead stockman, I gets me own back,
’cos next mail there’s a letter for me
from the city. Twas from some other
sheilah though, called Ethel Forest.
.She sent her photo, an’ said Gwen ’ad
told ’er all about me. She said: ‘Gwen
isn’t good enough for you. She’s a bad
girl. She isn’t going to write any more
and goes out with a different boy every
night. Can Ibe your friend? I’ll
answer all letters, an’ you can stay at
our house when you come to the city.
Please send a photo.’
<<THAT shut Ludlow up, anyhow.
* Gwen seemed all right to me, but
this sheilah musta known better.
“I ’ad two photos, of meself. One
I’d give to Ludlow an’ the other I ’ad in
me box. I’d broke in a colt, an’ was
giving ’im a go in the saddle. The
boss’s wife snapped us when ’e ’ad four
feet off the ground an’ a ’ump in ’is
back like a bike-rider. Me face wasn’t
too plain, but I sent the snap to ’er,
an’ she said it was wonderful. She
always wrote regular, an’ sent back a
quid I put in once.
“I ’inted about ’er likin’ the north, an’
she said she thought she’d love it. I ’ad
all ’er letters tied up in a bundle an’
useter read ’em over.
“Jack Ludlow went to Adelaide about
this time, an’ I got one o’ me own
letters back. Twas the fiver I’d sent to
Gwen. She’d never called for it. A
"awker come along with some booze
an’ took me fiver, an’ we all ’ad a birth-
day an’ I nearly got the sack. Then
Ethel’s letters stopped, an’ after three
weeks I snatched me time and lit out
for Adelaide. At Alice Springs I meet
Luddy coming ’ome, so we as a few, but
I ain’t too popular with the old dame
in the pub.
“I tells Jack what I’m going down for,
an’ he says, ‘Don’t be a mug. They
ain’t w 7 orth wasting time on,’ but I goes
just the same. Just as the rattler was
leaving, Luddy hands me a parcel and
says ‘Open it when she starts,’ but I puts
it in me case until I was ’ungry.
“Well, I gets to Adelaide, spruces
meself up an’ takes a taxi to Ethel’s
’ouse. She was in the garden. 1 knew
’er by the photo. ‘Miss Forest?’ I asks.
“ ‘Yes,’ she says.
(Continued on next page.)


“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
Vou will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price H'd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office; 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
National
Advertisers;
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
‘The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; R. .1. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Adrt.
Department, News, Ltd., Adelaide.
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place .their
goods before Tasmanians. ,
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury" circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE. OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. ’Phone: F334*
The Paper that carries.
■lOO% T; of ; local retail
advertising must be
; powerful;. ? V "
\ ", b'j f ...
In New . - ,*
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening ,
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
rixfclusively. "They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
« Wellington’s Only Evening Paper-
For particulars and • rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Read what one ,of New
Zealand's leading advertising
agencies has to say.
“We have recently completed an
analysis of the relative pulling
power of a group of New Zea-
land Newspapers. Of the many
interesting facts which have
emerged from the analysis, the
following is outstanding:—
“ .‘THE DOMINION’ not only
PULLED BETTER than any
other daily newspaper, but it
pulled TWICE: AS .MANY RE-
' 1 PLfES'as any other newspaper
WITH AN EQUAL CIRCU- -
LATION.” ... v
Make certain ;to include ■ -in n ■
your campaign.
Che Dominion
'' NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
r ■ MORNING DAILY.
. . Head Office:
: “The Dominion” Buildings,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J.: HESLEHURST,
17 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W. .
People
with
MONEY
. . are ready t-o buy your goods if
you will take the trouble to tell them
the advantages. Let 6AM help you to
send your sales message to the people
who ■ can afford ‘to buy.
fds
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street.
Perth,
Western Australia.
“ ‘Well, I’m Tom Molloy.’
What! Another one?’ she comes
back.
I’tp the dinkum Tom Molloy. I
bin writing to you from Übinera. I used
to write to Gwen. Bring her ; she knows
me.’
“‘Gwen is in Melbourne. Besides,
she’s not necessary. Mr. Molloy has
been staying here for a month, an' we’re
engaged. When he has settled his affairs
in the north, he is returning. We are to
be married an’ help father in his busi-'
.ness.’
“‘But I tell you I’m Molloy. I 'got'
all your letters an’ your photo.’
! “‘Where?’ she says.
“Cripes, I remembered then I 'adn't
got ’em, an’ didn’t know if-they was. in
me suitcase or back on the station.
“ ‘Any’ow,’ I says, ‘you got a photo,
ol me on a buckjumper that 1 sent
you.’
“She goes inside and brings it out.
This?’ she asks. Cripes, it was in a
dinkum silver frame an’ ‘My Tom’
printed on it.
“ ‘That’s it,’ I says.
“ ‘Why it’s not a bit like you,’ she
answers. ‘Besides, there are only two
of these, and you should ’ave the other.
Have you got it?’
“ ‘No,’ I replies.
“ ‘But Mr. Molloy has,’ she spits bad,
“A big bloke comes out o’ the from
door and strolls up.
“ ‘Here’s someone who knows Tom,
daddy,’ says Ethel.
“ ‘Come in, come irt,’ roars dad. ‘Any
friend of Tom’s is more than welcome,’
an’ he starts to pump me mit.
“I was knocked, though, an’ said I ’ad
to get back to the city, an’ would see ’em
to-morrow. I wanted to think.
«I FINDS a tram, jumps aboard, an’ it
* cost me three bob an’ two ’qprs to
find the Post Office again. ’Owever, I
reaches the pub where I’m staying an’
goes to unpack, an’ the first thing I sees
is Jack Ludlow’s parcel. I opens it, an’
there was all Ethel’s letters an’ ’er photo.
“So ’ere’s Mr. flaming Tom Molloy.
’E pinched me letters and photo, and
then marries me sheilah.
“Next day I goes down again in a
taxi, but they was all out, so I drops the
letters in the letter-box. They’d see who
was Tom Molloy when they come ’ome.
“Then I gets drunk an’ goes broke, an’
whilst still feelin’ sore I sets out fer
Ethel’s—padding it this time. I went to
ask a cop the way, an’ didn’t know
what to ask for except ‘Tiller or Miller
or Pillar street.’
“‘What suburb is it? ’ asked the cop.
“ ‘Oh,’ I said, ‘it’s a ’ouse with a red
roof, verandah an’ a bit of a lawn.’
“ ‘Hell,’ ’e says. ‘You got a job, but
I can’t ’elp.’
“So I give it up, as the publican
wanted me room. I rolls me knot and
eads north. Gets in a goods at Gawler
that night, 'cos a bloke oils me it’s going
to Port Augusta. I unrolls me swag an’
goes to sleep, 'oping to wake up at the
Port. I slept like a drunk, woke at day-
light, an’ found I was at ’Amley Bridge.
I’d done a lousy twenty miles all night.
Owever. what with lorries, a week with
a hawker—a 'Ghan—an' plenty of foot-
slogging, I’m ere.”
“Well,” said Bert, “if you gets a job
’ere, none of the women will; be safe
from a sheek like you.” 1
“Nothin’ that don’t measure up to
city standard’ll do ’im,” cookie put in.
"Did y’ ever think of ’er address?”
asked a “rousie.” . . ..
“Yes,!’ replied poor Tom, “I .got, it
off pat. What’s the use? They’re mar-
ried now, and Johnny Ludlow got my
place in ’er old man's ‘seedan.’
An Echo from the Melbourne Crash of the ’Nineties:-
FRIEND IN
THE CRASH
By GRACE TYERS
T : dreaded moment had come. The
ist load of boots had gone off.;
Mr. Coates stepped from the empty
shop, locked the door and slipped the
key underneath, according to the land-
lord’s instructions.
He had fought and slaved to save his
little business; now it was gone he had
leisure to look about him. He would
follow any street that led citywards.
The afternoon sunshine caressed him
lovingly, but with a mental outlook so
black and bleak he was unconscious of
it. He came by train each day from his
home the other side of the city ; to-day
he would walk the three miles to town
and see at close range how others were
faring. Customers had told him of rows
of empty shops and whole terraces of
deserted houses and broken windows
all around the neighborhood. He
would see for himself.
As he walked thoughts of varied shapes
and colors came tumbling to his brain.
Not all were sepia-splashed. After all.
the crash was not so bad as he had
dreamed. It was not so bad as those by-
gone nights When the twin” imps Dread
and Worry had perched on his bedpost,
and after allowing him to sleep for a
couple of hours had nudged him awake,
to dance and frolic with his overwrought,
brain until dawn. That was a thing of
the past. When one has reached the'
bottom of the hill one has ho further to
roll! ' \
“He that is down need fear no fall,”
he quoted to himself from the Bedford
tinker. .Bunyan also had sounded the
depths of life. '
BUT ~ . . all his cares had not gone
with the business. There, was • that
twenty pounds he must get by the end
of the week, to be honorable. He must
borrow it, but from whom?
Men with short memories had bor-
rowed from him: others had bought,
and not paid. Money which he had
advanced had set men on their feet.
There was Richard Flanpage. He had
once lent Richard a hundred pounds,
free of interest, and Richard now had
a fine tailoring business in the city, with
suburban branches for his sons. Time
and marriage l had separated them.
As youths they had both belonged to
the same Shakspearean Society ; they had
quoted the Bard to each' other to fit
the happenings of every day. Richard
Flanpage! . The name seemed written
indelibly in the sky before him. Would
Richard lend him fifty pounds now,
or merely twenty—even with inter-
est!—to tide him oyer this disaster?
Or would he find himself quoting bit-
terly the words suitable to cap his
friend’s refusal:
: Freeze, freeze, thou hitter sky,
Thou dost not bite so nigh
As benefits forgot.
Richard Flanpage! There it was
again. And then his eyes were opened.
It was there before him in reality.
Among the pile of buildings ahead, one
side wall that soared higher than the rest
bore across its black surface in great
letters of glaring white:
COME TO
RICHARD FLANPAGE
AND BE SUIT-ED.
Mr. Coates waited for one of the new
cable trams to rumble .past; then hfe*
hastened across the road. In a- few
minutes he would know how Time and
Good Luck had affected the spirit- of
Richard, The Shakspearean student’-'hfe
old friend?;. '
i ■, '' 1 ■ ■/.
THE tailbr’s'shop looked clean and cool
* beneath its sheltering verandah. Rolls
of cloth stood upright in the window with
colored illustrations from men’s fashion
journals leaning against them. Just firf-
side the door a life-size cardboard-figure
in morning dress and top-hat stood erect,
its double repeated in a cheval mirror.
Mr. Coates peeped within. No , ofic
was in the shop, but a heap of parcels
ready for delivery on the counter testi-
fied to brisk business. He entered ; ahd
rang the bell. Instantly a,sleek yoking
head appeared from behind a partition
of frosted glass.
“It’s;; Mr. Richard Flanpage, senior, I
want,” began Mr, Coates.
Someone behind the partition, hum-
ming softly, laid down a pen, and with
soft, creaking slippers came forward,
adjusting his spectacles. As his cus-
tomer’s face was in shadow the tailor
walked past him to turn his face to the
light.
“Yes, sir?” he said in expectant greet-
ing.
“Richard! Dick!” stammered Mr.
Coates. “Y-you d-don’t know me?”
“Yes, I do. I seem to know the voice.
Let me see now. But surely it isn’t!
Yes, if is! It’s Artie Coates. My word,
so it is! Give me your hand!” and the
tailor excitedly clasped his old friend’s
trembling hand in both of his. “I’ve
only lately opened this new branch for
one of my boys who can get no work.
It’s not doing too handsome, but I’ll
be glad if it’s brought me back to you.
Where’s your shop? I’ve often won-
dered" -about you and how you were
.doing these hard times. And I’ve envied
yob,'too”’ he rattled on, “for folks can
mend and make their own clothes, but
boots stick ’em. 'They can’t make their
/own,boots. Now,' how are you doing, old
boy?”-- -
Beneath his friend's warmth Mr.
Coates found speech. In all the abandon
df honest despair he - unfolded his sad
story.
'“And to think, meeting you after all
these , years, I want to ask you if you
could lend me twenty pounds (though I
need fifty!). You could save me from
utter ruin,” he concluded.
Richard flanpage still held his
friend’s hand, now he dropped it. His
face sobered, and he tugged at the tape
measure around his neck.
“Ah, I don’t know about that,” he
considered. “You just wait a bit.”
With soft, swift movements he dis-
appeared behind the partition. A drawer
opened, a pen clicked in an inkpot, then
scratched along paper, then there was a
pause during which Mr, Coates won-
dered why he did not run away. But,
no! He must see it out now —see the
effect of Prosperity’s wand on his once-
gencrous friend. What seemed half an
hour to the waiting man was in reality
but a few moments, until Richard re-
appeared, folding a strip of paper.
“Do you remember the old days.
Artie?” he began, with an odd sort of
gleam in his eyes:
“Neither a borrower nor a lender be,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend.
How wisely said by the world-wise old
Polonius!, I would lend few men fifty
pounds, and certainly not to you, Artie,
old boy—for another reason.”
’.. With a drawn smile he pressed the
paper’into the nervous hands.
! “LH give you.fifty pounds. Ah! I’ve
not forgotten, old friend, what you once
.did for. me. < Here! What? Don’t you
dare thank me!- Go on, now! Out
,-ydu go! ” - But he still held the two hands,
now ■ tremulous with humble gratitude.
:as he added:/ ‘.‘And, don’t forget, sonny,
.there’s more where that came from.”


iii
ill
ill
m
«*•
. f
P "«* r ?
M . >/>: I:
%Vv ~>'-I ■:'«
pt?- ; -
S>; ?; ' %
mXA
-
'< i
m
■A
■-y-
-r4 ti‘
?„
•I •> -
' . v
i-
* »«
■
I
ZK
SiSf
Has 'FLU left you with
WEAK KIDNEYS?
T HE ’Plu- epidemic which has been with us this Winter has left
many people suffering with severe Backache. It is the Kidneys
which have been affected, and what is needed to pul them right
again is a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
A few hours after you begin taking Gin Pills the pains in your
back will ease, and will cease altogether in a day or two.
But don’t stop at this —continue taking Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
for at least a week, so as to make certain that the Kidneys have a good
flushing out, and so that any trace of weakness or inflammation will
be remedied.
You will then be secure in the knowledge that your Kidneys have
regained their health, and that Backache, Rheumatism, Stiff, Swollen
Joints, Lumbago or Sciatica will not make your life a misery.
Anyone can take Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills—-their composition is such
that they cannot help hut do you good. They are backed by a reputa-
tion of over 25 years, during which time they have brought thousands
of one-lime sufferers back to health again.
Act at Once
If ’Flu has left you with pains in your back, you will be very
wise if you begin a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills to-day.
27 Pills, 1/9; 60 Pills, 29.
DS SHELDON’S
IN PILL
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ft.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and A'r*>
Zealand should send 30/-.)
How to fight
’FLU and COLDS
Public
Enemy
No.
1
■if-.
With
the
Aid
of
DoijbleD
&ucalijfUu4 fixPiact
Here is a new way a better way
—of fighting ’Flu and Cold germs.
How to PREVENT
'Flu and Colds.
Every morning sprinkle a few
drops of Double “D” on your
handkerchief. Each time you
use your handkerchief you
will then inhale the powerful
antiseptic vapors of Double
**D” which are so destructive
to 'Flu and Cold germs.
Every night sprinkle a few
drops of Double “D” on your
pillow, so that while you sleep
Double “D” will continue its
work of protection.
How to SMASH
'Flu dhd Colds.
1 —TAKE 3 drops of Double
“D” on a lump of sugar.
2- Double “D"
thoroughly into chest and
back
3 INHALE 16 drops of
Double "D” in a jug of
hot water.
Stop in bed, and continue this
three-way Double “D” Euca-
lyptus treatment, and ypu will
smash your ’Flu in record
time. Double “D” is the
purest and strongest Euca-
lyptus sold in Australia,
Every drop of Double “D” Eucalyptus is double
distilled, and is guaranteed to be entirely free from
Phellandrene; to contain over 70 p.c. Eucalyptol
(Cineol), and to conform in every way to tho latest
British Pharmacopoeia standard.
. Luca
FOOTBALLERS! Le t
Double “D” keep your
muscles fit.
Don’t give Public Enemy No. I
a chance.
Buy your bottle of Double “D”
now.
%
9d. Enormous Safes I'3.
X
oV-V”'
.<A e°
,a>' « O'v*
‘,c v «•' ••• •••
**•> * . »»* //•■•;,/>
»V
V, >*
\' 6 ’V
# S *
0*
..
AW
fl* l
.•*


Ask the PUMP-MAN’S
opinion of ... .
[ Guaranteed Ist Grade Petrol
® I
Pric
de
Gra
d
dar
Stan
Jd at
so
Let this authority
tell you why
motorists insist on
Popular Plus*
PLUS
S 3
m
wjl
\
1
Companion, Spirit to C O-R
Benzol Mixture ”
C-O-R QUALITY PETROLS
' A G6'B-P
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT & ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO. LTD.)
MELBOURNE ... - SYDNEY - ADELAIDE ... - BRIS'BANE
