

HU
■
tortt
U«*ii£u»v>v - "
-m
N
--■
j/i«sbbi> .*•'
• 1?I
I is
<*«»<<• oe
* (
. v/w *l* HW*
- * * OUbeyV H.
drlMt* thvofMiht
NWkvrf-i- 6 b*»l|«»
wr.T M Pim’f «,V OZ5*./.;
mother A*
■ ir
?i?.
Hi ,
/; ■ Vj-:’”
; '■'V^
Un/.fj 'ifur Hi**, tto+iyiedy r/ji J*&&*(.&•*. £
l**hvt b'f ***** ot t&r. *&(&..
A'd ui>«{'*4 * ‘ ••». .> W vs*l >; • v V&3#
.COst-lt 06 filhiy • ’•’ ■■'-.i
ijnf «f ft) tre p;** ftqpi+l'j d£u.\:.vM4f*tm9y?
/ :j*J
<* i* oh . ■ •-••
JA» ■.. ;. V * '*’*
.*»■ * o£r<*4vt*\:
Wherever quality and health
are first considerations, Gilbey s
holds pride of place.
For years and years Gilbey’s
Gin has been and still is the
recognised standard by which
all gins are judged.
The knowledge that every drink
of Gilbey’s contributes materially
to your own good health gives
additional zest to its delightful
flavor.
DON’T SAY GIN—SAY GILBEY’S .
■ ■...1......
BY appointment
TO H.M.THE KINO
'M
mkJSi
X
rw
9
The Belletin
Life on the Dole —Read (( Tiburon
Vol. 56.—N0. 2900.
Wednesday, September 11, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The New Library Catalogue for f 93 5 is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free with full terms and particulars on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 George Street, Sydney.
Or Dymoch’s Railway Bookstalls.
andvritmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
pour Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 485 .
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of vhe late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £lOO per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: — • ,
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two_ thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands wih be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accomoany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the' contest. ITie trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize it no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
1837-87
The Victorians
and Their Books
(Robertson and
Mullens; Allen and Unwin ; 18s. 6d.) is
Amy Cruse’s latest contribution to the
literature of a period on which she is an
authority.
There is a fascinating first chapter in
which four early-Victorians of (he upper
middle class are shown improving their
minds. Papa, a jovial character who
confesses unashamedly to having been
an admirer of Byron when young,
Mamma (a strong Evangelical), and their
daughter Caroline are listening to
Edward (“tall, with magnificent dark
whiskers and an intelligent countenance”),
who is reading an instructive article
about a plough from “Chambers’s Jour-
nal.” Caroline, who is engaged to
Edward, has appeared as Amelia, Dora
and dozens more Victorian heroines.
Like most young ladies of her day, she
had been brought up to believe unques-
tioningly in the superiority of the male
and the obligation of the wife to obey her
husband. As she sat on the sofa and
listened to Edward reading, she thought
admiringly how very clever he was to
understand all those long words and diffi-
cult explanations.
Mamma also personifies an enormous
contemporary section: she hates frivol-
ity or vulgarity, loves her home and
family and regards new ideas in science,
social life or politics as infamous. She
would have agreed with the objection to
Pickwick of Lockhart, editor of the
“Quarterly” (“All very well, but low”);
with Gladstone’s complaint against
Nicholas Nickleby (“There is no Church
in the book, and the motives are not
those of religion”); with the laconic
criticism of Tennyson’s friend the Rev.
W. H. Brookfield (“ Dombey viler than
ever”).
Though large, cheerful men like Papa
and Edward were fierce autocrats of the
breakfast-table and all else in their
homes, they were lush sentimentalists.
Daniel O’Connell, the Liberator, who
went to gaol for his political opinions,
happened to buy the November number
of The Old Curipsity Shop, in which
the death of Little Nell appeared.
As he read it his eyes filled with tears,
and he began to sob aloud. “He should
not have killed her! —he should not have
killed her!—she was too good!” he ex-
claimed.
The death of Paul Dombey moved
strong men to tears all over England.
Macready, when he saw Dickens for the
first time after Paul’s death, could not
speak for sobs, and Thackeray was almost
as much affected.
The Victorians and Their Books is far
from being an indictment of the age, but
it does emphasise, with a light irony
which has a singular charm, the social
and moral differences between this and
every other British age. It was in the
reign of Queen Victoria —the spirit and
inspiration of her age —that millions of
Continentals first began to accept as
articles of faith the hypocrisy of middle
and upper class English wives, the sel-
fish and boorish ways of their husbands
and the snobbishness of the race in
general.
Makings of a
Victorian
Douglas Sladen
has written much
in his long life,
and though few,
if any, of his
works have
literary merit, nearly all are well docu-
mented. He writes, as a rule, about
what he has seen or studied carefully.
Meriel Brede — Secretary (Heritage ;
7s. 6d.) in its “Family Herald” plot and
flowery language is supremely Victorian.
Its most interesting feature is the por-
trait of a young man who, when the
story begins in 1890, has just come down
from Oxford. He is with his stepmother,
who has brought him up from childhood
and adores him, but who never lets
herself forget she was his late mother’s
maid.
She is apologetic, fearing he will find
life at home dull after Oxford, but the
kindly youth reassures her. Not that
she knows the excitements of Oxford
at first-hand, never having shamed him
by intruding there. She saw' him play
football for Oxford at Twickenham and
for England in Wales, Scotland and
Ireland, but only from a hiding-place in
the crowd.
Judy, who works at a golf club, falls
in love with him ; so on characteristically
Victorian lines does Phyllida Fortune.
Phyllida meets him at a tea party, asks
him to dinner a few minutes later, men-
tions as they are driving to her house
that she never lets any man but her hus-
band kiss her, and then explains the
position to her husband.
“Barnaby, this is another of my friend-
ships. You can trust your impressionable
wife, who has never let any other man
kiss her since the day she married you
If you think that such an attractive young
man is too dangerous for my peace of
mind I’ll just go slow.”
“And, please, what do you call going
slow, you sweet thing?”
Lady Meriel Brede —lovely, talented, the
daughter of an impoverished peer-—is the
hero’s next love. They are playing
tennis.
After a brief study of his blazer she
began to tap him on the arm with her
fingertips.
“You fraud,” she said. “Why, you’re
an Oxford blue. No wonder that poor
little me didn’t have a look in.”
“Yes. It is a tennis blue,” he confessed,
“but I was only second string, and it was
a very bad year.”
“You dear, modest thing. I shall love
you if you go on like this.”
Where these ladies differ from most
modern females is in their abject sur-
render to masculine dominance. The
hero’s double blue (Mr. Sladen makes
one of his rare slips here; there were no
tennis blues at Oxford in the ’nineties)
is never out of their thoughts. They are
as much concerned over his social posi-
tion as he is himself. He marries poor
Judy, but they keep it dark ; she isn’t
good enough for him. Lady Meriel, at
the behest of her father, accepts a man
who can “clear the family estates.” Hei
wedding day approaches.
The lovers had sat in each other’s arms
all that last day, vowed vows, and relived
memories.
“I shall be your wife in heaven, Jim,”
whispered a sobbing Meriel.
“Indeed, yes, and let us hope that we
shall be allowed to live a friendship here
on earth.”
Judy turns out to be an heiress, dies
in a dogcart smash, and leaves her vast
possessions to the hero. Lady Meriel
has in the meantime divorced her un-
worthy husband. She and the hero
marry, and as the devoted and beautiful
creature faces her master on their Italian
honeymoon she has an inspiration.
“Jim, I am going to buy the villa which
you love best in all Rome, and give it
to you as a wedding present.”
These Victorian heroes accept the
fawning worship of their womenfolk as
a right, and the effects are not always
noticeable in youth. It takes years of
power and adulation to make a true
tyrant. In the novel reviewed below we
see the sort of man Mr. James Sartorius
might have become in old age.
Jehovah
I. Compton
Burnett, author
of A House and
Its Head (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), knows
far more about her period than Mr.
Sladen. He can only see the externals;
notably the more than religious rever-
ence for money, position, everything the
Victorians meant by respectability. Miss
Compton Burnett sees into the hearts of
these artificial beings whose elevated sen-
timents and rounded periods served to con-
ceal so much. Her new novel is a grim
study of family life in the late ’eighties
and afterwards, and the atmosphere of
tragedy is heightened by her astringent,
toneless style.
When Jefferson Hogg first met Shelley’s
father he murmured “Jehovah,” and the
poet thought (he name so apt that, to
quote Maurois, he “gave a wild, demonia-
cal burst of laughter, slipped from his
seat and fell on his back at full length
on the floor.” Mr. Duncan Edgeworth
is another of England’s Jehovahs, He is
66 when the story begins.
He had narrow grey eyes, stiff grey hair
and beard and a stiff, imperious bearing.
His wife was a small, spare, sallow woman,
a few years younger, with large, kind,
prominent eyes, a tong, thin, questioning
nose and a harried, innocent, somehow
fulfilled expression.
It is Christmas Day, the children are
late for breakfast, and poor Mrs. Edge-
worth is trying to ease the situation.
"They won’t be very late on Christmas
Day.”
“Why should they be late on Christmas
Day or any other? What reason would
you suppose?’
Ellen did not say.
“Have you any idea what purpose is
actuating them, the three at once? It
must be something important.”
“Well, the mornings are getting dark.”
“The mornings are getting dark! The
mornings are getting dark! Do you mean
they are so sunk in lethargy and self-indul-
gence that they need a strong light to force
them to raise their heads from the pillows?
Is that what you mean?”
He has his points—a sense of justice,
according to his lights, a resolute will.
He had kept Ellen short of money during
her lifetime, but when she dies he real-
ises his obligations.
“It is the last thing for her. It shall be
done as well as the other things. As it
has been, so it shall be. Thus it was in
her life, and in her death it shall not be
different. Do you not all feel with me?”
He soon remarries. His pretty young
wife has a casual affair almost imme-
diately with his nephew Grant, who is
heir to the entailed estate. Mr. Edge-
worth discovers that his putative son is
Grant’s, but all that really concerns him
is the family reputation. He remains
friendly with Grant, and keeps the child.
This indefatigable family man marries
a third time. Cassie, his wife, is about
to have a child when Grant’s boy is
murdered. Duncan discovers the mur-
derer, and again ail he really worries
about is the scandal. He hushes the
crime up, and addresses the guilty one:
“Then go, poor creature, and in your
future life be human, if you cannot be a
woman. Your traces will be kept, and
further crime will recoil on you.”
A Spiritual
Victorian
The principal
figure in M. J.
Farrell’s Full
House (Collins;
7s. 6d.) is only a
Victorian by right
of birth. The time is the present, and
Olivia is approaching 50. Though
strictly speaking an Edwardian, she is
Mr. Sladen’s Phyllida Fortune in every
respect —but she is seen through the eyes
of an understanding woman. Miss
Farrell knows all about coy, flirtatious
married women who are not as virtuous
as they make out.
When the war began Olivia was pretty
well at the zenith of her beauty and
stupidity and terrifying intensity of feel-
ing. She was but lately married to Sir
Julian Bird. Yet not so lately as to have
retained much interest in him, or, at any
rate, not enough to curb her in much
promiscuous generosity throughout the war
years. She was one of those big-hearted,
unrestrained women who always talked a
great deal about “giving everything.” A
splendid phrase, presupposing a peculiar
form of selfless chastity in the most pas-
sionate of her entanglements.
There is madness in the Bird family; also
in the family of Rupert, whom 19-year-
old Sheena Bird loves. So Sheena won’t
marry him till a solution which would
have horrilied Mr. Sladen is found. Sir
Julian is not Sheena’s father.
The scene, as in Miss Farrell’s other
novels, is an Irish hunting county, but
the young people are different. They
talk Mayfair smut with a dogged per-
sistence which leaves them little time to
be unexpected in the manner of the witty
folk of Mad Puppetstown and Conver-
sation Piece . Evidently fashions in jargon
take even longer to cross the Irish
Channel than they do to reach Australia.
Red Page.
The Rise
of the
Squattocracy
That myopic
albino Robert
Lowe, sometime
of Sydney, who
later became Vis-
count Sherbrooke
and Chancellor of
the Exchequer, coined the term “squalto-
cracy,” But that was in the days when
the squatters had become the greatest
political power in Australia. In the
middle ’thirties, when the term began to
be used in N. S. Wales (it was borrowed
from America, though it originated in
England), a squatter was a person who
preyed upon the settlers, stealing their
cattle and anything else he could lay
hands on, or who manufactured sly grog.
It was not till the ’forties, when practi-
cally all the good grazing country outside
the Nineteen Counties of N. S. Wales
(the only area in which settlement was
recognised) had been, occupied, that the
term acquired its more respectable
meaning.
Colonial Office policy followed the
lines laid down by E. G. Wakefield in
his Art of Colonisation. Settlement was
to be restricted to areas where super-
vision could be exercised. A “sufficient
price” was to be exacted by the Crown
for land and the proceeds devoted to sub-
sidising immigration, so that the posses-
sors of capital should have a non-land-
owning population to work for them. It
didn’t work. Adventurous pioneers
swarmed over the official boundaries in
all directions and “squatted” on (he fer-
tile territory outside. At first they were
ignored by Authority. Then they were
required to pay a license fee of £lO a
year each. Finally they were granted
leases which were as good as freehold,
and Australia was theirs until an enor-
mous ransom had been paid by Govern-
ments desirous of promoting closer settle-
ment.
So much of the history of the Land
Question in Australia is, or should be,
known by every schoolboy. In The
Squatting Age in Australia (Melbourne
Uni. Press; 215.), Dr. S. H. Roberts,
Challis Professor of History at Sydney
Uni., amplifies the story. Incidentally,
Dr. Roberts introduces a new Australian
hero, one who far outshines such of his
(Continued on page 4.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—our policy which knows no deviation.
“THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
'Phone: M 2401, Day and Night.
PITT, GOULBURN AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
9
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
£
The No. 17 Single Wheel Hoe, identical with the
No. 16, except the equipment does not Include
rakes and leaf lifter. Hoes, cultivator teeth and
plough are the finest of their kind made. For
small plants the hoes work both sides of the row
. . . by mounting the wheel on the outside of the
wheel arm (necessary bolt and ferrules supplied
as extra); and can be used between the rows
when the plants get larger.
The cultivator teeth are adjustable in pitch, and
can bo set to do shallow or deep cultivation;
or/and for marking out rows.
The plough will do good work in billing plants,
opening and closing furrows, etc.
Anthony Horderns’ Price .(({/-
No. 16. Anthony Horderns’ Price 4H/(i
A Hill and Drill Seeder and Single Wheel
Hoe combined. For the home or the
small market gardener it is indispensable.
It plants practically every vegetable seed.
Ihe index that regulates the seed output
is accurate; the hopper holds quarts.
Cultivating attachments: Large garden
plough, three steel cultivator teeth, one
pair 6in. hoes, one leaf lifter.
Anthony Horderns’ Price €5/2/6
fa
W
No. 12 is the most popular
Wheel Hoe we make. Similar
to No. 1 I except 4£in. hoes
and rakes are not included.
Any of the extra attachment's
can be added at any time.
The hoes, cultivator teeth and
ploughs are always useful. As
a Double Wheel Hoe, the No.
12 straddles the row until
plants are 20in. high, culti-
vating both sides at once.
Wh ere rows are close, two
rows can be hoed at one time
the row that is straddled,
and one side of each of the
adjoining rows.
Price 67/6
No. 11, Double and Single Wheel Hoe, for the home or
market gardener. The 6in. and 4£in. hoes are the best
weed killers known; the cultivator teeth give thorough
cultivation; ploughs are used for opening and closing
furrows, hilling up plants, etc. As with the Double
Wheel Hoe, the gardener can straddle the row until the
plants are 20in. high, cultivating both sides at one time.
Equipment: Pair of 6in. hoes, pair of hoes, four
steel cultivator teeth, pair of ploughs, one 3-toolh and
two 5-tooth rakes, pair of leaf lifters.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 72/6
sp
is
C
No. 25, Hill and Drill Seeder, Double and
Single Wheel Hoe Combined. THe No. 25
plants all vegetable seeds like the No. 4, but
includes the Double as well as the Single
Wheel Hoe, enabling the gardener to straddle
the rows until the plants are 20in. high, culti-
vating both sides at one time. Equipment
includes a pair of garden ploughs, four steel
cultivating teeth, one pair of 6in. hoes and
leaf lifter.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £5/17/6
“Fire Fly” Garden Plough. Useful for the
gardener, chicken raiser or farmer. Opens a
furrow up to six Inches wide and three inches
deep—deeper by going in the furrow a second
time. Valuable for opening furrows for large
seeds such as potatoes, and for fertiliser, and
for covering them up. It can be used for
cultivating by ploughing away the soil from
the plants, covering the weeds, and then throw-
ing the soil back on the plants after the weeds
have died. The chicken raiser can use this
for ploughing up his chicken run and keeping
the soil sweet.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 25/-
The
Hordernia
Mower
56/-
=>
53
“Hordernia” (Regd.) Five Blades, Ball-bearing Lawn Mowers, fitted Bin.
wheels. Suitable for buffalo grass. A mower that is thoroughly
recommended. Sizes, inches 10 12
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 56/- 59/6 63/6
With I wheels: 12in., 79/6; 14in., 83/6.
RIG.
REG
UNI
TRADE MARK
The best makes of Garden Hose
"Hordura” (Regd.) Trade Mark.
The Highest Quality Hose, made
expressly for us by a leading
rubber company.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, ft.—
iin., 10Jd.; 1/Oi
Per foot, over 20ft.—
£in., 9Jd.; sin., 11 id.
“Uni” (Regd.) Trade Mark.
Black, iin. diameter, 30ft.
lengths. Price 15/-
60ft. lengths. Price 29/6
Sold in 30ft. and 60ft. coils only.
Fittings, 3/- extra.
NEW “BANTAM”
PLOUGH £4/15/-
Made by John Deere & Co. A Strong, Light All-steel One-horse Plough,
designed for use in mixed lands. High beam gives ample clearance.
Cut, 7in.; weight, 641 b. Anthony Horderns’ Price £4/157-
Cut, 9in.; weight, 841 b. Anthony Horderns’ Price £5/157-
Single Standard Landwheels. Price, 12/6 extra. Knife Coulter, 10/6.
Disc Coulter, 36/-.
gd
JOHN DEERE “RED JACKET”
PLOUGHS from £B/7/6 each
A Sturdy All-steel Plough, with mouldboard of hardened, soft-centre
steel and shares of crucible steel. The beam is of special steel with
high curve. Body is one-piece steel, with steel handles.
Cut, inches 9
Weight, pounds 89
Anthony Horderns’ Prices . . £B/7/6
Single Standard Landwheels, 12/6 extra.
Disc Coulter, 36/-.
10 12
94 108
£9 £lO/10/6
Knife Coulter, 10/6.
• Agricultural Implements —Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs
only.
i
Bentall’s famous
Chaff Cutters
Bentall’s C.D.V. Chaff
Cutters. Rising mouth 8*
inches wide, cuts two
lengths, £in. and
Weight, 8 cwt. Capacity
by hand, 8 cwt. per hour.
Capacity by power, 1 2
cwt. per hour.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
£l5/15/-
A sound investment! Chaff
Cutter made by E. H.
Bentall & Co. C.X.B.
Rising Mouth, 7Jin. wide,
cuts two lengths, Jin. and
Jin. Weight, 2 cwt. Write
for further particulars.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
£lO/10/-.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
i a
>iTenm*n;u
gf
The “Bentall” Chaff Cutter,
7 Jin. mouth, cuts Jin. and
Jin. C.P.L. with three
legs.
Anthony Horderns’ Price,
£7/2/6.


Indigestion..
L
*
m
*
o
&
INTESTINES
A
Diagrammatic Sketch of Stomach,
Intestines and Heart.
Is your trouble
HERE Painful distension of the
stomach by gases from fer-
menting food. Excess acidity is the
trouble. Flatulence, heartburn and
palpitation are the symptoms.
HERE Inflamed or ulcerated stomach.
—— The continual action of hot
stomach acids on the lining of a weak
stomach eventually causes painful inflam-
mation (gastritis or dyspepsia), and, in
extreme cases, stomach ulcers.
or HERE Duodenal ulcers. Excess
■ outpouring of stomach
acids attacks the lining of the duodenum.
Agonising gnawing pain is the symptom*.
This pain often disappears directly after
a meal, only to recur with agonising
intensity shortly after.
De Witt's Antacid Powder
has been prepared to
meet the complicated
nature of indigestion
troubles. It acts in a
logical and common-
sense way, and if you
persevere it will even-
tually relieve you of
your trouble entirely.
On entering the stomach De Witt’s Antacid Powder
FIRSTLY neutralises the excess acid and renders it
harmless to the inflamed stomach. The pain ot
flatulence is relieved and there is an immediate feeling
of well-being.
SECONDLY, the Colloidal Kaolin protects the inflam-
mation or ulcers in the stomach from the burning
acids, but allows the ordinary work of digestion to
go on.
THIRDLY, another ingredient actually digests a portion
of your food, taking a further load off the weak
stomach.
Persistent use of De Witt’s Antacid Powder regulates
the system so that you can digest your food, excess
acidity is avoided and your pains vanish for good.
So every day that you put off getting a supply oi
De WITT’S Antacid Powder means another day of
unnecessary suffering for you.
DE WITTS ANTACID POWDER
Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, in sky-
blue Canister —
2/6
contemporaries as William Charles Went-
worth and the brilliant but equally venial
Robert Lowe. The maligned Sir George
Gipps
stood for Crown, colony and the future:
and, though he may have been wrong and
frequently indiscreet, these interests re-
mained throughout in the forefront of his
mind. Viewed from any approach, Gipps
had an integrity and a persistency that
no one in the colony could even remotely
rival... .Brutal in his manner and often
coarse in his characteristics, he was yet too
line to be understood by the Lowes and
Wentworths and McCleays. Unknowingly
he had the soul of a martyr, and he quite
literally gave his life for the fight he had
undertaken.
Gipps stood out to the last against
making what was virtually a free gift of
Australia to the squatters. Crusted old
Tory though he believed himself to be,
he proved, in his own sphere, a better
Liberal and a more enlightened democrat
than Gladstone, under whose brief reign
ai the Colonial Office Lord Stanley’s bill
conferring on the squatters the right to
lease their holdings was confirmed. Gipps
was strongly aware of the evils that lay
engermed in the temporary character of
the squatter’s hold on his land—life in
rough bark shanties, no facilities for
education, very little police protection—■
and he sought to overcome this by a
method that would not in any wholesale
fashion release the Crown’s title to the
land. He proposed that a squatter should
purchase a homestead block of 320 acres
at the Crown’s standard price—£1 per
acre. This would give him a right to
renewal of license on the rest of his run
for eight years. He must then, if he
wanted a renewal, purchase another
320-acre block, and so on each eight
years. It was a mild proposal, but utterly
unacceptable to the squatters, and they
had more influence in Downing-street
than Gipps had. So he left Australia a
detested and broken-spirited man, to die
in retirement within a year.
Dr. Roberts’s book is a mine worth
digging in for those who aspire to write
fiction dealing with the early colonial
days. His pictures of Wentworth, Ben
Boyd Lowe, Bourke, Fitzroy and other
notabilities of the period are merciless
but convincing, and the description he
gives of “the squatting life” as it was in
the beginning is most illuminative.
A. D. W.
On
“Bulletin”
Influence
One would like
to take Henry L.
Hall’s A ustralia
a n d England
(Longmans,
Green, 12s. 6d.),
the thesis for his
London University doctorate of philo-
sophy, more seriously. He is earnest and
well recommended by several professors,
and, judging by the amount of ground
which he has covered, he must have
begun work on his subject at a very early
age.
An avaricious newspaper reader, he
has an immense respect for the printed
word. Particularly for the word of the
“S. M. Herald,” which he regards as a
great formative constitutional influence.
He gives a detailed list of its editors. To
(he Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” which
was more powerful in the years when
the Constitution of the Commonwealth
was being framed, he devotes one line.
The Bulletin, which he frequently
quotes, usually with a sort of horror at
its “savagery,” he describes as having
been “founded by J. F. Archibald;
authorities differ about the date (1879-
1881 being the period).” No authorities in
The Bulletin office differ; the first
issue was published on January 31, 1880.
Archibald’s father was of Irish or
Scotch extraction, while his mother was
French of partly Jewish descent. This
is noted because this paper fulminated
about England being managed by foreigners.
Archibald could scarcely be sneered
at as a foreigner—his father was “a
Peninsular veteran of many a hard fight”
and a keen lover of English literature.
And Archibald was Australian-born and
Australian-educated.
Traill, who invented The Bulletin as
a political paper, is not mentioned, and
Edmond gets a reference as assistant to
Archibald, whose “savagery” was directed
not against Britain, as Mr. Hall seems
to feel, but against the stratum of Vic-
torian cant which overlaid everything in
the generation which followed the found-
ing of the paper. In any case, Archibald
did not concern himself with politics.
The Bulletin is treated throughout as
an Evil Influence.
It really does not matter for our pur-
pose whether The Bulletin meant all
this; the important thing is to consider
the effect of this flood of articles upon the
unthinking public.
How different from the “S. M. Herald,”
which “so well expressed the common
sentiment,” and Mr. L. V. Biggs, of the
“Age,” who seems in his youth to have
been for ever uttering “striking words”!
Mr. Hall deals with Imperial federa-
tion, Imperial unity, the working out of
self-government—which, it appears, was
attained “through outbursts of temper,
with halting steps,” where “a steady, cour-
teous pressure, a due regard for Imperial
responsibilities and susceptibilities... .
would have gone a long way towards
preserving the amenities of official life.”
The fact seems to be that only
emphasis and insistence which was
sometimes a little heated could have
brought the Dominions to their present
status, and the fight would still be going
on were it not for an influence and a
period about which Mr. Hall has little
to say—the Great War. An army of
400,000 Australian soldiers settled once
and for all the question of the Com-
monwealth’s status within the Empire.
And its achievements did more to place
relations with the Imperial authorities on
their present friendly basis than all the
rest of history put together. These days
there are no momentous historic dis-
sensions between London and Canberra.
It is a curious paradox that the only
occasions in the past decade on which
large sections of Australians have con-
cerned themselves immediately with Im-
perial attitudes have been when public
opinion actually became fiercely resentful
in N. S. Wales because an Imperial Gov-
ernor did not use his vice-regal powers
to curb Mr. Lang and when a State Gov-
ernment—that of W.A.—petitioned the
Imperial Parliament to override the Aus-
tralian Constitution and the Australian
electors and grant separation to a State.
IL VECCHIO.
The
Australian
Language
Australia is the
only country in
the world which
has six and a
half millions of
people who talk
in the same way.
and it is a matter for pride rather than
shame; there are over six millions liv-
ing in and around London, but they
don’t talk with identical accents. Every
English county has its own peculiarities
of speech. Every district of France and
Germany and Italy can be identified by
Frenchmen or Germans or Italians. Even
in North America, the Yank whose ear
is attuned to the delicate shades of
speech among his countrymen can pick
the Californian and the Texan, and will
never mistake a man from Chicago for
a New Yorker. The editor of a well-
known magazine who hails from Ken-
tucky was accosted by a stranger in Salt
Lake City. He spoke two words to the
stranger, “Yes” and “No.” That was
enough. The stranger asked, “What part
of Kentucky do you come from?”
1 once entered a shop in Los Angeles,
and said “I want to hire a typewriter.”
The salesman smiled. “Aussie?” he de-
manded. “What part do you come from?”
1 inquired. “Acland-street, St. Kilda, near
the Village Belle Hotel,” was his reply.
State Governments spend a lot of
money sending teachers to England in
order that they may learn to talk like
English teachers. I met a girl who had
acted as one of these linguistic attaches
the other day and found her very proud
of having been faulted in only one point.
She had pronounced “room” as spelt
instead of “rum,” or thereabouts.
This is where those who aim to make
Australians into something they are
not act foolishly. Pronunciation and
accent are two different things. You
may get a 100 per cent. American to say
“rahnd the tahn,” but he doesn’t say it
as an Englishman would. You may gel
an Englishman to say “gahten” instead
of “gotten” and, accurate as he may be
in every vowel sound, he does not say
it like an American. The people who
aim to Anglicise Australian speech may
succeed in making Australians pronounce
every word exactly as the importations
pronounce it—he may say “brate lates”
as the West End of London does or
“broight loights” as the East End does,
but he will deliver each of those mis-
pronounced words in an unmistakable
Aussie accent.
Apart from the futility of trying to
exorcise a national idiosyncrasy there
are reasons why we should be proud of
our accent. The English spoken in Aus-
tralia is better pronounced on the whole
than the English of the south of Eng-
land, which is fairly comprehensible,
and far more so than the dialects of the
Midlands and north. It has evolved
from the people of mixed British an-
cestry who went into the melting-pot
here during the past century, and it has
come to stay, being quite as solidly based
already as the accent of North America.
MONTAGUE GROVER.
A Satchel of Books
Kent Tells the World, which may be
got from the “Kent Messenger” offices,
Maidstone, for Is., praises the royal
family and the Garden of England with
equal gusto. This is a jubilee issue.
A fascinating county, Kent, containing as
it does some of the loveliest and ugliest
spots in England. Canterbury Cathedral
(and, for that matter, almost any of the
old streets of Canterbury) and the build-
ings near Maidstone bridge come in the
first category. There are photographs of
the Canterbury C.G., the cathedral and
Maidstone in this publication. Also vari-
ous other features likely to make any
Kentish man or woman in Australia
homesick.
How to Enter the Film World, by E.
G. Cousins (Allen and Unwin; 25.).
This little book is warmly recommended
by Alexander Korda in an introduction
which points out that, though acting
plays a relatively small part in the making
of a film, 90 p.c. of those who seek em-
ployment in studios are would-be actors
and actresses. Mr. Cousins, an English
journalist who has been writing about
films since the early days of the silents.
is chiefly concerned to save unsuitable
film-aspirants from the bitterness of dis-
appointment. In twenty terse chapters
he stresses the difficulties of making good
in any of the multitudinous activities that
go to the production of a picture. There
are chances, however, for the excep-
tional man or woman —for those whom
“not discouragement nor disappointment,
not stone walls nor iron bars, not rebuffs
nor handicaps, not barb-wire nor bay-
onets can stop”—and he enumerates some
of them.
Lord Robert Cecil arrived in Mel-
bourne on a health trip at the begin-
ning of 1852. He was to become Mar-
quis of Salisbury and Prime Minister of
England, but at the time he was just
another younger son. Lord Robert
Cecil’s Gold Fields Diary (Mclb. Uni-
versity Press ; 4s. 6d.) is, therefore, very
like other travel diaries written by
leisured young Britons. Fragmentary,
inaccurate (many names are misspelt),
arrogant. The MSS. is at Hatfield. The
little book is illustrated with vigorous
drawings of contemporary gold-diggers
by S. T. Gill.
Harriet Maxton, chicftainess of the
forces of villainy in Aceituna and Joy
Griffin’s Motive for Murder (Sampson
Low ; Robertson and Mullens ; 7s. 6d.),
is a thoroughly nasty woman—“ There
was that business of the dog. A puppy.
She lost her temper training it. It was
only a small thing. It died of what she
did to it.” From London the story moves
to a villa in Sicily, taking in all the tour-
ist “spots” along the route. There Har-
riet tries to murder Clarissa. She escapes
to Rome, but “it was tantalising not to
be able to stop and look at churches
and castles and to push on when a won-
derful expanse of coast came into view."
In Romance of Ophir (Orange
“Leader”) W. R. Glasson retells the story
of the first discovery in Australia of
“payable gold.” He tries to discount
the generally accepted version that
E. H. Hargraves deserves the credit
accorded him on the monument of
Ophir, but isn’t convincing. Certainly
Hargraves wasn’t present when William
Tom and Tom Lister found the first con-
siderable quantity of gold (four ounces)
in April, 1851, but Hargraves, who had
had Californian experience in alluvial
goldmining, first recognised that the Ophir
country was of gold-bearing character;
he washed up the first dish containing
color there, and he taught Tom and
Lister what they knew about prospecting.
Mr. Glasson’s narrative, which winds
about hither and thither, repeating the
same facts in chapter after chapter, does
not shake the testimony on which Har-
graves got the credit for the discovery
That he might have shared his reward
with his associates is the most that can
be argued, but to devote 174 pages to
that seems unnecessary.
♦
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
is planning to issue a bright magazine for
Christmas in which the work, of Austra-
lian writers and artists will be well pro-
duced. The editor is Flora Eldershaw.
president of the Fellowship and princi-
pal of the Croydon P.L. College, who in-
vites contributions, all of which will be
paid for at A.J.A. rates. A prize of five
guineas is offered for a cover design. It
is hoped to make the magazine—the
name has yet to be chosen—a produc-
tion which will reflect the best in our
literature and also appeal to the reader.
In its 80-odd pages some of the old
glamor which was Sydney may be
found, side by side with tales and verses
of the open spaces.


THE ABILITY TO SPEAK EFFECTIVELY
MEANS
/tfad&yje,, ste&ctcMJtift. ac/uev&Htettf /
Can ijpu overcome faeat
Mid Aiaqe
m Cam ymAjmk with 1
Mid
U EFF
( / SI
•***
I EFF
\ SP
Cun ijj&ti GkQiic a fwint
WIN?
'fX t'AA*/-
■' EFFECTIVE '
<£SPEEGH J,!
I. I ;
liiigisi
■ ■
THE PRICELESS SECRET
OF A MAGNETIC TALKER
IS NOW OFFERED TO YOU
IN “EFFECTIVE SPEECH.”
Mr. LAWRENCE CAMPBELL, one of Australia’s
leading teachers of elocution, says: . . this new
work is presented on such a sound and natural
basis, is so simple and practical in its teaching, and
is so extensive and complete in the range of its
instruction that it will be a boon to thousands of
men and women who, wishing to develop their
power of self-expression, find it impossible to
receive personal instruction. To these I strongly
recommend the work set out in ‘Effective Speech.’
Follow the simple rules that govern health, body
and breath-control, utterance, power of emphasis,
thought analysis, skill in managing facts, cultiva-
tion of imaginative impulse, readiness of speech,
and the result will be an added charm and dignity
in conversation, and the mastery of a simple,
straightforward, forceful style in influencing your
fellow-men.”
Mr. BRUNTON GIBB, well-known adjudicator,
acclaims “Effective Speech” as “the most practical
and convincing course of self-study that it has been
my pleasure to examine.”
Supplementary Material Free!
With the six volumes of “Effective Speech” you
receive a 64-page book on “Speaking Fundamen-
tals.” It is full of sound advice on self-expression,
public speaking, meetings, delivering addresses and
the use of wit, humour and anecdote. It quotes
interesting examples. You also receive 12 practical
discussions in pamphlet form, together with a letter
of personal instruction about each of the 12 lessons
into which the series is divided, and a form of self-
examination for each lesson. The discussions tell
you exactly how to apply what you have just learnt.
The self-examination forms make it easy to check
your progress and guard against omissions. On
every point, “Effective Speech” gives full and
easily understood instruction.
o
LU
U_
LL
Ul
SPEECH
WILL HELP YOU TO
GREATER SUCCESS
GREATER HAPPINESS
Rich rewards await the man
who can talk well. He stands
out. He attracts the attention
of the leaders in all spheres.
Under all circumstances . . ,
in business dealings, in selling,
in social and’ public life . . .
the man who speaks with ease
and fluency stands most chance
of getting what he wants. And
rarely has the spoken word
been of greater value than it
is to-day.
Make yourself master of Effec-
tive Speech by studying the six
books illustrated here. Mental
training, development of per-
sonality, public speaking . . .
all are included in the most
concise and practical home-
study course of its kind.
<Jj \\OWl emmcudum
ymb Jmeck ?
S&oci it GET YOU
WHAT YOU WANT 7
This Is What You Learn:
How to Think More Clearly How to Concentrate. Overcoming Fear in
Speaking. Five Simple Rules to Overcome Fear. Methods of Preparing
and Delivering a Speech. Speaking Extemporaneously. Combinations of
Various Methods. How to Present and Accept a Gift. How to Accept an
Office. How to Make an Announcement. The Purpose of a Speech. How
to Respond at a Dinner. How to Make People Laugh. The Use of Stories.
How to Secure a Pleasing Voice. How to Secure Resonance. Correct
Pronunciation —Articulation. Speech Melody. The Parts of a Speech: The
Introduction—the Discussion—the Conclusion. How to Control an Audience
"A Few Appropriate Remarks”—ln Opening a Meeting—ln Introducing a
Speaker: A Speech of Welcome. How to Respond to Such Remarks, etc., etc.
df
Six volumes, 5| x 1\ inches, bound in
flexible, dark-red, Morocco-grained artcraft.
This is a real opportunity to develop personality. For the
first time you can secure a complete, concise and self-
contained course in public speaking, prepared by a leading
university professor and an outstanding figure in the business
and financial world . . . successful men both.
SEND THIS FORM AND SECURE YOUR SET
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the six-volnme coarse, “EFFECTIVE SPEECH,” with book on
“Speaking I nndamentals” and 12 practical discussions in pamphlet form. I
a -JL rB * Payment of 5/- ami agree to make five further monthly payment*
of 10/-. The price for cash within 30 days is £2/10/-.
NAME OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS ,
“Bulletin.’' 11/8/’3o.


s
6
&
a*
tr A
2
d
m
<*■ 4
tf '
■ «
LI
m
■t:
Y*
Kt’
;
W f
\m t f
r i
-i *** j
* +
i at r&\
**+
LJA
-
Gr ?at Western
lit
W^,
T
\
V*.


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2900.
September 11, 1935.
AN UNALTERABLE DECISION.
“The Anglican Archbishop of York, Dr. Temple, in a broadcast address, said: ‘If the effectiveness of the League Covenant demands the employment of armed forces, we
should be prepared to use them. There is nothing unchristian in that.’”
“And what will your Grace do when the blood starts flowing?”
"My Christian duty, young man. It is my inflexible determination to watch and pray.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Netvspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London ; T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and imer-State cheques.)
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS : 12 months, £1 JOs.,'
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
NO EDUCATION RATE.
The bleak hostility of an overtaxed people has forced
the Stevens Government to drop its plan for introducing
education rates as well as taxes. A stupider proposal
has seldom emanated from a Sydney Government.
Control of technical education was to be divided
and placed under “district councils” in Sydney and
Newcastle, and under the department everywhere
else. The “district councils” —they are called “local-
government councils” now —were “to finance the
purchase of land, the erection of buildings and the
acquisition of equipment,” and for these purposes, in
contempt of Loan Council restrictions, they were to
have power to borrow. Administrative expenditure
they were to get out of the land which the munici-
palities rate and the Commonwealth Government
taxes —they were to begin (and it was alleged that
they would end) by taking “one-sixteenth of a penny
in the £ of unimproved capital value.”
This cool proposal for another impost was
launched when the Taxpayers’ Association was taking
up the cudgels for Sydney and Newcastle landowners
indebted to existing local bodies for rates. On this
account, it said, £1,085,000 was owing to Sydney
suburban municipalities, £720,790 to country munici-
palities and £792,400 to shires ; in addition, £255,600
was outstanding in respect of the Water Board, and the
City Council had also been unable to collect in many
cases, though, for some inscrutable reason, it preferred
not to disclose the amount. These representations
moved the Minister of Local Government to ask the
councils not to charge interest on rate-arrears ; they
tartly replied that they could not waive the interest
without breaking the law. Meanwhile, it was
announced that the Government was considering
proposals for bringing sellers and buyers of house
property together with the idea of restoring (doubt-
less with Government grants, though this point was
not stressed) lost equities to mortgagors who must
owe at least 90 p.c. of the unpaid rates. At the same
time it had to reckon with a general outcry against
the plague of taxes. Commonwealth and State, and
with a growing demand for reduction, in which the
Sydney “Sun” and the “Australian Worker” joined.
It was clearly no time for inventing another
exaction. Making a virtue of necessity, the Govern-
ment abandoned the education rate, and intimated
that “other financial proposals” were “under con-
sideration.” The rating notion was borrowed from
England by Education Minister Drummond, and he
seems to feel his position keenly. According to Mr.
Drummond, “a bold and effective policy must be
adopted if the community and industry are to find’
in the technical colleges an effective aid to the absorp-
tion of youth and efficiency of personnel” —so they
don’t supply the “effective aid” now —and “a means
of providing sufficient funds must be devised.”
On behalf of the Government he [Mr. Drummond]
had outlined such a scheme. It was up to those who
disagreed to bring forward a workable and effective
alternative.
The Bulletin has already suggested “a work-
able and effective alternative” —transfer of the
Education Department 'to the Commonwealth, and
of the income tax, too. Year after year there is
only a few pounds’ difference between the income-
tax yield and the education expenditure, so the change
would involve no financial problem. There would
indeed be a substantial saving in cost of adminis-
tration, especially if the other States followed suit,
and five political Ministers and, their personal
attendants and superfluous taxgatherers were dispensed
with. The Commonwealth is not short of money for
technical training or any other branch of education,
nor is it likely to be reduced to striking a school
rate. It would tend to broaden the minds and increase
the opportunities of pupils and teachers alike if
education were made national, with a far greater
measure of decentralisation than exists now. when
everything has to be referred to the Big City.
MILLIONS MORE FOR WOOL.
The 1935-36 season for wool opened auspiciously.
The general quality is not all that it might be: western
N. S. Wales wools are a bit dustier than they were
last year, and Queensland supplies show the effects
of drought. The year’s clip is estimated at
2,930,000 bales —about 267,000 bales down. The
normal carry-over of about 200,000 bales has been
reduced to 85,000 bales. Compared with last year,
about 300,000 fewer bales may be offered, but the
discrepancy will be made up in price.
S. Africa will have 14 p.c. more wool to sell;
but, generally speaking, world supplies will be lighter
in proportion to the demand. Stocks of tops on the
Continent a month ago were 25 p.c. smaller than
at the same period last year. The decline affects
all countries. Tops prices, especially for finer counts,
have risen steadily. For the counts which Australia
grows best —from 60’s upwards—values range from
25 to 33 p.c. higher than in February. Japan, our
second-best customer—for certain classes of wool it
may this year be the best customer —began the season
with a 35 p.c. deficiency in raw-wool supplies on
hand. And the carry-over in U.S.A., which since
the depression has almost retired from the Australian
market, has been eaten up. British stocks have been
rising, but are lower than a year ago ; Bradford tops
exports in June, 1935, were 40 p.c. over the total
of June, 1934.
When the Sydney auctions opened, the position
was not long in making itself felt. The market was
more crowded than it has been for years. There was
little crossbred or comeback wool at the first sales,
but there was a tense fight among buyers for the types
suitable for Japan.
Prices, which had risen at the June sales, again
soared—to a point averaging about 25 p.c. above thu
opening rates last year. They were about Id. per
pound all round better than the 1933 opening price,
and double the 6.5 d. average with which 1932 began.
Japan was the driving force. Japanese buyers
will take at least 50 p.c. of the fleeces offered at the
first sale; Continental countries will take another
25 to 30 p.c. Though Bradford and the local mills
have been in the market, the former have not yet
begun their serious work. When they do begin, greasy
supplies may go an average of 17d. instead of 13d.
There seems to be no doubt that values and com-
petition will both increase throughout the present
half-year till they reach a point when weight of prices
will slow down demand after the major countries
have secured the staple of their early needs. At the
worst, Australia is assured of £45,000,000 for its
wool —£4,000,000 better than last year’s return ; at
the best, the clip may realise £55,000,000.
The rise will have a substantial effect on the
trade balance, which.sagged unpleasantly last year,
and should have reactions in politics. The big increase
at the 1933-34 sales was the turning-point towards
recovery ; with £56,000,000 paid for wool that year
as against £38,000,000 in 1932-33, Commonwealth
tax-revenue alone exceeded the estimate by £5,000,000.
The increased inflow of money, therefore, should give
Dr. Earle Page a splendid opportunity to urge on his
colleagues the £20,000,000 tax-reduction scheme which
he fathered two years ago, but which he now seems
to have forgotten.
The improvement in wool prices this year will
have more effect generally than the 1933 rise, because
in that year sheep were low in price, and wool carried
the burden alone. Sheep this year are worth nearly
double the average of the years 1930-33.
The ability of the woolgrowing industry to stand
on its own legs in the face of a heavy drought in
Queensland and northern N. S. Wales and of oppres-
sive taxation, at its worst in Queensland, should drive
home another lesson. Three Ministers of Commerce
arc now setting out to bureaucratise Australian
marketing. The splendid showing of this industry
demonstrates that the meddling of these gentlemen
is not needed. It is our greatest industry, and it is
entirely free from political control; the only privilege
woolgrowers get from Governments is the privilege
of being let alone.
Woo! is normally saleable to the limit of the
clip, even if not always profitable. It helps to carry
the burdens of other industries which have sough,
help from politicians, and arc all the worse for it.
The salvation of these industries lies, not in spoon-
feeding and “orderly” marketing and inflation of
prices in the home market, but in doing what the
woolgrowers are doing—producing qualities which
other countries cannot produce in quantities to
meet a normal market. In that and in reduction of
taxes (together with excessive service charges and
rents) which keep mortgage interest up and press so
unfairly on all industry.
SLUMS AND CITY-PLANNING.
Recent references to the existence of slums in
Australian cities have moved many good people to
declare that “something will have to be done.” It
has been, revealed that there are, slums in the Federal
Capital itself, though only a few years ago Canberra
was open country, carrying nothing but gum-trees.
The truth is that slums —that is to say, built areas
unfit for human occupation —have existed in Australia
from the days of the first settlement.
To-day, the various authorities are floundering
in an endeavor to wipe out some of the worst features
of Australian slum life —cottages without bath-
rooms, terraces with dark dungeons for back rooms,
dwellings with neither water supply nor sewerage
facilities. On top of actual unfitness comes the evil
of overcrowding—six people sleeping in a bedroom
10 feet square; families who sleep, eat, bath and
cook in one room. But this is largely a matter of
poverty; even a dwelling erected in strict accordance
with every modern principle may be overcrowded it
the tenants cannot afford anything better. Then, as
one Melbourne doctor points out, there are slums
which are not dwellings —offices wherein there is little
ventilation and less light, noisome apartments in
old city blocks cheaply let to people struggling in
unprofitable businesses.
In the eleventh-hour repentance of these authori-
ties there is a danger that little will be done
to relieve the real position, and that the little may
result in huge waste. Slum-clearance, the erection
of new homes for workers and the necessary remodel-
ling of the cities are all so closely associated that the
whole reform should be regarded as one and placed
in competent hands. Any politician can inspect an
area, mark it off in red on a map and order a hundred
men to pull down the offending dwellings. Any
politician can pass the plans for new and satisfactory-
buildings to be re-erected on the vacant site. Such
procedure would unquestionably relieve our cities
from the worst of the slum evils, but it might involve
them in unnecessary cost, and possibly render it
necessary to do the work all over again.
Melbourne has no need to depend upon such
shortsighted benevolence. A few years ago it appointed
a town-planning commission, and, though it allotted
for the work a sum quite ridiculous compared with
the results demanded, it picked the right men. Their
planning was so dexterously accomplished that it is
possible to do the job in sections without affecting
the general scheme.
A body comprising architects, surveyors and
medical men should be appointed to study those
plans, modify them and amplify them where
necessary and begin by removing the worst blots on
the city. Legislative power should then be taken to
ensure (he widening of certain streets. Sidney Mycr
performed a public-spirited act when he built back
his premises in Little BoUrke-street about ten feet;
but east and west of Myer’s buildings still project
to restrict the thoroughfare to its original width. The
City Council should have power to sec that every
other building in this block is kept in line with the
fagade of Mycr’s. It is not suggested the land be
confiscated —the owners are entitled to be paid a fair
price for it—but they should not be permitted to
complicate the future by erecting any more big build-
ings on the old line.
What should be done in respect to one block of
Little Bourke-strcet should be done wherever the new
Town-planning Commission decides that an alteration
of the building line is essential for the efficient work-
ing of the city. There arc a hundred spots around
the southern metropolis where alterations arc needed,
and, in the case of street intersections, motor traffic
has rendered it essential to safety that there should
be no more right-angle corners. Every new corner
building erected in areas carrying heavy traffic should
have a chamfered corner to promote public safety.
YET ANOTHER ROYAL COMMISSION.
“Nationallsation of banking” has long ceased to
interest the mass of electors. While Mr. Lang remains
on the scene they will never take it seriously; they
know too well what happened when his Government
Savings Bank closed its doors and deposits were sold
at 10s. 6d. in the £ —to moneylenders who tucked
the profits away in the trading banks which it was
beyond his power to smash. At the last Common-
wealth election they refused to be moved by the Lang
radio tragedies, in which villainous bankers shook
the loudspeakers as they evicted the starving widow.
Only the Prime Minister’s withers were wrung—by
the injustice of these attacks.
Mr. Lyons said that to accuse the banks of
having withheld help from the nation was “indecent.”
Had it not been for these financial institutions wc
would have been faced with the collapse of everything
worth while The banks were the sheet-anchor of this
country during the depression. They saved us from
collapse and absolute failure, and it is within the
knowledge of Mr. Scullin that what I say is a fact.
While American banks crashed in dozens, Aus-
tralian banks —the N. S. Wales Government Savings
Bank excepted —had stood up to every stress.
“Commonsense,” he cried, “commands that you
shall not kick away the ladder and bring
toppling down our splendid edifice of credit";
to “disintegrate this banking structure, the product
of experience and necessity, would be sheer
madness.” Then, after the fashion of politicians, he
weakened. There were people who demanded an
inquiry into the working of the banking system ; if
the Parliament to be elected wanted one, an inquiry
there should be.
Mr. Lyons has not been allowed to forget the
promise. Mr. Scullin reminded him of it when the
House met. Melbourne “Age” keeps harping on the
subjecL U.A.P. men and C.P. men, notably Mr.
McCall, the young gentleman from Martin, and Mr.
McEwen, the not-so-very-old gentleman from Echuca,
join in. The last motion to be debated when the
House rose last April was Mr. McEwen’s motion
for a royal commission on banking. Strangely enough,
the most pertinent objection came from Mr. F. M.
Forde, Mr. Scullin’s deputy and probable successor.
A royal commission might investigate for two years,
spend in the vicinity of £15,000 and merely white-
wash the banking institutions.
So it might; but newchum members and querulous
newspapers must be placated. So it is expected at
Canberra that Cabinet will shortly discuss the appoint-
ment for a royal commission.
Sir Osborne Smith, managing governor of the
Imperial Bank of India and governor of the
Reserve Bank, is mentioned as the probable chair-
man. He is an Australian by birth, and was
on the Commonwealth Bank staff, so he won t
reaily need to spend a couple of years examining bores
to acquire information about Australian banking,
though he will find it difficult to keep their verbosity
within bounds. Mr. Lennon Raws, whose interests
are chemical rather than financial, is named as one
of his colleagues. The other is likely to be Mr
Warren Kerr, commissioner of the Victorian Savings
Bank—presumably one of the institutions that would
be under fire. Excellent men, no doubt; but if the>
were all supermen their report wouldn’t satisfy the
cranks, narks and greenhorns who are clamoring to:
more thousands to be taken from the public purse
and shot down the royal-commission sink.
If cranks, narks and greenhorns must be humoreu
with an inquiry that can lead nowhere, let a Senate
committee take it on without extra cost. Senators
have heaps of time on their hands.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Not So Grave.
Some sort of war between Italy and Abyssinia is still
probable, though not now certain; but the possibility
of the British Empire being dragged in has receded.
The prompt refusal of the London and Washing-
ton Governments to countenance the 75-year conces-
sion granted to the Englishman Rickett, who, it seems,
was backed by American capital, contributed to the
easing of the situation. The leisurely League pro-
cedure, which admitted of the parties to the quarrel
blowing off steam without hurting anybody, also
helped. Each availed itself of the privilege, and then
retired, temporarily exhausted but well pleased, while
the other had its turn. The watching world cannot
be wholly a prey to anxiety when it notes that the
appearance of one delegation is the signal for the
other to strut out of the room, even while a “concilia-
tion committee” has been accepted by both.
There have been other serio-comic features.
Much fatuous pro-Abyssinian propaganda has
appeared in British journals like the “News-
Chronicle,” especially about the habits of the saintly
Haile Silassie ; but the abyss of inanity was plumbed
when a black infant, son of the Abyssinian Minister
to London, was put up to say, at a rally of the Nile
Society, held at the Hyde Park Hotel, that “the
naughty Italian wants to kill my people, take our
country and make us his slaves, because he is greedy
and not a good Christian.”
Dear ladies and gentlemen, please stop him being
so cruel, but if you won’t stop him please give us guns
and we will fight him.
Almost as idiotic, though far more dangerous,
was a British Trade-union Congress resolution
demanding the imposition of “sanctions” on Italy,
“one of the greatest bullies in Europe,” as a duty
owed by British trade-unionism “to the colored races
of the world,” and also because, by defending Abys-
sinia, it would be defending Russia. This pernicious
nonsense was uttered by Sir Walter Citrine, the T.U.C.
general secretary. It shows how necessary it is for the
Dominions to determine their own course of action
when participation in a League war is seriously
proposed, instead of allowing British writing and
talking men, half-baked idealists who don’t care two
straws for the Dominions, to do it for them.
Premier Forgan Smith and Mr. Forde have
spoken wisely on this subject; Mr. Lang with charac-
teristic unwisdom. “The last war,” Mr. Lang bel-
lowed, “was a war of plunder, just as this war will
be a war of plunder—in the scramble for markets
Britain must be there.” These are merely the inven-
tions of a stunted and envenomed mind.
4 :
Reds in the Canehelds.
While a world conference of sugar men is meeting
in Queensland, canefield workers are giving White
Australia the worst kind of advertisement under
leadership of the kind that engineered the shipping
strike a few weeks ago, and the timber and transport
strikes before the depression.
In the Mourilyan district at the end of July, agi-
tators arranged for tools to be downed on 150 farms
because farmers would not burn their cane as a
precaution against Weil’s disease. Burning of cane
reduces sugar content and robs the farmer of green
roughage, a valued fertiliser. The men lose by it
a minute proportion of their wages, but gain in
leisure.
The farmers refused to burn, and the strike was
on, the A.W.U. notwithstanding. A.W.U. officials
are at a disadvantage in handling the Mediterranean
gangs who form a large—often the largest—propor-
tion of cane-cutters, and who can be appealed to only
in Italian.
The Industrial Court was assured by doctor-
witnesses that burning of cane was no protection
against Weil’s disease. The Court found accordingly.
But the strike expanded till it took in all the richest
of the far-north districts, embracing five mills and
2500 men. At Babinda the men en masse have refused
to strike ; at Hambledon and other centres A.W.U.
officials have been asked to resign.
The A.W.U. secretary pronounces it a Com-
munist strike —asserts that the Communist party held
a conference at which plans were made to take
control of the sugar industry and to destroy the
A.W.U. from within. The union has made public
a “confidential” pamphlet, alleged to have been issued
by the Communist party;
Comrades will understand that, by dividing the
A.W.U., its power and influence will be weakened,
if not entirely destroyed. The task of capturing
the various smaller unions that will be created in its
place will be comparatively easy. An essential line
will be to develop the struggle on any question which
may be popular. So as to develop this line successfully,
work must be carried on inside the A.W.U.
The “Workers’ Weekly” pronounces the docu-
ment a “forgery.” Forgery or not, the thing is con-
sistent with Moscow instructions, which form the
constitution of the Communist party.
In every industrial centre the party should take the
lead in larger or smaller economic fights and... .unmask
the opportunist leaders.
Premier Forgan Smith and his followers, especi-
ally Mr. Pease, the deputy-Premier, whose electorate
is the centre of the shindy, looked on in moody
silence till the farmers began to organise to cut and
mill their own cane. Then 40 out of 47 gangs at
Hambledon which wished to work were given police
protection, and an Order-in-Council was passed to
fine those who “use undue influence” in strike
ballots or preach resistance to Court decrees or
counsel a strike —acts for which the common or
industrial law already provides punishment. But
political Labor leaders shrink from resorting to
drastic measures: they know by experience that seats
can be lost and popularity sadly tarnished in northern
industrial brawls.
4_—
“How Much Can You Give?”
On the word of a Postal Department potentate, tele-
phone subscribers in N. S. Wales are “increasing at
the rate of 1000 a month,” and the gentleman exulted
greatly. He had nothing to say about the policy
of meanness which his department applies to the kind
of customer who most needs a telephone.
A Central Queensland district which includes
three towns, Jundah, Stonehenge and Windorah,
applied for direct-line communication with Long-
reach, the C.Q. capital and main rail centre. The
convenience would serve settlers in an area of
10,000 miles which normally carries 25,000 cattle
and 1,000,000 sheep, and the outlay asked for was
£12,000. The request was duly noted, and a super-
intendent and two technical men were sent to the
district “to inquire what assistance the residents could
give in the way of labor, cartage, material and cash
contributions.” They can give none until times
improve ; their part of the country has been drought-
stricken.
The chairman of the Longreach Shire Council
told the visitors he was astounded at this attitude
on the part of a Commonwealth concern whose
political bosses have distributed millions among the
States for the making of sewers and suburban cactus
gardens. He reminded them that the proposed line
was “an important link in one of Australia’s most
vital pastoral areas.” But these representations left
them unmoved. When last heard of they were still
going round with the hat among hard-hit graziers
and storekeepers.
Yet their department reports that its last annual
profit was £1,733,000.
. 4
A Visitor from Ceylon.
A physician from Ceylon who has come to Australia
to attend the B.M.A. Congress in Melbourne told a
reporter that when at Fremantle he was asked by
some Customs man whether he had a return ticket, as
evidence of intention to leave the country when he
had completed his business in it. Minister Paterson
denies it; he says instructions were given that persons
visiting the Commonwealth for the congress were
not to be subjected to Immigration Act restrictions,
and that no question about return tickets had been
asked by “any Customs officer.” Still, it is difficult
to believe that the visitor imagined the whole thing.
Perhaps the incident will prompt the Minister
to improve his knowledge of Ceylon. The recent
history of that country would repay study by Aus-
tralian politicians and officials. Within the last year
Ceylon was visited by a fearful epidemic of malaria,
with which its medical and nursing bodies, English
and native-born, struggled heroically and successfully.
At the same time there was a crop failure in parts
of the island.
If the finances had been mismanaged, the two
scourges would have left them demoralised, but they
have been so well looked after that, though the
Government had to announce a small deficit, it was
not obliged to borrow it after the fashion of Aus-
tralian States. It simply financed the thing out of
its accumulated surplus, having begun the financial
year 27,000,000 rupees to the good.
Budgeting for 1935-36, the Government provided
for increased expenditure on the medical establish-
ment and on assistance to farmers, and for the sacri-
fice of revenue by the abandonment of death duties—
death duties, it explained, did not suit Ceylon condi-
tions. It nevertheless anticipated resumption of the
annual surplus. The public debt amounted to
189.000. rupees, and against this 77,000,000 rupees
was held in the sinking fund. Because the difference,
112.000. rupees, was only a trifle more than a
year’s revenue, Ceylon could now borrow on the
London market at 3 p.c.—that is, if it wanted to
borrow.
Clearly, Ceylon is no mean country, and Aus-
tralians will be sorry if the visitor goes back with a
grievance.
4
Reduction of Members.
From an old State politician;
Judging by the Governor’s speech, the first step to
reduce State members of Parliament seems about to eventuate
in S. Aus.; but to what extent camouflage enters into the
business has yet to be ascertained. The S. Aus. Assembly in
1924 actually passed a bill for a reduction from 46 to 35.
The present proposal is for a reduction of “six to eight”
members.
If S. Aus. does set the pace for reduction of members,
and the example is followed by the other States, it will live
up to its old reputation for having a sound electoral history.
Australia is absurdly overgoverned; with a population of
6,630,600, it supports 616 members at an annual cost of
£909,630. But reduction should be accompanied by abolition
of gerrymandering, and the changes proposed are so slight as
to be almost negligible. The present Assembly districts date
back to 1913, and the anomalies existing are the worst in the
British Dominions. In the metropolitan area 192,728 voters
return 15 members, a quota of 12,848 per member, whilst
148,808 voters in country districts return 31 members, a quota
u ot b er words, country districts have two and a
half times the representation of the metropolitan area.
The Leg. Council position is, if anything, worse. Although
there is a uniform property qualification, the Midland and
Northern districts have twice the representation of
Central No. 1 and Central No. 2. The farce is so marked
and the Council so unrepresentative that at the last election
all the retiring members except two were elected unopposed.
What a contrast between the Commonwealth electoral
system and that of the State! Federal elections are based
on manhood and womanhood suffrage, with almost equal
districts, adjusted from time to time to population movements.
4
Government in New Guinea.
Rabaul’s Legislative Council put up records in its
fifth session, the business portion of which was shoved
through in one short sitting day. Although it has
an ornate chamber to meet in, and prints “Hansard”
on an imposing scale, it is pleasing to learn that “no
ceremonial was observed” at the opening.
In the first hour, laws relating to birth-and-death
registration, cemeteries, celebration of marriages, legal
appeals, appropriations for a few months and some
other small matters were tossed off. By lunch-time
13 new enactments had been approved of, and the
Treasurer had presented the estimates and announced
an accumulated surplus of £46,000. So it was possible
to take things easily in the afternoon in dealing with
the remaining 12 ordinances up for consideration.
All the bills were presented by officials, who
form the majority of the Council; but an hour or
so was reserved at a second day’s sitting to allow
the taxpayer-representatives to have their say. They
had nothing to bring forward except a motion which
the President said lay “outside the province of New
Guinea administration.” They have learned from
experience that it is useless to initiate business.
If legislation can be disposed of at the rate of
about 10 minutes per bill, it seems an expensive
waste of time to take private honorables from their
plantations and offices to do little more than have
their names recorded in “Hansard” after those of a
list of public servants whose wages they pay.
Government enterprise has not done much 1 for
this territory. Before the gold days, when the main
industry was expropriation and most of the planta-
tions were under official control, the place was a
dilapidation and a muddle which justly earned the
scorn of visitors. It became self-supporting only with
the entry of private enterprise, which finds most of
the £200,000 in taxation, plus another £170,000 in
rentals, fees and payments for services. Private enter-
prise discovered the goldfields, and made (heir
working possible by the development of aerial services.
Private enterprise built up the New Guinea trade
from £1,670,000 —imports and exports—in 1925-26 to
£2,700,000 in 1933-34—this in spite of the depression,
of the low price of copra and of steadily increasing
taxes, which are to be mitigated for the first time
by the removal of about £20,000 in native-labor tax.
Gold production will make New Guinea revenues
highly buoyant within the next year or two. If there
is to be local government, it should be responsible
government. And while a system is being framed
there might be a Federation of Papua, the Mandated
Territory and the Solomons. It is absurd that three
sets of official heads with three Councils should have
to be maintained for adjacent territories with so
much in common.
“Sixpence a Mile.”
“D.E.”: There is a lesson to be learned from the
reduction of charges in the Sydney taxi-cab business,
which reduction has obviously come to stay.
In the “good times” the taxi-man’s rule was
apparently to exact as much as the fare would stand.
The regulation tariff was Is. flag-fall and Is. 6d, a
mile. Companies coming in brought the mileage rate
down a bit, but when depression fell on the country
Is. 6d. a mile was still being charged in many cases,
Is. being bedrock.
The public could not pay these prices, and the
business went to the bow-wows. Then one of the
smaller companies, while retaining the Is.-flagfall
charge, cut the mileage rale to 9d. Competitors
predicted that it would not be able to carry on for
more than a few weeks, and its drivers had to run
the gauntlet of fiercer remarks. But the concern kept
going, and was soon getting so much of the trade
that, with rivals, it became a case of cut or bust.
They decided to cut, and one morning Sydney woke
up to find scores of cars adorned with stickers offer-
ing to tote it round for 6d. a mile. The innovators
gloomily announced that they had been forced into
it, and it positively could not last.
But it has lasted. For upwards of a year whole
fleets of cars have been carrying people for 6d. a mile,
and it is now the exception to find a city driver
charging more. In distant suburbs Manly, for
instance —the Is. fare persisted for some months ; 6d.
has now arrived even there. And at least one of the
concerns with a sixpenny tariff is contemplating intro-
ducing “Sydney prices” in other cities where pre-
depression rates have lingered, to the great dissatis-
faction of the public, which is naturally reflected in
the state of the business. Above all. Yellow Cabs,
which have come down to 6d. in Sydney, have paid
their first dividend since 1929.
This taxi-cab experience deserves to be considered
along with the almost sensational success of chain-
stores. In both cases, perhaps, there are features not
wholly satisfactory to a community that has been
educated up to high-wage standards, but it is beyond
me to argue against a success. And the chances are
that more important industries would benefit more by
giving the public goods and services at prices within
its purse than by inflating them by means of boards,
pools, bounties, home-consumption prices and other
devices dear to politicians and organised minorities.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Light Horse”: The cable that a
number of British soldiers in India have
been handed over to the civil
authorities to face charges of
murder and rioting will recall
to Anzac M.D. men the Sura-
fend affair in Palestine. In that
case, as in the Indian one, the
(rouble was by way of reprisal
for attacks on troops —at Sura-
fend a sleeping M.L. sergeant was
murdered by a robber, who was
traced over the sand, wet with
night dew, to the Bedouin vil-
lage. In each case the native
village was picketed and sus-
pects relentlessly dealt with,
some being killed. But the
Maorilanders took precautions.
They enlisted the aid of the two
Australian brigades, and the
matter was handled on mass-
production lines. Even Allenby
couldn’t crime a whole divi-
sion ; he had to deal with the
situation in the only way left
him—an exhibition of ground and lofty
cursing, the like of which has never been
heard in the Holy Land since the days
of the Hebrew prophets.
* * * *
“W.E.F.”: It happened in a Sydney
street along which the City Council is
putting down new electric mains. A
bricklayer who had been building a pit
for two or three days popped his head
out of the cavity and shouted to a pass-
ing postman, “Any letters for me?”
“You?” queried the postman. “Yes,”
was the reply, “I’m expecting one from
a cobber at Dubbo. Told him to address
it to Bill Blank, Electricity Department
pit, outside Dash’s Store, George-street,
Sydney.”
* * * *
“Sailor”; Military uniforms are
seldom copied, much less pirated, by
civilians, but we sailors have had to
stand our watch cap being worn by any-
one, from motor-launch coxswains to
Boy Scouts. Not content with pinching
our cap amateur yachtsmen unblushingly
sport the crown-and-anchor badge. The
other day I watched a harbor-going
motor cruiser pass the ferry on which I
was travelling—every man had a badged
watch cap and two gorgeously clad young
sheiks flaunted braid and brass buttons.
Those calm-water mariners should take
a hint from the world’s leading amateur
yachtsman. Never yet have I seen a
photograph of King George in a peaked
cap, unless, of course, he is engaged in
official naval duties.
V ¥
“Oxmead”: The remuneration received
by members of Parliament, it seems, isn’t
“wages,” whatever else it may be —a
judicial ruling to that effect has just been
given in Sydney. The case came before
the Court on a curious point. In a
separation agreement a boilermaker’s
laborer on £3 12s. a week undertook to
pay his wife one-third of his earnings.
Then distinction suddenly descended
upon him ; an enlightened constituency
sent him to the Assembly to make laws,
and naturally he had to quit making
boilers. The wife sued for arrears on the
ground that she was entitled to a third of
his Parliamentary allowance, but his
Honor, after consulting dictionaries and
the Constitution Act, decided that a Par-
liamentarian’s screw was not “weekly-
wages,” the term used in the separation
agreement. The lady, it was admitted, had
been receiving more than the amount
originally stipulated for since the im-
provement in her husband’s fortunes;
but that was a voluntary arrangement
and she couldn’t claim it as a right.
♦ * * *
“Miro”: Nose-biting (B. 4/9/’35), is
it? A sedate M.L. town had an instance
of it which is still spoken of with shud-
ders. A young woman jilted the man
she was to marry in a fortnight and
announced her engagement to a swain
with more money. She refused to return
the presents, the ring or the furniture No.
1 had bought, and only relented a little
when the discarded humbly asked for one
farewell kiss. His concentrated revenge
took the form of a bile which removed
the entire tip of Ihc inconstant one’s
nose, after which the favored suitor, dis-
liking the lady’s appearance, removed
himself and his money. The biter re-
ceived, in addition to the nasal trophy,
a severe sentence for assault, and the
young woman sold the furniture, etc.,
to finance an expensive course of
plastic surgery.
“Excuse me, sir, but your wife has ’phoned to remind you to bring home
a bunch of turnips for the stew."
“U.Q.”: A Melbourne woman, anxious
about her husband’s health, or, at any
rate, irritated at his constant complaints
about her cooking, went to a Collins-
slrcet medico who specialises in dietetics
and who had previously examined the
sufferer. “Tell him,” the medico said,
“that he can eat whatever he likes.”
Hurrying home she confronted her hus-
band with a triumphant expression. “The
doctor says,” she remarked, “that you
can eat whatever I like.” A psycho-
analyst would be able to interpret this
story.
* * * *
“Collingwood Bay”: That Papuan
yarn of tailed men (B. 4/9/’35) was
started by Brown Brother himself. When
Kowald, one of MacGregor’s lieutenants,
opened up the Upper Kumusi country he
was told he would encounter the tailed
men. So he did, but the tails were two
long plaits of hair sewed with sinnet and
pandanus leaf until they reached to the
buttocks. The tales of tailed men were
heard right up to the German boundary.
The nearest proof ever offered me was a
ring of deepish holes in a circle in the
middle of a deserted village. These, it
was suggested, were used for accommo-
dating the tails when the owners sat down
at a board meeting, but the simple ex-
planation was that they were made by
sticking the party’s spears upright in the
ground during the confab. Right there I
formed an opinion of the Papuan which
I have always found to be correct—that
he is the easiest and most fluent liar in
the world.
♦ * * ♦
“Ex-P.8.1.”: The A.I.F, can still teach
its lessons to those who wish to learn.
The foundation stones of the Coogee-
Randwick Memorial Hall were recently
set by Charles Rosenthal and the Mayor
of Randwick. The inscription on the
stone laid by the former read: “This
stone was laid by a soldier, 31st
August, 1935.” One only has to look
round to see dozens of other foundation
stones inscribed: “This stone was laid
by the Hon. I. A. M. Deadhead, M.L.A.,"
etc. Rosenthal, one of the nation's most
distinguished generals, is content to be
just “a soldier.”
* * * *
"Dartle”: I have just been reading in
an Australian daily a column article on
“The Art of Leg-pulling” by a univer-
sity professor who mixes the gay with the
grave almost as happily as Stephen Lea-
cock in his Canadian eyrie. But the only
thing I wanted to know about leg-pulling
—the origin of the quaint phrase—found
no place in his sprightly disquisition,
though surely Walter Murdoch, Pro-
fessor of English, should have some
theory on the subject. Is it Australian
slang or Cockney? And what is the
metaphor or simile behind it? I have
heard a dozen explanations but never a
convincing one. To me its origin remains
as cryptic as that of “getting the wind
up.”
♦ * * *
“Nikko”; Some years ago when there
was one of the periodic outbursts over
undesirables who frequent Maoriland
public parks by night, an enterprising
young journalist, a recent arrival in
the city, hit upon the idea of
posing as a just-out-of-gaol and getting
.
first-hand life stories from genuine
criminals. He spent a week or two on
the job, and secured a pile of copy. His
chief interest centred in a youthful law-
breaker whose tales of nefarious experi-
ences kept the reporter’s imagination over-
worked in an effort to match them. The
day before the first instalment of his
budget was to appear, a reptile contem-
porary came out with a sensational story
of ex-cnminals in retreat in public
domains, and the chagrined journalist
read the story of his own hectic career,
as invented by himself to draw the youth
who was likewise drawing him. The
crowning blow was a paragraph in which
the rival rag Stated that he seemed to
“still have a few shreds of derenrv left”
sun nave a rew snreas of decency lett
and ottered to open a subscription to start
him in “some respectable business.”
* * * *
“Tarhris” • Ballarat has been a n»arp
jaenns , Ballarat has been a peace
ful place for many years, so its placidity
was disturbed when it read that two men
—Henry Stokes and Joseph Mulligan—
had hr*pn nn a rharop rrm
had been arrested on a charge of con-
spiring to rob the local branch of the
Commonwealth Bank when it was the
repository of something like £lOO.OOO.
A , ,i , • i • i • ,t .
At the trial evidence was given that
Stokes had offered a police constable
£5OOO if he could get another (with a
promise of £10,000) to “stand near the
footpath at the bank while they got the
gear in.” The constable reported the
matter, and “received certain instruc-
tions.” On an April night, two men were
seen to force a window at the bank and
open a door, but they drove away when
constables approached. Stokes, giving
evidence on his own behalf, said that a
policeman friend had told him there was
a bank at Ballarat with £90,000 in it, and
had suggested that he (Stokes) should get
“a man to come up and do it.” He never
had any intention of “doing it” ; he was
“suspicious some joke would be put on
him.” Mulligan’s defence was an alibi.
The Judge told the jury “there was deli-
berate falsehood somewhere in the case,
and it was for them to decide where.”
They found Stokes guilty, and he was
remanded for sentence; Mulligan was
acquitted.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“R.M.”: The Westralian criminal code,
“upwards of 30 years old,” which “D.E.”
claims as the most advanced in Australia
(B. 4/9/’35), is practically a copy of
Samuel Griffith’s Queensland C.C. This
code was in operation years sooner, and
makes the same gradations between the
various forms of killing from “wilful
murder” to “manslaughter.” It was the
first Dominion code, by the way, to distin-
guish between “wilful” and plain murder.
The old Common Law gave only murder
or manslaughter to choose from. The
Queensland code is easily the best piece
of work ever put up by many-sided
“Slippery Sam.”
* # * ♦
“Horologuc”: Don’t know about
stem-winding watches (B. 4/9/’35), but
self-winders date back long before
Nelson. One Carritire, an obscure Paris
jeweller, made the first, a tiny thing set
in a ring. It had a small knob on the
side and the watch was rewound by pull-
ing this down with the fingernail and re-
leasing. The inventor presented this to
the Pompadour with the remark that
she would find it as easy to twist round
her finger as the King and Court of
France. Naturally patronage, wealth
and honor flowed in on him, and he put
up another record for a Court favorite
of (hose days by dying of old age.
“Nerbudda”: A Holly-
wood education has its
drawbacks. Some news-
hound on a Sydney tabloid
recounted how a “wolf
cub,” after seeing the
“Drake” film, cried “Gee,
what a great Akela he
would make.” That was
right enough, but the Holly-
wood graduate went on to
explain that “an akela"
was the wolf cub’s jungle
name for a scoutmaster, a
being doubtless endowed in
the child mind with the
qualities of a Tarzan. Actu-
ally, of course, Akela was
the wise old leader of the
Seeonee wolf pack in Kip-
ling’s classic Jungle Book,
and therefore the model for
all ambitious cubs. It seems
hard on Kipling to associate
one of his masterpieces with
the preposterous Tarzan.
“Ex-Sahib”: Why should the “white
shell jacket,” with cummerbund in place
of waistcoat, be considered cooler than
the ordinary dinner or dress jacket (B.
4/9/’35)? As a matter of fact, nothing
could be cooler than the present form of
evening dress. I never knew of anyone
in India who wore the white variety of
jacket unless he was in the army or
police, and then it was part of the hot-
weather uniform. A cummerbund is, in
any circumstances, a most uncomfortable
thing, and in really hot weather it is
almost unbearable.
* ♦ * ♦
“Pannikin Boss” on the discoverer of
Broken Hill:
Looking through Broken Hill Prop.'s jubilee
souvenir, I found many pictures of officials and
staff groups, but none of Charles Rasp; all
he got was a few lines.
Rasp was a German, destined for the army,
but medical examination found he had a
weak spot on one of his lungs, and he was
advised to go to a warm climate.
He came to S. Aus., and got a job as a
boundary-rider on Mt. Gipps. He was a
studious man, and after the day’s work he used
to read Gordon’s Prospectors’ Manual. Out
on the run one day he came across what he
thought was a solid mass of oxide of tin.
He told his story the same night to George
McCulloch, the station manager. McCulloch
was always opposed to prospecting by strangers
on the property; he complained that thev
used too much precious water and disturbed
the sheep.
He listened to Rasp, however, and was suffi-
ciently impressed to suggest that a syndicate
be formed, adding that he would finance it.
The original seven were McCulloch, Rasp.
Philip Charley, David James, Lind, Urquharl
and James Poole.
Rasp used to tell his friends that he was
after tin originally; he added the word silver
as an afterthought.
His remains lie in the North-road Cemeterv-
near Adelaide. The tombstone bears the in-
scription: “In memory of Charles Rasp, J r.,
discoverer of the Broken Hill Silver Mines,
N.S.W., who died May 22, 1907. Erected by
his loving widow.” In relief are realistic
sprays of Sturt-pea flowers and leaves.
THE MUSICAL-COMEDY SMILE.
“lii the Sydney Eisteddfod, said the principal
adjudicator, there was far too much of the ‘musical-
comedy smile,’ especially among: children, who were
taught all sorts of tricks to win prizes.”
There’s a lure in the parting of lips
That shows you, behind and beneath,
A glimpse of the reddest of tips
Of tongues and the whitest of teeth.
But, coming from Katie or Keith,
As they patter their pieces in style,
It’s merely a bid for a wreath,
The musical-comedy smile.
It isn’t the artless affair.
The sign one is gladsome and gay,
That juvenile visages wear
When their owners arc really at play.
It's a studied and stereotyped way,
Intended to witch and to wile,
A point that’s expected to pay,
The musical-comedy smile.
It doesn’t suggest that they know
They're bound to amuse and delight
With the stuff they engagingly throw
Off their chests when they sing or recite.
There’s another significance, quite:
It’s purely a gesture of guile,
A trick, if you read it aright,
The musical-comedy smile.
There’s always attractiveness in
the product of jest or of quip,
Ihc heartily-amiablc grin
Or the flutter of Lalage’s lip.
But this shoddy theatrical tip
Employed at eisteddfods will rile;
It merely gives judges (he pip,
I hc musical-comedy smile.
Oh, laughter’s a stay and a staff
Of which we arc most of us fond ;
And the more, within reason, you laugh
The quicker the world will respond.
But the smile meretriciously donned
I or bagging the bacon is vile,
And, had I a magic-man’s wand,
I’d banish to back o’ beyond
Ihc musical-comedy smile.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Cordon”: Those folk who have been
telling tales about the Abyssinians eat-
ing raw meat must climb down. It has
been disclosed that the Emperor’s Swiss
chef has been given a long holiday.
People who keep chefs don’t cat raw
meat.
* * # ' #
“Delva”: It is hard to credit “M.G.’s"
explanation that the difficulty of finding
a portrait of John Batman (B. 28/8/’35)
arose from a facial disfigurement which
made him sensitive on the subject. Bon-
wick describes him as “a handsome man
and a favorite, with the ladies.” William
Paul Dowling, who lived in Hobart in the
fifties, made a sketch of Batman, show-
ing a fine-looking, strong-featured man.
with no trace of any facial injury. Among
the store of recollections left by Batman’s
contemporaries during the few years
when he was playing his part (with
Fawkner) in founding Melbourne, there
is no hint of a disfigured nose. Had he
lost the “greater part of it” surely it
would have occasioned some comment.
* * .f.
“O’Caollaig”: The confiscation of a
shanty on wheels by the Lismore (N.S.W.)
P.M. (B. 28/8/’35) reminds me that
there is a similar clause in the Queens-
land Liquor Act providing for the “for-
feiture and sale of such liquor, vessels
and utensils, and any vehicle, truck,
boat, vessel, horse or other animal used
in carrying same.” I remember a case
in a N.Q. mining town where the P.M.
ordered the forfeiture of a quantity of
liquor, together with the defendant’s sulky
and horse. The owner demanded his
harness. The beak, after consulting
authorities, decided that, as the harness
was neither part of the vehicle nor of
the animal, he had no option but to order
its return. The horse and sulky were
thereupon disposed of minus the harness,
and were bought on behalf of the owner
for 25 bob.
* * * *
“Biltong”: The resentment caused in
Japan by a cartoon in an American paper
depicting the Emperor pulling a jin-
ricksha is understandable enough, car-
tooning being a form of humor that was
in the beginning purely European—it
began there fully 300 years ago.
Outside nations have yet to be educated
up to it. When Johannesburg was in its
lusty youth, Cape Colony and Natal
were both negotiating for railway con-
cessions from President Kruger, and
Oom Paul, after his usual fashion, was
playing off one against the other. A
Johannesburg paper smartly sized up the
situation by representing Kruger being
besieged by two overdressed and smirking
females, each desperately anxious to give
him the glad eye and the acquiescent
hand. Some of the Boers made quite a
fuss about the work of art; the bitter-
est of all was not the President himself
but Frau Kruger, who insisted on re-
garding it as a slur upon her husband’s
conjugal fidelity. She could never be
brought to understand why the paper
wasn’t suppressed and the artist gaoled.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Doubtless Australian flowers
have bloomed on the banks of the Tweed
from seeds washed into the river when
wool was scoured (B. 28/8/’35), but
they may have got there in other
ways, too. A century ago England
had an interest in Australian flowers
which seems to have waned with
the years. In 1840 one David Bunce,
“collecting botanist,” of Melbourne,
advertised his readiness to sell packets of
seeds, “accompanied by preserved speci-
mens of each plant in blossom and
botanically arranged,” for citizens to
send to their friends in England. They
were on sale at a Collins-street chemist’s ;
and Bunce seems to have found business
good, although his packets cost from two
guineas upwards. In my own boyhood
it was quite the thing to send pressed
native flowers to friends in England ; as
the pressing was indifferent, seeds may
have got overseas in a whole condition.
When I visited England as a kid an uncle
had many Australian plants growing. He
was, of course, an amateur collector.
* * * *
“Lungtungpen”: The Haig diaries and
the articles built on them, now seeing the
light in the dailies, don’t make altogether
pleasant reading. Though loyal enough
to his chief, French, while French’s term
lasted, Haig evidently had a poor opinion
of his predecessor’s military abilities.
H. G. Wells, in his Outline of History,
blames all the military heads alike, in-
cluding Haig, for the innate conservatism
that caused them to resist all new ideas
and inventions. The use of tanks, it is
suggested (and perhaps widely accepted
nowadays), would have ended the war in
1916, or 1917 at latest; but military pre-
judices had to be overcome, and it was
a lengthy business. Wells contends that
all the great commanders of history have
been young men with receptive minds,
such as Alexander and Napoleon, or
rugged leaders of barbarian hosts who
CINDERELLA: "None of that, smariy—it Was a shoe I lost.”
never heard of textbooks, or “amateur”
soldiers, like Cromwell and Washington.
The Admiralty, he points out, was
far more ready to scrap outworn tradi-
tions and assimilate new ideas and de-
vices for attack and defence in the Great
War than the sister service.
* * * *
“Poshteen”: It may be that the
“Asiatic hawkers” of the old days (B.
4/9/’35) after organised taking down of
their too-affluent brethren forgave and
forgot all wrongs before sailing for
home, and “became as brothers.” In
my time most of those hawkers were
Ghilzais from Afghanistan, gentlemen
with no more capacity for forgiving real
or fancied wrongs than a hungry dingo.
No doubt the fear of British law kept
them quiet till the Afghan border was
crossed. After that I will wager that an
entirely new set of blood feuds, greatly
helped by excellent rifles smuggled from
Australia, got a flying start.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“W.E.F.”: Even the poets whose wares
are most saleable sometimes find it neces-
sary to earn a crust in other avenues of
industry. Take Arthur Bayldon. Arthur,
besides smiting the lyre in his adopted
country (he came from England), has
been private secretary, swagman, rouse-
about, phrenologist, editor of a comic
monthly, school-teacher, insurance agent,
picture-dealer, book-canvasser, tea-travel-
ler, directory-compiler, lecturer on
Buddhism and Irish affairs, clothes-
hawker and professional swimmer. Con-
cerning his swimming activities, I
treasure a 35-year-old announcement re-
garding one of his public perfor-
mances at Armidale (N.S.W.). Under
mayoral patronage and with a brass
band in attendance, Arthur promised
"feats never before exhibited by
any other champion.” Among the ten
listed were: “Swimming under water with
hands and feet strapped,” floating “in
3ft. of fresh water for 15min. without
movement,” “swimming feet first under
water,” “swimming backwards with feet
and one hand above water, the body
submerged,” and, for the finale, “a sen-
sational dive of 35ft.” Byron and Swin-
burne, for all their love of the sea, never
gave a display like that.
* * « ♦
“Likell”: I don’t know which country
originated the “Unknown Soldier” idea
(B. 28/8/’35), but there is a passage in
Thucydides, which seems to throw some
light on it:
In the same winter the Athenians held
the first public funeral of those who had
fallen in the war. The ceremony is as
follows. The bones of the dead....on
the third day arc laid in 10 coffins of
cypress wood, one for each tribe, every
man’s bones in the coffin of his tribe:
these are put on carriages and driven to
the grave. One empty coffin covered with
a winding sheet is also borne for the
missing whose bodies were not recovered
for burning.
May this not have been the germ of the
idea?
“Diggairc”: The idea of making a
tomb over an “Unknown Soldier” is
very old. A memorial of this kind has
. .. . . 1A c
come to light some 11 miles west ol
Newcastle (Eng.) on the line ol the old
oman wall. is a Roman altar m a
good state of preservation, with its in-
scnpt.on still sharp and clear after all
the centuries. It was dedicated by a dc-
tachment of the F.rsl Cohort of the Ver-
dulh. The altar was discovered about
tour years ago.
* , „ ltl . *
Buckshce ; Juggins (B. 21/8/ 35)
rightly condemns these expensive trips
overseas by Ministers. Labor started the
habit; Andy Fisher went to an Imperial
Conference with such an array ol
secretaries, typists, attendants, publicity
man, luggage master, etc., that his trip
across Europe caused amused comment.
Pearce, an ex-Labonte, established what
was then the record in expenditure of this
kind when, following his attendance as
a mere onlooker at the Washington Con-
ference after the Great War, accounts
totalling £9OOO were presented. One
M.H.R. had the temerity to challenge
the amount, but it was passed by the
Cabinet. In the early days of Federation
Deakm went to London on important
business which cost the country less than
£3OO. George Reid and other Ministers
regularly hopped on the cable trams cl
Melbourne for a twopenny ride.
* * * *
“Gael”: That Australian High Court
decision which pronounced Gaelic a dead
or dying language “within the meaning
of the Immigration Act” continues to be
challenged, in the latest instance by
Donald Robertson, a recognised authority
on the lingo, who has just arrived in
Australia. He is secretary of the
London Gaelic Club, at the meetings of
which no other language is spoken. It
is taught in the Highland schools, and
100,000 people in Scotland talk it habitu-
ally. Many Canadian communities speak
Gaelic only, and there is a Gaelic-speak-
ing settlement even in the heart of Pata-
gonia.
* * * *
"Mid-Sussex”: 1 wonder if "Whanga-
momona (B. 21/8/’35) in his investiga-
tions into the homemade tipples of
M.L. ever came across primrose wine.
This is an old English beverage, and a
remarkably palatable one. Only the
difficulty of gathering enough petals pre-
vents it from becoming more widely
known.
* * * «
“Exdig”: Pouching these youthful
Diggers (B. 28/8/’35), 1 know of one
barely-16-year-old boy, named Baker,
who was killed in France at the end
of 1917, shortly after his arrival. Of
course, he had successfully concealed his
real age. Actually the youngest Digger,
although not a duly enlisted one, was
John Llewellyn Pugh, who was with an
A.I.F. unit in France at the age of 13. He
smuggled on board a transport in Aus-
tralia, was adopted by a British A.S.C.
unit in Egypt as a mascot and went to
France with it. There he attached him-
self (as a mascot again) to an A.I.F. lot.
He was supplied with a uniform and put
on ration strength, but the boys had to
throw in a few francs for his pocket
money. He actually look part in some
hops-over. Later he had service in
Mespot. as a Tommy.
“Garrick, A. 8.”: The ranks of
(he windjammers are thinning
fast. There will be only 18
remaining in the Australian
grain tracks now that the Grace
Harwar, the last full-rigger left
afloat, has been sent to the
breaking-up yard, and (he bar-
quentine Mozart has been
scrapped. Like her sister ship
Beethoven, the Mozart was
built in Germany some 35 years
ago, being originally designed
for the Chilean nitrate trade.
The Beethoven was losi
with all hands somewhere be-
tween Newcastle and the
Chilean coast just before the
war, and the Mozart nearly met
a similar fate when she ran into
dirty weather near (he Horn and
her skipper tried to double
Cape Stiff by dead reckoning :
only the fact that the vessel was
fore-and-aft rigged saved her.
Last February, standing on the
Kirton Point jetty, Port Lincoln
(S.A.), I watched the little
Mozart, her sails glowing red in
the sunset light, beating out of
the harbor entrance against a
stiff easterly, and wondered if I’d ever
see her again. Now I know 1 won’t.
41 * * ♦
“Inquiry Clerk”: The people who
pester the Sydney G.P.O. inquiry clerk
(B. 4/9/’35) have nothing on the odd lot
that drift into newspaper offices. Here are
a few I had to deal with one morning:
An unshaven individual who had invented
a helicopter, another deadbeat who
wanted his fare to Bulli, a derelict with
a complaint about the insects in a city
doss-house, an Italian who couldn’t speak
English and who presented a note which
nobody could read, a deaf old man
smelling of pinkie whose mission was
impossible to ascertain, a red-faced lady
with a persecution mania, three book
canvassers, two typewriter salesmen, a
Douglas Crediter, a cow-farmer who
wanted the title of a verse about a bogged
bullock team, two-anxious mothers (one
with a daughter who wrote fairy stories,
the other with a son who could draw),
an assorted stream of amateur writers,
sundry publicity hounds, a lady selling
“art-union” tickets, and a policeman with
a summons. It wasn’t for me.
* * * *
“Cluan”: Touching the use of “like”
(R.P. 28/8/’35). 1 know an elderly lady,
a great advocate of Australian litera-
ture and a competent critic of it,
who finds it impossible to forgive Vance
Palmer because in several of his
novels, especially in The Passage, he
commits this grammatical error. Her
later school years. were directed by an
old-time pedant who was “a tiger for
grammar” and had a passion for exam-
inations in “full parsing.” “Like” was
a favorite test word, and an error in
parsing it drove him to frenzy. “Take
out your Morell’s Grammar!” he would
roar. “Turn to page ; read the foot-
note. Now, all together! Louder!
Louder! ” And the old man would ramp
up and down before the class, rhythmi-
cally banging his cane, while the scholars
bawled in unison: “ ‘Like’ is never a
conjunction; ‘like’ is never a con-
junction.” Such are the accidents that
influence literary criticism.
JAY-WALKERS.
“Sydney traffic police complain that many women
disdainfully toss their heads when reminded that
they are jay-walking.”
You girls who feel the springtime call
Of hats and frocks in drapers’ shops,
Be warned in time lest worse befall!
You mustn’t-toss your heads at cops.
They have their feelings, same as you,
The chaps who wait at various stops,
The estimable men in blue.
They’ve got to see their mission through.
You mustn’t toss your heads at cops
However much you’d like to do.
Serene they stand upon their beats
To see that no pedestrian pops
Across the swirl of surging streets
By zigzag ways or paths oblique.
You mustn’t toss your heads at cops
When words of mild reproof they speak.
That haughty gesture of disdain,
lhat outward sign of inward pique
Conveyed by elevated “tops”
May get you haled before the beak.
You mustn’t toss your heads at cops:
lake timely warning and refrain.
rhey’re Law’s upholders, keep in mind,
And Order’s buttresses and props.
Each has his daily job assigned
And power to get transgressors fined :
You mustn't .toss your heads at cops.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


FACTORY-FRESH
when you open the packing
The patented wrapper of moisture-proof “Cellophane” seals-in the
natural moisture and keeps-out every factor that might be harmful to
fine smoking condition. That is why it is impossible to buy a
“shop-stale” or “flatty” Craven “A”—10 for 9 d- and 20 for 1/6
m
w
m
m
M
HIB2OM/A
Made specially to prevent sore throats
POLITICAL POINTS
The League Council meeting has pro-
duced one priceless jest. While the Rus-
sian representative was packing, his bag
for Geneva the U.S.A., Britain, Japan
and other countries protested against the
continuance of Communist propaganda
which the Reds had vowed to abandon,
and against the terms of a resolution
passed by, the Communist Internationale
at Moscow:
Workers, present a united front through-
out the world to prevent the forthcoming
Imperialist war. If war breaks out, turn
the Imperialist war into a civil war against
. its Fascist perpetrators, with the aim of.
destroying capitalism. *_
Then Mr. Litvinoff surged up at the
Council meeting and “described the
Italian statement as an invitation to
members to repudiate their international
obligations,” to which Russia,, of course,
would be faithful. Yet nobody burst out
laughing.
On the motion of its secretary, “Sir”
Walter Citrine, the ,British Trade-union
Congress has vqled for the imposition
of “sanctions” on Italy ; and “sanctipns,’.’
as S’Walter says, “involve all the possi-
bilities of war’':
Nevertheless, the duty of this Congress
to the colored peoples of the world is to
prevent a defenceless country from being
butchered by' one of the greatest bullies
in Europe. Now is the time to defend
Russia by defending Abyssinia!
Australia has another'conception of its
duty. It won’t be dragged into a war
on Italy “to defend Russia by defending
Abyssinia,” to conciliate “the colored
peoples of the world,” or to oblige
S’Walter or any other prating imbecile.
Lyons.is handing over the Treasury to
tne’ faithful Casey, and, unless Parlia-
ment frustrates the plan, will be Prime
Minister without portfolio. Deakin was
that for 11 months (1909-10), but he had
only nine colleagues (Joseph has 13),
and as he had a great capacity for work
his overseership was really exacting.
Every other Prime Minister has adminis*
tered another department, and Scullin
looked after two.
Casey deserves promotion, but' Aus-
tralia doesn’t deserve to be bled for an-
other Ministerial salary. Rather is it
entitled be relieved of the burden of
some Ministerial salaries by the transfer
of things like Education—now supporting
six Ministers and personal staffs—from
provincial to national control. In the
beginning it was written that until Par-
liament otherwise provided “the Minis-
ters of State” (honoraries are not Minis-
ters of State) “shall not exceed seven in
number.” Then Parliament provided
they might exceed seven but must not
exceed nine. Now there are to be 10.
Page was a happy man when “Cabinet
approved of the reorganisation of the
Dairy Produce Export Control Board
and also of the creation of a board to
control the export of citrqs fruits.” Set-
ting up of boards is Page’s favorite
recreation—-his substitute for shooting;
“It’s a fine day; let’s, appoint a board.”
“The influence of the Country party at
Canberra is detrimental to your welfare,
and you must organise for the next Fed-
eral fight in order to destroy it.” Beasley,
M.H.R., said that the other day. In
Sydney, not in Melbourne, where his
friends Tunnecliffe and Cain and their
State Labor party are keeping a C.P.
Ministry in office.
Almost every Senator who supports
the Ministry (and there are only three who
don’t) has been named as a candidate
for President. It is one of the cushiest
jobs in the Commonwealth: £1628 p.a.
“net,” with quarters and heaps of holi-
days. Since the general election a year
ago, the Senate has had 19 sittings ; in
the Parliament elected on December 19,
1931, it had 115.
Canada expects to sell 50 million
bushels of wheat to the U.-S.A. this year.
That country had a great wheat surplus,
but got rid of it, chiefly by restricting
production—paying the cockies not to
grow wheat, even to destroy part of their
crops. Nature has avenged itself on the
Government responsible for this mani-
acal policy.
Launceston “Examiner” reports that
Premier Ogilvic “has his eye on Can-
berra,” and encourages him to keep it
focused in, that direction:
Tasmanians will not be surprised—and
neither, .we think, will Mr. Ogilvic—if they
awake one day to read that he is leading
the (Federal] Labor party.
Mainlanders will be vastly surprised. No
party with a national appeal could afford
to put a provincialist with secesh lean-
ings at its head.
The area under wheat is down 137,000
acres in S.A. ; but the area under barley
has increased 85,500 acres to 420,000
aefes. This is an effect of the agreement
to take some window glass from Belgium.
“The N.S.W. Cabinet has adopted the general principle that within the next two
years all Crown employees over 60 years of age shall be called upon to retire.”
“But, Mr. Stevens, your President of the Legislative Council is 64, and Mr. Ryan,
the Upper House Minister, is over 70, and Mr. Buttenshaw is in his 60th
year; and politicians are ‘Crown employees’ when salaries go up.”
“Not in this instance, gentlemen; not in this instance.”
And the lifting of the embargo has not
hurt the one Australian co. in the busi-
ness ; it paid a 13 p.c. dividend in its
latest year and its £1 shares have gone
from round £3 to £4 ss.
A Great Daily panegyrist of the late
Sid Kidman asserts that he “improved
more waste land than any other man in
Australia.” Perhaps he did, and prob-
ably he put more improved land out of
production than any other man in Aus-
tralia. Tenacious as he was, and admir-
able in many respects, Kidman’s bent
for locking up huge leases and letting
improvements,go to jDot drew bitter pro-
tests, a series of which appeared in The
Bulletin headed “The Kidman Blight.”
He was moved to write a defence, but it
wasn’t convincing!
Stevens has dropped his idea (or
Drummond’s) of setting up “district” or
“local-government” councils (both titles
have been used) to rate and borrow for
technical education. According to Drum-
mond, “no palliative or piecemeal pro-
posal will meet the situation ; a bold and
vigorous policy must be adopted.” The
consensus of opinion was that the rating-
and-borrowing proposal was overbold —
brazenly impudent, in fact.
Synchronously with Mr. Debuchi's
arrival in Australia, the Japanese War
Office issued a pamphlet which “declares
that all people are brothers, and there-
fore there should be a rational distribu-
tion of territories, resources and popula-
tions.” H’m, yes ; but do brothers really
share their land and other property with
their brothers? Some may when they are
dead, but nations are living things, with
Constitutions in which eternity is implied.
Aberhardt, the Douglas Credit man,
took over the Government of Alberta
last week, when “Savings Bank certifi-
cates” were “no longer redeemable ” and
“the market for Alberta bonds” had
“vanished.” His first step was to ask
the Prime Minister for a loan of 12
million dollars "to meet bond issues fall-
ing due in November” ; his second, to
“designate ‘O God, Our Help in Ages
Past’ as the theme-song of Social Credit.”
He promised ‘the Albertans 25 dollars a
month, and gave them a theme-song!
During a week when Consols could be
bought to yield 3} p.c., Melbourne City
Council arranged to borrow £367,000 at
3$ p.c. It had saved up £133,000 towards
a loan of £500,000, maturing in October
—that and it's indisposition to go on loan-
drunks such*as fire the imaginations of
provincial politicians account for the
excellent showing.
A dozen Vic. Assemblymen voted
against the sale of 50 acres of Fisher-
man’s Bend to General Motors-Holden's.
Old Prendergast was among them, but,
as far as Labor was concerned, he was
alone in his melancholy glory. Prendy
must sigh to think how the aspirations
of the young Labor party have been
sacrificed to expediency and deadly
materialism. “Non-alienation of Crown
land,” “nationalisation of the liquor
traffic,” anti-gambling, the referendum,
citizen service and “the cultivation of an
enlightened and self-reliant democracy”
—they have all gone.
John Gunn, whom Bruce took from
the S.A. Premiership in 1926 for his
Development and Migration Commis-
sion, is now out of a job ; his agreement
with the Commonwealth expired last
week and was not renewed. It couldn’t
be; the post had become a sinecure.
Still, it deserves to be remembered that
Gunn and his former chief; Gepp, helped
to prevent millions of Commonwealth
money being squandered on wild-cat
State schemes—sooo Government wheat
farms in Westralia and almost as many
Government cotton farms in Central
Queensland.
Normally, N. S. Wales has great
attractions for retired civil servants from
the Islands and from British possessions
in Asia, but the glamor faded when the
Sydney Government started imposing re-
lief tax on their small pensions. As if
that wasn’t enough, a shire council—
Warringah—applied for a bankruptcy
order against a retired magistrate from
Papua who owed it £6O-odd on land
rated at £505 and mortgaged for £2OO.
He gets a pension of £4 19s. 2d. a week,
and if he were made bankrupt he would
lose it. Long Innes, J., refused to issue
the order on the ground that the council
was a secured creditor under the Act—a
Commonwealth one, of course. Where
Parliaments have not tied their hands.
Courts can still be relied upon to save
citizens from the audacities of elected
persons and non-elected bureaucrats.
The Royal Military College, shifted to
Sydney by the Scullidores, some of
whom would have liked to scrap it, is to
go back to Duntroon. It is another sign
of returning sanity on the subject of
defence.
Just when Westralians are ruefully
counting the cost of their Governments'
experiments in group settlement and wish-
ing they had never heard of the blighted
thing, Dean Inge has risen to tell Eng-
land he is “strongly in favor of it.”
My idea is that our Government should
buy large areas in Australia and elsewhere
and settle on them carefully-selected
groups, fed as opportunities arose with
fresh migrants from the same counties.
Australia won’t object to the Old Man
trying, if he thinks he can succeed where
Perth Governments failed, but he will
have to bear the whole cost. Australia
won’t owe another pound for any more
migration-settlement schemes.
The liaison officer between Lang and
his newspaper must be getting careless.
His newspaper demanded the imposition
of “sanctions” on Italy, and the Boss is
for keeping Australia out of all overseas
entanglements. And the meeting at
which he said this was thus reported by
his print:
Deafening applause greeted Mr. Lang
when he rose to speak, and a considerable
time elapsed before he was able to pro-
ceed. Such a demonstration has not been
witnessed for many months.
“Not for many months”? Why, the
general election is just four months old,
and a score of Mighty Demonstrations
in Honor of Labor’s Great Leader pre-
ceded it.
Reds in the N.S.W. Government rail-
ways are threatening a transport
strike. This ought to be a warning to
State Governments with Transport
Strangulation Acts, but probably it won’t
be. In Sydney a so-called anti-socialist
Government is allowing its Maddocks to
buy a huge fleet of buses —manned, of
course, by Government employees—as a
substitute for the privately-owned buses
which served the public so efficiently and
whose existence was a safeguard against
Red transport stoppages. When any pro-
test is made, the anti-socialist Govern-
ment merely says “Aw, that’s a matter
for the Commissioner.”
The chairman of Sargents, the Sydney
caterers and teashop people, who are pay-
ing small dividends again after some very
bleak years, mentions that, for every
£lOO shareholders are getting out of the
business, Governments grab £62. Yet
the Governments to which Sargents pay
tribute are positive that they can’t afford
to take a cent off the taxes.


SPRINGTIME—AND THE FALL.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
nn
i
~H&xt -to- ynu4eM-
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
fOR
IBM* 1
rIIMI
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D, CO. INC., NEW YORK.
B.VD. UNDERWEAR
No. 5598
m
E/ICAN
prevent;
BACK
OOOT
fK£>^
RBDoft<*
©o©l
SAQGI
GUSSET
SIDES
PEEVE N'
&EASS
seeds
6NIWW
EXTpA
STREN67M*
DOUBLE
SLEEVED
SOLE
ALL SIZES
IN BLACK-*
or.TAN CALF
A. black vailaby
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street - -
- Brisbane
PERSONAL ITEMS
William Irvine—“lceberg” to The
Bulletin when he was a politician —will
have given 40 years to public service
when he retires on October 1. He had
much in common with his fellow-irish-
man Edward Carson. He was educated
at Dublin and Melbourne Universities,
and had a brief spell as a master at Gee-
long College before he was admitted to
the Bar. At 36, he suddenly decided to
enter Parliament for Lowan only 48
hours before nominations closed. In
five years he was Vic. Attorney-General,
in eight years Premier ; three years after-
wards he won the Flinders Federal seat
(later held by S. M. Bruce) and kept
it till he succeeded John Madden as C.J.
in 1918.
William Taylor, who succeeds L. J.
Schmitt as Maoriland Trade and Tourist
Commissioner in Australia, depicted here
by Frith, was born in North Canterbury
Maordand’s new Ambassador.
(M.L.) in 1890. He is a member of the
M.L. Society of Accountants. His ser-
vice with the M.L. Government since
1908 embraces the Government Life In-
surance Office, Public Trust, Lands,
Forestry and the Treasury—he was in
the Treasury for 14 years.
E. H. S. Burhop has replaced Dr.
Eddy as research physicist at Mel-
bourne University. Burhop is a pro-
duct of Melbourne University who has
just completed two years’ research work
at Cambridge under Lord Rutherford,
the Maorilander who is Britain’s bright-
est light in physics.
E. R. G. Evans, now a vice-admiral,
has been promoted from the S.
African station to command at the
Nore. There will be no mutinies there
in his time, for Evans knows men ; and, if
anybody doesn’t want to work, the vice-
admiral will probably rejoice at the
chance to use up some of the surplus
energy which makes him the nearest
thing to perpetual motion on two legs.
Promotion to his new job means that
if will not be long before he is a Sea
Lord and an admiral.
The oldest theatrical property master
in Australia, William Gardiner, is dead
in Melbourne. He handed out the
wooden dagger and the papier mache
roast for a dozen grand opera com-
panies, and made a science of his job.
When J.C.W. wanted a setting for any
period he could provide it with great
exactitude. He was the right hand of
Brough and Boucicault, and he put
“Sweet Nell” into her original gilt frame
for George Musgrove.
The new secretary of the N. S. Wales
branch of the A.R.U. is Lloyd Ross, son
of the lamented Bob Ross and nephew
of The Bulletin’s head reader. He is
assistant-director of Tutorial Classes at
Sydney University and delivers caustic
and unorthodox talks on party pro-
grammes from broadcasting stations.
He is still a young man —in his middle-
thirties —keen in mind and an entirely
new type in the world of union secre-
taries. Personally, he is popular—even
with University economists, who regard
some of his ideas as mental cyanide.
“X.H.”: Malcolm Campbell, who has
broken all speed records with 301 m.p.h.
at Salt Lake City, is the reverse of the
average man’s idea of a motor-racer.
He is 50. He has a long, slabby figure
and a calm, kindly, aquiline face. He
never seems to be in a hurry, and to drive
with him on an open road would be a
lesson to flash youngsters around Austra-
lian capitals who consider 40 m.p.h. slow
—he takes his time and no chances. He is
a public-school boy (Uppingham), speaks
German and French well, was in Lloyds
for 10 years before the war, began motor
racing in 1910, flying in 1909, and was
in the R.F.C.
Henry Kellett Chambers, the play-
wright, who died in New York during
the week-end, was Sydney-born in 1867,
and was educated at Newington. A
pressman, he was on the staff of various
Sydney and London papers until he
crossed to N’York in the ’nineties. Wil-
liam A. Brady produced his first play,
“Abigail,” _ in 1905; Grace George
appeared in the title role. His second
play, “A Case of Frenzied Finance,” was
also produced by Brady. He wrote a
dramatic version of David Copperfield,
which was put on in England by Charles
Cartwright, and “The Butterfly” for
Lilian Russell. Among his other plays
were “An American Widow,” “Betsy”
and “The Right to Be Happy.”
“El V.”: Sidney Kidman’s name will
probably join Jimmy Tyson’s at the top
of the roll of shep-
herd kings. In
many ways in
physique, in taci-
turnity, in abstemi-
ousness and in
general aloofness —
they were much
alike. Kidman was
a great dealer
rather than a great
grazier. In his early
days, he entered on
spe c u 1 ations in
stock which made
those who knew his
resources gasp, and
in his later years
he dealt with sta-
tions as offhandedly
as others deal in
cows. A quarter
of a century ago,
his interests began
to congeal into ter-
ritories the size of
kingdoms, but
when they came to the stage where they
needed only management the old man
“retired” and left the job mainly to his
son Walter. The first time I saw him he
was sound asleep in a chair on a busy
J.S. DUNCAN, Sydney’s new
Deputy-P.M.G.
morning in the vestibule of the Hotel
Australia. “That,” said Tommy Cahill,
the little N.T. drover, “is Sid Kidman to
a T. He does what he likes wfiere he
likes —don’t give a damn for any man’s
judgment but his own.”
Prof. Wilfred Kernot, dean of the
faculty of engineering at Melb. Univer-
sity, who has lately retired, is the younger
brother of the former occupant of the
post. The Kernot family is of French
origin, and belongs to the clan that pro-
duced Sadi Carnot, one-time President
of the Republic.
R. H. Bagster: As The Bulletin
(31/7/’35) is digging up old Diggers let
me nominate one from S.A. —Jo Whittle-
sea —who celebrated his eightieth birth-
day in June. He enlisted at 60 in the sth
Tunnellers, and his two next birthdays
were spent in the trenches. Sixty-odd
years ago his hobby was pedestrianism,
and among the many honors which he
carried off were a seven-mile and a 10-
mile State championship. Salisbury is his
home town ; he now fives in retirement
at the Semaphore.
Note from “Granpa’s Understudy”;
1 nominate Charles R. Long, M.A., as the
busiest pensioner in Australia. He retired some
time ago from the Vic. Education Department.
Since then he has written a section of the his-
tory of Victoria for the centenary council. He
takes an active part in the affairs of the Vic.
Historical Society ; he is the oldest livi - member
of the Shakspcarc Society, having jo.Led on its
inception in 1887; he founded and works for the
Australian Literary Society, and is vice-president
of the Dickens Society. He is president
of the Gordon Memorial Committee, an active
member of the Gordon Lovers’ Society, and
has published a book on the poet’s work. He
is a member of the Honorary Readers’ (Church)
Union, and is on the council of Vic. Sunday
Schools. (In this connection he wrote pageants
in which 30,000 Sunday-school scholars took
part in December last.) In his spare time on
Sundays he speaks from a wireless station.
Nearly half a million copies of his Tates of
Australian Explorations have been sold, and
he has written over a score of textbooks.
“H.”: Ganger W. H. Crossling was in
charge at Hopetoun Park, Sydney, when
a job offered which he thought too dan-
gerous for his relief-workers. He called
them off, took it on himself and was
killed. A memorial to this industrial
hero will shortly be unveiled. The relief-
workers subscribed with money and
work ; even (he memorial plaque is the
of one who in happier days earned
his living as an artist. The men reckoned
it was their business, and refused outside
contributions. The memorial will stand,
incidentally, as proof that relations be-
tween gangers and relief-gangs are better
than some like to make out.
“Athanasius”: W. J. Wyllie, of
Sydney, who has left the sea after 45
years’ association
with it, has a re-
markable record ;
he commanded the
H.P. trans-Tasman
liner Ulimaroa con-
tinuously from the
time she entered
the inter-Dominion
passenger service
in 1908 until she
was laid up in
1932. During the
war the Ulimaroa
transported over
20,000 Diggers to
England and
Egypt. Wyllie has
been skipper of
such well-known
ships as the Excel-
sior, EJingamite,
Zealandia, Tambo,
Burrumbeet, Wim-
mera, Riverina,
Wanganella and
the new Zealandia,
and he has never been in a wreck.
The only time he saw one was in
1903, when he rescued in the old Zea-
landia 91 persons from the Elingamite on
the Three Kings (M.L.).
Thomas Joseph Lynch, the N.S.W.
Deputy Police Commissioner, pictured
here by Lahm, is long and genial. Thirty
years ago The Bulletin in a front-page
cartoon paid tribute to his capture of
two thieves in Hyde Park, Sydney. He
had concealed himelf up a tree and
A Study in Police Expression.
dropped on (hem feet first. Thomas
Joseph was then a constable of four
years’ standing. Before joining the force
he had been tanning and mining near
Parkes (N.S.W.), where he was born in
1880. His career has been a varied one-
constable, traffic officer, water-policeman,
detective (he was in charge of the C.1.8*
until recently) and now the second
administrative head. His longest chase
as a detective was his pursuit of a
wanted man charged with having sold
for £lBOO a quantity of water as olive oil.
He got hts man in California (U.S.A.).
Squadron-Leader Arthur E. Hempcl,
who is to command the flying-boat sur-
vey trip from Brisbane to Darwin in
connection with the overseas air-mail
service, had charge of the R.A.A.F. Sea-
gulls when the Great Barrier Reef was
photographed in co-operation with the
Navy a few years ago. Hempel is com-
mander of the seaplane squadron at
Point Cook. Since joining the R.A.A.F.
in 1923 he has specialised in naval
aviation, and was the first C.O. of the
Air Force unit attached to the seaplane-
carrier Albatross. He did his bit on
Gallipoli with the 7th Battalion and later
with the R.A.F., until he was shot down
and captured in 1917.
“Sturt”: P. A. Ohlstrom, captain of
S.A. baseball team that triumphed in
Melbourne, is also president of S. A.
Baseball League—which is probably a
record in any sport. But then he began
early (while a Sheffield Shield cricketer),
and has kept it up late. He was playing
’ball before the war, had three years
of active service, has been picked for
every State team since ’24, and has been
captain of them since ’27. Off the field,
he is a spectacled and successful lawyer.
Victor Ryan, who is organising the
S. Aus. centenary celebrations, knows all
about such work. His first big executive
task consisted in settling the 1500 British
boys who were brought to S.A. under
the Barwell land scheme. Later he
toured Australia as Federal executive
officer of the British Exhibition Com-
mission. Normally he is director of
the S.A. Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.


ANOTHER ACCIDENT THAT DIDN’T HAPPEN
x
. *N°^ V . XO& ~,e®^
v *\ v- oc- W
T 2
>*
f/
Vs
!£ *>>!>>
i V
K
ff
I
.*V*
V® c O 1 „< ;;
-r-t
5*3
a*
3V
zm
&
xQ
M
IN*
r*
v-~
N
i>«
&
£\
ss
V
a
"S
i
as
I
Sts-:
V,
51
B
e
Could YOU have stopped in time? To avert
tragedy in an emergency like this, you must
have first-class brakes and TYRES THAT STOP
THE CAR AS SOON AS THE BRAKES STOP THE
WHEELS.
If your car is not shod with "G-3" tyres, it is not
equipped to stop as short and sharp as may
some day be necessary. The “G-3's" CENTRE
TRACTION gives it grip (meaning that the non-
skid blocks are in the centre of the tread where
their grip is needed).
“The Goodyear Margin of Safety" costs you
nothing extra. Your Goodyear Dealer has vour
size in "G-3's" ready.
PREVENTS
ACCIDENTS
SC-IZ-35
MADE IN AUSTR.AU A


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Ranch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45
Tables or Seats may be reserved by’Phone. >14601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors-.
O. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE (Chairman) J. H. S. ANGUS
J. \V. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 193051.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates. Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold. Silver and Copper, “ESA" brand of Copper Sulphate (Blnestone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS-Graphine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers' Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the CompanJ s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA. N.S.W street
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins . tre .
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or nrices
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current Kembla
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port K
The
WILD CAL
COLUMN
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney)
Reserves
Transferred
June, Profit. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 41,180 10 p.c. = 20,000 20,000 79,033
1926.. 43,600 10 „ „ 22,000 20,000 80,633
1927.. 54,141 10 „ ~24,000 15,000 [ 85 774
Taxation Reserve, £10,000.. ..) ’
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,500 26,000 89,427
1929.. 57,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
1930.. 24,909 74 „ ~ 21,740 107,549
1931.. 23,412 74 „ „ 21.745 109,216
1932.. 22,689 74 „ ~21,750 110,155
1938.. 22,551 74 „ ~ 21,750 110,956
1934.. 34,262 7i „ ~21,750 123,408
1935.. 23,218 74,, ~ 21,750 124,936
This stock and station agency and wool-
and produce-broking concern has such a
splendid history, and the business is so
snug, financially and otherwise, that its
fully-paid pound shares have remained
fairly steady in the market around 425.
over the last 12 months, notwithstanding
a contraction of £11,044 in declared net
earnings. The return at 425. is 3£ p.c.
on a 7\ p.c. div. basis. The investor who
looks for a shade over 4{ p.c. on his
money counts on a 10 p.c. distribution,
or something as good or better.
Consider these figures:
1920. 1925. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £200,000 £290,000 £290,000
Overdraft .. 5,912 825,057 20,899
Sundry creditors 43,258 34,682 70,093 61),030
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,286 154,718 154,240
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,186 126.008 90,219
Liquid assets 50,000 141,250 252,549 260,382
Compared with the previous balance, the
wool carry-over at the close of last
accounts was small. This is reflected
in a reduction of £35,849 in advances,
elimination of the overdraft (£26,899 in
’34), £1063 snipped off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors and an addition
of £7833 to liquids, which consist of
Consols and Treasury bonds, at cost
£102,549 ; fixed deposits, £150,000 ; and
current account, £7833. There was little
change in the liquid surplus (£281,571 =
19s. sd. per share), which excludes
advances. The board gives no hint
whether it is likely to find employment
inside the business for the large sum now
invested in Government securities and on
fixed deposit. On the figures at June
30, the co. could return half its capital
or more without any effect worth con-
sidering on earning capacity, or without
any apparent danger of hamstringing
itself financially.
Last year’s gross earnings from trad-
ing (£92,707) were £11,406 lighter, due
mainly to the drop in wool price—the
Sydney average was £l2 12s. sd. a bale,
down £7 12s. lid. There was little
change in the return from outside invest-
ment (£8558), or in exes. (£78,047, in-
cluding £lO,OOO, down £2OOO, for taxa-
tion). The net result, after rebating 20
p.c. of wool commissions, was thus
£11,044 lighter at 8 p.c. on capital as
against 11.8, 7.7, 7.8, 8, 8.4 and 20.9 p.c.
back to 1929. The div., which averaged
10| p.c., sweetened with £235,000 of
bonus scrip, for the 22 years to the close
of accounts in 1929, was kept at 1\ p.c.
Immediate prospects are for a better
showing at next balance. Certainly the
clip will be lighter, but at the opening
sales in Sydney last week prices were
from 25 p.c. to 30 p.c. higher than they
were a year ago, and the gain, or most of
it, is expected to be maintained ; much
depends upon continued Japanese sup-
port and buying upon Bradford account.
Claude Neon, Ltd.
t Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
****•• 3 > 92 8 Nil 3928 17.121
****•• 4 > 603 8 p.c. = 5,165 17,683
1934.. 10,578 10 „ „ 9,090 1488 16,195
1930. . 16,441 15 „ „ 13,769 2672 13,523
This co., registered in Sydney in 1930 as
Claude Neon Lights (N.S.W.), Ltd., took
over the local rights in the Claude Neon
patents. These cover a type of electrical
sign, the 'popularity of which has brought
quick prosperity to the co. and given to
parts of Sydney and other State capitals
an Arabian Nights appearance. The co.
altered its nameplate to the present title
in the 1934 term, when an additional
patent, “Zonarc,” was acquired, and
Claude Neon Lights (S.A.) and the West-
ralian business of Claude Neon (Vic.)
were bought.
Earnings, derived mainly from rentals
for the signs, thus received a nice lift
during the last term. At June 30 the
capitalised value of rental contracts was
put at £393,386 (up £69,397), of which
£388,091 was unmatured, leaving £5295
outstanding. Over what period the co.
expects to gather the £388,091 is not ascer-
tainable from the published figures. The
improvement in the year’s gross earnings
(£52,883) was £18,790. The net result
benefited by £5863 of the increase, reach-
ing 17.9 p.c. on average capital as against
11.6 p.c. and 7.1 p.c. for the two preced-
ing years.
The div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to
15 p.c., and the price of the fully-paid
pound shares shot up from 30s. 6d. to
535. in the market over the twelvemonth.
The return at 535. is 5.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. There is nothing in sight at
the moment to suggest a recession in
earnings. Still, the 15 p.c. div. is by
no means secure; everything depends
upon the rental value of the signs, and
that in turn will depend largely upon
competition, which is already in the field.
Balance-sheet figures reflect an all-
round increase in business: —
1933. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £04,560 £90,900 £91,791
Overdraft . . . . 6,203 12,625 8,823
Sundry creditors .. 16,666 10,098 13,004
Rents in advance . . 8,856 12,662 16,481
Leasehold and plant . . 7,057 10,544 8,672
Neon signs . . 60,877 88,138 99,969
Stocks 12,007 20,344 20,050
Debtors 4,828 6,973 7,207
Cash and imtistiucuL . . 3,850 2,197 2,833
When the books last closed the over-
draft and amount coming to sundry
creditors exceeded debtors’ balances,
cash, etc., by £11,787, or £1766 less than
at the previous balance. The net growth
in the book value of signs out on lease
was £11,831. The real value of this
equipment is what it will turn in in rents.
Too much notice, therefore, need not be
taken of the net tangible cover of ap-
proximately 17s. per share.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926.. 18,793 17$ p.c. - 15,400 3393 14,526
Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 18,926
Struck off plant, £3500 .. .. 15,426
1927.. 19,760 20 p.c. = 18,602 1158 16,584
Premiums on shares, £17,600 .. 34,184
1928.. 19,975 171 p.c. = 19,015 960 35,144
Premiums on shares, £30,800 .. 65,944
1929.. 24,432 15 p.c. = 21,010 3422 69,366
June, Premiums on shares, £4400 .. 73,766
1930*. 11,887 15 p.c. = 11,770 117 73,883
Premiums on shares, £BBOO .. 82.683
Written off, £6OOO 76,683
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7 „ „ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off, £5O 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78,256
Share premiums, £BBOO . . . . 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
•Half-year.
This Melbourne “dry” hotel—it began
as one of the coffee palaces of the
’eighties—paid divs. averaging \l\ p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1926. Then old Collins-street leases fell
in, and some urged that the business be
wound up. Instead, other leases were
obtained (the main one still has about
56 years to run), a nine-storeyed build-
ing was put up, and the co. went into
the cafeteria business as well. Here it
pays no rent ; it spent £5OOO on the first
and ground floors, occupied by the
vendor, the Baptist Church.
During the last term rebuilding of
the Centre Block was completed, and
£74,913 was added to the book value
of freeholds and £6695 to plant:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Capital .. £174,857 £176,000 £179,573 £193,600
Liabilities . . 56,230 50,742 60,840 117,141
Freeholds . . 165.617 166,745 189,724 264,637
Leaseholds . 102,984 105,262 103,851 102,692
Plant, etc. . 41.024 37,952 33,062 39,757
Stores.. 607 678 1.561 952
Debtors . . 505 95 91 101
Cash, etc. . . 6,000 2,653 643 1,819
To meet the outlay £14,027 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £BBOO of
share premiums, was gathered, and
£61,441 was added to the mortgage, rais-
ing it to £108.238. Sundry creditors
figured for £8903 (down £5140), which
exceeded more or less liquids by £6031.
The spring in the year’s gross earnings
was £20,491:
Exes. p.c.
Doc., Revenue. Exes, of Revenue.
1926.. £83,808 £64,515 77.4
1927.. 94,844 76,084 79.1
1928.. 107,075 87,100 81.3
1929.. 133,483 109,051 81.7
June,
1930*. 68,975 57.088 82.7
1931.. 114,673 100,298 87.5
1982.. 102,821 89,757 87.3
1933.. 111,813 90,884 81.1
1934.. 108.488 90,182 83.1
1935.. 128,924 109,207 84.6
•Half-year.
Exes, were up £19,025, leaving the net
result £1466 better at 10.5 p.c. on aver-
age capital, compared with 10.3, 11.9,
7.4, 8.2, 7.6, 17.4 and 18.4 p.c. back to
1928. The div. was kept at 10 p.c. With
the contractor olf the premises, and
more space available, earnings for the
current term are expected to improve.
At 20s. the lOs.-paid shares return 5
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
14s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividend*. serve*. Reserves.
£> £ £ £
1924.. 60,682 10 p.c. = 40,000 20,682 132,220
Ix)ss.
1925.. 61.948 5 „ „ 20,000 50.272
Profit.
1926.. 38,448 7 „ „ 28,000 10,448 60.720
1927.. 47,184 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,853
Depreciation reserve taken in, £82,000.. 107,854
1928.. 68,093 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
1030.. 164.575 Nil 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,843
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,390
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,270 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,270 25,384
1935.. 30,128 0.8 ~ ~ 16,000 15,128 40,512
The scrip is one of the most speculative
industrials on the market. That is be-
cause the co. operates largely on its
own account in the wool and furred-
skin trades. For the most part it buys
in Australia and sells overseas; mean-
while price fluctuations are always liable
to play havoc with earnings, as hap-
pened in 1921 and 1925, and again in
1929 and the two following years. In-
deed, owing to the headlong descent of
prices, a loss of £164,575 showed up in
1930 (the worst of the mischief occurred
in the furred-skin section), leaving
£180,138 of the capital unrepresented
by tangibles—goodwill figured at
£180,138 of the capital unrepresented by
tangibles—goodwill figured at £130,000.
The business was put on a more even keel
by striking 9s. per share (£180,000) olf
capital, reducing the figure to £220,000 in
11s. shares. Supplies continued to weigh
down prices, and a further loss of £19,705
was recorded in 1931. This was wiped
out by the profits of the two succeed-
ing years, leaving the road clear for the
resumption of divs., and, after a five-
year wait, shareholders got 9.1 p.c.
(=5 p.c. on capital as it stood before the
cut) in 1934.
Considering the drop in wool and skin
prices, the lack of overseas demand for
Australian furred skins —except rabbit
skins —and the obstacles which quotas
and other trade restrictions placed in
the way of turnover during the last
term, the co. did well to show a profit
of £30,128 (down £9148), or 13.6 p.c.
on capital as against 17.8 p.c. and 11.1
p.c. for the two preceding years. Since
the prop for capital is slender, the div.
was lowered to 6.8 p.c., more being put
by than was distributed
The financial position improved:
1930. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital. . 1:400,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Liabilities .. 297,687 117,713 184,092 191,285
Fixed assets.. 190,493 180,054 176,004 169,759
Stocks .. 253,293 89,876 156,002 170,654
Hook debts . . 73,102 48,701 66,431 125,29 a
Cash.. .. 610 686 1,040 1,091
To carry an extra £14,652 of stocks and
£58,862 of book debts, the board went
outside for a further £57,193. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£105,753) was £16,372.
The strengthening of wool prices has
put a little brightness in the outlook for
the current term. At 12s. 6d. the 11s.-
paid shares return 6 p.c. on a 6.8 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 13s. in net
tangibles.
Petera-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane)
Net Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 3,710 10 p.c. 3312 398 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ ~ 8250 3984 25,581
Goodwill sold to associate co., £5000.. 20,581
Nominal
Reserves.
Taxation and depreciation reserves in-
cluded, £34,280 18,749
1980.. 15,992 5 p.c. = 7537 8455 22,204
Unexplained additions, £7598 .. .. 20,802
1031.. 6006 Nil 6000 35,808
Unexplained additions, £12,099.. .. 47,907
Depreciation ( £48,457) and tax { £519) Deficit.
reserves disclosed, £48,976 .. .. 1,069
Juno. Reserves.
1082.. 2,223 Nil 2,223 1,164
1933.. 6,818 3§ p.c. 6003 815 1,969
1934.. 8,230 4 „ „ 7203 1027 2,996
Added intangibles, £75 .. .. .. 2,921
Special reserve taken in, £220 .. .. 3,141
1935.. 14,886 0 p.c. t= 10,805 4081 7,222
This co., which turns out ice-cream
according to Peters’s formula, made a
very promising start nearly seven years
ago. Just as it was getting into its stride
the whole outlook changed, and share-
holders, who got 10 p.c, for the past two
years, were passed by in ’3l and ’32.
Meanwhile, a factory was set up at Rock-
hampton, the rights for N.Q. were sold
for £5OOO in scrip, and two opposition
concerns in Brisbane were bought. The
co. traded well within its own resources ;•
it was thus able to get immediate and
full benefit from any improvement in
trading conditions.
Over the last three years both earn-
ings and divs. have continued to lengthen,
and, largely owing to Government
spending, which has increased pay-
rolls in the metropolis, the outlook
for the co. at the moment appears to be
brighter than at any time during the last
half-dozen years, despite the recent
drought and heavy loss of sheep in the
west of Queensland. Helped by favor-
able seasonal conditions, turnover put on
an extra spurt last year. After earmark-
ing £B5OO (the same as at the previous
balance) for depreciation, making the
total amount so set aside £73,286 (not
included with reserves in the table), net
earnings sprang £6656, reaching 8.2 p.c.
on capital as against 4.5, 3.8, 1.2, 3.3,
10.6 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1929. The
div. was lifted from 4 p.c. to 6 p.c.; and
the £4OBl that remained raised free
(Continued on page 18.)


u
oju~
4,
'
HU
iii:
&
m
m
m
K
V/A
m
mtA
/
rdV
&
V-
.»»
»*•
V\W"
» »
/
I
Principal Agents:
Gilchrist. Watt <S Sanderson Ltd.
Tel. B 6701. 5 Bent Street, Sydney.
Joint Passenger Agents:
Macdonald, Hamilton <& Co.
Tol. 87511. 247 George Street, Sydney.
The recently-improved accommodation includes the re-
arranging and re-fumishing of “A" Deck and a number of
"B" Deck Cabins and the Public Rooms have also be»»n
considerably enlarged and tastefully re-fumished.
These improvements, combined with the low fares, excel-
lent menus, efficient service and unrestricted deck space
offer the best value in travel comfort obtainable.
FARES FROM £3B F L V S EXCHANGE
;
>
6 5 I
BRANCH
SERVICE


A harmonium player of Leicester,
When the zest of Schweppes Tonic posseicester.
Used to stand up and beat
On the keys with her feet
Till the Vicar and Sidesmen suppreicester
Schweppes
TONIC WATER
- tjvu &tnrd!
Order Gin and Schweppes Tonic Water.
Obtainable all Leading Hotels.
TAXATION
THE TAXAIION INSTITUTE
OF AUSTRALIA
Be well informed in this important sub-
ject and receive the Institute’s con-
tinuously indexed monthly bulletin. Full
particulars on application to the Local
State Secretary.
350 George Street, Sydney (85067).
Founded 1932—Branches in all States.
reserves £7222 higher than the £23,075 at
which goodwill, trade-marks, etc., appear,
There was marked improvement in the
financial position:-
1928. 1932. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital.. £67,181 £180,086£180,086 £180,086
Liabilities .. 5,520 17,723 2.942 4,697
Freehoid .. 4,174 101,928 101,928 102,070
plant, etc. .. 17,797 100,478 103,809 108,194
investments.. 35,848 34,673 30,561
Stock.. .. 2.149 4,202 «>ooo
Hook debts .. 2,233 4,765 2,483 2,958
Cash, etc. .. 23,196 658 12,259 25,049
To provide for expansion of the busi-
ness, the board decided to extend the
factory in accordance with -the original
plans, and the work is in progress. The
year’s addition to the book value of
plant was £4385, and to freehold £142;
both items appear at cost. The reduc-
tion of £4112 in investments was due
to repayment of part of the advances
to subsidiaries, whose aggregate trading
result was on the wrong side of the
ledger. The cash holding was strength-
ened by £12,790, and the more or less
liquid surplus (£30,973, including stocks,
but not investments) by £13,344.
There are 82,586 fully-paid £1 shares
and 130,000 paid to 15s. each. At 20s.
(13s. a year ago) the contribs. return 4.5
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. Excluding the
depreciation reserve, the net tangible
cover is 20s. 9d. per pound of paid
capital. The Sydney parent co.’s holding
is 40,000 fully-paids and 4200 contribs.
The Emperor
Studv of the encineer’s renort on the
Study ot me engineer s report on me
Emperor, Fiji, as contained in the pros-
pectus, and the assay plans accompany-
ing it, leaves the dispassionate reader less
optimistic than the specker who
blithely paid 28s. or thereabouts for f.-p.
10s. shares.
The valuable ground is divided into
three sections—Nos. 1 and 3 along
the main lode track, developed by
the main adit level and crosscuts, and
separated from each other by about
220 ft. of apparently unprofitable ground,
and No. 2, lying west of No. 1,
off the main lode channel, and de-
scribed as occupying “a huge pipe or
cavity filled with formation lying in flat
layers.” No. 2 section, therefore, ap-
pears to offer something quite new in
the way of ore-bodies. Considering that
the mine had already been reported upon
by a geologist who was credited with
having confounded the opinions ex-
pressed by experts who had previously
viewed it, something more definite might
have been vouchsafed concerning the
geology, etc of this section. Mr Victor
f ? s 11 “ d ‘ffi cult to estl "? ate a definite
tonnage in this area on the amount ot
work done.” His reckoning that it con-
tarns 64,5000 z. of recoverable gold may
be either above or below the actual value
obtainable. Since the gold in this sec-
. r , r- „*
tion forms a large part of the figure at
which the venture has been capitalised
£750,000), more than one engineer s
opinion might have been given,
One thing that seems certain about this
No. 2 section and, for all that the pros-
pectus says to the contrary, of the other
sections, too—is that it affords a first-
class metallurgical problem, not yet
solved. The present plant capable of
milling 500 tons of ore weekly, had man-
ag.ed, f° treat to . n s we ®kly- Mr.
Ditchburn, who successfully handled a
problem ot somewhat similar character
a * Golden Plateau (Q.), has gone to Fiji
to see what he can do there,
According to the prospectus, there is
in No. 1 section a block of ore 300 ft.
long, 50ft. wide and 70ft. high, giving
70,000 tons of ore, recoverable value
lldwt., or a total of 38,5000 z. tine
gold (39,5000 z. in the prospectus). This
is developed by the main tunnel as to
length, and by four crosscuts, affording
four transverse sections of the block, as
to width. The published assay plan
shows in these four sections (including
the tunnel sam P les ) 35 samples giving
arithmetical average of 10.8dwt. per
ton Q n a 70,000-ton block, an 85 p.c.
extraction of 10.8dwt. would yield
32,1300 z., or 73700 z. less than the pros-
pectus estimate. With gold at £8 10s.
an ounce, the difference would amount
to over £62,000.,
In No. 3 section, starting some 220 ft.
south of No. 1, it is figured there is a
block 270 ft. in length, 30ft. wide and
100 ft. deep, giving 55,000 tons of
16.4dwt. ore. The recoverable value is
put at 14dwt. (85.3 p.c.), or 38,5000 z.
This block is developed in length by the
main tunnel, and in width by three cross-
cuts across the section. On the assay
plan these crosscuts show 21 samples (in-
eluding those in the tunnel on the line
of these crosscuts) giving an arithmetical
average of 13dwt. An 85 p.c. extraction
would thus yield about lldwt. per
ton, or a total of 30,2500 z,, which is
82500 z. less than the- prospectus esti-
hiate. At £8 10s. an ounce this differ-
ence would amount to over £70,000.
On an arithmetical basis, the total dif-
ference between recoverable values in
Nos. 1 and 3 sections according to the
assay plan (£530,000-odd) and those con-
tained in the report (£663,000) is thus
over £132,000, equal to about 20 p.c.
The prospectus figures are, of course,
estimates ; absolute accuracy cannot be
expected at this stage.
Westralian Fields Under Review
From a ’’Wild Cat” man on tour in the
West; The activity of the beehive pre-
vails at Kalgoorlie. Lake View’s pros-
pects continue unimpaired ; though the
monthly output may seesaw for a time
it is expected, on the average, to be main-
tained. The appearance of the mine justi-
fies a cheerful, not depressed, market.
Capital is being freely spent on the Gt.
Boulder treatment plant, with a view of
increasing extraction from about 86
p.c. to 95 p.c. The return from this prop-
erty is tipped to get a lift shortly. South
Kalgurli’s recent developments on its
section of the Lake View lode are num-
bered among the most important deep-
level Golden Mile discoveries this year.
North Kalgurli continues to expand in
intrinsic value. Next to the Lake View
group, it is the most valuable property
on the field. Probably 600,000 tons of
7+dwt, to Bidwt. ore is now in sight,
including about 70,000 tons of broken
ore of 9dwt. average, which it is ex-
pected will be increased to 100,000 tons
by the beginning of 1936. Some big
faces of payable rock are being worked
in the lower levels of the until lately
derelict Kalgurli section of the property.
The co. anticipates treating 12,000 tons
of 7|dwt. to B|dwt. grade monthly, com-
mencing in March next, when the en-
larged and soled-and-heeled extraction
plant is expected to be in full swing.
The Bulletin has said all that is
worth saying for the time being
about Lancefield, at Laverton. At
Cox’s Find, in the same district, over
which Western Mining Corp. has an
option, prospects appear to be attrac-
tive at shallow depth. How they
will shape lower down is at present
mere guesswork. Lady Shenton, Men-
zies, is hurriedly installing a mill, and is
hopeful of moving from the call to the
dividend stage before long. A fair ton-
nage of mostly high-grade ore is in sight
down to 345 ft., and a continuance of
riches is indicated by a winze about 100 ft.
or so below that point,
Triton, at Reedys, has just commenced
production, and hopes to treat about 5000
tons a month to begin with. Pending
arrival of additional plant from abroad,
the co. may have a struggle to successfully
raise an 4 treat this tonnage for a while.
Still, the mine is improving at depth ; the
gold-carrier has been proved to the
300 ft. level, length 885 ft., average 10|dwt.
over the full width of drive, with ore in
walls. The crosscut on the 425 ft.
(bottom) level has exposed 25ft. of 9dwt.
ore. Wiluna continues to earn big profits.
It is treating about 45,000 tons of 6dwt.
ore monthly. Ore reserves, now being
recalculated, will probably show the mine
to be four years ahead of the mill.
At Yellowdine geologists and mining
engineers continue to theorise about the
behavior in deeper ground of the rich
ore deposit. Meanwhile, further develop-
ments of a striking character have
occurred in the workings, and there is
every sign that the gold is going down.
At Youanmi hustlers are recondition-
ing the old workings and clearing sites
for power and treatment plants, and a
new township is appearing among the
ashes and ruins of the old one. Meeka-
tharra Gold Mines, a recent London
float, has started to reopen the Havelock,
acquired from a local syndicate, while
several smaller ventures, including
Timoni, at Mt. Ida, and Waldecks, in the
Wiluna district, are either treating ore
or raising some for crushing.
Disappointment is expressed by many
shareholders in a number of newly-
floated Westralian gold ventures at delay
in reaching the production stage. In most
cases this delay is due to several causes,
including shortage of skilled mining engi-
neers and mine workers, difficulty in
securing delivery of plant and machinery,
and, worse than all, industrial disputes.
Another factor has been the recondition-
ing of derelicts, underground workings
having been found in a collapsed condi-
tion after dewatering.
At Ora Banda Amalgamated, Grant’s
Patch (W.A.), No. 1 winze from the No,
2 level on Nicholson’s lease has failed
to live up to expectations after reaching
the No. 3 level, the deepest point in the
mine. Crosscutting for the lode has been
recommended by V. T. Edquist, the co.’s
consulting engineer, who states that there
is no reason why the lode should not be
found at the No. 3 level.
* * * *
Lady Gladys, which acquired Mullins
and Kozul’s rich find at Mulline (W.A.)
two years ago, has treated 480 tons of
sands for 4020 z. of bullion, valued at
£2OOO. In addition, 98 tons was crushed
for 46+oz. over the plates. Pomme d’Or,
near Wiluna, was not so successful, its
last crushing of 140 tons yielding only
40oz. over the plates.
* ♦ * *
Luxall, which picked a loser at Bur-
banks (W.A.) over 18 months ago, has
apparently struck form in its new pro-
perty, the Royal Harry leases, at Leon-
ora, where some very high assays have
been obtained from sulphides on the
100 ft. level.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Central Norseman, a subsidiary of
Gold Exploration, is preparing to extract
wealth from the Phoenix, Norseman
(W.A.). Meanwhile, further develop-
ment and the installation of a small first
unit of a mill are to be undertaken. Re-
sults disclosed by the drill are claimed to
have enhanced (he co.’s prospects.
* * * *
After setbacks, due to extraction
troubles, Westralian Renown, one of the
smaller speculative gold ventures in the
West, is now reported to be getting good
milling results from its 100-ton-a-day
plant. A fair tonnage of payable ore is
in sight.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
The Westralian Government has in
hand the extension of the goldfields
water scheme to Norseman. From Cool-
gardie to Spargo’s Find a lOin. main,
connecting with Bin. pipes thence to
Norseman, is to be laid. The £200,000
job should be finished in 18 months.
Western Mining Corp., which controls
the Phoenix at Norseman, and the Norse-
man and Spargo cos. will contribute to
the cost.
* * * *
Cocks Pioneer Gold and Tin, Eldorado
(Vic.), has made a very good showing.
For the period to June 30 (sluicing com-
menced on Oct. 2, 1934) gold won aver-
aged 13.65 d. and tin 4.03 d. a yard, as
against a prospectus estimate of 10.76 d.
and 3.5 d. respectively. Costs were 9.44 d.
as against an estimated 8.47 d., due
mainly to extra-power charges. Net
profit was 8.24 d. a yard as against an
estimated 5.79 d. Now that the barge
has been removed a reduction in costs
to about B|d. a yard is expected. The
chairman is confident that the co. will be
able to make quarterly distributions of
Is. a share for some years to come.
* * * *
E. G. Theodore and P. Costello have
left Fiji for Melbourne to consult with
the board of Aloha Central. The bone
of contention is an agreement entered
into between Mr. Costello and Mr.
Theodore at the end of 1933, whereby
Mr. Theodore, holder of the surrounding
Koroere lease, is said to have the right
to follow the Cardigan lode if it extends
into the 30-acre block over which Aloha
Central holds an option from Mr. Cos-
tello.
* * * *
Nasivi (Fiji) Gold Syndicate, which
obtained very disappointing results from
94 samples assayed last month, has sent
another batch of 142 samples to Mel-
bourne for assay. The first 36 of these
showed from traces of gold to 2dwt. per
ton.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassol and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
♦ * ♦ ♦
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Se. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ENGINEERS should write immediately for free
copy of our 1935 General Catalogue, fully illus-
trated and priced. Machinery, Pumps, Mining
Supplies, Engineers’ Requisites. Electrical Supplies.
Steel, etc. William Adams & Company, Limited,
176 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.


A \\
V —,.
Our Climate
Vr)
'y>
i I /
A -
•*>- -
i s
w*
r
T 5
{ /f
Bfr* \ S >.
iar^,
oiir adventurous travel habits
' H . . ' . ’
r"
SOME SPECIAL FACTS
The value, in terms of Australian employment
created, of the body-building industry may be
gauged from the following facts: —
5500 men and women are directly employed In
making Holden Itodies.
Their present wages hill is nearly one-and-a-
quarter million pounds a year.
Material consumed, including Australian leather,
lacquer, steel, etc., totals two-and-a-qnarter mil-
lion pounds a year.
Tlie plant covers over one million square feet
of factory' floor space.
impose conditions that only
AUSTRALIANS
can understand and build for
In older countries 90% of motorists never leave concrete or
bitumen roads. But we in Australia accept rocks and ruts, thick
dust and deep mud as a necessary part of the year’s running.
Therefore, in a Holden body, framework and steel panelling are
stronger, and the major braces (of which there are over 30) are
30% stronger than in a similar body overseas.
Door locks and anti-rattle fittings are stiffer, for a door lock that
engages softly when new will rattle after a thousand miles of
Australian travel.
The simple measures taken against dust overseas, where dust is
no nuisance, would be useless here. A special method of dust-
proofing has been developed by Holden’s. The Holden body is
as dust-proof, rattle-proof and squeak-proof as human ingenuity
can make it.
The new Holden bodies, the loveliest things that have ever taken
the road, possess secret strength which makes that loveliness
endure. You want your car to be beautiful, silent and luxurious
after four or five years as well as at first. That is what Holden’s
ensure. . .
bod
4
so
BEAUTIFUL YET SO
df
STRONG


ABORIGNALITIES
“Nitwah”: Around the burning log on
a N.S.W. North Coast dairy farm one
night the subject of lightning calculators
came up. One talkative chap asserted
that he knew a man who could add a
column of £ s. d. together in the time
it would take an ordinary person to lot
up the pence. I said I’d heard of this
human adding machine since early in-
fancy, had worked 25 years in banks
and been four years in the A.I.F. and
never come across him. “You’d think,”
I added, “if he existed he’d have a job
in a bank.” “Ah,” retorted my dis-
putant, “this bloke was too clever to
work in a bank.”
* * * *
“J.F.L.”: Has any bird a voice louder
than a native companion? Have heard
(hem up in the sky on calm days, when
they couldn’t be seen owing to the great
height they had reached—the big, long-
legged fowls must have been easily a
mile up.
sfc * # ❖
“Tom Willie”: The most cosmopoli-
tan fowls I have ever seen congregate on
the Murrumbidgee River near Yanco
(N.S.W.). The white and black ibises
arc common mixers, but on a big day
the gathering includes blue, white and
spoonbill cranes, shags, bitterns, crows,
peewees and an occasional galah, with a
fair sprinkling of sparrows. The bittern
is popular with the congregation because
of the warning it gives when there’s
danger about. Its peculiar booming call
was first responsible for the bunyip myth.
There is nothing else on earth like this
sound, and I’ve known bushmen to spend
hours tracking it down.
* * * *
“Chainman”: While working as sur-
veyor’s axeman on the MalakofF Range,
near Theodore (Q.), 1 noticed the rocky
ground was strewn with fossils. From
the predominance of fern and leaf for-
mations, the latter often being of large
size (whole branches were occasionally
found), it would appear that the range,
now having the appearance of a rocky
outcrop, was originally a large swamp.
Petrified wodd is common, whole trees
of it lying on the surface; in one
notable instance 1 found a large fossil-
ised wood-borer embedded in a huge
trunk of petrified wood, the grain of
which, perfect in detail, was similar to
that of the bluegum. The surrounding
level country is the ordinary rich black
soil.
“Bogan Boy”: Anyone ever see
petrified wood as an integral part of a
growing tree? Looking for a soak on the
headwaters of Brimmagee Creek (N.Q.)
1 noticed all the tea-trees with damp-look-
ing spots on them. Examining one where
a limb had broken off about 3ft. from the
ground I found the hollow full of water
and all the wood surrounding the liquid
petrified to a depth of half an inch.
* * * * .
“Pagewood”: The value of the fossil
insect wing found recently at Brookvale
(N.S.W.) lies not in its size, but in its
antiquity and unusual structure. The
wing bears a strange oval attachment,
with three rows of ridges on it, at first
thought to be another object super-
imposed by time and pressure, but later
declared to be a part of the wing. Though
the insect to which this five-inch wing
was attached must have been a fair size,
there are insects flying about the earth
to-day quite as large. In Malaya parti-
cularly, butterflies and insects may be
seen with a wing-spread of a foot or
more.
*♦■ * *
“Cam Cove”: Talking about dainty
dishes, has any Aboliar ever eaten roast
curlew? I've heard it said that turkey
is a delectable food and that duck or
fowl is not so bad ; but a curlew con-
noisseur wouldn't give the bones of his
bird for the whole keel of a duck. A
curlew chick grilled, a cockerel roasted,
or an old hen boiled is something to re-
member for a lifetime. It’s just as well,
too ; it is seldom that you are able to
catch more than one curlew during a
complete incarnation.
* * ♦ *
“Billy Sec”: While doing his last lap
in the Woorooloo Sanatorium (W.A.) old
Jack Dawe, last survivor of “the Ragged
Thirteen,” begged me to get him some
real bush tucker, “so’s a man can have
a decent feed.” He really couldn’t stand
the quite first-class food served to us
patients. A full day’s scouring of the
adjacent bush produced one* 4ft. race-
horse goanna, four sleepy lizards and
half a billyful of bardies —obtained from
the core of rotting blackboys. Hobbling
into the nearest scrub Jack made a fire
“ Wantin' any ands, skipper?"
"No, mister —this pair'll do me."
and partook of lunch. Skinned and
stewed with an onion the goanna tasted
even better than that king of dishes
stewed cobbler or catfish. Grilled on
the coals the sleepy lizards were no dif-
ferent from delicate fish—“overland
trout,” Jack called them. The bardies,
tossed in a frying-pan so that they pro-
vided fat for their own cooking, were a
veritable feed for the gods. The only
thing missing from the menu. Jack said,
was a dish of white-ants. They could
have been gathered, but would have re-
quired the expert services of a black
gin, who, with her pitchi, would quickly
have dryblown the rotted wood and
sand away. Fried with the bardies the
termites would have provided an excel-
lent bread-crumb dressing.
£ * * *
"R.N.P.”: The proprietor of the sea-
side pub was always singing the praises
of squid and octopus, so I sampled some
of the tack. Don’t know about any
special flavor, but it took four pints to
cool away the taste of onion and
cayenne.
* * * *
"D.L.”: According to books and most
observers the spine-tailed swift never
alights while touring this continent, but
journeys from Japan and. neighboring
coasts, spends the summer here, and re-
turns to the Thousand Isles without once
closing its wings. Last season these birds
were noticed clinging to a dead tree at
Dooralong (N.S.W.), and a closer in-
spection revealed that they were inves-
tigating those limbs where the termites
were thickest. When taking off they
merely let go, and immediately were on
the wing. Some years back a swift was
found on a shed wall in a Sydney suburb,
but this was a sick fowl, and after a
rest and some care it resumed its flight.
Specimens I have s?en have all had solt.
lily-white feet, cramped up into a tight
little ball.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
"Oruncha”: “Movado’s" par. re the
crab in the native's ear (B. 28/8/’35)
reminds me of a child who complained
in the same manner. Not much notice
was taken until symptoms grew worse ;
then a doctor extracted a blob of wax
hardened around a clump of ichneumon
flies’ eggs, about to hatch.
* ♦ * *
“Lido”: I note that a lot of fuss has
been made because a big-game shooter
travelled 12,1KK) miles in quest ol the
rare giant panda and got one with a
single shot. The incident pales beside a
single shot of my own while collecting
ivory in the Belgian enclave above
Uganda many years ago. It was my
custom to add to the usual trade goods
for the natives brightly-colored toys, to
which they were extremely susceptible.
One of these was a powerful popgun,
complete with cork, intended as a present
for some chief’s child. That it didn’t serve
its original purpose was due to my chief
gunboy's perverted sense of. humor,
which had often landed him in trouble.
One morning, after 1 had corrected him
with a kourbash for putting a boom-
slang in my bed, we went after ivory.
and soon came on the track of an out-
size elephant. Pushing on through heavy
canegrass, we must have been careless
enough to alarm the beast. Without a
word of warning he charged, and the first
I saw of him was his enormous bulk
towering over me, trunk extended. 1
reached for my heavy rifle and fired auto-
matically in the beast’s face. Not until
then did I realise that my jesting gun-
bearer had handed me the popgun instead
of the .500 express, and taken to his heels.
Then I witnessed a most extraordinary
scene. With a muffled scream the vast
animal stopped dead in his charge and
began to gyrate rapidly, uttering mean-
while the most amazing noises. There
followed a number of explosive sounds,
and the elephant dropped in his tracks
and after a convulsive struggle gave up
the ghost. Investigation showed that the
cork of the popgun had gone right up
the extended trunk to the antrum. Con-
vulsive sneezing followed, and this in
its turn resulted in a burst blood-vessel
in the brain which laid my lordly enemy
low.
* - * *
"Daymar”; Three-pound ling (B.
14/8/’35)? They grow a lot bigger
than that on the other side of the Tas-
man. I’ve used three-pound cod as bait
for ling around the bays of Lyttelton
Harbor (ML.) —and they were only a
mouthful for our ling. Fifty or sixty
pounds apiece was nothing unusual, nor
were a dozen fish around that weight in
a single night's fishing. Incidentally, the
Port Melbourne tiddlers appear to tally
in all respects bar weight.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“C'est Vrai” (F.M.S.): “Bangalay” (B.
3/7/’35) on transplanted eucalyptus trees
reminds me. Four of us were holiday-
ing at Brastagi, in the highlands of
Sumatra. One morning Mac was miss-
ing. Attracted by a wisp of smoke we
went to investigate, and found him
almost hugging a tiny fire made from
sticks and leaves fallen from a clump of
gums. “The next-best thing to home
leave,” said Mac, filling his lungs with
the smoke.
* * * ♦
“Chad”: Reference to Hides’s parly
planting seeds during their expedi-
tion through new Papuan country (B.
28/8/’35) recalls a regular major who
commanded an armored train that used
to tour up and down the main rail line
of Egypt, with h.q. at Minia. He told
me That some time after the Fashoda
trouble, which nearly embroiled France
and Britain, he was doing special service
with the Nigerian Government. He was
dispatched across Africa on the tracks of
Marchand—to sec- if that gentleman had
pinched anything, presumably. All the
way over to the Nile he encountered
gardens of European vegetables in lonely
places; they had been planted by the
Frenchmen. These he and his party de-
voured, but, as he said, he had no chance
of replanting because he had no seeds.
* * • *
“Africanus”: "Globe Trotter” is a bit
astray on the subject of Hannibal’s ele-
phant corps (B. 28/8/’35). Ihe two-
tailers he look over the Alps were
African hathis. As to transport to Spain,
the big Carthaginian galleys were capable
of carrying half a dozen of the beasts.
Carthage used the elephant in war and
peace long before Hannibal’s time, train-
ing the local product without difficulty,
as plenty of evidence shows. Of late
years also the comfortable theory that
the African elephant was untamable has
been shattered by the Congo Belgians
and by the Germans during their occu-
pation of East Africa. But Indian ele-
phants did do their bit in Europe. The
beasts with which Pyrrhus staggered the
Roman infantry of his day were Asians,
* ♦ * *
“Buck": Minding sheep in western
N.S.W. 1 was lunching when a large go.
came nosing round. I threw him the re-
mains of my supplies, and he gobbled
them up. After a couple of days of
flirtation he appeared as soon as he heard
the lunch paper rattling. It was amusing
to see the old fellow waddling towards
me, his head wagging from side to side,
for his share of my rations and his dish
of tea, which he lapped up from the
lid of the billy.
:> « * *
“Miss D.H.R.”: To be called a cat
doesn't worry me. On our northern
N. S. Wales run puss is a prodigious
hunter of rabbits. When we got an-
other (half-grown) cat the older one
turned to and would bring home a
bunny, dump it in front of the young-
ster and then depart to catch his own
dinner. Later we became possessed of
still another youthful feline, and were
interested to sec what would happen.
Nothing daunted, the veteran shouldered
this new responsibility and now hunts
for both young 'uns before attending to
his own meal.
ff * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: You can tell “Ducca-
brook” (B. 21/8/’35) I’ve seen thousands
of ducks stuck fast on that piece ot
swampy ground known as Bogaduck
Flat, near Elderslic. on the S.A.-Vic.
border. But not of late years. The
change came about in 1925. A big mob
of mountain ducks arrived from the
direction of Mt. Buffalo, flew to a heap
of scantlings left by a timber mill,
gripped a thin lath in each foot and flew
off to Bog. Flat. There they began to
glide about on the mud, using the laths
as skis. They had picked up the whole
idea; it was a wonderful sight to see
them doing Christiania turns and Tele-
mark swings as they slid about on the
mud. When flying with their skis they
looked like racing seaplanes. Other
ducks copied the idea, and raided that
heap of scantlings to such effect that it
was cleaned up within a fortnight.
Bogged ducks are now a thing of the
past in my part of the globe.
!«•••*
“Airline”: Bog a duck? I’ve seen
them drowned! Although the district
has since been ravaged by the worst
drought in its history, I heard a Julia
Creek (n.-w. Q.) publican bemoaning the
fate of the pub’s prospective Christmas
dinners; they’d found a watery grave in
the deluge of the previous night. As the
bereaved Bung disconsolately remarked,
“That’s what I call rain!”
WOOL IS UP.
Across (he rolling years they come to me.
Warehoused in some far corner of the brain,
I hose verses of the poet Ogilvie
With “Wool Is Up"’ their gladdening refrain,
Three little words, as apposite again,
With all the periodic punch and pull
They used to carry in Victoria’s reign—
You never know what will be up with wool.
The squatter finds in them. I’ll guarantee,
More magic than in music’s sweetest strain.
I he dailies calculate with artless glee
How many extra millions we’ll obtain
For this fair product of our wide domain
Once buyers start to emulate the bull
And keep the woeful bear upon the chain —
You never know what will be up with wool.
Gold is a useful staple, all agree;
I hough mighty few could plausibly explain
Why “going oil it” is a recipe
To bring increasing values in its train.
It's helped us through Depression's pinch
and pain,
We freely give it credit to the full.
But, while its price is never on the wane,
You never know what will be up with wool.
Prince, economics are a tangled skein,
And trade a sadly complicated spool,
But there arc turnings in the longest lane—
You never know the uppishness of wool.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


"Ryte”: The Darling was low and
very clear —it’s not always the muddy old
gutter—and as the boss was walking
along the bank he saw a large cod swim
into a hollow submerged log. “All right,
boss, 1 catch ’im,” said Jacky ; and Jacky
hopped in. But the cod with a sweep or
two of his tail stirred up the mud and
escaped. “You’re a.nice one,” said the
boss ; “what’d y’ let him get away for?”
‘Td ’a’ got ’im all right, boss,” said
Jacky, “but there was too much dust-
storm down there.”
* * * *
“Jindivick”: Touching these coarse
fish of English waters (B.*21/8/’35), the
Yorkshireman may despise perch, but in
the South of England the fish is con-
sidered quite fair eating. The chief ob-
jection is that the bones are small and
multudinous and the scales difficult to
dislodge. The same objection applies to
pike. I don t know why “Ichthus” places
chub above carp and tench. Both the
latter are edible enough if they are well
cleaned and soaked overnight in salt
water to get rid of the muddy flavor.
I he chub, on the other hand, is repul-
sive to the palate as well as the eye. It
goes wet and spongy. Izaak Walton has
a laborious recipe for cooking it in his
Compleat Angler, but he concludes: “In
spite of these preparations the fish is
unappetising and quite unattractive.”
Roach and dace, soaked in salt water
and fried in batter, are quite as tasty
as any river fish except trout.
* * * *
“Hackle”: Tell “J.D.” (B. 4 24/7/’35)
that the man who tries to sell trout in
Sydney will find himself in trouble. Their
sale is prohibited, and punishable by fine.
* * * *
“Over P.”: A station-owner in s.-w.
Queensland knows all about dyed talla-
wongs. His shearers, learning that he
was a bird enthusiast, dipped a dozen in
v permanganate of potash wash, and re-
eased them near the homestead. The
boss discovered the trick only after he
had shot a couple with intentions of
mounting and presenting them to a
museum.
* * * *
Beach Rod”: It’s a pity there’s such
lack of uniformity in the names given
to the same variety of fish in different
States. When “Nordbo” (B. 31/7/’35)
writes of a “jewfish” weighing
as a record he’s surely referring to a dif-
ferent species from that known by the
same name along the coast of N.S.W.
—Sciaena an tart ic us, called the king-
fish in Vic. and the mulloway in
S.A.—which grows to over 5ft. in length
and attains to more than 1001b. Fish-
ing from Catherine Hill Bay beach
(N.S.W.), a local amateur killed a dew-
fish (as I prefer to call them) weighing
over 901b. When, by means of a pole
thrust through the gills and mouth, the
fish was hoisted to the shoulders of two
men, the tail still dragged the sand.
Specimens from 401b. to 601b. have been
frequently taken along the coast, one
which scaled 651b. being killed at Sara-
toga within the last few weeks.
* * * *
“Airline”: If “K.C.” (B. 14/8/’35)
wants a really hectic time, let him try
his hand with a rabbit pack in a district
where wild-cats abound and trees don’t.
Puss will make straight for you every
time, generally landing on the top of
your head in one frantic bound—a spit-
ting, snarling, clawing cyclone. The
dogs, in their eagerness to kill, are a
certainty to bowl you over. I still bear
a scar to remind me of a very close
shave ; a nip on the ankle was all I got
after going down before the combined
weight of 58 tykes.
"Marsh”: Some of the big dead trees
"Semaj” (B. 20/5/’35) saw in the
Burnett country (C.Q.) might have died
through drought. I’m doubtful. I’d
wager most of the dead ’uns were
ringbarked by past-masters at the
business —Chinamen. Before spear-grass
"The city's a dangerous place for you country boys."
“ Yes, mum—I nearly got knocked down be a tram yestiddy"
settled the Burnett country for sheep-
grazing, scores of Chinks were employed
as shepherds, whilst others were intro-
duced to the axe. An old Burnett pas-
toralist once told me that he’d never
seen the equal, black, white or brindle,
of Chinamen either as shepherds or ring-
barkers. There’s plenty of evidence still
available in the form of big dead trees
to prove how thorough the Chinks were
in the latter art.
* * * ♦
“Walkabout”: I rode up to him sud-
denly in the western Queensland heat
and assisted to heave an outsize moun-
tain-gum log on the lorry. In a pad-
dock where gidya was plentiful and gum-
trees few and far between, I wondered
why gidya, the prince of heat-giving
firewood, was passed over and said so.
“Couldn’t give it away,” he explained.
“It’s the best burnin’ wood of the lot, 1
know, but them women in the town are
too broad in the foreheads ter knock
’emselves up beltin’ gidya.”
* ♦ * *
“Pedagogue”: Shooting in a gorge on
the N.S.W. Blue Mountains I was puzzled
by a brown conical-shaped mass hang-
ing from a ledge some 200 ft. above me.
Firing at it with a pea-rifle I was still
more puzzled to see it quickly turn grey,
flecked in places with pure white, and
then slowly return to its former brown
An' I never lorsl me self-control —jisl swipes 'er across the kisser with
me broom.”
color. It took me two more shots to
realise that it was the naked cone of a
bees’ nest. At the impact of the bullet
the brown workers rose from the exposed
grey-and-white comb, to settle again
when the disturbance had passed.
Wippegong’ : To discover the ex-
tent to which deciduous trees are affected
by climate, a few schoolboys in three
Eastern States arranged for records of
the spring growth of Oriental planes to
be kept at different centres. Results
showed that buds in Melbourne slept
for a full month after those in Sydney
awakened, while the dates for Too-
woomba and Sydney were identical. Un-
fortunately, data were not obtained from
Brisbane. Did the greater elevation of
Toowoomba exactly balance the differ-
ence in latitude?
♦ • * +
“Ohno”; Will “El V.” (B. 31/7/’35)
tell me where he has seen a bushman
mustering cattle in thick scrub, day in,
day out, with an eye about for direction
posts? Or with a wristlet watch on his
arm? Dingoes use a track for the same
reason as “El V.” uses a path to the
library— not because they’re afraid of
getting lost. r
* # * *
“Paul Pilgrim”; Old hands contend
that the heavy snowfalls on the ranges
throughout the eastern part of Australia
this winter are sure signs of a drought.
They recall that in 1900 and 1901 there
were similar heavy falls on the high
country, forerunners of the old-man
drought of 1902 that cost the Eastern
States many millions and sent scores of
men broke. Shifting sands and dust-
storms of Central Australia are also re-
garded as portentous.
• * * ♦
“Tidapa”: Beche-de-mer canning (B.
3/7/’35)? The lagoon at Cocos Island
would supply enough of the un-
inviting beasties to keep a company work-
ing overtime. The lagoon floor and, the
barrier are covered with the slugs, the
brownish-red variety that is of the highest
commercial value predominating.
"Kariah : A couple of dozen snipe
have missed the bus to Siberia and are
wintering at Port Stephens, (N.S.W.).
There is nothing to equal the lament of
these birds when they become separated
from their fellows. Up and down they
beat, crying like lost souls.
* * * *
“Kieta”: Strange barometers? 1 once
worked in a building in Castlemaine
(Vic.) that had seven slate steps leading
into it. From 20 to 24 hours before rain
fell these steps always exuded moisture.
They proved a better guide to impending
rains than scientific weather prophets.
* * * *
Spica”: After a couple of months
on the stock route, the drover’s close-
cropped head emerging from under the
hands of the bush barber inspired Jacky
with the desire to be “like white pfeller.”
Operations with an aged pair of scissors
over, Jacky surveyed his elongated
cranium approvingly in the mirror. “All
same watermelon was his comment.
* * * *
“G. Trotter”: After many years—for
it dated long before national prohibition
■—Texas has gone wet. 1 wonder what
it is doing about smoking. When 1 was
on the train from New Orleans to El
Paso a few years ago, the nigger porter
made a tour of the cars as soon as we
had reached the Texan border, and hung
up notices warning the passengers that
while they were travelling on Texan ter-
ritory (hey must not smoke, sell or
exhibit any cigarette or parts of a cigar-
ette. Pipe- and cigar-smoking was per-
mitted, but absolute prohibition of the
deadly fag operated throughout (he ,Stalc
which is as large as N.S.W. and twice
as populous.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: “Batrachia” (B. 14/8/’35)
may be right in asserting that frogs croak
only during (he mating season—if the
mating season occupies five-sixths of the
year. I’m positive that the croakers can be
heard at any time throughout the spring,
summer and autumn down on the Gipps-
land swamps and in the gullies.
* * K *
“P.A.W.”: The leaves of the dogwood-
tree are succulent food for cattle. During
recent dry weather in Westralia animals
were fed on its leaves, the branches being
broken off the tree as they spread out
just above the cattle’s reach. The dog-
wood isn't common to all parts of Mulga-
land. The wood is as brittle as a carrot.
* * * *
“Bungle”; Between races at Lismore
(N.S.W.) sports two judges drifted to the
pub. They were each in the act of sinking
one when the gun was fired. “Good
Lord!” gasped one. “They’re off!” As
one man they leapt through (he door and
dashed towards the sports ground. A
half-dozen runners flew down the field
towards them as they vaulted the fence
and broke records for the judge’s box.
For a few tense seconds the issue was in
doubt, but those heroes did it with a
couple of lengths to spare.
* # * «
“J.8.J.”; Am uncertain as to what is
the largest black cod ever taken from
Australian waters, but the specimen a
Westralian professional fisherman got
while fishing with companions from a
boat off the Abrolhos Islands must go
close to it. It went 1981 b. cleaned.
* * * «
“Plankton”: The comments of
“Bosun’s Mate” (B. 31/7/’35) anent
“swinging the cat” call to mind that
allusions to the übiquitous feline were
common to other gadgets in the old wind-
jammers. The “cat-heads” were stout
beams of timber to which the anchors
were lashed for security; bringing the
mud-hook up to this position was called
“catting the anchor.” The “cat’s-eyes”
were circular flat pierced blocks, through
which the lower ends of the shrouds were
rove taut and secured ; hence the origin
of the phrase “whipping the cat.” And
in nautical parlance light puffs of wind
ruffling the sea are still termed “cat’s-
paws.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Our Chow vege-
table man is a stout and placid citizen,
with a genial willingness to allow cus-
tomers on his run to owe him small
accounts; but the other day I saw him
sadly perturbed. Jerkily he unfolded his
tale of woe to me. He had customers
in practically every house of a long and
dingy terrace; all of them owed him
money, and Ah Sin had kept the tally
in each case by marks unintelligible to
anyone but himself on the house walls.
In the three days between his visits a
gang of painters, employed by the owner
of the terrace, had descended upon the
scene, and got through the first coating
so expeditiously that all the accounts
were completely obliterated. I am still
wondering what he will do about it.
LIGHTNING.
There's lightning away in the west to-night,
away where the sun went down,
While 1 stand alone in the glare and light in
the heart of the noisy town.
The pavement echoes with laugh and jest as
the theatre crowd flits by,
But my heart is filled with a vague unrest as
I gaze at the stormy sky.
For I was born in the great outback, and my
heart is still out there,
Where the clouds are gathering inky-black
and the lightnings flame and flare,
Where the drover waits while the thunders
crash and the threatening tempest nears,
For the frightened bellow and maddened dash
of the wild stampeding steers.
Away out there, where the ranges dip to
plains that are wide and green,
There are honest hands that a man may grip
and know they are staunch and clean.
One meaning 9niy has mateship there, and
that is a binding bond,
Where thunders mutter and lightnings flare
away in the Great Beyond.
Oh, the streets of the city are bright and
warm, and the careless crowd goes by;
It’s little they care for the stress and storm
far out where the ranges lie.
But my heart is filled with a vague unrest and
I feel like a renegade
As I gaze away at the stormy west where the
lightnings flame and fade.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINTOS.


LYS
4. - 3L2».
PROor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
«*fr-
* #;• _
l~v
1
Jr
at
5V*
~ 9
- - •*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head -Mice; 17-19 Bridge Street Svdiev.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Wool Standards.
“Murrawong”: There is a lot of truth
in “X.T.’s” contention (B. 14/8/’35) that
the rise of the fat-lamb industry has pro-
duced some of the coarse, common, ill-
nourished wool on the market, but the
fault does not lie entirely with the
grazier, nor is the “dual-purpose” sheep
responsible.
In merino flocks there has always been
a proportion of poor-quality wool. A
hard season may produce ill-nourished,
unattractive fleeces, but there arc still
breeders to whom wool is just wool and
one sheep is as good as another.
Cross-breeding certainly gives some
woeful results in the wrong hands, but,
as a rule, breeders of Corricdales and
other dual-purpose sheep, who must
maintain type, are more particular about
mating than many merino breeders. The
chief reason why so much poor-quality
XB wool is on (he market is that the
merino ewes used for crossing arc very
often culls or old ewes unfit for wool
production.
One point overlooked in fat-lamb breed-
ing is the potentiality of the sire with
good wool quality in addition to mutton
quality.
The Rycland, a Downs breed, has
made such headway in N. S. Wales
that breeders cannot cope with orders
for rams. Experts arc enthusiastic about
the Ryeland to cross with merino, Corric-
dale or Romney-cross ewes, yet practi-
cally all refuse to consider the advantage
of the Rycland fleece over the wool of
other Downs breeds, or of one Rycland
over another.
In common with that of all British
breeds. Ryeland wool improves in general
quality and in fineness under Australian
conditions. Excellent fleeces showing
good character have been grown for
years at Queanbeyan and Wagga (N.S.W.)
by breeders who have proved that the
breed can grow good wool without sacri-
ficing its mutton qualities.
Fine-wool Production.
“Dead Finish”: The fact that Australia
can produce the bulk of the world’s fine
wools, and is without any serious com-
petitor in quality and quantity, should
provide thought for (he powers that be
at Canberra, as well as breeders.
All woolmen and most'sheepbreeders
love a good, fine wool, and would pro-
duce it consistently where practicable if
the financial return warranted it. Un-
fortunately, it usually pays better to
grow a more robust type, yielding an
increase of anything up to two pounds
per head and netting a price equal to
(and frequently better than) the finer
qualities. The return per head is the
factor which reduces the overdraft.
Not every locality can grow a line-
quality wool, but it is a pity that fine-
wool districts do not take advantage of
their wonderful natural environments.
Just so long as it is a better proposition
for, say, sheepmen in New England
(N.S.W.) to go down to the plains and
buy surplus sheep of a broader type, so
long wilt'the finer sorts be neglected.
Prevention Better than Cure.
“Ghanam”: Half the trouble with
sheep diseases is preventiblc if the resist-
ance of flocks is kept up.
Sheep-sick pastures which have been
grazed to the limit predispose to trouble.
The sheep, in its own way, is a particular
feeder. Overstocking destroys the tit-
bits which give relish to a meal, and
allows the coarser grasses to flourish,
seed and gradually push out the liner
grasses and herbage.
Sheep feeding on rough pastures soon
find their digestive mechanism impaired
in the same way as a diet of corned
horse disturbs the human mechanism.
Bacterial organisms in the intestines,
harmless in their right proportion,
become out of balance and toxic.
Disease develops; droppings spread it.
Clean water plays a great part in keep-
ing animals healthy. Many sheepmen
believe that any stagnant brew is good
enough for animals. They pay dearly
for the delusion. Also for dirty yards,
shearing boards and pens undisinfected,
and the failure to isolate sick stock as
soon as it shows signs of trouble.
The man who treats his sheep and
their cleanliness with the same sort of
consideration as he gives to his own
living—having them always hygienic, dip-
ping when necessary, keeping his pastures
up to scratch and providing against star-
vation in dry seasons—is the one who
scores.
Dipping Methods.
“Albarmount”: Critics of the lift-in
type have said nothing favorably for
forcing races, as used in the slide-in and
walk-in methods. The moving-racc sys-
tem, as suggested by “Z.N.” (B.
21/8/’35), might obviate the necessity
of forcing races or lifting in, but entails
more expense installing rollers, pulleys,
belt, etc., and running an engine.
For the few days’ dipping each year
this extra cost is uneconomical to sheep-
men with flocks up to 5000, whose cause
I have kept in mind.
“W.McD.” says “lifting sheep is the
finest man-killing job” he knows of. Ask
him how many shearers has he known it
to kill? The three-inch lift into a dip
requires no more effort than when a
shearer catches a sheep and lifts it up,
to say nothing of carrying it out and
shearing it.
Comparing the effort required for the
lift-in method with lifting sheep over
fences and the strength of a Camera is
ridiculous. 1 doubt if these critics have
ever seen a lift-in dip in action. Men of
average strength can tip in the sheep
faster than they can swim out, and
surely that says enough for the method.
“Tee Pee”: Has anyone tried an
escalator made of old header runners
and engine-driven? This beats the other
methods into a cocked hat. The device
can be simply rigged by a handy man
with a forcing pen opening on to the
escalator. A decoy is useful.
Care of the Downcalver.
“Silky Bag”; If a cow doesn’t calve
with her proper bloom, the chances arc
100 to 1 against her developing her full
milk flow. She must be fed just as well
during the last six months she is in calf
as she is in the first six months of milk-
ing. By “fed well” I don't mean with
rich concentrates —just plenty of good
plain feed, first-class pasture or good
lucerne and clover hay. The quality
must be there, as the dry cow has worked
overtime often enough in replacing tissue
and bone used during the previous lacta-
tion.
A cow that is milking above herself
and keeps losing condition should be
dried off early—two or two and a half
months before calving is not too long.
The cow that puts on weight and goes
off her milk as the season progresses
doesn't warrant much consideration. She
is usually better sold.
The best practice I’ve tried is to let
the dry cows graze on the same pasture
and be fed in the bails with the rest of
the herd. They’re more at home and
sure not to be neglected. They can be
removed when on the point of calving
for a few days.
Calcium is the important mineral.
Through the lactation, unless bonemeal
is fed, the average cow may give over
half an ounce of calcium salts in her
milk above what she gets from her daily
feed. This naturally affects the growth
of the embryo calf. A 40/60 salt-bone-
meal lick, with a trace of pot, iodide,
should always be available, though it is
better to feed about two tablespoons of
bonemeal daily, mixed direct into some
chaff to make sure. Lucerne hay or
chaff is a good calcium feed.
It pays to treat spring ealvers well.
They’ve mostly had a roughish lime
in the winter, and the laxative-weak
pastures arc a poor start for them.
Stock Import Pays.
“El V.”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has done a good thing in adopting
a scheme to spend £lO,OOO a year on
helping the import of stud stock. Farm
horses, beef and dairy cattle, fat-lamb
sheep and pigs suitable to produce export-
pork (Berkshires, Whites and Tamworths)
will all be included.
In beef and pork, regular import is
needed if standards are to be kept in
line with the types which British buyers
demand. It is not a matter of the merit
of the animal, but of conformation.
Pure-bred .Shorthorns have been imported
since 1824-25, when the N. S. Wales Agri-
cultural Society and Potter Macqueen, of
vSegenhoe (Hunter River), introduced con-
signments. But show prizes usually go
to animals within two or three genera-
tions of an import.
The Argentine has long ago learnt the
secret of success,.and brings in a flood of
the best .Scotch bulls every year. Its
buyers attend the Perth (Scotland) sales
in droves, and pick the eyes out of the
market regardless of price. They have
paid up to £14,000 in past years for a
bull, and he usually turns out to be a
commercial proposition.
When, however, after the war an Aus-
tralian breeder paid £4OOO for a bull over-
seas, public opinion said he was crazy.
Within a few years studs and stations
were clamoring for the offspring. Sixty-
eight head sold for £17,000, although
females were rigidly kept in the herd, and
it was calculated that £lOO,OOO worth of
(hat bull’s stock and that of his progeny
was distributed inside a decade.
The produce of that bull (Mr. Anthony
Hordern’s Masterkey) has revolu-
tionised a number of first-class herds,
and several other breeders have now dis-
covered that £3OOO paid for a sire can be
a sound commercial proposition.
The bigger breeders do not need
Government freight subsidies —they
would prefer tax-reduction but the
Government scheme, if it is properly
worked, will give the smaller men and
district groups a chance. If every Agri-
cultural Bureau in N. S. Wales, for
instance, owned a good stallion or so
and a few boars and bulls at stud, it
should prove profitable. Such a scheme
has its difficulties, but is feasible.
Using Sodium Chloride.
“Wundi”; Especially since sodium
chloride has been reported as effective in
destroying ragwort, it has become highly
important as a weedicide. It is an easy
salt to handle —white and crystalline, and
easily soluble in cold water. Deep-root-
ing weeds need a 10 p.c. solution —about
11b. to a gallon of water —but many weeds
succumb to 1 p.c. Ragwort calls for the
maximum. About 150 gallons of spray
needs to be used to the acre. On small
patches a knapsack sprayer handling
from two to five gallons will do the job.
Do not be discouraged if pests sprayed
with sod. chloride do not curl up at once.
Action is slow, and sprayed plots should
be left for a few weeks after they have
been dealt with. Crops sown shortly
after spraying would be affected.
Spray the plants when in flower if pos-
sible, and do not be concerned if a fall
of rain follows the job. It docs no harm,
and sometimes hastens the end of the
victims.
Two other points need to be noted.
Stock may be made ill, though rarely
fatally, by licking the leaves. And the
chemical makes everything it touches in-
flammable, so that clothes and straw satu-
rated with it become a danger.
Bull Control.
“Lion”: Tell "El V.” (B. 14/8/'35)
that bull-licensing is to be introduced
into England because of the necessity for
“the best only” in face of such severe
competition from everywhere. If Eng-
land needs it, how much more do we.
At least half the bulls in average dairy
herds should have had the knife when
six months old.
It is a fallacy to think, as so many do.
that as Jong as a cow is in calf (hey are
progressing. Those who use inferior
bulls, keep their heifers and calve
them to othef equally inferior bulls are
depreciating their herds with each genera-
tion. It costs no more to feed a good
bull than a scrub. As an American
journal says:—
If there is a mortgage on the place,
the scrub bull will hasten the day of fore-
closure, but if one docs not have a mort-
gage and still keeps a scrub bull he will
soon have both.
Choosing Lucerne Seed.
“Spring”; I cannot agree with all that
“Mangaratta” says re colored lucerne
seed (B. 14/8/*35). I found (in Rivcrina)
that green-colored seed was the worst, as
it had been stripped 100 early. Result,
faulty germination and weak plants.
Often coloration is due to the stack of
seed stems having been allowed to heat
before threshing. Coloration is caused by
seasonal conditions, and does not affect
seed quality,
1 have found that the best way is to
select large-sized, plump (i.e., no hollows
in the sides) deep golden seeds.
One is sure of 97 p.c. germination from
these. When in doubt, spread some of
the seed on a damp piece of blotting
paper in a warm room. Keep just moist.
The percentage of germination can be
calculated, and after a little experience
the approximate strength of the planls-
lo-be, "weeds” being easily distinguished.
1 have grown many tons of seed, but
have never offered it for sale when
badly colored. It has been sown on the
property. The amount used has been
increased in proportion to its estimated
germinating qualities. The result has
been successful in every way.
Dealing with Bracken.
“Agricola”: Bracken does not pay
dividends, but efforts to destroy it on
farms are generally not sustained.
~ Some of the N.S.W. South Coast dairy-
men, by cutting the fronds for two
seasons and planting roots of Kikuyu,
have converted useless fern country into


A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
gd
Try a handmade shoe
and feel the difference
I'eel the soft, pliant, leather upper
mould firmly around your foot,
supporting, but never pinching.
Feel the spring in the sole, the soft-
ness of the stiffeners, and yet the
firmness and strength of the leather
under your foot. Above all, feel
that you have purchased a shoe that
cannot be beaten in comfort, smart-
ness or long life.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in full and half sizes.
Specify width and length and order,
also, a tin of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d.), or a compact cleaning
outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF.. 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS;
ABBEY. BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 454.
fgh
No. 138
The
TUMBA
STOCK
SADDLE
£12(151-
(MOUNTED)
With reasonable care this
saddle should last a life-
time. The material and
workmanship throughout
arc first-class. The tree is
exceptionally strong, with solid gullet
that will not spread or break, and the
seat and skirts are combined so that there
is no seam to burst.
WALTHER & STEVENSON
LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
%
V'
I
THE “ ARTILLERY”
LOG-SPLITTING GUN
(Patented).
Revolutionises log-splitting. No boring.
Cuts labor and material down to a
minimum. If your local dealer does not
stock the Gun, write for full particulars
WINGATE & CO., LTD.,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
Manufacturers mill DlstriliuliiiK: Akciils.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP. Written
in simple form for novice and experienced
player. At all bookstalls and newsagents 2/-,
or posted direct from Thv Bulletin, Id. extra.
wv -w
A
1
A
*
■yr-1 •r? r '~
UN
*****
9
M
X^v
4T4^r
TO ENGLAND
the Scenic Route
Fort nighty Sailings via
CANADA or U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
247 George St., 59 William St.,
Sydney Melbourne.
ImiduuuduMalamnMnwtiMm
LUCERNE SEED
Come to the Home of Lucerne to obtain the best seed. The old-established fields
of New South Wales produce most of the high-quality Lucerne of Australia, and it
has been our privilege to clean and grade it for the past and present generations.
Demand and obtain only
FOSTER’S CHOICE. LUCERNE SEED
(GIANT UPRIGHT BROADLEAF TYPE)
1/9 per pound, lewt. lots or more, 1/7 per pound.
Free trainage in N.S.W. on orders of £2 or more, and on Interstate orders of £5 or more.
FOSTER & SONS, LTD., 194 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY (Est. 1880).
valuable pastures. Kikuyu, however, will
not thrive in cold country, though sub.-
clover will.
It is from underground sections of the
plant—not the ordinary feeding roots,
but the rhizomes —that buds form from
which the fronds arise. The rhizomes
are packed with food reserves such as
sugars and starch. This food is manu-
lactured in the fronds from carbon
dioxide collected from the air, and
mineral salts contained in the soil
moisture taken in by the plant’s roots.
The cutting of the fronds interferes
with the building up of food reserves,
and the plants in time must die off.
The correct time to cut the fronds is
when they are fully formed, but prior to
the stems hardening. At this stage they
have drained the rhizomes of their
growth requirements, but have not begun
to manufacture reserves.
On country free of stones and litter
the mowing machine, and on small areas
the scythe, can be used to cut the fronds.
Pasture harrows do good work in break-
ing down the softer types of growth. On
steep hillsides and stony areas the fronds
should be broken off or bruised by
switching them with a length of No, 8
or No. 10 fencing wire attached to about
211. of broom handle.
The destruction of bracken on areas
that can be cultivated is simple. Work
the land with a disc plough or disc culti-
vator and later sow crops. On hill
country a hillside disc plough does
excellent work.
Lucerne Cultivation.
“Mangaratta”; Cultivation docs no
harm to lucerne when the crown is cut
vertically, but is dangerous when cut on
the slant. If the paddock is worked both
ways the crown must be damaged. Culti-
vation. only in the direction of the
original drilling is safest. I see nothing
to commend cultivation to a depth of
Bin., instead of 4in., as practised in my
district. “Lion” (B. 2J/8/’35) contends
that it makes top-dressing afterwards
more profitable, but, as the roots are
inany feet down, what difference does an
inch or two make, except to put a heavier
load on the team?
The practice of feeding down continu-
ously in the spring to keep down barley
grass is not a good one. it has cost me
dearly to prove that continual feeding
down, particularly in winter or spring,
when frosts occur in most highland
districts, does irreparable harm, it is
belter by far to allow the lucerne and
barley grass to grow and cut it just as
the grass seeds.
Undoubtedly, it would make poor hay,
but it would make first-class silage, the
virtues of which for dairying or even fat-
lamb raising, as experiments at Rose-
worthy College (S.A.) prove, are becom-
ing more apparent. Barley grass can
thus be eliminated in a year or two.
Pig-farm Equipment.
“Pappamosca”: The next 20 years, if
we are lucky, will see the big Australian
pig-larmer on a level with the grazier
and the bigger class of dairyman. Argen-
tine breeders number their herds in thou-
sands. There are even said to be peso
millionaires who have made their money
out of the hog—the most famous is an
Argentine Irishman.
The tradition still lives in Australia
that Dennis is only a sideline, and that if
he is to thrive he must be stuck in a
sty, ankle deep in milk slush and smell-
ing like the best old Gorgonzola.
Plenty of paddocks is the first require-
ment. Pigs have a bad reputation as
fence-breakers, but they do not deserve
it. Give them good pasture and plenty
of other food, and the fences will stay
up. '
Each set of paddocks should have
its own troughs and sheds, but inov-
able troughs and shelters are a good
idea. Where sheds are Bft. x Bft. x 6ft.
or thereabouts, they are a convenient
size to move about whole. If they are
built of light material, on skids, there is
not much difficulty in pulling them with
the farm tractor or horses.
In small-scale work, three acres of
good pasture should be about the stan-
dard for a boar, six sows and their
young, A good layout is to run a lane
across the proper centre of the property,
Divide the land on one side into half a
dozen quarter-acre paddocks for the
boar, dry sows and sows with litters.
Except for two paddocks, which should
be under cultivation, all should have
pasture and shelter-sheds.
The other half of the property should
be divided into half-acre paddocks for
growing pigs. Feeding troughs should
be placed in paddocks adjacent to either
side of the lane, and one end of the lane
should be turned into a yard with
hurdles and with a loading race at the
outer side.
Water should be plentiful. A clean
device is an automatic waterer made
from a 40-gallon drum. This is set in
the middle of six inches of galvanised-
iron tank. A half-inch plug-hole on top
Jets the water in ; a hole about
from the bottom lets it out and keeps the
water at a static level high enough to
allow the pigs to drink.
Hints for the Farm.
"Pinto Pete”: A good staker for the
treatment of skins- after tanning can be
made by driving a well-worn duckfoot
cultivator point into the top of a small
stump. Drive an axe into the slump,
and, after flattening the cultivator point,
hammer it into the split thus made, using
a piece of hardwood as buffer.
“Tryil”; When laying unseasoned
floorboards, especially in woolshcds,
clamp as tightly as possible, driving a
nail in each fourth board so that it can
be withdrawn when required. Leave
until dried out properly from three to
12 weeks, according to the state of the
timber. Withdraw nails, reclamp and
nail permanently. The finished job is
worth all the trouble.
“Stump Jump”; To save the horses,
and also uneven wear on cultivator points
and axles, check frequently the “floor”
of the points with a long, straight board.
Level point-to-point in one row first, and
get the other levels from that. This
simple check may save a lot of sore
shoulders.
Instead of putting the
manure in a heap at the cowshed secure
an old 400 gal. square tank and cut about
a foot off the top. 801 l the remainder
to two wooden sledge-runners, and con-
nect with a piece of chain or wire at
each end, so that it may be pulled either
way. Hook a horse on, pull it out, and
spread where required.
“Ru Desille”; Can’t beat “Seenitall’s”
19-year-old wether’s 91b. fleece fB.
7/7/’35). But I can certify that a 23-
year-old crossbred ewe is still going
strong on the Namoi (N.S.W.), and cele-
brated her coming of age by rearing a
fine lamb.
“Bimbo”: “Yeoman’s” advice on top-
dressing with super, is good (B. 31 /7/’35).
But no hard-and-fast rules can be laid
down. Conditions vary in different dis-
tricts. I get far better results at Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) by applying 601 b. per
acre annually instead of a heavier dress-
ing every third year. One year I top-
dressed a small paddock, half with 601 b.
per acre and the other half with 1801 b.
per acre, and could not see any additional
benefit from the heavier dressing. The
paddock was not treated the following
year, but the lighter-dressed area pro-
duced as much feed as the area which
had received the heavier dressing. The
extra labor involved in treating annu-
ally pays handsomely.
“Z.”: The grasshopper is getting ready
for its spring campaign. Beds have
been found in most of the farming dis-
tricts of S.A., and also at Kyneton (Vic.).
Victoria is due for a bumper season, so
there will be plenty there for the
’hopper to cat. But in N. S. Wales and
Queensland he will find himself living on
dry, hard tack, for there is about as much
moisture in the visitors’ favorite haunts
in those States as there is kindness in an
Indian usurer's heart.
“Rambil”: When fattening cattle for
sale, it pays to use well-bred stock.
Recently I drove through 100 miles of
rich cattle country and saw only two
properties grazing first-class sorts of
cattle. They were owned, I was told, by
wealthy men who could afford to pay
good prices. One would never sell his
bullocks under £l2. And he always not
his price. He. I learnt later, had started
from nothing.


M
BY APPOINTMENT
%
m
VA
TA
V.
9
A
W,
W
///,
r
m
<
?/■
m
/
f
m
y/A
V/.
'A
m
z
a
M
*
Vi
"\
m
*'Cr*-
3
OSS
r
*u
\
«•
s
\
isf/lif
V
Sm
%
V
\\v
ft
\h
V
V/,
9\
Zr\
>
/
r
a.
yc?.
/?
PV
A
Z
/ja
w
N
W
S^'
THE CASTLE OF DOUNE (Perthshire)
“What time when Lear and Genius fled, frae bar and town,
To Teith’s clear stream, that babbling played by Castle Doune.”
In response to many requests, Dewar’s have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
measuring 12 x 10 inches, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.,
Melbourne or Sydney.
H igh above the rolling Teith, flanked by the torrent of Ardoch, stands
the Castle of Doune, a fortress which tradition ascribes to Murdoch, Duke of Albany,
who sat on the throne of Scotland in the fifteenth century. One time residence of
the unfortunate Mary, Queen of Scots, scene of many desperate and glorious deeds,
and theme of more than one pathetic ballad, Doune Castle remains on its lofty
promontory ♦ . * like Dewar's, “unchanged amid a changing world/'
DEWARS
SCOTCH WHISKY
THE SPIRIT OF OLD SCOT LAND


SMOKE-OH!
When the rumor of the disposal of
the Abyssinian oil concessions reached
Italy, Mussolini was heard to mutter
that the only oil they’d get would be
castor oil.
*1* 4* -I- -I-
those extraordinary gorilla-like arms Hung
wale, displaying while teeth in a broad and
dazzling smile.” —Hobart " Mercury .”
And mouth wide open revealing a hairy
chest.
4* *1* 4* 4*
The Philosopher.
No matter in what circumstances
J arm as was placed, he always recognised
in them some providential good. He saw
a silver lining in the darkest clouds.
When visiting a dentist, he would say:
"By Jove, I’m happy! It’s wonderful
to have the prospect of soon being rid
of this toothache. And, besides, J’JI be
helping a poor old dentist to eke out a
living.”
Jilted on his wedding day, his first
remark was, “Maybe it’s just as well.
The marriage mightn't have been a
success.”
Once, after being assaulted and robbed,
he declared that he would actually profit
by the experience. And even when lying
in hospital, hall dead with, pneumonia.
Hey, miss, you're Wanted on the
'phone !"
he kept raving about how intensely he
would enjoy his health once it was re-
stored to him.
Poor Jarmas was killed in a motor
accident. As he was passing out, he
made a gallant effort to smile, and faintly
whispered:
“Oh, well —I won’t have to go to the
next war, anvhow!’’
T. W. N.
►j. a. a. a.
Bulls for Bars.
“A Jersey bull escaped and dashed into the
bar of a hotel. The barmaid lied, and, aban-
doning their drinks, all the men in the bar
followed. The bar was cleared in a few
seconds.”— “S. M. Herald.’’
This seems entirely to upset the police
contention that 20 minutes should he
allowed for clearing a bar. If the Com-
missioner would put bulls on the job in-
stead of “bulls,” after-six drinking would
soon be a thing of the past.
It is understood, however, that the
department has lost the opportunity of
securing the services of this pioneer "bull,
as he has already been purchased by the
Amalgamated Landlords and Rent Col-
lectors’ Society, who intend to breed a
herd of eviction cattle.
Oxo.
“Often in later life things heard in childhood
are remembered as if thought of on the
>pur of the moment.”—' "John o’ London.”
So that's where the new* jokes come
from.
*’■ ‘I* 4*
Sprig.
A note of joy is on the wing; the
flowers smile and birdlets sing; the
cares of life aside I fling. It's spring'
I feel as giddy as a goat; and for the
longings in my throat it's safe to pawn
my overcoat. It’s spring!
The sunshine’s glad upon the earth
No more the days of cold and dearth of
merriment. Come times of mirth, with
spring.
But all at once my hopes are slain,
With suddenness down pelts the rain!
and icy blasts come back again. That’s
spring!
Od asbros now Tb beid fed. The code
id hebby id by head; I’b dud ad dreary
ad id bed. Id’s sprig!
P. P.
•b *b *b •£■
“A scientific expedition in Africa reports that
it has found an imprint of an enormous pre-
historic human foot Din. long.”
So much for the claim that Robert
Peel established the police force.
•b *b *b *b
Trade Secrets.
“Speed” Sporran, the famous Ameri-
can adventurer, captive of the Mug-
wumps of Zenithia, sat in his cell rub-
bing an injured shoulder with Dr. Goof’s
Soothemquik Liniment.
“Great stuff, this,” he said. “That
Gorilla-man nearly lore me limb from
limb this morning, but thanks to good
old Dr. Goof the pain's eased right out."
“I thought that
Gorilla-man had
you properly,”
said Professor
Nitrate, his fel-
low-captive.
“Not a chance!”
laughed Speed. “I
soon got wise
that he was a
dental cripple!
Pro u d of his
hairy chest; care-
less about his
gums. That’s a
thing / don’t have
to worry about,”
he wen t on,
brushing his teeth
vigorously; “I use
Gummo. Know
how I flattened
those six Alliga-
tor - men yester-
day?”
“I was wonder-
ing”—
“They were
suffering from
self-poisoning! If
they only knew
about Jiffo Tablets,” chuckled Speed,
taking a tablet himself, “they’d soon
be peppy like me. Them tablets and
a morning gargle with Spoofine keep
me fit to tackle anything they’ve got here
in Zenithia.”
“Emperor Pongo threatened to turn the
Flame-men loose on us to-morrow,”
said Nitrate gloomily. “I can't sleep for
thinking”
“Don't let that worry you. Here’s a
bottle of Somnolux. Rub a few drops
on your forehead, and you sleep like a
child. I always use it, and that's why
T get up with steady nerves and bound-
ing energy. Now for a great night's rest.
He-turned over.
A moment later Nitrate murmured,
“Speed, I know you’ve got a tough beard,
and yet you’re always face-happy. How
do you manage it?”
But Speed was asleep.
Abie.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If your wife laughs at your joke, you can
be sure that it’s either an excellent joke or
that you’ve an excellent wife.”
—Humorous Hem.
Or that she wants a new hat.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Mr. Justice Metafour Sums Up in a
Bigamy Case.
“Gentlemen of the Jury,—The flower
of innocence must bloom untarnished
until such time as the Crown has, with
proper evidence, blasted the very rock
upon which it has its foundations,
“The prisoner, it is alleged, has
been gathing rosebuds along the prim-
rose path while the star of his good
fortune was shining. Unfortunately
for him, he appears to have been
hitched to this star by one too many
conjugal bonds, and the long, all-seeing
arm of the Law has now reached forth
and brought it crashing down about his
head like a pack of wolves.
“His first marriage was indeed unfor-
tunate, for he appears to have contracted
a union above his station. He was, in
fact, the ugly duckling amongst birds
of another feather.
“He took the fatal plunge out of the
toils of his ill-assorted bargain, and
sought to fish in fresh pastures for a
mate more of his own calibre.
“So long as this couple refrained
from embarking upon the formality of a
marriage ceremony, the sword of justice
remained discreetly blindfolded and
winked the other eye. But when they
attended at St, Ethelred's with the
felonious intention of engrafting upon
their luckless offspring a name which
they might proudly wear upon their
secret hearts for the term of their
otherwise natural lives, the prisoner
leapt out of the frying-pan of immorality
into the iron hand of the criminal law,
and now finds himself standing prostrate
before the seat of justice.
“The defence has raised a number of
ingenious technical arguments which need
not now concern you. The only ques-
tion for you to determine is whether the
prisoner, being lawfully married, went
through a form of marriage with the
woman Brown. If you find this as a
fact, you must stifle any tears that tend
to spring out of the milk of humanity,
and follow freely the straight and
narrow path along which stern duty re-
lentlessly -drives you.”
Niblick.
v q- -i- -i-
A Mosquito Trap.
An excellent method of trapping mos-
quitoes is to cut several corks into hun-
dreds of small pieces, and put them
inside your socks so that they form a pad
around the ankles. Then go and sit out
on the verandah after dusk. The mossies,
Dear me, the static s Worse than ever since thcii
changed the Wave-lengths
following their usual practice, will dive
straight for the space between the top
oJ the shoes and the trouser cuffs and
get to work. Their sharp proboscides,
piercing the socks, will become impaled
on the bits of cork, rendering them help-
less, as they can’t pull the bits out
through the socks, unless the latter have
holes in them (watch this).
The mosquitoes can afterwards be re-
moved and strangled at leisure.
S. W. K.
*!• -I- •!• -I-
“Rose was conceited and self-centred.”
• — Woman’s paper.
She thought that everything was Rosie.
* T -I- *
“Hitler is urging all German men lo marry.”
That bowls out his pretence that he
favors peace.
*l* -I- *i-
A Life Short.
From basement lo roof the nine-storey
building blazed fiercely. Thousands of
spectators lined the street and thrilled to
the leaping flames. Suddenly a great cry
was heard ; on the top of the doomed
building two black cats had appeared.
“D’you think we’ll get outa this?”
gasped the first cat in terror.
“Not a chance,” snapped the other,
spitting into the flames. “Climbing down
we’ll lose a life on each floor, an' with
nine uv them lo get through we'd conk
out just as we reached the bottom.”
J. McC.
+ + 4* 4-
An Odd Job.
“Limewashers wanted.” — “S.M.H.” advert.
It is a peculiar thing that there are
always eccentric people advertising to
have some particularly futile work done.
What is the sense in paying fellows to
wash lime? So far as I can see, the
stuff seems to be perfectly white as it is,
and any amount of washing won’t render
it any cleaner. I’m told there are many
inherent difficulties in limewashing of
which the layman is lamentably ignorant.
If the operator is not careful when scrub-
bing it he will clog up the scrubbing-
brush, and a serious loss of lime will
result. Then, again, it is the most awk-
ward stuff to put through a wringer.
Most exasperating of all, however, is
the job of drying it. It is impossible
efficiently to peg it out to dry, whilst, if
spread out on the ground, it either gets
dirty or blown away.
This limewashing seems a sheer waste
of energy to me.
K. W.
Generosity with Reservation.
1 gave you trinkets, gloves and hose,
A Persian kitten,
My heart as well —which surely shows
l hat / was smitten.
But love depends so much on bluff
(Though more's the shame)
/ hat I'd sagacity enough
To keep my name!
P.O.M.C.
Business after Pleasure.
“In Singleton recently, sporting bodies pro-
tested to the business people because some of
their players were detained late on Saturdays.”
Quite right, too. I remember once in
my home town we were up against the
same problem, so we got all the shops
and offices to close at noon on Satur-
days. Would you believe it, some of
the old fogies cut up quite rusty. Parti-
cularly old Owlwil, who kept the drapery
store and was president of the Band of
Hope.
Owlwit swore he'd beat us, but we
laughed.
We soon found that even noonday
closing wasn’t a complete remedy. After
a strenuous morning some of our chaps
would turn up tired out and unable to
play their best. When the municipal
elections came round we put in a crowd
that passed a by-law thus: —
No shop or place of business employ-
ing a registered footballer, and no shop or
place of business competing with a shop
or place of business employing a regis-
tered footballer, shall be permitted to open
or transact any business whatsoever on
Saturdays.
Another by-law made such places close
at 3.30 p.m. on training days.
About this time a new chap, Fizgig
by name, came to the town. As a foot-
baller he was miles ahead of anything
we’d ever seen in the district. 1 rushed
in and got him signed up with my team.
"Want a job?” I asked him.
"No, thanks,” he told me ; “I’m fixed
up.”
I didn't ask any questions.
He turned up at training on Thursday
afternoon, and his form was a real eye-
opener. That night some of our chaps
were hooted in the street, but we didn't
lake any notice. Rivalry was very keen
in our town.
On Friday 1 got a ring on the ’phone.
“If y’ play Fizgig on Saturday there’ll
be trouble,” said a gruff voice. Mysti-
fied, I asked for further information.
“You know why,” said the voice accus-
ingly, and rang off.
I decided to ignore the threat.
I was out of town
next morning, and
when I got back
shortly before the
match I drove
straight to the oval.
Outside the dress-
ing-room was a
struggling crowd of
angry and excited
men.
“Here he is,” they
cried. “Grab him.”
I was seized and
dragged into the
committee - room.
The rest of the com-
mittee and most of
the team were
already prisoners.
Tome on! No talking,” said the ring-
eader. “Sign this.”
“What is it?” I asked.
"It's Fizgig’s release from his con-
tract.”
“But why? I don’t under”
“Never mind that. Sign!”
“Better sign,” counselled my captain,
“or they’ll wreck the joint. They.’re
desperate.”
I signed, intending to plead duress
later. With a mighty cheer they rushed
ofl. bearing Fizgig shoulder high.
“What’s the idea?” I asked the cap-
lain. “Are they all drunk?”
“No, that’s just the trouble. Fizgig’s
the new barman at the Crown, and all
the pubs in the town are shut.”
A few nights later I was seeing the
Sydney train off, and I'm hanged if Fiz-
gig wasn't a passenger, and who should
be seeing him off but old Owlwit.
“Well, good-bye, Claude,” said Owl-
wit. “Here's the cheque I promised you.”
"Thank you, uncle,” replied Fizgig.
JASBY.


••SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
THERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for, quality, building up .a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. .It will';prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS."
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LOfiDOV, ENGLAND.
; Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Bok 71, MELBOURNE, VC.
WORN PLUGS
WAITE YOUR
MONEY
Replace them with
CHAMPIONS
DM*
WORLD
LEADERS
FOR 25
YEARS
Champion
SPARKING PLUGS
Obtainable at all leading
Automotive Supply Dealers
SPLENDID ROAD PERFORMANCE
ESTABLISHED BY AIRSTREAM DE SOTO SIX
SPEEDY, ECONOMICAL AND COMFORTABLE.
BY FRED BERRY.
A
S was to be expected from a Chrysler product, the Airstream
De Soto Six, tested over the “Bulletin” course, passed with
honors. Whilst price is relatively low, performance and
appointments are of the highest standard,
Renowned in the past for extreme
reliability, the 1935 series, by reason
of numerous mechanical refinements,
together with the general use of hard,
wear-resisting steels, should give owners
a longer engine life and less worry about
maintenance costs.
Driving this new De Soto on any type
of road is a pleasure, the powerful
motor and efficient brakes imparting a
confident sense of control, while the long
wheelbase, substantial weight and safety
steel body give a riding comfort com-
parable with that of much more expen-
sive machines.
Mechanically the De Soto Six em-
bodies almost every advantageous fea-
ture of modern design. The L-head
engine is suspended in the chassis on
floating-power mounting. With bore
3£in., stroke 4lin., the piston displace-
ment is 241.5 cubic inches (3957 c.c.).
R.A.C. rating is 27.34 h.p., but at 3400
r.p.m, 93 b.h.p. is developed. Compres-
sion ratio is 6.1 to 1, and the combustion
chamber is so designed that the motor
can be driven on full throttle without
knocking or detonation.
Side-by-side valves are fitted, the ex-
haust valves seating in specially hardened
valve inserts shrunk into the cylinder
block. The crankshaft, 2|in. in diameter,
runs in four steel-backed, precision-type
main bearings, and is balanced statically
and dynamically. In order to further re-
duce vibration, seven counterweights are
fitted, and an impulse neutraliser on the
forward end. Forged I-section connect-
ing rods are fitted with precision-type
replaceable bearings. Pistons are split
skirt, of aluminium alloy, and are
treated by a newly-developed process
known as Anodic coating, which is
claimed to render them virtually im-
mune from wear. Four piston rings (two
compression and two oil retainers) are
fitted to each, piston, located above the
floating gudgeon pin.
The petrol tank, of 12-gal. capacity, is
located at the rear of the chassis. The
fuel line to the motor extends along the
outside of the frame, preventing local
De Soto transmission, showing helical
gears and synchronising device for pur-
poses of easy and silent sear shifting.
heating and the possibility of vapor lock.
A mechanical pump, actuated by an
eccentric from the camshaft, draws fuel
to the down-draught-type carburettor,
fitted with accelerating pump, gauze-type
air-cleaner and silencer, whilst auto-
matic manifold heat control is secured
by a thermostat located on the exhaust
manifold and coupled to the choke con-
trol.
The automatic heat control eliminates
the possibility of error in starting up
from cold, and prevents running long
distances with choke open.
Temperature of the cooling water is
also controlled by thermostat, the water
round the cylinder block being kept
from entering the radiator until a pre-
determined heat has been reached, thus
promoting free circulation of lubricat-
ing oil when starting from cold.
Electrical equipment is of the six-
volt type, with a 119-ampere-hour bat-
Smart appearance and efficient stream lining are outstanding features of the
Airstream De Soto Six, tested over the Bulletin course.
tery. Generator is of the new air-cooled
type pulley by a V belt from a crank-
shaft pulley. Voltage control prevents
overcharging. The starter motor is of
the positive shift type in which starter
pinion and ring gear are engaged be-
fore current is applied.
Ignition is by coil, and baftery, auto-
matic spark control-being actuated by a
vacuum-operated device in the distribu-
tor head.
Full-pressure lubrication ensures the
circulation of oil to all reciprocating
parts. A geared pump draws oil from
the sump, and delivers it through pas-
sages drilled in the cylinder, block and
crankshaft to the front end driving
chain, main, connecting-rod and camshaft
bearings. Pistons, gudgeon pins and
cylinder walls are lubricated by splash.
Transmission is through a ventilated,
single-plate clutch lOin. in diameter, re-
quiring 30 p.c. less pedal pressure to
operate than in older models. Ball-bear-
ing release gear and an oilite bushing
in the clutch pilot ensure long life and
freedom from wear in the withdrawal
mechanism. The clutch pedal is mounted
on a frame cross member so that the
movement of the engine is not trans-
mitted to the pedals.
The three-speed-and-reverse gearbox
is bolted directly to the crankcase.
Synchro-silent heli-
cal-cut gears are
used throughout.
Ball- and roller-
bearings are fitted
to all shafts. The
final drive is
through an open
propeller shaft hav-
ing fully-enclosed
needle bearings and
universal joints at
front and rear
ends. The rear axle
is semi - floating
type, in a pressed-
steel banjo hous-
ing. Spiral bevel
gears of chrome-
nickel steel form the differential, the
final reduction ratio being 3.89 to 1.
Chassis is of X-type girder construc-
tion. with deep outswept side members.
Wheelbase is 116 in.
Tapered leaf semi-elliptic springs,
mounted outside the frame, are used,
together with single-acting shock-
absorbers, in rear suspension, silent-U,
non-sway,-rubber-bushed shackles giving
anchorages to chassis. Pantograph in-
dependent front-wheel suspension is
used, the action of coiled springs being
supplemented by double-acting hydraulic
shock-absorbers.
Special attention has been given to
the maintenance of wheel alignment and
steering-gear adjustment to avoid exces-
sive tyre wear. Steering gear is of the
worm-and-roller type, semi-irreversible,
reduction ratio being 18 to 1. The cen-
tral cross steering principle is adopted,
independent tie rods capable of indepen-
dent motion transmitting motion to the
front wheels.
Four-wheel hydraulic service brakes
are fitted, self-equalising and weather-
proof Centrifuse brake drums with cast-
iron liners giving maximum efficiency.
The emergency brake is operated by a
hand lever located behind the gear-
box.
Bodywork is safety steel, effectively
streamlined, with internal fittings and
hardware of good quality and neatly
designed. All exterior fittings are
Compact, powerful and accessible —the six-cylinder L-head
engine and gearbox.
chrome-plated. Front seat is adjustable
for length of leg. Dual windshield wipers
are electrically operated.
The instrument panel is indirectly
lighted, and includes an aeroplane-type
speedometer, ammeter fuel gauge, oil-
pressure gauge, water-temperature indi-
cator, cowl ventilator control, ashtrays
and a large glove box.
The car tested was a four-door Air-
stream De Soto Six sedan, driven by
W. Lowrie, of Buckle and Harden, Ltd.,
N.S.W. distributors. Complete with full
tank, driver and observer, weight was
Speedometer reading stood at
3125 miles, and the
motor ran smoothly,
having apparently
been thoroughly run
in.
The first impression
on driving through
congested traffic was
that, despite the rela-
tively high gearing of
3.89 to 1, response to
the slightest increase
in throttle opening
was instant, while the
efficient braking
equipment provided a
sense of absolute
safety under all con-
ditions.
Steering, even at low speeds, was
finger-light, and as a consequence the
car proved extremely safe and easy to
manoeuvre in traffic.
Passing through Parramatta and on
the open country road beyond, a very
Illustrating cross steering. Individual
tie rods move with the wheels without
transmitting corresponding movement to
drag link or steering gear.
high cruising rate was maintained, with
but slight throttle opening, and with
the motor smooth and silent.
Approaching Pitt Town speed was re-


USEFUL DATA ON AIRSTREAM DE SOTO
SIX. ii
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.K. in 10 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 7 2-5
seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 4 3-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 22ft.
Maximum speed, 80 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 23.4 m.p.g.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
1934
(SECOND
EDITION)
FEATURING ALL THE NEW CARS
Explaining the -■
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches . . . Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Drivers
What to do and when to do It.
FROM “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
and at all newsagents.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
It covers
THE WEST
Every market in Western Australia
is reached by 6AM. , Pastoralists,
wheat-farmers, dairy-farmers, fruit-
growers, timber-workers, miners—
in fact, every class of industry In
W.A. is catered for by 6AM. It is
the only commercial station which
serves the great rural communities
of tlie State.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers.
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
- ■ ■
/ i
% Mi
m
m-
:¥S¥
'
■
■ ■ \
THERE ARE OVER 700 SIZES
OjLrtUji S
if
D
*SGI
or Brom
ushln<£<
In the DUFOR range of BUSHES
Dulor Automotive Bushings are made from an absolutely guar-
anteed Phosphor Bronze metal and are tested for accuracy and
absolute uniformity.
These bushes are a proper fit for the Dufor range of automotive
replacement parts and are guaranteed equal in every particular
to original factory equipment.
The Dufor range of replacement parts includes Engine Valves.
Piston Pins, Spring Shackle Bolts. Steering Knuckle Bolts. Tie-Rod
Bolts, etc., all 100% Australian parts produced in Sydney from
Australian materials.
When a car requires replacements, specify Dufor, guaranteed
Australian parts.
AUSTRALIAN REPLACEMENT PARTS
DULVt HANSFORD Ltd
HAWKINS.iI.
duced to 15 m.p.h., and with gear lever
in neutral the car coasted 697 yards
before coming to a standstill.
After leaving. Windsor a test of maxi-
mum speed was made over a measured
distance of one mile with flying start,
an here the De Soto, driven for the
first time on full throttle, showed
astonishing road performance by clock-
ing the distance in 45sec., averag-
ing 80 m.p.h. During the test the
engine delivered its maximum power
without fuss or vibration, conversation
was carried on between driver and obser-
ver in normal tones, and the car steered
so easily that for a portion of the dis-
lance the car continued truly on its
course without hands on the wheel.
Continuing through Richmond and
approaching Kurrajong, the by-pass un-
made road through Grose Vale was
taken, and over this rough and tortuous
SJ* P®. 8010 Sl,v r e a
exhibition, riding comfort and road-
worthiness being of a high order.
Ascending Kurrajong Mountain the
final 2 1-5 miles of the steepest section
was selected as a test of climbing. From
a standing start the time taken, 3min.
18sec., was very fast, although several
seconds were lost over the loose, rough
section * owing to spinning of the rear
wheels. Second and top gears were used
throughout, the car holding the road
without rolling or undue skidding, and
negotiating the several acute bends at
high speed.
Returning down the mountain, the.
cross-country road through Castlereagh
to Penrith was taken, and on this section
further traffic tests were made. In top
gear 350 yards was covered as slowly as
possible, followed by a similar distance
on full throttle. Slow running occupied
£min. 18sec. u averaging 5.2 m.p.h., whilst
the accelerated section was clocked in
16 l-ssec., averaging 44.4 m.p.h., and
crossing the finishing line with the speed-
ometer showing 65 m.p.h.
Acceleration from
a steady 10 to 30
m.p.h. in top and
second gear was
timed in 7 2-ssec.
and 4 3-sscc. respec-
tively, whilst from
a standing start to
50 m.p.h., using first
and second gears,
occupied 10 l-ssec.,
proof of the ex-
cellent behavior of
the Dc Soto in
traffic.
A test of braking equipment showed
that from 25 m.p.h. the car would stop
in 22ft.
fuel used for the total journey of
117 miles was exactly five gallons, an
average of 23.4 m.p.g. (35.9 ton miles)—
an excellent result, particularly when the
high average speed of 37 m.p.h. is taken
into account. Turning circle on left
Thermostat on exhaust manifold controls
choke automatically, promotes easy
starting and prevents crankcase dilution.
and right locks was measured as 42ft.,
whilst minimum ground clearance under
diff. housing is B+in.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
B.C. (Wallaroi, S.A.), —/ propose buying a
’35 Olds., but will not make a final decision
until you have published the test. When will
this be 7
See issue of Sept. 4.
* * * *
W.D.S. (Bcenleigh, Q.). —I want to speed
up my Model A Ford, Would fitting a bigger
pinion and smaller crown wheel do the job 7
No. Raising rear axle gearing would only
upset general performance without improving
speed. Only method would be to tunc the
engine to deliver greater horse-power by increas-
ing the compression ratio and feeding more
fuel through the intake system. Wisest plan
is to leave well alone, unless you arc prepared
to face considerable expense.
* ♦ * ♦
Undecided (Kandanga, Q.), —•/ propose to
sell my '2B model and buy a new car, which
must serve for seven or eight years. Annual
mileage 5000 to 6000. I want economy com-
bined with durability. (1) Which of the four
makes named is best for my purpose? (2) Are
there likely to he radical changes in any of these
models that would render them out of date
next year ?
(1) 4, 1 and 2, 3 in that order. (2)
Highly improbable.
* * * *
A.W.K. (Brighton, Vic.).— The Solex car-
burettor on my ’27 English car has a habit of
flooding. Doesn’t do it perhaps for weeks,
then keeps it up for days. I clean it out fre-
quently, so grit is not the cause. Mechanics
have puzzled over it without success. Any
cure ?
There are only two possible causes of flood-
ing in Solex carburettor. First, worn needle
valve, which usually produces symptoms similar
to those stated. Only remedy is a new valve
and a grinding-in of seating. Punctured float
may also cause such trouble. Test by immers-
ing in boiling water and note if bubbles arise,
indicating hole in metal. Remedy: Exhaust
thoroughly and solder up.
♦ * ♦ *
E.M.H. (Ulverstone, Tas.). —•/ am having
trouble with my ’29 six-cylinder Chev. When
driving on half or full throttle the car performs
well, but will not idle. When throttle is opened
after running downhill the motor will not
pick up readily, but splutters for some seconds
before firing regularly. What's wrong ?
Symptoms indicate an air leak in the induc-
tion system. Check gastight fit of gaskets on
the intake manifold and at junction of car-
burettor. Also examine inlet valve guides and
butterfly spindle in carburettor for excessive
wear.
♦ * * *
J.A.F. (Pine Ridge, N.S.W.). —Some lime ago
you advocated a wax polish for exterior
finish. / find liquid polishes lend to lake off
the coaling on polishing rag. What wax should
be used 7
A good liquid exterior polish, whilst show-
ing color on the polishing rag, merely takes
oft the oxidised film and brings up a new
surface. Any well-established wax will serve
your purpose.
* * * *
K..E.A. (Gilgandra, N.S.W.).—/ wish to
raise the compression of my Fordson tractor
for suction gas. I understand there is a pro-
cess of spraying inside of cylinder heads with
aluminium. (1) Name of firm to do this?
(2) Is it possible to raise compression from
80 lb. to 130 lb. square inch by this process 7
(The Steering Column continued on
page 28.)


FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
Motorists are invited to write to
“The Bulletin” and recount any
interesting or novel experiences;
these, where accepted, will be pub*
lished under “Motor Oddities.”
Thrills and extraordinary driving
experiences have not been confined
to racing and competition drivers,
while outback mechanics, with
typical Australian ingenuity, have
worked miracles in getting their cars
home.
Descriptions of ancient motors still
in service, drivers with huge mile-
ages to their credit, and details of
difficult and hazardous journeys are
among subjects of interest to
readers of “The Steering Column.”
WORLD’S LATEST ATLAS
FOR YOU!
12S pages of maps in nine colors—SO.ooo won I
gazetteer—l2o,ooo-word story of (lie earUi.
48/- value for 7/(11 Available only to renders of
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
See this week’s issue—Now on Sale—Price (Id.
■tc ' ■■
HAD If |AU/F&
WHEN the world’s largest and
most skilled refiner of Pennsyl-
vania lubricants makes a motor oil
from the world’s richest crude Oil
(Bradford crude, from Pennsyl-
vania) . . . isn’t it reasonable that
the result is the world’s finest
motor Oil? That oil is called
VEEDOL. If you want extra horse-
power from your motor, smoother,
cheaper, quieter horse-power . .
IT’S JUST HORSE-SENSE
TO USE VEEDOL.
ESS
m
/
s
(3t!
m
m
/
:■' : - >->
23
SS
m
M
fM.
,
8»?
NOTCH
O
DRIVE IT HARD . , , DRIVE IT FAST . . . YOU
CAN'T BREAK IT DOWN. 100 PER CENT. PURE
PENNSYLVANIA —AX ITS BEST.
J3J.VIS nv
giilKll 1 ■ 3 1 WfllJ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
More Motorists than Ever
Simoniz Their Cars
The tVew K/eener makes SIMONIZING easier than ever.
V A'—
;v
- iOX^
! S
mmm%
■am
:•• -’i
iSSSS
:
8^
P
Sli /*
2ft
£
■v
r 4
%
t-*
-•
>-V v
vs
V^ftTK'S.
First Discovery of Minerals
i?i South Australia
In 1836, a carter hauling logs down the slopes of Mount Lofty, S.A.,
dislodged some stones l that revealed the presence of silver and lead
ore.
In 1842, Captain Bagot bought 80 acres of land containing a greenish
colored rock, and shortly afterwards the world was informed of the
discovery of the rich Kapunda Copper Fields. A few years later, the
Burra Burra mine was opened, and produced over £5,000,000 of copper
before it was closed down in 1877.
In South Australia, as in so many other parts of Australia, the dis-
covery of mineral wealth did much to promote prosperity and many
of those attracted to the fields, later engaged in agricultural and
pastoral pursuits.
In the development of Australia's resources, the Bank of New South
Wales has always played an important part, opening new branches
as settlement extended. Without the financial assistance that the
Bank was able to provide to the pioneers throuahout Australia,
development would have been greatly retarded.
Bank of New South Wales
(Established 1817)
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australasia
Bank of New South Wales Historical Scries No. 14. iSoA.igjs
“The Examiner” Is Still the Dominant and
Family Newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the only daily
effectively covering Northern Tasmania the same day of publication
It is published in Launceston, the centre of the prosperous and
progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of ‘‘The Examiner” and "Saturday Evening
Express” obtainable from:
W. K. BOLPB & SONS
I'TY., tTI).,
71-75 Paterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
M. S. AM,AX.
National liank Chambers,
271 Collins St. root,
MELBOIIIIXII.
w. doi oax.
56 Hunter Si reel.
SVIiNEY.
(3) If not, could this be accomplished by
planing the face of the cylinder head?
(1) Metal Sprayers, Ltd., Camperdown,
Sydney. (2) Yes, but it is nqt advisable. (3)
Yes. A combination of planing the head and
spraying the combustion chamber is the best
policy.
* * * *
P.B. (Ayr, Q.). —I intend buying a used
utility truck suitable for overland travelling, to
cost £lOO to £l5O. How long would the
saving of £l5O over the cost of a new truck
keep the used one in repair, provided it is in
good mechanical order and well shod ? Would
it be wiser to purchase a new one ?
The element of luck enters largely into the
purchase of a used truck. You might pos-
sibly cover several thousand miles without a
major expense, and again you might be faced
with a rebore, reraetalling of ends and perhaps
a back-axle replacement at any time, which,
coupled with a new set of tyres, would soon
make a hole in £l5O. A new truck is certainly
the safer investment.
* ❖ ♦ ♦
E.H.T. (N.S.W.). —I have been offered a
foreign motor-cycle at a price. Is it
worth the amount, and would repairs (emitter-
ated) he costly .'
Not a good investment. Repairs would cost
more than Ihe machine is worth. Advcr-
tise in one of (he city papers for the other
engine you require.
* * * *
J.G. (Barham, N.5.W.).--/ have a ’34 six-
cylinder tourer which has done 1200 miles. (1)
What pressure should he used in front and
rear tyres? (2) Car is rough to ride in on bad
roads. Would it he advisable to tighten shock-
absorbers? (3) Tappets have not been adjusted
since new, and, although a bit noisy when cold,
they are quiet when the engine is warmed up.
Would it improve the performance to have
them adjusted?
(I) 24 front, 26 rear when loaded; 23 all
SmS wlTo) Jit'S
tained at the clearances set out in the instruc-
lion manual if best performance is desired.
K.McR. (Gregory, N.S.W.). —I want to com-
pare the performance of cars {named). Is a
summary of tests published ?
See issue 21/8/*35.
* * * *
H.S. (.800l Lagoon, S.A.J. —After covering
36,200 miles, mostly over rough roads, with a
good deal of the running in low and middle
gear, my Chev. Six engine still does 20/24
m.p.g, but uses much oil, has little compression
and seems to clatter around the valves and
tappets. (1) What can he done to put
this right ? (2) Regarding 1935 cars, which of
the two ( named) would take the most looking
after, and is it a fact that one will do 90 to
100 m.p.h. in full louring trim ? (3) \Vhat
is the speed of the other car ?
No doubt cylinders require reboring and new
pistons and rings, valve guides renewed and
valve gear overhauled. Main and con.-rod
bearings may need remetalling. (2) Both cars
are extremely reliable. Max. speed of car
mentioned tested over “Bulletin” course was
76.3 m.p.h. (3) 75.3 m.p.h.
* * * *
M.E.G. (Suva, Fiji). —My instruction book
says that shock-absorber fluid should he filled
to level of plug opening in the front suspension
unit (knee action) every 2000 miles. As this
fluid is not procurable here, could I use engine
oil ?
In practice these units do not require service
as frequently as stated. Strongly advise using
correct oil, even though you have to buy from
the mainland. If stranded, use castor oil
in preference to a mineral oil.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Pick”: Before venturing across the
Molonglo (N.S.W.) a motoring party sent
driver wading through to test the depth
G f the river freshet. His passage show-
ing that in midstream the water would
. . • , h , H -i.*., in
lLacn engine, the party decided to
camp till the stream subsided. Presently
another motorist arrived. With the jack
he extended his front springs to their
utmost upward tension, fastened them
there with billets of driftwood, and drove
safely through the flood. The delayed
tourists followed his example.
* * * *
, .., . . « . , . u
Kotuku JVI.L. tanner bought an
°kl Renault Car at an auction sale.
thinking it would be just the thing lor
odd jobs about the farm. The old bus
didn’t appear to have a radiator, but
sce . m .= d '° chu « “ Io »* S u ite nice'y with-
c)L|t The next day, altei the larmei
had put in a tin of juice, she conked out.
It was then he discovered it did have
a radiator, and that he had put the
petrol in it.
“Don Pip”: At Smhhfield Speedway
(S.A.), the loss of an important part of
his motor-cycle engine during a 10-mile
race did not prevent a competitor from
winning. The flywheel broke loose in
the first lap, but engine revs, were main-
tained, and no irregularity of firing was
noticed.
* * * *
"Mail Car”; When making for a
windmill on the far side of the run,
and with 30 miles still to cover, the
Elderslie station (W.Q.) repair truck
turned a front wheel inside out. Time
was precious, as several thousand sheep
were dependent on that mill for water.
A. Parker, windmill expert at that time
(early ’twenties), improvised a wheel on
the spot out of hardwood pump rods
which not only did the trip hut kept
running until a new wheel was brought
from the south.
Dr Wade has furnished Frenev Oil
ui. waue nas minisneu rreney yu
( o. with a further report on its Kim-
berley areas. Structures, folds, domes
and synclines are mentioned, but their
extent and probable value have not yet
been determined.
* * * *
An optimist writing in B. 21/8/’35
imagined a State Premier as saying:
My Ministers and I will travel to and
from our homes in trains, trams or buses,
and will get about the city on foot or in
our own cars.
He has been answered, after a fashion:
The N.S.W. Government has bought a
new car for the Minister of Works. Other
Ministers to be provided with new cars are
the Attorney-General and the Minister of
Justice.
All three gentlemen have railway and
tramway passes, and the running of their
new cars will add to the immense losses
on Government transport. Railway losses
alone are estimated by the Auditor-
General as £26,095,000 in nine years.
* * « *
A woman recently did a both-ways
trip between England and Australia by
air mail—a record. She has a double
claim to fame, being the widow of
Charles Garvice, whose luscious romances
were read by millions all over the Eng-
lish-speaking world a generation ago.
* * * *
Archer Russell, traveller, naturalist and
anthropologist, whose Tramp Royal
Through Wild Australia has been pub-
lished by Jonathan Cape, has wandered
through much of Europe, Arabia and
Africa in the intervals of exploring his
native Australia. His means of loco-
motion have included stage-coach, mule-
and donkey-pack, pushbike, river-boat,
camel-train, motor-caravan, aeroplane
and Shanks’s pony. But he isn't likely to
tramp again to any extent. A war in-
jury went back on him recently, and he
now lives quietly near Sydney.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, telephonist,
knowledge office routine, requires position.—
8399.
Returned soldier, Sydney, small pension,
active, can massage, would travel, wants work,
any capacity.—B42l.
Young man, Sydney, exp. in all branches
of veneer and plywood manufacturing, seeks
employment in that business. —8407.
Dutchman (45), in Australia for 21 years,
seeks employment as interpreter or night
porter. Willing to give security.—B4os.
Middle-aged man, Canadian, Sydney, exp.
as cook on sea and land, knows languages,
speaks Spanish, wants j0b.—8420.
To buy, second-hand, books on public speak-
ing, after-dinner speaking and orations of
great men.—B3sB.
To buy cigarette cards, pre-war sporting and
theatrical scries preferred.—B377.
To buy My Dog and I, by Harding Cox. —
8419.
To buy Jose’s Romantic Nineties. —B4oo.
Words of old song “The Old Bush Track.” —
8404.
Words of verse “The Woman of the Future.”
—8337.
Information Sought.
What made the fame of Dally Messenger as
a Rugby League footballer ? How do Harold
Harder (.N.S.W.) and V. Hey compare with
him ?— 8242.
Comparisons arc difficult, since all played
in different positions and at different periods.
Messenger was a freak, a match-winner against
any company,' and, in addition to his try-
getting capacity, scored heavily with place- and
drop-kicking. Horder was a very speedy out-
side Centre or winger, with a wonderful swerve
and sidestep at full speed. Hey is an excep-
tionally good League five-eighth, with great
anticipation and football brains. He could
be classed with Horder in all-round utility.
Messenger had a place of his own.
* * * *
Particulars of Australian trade with (1) Abys-
sinia and (2) Italy for the last five years for
which figures are available ? —8379.
(I) Abyssinia; No exports; imports, 1929-30,
£12,219; 1930-31, £4616; 1931-32, £7833;
1032-33, £9300; 1933-34, £9224. (2) Italy:
1929- imports £1,350,849, exports £2,761,282;
1930- imports £658,301, exports £3,494,885;
1931- imports £453,891, exports £3,631,915;
1932- imports £676,139, exports £3,275,500;
1933- imports £588,260, exports £4,600,423.
* * * *
What are the current coins of Abyssinia,
and is there any medium of exchange there
apart from money ? —8348.
The current coin of Abyssinia is the Maria
Theresa dollar (nominally worth about 25., but
greatly depreciated as a result of the fall in
the value of silver), weighing 28.0668 grammes,
.8333 fine, and. the Menelik dollar, weighing
28.075 grammes, .835 fine. The latter has nomi-
nally the same value as the Maria Theresa
dollar, but in some places it is not taken at all.
Other silver coins are the half, quarter and six-
teenth (guerches, makeliks, tamoons or piastres)
of a dollar, and there is also a copper coin, the
besa (one thirty-second of a dollar). The
number of piastres or besa obtainable for a
dollar, although fixed by law, is, in fact, liable
to constant fluctuation. Various articles, how-
ever, are used as media of exchange; bars
of salt are accepted as money in many parts
of the country at a fluctuating rate according
to supply and cost of transport. Cartridges
are also currency, and in most places barter
prevails. The Maria Theresa dollar was origi-
nally minted in Vienna in the middle of the
eighteenth century.
* * * *
What was the largest nugget ever discovered
in N. S. Wales — weight and value ? —B3BO.
Holtermann’s Nugget, discovered at Hill End
in 1872; it weighed 7560 ounces, and was valued
at £12,000. Technically speaking, however, it
was not a nugget, but a mass of gold found
in situ in a reef. Kerr’s Hundredweight, found
at the Turon River in 1851, complied with the
definition of a true nugget; it was valued at
£5OOO, and weighed 1272 ounces.
♦ * ♦ ♦
I am told the author of “D’ Ye Ken John
Peel ?” lived for over 50 years in Tasmania.
Is that correct? —8353.
Yes. He was John Woodcock Graves, born
at Wigton, England, on Feb. 5, 1795. “John
Peel” was written in 1829, and four years
later Graves emigrated to Tasmania, where he
died in 1887. He was buried at Sandy Bay,
near Hobart.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about Nat Gould ?
—8368.
Nat Gould was born at Manchester, December
21, 1857. He was in Australia from 1884 to
1895, working on newspapers in Brisbane,
Sydney and Bathurst. He ascribed the immense
success of his first book. The Double Event
(1891), to the coincidence of its publication
with the Melbourne Cup meeting. His stories
concerned with horseracing had a great vogue.
At his death he had written about 130 books.
Besides fiction he published two books on
Australian life, On and Off the Turf in Aus-
tralia (1895) and Town and Bush (1896), as
well as The Magic of Sport (1909), mainly bio-
graphical. He died in England on July 25,
1919.
* * * *
Average annual export value for year 1933-34
of the following Australian commodities: (1)
Butter, (2) coal, (3) flour (wheaten ), (4) dried
fruits, (5) wheat, (6) wine, (7) wool, (8) (a)
beef, (b) lamb and (c) mutton preserved by
cold process, (9) sugar ? —8390.
(1) Bd. per lb. (2) 18s. sd. per ton. (3)
6s. 0.3 d. per cental. (4) Currants, 4.3 d. per lb.;
raisins, 4.3 d. per lb. (5) 2s. 10.6 d. per bushel.
(6) ss. 2.8 d. per gal. (7) Greasy, Is. 4.3 d. per
lb.; scoured and washed, Is. 9.9 d. per lb. (8)
(«) 2.8 d., (b) 5.6 d. and (c) 3.5 d. per lb. (9)
7s. 5.4 d. per cwt.
* ♦ * *
Where does the wine (grape) imported into
Australia come from ? —8322.
All figures are for the year ending June 30,
1934. Sparkling wines: France, 5349 gallons,
valued at £13,123; other foreign countries,
116 gallons, valued at £132. Still wines in
bottle: France, 5647 gallons, valued at £3798;
Germany, 978 gallons, valued at £1499; Italy,
723 gallons, valued at £537; other foreign
countries, 522 gallons, valued at £685. Still
wines in bulk; Portugal, 1390 gallons, valued
at £972; Spain, 8233 gallons, valued at £4531;
other foreign countries, 632 gallons, valued at
£lBl. A little wine also came from British
countries.
♦ * * *
(1) What was the date of the prohibition, or
regulation by poll tax, and the conditions of
Chinese entry into Vic. and S.A. ? (2) Dale
of wreck of emigrant ship Calleracpia, and par-
ticulars of passengers lost ? (3) How did Cape
Bernoulli, S.A., now called Cape Jaffa, gel Us
name, and why was it changed ? —8323.
(1) In 1855 Vic. passed an Act imposing a
tax of £lO on every Chinese entering the
colony, and the number of Chinese immigrants
that a vessel could bring was limited to one to
every 10 tons of registered tonnage. In 1857
a further Act imposed a license fee of £1 (pay-
able every two months) on every male adult
Chinese miner, the money in this case going
towards the cost of sanitary improvements at
Chinese camps and the payment of official
“protectors.” Two years later the entry tax was
increased to £4O and the residence tax fixed at
£4 per annum. In 1857 S.A. passed a restric-
tive Act on the same lines as Vic., but it
was repealed in 1861, Vic. shortly after follow-
ing suit. In 1881 both States reimposed a poll
tax of £lO, Vic. limiting the number of immi-
grants to one per 100 tons, and S.A. modifying
the restriction to one per 10 tons; in
1888 the entrance tax was dropped by both
and the passenger limit fixed at one in 500
tons of shipping. * The present language test
was instituted in 1901. (2) The Cataraqui is
doubtless meant. Bound from Liverpool to
Melbourne, she was wrecked at King
Island on August 4, 1845. Four hundred and
fourteen lives were lost, including the cap-
tain, officers (except first mate) and doctors.
The wreck occurred on a rocky coast near Cape
Wickham, on a dark night in a heavy sea:
nine men survived, but only one immigrant out
of 369. (3) The names Bernouilli and Jaffa
are both given as having been bestowed by the
French explorer Baudin, prior to his meeting
with Flinders in Encounter Bay, the latter re-
taining the nomenclature on his own maps.
♦ * * *
(1) How to get a job as wireless operator on
board an Australian ship ? (2) Where can
instruction be obtained ? —8332.
(1) A commercial operator’s certificate of pro-
ficiency, issued by the P.M.G.’s Department, is
necessary. In order to obtain this, the candi-
date must be able to send and receive the
Morse code at a speed of 25 words a minute
(first-class) or 20 words a minute (second-
class). He must also have a knowledge of elec-
trical and radio theory, direction-finding, auto-
alarm, regulations' applying to the exchange of
traffic and safety of life at sea, principal wire
and wireless routes of the world. (2) Marconi
School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-street, Sydney.
* * * *
I am a hoy in a country post office — mes-
senger, mail hoy and part-time telephonist. I
am nearly 16, and expect to be dismissed when
lam 18. What procedure should I take to
ensure permanent postal employment ? What
standard of examination is it necessary to
pass ? —8239.
Eligibility for permanent appointment in the
Commonwealth public service (which includes
the Postmaster-General’s Department) is se-
cured through competitive examination. The
only examinations under notification or likely
to be held at which you could compete are
those for appointment as clerk and junior
mechanic (training staff). Particulars of con-
ditions under which these examinations are
conducted may be obtained on application to
the Commonwealth Public Service Inspector,
315 Post Office Place, Melbourne, C.l. Appli-
cations to contest the examination for clerk
must be lodged with the Secretary, Common-
wealth Public Service Board, Canberra, prior
to September 11.
* * * ♦
What did the Australian. Flying Corps do in
the Great War ? —8356.
Its first section took part in the Bagdad
expedition of 1915, and those who were not
killed were made prisoners by the Turks in
Kut ; the first complete squadron served during
1916-18 in Egypt and Palestine; three other
squadrons were trained in England and served
on the Western Front in 1917-18. The four
squadrons comprised 410 pilots, 153 observers
md 40 other officers: of these 78 were killed,
68 wounded and 33 taken prisoner. Of their
machines 60 were destroyed by enemy action
and 13 otherwise: on the other hand, they
destroyed 276 enemy machines and drove down
251.
* * * ♦
What were “Port Phillip gold pieces" ?
1363.
They are gold coins struck in Victoria in
1853. On the obverse of the design are the
■vords “Port Phillip, Australia” incised upon a
aroad rim. which is in relief. The date is
alaced under a kangaroo. On the reverse are
he words “Pure Australian Gold,” with the
veights in words and numerals of the various
aieces struck—ioz., loz. or 2oz. It was
intended that these pieces should pass current
locally at £l, £2, £4 and £8; but by the time
the machinery was in working order gold was
fetching £4 4s. an ounce and English sovereigns
were plentiful. The local currency was therefore
abandoned. It is probable that only a single
set was ever issued in Victoria, but replicas
have been made from original dies for museum
purposes.
* * * *
Amount placed on the Commonwealth 1934-35
estimates for (1) salaries and (2) general ex-
penses at the High Commissioner’s office,
London ? —8343.
(1) Salaries and allowances, £20,935; extra-
duty pay, £200; salaries of officers on retire-
ment leave and payments in lieu, £100; total,
£21,235. (2) Travelling and subsistence, £800;
office requisites and equipment, stationery and
printing, £600; postage, telegrams and telephone
services, £1800; freights and cartage, including
removal expenses, £230; cablegrams, £2100;
municipal and other taxes, £6920; general up-
keep of Australia House (includes wages of
staff employed on upkeep), £9950; upkeep of
official residence, £440; allowance to High
Commissioner for expenses of official residence,
£1338; other incidental expenses, £1350; total,
£25,528. Grand total (1) and (2), £46,763.
♦ * * *
What departmental officers accompanied J. G.
Latham on his mission to Asia in 1934, and
what were their respective positions? —B34l.
E. E. Longfield Lloyd (Attorney-General’s
Dept.), adviser; A. C. Moore (Dept, of Trade
and Customs), information officer; H. A.
Standish (Mr. Latham’s private secretary),
secretary; J. L. Ferguson (private secretary to
the Vice-President of the Executive Council),
assistant secretary; and Miss M. M. Grosvenor,
stenographer.
* * ♦ *
Was the late Prof. Marshall Hall, of Mel-
bourne University, any relation to the English
lawyer, Sir Edward Marshall Hall ? —8206.
No. Prof. G. W. L. Marshall Hall, who
occupied the Chair of Music for two periods
from 1891 until his death in 1915, was the
grandson of Dr. Marshall Hall, the discoverer
of the theory of reflex action and a notable
figure in the medical world. The great barrister
was also the son of a medical man—Dr. Alfred
Hall, of Brighton. Dr. Alfred Hall attended
Dr. Marshall Hall, whom he greatly admired,
when he lay dying at Brighton in 1857, and
asked and obtained permission to name his next
child, if it should be a son, after him. Sir
Edward Marshall Hall was born in September
of the following year, and died in 1927.
* * * *
Who was Betsy Ross, and what part did
she play in the designing of the American
flag ? —8340.
She was born in Philadelphia, and married
John Ross, brother of one of the signers of
the Declaration of Independence. She and
her husband ran a small upholstery shop in
Philadelphia. The story goes that one day
George Washington came in, showed her a
design for an American flag, and asked
whether she could make one. According to
legend she convinced Washington that five-
point stars in the flag would look better than
the six-point ones in the design, and the flag
was sewn accordingly.
* * * *
Can you tell me anything about an Indian
chief named Sitting Bull ? —8330.
He was chief of the Dakota Sioux Indians,
born in 1835, and son of Jumping Bull. During
the American Civil War he led bands which
attacked white settlers in lowa and Minnesota.
He finally made peace with the Government,
but broke his word and refused to retire to the
reservation. This led to a campaign in which
General G. A. Custer and his entire command
of American soldiers were massacred. Sitting
Bull fled to Canada, but returned in 1881 and
lived at Standing Rook Agency. In 1883
trouble with the Indians was feared because
of their dissatisfaction about the sale of some
of their lands. Sitting Bull, therefore, was
taken into custody on December 15, 1890, and
was killed in a fight that followed an attempt
by the Indians to rescue him.
* * * *
Is the “ Polchesler” of Hugh Walpole’s novels
intended to portray Canterbury ? Also some
biographical details ? —8230.
Hugh Seymour Walpole, born in 1884, is the
son of a Bishop of Edinburgh, and was edu-
cated at King’s College, Canterbury, and
Emmanuel College, Cambridge; “Polchester”
is a composite of these two cathedral towns.
His first book, The Wooden Horse, appeared
in 1909, when he was master of Epsom Col-
lege. He served during the war with the
Russian Red Cross, his experiences providing
material for The Dark Forest and The Secret
City. His most recent works have been the
“Herries” family sequence— Rogue Herries ,
Judith Paris, The Fortress and Vanessa, and|
later, Captain Nicholas.
* * * *
In Browning’s poem "How They Brought
the Good News from Ghent to Aix” what
exactly is implied by "good news,’’ and what
is it all about ? —7796.
Most probably the “good news” was the
signing of the treaty of peace between The
Netherlands and Spain, in 1648, but Brown-
ing wrote in 1881: “There is no sort of
historical foundation about the poem. I wrote
it under the bulwark of a vessel off the
African coast, when I had been long enough
at it [at sea] to appreciate even the fancy
of a gallop on the back of a certain good
horse, York, then in my stable at home.”
♦ * * *
Wanted, words of a piece of nonsense re-
puted to have been written by Douglas Jer-
rold, some lines of which run: "And she went
into the garden to get a cabbage leaf to make
an apple-pie.” —Bo7o.
The continuation runs thus: “And a great
big she-bear, coming up the street, her
head through the window and said, ‘What!
No soap!’ So he died, and she very im-
prudently married the barber; and there were
present the Piccaninnies, and the Joblillies, and
the Garyulies, and the grand Panjandrum
himself, with the little round button on top.”
The. lines are attributed to Samuel Foote, and
were produced by him at a lecture by Charles
Macklin, the latter having boasted that he
could memorise anything at the first reading.
It has also been asserted that the author was
James Quin, the actor, who allegedly wrote it
in order to test Foote’s memory; they were,
however, printed in Maria Edgeworth’s Harry
and Lucy, under the title “Samuel Foote:
An Incoherent Story,” and credited to Foote.
Incidentally, they mark the first introduction
into the language of the “grand Panjandrum.”
Brief Answers.
A.T.L.: It should read “L'esprit de la
plupart des femmes serf plus a fortifier leur
folie que leur raison,” and is by La Rochefou-
cauld. Translated into English, it reads: “The
wit of most women serves more to strengthen
their folly than their reason” W.C.: The
legend is that the Countess of Salisbury, at a
ball at Court, happening to drop her garter, the
King, Edward 111., took it up, and presented
it to her, reproving a tittering Court with the
words “Honi soil qui mal y pense,” which
afterwards became the motto of the Order
of the Garter... .R.P.: Ruffles became fash-
ionable about 1520, and went out about 1790.
Any history of costumes should give particu-
lars... .M.W.: The Prince of Wales was born
on June 23, 1894; the Duke of York, Decem-
ber 14, 1895; the Princess Royal, April 25,
1897; the Duke of Gloucester, March 31, 1900;
and the Duke of Kent, December 20, 1902.
N.D.: The area of Albania is 10,629 sq.
miles; pop., according to the 1930 census, was
1,003,124... .J.S.: The “Northern Standard"
is published twice weekly at Darwin T.T.:
Get in touch with the secretary, Printing Indus-
try Employees’ Union, Trades Hall, Sydney.
. ...A.M, (1) In Victoria an adopted child has
the right of succession whether under an in-
testacy or disposition to the real and personal
property of an adopter, but not of its natural
parent or parents; it has no rights of succes-
sion to the property of adopting parents’ rela-
tives, but has right in estate of natural parents’
relatives. (2) Marriage is prohibited in Victoria
between an adopter and an adopted child....
D.8.T,: Cannot trace any book on subject....
G.L. : The moilymauk is an albatross, and the
species seen on the coast by you has been cor-
rectly identified W.C.: The longest death
adder on record went 32in. In several instances
where specimens have been forwarded to the
Australian Museum us being 36in. in length,
they have been found to measure 28in. and
30in. on arrival,.. .H.M.D.: Cannot trace any
sculptor of that name L.M.N.: The leaflet
was withdrawn owing to objections raised by
the N.S.W. Public Health Department
0.C.: Information too vague to enable a
search to be made R.A.M.: The books are
of no commercial value J.8.C.: (1) Breasted
and Jones’s Brief History of Ancient Times
(55.), Brendon’s Ancient World (ss. 9d.), Hamil-
ton and Blunt’s Outline of Ancient History
(ss. 9d.), and Bramston’s Umpires of the
World to the Fall of Rome (Bs. 3d.). (2) No.
....E.C.P.: Royalty charge is £5 ss. per per-
formance for amateurs; professional companies
by arrangement. Payment should be made to
Miss Miller, Box 707, G.P.0., Melbourne....
A.H.: (1) By a British Act of 1857 power
was given to release convicts conditionally
before the expiration of their sentences. Under
this system convicts, instead of being absolutely
pardoned when released, were subject to revo-
cation of their licenses, or so-called “tickets of
leave,” if they did not conduct themselves well.
(2) The system was revived for a time after
the formal cessation of transportation, but
popular protest brought it to an end, though
in Westralia it was continued until 1868. (3)
Yes. Cannot give name. (4) Most improb-
able... .J.C.M.: The league has only just
commenced to function, and its address is not
yet settled. Communications may be addressed
to the honorary secretary, Miss Eva M. Find-
lay, Box 8, P. 0., King-street, Sydney... .L.W.:
(1) and (2) It leaves him open to an action for
trespass. (3) N0....V.A.: She may do so,
but the N.S.W. Testator’s Family Maintenance
Act provides that if a wife disposes of her
property in such a manner as to leave her hus-
band without provision a Court of Equity may
order that provision shall be made
W. 0.5.: A joint tenancy may be severed
by partition, or by alienation without par-
tition, as where one joint tenant conveys
his estate to a third party or by releas-
ing his share to the other tenant. Probably
partition would suit you best V.K.C.: Re-
duction printing is the inverse process to en-
larging, and requires a - camera, specially built
for reduction work. For principles involved,
see any standard textbook of photography
P. 8.: (1) Send him to the Tanning School,
John-street, Waterloo, Sydney. (2) Some in-
land wattle-bark is suitable for tanning. (3)
A term started on September ,2. He can learn
tanning and dyeing at the Tanning School.
Fee is £2 per year; three terms per year. (4)
Many people in Sydney make a good living
at this work... .G.R.: Applications for posi-
tions in the public hospital at Darwin should
be made to the Secretary, Department of the
Interior, Canberra J.M.L.: The book has
no commercial value T.W.: Kay’s Leather-
work (25.)... .C.J.R.: The work is of no
commercial value R.L.: Mala the Magnifi-
cent is by Peter Frenchen M.W.: Astrology
is not a recognised science. If the astrologer
professes to foretell future events in the lives
of his clients by the aspects and situation of the
stars and makes a charge for such services,
he comes within the penal provision against
fortune-telling R.H.G.: (1) By writing to
the Western Lands Office, Sydney, when par-
ticulars and application forms will be sent
for six months. A request for renewal should
be then made if desired. Advertisements are
also published - in the “Government Gazette”
and local newspaper. (2) Yes. (3) Application
must be lodged on the proper form for each
area made available. It is not necessary to
get a C.P.S. to fill in the forms. (4) Cost is
nil. (5) A matter for the Local Land Board,
and depends materially on the amount re-
quired to meet claims for private improvements,
on the cost of further improvements to be
effected and cost of stocking the holding....
H.P.: Write Lloyd Reed Loom Go., 601
Botany-road, Waterloo, Sydney. Prices range
from £3 or £4 upwards L.W.: Prime Min-
ister’s Department advises that the matter is
receiving attention P.H.C.: The income as
shown will not be liable to N.S.W. special
income tax, but will be liable to Victorian
special income tax J. 8.: Get in touch with
the secretary, avicultural section. Royal Zoo-
logical Society of N.S.W., Bull’s Chambers,
Martin-place, Sydney J.H.: Richardson’s
Blue Book or Sound Projection, by Otto Meh-
ling, both obtainable from General Theatre
Supplies, Pitt-street, Sydney. A course can be
taken from Radio School of Engineering,
Keen’s Chambers, Oxford-street, Sydney
F.W.: (1) Write to Miss Beryl Bryant,
Bryants’ Playhouse, Forbes-street, Darlinghurst;
Scott Alexander, 420 Kent-street, Sydney; or
Studio Theatre Club, Third Floor, The Block,
428 George-street, Sydney. (2) They are a
success provided the student has both appli-
cation and natural ability (Many others
mailed.)


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT .
[Author’s Note. —Tiburon is not an existing town, but a composite of many Australian
places. All characters in the story are fictitious, and hear no relation to any living person.]
Chapter II. — Continued.
IT was finally agreed (hat Old Grey and Dutch should
sleep in the car, while the army man, whose
name was MacPherson, should sleep underneath.
Denny and Blue then headed towards the Whites’
hut, where, said Denny, they could curl up in the
bark humpy the family Jived in before Jim built the
peasey hut. As they came to the hut Denny hushed
the dogs, calling them by name.
“Are y’ there, Larry?” he called, “It’s Denny.”
The long frame of Larry White appeared in the
lighted doorway.
“Can we camp in the shed for the night?”
“Sure. Come in an’ get y’selves dry.”
“No, thanks,”
Denny led the way to the shed, with Blue stum-
bling behind.
“Larry’s old man doesn’t like me,” he explained.
He lit a stump of candle from his pack and pointed
to a dry corner by a pile of wood. “I helped t’ build
that house of theirs,” he said. “Fancy anyone puttin’
up with this. I believe the kids and the old woman
made it. You can bet the old chap didn’t, though
it sags enough to be his doin’.”
Footsteps approached the shed. It was Larry
with a message.
“Jim says y’re to come up t’ the ’ouse, Denny,
an’ y’r pal too. There’s somethin’ ’e wants t’ sec
y’ about. ’E’s in a bit of trouble.”
“All right,” the Magsman responded. “Seems
to be one of those nights when a man can’t settle
down without somebody’s trouble stingin’ him like
horse-flies.”
The door of the White hut opened to admit
them to a crowded and stuffy room, with a doorway
at one end covered with a piece of old curtain. The
main apartment was lit by a hurricane lamp. There
were shelves all round the walls piled with old tins
and boxes full of nails, bolts and screws, mixed in
with tea, sugar, cups and saucers and plates. Bits
of harness and old coats gathered dust on separate
nails, and a piece of chain hung for no apparent
reason by the door. Blue noticed a tin wash-basin
on an upturned butter-box, with a kerosene-tin of
water and a pile of dirty clothes beside it. On the
shelf above stood a jam-jar with a piece of green
ribbon tied round it and three withered and decaying
sunflowers drooping over the rim.
The chimney was built separately of rocks and
clay, so (hat it formed a little alcove beside the door,
and here stood a, small, rusty stove with one leg
propped up on half a brick, an aged and decrepit
stove that coughed acrid smoke into the room. Tossed
into the alcove was a litter of pots and pans, with
the dirt that had been swept up from (he floor, torn
scraps of paper, rag, a broken saucer, rusty jam-tins
and other odds and ends.
Around the room sat the White family, closely
packed on two wooden benches and a collection of
soapboxes. Blue, who often made a few shillings
gardening, decided that what the Whites needed was
thinning out. There were so many of them that they
got in each other’s way. It took him some time to
sort out which was which, but he finally decided that
the slab-faced tough engaged in kicking the dog from
under the table was Bill. Bill was the kind of lout
who made him feel glad he had camped in the lucerne
sheds on previous visits, thereby avoiding the acquaint-
ance of the Hillites. Definitely Bill ought to be weeded
out, and his roots would have to be hacked with an
axe from the look of him. Larry, next to Bill, gave
the impression that he had shot up into leaves without
much root. His grin redeemed Larry. When Larry
screwed his eyes up and showed his even teeth in
that comical grin, it was hard not to grin back; bin
he was the kind who would thieve the gold crown
out of your mouth while you were doing it. From
all Blue could see of Jim, who had his back turned,
he felt that if he had to have Jim growing in his
backyard he’d see he was planted well away from the
house. As for Willie, who sat mumbling in the corner
—Willie, with his wizened monkey face and misshapen
skull, ought to have been weeded out before he really
got started.
The other one of the elder brothers, Paul, was
hard to place, and Blue turned to the more congenial
study of the White girls. They were a mixed lot, like
their brothers. Lizzie, the eldest and biggest, would
never be ornamental, but she looked healthy. So did
the cheerful fat one, Emma, who had a little kid
called Gwennie whining round her skirts; but Mary,
the next in order, seemed to have some kind of blight.
She had a discontented face and mousy hair, and
her teeth were bad. Ella was a peach. She had a
bloom that none of the others had, a kind of dusky
ripeness about her, although she was only a slip of
a thing yet. Yes, Ella certainly ought to be culti-
vated. From the inner room came an occasional
squeal of complaint; “Lizzie, come in and make
Bobbie stop pulling my hair!” “I’m not pullin’ her
damn’ hair.” But none of the elders took any notice.
They were all too intent on the Magsman—that is,
except old Dave, who kept his back resolutely turned
and pretended to read a paper.
“Well, if they had any complaints,” (he Mags-
man was saying, “they ought to ’ave piped up before
you put all this work into buildin’ this hut.”
“The urban council,” Jim said slowly, “says as
how it’s the shire council’s job, an’ the shire council
says it’s up to the Past’ral Protection Board. I don’t
know how they worked it out in the end, but, any-
way, old Sergeant Moore rides up ’ere yesterday an’
says we’ve got to be off ’ere in a month. Says we’re
on the stock route, an’ we got to get off.”
“Could you get a place in the town?” Denny
suggested.
“We tried,” Mary put in, “an’ there ain’t none.
They never build ’ouses in this town until the ones
they’re livin’ in fall t’ pieces. They just add on bits.
There ain’t no houses we could afford.”
“Now, you’re a man,” Jim said in his slow voice;
“you’re a man that ’as got to know a lot about the
law an’ that. What I want to know is—What can
they do?”
The Magsman thought for a minute. “They got
a good case,” he said. “There’s no doubt about that.
Still, there’s always a chance of a drowned cat coming
home, an’ there's no sayin’ you haven’t a chance to
beat ’em, if you fight. You can build another hut
higher up or you can fight.”
“Well fight all right,” Jim responded, amid a
murmur from Paul, Bill and Larry.
“Well,” the Magsman reflected, “I knew a bloke
once that hated golf. In Sofana it was, an’ he took
out a miner’s license an’ dug a mine right in the
middle of the golf course. All the old fellers used
to ’ave to play round his little home, an’ if the golf
balls fell into the mine he confiscated ’em. Made
a good thing out of it, too, lettin’ his cows graze
on the greens an’ pinchin’ the fencin’ wire to put
round his mine. Don’t see why you shouldn’t do
the same, Jim.”
“I don’t want to ’ave anything to do with golf
links.”
But Larry broke into a roar of laughter and
slapped his knee.
“That’s a beaut.,” he chuckled. “Don’t y’ see it,
Jim? Take out a license, put down a mine at the
back of the dog-kennels an’ they can’t chuck us out.
Oh, that’s a beaut.!”
The faces of the Whites lightened. They began
to jubilate. They regarded their troubles as already
settled.
“Think of old Raspberry Moore ridin’ out ’ere
on another wild-goose chase! Gee, won’t ’e be mad!”
“But, mind you,” the Magsman warned, “if
they're puttin’ the bool in they’ll gel you out sooner
or later. It’s a choice of crawlin’ out or lettin’ ’em
have a run for their money.”
“We’ll give ’em a run,” Larry crowed. “We’ll
keep old Raspberry Moore on the hop.”
“They alius ’ad a down on me in this town,”
old White broke in. “It’s a conspiracy, that’s what
it is. The whole of Tiburon’s in it. But I know who’s
behind it.” He winked craftily. “They've ’ad a down
on me for years, jus’ a few 1 could name. But I’ll
settle their hash for ’em, mark my word.” He grew
more plaintive. “Alius ’ad a down on me. But what
lor? That’s what I want to know.”
It would have been hard to explain to Dave, as
Denny could probably have explained in simple
language, that Tiburon regarded Dave as a painful
waste product it had not succeeded in eliminating
from its social system. Dave literally gave the town
a pain ; and the fact that he did was a cheerful indi-
cation that Tiburon was becoming more than a ram-
shackle collection of houses and stores. It was begin-
ning to develop a civic conscience and a set of ethics.
The solution to the problem of Dave, in Tiburon’s
view, was to move him somewhere else. It had over-
looked that Dave was not one problem but fourteen.
Chapter 111.
I.
AS Blue came up to (he front gate, Mrs. Blakely
looked up from her roses and remarked: “I
don’t want any soap-savers. I bought one from
the last man.”
“I ain’t got no soap-savers, lady, I was wonderin’
whether you’d got a bit of gardenin’ 1 could do.
Weedin’s my specialty. Them side beds could do with
a bit of weedin’.”
“Yes, they are rather weedy, aren’t they?” Mrs.
Blakely said thoughtfully. “1 had a man in to do
them last week, but he doesn’t seem to have really
done anything, does he?”
"No, lady.”
“But I really can’t afford to pay anyone to do
any weeding,” Mrs. Blakely sighed. “I’ve just sent
to Sydney for some tulips. Not that tulips will grow
here, but there’s just a chance if 1 plant them in that
patch by the fence. And tulips are expensive.” Mrs.
Blakely always forgot when she was addressing people
whether they were her social equals or not, “Do
you think it would have been better to plant
anemones?”
“Tulips,” said Blue decisively, “would look real
nice.”
“What I do want,” said Mrs. Blakely, “is some-
one to concrete the path. It is quite crumbling away,
and that rain has washed a slab out of place.”
Blue beamed. “1 could make a real job of it
if you’d give me the chance.”
“Could you?” She regarded him with interest.
“How much would it cost?”
“I’d have to estimate how much cement an’ the
time it would take an’ so on.” Blue was congratulat-
ing himself on his extraordinary luck.
“Come in and see.” Mrs. Blakely held the gate
open. “The dog seems to like you,” she observed.
“I never ’ave no trouble with animals, lady.”
Blue was making a rapid estimate of the path.
“That’s a very good sign,” Mrs. Blakely observed.
“I don’t suppose you are a theosophist?”
“I never drink anything worse than beer,” Blue
responded ; “but then again I ain’t exactly teetotal."
Mrs. Blakely and Blue got on famously together.
It was agreed that Blue should put in the morning
weeding and start on the cement immediately after
lunch, and that Mrs. Blakely should provide the
cement and pay Blue for his labor.
“It’s a shame to put it over her,” Blue decided.
“Harmless as a baby. That’s her.”
“You know,” Mrs. Blakely said reflectively, “I’m
very psychic.”
Blue went on with his work.
“When I first saw you walking up to the gate 1
said ‘That red-headed man makes me think of coming
trouble.’ I feel you are about to pass through a diffi-
cult time.”
“I wouldn’t be surprised, lady.”
“I’m sure you will be mixed up in some excite-
ment—just what I can’t exactly tell; but it seems to
have been in the atmosphere of Tiburon during the
past few weeks.”
Mrs. Blakely drew her chair to the edge of the
verandah, where she could watch Blue at his weeding,
and began her faneywork. She and Blue had an
interesting little talk, and she was still there when
the doctor arrived home for lunch.
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
The White family, the chief of
Tiburon’s' “unwanteds,” who live in humpies'
on Warning Hill. Apart from rabbits', they
are reputed to live on rusty tins and barbed
wire.
Others of the colony are the Willoughbys,
the Mulvers, Gran Staines and Mad Peter.
Dave White’s beer-drinking cronies are
Will Souter, the blacksmith, Orry Smith,
an insurance agent, and Sam Jordan, a some-
time horse-dealer {“and still up to a trick
or two”).
Blue, Big Dutch, Old Grey and
Denny the Magsman are “ travellers” camped
at the unemployed shelter.
The would-be social highlights of the town,
who wish to rid Tiburon of its undesirables’,
include —
Mrs. Claufield (‘7 feel a little tiny, tiny
bit hurt by the selfishness, one might almost
say the sordidn’ess, of Tiburon”), Mrs. Ilford
{the hank manager’s wife), Mrs. Darch and
Mrs. Blakely {small, timid and a minor
poetess).
Rich Mrs. Malloy, who has no social
aspirations. She has been on the road herself,
and has a soft spot for bagmen.


“Where’d he come from?” he asked, eyeing Blue
through the window as though he were something in
purple and green scales.
“I engaged Mr. Saunders to fix the path, dear,”
Mrs. Blakely responded.
“Good. Glad you didn’t get that plumber johnny.
Sheds Douglas Social Credit leaflets like influenza
germs. Owes me ten pounds as it is. Wants a job
to work it off.”
“This man is very interesting,” Mrs. Blakely
observed placidly as they sat down to lunch.
“If 1 find you've given him any of my old clothes,
Vi,“ the doctor said severely, "I’ll go out and root
up all your roses. I like my old clothes, and I’m
going to keep them.” He drank his soup through
his moustache with great enjoyment. “That Mulver
woman was in again this morning. She’s a menace.
Insists on feeding the baby on skim-milk because
all the others did well on skim-milk. The baby won’t
drink it. Damn’ wise baby. It knows the milk comes
from Granny Staines’s cow. What that cow's had
wrong with it would fill a dictionary. Got no more
sense than Eileen Ilford.”
He meant Mrs. Mulver, not the cow, which had
fought its own battles long enough to acquire con-
siderable wisdom. The old doctor had never credited
she-things with any sense. He adored his dreamy
mate, and considered her to be about the best of
them. There was so much brisk, boyish enthusiasm
about Blakely after a lifetime of Tiburon that no one
could doubt that he was as impractical as his Violet.
Blakely’s impracticability look the form of letting
bills run and ordering medicine for people who
couldn’t pay for it themselves. But, as he used to
say, “Now the children arc grown up and gone off
to their own nests, there's no reason why we should
feather ours more than necessary.”
He liked billiards and hearty laughter, a bit of
shooting and long car trips when he could snatch an
infrequent holiday. Violet went out to please him,
and he stayed home to please Violet. He even tried
to take an interest in her theosophy, but admitted
that to him it was as clear as mud. “Got enough
worry in this world without prodding the next to see
if it’ll bile,” he grunted. He had a secret dislike of
his rival, Henry Westly, for professional reasons. He
hated chemists, and had a profound, pitying contempt
for the intelligence of most of his patients.
“Mr. Saunders is staying out at Warning Hill. He
says that Sergeant Moore has told the Whites to get
off' the stock route.”
The doctor grunted. “Hum! Have a bit of a
job shifting them. Might as well try to uproot the
War Memorial. Still, it’ll save him a lot of time if
he does. He spends half his life out at Warning Hill,
just as Bill Sorrell spends half his in the cemetery
gelling rid of Henry Westly's failures.”
“James, dear,” Mrs. Blakely suggested gently,
“that isn’t a nice way to speak of Henry, or Bill
cither.’’
“Huh! I may be wrong about Bill, but I’m right
about old John Moore. Hope your path-mender isn’t
one of the gang he’s after now.”
After dinner he strolled round Blue and in-
spected him from every angle. He looked a good-
enough type, according to the doctor’s diagnosis, and
so, after sundry grunts, he left Blue to the path.
It was about six o’clock, when he was returning
from a call, that he happened to sight the sergeant
keeping a suspicious eye on O’Brien’s Hotel and
drew the car into the kerb to have a yarn. The
doctor had never gone down any street in Tiburon
for years without returning the salutes of half the
populace and stopping to talk to a dozen people en
route. He led up to his point by degrees.
“Hear that young teacher from Warning Hill,
Jingo Whafs-his-name, is coming back here after the
holidays. Headmaster was grumbling about it to me.”
Sergeant Moore nodded. He had a large, pro-
tuberant red nose and little pale-blue eyes screwed
tight and deep into a mass of wrinkles. He resembled
his pal Dr. Blakely in one thing only. Both of
them were fond of their wives. Moore was at his
best on Sunday. He had been a churchwarden in
Tiburon for the past ten years. On Sundays, taking
the plate round as though it were a summons and
warning the dogs away from the altar rails, he was
mpeh more inspiring than in his weekday manner.
He tried to keep his hat on everywhere except in
church, because he was sensitive about his sandy bald
patch.
“There’s a girl going out to Warning Hill. Saw
it in the paper. By the way, speaking of Warning
Hill” —the doctor patted himself on his back as he
thought of his own cunning—“I hear you’re trying
to hunt the Whites out.”
The sergeant did not say “Yes” or “No,” but
he eyed the doctor cannily. “There’s a lot I know
that 1 can’t prove about Jim White,” he remarked.
Yet there was nothing in Jim’s White’s bearing
to arouse suspicion. He might be seen any day of
the week sitting on the front of his creaking dray
driving in to deliver a load of wood. He was always
dressed in the same grey-green trousers —faded to
such a nondescript shade that in a clearing you simply
couldn’t see him, he blended in so well with the scrub
—the same yellow-grey hat with the band bleached
white, and a cheap grey shirt without a collar. His
hair stuck through the holes in his hat in a rather
startling way. It was as if those dark sprouts had
something of the spirit of Jim White. They could
not stay concealed ; they sprang out just as his sudden
rages did. His eyes had much of the same quality as
his hair, as though something black inside had found
a hole to spring through. Perhaps it was his eyes
that made Sergeant Moore keep such a close watch
on Jim. But, although the sergeant was out and about
the peasey hut if there was anything missing, be it
the shire clerk’s gold watch or the old coat from
behind Mrs. Darch's laundry door, he never found
Jim out in anything more harmful than woodchop-
ping. Larry, however, he had had convicted for steal-
ing a bag of chaff for his horse.
One thing the sergeant could not say, and that
was that Jim was unkind to his family. He spoilt
his smaller brothers and sisters, fed them chocolate
and gave them money for ice-cream and comic papers.
He didn’t seem to mind young Willie, who was a bit
soft, or Emma’s two-year-old Gwen, who had been
a major scandal on her arrival and kept the town
speculating happily for weeks. Jim was the only one
of the Whites who ever attempted to save, not that
the attempt ever came to anything, what with the
girls wanting this and that and old Dave purring
round soft as a pussy-cat asking for milk, only it
was beer Dave was after. But, no matter how hard-
working and quiet and kind Jim was, people were
accustomed to say: “There’s something strange about
that White fellow.” And this was long before the
trouble with Mrs. Willoughby. Long before the name
of Jim White was pronounced in Tiburon only in a
lowered voice. “Poor Jim,” Mrs. Blakely said after-
wards ; “it wasn’t his fault. There is nothing that God
cannot pardon, even though men are hard.”
“There’s no doubt but he’s the brains of the
gang,” Sergeant Moore continued. “I’ve been 100
soft with them in the past, Blakely. As for Scorby,
he’d die happy if he could see them cleaned up.”
Scorby was Moore's new constable. The sergeant
turned and looked meditatively after Blue Saunders as
that honest toiler passed on his way to the camp.
“Do you know that chap?” he asked suspiciously.
Sergeant Moore had a phenomenal memory. He
could give you the life history of every resident in
Tiburon.
Blakely waved a casual hand, “The man’s mend-
ing our path. Harmless sort of chap.”
Blue saw the sergeant looking at him and almost
grinned. “I don’t have to be afraid of you,” he
thought. “I’ve got a job.”
But around the next corner he got the fright of
his life. It was only Constable .Scorby going down
to join the sergeant on the six-o’clock round ; but
at (he sight of him Blue's eyes narrowed, and he
" Who’d are thought to see him here?”
pursed his mouth in an amazed whistle. “Now, who’d
’ave thought to see him here?” he muttered under his
breath.
“You would have laughed at old John, Vi,”
Blakely remarked on his retqrn as he sank down into
an easy-chair in the pleasantly bright sitting-room.
“He looked at that new find of yours as though he
was a White in disguise. Poor old John. It’s the
new chap, Scorby, who’s making him hustle. Never
known him give an imitation of a warhorse before.
I suppose he wants a better berth than Tiburon to
retire from.”
“I don’t like Scorby,” Violet declared decisively.
“He has a bad karma. His aura simply makes me
shiver. 1 don’t like him.”
“Shucks!” the doctor remarked. It was a favorite
expression. “The poor chap can’t help his face.
You’re sitting in a draught, Vi.”
“It’s not his face.” Mrs. Blakely got up to close
the window. “It’s his aura and the way he smiles,
that sudden flash of gold teeth when he draws his
lips back. You must have noticed it, dear. And
he speaks so softly and slowly, I have always liked
a man with a deep voice”
“You’re standing in a draught, Violet. Come
away from that window.”
As a matter of fact, Violet never took cold, but
the old doctor did, and he was firmly convinced that
“draughts” were the cause of it. Mrs. Blakely pre-
pared to shut the window, and then forgot as she
leaned out watching the lights of the town. The
Blakelys’ house was on a little rise. On the opposite
corner of the street was the rectory, where a dim
glow in the study showed that the Reverend William
Sorrell was working over the church accounts. The
road ran past that dim glow down to the tangle of
lights that spread their net in intricate patterns over
Belford, Atkinson and Traves streets. Beyond the
pattern of the town a little timid line of lamps ran
for another mile towards the dark patch against the
stars that was Warning Hill. The scattering of little
sparks where the travellers’ campfires burned were
too small and feeble to be seen at that distance.
“They are people of the darkness,” Mrs. Blakely
said to herself. “That would make a sweet first line
for a little poem. They are people of the darkness.”
The lights waved as the wind stirred branches
across their brightness. They waved as though they
breathed. Mrs. Blakely saw Tiburon, not as other
people saw it, as a small western town, but as a
breathing, living personality of which all the people
were but cells, growing with its growth, passing and
renewing, but never taking anything away from that
characteristic which made the town Tiburon and no
other, that essential which she recognised as clearly as
a lover would recognise the qualities of a plain
mistress.
The doctor got up and shut the window himself.
“I suppose you want the both of us to catch our death
of cold,” he grumbled.
11.
Blue returned to the tent he had set up behind
the White camp, to find that Okker Slade’s bag shelter
had joined those of Dutch and Old Grey in the little
circle round the fire. Okker had the loose build that
never gives an impression of strength or speed, though
he could work harder and faster than most. His spare
frame was covered by an assortment of clothes, not
one article of which matched the next. Starting with
a pair of brown shoes, socks in a tasty navy-and-red
check, pepper-and-salt trousers and a blue-and-white-
striped shirt, he worked up to a mustard-colored
woollen sweater and a grey coat. The ensemble was
lopped off by a black bow-tie of the kind that lives
on a little clip. Above this fine raiment Okker’s face
came as an anti-climax, being much the same sort of
muddle on a lesser scale. He had apparently inherited
his grandfather’s nose, which threw all the rest of his
face out of focus. His own addition in the form of
a little ginger moustache did nothing to enhance the
general effect, although he proudly referred to it as
“me disguise.” Blue greeted Okker jubilantly.
“Denny give me the word,” Okker responded in
answer to inquiries. “’E wires there’s a chance of
shcarin’ at Mac Leary’s, but Mac Leary’s shed is full
up, so we’ve got live ’undred or so at Pearson’s, four
mile out. Tain’t much, but it'll last till something
better turns up. The other sheds ought t’ be ready
in a few days, an’ we'll go from Pearson’s to Euabo-
long, where Barnes ought to give us a job.”
“I thought you was doin’ well with the wire-
fakin’?” Blue remarked.
“I was,” Okker responded. “But then I settles
down an’ buys a milk run. I got a ’orsc called Bony
wiv Bolshcvisk ideas. ’E got hostile on me. Thought
the master class was workin’ ’im too ’ard or sumfing.
’E goes tearin’ off, upsettin’ the cart, an’ the more 1
belts ’im the worse ’c gets.”
“What do y’ want with a milk run?” Blue asked.
“Stone the crows, I thought that was the last sort of
drink you was interested in!”
“I was doin’ eighty gallons when I bought in on
that run,” Okker boasted. “Eleven pound it cost me.
There was only two milkmen in this little place --
Ogden, its name was—an’ 1 was doin’ real well.”
“Why didn’t y’ stick to it, then?”
“Ar, I got sick of it, what wiv the ’orse bitin’ a
bit out uv me shoulder an’ kickin’ the cart to pieces
an’ all. 1 thinks I’ll sell out, an’ 1 did for twice what
1 pays for it. But the cash soon went, an’ then I
thinks: ‘Me pack straps is geltin’ rusty. I’d better
give ’em an airin’.’ An’ jus’ then comes this wire from
Denny, so I jumps a train for the great mid-west where
men is men an’ things is jus’ as lousy as ever.”
Okker was a morose mate, but solid when it came
to a showdown.
“Where is Denny?” Blue asked.
“ ’E’s down there talkin’ wiv Jim White as fick as
fieves,” Okker responded. “What’s come over ’im
associatin’ wiv this scum?”
“He’s jus’ givin’ a bit of advice,” Blue defended.
(“I’d better not spoil Okker’s lea by telling him about
Scorby,” he thought. “I’ll see Denny first.”)
Blue strolled up towards the White establishment
in a contented frame of mind. There was a smell of
burning apple-gum, and blue drifts of smoke hung low
over the grassy slopes at the foot of Warning Hill.
Somewhere a lamb bleated and was answered by its
mother. A faint flush of old gold showed above the
black line of the ranges. The hush of the air was
hardly disturbed by the murmur of voices and the
faint thud-thud of someone chopping wood. His feet
were silent on the slippery grass, and he felt that the
whole of this grey and black and gold medley was
more real than he was, and that he had been dropped
in a colored pond and might stay for ever fixed in
the sediments of grey light and wood smoke that lay
there at the foot of the hill deep under the high wash
of the skies.
As he came round the corner of the track the
front door of the Whites’ home was flung open with
a cheerful bang, and Ella bounded out with a tin full
of wheat under one arm.
“Chook! Chook! Chook!” she called to the
fowls, which came rushing from the roost where they
had retired, despairing of ever being fed. “Here,
chook!” She turned and noticed Blue, and nearly
dropped the tin. “Lord! Where did you come
from?”
Her voice was loud, and the way she spoke
through her well-shaped nose gave every syllable a
rather plangent sound. There were hardly any vowels
in her speech, just as there were hardly any in the
speech of any Tiburon native ; but, whereas most of
the farmers and their children spoke in a murmur
unintelligible to any but themselves, Ella’s voice was
high-pitched and dominant
“Oh, you’re one of them that was 'ere th’ other
night, ain’t y’? If y’r lookin’ f Denny ’e an’ Jim
have gorn over t’ th’ Mulvers’.”
She shook out the wheat with a free, careless
sweep of the arm. Her faded old blue dress against
that brown arm made her part of the dusk. Her
dark eyes and the short dark hair which she tossed
away from her broad white forehead gave her a
likeness to Jim, but, whereas Jim’s was a dangerous
darkness, Ella’s was an alluring half-light. Blue did
not notice how thin she was or that she had a smear
of dirt down the side of her cheek. Her forehead
was startling white under her hair, but her face was
as brown as a berry. So brown that it hardly showed
the dirt even in full daylight. She insisted on powder-
ing her face with cheap white powder and plastering
it with rouge when she went to town, so that the Ella
who visited Tiburon was a parody of the young
woman who helped Jim and Larry to saw logs.
“I’ll wait till they come back,” Blue said after a
pause.
(Continued on page 50.)


RADIO TEST EQUIPMENT
ARION Model 90 ANALYZER ARION VALVE TESTER
nj
Free reference point.
Volts, A.C. and
D.C., 500, 250,
100, 50, 10 and 5.
Milliamps, D.C.,
500. 100, 50, 10,
5. and 1. .
Ohms, 0-500,000
and 0-50,000 with
.zero compensator.
Genuine Weston
Universal Type
Meter.
Provision for new
metal 8-pin valves.
PRICE, £l3/17/6 nett, plus tax.
Tests all valves for
shorts and quality.
Neon leakage indi-
cator.
Line Voltage
adjustment.
■1 ; ; r
Will test new 8-
pin metal valves.
drftby
PRICE, £lO/17/6 nett, plus tax.
A. G. DOE, Maker, 374 George St, Sydney.
’Phone;
84064.
Send for list of Precision
Resistors and Accessories.
rty
TELA-VERTA
RADIO!
IBgSRTA
RADIO
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
D.W. RADIO CO.,
210 Willoughby Rd., Crow’s Nest.
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Radio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing 3<L in stamps) for tlio 30 x 20
inch J.avishly Illustrated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St, Sydney
RADIO NEWS
CAR RADIO INSTALLATION HINTS.
FON B. KNOCK.
The sources of radiated interference
in a motor-car installation are indicated
in the accompanying diagram by the
arrows and numbers which correspond
to the following: (1) Spark-plug cables;
(2) coil-to-distributor cable; (3) low-
tension breaker to coil; (4) generator
commutator; (5) horn; (6) radio six-
volt input; (7) and (8) lighting wires in
car body ; (9) and (10) windshield wiper,
electric fan or hot-water heater.
In connection with the installation of
auto radio the following general instruc-
tion is offered:
(1) Replace all leaky high-tension
cables.
(2) Make sure that all high-tension
leads make good contact with their ter-
minals. Soldered joints are preferable.
(3) Reduce the gap between the rotor
electrode and the distributor electrodes
to a minimum. If this is not possible
normally, add solder to the end of the
rotor electrode or to the individual dis-
tributor contacts.
(4) Check the spacing of the spark-
plug electrodes. In general, small gaps
reduce interference. Too small gaps
may influence idling. ,
(5) Check the condition of the low-
tension interrupter contacts.
(6) If the distributor housing is manu-
ally retractiblc for timing, bridge the
joint with a low-resistance flexible copper
braid.
(7) If a roof antenna is used, make
sure that the dome lignt switen is in me
live rather than in the grounded lead.
(8) Make sure that instrument panels
and bulkheads are actually grounded to
the frame of the car. Paint, enamel and
dull-surfaced lock washers are not good
conductors.
(9) Ground at the bulkhead all metal
tubes, controls, etc., extending through
the bulkhead. If necessary, use flexible
metal braid to allow movement.
(10) If the engine is mounted in rubber,
ground it to the frame of the car at the
front and at the rear with flexible copper
strips.
(11) Remove low-tension supply leads
for the coil, horn,.etc., as far as possible
from the high-tension leads. If possible,
partially shield them by placing them in
the channel sections of the car frame. If
necessary, reposition the low-tension wir-
ing from the instrument compartment to
the engine compartment, running the
leads below rather than through the
bulkhead.
(12) By-pass the generator terminal to
generator frame with a condenser having
as short leads as possible.
(13) By-pass the supply terminal of the
coil to ground with a condenser having
as short leads as possible.
(14) By-pass the ammeter to the
grounded instrument panel with a con-
denser having as short leads as possible.
Portable Midget Set.
“Alpha’s” plea for the small single
valve portable for the lonely drover (B.
10/7/’35) finds an answer in the type of
receiver used by the Brighton police,
England, and described in “Wireless
World.” The circuit, illustrated here,
shows the essentials. It is a super-
regenerator using a two-volt battery
triode. The frame aerial Lis as small
as 6in by 4in., but can be bigger with
advantage. Six to eight turns are in this
frame, which is in series with LI. This
combination would (in the case of the
broadcast band), with condenser C, be
resonant over the 200- to 550-metre
range. R is a resistance variable be-
tween 0 and 300 ohms. L 3 and L 4
are the quenching coils, and C 2 is
.002mfd. Cl is .OOOlmfd., and RI
,25meg. Other values are: C 3, .004mfd. ;
R 2, 1000 ohms ; C 5 and C 4, .Olmfd. The
tricky part is in the quenching coils,
these being wound with 42 copper
enamelled wire in “slab” form in a slot,
L 3 has 4000 turns and L 4 3500 turns.
It is reported that stations 500 miles
distant have been heard on the 6-by-4
frame, so that such a receiver should be
useful in Australia.
Points to Remember.
An air-spaced coil is more efficient
than one wound with the wire in con-
tact with the coil former, with the ex-
ception of the iron-
dust cores.
An earth screen
(electrostatic shield)
between the wind-
ings of a power
transformer reduces
the tendency to hum
interference.
A milliammeter in
the plate circuit of
a detector valve pro-
vides one method of
showing the cor-
rect tuning point.
The glass of a
window may be
used as a dielectric
of a coupling con-
enser f° r se, * a * aerial tuning,
Gramophone records which have
warped may be straightened by placing
between glass sheets in a warm place,
A screened lead can cause instability
if incorrectly arranged.
The present unused wave-lengths be-
tween 1000 and 2000 metres may some
day come into use again for Australian
broadcasting.
Short waves offer more programme
material than the normal broadcast bands
for a given frequency range.
Three different ratios can be obtained
with one parallel-fed audio transformer.
An audio pentode will work quite well
with a small plate voltage, and it is pos-
sible to construct a very economical re-
ceiver in view of that fact.
When working out the value of bias
resistance for a pentode or S.G. valve
the screen current must be added to the
plate current.
A short aerial running down from the
roof to another room is usually more
effective than the average indoor picture-
rail variety.
For short-wave reception a vertical
aerial is superior to most horizontal
types.
All Round the Dial.
“Bitumen”: George Saunders, whose
talk on “Seeing the World Without
Money” was a recent broadcast titbit,
was on the art staff of The Bulletin
eight years ago, and was ordered by his
doctor to go abroad. For seven years
he travelled continually, covering Eng-
land, Africa, Canada, United States and
Mexico as the representative of London
etching publishers. There is hardly an
art collector of note anywhere in these
countries who is not familiar with this
quiet, unassuming chap from “down
under” who turns up in the most unex-
pected places with perhaps £lO,OOO worth
of valuable etchings in his car. Ameri-
can millionaires, Hollywood movie stars,
statesmen in London and Quebec, native
chiefs in Central Africa, the great artists
of the world are among the people who
claim the friendship of “Saunders of
Australia.” He’s a great authority on
modern etching, but even more interested
in the wide world he travels. He con-
tinues to expect that something wonder-
ful will come to light round the next
corner, and retains implicit faith in his
luck, which has pulled him out of many
a tight fix.
“Howzat”: The reason why few people
listen-in to the A.B.C.’s musical pro-
grammes is not hard to find. Musicians
of high standing periodically and quite
truthfully decry the average Australian’s
musical education, it being no secret that
the man in the street understands “classi-
cal” music as much as he does Einstein’s
theory. Why, then, does the A.B.C. per-
sist in thrusting upon listeners music it is
generally admitted they do not, and never
will, understand? Roland Foster, of
Sydney Con., blames the educational
authorities for this lack of appreciation
among Australians, urging that the study
of good music should be made a school
subject; but does this excuse the com-
mission for boring listeners with a type
of music they should have studied in
their youth, but did not? This reputa-
tion for appreciating “muck” is cer-
tainly not one to boast about, but, while
the majority of listeners demand it, surely
by contributing the bulk of the A.B.C.’s
revenue they are entitled to it. This fact"
was recognised by commercial stations
years ago, and, as their very existence
depends upon their popularity, a lesson
could very well be taken from them.
“Enno”: The cabled press version of
Prof. E. V. Appleton’s claim that, “owing
to the discovery of a vast layer of heat
at lOOOdeg. centigrade in the upper
atmosphere, man will never fly to the
moon and ultra-short waves cannot be
of real use to broadcasting” is ambigu-
ous. It is rendered so by the supporting
comments of an official of the World
Radio Research League who states: “Pro-
fessor Appleton’s discovery knocks
micro-wave broadcasting on the head.
The heat belt puts all waves below the
six-metre mark out of action so far as
clear reception is concerned.” This
learned gentleman may have suffered at
the hands of a cable-news editor, but
almost at the same time came news of
a 900-mile ground-to-ground contact in
U.S.A. by amateurs. Whilst this is
admittedly a freak performance, the hard
fact remains that commercial and experi-
mental communications below the six-
metre mark are maintained for point-to-
point working in many countries, and
there is no doubt about “clear reception.”
Sections of the press are far too ready
to hang with bated breath on the
prophecies and “discoveries” of theorists,
and to overlook the established facts cf
the cap- and gownless experimenter. Such
hasty condemnation of radio communica-
tion below six metres won’t stop com-
mercial interests from securing channels
for many forms of “short-haul” working,
or military and air-service authorities
from applying them to obvious needs.
So far as broadcasting is concerned,
ultra-shorts are invaluable for future
specialised forms of local coverage, in-
cluding present-day television, heat layer
RADIO PERSONALIA.
As seen by Frith; Mr. Albert Jewell,
director and manager of Ever-Ready
Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Marshall-street, Sydney.
Resides at Vaucluse, N.S.W., and is a
keen and successful shark fisherman.
notwithstanding. Moon-visiting is
material only for fictional visionaries,
and whether it is practicable or not is of
merely academic interest.
Short-wave Diallings.
A still further trend toward summer
conditions has been noticeable of late.
GSF in the morning on 19m. has been
very much weaker, and only good ’phone
strength for a short period about
7.30 a.m., fading right out soon after
8 a.m. RNE has been much weaker, but
2RO has improved considerably, and
when on the 25m. band has been excel-
lent after 7 a.m. In the 31m. band 2RO
has suffered from telegraphic interference
from FZR in writer’s locality. This
French Indo-China station comes in at
tremendous strength, and is very broad.
No. 1 transmission from the 8.8. C.
has been a pleasure to listen to, both
stations being equal to any local; but,
although GSF has been slightly the
stronger, GSD was steadier and with
lower noise level. FYA has been not
quite so strong. DJA and DJN have
improved, but have been a long way
below GSB in the afternoons, and at
their best just before closing at 5 p.m.
The 19m. band at night has been
almost dead. The D.E.I. station about
90m. has been very good ; also RVIS on
70.2 m. There has been considerable


WIRELESS
VALVE
RADIOTR
Every Radiotron is labora-
tory tested and guaranteed
by Amalgamated Wireless
Valve Co. to retain its tonal
quality and give longer life
than any other valve in the
world.
Distributors: AM
Al.<;amAT. il. WIRELESS
- /•, V
(Asia* LTD.. IT I orK Street, Sydney; ASSOCIATED GENERAL ELECTRIC, LTD., -93-95 Clarence Street. Svdner.
(Aa\ciHsciiient of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Company, Limited.)
static, but signal strength has been
enough to override it.
On 49m. there has beep nothing really
worth while, either night or morning, the
best being GSL at the bottom of the
band, and DJC at the top in the morning
before 7 a.m.
On 24/8/’35 HBL reappeared and
was quite good at 8.15 a.m. for the usual
League of Nations talk ; also at 8.45 a.m.
EAR was fair. CTJAA has been about
ihe same strength, with the usual cuckoo
call.
W2XAF in the 31m. band has shown
a considerable improvement, being the
only American understandable here in the
morning. WBXK has disappeared from
the 19m. band, and has not been heard
yet on 25m.
JVM, on 21m., has continued excellent
in the afternoons, but has been weak in
the mornings. A lengthy English news
service was put over about 3 p.m. in a
very American accent. .Static is increas-
ing on 80m., and, although signal level
has been very good, accompanying noise
background has rendered reception un-
pleasant except from the strongest
amateurs.
Nothing has been heard of the Black-
wood (S.A.) Radio Club this winter.
This station used to put over a regular
Sunday night programme, and probably
its absence has something to do with the
restrictions recently placed on the use
of recordings.
NIGHTOWL.
Philips’s Dutch Short -wave
Programmes.
Programmes for short-wave listeners
from the Philips station, PHI Eind-
hoven, Hollar*!. Wave-length 16.88 m.,
17.775kc./sec. Hours in E.S.T. Opens
10.30 p.m. unless otherwise stated.
Sept. 15: 10.35 p.m., station orchestra;
11.15 p.m., Ruth Horna sings; 11.50 p.m., news
from Holland; 12 a.m., microphone debutants;
12.10 a.m., broadcast by the Roman Catholic
Broadcasting Association; 1.10 a.m., station
orchestra.
Sept. 16: 10.40 p.m., music; 11.45 p.m.,
meeting of the Phohi Club; 11:45 p.m., news
from Holland; 12.15 a.m., dance music.
Sept. 17: 8.40 p.m., broadcast from The
Hague ; ceremonial opening of the States-
General, and speech by Queen Wilhelmimi.
Sept. 19: 10.40 p.m., Conccrlgebouw or-
chestra of Amsterdam; 11.40 p.m., Tight music;
11.45 p.m., news from Holland; 12 a.m.,
music; 12.20 a.m., violin recordings.
Sept. 20: 10.40 p.m., music; 11.25 p.m.,
Samuel Brill, pianist; 11.45 p.m., news from
Holland: 12.15 a.m., crooning records.
Sept. 21: 10.40 p.m., Lyra Trio; 11.20 p.m.,
light music; 11.45 p.m., news from Holland;
12 a.m., Lyra Trio; 1.15 a.m., dance music.
Sept. 22 (also relayed by station PCJ on
19.71 metres): 10.40 p.m., music; 11 p.m.,
selections from operas; 11.10 p.m., microphone
debutants: 11.45 p.m., news from Holland;
12 a.m., music; 12.10 a.m., broadcast by the
R.C.B.A.
Sept. 23 : 10.40 p.m., light music; 10.50 p.m.,
meeting of the Phohi Club; 11.45 p.m., news
from Holland; 12.15 a.m., talk by C. J.
Groothoff.
Sept. 26: 10.40 p.m., music; 11 p.m., radio
show—Berlin, Milan, New York; 11.45 p.m.,
news from Holland ; 12.15 a.m., dance music.
Sept. 27: 10.40 p.m., Phohi string ensemble;
11 p.m., music; 11.25 p.m., talk by Dr. Wie-
bols; 11.45 p.m., news from Holland; 12.15
a.m., Phohi string ensemble.
Sept. 28: 10.40 p.m., station orchestra; 11
p.m., news talk by L. Aletrino; 11.15 p.m..
songs and light music; 11.45 p.m., news from
Holland; 12.10 a.m., station orchestra; 12.25
a.m., songs and music; 12.35 a.m., “A Walk
through the London Variety Shows"; 1.5 a.m.,
station orchestra.
Amateur Chatter.
On August 25 during the day sm. com-
munication and tests were considerably
hampered by what appeared to be wilful
interference over the whole Sydney area.
The source of interference was a power-
fully radiating super-regenerator, obvi-
ously of the “squegger” variety, and was
incessant for many hours. Self-inter-
ruptors without an aerial buffer stage are
unpleasant toys, particularly in the hands
of the unknowing, and the Sydney sm.
men arc faced with a problem if ultra-
short waves become a listeners’ stamping
ground. After the experience of
25/8/’35, many" sm. men feel like seek-
ing refuge on 40m. in desperation. If
the receiver QRM business on sm. be-
comes acute, some D.F. work in cars
will be done to locate the offenders. Under
regulations, any apparatus which radiates
widespread interference is akin to an
illegal transmitter, and is likely to be
treated as such.
VK2MW, at North Parramatta, is
reaching Sydney coast well on 5m.,
despite the fact that a Pickard, and not
a beam, aerial is used.
An interested visitor to VK2NO was
Doug Jarvis, VE2AG of Montreal,
Canada. He is representative for Peck
Tclevison, and consequently considers
u.-s.-w. work of major importance.
Leaving Sydney for Melbourne on s.s.
Canadian Constructor, he logged a flock
of Sydney sm. stations well down the
coast.
From the writer's angle the combined
56mc. mobile test of 1/9/’35 was dis-
appointing, but instructive. Promptly
at 10 a.m. the car containing the trans-
mitter-receiver gear recently used at
Wyong headed south. A halt was made
first at Carne's Hill, near Camden,
N.S.W., and calling and listening pro-
duced silence. The destination, Razor-
back Mountain, was quickly reached, and
from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. communica-
tion was attempted. Despite the fact
that (he Sydney Harbor Bridge can be
seen from this position, no signals were
heard from any Sydney station. Hearing
nothing from the other car station.
VK2JU, which should by this time have
been located at Kurrajong, it was de-
cided to move toward Bulli Pass.
At 2.30 p.m. a halt was made along
the road between Appin and the pass
in thick scrub, and on switching on (he
receiver VK2JU was heard at R 6 com-
pleting a contact with VK.2CY in
Lakemba. Despite repealed calls and
a wait of an hour, nothing more was
heard. It is interesting, however, that
this signal over a 60-milc path penetrated
the surrounding bush. There was no
question of optical range. Gradually
working back toward Sydney, a call was
made from Sublime Point, and then at
a position two miles from there along
the Sydney road. At this point, our
call was heard by VK2WN Coogce, who
is in a very elevated position. No
Sydney station was heard until at
A Queensland amateur station of neat appearance —
VK4WH, owned and operated by Mr. E. Hagarty at
Lon greach.
George's River, when VKs 2XK, 20D
and 2WJ were heard strongly and signals
exchanged.
It appears that, unless the Sydney
stations are at exceptionally high points,
nothing will be heard south. Some
peculiarity of the country absorbs signals.
In distinct contrast was the very suc-
cessful day experienced by VK2JU. who
was able to work Sydney stations all
through the trip. This car penetrated
west past Mount Victoria, and at the
farthest position was never less than R 4.
From almost anywhere in the Blue
Mountains direct visibility toward Sydney
is obtained, and any experimenters living
in the district can be assured of good
ultra-short-wave communication.
VK2NO.
The Amateur Spirit?
Occasionally at radio club meetings
somebody gets up and raves about the
good-fellowship of amateur radio, and
touches on what was once known as the
Amateur Spirit. That this once existed
to the full, nobody who took part in the
early days of amateur radio communica-
tion will deny. In later years this
Amateur Spirit has suffered, and the
days are no more when, on sighting an
aerial array over mansion or hut, one
pushed the doorbell and was hailed
enthusiastically as a brother experi-
menter. Since then a different type of
amateur has germinated.
A case in point. A pro-
minent Queensland old-
timer writes: “Was I
peeved last night? I fired
up the old 46 P-P final
rig at 1900 hours to get a
QTC to you. As you
know, Sydney is inside our
7mc. dead zone at night,
so I tried several, but
none would take it. If old
SBY, 7LJ, 3RJ and co.
had been there, the story
would have been different,
but that class of ham is
no longer being re-
cruited.”
EX-A.
A.W.A.’s New Radiolas.
A.W.A.’s range of broadcast receivers
has been extended by the recent addition
of three hew Radiolas. These comprise
“World Range” console and (able models
and a medium-wave console, incorporat-
ing all the features most desired in a fine
radio receiver, and at extremely moderate
prices. An outstanding feature is their
exceptionally efficient performance, made
possible by developments to the A.W.A.
reflex superheterodyne principle, result-
ing in greater range and power than that
obtained with
many receivers
using a greater
number of valves.
This high standard
guarantees inter-
state reception and
on the “World
Range” models
splendid reception
from overseas sta-
tions.
The controls in-
clude a manually
operated noise sup-
pressor which en-
ables the listener,
by a simple adjust-
ment, to bring the
Radiola to w the
ideal point of sen-
sitivity required for
the strength of the
station he wishes to listen to, and
thereby automatically reduce unwanted
noise amplification.
Cabinets are solidly constructed, with
beautifully matched veneers and high
gloss hand-rubbed finish. The appear-
ance is extremely modern and attractive,
and a fully inclined instrument panel
provides the utmost convenience in
tuning. A new Rotovisor dial is used,
calibrated in metres, kilocycles and
station callsigns, and in the “World
Range” models selective wave-range illu-
mination is featured. The latter is a
novel and most useful feature, as it serves
the purpose of indicating immediately
the wave range on which the Radiola is
tuned. It is achieved by an arrangement
by which the wave-change switch also
controls the dial lighting lamps, and as
the wave ranges change so is the particu-
lar range on the Rotovisor automatically
illuminated.
Other features include high-fidelity
loudspeakers, cadmium-plated chassis,
linished in two-tone iridescent lacquer,
micro-sensitive Radiotrons and special
impregnation of the components to resist
humidity, which ensures the same highly
efficient performance in all climates. The
prices of the new Radiolas are: “World
Range” Model 244, 25 guineas ; “World
Range” Model 245, 29 guineas ; Radiola
Model 75, 23 guineas. With these addi-
tions the Radiola range now comprises
15 models, prices ranging from 15 guineas
(Australian reception) and 25 guineas
(“World Range”).
The five-metre beam aerials' at VK2BP Hazel brook are
at a high elevation in mountain country. This array
was recently wrecked by a gale.
Latest in the Trade.
A booklet entitled “Radio, the Indus-
try of Opportunity,” issued by the Mar-
coni .School of Wireless, is to hand. It
is well produced and contains a large
number of illustrations of various radio
activities. The opportunities to-day
available to the trained radio man arc
fully set out. Marconi School of Wire-
less is the oldest school of its kind in
Australia, and was established in 1913.
It numbers among its graduates many
men holding high positions in the in-
dustry to-day. The instructional staff
comprises men having high qualifications
and extensive experience in every phase
of radio. The staff includes H. E. Buik,
superintendent of the marine and
mechanics section ; Dr. W., G. Baker,
B.Sc., D.Sc., Eng., principal of the engin-
eering section ; R. C. V. Humphery and
F. Basden. The school is conducted
under the auspices of A.W.A., Ltd., and
has at its disposal that firm's latest tech-
nical information. Marconi .School stu-
dents have access to the principal radio
stations and to the A.W.A. works, where
(he various processes and operations are
explained by experts. Over 70 p.c. of
the men carrying on the Australian wire-
less services of A.W.A. are graduates of
the Marconi School of Wireless.
The courses of instruction are: Radio
Engineering (five years); Radio Tech-
nician or Broadcasting Station Engineer
(two years); Radio Operator for Marine,
Aircraft and Police Services (18 months
to two years); Talking-picture Operator
(one year); Radio Mechanic (one year);
Radio Serviceman (five months).
The Q. and A. Column.
(1) Is the six-valve battery set recently
described in The Bulletin a better set than the
six ? (2) In the list of components it is
not slated whether the condensers are to be of
(Continued on next page.)


“Well, bless my
To think we
put up with the
OLD Gate all
those years!”
w
m
m.
H
s'
m
&y% \
M '
J 5
msm
m
•/A
S
i/: .
«i
’ mw it^
>'2^
=====:==: =(
w
m*
V
I
«\V>
c You have to think of the women, too. It’s no joke for a
woman to strain and tug at a gate. It’s a blessing and benefit
to a woman when a badly warped gate is scrapped and re-
placed by a “Cyclone” Gate.
A “Cyclone” Gate cannot drop cannot drag cannot do
anything at all except swing smoothly and shut easily for a
lifetime. It hangs so true and is so strong. The hinges bolt
through the post. The frame and cross members form a solid
assembly of steel tubing electrically welded into an inseparable
unit. There is not even a bolt -hole to let water enter and
rust start working.
Are you satisfied with all your gates or do some of them need
replacing? If so, fill in and post the coupon below for our
catalogue which gives facts and figures about “Cyclone” Gates.
"Cyclone is not a type of gate, but is our registered trade mark and can only be
legally applied to gates manufactured by us.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PT Y. LTD.
THE GRACE BLDG., 77 YORK ST. SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne and Adelaide. ,
one Gates
c
H
Chain - and-Knob
Fastener always
holds gate secure-
ly closed and can-
not be knocked
off, or lifted off
by cattle.
* V ►
Both hinges are bolt-
ed right through the
post —cannot loosen
or pull out.
8810
bhd
I Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates
and Ring-lock Fences.
Name
Address
B. 11 /9/’35.
the tubular or can type. Is it essential
that they be of the can type in certain posi-
tions ? (3) I am building a battery four de-
scribed in another publication, but substituting
Class-B audio for the pentode. Should tone
and volume be better, and how would you sug-
gest coupling the driver to the detector ? —314.
(1) The performance of the two sets should
be about equal. (2) Either type can be used
provided they are of the correct capacity,
working voltage and non-inductive. (3) Both
tone and volume should be a little better,
but care must be exercised in the choice of the
Class-B driver transformer and correct biasing
of the driver stage. Use resistance coupling
between detector and driver valves.
♦ * * ♦
Is it possible to make a two-valve superhet ?
I have been contemplating working on an ex-
perimental receiver of this kind for battery
use, and cannot decide what would be a good
arrangement ? —312.
With the advantage of modern valves and
components, it is quite possible to design
the type of receiver contemplated. For ex-
ample, the circuit illustrated shows such a
superhet designed by “Practical and Amateur
Wireless” (Eng.). The principle can be readily
followed, ignoring the dual-coil switching.
Suitable valves would be IC6 and 33, or the
new Philips KK2 octode and C243N. Reflexing
is employed, and a WX6 Westector plays a
prominent part. Intermediate frequency is 465 kc.
Component values are: Cl, C 2, two-gang con-
denser; C 6, CB, CIO, .OOOlmfd.; C 5,
.OOOSmfd.; C 9, ,005mfd.; Cl 1, .smfd.; C 7.
Cl 2, Imfd.; C 4, .0003mfd. van; C 3, .OOOlmfd.
van; R 3, 100,000 ohms: Rl. R 5 , 250,000
ohms; R 4, 1 meg.; R 2, 50,000-ohm potentio-
meter.
“Alpha”; The Minister for Defence
has beetr peti-
tioned to make avail-
able a household
wireless telephone
service in the North-
ern Territory. Exten-
sions of the Overland
Telegraph cannot be
run three or four
hundred miles to
serve a single home-
stead, while settlers
cannot always run to
the pedal-operated
transmitters and re-
ceivers which the
work of the Flying
Doctor and the mis-
sions has rendered
familiar. The aver-
age cost of an instal-
lation is about £BO.
Answers to Correspondents.
A r o notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.M.C.; “If this goes through I’ve plenty
more to send you.” Think better of it
Übett; The anti-climax is sheer feebleness....
M.T.: The last line of each verse is dismally
out of step with the metre... .A.T.: —
I meant to sing a song of spring
But, ah! my Muse is dead.
We don’t wonder at it D.M.L.: Smooth
enough philosophising, but it doesn’t make
worthwhile verse 8.D.: Heartfelt, anyway:
Although there’s many changes to the things our
hearts held dear,
There’s one thing can’t be altered —that’s a good
old • pot of beer.
....E.W.: You’re merely filled in the ruts.
....J.E.: The dead limit in childishness.
... .E.K.M.T.: The attempts to rhyme
“Apollo” with “to-morrow” and to put the
accent on the last syllable in “reaction”
raises a doubt whether verse is your forte
C.P.: Moving Day is always an upsetting
occasion, but it is no excuse for breaking into
verse like that G.S.C.: Drunk’s escapade
uninteresting, and circus yarn too thin
A. : Well enough done, but the theme
doesn’t appeal... .C.N. (Canada): Neither
story is quite what we want... .1.M.: Mr.
Purdom is dull, and dog story obvious.
... J.R.McC.: Didn’t miss by much....
B. : Prospectors as careless as that de-
serve to have their claims jumped... .D.W.:
Unsuitable for our purposes... .E.P.: Push-
ing one’s rich aunt downstairs may be an
excellent way of getting rid of her, but it
goes near to bathos... .A.S.R. (Scotland): We
used something similar last Christmas.... R.P.:
Your characters are too much like Wodc-
house’s Londoners... .E.S.M.: ■ Have heard
the yarn before in the form of an anecdote.
F.M.: Apparently the article was one
of the class mentioned in your closing para-
graph. ~. H.P.: All right as the opening chap-
ter of a novel, but no good as a short yarn.
You’ve merely manoeuvred your characters into
an intriguing situation and left them there....
Z.V.W.: Too artificial, without the redeem-
ing feature of being funny... .H.N.: “No
Flowers for Sue” —and no space either.. .L.M.;
Another “Retribution”! H.8.R.; Verses
vigorous but ragged W.L.: Too slight
C. : Not keen on that type... .G.J.: Its
main shortcoming is that the incident isn't
sufficiently interesting... .E.H.: Both have some
merit, but far too 10ng.... R. 8.: Tried hard,
but couldn’t laugh... .L.0’8.: Unimpressive.
. ...B.McC.: The subject doesn't appeal
L.J.H.: Pleasant jingles, but they don’t quite
get there D. 8.; You don’t pay enough
attention to form and rhythm. The violet is a
very worn subject... .A.D.: Sentiments trite.
....K.L.,: But unpolished gems aren’t used for
rivets Emel.: Not in our line W.L.H..
The week’s worst sonnet.. . .C.R.8.: Little
more than a murmur C.8.J.: Correct in
form, but the idea isn’t new....L.M.:
Reeks with artificial homesickness..’..A.C.:
You’re not saying much, nor saying it very
clearly.. . .Pedagogue: Keep away from that
classical dictionary... .E.C.L.: More “back
to the .land” verse R.C.T.: Full of hack-
neyed thoughts and phrases H.D.A.; More
suitable for a Maoriland journal.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.C.: Figure on the left needs overhaul-
ing; gag lacks punch E.D.: In wash-
work light and shade should be clear-cut.
. ...F.R.: Make your lines flow more
smoothly.. .H.A.: Just two flappers being catty.
. ...G.P.: Why the belated interest in
the fate of the ex-Kaiser? V.D.: Fashion-
plate figures and a prehistoric gag T.J.: A
fair first effort —keep 0n....M.A.: Idea has
been used... .C. 8.: You haven’t much control
over your brush, have you? R.T.: Stick to
your lessons for a few more years A.P.R.:
That drunk has been making the same reply to
the same copper for years... .W.M.: Sky-
scraper jest is a twin brother to one seen
in an American magazine... .1.L.: Ended
on the reject pile A.M.J.: Interest-
ing poses, but the execution is terrible
F.M.K.: And you “had to get up in the
middle of the night to do it”!... .P.Q.: Thou-
sands of infants could do as we 11... J.M.: Off
our beat ; try something appropriate H.S.:
Joke about the length of the violinist’s hair is
especially pointless S.G.R.: If there is a
laugh in it you have concealed it R.E.A.:
Waitress’s remark about vegetarian has been
heard before H.C.: If the figure in the
foreground is really an abo. you have given the
anthropologists something to worry over
D.M.: Conversation between bullocky and
parson a little too strong H.R.: Attempt
to depict shearer at work a disastrous failure.
W.D.; “Punch” printed that gardening
joke a few years back.
Though George Maxwell has gone,
Melbourne still has a blind barrister —
Dudley A. Tregent. He was 18 when he
enlisted in the A.I.F. He arrived in
France with the A.F.A. a year later
(1916), and got his issue the day before
he was to have left for Paris on leave.
Invalided home blind he commenced a
law course at Melbourne University, and
in 1926 graduated B.A. and M.A. with
supplementary honors.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Young Idea fell from grace in the
Memsie Stakes at Caulfield. Meeting
Hall Mark only a pound worse than at
Williamstown, where it would have taken
much more than a pound to bring them
together, the Constant Son —Persuasion
colt looked a pretty fair thing, and was
backed as such, although late support
tor Hall Mark sent them out at the same-
price, 9 to 4.
Young Idea looked well enough for
a Cup race, but he never seemed to put
his heart into it. Third for a time to Car-
narvon and Bustard, he began to hang
out, and left a gap through which Web-
ster pushed Hall Mark, who was second
to Carnarvon at the home turn. There
Young Idea went wider still, and his dis-
spirited backers could see that there was
no hope for him. So far from gaining
ground in the straight, he lost his posi-
tion and finished second-last; the one
horse behind him was Bustard, 50 to ].
Carnarvon struggled on gamely, but
it was reserved for Feldspar (6 to 1) to
fight out the finish with Hall Mark.
“Fight” is the right term, for Hall Mark
repeated his performance in the Don-
caster of trying to savage his opponent—
in that case, High. Some spectators aver
that Feldspar began it; be this as it
Gert : / Good Bert ''
Bert ; // ) would wok
,F: S.OM& Idiot H/vdmV f*ut qajtes
A.Lowq THE course.
may, the three-year-old made two efforts
to bite Hall Mark, who was satisfied with
one bite—or attempt. The jockeys straight-
ened the combatants up, and they went
on with the business, Hall Mark beating
Feldspar by a length. When hostilities
began, Feldspar looked like overtaking
the little chestnut, and he certainly took
more out of himself by his irregular exer-
tions with his mouth than did Kellow’s
horse, whose jockey had a narrow escape
Irom being mauled. Hall Mark, who
has obviously quite overcome his dislike
for Caulfield, although not for horse-
flesh, ran the nine furlongs, with 9st.
111 b. up, in Imin. 52? sec.
Spartan flashed up at the finish, and
beat Carnarvon for third place, only half
a head behind Feldspar. A pretty good
performance for a horse with 7st. 91b.
in the Caulfield Cup—he carried 121 b.
more. Spartan is a four-year-old grey
stallion by Heroic—Fairy Elf.
A better Caulfield Cup (or Metropoli-
tan) trial was, however, performed by
Marabou, a 4-to-l favorite for the
Heatherlie Handicap in a field of 21.
Marabou was rather slow to leave the
barrier, but Voitre steadily worked him
into a good position, and the son of
Marconigram was fifth into the straight.
He soon cut down the leader, Pala-
tinate, and, with Voitre sitting easily
on him, won by three-quarters of a
length from Greenhorn and El Bassanu
(both 33 to 1). Croscon was fourth.
Burlesque and Panto, both solidly
backed, failed to show up at any stage
of the Heatherlie Handicap. Another
failure was Hyperion, who did so well
in Westralia after running second to
Theo in the Caulfield Guineas and third
to him in the Victoria Derby. But there
was no money for Hyperion, nor any for
the dual Perth Cup winner, Cueesun,
who shaped much the best of the West-
ralian three.
Marabou is trained by Robertson for
Fell and Hogan, who have a horse likely
to do big things this spring. He has 7st.
91b. in the Metropolitan, Bst. 21b. in the
Caulfield Cup and 7st. 111 b. in the Mel-
bourne Cup.
The Doona Trial generally brings to
light a promising young horse, and Gay
Circle (7 to 2) must be placed in that
category. One of the invaders from
Maoriland, a three-year-old bay colt by
Gay Shield—Nucleus, he was out in
front early, and nothing ever troubled
him. Certainly he occupied half a sec-
ond more than did the winner of the first
division, Gay Mary (2 to 1) —she ran the
8i furlongs in Imin. 46Isec. —but the
mare was all out, whereas the colt could
obviously have cut his time. He is in
the Melbourne Cup with 7st. 21b.
Another sterling performance was that
of St. Fervent in the Warriston Handi-
caps for three-year-olds. Those who
took the price (9 to 4) were not pleased
when they saw his early position, but
he galloped very kindly for Dempsey
and had the race won a furlong from
home ; Beau Ham (8 to 1) and Quasi-
modo (6 to 1) did the hopeless chasing.
St. Fervent is in the Melbourne Cup with
7st. 31b. He may not be able to stay,
but he made it clear that his defeat of
Carnarvon at Williamstown was no fluke.
Another plunge on Heros, this time
in the Whittier Handicap, missed. Heros
was among the leaders from the begin-
ning, but at the finish he could not quite
catch Phenomenon (8 to 1), who had
headed him at Williamstown, where
Croden Lad beat both. Garrio, backed
for a few pounds by speckers, was a good
third in a fast-run six furlongs—it look
Irnin. Robertson certainly has
some good young horses in his stable.
* ♦ * *
Twelve months ago Bulldozer was
reckoned a squib that couldn’t gallop six
furlongs without stopping to nothing.
Racing improved him immensely, and he
now figures as a winner at weight-
for-age. Starting at 2 to 1, he led
throughout in the Canterbury Stakes,
defeating Kuvera and The Raider in time
only half a second outside the record for
the race, held by Chatham, who in 1933
ran the six furlongs in Imin. 12sec. But
the way was made comparatively easy
for Bulldozer by the scratching of Silver
King (a leg has gone wrong, and the
Epsom favorite may have to be with-
drawn from all spring engagements) and
by Grand Mogul being left at the post.
A ton of money had gone on the three—
year-old, and his price was the same as
Bulldozer’s.
It was a walk-up start; in all the other
races they started flat-footed. As the
small field was dispatched. Grand Mogul
swung away. It was rough on the owner-
trainer, J. C. Bendrodt, and he is right
in saying that the method of starting
should be one thing or the other. It
would be best if the walk-up principle
became universal on Sydney tracks. Sel-
dom can a young horse be induced to
stand quiet at a barrier—he is more
docile when on the move.
It is clear now that Hadrjan’s win in
the Warwick Hobartville Stakes was no
fluke. The chubby chestnut outpaced his
six opponents in the Canterbury Guineas,
a nine-furlong race, beating the favorite,
Wykeham, and Fireman with ease. He
started at 2 to 1, and on the day it would
have taken a good one to down the
Tippler—Figure colt, who completed the
journey in Imin. 54sec. Hadrian may
now be kept for the Caulfield Guineas.
Wykeham was troubled by the turns, and
was not going comfortably at any stage.
A long-strider, he will do better at Rand-
wick.
Great Legend, a stable-mate of Syna-
gogue, was voted a fair thing for the
Flying Handicap, but he had had enough
at four furlongs. Double Dutch and
Atucas cut at one another, but Porcia
went past them at the Leger, and looked
home and dry. But Medallist (20 to 1)
came from the clouds; second-last at
the half-mile, and wide at the home turn,
he got up in the last stride. Porcia was
hall: a head away ; Atucas, another length
oil, was third. Bombus beat the rest,
and he is worth keeping in mind for
future races. But “Back three-year-olds”
seems a good motto this season.
Forestry found his 9st. 81b. too much
in the September Handicap. He had the
run of the race on the rails behind Tapes-
try (10 to 1) and Ramrod, but the pace
told its tale, and Bulldozer’s stable-male
dropped out of the picture. Tapestry
cantered home a couple of lengths ahead
of old Khartoum; Turbulent, tailed off
most of the way, was a similar distance
back. Fluent, squeezed back earlv, wa<
fourth.
A lucky run on the rails at the turn
enabled Paddora (10 to 1) to win the
first division of the Park Stakes. It was
a good effort to hump 9st. 51b. Gym-
khana, backed from fours to 6 to 4, took
the second division narrowly for Frank
Spurway, who once raced Soorak, beaten
by Rivoli in the Derby. Moaenza (9
to- 2) donkey-licked her opponents in the
third division.
Darby Munro wound up a good day
by winning all the way on Prowler (8
to 1) in the Ashbury Handicap. He had
previously scored on Paddora and
Hadrian. Mystic Spell and Legatee were
heavily backed, but, while the former
chased Prowler from barrier-rise to
judge., the M.L. colt, not well ridden,
covered a lot of unnecessary ground, and
was beaten at the Leger. Legislator
battled on gamely to get third. Brae-
burn’s fourth was a surprise ; he came
home particularly well.
* * * $
“Fuart”: The late Sid Kidman bred
bloodstock and raised some good horses,
but he didn’t know nearly so much about
the game as his brother Charlie. It is
doubtful whether Charlie was consulted
when Silvius, one of the best English
horses ever introduced into these parts, by
the elder Kidman or anyone else, was
raced into the ground, as it were. Only a
three-year-old by English time, Silvius was
given an exhausting winter programme
at Adelaide in 1927, and it was then an-
nounced that he would be put aside for
the Melbourne Cup, in which he was
thrown in with 7st. 71b. But, instead of
undergoing a leisurely preparation, he
was rushed to Melbourne for a w.f.a.
race at Caulfield and for the Moonee
Valley Cup. going on to tackle Amounis
and Gothic in the Melbourne Stakes. He
won all three races like a champion, but,
after the Melbourne Stakes, in which he
was weighted as a four-year-old, he was
so tired that he could scarcely leave his
stall. The effects must have been still
telling on him when he ran second in the
Cup to Trivalve —a good colt, but not in
his class. Rested for a whole four days.
Silvius was saddled up for the C.B.
Fisher Plate, and again he beat Amounis
(who twice defeated Phar Lap) at 51b
worse—and only a three-year-old, mind
you! That was the end of him as a race-
horse ; at the stud he has sired Sylvan-
dale and Braeburn. Better handled he
might have had two or three years of
outstanding and immensely profitable
successes, and he would have been
lemembered among the Cup winners.
(Continued on next page.)
Footbrawl
“The four’’ in Melbourne are South,
Collingwood, Carlton and Richmond.
On Saturday South trounced Richmond
14-23 to 9-9, but St. Kilda missed its
chance of going up fourth in place of
Richmond by losing to ’Wood, 7-15 to
9-18, Carlton put' up the highest score
of the day (20-24, 144 points) against
hootscray (10-17). North was no match
for Melbourne, 7-12 to 15-12. Despite
bad kicking for goal, Hawthorn beat
Fitzroy 14-26 to 15-6, and Essendon
(14-23) easily accounted for Geelong
(11-13).
Association matches are over; Yarra-
vil'e (10-10) won a hard-fought “grand
final” against Camberwell (8-13).
• * * *
Farmer, the North Adelaide goalsneak,
has broken his own Australian record by
kicking 128 goals this season. At the
commencement of play in the North-
Sturt match on Saturday he required 12
goals to top the record ; he managed 13.
This is the sixth year in succession that
Farmer has notched more than 100 goals,
and his aggregate in League football is
740.
Port, South, Norwood and Sturt are
“the four.” Norwood and Sturt will
meet in the first semi-final on Saturday.
**■ ♦ *
Northern Suburbs will be Manly’s
opponent for Sydney’s Rugby Union pre-
miership. Against Randwick North won
10-3, two converted tries to one try, and
it earned the points. A ten-minute dash
in the beginning and a fine burst towards
the end was the best the Greens could
manage ; for the rest of the time the
Northern forwards called the tune. Only
once in the first spell did the ball travel
along the line as far as Towers, and
then he was tackled as he took it. In the
backs, too, North, not so polished as
its opponents, was more successful;
Gibbons’s quick passing set them mov-
ing and the inside men fed the wings,
who ran straight and hard. North has
already won the club championship, de-
cided on the first three grades, and is in
the finals of all four grades on Saturday.
* * * *
“Hotham”; Footscray Rugby club re-
turned to Melbourne after its match with
Drummoyne in Sydney well pleased with
having drawn the first game between
Rugby clubs from the two capitals. Next
year the Drummers are to visit Mel-
bourne. Footscray intends to go over to
Tassie and spread the light there.
* * * *
South, noted for its end-of-season
form, and East are the two for the Rugby
League final. Both came from behind
to win on Saturday. South scraped home,
14-10, against North —two tries, one con-
verted, and three penalty goals to two
converted tries —and East accounted for
West 15-10. East lost Brown before
either side had scored.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Novice Handicap: Latharna or
Fireman ; next, Debham.
Tramway Handicap: Sir John or
Synagogue ; next. Dark Sky.
Chelmsford Stakes: Latharna or
Young Idea ; next, Buzzard King.
Spring Handicap: High Cross;
next, Mr. Kerry.
Welter Handicap: Sir John or
Mainlaw ; next, Allunga.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS.”
Firearm Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
303 Service Rifle Converted
to a Sporting Model.
Postage Extra.
Write for my new folder—
“ Recommended Sporting Reloads for 303
Cartridges.”
Reloading set , 42/6. Bullet Mould, 30/-.
JPrimers, per 1000 14/- and 19/-
Powder —Amberite, per pound 13/6
Sharpshooter, Dupont So, 175 and 80,
all 20/- per pound. Freight extra.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
With good barrel
With new barrel .
£5/10/-
£B
SINCE 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY. LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Assets Exceed £39,000,000
Advances made.
Interest allowed on Fixed Deposits.
All classes of Banking and Exchange business transacted.
C. Darvall, General Manager.
MARLOW & CO.,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Rod Hospital and Anglers' Service
Station,
Rods Bought, Sold, Repaired, Exchanged.
Hired, Rebound, Revarnished. Expert Work-
manship.
Hardy Trout Rod For Sale, £7/10/-.
Mothers! Ils
3ZHQ
STOPS TRAVEL
SICKNESS bu
SEA, AIR <3OO
TRAIN ,
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Poor as his Australian record is, Roy
de Gans continues to get matches. Dis-
qualified at Newcastle for going down
without being hit —his opponent was Jock
McDonald—the colored pug was served
up again four nights later at Leichhardt,
the other bruiser being Jack Rainsford.
De Gans did less dancing than usual, but
seemed a long way behind on points
when referee Haines called it a draw.
Rainsford was cautioned twice for using
“rabbit-killers,” and once for hitting low,
and a caution at Leichhardt means the
loss of the round. A very promising
youngster, Joe Gill, gave away nine
pounds to Bobby Scott (Bst. 111 b.). A big
handicap, but the lad was too fast for
Scott, outfighting as well as outboxing
him.
* * * *
Abe Willis, the old-time “fedder,” is
dead at Orange (N.S.W.). He was a
contemporary of “Griffo,” and after a
couple of scraps (“Griffo” won one and
the other was drawn) the pair became
great pals. Abe followed “Griffo” to
the U.S.A., and was backed for big
money to beat “Chocolate” George
Dixon, but found the coon too tough.
Back in Sydney, he became a teacher of
his art, and turned out many good pupils,
among them Tommy Hanley—himself
now an instructor with as many young-
sters as he can handle.
Footbrawl
“Sleepy Hollow”: Poor old Geelong
football club is indeed in the doldrums
(B. 4/5/’35). Only 2500 turned up to
watch the match against Hawthorn, and
the gate was £45. This isn’t as bad as
the £2l collectionjij 1915, but that time
news came through on the morning of
the match that Joe Slater, a Geelong
football star of those days, had been
killed in France, and 90 p.c. of the crowd
turned back on the way to the ground.
As I write it is rumored that in the
coming match with Essendon the Gee-
long players will be asked to cast the
thought of sordid lucre to the winds and
take the field as amateurs.
* * * *
“Half Forward”: As the appointment
of a paid secretary to run the N.S.W.
Australian Football League seems out of
the question, an endeavor will be made to
secure playing coaches from Melbourne
to be paid for by the Australian National
Council. The wild fantasy of the notion
that the Australian body will pay big
salaries to its players to teach N.S.W.
how to tackle the game makes one’s head
whirl. The only way for N.S.W. to
improve its standards is to get its own
enclosed ground and build up a cash
reserve.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”; No wonder the big
English Soccer clubs can afford to pay
£lO,OOO transfer fees. Over 70,000 saw
Arsenal beat Sunderland at Highbury by
3 to 1. Forty years ago a Soccer match
in London rarely drew more than three
men and a dog, the Oxford-Cambridge
match excepted. All the crowds and all
the brass were in Lancashire and York-
shire then. Counting in other London
clubs, over a million turned out for the
opening round this season.
* * * *
“Two Blues”: Dr. Len Brown, who
has been visiting Australia and has con-
ferred with Hill and Holden, the Austra-
lian delegates to the Imperial Rugby con-
ference in London, is a Queenslander
who for years has been Australia’s
Rugby representative on the English
R.U. A Brisbane Grammar boy, he
played Rugby for Queensland before
going to Oxford as a Rhodes scholar.
There he gained his blue in his first
season and skippered the Dark Blues. He
was capped for England while at the
university, and wore the red rose for
several years. As a captain and for-
ward, English critics rated him one of
the greatest who ever turned out for the
country.
“Birkenhead Park”: The All-Blacks
have made their landfall in Britain and
are settling down to train at Newton
Abbot in Devonshire. Press comment
is cautious, though the lightness of the
backs is criticised. The opening match
on Saturday is against Devon and Corn-
wall at Devonpoct; the second, on Sep-
tember 19, against Midland Counties, a
tough lot, at Coventry.
* * ♦ *
“Gate”; That very excellent footballer
Brown, of Eastern Suburbs, has beaten
the points record of Dally Messenger
(B. 4/9/’35), and tinkling cymbals are
rating him a greater player. That is as
may be, but Brown has, in many in-
stances, been taking candy from kids.
In Messenger’s day, clubs like South
Sydney, Eastern Suburbs, Newtown and
Balmain were of the highest class, many
of their players being Union inter-
nationals, To-day there is no club in
Sydney with a hope of beating Eastern
Suburbs, while Messenger had not
pathetic futilities like Sydney Uni. and
Canterbury-Bankstown to pile up scores
against—Brown got 45 points in one
game against C.-B. Brown’s solidest
claim to champion form is his record of
285 against the North of England with
the last Kangaroos.
Ins and Outs
“Fitzcray”; Few seem to have noted
that Vernon Ransford narrowly escaped
being elected to the Board of Control.
Harry Bussell winning the seat on Canon
“Aw, be a sport, pal—Foe got 'alf a note on yuh!"
Hughes’s casting vote. Vernon was one
of the rebels who defied the young board
in 1912.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Board of Control
must have got up and kicked the cat
when it read that the South African
heads were going to grant their return-
ing heroes a £5O bonus. It follows as the
night the day that our cricketers will put
up a paralysing yelp for the same treat-
ment when the tour is over.
* * * . #
“Aigburth”: South African Test-
match averages show the stylist Mitchell
at the head of the batting with an
aggregate of 488, a highest score of 164
n.o. and an average of 69.71 for 10
innings, seven completed. Mitchell was
the only ’Bok batsman to get more than
one century in the series ; Dalton and
Viljoen scored one each. Left-hander
Vincent bagged 18 wickets at 33.38 ;
medium-paced Lang ton got 15 and fast-
bowler Crisp 13. The list of 23 English
batsmen is headed by Robins with 66
for two finished innings; Hammond and
Wyatt, with six and seven “outs,” aver-
aged 64.83 and 45.28 respectively. Bowes
took 14 wickets for England, Nicholls 13
and Verity 12. Verity’s average of 20.83
was the best, though both the others
finished under 30.
* * * *
“Maharashtra”: Though our incom-
prehensible Board of Control has for-
bidden Test matches between Tarrant’s
team and Indian sides, there will be
three games v. All-India —the same
thing with a difference. That they will
be regarded in India as Tests is seen
from the appointment of Duleep, Pataudi
and Dr. Kanga as an Indian selection
committee ; Kanga was a member of the
1911 Indian eleven in England, It is
said Pataudi will captain the Indian teams
and the side which goes to England next
year. That means he will play no more
cricket for England. Probably the hint
has been passed that it is time for him
to stay at home and look after his job
of Nawabbing.
“Newlands”: English critics are glee-
fully prophesying a shock for- the Aus-
tralian team when it meets South Africa
on its native heath. But it is doubtful
whether the Afrikanders met a bowler in
England of the standard of Grimmett,
O’Reilly or F.-Smith. Grimmett was a
perpetual headache to them when they
were last here, and, since the important
matches on the other side will now all
be played on turf, O’Reilly should find
conditions suitable. The batting, too,
will not suffer, as often before, by the
change to matting wickets.
* * * *
“Huon”: Tassie cricketers have gone
very sour on N.S.W. for trying to diddle
them out of their Board of Control privi-
leges. C. J. Eady made unkind refer-
ences to Ma, and at the T.C.A. meet-
ing one member said the Tasmanian
delegates should move at the board’s
next meeting that no member thereof
should be eligible for financial positions
on tours abroad: the lobbying for these
and managerial jobs had become “a cry-
ing scandal,” No action was taken, but it
was stated that the Tasmanian delega-
tion would have a lot to say when the
board next met.
♦ * * ♦
“Aigburth”; To the surprise of many,
the English cricket public has taken
kindly to the new l.b.w, rule, victims of
which are indicated on the score sheet
by (n) after the l.b.w. One result has
been the pruning of the list of men top-
ping over 2000 runs for a season; this
year there will not be more than half a
dozen at most; last year there were 19.
The idea has not caught on in this coun-
try for the reason that we have no pro-
fessional pad artists. It is difficult for
cricket followers here to imagine the
prevalence in England of the dreary
practice, even among first-class batsmen,
with, of course, imitators by the thou-
sand in the lower levels.
* * * *
“’Gabba”: Queensland is making an-
other effort to raise its cricket standard.
In future there will be two Country
Weeks in Brisbane instead of one: the
first early in the season, the second at
the finish. Frugal-minded officials design
that selected clubs pay their own fares—
some of them for journeys of several
hundreds of miles —money to be refunded
out of any profits made. Queensland’s
trouble is its habit of giving a youngster
one trial and then throwing him into
outer darkness if he isn’t a striking suc-
cess first pop. Other States are like that,
but it is a habit in Bananaland.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: The women’s golf
championships provided some surprises.
These began when Mona McLeod beat
Jessie Anderson in the quarter-finals.
Both had been playing rare golf, and it
was the toughest of luck that Miss
McLeod had to forfeit her next match to
Mrs. Morpeth through illness. The real
crash came when the gallery favorite,
Pam Barton, went down to the Vic-
torian Miss B. Nankivell, after a hard
light which went to the 23rd. The Eng-
lish girl seemed to tire, or the excitement
of the neck-and-neck struggle was too
much. Cucumbers just out of the ice-
chest had nothing on the winner.
Against Mrs. Walker in the semi-final,
Miss Nankivell, though 1 up at the end
of the first nine, lost 3 and 2; Mrs.
Morpeth reached the final by defeating
Mrs. McKay, 3 and 2. Putting in the
final was poor. It was all square at the
eighteenth, but then Mrs. Walker pulled
away, to win 4 and 3 —the second British
player to take the title.
Britain won the first of the inter-
national matches, four games to two.
Mrs. Greenlees went down to Miss Nan-
kivell 2 and 1, and Mrs. McKay had an
easy win over Miss Barton. One of the
foursomes was squared.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: It looks as if Queens-
land golf has been sold another sundial.
The claims of other States to golf cham-
pionship meetings were discussed in
Adelaide, and it was resolved to have
certain courses in Queensland, Tassie and
Westralia inspected to see if they were
up to championship standard. A pity
Darwin and Arnhem Land weren’t in-
cluded in the resolution while the Golf
Council was at it. Every year the same
farce is gone through, and sometimes, as
in 1933, an inspecting expert is appointed.
There the matter ends.
* * ♦ ♦
“Divot Digger”: The Australian golf
championships in Adelaide have pro-
duced the usual crop of folk who talk
about “new records.” The man who
regards golf in the light of a game of
billiards played on a standard table is a
double-distilled ass. It is impossible to
make such comparisons, even for rounds


0
uy
%
12
ist
Confidence
in the car-
tridges one uses
not only makes
shooting more plea-
surable, but it assures
BETTER SHOOTING.
With the knowledge that
every cartridge is scientifically
accurate in its production
and tested before market-
ing, the user of Eley &
Kynoch Cartridges
can always depend
upon reliability in
performance.
Obtainable
Everywhere
100,
There's Not
A Faulty
Cartridge In
Million.
402
ICI
AM.APPRECIATION
and AM APOLOGY
This message is addressed by Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. to the car-buying
public. Its purpose is two-fold: Firstly, to set on record our sincere appreciation of the
enthusiastic reception accorded our new range of V-8 and English De Luxe Models. Secondly,
to express our regret that our increased factory capacity has been unable to cope with the
unprecedented demand, with the result that we have been forced to keep buyers waiting for
delivery.
We regret the inconvenience caused to purchasers of Ford products, and we take this oppor-
tuniry of assuring you that we are rapidly improving the delivery position. Our staff is making
a splendid effort, and our factories are working at the peak of their efficiency. From now on,
delivery time will progressively be reduced.
We admit that we under-estimated the degree of public approval of the new Ford V-8. We
expected good sales because we knew that our new model would constitute the greatest value
we had ever offered. We were convinced that the All-Steel Closed Bodies, Centre-Poise
Riding, and other refinements would make an immediate appeal to every motorist. But,
frankly, we were amazed at the tremendous volume of orders received even before the car
was built, and which still continue to pour in.
We admit, too, that we spent a great deal of time testing the new models before release. We
subjected them to most searching trials to satisfy ourselves that every detail was perfect. The
public has told us in sales figures that our work was well done.
This statement is on behalf of our dealer organisation as well as ourselves. We are proud of
your approval of the new Ford V-8. and we are conscious of our obligation to meet public
demand for these fine cars as expeditiously as the quality and precision of Ford manufacturing
methods will allow.
GENERAL MANAGER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F22.30.V
on the same course ; there are a bundled
changing factors every day which make
the approximation of conditions quite
impossible. Yet we will continue to hear
from the expert mug that because Tom-
kins has won a title with a smaller score
than ever before he is a better player
than the dozens of ex-champions who
have figured before him on other courses.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: A notable perform-
ance at the women’s Australian golf
championships in Melbourne was that
of Mrs. Yuille, who won the Australian
title 23 years ago when she was Miss
Binnie and the championship was de-
cided by medal play. The N.S.W. title
has also been won by Mrs. Yuille, who
this time won her way into the list of
qualifiers for the national event.
♦ * * *
“Swing”: A physical-culture expert of
high standing wrote to a Sydney news-
paper detailing 13 muscles that have
to be used in a golf swing and calling
them all by their pet names. It is all
most interesting, but one doubts if a
golfer’s game would be improved by call-
ing the roll of his golf muscles from be-
ginning to end of swing. Harry Vardon,
who knew more about gpif than physical
exercises, had a standing piece of advice
for his pupils: “Watch the ball, and
keep on watching it; hit the ball, and
keep on hitting it.”
♦ * * «
“Oaklcigh”: Naismith has been nomi-
nated by his Victorian fellow-professionals
as the Victorian candidate for the team
to visit the U.S.A. He practically picked
himself by his showing against the
Americans last year, and his form is
better than ever. Now that the shouting
and the tumult of the Australian cham-
pionships are over, we should begin to
get further news of how preparations for
the tour are progressing.
Racquet and Bawl
“Ncwlands”: Crawford and Quist
don’t seem to be setting the Limpopo on
fire. They won the second match against
the Africans by four rubbers to one,
Crawford being beaten by Farquharson ;
the doubles match was abandoned. This
time the game was at seaside Durban.
Crawford is described as erratic and
Quist in good form.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Kooyong”: Melbourne grass-court
tennis-players, who have Jong considered
themselves the kings of the game down
there, are in a twitter over the formation
of a hard-court association which is de-
manding affiliation with the L.T.A. and
representation on the council. The hard-
courters outnumber the grassies by many
hundreds, and fear is abroad that they
may capture control of the game which
has so long been the close preserve of
ihe grass men, as they threaten to do in
N.S.W. The stab in the back is all the
more poignant because the new body has
been organised by a person from N.S.W.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Perry’s appoint-
ment “to a job in Australia” to pre-
serve his amateur status will consist in
the champion’s passage through this
country in the manner of a spider cross-
ing a red-hot shovel. Cables state that
on November 9 he will start in the
N.S.W. championships. Queensland then
entertains him from November 23-30,
country towns being taken in on the
way. A gallop to Melbourne for the
Victorian championships in the second
week in December will be followed by
a scoot through southern and south-
west N.S.W. Then to Victoria again, on
to Adelaide for the Australian cham-
pionships, away per aeroplane to Perth
and so per ship to South Africa on
February 4.
Miscellaneous
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell reached
his life’s ambition when he topped 300
m.p.h. in his Bluebird at Bonneville Salt
Flats, Utah. The new world’s ground
speed record—Campbell’s eighth in 10
years—stands at 301.337 m.p.h. The Fly-
ing Scotsman’s first spin with the wind
was at 304.311 m.p.h., the second—
against it —at 298.013. At the finish of
the first run a blow-out threatened
disaster, but the driver kept his machine
level. Tyre-changing took so long that
he did not run back the full distance for
the second trial—the whole thing had to
be begun and over in an hour. Whether
Campbell will stick to his resolve to let
the dangerous game alone now he has
passed the 300 mark remains to be seen.
Probably he will risk his neck once more.
"Splash”; Sydney lifesavers are keen
on that trip round the world. It is hoped
that 25 of them will leave for Europe
in April, and a special carnival is to be
held to dazzle the eyes of a mob of
American Senators expected here in
October. If the dazzle comes off an invi-
tation to America is expected to follow.
The trouble will be to find surf anything
like the great Pacific rollers which beat
on the east coast of Australia. I can
vouch that neither South Africa nor
Britain can produce real surf beaches,
and, from what I have heard and seen in
the movies, the Californian variety is
as gentle as the ripples in a duckpond
after the cows have finished drinking.
r ! u w-"* tu *. ,
i Lett u • j Fhe , lndla , n . hockey
players having departed, much is being
made of the contention that the game in
these parts must be improved by the
study of their tactics, so immeasurably
superior to ours. I don’t agree. The
same sort ot thing was chortled in the
press when the Indians were here some
years ago, but their showing had not the
slightest influence on Australian methods.
Those are still of the slatherumwhack
variety, with plenty of bumping—it
caused the Indian manager to complain
of “Rugby methods.”
* * * *
1 he Gaffer : To bring events into
line with Olympic conditions the Aus-
trahan Olympic officials are asking the
National Games people to have some of
the distances at the January meeting in
Adelaide altered from yards to metres,
Athletics and swimming arc specially
mentioned. It is time Australia threw
overboard the old yardage measurements,
They are not worth the trouble and con-
fusion caused by the clash with the
metric distances obtaining everywhere
else, particularly at Olympiads. A bold
lead by this country would start the other
Dominions on the right road, and Britain
would follow.
* * * *
“Spike”: The M.L. cross-country
athletes returned to their native land un-
successful as far as performances went,
but the better for a visit that was long
overdue. The result has been an invi-
tation from Maoriland to a team of six
and a manager to take part in the M.L.
cross-country competitions next year. A
proposed innovation will be the billeting
of the visitors by Dominion athletes and
their families instead of the customary
accommodation in dreary pubs—and
pubs can bc dteary in ML .
* * * *
“Fixed Seat”: They did some things
better in the good old days. In rowing
races to-day the men are scantily clad in
cheap and uninspiring singlets. 1 have
just been reading of Leander’s first win
in the Henley Grand Challenge in 1840.
The oarsmen wore green tail coats, buff
waistcoats, white ducks and black top-
hats, the cox being resplendent in green
plush breeches,
* * * *
“Blade”: There is a strong feeling that
an eight should be sent to the Berlin
Olympiad, and the Olympic Council is
willing if the cash comes in. The thou-
sands of Australian rowing men could
make the trip sure by putting in a shil-
ling each. Further, the country is full of
wealthy old pots who at annual meetings
and so on to the listening earth recount
the story of their prowess long ago, but
rarely go further.


STOMACH DISTRESS
and ACIDITY
VANQUISHED...
This New Way
’’Entirely due to self-poisoning,"
says the eminent Berlin physician,
Dr. C. Oppenheimer
■
m s
ffi V
m
11
V:l
S MmM
AUTOXIMA
... Its Cause and Effects
Civilised life guards against many dangers.
But it exposes us to hidden ones such as
autoxima. Modern food gives insufficient
exercise to the walls of the intestines. These
intestines lose their power of normal move-
ment and are unable to get rid of the
waste matter which settles in the folds.
Minerals essential to health are not ex-
tracted from your food by the lifeless walls,
and your vitality is lowered by their ab-
sence. Meanwhile, rotting food-waste lies
stagnant and fermenting in the colon, giv-
ing rise to gases which are forced back into
the stomach, thus souring the food. Other
acids and impurities are created; they enter
the blood stream and thus attack and
weaken every vital part of your body.
READ THIS
"ILLNESS VANISHED IMMEDIATELY"
Tewkesbury, Tasmania.
"I have to tell you that I felt great benefit
from COLOSEPTIC. I was suffering from 'flu.
I was ill for a month. After taking but a
few doses I felt much better. The dry cough
left me entirely. Am telling my neighbours
about it now."
A.E.T.
(The original of this letter
may be seen at Head Office).
Stomach distress and acidity do not, as is popu-
larly supposed, result from just indigestion, for
this, too, is only a condition arising from the real
cause. As Dr. Oppenheimer, the celebrated
Berlin physician, points out, these complaints are
entirely due to self-poisoning (autoxima). That is
why preparations which act only on the stomach
can give no permanent relief. The clogged colon,
where the cause of autoxima begins, must be
cleared of fermenting debris before real relief
from stomach distress, indigestion, gastritis,
belching, bloatedness, gas pains, sourness and
ulcers can be effected. So clear your colon now.
ENJOY REAL HEALTH
The left illustration shows your
colon clogged by fermenting
food waste. Your partial bowel
movements may be regular, but
modern food has clogged your
colon and auloxima is poisoning
your system. You feel depressed,
bloated. You are troubled with
gas pains, sourness, constipation.
You cannot avoid it. Laxatives
are useless—they only act on
the lower part of the bowels; they do not clear away the gas-
generating poisons from the colon-walls. COLOSEPTIC, however,
activates, and cleans and evacuates the entire colon of waste matter,
as shown in the right hand illustration. Its tonic action also tones up
and activates the three other eliminative organs the pores of the
skin, the respiratory system, and the kidneys. Clear your colon with
COLOSEPTIC now, and you'll know what it is to be really free from
many forms of stomach distress and, indeed, most forms of sickness.
You'll know what it is to be vigorous and vital as in healthy youth.
IMPORTANT BOOK ON AUTOXIMA FREE
An intimate and important booklet, giving all the facts
about autoxima, will be sent FREE it you complete and
mail the coupon for a demonstration jar of COLOSEPTIC.
Learn how you are unwittingly poisoning yourself and pav-
ing the way for disease. Don't delay, mail the coupon now!
)
*
CLOGGED
COLON
UNCLOGGED
COLON
I
U
ZJ
| Ceaitntt n*l Idl
COIOSEI
(AUSTRALIA)
DRINK
(WAYNE'S Mffl 6YED
fOfIMUIA)
FOR INTERNAL CLEANNESS
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD.. Box 3415 R, G.P.0., Sydney.
CLIP OUT 5.4.
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd..
Box 3415 R, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE book
on Autoxima in plain envelope.
Also send me my demonstralior
jar of COLOSEPTIC, for which I
enclose I/- in penny stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1316 of 1935.
BETWEEN WILLIAM BRAMWELL PEEL
Petitioner
And GLADYS EVELYN PEEL formerly
GLADYS EVELYN BLACKETT Re-
spondent.
TO GLADYS EVELYN PEEL late of Ray-
mond Terrace.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
BRAMWELL PEEL has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-fifth day of November 1935
and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Thirtieth day of August, 1935.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk.
C. D. ROBERTS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Young Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1121 of 1935.
BETWEEN MARY WORTHINGTON Peti-
tioner
And FRANK WORTHINGTON Respon-
dent.
TO FRANK WORTHINGTON formerly of
Casino in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
WORTHINGTON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-sixth day of November next and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ASHER. OLD & JONES, 16 Spring Street,
Sydney, Agents of RALPH TAYLOR, Solicitor
for Petitioner, Tenterfield.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Australia First
Ever since the Abyssinian question
became a front-page item, League of
Nations propaganda has become inten-
sified, more particularly in Government
schools. With the backing of our Educa-
tion Departments League ideals will in
future be kept well to the fore in the
idealistic training of our future citizens.
But what are the teachers in other coun-
tries doing?
Young Italians are not being incul-
cated with League of Nations ideals. W.
Buntine, who represented Victoria at the
International Conference of Teachers, is
returning convinced that “militant nation-
alism dominates education in the majo-
rity of countries.,. .They over-empha-
sise physical training, particularly of
boys.” Why? The Japanese delegate’s
reply was obvious: “To make better
soldiers, of course.” And with conscrip-
tion once again law, the inculcation of
the military spirit in Germany proceeds
apace.
We don’t want to further inflame the
war spirit in our schools, but we will
have to encourage more of the old Digger
spirit—that deep, inarticulate sense of
comradeship, coupled with the intense,
inexpressible conviction that in the de-
fence of Australia one should be pre-
pared to sacrifice all, and to train heart,
mind and body to that end. The ideals
of the League of Nations should come
second.— Country Fed. (Vic.).
The Hobart Hospital Rumpus
“A.B.C.’s” statement (B. 21/8/’35) is
somewhat distorted. No committee has
suggested that Dr. Ratten should be
dumped. One committee proposed to
relieve him of certain duties, so that he
might devote his whole time to surgery.
This involved reduction of salary,
but even then it was fixed at £1250 p.a.,
with quarters, fuel and lighting and a
three-year contract. An indigent Gov-
ernment overrode the decision, fixed the
salary at £2OOO, and made it a five-year
contract. The board resigned.—A. E. W.
(Tas.).
One-man Control
“If Noah had had a committee, he
might never have got his ark built,” said
Canon “Bob” Hammond, of Sydney, to
the Old Melburnians in Melbourne. He
was explaining the success of his model
village at Hammondville.
From the biggest of big businesses
down to the junior football club success
follows domination by some devoted
fanatic. When the committee of the
cricket club or the members of the board
of directors begin to “take an interest” in
the concern, it is the first slide towards
the condemned cell. The most prosperous
businesses in Australia during the past 10
years have been those in which one man
has run the whole show. He may have
been chairman of directors ; he may have
been one of the board; he may have
been simply the manager who kept the
board in ignorance of what it could not
understand had it been told. Wherever
there has been democratic administration
there has been failure or mediocrity.
Had the Czar of Hammondville found
himself surrounded by a dozen well-
meaning altruists, all with their own
ideas of organisation, the place would
still be the subject of meetings and elo-
quent talk, and it would still be waiting
to get born.— Como (N.S.W.).
A Pessimist Sees the North
Fairbairn, M.H.R., summed up Aus
tralia’s North very pessimistically as a
result of his ’plane trip round the conti-
nent. He said that he could not remem-
ber having seen any part capable of
carrying a great population. This is
largely a matter of definitions.
Belgium has no great population as
compared with that of Russia, but if we
had as many people living north of Cap-
ricorn as there are in Belgium we should
be very well satisfied. And, though the
vast areas which Mr. Fairbairn studied
may be poor or very poor country, it is
scarcely likely that in the whole North
there is not a well-watered fertile patch
equal in area to Belgiurn.
If Belgium can support some millions
on its pocket-handkerchief area, Aus-
tralia should be able to do the same,
added to which is the unquestionable
fact that every year science tends to
reduce the agricultural area necessary to
support human life —O. P. H. (Vic.).
“Unfit for Habitation”
I do not agree with the suggestion (B.
10/7/’35) that a committee of doctors
and architects should be asked to report
on whether dwelling-houses are fit for
human habitation. My 18 years’ experi-
ence as health inspector convinces me that
the average medical man has not the
faintest idea of what constitutes habitable
conditions, apart from perhaps size of
rooms and window-space for light.
Dampcourses in walls, ventilation under
Doors, height of ceiling, ventilation of
rooms (apart from windows) to the outer
air—these are things he has never studied
in relation to health.
The architect is concerned only with
the safety of the structure and the quality
of the materials used, and knows nothing
of the amount of air-space which should
be provided for healthy conditions. It
was principally for this reason that size
and height of rooms were laid down in
the building regulations under the N.S.W.
Local Government Act.
The individual who should make the
report is the health inspector, whose
study and training eminently fit him for
the job. But under present conditions
he is handicapped. His report has to go
before his council, and aldermen are
owners of properties which have a way
of being the worst in the municipality.
So the central authority may not see it.
My present business takes me all over
Australia. I have seen areas in every
capital city that need drastic cleaning up.
This will never be done as long as health
inspectors are subject to the whims of
aldermen and local vested interests.
Every health inspector should be an
officer of the Board of Health, responsible
to that body only.— Hygieo (N.S.W.).


Patents.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patents No.
24227/29 in respect of an invention entitled
“Improvements in and relating to separable
fasteners particularly suitable for uniting strips
of fabric and the like,” and No. 7181/32 in
respect of an invention entitled “Improvements
in and relating to zip fasteners,” is prepared
to negotiate for the sale of its rights in the
above, or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the inventions within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
inventions obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
CONTRACT BRIDGE—by Ena Burrows,
winner of the CULBERTSON CUP.
Written in simple form for novice and
experienced player. At ail bookstalls and
newsagents 2/-, or posted direct from
“The Bulletin,” Id. extra.
■MR
kM}
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
September Issue Now on Sale.
THE WEAKNESS IN THE MARKET
SEARCH FOR GOOD YIELDS
CLOUDED INTERNATIONAL OUTLOOK
IRON AND STEEL MERGER
MINING NOTES AND COMMENTS ALL FIELDS
?•//"* PER COPY ’ AND WORTH POUNDS TO INVESTORS.
Pushed WteUSSTi yOU ha r Ve the i° urnal posted direct each month.
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd.. 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ENJOY 1
LIFE AND
GOOD LIVING
i
(A good Single Bed- |
room, with Hot and \
Cold Water, ’Phone |
and Reading Lamp, |
from 7/- per day; |
Double Room at |
Double Rates)
AT
HOTEL SYDNEY
(Opposite Central Railway Station).
W. G. Bulfin, Manager. ;j
BUSINESS,ROBBERY,ETC.
The Fiji Gold Scramble
A Pacific island 2300 miles by steamer
from Melbourne, 4053 square miles in
area, is attracting more speculative atten-
tion at the moment than the entire
goldfields of Westralia. The island is
Viti Levu, Fiji, and the reason for the
speculation is gold, or the possibility of
finding it in sufficient quantities.
Just a breath of Fiji is enough to
send a flutter of excitement through
goldmining punters. A show called Vees
United was floated a few months back
to develop a property in Westralia. It
was unlucky there, and the 25.-paid
shares slumped to 3d. First a rumor,
then news, of an option in the Banana
Isles came through. In a day or two
Vees shares saw 2s. on ’Change.
Such an old warrior as Granites De-
velopment, which has had disappoint-
ments in other places, is trying its luck
in the new field. But these are small
fry compared with Emperor and Loloma.
Emperor, after runing up to a value of
£2,000,000 on the market, had fallen
back to £1,650,000 last week. Loloma is
reconstructing, London capital is coming
in, “a reasonable estimate of proved ore
is 100,000 tons of 2foz. values”—and the
market’s valuation is over £1,500,000.
Market profits and market losses—
to date that is all there has been to
it so far as punters are concerned. Pro-
moters in some cases have taken big
whacks of cash out of floats —£300,000
of Emperor shareholders’ money goes to
the promoters as well as £300,000 in
fully-paid shares. Still Fiji has a sticky
attraction for punters, and the glamor
appears to increase with the circulation
of unofficial reports and the official pub-
lication of surface assays. A proved
field has never the lure of an unproved
area.
There have already been some dis-
appointments. Aloha Alluvial and Nasivi
are cases where shares ran up to a
high premium and then fell heavily.
Aloha Alluvial abandoned a property
that had appeared—superficially—to be
highly promising. Nasivi’s later assays
were disappointing following surface in-
dications of ounces to the ton. In
respect to this co. the Fiji Government
has announced that
the Mining Board has not visited any
area in the neighborhood of Rakiraki; the
Government has not proposed to proclaim a
mining area in the Rakiraki district, and
has been unable to see its way to grant any
prospecting licenses. The Nasivi Fiji syndi-
cate has received no reservation or other
concession from the Government.
But punters recall the reported state-
ment of Mr. E. G. Banks, technical
director, that Loloma has gold worth
£2,000,000 in sight and are comforted.
There are aspects of this Fiji field
puzzling to mining men not on the spot.
Mr. T. R. Victor, in his report on the
Emperor mine, speaks of the soft nature
of the ore, the stickiness of the oxides
and the porous nature of the country,
through which “the rains percolate.” Yet
he recommends a stamper battery.
Punters also heard a great deal about
tellurides early in the piece. Descrip-
tion so far to hand scarcely tally with
characteristics familiar to old hands on
the Golden Mile. Tellurides in goldmines
are not a very common occurrence.
Mr. Victor reports that “the whole of
the country for miles is basic-andesite.”
If he refers to tellurides at all, the refer-
ence is not to be found in that part of
the Emperor prospectus devoted to
“Geology.” So the punter in Fiji shows
in general, if he has a smattering of
knowledge about the mode of occurrence
of gold in reefing propositions, strikes a
confusion of “information” that should
of itself make him a little cautious.
Mr. Victor, reporting on the Emperor
proposition, said that it looked highly
volcanic. Where a gold-bearing lode
appears to have been thrown up from the
bottom this may be a favorable sign.
But it also raises the question of vertical
“shearing”—that is, the breaking-off the
downward continuation of the ore-
body. In more than one Fiji proposi-
tion values appear to decrease with depth.
Whether the Tavua field turns out to
be good or bad, punters who buy into
most of these unproved propositions at
present prices are taking far too much
for granted. If it should prove to be a
rich field mining may be made difficult
by the apparently violent alterations
which have taken place in the geology of
the country through volcanic movements.
But no Fiji mine has yet been proved
to be big and rich ; few Fiji propositions
have proved ore reserves worth talking
about. “Proof” of a lode show is not
“Now that you've signed the lease, I should like you to meet my partner.
He'll collect the rent."
concluded with shafting and trenching.
The ore has to be blocked out. Even
the geology of the field is not reliably
known.
Stability in an investment is something
worth paying for. In B. 21 /8/’35 it was
pointed out that the market valuation of
the Emperor (Fiji) mine was £1,875,000,
as against £1,860,000 for Mt. Morgan.
Since the date of publication Emperor
shares have fallen from 28s. to 225. 10-£d.
(on 6/9/’35); Mt. Morgan closing quotes
on those dates were identical (buyers,
395. 6d. ; sellers, 405.), though in between
there were some minor fluctuations.
* * * *
New season’s wool prices are encourag-
ing, a rise of 25 p.c. on September, 1930,
quotes being recorded, and an improve-
ment of 15 to 20 p.c. on the closing
figures for June. Buying so far has not
been very representative, Japan being
prominently in the picture, but offerings
have been practically all sold at the
better prices—a very encouraging fact.
Continental buying is more of a feature
than it was, and import restrictions are
likely to have a less unfavorable effect
on the price than last year, when most
of the European countries bought their
requirements by roundabout means.
* * * *
Our new export year started with an
unfavorable commodity balance of
£1,251,000 stg. in July, as against
£1,760,000 in the same month of 1934.
This despite an increase of 42.5 p.c. in
export values, as against a rise of 19.2 p.c.
in imports. Including bullion and specie,
however, an unfavorable balance of
£596,000 compares with £1,279,000 in
July, 1934. The large increase in our
overseas sales during July is partly attri-
butable to Japan’s heavy wool purchases
at the close of last season's sales.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Now that higher interest rates seem
due to come, and wool prices indicate a
reasonably prosperous trading year,
holders of highly-priced preference shares
may be wise to sell their holdings and
invest in the ordinary shares of cos.
likely to reap the benefit of improved
trade conditions. Fixed-interest securities
depend for their market price on the pre-
vailing interest rates, and, as these arc
tending to widen, the market is inclined
to drop. Certainly ordinary shares are,
on the whole, high at the moment;
but many are still attractive for holding
purposes.
Apart from invisible items of income
and outgo, this table, for which the Com-
monwealth Bank is the authority, shows
how our overseas accounts have
balanced, after payment of Common-
wealth and local authorities’ interest
during the past seven years:
Ex- Im- Export External Net
ports, ports. Excess. Interest.* Balance.
£rrnl. £mil. £mil. £mil. £mil.
Stg. Stg. Stg. Stg. Stg.
1928- 139 143 -4 28 -32
1929- 97 131 -34 30 -64
1930- 79 61 18 31 - 13
1931- 79 44 35 27 +8
1932- 83 57 26 26
1933- 97 60 37 25 +l2
1934- 88 72 16 24 -8
* On Commonwealth debt and local authorities’
debt.
Over the past four years we have come
out £12,000,000 (stg.) to the good; the
shipment of our gold reserves is not in-
cluded with exports. In the three worst
depression years we went £109,000,000
to the bad.
United Provisions, representing the
merged control of the J. C. Hutton and
Foggitt Jones bacon and smallgoods
businesses, has declared its first ordinary
dividend —2 p.c.—in five years. There
was recently a test case in the courts 10
decide whether one of the subsidiary cos.
could legally buy the parent’s shares.
The decision was that it could.
* * * ♦
Broken Hill South showed a profit for
the year to June 30 up 50 p.c, on the
previous year. Lead, which averaged
£l4 9s. 7d. stg. in London during July,
fetched a mean return of £l5 15s. 7d.
during August and stood at £l5 15s. in
the middle of last week. Spelter averaged
£l4 2s. 6d. during July, £l4 16s. 6d. in
August and is now around £l5. If these
prices hold, wool justifies present optim-
ism, and new Westralian goldmines reach
successful production, the national in-
come should move up nicely in 1935-36.
* * * ♦
The Commonwealth Bank directors’
hall-yearly report mentions increased
overseas investment of a permanent
nature in Australian industries, especially
mining. I his form of capital flowing
into the country has helped to counter-
act the adverse trade balance for the
liscal year, it is thought to be a “reason-
able assumption” that within the next
12 months Commonwealth gold produc-
tion should show a large increase, many
developmental mines now approaching
production. It is the sincere hope of
many that the directors will be right in
their forecast, and that the greater pro-
duction will be profitable to shareholders
in new shows, who, generally speaking,
have had a bad time to dale.
* * * *
World tin production rose 2128 tons
to 9140 tons during August; consump-
tion, however, was still 175 tons in excess
of the figure, being 1485 tons greater
than in July at 9315 tons. Visible stocks
at the end of August were 12,362 tons,
down 175 tons. Superficial appearances
are that the recent increase in the pro-
duction quota is justified. Meantime the
market remains comparatively stable
around £220 sterling per ton. -
* * * *
Coal hauled by N. S. Wales railways
in July was around 560,000 tons, the best
figure in that month for some years.
Exports were also better, but prices have
been severely cut. R. D. Bogan, chairman
of Excelsior Collieries, the other day
spoke of the intense competition between
colliery proprietors and the uneconomic
prices charged, especially for railway
coal. He suggested co-operation for the
protection and stimulation of trade, and
for research into the practical possibilities
of hydrogenisation and pulverisation of
coal. The N. S. Wales coal trade in this
respect is definitely far behind the times.
It was such a rich industry for many
years it needed to be, to withstand the
industrial troubles it was heir to —that
such aspects of things were never worried
about.
* * • *
N. S. Wales registrations of new
motor-cars for July—-they averaged 308
a week —were the highest since February,
1930. For the seven months of the year
they are 41 p.c. better than for the same
period of 1934. Total registration of all
motor vehicles in the State is now
245,397. Registered wireless sets number
280,211.
$ * * *
Building activity in Sydney and
suburbs touched a record figure for
recent years in July, the month’s per-
mits rising over the million mark to
£1,095,846, as against' £726,027 in June
and £416,328 in July, 1934. Of the latest
month’s total, £661,115 is in respect of
suburban building. It all points to a
revival in real property. Sales through-
out the State for the seven months to
July 31 (£15,092,000) were up £2,000,000
on the previous year.


ARNOTTS
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Becky Sharp”
The world as Thackeray saw it is re-
duced to its lowest common de-
nominators and drenched heavily with
the brand of sentiment William Make-
peace most detested in this Technicolor
screen excerpt from Vanity Fair.
Miriam Hopkins has the adroitness, the
cheek and the commonsense of Becky,
but her hard blue eye dims and her firm
lips tremble because of her love for
Rawdon Crawley. All she did with the
Marquis of Steyne was for Crawley’s
sake, and, at that, it was far short of in-
fidelity. Thackeray didn’t believe it, and
it isn’t very credible, plain or colored, on
the screen. Nigel Bruce makes a clever
picture of Jos Sedley—sometimes more
and sometimes much less of a fat fool
than his creator deemed him—and
Frances Dee’s Amelia is charming.
As to the color, it seems to be over-
done. The pink of human flesh is so
robust that eyes and teeth flash whitely
in contrast, suggesting half-castes, or at
least quadroons. The ball at Brussels on
(he eve of Waterloo provides kaleido-
scopic designs, but they are stagy, and
attempts to depict those dimly-lit scenes
that are now done so convincingly in
monochrome are disappointing. One gets
a general impression that color adds little
to the sum total of effect; acting, suita-
bility of settings and, above all, the per-
sonality of the people on the screen re-
main all-important. The play’s the thing.
“Paris in Spring”
A long-drawn-out love lyric at Mel-
bourne Capitol which opens with Mary
Ellis dropping Tullio Carminati at the
foot of the Eiffel Tower, from the top of
which Carminati proposes to fling him-
self in order to demonstrate his love for
Mary. Mary won’t marry him because
he wants her to go and immure herself
in a palace in Italy. Mary watches
through opera glasses, and sees her lover's
body hurtling through the air. It turns
out, however, that the object is only his
overcoat. The wind has cooled his
enthusiasm for self-destruction, and.
moreover, he is put in the way of pre-
venting a strange girl from doing the
same thing. She is also disappointed in
love, and the rest of the picture follows
the weatherworn device of four indi-
viduals pairing off in order to arouse
their true loves’ jealousy. Part of the
action is in an ornate cabaret where
Mary sings songs which are considerably
below her vocal dignity, and part is in an
ancient chateau where the misunderstand-
ings of the couples take on the technique
of a mystery play. The film bears strong
internal evidence of having been hastily
hashed up to give Miss Ellis an oppor-
tunity of cashing-in on a reputation she
made in better films.
“Mr. Dynamite”
Principal prop in this thriller is a full-
sized concert grand pianoforte with the
Moor double keyboard. The virtuoso
in the play is a concert pianist who,
for some unexplained reason, has coupled
his Moor to a Wurlitzer. He is playing
the affair when he is shot dead. Edmund
Lowe, wisecracking at every pore,
solves method of his bumping-off—
a tuning-fork arrangement that explodes
a revolver when a certain chord is
played. The virtuoso’s son is the culprit.
Lowe’s remarks are so terse that it is
difficult to follow them, and his victory
over an apparently very capable District-
Attorney is not very satisfactorily eluci-
dated. However, he produces a new sort
of hiding-place—a stout bag hung up in
a wardrobe, in which the heroine (Verna
Hillie) takes refuge while detectives
vainly search for her. At Sydney Capitol.
“Stranded”
Background is the activities ot the
Travellers’ Aid Society, an American in-
stitution that seems to function with a
minimum of efficiency. Kay Francis is
one of its officers Georee Brent a civil
engineer of the ruthless go-getting type,
falls in love with her. Mr. Brent’s
troubles with his hired help intrigue Miss
Francis, whose interest in the young man
involves her in scandal, but she is merely
demoted. The only folk who are really
stranded are those who fry to read some
serious intention into the fantasia.
. .
“Beggars in Ermine”
This, at Sydney Lyric, exploits, without
~r nlls; n (y „ rp , lt interest ihp venoenmv*
f. roUSlng p B reat interest the vengeance
theme ot Monte Gusto m a modern
* n<dustr i a l setting. Lionel Atwill is a
cripple who once upon a time was a
mills magnate. Inspired by a blind
dreamer (H. B. Walthall), he organises
the beggars of the world, capitalises their
gloamings, campaigns in the market and
ruins Marley (Jamieson Thomas), stealer
his wife and his mill. So lantastic -i
“BECKY SHARP ” IN TECHNICOLOR.
Nigel Bruce as Jos Sedley; Miriam Hopkins as Becky;
Sir Cedric Hardwicke as the Marquis of Steyne.
theme requires more convincing treat-
ment than it gets in this opus,
“The Winning Ticket”
The ticket in this poor comedy, at
Sydney Lyric, wins the Irish Sweepstakes
for an Italo-Irish family headed by Leo
Carrillo and Louise Fazenda. One’s fears
that they will thereupon crash into New
York’s 400, making white-haired dowa-
gers and butlers feel even more superior,
are groundless ; they lose the ticket, and
spend the greater part of ninety noisy
minutes looking for it. Their search
sends them scampering from under the
floor of Leo’s barber shop to shipboard,
to bank and to gaol before the slip of
paper is discovered.
Some First Nights
An extraordinarily good play, extra-
ordinarily well acted, was Dodie Smith’s
(or C. L. Anthony’s) “Touchwood."
produced by the Cairns Memorial
players at Melbourne Garrick. The
C.M.Ps., who have committed some
offences in the past, astonished the
present critic by almost perfect casting,
the somewhat sophisticated professional
touch given to the leading role by
Dorothy Bush being the only defect
observable in an amazingly even pro-
duction. Even the child parts taken by
Beryl Walker, Margaret Bradshaw and
Pip Wilson were quite out of the ordi-
nary, while William Reynolds, Nellie
Bulmer, Beryl Weeks, Loveday Hills and
Frederick Trotter seemed to understand
their parts, which is a rare thing in
actors.
C. L. Anthony is the author of
“Autumn Crocus,” upon which “Touch-
wood” is a distinct advance, both techni-
cally and in depth of insight. The action
moves amidst the howling of the wind in
the lounge of the New Caledonian Hotel
on a bleak promontory in Scotland.
Robin Herriot (Frederick Trotter) is
an architect whose wife is given to
shedding tears of joy and sadness when
she thinks of her honeymoon, spent
fifteen years previously in the same
hostelry. He casts interested eyes on
Mab Lawrence (Beryl Walker), a young
woman who after five days of acquaint-
ance falls head over heels in love with
him. Seeing in her the image of the wife
he used to know, and who has inexplic-
ably merged into the wife he now has, he
is horrified when she offers to make him
a father for the first time in his life,
although that is just what he would like
to be. A battle for the man ensues be-
tween the women, and in the end the
wife wins him back by the simple process
of evoking his pity and gratitude by
throwing him at the head of her rival.
This part of the play appeared to the
present critic to have been misunder-
stood by the actors. William Reynolds,
as an elderly Scotchman, grins helplessly
through three acts in the wake of a
young married woman whose husband
surveys her incessant affairs objectively, as
he knows they never come to anything,
though they involve the ruin of other
individuals. In this case there is a middle-
aged Scotchwoman who sits helplessly
by, watching her husband’s infatuation.
understanding nothing, a pathetic figure
exceptionally well portrayed by Nellie
Bulmer. Elizabeth Enticknap (Beryl
Weeks) is a spinster who sees further
than any of the participants in the muddle
and is enraged at her own impotence and
her inability to make anybody understand
anything. The author has obviously
observed these people somewhere, and it
seems she has comprehended them pretty
thoroughly.
Keith Winter’s “The Shining Hour,”
produced by George Parker at Mel-
bourne Comedy on Saturday, concerns
the six members of the Linden family,
who for three acts and four scenes popu-
late the living-room of an Elizabethan
farmhouse in modern Yorkshire.
Hannah Linden (Winifred Green) resents
the intrusion into the domestic circle of
Mariella (Elaine Hamill), wife of a Linden
brother much older than herself whom
she didn’t marry for love. Mariella’s
presence upsets the equilibrium of
David Linden (Campbell Copelin) and
Mickey Linden (Russell Chapman), who
fight each other for a prize that neither
has the courage to take. David has a
wife, Judy (Janet Johnson), whom he
doesn’t love, but who loves him. After
vainly begging her husband to follow the
dictates of his heart, she throws herself
into a burning barn in order to leave
the way open for him and Mariella to
attain to happiness. In the last act the
bad conscience that this act of self-
abnegation inflicts on David gives Camp-
bell Copelin the opportunity for a first-
class display of histrionic art. He cannot
sleep ; weeps, moans and breaks a table-
ful of crockery. This has the effect of
convincing Hannah that her old-
fashioned morality is in the way; it
reconciles Mariella’s husband (Leslie
Victor) to the loss of his wife, and it
also arouses pity for David in Mariella’s
heart.
Contemplating this work, which has
its moments of impressiveness, the
theatregoer has the feeling that the
playwright has given the facts but
that his understanding of them is
practically nil. For instance, it was in-
consistent with human psychology for
Judy to destroy herself in order to make
her husband happy with another woman,
but it would have been quite consistent
if she had done it in order to make him
unhappy with remorse. It was inconsis-
tent with human psychology for David
to break the crockery except on the
assumption that he was like a small boy
who has been refused a piece of cake
because it would be bad for his diges-
tion and behaves so outrageously that
he has to be given it in the end. The
playwright has observed the manifesta-
tions of these emotions, but has believed
in the conventions about them without
understanding what the emotions were.
The result is a play that intrigues and
interests, if it doesn’t satisfy. Elaine
Hamill, the leading lady from Maoriland.
has a beautiful figure, wears exquisite
clothes exquisitely and moves about as
if she were walking in her sleep, but as
Mariella might easily have been that sort
of woman she not only adorns but fits
the part. Campbell Copelin’s tantrums in
the final act are exceptionally well done.
Winifred Green is the acidulous spin-
ster to the life, and Leslie Victor
is so true to type that when he
said “I’ve lived 48 years, and at the
end of it it seems I know nothing’’ a
feminine member of the audience burst
into a loud involuntary laugh. The com-
pany will improve “The Shining Hour"
till further orders from the populace.
•J*
The Hobart Rep. Soc. staged Barrie's
“Kiss for Cinderella” at the Theatre
Royal to full houses, and got nearer to
the essential Barrie than did the elaborate
film version seen some years ago. Beattie
Jordan and Sir James would have met
on common ground after the show, and
Olive Wilton deserves hearty congratu-
lations for the producing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Adelaide Repertory’s latest is “The
Mask and the Face,” from the Italian of
Chiarelli. Count Mario has bragged
about his sense of honor and how he
would certainly kill his wife if unfaithful.
An hour later, on next-to-no evidence, he
concludes that that time has come ; he


:
V
I
I
Z 1
.
GLASS SERVICE
T
i
. W'
OR! O N
OH O N TE S
ORFOBD
OUB I S T
CLASS
AND
FIRST
SALOON
*4
WITH I SHIPS
ORMOSDE WSr ORSOVA
TOURIST ONE CLASS
hastily sends her abroad, and announces
that he has strangled her and thrown the
body into Lake Como. Triumphantly
acquitted, he becomes a local hero ; the
feminine letters and telegrams offering
him hearts, latchkeys or fortunes are
intensely funny. Other husbands score
heavily by threatening to follow his noble
example. Then it becomes necessary to
arrange a mock funeral, and, of course,
the wife comes back just in time for it:
a black-veiled figure moving about among
the mourners. It is all like a Boccaccio
story rearranged by Oscar Wilde. Alex.
Foster, lately from Perth, produced, and
the acting was adequate: Keith Mac-
Donald and Iris Thomas in the lead,
with Hubert Sando and Fred James as
quietly humorous advisers. Ronald
Simpson proved once again what a born
comedian he is. The part, a pompous
red-sashed mayor, is easy—but easy also
to burlesque ; and mere buffoonery was
skilfully avoided.
Current Artbursts
What would Tom Roberts, father of
the “Society of Artists”—no “Art Society”
for him with loopholes for Philistines—
think of the latest show of his baby?
The kid has grown—he fills the walls of
the N.S.W. Education Department’s
galleries more than comfortably—and his
lusty infantile squalls have won him
recognition abroad. The Lefevre Gal-
leries in London send to this show a small
but representative collection of French
paintings of the schools that are so
utterly utter. There are a Dufy that shows
how brutal a child might be with a new
painf-box ; a Monet landscape that re-
minds one of the mysterious masterpieces
of Balzac’s deranged painter—worked
over so much that all that remains is dim
scourings in the bottom of a porridge-
pot ; a portrait of Charles Dufresne’s
wife by Charles Dufresne—he should
know best, but his effort isn’t compli-
mentary to his eye for beauty ; a study
in spoof by Jean Lurcaf; a Utrillo
that faithfully reproduces the tech-
nique of the gentlemen who do can-
vases for the sideshows; a Bauchant
flower piece that recalls the weirdly un-
natural botany of grand-aunt’s sketch-
book, and a characteristically dotty
Camille Pissarro that has been bought by
the N.S.W. National Gallery for £lOOO.
To compensate for all this there is the
head of a gipsy girl by Pierre Gerber,
who hasn’t devoted his time to forgetting
how to paint. Not much there for
Roberts, who detested clever springes for
wealthy woodcocks, but would have
appreciated the rascality of the dusky
wench.
His judgment of such an old friend as
Streeton, represented by “Cutting the
Tunnel, Blue Mountains, 1892” (lent by
Howard Hinton), would be generous, but
he would wonder how it got into the har-
vest of 1935. A self-portrait of Lambert,
thumb airily cocked, beard, moustache
and Homberg a symphony of Bladery
(H. G. Wells’s best addition to the lan-
guage) would draw a chuckle ; Roberts
also would like the latest stage of John
D. Moore, who has so sternly sought for
the roots of the matter, and whose
“direct impressions” go nearer and nearer
to the centre of the target. Maud Sher-
wood’s stuff, ablaze with color and a sort
of innocent vitality, would pass muster.
Gentle Elioth Gruner, ever in love with
spring blossoms and lately acquiring an
eye for the equally pure beauty of old
furniture, would be greeted as a worthy
man-at-arms ; but Roberts would see at
least one canvas that is an old friend.
Minns, whose style crystallised 30
years ago and is as pleasing as
ever ; John Eldershaw, whose landscapes
become blander and blander and more
bejewelled with quiet color ; Sydney Ure
Smith, who draws Sydney with such
loving care but couldn’t get all that
architectural detail in in one glance, one
would think ; Lloyd Rees, whose magical
pencil is incapable of a false stroke;
Hans Heysen, whose tribute to the euca-
lypt captures gallons of sunshine, but
seems to have been painted years ago ;
Fred Leist’s self-portrait; Norman Lind-
say, whose Quixote in water-color and
nude female in oils couldn’t have been
done by anyone else in the world—all
these would make Tom Roberts feel that
he did a good stroke when he recruited a
band of real painters.
There’s plenty of good work in the
show outside the museum pieces. Ken-
neth Mac Queen’s “Little Lagoon,” the
“Lavender Street” of F. S. Rodriguez,
a Sydney waterside study in pen
and wash by Cedric Emanuel, some
lovely drypoints by Lionel Lindsay, Eric
Wilson’s vigorous but rather undiscrim-
inating technique (as evidenced in “An
Autumn Afternoon”—he deserves no-
thing but praise for his fine portrait “A
Taxpayer”). Frank Norton’s “Sixteen
Knots,” Daryl Lindsay’s breathless
water-color studies that capture some
magic in their headlong pace, and Percy
Lindsay’s “Old Sobraon,” a thing of
quiet beauty, are all worth while. Rayner
Hoff’s sculptures and the furniture done
by Ricketts and Thorpe in collaboration
with Molly Grey are three-dimensional
poems.
Murch and
Harvey deserve
mention. Neither
has arrived at his
goal, but both
shoot high. Har-
vey’s still life,
“1820,” cannot be
ignored. Betty
Solomons has the
direct touch
Roberts advocated
and practised. A
collection lent by
Hans Heysen in-
cludes a dismal
drawing by Millet
and some not very
inspiring essays by
Clausen, Bateman
and Connard, all
with the R.A. im-
primatur, The Aus-
tralian school that
Roberts fostered
shines brightly in
comparison.
•I- + * -j.
“M.G.S.”; I n
opening the 17th
annual exhibition
of the Twenty
Melbourne Painters
at the Athenaeum,
Dr. Felix Meyer,
using a medical analogy, asked the
public to adopt a sympathetic atti-
tude towards revolutionary movements in
art. This is excellent advice, but the
difficulty is for the public to know what
is and isn’t revolutionary. The art
exhibited by the modernist group of
the Twenty Painters is not revolu-
tionary, but archaic and atavistic. Some
of it dates back to the dawn of oil-
painting, and all of it is infected with the
virus of academic draughtsmanship, even
“L’Heure Sentimentale,” etching by H. Neville Barker,
whose show opens to-day at the Fine Arts Gallery, Sydney.
when that draughtsmanship is made de-
liberately groggy. W. Prater, in his latest
array of women’s portraits, is reminiscent
of the style of book illustration of the
’nineties, and Arnold Shore’s still-lifes are
redolent of the Paris salons of some pre-
war period. The modern movement is
a perfectly understandable gesture of
revulsion from National Gallery aca-
demism and photographic realism ; but
a gesture of repugnance does not neces-
sarily indicate a step in knowledge. To
find this one must go to the panel of
seven pictures by Clarice Beckett, whose
death recently at Beaumaris passed prac-
tically unnoticed by the newspapers and
was not even mentioned by the leading
morning daily. Miss Beckett painted for
15 years, scarcely ever straying half a
mile from her front gate, and it is quite
certain that she never subscribed to a
Paris art magazine. Corot did not sell a
picture till he was 57, and Miss Beckett’s
pictures have not yet got into the
National Gallery, but in these seven quiet
landscapes there is something of the
universal.
4* -I*
W. A. Dargie appears to be the painter
who, if he hasn’t most to say, has the
most definite information to impart at
the Victorian Artists’ Spring Exhibition
in Albert-street. In “Fragments of
Spring,” a flower piece, and “Muriel and
the Dolls,” in which a young native
figures in a domestic suburban setting, he
makes these objects live, more or less, in
their environment. The same can be
said with greater reservations of J. V.
Govett, whose portrait of a young man
has a moderate amount of atmosphere.
A little landscape by C. H. Payne is
stuck in a corner in the outside hall, but
deserves a more distinguished place, for
it, too, suggests in a measure the outside
world. Landscapist William Rowell, who
has taken to portraiture, shows an excel-
lent likeness of W. B. Mclnnes, in which
the values have been subordinated to the
desire to make the acting director of the
Nat, Gallery recognisable to his most
casual acquaintance.


'A[
-
a
&
3
•- ' •: -"
Ti^ustraliaHotd
Spring Meeting in Sydney
(Commencing sth October).
BOOK NOW AT
“THE AUSTRALIA”
Ever the centre of all the social gaiety.
Our regular guests are requested to
confirm their reservations.
NEW “ROOM ONLY” RATES:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Telegrapiiic Address:
“Acstraotel, S'ydxet.”
>■/
OTttt
r
Virr
.M
nn rrft
fieelaieoc
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
What do their patients do when
doctors confer? And have the sales of
cemetery lots from Glasgow to Pekin in-
creased since all the best clinical ther-
mometers sailed for Australia? To the
laywoman, behind the collection of
massy domes .positively oozing materia
medica through Sydney last week was a
nightmare vision of a world circled by
irascible appendices bursting like over-
wrought geysers, by tropical diseases
sprouting like unchecked fungus, by in-
flamed glotti refusing to swallow the fact
that it was for (heir good their pet
specialists were enjoying spring in Aus-
tralia.
The Sydney prologue to the B.M.A.
conference in Melbourne was performed
last week in the School of Public Health
and Tropical Medicine. To this Pacific
Health Conference medicine men came
from Papua, Fiji, New Guinea, the
Celebes, the Malay States, from Japan,
from China ; and they discussed every-
thing from hookworm to filariasis.
In between corroborees no brightly-
illuminated social calendar kept the doc-
tors busy. The University reception was
called off because of Court mourning,
and lunches and dinners of a more or
less medicated flavor at the University
and the Wentworth were their portion.
President of the Society of Artists
Sydney Ure Smith and his henchmen
were one dazzling toothsome smile as
the crowds surged into the S.O.A.’s
private view last Thursday. It was the
best attended private view on record. But
then there was a thousand-guinea picture
to gaze on —a Pissarro. Bought and paid
for by the National Gallery, it hangs in
green felicity on the end wall of the
long room of the Education Depart-
ment’s exhibition floor. All afternoon
the crowd here was five deep.
There was quite a Royal Academy
look about Elioth Gruner’s maroon tie—
one of the expensive knitted sort. John
Lane Mullins came with a tall daughter.
Howard Hinton talked with Maori-
land editor E. C. Huie, of the “Sun.”
Surgeon McKelvey’s lady, spring in
her laugh and daffodils in her furs,
looked knowingly at the pictures.
Mrs. Charlie Lloyd Jones yyas all
black, except for the little white wings
flat on her wide-brimmed hat. Chief
Justice Jordan’s wife, with her, inclined
to the tarn in her blue millinery. Knight
Alexander Gordon’s wife was there,
clothed as usual in wit and reason and
black smartness. From the walls George
Lambert, looking like the mocking,
suave, well-tailored hero of an Edwardian
novel, keeps an eye on his colleagues.
Through the clear cold of a September
morning the bells of St. Mary’s tolled
for Belgium’s Queen Astrid, dead all too
young. Within the cathedral the red and
yellow and black of her bereft young
husband’s land gleamed upon the black-
draped catafalque within the sanctuary.
On each side were grouped brown-robed
priests, and Archbishop Sheehan presided
over a company of priests of whom
Father le .Teune, of the Marist Order, was
the celebrant of the mass. The cathedral
was crowded (the number of young
women present was noticeable). The
Consul-General for Belgium, his uniform
and decorations making him a striking
figure, was accompanied by Mrs. Segaert.
Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven paid tribute
of sorrow in person; the Governor-
General was represented by Colonel C.
G. Miles. W. M. Hughes and Consuls
of many countries helped make up the
congregation of the Requiem Mass.
On Monday next, just as the wheels of
The Bulletin’s presses are going round
at their maddest, Australia’s stage favor-
ites, Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard,
will be passing through the portals of
St. Mary’s. Madge will be slim and fair
in the three layers of chiffon, lace and
shimmer which is Peter Russell’s wed-
ding gift. There will be much clashing
of bells and crushing of belles as the
bride passes ; but a cordon of police will
apply the silencer of eyes stern to duty,
though manly hearts beneath their tunics
may be melting with romance.
Twelve hundred pairs of dancing feet
made haste to the Palais Royal for the
Bankers’ Ball. Here they met, mingled,
disentangled themselves and went gay
amid glitter of electrics, of diamente and
of jewels. This ball is a yearly onslaught
on the debtor side of Prince Alfred’s
ledger by the girl and boy employees of
city banks. In 15 years its offertory has
amounted to some thousands of pounds.
The committee president was J. G. Rae,
of the Union Bank, and he and Mrs.
Rae entertained a bunch of bankers and
representatives of the hospitals and their
wives. The Colonel Bruxners and the
Commonwealth Bank Riddles were'
among them. The National’s James
Elder and L. J. McConnan were inter-
state visitors; Lieutenant-Commander
Gifford was in Dr. A. B. Lilley’s party.
Here, too, was Dr. Lucy McMahon,
attractive in lilac and • powder-blue
crepes.
Perry Hart, aged seven, who came
from Mullumbimby with her violin under
her arm, won everything in sight for
under-ten fiddlers at the eisteddfod.
Perry’s father and .mother have a dairy
farm at Ewingsdale, near Byron Bay,
and neither is a musician. The youngster
has handled a bow since she was three,
and walks six miles every week to and
from her music lesson. Her teacher is
Mrs. B. Gundlach MacGillvray, and she
has a drive of 12 miles into Mullum-
bimby each week to give the star-spangled
youngster her lesson. The biggest com-
pliment paid to the child was that music-
adjudicators Thorold Waters and Haydn
West, after a long and tiring day of
judgment, asked her to play specially for
them in Paling’s concert hall.
Bright-faced Barbara Irvine is president
of the recently-formed Y.W.C.A. Dinner
Club. The members meet once a month,
and have at least one celebrity to dine
with them, and to talk to them over
the coffee-cups. These evenings, informal
and informative, can be recommended.
May every lecturer you listen to be a
Johnny Sandes! The veteran journalist,
clear of eye, rosy of cheek, his manner as
easy as a friendly shoe, talked to the
literary circle of the Lyceum Club on the
Victorian poets. That is, he started with
the Victorians, but one thing reminded
him of another, and he stepped along a
smiling track of reminiscence, for almost
every quotation had an accompanying
story (for instance, the cruise of John
with Lord Brassey on his yacht the Sun-
beam, on which Tennyson had written his
“Sunset and Evening Star” lines), till
finally he ended in Persia with Omar
Khayyam. There was a philosophic
sigh in John’s voice on the line “Youth’s
sweet-scented manuscript is closed.”
But the gleam in his eye denied the impli-
cation. Preceding the lecture was a lunch
arranged by Mi*s Cox-Taylor (who
afterwards introduced the speakers) and
presided over by Mrs. Muscio. Mrs.
Harrison, municipal-librarian Bertie, the
Bill Moores, John Sandes, Isabel Gullett
and Nora Kelly were the guests of honor.
Norma Howell, daughter of “Snowy”
Howell, V.C., of Campbelltown, after
only two years’ teaching faced the Eng-
lish examiner now visiting Australia
(Mr. Felix Demery) for seven exams.
She passed them all, five with honors.
The more advanced elementary and
intermediate enable Norma to become
a member of the Royal Academy of
Dancing, Great Britain. A Lupton photo-
graph.
Suzanne Crookston, of the auburn
curls, whom Arthur Murch has painted
so well, was with father and Hugh Mc-
Crae, at the S.O.A. opening; so were
Margaret Preston and Mrs. Edmond
Meyer, who helped to decorate the stage
during the speeches. Professor Water-
house made the opening remarks, and
the Acting Consul-General for France
looked pleased with the entente cordiale
as extended by Australian artists to the
French paintings. Julian Ashton, silver
hair and grey suit suitable accompani-
ments to his frail looks, talked eagerly
to a steady procession of handshakers.
D. H. Souter, Albert Collins and B. E.
Minns were among the noted. Jean
Cheriton wedded a Madonna smile and a
tarn beret, and the McKelvey lady wore
a young parterre of freesia across her
brown suit. Tall Frank Hambridge
came along quietly to admire his wife’s
exquisitely painted “Lilies.” Sculptor
Theo Cowan, the Will Moores, with a
group of friends, the play writing Mrs.
Bousefield and her massive husband,
Gwen Ramsay, Helen Stewart and Mrs.
Bertie Kelly jostled and were jostled
amid the milling hundreds.
Room will have to be found on the
tablet of honor for Mrs. A, C,
McDonnell, of Goulburn. Every year for
five years she has run a successful art
show in her own town. Somewhere about
November Mrs. McDonnell hangs the
Assembly Hall of the Empire Theatre
with pictures of artists from every State,
and she is creating a back-country market
for the painter. Goulburn has an ardent
group of collectors. “That’s not to be
wondered at,” smiles Mrs. McDonnell,
“considering that the Bank of N.S.W.
harbored Hilder.”
"And I’ve just signed the lease of a
flat where I am only allowed to keep a
bird in a cage. And Td never do that! ”
sighed a woman visitor to Kate Beard’s
exhibition of animal portraits. This decks
the lower end of the Lyceum Club’s
lecture-room with pictures of Irish
setters —amber eyes and auburn coats ;
with Australian terriers (Lady Hore-
Ruthven’s much-photographed Yonka
among them), with Pekes, with borzois,
with kelpies and with the clever-looking
Alsatian. Horses, too, are here. Bill
Moore opened the show, aided by wife
Dora Wilcox. She is thrilled with excite-
ment. Like Elizabeth Macarthur, of
merino history, she is travelling west —
to Parramatta. Her holiday will be spent
a good deal in the company of Margaret
Swann, who lives in the old Macarthur
farmhouse, and is an authority on the
pioneer women of Australia.
Quite a flock of women medicoes
arrived by the Aorangi, some plus
doctor husbands and degrees, others
accompanied by their degrees only. But
though the ship was so heavily stocked
with germ sleuths of the highest order, it
still had to pass the rapier glance of the
port doctor. Beauty comes with the
cargo of brains. One bright-cheeked girl.
Suzette Gauvain, escorting her parents.
Sir Henry and Lady Gauvain, is in her
first-year medicine at Oxford. A notable
is Dr. Sybil Atkinson, graduate of the
Dublin College of Surgeons. Another
is Professor Mary Williams (her husband,
also Melbourne-bound, is Dr. Stephens).
She is one of the two women in Eng-
land who are Chevaliers of the Legion
of Honor; she is also the first woman
professor in the University of Wales.
Then there’s Dr. Janette Graeme Batten,
once of the staff of the Kinnaird Hos-
pital at Lucknow. But why go on?
Almost everyone of them bears a fas-
cinating tag of a job well done.
The Medical Women’s Society of
N.S.W. —Dr. Marjorie Little is its presi-
dent—entertained the visiting women
doctors at the B.M.A. lunch, which was
pink-camellia-decked and overflowed the
Wentworth. A visit to Koala Park fol-
lowed ; a civic reception preceded.
Visitors took the scenery along the
Palm Beach road in open cars, though
the wind was bitter. A five-to-seven was
given by the David Maughans, a recep-
tion at the Queen’s Club by the medical
Bickerton Blackburns, and a dinner at
Usher’s by a group of doctors and their
wives.
Harry Tighe looked quite a beau at
the Independents’ farewell when he
pinned a white carnation in the lapel of
his grey suit. Harry goes off once again
to England, just to see that Piccadilly is
still in the same place ; also to get some
of his novels under way for the films.
Mr. Tighe has already had several plays
produced in London, and he has done
invaluable work for the Independents.
They expressed awareness of this by pre-
senting him with three great tomes,
accompanied by a speech from Doris
Fitton, who was all, contralto tones and
black satin.
A new musical romance, the book and
lyrics by C. B. Fernald and Adrian Ross,
and the music by Howard Carr, will
open to a four-night season in the Syd-
ney Con. hall on September 23. The
Regal Operatic Society will present the
show, which bears the stimulating title
of “Love Wins Through.” The voices of
Ruth Scott and Nance Marley will help
it to success. A chorus of 60 voices,
Russian ballets by Arnold Spirka (once
of the Pavlova company) and an
orchestra of 40 will add color to a story
that ranges between San Mateo and
Venice.


l lVceJShr:
\s
cu**
OOOH
70 YEARS REPUTATION
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the
roar of trams, etc. Running hot and
cold water in every room.
Room and Breakfast from 10/6 per day
Inclusive tariff from .... 18/- per day
Meals, ala carte, from .... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Apply to the Manager /or jull particulars.
Melbourne
Chatter
Findon point-to-point happened at
Woodstock in real picnic style. The road
through Bournfield Park is as rocky as
the Big Dipper, and would do the job of
mixing cocktails better than any shaker.
You could buy chocolates and tea, but
everybody brought picnic baskets, and
the thing to do in between times was to
wander from car to car, taking refresh-
ment at each stopping-place, with the
team of Hylda McCardel, Mrs. Ken
Moore and Noel Mason (who finished in
that order), Findon won the Victorian
Hunt Club’s Challenge Cup from Mel-
bourne, Oaklands dropping out on the
long four-mile course. Hylda McCardel
had another win in the ladies’ point-to-
point, but that wasn’t so exciting, be-
cause all other riders scratched except
jolly little Winifred Woodmason. Les
Batten, on Mercury, won the point-to-
point ; Mrs. Hickie and Loma Embling,
riding respectively Roy Batten’s and
Mary Saengcr’s horses, shared in ladies’
hunters’ plate trophies, and Mrs. Ken
Moore scampered home at the head of
the draught-horse scurry.
During races spectators ran round the
hill, jumping on and off rocks and up
on the steps of cars. In the crowd were
Captain Barbour, who drove himself and
Phyl Stead out in one of the G.H. cars,
and Denis Moore, whose cherished head-
gear was of bullfrog-green felt. General
Johnston and Bill Seymour wore the
comfortable white canvas gaiters which
are popular at English point-to-points
but are seldom seen in Australia. Harry
Davis sported brown jodhpurs, and the
kennel huntsman announced events by
blowing a real hunting-horn. Among
the picnickers were Mrs. Bill Seymour
(who presented the trophies, ranging
from an enormous punch bowl to child-
ren’s books), Judge and Mrs. Magennis,
Cecil Le Plastrier and his fiancee, Betty
Hicks (who wore the new-length skirt, to
which we have not yet become accus-
tomed), Mrs. Troedel, Margaret Lloyd
and Mrs. Curteis Crawford, very blonde
in her pale-grey suit, C. C, Moore had
a fall at the last fence in the Challenge
Cup. The Master of Melbourne Hunt
Club recovered after a groan or two,
and his mare staggered on to four groggy
legs after three buckets of water had
been thrown over her.
Katsuki Debuchi had a strenuous day
on his arrival in Melbourne. To begin
with, the train was 40 minutes late, and
as practically every minute of the next
12 hours was scheduled there was little
chance for relaxation. The John Latham
couple gave a four-thirty-to-six recep-
tion at Flete, their lovely old home in
Malvern, in honor of the Japanese
envoy. The hostess wore black patterned
in soft pinks, and daughter Freda was
in brown with cream reliefs. The guest
of honor, who radiated goodwill, had a
single white blossom in his buttonhole.
Sherry and cocktails did the rounds—in
the dining-room to the tune of a log
fire, the blaze of marigolds and the
flicker of green candles; in the hall
among primroses and blossom ; and in
other reception-rooms amid pink and
white camellias and Japanese dolls that
sat enthroned in a walnut setting. Among
the guests who drifted out on to the
verandah were the Raws lady, wearing
a little fur cape, and Mrs, Frank
Derham, with violets upon her lapel.
Mr. and Mrs. Norton Grimwade admired
together an old silver candlestick. Mrs.
Grimwade was all in black tulip, with a
quill in her velour hat, Mrs. Tristan
Buesst looked well in her little Cossack
cap. Mrs. Douglas Stephens caused a
sensation under her navy hat (which
could not be classified, so changeable
were its lines). Admiral Hyde’s lady had
upon her shoulder two tulips, so lifelike
that only a butterfly could have seen
through them.
The large galleries which turned up
to the women’s golf had their share of
running and jumping exercises—after
each shot the multitude took to its heels
and stampeded like a herd of buffaloes.
Short cuts through the scrub it took at
a hand-gallop, for the fastest pair of
feet got the best place at the ropes.
Royal Melbourne’s associates’ captain,
Marcia Ross, and a squad of 100 women
controlled the ropes throughout the
championships, except on the final day,
when the assistance of men was gladly
accepted.
These golfers are made of stern stuff.
The young ones seem to have averaged
3 a.m. bedtimes for the last fortnight,
but lack of sleep has left no telltale
traces upon their complexions.
Overseas and inter-State visitors and
members of the L.G.U. Council had a
great day at Flinthill, Woodcnd, parti-
cularly enjoyable as all the tension was
by then over. The hostess, Mrs. Harold
Brookes, and her daughters welcomed
their guests with cocktails; luncheon
was served at long tables, and afterwards
there was the choice of bridge and poker
(particularly popular with our golfers)
or wandering about in the acres of
garden, A few enthusiasts started off to
play golf on the nine-hole course, but
the rain sent them scampering back to
cosier corners by glowing fires. Joan
Hood Hammond sang a song or two
during tea. and afterwards the accom-
panist, feeling round among Irish tunes,
burst into a merry jig. It so affected
Irish champion Mrs. J. B. Walker that
she whisked away the chairs and tables
and danced with agile enthusiasm.
Here is a Ronald Esler picture of Mr.
and Mrs. G, D. Healy’s only daughter
Nell, who was married last week to
Vivian Wilshire. The Toorak kirk was
filled for the occasion with arum-lilies
and bunches of white blossom, beneath
which clouds of pink petals were scat-
tered. The white-and-silver bridal robe
swept into five yards of fishtail train ;
the veil was foamy tulle, and the bouquet
was of orange-blossom. Elise Brett,
Annette Gillespie, Barbara Syme and Pat
Newbigin preceded the bride up the aisle
in gowns of white Chantilly lace made
over silver satin. Mother-of-pearl and
lacquer flowers wreathed their hair, and
all the joyous colors of spring were mixed
in the blossoms which lay across their
arms. The ring was produced at the
opportune moment by George Taylor,
and David Morrison, Max Shaw and Bay
Ryland were the ’groom’s other hench-
men. The after-gathering was at Aroona.
Women graduates (visitors and local
residents) have drunk so much tea in
between their conferences that they are
in grave danger of tannin poisoning.
Sometimes for variety they imbibed
coffee. Dinners and luncheons were
numerous, and on rare occasions the
graduates were very dashing and sipped
sherry. One such red-letter date was the
inter-State graduates’ return of hospi-
tality one late afternoon at the Windsor.
The same evening the gathering of brains
divided itself between Mrs. J. F. W. Bal-
lantyne’s party at the Lyceum and an
inspection of the animals at the Zoo, the
chill of which was afterwards thawed out
by supper at the invitation of Mr. and
Mrs. D. H. Fleay.
It’s rare for celebrities to perform at
a private party, but that’s what happened
when the members of the Viennese Boys’
Choir were guests of the International
Club. Victor Gomboz probably intended
that the Austrian National' Anthem
should be the only opportunity for hear-
ing the choir, but it, as sung by the little
lads, proved so soul-stirring (Prof. Heinze
couldn’t complete his speech) that con-
ductor Gomboz started the boys on a
rollicking German song to cheer every-
body up. Consul for Austria H. del Cott
and Prof. Lodewyckx made speeches in
both English and German. The boys,
asked by one of the German-speaking
guests if they liked receptions or if they
preferred the Zoo, somewhat surprisingly
voted for the reception. Possibly the
cakes had something to do with it —their
eyes lighted up considerably when the
pink-and-white-and-chocolate confections
came on the scene.
These Viennese singing boys are
charming lads. Their manners are per-
fect ; they are not a scrap blase, and are
as happy and healthy as any other
schoolboys. Their padre is clever at pre-
paring dishes like Leberknodd-Suppe
(liver soup) and Rindfleisch (boiled beef),
served with green peas cooked by the
German method. Stewed fruit would
wind up such a meal. On concert days
the boys sleep between two and six ; then
they have a light meal of fruit. After
the performance one of their favorite
supper dishes is potatoes and butter.
Here is a Broothorn picture of Mrs.
J. F. Chambers, who, as a sub-commit-
tee member of the Ladies’ Club, formed
to extend hospitality to visiting B.M.A.
womenfolk, entertained guests yesterday
afternoon at the Alexandra Club. Mrs.
Chambers is one of our intrepid young
matrons, and has a flying pilot's license.
The Ladies’ Club —its members are all
either medical women or the wives or
daughters of medicoes —has worked out
a comprehensive and overwhelmingly
hospitable schedule. Its headquarters are
at the Oriental, where the winter-garden,
the smaller adjoining room and the re-
ception-room downstairs have been
taken for the duration of the confer-
ence. After the registration of names,
badges are distributed and all informa-
tion is given about the best way to enjoy
Melbourne. Women who prefer sight-
seeing may go out all day if they like,
for the club has provided cars and
drivers. Dinners, luncheons, teas and
cocktail parties are a dozen deep; if the
visitors enjoy social life they need not
pause for more than five minutes be-
tween entertainments. The women’s
committees have plenty of worries, but
now that the conference has gathered
momentum these are automatically being
smoothed out. For instance, last week
one member of the dinners sub-com-
mittee felt nervous at the thought of
entertaining 10 perfectly strange women
to dinner —would they get their engage-
ments muddled and go to the wrong
house, or forget to turn up altogether?
She pictured herself eating in a lonely
state ministered to by the solicitous
waiter commandeered by her husband
from the club. But, as is often the case,
the realisation was not a scrap like the
anticipation.
Packed houses are not a characteristic
of the Comedy, but the first night of “The
Shining Hour” was an exception. Elaine
Hamill played Mariella in seductive
dinner gowns, riding togs and, in the last
act, a very smart silk suit. Brown and
white stripes were cleverly mingled so
that some ran as perpendiculars, others
as horizontals ; the coat had a slight flare
and a swing-back and the blouse was of
brown taffeta. Miss Hamill starts the
parting of her long golden bob at the
back of the top of her head and finishes
it over her left eye. Little Janet Johnson
was an irresistible Judy in the simplest
of cotton frocks, with prim pie-dish neck
frills, puff sleeves and organdie bows.
Local lads and lasses sat up and took
notice, for they had no idea their Janet
was so clever. Seen in the audience were
Lieut.-Col. and Mrs, Cosgrave and their
daughter, and the Louis Nelkens, Mrs.
Nelken in an ermine-trimmed wrap. Lola
Thring wore a white coat of clipped
bunny. The Phil Finkelsteins and Peggy
sat in the circle.
“Touchwood,” performed at the Gar-
rick by the Cairns Memorial Players,
started heated arguments among the audi-
ence after the final act. A girl of 22
meets a man she imagines she is in love
with. She kindles no fire in his much-
married bosom, but in chivalry he can’t
very well repel her embrace on the moon-
lit beach. Then the tide comes up. The
lass shouts her love at the wife, who, like
all the other characters in the play, has
no sense of humor. The generation with
grown-up children declared the girl to
be a hussy, but some of the younger
folk said that wanting a thing sufficiently
is an excuse for grabbing at it—pride
doesn’t come into the picture—and that
if the wife were so dumb it served her
right if her feelings were wounded.
Dorothy Bush wore pale blue as the
lachrymose wife; as Mab, Beryl
Walker first wore shorts and (lien a
slinky evening frock and, “to find things
out,” flowers in her hair. Loveday Hills,
as Vera (who owns a flabby husband),
drifted about in one of the new Ameri-
can beach creations, marked 1935 by a
slice taken out of the side instead of
a mere slit.
Barbara McKewan has picked up her
possessions and moved from her city
eyrie to (he medical end of CoUins-street.
Her flower-boxes are right on the foot-
path, but honest Melbourne people would
never pluck those nemesias. Within (he
salon are silver grille gates and a deco-
rative mysticism of pale duck-egg-grecn
walls and silver fittings; also white
flowers made from cellophane, glue, glass
and suchlike ingredients. Mirrors are
everywhere, and there are modern-arty
handles of glass upon the doors. Barbara
had to leave the responsibilities of the
move in the hands of her sister Betty
Hickie, for she was ill with chicken-pox.
The Dramatists’ Club’s five-guinea
prize for a one-act play was won by
Florence Spriggins with “Silver Stars
of Freedom.” The judges were Judge
Beeby, Brett Randall and Nelson Burns.
A picture theatre is to arise in Toorak.
Residents of our most fashionable suburb
are petitioning that the structure should
be pseudo-old English, as are some other
buildings in the village. So it’s possible
that in the future the exploits of Gables
and Garbos will be portrayed behind
dimity curtains or imitation Tudor
fafades.
The Duke of Gloucester’s betrothed is
34. Twenty looks at Thirty-four with
faint pity. People in the thirties should
not be skittish, but should be satisfied to
pursue their amusements with no display
of exuberant enthusiasm. Of course,
when 40 is reached one’s chief diversion
should be sitting about with a book or
walking in the park. At 45 one foot is in
the grave, and people who play golf at
50 are a blight upon the links. Lady
Alice’s engagement has been like a tonic
to the almost middle-aged, who are now
tying youthful ribbons round their hair
and have a stream of backchat on tap.
The old city of Canton has suddenly
risen in anger against European fashions.
The Cantonese flapper must not wear
Western dress, and short hair is con-
sidered most improper for her. She
looks best in her national costume, which
is a sheathlike tunic dress to her ankles
with a high, stiffened “dog-collar” neck
and splits to the knee on either side, dis-
playing sometimes a split underskirt and
always the most expensive hosiery she
can afford. Modern Miss China looks
upon the trousers which her mother and
grandmother wore in something of the
same manner in which we regard a crino-
line—with admiration but not envy.
The chairman of the Australian Tariff
Board and Mrs. H. McConaghy have
returned from a wonderful six months
abroad. Between them the pair haven’t
missed much. While Mr. McConaghy
has absorbed things quietly, Mrs. Mc-
Conaghy chats vivaciously of the
elaborate jubilee doings in London and
of the gay adventure of visiting Conti-
nental byways for the first time.


She always thought
dull teeth were natural
. . Ztnfaidt/tZ fated*£ fau£
0
FILM mars the loveliness of
teeth. It is the greatest single
cause of tooth decay. And, if you
use ordinary brushing methods,
you may not escape this danger-
ous film, which forms constantly
on everyone’s teeth.
There is now one best way to
keep your teeth free of film.
Laboratory tests and scientific facts
indicate that way is Pepsodent—
knownas the special film-removing
toothpaste. For, ofall other leading
methods, none other equally safe,
removes film so thoroughly. The
cleansing and polishing material
in Pepsodent is alone responsible.
This film-removing material is twice
as soft as the polishing materials
used in other leading tooth pastes
—many times as soft as that in
leading toothpowders. Yet the way
it removes film and cleans teeth is
indeed impressive.
This polishing agent is contained
exclusively in Pepsodent. That’s
why Pepsodent is really different.
It works in a different way to give
different results. When Pepsodent
is so safe, so certain, how can you
afford to entrust the care of your
teeth to “hit or miss” methods or
bargain tooth pastes? Just try
Pepsodent Tooth Paste once.
We believe you will want to use
Pepsodent regularly twice a day
thereafter. And be sure to see
your dentist at least twice a year.
N 7356
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Little Mary Dwyer and June Barnard
swished their long, frilly blue organdies
down the length of the Embassy ballroom
at the head of the procession of 10 debs,
at the Catholic Ball. Hostesses Mrs, J. P.
Maxwell, with touches of white on her
sleek black crepes, and Mrs. T. Ahem
(her warm-brown matelass6 agog with
fur) stood by Archbishop Prendiville to
present the bevy. After making their
bows the fledglings whirled their snowy
trains into a set of lancers. Mrs. D. G.
White’s black taffetas were sprayed with
a shower of gold dots, glittering diamente
and fluffy ostrich feathers adorned Mrs.
J. D. Mooney’s Nile-blue chiffon velvet,
Mrs. A. Taylor flung a sage-green cape
over her luminous black satins and Molly
Dunphy’s white georgettes tapered to a
fluted train.
From Colombo come details of Mollie
Murray’s marriage to Basil William John
Anthony. The traditional bridal white
was transferred to the attendants, Mrs.
Leith Gillespie and Madeline Anthony,
whose curd-white chiffons were topped
with wide leghorn hats. Mollie’s shell-
pink symphony combined yards of softest
ninon, a shady pancake hat and a
bouquet of carnations.
The jubilee-fund dance at Claremont
Yacht Club was a festive affair twinkled
on by festoons of multicolored minia-
ture lights. Mr. and Mrs. George
Mengler (she with a ruched gold lame
corsage to her pcau d’ange laces), Mrs.
Bennett, J. W. Rolfe and C. Fry were
responsible for the doings. Nancy
Mengler’s ivory satins were all of a
ripple, Pat Hyde popped lilac velvet
furbishings on her cyclamen matt crepes,
a cloud of beige lace fell over Diane
Hunter’s ciel-blue satins, and Dorothy
Courtland hitched a black velvet skirt
to her basqued duck-egg-blue top-piece.
Irene Carter’s exhibition of water-
colors was opened by Lud Mayor
Poynton before one of the largest crowds
yet seen at Newspaper House Art
Gallery. The diminutive artist, all sun-
on-moss in her green panne velvet with
gold accoutrements, smiled her pleasure
as red discs were applied one after an-
other to her hangings.
Vacuum Oil Co.’s dance attracted
several hundreds to the Embassy, where
Rene Esler put on a series of ballets and
exhibition dances. Manager C. J.
Murray piloted his better-half’s becom-
ing moon-blue flat crepes; Grace Seale,
set about with eau de Nil phantom crepes,
and Winnie Cullingworth, trim and slim
in misty-blue matelasse, did committee
duties with W. Darbyshire and C. Mil-
lington.
Women’s organisations are all a-bustle
to entertain Mrs. Cardell-Oliver, who
returned by the Taranaki after a con-
gress in Turkey and a conference in
London. The Women’s Service Guild
and the Women Writers put on luncheons
on consecutive days,
Agnes Burns invited a flock of young
fry to dance at her home in Guildford.
Both the hostess and her mother wore
black, Mrs. Burns’s choice falling on
chiffon velvet, with Agnes alongside in
lacquered satin.
Mollie and Rita McGibbon gave a wel-
come-home party for Gladys Hadley
after her trip to Colombo to play brides-
maid at Dorothy Summerhayes’s marriage
to Francis Henstock. An aftermath of
the wedding was the ’maid’s becoming
frock of frilled and tiered lettuce-green
chiffon.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The fortnight of Court mourning for
Queen Astrid of Belgium has meant the
postponement of all official social func-
tions, among them the Lord Mayor’s
Ball, which now will be held late enough
to permit the attendance of the Premier
and Mrs. Butler. They return from over-
seas on the 23rd.
The Minda Ball at the Palais Royal
proved a great success, though his Ex.
and Lady Dugan were absent owing to
Court mourning. Lud Mayor Cain and
Mrs. Dunstan (the lady in pervenche-
blue satin) were received by Lavington
Bonython and his lady, passing through
a guard of honor of eight small girls
dressed in early-Victorian style who
sold lavender posies and danced an early-
Victorian ballet. The official box was
decked with arum and flag lilies, mimosa
and white broom. The Bonython lady's
rose-patterned silk crepe was bordered
with black and worn with a coatee of
fine black net with full sleeves to the
wrist. Mrs. K. C. Wilson chose powder-
blue crepe, and her sister, Mrs. Denis
Heath (England), wore Spanish tulle
matelasse. A feature of the evening was
the sale of small envelopes each contain-
ing an unset jewel. Five hundred had
been given to the Minda committee by
an Adelaide jeweller.
The conversazione to celebrate the
Medical School’s jubilee was well
attended, science, law and medicine being
well represented. Iceland poppies, sweet-
peas and stocks decorated, and afternoon-
tea was served in the refectory.
Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Holden enter-
tained about 70 young people, friends
of their only son John, who is home on
vacation from Geelong Church of Eng-
land Grammar School, at a dance at the
Kent Town home. The ballroom was
decorated with almond-blossom and
sweet-peas, and the supper table in the
dining-room with pink sweet-peas.
The Palais Royal was thronged for the
ball given by the 9th Light Horse Old
Comrades’ Association. Lud Mayor Cain
was received by president W. E. H.
Pascoe, Mrs. Pascoe, in powder-blue
matelasse, and the secretary, Licut.-Col.
Darley. Mrs. Gregory Bruer’s frock of
cream chiffon was flowered with pink
roses, Mrs. Vowells chose deep cream
satin cut on princess lines, Mrs. E. M.
Luxmoore was in jade-green flat
crepe, with deep collar of quilted gold
lame, and Miss Cleggett (Angorichina)
wore black georgette patterned in red-
and-white. Mrs. MacDougall sported
amethyst ninon.
The Sweet-pea and Daffodil Show at
the Town Hall brought out a display of
blooms that surpassed previous shows.
Mr. W. Baker, who judged the daffodils,
said they were the finest he had seen on
exhibition for many years. The Bony-
thon lady opened the show.
The Uni. refectory was decorated for
the ball of the Aquinas Society with
branches of oranges all growing and
boughs of orange-blossom. President
W. J. Gunson was present; also A. J.
Hannan, K.C., and his wife, she in cream
chiffon satin, the high cowl front caught
with black shoulder straps to a black
pointed panel forming the back of the
bodice, with sash ends in cream and
black. Dr. W. C. T. Upton brought his
wife in black chiffon with cape sleeves
in fine black lace.
TASMANIA.
The Hobart Symphony Orchestra’s
first concert under the baton of Dr.
Arundel Orchard was a huge success.
Dorothy Clark, contralto, was the only
soloist, accompanied by Mary Corvan.
The Lieut.-Gov. and Lady Lewis,
Nicholls, C.J., and his lady, and the
Mayor and Mayoress of Hobart were in
the seats of the mighty.
Bishop Snowdon Hay and his wife had
a lovely spring day for the Synod
garden party. The guests enjoyed the
sunshine in the old garden, and tables
were set under the trees.
The Tas. Uni. Women’s Basketball
Club engineered a gay dance, attended by
visiting basketballers, in the Uni. library.
Chancellor Stops presented the cup to
Margaret Peck, captain of the winning
team.
Mrs. Geoff Chapman farewelled the
D'Arcy Addisons at her own home before
they departed for Sydney and Adelaide.
The hostess was in navy.
The Ashbolt lady sped the parting guest
(Mrs. D’Arcy Addison) and welcomed
the home-comers, Mrs. Payne and Madge,
at a shivoo at Lenna, Battery Point.
Heaps of camellias and pink peach-
blossom made lovely decorations. Bridge,
tea and talk filled the hours.
Mrs. Ormonde Birch bade farewell to
a throng of friends at the Chaucer Tea-
rooms before departing for Melbourne,
where she joins her husband, Archdeacon
Birch. They sail for England shortly,
and will probably settle there, but first
will visit Spain.
The J. Scott Powers gave a jolly late-
afternoon party at Hadley’s for daughter
Nora’s coming-of-age. About 50 guests
rolled up. Mrs. Scott Power was in
black, with velour hat. Nora wore a
russet turnout with small turn-up hat,
vastly becoming.
Lt.-Commander James Melrose has
brought his English bride to Barton,
Campbell Town, where they are settling
in.
A MIXED GRILL.
“J.L.’s” historical note: —
The reviewer of G. D. Milford's book
on Governor Phillip (R.P. 28/8/T5) states that
Phillip sailed for Botany Bay as Admiral of the
Blue. Phillip sailed for Botany Bay as Captain
Arthur Phillip, and left it in December, 1792,
still a captain.
* * * *
“O.R.”: A remarkable municipal en-
terprise—with the local council but not
actually of it —is the Mordialloc carni-
val —a sort of permanent giggle resort
on the shores of the Mordialloc (Vic.)
Creek, about 16 miles from Melbourne.
The grounds contain the usual amuse-
ments of the pleasure park, and, by
reason of convenient motoring distance
from the city and the proximity of a
bathing beach, keep up attendances,
while more elaborate places of the sort
pass out. The whole of the profits from
the enterprise are devoted to beach im-
provements, and during the 12 years it
has been in existence no less than £44,(XX)
has been raised —not an insignificant
sum for a small extra-suburban district.
* * * - *
“Bondi-ite”: Nobody can belittle the
work of the Melbourne lifesaving clubs
or question their efficiency or their
physique. But they do not constitute
surf clubs; there is no surf within 50
miles of Melbourne. Use of the reel
and line on Albert Park and St. Kilda
beaches is so much bunk. The so-called
undertow about those places doesn’t
exist. There is a backwash of a sort
and many holes, and* the real danger is
that some non-swimmer or some ex-
hausted swimmer may be pulled into a
hole and drowned. If the Melbourne
lifesavers did their work according to
the book, there would be a multitude of
fatalities, for victims would be drowned
long before the man got out with the
line. In fact, they rescue, and rescue well,
by going out barehanded. A light row-
boat —or, better still, a boat fitted with an
outboard motor —would make five trips
to the danger spot while a swimmer was
ponderously dragging out a heavy belt
and line. Melbourne lifesaving clubs
adopted the Sydney system, devised foi
surf-rescue, for use in a place where there
is no surf.
* * • *
“Elfir”: “H.A.L.” (B. 31/7//35) is all
at sea in his par. on the American back-
woodsman’s gun. It wasn’t a smoothbore
but a muzzle-loading rifle. The barrel
lengths varied, and not all were very
heavy ; such niceties, together with the
bore, varied with the individual fancy of
maker and user. Often during the life of
a gun it would be re-rifled more than
once, thus altering the calibre. Wads
weren’t used, but the balls were wrapped
in greased linen or buckskin, making the
bullet a tight fit in the bore. These rifles
certainly were accurate, but the smooth-
bores of the same period were not so.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Upper Tooting”; Some years ago,
like Morton, 1 went in search of Eng-
land and failed to find it. There were
no costers in the city, no yokels in the
country and no girls like those I had
seen on the magazine covers. Only in
one instance did I find something which
was up to sample—in the butlers. The
British butler is absolutely true to the
types we have studied on the stage and
in the person of that super-butler Jeeves.
They were such perfect specimens of
calm, tactful case that I stood in awe
and wonder. I marvelled at the pose and
poise of these men, who could not be
faulted in any phase of their calling, and
devoted a lot of hard study to getting
at the reason of their supremacy. But
the butler is as standardised as a Ford
part. He is a professional gentleman ;
the rest are amateurs. Nobody would
regard an amateur plumber as being the
equal of a professional plumber. The
pro. is paid to be a plumber, and the
butler is paid to be a centleman.


55
s>
o
UM
Runs Li£htm£ .seven-valve Radio
Elec. Iron for I'a ureek
Above is extract of a letter from
an “R-an-D” DIESEL user wKo
discarded a petrol engine as
“too expensive to run.”
All details from any of the following:
ADELAIDE.—Adelaide Car and Tractor
Co., Ltd.
PERTH.—Flower, Davies, Johnson, Ltd.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. MacEwans
Machinery, Ltd.
Or from the manufacturers.
MADE IN QUEENSLAND BY
RAPSONd DUTTON PTY LtD
* VALLEY . BRISBANE \ us
COME to Sydney
and STAY
at
'4
&
Quiet,
Exclusive,
Convenient—
at King's Cross, in
the highest part of Sydney.
’Phones: F2191 (14 lines).
B. CORDINGLY, LTD., Proprietors
Correct Food and Exercise
will solve
Your Health Problems!
Con stipation
Indigestion
Obesity
Underweight
Malnutrition
Skeletal an I
postural
defects
Physical Htness
Highest
medical
references.
Write for particulars of
The Dupain
SCIENTIFIC
Postal
HEALTH SERVICE.
The Dupain Institute
(Geo. Z. Dupain. Principal),
449 a Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
IS
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
<j)mz~xn>z.
JOHN HEINE
SYD N E Y
cwrZQuvp*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Crime” in New Guinea
“Kaloa”: Tastes seem to differ a good
deal in “crime” in New Guinea. Only
two Europeans in 1934 found their way
into the Rabaul Supreme Court dock—
one convicted of manslaughter, another
of stealing—which is a pretty good record
among 3900 whites of highly miscel-
laneous nationalities. Twenty Asiatics
were convicted in the major court — 17
for stealing—and 136 natives, of whom
42 found their way to calaboose through
the tender regard of the Administration
for their morals. Apparently, the Rabaul
Court is “surefire” on murder, since 40
colored gentlemen charged with indulg-
ing in that pastime were all convicted.
In the District Court, the criminal
record tells a different tale. Europeans
seem to have spent the year indulging
the most lurid kinds of “crime.” It is
“criminal” in Rabaul to “fail to pay
wages to a casual laborer,” to “fly at a
low altitude,” “to break the traffic regu-
lations,” to “fail to provide latrines,” to
be drunk or to “drive a motor-car through
the Botanic Gardens.” One super-
villain only, thank Heaven, blackened
his soul by committing this last offence in
1934 and—again, thank Heaven—he was
convicted. Of course, he was one step
better than the Chinaman who is now on
the lists of the “criminally” convicted for
“allowing an unauthorised
building to be erected,” and
miles ahead of the two speci-
mens of League of Nations joy
who are placed in the same
category by Territory man-
dated law for having “ridden
on the shafts of a cart.”
The native, judging by the
court lists, is, however, be-
coming civilised all too rapidly.
Two were sufficiently educated
to be convicted of forgery.
And the native courts seem to
be kept busy by people play-
ing football in a place not pre-
scribed, spreading false reports, gam-
bling and wearing clothes on the upper
part of the body. The Social Evil Com-
mittees at Geneva will no doubt be edi-
fied to learn that, out of the 200,000-odd
dark females who inhabit the Mandate,
one had to be punished for “accepting
benefit; object, sexual intercourse.”
“Megass”: Delegates from all over the
sugargrowing world have been attending
the Sugar Technologists’ World Confer-
ence in Brisbane. The atmosphere is
hopeful and forward-looking. A com-
mittee declared that saturation point in
sugar demand would not be reached
until usage attained at least the present
highest consumption standards. It was
decided, however, that expansion of pro-
duction through by-product use would
not help much—except, possibly, through
power alcohol production. The delegates
will make a tour of the sugar districts of
Australia.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Queensland lost the first
baronet to be born on its soil when
Sir Arthur Mackenzie, of Coul, died
in Scotland the other day. The
tenth baronet, R. R. Mackenzie, was
an early Premier of Queensland, who
married a daughter of Richard Jones,
first member for Moreton Bay in
the old N. S. Wales Parliament. Only
one line of the family remains in Aus-
tralia—a daughter of R.R. married
William Archer, and her son now looks
after Gracemere, the Archer head station,
near Rockhampton.
♦ * * ♦
“Coen”: There has been a great stir
in the press over an “outbreak of malaria
at Ebagoolah.” Actually, the Cape York
country has been full of malaria ever
since the first dingo landed. In an older
day there used to be great debate as to
whether the disease was worse than the
cure. Many an old-timer is deaf from
the use of quinine in the kind of dose
they used to dole out before the war, and
more are chopping golden sandalwood
through the same cause. The pity of the
outbreaks in these days is that the disease
is pretty easy to prevent or mitigate—
live grains of quin, sulph. every live days
in the mosquito country would save a
lot of wrecked constitutions.
♦ ♦ * *
“B.B.”: The multiplicity of Govern-
ment activities in Brisbane sometimes
leads to confusion ; the place is full of
regulations and adjurations. The latest
is designed to prevent jay-walking—you
may walk across the streets only at staled
points, and then only at a policeman’s
bidding. Grandma, who is here for the
W.C.T.U. conference and who failed to
imitate a hypnotised hen and follow the
“Come on, now—go on with your evidence."
"Wot, with that bloke Writin' down every word a lady says?”
white line a few days ago, suddenly found
herself ranged beside a large sergeant with
open notebook. Boiling with memories
of another craze which is rampant in
Queensland, she regarded his open note-
book for a moment, shook her umbrella
at him and said firmly; “No, thank you.
I never buy tickets in lotteries. You
ought to be ashamed to sell them in uni-
form.” And she marched off —un-
molested.
* $ *
“Nothung”; It is amazing that a tropi-
cal city like Townsville should be so
dilatory about water supply. “The Queen
City of the North” has a population
of 26,000 and a supply that is hardly
enough for two-thirds that number. In
the hotter months it is often hard to
get a bath. And 1935 marks the limit
—gardens must be watered with buckets
only, and that between 6.30 and 8.30
p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays
and Saturdays. Townsville has been
managing on the Hubert Wells (going
since about 1904, and expected to go
strongly for ever apparently) and two
weirs of moderate size backing up the
same stream. Yet the city is on the
coast, in a region of heavy rainfall and
well-watered country.
“Z.N.”: Mr, Eric Harrison, M.P., is
“incensed” at the sight of white men
sweeping the streets of Darwin’s China-
. tt „ „ •. , .
town. He says it shows that apathy to
\t;l•* A . .
the White Australia principle is greater
in Darwin than anywhere else. Also, he
wonders why the people so easily tolerate
mixed-race school classes. He little
knows his N.T If the Darwin Council,
which is supported largely by Common-
wealth funds, were to employ natives to
do the job, the O.T. line would sizzle
with protests from the A W U., so blacks
hang round the compounds doing nothing
while the whites swing a broom Why
not employ Chinese? Because Chinese
are too busy selling goods, running
restaurants, trading m sheff and getting
nd of pak-a-pu tickets. No pure-bred
Chmaman in the N.T. ever does manual
lahoi unless he has a -oz. patch
of gossan or knows where there is a bit
of tin or has a cook’s job.
* * * ’
Turbot Street : Two old Labor
hands who, in the days before the war,
were regarded as fearsome Reds, but
who would now scarcely assay a trace
of color, were in the Brisbane limelight
this week. One was R. J. Mulvey, retiring
secretary of the Trades and Labor Coun-
cil and a familiar figure at the Trades
Hall since (he days of William Lane.
Physically a big man, Mulvey was ham-
pered always by a heart which was not
,I ]. lll /u nt \T He , . Wa * a / oundati r on ™ e ™ b u r
ol the Moulders Union of which he
bccamc secretary in 1897. Ten years
later, he was elected E.gh -hour Day
secretary, and in 1923 took over h.s
present job. He was one of the Legis-
lative Councillors whom Theodore
appointed in 1920 under a suicide pledge.
The other stalwart is W. P, Colborne,
who 50 years ago on September 4 was
elected foundation secretary of the
original T. and L. Council. He has been
secretary of the Printing Employees’
Union for more than a generation—one
of his predecessors was Senator Craw-
ford, president of the Australian Sugar
Producers and one of S. M. Bruce’s
Ministers —and, though he has been in
almost every real fight for industrial im-
provement since he became a unionist,
his voice has always been raised on the
side of moderation.
“Buffalo-fly Bill”; I see that the
Pacific Health Conference has decided
that a “monotonous diet, often of puri-
fied foods,” is inimical to the health of
us outbackers, who “live like hermits,”
and to “remote groups of prospectors in
the outposts.” To which I say “Hear,
hear!” I was brought up on a “mono-
tonous” diet on the Cooper—mostly
corned beef and damper—and I am only
sft. lOyin. high and have a four-inch
chest expansion. My brother, who was
born a year afterwards, when the
drought had broken and they were able
to add pigweed to the damper, is an
inch taller. And another bloke in the
family, who came two years after that,
in a season when they had accumu-
lated enough money to buy tinned
potatoes, is two feet thick, three feet
across and has lung power which runs
to five minutes’ profanity on end with-
out effort. I may add that the rest of
the population of Doughboy (n.-w. Q.),
whom I have consulted, agrees with
me and the congress. I asked him:
“Would a greater variety in diet be
beneficial?” To which he replied fer-
vently: “Yairs. If the something cook”
—that’s me —“would take the tadpoles
out of the blancmange every second
Sunday, it would do me.” But then the
Rest of the Population has been a sol-
dier in the A.1.F., which made him fas-
tidious about his tucker.
“Australia Jane’s" Budget
A resident of Toowoomba returned
home after a holiday to discover (hat
somebody, apparently immature, had
made a lair of her house during her
absence. All tinned foods in the pantry
had been devoured, and the lady’s bed
had received the impress of the uninvited
visitor’s frame. To complete the picture,
a book abstracted from the family book-
shelf was left open by the bed. It was
A Gentleman of Leisure.
Mrs. Frank Robinson hostessed a pre-
wedding tea for Muriel Russell, of Jim-
bour, who is to marry Theo Cooper at
Dalby on September 14. There arc to
be six bridesmaids and a matron of
honor.
Joan Kennedy, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. R. D. Kennedy, is wearing a
new diamond ring. Jack Mundell, son
of the James Mundells, of Taroom, is
the lucky lad.
Jan McDowall finished her overseas
tour with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Val
McDowall. in Singapore. Now she has
gone to Melbourne with her father for
the B.M.A. conference. Dr. and Mrs.
W. N. Robertson, Dr. and Mrs. Graham
Sutton, Dr. and Mrs. T. A. Price, Dr.
Beatrice Warner and about a score of
our other medicoes will be there.
Thomas Desmond McCawley, son of
Queensland’s late C.J., has been admitted
to the Bar at 21. He has to become a
Judge within the next 12 years to beat
his father’s record.
Isabel Gibson, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. A. J. Gibson, will be married in
the chapel at Bingera on October 1 to
Paul Ramsay Brown, of the Bikanir
State railways, India. Sister Louise, two
Gibson cousins, and Myra Buss will
bridesmaid.
Mrs, Donald Hill Smith (once Alice
Hawthorne) and her husband spent a
few days in Brisbane with Mrs. A. G. C.
Hawthorne before they left for Asia
by the Nellore.
Clever Alexia Drake, a leading light of
Repertory, has become Mrs. Norman
Tudberry. Alexia’s father, J. G. Drake,
was the first Australian P.M.G. The
newly-weds are en route, by car, to
Sydney, and will take in the Northern
Rivers on their way.
We have had Sugar Conferences and
National Council of Women’s Confer-
ences ; now 80 delegates have held a
W.C.T.U. Conference, Mrs. J. Tail' pre-
siding. There was an afternoon recep-
tion, when the rooms were massed with
golden glow and golden nasturtiums.
Miss M. French, Miss S. C. Banks and
Mrs. L. J. Lores were the hostesses.
Judith Avery and Kath Dodwell, who
sailed by the Jervis Bay, gave a “Con-
tinental coffee party” at Rowe’s.
Miss H. M. Walker, the third Queens-
land girl to be called to the Bar, was
admitted a few days ago. The others are
Miss K. E. McGregor, admitted in 1926,
and Mrs. S. A. Trout.


SIMPLE
ss A«B«C«
Just two half-turns
mill All up-to-date people
illilb J Ulli —and what Austra-
lian isn’t?—will want
this wonder pen—the latest and the greatest
made by ‘Swan’. See and try it for yourself
at any good Stationers or Jewellers.
PRICES : The New LEVER LESS ‘Swan’ from 2 1
Other ‘Swans' from IS/-, ‘blackbird’ Pens from 10/*.
'jackdaw' Pens from 6/6. All guaranteed.
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia) Ltd.,
6 Primrose Buildings.
255 a George Street, SYDNEY.
The LEVERLESS
CWAN
w pen
MADE IN ENGLAND
1
d
-ALWAYS USE SWAN’ INK
/
A.1.3S
%
tra\
A Commonwealth Savings Bank
pass-book disposes of all the money
worries that usually trouble the
traveller.
Whether the journey be undertaken
for business or pleasure purposes,
and so long as it is confined to
Australia and the Mandated Terri-
tories, the Commonwealth Savings
Bank Service will operate through-
out. Money can be transferred to
any point, and withdrawn or
deposited at any one of the Bank’s
4,000 Branches and Agencies
without cost.
Ensure the utmost convenience and
safety by travelling, not with a
dangerously large amount of money
in your pocket, but with just your
pass-book to see you through.
commonweniTH
m
SAVINGS -BANK
1
A
INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS
for Hard-working Conditions
Where the work is hardest . . . and wear
and tear is greatest—lngot Work Trousers
will prove their worth.
They keep their shape and are colour-fast.
Even repeated boilings will not give them
that “washed-out” appearance. And wear
—you’ll be pleasantly surprised at the
length of time it takes to wear them out.
Made in Australia from
Australian Cotton
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
A Tale of New Guinea:-
PORTRAIT OF A
SAVAGE
By
G. MONRO TORNBOLL.
BAPUNA, son of Simioni the
Catechist, stretched his body on the
warm sand.
If was a morning of blue sky and a
blazing disc of sun and little eddies ot
dazzling cloudlets that romped before
the wmd. Tossing breakers broke high
and white on the reef, rushing forward
in a serried phalanx that sounded to
Bapuna like the baying ot distant
hounds.
The smell of the sea was good, the
caress of the wind, the fire of the sun-
shine, the lament ot the shingle as the
waves dragged it to and fro. Flocks of
screaming gul s flashed white in the sun,
cleaving the blue or dropping like stones
to feast on the patu that were schooling
in the lagoon. Here and there in the
lee of the breakers a fleet of canoes
Irom the village cruised up and down,
Now and then a steering sweep would
dip, a canoe would luff ; there would be
a yell ot triumph, a great silver shape
wou d shoot high in the air and there
would be another cheer as forty, fifty,
sixty pounds of fighting sea demon was
hauled inboard.
Bapuna let go a gusty sigh, and his
rs grew very wistful. There would
be but few of the village boys at school
to-day They would be out there with
their fathers and uncles and elder
brothers, doing the work of men. The
patu were in, and with them the great
black-barred mackerel, the ferocious
barracuda, the mighty trevally and the
slender Long Tom with knife-edged teeth,
Ai-ee ! Ono, dae, dahu-dahu, quarahada
and qualaha, the shark. Banded to-
gether, their age-old enmities forgotten,
harrying, ravishing, gorging on the hap-
less patu. It was the fashion of the
sea creatures, as it had been the fashion
of men before the Gavamani and the
misonare came to teach the people
wisdom.
Already half the canoes were hove to.
It would be very pleasant out there,
Bapuna sighed, dashing out on to the
outrigger as it canted perilously, baling
out, holding the trolling lines when one’s
elders tired ; the salt spume flying with
the wind and slinging one's face, the
deep-throated challenge of the reef loud
ln one ’ s eardrums.
, N the mission compound a be n c i angcd .
1 Bapuna made a hideous grimacc . H e
glanced stealthily about him. There were
no snea king fellow-pupils to blackmail
himj no snivelling littlc girls to carry
tales to Sister Anne . He dived into th J
p i aded basket that hung on his arm, and
boldly solaced his rebellious soul with
betel-nut
Bapuna was a sturdy lad of twelve>
j^j s eyes> large, liquid, expressive, were
the eyes of a trustful girl . his mouth was
not y^ t the flabby , shapeless mouth of
the betel-nut addict; nor had tribal cus-
tom demanded the slitting of his small
and shapely ears, the piercing of the
sep t U m of his short, broad nose, the
marring of the velvety smoothness of
his chocolate-brown skin by symbolic
cicatrices and totemic tattoo marks. His
face was p i ea sant-looking and very ex-
pressiVe, and he had long ago learned
that the quick) shy smUc he could
summon so readily made life peasant
when, by all the signs and portents, the
demi-gods and -goddesses set in autho-
rity over him had ordained that it was
t 0 be very unpleasant indeed,
Moodily he added lime and a scrap of
pe pper-bark to the blood-red mass in
his mou th, and spat massively. He
stretched his naked body on the warm
sand, and wriggled with a faint ecstatic
voluptuousness. One of the canoes had
hauled off from the reef and was gliding
smoothly through the green sea, headed
f or the village. Faintly there sounded
over the waters the sound of drums and
chanting voices proclaiming a successful
catch,
Bapuna’s body began to move to the
rhythmic dull cadence of the drums. His
eyes closed, the working of his drooling
jaws ceased. Always they had filled his
stomach with a wild turbulence beyond
his understanding, those drums. Always
they had stirred in him a strange and
mysterious feeling of gladness. They
seemed to intensify the feeling of being
free and alone, yet encompassed by magic
presences. He was no longer lying under
the sun on solid earth. His spirit was
soaring into space, slipping away into
another world than that of common,
everyday experience—a world mystical
and profound and uncanny ; a world of
enchantment, of unknown and unknow-
able delights, bringing a sudden check
to the beat of pulses, a catch to the
breath, acting on him like a heady brew
from a sorcerer’s gourd.
The imperative clanging of the school
bell filtered through to his betel-bemused
consciousness. A sudden wave of anger
strangled in his throat. He wanted to
lie for ever baking in the sunshine, lis-
tening to the lazy swish of the sea against
the shingle, the thrumming of the distant
drums.
Reluctantly he dragged himself up-
right, and brushed the sand from his
gleaming body with his hands. There
were in his basket a half-completed.
plaited fibre armlet, an armlet he would
never be permitted to wear; a carved
lime gourd and an ebony spoon; scraps
of black “trade twist”; a zinc mirror;
betel-nuts and pepper-pods and cinna-
mon bark, and a length of tapa cloth,
Muttering imprecations under his
breath, he wrapped the betel-chewing
paraphernalia in the cloth, thought a
while and added the tobacco, and hid the
bundle in the undergrowth. Then he
arrayed himself in the white cotton loin-
cloth and singlet which mission pro-
priety prescribed as the irreducible mini-
mum for the sons of catechists, and
strolled towards the school.
A HUGE native in the imposing red-
braided uniform of the armed con-
stabulary, swaggered up and down the
path in front of the mission gate, very
elaborately unconscious of the admiring
feminine glances that strayed, from sun-
dry open windows, in his direction and
lingered there.
A knowing grin spread over Bapuna’s
lace. The policeman’s puckered in a
‘ r °wn.
Goo-day, Bapuna, my fnen, he
sai “-
“Good-day, sergeant.” Bapuna looked
at him obliquely, smirking. "Serafina is
sick, sergeant, he leered, ‘or, it may be,
she has gone on a journey”
“You lie, my frien’,” the sergeant
interrupted. Then, in his loftiest manner:
“Go to school, small boy.”
Bapuna dodged quickly through the
gate, skirted the palm grove and
approached the school from the rear. A
drone of voices came to him through the
open shutters, punctuated by the high,
shrill tones of Sister Anne. Casting a
sly, quick glance at the shutters, Bapuna
turned on the tap of the tank, washed
out his mouth and inspected his teeth
in the mirror for any trace of the in-
criminating betel-nut. He was panting
a little, as though from running, when
he opened the door and made for his
desk.
A tall, bony woman wearing the thick-
lensed spectacles of the very short-
sighted, pointed an accusing finger at
him.
“Come here, Bapuna, she said in a
terrible voice.
.^* ne ° c l° c k is the time appointed
for
She turned quickly as somebody
laughed, and her elbow sent a pickle-
jar containing flowers crashing to the
floor. Bapuna retrieved it instantly, and
bowed to the angry mistress with quaint
and courtly composure,
“There is sorrow in my skin because
I am late, sister,” he said politely,
“Well?” she demanded ominously,
Bapuna smiled his slow, wistful smile,
“Last night, sister,” he said with quiet
dignity, "I took, in a large pannikin, the
juice of a lime mixed with castor-oil,
because of a great soreness in my belly.
And this morning”
“Go to your scat, Bapuna, Sister
Anne silenced him hastily. "And—and
don’t let me have to talk to you again,
Do you hear?” ■
There was something ol pain in
Bapuna’s smile and in his deferential
bow, something ol reproach in his widely-
opened eyes.
“Yes, sister,” he answered courteously,
“Thank you very much, sister."
The teacher’s back was towards him
as she set out the lesson on the black-
board. Bapuna made a single, vulgar,
scorn-expressing gesture with his hand
and sidled into his scat,
There was a shy smile in the quickly-
lifted eyes of the girl who sat on the
form in front of him. Bapuna reached
forward and ran a caressing finger over
her bare arm. The girl dimpled, wriggled,
digging her toes into the floor,
“To-night there will be a moon, my
Hitolo,” Bapuna whispered. “The
lagoon, under the stars, will twinkle
because of your smile, and the sea will
laugh because of your laughter”
“Bapuna!” an ominously frosty voice
cut in. Bapuna’s rhapsody ended
abruptly. Hitolo bowed her head in
shame, shrinking into her seat.
pAPUNA breathed noisily on his slate,
D a nd erased a rude drawing of a very
long, thin nose surmounted by a pair of
spectacles. His pencil squeaked as he
copied the figures set out on the black-
board, and for at least five minutes he
identified himself with a certain fisher-
man who, having sold eight fish at two-
pence halfpenny each, seven at three-
pence three farthings and nine at four-
pence farthing, was faced with the prob-
jem of buying with the proceeds a quan-
tity of yams at twopence halfpenny a
pound. White men, it appeared, were
constantly involving themselves in diffi-
culties of this nature. A New Guinea
fisherman, desiring to fill his stomach
with baked yams, would say: “What
man will give me six big yams for this
fine daragi ?” and


miumiuir
Hi*
i
ar
Vv-
dP
iv»
~ X/QsJtM
\ft ,
Wlf
V//5
S'/ //I
-flu. LITTLE
BLACK HEN
THE poultry industry in New South Wales has
reason to feel proud. Egg sales for the year
exceed £2,000,000. Large quantities of eggs
are exported. In fact, the export of eggs increased
from 860,000 dozen in I 929 to more than 7,000,000
dozen in 1934. Sales of table-poultry exceed
£500,000. Millions of chicks are hatched yearly
and a large percentage sold. Several poultry-farms
carry more than 10,000 birds. The year around,
the little black hen and her many-coloured sisters
busily contribute to the upkeep of the State. And
the slogan of the poultry-farmer is “ Improvement! ”
Hundreds of poultry-farms, as well as the co-operative
societies which market their produce, are financed
by the Rural Bank, which depends on its own re-
sources and upon the support and co-operation of the
public for the funds that make the credit possible.
Fixed Deposits are accepted and cheque accounts
opened for individuals, companies, firms and societies.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 3SO GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President). H. ROGERS, P. KEARNS
[This is the fifth of six advertisements illustrated
by Quinton Davis. An attractive brochure con-
taining the complete series may be obtained on
application to the nearest branch of the Bank.
11l
J
}mmi^
,l\ OF 133 s
m
Stiomberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
C2
lIMITtn INSURANCE
II R I I kII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
H. E. ROBINSON, A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS, Manager.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
j Corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“What is the answer, Bapuna?” a sharp
voice demanded.
“Thirty-five pounds of yams, sister,”
Bapuna promptly answered, “and that
which is so much nearly a pound that
no man would”
“Work it out exactly, Bapuna. Do
you understand? Exactly."
“Surely, sister,” Bapuna answered re-
signedly.
It was all very perplexing. Who bar-
tered pounds of fish for pounds of yams?
And pennies, and the half and quarter
parts thereof! Such foolishness! Shil-
lings there were in New Guinea, and
sixpences, and certain small things of
no account the small daughter of the
ntisonare hid away in a small box.
“Well, Bapuna?”
“Four five-parts, sister, but as many
yams as a man could put into a copra
sack would not be proper payment
for”
“Hold your tongue, Bapuna.” The
teacher’s voice sounded waspish, and she
turned to the blackboard to think out
further bedevilments.
Bapuna wrote his name on the slate
in neat, flowing script. He had a mind
filled with great cunning, he told himself
complacently; a mind superior to the
minds of these village bushmen. When
he was of the bigness of an axe-handle,
no more, could he not write out his name
in beautiful capitals, remembering always
that “B” has two bellies and “P” but
one? Could he not talk the white man’s
language with a fluency and richness of
idiom that aroused the startled admira-
tion of such a one as Sergeant Banaki,
that master of words that were bad? A
very fierce man, a strong man of bone
and blood and muscle, that sergeant, A
Kiwai, moreover, an eater of snakes and
rats and small cats —ever hungry for
women
“A certain man,” the teacher was ex-
plaining, “walked three miles and the
half of a mile in the space of two hours
and twenty-five minutes”
“A man full of years, sister,” Bapuna
thoughtfully commented, “having many
sores on his feet and a stiffness in his
joints”
“It was a small boy,” Sister Anne cor-
rected herself softly, “very fat and lazy
and talkative as a cockatoo ; by name
Bapuna.”
A scream of delighted laughter greeted
the teacher’s sally. Thirty grubby fingers
pointed at Bapuna with scorn, thirty
derisive grins spread over thirty brown
faces.
But Bapuna did not laugh. A black
cloud swept over his face, his eyes were
suddenly ugly, fury such as he had never
known made him sick at the pit of his
stomach. His palate went dry. his fingers
gripped his slate convulsively. He was
aware of Hitolo’s black eyes fixed on
his, aware of her compassion and con-
cern, aware perhaps of something else.
An evil shiver ran through his veins. He
felt as though he were tautening his
nerves for a dive into icy waters. Mys-
terious voices seemed to be calling to
him out of the very air—cajoling voices,
mocking voices, scornful voices—and,
far off, the vibrant thrumming of drums
hammered at his ears like the beat of a
demon’s wings.
“Bapuna !" Hitolo whispered affright-
ed I y.
All the shades of his ancestors were
pushing Bapuna forward with invisible
hands, driving him with a power beyond
his resistance.
His eyes were the eyes of a jungle 1
beast, hot with the lust to kill. Fear
swam swiftly into Hitolo’s. A long,
unbearable scream, twisted with fear and
horror, came from her as Bapuna
smashed down at her head with the edge
of his slate. The flimsy frame fell away.
Bapuna’s upper lip writhed back from
his teeth ; a fierce exultation such as he
had never experienced shot through his
tingling nerves like drops of liquid flame.
There was blood on his hands, blood in
his eyes ; his slate had become a mur-1
derous weapon, cutting, slashing with |
deliberate, measured ferocity.
THE thing was done. Bapuna’s eyes
were dead coals in the dirty grey of
his face. He was sitting on thp floor, his
hands manacled. Sergeant Banaki’s (
fingers biting into his shoulder. The i
sound of the children’s voices was a !
vague humming in his ears ; Sister Anne's j
horrified tones and the sergeant's gruff j
rejoinders did not impinge on his con-1
sciousncss. He felt detached from the j
scene, remote, disembodied, and, above
all things, he wanted to sleep.
“Hitolo didn't make fun of him,”
Sister Anne was saying. “They were
friends—sweethearts. Why—why did
Bapuna attack her?”
Sergeant Banaki shrugged, amazed at
the tenacious obstinacy, the stupidity of
these while folk. He jerked his prisoner
to his feet.
“Fashion b’long New Guinea, sina-
bada,” he said.
A Mild Exaggeration
THE MIGHTY HIK
By S.H. COURTIER
CAN a man be where he wants to be
without knowing where he is? In
answer to that seemingly impossible
question, I, Peter Bulger, world-famous
mystagogue and mighty conjuror, defi-
nitely and decidedly say, “Yes. He can.”
Allow me to explain.
My wife and I, in the course of years
of work on country circuits, developed
into finished adepts in the necromantic
art. That is to say, we had evolved a
system of signs whereby I could inform
her, blindfolded on the stage, that —to
take an ordinary example—Mr. Flog-
wheat was holding up what purported to
be a gold medal, presented to him for
valor on the football field. Beyond this,
however, neither of us wished to exploit
supernatural forces. Nor did we, until
several inexplicable occurrences forced
us to.
The first intimation that I was sur-
rounded by an aura of the occult that
was to bring me into world-wide promin-
ence came at Margrave. I was doing the
cigarette dodge—you know, pulling hand-
fuls of cigarettes from the atmosphere
and heaping them up on the floor. When
you realise that at the same time I was
holding in check a tremendous sneeze,
you comprehend the prowess of the
achievement. The sneeze and the trick
culminated simultaneously.
JUST at the moment when I had with
a supreme effort suffocated that sneeze
in my nostrils, a shout burst from the
audience. Rounds of fervid applause fol-
lowed. A freezing sensation looped the
loop in my stomach when I perceived that
every man, woman and child in the;
Margrave Mechanics' Institute was hold-
ing aloft a cigarette. That they were good I
ones the rising clouds of smoke soon tes-
tified.
If you imagine that this was part of!
my repertoire then you are badly at fault.!
I had not the slightest intention of pre-!
senting even the doorkeeper with a'
cigarette. Nor did I intend, several i
nights later at Baronga, to make every
member of the audience a recipient of
a new alarm clock. But that is what
happened. In the midst of producing
alarm clocks from under my coat, mak-
ing them appear to come from an empty
flower-pot near by, I looked down, to see
every person in the Baronga Hall clutch-
ing a clock. The ovation was terrific,
but I did not enjoy it. Though the fact
had no significance for me at the time,
the feat again coincided with my striving
to hold back a sneeze.
By this time 1 began to suspect there I
was something wrong with me. I was 1
certain of it when the cacodemon broke j
loose at Dingara, where the audience re-!
ceived a fish-and-chips supper, given
them when I was cooking a fish in a bor-
rowed hat for my own refreshment at i
the interval, and convinced beyond argu-1
ment at JBenfield, where the supernatural i
intervention took the form of pigeon-pie j
all round. I had just slaughtered a ■
pigeon with the idea of resuscitating it I
under a lady’s coat, but with the advent 1
of the pigeon-pie that part was off.
By this time, I was nearly distracted,
though Suzanne did not regard the
matter as seriously as I did. Box-office
returns counted a lot with Suzanne. How-
ever, she was brought to view the affair
in a graver light when I told her that
unless something was done to stop these
outbursts of diablerie I would return to
the manipulation of the thimble-and-pea.
(Continued on next page.)


BALANCE SHEET
OP THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hnstralia
AT 30th JUNE, 1935.
LIABILITIES.
ASSETS.
£ ad
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 870,024 10 2
Australian Notes 5,725,089 10 0
Money at Short Call in London 18,204,017 8 0
Funds held temporarily in Lon-
don on account of C0nver-
£131.223,435 18 3
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
£ 8 d
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 100,435 18 7
~ National Debt Sinking Fund 105,435 18 7
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund 12,133 7 8
~ Development Fund 12,133 7 8
Note Issue Department—•
To Commonwealth Treasury . . 388,(1(18 19 4
C (123,807 11 10
£ s d
Bv Profits for Half-year ended
:50th June, 1035
~ Banking Business 210,871 17
~ Rural Credits Department .. 24,200 15 4
~ Note issue Department .. .. 388.(106 10 4
£023 807 11 10
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£
2,030,777
8 (1
5 10
£2,030.777 5 10
e. s d
By Balance 1,1)25,841 7 d
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits of Bunking
Business 105,4.'?.') 18 7
£2,030,777 5 10
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. E. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney. 15th A twist, 1035.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
£ B ci
Notes in Circulation 47,044,93(1 0 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 8,490 10 0
Special Reserve —
Premium on Gold Sold.. 3.894 904 13 (S
Other Liabilities 40,000 0 0
£50.988,331 3 0
ASSETS.
£ s d
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve.. 15,994,026 3 8
Debentures and other Securities 34,034 258 14 1
Other Assets 300.04(1 5 9
£50.98.8.331 3 6
Certified Correct,
S. A. BRYSON,
For Secretary Note Issue Department.
(i. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. KIDDLE,
Governor,
Sydney. 15th August, 1935.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 30th June, 1935.
LIABILITIES.
\ £
Reserve Fund . 2,089.305
Depositors’ Balances 12!), 132.939
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 4,73(1,083
s d
1!) 2
5 8
1 11
£135.958.928 0 9
ASSETS.
£ ad
Coin, Cash Balances and Monev
at Short Call 14,108,9(12 19 8
Australian Notes 163,071 10 0
Government Securities . . .. 83,009,008 11 8
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities. . 31.918,130 12 4
Other Assets 3,443,190 2 8
Bank Premises 1.192,532 10 5
£135,938,928 0 9
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS.
£ s (1
To National Debt Sinking Fund.. 80.043 11 7
„ Savings Bank Reserve Fund.. 80,043 11 7
£100.087 3 2
By Profit for Half-year ended
30th June, 1935, after pro-
vision for payments amounting
to £110,814 17s 9d due to
State Authorities under Sav-
ings Bank Amalgamation
Agreements 100,087
3 2
£100,087 3 2
RESERVE FUND
£ a d
To Balance 2,089.305 19 2
£2.089,305 IS) 2
€ s d
By Balance 2,000,262 7 7
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of the
Net Profits 80.043 11 7
€2.080.305 10 2
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSOV, Chief Accountant.
For md on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE.
Governor.
Sydney, 15th August, 1935.
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-Genera! of the Commonwealth ns to the correctness of
the above accounts have been given
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
PLUM BAIOR GUARD
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM BAZOK GUARD, for fin., Jin. and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AIXKEN, 634 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, Jin. and Jin.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
years free of charge.
“If that’s the way you look at it,” she
said, “then we’d better go and see John
Harden about it.”
I brightened up somewhat at that. John
Harden was a learned man ; he called
himself an alienist.
So we broke our itinerary and took a
trip to Melbourne.
John listened courteously.
“You wish me to inquire into the
causes and probable results of your —er
—possession?” he asked.
Apart from taking exception to the
word “possession” I said that was so.
“Well, the first thing—the conditions
under which the phenomena occur?”
1 described the miracles in detail; how I
felt, and what I ate beforehand, and so on.
“Anything else?” John asked at the
conclusion of the recital.
Then I remembered.
“ ’Struth, yes. I had a rotten cold in
the head, and every time the thing hap-
pened I wanted to sneeze.”
“And did you sneeze?” John asked.
“No. 1 stopped it.”
“You inhibited the impulse?”
“Yes.”
John’s brow wrinkled in deep thought.
Suddenly he looked up.
“Say ‘hie’ spelt with a ‘k,’ ” he com-
manded.
“Hie,” I repeated, “spelt with a ‘k.’”
“No, no! I want you to pronounce
the word ‘h-i-k.’ ”
“Hie,” 1 said.
John waved an impatient hand.
“I’m saying what you want, ain’t I?”
I said, getting a bit annoyed.
“You’re not. There’s a subtle differ-
ence. The sound L mean comes from
the abdominal regions, a sharp percus-
sion from below the diaphragm.”
I told John he had me beaten, and he
chewed his nether lip in the manner of
all intelligent people.
“Just a minute,” he requested, and
hurried from the room.
He was soon back, carrying a small
test tube,
“Inhale,” he ordered.
I wanted to know what for.
“I have here,” John said severely, “the
bacteria of the common cold. Now in-
hale, please.”
“But why?”
“Because it’s the only way you can be
brought to say ‘hie’ —at least, I mean
‘h-i-k’ ”
“But,” I insisted, “what do I want to
say ‘hie’ or ‘h-i-k’ for?”
“H-i-k,” said John, “is the mysterious
secret word used by holy Tibetan lamas
of the highest rank. Its correct pronun-
ciation is attained only after years of
self-denial and rigorous practice. When
accomplished, however, the correct de-
livery of the word, seeming to proceed
from the lower cavity of the body, opens
up the secret of unlimited power. You,
Peter, are one of the lucky ones of the
earth. What a Tibetan will spend years
sitting up to his neck in icy water and
being buried alive to do, you can do
through the agency of a mere cold in
the head . . . Now inhale.”
JOHN had me hypnotised. I sniffed.
Nothing happened for a minute ; then
I threw back my head, closed my eyes,
drew in a quick breath and
“Inhibit! Inhibit!” John shouted.
Making a herculean effort, 1 curbed
that sneeze at its source.
“Hik!” I said, quite distinctly.
John was delighted.
“Lucky man!” he cried. “I wish I
could do that. I’d be a millionaire in
no time . . . Now repeat the process,
at the same time performing some simple
feat of conjuring.”
Suzanne suggested the change illusion.
John uttered a word of caution.
“Mind you carry it out properly, as
you would before an audience.”
“Very well,” I said. “John, you’re to
take the part of the man from the crowd.
Get hold of me and hang on as tight as
you can, and”
“Don’t you think,” Suzanne inter-
rupted, “that John had better hold me?
Then you’ll be free to inhale.”
John thought that was a better idea,
too. He sat down on the settee beside
Suzanne and wrapped his arms about
her. Only that he was her cousin the
look of enjoyment on his face would
have irritated me. Suzanne seemed to
like it, too, though that might have been
only her professional pose. I raised the
tube and got off a bit of patter.
“Ladies and gentlemen,—l am about
to demonstrate an experiment which is
the only one of its kind in the world.
You see the Madame Suzanne, you see
me. Now hold on to her. Don’t let
her go. Don’t let —her— hik!”
I think John took me too literally. I
would have chipped him about the grip
he put on Suzanne, only that he was
really embracing me all the time. For
from the moment Suzanne had suggested
the change illusion we had swapped
places. But John didn’t know that, and
he continued to hug me affectionately.
Now, however, John had gone! Abso-
lutely and instantaneously gone!
Suzanne and I waited for about fifteen
minutes, wondering what on earth to do.
Then John came staggering into the
room. His clothes were torn to ribbons ;
there was a lump on his jaw and a wild
light in his eyes.
He limped over to me and grabbed my
hand.
“Marvellous, Peter,” he gasped. “But
the next time you do that trick you
simply must know what you’re doing. 1
ended up in a woman’s bedroom ten
doors along the street. She was dressing
for a dinner-party. Her husband didn’t
like it. All the same, Peter, you have
incredible power. But—l require a
stimulant after that husband.”
He went to a cupboard and produced
a quart bottle of whisky. He poured
himself out a copious drink, then eyed
the bottle.
“I wonder,” he muttered. “Here,
Peter, see what effect whisky has. There
may be another method of producing
the mystic word.”
“Do you think that's necessary, John?”
Suzanne asked. She had a nasty expres-
sion on her face.
“Of course,” I cut in hastily. “In the
interests of science, Suzanne, one must
be prepared to make any sacrifice.”
I seized the bottle.... '
NEXT morning John informed me that
the latter part of his investigation had
been a failure. It seemed that whisky could
engender ‘hies’ only, and not ‘hiks,’ The
test tube was the one infallible method.
I asked John if he could cure me. John
exploded.
“Cure you, be damned! From now
on I’m your manager.”
I took Melbourne by storm. The Par-
thenon was not nearly large enough to
accommodate the crowds that came twice
daily, thirsting to see the wonderful
magician. The papers hailed me in ful-
some terms, such as the “super-miracle
man,” the “vanquisher of matter,” and
so on.
Hundreds of people proudly wore the
gold watches they received when, under
the influence of the hik, 1 had smashed
a timepiece to smithereens, later dis-
covering it whole and ticking in a loaf of
bread. Thousands more displayed flash-
ing diamond rings that were the con-
sequence of my passing an ordinary ring
about a walking-stick, held at both ends
by the heftiest man in the audience. The
packs of cards, bales of turbans, clutches
of white rabbits and flocks of doves, sets
of unbreakable crockery, new hats and
suits of clothes distributed by my thau-
maturgic power were myriad. Business
people became panic-stricken, and formed
associations for the suppression of the
master mind that was ruining their trade.
According to popular vote, my most
successful turn was when I produced
beer from an empty bottle. At the same
time, every person present would receive
a foaming schooner, a frothing pint or a
gustable sleever of ambrosial ale. I had
to put the beer turn on four times for
every session. The brewers and the pro-
hibitionists joined together in seeking to
take out an injunction against me. But
their appeals to justice were lost in the
general furore.
In my own opinion the finest perform-
ance was when I sawed Suzanne in two
and every appendix in the theatre was in-
stantly and painlessly removed. I wanted
to put this turn on every night, but John
kicked. He said he was a loyal member
of the 8.M.A., and he refused to take
the bread out of his colleagues’ mouths.
AFTER a time the glitter palled on me.
1 had been written up by every sec-
tion of the press, photographed in my
bath, with my dog, with Suzanne, with-
out Suzanne —pictured in every possible
way till I was sick to death of the whole
thing. Above all, life had become one
long cold in the head for me. I had
to endure running nose and watery eyes,
aching head and throbbing brain because
of the dominating hik. I made pathetic
appeals to John for a holiday from the test
tube. But John curtly knocked me back.
“Pull out when the money’s pouring
in?” he barked. “Rot! I won’t hear
a word of it.”
Suzanne, of course, sided with him.
Neither she nor John realised that I had
come to the end, that my delicate system
was breaking under the strain.
I wrestled with the problem of escape
from the hik in vain, until it came to
me that I held the means of release in
my own hands. The hik itself! No-
thing could be simpler. I determined to
put the idea into effect without delay.
My opportunity came in the last act
for the evening. The audience, not satis-
fied with free beer and free supper and
other oddments thrown it by the hik.
was howling for a climax worthy of the
entertainment. It got it.
I asked for four strong men to advance
to the stage. When my request was com-


aisHine inches
I feel and looK
fen times better
REDUCE Your
WAIST 3^*7—
or it won’t cost you a penny•
No Exercises —No Diets— No Drugs
Many enthusiastic wearers write that the GOVERNA CORRECTIVE
BELT not only reduces a bulging waistline, but that it also supports the
abdominal walls, eases the torsional strain on the muscles, and keeps the
digestive organs in place—that they are no longer fatigued—and that
wearing the GOVERNA BELT greatly increases their endurance and
vigour!
For instance, Mr. J. Topliff writes: "The Belt is a splendid support.
My figure and carriage have improved and the paunch has disappeared."
Mr. George Nicols reports: “I reduced my waist 51 inches.”
Mr. Arthur Anderson says: “I feel like a new man. I have reduced
6 inches in the waistline and look and feel years younger.”
Mr. Alex Mardiros writes: "The GOVERNA BELT is correct and com-
fortable. I have greatly reduced my waistline.”
The Massage - like Action Does it!
You will be completely comfortable and entirely unaware of the fact
that the gently changing pressure of the GOVERNA CORRECTIVE BELT
is working constantly in the interests of your appearance and your health,
while you work and play, walk, sit or rest. Its massage-like action is
gently but persistently eliminating fat and a bulging waistline with every
move you make.
FREE
Try the Govern a
Belt lor 7 Bays
at Our Bisk
So many of our customers are delighted with the wonderful results
obtained with the GOVERNA CORRECTIVE BELT that we want you
to TRY IT FOR SEVEN DAYS AT OUR EXPENSE! We say that the
Belt will greatly improve your appearance; that it will make you appear
many inches slimmer AT ONCE! In seven short days your waistline wiil
be 3 inches smaller—THßEE INCHES OF BULGE AND STRAIN GONE
—OR NO COST! You must get the results you desire, so send the 7-Day
Trial Offer Coupon AT ONCE!
' POST THIS 7-HAY TRIAL. OFFER '
COUPON TO-DAY
i GOVERNA CORRECTIVE BELT COMPANY,
252-6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
( Gentlemen: Without obligation on my part, send me your illustrated .
folder describing the Govern a Corrective Health Belt, and also give .
I me full details of your 7-DAY FREE TRIAL OFFER. I enclose I
| 2d. in stamps for postage.
j NAME
I ADDRESS I
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD urnct, tsHISBANc
Directors —James Lave. Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Kyan, Esq.;
F. E. Ixixton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also ' representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
_ „ DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman): Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Jas. Ashton, James Kidd, W. H. Mackay. R. M. Pitt. J. Beresford Grant.
Manager: J G H. Shinwav.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET)
plied with, I gave them some rope and
bade them bind me securely. I could
see John and Suzanne watching me from
the wings. They were puzzled, for this
item was not on the programme. 1
grinned at them with malevolent triumph.
At my direction one hand was allowed
tO , rema * n f ree dH I had lifted the test
tk t 0 m y nose anc * inhaled deeply.
I hen the four strong men seized that
hand and tied it also. I was swathed
m rope from head to foot.
‘Now,” 1 commanded, “hold me up.
Get a good grip on me, for you’ll need
it. Have you got me?”
The sneeze came surging up, but.
barred by my iron will, it dissipated itself
in a virile, vibrant hik.
W O one at the Parthenon that evening
c will ever forget the next few minutes,
everybody became invisible. After the
first shock a terrible cry arose ; then a
stampede of terrified people rushing for
the exits, colliding, borne away in a
crush that could not be seen, trampled
under invisible feet, struck down by in-
visible hands.
Police and firemen were rushed to the
theatre, but they could do nothing. After
a quarter of an hour or so, the effect of
that last great hik wore off, and a sad,
bedraggled crowd was revealed. The
dead w'ere reverently cast into the Yarra
and the wounded given free passes into
any hospital not less than two hundrec
miles from Melbourne.
But it was not till the cables came
pouring in from overseas that the full
effect was learnt. The hik had scattered
members of that audience all over the
world ; not one country but received its
quota. There was a report to the effect
that a Melbourne Jew landed plop in
Herr Hitler’s bath just as the Fiihrer was
stepping into it, but it wasn’t confirmed.
It is a fact, though, that the Com-
monwealth Government would have
offered me the job of permanent ejector
of undesirables only that I had com-
pletely and utterly vanished. Not a trace
remained of me save a pile of discarded
ropes on the stage of the Parthenon. So
complete was my disappearance that
Suzanne, who, with John, had been trans-
ported by the hik to America, was able
to secure a divorce at Reno on the
grounds of mental cruelty. 1 under-
stand their wedding was one of the high-
lights of the American social year.
Yes, a deep and impenetrable mystery
surrounds my disappearance. I cannot
solve the mystery myself. But I am per-
fectly happy. I don’t know where 1 am.
but 1 wouldn’t be anywhere else; no.
by hik, no!
A Hospital Brevity:—
THE SONG
By ALISON McDOUGALL.
CLAIRE WILSON lay rigid, her hands
tight on the edge of the sheet. It
was hot out here on the verandah
hot, and the air smelled of dust Flies
buzzed about the oilcloth-covered table
from which the nurse had forgotten to re-
move the tea-tray, and a hen had just laid
an egg, very proudly and quite openly
beside a scraggy bush in the garden.
Shc had begun to write a letter, but
had given it up even before the screaming
began. She had wanted the letter to be
amusing and original—after all, she had
a reputation to keep up—but what was
of making a tnm X if a
ever come to this wretched, uncivilised
place at all, she could not now imagine—
-o„“gs° SOme,hinB : ke£P
Bu, now she had broken ribs, and
she was m this abominable place, and
her side hurt, and no one had been near
, ei , hours. She wanted a cooling
nnk, but that didn t matter. No one had
any time to spare lor her, because the
woman in the room at the other end of
the verandah was having a baby, and
screaming. There was a running to and
)r° ot many leet—the matron’s short,
staccato steps, the down-at-heel shoes of
the young nurse slut ring over the boards,
with an occasional thump, thump as she
broke into a run, the doctor’s heavy
tread, and then some more screaming ;
then the smell of ether, added to thc
smell of dust. Well, perhaps there would
be a little quiet now.
She relaxed her taut muscles and
stared over the wilting garden to where
some wattle-trees, their blossom like a
daub of crude sunlight, grew near a
waterhole. There were broken glints of
light reflected on the muddy water. She
narrowed her gaze, concentrating it on
that spot, trying to hypnotise herself to
sleep. But she could not sleep. Irritat-
ing thoughts rattled through her mind:
all the time that was being wasted, the
damage to the car, and the flat on thc
coast which she had taken for.six months.
All this time it was eating its head off.
And her friends were there, amusing
themselves in the sun, talking, laughing.
the sort of witty, brittle talk she loved
and excelled in. If only she had some-
one to talk to, or even something decent
to read, she could better endure it here,
_
THE little nurse appeared in the door-
* way. She looked untidy and flurried,
very hot. Her eyes were fairly goggling.
She was carrying a squealing bundle
wrapped in a shawl. So they really did
do this sort of thing in hospitals! The
woman in the bed further along the
verandah was making maudlin mumbling
noises. She closed her eyes.
The slurred footsteps approached—
Ver XJ and 9* re ! ul ! low -
‘ Oh. what a pity! ’ said the little nurse,
diminuendo. “Miss Wilson’s asleep.”
Claire could feel the heavy-breathing,
undecided presence of the girl by her
bed, and hear the squeals of the new-born
child. She kept her eyes closed, though a
muscle in her check twitched, and at last
the footsteps moved disappointedly away.
It was some time before she dared
open her eyes. The woman in the other
bed was bound to be spying on her, to
see whether she had really been asleep.
It was somewhat disappointing to find
that the woman lay with her face turned
away, a mess of dishevelled hair tossed,
as usual, on the pillow. She was quite
an old woman, and she had a bad heart.
Sometimes in the night she wheezed and
struggled for breath—the sound was
inexpressibly irritating.
Claire resumed her now aimless star-
ing at the wattle-trees and the water.
The silence seemed a little strange after
all that bustle and commotion. But
surely it was a little cooler. That, at
least, was a blessing.
She sighed and moved a little, gin-
gerly, and the movement, though slight,
caused her a moan of pain.
After a little time her attention was
attracted by the sound of a horse’s
hooves drumming on the hard-baked
ground. Someone was singing, too. The
sounds came nearer, and a man rode into
sight, bringing his horse to water down
there under the wattle-trees. He was
hardly more than a shadow in the uncer-
tain light that followed the going down of
the sun. His voice was pleasant, very warm
and true. It had a caressing quality.
She watched him dismount and heard
the jingle of metal as he removed bridk
and bit and led the horse to the edge
of the bank. He was young. All hi.
movements had the carelessness anc
strength that bespoke youth and free
dom. While the horse drank, the man
leaned slouching against a tree-trunk,
took off his hat and wiped his forehead
with his sleeve. Then he squatted on
his haunches, and began to sing again,
loudly and joyously, quite unconscious
that he could be heard.
When the horse finished drinking, he
mounted and rode away, his song muted to
a faint humming as he passed the hospital.
IN the room at the end of the verandah
4 a lamp had been lit, and there was a
feeling of peace in its stillness. The cry- '
ing of the child was hushed. The sister
and the nurse came out to move the two
beds inside for the night. The grey-
haired woman had tears on her cheeks.
“In pain. Mrs. Marks?” asked the sister,
bending over her. She put her hand on
the woman’s wrist, and her eyes sought
the little nurse's. Very quickly and
silently they wheeled the bed inside.
It was a long time before they came
back.
“Well, you had a nice sleep.” said the
sister, with an attempt at brightness. The
little nurse said nothing. She looked
sulky, and her eyes were red. She went to
the head of the bed and got ready to pull.
“May I have a cool drink now, sister?”
Claire said in a dry, patient voice as thev
wheeled her carefully through the French
windows.


“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Ago” is a household publication whoso
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns tor the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or busisess life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price Ijd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Oc mercury
(TASMANIA’S NATIONAL DAILY)
is the first choice of all experienced
advertisers wishing to place their
goods before Tasmanians.
“THE MERCURY” is a home news-
paper in the fullest sense; not only
is it delivered in the home, but it is
read there and holds the interest and
confidence of its readers by reason of
its sanity, completeness and service.
“The Mercury” circulates all over the
State on the day of publication, and
is the only Tasmanian publication
which issues an AUDITED CIRCU-
LATION CERTIFICATE in accord-
ance with the formulae adopted by
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street
'Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: F. Riensset, News-
paper House, Collins Street. 'Phone: F 3348.
Adelaide is too
busy to read
by day*,.
Let the Evening
U
Carry Your
Sales Campaign
WHEN South Australia’s
got the time to read
. . . that’s when to tell them
about the goods you have
to sell. “The Nows” gets
in first with the news in
our prosperous state . . .
use it for results
Representation:
ADELAIDE—News Ltd., North terrace.
MELBOURNE—R. J. McCartney, First
Floor. Newspaper House, Collins
street.
SYDNEY—P. A. Messenger, Warwlcti
Building, Hamilton street.
LONDON—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill E.C.4.
National
Advertisers:
IL.ET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £20,000 is distributed each
week in wages trom me mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broken
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; K. J. McCartney,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, hid., Adelaide.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery”
2 5- George Street
(Near Bridge Street ).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
If any illustration in **THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
UtmlkMi ®m*£f
The Supreme
Advertising
Medium
for Western
Australia
Rate Cards and Full Particulars from
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE. •
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
271 Collins Street.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the mast popular 64-page woman's
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Ella continued to toss the grain, whistling.
“Y’ve got no idea what a damn’ nuisance them
hens are,” she said pleasantly. “Y’ gotta go lookin’
in every tuft of grass from ’ere down to Granny
Staines’s, an’ them travellers—not meanin’ you, of
course—gets down on the eggs an’ eats ’em them-
selves if I don’t look out. We lose a lot.”
“Yeah, I s’pose so.”
Blue was watching her intently. She could feel
his eyes, so she kept on cheerfully.
“I always sets Willie t’ look f the eggs. ’E’s me
young brother. Bit soft, Willie is, but he’s a good kid ;
he’s real good at findin’ eggs. An’ Evie an’ Bobbie —
them’s the twins—you’d laugh if y’ could see ’em
huntin’ round in the grass an’ playin’ they’re lizards.
Gee, they’re funny! Whatta y’ starin’ at?”
“You,” Blue answered boldly. “Don’t y’ think
y’ worth starin’ at? A pretty girl, aren’t you?”
Ella giggled.
“You go over t’ the Mulvers’,” she retorted, “an’
let go the tin.”
They had a mock struggle for the tin of wheat.
“You give it me,” Ella repeated. “Hey, Lizzie,
he’s took the wheat tin.”
“Oh, don’t bother me,” came from within the hut.
“What’ll y’ give me if 1 give it back?” Blue asked,
grinning.
“You go along,” Ella screamed. “Y’ ought t’ be
ashamed of y’self. Here come Evie and Bobbie.
Get away.”
In spite of her struggles he seized her by the waist
and kissed her, finding much less pleasure in the
touch of those warm lips than he expected. Somehow
it wasn’t as much fun kissing Ella as romping with
her. He released her and stood back.
“So long,” he said abruptly and turned towards
the Mulver camp, leaving Ella standing there stupidly
with the tin of wheat in her hand and feeling very
foolish himself. “If I wanted to sleep with her,” he
told himself, “she’d let me”; and a pain went through
him at the thought. “She doesn’t care who it is.
Not her.” Yet he did not know why that fact should
hurt him. He knew many prettier girls than Ella who
acted much as Ella did ; but there had been something
so careless and childlike in the way she tossed the
wheat that it had captivated him before he knew it.
“I’m sorry I kissed her,” he thought.
He met the White boys and Denny returning from
a tour of the camps. They had been rousing the
campers to indignation with the assurance that if the
Whites were turned out of their hut their own tenure
was none too sure. All had promised support if
necessary.
“Of course, the travellers won’t be here long
enough to matter,” Denny remarked. “Okker an’
I’ll be out at the shearin’ sheds, but Blue can keep us
posted. G’night, Jim. G’night, Larry. G’night, Bill.”
“The Mulvers are no use,” he remarked as he and
Blue turned towards their own camp, “An’ Willough-
by’s not to be trusted. If only them White girls’d
get jobs for themselves, the Johns wouldn’t have so
much to say about the place bein’ overcrowded an’
havin’ a bad reputation an’ that. I’ve put it to Jim,
an’ he’s goin’ to tell his old man that the girls have
got to get work. The old man’ll probably kick up a
fuss, but he’ll see the point, an’ the girls’ll see the
point too, or 1 miss my guess. They all got nearly
as bad a name as Mrs. Willoughby.”
Again Blue felt that pain that had gripped him
when he thought of Ella carelessly flinging the grain
in the twilight.
“It’s a damn’ shame them girls should be dragged
up in all this rottenness. Livin’ with that old swine!
Why don't he let ’em go an’ work an’ make some
money decent?”
“Because he likes to have women round him,”
Denny said. “He likes lots of kids. Doesn't matter
whose they are, as long as he keeps the girls an’ they
help keep him. That’s one way of lookin’ at it.”
Blue chuckled suddenly. “Me noo boss Mrs.
Blakely’s been telling me all day that everyone comes
back an’ does their livin’ all over again. I guess in
’is next life old White’ll be a beer-mug.”
“An’ if I’m there I’ll throw him at a John,” Denny
responded.
“That reminds me,” said Blue. “Guess who’s
here.”
Denny shook his head
“You go along."
“Remember when Okker was in that eviction riot
an’ he slammed a plainclothes D. named Scorby over
the skull with a four-foot batten? Well, Scorby’s
walkin’ round Tiburon in uniform.”
“Strike!” Denny was astounded. “Well, can
you beat it? Are you sure?”
“I was there meself. I heard after that he’d
been sent to the country to recover.”
Denny looked thoughtful. “We’ll have to keep
Okker out of the town or disguise him or something.
How would a pair of glasses go?”
“Rotten. With them eyes of his bulgin’ out
behind them! ’E once dyed his hair black, but it
turned green, so ’e’s had to leave it like it is ever
since.”
“Oh, well,” Denny said resignedly, “he’s managed
to dodge ’em for over a year now. It’s Okker’s look-
out.”
They went to break it to him.
Chapter IV.
I.
AT the same hour every morning Standforth Roman
stepped out of the room next to the laundry ol
O'Brien’s Hotel, where he was barman, yardmar
and general useful. He turned left, marched smartl>
past the kitchen, wheeled right into the passage, and
began his day by stoking the furnace.
So martial was his step, so erect his form, that
it might be thought a bugle had sounded the reveille
through his dreams. There was never anything dis-
ordered in Roman’s room. His clothes were hung jusl
so, his hairbrushes, shaving-mug and razor ranged
precisely on a little table beneath a scrap of looking-
glass. His boots stood to attention beside his head
all night. He had been caught once polishing the
buttons of his coat. Yet no one knew for certain
that Roman had been a soldier. No one knew il
that was his right name. When he vanished, as he
did sometimes, for weeks and even months at a
stretch, no one except Mrs. O’Brien worried. He
would come back as he had come back for the past
twelve years. His flittings were as much part of him
as his habit of singing opera when he was drunk. He
had a very passable tenor voice, and once he started
no one could stop him. He kept on persistently and
in Italian until he fell asleep.
Roman was a Man with a Past, and that was all
there was about it. It was surmised that at some time
he must have lost his memory. However that may be.
he never forgot to score up any tick, and on the
occasion of the Merrymakers’ show he certainly
remembered to keep the music going, even when the
curtain fell on Henry Westly’s head. The only infor-
mation he had ever volunteered about himself was
not very illuminating. “I’ve got a graveyard behind
me,” he would say, “and a graveyard in front.”
By the time Roman had swept the yard, opened
and scrubbed out the bar, brought in the wood foi
the cook, killed and plucked a couple of fowls, had
breakfast, attended to the stable and garages, hosed
down the paths and scraped out a drain, the morning
was well enough advanced for the White sulky to
come creaking into the yard. Dave descended
heavily and rolled towards the bar, leaving Mary and
Jacky to fend for themselves. Roman crossed over
and held out his arms for Jacky, who was one of the
few people in Tiburon Roman really liked.
“You can tell Jim that we need another load of
wood,” he said. He had purposely refrained from
mentioning the wood while Dave was about. Dave
was too likely to run up credit on the strength of it.
Mrs. O’Brien believed in reciprocal trading. Dave
traded with her, and she bought her wood from Dave’s
family. She had by far the best of the bargain.
“I’ll tell him,” Mary responded indifferently.
“What time will you be going back?” Roman
asked, pretending to dig Jacky in the stomach,- to
that baby’s great delight.
“Why?”
“There’s a new school-teacher for Warning Hill
staying here.”
“Oh!” A spark of interest lit Mary’s dull face.
“We won’t be goin’ back till after dark. Anyway,
she’ll be livin’ with the Dwyers, an’ they should ’ave
called for ’er. What’s she like?”
Roman ignored the question. He no more gave
free information than free drinks. He thought for
a moment, then turned inside to find Mrs. O’Brien
where she was shrilly superintending the rolling of a
barrel of beer into the cellar.
(To be continued next week)


I I
>; • :
■
■
»
X#l
*
. ..Si
.eJYdWC js
m
1 1
;
V i'S
I li
(V
Calliim’s
7X^
©
33-2.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON. Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fg
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
*
V A
cr
3*
L ei’
!C«tx.*;>'s<.i>lr.6 .i? 1
*’ o <*‘
-f..'
;s 6 e
\*
**
S 9
WV
#*■
tp-
..**
••■’ .•** •••■
.** .-*’ /V^d 1


Acclaimed by the
trade!...
w
[Guaranteed Ist Grade Petrol sold at Standard Grade Price]
ASK THE PUMP-MANS
OPINION OF POPULAR PLUS
m
p
m
i
n
m
Ww
II
Once they try it
they invariably
come back for
more
drvf
say
pump operators
“ Companion Spirit ta COR
Benzol Mixture "
C* □• R QUALITY PETROLS
CB/BP
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (COMMONWEALTH GOVERNMENT & ANGLO-IRANIAN OIL CO. LTD.)
MELBOURNE - - SYDNEY - ADELAIDE BRISBANE
