

crnsms
KODAKS
'■4 UH
■
f.
f i < *' !
' • *JS£jS
t ,***!
.
For Christmas
HOME
MOVIES
YOUR Movies —for you
were the camera-man and
director. What could be
more exciting? You can
make MOVIES . . . show
MOVIES . . . With Cine-
Kodak Eight you can, with-
out previous experience,
make most beautiful movie
scenes at cost of little more
than 6d. per “shot.” Prices
from £l3. Let us demon-
strate or post printed matter.
*!»
Give
KODAK
Of All
Kodak Dealers and
KODAK
(AUST.)
PTY., LTD.
No wonder picture-making is in the boom!
People are getting so much fun, so many better
snaps with their new Kodaks. Of course, you
simply cannot show your picture-taking ability
with an out-of-date camera!
Never were gifts so season-
able, so overflowing with
the holiday spirit as these
new 1936 Kodaks! They’re
smart to look at smart to
carry- —smart in action.
Dozens of improvements
make good pictures a cer-
tainty—and your friends will
give YOU all the credit!
Kodaks from 28 '6.
Brownies as low' as
&
Kodak
RETINA
Gives you all the fasci-
nating advantages of
work on 36 exp. 35 mm.
film without expense or
complication. f/3.J
lens with Speed Compur
Shutter. A pleasure to
operate —nothing new
to learn.
Price - - - - £lO/10/-
l
ĺ
6.20 and 6.16
KODAKS
Glorious Kodaks of new
compactness and style,
with picture-proficiency
undreamt of so smartly
designed, you’ll be
proud to carry one.
6.20 Models from 68/6.
Junior Models from
47/6.
(f/8.8 Anast.)
What other pastime will give you so much for so
little? Inspect to-day. or write for free Christmas
booklet.
379 George Street, Sydney; Kodak House, 252
Collins Street, .Melbourne. C.l; 250-252 Queen
Street' Brisbane; 37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45
Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth;
Kuthven Street. Toowoomba; East Street, Rock-
hampton; Flinders Street, Townsville Also
stocked bv Kodak New Zealand, Ltd., 163 .Queen
Street Auckland; 70 Prince# Street, Dunedin;
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo
Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
Christmas Number.
Vol. 56, —No. 2913.
Wednesday, December 11, 1935.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Dymock’s New Illustrated 64-page
Christmas Catalogue for 1935 is now
ready, and will he sent Free and Post
Free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ľ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAUL
Please send, xpthont obligation, your Pew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. lo3i>
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Conditions for the Second Annual Competition, Closing June 6, 1936.
To recognise the services to Australian literature of the late
Samuel Henry Prior, editor of The Bulletin for 18 years, his son,
H. K. Prior, has provided £100 per annum for a Prize, to be known
as the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, which will be awarded every
year for a work of literature.
The trustees have decided that any prose work that could be
published as a book will be eligible for entry in the second year’s
competition for this annual Literary Prize. No restriction what-
ever is placed on the kind of prose work that may be submitted:
fiction, biography, travel, history, drama, and any other kind of
prose work will be eligible, including short stories, essays or
one-act plays of sufficient number to make a book. (A play of
three or more acts would be considered as sufficient for the purposes
of the competition.)
The Prize will be awarded for what is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature, irrespective of
kind. With slight necessary amendments, therefore, the conditions
will be similar to those governing the first year’s competition,
as follows: —
Entries for the second competition will close on June 6, 1936,
and results will be announced within two months thereafter. The
trustees, who will supply all relevant information to intending
competitors on application, will publish the successful work,
together with any others which they may deem worthy. The winning
work will be published within two months after the announcement
of the results. Royalties at the usual rates will be paid on sales of
works so published, in which the entrants will retain all property
rights, except world book rights, which will be controlled by the
trustees.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter, for the competition, works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The judges’ selections will be final, and competitors must accept
as binding the trustees’ decisions on other matters arising out of
the contest. The trustees, whose address is 252 George-street.
Sydney, reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work submitted
is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award. If this should
occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be added to the
following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
HAPPY
FELLA
Signing its
name to the title-
page as publisher,
The Bulletin
calls All - About,
by Mary and
Elizabeth Durack, “the happiest book of
the year." It does not challenge anyone
to dispute that description, knowing well
that in regard to either books or happi-
ness there can be no agreement what-
ever.
Thus a charge of dynamite will not
separate one man from happy enjoyment
of a work that another would not read
in gaol, or even if gaol was the alterna-
tive. With most people that might be
fairly said of such a work as Das
Kapital; or, if that seems too extreme
an instance, there is Macaulay’s story of
the man who, given the choice of reading
a History or going to the galleys, chose
the History and read until he came to
the War of Pisa, which beat him, and so
he had to take his place as a slave at the
oar. Against that, as an example of a
man being happy with a book, there is
the German who had Homer printed on
india-rubber so that he could read him
during his bath. And the man who re-
cently reviewed the new Webster’s Dic-
tionary for this page was observed to be
most happily immersed in that enormous
tome, and said afterwards, with some
regret, that he had, of course, only
skimmed through it.
With such and a thousand other
examples of the variety of taste in books
and the happiness they give, no one
would describe any
work as “the happiest
book of the year,”
except as a personal
opinion—a manner of
saying “That’s how I
feel about it, just as
you might have a
preference for Noah
Webster’s master-
piece.” And it can
be said of All-About,
at least as truly as of
any other book, that
it is very likely to stir
up exactly that per-
sonal sort of enthu-
siasm in anyone who
reads it.
It is one of those
brief books that a few
Australian writers
have done superbly
well. Two others at
once come to mind: Frank Dalby
Davison’s Man-Shy and Hugh McCrae’s
My Father and My Father’s Friends.
These seem as likely to be our minor
classics as any other books that have
■been written: Man-Shy for the sensitive,
beautiful, living spirit of the bush that
haunts it; the other, more lately re-
viewed here, for the permanence it gives
to the scene and personalities at the
beginnings of our literature. It is enough
for All-A bout to range up beside such
books as those. Like the McCrae in
particular, its abiding
quality is its humor;
like Man-Shy, it is writ-
ten with that close,
intimate understanding
that comes only with
the most sensitive
awareness of some-
thing the writer has
looked on, and by
which he has been
stirred to write.
All - About is five
brief, crowded, laugh-
ing chapters of story
of the “civilised” black
community on Argyle
station, Kimberley
(W.A.), out of which
emerges also a very
fine and clear picture of
the complete station
life. Its authors make
no pretence of wholly
understanding the
aborigines, who, in
simply adequate white-fella wardrobe,
decorate the station landscape: “.Simple
people, but how strangely inscrutable
their minds!” Even the Boss, who has
lived with them all his life, and thought
he understood them once, knows now
that he will never really understand them.
“He does not even know whether they
are fond of the few white people among
whom most of them were born and bred.”
They would weep if the whites went
away, but then tears come easily to them,
and laughter is never far behind. “Of
gratitude as we know it they have none.
In their own life they are Nature’s com-
munists ; what one has is equally the
property of the other ; what one does for
another he does for the good of the
community of which he is a part. What
the white man chooses to do for his
betterment he takes as a matter of course.
He thinks no more of the white man for
it. He has asked no favors.”
But though, in that sense, inscrutable,
there are signs by which ye may know
them. And these signs the authors know
acutely well, and from them have drawn
a little gallery of people most under-
standingly done, convincing and real.
Certainly they are simple characters, pre-
senting no difficulties of complex psycho-
logy : or perhaps, nine times out of ten,
all such complexities are marvellous
inventions of authors, gifted, or at any
rate smattered, in the science of psycho-
analysis, or its jargon, at least. These
young writers refuse to be drawn along
such paths. They see, hear and write ;
and the reader, by these simple means,
has a character placed before him whom,
if he wishes, he can invest with complexi-
ties and emotional eruptions at will.
Such as Polly, who “once
worked up at the house- —that
is, she swept the verandah and
sometimes penetrated as far as
the dining-room but after
years of continuous mutterings
and labored gruntings she was
consigned to the shepherding of
the goats. The,, prospect delighted
her at first. ‘Good sit-down job,’
she pronounced Jt; but she soon tired of
the monotony and grumbled and grunted
again.” Polly once entertained a scien-
tific visitor from America with an ac-
count of the moral code of her tribe,
including: “‘S’posin’ black girl look
’longa white man’ —Polly threw up her
eyes in horror at the thought—‘debbil-
debbil put poison ’longa her tea, poison
’longa her meat. Kill’m her dead fella.’ ”
And the scientific visitor departed to
make an entry in his book: “Certain
Northern tribes retain strict moral code.”
A convincing person, Polly, in varied
meaning of the word. She had
even “managed to convince a some-
what dubious husband that her son’s
extraordinary lightness of color was
due to a shortage in the char-
coal supply at the time of his arrival.
‘S’posin’ me got plenty charcoal put
longa this piccaninny, ’im go black then
like ’nother kids ; only too late now.’ ”
With another of her offspring, “the little
yellow Daffodil,” Polly was less fortunate,
for, while Missus was away from
the station on a holiday, author-
ity came to claim Daffodil and take
her away to a mission. Later
Polly might have her back. “But
who wanted Daffodil ‘by-and-
bye’? Daffodil was her baby, and
Polly wanted her now. She hid her in
the pandanus down by the creek, and
at night put her under a rug in the humpy
and kept guard at the door. The ‘Gov-
ernment’ brought torches to seek her out,
and old Polly fought for her young like
a tigress at bay, with all the primitive
mother-instinct of creatures wild or
civilised,”
I ragic to have to add that white fella
won ; and though Polly, years later, “still
grieves for Daffodil when she has nothing
better to grieve about,” she now finds
such consolation as she may among the
kids of the goats. • At the day’s end
“Polly limps home last of all, with a
new-born kid in her arms. She croons
to it as she conies as though it were a
piccaninny. ‘Poor little fella. Poor little
lella. By-and-bye we find’m mother
b’longta him.’ ”
In this gallery walk a dozen or two
quite as clearly seen as Polly—Nubbudah,
Norah, Kitty, Tommy, Slippery, Grass-
hopper and the rest, including Boxer,
most privileged and redoubtable of them
all. Between Boxer and the Boss there
is much “that will never
be voiced, for with men
who have faced death
together there is a bond,
be they black or white.”
it is a tie dating back
for half a century, dur-
ing which time these two
have ridden together
“countless, untrodden
miles of wilderness,
learning to know one
another in long, un-
broken silences.” It goes
back to the day when a
white man and gin and
her unwanted black pic-
caninny happened near
the station, and the then
Young Boss exchanged
his chestnut filly for the
small imp.
Lately Boxer has de-
veloped the goldseeking
urge. He will be absent
for indefinite periods,
until one day he will
be seen coming through the bloodwoods,
“a horseman, behind half a dozen horses
and a shabby pack-mule, a familiar
figure, inclined to corpulency, a very part
of his battered saddle, naked feet in rusty
stirrups. Hail, Boxer of the ranges!” He
will dump a bag full of quartz on the
Argyle verandah. “ ‘Got it this time, old
man! You and me rich men to-day!”’
And he’ll tell of a reef he has found
where nuggets stick out “like bulls’ eyes!”
Alas, when the test is applied, it is not
anything like the pure gold that Boxer is
himself! But time and again he finds his
reef, and “like bulls’ eyes” the nuggets
stick out there. “ ‘Tell me, Boxer,’ says
the Boss. ‘Supposing you did find a gold-
mine, what would you do?’ Boxer tilts
his hat a little further over one eye and
looks more shrewd than ever. ‘Keep it
dark, old man,’ he says.”
Boxer is getting on now, and has
twinges of what Slippery calls “romantic
knee” ; but he and Polly, Norah, Slip-
pery, Grasshopper and the rest of them
may all here have come into a life that
it will take a power of bone-pointing to
end.
RED PAGE
[All-About, by Mary and Elizabeth Durack
(The Bulletin; 3s. 6d.).]
The Author
of “Jew Suss”
He would
rather be known,
to - day, as the
author of
Josephus; which
perhaps will be
his reputation in the end, when the
trilogy of Josephus is all published. Lion
Feuchtwanger became well known, about
nine years ago, as the author of the very
spectacular Jew Suss, and that success has
overshadowed his others. Personally l
have always regarded his modern his-
torical novel Success, set in the Munich
of 1923, as his most valuable experiment.
It appeared dbout six years ago, and has
become rather slowly known.
It was at a very international recep-
tion, with people snatching at one
another’s phrases like moths, and hardly
noticing which language they used until
they opened their fingers again, that I
was able to ask Herr Feuchtwanger some
questions about the historical novel in
general, and his own in particular. It is
well known that he has a high opinion
of the historical novel as a form. He
regards it as a means of revealing life
of the present day: you take present-day
problems and people, set them in ancient
Rome or eighteenth-century Germany,
and there you have your problems and
people, so to speak, in perspective, suf-
ficiently remote for you to see them.
With this expressed preference of his
well in mind, I asked him what he
thought of Success, which I admired so
much, with its witty full-length portraits
of the budding Hitler and many other
typical figures in the charming old city.
“It is my best book so far,” he said,
“except Josephus. But its form did not
contradict my preference for a historical
novel. You know, it was a modern his-
torical novel, not a contemporary novel.”
This distinction was true: for in writ-
ing Success Feuchtwanger pretended,
even if lightly and a trifle inconsistently,
that he was writing it, say, a hundred
years hence: that pretended distance pro-
vided what he misses in the contemporary
novel, “the comfort of a frame.” It made
the picture more concentrated, easier to
see.
“Do you think of your novels as a
series that improves as it goes on?”
“Not altogether. It depends how they
are written. I always want quite eighteen
months for writing a book.”
“But your Oppermanns ? It was out —I
read it in English even —only a very few
months after the revolution it describes.”
“Ah, The Oppermanns: that was not
written as I would wish. It was done at
whiterheat. It was in the nature of a
pamphlet, a J’A couse. I wrote it very
quickly indeed. As for its appearance so
soon in English, that need not surprise
you. The translation of all my books
into about twelve languages is planned
in that way. Let me explain. I am now
finishing the second volume of Josephus.
(Yes, very few readers noticed that it
would have a second volume —and a
third. They took Volume One as the
whole of it.) Well, chapter by chapter
as I write it, my secretary sends Josephus
to the publishers in the different coun-
tries —no, not in Germany now—and
they set their translators to work so that
when the last chapter arrives there will
o Continued on page 4.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’—AIways. “THE SENIOR STORE." “THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS.
Anthony Horderns’
Toys of every
girl and boy—in
second floor!
Kind for every
Toy land on the
Shock-
Absorbing
“Peerless” Scooter
The “Peerless” Patent Shock-absorbing Scooter
No. 29. This model has the shock-absorber
where it ought to be, right over the front wheel.
No more rough riding. Finished in Green, with
9in. reinforced disc wheels, rubber foot mat,
brake, stand, and cycle handle bars. Length,
40in.; height, 36in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 16/S
Special Features: —
A—New hardened steel spring.
B—Bolt for adjusting to weight of child.
G—Special strong steel bearing.
D—Note reinforced riveted wheel.
Model No. 30 is a larger size, with roller-bearing
wheels, nickel-plated handle bars and bell.
Length, 42in.; height, 35in. Price 26/6
3D *©
T =
%-r^mskm
xll/.
<//
/ v
Celluloid Doll
Celluloid Baby Dolls.
Heavy first quality.
Sizes, in., 12 14
Prices, ea., 1/9 2/3
Sizes, in., 16 18
Prices, ea., 2/9 3/6
Sizes, in., 20 22
Prices, ea., 4/9 5/6
Size, in 24
Price, each . . 11/6
39/11
03
“Hillman” Motor Car
The “Hillman” Motor Car, for children 3 to
7 years. Length, 42in.; height, 16in. All-
steel chassis, 9in. disc wheels, bumper bar and
all accessories. A smart racing model.
Price 39/11
126
if
m
m
Two-way Rockaway
Two-way Rockaway, can be used as an
ordinary Rockaway, and when turned upside
down forms chair with food tray. With seats
padded and the whole strongly constructed.
Price 12/6
Also Three-way Rockaway. This forms, in
addition, a high chair. Price, each . . . 18/6
Stronq-lit'e
Teaset
Strong-lite Aluminium Tea Set
“Strong-lite” Aluminium Tea Sets.
Prices, set • • 3/9, 5/6
AT
FROM
Rocking Horses
Safety Rocking Horse on Swing Rockers
Beautifully modelled and finished
Nos. . .
Height
Prices .
Nos. . .
Height
Prices .
2ft. 6in. 2ft. 9in.
42/-
4
3ft. 6in.
87/6
55/
5
3ft. 9in.
3
3ft. 2in.
67/6
6
4ft. 4in.
£6/10/- £7/10/-
Gyclrfu)
annum-nn.k
m
“Centenary Flyer”
The Cyclops Centenary Flyer, for
children 3 to 7 years. Length, 46in.;
height, 24in.; width across wings,
Steel framework with sheet-metal body,
carved wooden propeller driven by
leather belt off front axle, revolving as
’plane moves along. 9in. front
7 in. back wheel. Price, each . . ■ 48/6
A
u
Fur Dogs,
3/6
Fur Dogs, similar
to illustration.
Prices, each —
9/6, 11/6
Others. Prices—
3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
Bring the Children to Santaland!
Let them meet Santa Claus after flying
through Santaland on the Magic Carpet.
Breathless, excited little passengers climb on to the Magic Carpet that is to take them to Santa Claus s Castle,
And what excitement there is as the very wonderful Carpet sets off on its journey. e v^ 1 ? Santa Claus
Carpet rises and it’s off, with its little passengers, to the magic atmosphere of Santaland,
has his Castle. Santa greets every little girl and boy who has been carried on
Magic Carpet—and more—he gives each child a surprise gift. Do not deny them the plea
to dear old Santa. He is waiting for them.
• SANTALAND—SECOND FLOOR.
? x X I I I f
«jbt >
M
W'
V,
\:
A BRICHT CHRISTMAS REVUE'
in the
happiness theatre
for children
It Is a lavish entertainment with beautiful ballets,
spectacular parades, daring Adagio Dancers,
Whirlwind Acrobats and Happy Singers, in ten
superb acts which will hold the attention of both
children and grown-ups to the final curtain. Two
sessions are held daily, at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.,
with an extra performance on Friday evenings
at 6.30 p.m.
• Happiness Theatre, Fine Art Gallery, 4th floor.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED
SYDNEY •
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


APPL’D.
FOR
A THERMOMETER
WITHOUT A SCALE IS
LIKE A PEN WITHOUT A
.WORD
GAUGE
The CONKLIN
Nozac W ord
Gauge Pen.
You get a fully-
equipped Pen when
you buy a
Conklin Nozac
—it is the only pen
with the Word Gauge
which tells you how
many words you have
written or can write
without refilling.
Here is the really per-
fected sackless pec
with a visible ink
supply that “Winds
Like a Watch.”
Available in 3 Modern
Colours at 30/- and
40/- each.
Pencils to Match, 25 /
each.
From all Stationers.
Jewellers and Depart-
mental Stores.
Incorporated by
Royal Charter, 1835
The BANK of
AUSTRALASIA
Head Office for Australasia: 394 Collins St., Melbourne
Head Office for New South Wales Branches:
Martin Place (opp. G.P.0.), Sydney
Paid-up Capital . . • £4,500,000
Reserve Fund .... 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (Reserve
Funds used in the business
of the Bank.) .... 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Pro-
prietors under the Charter. 4,500,000
£13,475,000
The Bank ot Australasia has been established for more than 100
years. It maintains close contact with all commercial activities
through its two offices in London, branches in all principal cities
and towns in Australia and New Zealand, and agents in all parts
of the world. The Bank is exceptionally well-equipped to under-
take any kind of banking and exchange business.-
Artistic Ornamental
CLOCKS
from
PIKE BROTHERS
Illustrated is an attractive round
design, made from Australian
fancy timber with original bark
retained on the outside and the
edging of the clock cavity highly
polished.
Clock has reliable movement and
makes an excellent gift.
Price: 17/6 and 25/-.
Other styles also, available.
One Thousand Bright Ideas for
Christmas Gifts. Write for
special illustrated brochure.
PIKE BROTHERS Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
“The House for Exclusive Christmas
Gifts.”
be only that last chapter to translate, and
the book can appear simultaneously
everywhere.”
“Does that mean that you cannot re-
vise the book as a whole?”
“Revise it? Not much on printed
proofs, perhaps, but on frequent type-
scripts ; on these I make what alterations
l need. It is not troublesome at all—
not for me: but, oh! my secretary, he
has a terrible time of it. If I make an
alteration in Chapter One, he has to type
it out and send the alteration to all those
publishers for their translators: and he
has to do it quickly.”
Herr Feuchtwanger, with his tanned,
vigorous face and eyes twinkling behind
his glasses, looked well able to endure
the spectacle of his secretary’s struggles.
He lives usually in the South of France,
and conserves his strength as few writers
manage to do.
“II you throw out Oppermanns from
your canon, are there any other of your
books you are prepared to abandon in
the same way?”
“Well, The Uply Duchess is not very
important. Haven't read it? All the
better. Glad you know Success well.
I'll tell you, I’d put my books in this
order: Josephus in three parts. Success,
Jew Siiss, Oppermanns, The Uply
Duchess.”
This rather suggested an index system
in his mind. It will be remembered that
the German author in Success lived, as
a writer, with card-indexes, telephones,
secretaries and even noise all about him,
and built up his novels as if he were
“assembling” some modern machine. I
suggested to Herr Feuchtwanger that
such were his own methods ; but he was
well prepared with a parrying thrust.
“If there is any resemblance between
a character in a book and the writer of
the book, you must allow also for the
novelist’s instinct to introduce something
that is his opposite, to conflict with that
resemblance. As for that Success char-
acter’s actual methods in writing his
novels—well, I would not altogether dis-
own them.” He twinkled again.
He had been speaking most of the
time in German, particularly because a
friend, a pretty young woman, who had
been hovering with cakes and sweets,
understood no English: but his English
is sound and alert. He speaks French
also with precision and fluency, but
makes jests about it: “Hitler, who has
taken away my German nationality, can-
not quite relieve me of my accent.” A
man of the world,, Feuchtwanger can
even feel that he has a masterful posi-
tion in the greater and cosmopolitan
world to which his books are successively
introduced. He has less to complain
about, probably, than any other German
exile: and he knows he has a good life.
Yet, there remains with him this con-
sciousness of waste and distortion, a con-
sciousness he shares with other exiles of
more tragic type whose life-work appears
to be more definitely hampered. Decora-
tive and dazzling as Feuchtwanger’s
books may appear, he has one constant
theme, and his own country, like all
countries, needs a writer who has such
a theme and can express it. As he said
in a lecture: “The historian, like the
novelist, sees in history the fight between
a small minority, capable of judgment
and determined to use it, and a mon-
strous, compact majority that is blind,
instinctive, devoid of judgment. It seems
to me important to present episodes from
the earlier stages of this struggle.” He
presents them.
EUROPE.
NETTIE PALMER.
In Wild
Papua
Papua is still
wild, but not so
wild as it might
b e. William
MacGregor and,
after him, other
Administrators, culminating in Hubert
Murray, have been busy taming the
savage, but very wisely not putting him
into trousers. There is one native village
in Papua which has a (own council and
electric light and sanitation, but its in-
habitants still speak Motuan and wear
d° wers in their hair. Roads climb up
111,0 thc fastnesses of the Owen Stanley
Range, on whose slopes arc police
set in lovely tropic gardens. Bui
,h y e ar h e s "", he f d hu "‘ ers '° k «j> lbc
F ol, “ lhem lhal hcad ‘
l *n ,n 8 ? oeS u n 'V F ay ; , . ,
. ° ne °' lhe , busiesl lcacl ? ers “ Mr '
”' d = s - a very good one he ap-
a,ter reads, his
X fh Toi
missed his vocation . He is onc of lhe
rare exceplions to the ru|c , hat mcn o(
aC |ion cannot express themselves,
Hubcrl Murra has wri „ en an inlro .
duc ,i on lo lhe book, so that one
starts it in (he righ( perspective. It tells
the stories of two pa trols-one to cap-
(Ure a primitive head-hunting chief at
Loloipa, near Mt. Albert Edward; thc
other to deal with Kukukuku raiders on
(he Lakekamu, a perilous journey
through some of the wildest mountains
in Papua, which took the police party,
wounded or sick and spent, into thc
Mandated Territory,
Mr. Hides’s chief says that thc Loloipa
patrol was a “good piece of work.” And
so it was, but it is no better than the
description of it. There is possibly no
story of raid more lucid, more restrained
and more full of thrill anywhere in litera-
ture, The writer’s style is, as Murray
says, “intensely natural.” Papua is in
Hides's blood, and there is an air about
him of taking danger in the same stride
as sunrises and the glory of 13,000 ft-
. mountains standing up against the
northern horizon. Writes Murray:
Mr. Hides was born in Port Moresby,
and 1 have known him since he was a
boy, and I and others who know him can
see him so well at various points of the
narrative—we can see him going up alone
in the dark to receive Gopa's surrender
at the imminent risk of getting a spear-
thrust in the stomach, or of joining his
friend Gapelu with an arrow through his
head: and we can picture him cur ing
Z
the satisfaction of a hard job well done.
Or we can see him "palling up” with
Gopa, the old cannibal, whom he admires
so much One takes it as a matter
of course that Mr. Hides and his fellow-
workers are brave men: but what I
think is rather remarkable about them,
and what is probably the secret of their
success in patrol work, is that rc ?* and
feel that these natives, cannibals ana
head-hunters though they may be, are men
like ourselves
The tale of the Loloipa patrol begins
with a dawn attack by Gopa and his
cannibals on a village:-
, , 4or
JSJLX. jusfdimbcd JETS.
range that is dimly outlined at the back
of us. Suddenly the pidori calls a sweet,
flute-like note... .there is a faint lighten-
ing of the sky in the cast.
There is a stockaded village of thirty
houses, with the smoke of breakfast fires
rising from aniong the y o p
bananas that enfold the huts. Pigs sleep
under the houses. Suddenly flame bursts
from a yam hut outside (he stockade,
a dying pig squeals and two men with
bows and arrows rush away, pursued by
the villagers. When these latter return
eleven ol them are missing.
Sixty-two days later Mr. Hides, alter
leaving his paradis des fieurs and the
green lawns and strawberry-patches ot
Kambisi. which looks 2400 ft. down on
the roaring Auga River, had captured
Gopa-Gelu, the raiding chief, in .his own
village and was giving him his first view
of civilisation in Moresby, 200 miles
away. He did it with a native n.c.0..
Sergeant Pakai, and eight men out of the
15 who were helping him to be king
over 20,000 savages, after the raided vil-
lagers had brought in the hand of one
of their dead. And within three months
Gopa had been tried and sent back to
, . 1 ... __ , . . •
his village a reformed character, p -
never to op a icac again.
The assault was made on the village
tn the dead of mght, after a terrible
v \ r, •„
climb. The moon had risen after ram,
and it was - a.m. before they found
themselves before the doors ot the
stockade. They made a hole big enough
in the defences for a man to crawl into.
and then through they went, silently, one
„ nl ii ,ii th,, f„rw nrl their
by one, until all the force and then
guide were within the walls.
At the time of our entry, (he place had
the stillness of a tomb. Not even a pig
grunted. 1 have made scores of these
surprise visits in a lot of hostile corners
of Papua, and, invariably, no matter what
time of the night, I have found old
women talking.. . .What it was always
a'S'l
women.” And so, as wc advanced
farther and two old women suddenly
started a conversation in the village
square, 1 was not alarmed j but I had
time to think of something about the
human race never changing,
Guards were quietly put before the
doors of houses ; then the intruders were
discovered. The old women suddenly
ceased cha.tering. Bedlam broke
loose.
There were screams and yells of terror-
stricken humans, the shouts of angry
cornered savages, and of police as they ■,
stood firmly at their posts; the grunts
and noises of stampeding pigs, the yelp-
jng of dogs, and the crashes of timber
as mcn tried to escape from the houses.
Women rushed out carrying babies
~ J .? , .
and porkers and a small, terrified boy
his eyes halt-closed with sleep, ran to
Mr. Hides and caught his hand, pleading
for protection. Spears were thrust
through cracks in the buildings arrows
flew, and Gapelu, the chief who was
guide, was killed by one of Ihem.
And then, just before a purple-pink
dawn showed itsell, Gopa surrendered :
| was s ( CC py_ *j o telling Sergeant Pakai :
( G keep a strict watch on the prisoners.... j
I went to sleep on a piece of bark in :
middle
tied to a pole, lay on the ground only a
f ew yards from me.
Lakekamu raid patrol was done
w h en Mr. Hides was little more than a
carr j et j OU ( with all the
assurance 0 f an old hand. In a way it
was as g reat a journey as his recent one
over Strickland-Kokori country;
Continually harassed by hostile natives,
s j ck or wounded, sometimes completely
starving, sometimes living on sweet
potatoes and sugarcane, he and his mcn
twice penetrated those fastnesses of
which the veteran prospector Mat Crowe
exclaimed as he looked down on them:
“All hope abandon, yc who enter here.”
There were fights:—•
As wc a pp roac j ie j ( <| lc natives took
cover behind stumps of trees, and
presently sent another shower of arrows
amongst us; but, we, too, had plenty of
cover in the garden, and none of the
ari ;ows found their mark. As I pouched
behind a stump watching the flight ol
arrows, I had time to muse upon
things about Cr£cy and Agincourt
that puzzled me at school.
... ... . . . ..
Kiwai No. 894 was lying alongside me,
hjs chin res(ing
on his left arm.... 1
looked into his dripping face, but those
heads of sweat were honest; there was no
fear in those eyes. He smiled at me, and
I knew that he was as good a soldier as
a liar....an arrow in the ground
a few inches. from No. 894 s ankle. He
looked gt me ickly . a „ hc said was
“Arrow.”
T , ora • ~r o .u; c
S more t V n •?. n
book, however. It is salted with under-
standing sketches of the native and his
humors, and it brings the reader into
( Une w ith the state of mind of the author,
w ho, as he lay once listening to the
-ging of primitive villagers wafled
across the ravines of the Albert Edward


Wm
Wm
m
m
; k : ‘
is
. i i I
s a
ss?
1
1
SB
Bs
SB
:r: J:;:
••••:,:
Wm.
■£*
8
::
ill
"f
Do you call that garment of yours
a shirt? Why don't you wear a
coloured check one? . . . Everybody
does now . . . you should get Aertex,
o[ course, because the cellular weave
is.healthful and comfortable . . . this
one of mine is what they call a
"Tweed Twist,’’ I believe . . . .
Well, I can tell you this— I’ve felt
absolutely fit since / started wearing
Aertex.
Illustrated is a “Tweed Twist” polo
sports shirt. In a wide range of
patterns. Sizes 34 in. to 44 in., at
various prices.
Stocked by all good Men’s Stores and
Drapers throughout the Commonwealth.
X3IN3V
Your garment is not Aertex
unless it bears this label.
Wholesale only: THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO. LTD.,
313-315 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Distributors throughout Australia: DENT ALLCROFT & CO. LTD.,
Branch or Agent in Every State.
If any difficulty in obtaining, write to Cellular, Box 1274 L, Melbourne.
l
GIVE HIM
months of
LUXURY SHAVING
in the coming year !
m 25
r ' BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
M
10'-
ŀ
When you give a man genuine Blue Gillettes,
you pay a compliment to his judgment, be-
cause he knows they are the finest blades that
money can buy. To make him a present of 25
of them means that you are giving him a
smooth, silky shave every morning for many
months — perhaps for a whole year. What a
comfort to a manl During all that time he will
never have to worry about that "packet of
blades I forgot to buy yesterday" but will go
straight ahead every morning with a cool
Gillette shave! Truly, this box of 25 Blue
Gillettes is a gift worth giving. Price 10/-.
BLUE GILLETTE
Christmas Box
CONTAINING 25 BLADES
Blue Gillettes fit all types of Gillette Razors old and new.
Range, found that the music made him
“forget all about cannibalism and mur-
der, so that he could think only of the
strength and the beauty of the life of
the savage.”
SAMBIO.
A Satchel of Books
Towards Sex Freedom, by Irene
Clephane (Bodley Head ; 8s. 6d. net).
Describes historically how in the last
hundred years one taboo and another
regarding sex has been overcome and
the matter has, for better or for worse,
been put on a general level with a restau-
rant lunch.
Slavers of the South Seas, by T.
Dunbabin (Angus and Robertson ; 6s.).
A painstaking survey of the history of
blackbirding, commencing with the
Spaniard Mendana in 1568 and working
down through De Quiros, Carstenz,
Cook, Dampier and Bully Hayes to the
Queensland Royal Commission of 1885.
No explorer who enticed a native aboard
for use as an interpreter is omitted from
the chronicle, which is fully fortified with
dates and exact quotations from records.
The volume should prove a goldmine for
future writers of South Sea fiction.
The Green Brigade, by James Lorimer
(Blackwoods; 7s. 6d.). The Scottish
regiment that fought for Gustavus of
Sweden in the time of Charles I. pro-
vides most of the characters. Mr.
Lorimer, whose historical settings can
always be relied on, unfolds a pleasant
romance with plenty of adventure and
incident, but a thoroughgoing villain or
two would have accentuated the interest.
However, the style is clear and brisk, the
pictures of life and manners are effec-
tively presented, and there are flashes of
good drama.
Singapore Patrol, by Alec Dixon
(Harrap; from Dymock’s; 10s. 6d.).
Going to Singapore eight or nine years
ago as a detective recruit, the author
found the place packed with interest,
both in his profession and out of it.
Though he seems to have been somewhat
of an amateur detective, he had adven-
tures enough among Chinese gunmen
and Communists to satisfy even thriller
addicts, but it was the place itself that
interested him, and a good descriptive
flair enables him to build it into capital
and unusual reading of the travel-book
variety.
The Note Books of a Woman Alone .
edited by M. G. Ostle (Dent; 7s. 6d.
net). A curious, unusual book, this ; one
that a great many women are likely to
find absorbingly interesting. It has been
prepared from notebooks kept by a
woman working for a small wage in a
London agency for twenty-one years. In
her notebooks she jotted down bits of
overheard conversation, remarks in news-
papers and other periodicals that in-
terested her, and quotations from books.
On these and on life she added her own
comments, and the outcome is an un-
usual sort of anthology with sufficient
running commentary to make it also a
spiritual autobiography, closing on the
note:
To be condemned to live when I lack
the means is senseless. We all have the
right to say “No” to senseless proposi-
tions. No adult forces a child, unless the
adult is a beast, into a life that makes
that child a savage. If I fail to get
enough to shelter, to clothe and to feed
myself, I become the savage. If God
exists He will understand. If He does not
exist, then 1 go out to sleep, and what
is better than sleep when weary ? I am
but a child in a world I certainly never
made. Conditions are now such that I
am of no more use. Man is immortal
till his work is done. Mine is done. The
delicious near-by freedom of death is here.
That, however, is at the final choice.
Earlier she had said: “Dejection which
becomes habitual is a consumption of
the character,” and it was more in that
tone that she read, listened and wrote.
The Press Directory of Australia and
New Zealand, 1935-36 (Country Press,
Ltd., Sydney ; 2s. 6d.). Information con-
cerning the thousand and more news-
papers and journals scattered in both
countries. Particulars are also given
regarding the district in which each news-
paper circulates, with an outline of the
main industries and leading institutions.
Broken Journey, by Louisa Wilson
(Hamish Hamilton ; 7s. 6d.). This has as
its heroine a missionary’s daughter, al-
lowed by her preoccupied and imprac-
tical widower father to roam at will
around a Chinese town. It is not a story
—rather a series of sketches and impres-
sions, entertaining because of their variety
and exotic quality.
Beecham and Pharaoh, by Dame Ethel
Smyth (Chapman and Hall ; 65.). The
author, one of the greatest of contem-
porary musical composers, and one of
the few people in England or elsewhere
who know that eccentric genius Sir
Thomas Beecham really well, gives the
first attempt at a biography of the heir
of the pill business who devoted his for-
tune to the advancement of music in
Britain. It isn’t a very complete bio-
graphy—Dame Ethel found it a wearing
task to drag details from Sir Thomas,
who hates talking about himself —but it
is written in a lively vein and gives a
vivid picture of a many-sided and re-
markable man. The “Pharaoh” part of
the title relates to some reminiscences of
life in Egypt before the British exodus.


TWF 4JOUSC
OF SEPP£ LT
\
✓
t
<Ta
A
iy mi
s
&
■
'ills
OqH
■
VHf
. OH*
S “'U!o,
O “U,T.
Bit
5u **
■\X
ou
I\t
i °.y »
Great Western
E t. ""'Mo
G *£»'
***.»
* Sons Ltd NET 1 PT. 6 FL. OZS. Vic T<y "
. ,
Great Western
imperial J^esetOe.
THE CHAMPAGNE
OF AUSTRALIA


The Bulletin
Vol. 56.—N0. 2913.
December 11, 1935.
THIS PFELLER ALL SET.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama Street,
Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months. 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua. Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THESE BIG-CITY POLITICIANS!
Characteristic of the Big-City politician—so deficient
in imagination, so wildly extravagant, so addicted
to letting the morrow take care of itself—is a
series of proposals for which N. S. Wales
Works Minister Spooner sought legislative authority
last week, and got it. in the Assembly at
a single sitting. One part of the scheme pro-
vides for the transfer of liability for £11,450.000
owed by the Sydney Water and Sewerage Board (it
owes £42,748,600 altogether) from Water Board rate-
payers to the general body of N. S. Wales taxpayers.
Justifying this jugglery, the consent of taxpayers
who are not ratepayers being taken for granted, Mr.
Spooner said:
Under present conditions, it is only a matter of
time before the whole revenue of the board will
become earmarked for interest and sinking fund.
Did he go on to say that his Government would apply
a brake in future to this almost-insolvent concern,
whose borrowing powers have been so patently
abused? Nothing of the kind ; the “writing-off,” as
he calls it, is a preliminary to encouraging the board
to go further into debt—to borrow another £15,000,000
and lavish it on more sewerage works.
According to Mr. Spooner, “there are 102,500
premises” in the Huge Wen “that are without
sewerage facilities.” That may be, but sewerage con-
nections are costly, and the probabilities are that
at least 82,500 of the 102,500 householders can’t
afford them. Many have had only part-time work
for years. .Some “own” mortgaged shacks in seedy
suburbs where land values have gone to the
bow-wows, and whose municipal councils have
sky-high accumulations of uncollected, or uncollect-
able, rate bills. Others, so-called “landlords,” have
had their houses empty for long terms, and, when
they have had tenants, have been unable either to
get their rents or put non-payers out. Possibly 10
p.c. of the expenditure of £15,000,000 will earn
interest; the other 90 p.c. will go in “improving the
amenities of life” for those who can’t pay for them,
and, while the money lasts, giving work that will
mainly represent economic waste. In the fullness of
time there will be more “writing off,” and the general
body of taxpayers who now find over half a million
added to their annual burdens as a result of Water
Board borrowing on which they were not consulted
will have to shoulder another half-million or more.
Yet these crazy proposals went through without
opposition. Mr. Lang, it is true, made the astonish-
ing discovery that the £11,450,000 “written off” would
“have to be paid,” but his feeble protest on that score
was followed by the admission that he “knew of no
better way of spending money,” for it “gave employ-
ment to unskilled labor.”
Evidently Big-City politicians of the borrow-and-
bust breed are hopeless. After six depression years,
during which scores of thousands of boys and girls
have left school and grown to manhood and woman-
hood, this is all that these politicians can think of—
borrowing an amount not far short of the Quebec
provincial debt (Quebec has been settled for 300 years,
and has nearly 400,000 more people than N. S. Wales)
to provide so-called “facilities” that people can’t pay
for and thus make temporary jobs for unskilled labor.
And they say there is no better way of spending
money!
There are incomparably better ways, nor do
they all involve spending loan money. The warden
at Broken Hill found one when he refused to con-
tinue the exemption of Broken Hill Prop, leases from
the statutory labor conditions. Within 48 hours 100
men had been engaged for work on the long-idle
ground. Had corresponding action been insisted upon
long ago by Governments in all States where exemp-
tion from labor conditions on mining leases has been
secured for a variety of reasons, mostly bad, there
would have been a striking diminution in the number
of men on the dole. Even now, though in Westralia
and elsewhere it is not so easy as it was to find buyers
of options, if continuance of exemption without good
cause were vetoed by the Government as a matter
of public policy, thousands of men would soon get
work at good union wages.
Better ways could also be found for the boys.
They might be drafted into skilled trades, instead
of being put on donkey work. The secretary of the
Sydney Bricklayers and Carpenters’ Union has made
this astounding statement:
Although from January to August. 1935,
£6,316,131 was spent on building work, only four
boys were given jobs in the bricklaying trade.
If this is a fact, it is a tragic reflection on the poli-
ticians, for it is their business to pass and enforce
modern apprenticeship laws.
Wagepayers could also show these borrowing
Governments a better way. Relief-taxes are being
exacted from them in all the .States, though camou-
flaged in S.A. as an addition to the income tax ; let
them have the right to contract out of the taxes to the
extent of at least 50 p.c. Where any person furnishes
proofs in the returns he has to make to the tax-
gatherers that (commencing, say, from the first day
of the New Year) he has given employment in excess
of the figure for September, say, or in excess of his
average for two years, whichever is the higher, grant
him at the end of the financial year a relief-tax abate-
ment of at least 50 p.c. of the amount expended in
employing the additional labor. Then men would get
work in callings with which they are familiar in
place of becoming navvies, 20 p.c. efficient, on pre-
carious loan works ; and boys would learn things that
would be useful to them.
The Commonwealth Government could help by
extending and modernising its defence measures.
These would, of course, include the preparation of
landing grounds and airports, and the establishment
of army posts and auxiliary naval patrols. Defence
has an industrial side to which too little thought has
been given. In the process of neglecting it, thousands
of splendid natural soldiers, seamen and airmen, who
in other countries with a population of nearly
7,000,000 (Sweden has only 6,250,000) would be
enrolled as such, have been condemned to look for
civilian occupations for which they have far less
aptitude, and, in a multitude of cases, have failed
to find them.
HUBERT MURRAY.
On December 29 Hubert Murray will turn 74, and
will have spent 31 years in Papua—four years as Chief
Judge, 27 years as Lieutenant-Governor. No British-
born Governor has remained in the one post as long,
and the career of this native-born Australian shows
in its true colors the cant of those who insinuate that
Australia is incapable of producing the proconsul
type.
Son of a President of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council, Murray took a first at Oxford, studying also
at London University and in Germany. Crown
Prosecutor, District Court Judge, soldier (he com-
manded the N.S.W. Irish Rifles and fought in South
Africa) and scientist (he has been president of the
Association for the Advancement of Science in these
parts), he became “the first Australian Governor of
the first Australian dependency.”
When Murray went to Papua the head-hunter
flourished almost down to the coasts. The tall form
of the Sydneysider became known to mountain tribes,
swinging along at the head of his police boys or
perched intently on the deck of one of his little
Government vessels. Port Moresby was a dingy
tropical village: a cluster of tin houses, with a few
stores and pubs. It has become a township of red
roofs and cool buildings, bowered in trees. To coastal
villages (like Hanuabada) have been given schools and
native governing councils and electric light. Papuan
culture has been preserved. Best of all, Murray
has built a civil service of young men with daring
and initiative and judgment and love of their work.
The older generation of his lieutenants —
Champion is the best-known—helped in school-
ing the younger. Austen, the first man to reach
the fringes of the Star Mountains in 1922-23,
was given his opportunity by Murray while still
in his middle twenties. Karius and Champion
first crossed the great island in Murray’s time. And
J. G. Hides, Moresby-born and -educated, was deemed
fit at 23 to lead dangerous inland patrols and —still
in his twenties, with O’Malley, little more than a
lad, as lieutenant —to carry out one of the most spec-
tacular and dangerous adventures in exploration ever
made in the Pacific.
These achievements of Murray and his men have
enhanced the reputation of Papua among the whites
and of the whites among the natives. The popular
conception of Papua as a country of head-hunters,
ravaged by fevers and tropic heat, has changed. It
is now known to be a series of great high-rolling
plateaux, with temperate zones, rich in food and water
and densely peopled—mainly by light-skinned agri-
culturists at least as civilised as the Malay and capable
of being weaned from savage customs to modem
industry. Huge waterways lead to rich timberlands.
Gold abounds in unopened districts. In short, Papua
can be converted from a responsibility into a tremen-
dous economic and defensive asset —the Papuan is
a born soldier —if the process is gradual and there
is no exploitation.
Writing an introduction to a book by Mr. Hides,
the Governor said:
I think the success of our patrolmen’s work, is that
they really feel that these natives, cannibals and head-
hunters though they be, are men like ourselves. I
read this morning of the condition, in 1550, of a part
of Europe which is now highly civilised; it was said
that the murders in that district “might oustnp a
hundred in a day, and, what is more, were done in
ignorance, by men who did not know that it was wrong
to murder.” We have nothing in Papua to beat that,
and yet it is not very common to meet a white man
who looks upon a native as being really a man in
the same way as himself. I know that it took me a
long time to understand the identity of mankind
beneath the accident of color. Our “outside men”
seem to realise it instinctively.
Most of Hubert Murray’s work has been done
with a skimped staff—“playing for high stakes on a
very weak hand,” he calls it. But it has been done
nobly, and in the result his ideal of preserving native
custom, where native custom is worth preserving,
instead of turning natives into “tenth-rate Europeans,
has been realised.
Disturbing as the thought is that Hubert Murray
will soon be due for retirement, the position must be
faced. No run-to-seed politician will be tolerated
as his successor. Hubert Murray should be succeeded
by one of Hubert Murray’s men.
AUSTRALIA’S NICEST ASYLUM.
Provisions of the Keep It Dark Act prohibit divulg-
ing the variously-pronounced address of this singular
institution, description of which must be such as to
prevent anyone possibly guessing at its identity.
Therefore this account of it must necessarily be vague.
Much, however, that might otherwise seem
incredible will be simplified if it is understood from
the start that not only the inmates but the place
and the surroundings themselves are subject to
delusions. Thus the surroundings are imbued with
the delusion that they are a city, though the truth
of the matter is that they are a partly renovated sheep-
run, from which the sheep have been temporarily
banished to permit of shade trees and fodder being
grown and some scattered shepherds' huts erected, at
intervals of one such hut to about every 15 acres.
The results of this scheme arc idyllic. Every year
50,000 people from all parts of the world arc popu-
larly supposed to visit the place and wander about
in the throes of nostalgia and other homely forms
of neurotic ecstasy, composing, or remembering,
poetry in praise of elms, larches, firs, poplars, plums,
pines and similar firewood, what time angry and
embittered Australian trees, denied this rhymed
publicity, look enviously down from the hillsides.
Among these general surroundings several pecu-
liarities, in the freest acceptance of the word, merit
a passing mention. One of these, declining to be
snookered by even the tallest of the foregoing inspira-
tional herbage, is an extraordinarily high tombstone,
with windows in it, known locally by the delusive
title of First Wing of the Library.
A short distance in the opposite direction —
“short,” as distance is measured here, is to be inter-
preted in terms of miles —a few miles, then, from
this unique tombstone, the footsore traveller arrives
at a hallowed shrine. Here reposes the huge
and pickled heart of the defunct god Phar Lap, sur-
rounded, for purposes of comparative oblation, with
the internal organs of cavalry horses, marsupials and
suchlike lesser divinities.
Anywhere in the entire locality whenever two
persons are seen together one is sure to be a public
meeting. That is to say, conversation, as it is ordi-
narily understood, is unknown, and nobody on any
account will open his mouth except to deliver an
address, based, or rather built, upon certain rhap-
sodical data which anyone interested can secure on
application to the nearest tourist bureau.
Centre to all this so literally widespread pattern
of delusions stands the Institute itself, a long, low,
two-storeyed, commodious asylum in the blockhouse,
or barracks, style of architecture, impressing the eye
at once by the wholesomely sanitary nature of its
chastely white-washed exterior and the precautionary
solidity of its build. The peculiar delusion of this
great, if somewhat squat, edifice is that it is a House
of Parliament; and similarly the inmates enjoy in
common the one general delusion that they are
definite well-known and famous Australian states-
men, to whom, of course, they bear not the slightest
resemblance, either as to their appearance, their
conduct or their acts.
For example, one simple and contented-looking
inmate believes that he is, of all people, the Right
Honorable the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
This in spite of the fact that, instead of in any way
resembling our esteemed P.M., he is really, both in
appearance and a personal quality of gentle lovable-
ness, faithfully like an old-man koala. And here
may be observed an extraordinary metamorphosis.
This—that, forced nowadays to feast upon leaves of
the previously mentioned English trees, instead of
his old diet of the native gum, this apparently typical
Australian creature has become the complete embodi-
ment of that visionary corner of a foreign land that
is for ever England. He declines to speak unless you
feed him with House of Commons chestnuts. There
is even a local legend which avers that if you stripped
off his shirt you would uncover, not the close fur of
the apparent koala, but the tawny body of a lion, with
a Union Jack nailed to its brisket.
A delusion, all of it, of course ; since, as every-
body knows, the real P.M. is not at all like that, but
is the very personification of the Australian genius,
its guide, its exemplar and its friend.
Various considerations —among them kindness—
prevent representing here the numerous other inmates,
of whom there must be 75 at least, and who include
such strangely-deluded persons as one who speaks
with a mouthful of plums, imagining thus to represent
a Minister of State who is famous for his enunciation;
another who supports a similar delusion by snubbing
every inmate who directs a question to him ; another
who imagines that the part of a member of Parlia-
ment is to lie about on the benches assaulting the
atmosphere with silly yelps; and all the so-oddly
deluded rest of them, each signing a flourishing M.P.
to his name, all referring to each other as the Honor-
able, and all uttering at some time or other the
enigmatic, not to say meaningless, expression, “Giving
effect to the will of the people.”
Thus all together share in the common delusion
that from this place and these surroundings, and by
certain ritualistic observances conducted therein,
Australia can be and is being efficiently and com-
petently governed. If true, how sad that would be
for Australia! Of course, it isn t true.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dodging Cerutty’s Charges.
By the ingenuous device of misrepresenting the charges
in the ex-Ayditor-General’s last annual report Can-
berra’s expert troupe of patter-artists have convinced
themselves and imagine that they have convinced
others.
This misrepresentation, the unoriginal plaint of
every one of Mr. Cerutty’s job-preserving attackers,
was heard again last week when Mr. Curtin asked for
a public inquiry “into Mr. Cerutty’s statements
against the character and integrity of invalid and old-
age pensioners.” Mr. Lyons, of course, replied that
“the Government had already expressed its dis-
approval of and disagreement with those allegations.”
Nothing could be more blatant than this dis-
tortion of what the position really is. Mr. Cerutty
attacked the character of nobody. His charges are a
reasoned, if necessarily blunt, account of the present
working of the Commonwealth pensions system.
It is no more an attack upon the “character and
integrity of old-age and invalid pensioners” to say
that some pensions are being improperly paid than
it is derogatory to the inhabitants of Canberra to say
that some of them are politicians.
Mr. Cerutty’s charges are against, not the bene-
ficiaries, but the system. To evade this point may be
politically expedient, but it is a sorry exhibition of
statesmanship.
Mr. Cerutty, in this section of his report—ra
section which has conveniently been used for blanket-
ing like charges of maladministration in other sec-
tions —has faced a grim task with obvious personal
distaste. “While all this is to be deplored,” is how he
expresses that feeling ; adding that it all “points to
the necessity for some alteration in the present law,
which has already become an almost intolerable finan-
cial burden.” He makes definite suggestions for pos-
sible alternative methods, chiefly “a contributory
system” such as “already obtains in the Federal and
some State services.”
No attempt has been made tq demonstrate that
such suggestions are fallacious or unnecessary. No
attempt is made to rebut the assertion of an acknow-
ledged accounting expert that the present system is
not only unjust but that in a very few years it will
break down under its own weight.
When that happens invalid and old-age pen-
sioners will know that they had little reason to be
grateful for the nice words that were uttered in 1935
by a lot of seat-preserving gentlemen masquerading
as their defenders and their friends.
— *
A Silly Time to Strike.
From the seamen’s side of it, even the thick of the
depression would have been a better season for a
strike than the present. They could not have picked
a worse time.
For one thing, federated unions like the seamen’s
are not as strong in general unity and fighting powers
or individual willingness and loyalty as they were.
Too many of their members have suffered through
the sort of recklessness which got this latest strike
going and kept it going against the advice of union
officials and the threat of an anti-socialist Govern-
ment to take corrective action.
Another thing, the strike’s occurrence at the
busiest time of the year, damaging as at no other
time to shippers, travellers and public interest alto-
gether, swings this considerable body of opinion into
undisguised hostility.
Again, there are too many just now —most of
them unionists —who are beginning to feel the safety
of steady jobs after having been squeezed out, and
down and out, by the depression. They do not want
a strike at any price. Particularly, they can see no
sense in supporting a strike in which it is openly
admitted by the union itself that the award
struck against actually improves the general lot of
the strikers.
Neither do any other unions want to be involved
in such a strike. They have made that clear from
the start, and made sure that there could be no mis-
take about it when a conference of representatives of
Federal unions in Melbourne decided to tell the
seamen that they were not in favor of or prepared
to extend the dispute.
This body of opinion and all that it represents
would justify the firmest Governmental action. Firm-
ness is the only thing the direct-actionist understands.
The toleration which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment has displayed is interpreted only as evidence
that the threat of drastic action was bluff. Intolerant
himself, the direct-actionist cannot understand
that sort of thing. What he does understand is the
firmness displayed by the hardy Scot who runs the
Patrick line —with volunteers when unionists are not
available. The firm of Lyons and co. could do with
a bit of that sort of stiffening.
+
Education by Halves.
Free primary education is furnished in Australia, and
free secondary education for those desiring to enter
the professions. But Australians have not yet realised
that there is more than one form of secondary educa-
tion —the training of the boy who will have to work
with his hands so that he may be able to use those
hands to the best effect.
Primary education is compulsory; technical
secondary education is not. Hence the statement
of Essington Lewis, g.m. of Broken Hill Prop., that
“Australia is 20 years behind Japan in scientific tech-
nical training.” Hence also the report of the Bruns-
wick (Vic.) Technical School, which, within its limits,
has done excellent work, that the school had been
asked to supply artisans —this in a period of depres-
sion-—and had not been able to meet the demand.
True, the number of students at Brunswick increased
from 334 in 1934 to 465 in 1935. But no fewer than
200 lads who desired to improve their knowledge and
their craftsmanship had to be turned away be-
cause there were no accommodation and no teaching
staff adequate to instruct them. Next year there will
be provision for 565 students ; but even this exten-
sion of facilities will not serve the lads who aim at
making themselves useful citizens, for 300 eager to
apply themselves to improving their technical status
will have to be denied admittance.
The majority of the unemployed in the 16-21
age group, the report concludes, are unskilled. That
is true not only of Victoria but of all the other States.
What this saddening waste of youthful aptitudes leads
to is illustrated at its worst in the crime records.
Nowadays many, if not most, of the major crimes
against property and against the person are com-
mitted by youngsters who have never been taught to
be useful and self-reliant —never known the discipline
of technical training.
Education Ministers like Mr. Drummond in
N. S. Wales are doing their best with insufficient
resources, and aspire to do more. But, generally
speaking, the States have fallen down on the job.
Control of education should be transferred to the
Commonwealth, whose resources are ample, and with
it—to simplify and cheapen the machinery of govern-
ment —control of income tax; the six “ordinary”
State income taxes, taken together, yield less than the
cost of State education, such as it is. Education in
all its branches is a national responsibility, and should
be under national direction.
Admission of American ’Planes.
After several years of agitation, the ban on imports
of U.S.A. aircraft is to be lifted. Advocates of
American ’planes hail the change as “good news.”
It is true that Uncle Sam has developed fast air-mail
services and passenger lines with such machines as
the Douglas, but it is by no means certain that they
will be more suitable for Australian work than any-
thing at present flying in Australia. The U.S.A. trans-
continental services are linked with chains of landing
grounds which, over the more dangerous areas, are
as little as 20 miles apart. We have no such intensive
ground organisation, and Australian atmospheric con-
ditions are different from American.
Britain a year or two ago was miles behind
America in speed and general commercial flying
facilities. British routes were mainly short, and
British needs called for reliability and heavy-load
carrying rather than speed. The opening of the
London-Australia route and the competition of the
Dutch have done much to effect changes, and types
have been developed to a point at which a seven-day
service from London with night flying is planned.
NEWSPAPER FINANCE
See page 57.
And Airways of-Australia is contemplating a three-
hour service between capitals, using British-built
Monospars, to be extended north to Cairns.
The official excuse for the granting of entry to
American ’planes is that British building of Air
Force machines is so heavy that orders for Australian
commercial ’planes cannot be filled. This has been
denied in general terms by the Society of British
Aircraft Instructors, but, even if the most is made
of its admission that “there may be isolated instances
of aircraft- or engine-builders who are unable to
accept immediate orders,” more Ministerial evidence
of the need for the change is required.
Assuming that importation of aircraft is neces-
sary, if British manufacturers can deliver the goods
they should get the orders. In its own interests Aus-
tralia cannot be indifferent to the improvement of
British types of machines, civil and military, and to
the increase of output from British factories. As
things are, in case of invasion our strongest aerial
defence would not be our own meagre air force, but
the squadrons of British heavy bombers and fighters
at Singapore and other Asian points. And if we
needed military machines urgently Britain would not
refuse to supply them ; the U.S.A. might.
Also, the Minister for Defence seems to have
forgotten one important fact. Australia can and is
building aeroplanes. The Gannet in which Captain
Taylor set out to fly to the rescue of Kingsford Smith
was designed and constructed in Sydney. The K.P.M.
is using Douglas machines on the Java run, but they
are built in Holland.
By all means let us have the best in aeroplane design
that the world can produce, but it would be fairer and,
in the long run, safer to issue licenses for the building
of American ’planes in Australia than to grant per-
mission to import wholesale at a moment when Britain
is at a disadvantage.
Safer, because every aircraft works established
here is a defence unit. Fairer, because the U.S.A.
has always played dog in the manger in aircraft con-
struction. Catch Uncle Sam allowing another country
to establish a market for imported ’planes within his
territory!
«
Menzies, Deputy-leader.
It is seldom that a political party assembled to choose
a skipper or first mate rises above sectionalism or
cliqueism. The election of Attorney-General Menzies
as deputy-leader of the U.A.P. is therefore astonishing.
Mr. Menzies is a newcomer to the House of
Representatives; he is even a comparative newcomer
to politics. It is only a few years since he was
persuaded to contest an election for the Vic. Leg.
Council. Many politicians claim to have been “per-
suaded” to enter public life; but, in the case of Mr.
Menzies, he was loath to sacrifice the immense pros-
pects of profit and position which certainly spread
before him had he chosen to remain at the Bar. His
history is that of one who has made his own way
by sheer merit. Winner of a State-school scholarship,
he became a star pupil at a secondary college and
a star student at the University; and he jumped into
a lucrative practice as a barrister at an age when
most men are devilling for seniors.
His political career has been meteoric. Out of
place in the Leg. Council, he was quickly promoted
to the Lower House, and lost no time in becoming
Attorney-General. It was only a step to Canberra.
There he has revealed qualities of eloquence and
leadership which of recent years have become all
too rare. In short, a very able Victorian; now let
him go forward and become a great Australian.
«
Broadcasting and Bureaucracy.
It is a joke at Canberra that the Postmaster-General
always makes the same speech on the Post Office
estimates. The suggestion is that, whoever and what-
ever the Minister may be, the speech is put into his
mouth by the permanent head, Mr. Brown.
Mr. Brown is able and very ambitious. He is
credited with a desire to deprive A.W.A. of its com-
munication services, and to keep the B-class broadcast-
ing stations in what he considers to be their place. These
ideas cut across the policy of U.A.P. members, who
were elected to encourage private enterprise. So a
storm arose over the latest broadcasting regulations
issued by the Post Office —that is, by Mr. Brown.
They limited ownership of commercial broadcasting
stations to a maximum of eight.
U.A.P. objectors, headed by young Mr. McCall,
were told that “the object” was “to prevent mon-
opoly.” They replied that the idea that there could
be any danger of a monopoly with 14 A.B.C. stations
transmitting and relaying programmes was absurd, and
that the regulations were aimed, first, at Amalga-
mated Wireless and then at B-class stations. F. H.
Stewart protested at a party meeting that the Post
Office had refused A.W.A. a transfer of the license
of 2CH, and that the N. S. Wales Council of Churches
was thus losing £3OO a week.
“Why should the Post Office have the right to
refuse transfers of broadcasting licenses?” asked
Messrs. McCall, Stewart and others. Why should the
Post Office interfere with the B-class stations at all?
Minister Parkhill took up the cudgels for the Post
Office, and created a diversion by attacking news-
papers interested in broadcasting stations On the score
of their cable services.
Mr. McCall wants a public inquiry into the whole
administration of broadcasting. The Federation of
B-class stations wants a National Radio Board to
take over the control of the air now being exercised
by the Post Office, and to police the Act to ensure
that the tax-exempt A.B.C. does not exceed the terms
of its charter by competing unfairly with private-
enterprise businesses which have to pay heavy
taxation. The adjournment “for Christmas” came as
a relief to Minister Parkhill and Senator McLachlan,
the titular Postmaster-General, but it is certain that
hostilities will be resumed early in 1936.
4.
The Tariff-amendment Racket.
Parliament is unable to exact one penny in direct
taxation unless by the expressed consent of both
Houses ; that is to say, a bill has to be passed. But, in
the case of a customs or excise tariff, millions can
be taken from the public without Parliamentary
authority—without even the briefest discussion —by
the mere act of tabling a schedule. Parliamentary
control of the purse is merely a fiction as applied to
customs and excise revenue.
The tariff schedule tabled in the House of Reps,
before it took one of its frequent rests from its
infrequent labors is a case in point. This schedule
covers a few new duties, but the greater part con-
sists of duties which have operated from December,
1934, and March of this year, and have been
retabled to evade the provisions of the Customs Act.
That Act says that tariff changes must be approved
by both Houses within six months after being tabled,
or, failing that, the right to collect such duties must
be “validated” by a special Act, pending detailed
consideration by each House.
Neither the December nor the March duties have
been discussed by Parliament. When they are con-
sidered one set of duties will have been collected
without Parliamentary sanction for at least 15 months
and the other set for at least 12 months. When the
six months’ period neared its end a “validation” bill
was rushed through both Houses by agreement. This
practice suits all parties, so “validation” is merely a
formality. The six months’ period provided for in
the Act is wiped out by this means.
The “validation” process gave the Government
November 30 as a new date within which Parlia-
mentary approval must be obtained. But the Govern-
ment had no intention of submitting the duties for
discussion in November, so a new subsequent date
within which the duties can be collected without
Parliamentary sanction had to be created. It was
done simply by bringing down a new tariff compris-
ing the December and March duties. These were
thus tabled for the second time, and another six
months’ period began from the date of retabling.
The process can be repeated indefinitely within the
life of a Parliament. It can be extended to a new
Parliament by a “validating” bill.
By next March half a million or more will have
been collected in customs duties which have never
been even discussed, let alone approved, by Parliament.
“Validation” preserves the letter of the law.
The spirit does not matter. But the public should
know that when a Commonwealth Government
chooses to raise taxation under the customs or excise
procedure it can levy millions merely by executive act.
The power to raise money by import duties is
subject to obvious limitations, but the excise power is
capable of dangerous adaptation and expansion.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Liseuse”: I used to think the old
story about the gardener writing to a
bookseller for Sarah Grand’s Yellow
Aster was a trifle far-fetched. However,
I walked into a leading city bookshop
the other day and asked for a copy of
Lewis Browne’s How Odd of God, re-
cently reviewed in The Bulletin. The
Bright Young Thing at the counter ad-
vised me that “the Theological Section is
over there!”
9 9 * 9
“Left Choke”: In spite of tales to the
contrary Britain is little behind other
countries in adopting the amenities of
civilisation. Witness the advent in the
R.N. and the R.A.N. of a four-barrelled
machine-gun, all barrels firing in unison.
For use against aircraft the new weapon
is said to have done great things in
practice. In the days of my youth I
used to be taught that it was unsports-
manlike to fire into the “brown” of a
covey of partridges with a wide scatter-
ing gun ; the ideal marksman was sup-
posed to pick off his game singly, and
with a shot that could harm no others
in the flock. In war, however, as in
love, all is regarded as fair.
3jC 'Jf % %
“Finn”: Women teachers in Vic.
State schools, when resigning for mar-
riage, are required to inform the Edu-
cation Department “when, where, to
whom and by whom they propose being
married.” To adjust salary and super-
annuation payments, the department may
need to know a teacher’s married name
and address, but the other questions are
surely an impertinence. Prospective brides,
hurriedly preparing their trousseaux,
wonder whether the department will send
an officer to check up on the wedding
ceremony, and what will be the penalty
if the name of bridegroom or clergyman
does not correspond to that on the resig-
nation form.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: From the clotted mass
of twaddle and contradiction which
represents our news from the Abyssinian
seat of war, one fact seems to me to be
reasonably deducible —namely, that the
wily Ethiopian is double-crossing on the
Italian bribery system. It must annoy
Mussolini terribly, but he should have
been wiser than to hand over money to
people with noses shaped like that of
Haile Silassie without having the transac-
tion properly witnessed and stamped.
The sad fact appears to be that, after
some Ras with an unpronounceable
name has received good lire for desert-
ing to the enemy with large numbers of
fighting men, he deserts back again with
a lot of stolen rifles, and uses the money
to buy more. I am beginning to believe
that the war will wind up with Musso-
lini being sold up and Italy full of
“One of you'll have to get out. Thirteen's an unlucky number."
Abyssinian bailiffs. Just you put the
Duce’s portrait alongside Haile’s, and
tell me what hope he or any European
would have in a money transaction with
the Lion of Judah.
* * * *
“Cato”: Some of the sturdy demo-
crats who make the country’s laws at
Canberra are aggrieved, it seems, at hav-
ing to sleep two in a room, owing to
pressure on hotel accommodation. It
hurts their dignity. In the ’eighties,
Parnell’s followers in the House of
Commons had to endure much worse
hardships for their country. When Par-
liament opened they came over en
masse from Ireland, to be quartered,
most of them, in a cheap and unpreten-
tious hotel handy to Westminster, where
they were required to sleep, according to
common report, not only two in a room
but not infrequently two in a bed. Yet
they never complained or made a song
about it. Presumably in the days when
Ms.P. were unpaid they had less dignity
to hurt.
“Biltong”: Gideon Scheepers, whom
somebody has been trying to resurrect in
South Africa, may have been anything
but a Bayard, but a good deal of
sympathy was expressed for him when
he was executed. He certainly wasn’t
a spy, as somebody who claimed
to have been present at the final
shooting party has asserted in a
Sydney daily, but, as “Graaf Reinet”
says, a Cape rebel (B. 4/12/’35), and
the amount of trouble he gave is evi-
denced by the frequency with which his
name crops up in the records of the war
in its later stages. French was hot on
his trail in July, 1901, and drove him
from pillar to post; it was Colonel
Crabbe who routed Scheepers’s com-
mando at Laingsburg three months later
and killed or captured most of them.
Scheepers escaped, wounded, only to fall
into French’s hands in October. I still
recall a picture of his execution —the
condemned man was strapped in a chair,
being unable to stand upright—which
appeared in an English illustrated paper.
On the same page was a spirited repre-
sentation of King Edward lending his
official patronage to the celebrations
which marked the opening of a brewery!
9 * 9 *
“Wodgil”: Mrs. Cowan, the pioneer
Parliamentarian of her sex in Australia,
was a foundation member of the Karra-
katta, Perth's pioneer club for women.
She was also a pioneer prohibitionist.
Karrakatta has added to its pioneer-
ing by being the first women’s club in
these parts to take out a liquor license ;
any member can now get a spot on the
premises between 9 a.m. and 11 p.m.
There would have been some rousing
speeches on the same premises had the
project been lodged in Mrs. Cowan’s
time, but she has been dead for several
years.
“Findy”: “Lepre-
chaun’s” champion-
ing of Esperanto
(B. 4/12/’35) would
have no support from C. K. Ogden, who
has just published a book urging the
claims of Basic English as an inter-
national language. In the course of his
attack on the older and better-known
medium for the exchange of ideas, he
builds up a word (strictly in accordance
with Esperanto rules) the interpretation
of which is “a resort for shamefully
awkward female thrushes-in-law.” Per-
sonally, I don’t agree with Ogden. A
language which can boil all that down
to a word is well worth its salt —or
should I say its birdseed?
* * * *
“Magdala”: In reply to “Ishe Naga”
re my strictures on the alleged £lOOO
Australian horses at Addis Ababa (B.
4/12/’35) I would point out that my
criticism dealt with the fact that horses
worth that money in this country, could
be traced and identified in a moment,
and that I could find no record of such
a deal. As “1.N.” now says the horses
were bought at Bombay and the
value he placed on them was due to
the heavy cost of transport, there is no
need to pursue the matter further. The
mokes were probably racing-stable casts,
which can be bought in Bombay or
Karachi for from £3O to £5O. As to the
Emperor’s “Lancers” being mounted on
Walers, I can only say the dozens of
photographs flooding the press belie the
statement. All the comic-opera warriors
in their khaki kit I have seen are
mounted on the weedy rats which seem
to pass for Arabs in Addis Ababa. As
to pressmen going to Abyssinia at the
risk of their lives and health I can only
say that some hundreds of thousands or
Australians went abroad n 9( many yeais
ago with similar prospects in view, and
darned few of them made such a song
about it as “1.N.”
* * * *
“Jeames’s Understudy”: To prefix the
definite article to the name of a baron,
viscount, earl or marquis when his rank
is abbreviated to the courtesy designa-
tion of Lord (B. 4/12/’35) is, of course,
the sort of silly swank that might be ex-
pected of people who write company pros-
pectuses. “The Lord So-and-so is an in-
excusable betise. But The Lady This-
and-that” isn’t necessarily so. The
daughters of dukes, marquises and earls
wear the prefix “The Lady” by right
before their Christian names. However,
such courtesy noblewomen figure so
rarely as guinea-pigs that the distinction
is perhaps hardly worth a reterence.
* 9 * *
“Lordluvaduck”: When it comes to
choosing a title, as the Governor-General-
clcct will shortly have to do (B. 4/12/’35),
the almost invariable practice,except in the
case of military and naval commanders,
is to commemorate some place , with
which the peer-elect has been associated.
Something of a feudal
flavor is obtained in
this way. Of course,
there are exceptions.
When Lever, the soap
manufacturer, was en-
nobled in the war years
lie leaped into the light
of fame as Baron
Leverhulme of Bolton-
le-Moors where he
was probably born.
But when he was ele-
vated a step in the peer-
age, a few years later,
he pegged out a much
larger and romantic-
sounding section of territory for his
shadowy suzerainty, electing to be known
as “Viscount Leverhulme of the Western
Isles in the Counties of Inverness and
Ross and Cromarty.” One of the sub-
titles of the Prince of Wales is Lord of the
Isles, and it looked as if the man who
made Sunlight famous was encroaching
on the royal preserves. But Leverhulme
(who had by this time combined his
wife’s maiden name with his own for
peerage purposes) was allowed to have
his way.
* * * *
“Jindivick”: A fragment' of newspaper
was blowing about in the bush, and out
of idle curiosity I retrieved it. It proved
to be a scrap of the “S. M. Herald” of
Nov. 30, 1934, and under “Aviation
News” I read:
Amsterdam. —The Douglas 'plane that
came second in the recent England-Aus-
tralia air race will leave shortly, carrying
a Christmas air-mail and passengers, for
Batavia, endeavoring to make the return
trip in five days.
Vancouver. —Mr. C. P. T. Ulm arrived
here this morning to prepare for his forth-
coming flight to Melbourne.
Los Angeles. —Sir Charles Kingsford
Smith arrived here to-day from Oakland.
He said that in all probability he would
fly to Australia from England early in the
New Year.
What a tragical fate has come to all three
in the last 12 months!
THE KISS MUNICIPAL.
“The dailies made a .special feature of a photo-
graph showing the Laid Mayor of Sydney gallantly
kissing Miss Helen Twelvetrees.”
With eyes as blue as violets are,
With red-gold tresses all her own,
C/i/c-hatted came the talkie star
Unto the Mayoral McElhone.
His Worship rose with courtly grace;
He threw aside his chain and furs,
And folded her in close embrace
And deftly glued his lips to hers.
A chaste salute, it’s understood,
A pleasant gesture, nothing more,
That Sydney makes to Hollywood,
A smack that goes from shore to shore.
You mustn’t think “their spirits rushed
Together” when their labials met,
As when romantic Romeo crushed
Accommodating Juliet.
“ ‘ “It is no wonder,” said the lords’ ’
The aldermen, of course, I mean —
“A pleasant respite this affords
From all our drear and drab routine.”
And every Bumble envied Mac,
And studied with appraisal keen
(For future use) his easy knack
Of paying homage to a queen.
One arm about her neck
lie laid—
No very arduous task, I
wis.
“Sweet Helen,” like enough
he prayed,
“Make me immortal with
a kiss.”
She clearly didn’t mind a
rap;
She dubbed him “darling”
when they broke,
A leather, surely, in the cap
Of any osculating bloke.
With practised aim he hit
the spot;
“To meet and greet her
on her way”
As smartly off the mark he
shot
As ever King Cophetua.
What better mode, where’er
she roam,
Or eke a method half as
good,
To make a lady feel at
home
Whose habitat is Holly-
wood?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Comic Strip”: The protests of girl
swimmers against the overburden of the
racing costumes imposed on them by
the authorities remind me of the Los
Angeles-Catalina Island swim which took
place when 1 was in California a few
years ago. A number of the contestants
—men and women —wore no clothes at
all. They simply greased themselves,
after the practice of English Channel
swimmers, and they were so plastered
with the stuff that the covering might
have satisfied Queen Victoria. It was
impossible even to distinguish the men
from the women, glancing along the row
of figures which lined up at the starting-
point. I don’t know what they looked
like when they finished, but it would take
some friction to wear off a coat of
grease at least an inch thick.
* * * *
“Jane”: French was not the only
language that bothered the Diggers (B.
27/11 /’35) or their dependants. Soon
after the war one of the latter unbur-
dened her heart to me, on the brietest
acquaintance, about the unfair manner
in which she had been treated by Repat.
“But if you are a soldier's wife"—- .1
began. The lady smiled coyly and inter-
rupted with “Of course, you know I am
one of those defective wives." The
explanation puzzled me for years, until
someone mentioned that a benevolent
Government had made provision for a
returned (or unreturned) soldier's dc
facto wife.
# if * *
“Sailor”: Another inter-island old-
timer has gone to her rest, B.P.’s Mitiaro.
B.P. bought her from a New Hebrides
co. when the Malaita threw in the
sponge. The Mitiaro was originally
known as the Jolly Helen, but her
French owners renamed her the Oceania ;
to people in the Solomons she was
the Mighty Error. For all her faults
many an outstation has breathed a
sigh of relief when her smoke dis-
figured the bare horizon. Bad markets
laid her up, and she passed into old age
at her moorings. A few weeks ago the
Kuremarau, Levers’ new motor-ship,
towed her to a spot a few miles out ol
Tulagi Harbor. That she resisted half
a dozen bombs of gelignite showed that
she still had a kick in her; even
seacocks open it took six hours to sink
her. Like a good ship, she blew her
decks and went down bow first.
* * * *
“Babel”: Some of the misunder-
standings between nations obviously
arise from their unfamiliarity with each
other’s languages. Press cables began by
stating distinctly that Mussolini would
regard the imposition of oil sanctions as
a “hostile” act; later on the tension was
eased by somebody discovering that the
word should have been “unfriendly. The
Latin inimicus —I don't know what it has
become in Italian —originally meant “un-
friendly,” of course ; thence it went on
to imply enmity. In English the distinc-
tion is a marked one. In Vanity Fair
Captain Macmurdo is asked by Raw-
don Crawley why he should have
repeated certain things he had heard
about Lord Steyne and Becky. It
was damned unfriendly of you. Mac,
Rawdon tells him. Between that sort
of unfriendliness and hostility there is
clearly all the difference in the world.
* * * *
“Out West”: Can't agree with “Som-
nus” (B. 6/11 /’35) that a bout of hay
fever is a sign of rain. Every time 1 have
to feed horses (which is always drought-
time) I get it badly. The flour on baking
day sets the missus off, in more ways
than one, whether it is wet or fine. I
recently borrowed a neighbor’s old bus
for a 100-mile trip, and had hay fever
the whole way, particularly after each
time I filled the radiator. “I can quite
understand that,” remarked the owner
when I returned the car; “I put a pound
of pepper in to stop the leaks before you
set out.”
* * * *
“Bondi-ite”: Melbourne’s beaches
have already started to take their toll
of child bathers, which suggests that Mel-
bourne’s lifesaving methods could be
improved upon. The Sydney system has
been adopted and applied to totally dif-
ferent conditions. There is no surf
around Hobson's Bay, and therefore no
undertow, despite frequent assertions to
the contrary. What is mistaken for
undertow is backwash. Bathers get into
danger, not by being carried out, but by
being backwashed, or —far more fre-
quently—by walking into the many holes
in the sand. The bottom is peculiarly
irregular in many spots between Port
Melbourne and the Heads, and the non-
swimmer who strolls into a hole is liable
to drown without any of those around
him being aware of the fact. When the
alarm is given the lifesavers get out a
reel in a most expeditious fashion, but
it is quite likely to be too late. A num-
ber of light canoes scattered along the
sands would enable a lifesaver to paddle
out in a fraction of the time occupied by
swimming out with a belt.
* * * *
“Como”: Cabled that Captain Neil
McEacharn, formerly of the Guards and
“a veteran of the South African War,”
had presented the Milan Fascists with
numerous decorations and a casket given
by the City of Melbourne to his father,
Malcolm McEacharn, when Lord Mayor.
The late knight
married a daugh-
ter of Bendigo mil-
lionaire Watson,
and the lady was
far too young to
be the mother of
a boy who served
in the Boer War.
But. though it was
not generally
known, she was
the Mayor’s
second wife. Mal-
colm McEacharn
was an exceed-
ingly capable
mayor, and he
subsequently en-
tered the Federal
Parliament as
M. for Mel-
bourne. He held
the seat until Dr.
Maloney displaced
him. The defeated
one’s serio-comic
wail when the re-
sults were an-
nounced (“What
will they say in
England?”) is still
remembered.
* *
“Templar”:
N.Jus t i c e
Halse Rogers to a
prisoner convicted
of rape: “1 must
sentence you to
death, but I may
tell you that there
is not the remotest
chance of the sen-
tence being carried
out.” A few days
before, 'Sonali
had passed a
similar sentence on a young man who
had attempted a hold-up on a railway
stationmaster's office, and in trying to
escape had shot one of his pursuers, not
fatally. The same comforting assurance
didn't follow the black-cap ceremony in
that case, though it might just as safely
have done so. Our legislators are so
busy passing laws that don’t matter
that they have no time to spare for an
obsolete Criminal Code.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A biography of Gals-
worthy is appearing in serial form in
various newspapers, including Melbourne
“Age.” Among other things, it sets forth
that contemporaries at Harrow and
Oxford foresaw no particular distinction
for him. He captained the football team
at the first, and won the mile and half-
mile : at Oxford he abandoned athletics
owing to a physical overstrain, and made
no mark worth speaking of as a scholar.
In extenuation of the fact that he took
only a second in his final schools (Juris-
prudence) his biographer tells us that he
was equal first in the second class, and
was merely deprived of a first because
“the authorities could not extend the
number to include both men.” The weak
point about this—and 1 was in the same
law schools a year before Galsworthy—
is that there was no ranking then (if
there is now) of the men who obtained
honors in the different classes of the
final schools, and no limit to the number
who might be placed in any of the four.
It is interesting to read, however, that,
both as schoolboy and undergraduate,
Galsworthy had no superior in the
exquisiteness of his dress. Not often
that type of juvenile wins to the top.
“Doc.”: The organ to which "S.T.S. ’
(B. 4/12/’35) refers, with its six barrels,
each guaranteed to play six tunes, came
into my possession about 1921. It was
sold for me in 1926 by Adelaide
auctioneer Bruce ; 1 understood a show-
man bought it. Probably the auctioneer
could supply the information.
* > * «
“G.M.”: Ex-G.-G. Stonehaven has
been telling Londoners how he got some
“home-truths” from a garage-man
in N.S.W. during his stay in Australia.
It is seldom that people in high places
ever learn the facts about those among
whom they live, and distinguished visitors
are even less likely to learn them. North-
cliffc realised this. Having made a for-
tune and acquired a title, he recognised
that he was bound to lose much of the
popular outlook he had acquired as plain
All' Harmsworth. Accordingly, he took
with him everywhere a secretary and a
chauffeur, both hand-picked. While the
boss was moving in the upper suckles,
the secretary would get the strength of
things from the middle-class standpoint,
the chauffeur from that of the prole-
tariat. Once a day NorthcliHe would
go into conference with the others and
collect (he results of their observations.
“What ever & the matter?”
"That damned husband of yours has run off with my Wife!”
“Bert the Carpenter”: The old Tin-
gara being built of leak. I agree that she
f ... f . R , tl .u an
is unlikely to end as firewood when
broken up (B. 20/11 1 35). Malabar teak
is the world's best boat-building timber,
and shipwrights would rush to buy her
planking, old as it Is. Some 60 years ago
a man named Henri de Longueville was
walking along the beach between King-
ston and Robe (S.A.) when he came
across a flitch of teak, evidently part of
the deck cargo of a vessel which had
washed overboard. He carted it home;
later, a wreck lower down the coast sup-
plied him with more teak, and he built
a 40ft. cutter with it. Named the Janet,
that cutter is still sailing out of Port
Lincoln (S.A.), either on fishing trips or
taking parties of tourists to view the
scenic attractions of the islands between
Eyre Peninsula and Kangaroo Island,
And her bottom planking is still as sound
as a brass bell, although some of it has
been in the water for over 80 years.
“Laetitia”: Not all rescuers from
drowning receive the appreciation they
merit. A master mariner retired from
business made a beery arrival at an Aus-
tralian wharf just as a steamer by which
he proposed to travel had drawn up
the gangway. Talcing a chance, he
jumped, misjudged the distance and fell
into the sea. A spectator, knowing his
condition, plunged in. As they broke
surface together the mariner greeted ftis
would-be rescuer with a cheerful "Hallo!
Another silly blighter missed the boat!”
♦ * * ♦
“Marsh”: The first Australians to enter
Damascus doubtless did so as prisoners
of war, and some of these must have
been there long before "Ex-9th’s” Light
Horsemen (B. 27/11/’35). An Enzed
officer and five of his troopers who
formed an outpost party were captured
on the night Abdul started his disastrous
attack on Romani. These six were the
Turks’ first Sinai prisoners. Turco-
German headquarters posted messages in
a couple of oases intimating that all was
well with the prisoners and that they
would be well cared for in Damascus.
That was in ’l6.
* * * *
“Corporal Wanst”: Comment on the
Digger who never wore socks (B.
4/12/’35) recalls that the old-time regu-
lar soldier of the 21- and 12-ycar-service
days scorned the things, save in barracks.
On the march the feet were plentifully
greased, and the process was carefully
renewed, after a thorough washing, at
night. Foot trouble was rare in the army
in those days; with the official insistence
on socks in later days came the neces-
sity for every subaltern to become an
amateur chiropodist and muster his men
for foot inspection after every march.
0 * 0 *
“Ex-Sahib": Even if the jubilee
tamasha at Hyderabad docs cost his
Exalted Highness the Nizam a few lakhs
(B. 27/11 /’35) he can well afford it. His
annual income is
one-thirteenth of
the revenue of
Hyderabad, which
amounts to 6i mil-
lions ; apart from
this, one-tenth of
the State is his
own private prop-
erty. And he is
credited with hav-
ing some 500 mil-
lions in gold in-
gots and hard coin
and jewellery
stacked away in a
safe place. Though
nine-tenths of his
subjects are
Hindus, he him-
self is a Moham-
med a n of the
Sunni sect; but he
is a liberal patron
of all religions.
The late Nizam
made an allow-
ance of £4OOO a
year to the last
Turkish Sultan
after he had been
driven from his
dominions, and
that Sultan’s
daughter is the
present Nizam’s
wife. As long ago
as 1908 the late
Nizam had some
30 motor-cars (his
successor has 4(H))
in his private
garage at Hydera-
bad, and an Eng-
lish chauffeur used
to drive his boss
at about 40 m.p.h.
around the coun-
try. One day they ran over an old
woman and killed her. The Nizam made
such lavish compensation that for years
after there was much difficulty in clear-
ing the roads of the aged poor who haJ
been put in the way by their relatives.
* * * *
“Vavau”: Two elderly ladies, visitors
from M.L., beginning a round on the
golf links at Ba (Fiji), were horrified to
discover their two small native caddies
wearing nothing at all. One took her
club-carrier aside and suggested that he
should make an effort to procure some
garments if he wanted to be employed
again. The next time the ladies arrived
at the links they found the dusky 10-
year-old had done his best to satisfy the
conventions. He wore the discarded pink
corselettes of some benefactress, straps
over his small shoulders, suspenders
dangling about his calves. His com-
panion.” unable to compete with such
magnificence, as usual wore merely his
skin.
HANDS.
“Australian men are a little awkward. They do
not seem to know what to do with their hands.”
—Specialist from Holland.
We use them readily enough in action
When there are shafts to sink or logs to
saw,
Or any less laborious transaction
Involving cards to deal or corks to draw.
Our pugs can sock opponents on the jaw
With all the artistry the feat demands;
But, still, they reckon us a trifle raw
In dispositions of our idle hands.
Racquets and bats we grasp with an attraction
That sometimes moves the Motherland to
awe,
And, now and then, provokes dissatisfaction
In all but cynic souls like Bernard Shaw
Who doubt if any game is worth a straw.
Our braves who man the lifelines on the sands
Are sui generis. But there’s a flaw:
Outside their job they're awkward with their
hands.
Observe our legislators. Not a fraction
Of those who howl and hoot, or hem and
haw,
Who roar applause or simmer with detraction,
Who deal in lusty cheer or loud guffaw,
Knows in what graceful attitude his paw
Should rest when on his feet no more he stands
To man a Ministry or make a law—
He’s absolutely hopeless with his hands.
Come, Prince, your hoof —your bunch o’ lives —
your claw—
With all the easy grace of foreign lands!
Here is a bullet we have to chew:
We’ve no idea where to put our hands.
N.S.W,
IFORD.


c %v
A'
20/erl'6
10 for 9 d
For real quality
Virginia Tobacco . ...
and for your throat’s
sake — smoke
CRAVENA
J.855
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
" * i ''h/.
Wi
THE CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
MUNfMin
POLITICAL POINTS
Saying it would never extend the
sales tax on flour, the Lyons Govern-
ment has extended it—for six months.
Meanwhile a vast bulk of bills provid-
ing for a home-consumption price is
accumulating in the wheatgrowing
States, S.A. excepted, and at Canberra.
They will be worthless, except for fire-
kindling purposes, if the Privy Council
finds for the plaintiff in James v. the
Commonwealth: the Privy Council has
granted leave to appeal.
Curtin saw his first hurdle ahead when
White introduced the bill renewing the
sugar agreement for five years. The man
from Fremantle could afford neither to
alienate Queensland Labor by opposing
the measure or damning it with faint
praise, nor to offend Westralian con-
sumers by championing it; so he ran
off, as it were —left the job to Forde,
the man he defeated for the leadership.
Forde took it in his stride.
An ancient mariner bobbed up at the
Sydney meeting of seamen and others
that rejected the arbitration award. He
said he had been in every seamen’s
strike since Bob Guthrie’s day, “and
we’ve always been licked.” Other re-
marks of this unit in the never-victorious
army were “lost in roars of abuse,” and
he “had to resume his seat.”
Tas. Labor “intervened” in the ship-
ping strike by imploring the union not
to deprive the Speck of steamers just
when it was expecting a record rush of
trippers with money to burn. Its repre-
sentations were contemptuously rejected.
What a picnic the militants would have
if the Commonwealth put another
Government-owned line on the Tas-
manian run! That is what Tas. Labor
has been demanding that it should do.
N.S.W. aldermen were solemnly warned
that if they absented themselves from
council meetings during the period when
mayors had to be elected they would be
liable to a £2 fine for each offence. The
politicians who passed the law may
absent themselves from meetings of Par-
liament for months without forfeiting
their right to collect their Parliamentary
pay. It is grand to be a politician.
Cerutty’s last report shows how much
the Lyons Government is indebted to
J. Bull for the favorable financial situa-
tion which has enabled it to distribute
“special grants” galore. Since June
30, 1931, J.B. has never asked for in-
terest and sinking-fund payments on the
£80,000,000 of war debt owed to him
under the funding agreement. The
retiring A.-G. estimates the amount re-
mitted at £6,900,000 p.a.
Mr. Have-a-heart, the Douglas Credit
Premier of Alberta, continues to be har-
ried with demands for payment of the
“national dividend” of $25 a month—
some of his followers promised it “before
Christmas.” He now says it won't
materialise “until some time after Major
Douglas has visited Alberta to lay down
a plan.” Also,
Declaring that critical times are ahead,
he urges the people to offer up prayers.
This looks like putting the onus on
Providence.
People arriving from the U.S.A. con-
firm newspaper reports that things are
much better there, and that the Ameri-
cans are nevertheless turning on Roose-
velt. They deny him credit for the im-
provement, and accuse his Government
of having raised the national debt to
stupendous heights, in the process spend-
ing madly on mad things. The President
himself, campaigning for a renomina-
tion, announces that he is scrapping ex-
travagant features of his programme and
borrowing another $900,000,000, bring-
ing the national debt to $30,488,000,000.
Rather reminiscent of Kipling’s Jones,
who “bade farewell to Mrs. Boffins in
one last, long, lingering fit.”
Recent figures furnish definite evidence
of the value of a Queensland Labor
Minister, compared with that of his aver-
age employed supporter. In September
the average weekly wage was £4 Bs. lOd.
—say £220 p.a. The 10 Ministers cut up
£10,300 p.a., or rather less than the wages
of 47 employed men; in addition, they drew
£6528 for travelling expenses—about the
wages of 30 more employed men. The
Ten, who are wearing themselves out in
the job of defending the downtrodden
worker against the bloated capitalist, are
thus assessable at about eight down-
trodden workers apiece.
Westralia’s Auditor-General, C. S.
Toppin, has held his job since 1904 and
is rising 70. Asked when he was likely
to retire, Collier said he didn’t know.
Toppin, it seems, can hang on indefinitely
unless both Houses ask the Governor to
remove him. Even if the Governor sus-
“It’s enough to make a fellow turn the game up!"
pended him “for incapacity, incompet-
ence or misbehavior,” and the Assembly
backed the Ministers tendering the advice,
“another place” could veto the suspen-
sion by not endorsing it. It will be
awkward if the old gentleman starts hit-
ting out in all directions, as Cerutty did.
Rumania has defaulted in payment of
interest to British bondholders. The de-
fault has angered those parties extremely,
for, in common with other foreign
creditors, they had agreed to remit most
of the Rumanian interest due for three
years from July, 1934, 65 p.c. being re-
linquished in 1935-36. Moreover, the
Rumanians had arranged to set aside 30
p.c. of surplus foreign exchange for
payment of interest, and London bitterly
avers that they have an ample margin.
Australia is interested to some extent,
since it took 5 p.c. Rumanian bonds,
alleged to be the equivalent of £120,000
sterling, for war wheat supplied. It has
received nothing since 1931, when a
whole £5400 had been paid off the
principal.
To enable the Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board to spend another
£15,000,000 of loan money, Stevens and
co. are “writing off” £11,450,000 of
£24,638,000 it owes the Government. The
excuse is that interest and sinking fund
are crippling its operations. In other
words, the board having been grossly
extravagant in the past, Stevens and co.
are condemning the taxpayers —nearly
half of whom are not in its territory—
to make substantial sacrifices in order
that it may be grossly extravagant in
the future. And this is a Government of
accountants!
Particulars of a rumpus between the
head of the Canadian delegation at
Geneva and the Government at Ottawa
have been belatedly reported. The
gentleman took it upon himself to sug-
gest to the Committee of Eighteen that
“sanctions should be extended to oil, coal
and by-products, iron and steel.” When
the Government heard about it, it tartly
announced that he had spoken out of his
turn, and sent him marching orders;
while packing up for Chile, he asked the
committee to note that “the proposed oil
embargo should not be called ‘the
Canadian proposal.’ ” This was de-
scribed by the chairman, a Portuguese,
as “Canada’s repudiation of having
taken the initiative regarding the pro-
posed oil sanctions.” The “collective-
security system” admits of obscure
foreigners being cheeky to Governments
exercising their right to manage their
own affairs in their own way.
Vic. Milk Board estimates that zoning
of deliveries will mean a saving of
£300,000 p.a. to Melbourne people.
Reduction in the retail price, already a
halfpenny a quart less than Sydney has to
pay, is expected to be a halfpenny a quart.
To people used to the kind of “control”
under which Sydney suffers (the Gov-
ernment promised to amend it, but the
amendment has been postponed till
“next session”) it seems almost too good
to be true.
For the year to June 30, measured in
sterling, Australian imports from Britain
were valued at £30,788,929, Australian
exports to Britain at £50,770,159; Aus-
tralian imports from the U.S.A. at
£11,041,660, Australian exports to the
U.S.A. at £2,201,951. Coincidently with
the publication of the figures, Lyons and
co. announced the removal of the ban
on imports of American aircraft. This
will, in effect, promote the trade of a
bad customer at the expense of a good
one —the very best, in fact —at a time
when invisible, as well as visible, im-
ports from the bad customer are increas-
ing as a result of heavily subsidised
competition with British shipping.
Vic. Lands Minister Lind believes that
attack is the best defence. Melb. Univer-
sity, which has been starved financially
by successive Governments, he denounced
as a collection of ramshackle buildings on
a stretch of neglected land with a mud
hole in the middle. The criticism is
possibly justified, but, as Vice-Chancellor
Priestley retorted, it is equivalent to
paying a man starvation wages and then
chiding him for not being well-dressed.
The University, in Priestley’s words, is
not being paid a living wage.
A strange anomaly was revealed in Vic.
Assembly when it was reported that, in
its endeavors to police the awards regard-
ing working time, the Labor Department
staff had itself accumulated 3000 hours
of overtime. Much of its work is ren-
dered futile by reason of the fact that
insufficient evidence is forthcoming to
warrant a prosecution.
Publication of automobile club statis-
tics has prompted the Vic. Railway De-
partment to claim that not one passenger
has been killed on its railways during the
past seven years, though 1,300,000,000
passenger journeys were made. It admits
49 deaths on or about railways in 1934,
but explains that deceased were tres-
passers and employees and people hit on
level crossings.
“Sordid and disgraceful” was the N. S.
Wales Chief Justice’s comment on “the
state of affairs disclosed by the evidence”
in a Supreme Court action brought by
W. R. C. Bagnall, ex-M.L.A., against E.
S. Moulton, director of the National
Tobacco Corp., claiming £12,000 dam-
ages for breach of contract. Bagnall and
Amalgamated Forests, it seems, were
parties to a Pomonal (Vic.) land deal in-
volving the Tobacco Corp.; and Bagnall
became entitled to 4000 shares in
National Tobacco, 750 of which he gave
to Senator Foil. Evidence showed that
land bought for £1 15s. an acre (£3500
altogether) had been passed on to the
tobacco co. for £l6 an acre (£32,000
altogether); “the company,” the Chief
Justice said, “was robbed at its birth,”
and “plaintiff’s share in the plunder was
between £6OOO and £7000.” Bagnall was
awarded £5OO by the jury. .Senator Foil
has said since that he was out of
Australia when the shares were allotted
to him ; he attended one meeting of the
Corp., resigned from the board and
returned his shares to Bagnall.
“0.P.H.”: In these prosaic days in
Commonwealth politics, the full-blooded
mixed metaphors which used so to de-
light the galleries and the public are all
too rare. Nairn, the Perth lawyer, per-
petrated a good one in speaking on the
sugar bill; he declared solemnly that if
the Queensland canegrowers had to take
world’s price for sugar they “wouldn’t
earn their salt.” Next day James, the
burly member for Hunter, complained
Spoonerishly of the iniquity of the “tales
sax.”
From Canberra:
Pearce has been trying to defend the Senate
for allowing itself to be effaced by the other
House. His great point was that the Senate
had sat 2700 hours in nine years. The defender
having sat down, well pleased with himself,
the Senate put through six important bills in
a few hours. The fact is that it has become
a mere machine for registering the decisions of
the Representatives. It has no individuality
of its own. That is why it is so little men-
tioned in the daily press, except in a tone of
bare tolerance.


“HE CALLS HIMSELF THE HEIR OF ALL THE AGES!


l
SINGLE
SHELL
OIL
S.A.E.30
SUMMER RECOMMENDATION
for these cars:
MOTOR
is the
1934 and 1935 MODELS
L.Q.4Q-B
PERSONAL ITEMS
Literally E. P. Tresidder, whose eager
pose has been so well caught by Horner,
is “The Man from Ironbark.” He was
born there—it is near Bendigo—and his
father was a coachbuilder when gold was
still booming. E.P. went into a bakery,
and, having learnt to knead dough and
many of the other things which a young-
ster in a mining district acquires, he
Sydney’s Alderman TRESIDDER.
came to Sydney 25 years ago and started
a firm to make cakes. He now makes
enough cakes in a year to feed an A.1.F.,
and between whiles is an alderman, hav-
ing served, before entering the Sydney
City Council, for 14 years in Rand wick
—four of them as Mayor. He is now in
the running for the Lord Mayoralty. He
had one term as M.L.A. for Randwick,
but went out in the landslide of 1930.
In a moment of indignation, a fellow
M.L.A. described him as “that bloke
with the German name.” Whatever the
merits of that legislator, he certainly was
not a Cousin Jack.
An academic romance is recalled by
the appointment of Dan Taylor, of Perth,
as senior lecturer on philosophy at Mel-
bourne University. Taylor went to
Oxford on a W.A. scholarship, a lady
graduate of Perth Uni. doing the same.
At Oxford they studied together, and
eventually married ; but under the terms
of the scholarship Mrs. Taylor forfeited
ail her financial advantages by marrying.
All the same, they continued their respec-
tive courses, living on the allowance of
the one scholarship, and the final black-
out of this story with the happy ending
revealed them graduating at Oxford
simultaneously.
E. H. S. Burhop, who succeeds the bril-
liant C. E. Eddy—now devoting himself
specially to cancer problems—as research
physicist at Melbourne University, is one
of Maorilander Lord Rutherford’s young
men who have been working on nuclear
physics and wave mechanics at the Cav-
endish Lab. in Cambridge.
London “Daily Telegraph” is bringing
out an Australian supplement, and has
sent' Captain Cecil Price, one of its
senior men, on a tour of the States to
gather the material. A brisk little man
who has travelled widely, Captain Price
can talk as well as he can write ; dis-
covering this fact, Sydney’s Constitu-
tional Association grabbed him for a
racy address. He had “Reynolds’s News-
paper” and Manchester “Guardian”
training before the “D.T.” snapped him
up, and, as he puts it, he “did a spot of
soldiering” in 1914-18.
From a man who has studied both:
The U.A.P. chose wisely in selecting Menzies
as deputy-rleader. Parkhill, who was his nearest
rival, has no equipment for leadership. Labor,*
knowing his knack of setting people by the
ears and his strong Freetrade tendencies, had
been praying fervently that he would be chosen.
There is a story that Parkhill, who had been
putting up a keen fight for the vacant post,
suddenly slackened his efforts on Menzies’s
friends letting it be understood that he would
inevitably hold high office in any Menzies
Ministry and that a title would soon be arriv-
ing; but, of course, there is nothing in it.
Menzies is the most distinguished recruit to
Commonwealth politics since Watt came from
the Vic. Parliament. Superb on the platform
and devastating in debate, he is the one mian
in the House for whom the Lang section has
a wholesome respect. Ward is still licking his
wounds after a clash with the Attorney-General.
The motor accident continues to take
its toll —in the space of a few days it
has robbed Sydney of two men with
troops of friends ; Vincent Rosich and
Aubrey Price. Motorist, golfer and
omnivorous reader, Rosich was Sydney
manager of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank. Price was a pioneer radio dealer
in Sydney with a flair for fast
water craft—his Miss Radio made a
record from Sydney to Newcastle last
year—and for a decade he had taken a
prominent part in the affairs of the
N.S.W. Royal Motor Yacht Club, of
which recently he was appointed secre-
tary. Young as he was at the end (only
37) he served in the A.I.F. and was badly
knocked.
The short, vigorous form of E. O.
Erickson is well known in Australian
capitals as that of
a young Australian
who has gone
ahead very quickly.
A Victorian, he
had his first job
with Fords, went
to General Motors
and Texas Oil, and
last year, at 32, was
appointed manag-
ing director of
Pepsodent (Austra-
lasia). The head
office of his com-
pany has invited
him to U.S.A.
early next year.
The latest big
mining man to in-
vade Fiji is A. A.
Boyd, till re-
cently g.m. at Mt.
Morgan, who has
gone to Suva to
superintend the
taking over of op-
tions on a new
Pepsodent’s Australian manager.
field for Mt. Morgan Developments.
A typical Glaswegian, cautious and
thorough, he has been in Australia
since 1889. For some years he was min-
ing manager for the 8.H.P., then of
Wallsend Colliery (N.S.W.), which he
left to succeed Captain Richard in charge
of Mt. Morgan. At 69, he still has the
vigor of most men two-thirds of his age,
and he has a great opinion of the Aus-
tralian working miner.
Stuart Donaldson, 95th Bishop of
Salisbury, just dead, used to say with
pride that, though he was not Aus-
tralian-born, he would have liked to be..
“My father,” he said, “was a great mer-
chant of Sydney”—he was also Aus-
tralia’s first Premier —“and that had as
much romance for me as if he had been
a great merchant of Bagdad out of the
Arabian Nights” The bishop was a Lon-
doner, and his father died when he was four
years old. He was sent to Eton, and after
taking a classical first class at Trinity
College, Cambridge, he was ordained by
the Archbishop of Canterbury. At 39 he
was a rural dean; at 41 he became
Archbishop of Brisbane. His tail,
gaitered figure—he was always the imma-
culate prelate—was familiar in its streets
for 17 years; he was often to be seen
walking in from Bishopsbourne with
a couple of small boys. He was a
sound picker of men. He brought
Frewen Le Fanu, chaplain of Guy’s Hos-
pital, out to be Archdeacon of Brisbane,
and made him his financier. Le Fanu is
now Archbishop of Perth and Primate of
Australia. Donaldson’s chaplain, Batty,
became Bishop of Newcastle, and many
of his locally-trained Australians hold
good livings both in Australia and Eng-
land. When in 1921 he transferred from
his frugal Brisbane quarters to England’s
most noted early-English cathedral, with
its rich revenues, precious Jewel Library
and other amenities, which it takes even
a bishopric 700 years to build, Austra-
lian visitors approached him diffidently
at first, but a seat in the Lords had made
no difference to him. The old, familiar
Brisbane retainer opened the door of the
palace to them, and they always found
the Lord Bishop with time to be hos-
pitable.
W. P. Bishop, the new S.A. Commis-
sioner of Taxes, has probably had as
wide an experience as any man of his
age in the service. At 41, he has
served in the Treasury, Irrigation,
Lands and Survey and Audit depart-
ments, and as inspector in the last-named
he investigated the affairs of Adelaide
Gas and Electric Light, Government
Produce, Harbors Board and Metro-
politan Abattoirs. For the past 18
months he has been Assistant Auditor-
General.
There is an ironic twist about the
appointments of leaders by the British
Labor and Liberal
parties. The Lib-
erals, weaned and
nourished on Lloyd
George’s policy of
breaking up big
estates, have chosen
one of Britain’s
greatest 1 a n d-
holders, Sir Archi-
bald Sinclair,
whose chief ad-
dress is a castle
planted among
some of his
100,000 acres in
Caithness. He was
Secretary for Scot-
land in the
National Govern-
ment for about a
year. The Labor
party has re-chosen
Major C. R. Attlee,
who is English
public school
(Haileybury) and
a graduate of one
of Oxford’s most select and ancient col-
leges—University. However, he re-
deemed himself by becoming a lecturer
in social science at the London School
of Economics and a pillar of the Fabian
Society, and for this an ardent participa-
tion in the war, during which he held
a commission, was forgiven him by the
anti-war wing of his supporters. He was
P.M.G. in 1931, and a member of the
Indian Statutory Commission in 1927.
The tale of an all-Australian airman :
The mild-looking bomb-swinger in Ray
Whiting’s picture is Group-Captain Adrian
Cole, who left Melbourne Grammar at 19 to
join the A.I.F. He came home at 23 a cap-
tain, with the D.F.C. and the A.F.C. and an
expansive knowledge of Palestine and French
geography and the memory of a hundred ex-
Group-Captain ADRIAN COLE,
R.A.A.F.
petitions and fights. On March 5, 1917, while
directing the fire of a battleship on Jaffa, he
had his petrol tank pierced, and was forced
to land. At Tel el Sheria in August his Mar-
tinsyde was hit by a piece of shell, and Colonel
Williams, of Moonta, flew down and picked
him up in enemy country after he had burnt his
machine. He was in the bombing of Ramleh,
and when Le B. Brown was forced down on
the way home he and another pilot landed
beside him and destroyed his B.E. At the
end of the year Cole went to England to help
train new squadrons, and next turned up in
France in conflict with a Pfalz circus near
Bray. He took to “train-strafing” around Lille
in July, 1918, and from then onwards was an
attendant at every dogfight of No. 2 Squad-
ron and some big raids, such as the one on
Haubourdin ’drome when he and his merry
men made mincemeat of 37 machines. He fol-
lowed up two days later with a scrap which
started at 17,000 ft., and in which he had for
a time to handle five Fokkers single-handed,
after he had shot down a couple. He was in
three more big engagements, the last on
October 28. He has since graduated at the
Air Staff College, and is Air Member of the
R.A.A.F. Supply Board.
Another victim of the dreadful north-
ern climate has got his picture into the
papers—William Warne, 100 not out.
He came to Queensland from England
in 1887, “farmed the land and milked
cows —and this is the way a man should
live.”
Australians appear to have a strangle-
hold on the professorship of physiology
in the Medical School of Singapore. For
a long time it was held by a versatile
Queenslander, Argyle Campbell, who had
been assistant to Professor Schafer at
Edinburgh and who left his students and
the Straits Settlement cricket team, of
which he was a star member, to become
a sapper in the 4th Pioneers during the
war. The latest man to get the job is 30-
year-old D. H. K. Lee, educated at
Mackay (Q.) State school, Nudgee Col-
lege and Queensland University before
going to London University as Sharpey
Scholar, and to Harvard at the expense
of the Rockefeller Foundation.


i*'
VT'
J
V
\\\
w
A
s'.
/
:\Y '
AT=
***
->
4t Z.
/ J
* -
tf
/
A/
I
/
\\ 'V \
! '%
Jv
I
yA
&S 0&
]/lmMtc\
*-=>
DUNOLLIE CASTLE
(ARGYLLSHIRE)
In response to many requests, Dewar's have
ordered for their patrons a supply of etching
reproductions of this picture on heavy Esparto,
in a size suitable for framing, and free of all
advertising matter whatsoever.
To secure a copy, send your name and
address to John Dewar 6 Sons Ltd., Melbourne
or Sydney. Please mention this paper, date,
and title of illustration required.
G rim and grey above Oban, stands Dunoliie,
the ancient stronghold of the MacDougals of Lome,
subsequently captured and held by the Campbells. Here
in this picturesque pile is the famous Brooch of Lome.
After the battle of Dairy, in 1306, Robert Bruce slew the
three brothers, MacDougals, who pursued him together, but
he left in the grasp of one of them the brooch which fastened
his plaid. As the past and the present meet in Dunoliie
... so in Dewar’s, genuine age gives present enjoyment.
D E W A R’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
the spirit of old Scotland


gjs OH?£R CORDIALS
“Curvilinear” Ore Concentrator
ĺ
THE MOST EFFICIENT Con-
centrator on the market, and
suitable for all classes of ores.
The unique action of this table
separates the minerals according
to their specific gravity, and so
enables even an unskilled
operator to get the highest
recovery possible. Other advan-
tages are its simplicity, small
floor space and light weight for
transportation. Owing to the
absence of intricate moving parts, annoying and expensive breakdowns "are eliminated
and maintenance costs reduced to a minimum.
Send for our Bulletin which fully describes the table; demonstrations given by
appointment.
Used throughout the Commonwealth and exported in large numbers to South Africa
and the East.
Capacity up to 1-J tons per hour. Our 2ft. dia. cone classifier should be a part of
every mine equipment where concentrators are used.
Send us your inquiries for all Mining Equipment, Explosives and Accessories.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Mining Engineers,
10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
odtaP
A PENNY
AN HOUR
| “The whole cost of fuel—freight |
1 and cartage included—is just Id. |
| an hour.'* |
| (Extract from “R-an-D" Diesel g
| Engine user’s letter.)
| All details from any of the following: =
| ADELAIDE: Adelaide Car and |
Tractor Co., Ltd.
1 PERTH: Flower, Davies, Johnson, 1
| Ltd. |
| AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Mac Ewan’s I
| Machinery, Ltd. |
| Or from the Manufacturers. 1
/• . MADE lAJ EY
RAPSON& DUTTON PTY LTD
.••VALLEY ‘. BRISBANE ■ ■ M
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1925.. 979,383 124 p.c.= 750,000 229,383 4,530,755
1926.1,099,559 124 „ ~ 750,000 349,559 4,880,314
Bank of Western Australia absorbed.
Net reserves taken over, £600,851.. 5,481,165
1927. 1,226,247 124 p.c.= 886,797 339,150 5,820,615
1928. 1,184,943 12| „ ~936,905 248,038 6,068,653
1929.. 994,825 10 „ „ 750,000 244,825 6,313,478
1930.. 734,699 9J „ „ 731,250 3,449 6,316,927
1931.. 565,236 8 „ „ 619,200 -r- 6 262.963
1932.. 462,967 5£ „ ~ 460,950 2,017 6,264,980
1933.. 439,616 5 „ „ 439,000 616 6,265,596
1934.. 439,739 5 „ 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
The growth of £2921 in admitted net
earnings for the last term suggests but
little improvement in trading conditions.
Movements in balance-sheet figures and
trade statistics generally, however, point
to a more definite turn of the tide. For
the year to June 30 last, the total volume
of external trade (exports plus imports,
£164,168,000) was £4,884,000 better (due
to growth of imports), exchange rates be-
tween Australia and London remained
steady, while locally Commonwealth
sales-tax receipts were about 2 p.c.
higher, notwithstanding a reduction in
the rate of tax.
Slump ushered in a period during
which savings ran ahead of investments,
and the cost of deposits, which continued
to pile up, pressed heavily upon earn-
ings. For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, a contraction of
£1,436,990 in the co.’s deposits was
accompanied by a growth of £8,189,561
net in advances, raising them to 83 p.c.
of deposits as against 72.8 p.c. and 89.9
p.c. in ’34 and ’29 respectively; low-
interest-bearing liquids were drawn upon
for £9,098,552:
1 QO A 1 QO-I -100,1 IQ9K
Notes ..
Bills,
etc. . 10,049,549 4,264,758 5,687,256 6,468,117
Deposits 50,068,085 69,388,093 91,840,970 90,403,980
Liquids 29,289,187 31,119,729 43,648,905 34,550,353
Advances 39,425,089 55,109,240 66,932,897 75,122,458
Premises 820,000 1,800,000 2,400,000 2,500,000
The contraction in deposits arose mainly
from increased imports, fall in wool
prices, repatriation of foreign balances
and special tourist expenditure on
account of the King’s silver jubilee cele-
brations. The September quarterly bank-
ing averages show that 67.3 p.c. of the
co.’s Australian deposits was interest-
bearing as against 70.7 p.c. a year earlier.
Besides further assisting old clients, the
management was able to “expand the
business of the bank,” and “the quality
of advances generally has improved.”
Together with Government borrowing,
it all meant a drain on the co.’s cash re-
serves (down £4,216,600 net). To help
replenish cash, etc., Government securi-
ties (dowii £5,184,410) were sold here and
in London, and the holding of Treasury
bills was reduced by £920,000:
1934. 1935.
Cash, bullion, etc £14,396,166 £10,179,566
Notes other banks .. .. 2,087 10
Call money, London . . 490,000 1,280,000
Treasury bills .. . . 6,455,000 5,535,000
Public securities .. . . 16,926,495 11,742,085
Due by other banks . . 526,671 685,506
Bills receivable, etc., London 4,852,486 5,128,186
£43,648,905 £34,550,353
When the books closed liquids amounted
to 35.6 p.c. of the liabilities to the public
as against 44.6 p.c. in ’34 and 36.5 p.c.
in ’29. Although the ratio of cash to
deposits dropped as low as 11.2 p.c.
(15.6 p.c. in ’34), cash plus Treasury bills
was 17.3 p.c. of deposits, which was a
little higher than the cash ratio (16.9 p.c.)
in ’29. Treasury bills have a currency
of three months, and, by arrangement
with the Commonwealth Bank, can be
discounted on request.
Taking the mean between the amount
of public securities and Treasury bills
held at the beginning and end of the
term, and assuming that the average
return from the former was 34 p.c. and
from the latter If p.c., then the two
sources combined turned in £606,612.
The year’s tax bill (income, land and
other taxes) was £23,272 lighter at
£162,539. Without allowing any other
costs, the net return from the two
sources referred to was £444,073. Accord-
ing to the published figures, appearances
are, therefore, that the rest of the busi-
ness brought in little or no profit.
The £442,660 of profit reported was
2.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), or a shade over
5 p.c. on the £8,780,000 of capital alone,
as against 5,5, 5.3, 7.5, 9.8, 13.3, 15.8
and 17.3 p.c. back to 1927. The div.
was kept at 5 p.c. ; until a little over
four years ago the co. had not paid less
than 9 p.c. since the old co-partnery
closed its existence in 1850.
As for the current term, the stage is
set for better earnings. At £32 17s. 6d.
the £2O shares return 3.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c,
div. basis. The investor who looks for
4.3 p.c. on his money, plus capital pro-
fits if he cares to take them, counts on
a 7 p.c. div., which would call for
£614,600.
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
r Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards
Sept., Profit. 7 p.e. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., “Guardian,” £577,470 .. 577,470
Preliminary exes., £15,073 .. .. 592,543
1930.. 102,453 95,312 Nil 7,141 585,402
Added preliminary exes,, £7B ~. .. 585,480
4£ p.c.
1931.. 66,631 66,914 Nil 585,763
74 p.c.
1932.. 106,153 106,710 Nil 586,320
3. Bennett shares written down,
£465,500 .. ~ .. .. 1,051,820
Reserves.
Ord. capital written off, £1,052,121.. 301
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1933.. 155,793 80,811 52,635 22,347 22,648
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 2,648
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 175,651 89,412 63,162 23,077 25,725
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .'. 5,725
1935.. 176,771 89,437 63,187 24,147 29,872
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 9,872
to N. S’. Wales Interest Reduction Act
from October 1, 1931.
Sun Newspapers, Ltd., carries the baby,
and it looks like continuing to do so —
for a while, at any rate. This Asso-
ciated Cos., formed in 1929, generously
exchanged £3,135,930 of its own scrip for
the shares, or all but a fraction of them,
in Sun Newspapers (paid capital,
£900,000 ; chief publications, daily and
Sunday “Sun”) and S. Bennett (paid capi-
tal £425,000 ; chief publication, “Evening
News”). Then £575,000—£400,000 m
prefs. and the balance cash —-was paid
for the goodwill of the daily and Sun-
day “Guardian.” Associated thus
entered the slump period with a top-
heavy capital structure, and the outlook
for the ords. became filled with pitch. To
protect the earnings of the chief con-
tributors to the pool, publication of the
“Guardian,” “Telegraph Pictorial” and
“Evening News” —they had all become
more or less lame —was discontinued.
The “Daily Telegraph” was afterwards
revived.
All this was not enough, notwithstand-
ing that retailers and the picture cos.
spent more on advertising as conditions
improved. So 10s. per share (£1,052,120)
was slashed off the ords. in 1933, when
they got into the picture for the first
time was 5 p.c. The £1,052,120 was
used to rub out the £577,470 at which
the “Guardian” had been capitalised, to-
gether with £9150 of preliminary exes.,
and to lop £465,500 off the figure at
which the Bennett Co.’s shares appeared,
reducing it to £171,982. The prefs. were
not interfered with. Paid capital now
stands at £2,544,161 in 1,490,830 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. (subject to the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act) and 1,053,331
ords.
During the last term the income from
subsidiaries was £2447 lighter at
£194,805. The lot, or all but a fraction
of it, appears to have come from the
highly-profitable Sun Co.’s business.
Visibly, the Bennett Co. made a loss of
£12,155 (£849 less than in ’34), not taken
into account in this holding co.’s p. and
1. figures, which compare as follows: —
1931. 1934. 1935.
From subsidiaries . . £103,908* £197,252 £194,805
Exes 37,277 21,601 18,034
Net £66,631 £175,651 £176,771
* After deducting loss on “Guardian,” £15,777.
Including £10,000 (down £1000) reserved
for taxation, exes, were £3567 lighter.
Leaving out of the reckoning £20,000 set
aside for depreciation, “full provision for
which.... has been made in the allied
cos.’ accounts,” the net result (£176,771,
up £1120) was a shade under 7 p.c. on
capital. An all-round 6 p.c. was dis-
tributed, the same as in the previous
year.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging : —
1930. 1934. 1935.
Preference . . £1,483.999 £1,490,192 £1,490,830
Ordinary .. 2,093,001 1,052,693 1,053,331
Sundry creditors.. 148,927 123,230 112,862'
Smith’s Newspapers 140,000 21,000 —
Shares in other cos. 3,135,930 2,689,459 2,690,735
Stocks . . . . 41,500 34,857 39,218
Sundry debtors, etc. 101,530 135,339 58.586
Equipment . . 1,564 — —
To meet the final payment (£21,000) to
Smith’s on account of the “Guardian,”
and clip £10,368 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., debtors’ bal-
ances were reduced by £76,753. Share-
holdings figure at £1,191,837 more than
their net tangible book value. The whole
of the ord. capital and a fraction of the
pref. capital are thus unrepresented by
tangibles in the books.
Since the close of accounts, Asso-
ciated and Sydney Newspapers, Ltd.--
the last-named, in which E. G. Theodore
and D. F. H. Packer are the prin-
cipal shareholders, publishes “Women's
Weekly”—have agreed to form a new
co. Nominal capital will be £750,000 in
£1 shares, of which 265,000 paids and
125,000 paids are to be issued for the
goodwill of “Women’s Weekly” and the
“Telegraph” respectively. The new co.
will also pay £95,000 (cash) for the
“Evening News” building and £35,000
(in shares) for the “Evening News” plant.
The amount of capital to be raised in
cash is £250,000 ; the talk is that the public
may be asked for some or all. What
divs., if any, the new co. will be able
to pay remains to be seen ; much de-
pends upon what can be done with the
“Telegraph.” The Associated group will
receive 160,000 shares and £95,000 cash
from the new concern. In Feb. last,
Sydney Newspapers had a paid capital
of £22,058, and there was £9050 of calls
unpaid.
Doubtful whether an early lift in Asso-
ciated’s div. need be looked for, the
market prices the ords. at 24s. 7d. and
the prefs. at 24s. The return at these
figures is 4.8 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively
on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £ -P £ £
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 p.c. = 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927.. 39,409 27,790 51 p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil — 43,715
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,02'9
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 — 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4,347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 „ „ 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 18,315 94,080
This co. has put up a very encouraging
performance. The 300,000 ords., or all
but a handful of them, are held by Myer
Emporium, Melbourne, which bought
control from the Marshalls in 1928 —the
name was then changed to the present
title —paying 30s. each for two-thirds of
the holding; the other third was taken
later at par. Public interest is confined
to the prefs.—loo,ooo As and 297,000
Bs, both 7 p.c. cumulative and ranking
in the order stated for dividends and
capital.
The new management adopted a vigor-
ous trading policy, similar to that which
proved successful in the parent’s own
State. There was a quick clearance of
stocks, and profits almost disappeared in
1929. Then the organisation was over-
hauled, premises were remodelled, atten-
tion was given to the manufacture of
some of the co.’s requirements locally
—Holden’s old King William-street free-
hold was bought to house some of the
manufactures—and earnings continued to
improve each year, despite slump.
During the last term there was a sharp
spring of £54,213 in gross earnings
(£346,268), notwithstanding the State’s
lighter wool cheque. Including £13,000
(down £2000) set aside for taxation, exes.
(£279,163) took £40,231 of the increase.
The net result, which benefited by
£13,982, was the best yet; after pay-
ing the pref. divs., enough remained
to show 13.1 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 8.4, 6.4, 5.7, 3.4 and 2.1
p.c. back to 1930. A point was added
to the div., making it 7 p.c., worth 5.2 p:c.
to the parent; money was wanted in the
business to carry more stocks owing to
larger trading.
Finances are comfortable:
1929. 1931. 1934. 1935
Capital . . £697,000 £697,00'0 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 307,869 166,047 250,524 243,283
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 495,578 491,852 554,400 553,614
Furniture,
plant, etci.. 112,467 112,907 110,954 105,666
Stocks . . 296,240 241,722 252,789 284,454
Book debts . . 158,490 102,924 129,230 117,110
Cash. . . . . 5,551 10,351 13,810 10,414
The growth of £31,665 in stocks and
drop of £12,120 in debtors’ balances sug-
gest livelier cash trading. The outside
debt consists of £177,971 (up £13,727) of
deposits and £65,312 (down £20,968)
coming to trade creditors and the bank.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£168,695) was
£23,390.
The market prices the A shares at
28s. and the Bs at 265. 10d., at which
figures the return is 5 p.c. and 5.2 p.c.
respectively. After allowing for the div.
on the A shares (it was over 9\ times
covered), the balance of the year’s net
.earnings nearly three times covered the
Bs’ annual requirements. The net tan-
gible backing was £7 18s. 2d. As and
£2 6s. 6d. Bs.
Clifford Love and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 28,100 12$ p.c. = 21,138 6,962 53,526
1926.. 28,989 125,, „ 21.138 7,851 61,377
1927.. 28,757 124 „ „ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. 32,337 124 „ „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 12 4,, „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
1930.. 27,633 12$ „ „ 26,423 1,210 81,721
1931.. 25,539 10 „ „ 21,138 4,401 86,122
1932.. 23,125 10 „ „ 21,138 1,987 88,109
1933.. 25,320 10 „ „ 21,138 4,182 92,291
Premiums on shares, £5250 .. .. 97,541
1934.. 25,506 10 p.c. = 21,336 4,170 101,711
1935.. 26,688 10 ~ „ 22,050 4,638 106,349
The figures, are a testimony to the
quality of the control. The co., which
is in the wholesale dry-goods trade, a
difficult business at any time, turns out
several well-established proprietary lines
and handles tea and other Asiatic pro-
ducts as well. Ever since the public
became interested in 1922, when Brown
and Poison’s business was absorbed,
shareholders have had a steady 10 p.c.
div., despite slump. Further, the 10 p.c.
was sweetened with a 2\ p.c. bonus for
the half-dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1930, and there were some
new share issues at par, which were also
in the nature of bonuses to shareholders,
the scrip commanding a high premium in
the market.
After providing for depreciation and
other contingencies, and again setting
aside £5500 for the taxgatherer and
openly reserving the usual £SOO for bad
(Continued on page 18.)


T. and O.
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
'lllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 1111111111111111
THE ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30th SEPTEMBER, 1935,
SHOWS THE FOLLOWING RECORD OF PROGRESS
1915
1925
1935
INCOME
£576,645
£2,415,197
£4,567,932
1915
1925
1935
NEW BUSINESS
(Excluding Accident Department)
£2,773,169
£9,577,699
£13,790,402
ASSETS
1915
1925
1935
£2,046,022
£8,964,782
£23,170,359
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
(Excluding Accident Department)
1915 £9,367,013
1925 " ' £36,749,444
1935 £66,288,353
t- * . ■ . r r
The T. and G. Mutual Life Society is one of the Strongest and one
of the most Progressive Life Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq., Chairman.
r. McDonald, E sq .
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART, Esq.
Col. Sir CHARLES E. MERRETT, Kt., C.8.E., V.D.


A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIME'S
WHAT TO CIVE THEM
AT CHRISTMAS?
WHY, give them all the presents you
can! Give them what your heart
and their wishes dictate. Give, and
count yourself a lucky man. But in addi-
tion, think!
The greatest gjft you can give your wife and
children is continuous protection. It will cost very
little ; that is one of the great benefits'of A.M.P.
assurance, for you buy the immediate protection
with one small payment. They have the protection
the day you take out the policy, but you spread
the payments over the years.
When a certain young husband took out an A.M.P.
policy for £l,OOO in 1898 he gave his wife £l,OOO pro-
tection for a payment of £2 7 6s. Bd. and an undertaking
to pay the same sum every year. To-day, with bonuses,
that protection has grown to £2,169. Was it worth it?
Was it a good Christmas box? It has brought'both
husband and wife untold happiness and contentment.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to explain how YOU can
do this. Ask, also, about a separate policy for each of
the children. Don’t delay. You can share in the Society’s
1935 Bonus if you act before 31st December.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A, A. W. SNEDDON, F.I.A.
Actuary. General Manager,
C. M. MARTIN, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* V * #
ORES—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.-— Advt.
•i* -H -1* H-
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments.' L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
$ * $ *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and Particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331—333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. — Advt.
h= * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSUMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams ■ & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
if
TRADE FAIR
Make 1936 a record year by purchasing your trading
requirements at the Leipzig Fair, in the heart of
beautiful Germany. This historical World Market offers
unexcelled opportunities for profitable buying.
Commences March 1,1936
Comprising General Samples, Textiles, Office
Equipment, Furniture, Sports Goods, Engineer-
ing and Building, and Photographic Fairs.
All information, including Barter Arrangements, from:
LARS G. BRUNDAIIL, Commissioner in Australia for
the Leipzig Trade Fair; L. MESSEY, Technical
Adviser, Leipzig Trade Fair Bureau, Challis House,
Martin Place, G.P.O. Box No. 3127 P, Sydney.
C N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard & Co., 360 Post Office
place, G.P.O. Box 1658, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSIIAGEN, Shenton Park, West Australia.
debts, the board figured net earnings for
the last term at £26,688 (up £1182), or
12.1 p.c. on average capital as against
11.8, 11.9, 10.9, 12, 13, 15.5 and 15.4 p.c.
back to 1928 ; and the position may be
better than those figures suggest. They
leave out of last year’s reckoning a net
addition of £3624 to the reserve for con-
tingencies, depreciation, etc. (£113,898),
and of £825 to the insurance account
(£10,285). Including these additions, the
year’s net earnings were £4468 better
at 14.1 p.c. on capital.
There is nothing to worry about in
the financial structure:
1922. 1934. 1935.
Paid capital .. .. £128,607 £219,751 £221,884
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 7,470 4,451
Trading debts .. . . 17,351 34,233 24,663
Properties .. .. 66,265 159,907 163,123
Machinery, plant, etc... 59,541 139,647 143,913
Stocks .. .. • . • 43,347 75,955 76,752
Book debts . . .. 32,540 31,127 32,305
Cash and sundries .. 5,285 14,673 3,984
Notwithstanding a net addition of £7482
to the book value of fixed assets, the
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£83,927, including stocks)
was £3875.
The market notes the co.’s record and
the 14.1 p.c., and prices the pound shares
at 525. 6d. as against 50s. a year ago
and 38s. two years before that. The
return at 525. 6d. is 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 4.5 p.c. on a 12 p.c. distri-
bution. Including the insurance and de-
preciation reserves, the net tangible cover
is 345. 3d.
Mount Morgan
The present Mt. Morgan Cos. is in the
fortunate position of having stepped into
a mine which was developed at other
people’s expense, and which the rise in
the price of gold and copper and improve-
ment in technical methods have now
made a very profitable proposition. Ore
reserves proved by the old co. contain
1,630,0000 z. of gold and 135,500 tons of
copper, together worth £20,088,800 with
the two metals at present prices. In addi-
tion, there are some millions of tons of
low-grade stuff in the oxidised zone;
approximately 1,500,000 tons of this,
averaging 2.7dwt. gold, has already been
proved. It is amenable to simple treat-
ment, and shows a satisfactory profit,
after providing for amortisation of capi-
tal expenditure.
It is therefore proposed to instal a
400-ton-a-day oxidised-ore treatment
plant, with provision to increase the out-
put to 800 tons daily, and also to increase
the capacity of the present plant from
6000 tons to 7500 tons a week, with
10,000 tons as the ultimate objective. A
new and larger turbo-generator is to be
installed ; the pulverised-fuel method of
firing the boilers is to be introduced;
and arrangements have been made for a
geophysical survey of areas surrounding
Mt. Morgan, in the hope of locating new
pay-ore bodies
The immediate capital expenditure in-
volved is figured at £ls3,ooo—opencut,
£12,000; power plant, £50,000; sulphide
mill, £15,000; oxidised-ore plant (400
tons a day), £76,000 (an 800-ton-a-day
plant .would cost £125,000). Large sav-
ings in costs are expected to follow.
Shareholders will welcome the opportu-
nity to put up a further £200,000 in
200,000 ss. shares (approximately one for
four) at a premium of 15s. each. The
board has decided to split the existing
ss. shares into shares of 2s. each— 2\ new
shares for every old share.
Owing to the tragic death of manager
Slee, resumption of work at B.H.P.’s
mine, at the Barrier, will be directed by
E. J. Horwood, the co.’s superintendent
of mines, who probably knows more
about the underground workings of this
property than anybody else in the co.’s
service.
* * * *
Lake View’s latest yearly estimate of
ore reserves is the highest in tonnage
and the lowest in average assay value
to date. In all, 3,035,900 tons of 26.865.
ore is reckoned to be visible or partly
visible. Positive reserves amount to
1,913,100 tons; probable, 965,000 tons;
broken ore, 157,800 tons. The esti-
mate a year ago was 2,463,600 tons, aver-
aging 30s. The increase is due to some
extent to developments at the old Asso-
ciated, which was acquired by Lake
View in March, 1934. Values are based
on gold at 85s. an ounce.
* * * *
Paringa Mining and Exploration is
raising £125,000 (stg.) by the issue of
new shares to equip its Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile blocks for regular production.
There are already 2,120,700 fully-paid
shilling shares on the register. It is
proposed to offer shareholders one new
share at 2s. 6d. (stg.) for every two now
held. At Nov. 30, 1934, the co.’s cash
resources amounted to about £60,000.
Several parcels of ore from the Paringa
blocks have been treated at a local mill
for satisfactory returns.
* * * *
Goolgardie Brilliant „ has secured an-
other option, this time at Len'nonville,
near Mt. Magnet (W.A.). The gold-car-
rier is reckoned to be 50ft. wide or there-
abouts, and to have an attractive appear-
ance ; but .to what' extent it is payable
has yet to be proved. Cheap handling
on. a big scale and treatment at low cost
are spoken of. The market is not
impressed. 1
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia has commenced to
bore the northern section of the areas
adjoining the Gwalia mine which were
taken .up early this year, following geo-
physical surveys. Drilling on the western
section was unsatisfactory, nothing better
than traces being located.
jjj ;|C ik
Hickey’s Gordon Gold has had an un-
successful year. Originally formed to
test a property on the. Egerton-Gordon
field, Vic., the co. transferred its atten-
tion to the Great Carbine, at Linden
(W.A.). This also proved to be unattrac-
tive, and .so did an option taken on
part of the Tavua field, Fiji. The co.
has 200 shares in the Craiggiemore
Development Cos.
* * * *
Australian Mining Trust reckons that
its pup, Meekatharra Central Gold, will
prove to be a winner. By opening up a
new level, 24,000 tons of additional ore
has been made available, and the bore
has proved the downward continuation
of the lode to 800 ft. Present plant
capacity, 1000 tons a month, is to be
more than doubled immediately, the
ultimate objective being 5000 tons a
month.
* * * *
Ingliston Consols (W.A.), on which
Sydney interests let go an option last
year because the vendor asked too much,
has been offered in London at a lower
figure. A Westralian syndicate, working
on hand-to-mouth lines, has been in pos-
session for years, and has taken out a
lot of gold. Divs., once bulky, are now
on the lean side.
* * * *
From London: Tindals Gold Mines,
Ltd., just floated, will acquire practically
the whole of the shares of Consolidated
Gold Mines of Coolgardie, lessee of the
Tindale group, with options over a
number of contiguous areas. One result
of the new float will be to make approxi-
mately £250,000 (with about a similar
amount at call) available for develop-
ment and equipment.
sjt * *
Westralia’s biggest goldmining cos.
have issued their accounts for 1934-35.
Compared with the previous year, the
aggregate profits of five—Wiluna, Lake
View, Great Boulder, Boulder Persever-
ance and South Kalgurli—declined by
over £200,000, the two greatest falls be-
ing Wiluna £115,185 and Lake View
£79,304. The six weeks’ stoppage in
Jan. and Feb. last and increased wages
account for the contractions. North Kal-
gurli and Sons of Gwalia close their
financial year on Dec. 31. For 1934 the
former’s profit was down and the latter’s
was up. This year’s profits of both cos.
are likely to show a fall, particularly
Gwalia, where production was suspended
for a few weeks owing to damage to the
main shaft.
* * * *
Anew find has been reported by A,
Gorman and H. Atkinson in virgin
country at Kintore, north of Coolgardie
(W.A.). The reef is said to show high
values, and a shaft has been sunk 20ft.
in kaolin formation, with quartz
stringers showing. Ore at present in the
paddock is estimated to go 3oz. to the
ton. The surrounding country has been
extensively pegged. In the past, returns
from this district have been very patchy.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.N.L.: Accounts for year to end Oct. last
not yet available. For preceding 12 months
co. netted £25,131. Paid capital is £850,940
in 300,000 8 p.c. cum prefs. (subject to statu-
tory cut), paid to £210,000, and 639,885 fully-
paid ords. No divs. yet paid; there was
£85,000-odd coming to prefs. at end Oct.
Scrip not listed.... L’pilly: (1), (2) and (3) Yes.
. ...S.S.: See B. 20/11/’35.


MINING EQUIPMENT
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
To Suit the Treatment of All Classes of Ore
A’
IIL
A
5
»
Rj
t
vO^’
v^.-Q-x
-tZi&C
life.
2"#
.u. .
/5 0.%
Oj: A *
ft /o >
(l A '«/ vr 'o, }
c eSK'^t4«
A s< A>. *- , et, 00, o 0,
YSkYYfc
0/ C/Yg. % O/- <?/
No. 24 unit-type Denver Sub-A Flotation
Machines for which we have sole Australian
manufacturing rights. Denver Sub-A Machines
have been built for Mount Isa, Lake View and
Star, Great Boulder, Kalgurli Ore Treatment Co.,
M «1
Symons Cone
Crushers. We
have the sole
Austr a 1 i a n
manufactur-
ing rights
for spare and
replac e m e n t
parts of both
Standard and
Short - head
Crushers.
Electric Winder, gear driven, with 60in. dia.- x 42in.
drums, as supplied to New Occidental, Edna May,
Youanmi, etc. Similar units of various sizes are
installed at Wiluna, Imperial, Moonlight Wiluna, etc.
36in. x 24in. Jaw Crusher, as supplied to North
Broken Hill and Broken Hill South. Similar
machines of various sizes are in constant use at
Mount Isa, Triton, Moonlight Wiluna, New
Occidental, etc.
mmmmm
m
w
Wilfley Sand Pumps, for which we have sole Aus-
tralian manufacturing rights. All sizes, ranging from
2in. to Bin. dia. discharge, have been supplied to practi-
cally the whole of the mining industry.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
THE PRINCIPAL MINING ENGINEERING CONTRACTORS IN AUSTRALIA
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND (MELBOURNE), VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.
Telegrams: “Kuwolt,” Melbourne.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old - timer”: “One - bottle” Joe,
chequed-up, left the station and headed
south for a holiday in Melbourne. He
had done this so many times that little
notice was taken, the expectation being
that he would finish up at the district
pub as usual, and remain there, blind, till
the cheque was cut out. But a fortnight
after he left there was a buzz of astonish-
ment when the overseer received an
epistle from Joe with a Melbourne post-
mark. “By cripes, he got through at
last,” chorused the mob, admiringly
picturing Joe in Young and Jackson’s.
Six weeks later the wanderer returned,
worn and weather-beaten. He was plied
with questions about the city, but he
evaded them, and finally confessed that
he had spent but one day there. “All I
could do,” he went on; “y’ see, I only
’ad a coupla quid when I got there!”
He was reminded that he had left the
station with £27. “Yair,” Joe admitted ;
“but I stopped at all the pubs on the way
down. And,” he added, bitterly reminis-
cent, “at all the water’oles on the way
back!”
❖ ❖ Sfc A'
“Pinjarrah”: Westralia has discovered
another agricultural pest—the beautiful
flowering watsonia. Bulbs escaped from
gardens have in several districts spread
over acres, obliterating the native
pasture. And, as each adult bulb
develops half a dozen babies each season,
it becomes a matter of very careful
spade-digging and soil-shifting to get
them all out. If only half a dozen or so
are left in, a few seasons see the same
land overrun again.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Tell “Ghealug” (B.
20/11/’35) that there is no “theory”
about the causation of diver’s paralysis.
Blood corpuscles passing through the
lungs absorb oxygen from the breathed-
in air, and give off carbonic acid to be
breathed out. They then carry this
oxygen round the body tissues, giving
it out and picking up carbonic acid. If
the air breathed in is under pressure, as
in the case of the diver, the corpuscles
get more oxygen. After a certain degree
of pressure they collect and carry more
than the tissues can use. Tiny bubbles
collect—still under pressure. When the
pressure is lowered, as by the diver
coming up, these bubbles expand, just
as opened soda-water froths from the
released pressure on the absorbed gas.
If any have been deposited in nerve
tissues they strain and tear these tissues
as they expand—hence pain (“bends”)
and paralysis. Hence, too, the relief
from recompression. Airmen flying at
great heights are supplied with oxygen,
not compressed air, as “Ghealug”
imagines.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Hate to revive old
arguments, but was crossing that tree-
less plain between Berrigan and Urana
(N.S.W.) in a duststorm recently, and
saw a seagull standing alone by the
swamp about half-way between the
towns. Airline from the sea? Say 200
miles.
* * * *
“G.G.”: What call him in the English
that fly for makem honey? Yes, yes!
fly bees, that him the insect'. Everbod
him say ver’ goot; me say verbad him.
Me gun take, go bush for kill-shoot fly-
fox —sleep high the tree daytime. Me
look; hearem plenty some buzz-uzmz.
Closup one tree, ver’ short the ground,
me see the fly bees inside, outside one
hole. “Ah! plent’ honey ; me robber
him nest”—-me speak my head inside, for
think, you know. Me takem bilcan,
washem water ; me makem fire some tree
dry about. Bimby me catchem smoke,
put inside tree the hole. The fly bees
come the me ver’ quick ; me run likhell;
“All set, fella —let ’im go !”
him run likhell —ver’ fast, too. Him
catchem me, bitem me, the face, nose —
ebryw’ere. Me jump the creek-water ;
still him no go—stop, stickem alsame
allober me. Me kill plenty; him stop
plenty more. Me go home, look the
glass. Hooh! my face plenty fat, the
one my eye ver’ sore. Shutem closup.
No can sit down, too —me versory, but
what can do me? Nothing. The fly
bees give too much fright the me. Goo by.
* * * *
“M.1.A.”: I also have a stone axe-
head that must possess a history (B.
20/11/’35). It was excavated from a
dam at Yenda (N.S.W.), and is a dull
yellow-mottled black, giving tiny pin-
points of light when in a bright light.
Length, 4in.; weight, about Nib. Al-
though the edge and bevel are ground
to glassy smoothness, the remainder is
still rough and chipped. This particular
stone is absolutely foreign to what little
we have in the near-by hills, and only
two axe-heads to my knowledge have
been found on the Murrumbidgee Area.
The other was of yellow stone, picked up
on the old Yarranvale station.
* * * *
“Speewaa”: Suggestions are made in
Melbourne that somebody should revive
the manufacture of cabbage-tree hats.
The art has long been dead, but as it was
an amateur one, evolved by local wants,
it could possibly be got going again it
worth while. The trouble is that the
bushman of to-day has taken on the
Yankee cowboy “four-quart” hat- —a de-
parture from Australianism which has
annoyed many, including myself. But
when I chided one wearer he gave me
good reasons; the cowboy hat is far
more efficient for bush work than any
straw or felt headgear with a low crown ;
it may be used to carry water, and it
won’t smash when used to slap a fugi-
tive sheep or bullock back into the
narrow path of righteousness.
* * * *
“A.N.S.”: Visitors to the summit of
Mt. Kaputar (near Narrabri, N.S.W.) dis-
covered a kind of huge snail clinging to
the trees and rocks and crawling oyer
the ground. The things are up to Bin.
in length, and 2|in. in circumference.
Unlike the common snail, they have no
shell; in fact, they resemble a slug.
They are meaty, of a deep-salmon color,
and are said to be delicious when fried
in butter. Are they known in any other
part of the continent, or can I get in
early and christen them the Kaputar
snail?
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Should wanderers by N.Q.
inland streams happen to catch a fresh-
water crayfish, the Queensland Museum
appeals to them to refrain from devour-
ing it, but to send it along for scientific
classification. A new species, recently
found in Root’s Creek in the Mt.
Molloy district, possesses much scientific
interest as a possible link in world
changes which occurred ages before man
came into being. Australia has some
curious fresh-water crustaceans. A
shrimp which occurs only in certain
lakes in Tasmania was the objective of
a scientific expedition from Cambridge,
and has assumed great importance in
geological zoology. Then there is the
giant fresh-water lobster of a few Tas-
manian rivers, growing to over 111 b.
weight. A half-century ago the sugges-
tion was made that it be acclimatised in
parts of Scotland to feed the crofters, on
whose behalf an appeal was being made
by a charming lady from England. Un-
fortunately the police became mixed up
in her affairs, and in the resulting revela-
tions crofters and crayfish were dropped.
“Astacopsis”: A rare crayfish North
Queenslanders are being asked to spare
runs to 9in. long and is delicious
eating. The beast is a link with the
prehistoric past, and how it arrived in
the North is puzzling the experts. All
the same, the writer can testify that
creeks in the upper Barcoo country with
stony beds contained many large crays
of bright coloring and uncommonly good
flavor. There were many “overshot”
dams on these creeks, and below the
dam where the flow came over the bed
was lined with logs and stones to pre-
vent erosion. Under this cover was the
favorite lurking-place of the big fellows,
and a nippy youngster could soon fill a
bucket, with luck.
“Brass Addler”: The saying that
there’s always money waiting to be
picked up was exemplified when a Vic-
torian, driving slowly, saw a £1 note
being blown along. Stopping his
car, he hopped out after it, but was
forestalled by a magpie. The bird set
off across country, but with a labored
flight which suggested that the cares of
finance were too heavy for it. Encour-
aged, the pedestrian pursued the bird
across several paddocks, never more than
a few feet behind. Suddenly the fowl
accelerated and disappeared over the
horizon, a mocking squawk following the
perspiring human on his mile walk back
to the car.
* * * *
“Talahua”: Some stable-mates for
“Runa’s” nags (B. 20/11 /’35). In many
island groups in the South Seas the atolls
are linked to each other by one or more
reefs, awash at low water, but feet be-
neath the surface at high tide. The way
the island ponies—usually inbred scrubs
of things at. that—can negotiate a mile
or so of rock and coral, submerged be-
neath a couple of feet of salt water, is
amazing. The coral for the most part is
rotten and crumbling; a tidal stream
has to be contended with during the
voyage, and often the craft has to carry
a fat Polynesian passenger, complete with
wife and/or pig.
* * * *
“Wash”: The “snake” which “Sulli-
van’s Beach” trod on in the sea at Sor-
rento, Vic. (B. 27/11/’35), was either
a sand-eel or a lamprey, the latter an
aristocrat among the fishy tribes, with a
pedigree going back to the beginning of
life on this planet. Both are highly-
esteemed delicacies in other countries,
and the eels make splendid bait in addi-
tion. It was a lamprey-pie which gave
the k.o. to King John after his famous
disaster in the Wash. If it wasn’t he,
then it was one of the early Henrys.
One went down to an overdose of new
peaches, and the other to a lamprey-pie.
I can never recall which was which.
* 1-
“Nejd”: Glad to have the assurance
of “Ex-Cavalryman” (B. 27/11 /’35) that
the Haile Silassie horses are Kochlanis,
the purest of the breed, which can “stand
great fatigue, pass days without food, and
when their riders arc slain will carry
them from the field.” Apart from the de-
scription reminding me of Mr. Jorrocks’s
estimate of his hounds (“as handy as
ladies’ maids; do everything but pay
their own pikes”) the brutes in the pic-
ture are the sorriest runts in the Arab
line writer has laid eyes on. The Ethiops
«• ™>‘ ? /»“ 1“
despised hubsln Christians would have
Arabian ftuds-a job which it took
h |ike aristocrat J Wilfrid Blount
half a ufctime o( confidence-winning to
accom p|j s n Even to-day few first-class
horses P come out o£ the Ne jd; mares,
' # * * *
. . ,
“Rana : Queensland s giant toads
have fallen foul ot the Federal Health
authorities. The big fellows are omg
among he canc ; grubs, a wor i
which they were specia ly P .
Hawaii; but Canberra has ordered that
no more be released, it being feared they
may eradicate insects of economic value
as well as cane-grubs and-beetles. The
habits of the toads in Hawaii, whither
they were brought from the West Indies
years ago, were studied for six months by
the Queensland expert sent over for them,
He found that they appeared to do no
harm to other beasties apart from their
natural food, and the Hawaiian ento-
mologists gave them a splendid character
as national assets. Queensland cane-
growers are putting in a hefty kick. In
any case, the toads having shown liberal
ideas on the matter of large families,
there may be enough now at large to
carry on the good work in defiance of
the Health Department.
BETTER DAYS.
One morning on the front-wall seat,
That trade-mark of the country inn,
1 chanced an ancient man to meet,
White-haired, with wagging beard and chin.
I spoke fair words; and found a phrase
Obsessed his failing mind and tongue:
“This pub’s seen better days.”
“I mind the time —you wasn’t born” . . .
I sighed and settled down to hear
The usual history outworn —
How thirsty souls from far and near
Obeyed some sort of magic wand,
Paid the old pub a passing call
But seldom got beyond.
.... “Yes, mister, that there mining mob
Came in and drank the place so dry
An inseck couldn’t wet his nob;
And teamsters with the new supply
Got bogged. They camped beside the beer.
All hands went out, unloaded them
And rolled the barrels here.
“The goin’ there is pretty rough
Over the slopes and through the creeks.
And when at last they broached the stuff
They had a drunk that lasted weeks.
I’ll say they fairly earned their fill;
Five mile it was by measured yard,
And every yard uphill.
“No tavern ever saw such shouts,
Such lambing-down, such sale of kits,
So many bushies having bouts,
So many chucking blue-snake fits.
The shearer left his ‘cut-out’ cheque,
The fossicker his bag of gold,
And took the track a wreck.
“The arguments and fierce disputes
That always led, o’ course, to fights
(And some fought fair and some was brutes)
Over imagined wrongs and rights—
-1 see ’em still, though in a haze
That leaves me disappointed-like.
Them was the days!”
But here I said, “You must allow
Those bad old times are gone for good;
You’re prosperous and sober now.”
He only shook that head of wood.
There was the story —chapter, verse ;
The old pub had seen better days—
He meant it saw them worse.
S.A.
BILL O’C.


“Nagheer”: A recent fearsome story
out of our tropic North suggests that
Queensland rum has lost none of its
pristine punch. Two bathers in a creek
saw a crocodile crawl from the water.
It chased one of them up a tree, tried
to gnaw the tree down, struck it re-
sounding slaps with its tail to shake the
quarry from his grip, then lay down
and watched him, roaring at intervals.
At last the other bather tempted it to
pursue him while his treed companion
came down, and after a terrific chase both
reached safety. But it was a mild ex-
perience compared with that of my old
friend Joe, when a croc, chased him up
a tree on the Daintree River. That
malignant reptile used the serrations on
the back of its tail as a crosscut saw,
and felled the tree. As it cracked, Joe
sprang to the branches of another. The
croc, attacked that one. Before the
savage saurian went off to sharpen up
its tail on a sandstone ledge, it had
cleared nearly half-an-acre. Joe showed
me the place.
* * * *
“Runa”: I can now place bees in the
long list of creatures that don’t readily
attack children. We have a fresh-water
drain leading from the tank, and during
the recent N.S.W. dry spell it has been
unpleasantly popular with the bees owned
by a neighboring apiarist. We have to
cross the drain to get to the poultry-
yard, and the bees demonstrate their dis-
approval of our presence near the water
by rising and buzzing angrily about us
as we pass. The youngsters play beside
the drain, sail paper boats in it, non-
chalantly flick the bees aside, and do it
all without any interference from the
buzzers. “Youth must be tolerated”
seems to be the motto of snakes, savage
dogs and bees.
* * * *
“Dau”: Some of these betel experts
(B. 27 /II / ’35) read as if they had been
living on the narcotic for weeks. There
is no such thing as betel-nut or betel-
leaf. In Malaysia the word betel is the
name of the prepared “chew” of areca-
nut, lime and pepper-leaf which is sold
in the streets by native pedlars. Well-
to-do folk have the thing prepared for
them by their servants. The areca-nut
is not like a nutmeg—it is much more
ovate —nor is it as hard, being easily
split with the thumbnail when the kernel
is wanted. The lime which accompanies
it is made from coral, and the green leaf
is that of Piper methysticum, the pepper-
vine from the root of which the
islanders of the Western Pacific
make /cava. In places more
primitive than Malaya each man
is his own betel-preparer. He
carries some nuts in his bag with
pepper-leaves, and over his
shoulder is slung a long gourd
full of lime —I am thinking parti-
cularly of the Binandele people
of n.-e. Papua. The nut is split
with the thumbnail; a piece of
the kernel is extracted and
rolled in a leaf. Putting this
in his mouth, the expert shoves his
long, narrow lime-spoon into the
gourd and shovels a sufficient quantity
of lime into his. mouth with it. The
spoons have serrated handles, and rattling
these up and down in the gourd while
walking is a common gesture of the
Binandele people when angry or excited.
Most of the local orators accompany
their speeches with it.
* * * *
“Squalus”: Taronga Park (Sydney)
Zoo reports that its captive shark,
“Skipper II,” has done three years in cap-
tivity and is still imitating the whisky ad-
vertisement. In all that time, day or
night, he has never stopped circling his
pool, and has covered 70,000 miles, pre-
sumably in the hope of one day finding a
hole whereby he can regain the sea. He
does it all on a kingfish a day, and is a
living object-lesson in economic fuel con-
sumption. If his fellow-prisoner “Skipper
III” lives until January, he will also have
done three years. A different type of
sea-lawyer from his senior, he often
takes a spell from swimming.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Why all this
fuss about Alsatian dogs? If Australia
were to get a strain of the Prussian
boar-hound among its dingoes there
would be something to talk about. They
stand as high as a Timor pony, weigh
anything up to 14
stone or so, and
have the build,
activity, disposi-
tion and fighting
abilities of super-
fa u 111 erriers. I
once attended a
dog-show in Ger-
many where the
predominant ex-
hibits were boar-
hounds, Alsatians
(really shepherd
dogs, bred origi-
nally for keeping
wolves from the
flocks) and Pom-
eranians. During
the grand parade
a boar-h ou n d
had a difference with an Alsatian, picked
it up by the middle of the back,
snapped its spine with one shake, tore
out its throat with a single slash of
great fangs, .and politely laid the dis-
hevelled cadaver at the feet of his
master. There followed the finest dog-
fight of my experience, with, as its
salient point, a Pom., resembling a lump
of cotton waste, wiring in at the heels
of the bigger warriors, and doing great
work.
* * * *
“Pack-bag”: Curlew the best table bird
(B. 13/11/’35)? My vote goes to the
Cape Barren goose. Once, when shelter-
ing under Preservation Island, Bass Strait,
in the Victorian crayfishing ketch Ada
Burgess, we lived on these fowls for 12
days. They taste a bit like good saltbush
mutton, but are twice as palatable.
* # * *
“C.N.”: I was much interested in
“Dungeness’s” account (B. 25/9/’35) of
some of the fauna of the upper reaches
of the Le-Gpul. I myself, on a botanical
expedition to the adjacent Kidsta Kes
territory, discovered the now-famous
Gloriosa thirstica gigantica. The large
bell-like flower, with its deep hollow
centre, I touched with the forefinger of
my right hand ; it was seized firmly by
the leathery leaves, and was to all in-
tents and purposes being swallowed ; I
pulled it out only with the greatest dif-
ficulty. It can readily be imagined what
a boon this proved when it was found
“That’s the sort of thing I'd like to squash!”
that the expedition had mislaid its cork-
screw. When we thrust the business end of
a bottle well into the cavity in the flower
the cork was immediately extracted by
the powerful suction characteristic of the
“That your wife calling for her dog, Malcolm?
“No; it’s me she Wants. She never says ’Come, here, you mong.’ to her
dog.”
thirstica. On one occasion, my attention
being momentarily distracted by the
antics of one of the crocodiles mentioned
by “D.,” not only the cork but the
entire contents of the bottle were ex-
tracted. The subsequent behavior of the
plant was most interesting. Although
there was no wind at the time, it swayed
violently on its stem; the leaves, nor-
mally of a delicate rose-pink, assumed
a deep beetroot hue ; and on. stooping
down to watch it more closely I dis-
tinctly heard it mutter that it would not
go home till morning. I noticed on the
following day that the leaves had lost
their rich coloring, being, if anything,
paler than normal, and that the whole
plant had a wilted and dejected aspect.
It swallowed the six aspirins, raw tree-
crocodile’s egg and teacupful of Wor-
cestershire sauce which I offered it with
every appearance of relish, and within a
few hours seemed to be in perfect health
again.
*-# $ *
“Bray Rock”: Some of us fishy-blokes
wish that Zane Grey would come up our
way and deal with the swordfish which
break out our mackerel tackle between
January and May every year. They’re
no good to us —don’t fetch a penny a
pound in market, and waste a lot of
time. When we feel rapping at the trail-
bait we haul in and go elsewhere. Moo-
loolaba, some 80 miles north of Bris-
bane, is the best place to reach them
from. Last March one of over 3001 b.
was brought in by mackerel fishermen,
and many bigger ones lost. They are
mostly black marlin. My mate got fast
in a brute over 14ft. long, apparently a
broadbill. It towed him over five miles
in a 25ft. launch, until a final antic got
a coil of line round a ringbolt and best
part of a heavy gut line went west. Dur-
ing years of Barrier Reef fishing I
seldom saw a swordfish, and never
hooked one. Here, between Cape More-
ton and Low Head, a day rarely passes
in the mackerel season when someone
does not get his baits rapped or his lines
broken
#'# * *
“Bogaduck”: As I was milking old
Strawberry, the setting sun shone
down a long glade among the blue-
gums, and in the broad sunbeam the
tiniest insect showed up. Hungry mos-
quitoes were feasting on me and the
cow ; 50ft. away a pair of swallows sat
on a dead limb. As each mossie filled
itself it would fly slowly and heavily
down that glade through the trees, head-
ing for the swamp ; but not one reached
home. The swallows saw to that. They
ignored the empty, hungry, fast-flying
skeeters coming up, but took turn about
to dart off the limb and snap up the
slow-flying, blood-filled ones flying back.
“Horse-tailer”: Snapper-fishing (B.
13/11 /’35)? Any Aboliar ever mustered
them? On Tamala station (Shark Bay,
W.A.) eight years ago, with 20 station
a bos. we did the job every Sunday.
Doogong, an old Binghi, was
M.C.; on locating a shoal on
the vast shallows of the bay
he’d form us all in a cordon. A
30-pounder usually led the fish,
and its efforts to break through
the line would be repelled by
spears and much splashing.
Finally subdued, this fish-lord
would be skilfully worked along
by Doogong’s spear-throwing until, with
its mates following behind, it entered
a centuries-old fishyard. From there
most of the haul went seven miles over
sand in a dray to the blacks’ camp at
the homestead.
* * * *
“Horse-tailer”: Mandibles of white-
ants gnaw metal (B. 6/11/’35)? Non-
sense. In North Queensland I’ve seen
holes in galvanised piping caused by
these termites, but it is an acid in their
secretion that slowly does the job—pos-
sibly it is a special one for the occa-
sion. If “Groper” looks under the mike
at a manila rope broken by these ants
he won’t find any traces of gnawing; he
will see that everywhere these termites
have plastered their dirt against the hemp
it has rotted. This is what happens to
the metal.
* * * *
“F.D’A.": You win the plonk, “Tock-
illy” (B. 27/11/’35). The flea that
annoys you and your cobber is the
common flea, aptly named Pulex irritans.
The cat-and-dog variety ( P. canis) is
black, and is further distinguished by its
large eyes.
THE CHAMPEEN.
"Eve sheared in sheds,” said Bogan Bill,
“From Cunnamulla to the Hill,
From Hay to Bourke.
There ain’t a thing that I don’t know
About the game—though I won’t crow;
For ’alf a century or so
It’s been me work.
“I’m keen —I always ’ave been keen —
To see me ‘long blow’ shear off clean,
An’ when I’ve done
To ’ave as picker-up a chap
'Oo ’asn’t too much blasted yap,
But stacks it, tip up, with a snap,
Clean as a gun.
“It does me good to see a bloke
’Oo picks up with a decent stroke;
But I’ve a snout
On those galoots, as rough as bags,
That ’andle fleeces just like swags.
It breaks me ’eart the way they drags
The wool about.
“I struck one real corker, though;
Some’ow ’is action seemed to flow.
It was a treat
To see ’im, when I’d finished, spring,
An’, with an easy, graceful swing,
Straight as a die he’d gently sling
An’ table it neat.
“ ’E’s raised with sheep, I could ’ave sworn;
’E did it to the manner born.
But, spare me days!
V’ could ’ave knocked me with a brick.
’E’s city-bred, an’ learned the trick
Through ’eavin’ garbage tins that quick
On council drays!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent. Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
w
The largest and most up-to-date
hostelry in Australia. Hot and
cold water in all rooms. Rooms
with and without private Bath-
rooms and Telephones available.
Meals at moderate rates —unex-
celled cuisine—two Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines).
86363 (4 lines).
SMOKE-OH!
With London prohibiting the use of
motor horns, how do the motorists man-
age when they speed through Upper
Tooting?
•F 4* *F *F
Easy Feat.
“A nineteenth-century London newspaper
editor had such a marvellous memory that
he could attend a Parliamentary debate and
report the speeches verbatim without notes
next day.”— Believe-it-or-not Ripley.
Marvellous memory? Tch ! I’ve been
doing all the Parliamentary stuff for the
“Blurb” for years, and never even take
“How much will this cost ?”
a pad into the House. Yet I can al-
ways put the speeches in verbatim the
next day, though, of course, by the time
the editor’s blue pencil goes through them
they appear mostly as a succession of
dashes and asterisks. Nor do I make any
claim to have a freak memory. No.
The thing that stands me in such good
stead is the fact that I spent years
timber-hauling with bullocks. With a
thorough grasp of the complete Parlia-
mentary vocabulary, my job is, naturally,
a sinecure.
Bo.
“Do intelligence tests really prove anything?”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Yes. Usually lack of intelligence on
the part of those that set them.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘l’m sorry I cannot marry you, but I will
always be your best friend.’ ”
— Women’s magazine story.
Well, of course, she couldn’t do both.
The Financial Side.
For me, Yuletide is not wholly a time
of merriment. Before I can purchase
the seasonal necessities I must always
study my financial situation —an act
which is most depressing.
On the present occasion, after re-
peated efforts to save throughout the
year, I find that I am not more than
£25 in debt.
On account of this very satisfactory
condition, I must, as a gesture of timely
goodwill to myself,
write off the debt
as bad.
No funds being
available, the
necessities this year
must be purchased
by the gift system.
That is, all presents
received must be
realised, and for
each of the givers
a present must be
bought, so that
their benevolence
may continue. Of
course, the price of
the reciprocal gifts
must never exceed
33 1-3 p.c. of the
price realised by
the others.
With the sur-
plus, I am hoping
to be able to con-
tribute my share
to ths boys’ big
party.
If only people
would give me
bottles in the first
place, what a lot of trouble tbev’d save!
T. W. N.
* 4* * *
Sold Again.
The holiday crowds were intolerable
to Tompkins, so he sauntered away from
the crowded foreshores to more secluded
regions.
Aha! The friendly darkness of a cave.
He entered, and, reclining on the restful
coolness of the wet sandj he fell asleep.
He was awakened by female voices.
Silhouetted against the opening of the
cave, two sylphlike creatures entered
his retreat. After first glancing cautiously
about without descrying the lurking
Tompkins, the first sweet young thing
gushed, “There’s no one about; we can
change them here.”
Entranced, Tompkins remained motion-
less. The other flapper produced from
her bag a roll of camera film, and
—in the darkness of the cave the spools
were changed.
D. J.
4* *1 »F -I-
“The first time she ever saw her husband she
pushed him into the water.” —Magazine story.
Shove at first sight.
“The bird was taught to screech at every
hour.” — “Age.”
A clockatoo?
*F *F *F
Diplomacy.
“The Nobel Committee will not award a
peace prize for 1935, but will reserve the
amount for 1936.”— “5.M.H.”
“It’s a bit of a problem,” the presi-
dent wound up his address. “Signor
Mussolini is claiming on account of the
pacification of Ethiopia, but obviously
we cannot make an award before the
task is completed. On the other hand,
England and France are competitors, on
the ground of inventing the bloodless
warfare being tried at Geneva, but
they can’t both get it. America is a
claimant, now that A 1 Capone is out of
the way, but this entry is debarred on
account of the three awards given to
the U.S.A. in 1914-15-16 in succession.
On the whole, gentlemen, I think we
had better let the matter stand over
until the nations fight out the present
situation, and let the winner take all.”
McP.
Nonsuited.
Though suits 1 wear of price and style,
Your interest l can’t beguile;
In blue, / don’t engage your eye
As you go tripping gaily by.
In tony grey (the choice of dude),
For all you care I might be nude.
In cream or heather, black or brown,
By you I’m neither seen nor known.
Ah, lovely lady, it’s a myth
That clothes create the man, I think.
1 wonder would you see me if
I wore a suit of salmon-pink ?
P.O.M.C.
These Christmas Presents.
This giving of Christmas presents may
be good for business, but it hasn’t
done me any good—in fact, it’s been
the rock on which my best hopes have
thudded.
It wasn’t too bad when I was a kid
and only got them, but it’s been a bug-
bear to me ever since I. grew up suffi-
ciently to have to give them. I used to
do the thing methodically, too, and draw
up a list, carefully allotting this to So-
and-so, and so forth. But somehow I’d
always be giving something to somebody
who wasn’t expecting it, and they’d look
a bit silly when they had nothing to
give in return. I could tell by the rather
strained feeling that they were going to
curse me for a halfwit as soon as I’d
gone.
Conversely, someone I hadn’t given the
faintest thought to would come to light
on Christmas Eve, and I’d pass it off by
saying that—ha! ha!—l was a bit late
with my Christmas shopping. Then I’d
dash into town to get something to return
it with, getting to the shop door at
8.44 p.m., just as one door was closed
and they wouldn’t let any more in.
But last Christmas I tore it properly.
I was the favorite nephew of my spin-
ster Aunt Agatha and bachelor Uncle
Alick, both well into the sere and yellow
stage, and both possessing wads that a
wallaby couldn’t hop over. As a token
of my great affection I evter reserved my
best presents for them. J[ bought: for
uncle, who is cursed with the longest
walrus moustache north of 28, a Royal
Dou 11 o n mous-
tache - cup, and
splashed a quid on
a bottle of eau-de-
Cologne for aunt.
Aunt lives in
Melbourne, while
uncle is in Chilla-
goe. In my usual
last-minute rush I
must have messed
up the little cards
and addresses, for
uncle’s present
went to auntie, and
vice versa. You’d
think they’d have
realised that an
obvious mistake
had occurred and
have accepted that
explanation. Curt
notes roaring me up
for having a warped
sense of humor
that spent itself
in offering insults,
and advice that my
interest as a pros-
pective beneficiary
under wills ceased
forthwith, were
my sole reward for my generosity.
I’m cured. This year I shall give no
presents at all.
S.W.K.
The Blemish.
“Man is far from being the fickle being
some people think. He may find deadly blem-
ishes in individual women he meets, but his
loyalty to his ideal of womanhood remains.”
—Recent book.
When I was only a small child I
formed a deep affection for May, but
there was a selfishness in her conduct —
the way she took everything but gave
nothing—that made me join Ethel the
morning she had that threepence to
spend at the sweet shop. And every
morning I walked with Ethel to school
until Enid, whose mother simply re-
velled in making cakes and giving them
away to appreciative small boys, came
along. Ethel’s sin was that she had not
chosen a mother who was found of
cake-making.
Mary, Flo, Sarah, Susie, Vera and a
few others I forget brought' me to man-
hood’s estate and a deep abiding love
for Zara; but Nora went to the theatre
with me. I had found the blemish in
Zara. What nights those were on Bondi
beach, or on the ferry going to Manly,
with Edith by my side! Yes, I had found
the blemish in Zara. Juanita had a de-
lightful little flat, and she seemed one
to whom a man could give a life of pas-
sionate devotion. But eventually I grew
disillusioned with Cora —that was after
Juanita had failed to live up to my ideal.
At the present time I am wondering if
the dark-eyed, sweet-souled Rosie will
stand the test in which the others have
failed.
Yes, alas! I have found the deadly
blemish in each one of the others. But
I hold firmly to my ideal, and I am
hoping Rosie may be the goods.
If she is not I wonder if I shall
yet meet the girl who can be full of
affection and yet not develop, after a
little time, the idea that I am going to
marry her?
H.M.
Is There a Father Christmas?
I’ve always been inordinately interested
in this problem ever since, at the age of
six, I and my sisters had a not altogether
bloodless combat with the family next
door, who were disillusioned members of
the “It’s - only - y’r - farver - an’ - muwer’ ’
school.
In later years I tried all the better-
known traps, such as sprinkling tacks on
the bedroom floor and listening to see if
1 could recognise my father’s voice in
the dark, and leaving a bottle of beer on
“HOPE SPRINGS ETERNAL" .
the mantelpiece and sniffing his breath
next morning.
Always the result was inconclusive,
and even to-day I’m never sure whether
it is Santa Claus or my landlady who
puts the pair of socks on my dressing-
table.
This year I decided to secure other
opinions on the subject. The replies I
received from various notabilities are
here summarised:
Mr. Lyons: “I shall consult the British Gov-
ernment, after which my Cabinet will
consider your question if and when it
arises.”
Mr. Lang: “Father Christmas was invented
by the capitalists as a sop to the work-
ing classes to blind them to the chains
that weigh them down.”-
Major Douglas: “Obviously, since A + B =
Prime Co?t and everything else cancels
out, there is no room in my theory for
Father Christmas. However, I do not
propose to abolish him all at once.”
(Presumably a whisker at a time? —J.)
Hitler: “Santa Claus is a goot Nazi.”
Mussolini : “Fascist children will do without
Father Christmas this year as an example
to sanctionist ' countries. But next
year”
Haile Silassie: “Which side is he on?”
Mitsubishi and Co.: “Yes, we have plenty
Father Cristmases. Small sizes with red
jaquet 1/11 in dozen. Or big ones for
the ladys with snow-black beards each
1/6. Also many others toy toy.”
The result of my investigations still
leaves room for doubt. I think I’ll play
safe and hang up my stocking, anyhow.
JASBY.
Climatic Paradox.
Against a background showing winter’s
grip
On freezing countryside, whereon the
snow
Fell thickly, there he held tradition’s
whip,
Clad in the heavy draperies that go
With Santa’s bushy whiskers and his sled.
So might he from some arctic realm
have strayed;
And as he mopped his streaming brow
he said :
“Hot? Cripes! I't must be ninety in
the shade!”
KEO.


tifßE's
TO'ff
L :
mm,
Jill
f x:
'f
/
■ >!" .■* - 1 mm
lllli®!l^p®fti
it,
■R;¥?■'"<-<. s SSSsj,
;■;,■■•
-j£
1
'V*§ 1
k- ’
■a
P #
y
<9
© a
A °<£ ,
JV/V'- *>. 'V
%*Lr ,
PILSENm
Si ft Vleft


A PAGE OF
FOR THE BULLETIN VERSES.
The Leap: An Excursion.
Grunt of a horn and shuffle of thick tyres
muffled
In shifting dust; a babble of voices drifting
To shelter-shed and tearoom; heavy smells
Of beer and bananas; the sharp tang of
salmon;
The clink of cast-away tins and a slow scattering
From the dust to the rock, to the tube and
wire that define
The limits of life in the dust.
Silence.
A wine-dark waste of cliff;
A ribbon of mist, stairway of images drifting,
Itself adrift; the moss-paved gulf, and out,
Out and away . . .
Silence and distance heal the ills of the
world . . .
A stir of power,
Power that wells upward from the gulf and
draws
Like a moon on the blood, until the vast makes
waste
Of a world of inhibitions.
Yet there’s a barrier and some ghost of a voice,
Wordless, that yet rebuffs -invasive force,
Holding a balance.
Shall I leap ?
No.
Yet there’s a shake
In the walls of being.
Shall I leap ? Shall 1 leap ?
The tempo quickens, the force
Convulses, yet the voice is calm:
Not yet.
Not yet is man become himself, made free
Of depth and height, secure amid the vastness
That’s yet without him.
Still must he hold by all that he knows best
Till he knows better, till the great circle sways
Within his centre, and he starts to climb
His endless spiral, and the wind that drives him
Appears a calm, because his inner force
Holds the same pace.
Not yet, impatient atom.
Hold yet an instant.
For what’s a million years
In the timeless life of the mind, though mind
itself
Be fleshed but an instant ? Still the dust holds
fast.
Let the grasp tighten till the vast withdraws
Its shadow from your being. Your To-morrow
Is far and far-off.
Grunt of a horn
And shuffle of thick tyres ifiuffled in shifting
dust.
Babble of drifting voices; heavy smells
Of beer and bananas; the sharp tang of salmon
And clink of cast-away tins . . . for our
To-morrow
Is far and far-off.
N.S.W.
H.M. GREEN.
Recognition.
You did not know,
You never stopped to listen
To the low whisper of the hooded wheat.
You did not mark the ripple of the grasses,
When no wind moved them, trembling from
his feet.
The flowers knew,
And fluttered at his coming—
In their daydreaming changed to butterflies
I thought perhaps the quiet stars had guessed
it
Because of some bright token in his eyes.
You were the busy ones,
You could not loiter.
You the time-thrifty, you the careless people,
For whom against the sunset’s burnished
splendor
No pine will lift its pencilled, dusky steeple.
(But lifts for me
Each shadow-furry bough,
Each woody-russet cone,
Each needle that the wind’s soft harp-string is
Answering all his moods through every tone.)
All furred and feathered things
These knew, and I —l heard
Low music as of muted, soft ovation,
Saw colors that were banners trailing heaven,
And birds that surely voiced their jubila-
tion!
You did not hear,
But then you never noticed
Where the flush deepens on the flower’s
throat,
Nor had the clangor of your noonday broken
With the low treble of an elfin note.
Too drowsy some,
And some too sharp with ire.
Stooped to your fire’s coals or thrusting
blind
You did not see, wefting his shabby garments,
A glory that was not of humankind!
Gold, oh, gold the sun was!
And gold and green the earth!
And now the shadows deepen, shadows
darken,
The yellow light is gone from tree and hill.
We’ll never hear his step, howe’er we
hearken;
We’ll never see
His youth and laughter brighten
The day, and lighten night, and never follow
By bracken’d slope and rivulet-voiced gully
Where hill to hill resounds his glad holloa!
You did not know;
You had no time to notice
How the green changes in the fern’s mossed
heart,
The feathered cloudlets that the sunset scat-
ters:
And the reflection where the swallows dart.
—Bird under bird
White-breasted on the water;
The crystal of a snowflake and a star,
The rainbow’s loveliness, a petal’s stain:
These were too small for you, or else too far.
Because, because
With nothing but his laughter,
No retinue of servants in his train,
You tossed your scorn to him and passed,
unheeding
The flowers that blossomed where his foot
had lain.
Day goes to day;
Sunrise draws down to sunset;
A spring leads on to spring as death to birth.
Blossoms return—never the wasted summer
That brought a god as man upon the earth!
N.S.W.
MARY LISLE.
For Comfort’s Sake.
When she declares her love for me
Her eyes are deep with tears;
The rivulets that run from them
Dissolve my doubts and fears,
Drowning them upon her cheeks
In reassuring smears.
For days my heart is round with joy
And warm as a nest, and then
I see her splendidly besieged,
Like a young town, by ten
(I never draw the long bow)
Million million men.
While I, the only anguished one
In that gay company,
Nurse, deep within, a dead machine
(That was the heart of me)
Embittered as a lonely hour,
Sad as a frozen sea.
From out of me there passes hope
And love and life and lust,
And the great engine of my heart
Stiffens itself in rust.
(My hormones are in ashes and
My genes have turned to dust.)
Then suddenly she turns to me
With a fond look that sends
A thin prayer leaping anxiously—
(A prayer that quickly ends)
That I may join the millions there
And be among my friends.
N.S.W.
LEON GELLERT.
Rondo-Andante.
All the flowers that grow
On the immortal sprays
Thaw the inhuman snow,
Open in your face,
And all the songs I know.
That musicians’ dreams have wrung
From disdain, or joy has sung
Since the world and love were young,
Chanting ladies’ praise,
Sing as though the olden times
Froze their kissing mouths to rhymes,
Changed their beating hearts to chimes,
Chimes to ageless days:
All the beautiful days
Waken with your eyes,
And caress your face,
Sighing sad surprise
They must go their ways;
And the night shakes
To the wild storm;
Your mouth makes
Wet and warm,
And your body seems
With cool dew
Drenched, and dreams
Dimly through,
And your heart’s cries
In the still room
bind peace,
And the bloody gloom
Shines as when moonlight
Sears the seas
And the air is white:
Drowned as time drowns tears,
Love, the radiant night
Ebbs to darkened years,
And your sleep is white,
Washed of dreaming fears;
Witches whining through the skies,
Ghosts and gusty sorceries,
All withhold their cruelties, .
And the darkness dies;
When the darkness dies
All the flowers that grow
Open with your eyes,
And all the songs 1 know
Praise you as you rise;
And, as you rise and stand
Before your morning glass,
Leaning to take your hand
I see my father’s face,
My father’s face in the glass,
And he is dead; but this
Face is as it was,
And shall be as it is,
Whose ashes sprinkle mine
Where ageless gardens grow
Of roses lost in a land
Where the whine of the wind is low:
All the flowers that grow
Fade upon the air,
All the songs I know
Waste to mute despair
Down the winds that blow.
So the falsifying wind
Blows away my heart and mind,
Flesh to smoke, and smoke refined
Into cloudless space
By the sunshine and the rain,
Till, of burning heart and brain,
Only ashen eyes remain,
Shining in your grace,
Shining in your grace,
To see the lovely rose
Fading till they trace
Nothing through the snows
Closing round your face.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Tablet for the Lonely Water.
Suppose the shifting white fire of her feet
Branded the pale drowned stones with death-
less grooves
As birds’ feet sand, as hares print’ frosted
grass,
As deer in flight cut snowfields with the fleet
Delicate sharp diamonds of their hooves,
Her footprints so on stones, those pale, flat
moons,
Through fleeting flutes would gleam or stiller
glass
For eels ,to writhe upon and water slither
Till all stones rot and all streams dry and
wither.
But that would not avail, not carven stones,
Over those moon-strange far configurations
Whio would sail, the lone blue mountain-drake,
And whistle his cold mate, as blind to wonder
As his dark kin that torrenting to their lake
Care not a feather’s ruffle for clanging on
The meaningless contortions of the moon.
No, that would not avail. And if a boy
Exploring the warm secrets of the hills
Chanced on this lonely water, saw the carving,
The rune of all our splendor, all our joy
So burned in stone where water chimes and
trills,
Would be but idle fancy, such a tale
To make his elders ache their sides with laugh-
ing,
And to himself the footprints’ milky blaze
Only a moment’s Crusoe-like amaze.
No, that would not avail, would not avail,
No man would follow him, no man come,
Conceive her reeling beauty and bow down.
Though her white feet were written into rock
They were but bones in a sea-eaten town,
The script but the pale record of a ghost
Between a brown hill and a blue hill lost.
The stream has nothing in it to remember
What naked feet or bodies made it holy;
Not mint nor sedge nor island of bright gorse
Nor little crayfish scuttling through the amber
Nor eel in browner hollows writhing slowly
Can speak her fire that should have chiselled
stone,
So I must grave her image in still verse
To gleam like snow and marble through a time
When iron days all else may overcome.
This tablet will remain though she be gone
And stream go too, past the last spur’s blue
shoulder,
And wind into the hills beyond all finding,
And those cool eddies that caressed her feet
Be utterly lost in winding and unwinding
Of the lost, listless tides hauled creaking on
Cordage of silver, the windlass of the moon.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS A. STEWART.
Contest.
Ho, traveller on the beamless roof
of this high country, had you ears
stroked by some quickening from old years,
beyond proving or need of proof,
then might you start at clash of hoof
where with locked horns the hills engage
and primal warfares wage.
Conflict of shaggy rams of stone:
Savage great ridges, jarring, test
strength upon strength, crest reared at crest,
spur jolting spur’s flint forehead-bone;
and these gaunt profiles are upthrown,
knitted and twined against the murk
where olden seethings lurk.
For thus advances and takes 101 l
struggle inaugurate on that day
when gods unbuckled for the fray
at the first opening of the scroll
in the dawn of the world: thus did they roll-
thigh to bare thigh—and tear and thrust
’mid earth’s all-fertile dust . . .
Fought for the new toys barely made:
sea and cool air and souls of men —
whence this unquiet that again
raids and is met by counter-raid;
while you, lone traveller, undelayed
click shoe to pebble on that fringe
where sky and earth impinge.
Go your way: why should you look or heed
who inherit also the strife? What breath
drawn by men but is aimed at death —
arrows unequal to the need?
In your own contest, this, good speed!
Behind you the hooves charge: skulls break:
old cries shudder and wake.
FIJI.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Dream of Sunken Ships.
I dreamed of sunken ships, of rotting hulls
In deep old harbors white with gulls—
Of glistening poop and turret pearled
Beneath the tides of all the world.
Of brig and galleass I dreamed,
Their roving days of plunder past—
Of serpent-ships thick-rimed with shells,
Of gold-encumbered caravels -
With coral coating every mast.
And there were high-decked galleons beached
Tn waters foaming near the land,
And curving ribs of triremes bleached,
And anchors trailing in the sand.
And where great purple sails had flown,
And rowers rowed three deep,
I heard the desolate sea-wind’s moan,
I heard the rhythmic sweep
Of sunless tides that sucked around
The ghosts of galleys homeward bound.
I dreamed of sunken ships, of hoarded gold,
Of treasure spilled from hatch and hold.
I dreamed of jewelled urns and jade
Dark-patterned by the sea-oak’s shade —
Of silver flagons, too, and cups
That once had brimmed with Flemish foam,
And now, encrusted thick with brine,
Poured green and amber ocean-wine,
And thin sea-honey pale as comb.
Strange shapes I saw where fishes leaped—
Dull, rusted swords and warlike things—
Old dinted shields and helmets heaped
Above the hands of dead sea-kings.
And dreaming on and on I dreamed
Of bells from rifled towers
Still ringing where the waters creamed,
And gems like starry flowers
That dripped in whorls of green and red
From ruined prow and figurehead.
And it was my own face I saw,
A dim, drowned disc beneath the sea;
A battle-axe was in my claw —
Smooth gyves were twisted round my knee!
VICTORIA.
MAYRA MORRIS.
Rescue.
Faunlet, with horns a-glance,
Green as an apple—
Teaching a bird to dance
In the shade’s dapple.
Branches for joyance shake:
Plums, past their riping
(Too old for merrimake),
Drop to the piping.
Soft grass, and flutter-feet:
Ah, but—take care now—
Hunchbacked, and wet with heat,
Fitting an arrow,
Hitherward, Hugh McCrae
Comes, with “Te Deum”;
Keen for this faunlet—Yea !
For his museum !
Wattle-trees, wide awake,
Signal the heavens
“Send clouds, for faunlet’s sake:
Sixes and sevens!”
Down comes the pouring rain . . .
Summery thunder!
Back to his cliff again
(Why should we wonder?)
Rattles young satyrling,
Safe into shelter . . .
Yours truly still battling
Through the hard pelter.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


THE YEAR’S BEST SHORT STORIES
A Fine Yarn by the
Author of
“Coonardoo”
(Buccaneer’s
BY
DATHARINE
SUSANNAH
PRICHARD
uT he . buccaneers are
| coming,” people told
A each other at breakfast
in the only boarding-house
on the island.
“The buccaneers? Who
are the buccaneers?”
“They’re three old fogies
who used to come to Rott-
nest every year when they
were boys. In the pilot boats
or with fishermen. Stole a
dinghy once, and sailed over
with a verandah blind for a
sail. You’d think they owned
the place, the fuss everybody
makes of them.”
So the gossip went.
Soon after midday the rickety char-a-banc which
brings visitors from the steamer along a sweep of
white road a mile or so from the jetty pulled up.
The manager and his wife went out to meet it.
“The buccaneers have arrived,” somebody
announced.
And there they were. Maconochie, florid and
handsome in old clothes, a straw hat on the back
of his head, and blue eyes that laughed at life with
a zest neither time nor a healthy appetite could
diminish. John Maconochie might be a successful
businessman and all that—there were people who
had a great idea of his shrewd head—but he still
carried himself with the swagger of a youthful
desperado.
A. P. Gilbert, long, lean and dry, a hard nut
to crack in his profession, with a wry twist to his
mouth, the dropped eyelids over glittering dark eyes.
An elegant old ruffian he looked, rather than a
member of the Legislative Assembly and a gentle-
man whose wit thrived on processes of the law. And
Bob Sweetman, beside him, sturdily built, the eyes
between his black lashes giving a fierce expression to
his rather pleasant, hard-featured old woman’s face.
He had ruled a Government department for years
with iron incompetence, but, having lost his hat on
the way over, was perturbed about it, and stood
clutching his fishing-rods as if they also might be
wafted from him at any moment.
“Hullo! Hullo, every-
body!” Bluff and exuberant,
Maconochie strode forward.
“See the albergo has had a
coat of point . . . and you’re
full up, they tell me.”
He shook hands with
Mr. and Mrs. Drew, the
housekeeper, the yardman
and one of the oldest inhabi-
tants who had come to meet
him. Gilbert and Sweetman
followed suit.
The prison headquarters
had become a hostelry for
tourists, but Maconochie in-
sisted on calling it the
albergo. In the days when
the three came over from the
mainland on their first adven-
turous voyage, they had
decided that the penal settle-
ment was a Spanish-Ameri-
can town. It had a romantic
foreign aspect with its square
limestone prisons, imposing
residency, sea walls and dun-
geons, later colored ochre
and terracotta.
They had put in many a
a fine night taking the place
by storm, fighting and loot-
ing through the quiet streets,
setting the prisoners free and making off to sea
again in a gallant barque the dead spit of Drake’s
Golden Hind or Dampier’s Cygnet. All in the lively
imagination of youngsters camped on the beach, fish-
ing and shooting and carting their water a mile every
day from the Government well near the Boys’ Refor-
matory.
BORN in Fremantle, they had cruised up and down
the river on anything that would float. Maconochie
had just turned twelve, Gilbert and Sweetman eleven
and ten, when they commandeered a dinghy breaking
up on the beach, hauled her off into the scrub, painted
and tarred her, patched her up with tin and canvas,
hoisted a verandah blind to a sapling pole, stole a
couple of oars from a fisherman, and anything in
the way of blankets and stores they could lay hands
on from their unsuspecting families, and set sail
for Rottnest.
The crazy little craft had carried them in the
early morning across eleven miles of blue sea, and
they were comfortably camped beside the headland
near Parakeet Bay while their parents were dragging
the river and mourning the dear lads as drowned or
devoured by sharks. Then fishermen brought the
news that they had seen the three camped on the
beach at Parakeet Bay.
They were having the time of their lives fishing,
shooting, exploring the island and digging for buried
treasure when a search party arrived to confiscate the
dinghy and conduct them back to their homes and
a good, sound thrashing apiece. The memory still
rankled, not so much of the thrashing, but of returning
to the port on old Baldasarre’s lugger, the dinghy
towing behind.
“Buccaneers Resent Capture,” the local news-
papers reported, giving a last flick to the sensational
story of how the three sons of leading citizens had
disappeared mysteriously. Maconochie was skipper,
had a compass, could sail a boat anywhere, his mates
declared. He had been out with the fishermen since
he was a kid. What he didn’t know about the reefs
and channels round Rottnest wasn’t worth knowing.
Every year during their schooldays, the three
had contrived to sneak over on the pilot boats or
get fishermen to dump them along the coast for the
summer holidays. Even lighthouse-keepers and the
aboriginal convicts knew “the buccaneers.”
To sidetrack roving propensities, John’s father
took him into the business. Maconochie and Dow’s
“Go away , you hussies. My hus-
band doesn't Want YOU in the
picture .”
was a prosperous firm of fellmongers, and Jack
stepped into a lucrative job right away, although
sweating in a stinking atmosphere of tallow and hides
was not his idea of a glamorous existence. Alf Gilbert,
articled to a lawyer, took more kindly to documents
and a gift of the gab as the means of earning his
living ; while Bob Sweetman, as the result of the wire-
pulling of anxious relatives, found himself dumped in
the civil service for life.
When Maconochie was twenty, the three worked
out a great scheme for their salvation. They had
heard tales of Dutch and Spanish galleons wrecked
on the nor’-west coast in the early days. John met
a stockman who had picked up coins dated 1600 and
1611 on the beach near Dongarra, and who knew of
a place where an old Dutch ship could be seen on
a clear day a few fathoms down among rocks off one
of the Abrolhos Islands.
John was fired with the idea of having a shot
at salvaging her during the summer holidays. At
any rate, he argued, it would be worth while to go
up and have a look at the wreck ; get a couple of
native divers to poke round, and if, as was more
than likely, they came on a treasure chest —well, their
fortunes were made. They could chuck office work
and go pearling or trading in the South Seas. The
stockman promised to find
divers. All John and his
mates had to do was pro-
vide a boat and equipment.
They formed a syndicate.
Bob and John pooled their
wages for months, and Alf
screwed every penny he could
from his allowance. They
bought the Pelican, a queer
top-heavy little fishing-
smack carrying more in her
beak than her flat little belly
seemed to warrant; but the
lads got her cheap, and
assured themselves that she
was sound and seaworthy.
The Pelican carried them
flopping and floundering
about the islands for several week-ends before Christ-
mas. By that time John was sure that he knew her
inside out and could sail her anywhere; so they
lacked away up the coast as soon as the holidays
began.
Within a day’s sail of Dongarra, where they were
to pick up the stockman and divers, the Pelican
dragged her anchor one night and crashed on to
a reef. It was pitch-dark, heavy seas running. A
great wave lifted and carried her high on the reef,
where she hung, precariously wedged between two
jagged rocks. The buccaneers bailed for their lives.
Their dinghy had been swept away. They lit flares, and
clung to the Pelican’s stout carcass as the waves broke
over them all night. Dawn showed a misty coastline
and surf breaking on the reef, which ran out from
a rocky island. There was nothing to do but bail
and hang on to the Pelican, flying signals of distress
on the offchance of attracting a passing fishing-boat.
All day the sails of fishing-boats blew along the hori-
zon, but it wasn’t until next morning that the Santa
Lucia, of Fremantle, bore down towards them, put
off a dinghy and hauled the three on board.
AFTER the wreck of the Pelican they were more
satisfied to stick to their jobs ; but Christmas found
them again fishing off Rottnest from a launch they
had hired for the season, living on board and going
ashore for stores or a yarn with some of the oldest
inhabitants when they felt so disposed.
So they had spent their
holidays for years, although
Maconochie, good - looking
and affluent, always “a favor-
ite with the ladies,” had mar-
ried before he was well on
in his twenties ; also Gilbert.
Only Bob Sweetman re-
mained unattached except
to his job. When the other
two developed homes and
families, he took refuge in
the department; sat in his
office working overtime, any
time, back at night five days
out of seven. Governments
changed every three years,
and their figureheads with
them; but as a permanent
official, holding facts and
figures at his finger-ends,
Bob Sweetman considered he
was the department.
He shed his responsibili-
ties only when he went off
for his summer holidays with
Gilbert and Maconochie.
Didn’t care a damn what
happened to the department;
whether the Minister was
making another mistake;
whether the typists were
coming late, manicuring their
nails and smoking in office
hours ; or whether the esti-
mates for the new road to
the Port were being exceeded
by half a million.
It was in the spirit of
a small boy he went off
for his annual leave with Gilbert and Maconochie.
They, too, shed their cares and obligations when they
embarked on the Zephyr in old clothes and straw
hats, with their fishing-rods sheathed in worn cases.
They were buccaneers again, with the world created
for them to adventure in.
They timed their visit, as a rule, between Christ-
mas and Easter, when the island was at first not
crowded with other folks. But every year more
people seemed to be left over from the gala months.
Sweetman was for shifting camp, getting a man
he knew who had a launch in the harbor to take
them over to Garden Island. But Gilbert had his
gammy leg to think of. He was reluctant to move.
Maconochie agreed with him. The crowd would be
as bad anywhere else ; the flies and food worse. At
the albergo they did you well: the cooking was good,
and, even if it wasn’t the decent little pub they would
have preferred, there were ways and means of getting
all the grog they wanted on the island, within reason.
Each man had taken the precaution of stowing
several bottles away in his baggage, and it was pos-
sible to send for more if supplies ran out, or to visit
the bar on the steamer when she was in port twice
3. week.
Sweetman was grouchy about the invasion of
their solitude. He had come to believe that Rottnest


belonged to himself, Gilbert and Maconochie by
divine right of schoolboy imagination.
He loved the island, its bays and craggy head-
lands, the sea spreading out from them, shallow green
on white beaches, amethyst and purple over the reefs,
streaked with jade and malachite, sapphire in deeper
water and indigo to the far horizon ; the white roads
running inland over low hills, the scented dark scrub
and filmy mauve lace flowers growing in drifts over
the hillsides ; the square, solid buildings of the penal
settlement; the salt lakes gleaming like old shells,
pink and mother-of-pearl in the evening light; the
snipe which collected in hundreds about them, rising
and wheeling as you passed by so that their wings
flashed rose and silver. The curlews, wild duck and
gulls, Sweetman had a secret tenderness for them
all as inhabitants of the island. He had even become
something of a conchologist, as an excuse for dodder-
ing along the beaches, picking up cowries and little
“pink ladies.” Only the new wooden bungalows
along the front displeased him, and the happy-go-
lucky noisy crowds which swarmed about them during
the summer months.
Gilbert and Maconochie seemed inclined to be
more philosophical. They were both married men
with boys and girls of their own. Maconochie’s wife
had died two years ago, and his grown-up family
showed a tendency to mother him. Gilbert’s wife
had divorced him, and his family had washed its hands
of an unnecessary encumbrance. Sweetman was an
old maid, his mates said, and they twitted him
about it.
NOT that he looked the part in the red-and-yellow
towel gown he wore over his bathers, and the
straw sombrero he had bought to keep the sun off
his face when he was fishing. There was no
reason to suspect Sweet’s essential manliness, although
he was so shy and grouchy with women.
Perhaps it was because he had
been disappointed in love so young,
Gilbert and Maconochie said.
The buccaneers had separate
rooms in the Quad, near where the
old guillotine used to stand in the
days when the buildings surrounding
it were still used as cells for con-
demned prisoners, but they took their
meals together at a table in the long
dining-room.
Usually they went off fishing be-
fore breakfast, and in the evening sat
yarning on the sea wall, above the
dungeon where the convicts were
kept waiting to man the pilot boats in
the old days. As a matter of fact,
they found themselves a little intimi-
dated by all the gay young things who
whirled about them at the hostel,
playing tennis, swimming or lying
stretched half-naked on the beach,
sun-dozing and smoking all day,
dancing and singing, with radio
shrieking, all the evening.
Sweet cursed them for overrun-
ning the place just when he and Gil-
bert and Maconochie were looking
forward to having it to themselves.
Gilbert took the change with equa-
nimity. Maconochie was even pre-
pared to enjoy it. Bob, more dis-
gruntled than ever, brooded over
their disaffection.
He had hired a boat with an out-
board motor, and every day they
chuntered off to fish off the Five
Fathom Reef. But even the fishing
was not what it used to be. They
had caught a few snapper the first
day out, and Maconochie had landed
a decent-sized kingfish; but being
bucketed about' on a choppy sea,
sun-flayed and salt-stung, when the fish weren’t
biting, no longer delighted them. They came in early
one afternoon with no more than a couple of butter-
fish and a rock cod to show for their pains.
TO add to Sweet’s chagrin, half a dozen girls in
gaudy flop hats and nightmare pyjamas waylaid
them as they waded ashore from the dinghy. The
girls wanted to see the fish they had caught.
Maconochie, like a fool, threw the bag on the
beach to display the butterfish and that rock cod, a
brown-spotted, pink-bellied, good-for-nothing, all
mouth and red eyes.
“Oh, isn’t it like Mr. Sweetman?” a girl in
floral pyjamas chirped.
Sweet marched off up the beach alone. The
girls followed with Gilbert and Maconochie. That
was the beginning of it. They adopted Gilbert and
Maconochie from that moment. Sweet was disgusted
with the way Gilbert and Maconochie allowed them-
selves to be dragged here and there, hobnobbing with
the girls after dinner, offering them cigarettes and
joining in their silly cackle and backchat.
In a day or two John and Alf knew all the gossip
of the house, who were the official and who the un-
official honeymooners, though you could usually pick
them, Maconochie said. The brides for life were self-
conscious and ill at ease; the brides of the moment
so discreet and guileless. Most of the girls had swains
among the yachtsmen, campers or people living in
bungalows along the front. But Jean, Peggy and
Joy, restless and vacillating as butterflies, were dis-
posed to flutter wherever male glances were auspicious.
Jean, tallish and bronze, with black hair and
bright eyes ; Peggy, fair, blue-eyed, her hair neatly
waved ; Joy, ginger and freckled. In their dainty
frocks, fixed up for the evening, lips reddened, eyes
shadowed, perfumed and powdered, they were as
lovely and charming as most girls you meet, Sweet-
man conceded. He didn’t know, all the same, why
John and Alf wanted to be bothered with them.
“You’re the buccaneers, aren’t you?” said Jean.
“You used to come to the island when you were
boys?” Peggy chipped in. “It must have been thrilling
when the convicts were here. Tell us about it.”
“And about when you were wrecked up the
coast.”
THEY sat hunched up on the verandah to listen
while Alf and John told stories of the convict days ;
described how the Pelican had betrayed their con-
fidence, drifted on to the reef and kept them there
during two nights and a day. Bob was more than
incensed to hear them.
“I’m going to call you Don Juan,” Joy told
Maconochie. “And you can be Don Alfonso.” She
included Gilbert in a fleeting glance.
“And how about Bob here?” Maconochie
demanded.
“Oh, Don Bobbo’ll do for him. Or just Sweet.
I think it suits him better, don’t you?”
The minx with the mop of ginger hair and sea-
green eyes giggled up at Maconochie. At night you
couldn’t see her freckles or the sunburnt tip of her
nose. A pink flush spread up to her ears, and she
had the delicate fragrance of young grass.
Sweetman sat stolid and raging inwardly at her
impudence. He couldn’t see anything funny in it.
Wondered what had come over John and Alf to laugh
like a pair of hobbledehoys every time that girl spoke.
He meditated going off to bed ; but that would mean
leaving his mates to the mercy of these designing
wenches. He lit another cigarette, was throwing away
the match when Joy cried:
“Oh, give me a light, too, Sweet.”
Bob bent towards her, furious, but holding the
lighted match to the cigarette perched between
her painted lips, while her eyes gazed up at him
mischievously.
“Ish mos' embarrashing, George , having horsh-faced maids lookin' in
bathroom."
The flame of the match flickered against his
fingers. Bob swore and stalked off.
Gilbert and Maconochie were still chuckling and
grinning over their talk with the girls when they came
into his room for a nightcap.
“Makes you feel ten years younger, knocking
round with young things like that,” Maconochie volun-
teered over his whisky. 7
“Damned fine lot of girls,” Gilbert agreed. “They
know how to get the most out of life. You can say
what you like about the modern girl, Bob, but she’s
pleasing to the eye and has a lot of commonsense.
Look at the way she dresses: a scrap of woollen stuff
round the middle to bathe in—not that in some of
the bays, they tell me; flounces and muslin at
night over a bit of silk ; and if a lipstick and eye-
black make her look like Delilah, why not? I reckon
Jean, with her black hair and eyelashes, would knock
spots off Samson’s dame, even if she does bang a
typewriter for a living most of her time.”
“Joy’s the pick of the bunch,” Maconochie
gurgled. “She’s got brains and devilment, though
there’s no vice in her.”
“No fools like” Bob 'growled.
“You old crow,” Maconochie laughed. “Wake
up and try to be sociable for once in a way.”
But Sweetman smoked and brooded alone when
the girls fluttered about Gilbert and Maconochie in
the evening.
“What’s the matter with Sweet, Don Juan?” Joy
demanded one night.
“Oh, he’s just shy, my dear—and mad with us
for liking you. Never gone gay in his life. Been
too busy, he says. Now he thinks he’s a woman-hater.
It would do him good to be shaken out of himself.”
Joy’s green eyes shimmered.
“I’ll shake him,” she said.
She slid along the verandah to where Sweetman
was sitting in an armchair looking out to the lake.
Jean had put on the gramophone again. She and
Gilbert were dancing.
“Have this one with me, Sweetness,” Joy trilled.
Bob stared at her dumbfounded. Then he
stuttered:
“I’m sorry. But—but I don’t dance.”
“You do. Divinely, I know.”
Joy seated herself on the arm of his
balancing herself with an arm round its back. Bo
felt her arm against his neck.
“It’s not nice of you to tell me a lie like that,
Bobbo,” she said. “I might feel hurt: and then *
mightn’t, because I know, deep down in my heart,
what a dear you are, and that you wouldn’t like to
hurt me, really.”
As if she could not resist the merry skirl of
the music, she stood up, swaying, and held out hei
arms. Sweetman found himself on his feet and drawn
away with her. Wet with perspiration and weak at
the knees, he grabbed Joy by the waist and swung
out with her among the dancers. It was years since
he had danced, and he had not the remotest idea of
syncopated rhythms. He was only conscious of being
expected to hang on to the girl, with her green flying
veils and sweet fragrance. She clung to him, and
somehow they managed to escape a fall or collision.
Gilbert and Maconochie gasped when they saw
Bob dancing. It wasn’t much more than a bear’s
hug, that dance, to be sure. Bob walked blindly on
joy’s toes, although she did her best to move with his
stride and whirl, smiling and flashing a glance of
impish glee at Maconochie now and then.
When Bob subsided into his chair again, Joy
perched herself on the arm. No, she wouldn’t take
the chair, thank you. It was more comfy to lean
against his shoulder.
“You’ve got' It, you know, darling, she declared.
“It?” Bob, panic-stricken, looked for Maconochie
and Gilbert. . ,
Girls were all round him, Peggy and Jean and
several others whose first names, even, he did not know.
“He has, hasn’t he?” Peggy
burbled. “We all think so. You’ll
dance with me now, won’t you,
Don Bobbo?”
“Of course,” Joy agreed. “I
won't be stingy. But he’s my sheik,
girls. I found him.”
Bob was fuming inwardly.
There was nothing to do but play
up. He did so, and managed to get
some amusement out of it. He
would show Gilbert and Maconochie
he was as good at the game as they
were, but when he got them alone
he’d let them know what he thought
of them, putting the girls up to make
a fool of him.
Gilbert and Maconochie pro-
tested. There was no frame-up.
Nothing to make a fuss about.
Were the buccaneers going to be
broken up because a pack of girls
chose to divert themselves at their
expense? It was too silly. But you
couldn’t be rude to the little things:
downright boorish and “ungentle-
manly.”
It was too rough to go fishing
next morning. The buccaneers went
down to swim in the cove by the
heactland. It was sunny and shel-
tered on the sand there; a good
place to lounge and yam.
The girls thought so, too ; were
already in possession when the three
men strolled down. They took pos-
session of the buccaneers as well,
spent the morning with them,
sprawled on the beach, playing
leapfrog, running races, splashing about in the sea.
Bob swam out to the reef to escape their antics. Joy
swam after him, pulled herself up on to the weedy
rocks and sat there beside him.
“You looked so lonely out here by. yourself,
Sweet,” she explained gently.
And Sweetman found himself reconciled to the
little wretch sitting there beside him, dangling her
legs in deep water. She was quite pale and unattrac-
tive with her hair dank and wet. Those golden-brown
freckles that dappled her face spread down her back,
he noticed, and over her thighs. He didn’t feel nearly
so scared of her talking about the wind and the
tides—and the big shark which had been cruising
about his boat the day before when he had gone out
fishing by himself.
SWEETMAN had taken to going fishing by himself
since Maconochie and Gilbert seemed to prefer
lounging on the beach with the girls, swimming with
them in the pool there, or escorting them to the salt
lakes, where they splashed about and disported them-
selves, upended, like India-rubber toys, in the strong
water.
Joy refused to be cold-shouldered. She insisted
on regarding Sweetman as her boy friend among the
buccaneers. She would go through the house calling
him “Sweet, Sweety!” and inquire innocently “Has
anybody seen my Sweetness?”
If she found Bob hiding behind a newspaper in
the smokeroom, she would sit down beside him and
read the paper, too, and finally lead him off for a
walk or to dance in the tearooms with the others.
After a while, Bob became reconciled to her
blandishments —even took them for granted and missed
them when she did not come looking for him. For
a few days she transferred her attentions to a stalwart
blonde young man who arrived by the mid-week boat.
The girls called him Diddums, because he looked such
an overgrown baby. Stalked to and from the beach,
golden brown under light, glistening hair, naked but
for the pale-blue bathers rolled about his loins. Bob


was distinctly peeved when Joy showed a disposition
to be amiable towards him; but she returned to her
buccaneer. , , ,
“He’s very beautiful, isn’t he? she remarked
wistfully one evening as they were walking out
towards the saltworks. “Diddums, I mean; but so
stuck on himself—and thinks every girl is. That’s
what I like about you, Sweet. You’re so shy and
unassuming. You couldn’t believe anybody would
like you for yourself, really, could you?”
How it happened Bob could never quite under-
stand. The warm summer air perhaps was to blame,
spicy odors of the dark scrub, moonlight on the lakes,
their isolation out there on the white road which ran
right across the island ; but suddenly he felt so grate-
ful to Joy for her companionship. A vision of
what such sympathetic, appreciative companion-
ship might mean in a man’s life swept him. All
tenderness and a swift desire to compensate for
past churlishness, he kissed Joy and told her
just what he was thinking.
NEITHER Maconochie nor Gilbert was
tempted to accompany the girls on
their hikes across the island to the light-
house or the West End. Discretion was
decidedly the better part of gallantry
in the latitudes of sixty, they assured
themselves. To the girls they said that
they knew the island by heart, had sailed
round it or explored every inch of
it on Shanks’s pony. The girls set
off on their eight-mile walks in slacks or
shorts, knapsacks slung over their backs.
They had gone off on one of these
excursions the afternoon Maconochie sug-
gested a stroll to Parakeet Bay. It was hot and
the sand heavy as the buccaneers padded along
a track through the scrub. Memories of times
they had trotted along, carrying their own water
and never noticing the distance, returned. In those
days they had knocked over many a little brown
wallaby with a stick and put him in the pot.
Nowadays, the Dutchmen’s rats were almost sacred
animals: nobody allowed to violate their sanctuary.
A good thing, too, the buccaneers agreed. They
had never quite forgiven Vlaming for discovering the
island before them and for calling it “a rats’ nest,’'
because he did not know a wallaby when he saw one.
Toiling on, they came to the sandhills of the
opposite shore, near the bay where they had often
camped years ago. The sea glutted their eyes again
with the' green and blue of a parakeet’s wing, the
rock masses of another island stuck against its
furthest edge.
Sitting down behind a hummock, they smoked
and yarned for a while, trying to discover if any seals
could still be seen on the distant island, as they used
to be. Then the shreds of siren laughter came to
them, tattered by the sea breeze, which was ruffling
the bright wing of the bay so that it showed white
feathers. Maconochie thought the girls must be
returning from their walk and stood up to hail them.
He slumped quickly behind the sand dune again.
The girls had come prancing round the headland,
wearing no more than a girdle of seaweed. Not much
of that even. Sweetman and Gilbert saw them almost
as soon as Maconochie. The buccaneers crouched in
the sand afraid to move or make a sound. What to
do? It was too late to warn the girls; to walk forth
would make an awkward moment for everybody.
“Naughty little things!” Maconochie murmured,
watching the slim, brown figures streaking the beach,
diving into the shoreward ripples and swimming out
to the purple-dark wedge of the reef.
Sweetman jumped to his feet.
“If you chaps think it’s decent to sit here goggling
at a pack of girls bathing ... as God made them . . .
I don’t,” he snorted.
“Sit down, sit down, man.” Gilbert pulled him
back into the sand again. “They’ll see you.”
“Serve them right if they did,” Bob declared
wrathfully.
“What do you think we ought to do?” Gilbert
asked. “Tell the police?”
“Or sit here all the afternoon with our eyes shut?”
“Go to hell,” Bob growled. “If you two get any
kick out of it, it’s more than I do.”
“The girls in my days were plumper,” Maconochie
mourned.
“The schoolboy figure,” Gilbert’s worldly wisdom
spoke.
“Must say I like a woman with a curve to her.”
Maconochie’s laughter rumbled in that cavernous
paunch of his. “Gee, Joy should stick to bathers.
She’s a bit of a scrag, Sweet.”
Sweetman cursed beneath his breath. He was
beginning to get a cranky pain in his back, crouching
there behind the sandhill. Gilbert stretched his long
legs and swore there were ants crawling all over him.
Maconochie, lurching into an easier position, brought
a shower of sand into their eyes, but there was nothing
for it but to sit, huddled up, out of sight until the
girls chose to wander off.
This they did presently, and came back, dressed,
to sit on the beach a few yards away and regale
themselves with thermos tea, biscuits and fruit. They
took their time about it, too.
The sea breeze was blowing sharply when at last
they gathered up their bundles and" sauntered away
over the headland. Their laughter streeled back to
the buccaneers as they came out of their ambush,
stretching and groaning at the stiffness and aches that
had crept into their bones.
The girls were singing as they strolled along ;
scraps of their blithe little ditties drifted back, eerie
as the cries of birds on the wing.
BUT the buccaneers were curiously quiet as they
stumbled up the shifting sand of the track. If
they had hoped to happen on one of those bathing
parties that everybody whispered about it was as
a glamorous and thrilling experience. But the
thing had not come up to expectations ; left them
flat, vaguely depressed, and defeated. They bore the
girls a grudge because of it. It was a fact that they
looked younger, more alluring even, in slacks and shorts.
“Adam, give it to me this instant! You know
it's Washing-day .”
Maconochie and Gilbert, with the recollection of
little scenes that might easily be converted into a
scandal, chewed the cud of uneasy consciences. And
Sweetman—who could tell what he was thinking as
he ploughed along, morose and aloof?
“Well, I reckon we catch the boat to-morrow,”
Maconochie said when they paused to rest on the
summit of the headland.
“Before we make fools.of ourselves,” Gilbert
added.
“It’s too late,” Bob groaned. “I asked Joy to
marry me last night.”
“What?”
“What did you do that for?”
Gilbert and Maconochie were aghast.
“I don’t know,” Bob replied miserably. “She put
it all over me, calling me ‘dear’ and ‘darling,’ in that
green frilly dress out there in the moonlight.”
“You old sap,” Maconochie growled. “The girls
don’t mean anything these days when they call you
‘dear’ and ‘darling.’ ”
This was tragedy. The buccaneers stood together
when they were in trouble. Gilbert and Maconochie
realised that they had to get Bob out of a scrape.
“Well, you can’t go on with it,” Maconochie
decided. “Perhaps she was only pulling your leg. If
she means business”
“Breach of promise, I suppose, and damages.”
Gilbert’s legal acumen reasserted itself.
“My God!”
Sweetman stared gloomily at the sea.
“What did she say?” Gilbert was cross-examining.
“Say?” Bob smiled forlornly.
“ ‘lt’s so sudden, dear; but I’ll think it over
and tell you to-morrow.’ ”
“That’s not so bad.” Maconochie brightened.
“You can keep out of her way, and to-morrow we’re
off —though I promised to take Peggy to the dance
to-night.”
“I was taking Jean,” Gilbert confessed.
“Well, we’re cutting them out.” Maconochie
was directing sailing operations. “We’ve got to stand
by Sweet. And if Joy says anything we’ll carry it
off as a joke.”
“Asa joke?” Bob doubted his ability to
carry off anything as a joke for the moment.
THEY were late for the evening meal; sat
glum and dignified at their table in the big
dining-room, although the girls hailed them
hilariously and wanted to know what they had
done with themselves all day.
After dinner they went off to Macono-
chie’s room and shut themselves in.
Maconochie produced a bottle of whisky.
“Cheer us up,” he said. “We’ve been too
damned sober on this trip. That’s what’s the
matter.”
They pulled out their pipes, ensconced them-
selves in easy-chairs, glasses and liquid refreshment
spread out on the table within easy reach.
Presently the girls came along calling:
“Don Juan!”
“Alfonso! ”
“Sweet! Where are you, Sweetness, darling?”
Bob sank back in his chair.
“It’s all right. Don’t move,” Maconochie directed.
Bob understood that Maconochie and Gilbert
were prepared to defend him from any designing
female —with their lives, if necessary.
When the girls sought admission Maconochie
replied amiably, “We’re not at home to-night.”
“But you promised to take us to the dance,”
Peggy and Jean cried.
“Sorry, we can’t come,” Gilbert stated.
“We’ve had bad news,” Maconochie added.
There was a subdued tittering on the other side
of the door. A moment later the girls were all looking
in through the barred window of the old cell, exclaim-
ing at the evidences of perfidy on the table.
Maconochie shooed them away.
“We’re doing a little serious drinking,” he said.
“It’s no place for little girls.”
“Celebrating your bad news?” Joy queried. /‘But,
Sweet, I thought you wanted to talk to me to-night?”
“I —I did,” Bob contrived weakly.
“He’s drunk,” Maconochie announced. “So is
Alf and so am I . . . and we’re bold, bad men when
we’ve been drinking. You’d better run away quickly.”
The girls fluttered off, with shrill cries of
alarm: but their laughter and exclamations
vibrated longer.
The buccaneers made a night of it,
smoking and yarning over their whisky.
Life had never been quite what they
imagined it would be, so they lived in the
exploits of their youth, sucking from
adventurous dreams the rapture and thrills
that had never quite materialised. The
fish they had caught long ago were larger
than any you see nowadays, and more
plentiful. The girls they had loved were
lovelier —passionate creatures, milk-white
and dreamy-eyed. The sharks they had
killed grew in size and ferocity as the night
wore on; the fortunes they might have
made became numerous and colossal.
It was a great idea to steal these few
weeks and go over old times, they agreed.
But a man had his position, clients and
business obligations to consider. It would
never do for any rumor of gay goings-on at
Rottnest to be listed against them. Suits for
breach of promise, damages. That sort of thing.
All three had sore heads next morning, but
went fishing before breakfast, determined to steer
clear of any embarrassing encounters that day. After
lunch they piled their baggage and fishing-rods into the
char-a-banc waiting to take passengers down to the
jetty.
Bad news, Maconochie explained to Mr. and
Mrs. Drew, was recalling him to the city earlier than
he had expected. Gilbert and Sweetman insisted on
accompanying him. The girls clustered round the
buccaneers, making great fun about their desertion.
“Don Juan, my heart is broken,” Jean wailed.
“Alfonso, what shall I do without you?” Peggy s
blue eyes threatened to brim with tears.
Only Joy was silent, staring at him reproachfully,
Sweetman thought. Her gingery mop glinted in the
sunshine. Such a little bit of a thing in her blue
shorts and white blouse. Sweetman blackguarded
himself for being a cad to walk off like this.
“Poor old Hector! He never would believe
that low flying Was dangerous ."
Maconochie hustled him into the char-a-banc.
The girls clambered in, too.
At the end of the jetty, the steamboat was shriek-
ing her last call to stragglers. The buccaneers hurried
on board to avoid too affectionate farewells; but
stood all together to wave good-bye to the girls.
THE boat gone, the girls walked off down the jetty.
“They were dear old things,” said Jean.
“Perfect darlings,” agreed Peggy.
Joy looked a little shamefaced.
“Poor old Sweetie,” she said. “I really believe he
thought I was trying to hook him.”


Jacky Almost Brings Home the Bacon
THE LIARS
BY J.H. SCHMEIDER.
GRUNTING contentedly, the big sow rolled in
the clayey puddle, a roadside depression filled by
a recent storm. Around her three half-grown
porkers, as fat as herself, wallowed and splashed, cool-
ing their heated bodies in the thick, muddy water.
At a distance of four or five yards Jacky sat in the
shade of a leafy wattle, watching the pigs. A frown
wrinkled his low, narrow brow, hidden by a woman’s
still serviceable sun hat, as he watched.
“Silly cow, make ’imself all dirty,” he growled.
“Have t’ gibbum barf now when gettum home.
Servum right if ’im get soap in ’im eye.” Jacky,
under bribe of as much stale beer as he could drink
and promise of a nip of rum, dinkum rum out of a
bottle and not the watery swill he and the hotel yard-
man manufactured for themselves with boiling water
and an empty cask, had undertaken to drove the pigs
from their late owner’s to their new quarters at the
pub. The pigs, overfat, docile and as tractable as
well-brought-up poddy calves, had given no trouble
fob the first couple of miles. Then the heat, increasing
every minute, began to tell, and soon the animals,
driven at a fairly brisk pace, were too distressed to
"Here, you get outer this ."
more than stumble along. Then they had come to
the puddle, cool and inviting after the dusty heat
of the shadeless track.
Grunting with relief, the sow turned on her belly,
slobbering in the water. Jacky spat with disgust and
relit his pipe. “You gettum bellyache, you drink that,”
he warned. “Only pig drink dirty water like that.
Hey,” as the sow dragged herself along on her belly,
“you can’t swim! Water not deep enough. Better
come out now or udder pig at pub drinkum all beer.”
As an inducement to hurry their pace, Jacky had
promised the pigs a share of his stale beer. He could
afford to. He had half a hogshead of it, and it was
fast reaching the undrinkable stage, even for Jacky.
“Better come out now,” he told the pigs again,
“or you bin gettum ’pendicitis somewhere yet. Bin
rollum in mud long enough.”
The pigs were too comfortable to pay heed. They
wallowed and grunted, unmindful of Jacky and all
the world beside. They were not going to leave the
comfort of the cool puddle for the scorching heat of
a sun-baked road if they could help it.
Jacky smoked on for a while longer, scowling
and frowning, then suddenly put away his pipe.
“Here, you get outa this,” he growled, digging his
She squealed in pained protest.
bare toes into the sow’s side. “Can’t wait any longer.
Past dinner-time already.”
The sow presented her belly, grunting invitingly.
Jacky understood, but was not in an obliging mood.
“No time for scratchum belly,” he said, giving the
sow another dig. “Scratchum belly when we at pub.
You get up now, you big fat, lazy sow.” He grabbed
the sow by the tail and heaved. She squealed in
pained protest.
“Huh!” grunted Jacky contemptuously. “Singin’
out for pullin’ a little t’ing like that! S’pose me
pullum leg you sing out all day, hey? Hey, you
keepum straight,” tugging at the offending appendage
as the sow curled her tail again. “You makum
crooked all the time you won’t be able to makum
straight at all yet. Have t’ take you to hospital then
an’ get tail cut orf. That make you sing out.”
Jacky coaxed, threatened, promised and even
went so far as mildly to beat the pigs ; but it was
of no use. They simply would not budge from the
puddle.
AT his wits’ end, Jacky stood and pondered, scowl-
ing, tugging at his trousers, half a dozen sizes too
large for him. Suddenly his brow cleared, a hopeful
gleam brightening his
deep-set, black eyes.
“S’pose me shoutum tin-
ful beer, you come then?”
he asked. The pigs
grunted assent, or so it
seemed to Jacky, and
rolled in the mud again.
“All right. Me go fetchum.
You wait here.”
He was back in less
than an hour, perspiring,
weary after carrying a
kerosene-tin of beer a
good mile. He rested in
“Me go fetchum.”
the shade till he had cooled, then called to the pigs.
“Come on,” he coaxed, rapping the kerosene-
tin, “me gibbit beer. Pig. Pig.” The pigs were alert
in a moment. “Come on,” Jacky called again, walk-
ing down the road, “me gibbit beer. Pig. Pig.”
The pigs left the comfort of the puddle and ran
squealing at his heels. They tried to get at the con-
tents of the tin, but Jacky kept them off. “Can’t
drink outa tin,” he told them. “Bin spillum all.
Bin gibbit soon, you wait.”
Down the road a short distance they came to a
shallow depression from which the collected rainwater
had only just evaporated. In this watertight
hollow Jacky poured the beer. The pigs sucked up
the evil-smelling fluid greedily, fighting for advantage
of position. Jacky looked on approvingly. “By cripe,
him likum beer,” he grinned admiringly. “Wish
this pfeller could drink beer like that. Wouldn’t
gibbit pig none then.”
The pigs sucked until every drop of liquor had
been extracted from the moist earth. Then with
appreciative grunts they came forward for more.
“Beer all gone,” Jacky informed them, showing the
empty tin. “Gibbit more at pub. You come.” He
walked ahead, rattling the tin. The pigs followed,
Cannoning into the sow.
squealing hungrily. The pace was brisk for half
a mile, then the pigs began to behave strangely. They
shied at imaginary objects on the roadside, emitting
playful “woughs.” The young ones staged mock fights
with each other, cannoning into the sow, almost knock-
ing her off her feet. Jacky became so interested that
he stood and watched. “Him glad we soon at pub,”
he grinned, rapping the tin and walking on again.
The pigs followed, romping and “woughing,”
careless of the heat. But only for a short distance.
Then they began to show signs of distress, rolling and
staggering in their gait. Presently the sow sank to
her haunches, gazing around foolishly. Jacky rapped
the tin and called, and the sow struggled to her feet
again. A few yards further along a tall fig threw
its early-afternoon shade across the road. To this
point the sow struggled on, then flopped down with
a contented sigh. Her family followed suit. Soon
all were snoring as only drunken pigs can snore.
“Silly cow drunk,” said Jacky disgustedly after
a vain attempt to rouse the pigs. “Bin gibbit too
much beer. Have t’ put water in next time.”
Seating himself on the sow, he pondered over
the day’s happenings, listening to the heavy snoring
of the pigs. “Snore worse’n ole fat gin,” he said dis-
gustedly after a while. “Wouldn’t like to marry fa
pig. Couldn’t sleep at all then.”
For some minutes he sat thinking, then with a
sleepy yawn threw aside his hat. “Pig sleep, me sleep,
too,” he said. And pillowing his head on the sow’s
flank he stretched his skinny legs, and was soon
snoring in time with the pigs.
HE was awakened by the stirring of the sow some
two hours later. Their digestive organs operating
faster than a human being’s, the pigs had recovered
from the effects of the
beer, and were wanting
to be fed again. The little
porkers rooted at Jacky’s
legs, grunting sugges-
tively. Jacky rubbed the
sleep out of his eyes and
stood up. “Come on,”
he said, grabbing his hat
and the kerosene-tin.
“Have t’ hurry up. Bin
Gazing around foolishly.
sleepum too long. Servum right if udder pig at pub
bin drinkum all beer.”
Rattling the tin, he walked down the road at a
brisk pace, calling. The pigs needed no coaxing.
Refreshed and hungry, they were eager to be fed.
The sun had lost its heat, so progress was now more
pleasant. The next bend would bring them in view
of the hotel, on the main road on the opposite side
of the railway bridge, beneath which they would have
to pass. Jacky was in high spirits now the journey’s
end was in sight. “We soon there,” he told the pigs,
merrily rapping the tin. Rounding the bend, from
which point till it passed beneath the bridge the one-
man road they had been following ran parallel with
the railway line, Jacky paused to point out the hotel.
“Pub,” he said joyfully. “That him udder side bridge
wid big pfeller smoke cornin’ out. Hurry up, an’ me
no tellum boss you bin rollum in mud. Me shout.
Gibbit two tin beer.”
Jacky quickened his pace, and the pigs quickened
theirs. The last lap, which took them within fifty
yards of the bridge, was covered almost at a trot.
Then suddenly the pigs stood still and listened. A
shrill scream had rent the air, coming from the rear.
A heavy rumble that momentarily grew louder,
vibrated the atmosphere.
“Wot name?” Jacky demanded, returning a few
paces. “Wot name you listen? Ha, ha,” he laughed
as the heavy rumble caught his ear. “That only train.
He won’t hurt you. Come, we bin race ’im.”
Rapping the tin smartly with his knuckles, he
walked on again, calling “Pig, pig!” lustily. But the
pigs continued to listen, snuffling at the wind uneasily.
“Silly cow!” exclaimed Jacky, retracing his steps.
“Wot name you bin stop? You hurry up; come
now,” he urged. “You bin promise, you know. Me
bin shout tin beer. You hurry up ; come now; me
shout free tin beer.”
The pigs, however, were not interested, save in
the heavy rumbling that was almost upon them.
Jacky pleaded, threatened and coaxed, but his efforts
were unavailing. The pigs were not going any further
—not just then.
Presently the train whistled again, and with a
deafening roar shot from a deep cutting on to the
bridge. The pigs listened no longer. Emitting terri-
fied “woughs,” they wheeled, and, with the sow in the
lead, raced through the scattered timber as fat pigs
never raced before. Jacky stood gaping for a moment,
then gave chase.
“Hey!” he shouted, rapping the tin for all he was
worth, “pub not that way. Pub this way. You get
bushed yet, you don’t look out.”
But the pigs weren’t afraid of getting bushed.
And they didn’t care a dump in which direction the
pub lay. Their one concern was to put the greatest
possible distance between themselves and the scream-
ing monster that had rushed out on them from the
cutting.
Pursued by Jacky, they ran until they reached
the top of the low horseshoe ridge bending back to
the railway at both points. At that very moment
the slowing-down train, pulling into the railway
station just across the bridge, blew off steam violently,
"Pig sleep, me sleep, too."
hiding itself in a cloud of white vapor. The pigs
“woughed” again, and disappeared over the ridge.
JACKY threw down the kerosene-tin and cursed.
“Oh, the liars!” he raved when he had recovered
his breath —“the plurry liars! They drinkum all beer ;
now they run away. Serve me right for believin’ silly
fat pig! But, by cripe, me get square,” he swore
after a pause, “me get square! Me never shout for
big fat pig agen. Me a plurry liar if I do!”
Then, picking up the kerosene-tin, he retraced
his steps, dark thoughts, in which lying pigs figured
prominently, torturing his mind.


Tell of a Too-friendly Dog:-
NOBODY'S KELPIE
BY FRANK DALBY DAVISON
LOU CODY had knocked off cutting up a felled
brigalow and was stoking up one of the log fires.
The kelpie, an exceptionally good-looking black
dog, nominally his property, was a hundred yards
back along the road with Bill Connolly. Lou had
worked himself into a state of nerves over the dog.
By rights he should have given Bill a clout on the jaw
for what he was doing; but he couldn’t bring him-
self to it. He had never been able to meet any situa-
tion the resolution of which might be physical com-
bat. He had funked it when a boy, and he was funking
it now. He was not helped by the reflection that it
he were the sort of man who could thump another
on sufficient provocation such provocation as existed
at present would not have been offered.
The road they were cutting—it was a Govern-
ment contract —ran through the tall scrub like a deep,
straight channel. It was in afternoon shadow ; only
a little frayed sunlight found its way through the
heads of the belahs on the western side. The air was
scented with bruised leafage, turned earth, the sap of
cut greenwood and the smoke of burning-off fires. A
night of frost would follow the descent of the sun;
above each fire the smoke gathered together and glided
up swiftly in a thin blue column.
Lou became aware of these and similar things
for brief periods of time, but for the greater part
he was absorbed by his own dark thoughts. He was
outwardly—as well as inwardly—aware of Bill Con-
nolly at work filling in holes and tossing half-burned
rubbish into the undergrowth on each side of the
road; and he was aware of Nugget O’Reilly, the
rhythmical strokes of his axe, felling timber fifty
yards away, where the road ran to a dead-end among
the uncut scrub.
He was aware of Nugget because he feared losing
his good opinion; lanky, red-headed Nugget, whose
firm, hatchet features looked down from his slender
six feet three with an air of calm benevolence. He'
was aware of Connolly because he hated him with the
intense hatred of the weak for those who are strong
but ungentle. He was aware of the dog, too, because
his overweening love for it had turned to a hidden
hatred ; in the surges of dumb rage that shook him
he would gladly, could he have done so secretly,
have killed it with his bare hands.
HIS movements were mechanical as he joggled the
logs, sending downward a thick shower of red
cinders and upward a spurt of crackling sparks. His
limbs were languid, not from the effect of toil, but
from the emotional storms that had secretly racked
him over the last two or three days.
He flicked a glance toward Connolly, whose back
was bent above his work. The thought that Connolly
was diverting himself from the tedium of labor by
baiting him was like the spreading of a drop of
poison through his brain.
Only a few minutes ago the dog had come toward
him as if some vague idea of allegiance had stirred
in it. When it had covered half the distance Connolly
had whistled it back. It had stopped and hesitated.
Lou had wished to whistle it to him, and would
have done so but for a fear, amounting almost to a
certainty, that it would not obey him. He had feigned
unawareness of the incident; pretended not to notice
when the dog returned to Connolly. He well knew
how much amusement Bill was drawing from the
game.
Lou returned to the brigalow. He had to lop
the boughs and cut the trunk into manageable lengths.
He tried to divert his thoughts ; to fix them on what
he was doing and on the scene about him ; but they
seemed to have a will apart from him, and returned
determinedly to their own darkness.
He shouldn’t have brought the kelpie to the camp
with him, really. It had been given him only a few
days before he joined the roadcutters. He had been
down the railway line to Wilgatown, sixty-odd miles
away, and while there had had the offer of the dog
from the wife of a doctor. He had accepted it eagerly.
Ownership of it, although he was scarcely aware of
this, gratified a stifled passion for the possession of
something perfect beyond comparison.
Lou had been starved for something of that sort.
In every deal he seemed to come off second-best —
even in the deal of life.
He had never owned a saddle-hack that he could
take a pride in. His stock didn’t seem to be as good
as those of people round about. His selection wasn’t
reckoned to be one of the best. Coupled with know-
ledge of these things was a secret sense of personal
inferiority. He had never made up his mind whether
this was real or imagined ; but he carried recollec-
tions of dimes when other men had looked at him or
had spoken to him as if they were thinking that he
wasn’t particularly fortunate in himself. These occa-
sions had not been disturbingly frequent; generally
he managed to get by with other men.
POSSESSION of the kelpie had resulted immediately
in the feeding of that starved thing within him.
Coming back to the settlement, on the train, he had
alighted at a station where there was a few minutes’
halt, and walked along the platform to where the
dog was carried in the box under the guard’s van.
He had found the kelpie being admired by a couple
of knowing-looking fellows —drovers, possibly. One
of them remarked to the other, “Nice style of a dog,
Alec!” The other had nodded agreement. Lou had
regretted his inability to think readily of a natural-
appearing way of letting his ownership be seen.
At the railhead, neighbors on the platform had
been quick to notice the kelpie. He had detected a
gratifying note of envy here and there in the voices
that addressed him.
“Where’d you pick up the kelpie, Cody?”
“Good-looking dog you’ve got there, Lou!”
At home on his selection, life during the next
few days had centred round the dog. His work had
been duly proceeded with, but his thoughts had been
"I don't need a second bloodhound,
Watson. The suspect is one-legged .”
of the kelpie. He was flattered to have such a fine
animal at his heels. It is true that he feared he noticed
a disposition on the part of the dog to follow anyone.
Dave MacWhirter called to leave some mail, and Lou
had had to whistle the dog back from trotting off
behind Dave’s horse. This was disconcerting. All
dogs should be one-man dogs. Lou soothed the prick
of doubt by telling himself that the dog was puzzled
because he was strange to his new boss. He didn’t
allow the matter to spoil his delight.
Nugget O’Reilly—his neighbor next but one—
offered him a chance to pick up a few pounds ready
cash on shares in the roadcutting contract. Lou took
the opportunity eagerly. For a while he hesitated
about taking the dog with him; then decided to do
so. He told himself that he must get the dog accus-
tomed to him; and perhaps he would be able to
work him a little! His real and unacknowledged
motive was simply that he wanted very much to
have the kelpie with him.
He arrived at the camp with his gear stacked
around him in the sulky and the dog on the boards
between his feet. Trouble began before he had unhar-
nessed. He and Connolly, at sight of each other, were
each reminded of a mutual antipathy; an antipathy
tinged on Connolly’s side with contempt.
As soon as the dog jumped to the ground Bill,
with an air of bland friendliness with which he accom-
panied an unfriendly act, said, “Nice sort of a dog,
Lou,” and started fondling the dog. Bill shouldn’t
have done that. Any man ought to know better than
to smoodge to another fellow’s dog.
Lou let his irritation be seen. The pony was
eager to be out of harness ; he seized the reins and
jagged its mouth. When he led it away to the grazing-
paddock that had been made by running a single
wire through the timber he whistled the dog to fol-
low him, in a way that was an assertion of ownership.
Half-way to the sliprails, Connolly had whistled —
he might have been starting to whistle a tune —and
the dog had gone frisking back to him!
When Lou returned from the paddock, in a state
of ill-concealed wrath, Bill was patting the fawning
kelpie. “Nice sort of a dog all right,” he said, with
a blandness that concealed a sneer.
“Better leave him alone, hadn’t you?” replied
Lou, knowing as he spoke that his manner was too
weakly aggressive; it was a feeble protest against
Bill’s action, not, as was proper, a matter-of-fact
rebuke.
“Yes, of course,” said Bill, with an overacted
innocence.
Lou hoped the matter was closed. He knew it
wasn’t. It wouldn’t be unless he could show himself,
by an inflection of manner, willing to square-off to
Bill if need be. He wouldn’t be able to achieve that
inflection of manner; it would lack conviction, be-
cause the image of himself standing up to Bill also
lacked conviction. He told himself that he didn’t
want a row —coming new to the camp.
CONNOLLY was seven or eight years younger than
Lou; a flash youngster in his early twenties; the
possessor of a splendid body and a yearning for self-
admiration that was most happily appeased if he
could bring about the abasement of someone else.
At tea-time Lou reddened dully to the roots of
his shock of stiff blonde hair when Bill, turning in
his seat at the table under the .bough shed, gave the
kelpie some scraps from his plate. The proper time
to feed a dog was late at night, when a full belly
would suggest sleep and discourage him from sneak-
ing off to hunt. And it was an impertinence to feed
another man’s dog at any time! Bill knew that!
Lou, choking with wrath, pre-
tended not to notice. He was not
made happier by the knowledge
that Nugget and his wife had
observed Bill’s breach of etiquette
and were wondering if he intended
doing anything about it.
Bill persisted in passing titbits
to the dog. Lou ordered the dog
away, shouting at him —his be-
loved kelpie—with a degree of
wrath that disclosed what had pro-
voked it.
For the rest of the meal Bill
devoted himself to the consump-
tion of food with innocent intent-
ness.
He returned to the enjoyment
of torment the following day. If
Lou went down to the creek for
a bucket of water and the dog fol-
lowed him, he could not be sure
of being able to complete his
errand without being annoyed by
a shrill whistle that sent the dog
bounding back to the camp. Bill*
it appeared, could not bring him-
self to go a hundred yards into
the bush without encouraging the
kelpie to go with him.
Lou, when he was not at work,
sulked in his tent. He was almost
sure that when he was out of sight
Bill ignored the kelpie. Damn the
dog, anyway ; he wished he’d never
seen it. It was no good, or it
wouldn’t run from one man to an-
other! But here was another
thought that lacked the comfort of
real conviction. If Bill were out
of the way the adoration he had
given the animal was still ready to
spring to activity. The dog hadn’t
had a chance! Lou, lying on his
bunk staring up at the canvas, mar-
velled unhappily at his own in-
adequacy to meet the situation.
At lunch-time, on the road,
when the three men ate with their
backs resting against a fallen trunk,
Bill had amused himself by throwing the dog a crust
and a chip of wood alternately; making a fool of
it —just as he was making a fool of Lou!
Anxiety to be rid of the torture that he was
undergoing prompted Lou to a question that sounded
startling to his own ears.
“Do you want him?” he asked.
“Want what?”
“The kelpie.”
Bill laughed; an abrupt explosion of contempt.
“He’s no good to me,” he said significantly.
Lou was doubly embarrassed. He saw a faint
flicker of amusement pass over Nugget’s face. Nug-
get, up to the present, had been studiously unaware of
what was going on.
“Where did y’ get him, Lou?” asked Connolly,
after an interval.
“I got him from a lady,” replied Lou, with some
dignity.
Bill had turned on him a look of real amaze-
ment, and then burst into a roar of laughter. “Stiffen
the crows! He’s a lady’s dawg, is he? No flamin’
wonder!” And off he went into another burst of
laughter. His body-shaking mirth was so unfeigned


that Nugget was constrained
to grin. He glanced at Lou
as he did so, inviting him, by
his manner, to take it all in
better part. But Lou was
past control of himself.
Connolly finished his mirth
with a piping whoop. He
looked at Lou with reddened
face and tear-moist eyes. “He
got him orf a lady,” he
burbled. “Gawdstruth, you’re
the flamin’ limit, Lou!”
Lou said nothing; only
stared at the ' scrub on the
opposite side of the road
with cloudy eyes.
When they dispersed to
their tasks Connolly picked
the kelpie up by the tail,
swung it a couple of times
and then flung it in Lou’s
direction. “Better take your
dawg with you,” he said.
With murder in his heart
Lou marched towards his job.
A CESSATION of axe-
blows and the crash of
falling timber brought him
back to full realisation of the
passing moment. Daylight
had appeared at the end of
the road. Nugget had cut
through to a small wallaby
plain. He was coming back,
disappearing to the height of
his belt in a little dry gully
that crossed the road.
“So long , Sarah; an don't you be gettin' into mischief while I'm away."
“How about bringing up the team, Lou?” he
asked as he drew near. “We’ve got to make a cross-
ing over the gully; we could get it done before
knocking-off time.”
“Righto, Nugget.” Cody fell in with the sugges-
tion with an agreeableness that had always character-
ised relations between himself and Nugget. He pulled
on his coat, lit his pipe and trudged back along the
cut road to the camp.
“Nice afternoon,” said Connolly pleasantly as Lou
came abreast of him. Not expecting an offer of
civility, Cody was taken off his guard.
“Yes,” he said. He hesitated, stopped, perceived
the mockery behind Connolly’s innocence, struck a
match and applied it to a pipe already alight; then
scowled and went on.
The sound of a chuckle followed him, and Bill’s
voice asking “Don’t you want to take your dawg
with you?”
Lou tramped on. If he had bidden the dog follow
him Bill would have whistled it before he had gone
a hundred yards, and he would then have had either
to ignore the dog’s action or have given further injury
to his dignity by making sure that it followed him.
He turned from the road into the scrub, forced his
way for a short distance through an undergrowth of
stunted wilga, and then emerged into open box forest
and the broad light of afternoon. The camp was
down by the creek.
The plough and scoop had been loaded on to
the dray in readiness. The rattle of chains as he har-
nessed the two draught horses after bringing them
from the paddock brought Mrs. O’Reilly into view
from the cooking-galley. “You’re just in time for a
cup of tea, Mr. Cody,” she said.
Lou thanked her and went on harnessing. He
had Punch between the shafts and Snowball tied
behind with a slack rope when the tea was brought
to him, with a couple of buttered scones on a plate.
Nugget’s wife was a short, plump, nice-looking
woman ; deep-bosomed and bright-eyed. She had been
long enough married to Nugget for a disposition to
exercise her charms a little on the discerning male —
within the bounds of strict propriety—to reassert
itself. The glance of her eye indicated an endorse-
ment of Bill Connolly, for instance; she approved of
his good looks and air of confident masculinity, if
of nothing else. Lou, until very recently, had felt that
he had her approbation; a pleasant and not wholly
insignificant seal upon his manhood.
That was gone now. As he ate the scones and
gulped the hot tea he tried to wrench his mind away
from the subject of the dog. The effort was unavailing.
It was Mrs. O’Reilly who spoke. “I don’t think
I’d let Bill bother me so much, Mr. Cody,” she said.
“Not over a silly dog, I wouldn’t!” Her manner was
that of maturity cajoling adolescence.
. Lou reddened and said nothing. When he handed
her back the empty cup it rattled on the saucer.
He went on up the track, walking beside the
clucking dray because his upset condition would not
permit him the bodily repose of riding. “Dog-dog-
dog-dog- —goddam the blasted dog!”
THE track from the camp led him on to the road
where it passed from the open forest into the
scrub. A quarter of a mile along it he drew close
to Connolly. Bill was standing with his back to a
burned-out stump-hole, from which still rose a glim-
mer of warmth, while he rdlled a cigarette. He
glanced up as the dray approached, and then looked
down again. There was a studied insolence in the set
of his limbs and shoulders.
Lou went temporarily insane. He knew that
stump-hole; a huge dead belah had stood there.
They had fired it with a shovel of coals and an
armful of wood. It had burned out, leaving a hole
three feet deep filled with powdery white ash. As he
came near to it he drew on the off-side rein. Send
the off wheel of the dray into it! Tip the lot
over on top of Connolly! Smash him up!
Punch obeyed the rein. The off wheel plunged
into the hole. The near wheel rose from the ground,
The vehicle for a moment teetered in the balance.
There were a clang of iron and a thud as the big scoop
shot out of the dray and fell to the ground. The near
wheel came down again. Then there was a grunt
from Punch as he humped his back and drew the
dray out of the hole on to level ground. Lou stopped
him with a shout, and then, with bulging eyes and
trembling knees, came round from behind the dray.
Connolly, his body still poised after the leap he
had taken, was calmly licking the cigarette he had
been rolling. “Nearly had an accident, Lou,” he said
quietly. The incident, it appeared, had merely added
to his confidence ; he was congratulating himself on
the speed of his limbs in a moment of need. He lit
the cigarette and then helped put the scoop back on
the dray.
Before Lou could turn away he suddenly stepped
up to him forcing him back against the dray, chest
T g v ? d %
he said, is knock your head off. He looked as if
he intended to do so ; but he had been close to meet-
ing with serious injurV, and, at that moment, delayed
fright overtook him. His strength left him and he
stepped back, white of face.
Lou started the horses and went on, stumbling
blindly beside them. He halted them near where
The Optimist: “ Anyhow, we've seen the view!"
Nugget was at work cutting up the fallen timber. The
kelpie, unseen by him, had chosen to follow him.
It came frisking up, asking to be fondled; it raised
its forepaws against his thigh and wagged its tail.
With a shout, Lou kicked it from him, and, as it
fled down the road, hurled hoarse curses and broken
wood after it. His wrath left him breathless and
sweating. He clung to the dray with one hand.
“I’ll murder Connolly,” he croaked.
Nugget had been a
spectator of Lou’s uncon-
trolled rage. For about a
minute after Lou had spoken
he said nothing. He looked
down at the log he had been
cutting and tapped it softly
with the back of his axe. “If
you’re feelin’ like that, Lou,”
he remarked, “perhaps you’d
better go back to your own
selection.”
NO more was said. They
spent the remainder of the
afternoon, working with
plough and scoop alternately,
making the crossing over the
gully. At knock-off time they
started for home in the dray ;
Nugget standing, driving; Lou
perched on the side rail.
Before they reached Bill,
who swung himself up be-
hind, Nugget said, “The in-
spector’ll be round in a few
days, Lou ; I’ll get a draw
from him and leave the
money for the work you’ve
done at Linklater’s store.
That all right?”
Lou was not without
relief at this, his definite dis-
missal. “Thanks, Nugget,”
he said, content to accept
kindliness where he could
not command respect.
He left camp without
waiting for tea. He was given
help by the others ; one to bring the pony from the
paddock, another to assist in dismantling his tent.
When he was ready to drive off Bill picked the kelpie
up in his arms and put it in the sulky. “Here’s your
dog, Lou,” he said, with an air of comforting
solicitude. He laughed when Lou kicked the dog
out from beside his feet.
At tea in the camp that night there was a strained
silence. Bil} attempted some bright conversation, but
met with no response from Nugget. Mrs. O’Reilly’s
manner conformed to that of her husband. As soon
as the meal was finished Bill marched off to his
tent.
At breakfast next morning Nugget was thought-
ful to the point of moodiness. When he and Bill
trudged side by side to their place of work the few
remarks he offered were forced and not relevant to
the train of thought that occupied his mind. His
quietness persisted during the working hours. He was
not satisfied with the part he had taken in recent
events. Perhaps he should have defended Lou against
Connolly’s irresponsible antics. Perhaps it wasn’t
always right to leave other fellows to settle their
own differences.
During the morning Nugget and Connolly worked
a little apart, the latter irked by a sense of being
rebuked.
They came together at noontime, and ate, sitting
side by side, almost in silence. Midway through their
meal the kelpie, who had elected that morning to
remain at the camp in company with Mrs. O’Reilly,
came trotting out of the scrub. He stood before the
two men wagging his tail, ready to offer his affections
to whichever might pay a small price for them in
word or caress.
“Lou’s dawg!” said Bill, with drawling emphasis.
“Lou’s not a bad sort,” said Nugget.
“I mind the time when we had the long
dry spell. Mrs. MacWhirter was in hospital
havin’ a bad time with that last baby of
hers, and Dave was stuck down on the Dia-
mantina with a mob of starving sheep.
Lou took their cattle to water every day for
a couple of months. The Macs would’ve
been in a bad way if it hadn’t been for
Lou.”
Bill Connolly snorted. This was soft
stuff; married men’s stuff! Admit
this kind of thing and any sort of
a crawler could get by! For a moment
Bill permitted his opinion of Nugget to
fall to the level of the contempt in which
he held such a philosophy. The thought
met the rising tide of his resentment at
Nugget’s behavior since Lou’s departure.
The result was an indiscretion. “If you’re
lookin’ for anything, you can have it,
Nugget,” he barked.
Nugget flashed at him a look of sur-
prise that changed into one of determina-
tion. This was a direct challenge!
BOTH men rose to their feet; Connolly
with a bound, O’Reilly with movements
like the unfolding of a carpenter’s rule.
With fists clenched they, circled around
each other warily. Neither of them
had the manner of a man who was very
much accustomed to this kind of thing. Connolly
had the better appearance of the two. He had
found it necessary to persuade himself that he could
fight, and had proved it more or less to his
own satisfaction by knocking down a drunk or
two. Nugget didn’t know whether he could fight
or not; but he knew he was game to take a hiding
if it was required of him.
('Continued on page 33.)


■
4
m
St
•v-
-■
m -
1
ai
1
-
■
I
wX
1111
'
W|
;:
>
0
mm.
i
■
ed wi
p
wmm.
ea
WA
a,
mm
m
mmm
*•
mm
a
1
I
■
K
m
:
l
■
i
m
ml
an*
St
v
r
xr
7mm
mm
\ .
0 w w 9
r
AIR Z O N
M O D i: L © «
(a/ right)
6 - Valve Dual Wave Battery
Superheterodyne Receiver
77tc outstanding Dual IVave
Battery operated radio offering
to-day. Brings the world’s finest
programmes to country and out-
lying areas. The latest types of
valves, speaker and components,
and smart radio cabinet work
contribute in making this the
best 1 buy in battery operated
radios for country listeners.
CASH PRICE - £42/10/-
The easiest terms are offering.
AIRZ O N E
MODEL. 6 5 1 B
(at right)
6-Valve Battery Console
Superheterodyne
The very latest development in bat-
tery operated radio. Airsone have
here excelled themselves offering al-
together finer, clearer and ! better
reception to those who live in coun-
try and outlying areas.
All the latest fitments and features
and a beautiful cabinet prove this
the outstanding battery operated
radio in the field to-day.
CASH PRICE - *33/17/6
Easiest terms can be arranged.
f
/fW\
Q ©
ft
© ® $
S'
AIKZ O N £
211 O II K 1- 5 7 6
( above)
5-Valve All-Electric Console
Superheterodyne Receiver
Radio well worthy of the splendid
Air zone range of fine radio. A thing
of beauty as to cabinet ... a de-
light as to tone and a joy as to
mechanical construction.
All the latest Airsonc fitments and
features are here featured; in one
of the finest radio values offering
to-day.
CASH PRICE - £l9/19/-
Easy terms are offering .
/JOYOUS days, happy nights, when the whole
family foregathers and music, mirth and
melody punctuate the blanks left between light
hearted laughter and happy conversation.
It’s an Airzone home It’s a happy home,
filled with music from near and far music
that is tone perfect, invariably beautiful.
AIRZONE RADIOS ARE OBTAINABLE FROM
THE LEADING RADIO AND MUSIC HOUSES
THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH
Designed and Manufactured by Airzone (1931) Ltd., Camper down, N.S.W,
And Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth; and Wakefield Chambers, Wellington,
■
A I U Z ONE
MODEL 583
(at left)
5 - Valve Dual - Wave Console
Superheterodyne Receiver
One of the finest all-reund Dual
Wave radios offering to-day.
Employs a most modern circuit
giving extreme sensitivity and
selectivity.
Full automatic volume control.
Excellent chassis, beautiful cabi-
net work—a splendid Dual Wave
Receiver indeed.
CASH PRICE £27/19/6
Easy terms are offering.
S3£i43


V>eV° x :
\e*
sc
\\v*
\ot
X\^
\
VM
W>
I
h
>-m
m
*s**»££
m
imm
mmmst
m
u
M
w*
a®
m d
There's no better evidence on
which to buy tyres than that of
other motorists . . .
And the "G-3" Mileage In-
spectors have collected that
evidence stacks of it hun-
dreds of "treadprints" of
"G-3's" hundreds of state-
ments from owners who are
satisfied that the "G-3" is giving
MORE than 43% extra
non-skid mileage.
So this great mileage investiga-
tion has proved that the
"G-3's" extra mileage is not
theory, but solid fact. Its
flatter, wider, thicker, heavier
tread—its extra non-skid blocks
in the centre —its wider riding
r Jb s ar e all improvements
made possible by the Supertwist
Cord Carcass that is sturdy
enough to carry this extra tread
weight.
a
A
N
5—C30—35
TVN nT f M|| ii 11
k, *g's cross Wr **"*r, .
St * e: 7.00.19' Se' DNEY ' T
Milea &e—n,6Bs r/<7 /V0 ;—H68220.
45 to 50 m » kT"!?, CoWy -
m,xec * roac/s f ovvn P J' hard braking;
"J° Untry - Ty *
*“*■ Vo good for P t ." ern f' *-
m ' ,es - Woe,or No.z * m ° re
■n j— ::: iiiii,. I <
7\7~<
R. LAWsONßn^^^^^L^
7 . Se ria/No. ri?'* V:
‘ G,3 574A197.
‘•y-Fest drive/ ‘'?”/ Con,/,.
60 m-p-h. Sever/ b r f- Y from 50 <°
roa *- 7> e c 0„ klng ’ "We
KSS
/ z,
1 sided//''' 0 *- Vrt c me ". r
Ve 5,a "Xg WS up h /e a PP>
V H 'Vntrkabi
mbvwmr J»spe ctoi
ass
* MADE IN AUSTRAL I A


Connolly was the first to put fortune to
the test. He came boring in with his head
down. Nugget aimed a smart uppercut in the general
direction of Bill’s face, and connected with his
nose. Bill staggered back, feeling as if he had been
poked hard in the face with the end of a rail.
The pain enraged him. He had been struck —he, Bill
Connolly—by a long, awkward streak like Nugget!
Boiling with wrath, he charged again.
Nugget had enough instinctive fighting sense not
to meet the rush at the height of its power. He danced
backward on his toes. Choosing his time with a judg-
ment worthy of long experience, he went forward as
Bill stumbled. Another uppercut, into which he put
all the lifting power granted by his exceptional height,
caught Connolly again on the nose. Bill snapped
upright, clapped his hands to his face, staggered about
and then fell. Red trickles ran down his chin and
wrists.
Nugget stood still, waiting for further develop-
ments. There were none, so he turned on his heel and
walked to his work. As he took up the axe he glanced
behind him and saw Bill going back along the road.
Nugget was a little excited by the brief combat, but
enough of tranquillity remained with him for him to
reflect, with mild surprise, how a couple of good
cracks took the fight out of some men.
He worked alone that afternoon, companioned
only by his thoughts. The exhilaration of victory died
down, leaving him depressed and a little ashamed.
Fellows ought to be able to get along without slugging
each other.
Pausing to fill and light his pipe, he looked reflec-
tively at the kelpie. The dog had remained with him,
and was looking at him for any attention he might
give it. A nice dog. Been hopelessly ruined from the
beginning of its life by bad handling. A certain
trouble-starter!
When Nugget returned to camp that evening he
found Bill Connolly’s tent gone—and Bill with it.
Work could not go forward satisfactorily without
assistance; so the following morning Nugget saddled
his tally pony and set off through the settlement in
search of suitable help. He whistled the kelpie after
him. He’d return it to Lou or give it to someone ; get
rid of it somehow. A couple of miles from home he
looked back and saw that the dog was no longer with
him. He must have
seen Buckley’s home-
stead through the tim-
ber from the top of the
rise and gone across to
make new friends. A
half- smile flickered
across his mouth. He
hoped the Buckleys
would keep the dog.
IT was late afternoon
* when Nugget, after
a long ride, cantered
back to camp. After
him came the brothers
Durward, rattling along
in their buckboard with
a load of camping gear.
The little cavalcade
drew up at the camp.
Nugget unsaddled and
then turned to help the
Durwards take off their
load.
“Your dog, Nug-
get?” asked George
Durward.
“Eh!” Nugget
turned round. The
kelpie, looking pleased
with himself, had
turned up again. “No,
he isn’t mine,” said
Nugget.
“Oh!” George
Durward, an acquisitive
“My troubles about the shark! I tell y' I've
lost me teeth!”
gleam coming to his eye, stooped to make much of
the dog.
Nugget considered them both very thoughtfully
for a few seconds; then turned and went into
his tent. He came out carrying his rifle. Whistling
the dog after him, he walked down to the creek.
Shortly after, a shot rang out. It was followed
by the noise of dry wood being thrown together;
then a trail of smoke went drifting downwind.
When Nugget walked back to camp his manner
was thoughtful—the manner of a man who has acted
contrary to his gentler instincts, but who feels that
he has discharged a responsibility. He began cleaning
his rifle.
Of the brothers Durward, Tom, the younger, was
a quiet man, content to learn what he wished to know
by observing and thinking. George, the elder, had to
be told things. “Whose kelpie was that you
outed, Nugget?” he asked laughing a little to ward
off the snub he felt his open curiosity might earn
him.
Nugget was looking up the gleaming bore of his
rifle. He did not answer at once ; not until he had
lowered the weapon and closed the breech.
He was nobody’s kelpie,” he said quietly.
A Good New Guinea Yarn:-
THE GOODNESS
AND THE GRACE
BY G MUNRO TURNBULL.
'TPHE mission house at Pakapuka was a pleasant
[ place of airy rooms and wide verandahs; of fan-
backed chairs, softly cushioned, and gaily-colored
native mat's that blended with polished floors. An
air of comfort, of restrained luxury, hung over it.
The very atmosphere breathed restfulness and quiet
charm.
Outside, heat-waves shimmered and writhed in
the breathless morning silence, but a whirring electric-
fan gave to the Reverend Henry Jarman’s study an
illusion, at least, of coolness. A bowl of flowers on
the glass-topped writing table diffused a mild perfume.
Facing it was a full-length photograph of Mr. Jarman
himself, chastely framed in silver.
High seas were creaming on the reef, but their
thunderous wrath came to Mr. Jarman only as a
mournfully haunting murmur. He heard the distant
booming cry of a goura pigeon, and the nearer answer-
ing call of its mate. Then:
“Now, my boys! All together!”
Mr. Jarman frowned. John and his technical
students were still working on that log.
“Come on! Come on ! Put your backs to it!”
Silence . . . shrill, excited native voices . . . arms
straining at ropes . . . heels driving into the grass.
Then:
“Eo-o-o-ho !”
“That’s better! Once again!”
Sounds of chains jingling, of ropes cracking, of
men grunting as they heaved:
“ Eo-o-o-ho !”
“Again!”
“Eo-o-o-ho !”
Mr. Jarman shook his head as the sound of a
loud laugh floated up to him. He wished, sometimes,
that John’s voice was not so loud; that he would
not laugh so easily
and so frequently;
that he would infect
his students with the
germ of his own
rollicking and effer-
vescent energy. Only
by combining the
gospel of hard work
and ordered effort
with our Lord’s gos-
pel could the native
converts grow in
mental and moral
stature.
THE spring of Mr. Jarman’s swivel chair whined as
he leaned forward. Frowning, he read and re-read the
dozen or more pages lying before him, written in his
steady flowing hand. The peroration of his article to
the “Children’s Christian Magazine” demanded a con-
centration of mental effort absurdly disproportionate
to the fee offered by the editor.
“British boys and girls,” he read, “once again
1 am privileged to approach you through the
columns of your own magazine; to tell you some-
thing about the hazards and vicissitudes of a mis-
sionary’s life in the foreign field ; and to express,
however inadequately, our gratitude to you for the
splendidly generous assistance you are constantly
giving us.
“All about me, as I write, in the heart of this
savage land, evil men are renouncing their heathen
customs; barbarous sentiment is changing to some-
thing holier, better; brutality, inhumanity, practices
mean and utterly revolting, which but yesterday were
part of the commonplace order of things, are dying
out under our ever-widening influence.
“Looking back to our early days at Pakapuka,
the change in the conditions and habits, even the
very thoughts, of the people is indeed remarkable.
Nevertheless, our progress, incredible as it may seem,
is, after all, but a beginning; and, though our work
has been blessed in full and even overflowing measure,
our heart's may well falter when we measure our
achievement against the
magnitude of the task
that lies ahead.
“Still, my dear boys
and girls, it is a far cry
from our woad-bedaubed
ancestors at' Stonehenge
to a national service of
thank sgiving at the
Abbey; from the war-
ring factions of the Saxon
heptarchy to the free
people of our wide-flung
British Empire ; from the great Gregory’s flaxen-haired
slave-children to you who read my message”....
The fairy story about the crocodile and his love
for the village maiden, • with its subtle blend of
comedy and tragedy, was quite good. He had taken
liberties with the translation, of course; but there
were many things in Papuan folklore that could be
rendered into English only under the veil of
euphemism.
Mr. Jarman tapped his pen against his teeth with
increasing irritation. The ridges between his eyes
deepened.
Sighing, he permitted his thoughts to wander.
He must remember to answer the letter from —from
—what was the name of the place? A town
of silent factories, smokeless chimneys and soup-
kitchens ; of surly men and slatternly women and
children with white, pinched faces. The sun a yellow-
green smudge in the lowering sky—Rochford, of
course!
He must explain to his good friends at Rochford
that Papuan Customs officials frown upon the impor-
tation of cast-off clothing, and that Papuan school
children do not value, or even welcome, gifts of
European toys. Perhaps it would be politic to hint,
merely to suggest in the most delicate possible way,
that bankers’ drafts
Mr. Jarman was suddenly aware that a curious
silence prevailed outdoors. He glanced quickly out
of the window. The logging gang had suspended
operations. Some of the boys had vanished. Others
lay sprawled about the great butt in attitudes of lazy
content. John himself was skirting the garden, mak-
ing for the kitchen.
Mr. Jarman consulted his watch and smiled
indulgently.
“Come in, Mariana!” he called out in tones of
expansive joviality as a knock sounded on the door.
A comely native girl, carrying a tray daintily
appointed, edged timidly into the study. Swiftly,
deftly, she arranged teapot, cup, saucer and
biscuit-barrel at Mr. Jarman’s elbow;
smiled, dimpled, wriggled at Mr. Jarman’s
hearty greeting, and softly withdrew.
A little wind stirred the stagnant heat.
A lazy shower of bauhinia petals drifted
through the open window.
MR. JARMAN, contentedly sipping his
tea and munching his biscuit, thinking
his big thoughts, had a sudden sharp per-
ception of an alien presence. Under the
rain-tree, sjveaty, dust-caked, a small boy,
truant from the logging gang, lay stretched
full length. He was fast asleep. Flies
buzzed round his head; a hand clasped a
half-eaten banana.
Mr. Jarman’s cup halted in mid-air. There was
an expression of stern displeasure on his face. He
opened his lips, then closed them again. Then he
placed his watch, face upwards, on the table. He was
curious, merely curious, to discover the exact length
of time that would elapse before slack, easy-going,
careless John discovered the truant’s absence.
John’s loud voice and louder laugh came up to
him. He was rallying his team. One by one the
students shambled back to work, dragging their un-
willing feet through the grass.
“Come on! Lively does it!” John roared. He
inserted two fingers into his mouth and emitted a
long, shrill whistle.
Not a movement from the boy under the rain-
tree. Mr. Jarman looked at his watch. Another
whistle, particularly shrill, cut the air. The boy stirred
sleepily, stretched, yawned, scratched his fuzzy head.
John whistled again.
A dreadful grimace convulsed the small boy’s
face. Reluctantly he dragged himself upright.
“Oh, my Krise!” he said loudly and savagely.
“Too much bloody hard-i work, this place!”
Mr. Jarman was at the window. An indignation
scarcely distinguishable from wrath stirred his blood.
“Peter-Vagi !” he exclaimed. There was astonish-
ment in his voice, pain, reproof.
For a second or two the small boy regarded him
with open-mouthed amazement. Then, with a grunt
of fear, he hitched up his loincloth and, with a quick,
wriggling movement, was off like a hunted rabbit
scurrying for its burrow.
Mr. Jarman, shaking his head, making sorrow-
ful clucking noises, resumed his seat. Suddenly he
snapped his fingers, the frown on his face gave place
to a smile; he shook down the congealing ink and
wrote swiftly, confidently:—
“And now, my dear boys and girls, as I pen
my final words of grateful farewell, memories of my
own boyhood’s days come crowding in upon me —
old haunts, old games, old songs, old poems, grand
old hymns and their grand old tunes. I remember
them as definitely as an unforgettable English sunset,
a breathless English spring dawn, or the warmth of
a coal fire through an English frost. And I pray
that when your minds turn to your little brown
brothers and sisters in far-off Papua, living their
vicious lives, knowing nothing of filial affection,
obedience, truthfulness, clean-mindedness, habits of
industry and habits of mental control, you will sing,
as I used to sing, with all your hearts:
“l thank the goodness and the grace
Which on my birth have smiled,
And made me, in these Christian days,
A happy English child.''


A. Laughable Piece of Nonsense:—
MUDDLED
WAVELENGTHS
BY WATCOMBE PETITOR
Slides -
6CO HE’LL be all right now,” said Doctor Farrell;
“the sedative is taking effect. She just seems
a trifle run-down. Has she had any worry
lately, Mr. Elson?”
The short, stout man clasped and unclasped his
hands as he replied, “Well, sir, of course we all of
us have our worries, and I think I may say, sir, that
me and my wife have had more than most. But it
was the shock of the colonel’s death that upset her.”
The patient was sleeping quietly on the couch.
Elson bent down and picked up the evening paper
from the floor.
“She dropped it, sir, when she fainted. Here’s
the bit, sir.”
Dr. Farrell read: “London, Tuesday.—The death
occurred to-day of Colonel Ferdinand Bluster, D.S.O.
.... at one time a leader in the field of wireless
research.... Since his marriage in 1922 he had
resided on his model farm in Buckinghamshire. His
wife (formerly Miss Emily Meeker) predeceased him.”
“That’s what gave my wife the shock, sir.”
“I see. A relative, I presume.”
• “Well, hardly, sir. Oh, no, hardly that, sir.
Something closer, you might say. You see, I was the
colonel’s personal servant, and Annie, she was Miss
Meeker’s maid —Miss Meeker that married the
colonel. P’raps I’d better tell you the whole story,
sir. It’d do me good to tell someone. I ain’t told
a soul; and ’ere I am out in Australia, thousands of
miles from where the pore colonel died.”
“By all means, get it off your chest if it’s worry-
ing you. What is it?”
ELL, I’d better begin at the beginning, I suppose.
You see, I was the colonel’s batman during the
war, and I stayed with him afterwarus as m*
He had a ’ot temper and gout. A good job ’e did,
too —the gout, I mean —because it was through going
with him to one of those
An angry goldfish.
spas that I met Annie.
That year, I remember,
two # Germans (which, I
says* caused all the
trouble) practically lived
with the colonel when
he was in London.
They were inventors,
and, being in the flat so
much, made extra work
for me, and never even a
‘thank you.’
“One day some men
came and made two big boxes
—like sentry-boxes, sir, with a front door. One they
put in the colonel’s study and the other in his dressing-
room, and they was covered in wires and electric
lights. Do you know what they was, sir? Well, they
used to put a cat (the master hated ’em, too) in the
box in the dressing-room, pull a switch, and the cat’d
walk out of the box in the study on the next floor.
Yes, you mightn’t believe it, sir, but they used to
send that blooming cat by wireless. The colonel told
me how only sounds had been sent up to then, but
this invention of his and the Germans made it pos-
sible to send any living thing. Of course, I was told
not to say a word.
“Well, the colonel ’ad a go next, and I was there.
’E got in the box in his study—naked, o’ course: you
couldn’t send clothes, only living things—and I ’ad
to wait in the other room with ’is dressing-gown. I
saw ’im get in and shut the door, and by the time
I got up to the dressing-room there ’e was waiting
for me.
“After that they often used to go
between Eltham, where the Germans
lived, and our place at Paddington.
“Well, presently the Germans
went back to the Fatherland to build
some boxes there, and the colonel got
gouty again, and decided to go to one
of those places where ’e could take
the waters. Marienbad, it was, sir.
There weren’t much in it for me—no
company.
“One morning I was ’aving a
drink when I sees a young lady at a
table near by. She seemed to be
having a bit of trouble with a waiter.
I put him in ’is place, and found that
her name was Annie. We went for a
walk towards the springs, and she told
me she was lady’s maid to a Miss
Meeker. We were getting on fine
when I saw the colonel coming
towards us with a lady. ‘Here’s my master,’ I says
to ‘Here’s my mistress,’ says Annie.
“We used to meet every day after that, and so
did the colonel and Miss Meeker. I saw what was
going to ’appen, and sure enough the colonel and ’is
lady became engaged very soon, but Annie and me
beat him by a couple o’ days.
The colonel.
“ ‘Elson,’ he says, ‘we
leave for London on Wed-
nesday, and Miss Meeker
and her maid travel in our
car. We will call at
Emden on our way, as I
want to see Herr Kuchel
and his friend’ (them’s the
two Germans, you know).
“We stayed ten days
in Emden, and Annie and
I got married there.
“When it was time to
leave, old Kuchel sug-
gested we should all go
home by wireless, and the
colonel fell in with the
idea.
it A NNIE went first. I
" told her where to find
a suit for me, as I was
next. Then came a gold-
fish and a cat, which Miss
Meeker always ’ad with ’er. After that came Miss
Meeker ’erself, and last of all the colonel. The
ladies ’ad sent some clothes on ahead by post.
“Annie went through fine, and after ten minutes
my turn came. There was nothing in it, sir. You
just went into the sending-box, what the colonel**
called the transmitter, heard a crackle and a buzz
which made you blink. Then you opened your eyes,
found you were naked, saw London marked on the
door instead of Emden, dressed and walked out.
“When I arrived Annie was waiting, so we gol
ready for the next passengers. " -
“We seemed to wait a long time, and I
wasn’t to open the door until I saw a blue light.
“It was twenty minutes before we heard a noise
in the box. It was the colonel’s voice, and, sir, ’e
was swearing terrible. What was wrong? Where was
the cat and the goldfish and Miss Meeker? The
blue light shone, and I opened the door, and I knew
then that we’d tempted Providence too far, sir.
“There they was —the colonel, Miss Meeker, the
goldfish and the cat. The goldfish was calling me
in the colonel’s voice. The colonel was on the floor
on his stomach, waving his legs from
side to side, flapping his arms and
l' is >i «. miss e.,cr was curled up
in a corner asleep, and the cat was
calling out to Annie for a wrap.
“ ‘Quick, Annie,’ i saiu, gone wrong.
Put that cat in another room and dress Miss Meeker.
I’ll look aftsr the fish and the colonel.’
“When she ’ad gone I dressed him and put him
on his bed. Then the fish. I brought it out and put
it in with the colonel’s goldfish. It was nearly dead
and floated on its side, ’ardly moving.
“Do y’ see what was wrong, sir? They ’ad all
been transmitted together, and on the way across
their bodies and souls got mixed. I suppose cats
and fish ’ave got souls, sir?
“Just then I ’eard my name called from the gold-
fish tank, and it was. the colonel’s voice. ’E ’ad ’is'
’ead out and was roaring mad. ‘Get me out o’ this,’
’e said. ‘Where’s my teeth? Give me my clothes and
something to drink! Damn you, Elson, don’t
stand’ But just then ’e ’ad to go down for air,
and ’e started to snap at the other fish;
“I found out afterwards what ’appened, sir. Miss
Meeker ’ad rushed into the transmitting-box to see
that her pets were all right. The colonel went to
drag ’er out and the door slammed.
«VOU can imagine ’ow upset I was, sir. I didn’t
* know what to do. I couldn’t talk to the gold-
fish at present, and then my wife appeared with her
mistress and the cat. The cat was frantic, my wife
said, and had been running up the curtains and under
the beds crying for Ferdy—’er name for the colonel.
Miss Meeker was fairly quiet, as she’d lapped a quart
of milk and caught a mouse.
“The fish rose to the surface again and called
me. The cat, ’earing ’er beloved’s voice, jumped on
to the table with a ‘Ferdy, darling,’ but the colonel
had sounded, and from the bottom of the tank sent up
—yes, sir —purple bubbles, which were swear words,
I think. It must ’ave been the sight of the cat, ’im
being a fish and not knowing the cat was Miss
Meeker. Annie took ’er away.
“The colonel came up again, and while ’e was
talking to me ’e kept going down for air, or was
st water, sir? He said, ‘Damn you, Elson, d’you
think I want to be eaten like a cursed sardine? Don’t
let that blasted cat come here again.’
“I said, ‘But that’s Miss Meeker, sir; she won’t
’urt you. It’s the cat you must watch
—I mean Miss Meeker.’ Just then
Miss Meeker followed my wife into
the room. She saw the goldfish and
stiffened, but before she could spring
I ’it ’er with a book, and Annie
scolded her, so she left the room.
“The goldfish rose that fast that
’e almost jumped out of the tank.
“ ‘You utter scoundrel,’ ’e said.
‘Have you lost your senses? How
dare you strike my fiancee?’
“ ‘No, sir,’ I said. ‘That’s not
your financee —that’s the cat.’
“ ’E blew out a stream of water
and said, ‘Gad, if ever I get out of
this I’ll never touch wireless again.
Give me a cigar.’ I lit one for ’im
and ’eld it, but ’e didn’t seem to enjoy
it. ‘Now, Elson,’ ’e said, ‘send a cable
to Kuchel. Just put “Disaster. Come
immediately, Bluster.” ’ I did this, and Kuchel’s reply
said ’e’d be ’ere the next afternoon.
“This meant that Annie and me ’ad a whole
day yet with these —er —patients, and we couldn’t
tell anyone.
“They’d ’ave to be fed. The ‘goldfish’ wouldn’t
eat much, but the ‘colonel’ would. Annie said they
liked ants’ eggs. I could only get penny packets, so
I bought fifteen bobs’ worth. It was ’ard to tell'when
’e’d ’ad enough, as ’e kept opening his mouth and
flapping his arms.
“We gave Miss Meeker some raw meat, and she
seemed content, because afterwards she sat on the
mat, spat on ’er ’ands and washed her face and neck.
“The goldfish picked over a nice tea, even to a
bit o’ curry. I filled a fountain-pen filler with whisky
and ’e drank the lot. It warmed ’im up too, because
when I mentioned the cat ’e said ’e’d like to see her.
“Annie brought ’er in just then and put ’er on the
table. Ferdy done another crash dive, and the cat
kept calling ’im. After a while ’e put ’is ’ead out.
“ ‘Ferdy,’ she cried.
“ ‘Miss Meeker —Emily,’ said ’e. ‘Can you for-
give me? I swear everything will be right to-morrow.’
“ ‘No, dear, it was my silly fault.’
“And so they talked. At last I asked if Annie
and I could retire, and ’e said ‘Yes.’
“The cat said, ‘Darling, I must go too. What
about those other fish? Are they gentlemen fish or’
“ ‘Dammit,’ the goldfish replied, ‘I don’t know.
I don’t even know what / am. Oh, Elson, put me
somewhere on my own to-night.’
“ ‘Well, sir,’ I says, ‘what about the rosebowl
with the mesh over the top of it? That would keep
the cats away.’
“ ‘Blast you, Elson, what do you mean by cats?
Emily, I apologise, dearest.’
“Any’ow, I put
’im in the rosebowl,
and as ’e always
complained of the
cold I suggested
warm water. ’E
roared again, and
said ’e was sweating
as it was.
“That left only
Miss Meeker, and as
she had the cat’s
soul Annie said she’d
better be put out;
so out she went.
“We was afraid
to go to bed, and at
two o’clock in the
morning the door-
bell rang. ’Twas the
police sergeant.
‘What’s that woman
doing on the roof?’
’e asked.
“As I looked at my wife we both knew what ’ad
’appened.
“ ‘You must be mistook,’ I said. ‘Let’s go and
look,’ and, as I led the sergeant out slowly Annie
rushed upstairs, out through the attic window and
dragged Miss Meeker in. We saw nothing, and ’e
went on ’is way, puzzled.
“The goldfish stayed in the rosebowl, and the
cat talked to ’im all next day until Kuchel came. He
knew exactly what was wrong. He was going to keep
sending them to and fro between London and Emden
until they came right.
(tVfJELL, sir, they made nine journeys. The first
trip back the colonel came as Miss Meeker,
and to ’ear ’is voice and language coming from ’er
was terrible. On the third trip Miss Meeker came
out right; on the next trip the cat also came right,
but the colonel and the goldfish had four more before
they dissolved partnership.
“The next day the colonel and Miss Meeker was
married at a register office, with Annie and me as
witnesses.
“Later ’e called us to ’im. These are ’is very
words: ‘Elson, I ’ave some news which I ’ope you
will not deem wholly bad. Your presence ’ere, after
what you and your wife ’ave seen, cannot but be
embarrassing to myself and Mrs. Bluster.’
A supercilious cat.
“ ’E paid our fares out ’ere,
sir, and promised that ’is law-
yers would tell us when ’e died.
“Of course the shock of
seein’ it in the papers must ’ave
upset Annie. Brought it all
back to ’er like.”
“And didn’t anything
further come of the invention?”
asked the doctor.
“Well, sir, the colonel, ’e’d
learnt ’is lesson, and wouldn’t
’ave anything more to do with
it. The Germans bought ’is
share, I think.”
“But it seems strange that
it hasn’t been put to greater use
by now. The Germans would
surely have gone on with it.”
“Oh, they went on with it
all right. They was very ambi-
tious, sir. The colonel wrote to
me once and said ’e’d ’eard they
was trying to ’liminate the
receiving-box. That’d mean
they could go anywhere. ’E
said they was talking of going
to the moon, but I suppose that
was only ’is little joke, sir.
Miss Meeker.
“Anyhow, it’s too late now, sir, ’cos they dis-
appeared a couple o’ years ago.”
“Disappeared?”
“Yes, sir; The police found their clothes inside
the cabinet, an’ they ain’t been seen since. Do you
know what I reckon, sir? I reckon they must ’ave
got somewhere and the pore coves can’t get back.
Terrible, ain’t it, sir?”
“Yes,” replied the doctor. “I understand it is
rather cold on the moon.”


Tells of a Strange Terror:-
THE
CAMEL
BY
TARELLA DASKEIN
THE woman strode along the dusty road at an
even, unhurrying pace. She had no need to hurry,
for she had nowhere to go, and was merely
walking away from a past and a home that had
crashed about her ears.
In this drought homes had collapsed like packs
of cards about those who had built them up over
so many years, and the ruin in the land was
so untidy and universal one wondered if, with the
return of rain and good times, homes would ever
reappear.
She felt strangely free.
Perhaps no one had ever thought of walking out
as she had done, without luggage or her worthless
belongings—the faded cambrics hanging on the wall,
working aprons, incredible hats, old shoes
She had no children, for which she was thankful;
and her husband? She shrugged her shoulders care-
lessly. Perhaps he had gone now. One came to an
end of everything in time, and he and
she had long ceased to call the tie that
bound them together love. So, when
their house of cards fell about their ears,
she put on her faded straw hat, laced on
her strongest shoes and, in a blue print
dress, turned her face to the coach road
where once a week the coach creaked
along with its meagre dusty load of
mailbags.
She hadn’t even said good-bye.
Under the brim of the straw hat
deep hollows made shadows beneath her
burning eyes. They were green, her
eyes, but they burnt nevertheless, green
and staring ; and her light, scanty eye-
brows and high cheekbones made for a
strange and arresting face. Her straight
mouth was tightened in a folded line,
and the skin of her face and neck was
coarse, wind-burnt and unwomanly.
Her hands were red, her shoes dusty,
incredibly dusty.
She had walked now for a full day,
turning aside for a drink at an occa-
sional waterhole and then trudging on
unaware. She was tired and hungry and
in despair.
And then, suddenly and unex-
pectedly, rushing from the horizon came
a cloud of dust racing and eddying
towards her, the sunset beautifying the
rolling clouds.
Here was something coming to
break the tenseness of her solitude. She
welcomed it while fearing it.
WITH a grinding of brakes and a half
sideslip in the loose sand the car
drew up beside her, and she stared
fiercely at its cargo.
It was full of men, pseudo bushmcn,
pseudo townsmen, men who had made
money and who were out to make more ;
red-faced men, jolly men and men who
had drunk a good deal at the last town-
ship.
The driver was a rat-faced little fellow whose
business it was to drive the car. He was only that.
The owner of the car sat beside him, and a couple
of men in the back seat.
As the car pulled up beside the woman she stood
and faced them in the gilded evening dust.
“Good evening,” said the big man.
“Good evening,” answered the woman levelly.
“Taking a walk?” asked the big man half
facetiously.
“Seems like it,” answered the woman.
“I seem to know you. Surely you are —you are
Mrs.”
“My name is Anna,” said the woman quickly.
“Anna?”
“Yes—Anna.”
“I see. And you are walking to —where?”
“God knows,”
There was a pause.
“It’s all right,” said
Anna, smiling, and there
was something of a
rough beauty in her
smile.
“It’s far from right.
I heard —they foreclosed,
didn’t they? Where is
your husband? What
are you going to do?”
The big man asked
the question curiously
and with a not unkindly
interest, but he was in
a hurry, while the
two red-faced men in
the back seat looked
at the woman with a very
faint interest. This was
an interlude in a long,
dull day, and not a very
interesting one. The
smooth, red-faced men
liked their women
pretty.
“I don’t know.”
“Would you take a job?” He had to hurry
on, but he would like to help—he always helped
where he could.
Anna did not answer. The late sunset lit up her
rugged and tired face, and they noticed the dust on
her pale eyebrows and the dried sweat round her
mouth.
“Yes,” she said. “What is it? I’ll take
anything.”
“Half a mile along the road is a hut —an out-
station belonging to us. I want a caretaker. The
couple got drunk last week and I fifed them. I want
someone to keep it in going order, to keep the little
room at the back clean for me when I sleep there,
and to do the cooking. The coach passes once a
week, bringing your stores. It has passed by for this
week —yesterday—but there’s plenty of stuff there in
the cupboard, and the key of the hut is lying on the
top of the rainwater tank. By the way, the tank is
erfipty at present, but there’s water in the creek
“Goo’ night, cap'n .”
two hundred yards away. You would have to
carry it.”
She nodded.
“Would you care to take it on?”
‘Til take it on. Is there a telephone?”
‘‘Yes—well, out of order just now, but 111 send
a man ; we’ve been busy with the mustering. I’d lift
’
‘Td rather walk,” replied the woman ungraci-
standing bathed in the fire of the evening sky.
She looked broad and flat and barren to the four
men. She seemed endowed with masculine courage,
and yet som ehow looked so pitifully feminine as
the y drove awa Y-
“Poor devil,” said the big man ; “she wasn’t
always like this. They ve had bad luck—her hus-
band’s no good.”
The rat-faced driver seemed the only one who
was interested.
AS she drew near the galvanised-iron hut it took
■** on a strange beauty in this riot of dust, sunset
and sk Y — a hhle refuge set on the plain, with a creek
two hundred y ards awa y> where her water was
stored, and a high galvanised-iron verandah shading
the front of the house.
As she drew nearer a faint fear invaded her —
the fear that is induced by the lifeless. It was .so
lifeless, that little dwelling ; almost sinister—hostile,
And tken ske saw the camel,
She had been so used to camels, to seeing them
driven and ridden and loaded, that her only feeling
was a vague comfort as she saw the great beast in
the distance feeding. At least it was alive. The
camel did not raise its head at her approach,
She groped for the key on the top of the empty
tank and let herself into the hut.
“Just camel and I,” said Anna, smiling grimly,
The hut had wooden bunks by the walls and a
rough table, with its legs planted in the hard-trodden
eart h ; a wide chimney, with a chain suspended from
blackness for boiling a billy, and a rough bench where
ke rosene-tms were ranged upside down. They were
her buckets, her water-carriers. A double-barrelled
gun stood against the wall
She g ave a wooden laugh born of weariness, and
then hurried to find matches to light the lamp. Then
sbe lbe bre and mac | e some strong and bitter tea.
“Last night,” she thought, “ I had a home.
Yesterday I had a name. To-day I’m Anna”
They were banal reflections. She had no self-pity.
She tossed aside the straw hat and ran her rough-
ened hand through her hair that long ago had rusted,
not silvered ; but then she wasn’t old, of course—not
very.
She wondered almost dimly what would be her
end.
She heard the soft, shrouded step
of the camel passing by, a slur in the
dust, and smiled again.
“Camel and I! ” said Anna ; and she
quenched the light and, lying down on
the bunk, fell asleep.
The next morning she woke aching
and tired, but at peace.
“I needn’t get up,” she thought,
and went to sleep again. How wonder-
ful to get up and go to bed when one
wanted; to have a roof over one’s
head and to be paid for having it!
There were spiders up there in the
roof with a red stripe down their backs,
full of poison and death; cockroaches
ran across the floor, and she heard a
mouse squeal.
“I don’t care,” she thought; “I’ve
got away.”
Then she went to sleep again. At
midday she rose and made a thorough
examination of her surroundings. There
was the little bedroom, neat and clean,
at the back of the house. Also there
were ample provisions, tinned goods,
flour, sugar, salt and tea —blessed tea,
coarse, strong common tea.
She dressed and picked up her
buckets. There was still a billyful of
water in the hut, but for the sake of
action she sallied out to get fresh water.
And then she opened the door.
What a day! Blue sky, out of which
a multitude of white cockatoos tumbled
screaming, and the round world reaching
to the sky. Life, after all, was good.
She swung her buckets and moved
towards the creek, the rhythmic creaking
pleasing her.
And then
SHE heard a blubbering, a mad, insane
noise that was not like anything she
had heard on earth before —sounds that
were surely bred in hell.
But there, there it was —the camel! She saw
the great prehistoric shape rocking towards her with
its neck outstretched. It galloped clumsily, blubbering
as it came. It meant mischief, teeth bared, eyes blaz-
ing. She had heard of mad camels. Here was one
dropped out of its team.
There was only one thing to do. Anna ran back
to the hut for her very life, and as she closed the
door the camel arrived roaring. She heard it blub-
bering at the door as it shuffled in the dust.
Her very veins prickled with cold, stark horror.
She still had a billy of water, but outside, between
her and the creek, roamed the mad beast, and sud-
denly the tin hut felt frail and insecure.
“Five more days to coach day,” she calculated,
“but they will go.”
The camel, in its mad and lonely brain, was
perhaps glad of this human companionship. Anna


stayed in the hut all day, while the camel hung
sullenly about, and the feeling grew in her that she
had a foe here more implacable and terrible than
anything she had faced in her darkest days. This
was a palpable horror.
At midday, as she sat on the edge of the bunk
the sky suddenly seemed to become overclouded, the
mt full of shadow; a redness as of a duststorm was
before the window.
She stared for some time before realising it was
the dusty red body of the camel obliterating the day.
there was no blind to the window, and she was
obliged to watch the rocking, living wall standing
divided from her only by a pane of glass all day,
a great, dusty, hairy wall that moved incessantly. It
slavered, rocking.
At dusk, fearfully she watched the big animal
wander away up the plain to feed, bending its head
to the saltbush. Under cover of darkness she
ran to the creek for water, but the camel had heard
the creaking buckets, and she reached the hut again
only a moment before it arrived, blubbering angrily,
at full gallop.
This was going to be awful, she ruminated. This
was madness itself.
At first she had been afraid of a man arriving
at the hut, and now if only a man would arrive—
anyone.
She loaded the double-barrelled gun and stood
it in the corner of the room, her hard hands shaking.
She had never shot anything in her life. No, she
could not shoot the camel —not yet.
Whatever could she do? Four days to coach
day! Bui perhaps a traveller would arrive.
In the night she heard the camel
rubbing itself against the corner of the
house. She listened to the rasping of
its mangy hide as it scraped backwards
and forwards, shaking the hut.
A terrible horror enveloped her. In
the night outside was a shape with a
crazy brain. She thought of it now as
only a shape, but alive and terrible.
When to-morrow arrived it would
be only three more days to coach day—
three days, three days! But there were
three days.
When Anna got up next morning
she moved about putting things to rights,
trying to fill in her time for an hour or
so ; then went to inspect the small spare
room adjoining.
She opened the door and stood for
a moment looking in. Then, with a
heart-breaking whimper, she ran forward
with shaking knees.
The bed had been slept in, the room
used, and the occupant had departed for
fear of frightening her; a traveller had
slept beneath her roof and slipped away. ,
Upon the pillow was pinned a piece of
paper. She read the message written
there.
“Thanks for the bed—l didn’t want to frighten
you.”
A shilling lay on the table. A shilling! The
only coin she possessed in all the world, and the
man had come in the night and left before dawn ;
and the camel was there outside!
“Oh, God!”
She ran to the door and gazed out over the
plains. The camel was standing rumbling not far
away, shaking its big, loose lips and muttering to
itself. She tiptoed to the gun and tiptoed away again.
No, no; she was shaking too much.
WHEN coach day really arrived she sat by the
window watching hour by hour that speck that
joined road to heaven. It would soon be here —
only five hours —two hours more —only one now.
And then on the horizon towards evening rose a puff
as of smoke, a curl of dust, a little cloud moving
sluggishly.
It was the coach.
She watched it idly and unconcerned.
The coach!
She got to her feet and seized the gun. There
was something to be done. Frightened no longer,
she opened the door, and the big shape rumbled
threateningly. Pointing the gun at the angry beast
she fired point-blank at its head. She fired again,
and with a horrible lurch the camel fell to its knees,
its blubbering choked in its throat.
“Oh!” she screamed.
She ran forward as the big head fell to earth
with neck outstretched beneath the verandah, and
looked down upon the dying of the shape that had
terrorised her. There was only an involuntary twitch-
ing of muscles beneath the dusty old hide and a
queer bubbling sound that continued for a moment
and then ceased.
She sighed convulsively and wiped the back of
her hand across her eyes.
And then the coach arrived.
/
A Very Human Sketch:-
RAIN
BY EDNA DAVIES.
BILL BLAKE was five years old when he first
heard rain. For a while he thought the heaven
his gran had gone to must have turned upside
down and got mixed up with the hell the station-
hands talked about. And all the giants and demons
and bad fairies he had ever heard of seemed to be
dancing madly on the iron roof.
The housekeeper laughed at him, and told him
it was only the rain for which they had been praying
so long. “You mustn’t be so silly,” she said when
suddenly he began to cry. Bill crept away to the bed-
room and huddled in terror under the bed.
Every now and then there was a banging like
a big empty water-tank falling off the waggon, and
red light was darting and flashing as though someone
were breaking bits off the sun and throwing them
down to earth. And all the time the dreadful dancing
was going on on the roof.
And then, after hours and hours, he heard his
lather calling him and crawled out, and dad took
his hand and led him, quiet and very frightened, out
to the verandah. “It’s just rain,” he said. “Drops
of water from the sky.” He said that the rain had
broken the longest drought the station had ever
known. It would be the salvation of the country.
UE was 12 when he went to college, and he never
11 ceased to be thankful that it was night, and he
safely in bed, out of anyone's sight in the darkness,
the first time he heard rain in the city. It still sounded
evil, though different from the downpours they got
up north. It came so stealthily. First, just a few
drops ; then it got steadier and steadier ; and then,
just as you thought it was going to pour all night, it
stopped. But when you had snuggled down and were
going contentedly to sleep it started again, all at
once, like someone emptying a great bucket on the
roof; and went on and on and on.
“Anyway, you'll never see forty again!”
“Well, YOU only saw it once, dearie.”
Bill pretended he was asleep when Summers, who
came from the same part of the country, and who
slept next to him, whispered: “Listen to it, Bill!
Hope they’re getting this up north. Won’t be much
of our stock left if they’re not.”
“Hang him,” Bill thought. “What did he want
to remind me of that for?” But he knew that the
picture in Summers’s mind was one of starving stock
—and his own memories were of drowning animals.
He could never forget, even when the university
had done its best to smash up his primitive fears
with a bombardment of pure reason, the morning
after his first rain at home, when sheep and calves,
dead birds and limbs of trees swept down the creek
in the home paddock, where ever since he could walk
he had played dry-footed. The white, breathless rush
of the water seemed even more horrible than the
dancing on the roof the night before.
But dad didn’t seem to mind the dead sheep in
the creek so much, “Would have been worse if they’d
died in a dry paddock, son,” he said.
And old Andy joined in: “Aye, we’ve got off
light, lad. Only 20 or 30 drowned. There’d ’ave bin
20 or 30 hundred dead if the rain hadn’t come.” But
Bill wasn’t listening. He was looking at the poor,
skinny, drowned carcasses with their scared eyes.
With that memory clear as a picture in
his mind he hated going outside the morning
after that rain at school. He couldn’t persuade
himself that there wouldn’t be another rushing
torrent, with perhaps a few stray cats and the
headmaster’s cocker spaniel floating along
among the leaves and rubbish.
He always hated the city, because there was so
much more rain there. It rained for the last day of
the inter-collegiate cricket —his last match. Not a
sharp downpour, but just a sneaking spatter now and
then, with thunder growling in the background as
though it were sooling on the rain.
His body prickled horribly with the fear that
he might not be able to stick out the match in the
rain. He wished with all his heart he was bowling
instead of batting, so that he could ease the tumult
inside him by running up to the wicket and violently
hurling the ball, instead of having to wait steadily
in his crease, meeting ball after ball squarely with
the middle of the bat.
After the drizzle had stopped play for the second
time he felt that he could be steady no longer. “I
must hit out,” he said to himself. "I must hit out.
He hit the first six of his life.
When his father said “Well played, old son!"
he couldn’t make himself confess it was fright, panic
that gave power to his wrists and lightness to his feet.
But Bill knew that but for the thunder and the rain
he would have played his usual stonewalling game
and the match would have been lost.
THE station-hands noticed, as gradually he took over
control from his father, that he never cursed the
hot, blue sky as the Old Man did. Instead, he pul
down more bores, and extended the piping and trough-
ing, and made it his personal job to see the windmills
were working properly.
He loved the land under the blazing, dry sun.
But in the wet he was grim and silent, and, so the
men thought, surly. They could not understand it.
Rain that came capriciously, sometimes twice in a
month and sometimes not for a year, was always a
blessing ; but this strange boss talked as if it didn’t
exist. If a man remarked on the grand rain they
were having he never got more than a curt “Yes"
from the boss.
And what was just as puzzling was that once
the rain was over no one seemed happier about it
than the boss. He loved the sweetened air and the
springing grass . . .
The old fear was still in him, against all reason.
Psychologists had a name for it, he remembered.
What was it?
He told no one about it —not even his wife. She
would have understood, he thought; but—a man of
thirty-two afraid of the rain! He could not tell her.
There had been no rain since they were married
to make her suspect his secret. There had been no
rain for nearly three years. Now, in mid-July, riding
slowly home through the long paddock, he could
feel rain in the air. But Mary was away, visiting the
Mackays.
There was plenty of water, thanks to the bores:
but feed was costing a fortune. He was thinking “I’d
rather pay for the feed than have the
rain” when the rain came. In three
minutes he was wet through. Tiny rivulets
ran off his hat and dripped down his neck,
and from the cuffs of his trousers water
trickled into his shoes. He could not see
more than a few yards in the thick down-
pour.
There was a hollow ball in the pit of
his stomach. He pulled in the horse as she
broke into a canter. It was easier to endure
the rain in the open air than under a
roof. “I must get the stock driven from
the creek paddocks,” he said aloud.
And suddenly he remembered that
little Bill was alone in the house —alone but
for the servants, who wouldn’t understand.
Bill was two. He had never heard rain.
He kicked his heels into the mare’s
ribs. He lifted her into a gallop.
“If it gets him as it got me it may
ruin his life,” he thought. The little kid,
alone—puzzled, scared, then terrified. “He
may be asleep . . . Going through life,
a station man, frightened of the rain!”
For an hour he rode through sheets of
rain . . . The creek would be running
already . . . He galloped the horse to
within a few yards of the long white
verandah. The kid was probably hiding
somewhere from the rain, whimpering with fear.
He wasn’t in the bedroom—not in the wardrobe,
where he liked to hide in fun; nor under the bed.
He was not with the maid and the housekeeper in
thfe kitchen. No one had seen him for the past hour.
Perhaps his fear of the rain had been premonition,
Bill thought. He had heard of such things—premoni-
tions that were fulfilled years afterwards. Had he
always feared the rain because it was going some
day to rob him of his son? Had the boy wandered
off to the running creek?
He sent the servants flying to search every room
in the house as he started for the creek. As he ran
through the front door he saw the child.
THE little boy’s clothes clung to him wetly, patched
* with mud. He was on a garden bed. The rain
poured down on him. His tallow head, held*hard
against the wall, was flung back. Into his open mouth
fell drips from the leaking gutter of the roof.
The baby gave a gurgle of laughter. “Wa-ter,”
he said. “Wa-ter, daddy.”
Bill Blake stared at his son, stepped towards
him, stopped. Suddenly, as though he did not know
he was doing it, he took off his hat. The rain beat
down on his head. He stepped again towards the
baby, flinging his hat twenty feet away. He was
grinning. He didn’t remember that there was a hollow
ball in the pit of his stomach.
He sat down in the mud beside the baby. “It’s
a grand rain, son,” he said.


m
W0RL^WID^^_
fpMffifflCATloKi
services
1,1
4'' - ' °
. I sHHH
m
MBs
mm
i
li
m*
mi
r»
If*
w
}
WIRELESS St^
(H'
fs s TELEPHONE
St^
\C*
H'
/ /?f i
SERVICE f 0
9*'
?*
Gu INCA wireless sE^' ct
; st
0/^d CASTING s
pN
\C*
/^T( JRE g ram s e^
The Company invites enquiries in
respect to any of its services. An
illustrated booklet, setting out the
Company’s activities and services,
will be sent post free on application
to the Company’s Offices at 47 York
Street, Sydney, or 167/9 Queen Street,
Melbourne, also to A.W.A. Radio
Stations at Rosewater, Adelaide;
Applecross, Perth; Pinkenba, Bris-
bane; and The Domain, Hobart. ,
Speedy and economical wireless telegraph
services are indispensable to a country’s
progress.
Since its inception in 1913, A.W.A. has
anticipated, rather than followed, the
needs of the Australian public for modern
wireless telegraph facilities.
The Company established and to-day oper-
ates the Beam Wireless Telegraph Service,
Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone, and the
Beam Picturegram Service between Aus-
tralia and overseas. A.W.A. also operates
the Australian Coastal Radio Service and
the Pacific Island Services in New Guinea,
Papua and Fiji.
Wireless services are also conducted on
ships at sea for the safety of life and for
the interchange of public wireless tele-
grams between ship and shore.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-
important factors that have resulted in
giving the public satisfactory service. To
this end every new phase of wireless
has been scientifically investigated and
developed.
ftMALOAnCT ED WIPFI ESSWSIA) LTD
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


RHEUMATISM
Watch those First Sharp Twinges of Pain, and TAKE ACTION NOW I
Almost before you are aware of your peril, you may find that Rheumatism has
you in its merciless grip, and the result is not pleasant. Don’t let Rheumatism
conquer you. Don’t hesitate and waste precious time while the ailment get a
firmer hold upon you, but go to your chemist now and get a box of De Witt’s
Pills —the remedy that has been successfully used in all parts of the world.
You cannot choose a better remedy. Read this remarkable letter sent us by
a grateful user. Then ask your chemist. He will tell you that De Witt’s Pills
contain ingredients which will prove beneficial in cases of rheumatic trouble.
You may think your case is too far advanced for De Witt’s Pills to
help you. Don’t make this big mistake. If rheumatoid arthritis has already
distorted your limbs you cannot expect a cure, but De Witt’s Pills will
ease your pain and possibly check the progress of the disease. Going
to the other extreme, you may think you can do without De Witt’s
Pills because you only experience rheumatism in a mild form
occasionally.
DON’T BE DECEIVED
Those early symptoms need attention, and yon will be acting
wisely if you get a box of De Witt’s Pills from the chemist at the
first opportunity. The cost is trifling, and surely it
is worth while taking one or two pills when you
know that by doing so you will enjoy better health
now and ensure freedom from pain in years to come.
Watch for such symptoms as puffiness under
the eyes, heaviness of the limbs, swollen feet
or ankles, foul breath, scalding pains , gravel
or stone. These symptoms usually precede attacks
of Rheumatism, Backache, Lumbago, Sciatica or
serious Kidney Trouble, and much suffering and
expense may be saved by quickly getting a box of
De Witt’s Pills from the chemist and taking them
as directed. Sold only in the blue, white and gold
boxes, price 3/6, or larger, more economical size, 6/6.
HEALTHY KIDNEYS
REMOVE
iru-a>> uL>j»uuui
noir^Arm
Mr. M. Preston, of 193, Elizabeth Street, Redfern,
Sydney, N. S.W., says: “I cannot speak too highly of
De Witt’s Pills. I can honestly say they gave me instant
relief. Having suffered for many years from kidney trouble
and rheumatism, I tried a large number of remedies without
result, until I gave De Witt’s Pills a trial One bottle was
sufficient to show results, but I continued using them until my
trouble had completely gone.”
DeWitt’s
Kidney &
Bladder
Pills
This Man Knows His East:—
SUPERSTITION
BY MERVYN SKIPPER.
A LITTLE Chinese woman stands clutching with
trembling hands the polished counter of the
front office of the Papandayan Trading and
Investment Company. Her black hair, streaked with
grey, with a large dagger of gold thrust through it,
is tied tightly back on her head ; a blue coat falls
stiffly to her knees ; two thin legs in narrow trousers
emerge like sticks from under it, and she seems to
be standing on tiptoe, for her crumpled feet are no
larger than clothes-pegs. She is staring with terrified
eyes at Patterson, the chief clerk of the company, a
gaunt, sallow-faced man, who is accusing her in
Malay of intent to murder.
“Oh, no, no, tuan,” she wails, shaking her head
despairingly.
“Yes, Mrs. Ah Fu, murder!” says Patterson
sternly. “The company’s doctor has given your son
a thorough examination and says it is appendicitis.
If he isn’t operated on immediately—in the next
twenty-four hours at latest—the appendix will burst,
and in a few days your son will have joined his
ancestors.”
“Oh, no, no, no, tuan !” wails Mrs. Ah Fu.
“Yes, yes, yes, Mrs. Ah Fu!” says
Patterson. “He’ll be as dead as —as Con-
fucius. The company’s doctor has first-
class honors, gained in London, the largest
city in the world, Mrs. Ah Fu. He has all
the resources of medical science at his
command, and he knows what he is talking
about. He will send your son to the public
hospital, have him properly anaesthetised,
take the appendix out in an eyewink, and
in a fortnight the boy will be well and happy.
And what do you want to do? Hand him over to
some native doctor. And what will he do? Give
him some filthy mixture of dragons’ teeth, frogs’ eyes
and lizards’ skins, and mumble idiotic incantations
over him. And what then, Mrs. Ah Fu? In forty-
eight hours he will be dead, and you will be his
murderer, as surely as if you had poisoned him. How
will you like that, Mrs. Ah Fu?”
Mrs. Ah Fu’s mouth falls
open. She knows how she will
like it. They wanted for years
to get a man-child, and her
husband used to beat her
when it turned out again and
again to be a girl. If the man-
child dies there will be nobody
to burn spirit money at her
husband’s grave to ensure his
prosperity and comfort in
heaven. And she knows \vhat
her husband will do. He will
take another concubine.
Mrs. Ah Fu looks round at the great white office
with its lofty walls and high ceiling, at the maps and
the framed photographs of huge ocean liners, at the
native clerks in neat white uniforms looking at her
sideways with expressionless faces ; and she feels as
if some terrible force is dragging her somewhere,
and that it will be quite impossible for her to resist it.
«|J OW will you like that, Mrs. Ah Fu?” repeats
II Patterson. He is enjoying the situation, for
he seldom gets an opportunity of practising his
Malay, and he has looked up all the difficult words
in a dictionary, and hopes the clerks are admiring
him for his facility.
“How will you like that ?” he repeats, and he
goes on to impress her in still more solemn language
of the superiority of Western science over native
superstition. Actually he has not the slightest belief
in Western doctors, for he has suffered from an
obscure complaint for fifteen years; has had all his
teeth removed, bones chipped from his nose, holes
drilled in his skull, his tonsils extracted, serums of
all. sorts pumped into him ; has taken gland extracts
and nerve tonics and rest cures without the slightest
alteration in his condition. If he were asked his
opinion of the doctors who have treated him he would
speak of them with scorn and contempt; but Mrs.
Ah Fu’s opposition fills him with anger and irritation.
“Oh, what shall I do, what shall I do?” wails
Mrs. Ah Fu, and tears well out of the corners of her
eyeslits.
“Very well,” says Patterson, who is getting bored
with the discussion. “I will tell the Tuan doctor that
you don’t want your son to be properly treated, that
you prefer him to die a frightful death. I’ll tell him
that, shall I, Mrs. Ah Fu?”
He yawns and glances at his wrist, reflecting that
he will miss his after-tiffin nap if this goes on much
longer. Then his face assumes a sentimental expres-
sion.
“It’s a pity,” he says. “He was a nice boy. One
of my favorites. Getting on well, too. He would
have got a promotion this year if he had lived, and
there was no reason why he should not have risen
to the highest position for clerks of his grade.” And
Patterson feels really sorry for Mrs. Ah Fu’s son,
whom he has tried to save, and whom he now sees
lying in his grave with his sorrowing relatives standing
round him.
“Adohi-ma, adohi-ma!” wails Mrs. Ah Fu,
clutching more desperately at the counter. “Adohi-
ma /”
SHE is thinking of her son and seeing him as a
baby. If he dies she will die too. If he dies
they will be ruined by the funeral expenses, and
her husband will start beating her again. Then she
thinks of the native doctor who is already in the
house and has taken charge of everything. The house
is full of smells and the smoke of incense, and the
doctor’s medicine-bottles are enormous. It is won-
derful how any person could think of so many
different medicines and that another person could
drink them all. They taste so horrible that the patient
vomits after taking them, but he has been so much
better since the doctor came that her husband is mad
with joy, and her son is quite sure he is going to
recover. How can she explain to them all that he
is being murdered?
“Adohi-ma!” she wails. “Adohi-ma!”
But Patterson has gone, and the door of the
inner office is closing with a sigh behind
him. The native clerks change their ex-
pressions to one of sympathy, and cluster
in front of Mrs. Ah Fu, looking tenderly
at her over the counter.
“Kasiehan, old mother!” they say.
“We are sorry for you. But you may
not go against the white man, mother.
He knows best. Look at this office.
Look at us, mother! It is all the white man’s doing,
mother.”
Mrs. Ah Fu totters across the marble floor to
the swing doors, hobbles down the great flight of
steps, hops like a wounded bird across the pavement
and gets into her rickshaw.
“Go home, you beast; go home! ” she shouts
at the coolie, beating him over the shoulders with
her umbrella.
Three weeks later her son quietly resumes his
place at the office. There has been no operation.


You will have an old man to keep
some day—that old man is YOU !
Be wise and make an early start on a
RETIREMENT
INCOME PLAN
Providing an Annual Income for 10, 15, 20 or 25
years after reaching a selected age.
Life Assurance stood up to the depression in a way far
surpassing that of any other form of investment, and,
because it is scientifically sound, furnishes the safest and
best means to make this provision. When commenced at
an early age, the instalments each year are comparatively
small, while in the event of death the capital sum or balance
of the income (as the case may be) immediately becomes
payable.
Write for particulars to —
The
Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Ltd.
(The “M.L.C.”)
which has very comprehensive contracts to offer in this connection.
Assets Exceed £23,000,000
(of which 83 per cent, is invested in Government, Municipal
and other Public Securities).
Annual Income Exceeds .... £3,200,000
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
SINCE 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is Amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox,
Major-General James W. Macarthur Onslow, V.D.,
Owen Friend, Sir William Vicars, C.B.E.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
THE BANK OF ENGLAND, WESTMINSTER BANK, LTD.,
BARCLAY’S BANK, LTD., NATIONAL PROVINCIAL
BANK, LTD.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout —
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents Throughout the World.
Cable Address: “Thermostat,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
Drama Cut Sharply in a Few Minutes of Time:-
SECOND THOUGHT.
BY DALLAN GAEL.
THE road was badly wheel-worn along the crest of
the hill, and the heavily-laden lorry straddled
the ruts and rebounded from the corrugations
with a motion that made the bump less jarring in its
persistency. The red, muddy bonnet rose slightly as
the front wheels crossed an elevated culvert mound
and dipped again with a lurch that made the grease-
less torque-rod set up a momentary clatter of protest
as the full weight of the load swung forward. Then
the weight heeled back on to the level and the lorry
labored on towards the decline.
Willis eased uncomfortably behind the wheel, and
prepared to make the abrupt descent down the siding
that slipped away towards the semi-flat country below.
It was a steep little pinch. The road was cut by a
number of shallow washouts, and punctured here and
there by a series of ugly potholes until it ran across
a small corduroy crossing and turned abruptly south-
ward. Leason, his offsider, gripped the outer wind-
screen" stud tightly and watched through the corner
of his eye as Willis fumbled with the clutch and tugged
it into low gear with a jerk. The gears meshed with
a sharp, dry whine, and Leason turned instantly to
see if the top bale was secure.
Damn’ madness to load two ton of wool on a
thirty-hundredweight truck, he thought.
The load seemed to overhang the frail wood-
work of the cab dangerously, and he eyed the load-
ropes uncertainly.
Had he twitched
them enough?
“Be ready to
use that hand-
brake, Tom,” said
Willis evenly as he
placed his boot on
the foot-brake.
The other waited
expectantly, with
the sound of the
cab squeaking from
the pressing bales behind
unpleasantly close to
him. He listened to the
smart clatter of fine
gravel, shot from be-
neath the gripping
wheels, bouncing off the
ironwork beneath him,
and watched the quick
turn below hypnotically.
As the lorry began to
pick up speed he shot a
look at the speedometer and leaned nearer the
emergency brake.
Suddenly his nerves strung to a pitch.
Willis’s hand brushed against the door on the
opposite side and knocked it open. Leason caught
a glimpse of a lean slit of a creek that hedged gradu-
ally from the road, leaving a rock-broken gulf that
ran steeply to join it.
TUdTH a faint smell of brake-lining burning round
his nostrils, he shifted his leg towards his own
door and looked at the speedometer again.
T wenty-three!
He opened his mouth to allow a tiny air-lock
near his heart to escape silently. The nerve centre
below his chest palpitated briefly, and he forced his
knee against the door.
Willis gave him a quick, fugitive glance, and
hastily reverted his gaze as the top-heavy vehicle rolled
towards the left-hand side. The left mainspring
groaned as it took the strain, and he manoeuvred the
wheel carefully to bring the lorry to the centre of
the road again. As he brought it back he twisted
his body slightly away from Leason and calculated his
opportunity hurriedly.
Leason watched him closely while a sensation
as of a soft sponge expanding moved against his heart.
His self-control squirmed, and, bringing his knee up
abruptly, he forced the door open with a jolt that
was lost in the whine of the engine and the loud
creaking of the bodywork.
Willis glanced over without turning his head, and
tightened his grip on the wheel. His eyes rested
on the dashboard for a split second and flickered
upward again to watch the road.
Twenty-five!
Instinctively he tried to force the foot-brake closer.
Leason slid his foot towards the doorway, eyed
Willis uneasily again, and placed the foot right outside
on the running-board.
Willis compressed his lips and whistled whisper-
ingly in a tone so low that it was scarcely a sound
at all. Then he jerked his chin downwards and spoke
through the corner of his mouth.
“Now!”
LEASON hesitated, scraped his boot on the running-
board and studied him through half-closed lids
with his head and shoulders bent away. Willis seemed
to be preparing for a leap. His foot was easing the
pressure on the brake and his body slowly twisting
further round.
Leason reached to grasp the hand-brake, and
Willis spoke evenly— too evenly:
“Go on.”
He took a grip and pulled steadily, ready to
follow any movement Willis might make. He felt
the load sway recklessly as the back wheels locked.
“Not too sudden,” said Willis.
He shot him another look and released again.
Willis was still in the same position.
Willis closed his mouth and, breathing heavily,
waited for the opportune time to use the foot-brake.
He was sensitive to every lurch and uncertain of his
offsider’s actions. He noted the speed and applied the
foot-brake cautiously.
He took another look at Leason. Leason’s arm
was steady as he held the brake—too steady. He
lifted his foot.
“Right. Let yours go.”
Leason let the handle jerk back into position
instantly and held himself alert. Willis couldn’t
jump now —they were too close! He’d have to
make it!
Gripping the windscreen again, he watched Willis
swing the front wheels round. He felt the rear
wheels slip away in a shower of flying gravel, reel
back again as they ran into a gaping pothole and
take the corner with another sharp groan of springs.
Willis leaned forward and pulled his door to
quickly.
“Door flew
open,” he said.
Leason with-
drew his foot from
the running-board
and leaned back.
“Catches must
be broken,” he re-
plied, closing his
own. “Mine did
the same. Must
see to it when we
get this load off.”


The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Novel for 1935:-
TIBURON.
By KYLIE TENNANT.
[Author’s Note— Tiburon
is not an existing town, but
a composite of many Aus-
tralian places. All characters
in the story are fictitious, and
bear no relation to any living
person.]
Chapter XXll.—( Continued )
111.
MR. WILLOUGHBY was disgusted at his wife’s
lack of initiativq and perseverarice.
“A blackgin, that’s what your mother is,” he
remarked to Wilfrid at tea-time —“a low-down ’arf-
caste gin.”
This comment appealed to him all the more when
he felt called upon to reproach his wife because
nothing in her appearance indicated its truth. Of
course, her eyes and hair were dark, but her skin
was only creamy. She might have been a Eurasian,
and had often been taken for one. The charm of her
face lay in its modelling—the straight nose, cheek and
chin which any sculptor would have told you were
classic. She had had a fine figure once, but it was now
losing its lines in flesh. Her weakness was her mouth
—a wide, red mouth ; too wide, too red, too indecisive.
It trembled now, but she said nothing. Mrs. Wil-
loughby had few virtues, but one she had stood her
in good stead, and that was silence.
“A blackgin, that’s what your mother is,” Mr.
Willoughby repeated.
He leant back in his chair, swung to and fro on
it, looking from his wife to his son. They went on
eating stolidly. He leant forward and struck his wife
on the cheek.
“Why don’t y’ talk?” he said, almost gently.
“What d’ y’ think I keep y’ for?”
Sober, Willoughby was lazy; drunk, he was sen-
sitive. He brooded over the fact that other men dis-
liked him, whispered at him behind his back, laughed
at him. He could almost hear their laughing. It was
because he had married “a blackgin.” All right, he
would show them. To this laudable end he was
unpleasant to Mrs. Willoughby and Wilfrid.
“Come on, Wilfrid,” he said encouragingly.
“What’s your mother? Come on.”
“A dirty blackgin,” the boy repeated, trembling,
his face the color of putty.
“That’s right,” said Mr. Willoughby. “And I
never married her. Why should I? She won’t run
away. Who’d ’ave ’er? No one. Go on.”
The boy’s eyes met his mother’s, and dropped to
his plate again. “It’s only because he’s drunk,” her
silent gaze had said as plainly as speech.
“No one would have her,” the boy repeated drearily.
“Some day,” he thought, “I will be grown up.” He
felt as if his mind had shouted it in words until the
hut whispered it back to his father. The very rafters
said wickedly: “He’s thinking what he’ll do when he
grows up. Don’t ever let him grow up. Stop him.”
But Mr. Willoughby took no notice.
“Draggin’ me down,” he mumbled. “Dirty black-
gin.” He rose on his elbow. “Get out of ’ere. Get
out!” They needed no further encouragement. He
lay there muttering to himself. Gradually his eyelids
dropped and his mouth fell open again. A deep rasp-
ing noise succeeded the muttering. Mr. Willoughby
was asleep.
The boy was shivering. “Why do you let him?”
he whispered as he clutched at her old black dress.
“Let’s go away, now.”
She might have been carved from the granite of
Warning Hill as she stood in the glow from the door-
way. “It’s just like ’e says, Wilf.” There was no
bitterness in her voice—only acceptance. “There ain’t
nowhere where we can go.”
Silence fell between them as they stood there gaz-
ing in at the door. Presently she made a move to
re-enter the shanty, but Wilfrid shook his head, his
eyes on that sprawled figure.
They turned away and trudged along in the heavy
grey dust that had been ground by the wheels of the
woodcarts bringing loads down the slopes at the back
of Warning Hill. The sheep inside Dwyer’s fence made
little cropping noises, a tiny multitudinous nibbling,
as though the stones of Warning Hill were stirring
under the grey blanket of cloud that oppressed the
sky. The saplings on the other side of the track
sighed, waited for a breath of air and sighed again.
There were a faint neigh from somewhere close
to the lagoon and the clink of hobbles as the horses
moved. Wilfrid held tighter to his mother’s hand.
Round the bend in the track was the clearing where
Jim White had cut down the trees, and there Jim
would meet them.
“There’s Jim,” he said, and drew a breath of
relief. He ran on ahead. Jim greeted him silently,
and the three of them sat down together in the shade
of a big gum. Only the red spark of Jim’s cigarette
showed in the shadow. They were almost hidden from
each other, except as dark outlines.
“Well,” Jim asked, “how about it?” He spoke
quietly, but there was a tension in his quiet. “What
d’ y’ say?”
Mrs. Willoughby was silent for a few minutes.
“’E come at it again to-night,” she said. “’E
started in on Wilf.”
“Ah,” said Jim. In that one tone he put all the
silent desperation of their lives. “Well, what about
it? ’Ow about gettin’ out?”
Mrs. Willoughby still sat quiet in the shadow.
“I’ll go any time you say. Only say the word.”
“Go away from here, Jim?” Wilfrid asked
eagerly. “Me, too?”
“Yes.”
Wilfrid leant over to his mother. “Go on,” he
urged. “Go on.” But she shook her head.
How could Jim not feel his responsibility to Dave
and Mary and Evie and Willie and Ella and Bobby
and Bill? The whole carefree, selfish crowd of them
all regarding Jim as a rock, a trustworthy rock, on
which they had lain the burden of their shiftless lives.
“’Ow about y’r family?” she asked doubtfully.
“They wouldn’t like it.”
_ “We’ll get out of here. I can raise ten pounds at
a pinch. We c’d start again.”
“It’s the money,” Mrs. Willoughby said. “You
can’t do anythin’ without money.”
It always came back to that. They were bound as
fast to Warning Hill as the rocks embedded in the
soil. He had strained ; he had turned over in his
brain laborious schemes for making money, ever so
much money, making a new chance for himself some-
where with the woman and the boy. He had waited
so long. But it was no use trying to save with a family
like Jim’s family.
They had come, of course, to suspect that there
was something doing between Jim and Mrs. Wil-
loughby. On the occasions when Acky raised his
Mr. Willoughby was disgusted.
voice the whole Hill could hardly help grinning to
hear him telling his woman some home-truths about
herself; but, instead of taking it as a grand joke and
minding his own business, Jim’s lipless mouth would
shut like a trap, and he would go out along the track
away from the camp, as though he wanted to get out
of sound of that voice.
These occasions were usually the result of Mr.
Willoughby finding Mrs. Willoughby out in her dirty
tricks of hoarding cash. She had early discovered in
her dark life that she had certain saleable qualities,
and it was laughable to see Willoughby let her go just
so far in her deceptions and then, having marked her
little hiding-place, dig the money out and get beauti-
fully drunk. Sometimes he could not find any money,
and then the Hill really got a great deal of free enter-
tainment from his efforts to abstract it from her.
“It’s the money,” she said again. “We couldn’t
go far on ten pound, Jim.”
Ten pounds seemed to Wilfrid a tremendous sum.
“Yes,” he whispered; “go on. Go on!”
“We couldn’t go far without a sulky,” Mrs. Wil-
loughby said, “an’ then we couldn’t get a sulky, unless
y’ took his, an’ he’d follow. We’d better wait.”
“Come on, Allie. I’ve enough f’r our fares to
Sydney, an’ ’e couldn’t follow us there. An’ who cares
if ’e did?”
“That man,” Mrs. Willoughby said —“ ’e’d do
’arm wherever ’e was. I sometimes think ’e’d still do
’arm if ’e was dead.”
Jim lapsed into a silent hopelessness.
They were silent again in the shadow of the tree
while Jim rolled himself a cigarette. “Well?” he asked
at last.
“We’d better wait, Jim. We ain’t got enough
money.”
“You’ll be sorry, Allie.”
“Go on, mum.”
Suddenly she began to cry —slow, heavy tears
that left them appalled into a clumsy quiet broken
only by her sobs. They went drearily back down the
track together, parting from Jim at the end. He
hesitated as they turned away.
“You know, Allie,” he said, “a man can’t go on
like this f’r ever. I’ve got to do somethin’.”
“I’m afraid of ’im,” she murmured.
“Gawd! That damned weed! I could break him
like a stick.”
“I’m afraid of him.”
He turned away in the dark without even a kiss.
Mrs. Willoughby hesitated.
“You won’t say anythin’, Wilf?” But she knew
there was no need to ask.
As they re-entered the hut Willoughby rolled
over, woke, mumbled “Where y’ been?” and went to
sleep again. He woke, moaned and shook his head, as
if to clear it from the accumulated fumes of sleep
and drink. He staggered up and, with passing
assistance from the doorpost, managed to get outside,
where he was systematically sick.
“Go to bed, Wilfrid,” Mrs. Willoughby said.
Wilfrid began to obey. Willoughby staggered inside
rather faintly.
“Where y’ been?” he again asked feebly.
“Out.” She sat down on a broken cane chair.
She did not even look at him as she began to take
off her shoes.
“Put the damn’ light out!” he ordered. “You’re
a wonderful wife, you are. Goin’ off leavin’ me
sick. Come to bed.”
He got into bed, humped the bedclothes over
his shoulders; turned his face to the wall. Mrs.
Willoughby turned out the light and climbed on to
a narrow margin of bed left over from the slumbers
of her lord and master.
“Go to sleep, Wilfrid,” she whispered in answer
to the child’s murmur.
“Shurrup!” Mr. Willoughby snarled drowsily.
Chapter XXIII.
I.
MR. KENTISH, the inspector, was a thin, bird-
like man with a quick, enthusiastic way to him.
He always aggravated Colbert Carfrae by his
lack of solemnity and dignity ; and he, in his turn,
was a little afraid of Colbert, who was, in his opinion,
“a sour sort of wowser,” but not the sort who left
any ground for criticism.
The first sight of Warning Hill school impressed
Mr. Kentish very favorably.
“Amazing, my dear young lady! Miss Daunt?
Miss Jessica Daunt? Pretty name. Yes, you’ve
improved the place enormously. Good work. Hello,
Willie; still here! And there’s Lynette! Remember
me, Lynette? Can you still say ‘Black Bill’s Burial’?
Good girl. Well, let’s hear what they can do. Miss
Daunt.” He sat down on the spare chair.
The school went through its poor little paces,
and the inspector sat and chirped encouragement until
all the specially scrubbed faces were beaming with
pleasure in themselves.
Afterwards, sitting at her table with the red-and-
green cover, Jessica poured out her exasperations, and
the inspector darted questions at her, nodded, ate, and
finally produced his cigarette-case.
“ ’Tisn’t official,” he said as she accepted one.
“But why not be happy? Short time to live. You’re
right, Miss Daunt. But it isn’t only plasticine and
drawing materials the children want. They need
rebuilding. Homes. Clothes. Living conditions. Tear
down the bark humpies and the sackcloth tents and
give them decent homes first. How much whooping-
cough have you had this year?”
“Some of them have had it for months. They
can’t get rid of it,” Jessica said angrily.
The inspector darted away again. “I didn’t notice
the walls had been repainted. How in the name of
miracles did you manage that?”
“I had the assistance of Mr. Dwyer’s farmhand,”
Jessica said coolly. “He built the sandtray, too.”
The inspector lifted one eyebrow. He was silent
for a minute ; then he lit another cigarette.
“That brings me to a quite irrelevant sidetrack,”
he remarked. “Has nothing to do with the school,
really. I didn’t mean to mention it to you for fear
you might be worried, but you seem a sensible girl,
Miss Daunt. Don’t thank me. You know I don’t
mean you are a blue-stocking. I mean you ought to
be able to meet a situation and deal with it yourself.
Just for your personal protection, look at this.”
He drew an envelope from his bag, extracted a
letter and passed it to her. Miss Daunt received it,
read it and bit her lip.
“I don’t need to say,” she said in a low voice,
“that these insinuations are groundless.”
“Now forget it,” the inspector assured her cheer-
fully. “It was only fair to let you know that sort of
thing is what you have to expect. I was in a sixth-
class school myself once. I know what it’s like.”
He talked to her wisely of life in isolated schools,
of spiteful parents, of girls and young lads whose lives
had been made a ruin by loneliness and ignorance ;
but she merely agreed listlessly with what he said.
Her manner puzzled him. “Why doesn’t she show
more indignation?” he thought. If this was news to
her, the least she could do was to be upset. Only when
he said “Want a shift?” did her manner change.
“Yes,” she said breathlessly. “Oh, you’ve no idea
how I want a shift, Mr. Kentish. This place —it would
be heaven to get out of it. It’s so watching, so spy-
ing, and —treacherous, somehow.”
“The letter’s been a shock to you,” the inspector
said kindly. “Now. don’t let it worry you. Have
another cigarette?”
THE CHARACTERS SO FAR.
Jessica Daunt, schoolmistress at Warning
nul, on the outskirts of Tiburon.
The White family, the chief of Tiburon’s
unwanteds, ’ live in humpies on Warning Hill.
Paul White works for the Dwyers, with
whom Jessica lives. Uneducated, in the usual
sense of the word, he has an intense love of
poetry.
Others of the colony are the Mulvers,
tne Willoughbys and Gran. Staines.
Bill Sorrell, Anglican parson, and “one
of the best.” Polly, his wife, plump and
good-tempered.
Colbert Carfrae, headmaster of Tiburon
school.
Jingo’ Barnes, his chief assistant..
Sergeant Moore and Constable Scorby
are the Law in Tiburon.
ti Last week Jessica found that Tiburon was
talking about” her and Paul. She mentioned
it to him, and he revealed that he was in love
with her. They agreed that Tiburon must be
given no further chance to talk.


“Shouldn’t I bring the children in?” Jessica
asked. “It’s nearly two o’clock.”
“Lord! So it is. I must be going, Miss Daunt.
Can’t waste all day on Warning Hill.” She kept pace
with him as he hurried to the car. “Good-bye, my
dear young lady. Your work s fine. Don t worry.
Good-bye, children. Be good.”
Again he let in the clutch, but Miss Daunt stood
close to the running-board.
“You don’t believe it, do you?” she asked
urgently.
“My dear young lady,” said Mr. Kentish gal-
lantly, “I have no concern with your private life—
nor has anyone else. It’s your own affair. I only
know you are too good to be left at Warning Hill.
By-bye. Don’t worry. You’ll get your shift.”
He drove away amid a chorus of flutterings and
farewells from the assembled school, who always
hailed him with joy and regretted his going. Jessica
stood at the fence and looked after the retreating car.
“He did think so,” she said to herself. “He didn’t
really believe me. And he’s only moving me because
he thinks there might be a scandal.” She felt leaden
with shame, but in front of the children she threw
up her head.
“Go into school,” she ordered, “and take out
your workbooks.”
11.
Jessica went home after school, flung herself on
her bed and thought furiously. “I mustn’t lose my
sense of perspective,” she muttered. “Damn! Damn
them all! Any rate, I’m going away from Warning
Hill at Christmas. I don’t care for anybody. I don’t
care what they think. I’m going away.”
She sprang up and walked restlessly to and fro.
That meaningless ache where she supposed her heart
to be kept up its throbbing.
“Why?” she asked herself. “What is it that is
hurting me? I don’t believe I’m worrying about the
people in Tiburon, the Mulvers, Kentish or C&rfrae, at
all. What is it?”
She sat down on the bed again, with her hands
loose in her lap, and quietly, like an incoming tide,
rose the conviction that it was not anger, not wounded
pride, but grief that was hurting her. She had been
offered something incredibly beautiful on a platter of
silver and moonlight, and, for the sake of avoiding the
unavoidable gossip of small, mean people, she had
thrown it away.
“A rainbow and a cuckoo’s song may never come
together again. May never come this side the tomb.”
The lines drifted foolishly into her head. Silver
moonlight and November may never come. May
never, never come again. May never come this, side
the tomb. Her ache was for that lost lovely hour
which she had spoilt, spoilt irretrievably. It was not
Paul who was alone causing that dull pain. It was
more for what Paul could have given her of all the
dark poetry in him. She might, she felt, fall in love
with men in the future, men who owned cars and
understood good plays and pictures and talked with
her accent, but she would never, never find a lad like
Paul. She wanted him to kiss her. She wanted him
to hold her close so that she could feel his breathing
beside her. She ached for him. Damn it! That was
what was wrong. She wanted Paul. And fool that
she had been! The hour was past, the moonlight
and silver of it were broken, and there was only dreary
day following dreary day in which she said “Good
morning, Paul,” and felt the jab of that little ache.
She stopped, horrified. She must be mad. She
mustn’t think like this. Her glance wandered des-
perately round in search of some distraction. She took
up her water-colors irresolutely, and then a half-
finished charcoal sketch of a group of trees. It was
no good. Not even color could alter that ache. “1
know my psychology,” she thought. “This is not love.
It is merely a sex impulse towards a rather unusual
male animal.”
After all, it was only natural that she should feel
rather violently attracted to the most presentable male
in her vicinity as a reaction from boredom and lone-
liness. Of course! Utterly ridiculous to feel as though
there had been a death or some major tragedy in some
part of her. Perfectly simple. Frustrated and vir-
tuous spinsters are not exempt from strange likings
for young men. But do virtuous and frustrated spin-
sters have a whisper in their minds that, having had
the scandal, it were a pity to miss the sweet of it?
Having tasted the bitter draught of unmerited social
disapproval, it would be sheer waste not to give society
something to justify its suspicions?
“Go on,” said the secret whisper ; “what’s the
use? You’re strong. You don’t have to stay in this
place or face any consequences; you’ve had a sicken-
ing time. Why don’t you make up for it? He still
loves you. Give this damn’ town something to talk
about, and laugh at them.”
She decided to take herself in hand firmly.
She returned to her water-colors. She would put
these disturbing thoughts out of her mind. But
somehow suddenly she didn’t want to do any such
thing. Her troubling ceased, the little ache died
down. She walked across to the wardrobe and took
down her new dress. It was blue marocain with sheer
ruffles of organdie at the throat and wrists and a
cunning silver buckle. She walked back to the mirror,
holding it in front of her, and noticed how white it
made her throat appear, how clear her skin. “Why,”
she thought, “I look beautiful.” A little smile lifted
the corners of her mouth. She gave a relieved sigh
and threw up the window. She had timed it well.
There were the crunching and scraping of heavy boots
stamping round to the kitchen as Paul came up with
the bucket from milking Darky. Jessica hailed him
gaily.
“Paul!” she called. “I say, Paul! I had the
rotten inspector to-day, and I’m a mass of nerves. I
need cheering up. Be a darling and take me to the
pictures to-night.” She spoke quite loud enough for
Bessie to hear. She hoped Bessie was in the kitchen.
“Go on, Paul. Take me to the pictures for once in
your life. I’ll let you pay for me —I will, honestly.”
He was bewildered. “All right,” he said slowly.
“If you like.”
He went into the kitchen, and she could hear
Bessie’s shrill giggle as she said something teasing.
Paul made no response. Jessica looked at her reflec-
tion in the mirror and nodded to it brightly.
“And that’s that,” she said confidentially. “We’ll
show ’em. We’ll give ’em something to talk about,
won’t we?”
111.
Friday night in Tiburon was a quiet night. Satur-
day night was the late shopping night, when the streets
were crowded with cars all acting under their own
ideas of traffic rules and the footpaths crushed with
a breathless mob of shoppers who had left shopping
until just before the picture-show. Still, there were
a few people in the street that Friday night to watch
Paul and Jessica curiously as they drove up in the
White sulky, to which Paul had harnessed the Dwyers’
big horse.
Jessica held her head very high and was laugh-
ing merrily at the silent Paul, who got out, hitched
the horse to the hotel fence and merely nodded
abruptly to the little group of lads sitting on the
pavement outside Olgy’s shop in a grinning silence.
They made their way up the street side by side with
the even stride that had carried them over many
miles of rough country. Both appeared perfectly at
ease under the glances of the loungers and the little
groups congregated outside the picture-show. They
found the hall practically empty, and settled them-
selves comfortably.
“What’s the great idea?” Paul said at last, as
they waited.
“I thought I might as well give the town a run
for its money,” Jessica said deliberately; and she felt
rather than saw the approval in his eyes. “I insist
that you stand me a milkshake in the Garden of
Desire at interval.”
“You bet.”
At the interval, the hall being three-parts full,
Tiburon had the opportunity of seeing its suspicions
Jingo looked at her queerly.
and hopes confirmed. Jessica and Paul walked up
the aisle aloofly, unconcerned under that fire of eyes.
“Is that Miss Daunt, dear?” Mrs. Blakely whis-
pered to her husband. “What a nice young girl! And
that is Paul White with her?”
“Uh,” said the doctor.
“They are both very handsome,” Mrs. Blakely
said. “So alike, somehow. Don’t you think they
make a fine-looking pair?”
“Uh-uh,” grunted the doctor.
“I hear there has been some kind of scandal
about her marrying him, but, really, could you want
a nicer couple? I quite approve. I approve entirely.
It is a veritable romance.”
“Don’t talk so loud,” her husband whispered
fiercely.
“I think there is something so wonderful in that
nice young girl realising the hidden worth under the
rough exterior; though, really,” Mrs. Blakely said
judicially, “he is quite well-dressed.”
Meanwhile, from a little corner table in the
Garden of Desire Jessica nodded brightly to the group
of school-teachers from the Tiburon school, who
returned the greeting jovially. Jineo and Bevan came
over and sat down at the next table.
“You’ll have to hurry,” Jingo warned. “Don’t
want to miss the next picture. My brother saw it a
year ago, and he says it simply oozes lions and mas-
sacres and murder generally. I love to see a murder
when I’m out —like the bloke in the comic song. Come
on, Jessica, hurry up with that milk. I should think
that Mother Dwyer would have got you to the stage
by now when you wouldn’t look at milk if you got
a quid-note for every gulp. Where are you sitting,
Paul? Come down and sit with us.”
“No, thanks,” Jessica responded. “We’re the
country cousins, and we like to ,be inconspicuous near
the back.”
Jingo looked at her queerly. A funny way of
being inconspicuous, he thought. He hadn’t realised
before how pretty that girl could look.
They went back and saw “The Sign of the Cross,”
registering intense excitement when the lions made
their appearance and detesting Nero heartily and
childishly.
Outside the hotel Scorby strolled past as they
were climbing into the sulky after the show, with a
pleasant “Good night, Miss Daunt,” and Jessica again
felt the urge of defiance.
“Did you enjoy the picture, Mr. Scorby?” she
called gaily.
“I enjoyed the picture, Miss Daunt” —Scorby
flashed his magnificent set of gold teeth at her —“as
one of the most perfect examples of stupidity I have
ever seen.”
Jessica giggled. “But, then, you’re so hard to
please,” she said. “Isn’t he, Paul?” She felt in a
dangerous mood, and police-baiting suited it.
Paul was silent. He regarded Scorby as Blasted
would a star-thistle in his fodder.
“Perhaps,” said Scorby, with another flash of
teeth, “it is not a good thing to be easily pleased. I
like to be fastidious.”
Jessica could have struck him. Paul, feeling that
the conversation was serving no good purpose, clucked
contemptuously to the horse, and the sulky moved
away.
“Good night,” said Scorby, with a last smile. “It’s
nice to be young and enjoy yourselves.”
“I believe,” said Jessica under her breath as soon
as they were out of earshot, “that that man is Satan
or Mephistopheles or some weird and mediaeval devil
in the flesh. Whatever I do he rises up to spoil. He
always spoils everything.”
“He got a nasty rap over the knuckles about the
strike,” Paul said matter-of-factly. “Thought he’d
have been shifted.”
“He seems to be a kind of evil genius.”
Paul gave her a slow glance. “You needn’t
worry,” he said. “He was only jealous.”
“Jealous! Don’t be stupid.”
“I didn’t know before he was keen on you. I
know now.”
“Why, Paul! How ludicrous!” She paused, dis-
concerted. “How do you know?”
“I know.” He was grim. “I think he was sort
of savin’ you up.”
“Do you know,” Jessica said after a silence,
“that’s the nicest thing you could have said, because
if you’re right—mind, I say //—that means that
I rather score over Scorby, doesn’t it?”
“I caught the bit about bein’ fastidious,”
Paul said slowly. “I guess that means me.”
“Yes, I daresay he was trying to be insult-
ing,” Jessica said. “But, you see, I really
didn’t take any notice, did I? I’m not con-
cerned with his judgment, or with anyone.’s.”
She pressed closer against him. She knew
by the sudden stiffening of him that he was
braced against any hurt she might try to do
him.
“Good for youj” he said quietly.
They fell silent as the shadow of Warning
Hill loomed bigger against the skyline, with
a few faint embers of the travellers’ fires at its
foot and one light from the Mulver shanty,
where Mrs. Mulver was sitting up with C'laudie,
whose faint wail could be heard across the
sleep-lulled slope. Not until Paul had shut the
gate behind them cautiously so that its rusty squeak
might not wake the household did Jessica break the
silence.
“I’m not going in yet,” she said. “I’m not sleepy,
and I want a cigarette before I go to bed. I’m going
into your home from home. I want to talk to you.”
She waited, leaning against the shed in which the
horse was kept, a faint figure in her grey coat, until
he had released the animal. He lit his hurricane-lamp,
and, when they were inside, shut the door of his room
behind them. She walked across to the window and
deliberately drew the blind. Then she crossed back
again and sat down on the side of the bed where she
could not be seen from the window. Paul noticed
that almost instinctive reaction with a faint smile.
There was no possibility that they could be seen, hers
being the only bedroom at the back of the house.
Yet she must make sure, he thought, so positively
sure that no one would suspect that she was not
acting in a ladylike way.
Paul was rather tired, because he had had a hard
day and had been up since four. But he sat there,
looking at her, storing up the memories of the way
she was sitting, the curve of her neck, the tilt of her
chin. She had taken off her glasses and laid them on
the corner of his chipped, stained table. She looked
different without her glasses.
“Paul,” she said, “I’m going away. School breaks
up next week, and I won’t be back next year. The
inspector told me to-day I’d be moved.”
He sat silent, his eyes on her, his shoulders thrust
forward, his hands loosely clasped between his knees.
He might scarcely have heard her for all the sign he
gave. He might have been listening to some far-away
music.
“So” —Jessica hesitated —“I wanted you to know
that —that you said if I ever changed my mind
Oh, Paul, I’ve changed my mind.”
He reached over to the smoky lamp and adjusted
the wick so that the flame leapt brighter. He might
have been afraid. He seemed to be listening so
intently to something she could not hear.
“Paul,” she said rather breathlessly, “what’s
wrong?”
Very slowly he lifted his brown hard hand and
stroked the white ruffles at her throat. His eyes did
not meet hers.
“Paul,” she said again, “what is it?”
He shook his head deliberately, as though to
bring back his mind from its wanderings, and came
round to sit beside her on the sagging stretcher,
with its old grey blankets.
o Continued on page 66.)


“SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
As\ for “Raybestos” which has proved itself over many years of service.
RAYBESTOS-BF LTD., LOVDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURSE, VIC.
18 Vs
\?2Q
526
EXPERIENCE MAKES ACCURACY
In lib. units or
fiat surfaces,
somely plated
complete in
leather wallet.
i wide,
Hand-
and
neat
8/6
• • •
8/6 buys it
In the manufacture of the KISMET five major tests
are given, with a final series of pressure tests to
check its readings. No effort is spared to make
the KISMET a truly precision instrument. It is
dependable.
The KISMET standard of accuracy cannot be pur-
chased for less than 8/6. Cheap gauges sacrifice
precision to price. KISMET gives your tyres the
accurate balance which is essential to comfort and
safety on the road.
KW
GAUGE
Sole Manufacturers: WIULIAM IIIRXER & BROS., LTI)., Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, 43 Hardware St., Melb. C.I.
The Steering Column.
AIRSTREAM CHRYSLER SIX TESTED
SPLENDID ALL-ROUND PERFORMANCE.
BY FRED BERRY.
C FFICIENCY has obviously been the aim of Chrysler engineers
* in designing the new Airstream Six, tested recently over
the “Bulletin” course.
With floating-power engine mounting, safety-steel coach-
work, synchromesh silent gears and many other modern
mechanical features, this new creation succeeds in providing
motorists with a machine capable of snappy performance.
Withal, it is comfortable to ride in,
easy to drive, and so faithfully con-
structed that repairs and replacements,
provided reasonable care is exercised,
should not appear on the expense sheet
until 20,000-50,000 miles have been
covered.-
Popular though the ’34 model has been
in the hands of satisfied users, the
new series is better. Body profile and
front-end design have been improved.
The automatic clutch (which has seldom
been used in practice) is not now fitted,
but an equivalent vaiue has been built
into other more useful details. Seal-
ing accommodation and passenger com-
fort have been materially increased by
widening both front and rear seat
cushions and lowering floor level, so
providing a natural seating position and
ample head room for six adults.
Streamlining is more effective, tne
windscreen being steeply sloped, and rear
guards are fitted with detachable spats.
The six-cylinder L-head engine develops
93 b.h.p. at 3600 revs., fitted with 6.2
to 1 compression head. R.A.C. rating is
27.34 h.p., bore 3fin., stroke 4|in., giving
a piston displacement of 241.5 cubic
inches (3956 c.c.). Cylinder block, of grey
iron, is cast integral with upper half of
crankcase, main-bearing housings being
reinforced with heavy lateral webs in
order to provide a rigid mounting for
the crankshaft. Side-by-side valves are
used; the exhaust is of heat-resisting
silchrome steel and inlet of chrome
The six-cylinder unit-constructed engine and gearbox, show-
ing fan, generator and water-pump drive, impulse neutraliser,
automatic spark control, oil purifier, starter motor and
transmission brake behind gearbox.
nickel steel. Exhaust-valve seatings are
of hardened steel and shrunk into the
block. Valve tappets are mushroom type,
with chilled cast-iron head welded into
hollow steel stem ; provision is made for
adjustment of valve-stem clearance.
Crankshaft, diameter, running in
four precision-type main bearings, is
balanced statically and dynamically with
seven integral counterweights, and in
order further to reduce torsional vibra-
tion an impulse neutraliser is attached
Clean exterior and attractive appearance are features of the Chrysler Airstream
Six.
to the front end. Connecting rods, I
section, are matched in weight and pro-
vided with precision-type bearings. Pis-
tons are aluminium alloy split-skirt type
with four rings, two compression and
two oil retainers,
located above the
gudgeon - pin.
Pistons are of
specially hard
alloy, having been
subjected to elec-
trolytic treatment
whereby a wear-
resisting coating of
aluminium oxide
is deposited upon
the surface of the
metal. Camshaft,
driven by short,
silent chain, is sup-
ported on four
bearings, Nos. 1, 2
and 3 being steel-
backed babbitt
metal, No. 4 cast-
iron.
Fuel is drawn from a 12|gal. tank
suspended between rear dumb-irons to a
down-draught carburettor by means of
mechanical pump driven by an eccentric
from the crankshaft. The fuel line is
carried outside the chassis members in
order to avoid possibility of vapor locks.
Carburettor is fitted with fixed jets,
accelerator pump and automatic choke
and idling control. Throttle is inter-
connected with the choke, so that if the
choke is more than half on the throttle
will open slightly to prevent stalling
when warming up a cold motor. An
automatic choke is controlled by thermo-
stat in intake manifold. An oil-bath
type air cleaner and silencer are fitted
to the intake side of carburettor.
Water is circulated around cylinders
and valve assembly by a centrifugal
pump, the temperature indicator being
fitted to the dashboard. Cylinder barrels
are cored the full length of piston travel
to maintain even temperature and to
prevent a possibility of overheating when
driven for long periods on full throttle.
Full-pressure lubricating system is use'
oil being forced by a mechanical pump
submerged in the sump to the crank-
shaft, camshaft and connecting-rod bear-
ings. Cylinder bores are lubricated by
positive pressure from small metered;
holes in upper half of the connecting-
rod bearings, while the timing chain is
lubricated by direct oil leads. An efli-
cient crankcase ven-
tilating system is
used, air being
drawn through an
oil - wetted copper
mesh screen on the
breather pipe and
ejected after passing
through the sump
by way of an outlet
pipe extending be-
low the tray at the
rear of the engine.
The six-volt single-
wire electrical sys-
tern includes a 119-amp. hour battery
fed by a heavy-duty air-cooled generator
with a voltage regulator. Starter motor
is positive-shift type in which the starter
pinion anjj ring gear are engaged before
current is applied. Starter button is on
the dash. Ignition point is automatically
controlled by vacuum from intake mani-
fold ; the coil is wound to give a “hot”
spark throughout the whole speed range.
Unit-constructed engine and gearbox are
suspended in the chassis at two points
by Chrysler’s patented floating-power
mounting, thereby insulating the chassis
and the body from engine vibration.
Plan of crankcase ventilating system.
Transmission is through the new
single-plate, dry-disc, air-cooled clutch to
the three-speed-and-reverse gearbox with
central ball-type change-speed lever.
Pinions in the gearbox are synchro-
silent, all teeth being helical cut and
quiet at all speeds. Drive-shaft and
countershaft are both mounted on roller
bearings fore and
aft. Final drive is
Hotchkiss type, the
propeller shaft being
fitted with needle
roller universal
joints at both ends.
PresSed-steel banjo-
type rear-axle hous-
ing is fitted, the axles
being semi-floating,
while hypoid gear-
ing is used in crown-
wheel - and - pinion
assembly, final re-
duction ratio being
4.125 to 1. The
chassis is double-
drop X-girder con-
struction, with side
members outswept
to conform to body profile. The
steel body is fastened directly to frame
at both sides and top, providing greater
rigidity and freedom from squeaks and
rattles. The wheelbase is 118 in.; the
road clearance, B|in.
Suspension is by semi-elliptic springs
at rear, and by the coil-type independent
at front. Rear springs are built up from
a large number of thin leaves, tapered
at the ends to give a smooth ride and
to prevent squeaking. Threaded silent
“U” shackles are fitted at the rear, and
live rubber bushings are at the forward
end of the spring eyes. A ride-stabiliser,
consisting of a steel bar above the rear
axle, is mounted on bearings in the frame
and connected by levers to the rear spring
plates, to which the shock-absorber arms
USEFUL DATA ON CHRYSLER SIX.
Accelerated from 0 to 50 m.p.h. In 12 1-5 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top in 8 seconds.
Accelerated from 10 to 30 m.p.h. in second in 5 1-5
seconds.
Stopped from 25 m.p.h. in 21ft. 6in.
Maximum speed, 79.3 m.p.h.
Petrol consumption, 18.5 m.p.g.


i 1
m
m
I
m
m
CM
WE OIL
LINE
I
m
m
m
mmm
sm
*:a
mm
'
»y.N<*S
BUY SEALED OIL
S-&oJUA
<D&
UNAVAILABLE IN BULK
Kyi OTORISTS everywhere are
realising that Valvoline
Sealed Oil is the best lubricating
proposition.
Valvoline is sold in "tamper-
proof” tins, being sealed against
substitution, adulteration, dirt
and short measure.
When you buy Valvoline yon
know what you’re getting—an
oil that gives added life and
smoothness to any engine and
cuts down repairs.
Ask your Garageman!
Advt. of J. CARRIGAN, Sydney, Melbourne, and throughout the Commonwealth.
— 1 f
HOW KNEE ACTION
gives the only level ride
NO ROAD IS ROUGH
TO CHEVROLET |
Included in the price of
Chevrolet Master de Luxe
models are many items
of costly equipment
such us Leather Uphol-
stery, Bumper Bars,
Electric Windscreen
Wipers, Luggage Com-
partment, concealed
Spare Wheel, Arm rests.
With Chevrolet Knee Action pitching
and bouncing is eliminated, for wilh
this system it has become possible to
make the front springs just as soft as
those fitted to the rear. It is this
equalised springing which gives
Master Chevrolet its easy LEVEL
ride, added SAFETY at high speeds
and SHOCK-PROOF steering.
With conventional springing, front
springs are made more rigid in order
to support the front axle, and provide
steering stability. The difference
then between front and rear springs
causes the car to pitch when it passes
over an obstruction. Knee-action is
the only effective way of overcoming
this difficulty, and no substitute
device can give a ride of such
delightful rhythm and ease as that
achieved in the Master De Luxe
Chevrolet.
GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN'S LTD.
*
m
With Knee-Action, the
front wheels are free to
move up and down inde-
pendently. Mounted on
soft-acting coil springs
which have only one duty
—to spring the weight of
the car—they give a de-
gree of riding comfort
impossible to attain in
any other way.
ONLY CHEVROLET GIVES
ALL THESE ADVANTAGES
Safety Body by HOLDEN (with
No-draught ventilation).
Blue Fjame Valve-in-Head Engine
with Pressure Stream Oiling.
Improved Knee Action.
Weatherproof Cable -
controlled Brakes.
Shock Proof Steering.
is*
I;
....
-
m
m
MASTER de LUXE
CHEVROLET
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
CHEVROLET DEALER.
“The new Air Chief Car Radio has
separate speaker, either for header
bar or dash mounting, giving perfect
reception, tone and clarity : of repr oduc-
tion —a six-valve set with nine-valve
performance. Price £27 plus Sales lax.
If purchased with your car, finance can
be arranged under G.M.A.C. Defened
Payment Plan."
SEE THE STANDARD CHEVROLET.
AN ID:AL COVBI ATION OF PER-
FORMANCE, ECONOMY AND PRICE.
Q „. oicn attached This prevents rolling
the ar is driven at speed round
when indpnendent suspen-
corners. Front-end independent suspen
sion is the pantograph typ 1
tion with double-acting hydraulic shock-
absorbers, adjustable for tension, sturdy
V-shaped arms are fastened to the under-
side of the frame cross members to keep
the wheels in alignment and to prevent
excessive tyre wear.
Diagram showing pressure lubricating
system to all bearings within crankcase.
The steering is the shockless cross-
arm type, two individually-mounted tie
rods being pivoted to a stationary centre
hanger and free to follow the up-and-
down wheel movement without in any
way affecting steering gear. Movement
is transmitted to cross arm through a
semi-irreversible worm-and-roller type
gearbox. Turning circle, left and right
lock, 32ft. Four-wheel, self-equalising
hydraulic service brakes are fitted, the
drums being steel with cast-iron liners.
Independent front-wheel suspension,
showing heavy coiled springs, double-
acting hydraulic shock-absorbers and
heavy V-shaped supporting arms.
and the stepped-wheel cylinders giving
equal wear on both shoes. The hand
brake operates on drum on the pro-
peller shaft behind the gearbox.
The bodywork is safety-steel construc-
tion, neatly streamlined. The sedan is
fully equipped with six wheels and built-
in trunk. Hardware is chrome-plated.
Front seats are movable. No-draught
ventilation is fitted to front and rear
quarter windows. Internal fittings also
include dual sun visors, dual windscreen-
wipers, dome and rear quarter lights, ash-
trays and safety grips.
The car taken over the test course
was a standard model Airstream Six,
driven by K. E. Dibbs, of York Motors,
Ltd., N.S.W. distributors. Speedometer
stood at 2581 miles, and the car, together
with driver, observer and full fuel tank,
weighed 35^cwt.
Through busy city traffic the car
handled easily, while absence of engine
noise and vibration was particularly
noticeable. Through Parramatta and on
the open road, the speedo. was held
steadily on the 45-50 mark, with slight
throttle opening. It was apparent that
at this speed the car would cruise in-
definitely without causing fatigue.
Approaching Pitt Town, speed was re-
duced to 15 m.p.h., and in neutral the
car coasted 685 yards before coming to
a standstill. Coming to Richmond, a
test of maximum speed was made over
a measured mile. From a flying start
the time taken was 45 2-ssec., averaging
79.3 m.p.h. Over this section the engine
was quiet and free from vibration, and
steering was good.
Leaving Richmond and approaching
Kurrajong, the unmade dirt road through
Grose Vale was taken. Over this rough
section the independent suspension
showed to advantage, roadworthiness and
riding comfort being satisfactory.
On Kurrajong Mountain the final steep
section, 2 1-5 miles, was selected for a
test climb. The time taken, 3min. 21sec.,
was very good, particularly when the
loose conditions of the final steep grade
were taken into account.
Returning down the mountain a test
was made of emergency braking equip-
ment. The car stopped in 15ft. from
15 m.p.h. on loose surface.
Taking the cross-country route via
Castlereagh to Penrith further tests were
made: slow running on top gear for
350 yards, followed immediately by 350
yards accelerated on full throttle. The
time taken for slow running was 4min.
10sec., averaging 2.9 m.p.h.; the fast
section occupied 15sec„ crossing the finish-
ing line at 65 m.p.h., averaging 48 m.p.h.
This was a splendid performance, reveal-
ing the inherent flexibility of the six-cyl.
Chrysler engine.
From 10 to 30 m.p.h. in top and
second gears was clocked in Bsec. and
5 2-ssec. respectively, while
from a standing start to 50
m.p.h., using first and second
gears, was timed in 12 l-ssec.
From a steady 25 m.p.h. the
hydraulic brakes brought the
car to rest in 21ft. 6in.
At the conclusion of the
test, covering 117 miles, the
amount of petrol used was
found to be 6gal. 2\ pints,
averaging 18.5 m.p.g. (32.8
ton-miles). The time taken
gave an average speed, including all
tests, of 37.2 m.p.h.
THE TROUBLE LAMP.
J.G. (Dalby, Q.). — When I was driving on a
rough track a stick punched a hole about half-
way up in the negative cell of my battery. Poured
wax over hole and filled with distilled water.
Battery now appears to work well. (1) Is it
likely to last ? (2) Will the cell require more
acid ? (3) Will wax damage ends of plates ?
There can be no negative cell in a battery,
as each unit is built up of alternate positive
and negative grids. (1) Battery may give fail-
results for some time, as the two sound cells
will show full rated voltage. Repaired cell will
not hold charge, nor will it deliver correct
voltage (2.5 volts). (2) Yes. Cell should be
drained and filled with fresh electrolyte. (3)
Depends on wax used. If wax is a good
non-conductor no interference will be caused.
***:!:
No. 100 (Scone, N.S.W.). — I intend having
my ’29 eight-cylinder car rebored. (1) Would
it be advisable to increase compression by
(Continued on next page.)


It's a
Tremendous _
a / 9t
hue cess!
1
||P
m
m
mm®
V
■
V
-
10%
There’s no doubt about the New Mobiloil! The
Clearosol Process has made a wonderful difference.
Popular as Mobiloil was before, all previous demands
for the World’s Quality Oil have been far exceeded.
It’s a 100 per cent PURE LUBRICANT; and that
means that engines are kept far cleaner inside by the
New Mobiloil, as well as using less petrol and oil, and
giving much better engine performance.
THE NEW
WORLD FAMOUS
PROCESS
M 530
CLEAROSOL
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
PTY.
LTD.
ŀ
*+Bil\Ce€>l*'s Call
8r«
U1IOIRISIS
9
m
few Combined OlAILand^ictcrTaret.
Famous visitors from all parts of the
world have given the warmest praise
to New Zealand’s Alpine Wonderland,
which has mountains of marvellous
beauty, the largest glaciers of tem-
perate zones, huge ice-falls and other
splendour, with a most delightful tonic
climate.
The Hermitage, commanding a soul-
stirring view of Mt. Cook (12,350ft.),
is a modern hotel, fully licensed.
Here is courteous expert service, with
every comfort that the most fastidious
tourist could desire.
Low Combined Rail
and Motor Fares.
FRED BERRY’S
MOTOR
MANUAL
(Second Edition.)
Explaining the
New Chassis .... Suspensions
Engine Mountings, Free Wheeling
Synchromesh Gears
Automatic Clutches ... Car Radio
Practical Hints for Owner Driver*
What to do and when to do it .
FROM “THE BULLETIN,"
252 George St., Sydney,
3/3
POST
FREE
and at all newsagents.
planing head ? (2) Metal combustion chamber
to prevent detonation ? (3) What would be
probable cost ? (4) What Sydney or Newcastle
firm could do job ? (5) What is maximum
speed of this model in new condition ?
(1) Not unless maximum speed is aimed at,
as this car will not behave well at low revs,
with higher compression. (2) Yes; if head is
planed. (3) Reboring and new pistons, £l3 to
£l5. Planing head or block, £4. Metalling
combustion chamber, 15s. (4) Any reputable
firm. See ad. columns. (5) Sedan, 70 m.p.h.;
roadster, 75 m.p.h.
* * ' * *
W.B.K. (Rockhampton, Q.). —I intend pur-
chasing a utility for use over very rough coun-
try roads, strength and reliability essential.
Which is more suitable —(1) or (2) ?
No. 1.
* * * *
E.O.H. (Mount Mulligan, Q.). —My six-
cylinder car has developed a complaint in
the gearbox. Coming from top to second, it
sticks unless rushed straight through. If lid
is taken off gearbox, the pinions can easily be
brought back to neutral with aid of a screw-
driver. Cause and cure ?
Indications are that trouble is due to clutch-
withdrawal mechanism failing to fully separate
faces when pedal is depressed. Check up clutch
adjustment and see if trouble is rectified.
* * * *
M.A.J. (Rockhampton, Q.).—(l) What is the
average mileage of a car before it requires
reboring, and what are the first symptoms ?
(2) Which light car is most economical for
pleasure-running on good roads, about 70
miles each week ? (3) Which, in order of
suitability, of the three cars named would, meet
our district conditions ?
(1) Depends upon model and type of car.
Motors without air-cleaners and oil-purifiers
frequently require attention after 25,000 miles,
while modem motors run from 50,000 to
100,000 without excessive cylinder wear. First
symptoms are increased oil consumption, oil
vapor from crankcase breather, with smoky
exhaust, followed by poor pulling and
generally sluggish road performance. (2) Refer
to table oublished B. 20/11/’35. (3) A and B
equal; then C.
* * * *
9487. —My ’34 car is fitted with a horizontal
Solex carburettor and has no air-cleaner. (1)
Would it be possible to fit one ? (2) What
approximate cost, and where procurable ? (3)
Would it depress engine performance in any
way ?
(1) Yes. (2) 30s. to 455., depending on
type; from large city accessory houses. (3) If
unit is of efficient design, no noticeable varia-
tion in performance.
* * * *
R.H.T. (South Melbourne). —Performance
table ( B. 20/11 / ’35) shows one column headed
“Maximum speed in m.p.h.” How is this
arrived at ?
Car tested is given a flying start and timed
by stopwatch over a surveyed distance of one
mile on level concrete road.
M.C. (Barcaldine, Q.). —Please give your order
of preference in regard to service and reliability
for a country coupe utility —l, 2,3, 4.
As you suggest: 1,2, 3, 4.
E.S.T. (Bathurst, N.S.W.).— Recently my
windscreen-wiper ceased to function in heavy
rain, rendering driving the sedan a dangerous
ordeal. Is there any temporary remedy should
the position again arise ?
Mechanical repairs would be a difficult road-
side job, but if the screen is rubbed oyer with
a slice of apple or potato, or even rubbed briskly
with a moistened cigarette, the water will flow
off evenly, and so provide clearer vision. It
the screen is greasy, a preliminary, application
of a petrol-soaked newspaper will assist.
FREE SERVICE TO
MOTORISTS.
Information or advice upon all
motoring subjects is available
to readers of “The Steering
Column.”
Inquiries should be set out briefly,
and replies will be published
wherever possible in “The
Trouble Lamp” Column.
MOTOR ODDITIES.
“Snubber”: A Melbourne P.M. gave a
good tip to bibulous car-owners the
other day. A man up for “being drunk in
charge of a car” was told that had he
had the wisdom to sleep it off in the
back seat, instead of settling down in
the driver’s place, he could not have
been summoned on the graver charge.
In those circs, he would simply be “a
drunk” ; in the driver’s seat he made him-
self amenable to a higher scale of fine
by being drunk in charge of a car. It’s
worth pasting on the walls of clubs
and passing around at cocktail parties
and other social gatherings.
* * * *
“S.J.”: Owing to carelessness of
mechanics, I have twice been hung up
in the country by pieces being broken
out of slip-ring collar insulators. When
taking the spindle out of the magneto
repairmen sometimes omit to remove
the brush running on the slip ring, and
force is used. Result, a broken insulator,
the piece being replaced with glue or
seccotine, which does not last. A thick
paste made of shellac and metho. makes
a safe fastener for the broken piece,
which should be held tightly in position
until set. If the broken vulcanite pieces
are missing, file grooves in the break and
drop sealing-wax in to fill the gap. But,
of course, the insulator should be re-
placed at the earliest opportunity.
* * * *
“Diff.”: Recently I was fined £2 for
violating the parking regulations. I’m
not kicking against my conviction.
Owing to circumstances over which 1
had no control, but which would have
influenced the Bench not at all, I left
the car for three hours. It was not ob-
structing traffic, because it was in a side
thoroughfare ; still, I violated the law,
and I don’t growl at getting what was
coming to me. What I do kick against
is the fact that a man within a couple of
days was fined £3, only 50 p.c. more
than I was, for driving dangerously.
Where is the law’s sense of proportion
in allotting punishment? If I deserved a
£2 fine I reckon that a man who is a
menace to human life should have been
fined £lOO.


e
EVERY note
AS THE JpiilAit PLAYS IT.
Stromberg
-Carlson 9
Chromo-phonic RADIO
Dealers throughout Australia
C3
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.,
Electrical and Industrial ngineers.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN IMPORTERS
ULTIMATE
The set used by Admiral R. E. Byrd at
the South Pole.
WORLD’S OFFICIAL RECORD for
verified reception—6o3 stations on the
broadcast band alone.
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
VAN RUYTEN CAR & LAUNCH
RADIO
ROLA REPRODUCERS '
MULLARD RADIO VALVES
Ask for free literature.
267 Clarence S'reet, Sydney
Thousands of real
RADIO BARGAINS.
All-electric Sets from £3/10/-
Kadio Accessories at give-away prices. All
fully tested and guaranteed.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 Royal Arcade, Sydney. MA4357.
FREE!
Build Your Own Quality Radio.
The New Lekmek Chassikits !
Write (enclosing 3d. in stamps) for tlie 30 x 20
inch Lavishly I Must rated Constructional Tableau.
Lekmek Radio Laboratories, 75 William St., Sydney
GIRL
m
a
You can buy
with the money
you save by
using MUL-
LARD MARK
I and MARK II
Radio Units.
Milliard
MU S TER
9UI • A U V 1 l A l I *■> -CO lll'l IV •HOUK
35 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS
A FIVE-WATT HOME AMPLIFIER.
By DON B. KNOCK.
Occasionally more audio power than is obtainable from the average
radio-receiver audio amplifier is desirable for electrical reproduction of
recordings. A self-contained amplifier for such work need not necessarily
be expensive, and a maximum undistorted output of five watts is suffi-
cient for the largest of rooms in the average home. The amplifier
described here was designed with a view to simplicity,, and can he easily
made up by the reader familiar with ordinary receiver construction.
Most manufacturers’ superheterodyne
receivers to-day are fitted with ter-
minals at the rear of the chassis
for the connection of a gramophone
pickup, so that an existing gramophone
turntable, electrically driven or other-
wise, can be used at short notice to pro-
vide one’s prescribed music or entertain-
ment as an alternative. For ordinary
purposes, where the volume obtainable
from the receiver audio channel (usually
a single pentode) suffices the modest re-
quirements of delicate ears in the usual
small-sized rooms of a house, nothing
Fig. 1. Showing the construction of the original amplifier. A
cover is fitted to the back to guard against accidental shock
from the high-voltage dry rectifier.
more in the way of volume is required.
If it is, and the receiver is expected to
provide this extra volume, then the re-
ceiver must be of the kind with some-
thing unusual in the way of audio ampli-
fiers. Examination will show that the
specially - designed radio - gramophone
combination receivers, which appear to
have fallen off in popularity in Australia
for reasons of cost, are designed with an
audio channel capable 'of delivering
about 10 watts of undistorted output if
required. The audio amplifier is usually
one of the various push-pull systems, with
either a single-ended or push-pull driver
stage. Such combination receivers are
necessarily much more expensive than
the straightout broadcast or dual-wave
receiver, for a special cabinet is required,
with the inclusion of the electrical turn-
table (to-day equipped with an almost
human record-changer), the pickup and
the special audio system. Ten watts of
audio power ought to be enough for
anybody under average conditions, but if
allowed full play it certainly will not’ be
appreciated by the neighbors!
Five Watts Enough for Most.
There comes the time, particularly
around Christmas, when the billiard-
table in that extra-sized room may be
cleared away, the floor polished and the
room turned over to dancing and other
recreations. It is at such a time that
something with a little more reserve
volume is needed than the output obtain-
able from the usual receiver, but it need
not possess too much volume. The five-
watt amplifier outlined here amply fills
such needs, and it will supply all the
volume normally necessary, in addition
Fig. 2.—The circuit of the amplifier. Resistance-coupled, and capable of excellent
quality and volume.
to giving good quality of reproduction
quite capable of satisfying the so-called
musical ear.
About the Circuit.
The circuit arrangement is just about
as simple as it could be, and the result
is that the design has no frills. No ex-
pensive audio transformers are necessary,
and audio transformers in these days,
designed to give an audio response range
comparable with a modest but sensibly
designed resistance-coupled amplifier,
are beyond the average pocket. There
are two preliminary stages of straight-
forward resistance coupling, and the
amplification from these two is more
than ample to load up the paralleled
output valves when the amplifier is used
in conjunction with any average pickup.
These first two valves are Philips
E424Ns, metal-clad four-volt indirectly-
heated triodes.
The first is coupled to the second by
means of a plate resistance and a .02mfd.
mica condenser, in series with which
there is included a grid stopper resistance
of 20,000 ohms. This .02mfd. mica
condenser and the one in the plate cir-
cuit of the second stage must be fault-
less. Any sign of leakage here by using
dubious condensers and good quality
from the amplifier will be lacking. Too
often does the constructor pick up job-
line condensers of little-known make at
bargain sales and accept them for what
they are marked. As always where com-
ponents are to bear heavy working stress,
it pays to use the best, and new, faultless
mica condensers are cheap enough
to-day.
It will be seen from the circuit diagram
that an effective but simple form of tone
control is worked into the first stage of
this amplifier. This system uses a 10,000-
ohm potentiometer (which also forms
part of the plate-resistance load) and a
.Olmfd. mica condenser. In practice this
control attenuates the higher frequencies,
and by using a smaller condenser gives
less high note cut-off. This condenser
need not necessarily be .Olmfd., as stated,
but different capacities can be tried to
suit individual requirements. It is a
case of suiting one’s ear by trial.
A most important feature of this
amplifier is the adequate decoupling
adopted. In the first stage this is done
by using a 4mfd. condenser and a 10,000-
ohm resistor. It was found by test that
the capacity must be all of 4mfd. here,
and, in fact, more complete decoupling
is obtained with Bmfd. Thus an Bmfd.
electrolytic could be well employed, with
the negative, of course, to earth (chassis).
The 4mfd. condenser uspd is of the paper
dielectric kind, rated at 250 volts D.C.
working.
The first' valve is biased in the cathode
by a 1000-ohm resistor and lOmfd.
Ducon electrolytic condenser, and
volume control at the input is taken care
of by a 250,000-ohm potentiometer. Tf
the pickup to be used has the volume
control fitted as part of the unit itself,
this 250,000-ohm potentiometer can be
dispensed with, but it is useful in case
the amplifier is to be used for announce-
ments from a microphone. In such a
case, although not indicated in the
diagram, a microphone transformer and
small dry cell will be needed. The
secondary of this transformer would be
connected to the terminals marked “pick-
up,” and, by the simple expedient of a
DPDT switch, quick change-over can be
made from one to the other.
The second stage is also decoupled by
the 10,000-ohm resistor and, in this case,
a 2mfd. condenser. The plate resistor
here is 20,000 ohms, this and the 10,000-
ohm decoupling resistor providing ample
plate load for the E424N. Cathode bias-
ing here is by a 400-ohm resistor and
lOmfd. electrolytic condenser. In the
grid circuit of the E 406 output valves,
which may be considered as one valve
here, is a 5000-ohm R.F. stopper resistor.
This is a further check against any pos-
sibility of R.F. getting to the output cir-
cuit. Biasing for the output stage is ob-
tained simply by a 500-ohm resistor
and lOmfd. condenser in the filament
centre-tap, the special power trans-
former being fitted with a CT four-volt
four-ampere winding.
As the reader is likely to try a variety
of loudspeakers with such an amplifier,
choke-condenser output to the speaker js
provided by means of a 30h. choke
and 2mfd. condenser. The speaker used
for the original amplifier is a separately
excited dynamic, and to-day many
speakers fitted with dry rectifier, or with
provision for a type-80 rectifier, may be
obtained cheaply. The writer has seen


BANISHES BACK-
-GPOUND HISS.
ORIGINATED by the Philips
Laboratories, the Octode is
recognised as being the greatest
single contribution to Radio ad-
vancement since the introduction of
the Penthode valve. Low noise
level, high conversion gain, and
minimum frequency drift are salient
features of this remarkable valve.
offering the ideal solution to the
frequency conversion problem.
By the introduction of the KK2
Battery Octode, Battery perform-
ance is brought into line with the
present high standard of efficiency
made possible in fi.C. receivers by
the advent of the Philips Octode.
PHILIPS
VALVES
PHILIPS
METAL CLAD VALVES
THERES A PHILIPS VALVE FOR » EVERY SOCKET OF *EV£RY" RECEIVER
(Advt. of Philips Lamps (Australasia) Ltd. (Radio Dept.), Head Office and Showrooms, Philips House, 69-73 Clarence St., Sydney).
SR-52
XMAS GIFTS from
RADIO STORE
What better gift for
the owner of a battery
set! English make 3-
range meter, as illus-
trated.
Test all
batteries.
12/6
TORCHES
Magnet bake—
lite focussing.
Will not cor-
rode.
12^3
2-Cell focus- T/I t
sing. Heavy 0 11
plating.
MAGNE
CYCLE
LAMP
4/9
COMPLETE
Write for our ■ special Xmas catalogue.
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE
(D. G. McINTYRE, PROP.),
5 & 6 ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
recently several 12-inch Magnavox
dynamics in second-hand supply stores
at very reasonable figures. A permag-
netic speaker of the Amplion type can,
of course, be used equally well.
Power Supply and Filtering.
No valve rectifier is used, but one of
those very handy Westinghouse type
H.T.B dry rectifiers, employed in full
wave. For this purpose, it is necessary
to have a specially-built power trans-
former with a secondary voltage (un-
tapped) of 200 volts at 200 milliamperes.
In addition to the four-volt winding with
centre-tap for the output valves, there
is a four-volt three-ampere heater wind-
ing for the E424N valves. As the recti-
fier is used in a voltage doubling
method, it is important to stress that elec-
trolytic condensers should not be used
for the input to the filter. The condensers
are 4mfd. metal-case type, rated at 500
volts D.C. working. They are obtain-
able in Ducon make. From here, the
filter is conventional practice, and uses
the usual twin Bmfd. electrolytic con-
densers and 30h. filter choke, the latter
designed for lOOma. load. A four-volt
pilot-lamp, to indicate that the amplifier
power is switched on, is connected across
the heater supply to the first two valves.
Constructional Points.
As the illustration shows, the original
amplifier was built up as a self-contained
affair, using as a foundation one of the
once-popular fireplace screen baffle-
boards for loudspeakers. Two shelves
were fitted, the lower one carrying the
amplifier, the upper the electrically-
operated record turntable and pickup.
Fitted with two handles at the side of
the baffle, the amplifier is easily moved
from one place to another. The chassis
used is of aluminium, but no actual
size details are given, as the reader will
most probably suit his own needs. A
steel chassis, of which dozens may be
picked up for two or three shillings, con-
veniently punched for valve-socket holes,
can be used if desired.
A bakelite or wooden control panel
is fitted to one side of the chassis, as
illustrated, and this panel carries the 240-
volt A.C. supply input socket, the pilot-
lamp and the speaker output terminals.
The tone control is mounted on the
chassis itself between the first two valves,
and the volume-control potentiometer at
the input side of the chassis. Note that
the Westinghouse rectifier is mounted
above the chassis top. This is preferable
to fitting underneath a deep chassis for
cooling reasons. The pilot-lamp pre-
viously mentioned may be considered
as essential, for the reason that the
amplifier, being absolutely devoid of hum
of any kind, could easily be accidentally
left switched on!
In laying out the components on the
chassis, the usual receiver-construction
rules hold good. Endeavor to keep grid
leads as short as possible; and, to en-
sure perfect stability, it is permissible
to sheath them in copper braid, earthed
to the chassis. Heater wiring should be
treated similarly. The design of this
amplifier was not undertaken hap-
hazardly. There is no wonderful claim
for a straight-line curve from here to
China, but the quality obtainable is ex-
cellent, and the volume ample for the
purpose for which it is designed.
D.B.K.
Essential Components,
Chassis to suit requirements. . Type of
pickup, turntable, motor, etc., optional,
Two 30-henry lOOma. chokes.
° n ® m special , f owe * transformer 200-volt
« 4
tapped.
° ne Westinghouse H.T.B full-wave dry rectifier,
SSpto socket
One 250,000-ohm potentiometer.
One 10,000-ohm potentiometer.
One .Olmfd. mica condenser.
Two .02mfd. mica condensers.
Three lOmfd. Ducon electrolytic condensers.
One 4mfd. 250-volt D.C. working condenser.
Two 4mfd. 500-volt D.C. working condensers.
Two 2mfd. 250-volt working condensers.
Two Bmfd. 500-volt electrolytic filter con-
densers.
One 5000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 5000-ohm 2-watt resistor.
One 20,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 20,000-ohra 2-watt resistor.
One 1000-ohm resistor.
One 400-ohm resistor.
One 500-ohm resistor.
One 500,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One 250,000-9hm 1-watt resistor.
One 4-volt pilot-lamp and socket.
Valves: Philips-two E424N, two E 406.
One tumbler power switch.
Terminals, screws, wiring flex, etc.
Speaker, separately excited or permagnctic.
Amateur Chatter.
No wonder some of the American
’phones on 20 metres reach Australia
strongly: a W 5 in conversation with a
W 2 was heard to describe his “tube line-
up” as 47 crystal oscillator, followed by
an RK2O, driving an Eimac 150 T, with
four Eimac 150 Ts in parallel push-pull!
Yet Australians with humble 46’s in p.-p.
are able to put consistent telephony
across the Pacific. European DX on 20
metres seems to be waning, but it is pos-
sible that during our evenings (early
morn in Europe) there are few stations
operating. Between 3 a.m. and 6 a.m.,
S.M.T., it is impossible to get a pin
between the American ’phone amateurs,
all at R 8! On 40 metres high noise level
predominates, but good DX is possible.
South Africans are workable from 2 a.m.
to 4 a.m. VK2LZ, the 10-metre expert,
was heard working an Englishman on
80 metres at 5 a.m. The Radio Society
of Great Britain is running a DX con-
test on this band. Ten metres is reported
to be back to its old familiar patchiness.
The writer experienced trouble with
overdriving in a new transmitter. This
was designed with Jones exciter unit,
53/2A3, linked to a single-ended 801
buffer, linked to an Eimac SOT. A little
more R.F. was desirable on 20 metres at
the grid of the final stage, so the buffer
was changed to p.-p. 801’s. The desired
“pep” was obtained, but when the same
arrangement was used on 40 things began
to happen. Grid coil after coil bubbled
One of the earliest of Australian experi-
mental stations, 2HM, at Ar midale
( N.S.W. ), owned by H.A. Marshall,
now chief engineer of 2UW Sydney.
the bakelite, and the 50T on one occa-
sion remained alarmingly fit up, with
the filament switched off! Fears were
entertained, but the valve was none the
worse for this drastic grid overload, and
coils and mountings were then made of
really good R.F. insulation. No more
output was obtainable with the non-
leaking grid circuit when driven from
the p.-p, driver than with the previous
single-ended job, and the plate showed
peculiar signs of overheating in patches.
Taking a coupling fink from the exciter
output direct to the 50T cured all the
trouble; the plate remained cold, and
up went the output. The moral so far
as Eimac valves are concerned is that,
whereas something extra in R.F. drive is
necessary at 20 and 10 metres, only a
very modest drive is needed at 40 metres
and lower frequencies. These valves
are indeed capable of remarkable effi-
ciency, and would be very popular in
Australia if readily obtainable. The
advent of iron-core I.F.Ts. in Australia
should mean a general spring-cleaning
of S.S. superhets to take advantage of the
increased Q of such 465 kc. intermediates.
VK2NO.
Country Short-wave Diallings-
Signal strength was poor for the first
part of the week ending November 27,
but later became very good.
The 19-metre band still excels for good
reception in the early evening, but after
midnight the strongest station is GSE,
in the 25-met're band.
Although the hour does not permit
the writer to listen, listeners in the district
report Addis Ababa on 25 metres at
great strength at 8 a.m. on Thursday
mornings.
2RO has moved up to 31 metres for
the mornings, and although good at 7
a.m. is not as strong as on 25 metres.
Twenty-five metres is used continu-
ously after 11 p.m., and strength is ex-
cellent.
The German station just under 30
metres has been heard again, with an-
nouncements in German and another


Carter
HENEMOTOR
A NEW
"B" ELIMINATOR
MODEL
1580 A
Input. Output. Inter-Tap.
6v. 2.2 amp. 180 v. 30ma. 90 volts.
Price, £5/10/-
The smallest and most efficient
Eliminator made.
NOTE.—If Geneinotor is required
for use with receiver employing
directly-heated valves, specify filter
Model XI Price, 30/-
Also available with higher outputs,
ranging up to 500 volts.
Write for Comprehensive Bulletin
No. 42.
l
AMPLION (A/sia) LTD.
70 Clarence Street.
Sydney.
Telegrams
"Amplion.
Sydney.
IT’S UP TO YOU, DAD!!
TEACH YOUR BOY that KNOWLEDGE and ACCURACY are the two shining lights on the Road
to Success in Radio and Electrical Engineering—Guesswork will put him “all wrong.”
BUY HIM A “CALSTAN” METER FOR XMAS,
and be SURE that he KNOWS that he’s RIGHT.
m
"X.
' 'v. 4 \
M/’
■A.wy±yt*
•£4
Wms
-y
r
CALSTAN” 0-1 ma,
Price, £l/18/6.
Available in all ranges as:—
D.C. Voltmeters, Micro- and Milliammeters,
Ammeters, Galvanometers and Ohmmeters.
Write for Price List of “ Calstan ” Meters and
Precision Test Equipment.
Australian Built —Sturdy & Reliable.
“You’re Sure to be Sure with a Calstan.’’
SLADE PRECISION TEST EQUIPMENT,
Manufacturers of Electrical Metering and Testing Instruments Consulting Engmeers
CROYDON, N.S.W.
Telegrams: “Slade, Croydon, Sydney.”
OBTAINABLE AT
Martin De Launay, Ltd. Murdoch’s, Ltd. Bloch & Gerber, Ltd.
Melbourne: Australian General Electric, Ltd. Brisbane: Chandler & Co. Eertn:
Newcastle Electrical Service Co.
’Phones: UJS3BI, UJS3B2 (2 lines).
Fox & MacGillycuddy, Ltd.
Carlyle & Co. Adelaide: D. Harris & Co.
(unidentified) language. From 6.30
a m. to 7 a.m. all transmission is speech,
but the typical interval note used on the
other stations is heard before starting.
ORK has been heard, but very weakly.
YD A, around 31.2 metres, is very good
after 9 p.m., with another of the D.E.I.
stations near 29 metres almost as strong.
PCJ has been weak for some days now.
PHI is excellent on 25.5 metres. JVN,
on 28.14 metres, is still the best of the
Japanese, but JVH, on 20 metres, is
very weak on morning and afternoon
sessions. < .
WBXK, in the 19-metre band, is still
very good until 7 a.m., but the other
two Americans have been very weak,
although one, probably W3XAL, was
heard, well on headphones. This station
was using the same frequency as GSG,
in the 16-metre band, and was strongest
around 6 a.m.
Some of the Dutch telephone stations
have been extremely strong in the even-
ings around 15 metres, with GSG, on
16 metres, fair.
In the No. 1 transmission of the
8.8. C., GSF, which replaced GSD, is
steadily improving. GSI, at the bottom
of the same band, has been used at the
same time, but with inferior reception
here. GSB is still very strong, but back-
ground noises are increasing with summer
conditions.
Above 31 metres reception is hardly
worth while at present, except on more
or less freak nights.
NIGHTOWE.
The Safeguard of Amateur
Co-operation.
In U.S.A. amateur radio organisation
has been responsible for building up ser-
vices for emergency working which are
valued highly by Government depart-
ments and the community in general.
The reason for such valuation is that
the amateur has shown ably that often
he can fill a gap when vital communi-
cations are otherwise lacking. America,
unfortunately, is at the mercy of the
weather gods, and gales, floods and
earthquakes frequently take deadly toll.
The history of amateur emergency
work on such occasions makes interest-
ing reading. Often the amateur has
stepped into the breach and provided,
unselfishly and unrewarded, vital com-
munication. He has played his part also
in aviation, and there are many instances
of stranded fliers who have the amateur
to thank for passing information as to
their whereabouts to the outside world.
Examination of most such cases will
reveal, however, that the radio equip-
ment has been sensibly designed to in-
clude the amateur 40- and 20-metre
wavebands, in addition to the commer-
cial channels used for normal commer-
cial aviation communication.
As this is being written, a well-known
American explorer, flying over Antarc-
tic wastes, is lost to the world. Press
reports state that weak signals, presum-
ably from the emergency transmitter car-
ried on board the aeroplane, have been
heard without identification, other than
the callsign, by operators on board two
ships. As a result it may be assumed
that all M.L. and Australian coastal and
ship operators are keeping almost con-
tinuous watch for possible signals.
In a case like this, it would surely be
wise to seek also amateur co-operation.
By notifying reliable amateurs of the
wave-length on which the supposed sig-
nals were heard, thousands of eager ears
would be pricked. The transmission
from a low-powered transmitter, operat-
ing even from battery supply, is likely
to be heard strongly at unexpected points
—a fact which it is well to remember.
At one of these points there might easily
be an amateur receiver.
The more important consideration
should be the use, in emergencies, of
the amateur 40- and 20-metre bands by
those seeking communication. It is a
foregone conclusion that a signal, weak
or otherwise, suddenly appearing with
an SOS on an amateur band would be
heard and identified somewhere in the
world ; for, night and day, amateurs are
active always. Therefore expeditions,
aviation or otherwise, carrying radio
equipment should possess transmitting
equipment calibrated to operate at short
notice inside the two most used amateur
bands, and to be used there only for an
urgent distress call, when calls on com-
mercial frequencies fail to attract atten-
tion. Normally, the hundreds of thou-
sands of amateurs throughout the world
rarely listen outside the confines of their
allocated international frequency bands.
It is a matter of commonsense to put a
signal into short-wave bands where the
greatest number of ears are likely to
hear it.
VK2NO.
Philips Release New Valve Series.
A most interesting series of valves from
the Philips factory has now appeared on
well-known AKI range, these Philips
valves are of the four-volt super series.
the Australian market, and outstanding is
the inclusion of a new octode, designed
to work normally at wave-lengths as low
as five metres.
Samples of the valves are illustrated,
and they include the following:
The AK2 improved octode, effective
at very high frequencies, with smaller
dimensions than the AKI quick-heating
cathode, and with the new P-type low-
loss fociSC
The AC2 triode and AF3 R.F. pen-
tode, the latter also designed to give
effective amplification at very short wave-
lengths.
The AB2 duo-diode, capable of hand-
ling peaks up to 200 volts and with low
inter-diode capacities, giving trouble-free
A.V.C. operation.
The ABCI duo-diode-triode, an alter-
native to the separate diode, with effective
screening between diode and triode por-
tions. Finally, the types AL2 and AL3
power pentodes.
The AL3 is a remarkable production,
delivering an output of 4.5 watts for an
input of only 3.5 volts.
Thus it is possible to operate this valve
immediately after a diode detector, with
resulting economy and design simplicity.
All the valves have the new P-type base.
Several manufacturers
are already under way
with receiver nroduction
incornoratins these new
valves, and it is antici-
pated that ereatlv im-
proved performance of dual- and ali-
wavers on the short-wave side will result.
An outstanding feature of the AK2 and
AF3 valves is their obvious application
to advanced receivers for ultra-short-wave
investigation, particularly in superhets. It is
understood that they were designed with
an eye to European high-definition ultra-
short-wave television requirements, where
transmission is on wave-lengths of the
order of six metres. A special ultra-
short-wave superhet for five- and 10-
metre work will be designed using these
valves, and when completed will be de-
scribed in The Bulletin.. As with the
The Q. and A. Column.
I have seen reference to B-battery eliminators
made from Ford coils, but with no circuit
diagram or details. (1) Please supply such a
diagram, showing the rectifier, and stating type
of valve. (2) How would a tapping for screen-
grid supply be arranged ? (3) Is there any
constituent in colored duco that would be
detrimental to coils if “doped” with it ? —349.
(1) A small descriptive article has been pre-
pared, showing the use of a Ford coil, power
transformer and type-84 mercury-vapor recti-
fier. This will appear apart from these columns.
(2) Simply by potentiometer or divider in the
usual way. (3) The writer has never found any
bad effects from “doping” short-wave coils with
colored duco, although possibly there may be
some harmful ingredient. A consideration is
the ready method of coil identification. To be
on the safe side, it is better to use clear duco
for the coil windings and to color the top or
base of the coil only.
* * * *
I have been accustomed to making my own
R.F. coils on a hit-or-miss basis, and would
like details of a simple matching unit for this
purpose. Please supply a circuit of a suitable
battery-operated oscillator. —34B.
The circuit diagram of a suitable coil-
matching oscillator is illustrated. The method
of application is as follows: The size of the
plate coil L 2 is increased until the valve is just
oscillating, and the coil for test is connected
to the terminals Lx. Coupling must only be
light to the coil of the oscillator. When the
oscillator is tuned to resonance with the coil
under test, connected across the .0002mfd. fixed
condenser, the resonance point will be indicated
by the milliameter giving a sharp kick upwards.
The meter should have a oma.-to-sma. scale.
By substituting the other coils of the set for
the first one tried, and noting the dial read-
ings, a basis for matching is obtained.
* ' % t * if
Enclosed is a diagram of a three-valve re-
ceiver. I wish to add a stage of R.F. amplifi-
cation, using aPM 12A valve. Please supply
circuit. diagram, with particulars. —342.
A tuned R.F. “add-on” unit of this lype
was described in B. 29/8/’34 under “T.R.F.
Unit Stage for Battery Receivers.” A copy
can be obtained from this office on applica-
tion.
* # * *
Name of a suitable book on wireless for
the beginner? I know nothing of the subject,
and would like something easily understand-
able. —346.
The Book of Practical Radio, by John
Scott-Taggart (Amalgamated Press, Ltd.,
London). Obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
Latest in the Trade.
“R 9,” the U.S.A. monthly magazine
of experimental radio, contains in the
November issue a further article on the
advanced Gordon five-and-ten-metre
superheterodyne receiver. The original
design has been modified for beat-note
C.W. work and headphones, and this re-
ceiver is claimed to be far in advance
of any other ultra-short-wave receiver.
Other articles include “New Ideas in
Crystal Microphone Pre-amplifiers” ;
“Cathode Ray Oscillograph Pictorial,
Part II”; “Directive Antenna Data” ;
“Multi-point Remote Control” ; “An
Amateur Type Five-valve Superhet”;
“Heterodyne Frequency Meters”; and
“A Rotatable 10-metre Beam Antenna.”
Subscription: 225. 6d. p.a., accepted at
The Bulletin office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.


ADAMS* (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL.
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast. Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by‘Phone. M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiHECTOIta —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and .96
branches in Queensland and .Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the. World,, thi*
Bans: offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier, Sydney, married, qualified
woolclasser and sorter, wants position.—9516.
Elderly Scot, N.S.W., single, life exp.
country, small income, fond of children,
handy with stock and machinery, qualified
station book-keeper, wants congenial home with
family on the land.—9532.
To get in touch with manufacturers inter-
ested in an improved tar-branding tool for
sheep.—9505.
To exchange about 30 textbooks on naviga-
tion, seamanship and nautical astronomy for
camera, postcard size, or Australian novels by
modern authors, new condition.—9515.
Words of recitation in which a sailor with a
cold tells of the death of Nelson.—9533.
Words of verse, “When the Binder Will Not
Go.”—9525.
Words of old ballad, one verse of which
begins:—
Now all my young dukeys and duchesses,
Take heeding from what I do say.
—9496.
To buy Hemingway and Robertson’s Model
Answers. Please state numbers available and
price.—9526.
To buy The Last of the Windjammers, Vols.
1 and 2, by Cecil Lubbock. —9507.
Information Sought.
How many times did Dave Smith and Eddie
McGoorty meet in Australia ? Where and
when, and results ? —9409.
They met twice —at Sydney Stadium. On
New Year’s Day, 1914, McGoorty knocked
Smith out in a round; on April 11, 1914, in
10 rounds.
* * * *
(1) Names of the airmen in the centenary
air race who came down in the middle of the
night at Mount Isa (Q.) ? (2) Who are the
makers of the Arethusa monoplanes, used by
the Indian Trancontinental Airways, and where
are they manufactured ? —9235.
(1) McGregor and Walker. (2) They are
made by Sir George Armstrong-Whitworth
and Co., England. Their type designation is
AW 15.
* * # *
(1) Spawning time of rainbow trout in
streams of the Oberon ( N.S.W .) district ? (2)
Would state of water or kind of weather cause
the spawning time to alter to any appreciable
degree in any season ? (3) Approximate rate
of growth of average rainbow trout during
first few years of life ? (4) Does the lower
jaw of male rainbow trout increase in size
during the spawning season ? If so, does it
remain increased or revert to its normal
size ? (5) Would the mineral contents of the
water have any effect on this increasing in
length of the lower jaw ? Also does mineral
content affect growth of trout ? —9146.
(1) From middle of June to end of August.
(2) No. (3) First year, 6in. length and about
8oz. weight; second year, 12in. length and
about 141b. weight; third year, 18in. length
and about 31b. weight. This would depend
on food supply. (4) It does not increase. (5)
Minerals in the water have no effect on the
length of the jaw, and growth depends on
food supply.
* * * *
Is it a fact that the budgerigar was intro-
duced into Australia. If so, where did these
birds originate, and how long have they been
in Australia ? —9378.
The budgerigar is a native of Australia, and
is not known in any other country except
when imported.
* * * *
(1) Is the Sydney Meat Board allowed to
buy cattle and sheep, slaughter them and sell
to butchers ? (2) Can a grazier consign cattle
or sheep to the board for slaughter and sale ?
—9390.
(1) The Commissioner is not authorised by
the Meat Industry Act to buy cattle and sheep
and sell the carcasses on his own account, but
he is empowered to sell cattle or meat on
behalf of any other person. (2) A grazier
may, by arrangement with the Commissioner,
consign cattle or sheep to the State Abattoir
for slaughter and sale on his behalf, but the
Commissioner does not propose to undertake
this service until the completion of structural
alterations which are now being carried out at
the abattoir.
* . * * *
(1) Owing to spraying and spilling, the
specific gravity of my accumulator has fallen to
1.140 on completion of the charge. What effect
will this have on the battery ? (2) What is the
correct sp. gr. of a lead accumulator ? —9843.
(1) Low-voltage reading when on discharge.
Battery will not hold its charge, and will
require frequent recharging. (2) This should
be obtained from the makers or distributors.
It varies from about 1.220 in house-lighting
batteries to 1.250-1.300 in car batteries when
fully charged. When the sp. gr. falls to about
1.170 and the voltage to about 1.85 per cell
the battery must be recharged. Seek advice
from the agents or makers of the battery.
* * * *
(1) What is the legal definition of the word
“motor vehicle” as applied to traffic pur-
poses ? (2) Are motor-boats, aeroplanes, rail-
motors and tractors motor vehicles ? —9446.
(1) The N.S.W. Motor Traffic Act, 1909, and
Regulations define a motor vehicle as any
motor-car, motor-carriage, motor-cycle or other
vehicle propelled upon any public street wholly
or partly by any volatile spirit, steam, gas, oil,
or electricity, or by any means other than
human or animal power, and include a trailer
but do not include any vehicle used on a
railway or tramway. (2) For the purpose of
the Act, tractors are motor vehicles, but
aeroplanes, motor-boats and rail motors are
not.
# * * *
What is the Dewey system as applied to
library cataloguing ? How is it worked ?
9400.
The Dewey Decimal System of Classification
was first published by Melvil Dewey in 1876,
its chief features being the relative index
(Dewey’s own invention) in which are assembled
all aspects of the subjects listed by the
schedules. The classification divides knowledge
into nine main classes, numbered 1 to 9.
Cyclopaedias, periodicals, etc., so general in
nature as to belong to no one of these classes
are marked 0 (nought), and form a tenth
class. Each class is similarly separated into
nine divisions, general works having 0 in place
of division number. Divisions are again
divided into nine sections, and the process
repeated as often as necessary. Thus 512
means class 5 (Pure Science), division 1 (Mathe-
matics), section 2 (Algebra), and every algebra
subject is numbered 512. Books on shelves
and cards in a classified catalogue are arranged
in simple numerical order, all class numbers
being regarded as decimals. These tables show
order of subjects. Full classification tables
present in numerical order all classes, divisions,
sections and subsections. An alphabetic index
of all heads given in tables refers by class
name of each to its exact place in tables.
* * * *
(1) How many white leper cases have been
treated in S.A., Victoria and N.S.W. since
1900 ? (2) Where are white lepers segregated
in those States ? (3) Acreage enclosed by
boundary fences in each case ? ' (4) Nature of
regulations to enforce isolation ? —8976.
(1) S.A., nil; Vic., five; N.S.W., seven. (2)
S.A., nil ; Vic., provision made at Coode
Island, Melbourne, formerly at Quarantine
Station, Point Nepean; N.S.W., Little Bay.
(3) Coode Island, 10} acres; Little Bay, male
lazaret, 2 1-3 acres; female lazaret, 1} acres.
(4) In S.A. and Vic. the Health Acts include
leprosy among the infectious diseases sufferers
from which may be removed into isolation on
order. In N.S.W. a separate part of the
Public Health Act empowers the Board of
Health to order detention.
* * * *
(1) I wish to attend Sydney Uni. night
classes to study for B.A. degree. What standard
of education is required? Is it necessary to have
passed the intermediate or leaving examina-
tions ? (2) How long would it take for a night
student to qualify for the degree 7 (31 What
are the fees ? (4) What courses are available
for evening students ? —9432.
(1) Requirements are set out in the syllabus
of the matriculation examination, obtaffiable
from the Registrar. (2) Evening students may
complete the courses for the B.A. degree in
three years. Most of them, however take
four years. (3) The fees payable depend on
the number of courses taken each year. Ten
courses must be completed for the degree, and
not more than four may be taken in one year.
The fees payable are: One course, £l3 17s.
p.a.; two courses, £2O 18s. p.a.; three
courses, £2B Bs. p.a.; four courses, £3l Bs.
p.a. In addition, matriculation fee (£3) and
degree fee (£3) are also payable. (4) The
courses available for evening students include
three courses in English, Latin, French, history,
philosophy, economics and mathematics, and
one course in psychology, education and
economic history.
* * * *
(1) What quantity of water, in gallons per
hour, constitutes a box-head of water ? (2)
A sluice-head of water ? —9232.
(1) A box-head of water equals 120 gal.
per minute. (2) An Australian, M.L. or U.S.
sluice-head of water equals approximately
375ga1. per minute. A Tasmanian sluice-head
is approx. 150 gal. per minute.
* * * *
(1) What is the theory of origin of
petroleum ? (2) Books dealing with this
subject ? (3) Where procurable ? —9477.
(1) It is generally agreed that petroleum has
been formed from organic matter which has
been changed into hydrocarbons either by
bacteriological decomposition or destructive
distillation. The question whether this organic
matter was originally terrestrial vegetation,
marine vegetation or marine animal matter is
unsettled. (2) Origin and Environment of
Source Sediments, by P. D. Trask, Gulf Pub-
lishing Cos., Houston, Texas, 1933 ; Fishes the
Source of Petroleum, by J. M. Macfarlane,
Macmillan Cos., N.Y., 1923. (3) Through
leading booksellers.
* * * *
Would you give me a brief description of
Gundagai, N.S.W.. with information about
climate, population and surrounding country ?
How is the town reached from Melbourne ?
9439.
Gundagai, on the Cootamundra-Tumut line,
is situated on the Murrumbidgee River, 298
miles from Sydney, on the main road to Mel-
bourne. The town is 738 ft. above sea-level,
and has a very healthy climate; the popula-
tion is 2300. The soil of the surrounding
districts is arable, and near the river produces
good crops of maize, potatoes, grapes and a
large variety of other fruits and cereals;
wheat is also grown in large quantities. Gold
is still being won from the Gundagai gold-
fields. The pastoral industry is also a large
one, there being over a million sheep in the
district, as well as sixty thousand cattle; there
are two large freezing works. There is good
fishing in the river, large-sized cod being a
feature. Gundagai could be reached from
Melbourne either by the main Hume High-
way, passing through Albury, or by train on
the main line to Sydney, changing at
Cootamundra.
* * * *
Is it a fact that, in order to produce the
best results, all plants producing their crops
above ground and all flowering plants should
be planted from the first week in the new
moon on to the full, and all root vegetables
should be sown from the full moon on to the
end ? —9388.
So far, present knowledge and available
records show that the moon does not affect
the germination of seeds or the growth of
tuberous plants. The flowering periods of
plants as well as foliar periodicity (leaf fall
and leaf renewal) are influenced chiefly by
climate and soil conditions. Temperature,
light, humidity and plant food are the main
factors that affect plant growth.
* * * *
James and Peter are brothers; both married,
both having sons. A brother of Peter’s wife
is created a baronet. He is unmarried, but
has brothers. Is it possible for the baronetcy
to pass to Peter’s eldest son ? Assuming the
demise of all Peter’s sons, is it possible for the
title to pass to a son of James ? —9467.
All modern baronetcies are granted to the
recipient and the “heirs male of his body,” so
that unless by special remainder (seldom made
now) a brother and a brother’s sons would
not inherit. A sister’s sons would never do
so. If the baronet had no heirs male the
baronetcy would die. If the heir (eldest son)
of a baronet dies and leaves a son, that son
inherits his grandfather’s honor, and after him
his brothers. If the heir dies without heirs
his brothers succeed in order of seniority, and
after them their sons. In the case given there
is no hope of either Peter’s or James’s off-
spring succeeding. In the Australian case of
tne Lucas-Tooths, all the heirs having been
killed in action the King granted remainder
to the heirs male of their sister, Mrs. Warrand,
but this is the only instance of special re-
mainder for years, perhaps centuries.
# * * *
What is the correct name for the tropical
fruit the pawpaw ? —9448.
In English and Australian usage the accepted
name is “papaw,” pronounced “por-por.” The
Portuguese name, current in Brazil, is
“mamao.” In French the fruit is called
“papaye,” in German “papaja,” and in Italian
“papia.” Botanically, the species is Carica
papaya.
* * * *
Is it correct that no Catholic has ever been
President of the U.S.A. ? What denominations
are represented ? —9492.
Statement is correct. Episcopalians, mne—
Washington, Madison, Monroe, W. H. Harri-
son, Tyler, Taylor, Pierce, Arthur and F. D.
Roosevelt; Presbyterians, five —Jackson,
Buchanan, Cleveland, B, Harrison and Wilson;
Unitarians, four —John Adams, J. Q.' Adams,
Fillmore and Taft; Methodists, three —Polk,
Grant and McKinley; Dutch Reformed
Church, two —Van Buren and Theodore
Roosevelt. Garfield was a Campbellite, Hard-
ing a Baptist, Coolidge a Congregationalist
and Hoover a Quaker. Lincoln was not a
member of any church, but attended Presby-
terian services. Jefferson, though a professing
Christian, joined no denomination. Available
biographies are silent as to the religious pro-
fessions of Johnson and Hayes.
* ■ * * *
Is it possible to copyright or otherwise pro-
tect a phrase or slogan associated with some
product ? What protection can be obtained
on such a phrase in Australia? —9431.
A phrase which is in any way descriptive
of the quality or character of the commodity
cannot be protected, but if it is not descriptive
or plainly laudatory it may be registered as a
trade-mark, in which case it must be used as
a trade-mark by applying it to the commodity.
* * * *
(1) When and where did printing originate ?
(2) When was it first practised in Europe ?
9499.
(1) The idea is believed to have originated
among the Chinese during the 10th century.
Printing from movable types was practised in
China as early as the 12th or 13th century,
and there are in existence Korean books
printed from movable clay or wooden types in
1317. (2) In the 15th century. Prior to the
printing of the Gutenberg Bible at Mainz,
about 1455, several very crude examples of
printing were turned out, particularly from
Holland, but Gutenberg (1400-1468) is credited
with the great improvements in the production
of moving types that really commenced the
European printing era.
* * * *
What was the military rank of ensign, and
when was it abolished ? —9495.
Ensign was, until 1871, the title given to
officers of the lowest commissioned rank in
the British infantry (the corresponding cavalry
rank being cornet) because they carried the
regimental colors or ensign. Colors are no
longer taken into battle, and officers of the
rank of ensigns and cornets are now called
second-lieutenants.
H= * * *
Is there any means whereby I may be helped
to give up smoking? —9373.
Before resorting to drug treatment, a pro-
gressive curtailment of the tobacco allowance
is advised; will and determination are essen-
tials that cannot be overlooked. Medicinal
tonic bitters are prescribed with some success;
also mouth rinses that give a temporary dis-
taste for the weed. When craving is pro-
nounced, chew gentian or calumba root. In
all cases a gradual process of elimination is
best.
Brief Answers.
H.S.: Cannot trace artist. The offer of £40
should be accepted. Cannot value grandfather
clock without inspection M.G.F.H.: can-
not value bronze powder-horn without inspec-
tion. There is hardly any collector demand foi
such things... .E.H.: Section *.49 (h) of
N.S.W. Local Government Act provides that
a council may number buildings fronting a
road, put numbers on them or require the
owners to number them in a manner prescribed
by the council... .E.B.S.: The Brisbane Tram-
ways Dept, does not employ youths of 20 as
tram-conductors or -drivers; they should be at
least 22. Applications should be lodged with
the general manager, River-road, Brisbane.
Ordinary State-school education is sufficient, so
long as a reasonable standard is reached. No
vacancies at present, and a long waiting list.
M C.: Can trace no record of weather
forecasts by Clement Wragge covering Queens-
land for 1935-36-37... .H.D.: There is no fund
in Victoria available to sons oi soldieis
for educational purposes, other than loi
the children of deceased soldiers or sailors or
those totally and permanently incapacitated
D. Get in touch with J. K. Mills, Ltd., 222
Clarence-street, Sydney... .R.S.S.: It is neither
sharp practice nor pointing, and the batsman
is out V.A.: At the inter-Allied games held
in Parisi at the close of the war the Australian
swimming team comprised Longworth, Hard-
wick, Solomans, Steadman, Dexter, Springfield
and Morris. The team won the relay race from
America ; Longworth was second in the 400-
metre and 800-metre events, Hardwjck second in
the 1500-metre, and Solomans second in the
100-yards event H J.P.: See MacCallum’s
In Memory of Albert Bythesea Weigall, pub-
lished in Sydney in 1913 A.P.: Lieut. St.
Clair Bower and a boat’s crew of four men
from H.M.S. Danae, while employed in sur-
veying in the Solomon group, were murdered
on Mandoliana Island by natives from Florida
Island in November, 1880 M.J.T.: (1) Try
poster colors in tubes, or substitute gum mastic
lor the arabic. (2) Might try mixing Nudopc
with dry color, or else cover the lettering with
transparent varnish or shellac dissolved in
methylated spirit. (3) Yes A.J.: (1) 1890
was the first year that £10,000 was added to the
Melbourne Cup. (2) Carbine won the Cup in
1890, and the owner received £10,080 in cash
and a trophy valued at £150 W.J.B.: Home
Electrician, by K. Robson B.E.M. (1) Blocks
have been made locally, but the maker is now
dead, and, as far as can be discovered, no one
continues the business. (2) Yes, though one
needs to be an excellent workman. (3) Know
of none experimented with. (4) Wimble’s
Jetoline black for ordinary black prints. It is
sold mixed to the right consistency. A little
should be placed on a slab or sheet of glass
and rolled up thinly before application to the
block. (5) Yes A.H.: Prof. Gilbert Murray
left Australia at the age of 11. He was educated
at Merchant Taylor’s School, London, and -St.
John’s College, Oxford. He will be 70 on
January 2 next... .H.M.S.: The gladiolus takes
its name from the Latin “gladius,” a sword,
given on account of the swordlike shape of its
foliage J.K.: Physics, by Edgar Booth
(18s. 6d.), obtainable from Australasian Medi-
cal Publishing Co., Ltd., Seamer-street, Glebe,
Sydney A.Q.: Write Agricultural Dept.,
Brisbane, for leaflets on control of white-ants
and timber-borers J.W.C.: The nearest ap-
proach to the word as given appears to be a
native word of N.S.W. origin, “minnamurra,”
the meaning of which is variously given as
sheltered camping-ground and plenty of fish.
Another word somewhat resembling it is
“miowera,” meaning emu... .J.P.C.: Write
Secretary, Air Board, Defence Dept., Mel-
bourne C.G.: Write Agricultural Dept.,
Sydney, for pamphlet on the subject
E. : Specimen is a brass game counter
made in imitation of a half-guinea of George
III., except as regards the reverse inscription,
which is without significance and varied exten-
sively on these issues. The brass game counters
were, and are now, made in guinea and half-
guinea size, and are purchasable by the gross,
dozen or box at stationery stores. Specimen
has no value, collector or otherwise T.J.H.:
It is doubtless a sovereign or half-sovereign
(according to size, as at this period denomina-
tion-marks did not appear on gold coins) of
George III., and a specimen of the last issue
of that reign. If a sovereign and in Mint
condition, its collector value is normally 25s.;
if a half-sovereign, 12s. 6d. At the current
price of gold its metallic value is, of course,
very much greater than its collector value.
There was a very large issue of George III.
sovereigns and halves, and they are not at all
rare.. .G.D.C.: The Defence Act provides that
no person not a graduate of Duntroon shall be
appointed an officer in the Permanent Military
Forces, with the exception of the medical,
veterinary, ordnance and survey, branches, and
also that warrant and non-commissioned officers
of the Permanent Forces may be appointed to
commissioned rank as quartermasters. Students
at the R.M.C. enter as cadets under 19 years
of age, but a member of the Australian Military
Forces over 19 may be selected as a cadet if
he passes the prescribed examination in mili-
tary and educational subjects. In your case
you would be 33 before you graduated, and
would be junior to officers 10 to 12 years
younger. Full particulars from Base Com-
mandant, Victoria Barracks, Paddington,
N.S.W. The possession of private means is
not a requirement for appointment to commis-
sioned rank L.J.: Your indebtedness, if any,
should have been included in the assets of
the assigned estate. He cannot now claim it,
as apparently any money due should go to
the official assignee K.W.: (1) No, the
wife could apply to the Court to have pro-
vision for her maintenance made out of her
husband’s estate. (2) No percentage is fixed.
(3) After making proportionate bequests to his
children, he could constitute a trust of the
remainder of his estate sufficient to provide an
income for his wife “adequate for her proper
maintenance,” to be paid in monthly instal-
ments ; after her death the estate to be realised
and divided among the children. This is
merely an outline; details should be discussed
with the solicitor (Many others mailed.)


he Jdml Chmtirm Sift
m
m
m
m
MILS RAZOR
The World’s Best Safety
1 o the happy Recipient a Rolls Razor will give Shaving
Comfort for Life. You will have the satisfaction of
knowing that your Gift is the Best the World has to Offer.
Models from 50/-
Rolls Razors are obtainable at all the Best Retail Stores, Chemists, Tobacconists ,
Hardware Merchants, Jewellers, Booksellers and Stationers throughout the Com-
monwealth of Australia.
The Head Office in Sydney is part of a World-wide Organi-
sation to give service and to substantiate the Guarantee with
which every Razor is Sold.
ROLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
8A CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA AND TASMANIA: Rolls Razor Co. of Victoria, 480 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Butler Bros., Aust. (Pty.), Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Harris, Searfe & Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street, Perth.


CHEVROLET . . . PROVED RIGHT BY MORE THAN 2 MILLION OWNERS
m
1
■%B
m
asp
31,209 CHEVROLETS SOLD IN AUSTRALIA
IN 8 YEARS PROVE CHEVROLET SUPERIORITY
Strength . . . power to outlast even the toughest demands of
service. That’s the keynote of Chevrolet truck construction, and
the reason for Chevrolets’ phenomenal Sales Leadership.
31,209 Australian Owners have proved Chevrolet your best
truck-buy. They’ve proved the value of its low-revving six-
cylinder engine—cast-iron pistons—rugged back axle—over-
sized brakes. Chevrolet costs little to buy and to operate; gives
best truck service at lowest cost over the longest period of years,
and then sells at highest resale prices.
Ask your local authorised dealer to let you put a Chevrolet
through its paces. Then form your own opinions. Easy
G.M.A.C. Plan of Deferred Payments will help you buy.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS’ LTD.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED
CHEVROLET TRUCK DEALER
•'In 5 -
u
Meet a real truck engine—Chevrolet', a
low-revving six with cast iron pistons.
No waste power—develops maximum
pulling power at the speeds at which
you usually travel. Cast iron pistons
last longer, wear better and prevent oil
leakage. Crankshaft is 33% heavier.
Cooling system is 100% efficient.
Pressure stream lubrication.
CHEVROLET
C.1«9
. 18 CWT. COMMERCIAL CHASSIS . . . 30 CWT. TO 5 TON TRUCKS
I 2 CWT. AND IS CWT- UTILITIES .
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Tender Wools.
“Murrawong”: The advent of new
, . , r , , . .
methods and improved machinery n
textile trade has completely changed the
outlook on tender wools. Once upon a
time a wool was either tender or sound,
fit to be combed and spun or good only
v , „ .• v c ♦ a a
for the woollen section of the trade, and,
as such, bought on a much lower basis
than a combing or spinners’ type.
Wools now bought for combing could
not have been handled once because of
insufficient tensile strength or length,
Continental mills can now comb wools
down to lin. length. Asa general result,
it is the wool-classer who keeps in con-
slant touch with trade developments who
is most likely to get a clip up to best
advantage. ,v
I do not suggest that tender fleeces be
included in a sound line. A tender or
part-tender fleece on top of a bale of
spinners’ wool will condemn the entire
lot—probably the clip as well—so that,
except when the bulk of the clip is tender
and no sound lines are being made, they
should still be kept rigorously apart.
Tender wools may be grouped in three
types. (1) Where the break is definite,
possibly visible to a casual inspection,
and the wool parts at the least tension,
(2) Where the tenderness is the result of
protracted drought and the staple lacks
tensile strength, not at one particular
point, but only in parts after a fair pull
which produces a fluffy, hazily-defined
break. In this type the entire fleece is
usually affected. The staple may be
hunger-fine, undernourished and thin, or
the fleece may have a webby, wasty
appearance. (3) This is really a sub-
secti°n of (1) and (2), and covers wools
with a definite or indefinite break which
occurs c i ose to the tip or to the shorn
end 0 f the staple.
(1) is a definitely tender type which can-
not be altered ; (2), although barred as
a spinners’ type, may still lend itself to
combing; but (3), provided it has the
other necessary characteristics, may still
be bought as a spinners’ type at a re-
duced price to allow for additional mill
waste. It will not “tear” well; the
percentage of noil will be greater; but
its value will be higher than a similar
wool with a break half-way up the staple,
Therefore the two should not be mixed
if enough is available for a line,
There remains the problem of the part-
tender fleece. The wool may be “lift-
ing” from the sheep’s back, or an injury
may have caused a break in one patch
of the fleece only, and it is very easy
for such a fleece to find its way into a
sound line. There is never time in a
shearing-shed to locate the tender patch
and remove it.
Treat the entire fleece as tender. An
odd bit of sound wool will not hurt a
tender line, but one tender staple may
affect the destiny of an otherwise sound
lot.
Footrot Control.
“Ghanam”: It was once thought in
Australia that common footrot was not
contagious. But the C.S.I.R. first dis-
proved that, and now has entered on
a series of experiments as to origin and
controls.
Most workers have looked on the B.
necrophorus as the father, but he was
found “not guilty” by the C.S.I.R. An-
other organism was, however, found to
be prolific in lesions. It is an unusual
type of spirochaete, which is now stand-
ing its trial but which cannot be con-
victed pending its isolation.
It is known that, whatever the causal
agent, it does not live long in dry soil,
and observation suggests that sheep must
carry the makings of the disease dor-
mant between outbreaks. Infection on
skin lesions has been known to persist
for three months.
The tests with the Necrophorus were
thorough and made against contact in-
fection, which, while the bacillus failed,
produced the disease every time.
There is certainly hope that if all
superficial infective sores were treated
during the off season the disease might
be wiped out.
Silage and Sheep.
“M 8”: “Ghanam” (B. 27/11/’35)
notwithstanding, I doubt whether silage
is of any value for sheep. For large
stock, particularly dairy cattle, yes ; but
for sheep an adequate store of grain and
cereal and/or lucerne hay is enough.
In a wide experience 1 have
come across few instances of concrete
benefits derived by sheep from silage in
their ration in a dry time, or deleterious
effects from its absence.
The matter is one of moment, for
many farmers are wondering whether the
expensive and laborious business of dig-
ring and filling pit silos is worth while. I,
for one, would be glad to hear oi s&me
personal experiences with and without
silage in sheep-raising.
Sydney Veterinary School.
“Gerdil”: There is only one univer-
sity veterinary school in Australasia
that of the Sydney University.
And yet, though so much of the coun-
try’s prosperity depends on the number
of highly trained veterinarians we can
turn out, the Government inclines a deat
ear to any appeals for assistance.
There are now over 100 students do-
ing the course at Sydney, and, because
these numbers far exceed the anticipa-
tions of those who planned the present
building, the existing accommodation is
quite inadequate. As well, the tem-
porary weatherboard buildings available
for surgical and clinical instruction and
the accommodation of hospital cuses are
unworthy of a national school.
The school has been in existence for
the past 25 years, but it still has only
one endowed chair. A hospital (in the
Department of Vet. Surgery alone nearly
4000 cases were treated in the “tem-
porary” outbuildings in 1934) has yet to
be built and a farm to be acquired. A
sum of £IOO,OOO is needed to put the
teaching and research work on a proper
working basis.
Joseph Carruthers, when the school
was founded, pledged to provide ade-
quately for its development. Later poli-
ticians should remember the pledge, and
farmers and graziers could help materi-
ally to develop the institution.
Utilising Test Records.
“Ennae”: For a dairyman to rely on
a single test is as bad as for him to rely
on no test at all. A cow under test for
five months to date gave me the follow-
ing results: July, 3 p.c. b.-f. ; August,
3 p.c.; September, 3.4 p.c.; October,
3 p.c.; November, 5.5 p.c.
Her first test marked her for the
butcher, whereas a nine to ten months'
trial may justify her retention in the
herd. The calves from this cow should
never be kept for herd replacement.
The dairyman who feeds his herd on
a commercial basis generally finds it
more profitable to utilise all his feed for
milk production and to cull a low-yielder
in her present condition than to fatten
her.
Unless he is ultra-smart or in constant
touch with the market, he is liable to
lose in spasmodic deals, and the more
these can be avoided, consistent with the
maintenance of a high production stan-
dard, the greater are his chances of
finishing the year with a balanced budget.
A factor sometimes overlooked when
comparing records is the ruling price for
butter-fat when each cow is yielding at
her best.
No. 2 cow gave July production of
531 b. fat. This, at 16jd., returned
£3 11s. 9d.
The majority of the herd did not reach
maximum until October, when the price
had fallen to Monthly computa-
tion of individual money returns would
alter the status of many cows.
To say that a certain cow yielded
3751 b. for 273 days sounds well, but it
is of more value to be able to claim that
she had yielded £23 18s. 9d.
When men can write up the produc-
tion in terms of £ s. and., herd-recording
will take on anew significance. Ad-
mittedly it is not easy on a year-to-
year basis, • and the system which it
would involve would have to be sup-
plementary to departmental quantity and
p.c. tests, which serve a useful propa-
ganda purpose and provide a rough
general standard.
An averaged graph of seasonal
monthly prices over a term of years
would help to guide dairymen —pro-
vided their factory was turning out
choice export butter.
It would also help in another way. It
would enable farmers to ask themselves
and their representatives “Whaffor? ’ it
figures were not in keeping with those of
the world market.
Silage in Dairying.
“Steve”: Pasture-silage-making is gain-
ing favor in lower south-east S.A., and
many stacks were tried for the first time
this year. There is a tendency to leave
the grass a bit too long before cutting,
with consequent lowering in the nutri-
tive value and reduced aftergrowth.
Asa milk-producer the aftergrowth
ranks high, and should not be disre-
garded. Experience has shown that tor
similar climates to this mid-October is
quite late enough.
Provided enough silage has been
made, start feeding it in a modest wa.
immediately, before the milk yield and
creases with the seasonal drying-
Pa leveral farmers here made the mistake
of using guide-poles as supports; tn •


TEXACO MOTOR OIL
in handy 2 Gallon Cans!
is&K&assi
mt
m
;
A
on
■f
IcJf
Co
m
B
'UY a TWO GALLON can now
and insure your own trip free
from worry — It holds enough
for a crank case full witha
little extra for topping up.
Wise Man-,
for extra safety
and security on
Christmas tours he's
taking with him
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL
H020 21X
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED INCORPORATED IN N. S.W.
when they bent, they took the weight
off the pit-bottom, where it should be.
Once a pole bends from the vertical
it no longer serves its purpose, and
should be pulled out before it misleads
the builder. Slipping may occur, but
poles will not stop it.
A factory manager and one of his sup-
pliers estimated the value of silage at £3
per ton. Feeding an average-sized herd
at the rate of from 301 b. to 601 b. per cow
per day, I hate to think what cost of
production would be.
Given that as a guaranteed price, I
would cut every inch of grassland for
silage.
Grass silage is a valuable fodder ; but
it is bulky, containing about 75 p.c.
moisture, and its value must range from
11s. to 14s. per ton to be profitable here.
Fly Torment.
“H.A.L.”: There is no need to ex-
pose animals to fly torment. For the
horses, lay a tanned sheepskin on a table
and mark it into oblongs Ift. long by
9in. wide.
Cut them out with a sharp knife, and
then slice into strips wide, leaving
a band lin. wide at each end. Divide
each alternate strand at the band at one
end, then cut off the other strands close
to the opposite band.
Each square will thus become a fly-
veil formed of a band of leather with
lace-like strips hanging from it. Punch
holes at each end of the band, tie to the
winkers or bridle with twine, and your
prads will be well veiled.
It takes about an hour for a horse which
has never worn a veil to learn how to
toss its head and make the fringed
leathers knock the flies off its eyes—and
don’t the prads appreciate it!
To keep the biting flies off the cow’s
legs, mix loz. iodoform into an oint-
ment with clean lard or crude vaseline.
Rub it well into the hair of the cow’s
legs once every week, and you solve
the problem at a cost of a few pence
for the whole summer.'
Machines and the Cow.
“Aerogenes”: Milking-machines seem
to be having the unexpected effect of
actually improving the udder conforma-
tion of the average cow.
The earlier machines were not always
satisfactory, one of the faults being that
they hurt the teats and upset the cows.
In the case of a large herd of nondescript
animals, the time and labor saved were
worth the risk of ruining a few cows,
but the stud-breeder didn’t care to risk
losing a valuable animal, and he kept to
the hand-milking.
Now that machines are reliable and
thoroughly kind to teats, an increasing
number of stud herds are machine-
milked. But, however good they are,
standard cups won’t handle all sizes and
shapes of teats perfectly. Some makes
try, by putting different sizes of cups in
different bails, but the advantage is off-
set by the work of sorting the herd and
by delays.
Unbalanced udders, close teats, wide
teats, extreme sizes, etc., all impress
their faults constantly on the machine-
operators, and must in time, even if
subconsciously, lead the owner to breed
them out. The mere sight of an ugly
udder doesn’t call so loudly for action
as the constant irritation of handling one
and trying to make it fit the machine.
But why wasn’t all this impressed upon
the farmer in hand-milking his cows?
Simply because he left the hard ones to
someone else. Father had his string of
nice, shapely animals to milk, because
they were good cows and he didn’t want
them spoiled by the kids —and quite
right, too. The women and children and
odd helpers (numerous in the days of
hand-milking) got the scrags to milk,
and, though dad heard all about the
miserable pimples of teats, he wasn’t im-
pressed enough to cut their bearers out
of the breeding.
Now that he and one other do the
whole of the milking, he gets first-hand
information —and is profiting by it.
Is Dundee Fixed ?
“The 0.D.”: It looks as though the
N.S.W. Department wheat-breeders will
have to concentrate on a further fixation
of the medium strong variety Dundee.
This wheat was evolved by crossing
Hard Federation on Cleveland and cross-
ing the progeny with Sands, Dundee thus
being a second cross of Hard Federation.
It has become very popular in the past
two or three seasons because of its resist-
ance to the smuts, its short, strong straw,
heavy-yielding capacity and good com-
mercial grain.
Evidence is accumulating, however,
that it is very much inclined to throw-
back, the prevalence of white off-types
in many crops reducing them below pure-
seed standard.
As growers of good crops look for
some revenue from seed sales, and as
few men will buy seed below type and
purity standard, an effort to further fix
the type is imperative. In N. S. Wales
crops which failed to reach purity stan-
dard this season were grown from seed
in its second year from Government
farms.
Header Hints.
“A.N.S.”: A few days before the crop
is ready, clean out all oil holes and fill
with a mixture of kerosene and oil. Then
give the machine a run, in gear, but out
of the crop. This will dislodge particles
of rust, the cause of many breaks during
the first few days at work. Adjustment
of teeth can be done from the appear-
ance of the crop. Some of the 50-odd
nuts will be rusted, causing delay.
Skin and temper will be saved if the
job is done before the crop is ripe and
waiting.
The front elevator is the next job. This
is driven from the bottom, and the set-
screw in each of the two driving pinions
must be kept tight. If they slip, even
slightly, the straw will congest at the
end of the spirals. At the top of the
elevator there are two pinions, each with
a thread for a setscrew, though only one
screw may be inserted. The second hole
has invited many a second screw, and
caused'a snapped chain.
An alert ear and eye should reveal
other defects, if any, during the prelimi-
nary run.
Storing Potatoes.
“R.X.8.”: For some Australian con-
ditions “Eureka’s” Scotch potato pit (B.
27 /11 / ’35) lacks the necessary ventila-
tion. In any form of earth or covered
pit there should be three chimneys, 4in.
in diameter, for every 100 cubic feet
when day temperatures rise above 75
degrees. Pieces of punctured down-
piping serve, and should rise at least 4ft.
above ground.
I am still looking for an economical
method of pitting that won’t give a loss
of from 30 p.c. to 60 p.c. to more than
offset the rise in price.
My experiments for years show that
all methods of pitting result in a loss of
10 p.c. per month from April to Sep-
tember, and 30 p.c. from October to
March. That was for reds and blues.
It isn’t much use pitting whites at all
for more than three months. They
caused me a 60 p.c. loss, but new pota-
toes, lifted while the tops only of the
haulms have yellowed, will pit for six
months with a loss of only 10 p.c. At
that time they look and cook all right,
but are indigestible.
A successful (if expensive) way to store
spuds is to put them out in straw on
shelves made of wire-netting, in a light,
cool and airy shed.
According to weather conditions, they
will lose weight—perhaps 5 p.c. per
month—but judgment and spraying the
floor and walls with water can reduce
the loss by about half. Spuds stored that
way cook better than when fresh. The
pitted ones, in my experience, don’t stand
up to cooking tests, and are likely to be
a bad color and waxy.
Tasmanian Seed Potatoes.
“Kirk”:' “Hortus” (B. 30/10/’35) is
sound in most of his-remarks on the
choosing of seed potatoes. On rich, red
volcanic soils n.-w.' Tasmania
high-quality potatoes—the best of the
Brownells. But they are hard to grow,
and yields diminished recently to two
or three tons per acre.
The Agricultural Department decided
that the virus diseases were the chief
cause.
These diseases are spread by a small
fly which sucks the sap and transfers
the trouble from plant to plant.
Fortunately this fly does not like high
elevations, 1000 ft. above sea level being
about its limit.
So the department established a stud
seed farm at Hampshire (1500 ft. above
sea level) and grew certified seed, true
to name and free from disease.
So successful has this seed been that
the demand exceeds the supply, though
various farmers above the 1000 ft. level
are now producing seed potatoes from
stud seed from Hampshire under super-
vision of the department.
Crops are all thoroughly gone through
by departmental officers and thoroughly
“roughed”—all plants not showing true
to type are thrown out.
The chief result from the use of certi-
fied seed is a gratifying increase in yield
to eight and 10 tons per acre.
It is now becoming generally recog-
nised that the planting of virus-infected
seed potatoes is sheer waste of effort.
In this Tasmanian country marketable
potatoes are preferred for seed, being
cut in four or five sets. Small, whole
seed does not yield as well as cut seed,
and there are usually more small pota-
toes when round seed is planted.
Round seed is used chiefly when pota-
toes are dear, but it is a doubtful
economy.
Bismarcks are grown for the early
crop—the seed comes from the Midland
districts at a good elevation in grey and
loamy soil.
The change to the red volcanic gives
good yields. Large potatoes arc nearly
always used as seed in this variety, and
the practice now is to cut them down
to one eye per set. One result is that
a ton of seed goes a long way. 1 know
a farmer who planted six acres this year
with a ton and a half of seed.
. The Bismarck,is not so susceptible to
virus as other kinds, and so far the de-
(Continued on page 52.)


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs arc published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
Governments of the British
Empire
By PROF. A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt. 21/-.
The first part of this work is devoted
to a description of the mode in which
sovereignty is now distributed among
the Governments of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations. The second
part contains a description of the
several Governments of the Empire,
with special reference to the problems
of the present day.
MACMILLAN’S
EMPIRE LIBRARY
_ By the author of
“England, Their England.”
A Visit to America
By A. G. MACDONELL.
Introducing the Arnisons
By EDWARD THOMPSON, author
of “A Farewell to India,” etc.
“It is finely clone, as you expect: a quiet but
robustly presented and starkly sincere record.
And it is not without its lighter and even
jocose touches. Not a book for those who want
gaiety or excitement, but a very human picture
of a kind which is rarely painted in its true
colours.” —ltalph Straus, “Sunday Times.”
Magdalena
By HELEN DOUGLAS IRVINE.
A first novel of great promise, which
tells the story of a tragedy on a South
American estate.
Quartet
By RICHMAL CROMPTON, author
of “The Old Man’s Birthday.”
“Miss Crompton is well equipped With both
observation, and insight, the one shrewd and
the other wise, and in ‘Quartet’ she has
given them interesting scope.” —James Ililton,
“Daily Telegraph.”
Good Morning, Good Morning
By lAN RANKINE.
A romantic and witty story, with scenes
laid in a small European State. The
dialogue is swift and neat, arid there is
a pleasant touch of irony.
To toe Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON. W.C.2.
If any illustration in “The bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you
price for the original.
For the hardest service!
Reinforced at every point for
hard wear under all conditions,
the Abbey Cossack is a work
boot of unbeaten durability.
Its double sole withstands the
roughest going ... its stout
upper gives full comfort and
protection.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. When
writing, also order a large tin of
Dale’s English Dubbin, black or
tan, at 2/6. This is splendid for
working and riding boots —it
softens the leather, makes it water-
proof and increases its wearing
qualities.
Australian Kip . . . . 457-
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 40/-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
Write for catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George St. and 224 Pitt S
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 467.
Mi
BOOKS & PAPERS
Nothing smarter or more con-
venient than this neat, new-
shaped Globite Business Case!
It is light and strong, with
a glossy, grained finish, like
leather. It measures I6| x 12
x 4 ins. Ask for Globite No.
4195.
THE PACIFIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
f Jf Jf
:
▲
HK
SIIF
4
u
IM£A
mmmmm
\hm
Wm&t.- ■
m
Fortnightly Sailings
via
CANADA OR U.S.A.
Calling at
NEW ZEALAND
and
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Why not take one of
these scenic routes?
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.,
11 George St., Sydney. 50 William St., Melbourne.
A New
Small Graziers’ Bible
WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT,
By J. J. Hardie.
3/6 Post Free.
Everything a Sheepman Ought to Know.
TTuTfyztlleiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
THE LYSAGHT BRAND STANDS FOR
DURABILITY and DEPENDABILITY
Lysaght's still manufacture the highest-grade galvanized iron. Made
in Australia for Australian conditions Lysaght's galvanized iron is the
cheapest and most efficient means of roofing, walling or tank making.
SPECIFY THE CORRECT BRAND
Red Orb corrugated sheets for roofing.
•fa Blue Orb corrugated sheets for curving.
•fc Queens Head plain galvanized sheets for general use.
Lysaght's special Tank Making Sheets.
lllllil
partment has not gone in for production
of certified seed.
Ground in which a virus-infected crop
has been grown seems to infect the next
crop if it follows too closely, and it is
advisable to rotate in a crop of grain or
clover and grass.
Some growers favor immature seed.
Others leave their seed in the ground
till they want to set it, digging it out
and setting almost straight away. It is
debatable which gives the best results.
Which Is Noxious?
The 0.D.”: I think “J. Want” misses
the point about noxious pests (B.
27/11 / ’35). It is not unoccupied land
that breeds weed and animal pests, but
multiplicity of authority. P.P. Boards
in N. S. Wales and their equivalents in
other States “control” rabbits, but shire
and municipal councils don’t; neither do
State departments. Shires “control”
weeds ; not so P.P. Boards. And so on.
Greatest breeding grounds of pests are
municipal areas, Crown lands and big
properties.
It is a revelation how a local-gov-
ernment authority will hound some un-
fortunate cocky for having a few burrs
and ignore a town street infested with
them. The thing is vividly illustrated
in the skeleton-weed belt (where this is
written). If wheatgrowers were allowed
to burn their weed-infested stubble im-
mediately after harvest, instead of having
to wait until March, when the skeleton
has blown its seeds to the winds, there
would be a big check on spread. It is
asserted by experts that a fierce stubble
burn in (say) January would have little
effect on skeleton weed ; but they have
never tried it.
The trouble is that each authority
masses the buck to the other fellow, so
an amendment of the Bushfires Act
to allow early stubble burns in skeleton
districts is unlikely.
Another point: Pests exist “on a large
scale” in the closely-settled Wagga dis-
trict (N.S.W.); there are few in the
sparsely-settled Hillston (N.S.W.) and
Kennedy (Q.) districts.
Hints for the Farm.
“Stump Jump”: The best thing to give
a neat fit and prevent a spindle stick-
ing when pouring white-metal around it
is a fine coating of graphite. Mixed
with metho., it can be painted on evenly.
Lampblack or clean chimney-soot is a
useful substitute.
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: Those colored
string-net dishcloths (cost, approximately
2d.) make cheap, lasting fly-veils for
Dobbin and co.
“Valerin”: Rusted pumps, leaky hoses
and beaters as hard as an Armenian’s
heart are no good at a bushfire. Riverina
for several years has been singularly free
from big fires, and landholders have be-
come careless. An outbreak may mean
disaster, so get the fire-fighting gear into
working order and be ready to go at a
moment’s notice.
“N. 8.”: The tobacco-growing indus-
try in N.S.W. has had a rather tragic
career since rebirth. The initial error was
planting on the richest soils available,
producing a large, coarse-leafed type. The
next trouble arose from varieties im-
ported from America being unsuited to
Australian conditions. Then came blue-
mould. Investigation in America failed to
reveal an immune Nicotiana. In Aus-
tralia, however, several native Nicotiance
were found, all immune. They have no
resemblance to Nicotiana tobaccum , and
our plant-breeders must face the task of
backcrossing for 40 generations, taking
a paltry 20 years. On top of all that
they hope to introduce early maturity by
breeding in an Indian species, Nicotiana
rusticum.
“Marsh”: “Bologie” (B. 27/ll/’35)
doesn’t need an anvil, nor need he go
to the trouble of transforming a three-
cornered file into a cutter for taking the
heels off horseshoes. Let him bury an
old axe-head in the ground, edge up.
Put the shoes in the fire until red-hot, and
with pincers hold the first shoe in the
desired position over the axe-head’s edge.
A few belts with a heavy hammer on
each side of the shoe at the point of
contact will do the trick.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Some reliable books 1o get on bee-
keeping ? (2) Is this a good time of the year
to start an apiary ? (3) What is considered a
large apiary ? (4) Is the initial cost very
great ? (5) The best place in Q’land to buy
the bees to start with ? —9369.
(1) An Introduction to Bee-keeping, by
Hacker, free from Agricultural Department,
Queensland; Bee-keeping in Victoria, by
Beuhne, Is. 10d; Money in Bees in Aus-
tralasia, by T. Rayment, 8s. 1 Od.; and The
Beginner in Bee Culture, by W. A. Goodacre,
Is. 4d. (2) Spring is the best time to begin,
but any time during summer is suitable as
long as the bees have time to become estab-
lished, and accumulate some stores before the
cold weather commences. (3) Over 100
colonies. (4) About £2 per hive would be a
fair price to pay for bees purchased from a
local apiary; you could advertise your require-
ments. (5) Smith Bros., 394 George-street,
Brisbane, and H. L. Jones and Sons, Goodna
(Q.), supply all beekeepers’ requisites.
* * * *
I understand that the Wool Industries
Research Association, Leeds, England, evolved
a sheep-branding fluid and recommended Us
use. Could you give me the ingredients ? —
9408.
The ingredients and proportions are as fol-
lows: Wool-fat, 30 parts; resin, 29 parts;
carnauba, three parts; kielselguhr, 18 parts;
ignited iron oxide, six parts and Emco spirit
to desired consistency. Carnauba wax is
vegetable, and the color varies, being yellow,
cream and white. Kieselguhr is a dia-
tomaceous earth. Ignited iron oxide is red
ochre of ferric iron oxide. Emco spirit is
probably a trade-name, and the material pur-
chased as such.


WILKINSON
SAFETY RAZORS
w//
\
©
SCIENTIFIC
LA
©
mm
ei
■-©
m
o
•f SIMPLICITY
MADE IN ENGLAND.
E. 7 —Self-stropping Razor, com-
plete with two Hollow-ground
Blades and Strop, in oak case, 14/6
E. 12. —An E. 7 with heavier frame, ,
in nickel-plated case 18/6
E.lO. —:Same as E. 7 with six
Hollow-ground Hlades 18/6
E. 21. —Highly-finished Silver-plated
Self-stropping Razor. Special
Oxidised Crip Handle, with six
Hollow-ground Blades and Shell
Horseliide Strop, in chased Chro-
mium Case, oak lined 35/-
OBTAINABLE AT ALE STORES.
Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COLLIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
and 103 Vork Street, Sydney.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
Corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation, the corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn, whether big or little, hard or soft. ALL
CHEMISTS. PACKED BY FELTON GRIM-
WADE & DUERDINS, LTD., MELBOURNE.
. -I;
/■ >'V~ %
ill!*
' X
vX
yjßi—
mm *
,
.- >"■ ,*' SoS* ■5 jj c ''
m
rtjHP
i <£■ i*V
..... -
,
V < \
A
r ,s\ : :.
J&F
y J
Clift Cigarettes
We'll send any of these to any address, enclosing a personal
message or card from you, without extra charge, and. we 11
despatch on any date you name. Make up your Christmas
Gift list now and leave the rest to us.
100 Capstans in Bakelite Box. Post free for 8/6
50 Country Life Cigarettes in Bakelite box.
With hinged lid. Complete, post free for 6/-
100 333 s (State Express) in Xmas carton, 5/6. 50, 2/9
200 Craven A Cigarettes in padded lid box, 15/-
50 Virginians, in round Bakelite box. Price, box, 5/3
DAVID JONES’
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 503 AA, G.P.0., SYDNEY
BY APPOINTMENT TO H.R.H
THE PRINCE OF WALES
WlilS
OOn Sr COMPANV LIKITtO
h
BSHBalyar*
m
'nWk'j
-Vi -~v
E- g
■ -
M— I
!.
i V
MB
iai si.
i§
mm.
m
wr
sag
■gmmw
e Ng
m
lan
BiSSI
TANQuf
a
RAV
50RD0W
C® I TD
HUT
The aristocrat of gins . ... delicately flavoured, translucently
clear . . . distilled in London by the most famous gin
distillers in the world, Tanqueray, Gordon & Co. Ltd.
w
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.J.S.: No welcome for a minstrel who
thinks “gleam” rhymes with “sin,” or “laugh
with “past,” or (worst of all) “Brighton with
“brighten” A.J.M.: What’s this?
Life is a tragedy or a farce,
Make it which you like:
Go to hell in a motor-car
Or push along on a bike.
But why should one anticipate either method
of transport when there’s a chance of going
aloft on wings?... .Morris: Your hope that
somebody may “appreciate this lay” looks a
vain one C.J.G.: Doesn’t say anything
worth while.... Y.N.: Whatever it may be, it
isn’t verse... .M.L.: Out of our line....
W.J.T.: Well phrased, but the theme is trivial.
. ...R.J.: We publish verse all right, but not
that sort of maundering... .J.M.F.: No, that’s
not the national anthem Australia is yearning
for D.G.: Accurate enough, but it’s been
done too often... .Z.V.W. and A.F.: Not far
off D.A.T.: One gets by; the others below
standard... .T.D’A.: Not a bad line, but we
used something similar not so long ag0....
E.F.: Much too long C.T.R.: We can’t
bear the smell of onions... .N.R.: Not
suitable W.G.: Hardly raised a grin
J.N.: The case for the hen that is called upon
to work overtime is well put:
Why should I lay two eggs a day?
I’m pretty sure 1 couldn’t.
But if I really could, you know,
I’m very sure J wouldn’t.
....L.G.: Has no glaring faults, but says
very little A.W.V.: Just misses P.G.W.:
It doesn’t hold the interest... .G.W.S.:
A good study, but not quite suitable....
J. 0.8.: Came close... .G.A.L.: Your slick
salesman failed to bring off a deal... .Rakon:
Your verses run smoothly enough, but it’s late
in the day to write poetry about QEdipus, and
the' other pieces aren’t quite the g00d5....
Otimaj: Weak puns and forced humor. ...R.1.:
If fact, worth a few lines; if fiction, tear it
up J.W.R.: Abo. story doesn’t quite click.
W.D.McC,: Thanks for the appreciation,
anyway... .C.H.: You’ve a long way to go,
but you have youth and earnestness on your
side... .M.R.: Too slight... .M.K.H.: “How
many souls have dreamt such dreams as mine?”
Thousands... .N.C.A.: Original touch about
the onions, but rest did not measure up to it.
. ...H.G.P.: If the plot had been as con-
vincing as the picture of the storm, all would
have been well; try something more original.
. ...V.A.J.: Nicely written, but the disguised-
girl theme is difficult to conceal until the
denouement... .M.T.: Plot isn’t meaty
enough L.M.M.: After its early promise
of bright humor it ended weakly in
the air L.K.: A bit too stagy and
sentimental; give it a fly elsewhere....
E.W.: Too long for a short story and too short
for a novel; anyway, seventeenth-century
Danubian romance is a bit off our beat....
R. de C.: Not enough in the p10t... G.J.L.:
Seems unlikely that a brilliant artist would give
up his art even when wealthy; anyway, what
of the “masterpieces” he had already executed
in the South Seas? M.C.H.: Never heard
an Aussie yet, outside a few Darlinghurst May-
fairites. who spoke in that Wodehousian jargon.
....C.F.: Double-Dutch to us... .D.1.C.:
Quite good of its kind, but a bit too skimpy.
L.R.B.: But how many reams of paper
have been covered with poetic regrets for “the
dear, dead days beyond recall”? ... .A.K.: Glad
to learn that the M.L. female is the largest
and heaviest in the world, but you don’t make
good jingle out of her.. ..H.J.: You rhyme
well enough, but you reason raggedly.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.J.: Half a dozen crude figures swamped
in a sea of blots M.P.: Evidence of merit
here and there, but not enough to carry it
through W.K.M.: The statesman is twice
as large as he should be, and the dog is of an
unrecognisable breed T.W.: You may make
an artist, but you’ll need a lot of time....
P.D.: Still wondering why W. M. Hughes is
playing a trombone while seated on the top
of a 'church steeple A.L.G.: Shipwrecked
pair familiar H.S.: Three paralysed couples
on a dance-room f100r... .H.C.8.: Poster-
size drawing crammed with minute figures is
one of the week’s mysteries... .L.C.: A wash-
out... .F.R.M.: The line-drawings are better
than the wash ones, though they need a lot of
overhauling... .W.S.: Within five minutes
of its arrival it was on its way home....
P.J.T.: Shows ignorance of the laws of black-
and-white art R.G.C.: Belated, and un-
acceptable in any case... .N.J.: Is the object
at the foot of the drawing a bootblack?....
C.8.D.: What do we j think of it? Words
fail u5....J.M.: Pictorial advocacy of the
superiority of the Aryan is poor, both
as to idea and execution W.W.: They
might suit a given-away paper with an
odd corner to fill R.H.8.: Linework sug-
gests that you do your drawings handcuffed.
. ...L.M.: Clumsy sketch illustrating a tame
malapropism T. 8.: It suggests a brawl be-
tween two stalactites... .W.M.C.: Not good
enough F.H.J.: Looks as if you have been
trawling the American magazines for jokes....
C.D.K.: You’re a humorless cubist A.P.:
Drawing is another injustice to Black Brother.
An article in B. 4/12/’35
stated that as the resistance of an elec-
trical circuit increases the current flow-
ing in the circuit also increases. When
the resistance is increased the current
is decreased. I suppose the slip is attribu-
table to a hasty attempt at compression.
[lt is.]


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sarokos won the principal flat race
at Moonee Valley brilliantly, and the
project of matching him against Green-
sea for two miles over hurdles has again
excited widespread discussion. Unfor-
tunately, Greensea is barred from racing
in Victoria because of the V.R.C. rule
forbidding the training of a horse by
the owner’s husband. In Sydney, more-
over, the hurdles are brushed and would
not suit Sarokos. G. J. Docker, who
bred Sarokos and owns him, suggested
that a race be arranged in Melbourne
with a substantial sweepstake. This pro-
posal did not overcome the difficulty of
Greensea’s lack of qualification under
V.R.C. rules.
As a weight-carrier Greensea would
outshine the Victorian hurdler ; he has
won under extraordinarily heavy im-
posts. And he used to be a good horse
on the flat; but Sarokos must be
reckoned his superior in that respect, in
view of what the grey accomplished at
the Valley. The field in the Laluma
Handicap included Ruach (winner of the
S.A.J.C. St. Leger of 1933), Takakua
(almost invincible during the winter
months), Villius (for whom 925gns. was
paid at auction recently) and Gallibrook
(winner of three £4OO stakes in Mel-
bourne last season). For once in a way,
Villius was disposed to do his best, but,
is IT THEY ALWAYS PICIC
OH ME ? ' N
<s»ert: 11 What for ? M
&ECt: / ' , Tb PIAY Samta. Claus
G(BQT : k Yau sLip DOWN. -THE cniNtHE/s
So EASILy, "
after leading until well in the straight, he
was cut down by Sarokos, who scored by
a length and equalled the course record
of 2min. 54sec. for miles and 10 yards.
Sunraysia, who started at 4 to 1 and
was a slightly better favorite than the
ageing Ruach, never got into the firing
line. Possibly the Equator stallion did
not have the best of luck. The perform-
ance of Ruach in running third was dis-
tinctly good. This cast-off from the
“S. A. Rawdon” stable found his legs
so slowly that he was at the tail of the
procession half a mile from home. Rid-
den by Tom Taylor, who used to be a
star pony jockey but has not been much
in evidence for some seasons, Ruach un-
wound a wonderful run over the con-
cluding three furlongs, and finished only
lengths behind Villius. Though
backers did not profit by the victory of
Sarokos —his quote was 8 to I—the1 —the grey
son of Sarchedon was cheered lustily
when Breasley brought him back to scale.
The theory that weight will not stop
a good two-year-old was exploded at the
Valley. Gay Brunette, who had scored
there on the previous Saturday with Bst.
121 b., was raised to 9st. 71b. in the
Barkoola Handicap. Heavily supported
at the last moment, she joined Benedict
on the top line of favoritism, from which
Dempsey’s mount had been ousted. Gay
Brunette vainly struggled to hit the front,
and Remittent, another Maoriland-bred
filly, pipped her for third prize. The
race went to Benedict, who comfortably
accounted for the pacemaker, Manamah,
a daughter of Manfred. As a yearling
Benedict was knocked down to Jack Holt
for 170gns. at the Easter sales in Syd-
ney. He now is in the Flemington stable
of Steve Murphy. Bred by Percy Miller,
the colt is by Caledon from Nuptial
(imp.), and promises to turn out a good
’un.
No rougher race has been witnessed
in Melbourne during recent months than
the Argyle Highweight, in which
Bracken, of Poitrel fame, pulled off a
big betting coup for Andrew Morrow,
the Caulfield hotelkeeper, with Sculpin,
a handsome son of Bullhead. Backers
tumbled over each other to back Radiant
Star, who is trained by F. W. Hoysted
for G. L. Scott and was ridden by
Voitre. With the advantage of No. 1
berth, it was expected that Radiant Star
would shoot away at the start and never
give the opposition a look-in. The re-
verse happened. Radiant Star was
bumped on to the rails when the barrier
rose, and almost unseated Voitre. In a
trice the favorite was last of 16 runners,
and that was the end of him. Nearest
to Sculpin at the finish were Strymon
and Preston Day (both 12 to 1).
For the first time in nearly 30 years
a cross-country steeplechase was staged
at Moonee Valley in December. It
brought out only five runners, which was
disappointing, considering that trainers
of jumpers have so long fought for the
lifting of the ban on summer ’chasing
in Melbourne. Yet the race produced
the most thrilling finish of the afternoon.
At the final obstacle it was impossible
to predict which of four horses would
win. Wanconner, the pacemaker, had
been tackled successively by old Makeup,
My Talisman and Richmond Tiger. Tir-
ing at the straight entrance, Makeup
faded out of the picture. In a whip-
cracking struggle Richmond Tiger (4 to 1)
vanquished Wanconner by a head, while
My Talisman was only half a length
farther away.
Greek Chatter, a mare in the Mentone
stable of H. Freedman, ought to have
won the Koombahla Trial; kept too far
out of her ground, she put in the sort
of finish that could be expected of a
daughter of Magpie, but was too late
on the scene to catch Vim, an 8-to-l pop.
Freedman and his followers recouped
their losses in the last event, which went
to L’Elite (5 to 1). L’Elite has grown
into a fine-looking stallion (he is by
Gay Lothario); he showed gameness in
stalling off a challenge from Marion
Melton, the favorite (3 to 1). L’Elite
was ridden by Theo Lewis, who landed
the Williamstown Cup for Jack Holt in
two successive years on Second Wind.
* * * *
The A.J.C. is very poorly supported
by owners of middle-distance horses —
there were only seven runners in the
December Handicap at Warwick Farm,
the principal race of the day. On the
other hand, there were so many in the
Camden Handicap that the thing de-
veloped into a scramble. Twenty-three
lined up, and when they had gone a
furlong at least 16 were out of it. Ten-
year-old Tom Pinch, backed from 20
to 1 to sevens, led throughout, beating
Cool Spell and Architect in the run
home. Veilantif did not get clear until
the race was virtually over; then
she ran fourth. Bachian and Heritor
showed pace while their condition
lasted ; but Bachian ought to be a bit
more forward if he is to win the Villiers
again.
In a slow race, Cockpen (4 to 1),
ridden expertly by Knox, got in the
last run, and it enabled him to beat
Luxart by half a head ; Sally, who pulled
hard in the early stages, was a poor
third. Fairoic and King Gee were beaten
three furlongs from home. Tremayne
was doing his best work at the end.
This son of Treclare can stay, and as
he looks nice and bright may pick up a
race at Randwick.
Former trotting drivers Peter Riddle
and Bill Bryan led in the winners of
the first two divisions of the Maiden
Nursery. Celebrate’s sister Korimako (9
to 1), a nice Magpie filly, was never off
the bit in the first division, and Bonnie
Legion (5 to 1), who has all the pace of
her dam, Bonnie Marjorie, led through-
out in the second division. Paul Jones,
backed from twenties to fives, landed
the third heat. Raced by “S. De Leon,”
a Sydney businessman, and Raridwick
trainer Dan Lewis, Paul Jones finished
like an old stager.
Wellington breeder Harry Taylor was
confident that his Rampion colt Tonga
would prove too brilliant for the opposi-
tion in the Kirkham Stakes. Tonga
missed the jump, and Munro had to ride
him hard in the first furlong. The re-
suit was that he got a break on the field,
but turning for home Royal King
(7 to 2) was reducing the lead, and at
the Leger Tonga was tiring. In a gruel-
ling finish Royal King’s superior condi-
tion told, and he won by half a neck,
with Water Waggon 2\ lengths away.
The grey Arabia was fourth; Shakespeare
disappointed. Royal King will tackle
Gold Rod and Fidelity at Randwick,
and, though not as brilliant as either, his
gameness will stand to him up the long
straight.
Merrie Miller, carrying the Peter Pan
colors, won the Farm Novice at 9 to 2
(fives were laid) from the Newcastle-
owned and -trained Bundar (backed from
double figures to sixes) and Linklet.
The favorite, Viceroy, was not suited by
the turns. Grand Warbler, after going
wide on the turn, finished under the
judge’s box. Merrie Miller gave
McCarten his third successful mount.
By Magpie —Margarethal, he was a cut
above the others, and should win again.
* * * . *
Second to his half-brother-Soft Step in
the Queensland Cup race, run in Aus-
tralasian record time for two miles,
3min. 211 sec., Spear Prince won the
Windsor Handicap at Eagle Farm on
Saturday. He carried 7st. 121 b., went
out at 3 to 1, and left 11 furlongs behind
in 2min. 17fsec. Together with Soft
Step he is coming to Sydney for the
Summer and Tatt.’s Cups: Spear Prince
has 6st. 131 b. and 7st. respectively; Soft
Step, Bst. 121 b. and Bst. 131 b. Sydney
form is nothing out of the way, and
Queehsland Ought to collect at least one
of those trophies.
* * * *
Tired of losing between £3OOO and
£4OOO a year, the Newcastle Jockey Club
has announced its intention of going out
of the horseracing business unless taxa-
tion is materially reduced. The club
has a tin-hare license which is turning
in profits, but taxes and s.-p ; betting
have made the more important game
chronically unprofitable. It may recon-
sider the position if it is ranked, as to
taxes, as a country club.
* * # *
Somehow brilliant non-stayers who
run second in the A.J.C. Derby never
do much good afterwards. In recent
years Soorak, Petunia, Mollison, Carra-
dale and Deputy Ruler have been cases
in point ; and now Silver King, runner-
up to Theo in 1934, has died untimely, as
did Furious. While spelling at Wind-
sor, Silver King slipped and fell, break-
ing a leg. Bred by his owner, R. C.
Allen, he was by El Cacique —Silver
Wedding. A better horse than Syna-
gogue, he would probably have won the
Epsom, in which he had 9st. lib., if he
hadn’t gone wrong after dead-heating
with Rogilla in a w.f.a. race at Warwick
Farm.
* Sic * *
Giving evidence in that income-tax-
appeal case regarding his speculations in
horseflesh, Trautwein, M.L.C., said he
had paid £4OOO or £5OOO for Chide and
£6OOO for Runnymede —with which he
never won a race. He had also offered
£lO,OOO for Phar Lap, but the owner
wouldn’t sell at less than £12,000. If
the gentleman could have got Phar Lap
for £12,000 before the great chestnut
won the Melbourne Cup it would have
been a bargain. Phar Lap was then as
sound as a bell, and had perhaps three
years of rich and easy w.f.a. races ahead
of him.
ft if is- *
“Moley”: Queensland Racing Commis-
sion is digging up some interesting infor-
mation. A Brisbane man told how he got
subscribers to a telephone system whereby
the latest racing oil was poured out to
clients throughout Queensland. In the
last six years, he said, he had paid the
P. and T. Department over £36,000 for
telephone services ; but he didn’t actu-
ally know that his subscribers used the
’phones for s.-p. betting.
Ins and Outs
Batting first against an Australian XI
at Sydney, the M.C.C. was 3 for 52 runs
at lunch, and 5 for 95. Then Hardstaff
(230 n. 0.), Langridge (53), Lyttleton (35)
and Sims (35) collared the bowling,
Hardstaff playing himself into the next
English team for Australia. The fielding
was rotten. Ebeling took five wickets and
Chilvers three. Holmes closed at nine for
411. Baxter got the first four Australian
wickets for 33. Robinson made 37
quickly, and Marks (64) was well set
when he threw his wicket away. Easton
(45) helped to raise the total to 227.
Then M.C.C. lost two for 49.
* * * *
Grimmett rook six wickets for 57 and
O’Reilly two for 49 against Transvaal,
all out for 201 (Briscoe 60, Foley 49 n. 0.).
Brown and Fingleton had 29 of them be-
fore stumps.
* * * *
Tarrant’s men beat the Yuvraj of
Patiala’s XI by nine wickets. The Yuv-
raj’s team made 163 in each dig ; Mair
took five for 50 the first time, Iron-
monger five for 70 the second and Oxen-
ham five for 79 all told. Ryder made
104 out of 268.
“Heil”: Though extra police were
laid on and all preparations made for
an anti-Nazi turn-up when a German
Soccer team met an English side at
Tottenham Hotspurs’ ground at High-
bury, all went off like a summer zephyr.
A crowd of 60,000 saw some fine Soccer,
and the Germans seemed flabbergasted
by the cordial reception and encourage-
ment given them. England won, 3-0.
* * * *
By beating Ireland at Dublin, 17-9, the
1935 Maoriland Rugby team put up its
best performance ,in Britain. The Irish-
men won the international championship
last year.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Flying Handicap: Marion Melton
or L’Elite ; next, Radiant Star.
Ascot Handicap: Metro; next,
Gay Mary.
Sandhurst Welter: Marion Melton
or Takata ; next, Preston Day.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Corinthian Cup: Tom Pinch;
next, Prowler.
Dundas Handicap: Windbird ;
next, Prittle Prattle.
December Handicap: Mainlaw ;
next, Curator.
Carlingford Mile: King Moab;
next, Bulletin.


You may travel to
TASMANIA
by a 20,000-ton ship
this summer
:
WME" 'N
L K'JWtf s
OZffHA» S ..AKES^.
acT;
**AH
NATIONAL O MOB APT
\
( /
Information and tickets from
Tasmanian Government Tourist
Bureaux in all Mainland States.
Mothersills
SEASICK REMEDY
A
STOPS TRAVEL NAUSEA
ON YOUR VACATION TRIPS
Bl LLABONG
Auto Oiled —Enclosed Gear
WINDMILLS
DOUBLE GEARED
RAIN PROOF
DUST PROOF
LEAK PROOF
Oil Once Every Twelve Months
Made in our own factories and only from
the finest available materials, Billabong
Windmills are built to give service that is
trouble-free and consistent.
Nothing but satisfaction can come from
owning .a Billabong.
WRITE
for the new
Illustrated Catalogue.
n
DAHKS
391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne
324-330 Pitt St., Sydney
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“M. Turlutu”: Mention of Starlight
(B. 20/11 / ’35) recalls old Tom Curran,
who in his youth beat Harry Sellers, a
greater colored fighter than Starlight
ever was. In the early ’nineties Tom kept
a Melbourne pub, well known to press-
men of the day. A few being assembled
together to discuss the higher morality
or something, someone happened to re-
collect that it was the anniversary of
Tom’s famous victory of 30 years and
more before. A stalwart lad of the pen
who fancied himself as an amateur pug
asked Tom to show how he had done it.
The old chap ambled from behind the
bar, beaming with pride. “Now, sup-
posin’ you was ’Arry, Mr. Pushpen,” he
explained, “an’ we was in the last round,
with ’Arry, wot’s you, a bit anxious and
rushin’-like.” Pushpen registered anxiety
and rush, in perfect fighting shape.
“Well, I weaves in a bit and dots ’im
one on the jaw.” Pushpen got an unex-
pected clout which annoyed him into
returning it. “That’s it, Mr. Pushpen ;
then I gives ’im a rib-roaster.” Pushpen,
really annoyed, came in on the old chap.
“Gives me a hopenin’ just like you’re
doin’, an’ I lets go me right.” With
a crash that shook the bar, the portrayer
of Harry Sellers went' down across the
table and slid to the floor. “Oh, blime,
gents.!” wailed the old chap. “Wotever
’ave I done, ’ittin’ a good customer like
Mister Pushpen? S’welpme, I didn’t
never mean to.” We revived Pushpen,
and Tom left the drinks on the house
for the evening.
Ins and Outs
As December opened Australian
representative cricketers were engaged at
home and abroad. In Brisbane Queens-
land made a lamentable showing against
the Maryleboners—beaten by an innings
and 106 runs. Behind 355, the Banana-
landers followed on, but only Levy (76)
and Christy (66 n. 0.) did anything out of
the ordinary. Baxter had the best M.C.C.
bowling figures—s for 61. The only
bright spot for Queensland was the ’keep-
ing of Tallon.
Against Western Provinces at Cape
Town the Australians met the sort of
bowler some of them might have heard
of at grandpa’s knee —an unknown
named Robertson. He bowled slow off-
breaks which really did break from the
off and nowhere else, coupled with an
occasional floater. The tourists waited
for the surprise break that never came,
and Robertson took 8 for 96 in an in-
nings of 318, which would have been less
had he gone on earlier. Western made
104 at' the second try, F.-Smith taking
5 for 32 and Grimmett 3 for 36.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Jack Worrall’s benefit on
Christmas Day is going to be a sort of
come-all-ye. The main cricket match will
be between the right- and left-hand
players of the Vic. and N.S.W. teams
then in Melbourne, and a women’s match
will also be listed. In the intervals indis-
criminate sporting bodies will rage up
and down. One way and another, there
should be a big crowd of turkey-stuffed
citizens snoring the afternoon away at
Melbourne C.G.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: Holmes’s Maryle-
boners will be able to chuck a chest over
one thing—in Sydney they have met in
the flesh Tom Garrett, the last survivor
of the first Australian Eleven. Garrett
was one of the four bowlers who took
over 100 wickets on that tour ; the others
were Boyle (197), Spofforth (357) and
Allen (106). Garrett had the best average
of the regular trundlers, with 146 at 6.97
each. He went to England again in
1882 and 1886, and each time took over
100 wickets.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Some objection is being
taken to the probable appointment of
G. O. Allen as skipper of the next Eng-
lish team for Australia on the ground
that he is Australian-born. Yet Britons
have played for this country; Midwinter
“ Blime, Bill, what a bonzer cast!”
played Test cricket for both. Charles
Bannerman, Percy McDonnell, Carter
and poor Archie Jackson were British-
born.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Cochet thinks the Davis
Cup tourney needs reconditioning, and
many will agree. According to the
Frenchman, the present method is too
short and sweet to be a real test, and a
country may be represented by only two
players of the top class, as with Brookes
and Wilding, and Tilden and Bill John-
ston ; this gives the almost-as-good men
little encouragement, says Cochet. His
idea is that six singles should be played
instead of four, and at least three doubles.
This would ensure at least six players
turning out for their country instead of
the show being practically the monopoly
of two or three cracks. The matches
would last four days, instead of three,
and extra costs would be met by the
additional day’s takings.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: A cloud which furrowed
the brows of the A.L.T.A. finance com-
mittee has lifted. The Australian share
of the Davis Cup gate in Berlin has been
remitted to London by special permis-
sion of the Fiihrer, and is now in a Lon-
don bank. Heil, Hitler!
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Perry is on his
return journey to Britain, all Australian
engagements having been cancelled.
The champion’s back is not improving as
it should, but complete rest and expert
treatment in the off season should help
to get him fit for Wimbledon and the
Davis Cup challenge round. Here,
though he did not play after the first
experiment, Perry has put in a fair
amount of travelling and lecturing in
connection with the game, in addition to
watching others playing—almost as try-
ing as if he went on the courts himself.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: America con-
tinues to supply freak sporting records.
In an inter-schools championship in
Texas two lads played off a tie under
electric light, beginning at 10 in the
evening. The first set wasn’t finished
until 11.30; the rubber came to an end
at four o’clock next morning. In one
rally the ball was moving backwards and
forwards 176 times; in one game it
crossed the net and returned 433 times.
One pities the unhappy ump. and his
official colleagues, but, under the rules,
they could have adjourned the fool per-
formance until a more convenient time.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Snarleyow”: Hardly a week goes by
without some golfer or other demon-
strating that the Sydney courses are in
the kindergarten class. It is quite a
common thing for a player to break 70,
a thing almost' unheard of in overseas
countries. An excellent example was
seen in a match between amateurs and
professionals at Manly. Waterson, a
good youngster, but no world-beater,
did rounds of 69 and 67. His partner,
Ferrier, scored 72 and 68. This sort
of golf will never supply a champion to
wipe the fairways with the best in ,
Britain and America.
* * * *
“Shore”: s Chatswood’s new nine-hole
links, opened by the
Mayor of Willoughby, is
a sporting-looking course
full of rugged creeks and
bosky ravines which
forecast the loss of golf
balls innumerable. Part
of it overlooks the
Lane Cove River, and it yields to few
Sydney links in natural beauty. As an
encouragement to members to keep fit
the clubhouse is perched on a cliff over
100 ft. above the rest of the course. Re-
turning to this at noon and dewy eve
should promote both appetite and thirst
while eliminating that middle-aged
spread.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: When the N.S.W.
contingent of the professional golfing
team for America boards the ’Frisco
steamer on December 14 it will find the
two Naismiths from Victoria to greet
them. This will bring*the team up to
six, the proper number for the inter-
national match —the first of its kind be-
tween this country and the U.S.A. —
which will be the climax of the tour. The
team will wear the Australian cricket
and football colors, green and gold ; also
grey flannel bags and black-and-white
hoof covers.
$ # *
“St. Anne’s”: Jim Ferrier’s wonderful
golf on Australian courses is attracting
attention overseas. American and Brit-
ish writers are commenting on it;
Walter Hagen is particularly generous
with his praise. The lad will probably
visit Europe next year, and it is to be
hoped that if possible he will be given
some months of practice on some of the
stiffer British courses before he enters
the championship arena.
% sfc * *
T. B. Hunter, secretary of Brisbane golf
club, has been dined and wined by his
(Continued on next page.)


NOCK &
KIRBY, LTD,
Practical GIFTS
/>« NOCK & KIRBY’S
£5'17
Cash Price
ADVANCE BICYCLE
General Utility Model Roadster or Tourer. English tubing,
Williams Chain Wheel and Cranks, Coventry Chain, Reversible
Handle Bars, Rubber Grips, Dunlop Rims, Dunlop Tyres,
complete with Pump, Bell and Tools. f* p //%
CASH PRICE ab5/17/fe
TRADESMEN TOOL SETS
f-mMx
r.~-
Size “E,” 18in. Hand Saw,
Claw Hammer, 110 Plane,
Bradawl, Square, 3ft. Rule,
2 Chisels, Screwdriver, Brace,
2 Nail Bits,
Spokeshave, Nail
Level.
Per Set
Other Sets,
Auger
Punch
Bit,
and
22/6
7/6 to 45/-.
“IRON HORSE” ENGINE
A Johnson
Motor Co,
Product
|-horsepower Single
Cylinder ... 4 Cycle . . .
ai r cooled ... sel f-
contained petrol engine,
ĺ
weighing only 341 b. For driving circular saws, lathes, power
tools, electric-light plants, washing machines, pumps, etc.
ight fuel and oil consumption. (Full specifications on
application.)
CASH PRICE .. £l9/19/-
l
Have you ever really
tried * .
/zem&vwtf p&tft .
TF you really want whiter, more attrac-
**■ tive teeth, REMOVE FILM, say leading
dental authorities. Film is that dull, dingy
coating that constantly forms on teeth.
It catches bits of food. Harbors stains.
Combines with substances in the saliva to
form hard deposits. Film is laden with
germs that are often the forerunner of
tooth decay. Thus film must be removed.
Brushing alone cannot remove film satis-
factorily. Ordinary tooth pastes or powders
may be ineffective in removing film. There
is now a tooth paste you can depend on
regularly—a tooth paste thousands of den-
tists use in their own homes and millions of
people have used successfully. This tooth
paste is Pepsodent—the. special film-removing
tooth paste.
The safe way to cleaner teeth
Pepsodent is different in formula, hence
different in the way it works. It contains
no grit, pumice, or soap. The basis of this
definitely modern tooth paste is a new
and revolutionary cleansing and polishing
material which is far softer than the
polishing material used in other leading
tooth pastes or tooth powders. Yet it removes
film and polishes teeth to new gleaming
lustre as more abrasive kinds can never do.
So why take chances with "bargain”
tooth pastes or questionable ways? Remember
that this unique film-removing agent is
contained in Pepsodent exclusively. Thus
no other tooth paste can assure you of
true Pepsodent results. Use Pepsodent twice
a day —see your dentist at least twice a year.
N 7332
t
m
* *
m
m
m
club to celebrate the conclusion of 25
years of service ; he was asked to take
home with him a fine silver tea and coffee
service. Up to a year or so ago the
secretary was a first-class player, notably
in foursome events, and won several
State championships.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The V.G.A. cen-
tenary tourney showed a profit of £95,
but when the State squared up with the
Australian body over the British ama-
teurs’ visit it became a loss of £96.
Twenty-four new country clubs hooked
up during the year, one with the inspir-
ing name of Terip Terip.
$ i?
“Screw”: The organisers of the fund
to send a team of professional golfers to
America have published the full list of
subscribers. Among Sydney clubs, Manly,
Long Reef, Cammeray, Bonnie Doon
and Mosman have contributed amounts
from £23 ss. to £5 2s. 6d. Little Strath-
field, barely over a year old, has slung
in £25, and the L.G.U. acquired merit
with £5O.
**• V •!* v
“Oakleigh”: With the possibility of a
team of Australian amateurs visiting
Britain in the near future, it will be
worth keeping an eye on Victorian Mick
Ryan, who nowadays doesn’t seem to be
able to go wrong when he cuts loose on
a. golf course. He followed up a long
list of successes by winning the Yuile
gold cup at Mornington (Vic.), 11 strokes
ahead of the next man. He had been
runner-up for this trophy five times, and
his win equals Whitton’s aggregate for
the two rounds —133 ; 67-66 —made five
years ago.
“Hoylake”: Enid Wilson, several
times champion of England, has followed
the example of Joyce Wethered and
become a technical golf professional, her
job being advising customers on golfing
kit and appliances in one of London's
big stores. It is a path that nearly all
amateurs have to tread these hard times.
Only in tennis is it now possible to take
money for purely tennis services and yet
insist that you are an amateur.
Miscellaneous
“Shrewsbury”: The people who run
the N.S.W. G.P.S. rowing champion-
ships have at length decided to transfer
the races to the Nepean. For years
catastrophe has brooded over these events
on the packed Parramatta. Among the
advantages of the transfer —after the
safety-first aspect —will be the elimination
of heats; all the school crews in the
different classes can row abreast on the
Nepean, which has no tide. The work-
ing-up of false excitement by the tabloid
press will be largely eliminated, and the
hordes of folk without the slightest
knowledge of rowing who used to en-
danger their lives and those of other-
people in the Parramatta crush will be
absent. Further, the races will take only
one day instead of two ; and they will
be visible to everyone from start to
finish.
* * * *
“Blade”: The clear-cut win of the
Sydney Police crew in the Henley-on-
Yarra eights has improved its chances
for a trip to the next Olympiad. The
jaunt will cost £2OOO, and the Olympic
authorities aver that it can’t be done.
The Hops, with the approval of their
heads, say that in that case they will
raise the brass themselves. There is no
doubt the public will support the pro-
posal generously when approached. If
it is to go the crew should concentrate
on the 1000-metre sprint which stands
for a boatrace at the Olympiad. Our
training for three-mile spins will have
to be revised.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: No more do Brit-
ish mothers frighten naughty children
with threats of what the All-Blacks will
do to them. Still, the record of the tour-
ists up to the match against Ulster is one
most teams would be proud of: one
loss, one draw and 334 points scored to
127.
i\- si:
“Stand Off”: The retirement of J. W.
Breckenridge will deprive the N.S.W.
Rugby Union of an efficient treasurer.
A great breakaway with the Waratahs,
Breckenridge was asked to help manager
Shaw with the finances on that tour ; in
six years as treasurer his unsparing efforts
brought the Union from the hard-up
stage to something closely resembling
affluence.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Larwood has come
back into the limelight again, a London
baseball club in the League which
Americans are trying to launch in
Britain having offered him umpteen
thousand pounds—in the certain hope, of
course, that he will not come at it —to
play as a pitcher. There is no knowledge
of Larwood having ever pitched ;
if he hasn’t, it is late in life to learn the
art and mystery, for pitching has no
affiliations with cricket bowling. Still,
some great Australian bowlers have
learned to pitch well, notably Noble and
Laver. When the latter went to Cali-
fornia with an Australian baseball team
in the late ’nineties the Yanks declared
he had the makings of a 100-per-cent,
boxman. Many of our cricketers play
baseball in winter, and find it an un-
exampled training school for fielding and
accurate throwing.
* * * *
“Huon”: The Australian athletic
championships at Hobart in January will
be run to British measurements, but the
feeling that the time has come to change
over to the metric system is strong. The
metric system is in vogue at the Olym-
piads, and 47 countries outside the British
Empire use it. Universal adoption would
enable the comparison of form all over
the world with absolute accuracy—a
thing not possible when our present
yardage method and its times have to
be converted into terms of metric times
and measurements.
❖ i\i H :
“Blade Sight”: It was hoped that the
Empire rifle match might be revived at
Bisley next year, with teams from the
Dominions competing. As far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, there is no money to
send a team, though any sort of athletic
or sporting combination seems to have
no difficulty in finding funds to pay its
way abroad. The last lot of Aus-
tralian marksmen went to England in
1928, when Britain won. Australia scored
victories in 1920 and 1924. Britain it-
self says it is too hard up to send a team
this way, rifle-shooting not being a good
gate proposition, however it may rate as
an aid to national defence.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: The Empire billiards
championship may be played in Aus-
tralia in 1939. It was to be played for
every two years in the country of the
holder, but now it is proposed to hold
the tourney in turn in the various coun-
tries desiring to compete. Hayes brought
the title from South Africa to Sydney,
and two years later lost it in Sydney to
Englishmen Steeples and Lee. In Eng-
land it has remained ever since, the
present holder being Coles, whom Hayes
defeated in South Africa. The ’Boks will
hold the next championship in 1937,
Australia’s turn coming two years later,
with India whipping in in 1941.


r<
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
John Heine
SYDNEY £- Son Ltd • SYDNEY
AUPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne,. Adelaide,. Perth.
E.S.C.A., Brisbane.
ĺ
Eri'/tuihi I- £u wm fciLviutKt Silvcuiki Btwvrc/CRt ****
.... ,> . . .. .. ,—.* -**. -
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
11 In
X
W /// %/' '%/■'
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY •
THE LARGEST RANGT OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
csn BELVEDERE B E L V.EO E RfcXo BELVEDERE *SM
»*» . SilVeSIKE - BELVEDERE t>S'1 BELVEDERE t>M
jjttjr
Im
m
A truly fine hotel. A distinguished
address. A convenient location.
Luxurious single rooms from 7/-.
Double rooms from 14/-. Double,
with private bathroom, from 22/-.
HOTEL
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Sydney Newspaper Finance
E. G. Theodore, ex-Premier of
Queensland, ex-Treasurer of the Com-
monwealth, a vendor in Emperor
Mines, managing director of Loloma
and director of Koroere, will, by
virtue of his shareholding (46.7 p.c.
of the capital at 14/2/’35) in Syd-
ney Newspapers, Ltd., publishers of
the “Women’s Weekly,” become one of
the principals in the latest Sydney news-
paper deal. The reference is to the pro-
posed transfer of the “Telegraph” news-
paper and the “Evening News” building
from Associated Newspapers to a new
co., which is also to acquire the
“Women’s Weekly.”
Sydney Newspapers took over the car-
cass of the “World,” in which Theodore,
an old A.W.U. organiser, had in a sense
an interest from the beginning. It promptly
figured in an agreement with Associated
Newspapers whereby the “Star,” a pro-
jected penny paper, was strangled in the
birth at a cost to Associated reputed
to be over £60,000.
Behind the “Telegraph” and the
“Evening News” assets there is a long
story of high finance as applied to news-
papers. Before the war there were four
dailies of consequence in Sydney: the
“Herald,” “Telegraph,” “Sun” and
“Evening News.” After the war the
“Telegraph” fell into a decline; what
was once a money-spinner degenerated
into a heavy loser. Shareholders suffered
severely before the “Sun” took it over
(as the “Pictorial”), and the old co. was
wound up. About the same time there
was another affecting domestic tragedy
in the newspaper world: Hugh D.
Mclntosh’s “Sunday Times,” in other
days a paper of considerable note,
passed out, with heavy losses to share-
holders.
In July, 1923, Smith’s Newspapers,
Ltd., which had put “Smith’s Weekly”
on the streets in March, 1919, brought
out the “Daily Guardian,” a journal that
combined free insurance with “Miss Aus-
tralia” competitions in its bid for flapper
support. The public was asked for
£150,000 in 9 p.c. pref. capital in order
to establish the “Guardian,” buy a
freehold and pay off creditors; the
vendors took £lOO,OOO in ord. shares
(mainly represented by goodwill), and
Joynton Smith subscribed for a further
£50,000 of ord. capital, which he paid
for in cash.
The cost of establishing the “Guardian"
over 12 months ran up to £101,378 :
from July, 1924, up till June, 1929, de-
clared profits of both papers were
enough to pay pref. divs. and an average
of 9| p.c. to the ords. At the end of
that period the “Guardian” claimed a
circulation of 182,177.
In September, 1929, the “Sunday
Guardian” appeared. Smith’s News-
papers’' nominal capital was increased
from £400,000 to £1,000,000, but none
of the increase was ever issued. Coun-
try townsfolk were startled by a sudden
demonstration of “service” ; in a burst
of competition aeroplanes were hired
by the “Guardian” and “Sun” for de-
livering Sunday editions. The up-
shot of it all was that the “Sun”
people, who had by this time bought the
“Evening News” as well as the “Tele-
graph Pictorial,” added the two “Guar-
dians” to their litter; the price was
£575,000 —£400,000 in Associated News-
papers prefs. and £175,000 in cash over
a period. The papers were transferred
as from January 12, 1930.
Though the principal asset, to estab-
lish which the pref. capital had been
raised, was now sold, most of the pro-
ceeds of the sale of the “Guardians” was
whacked up among Smith’s ord. share-
holders —Joynton Smith got 200,000
Associated prefs., the late R. C. Packer
150,000, D. F. H. Packer 25,000 and L.
Deer 25,000. Smith’s prefs. thus lost all
interest in £28,000 p.a. income from the
Associated prefs. (the £1 shares are
quoted round about 245.), sufficient to
satisfy their annual requirements twice
over. And since 1931 Smith’s prefs. have
gone without dividend. Last week buyers
were offering 11s. 9d. for the £1 shares;
sellers wanted 14s.
R. C. Packer joined Associated News-
papers and sold his ords. in Smith’s
to Joynton Smith, who agreed to in-
demnify him with regard to any
liability in respect of the “Guardian”
cut-up. In March, 1932, Premier Lang
“Come on, Joe —you re wanted at the station.''
“Wot for?”
“Your wife's had an accident.”
“ Cripes, y' gave me a shock! Thought you'd got somethin' agin me!”
brought in a bill obviously designed
to make R. C. Packer, as well
as the others, liable for the return
of their prefs. and to relieve Joyn-
ton Smith of his indemnity. The
bill did not pass the Council. To those
who still held ords. in Smith’s the return
would have been no particular hardship ;
Joynton Smith actually did return 80,000
prefs. to the co. during 1932.
Meanwhile Associated Newspapers was
having a most unhappy time. The
“Guardian,” “Telegraph” and “Evening
News” were losing heavily ; there were
wrangles on the board and resig-
nations. Followed the shutting-down
of the “News,” the merging of the
“Daily Guardian” with the “Tele-
graph” and the “Sunday Guardian” with
the “Sunday Sun.” In 1933 £1,052,120
of ordinary shareholders’ capital was
written off, after the £1 shares had fallen
to below 2s. on the sharemarket.
The “Telegraph” was a heavy loser
for years; what it is earning now, if
anything, has to be guessed at. Accord-
ing to the chairman of Associated News-
papers, the “net profits” of the “Women’s
Weekly” for the September quarter
“were much greater than those of the
‘Telegraph’ ” —amounts are not dis-
closed. Along with the goodwill of the
“Sunday Guardian,” the “Telegraph”
has cost Associated the best part of
£750,000; if the present deal goes
through it will be passed over to a new
control for £125,000 in shares. Sydney
Newspapers, Ltd., which on 14/2/’35
had a called-up capital of only £32,108
(paid to £22,058), is to get £265,000 in
shares for the goodwill of the “Women’s
Weekly,” which has been in existence a
whole three years. Not quite as much as
that paid for the “Guardian” (de-
ceased), but over three times more
than the valuation placed by the direc-
tors of Clifford Love and Co. (which
pays a steady 10 p.c.) on that co.’s good-
will. For the “News” building and
plant £95,000 in cash and £35,000 in
shares are to pass to Associated.
“The new interests” (presumably the
Theodore-Packer combination, which,
with two others, collected £600,000 in
cash and shares out of the Emperor float
alone) are to find £250,000 of working
capital. It is suggested that they may
ask the public for a good deal of it. If
they do, and if the public “comes to
light,” Theodore and D. F. H. Packer,
who together hold 30,000 shares out of
32,108 issued in Sydney Newspapers, in
their capacity of vendors will have scored
again. In the Emperor float the 10s.
shares ran up to 295. ; last week they
sold down to 16s. Koroeres went as
high as 305.; on Saturday they had hit
Bs. with a bump.
The gold-share market was very nervy
last week. Fiji stocks took a header,
Emperors dropping to around 16s. on
Friday, Koroeres to Bs. in Melbourne,
and Lolomas were down to 325. 6d. Mt.
Morgans fell back to 355. 6d., the low-
est level for some months, while
Golden Plateaus slipped a little more, to
around 20s. 6d. Placers again fell dis-
turbingly under selling pressure. Among
the steadier issues were New Occidental
(N.S.W.) and Lancefield (W.A.), both of
which have recently produced good
crushings. Westralians are faring best
at present, with a few exceptions, such
as Norseman; North Kalgurlis aren’t
quite as firm as they were a short time
ago, but Boulder Perseverance, Lake
View and Star, Lady Shenton and several
other issues are in strong demand.
* * * *
Industrial shares have been quieter the
last few days. The end of the year is
always bad for the market, and in any
case rising interest rates have checked
the general upward trend of prices.
Concerns which are likely to show trad-
ing improvement, however, are still in
keen demand ; Castlemaine-Perkins scrip
is strong, and Meggitt, Electrolytic Zinc,
Farmer and David Jones ords. have all
been sought after at higher rates lately.
=!:***
Natural Gas shares were sold heavily
on Sydney ’Change last week. No report
on the results obtained following the
proposed bailing-out of the borehole had
been issued to shareholders up to the
week-end, and the absence of news
wasn’t treated as good news by the
market. On Thursday and Friday over
20,000 shares were dealt in (worth
approximately £165 in commission to
brokers). Some of the sales were of a
forced nature, and helped to precipitate
the fall. The shares, up to 6s. some time
back, fell to Is. on Thursday, but had
recovered to Is. 6d. later.
* * * *
For Australian Iron and Steel’s
2,700,007 ord. shares, paid or deemed to
be paid to £2,473,500, Broken Hill Prop,
has issued 750,000 new £1 shares of its
own. Howard Smith, Ltd., is reputed to
have been owner of one-third of the
A. I. and S. shares sold, though at the
beginning it held only 400,000. Output
of pig-iron (52,106 tons) by the New-
castle works for the four weeks to Nov.
24 was a record.
* * * *
Lancefield, tipped to pay a dividend ol
Is. per 4s. share this month, had a good
crushing during November. Tonnage
put through was 8856, down 659 short
tons on October, but the recovery was
worth £23,359, as against £21,938. Work-
ing profit was £1393 higher at £11,715.
There are a million 4s. shares issued,
making paid capital £200,000. When
development and treatment progress a
little further divs. of 50 p.c. p.a. should
be no trouble. Some critics believe that
a little more ginger in the work would
have produced a div. months ago.
* * * *
Goliath Portland Cement, Ltd., Tas-
mania’s principal cement supplier, is
making excellent profits after an unin-
spiring early career. Plant is working to
full capacity (about 85,000 tons p.a.),
and new machinery is to be in opera-
tion by about March next. Dividend
and bonus of 15 p.c. is being paid on
ordinary shares —by far the highest re-
turn on this class of investment in the
Commonwealth.
* * * > #
Triton, highly regarded by many West-
ralians, treated 5993 tons for 21930 z.
during November, a yield of 7.3dwt.
Losses in the plant have been about
o.7dwt. It is an encouraging effort.
* * * *
Lead and spelter were a trifle weaker
in London last week, and North and
South shares were down a shilling or
two, but nothing to speak about. Zinc
Corp. improved to 80s. 6d. under strong
support from Adelaide; Sulphide Cor-
poration was also stronger. From a long-
distance viewpoint Barrier mining shares
appear to offer a remunerative invest-
ment. The world’s visible supplies of
easily-extractable lead at present are
limited.


ARNOTT'S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Payment Deferred”
Sydney Variety last week revived the
screen version of G. S. Forester’s re-
markable novel. It bears repetition.
Charles Laughton has presented no char-
acter study that surpasses his delineation
of the harassed bank clerk, William
Marble. It is a masterpiece built up of
small details. In general technique, too,
this production stands high. Almost as
much is conveyed by silence as by dia-
logue, and the way to the ironical climax,
in which Marble is arrested, not for the
crime he committed, but for one of
which he was entirely innocent, is so
cleverly paved by Laughton that it re-
tains much of its effect even on a second
viewing.
“Bonnie Scotland”
A burlesque with certain similarities
to “Lives of a Bengal Lancer,” with Laurel
and Hardie providing the comedy, is
“Bonnie Scotland,” at Sydney St. James.
The pair are lured
from a comfortable
American gaol by
news that millionaire
McLaurel has died
in Scotland, leaving
his grandson a
legacy. A cattle boat
conveys them to
Scotland, where they
take delivery of the
inheritance —a set of
bagpipes and a snuff-
box—and are later
tricked into enlisting
in a Highland regi-
ment leaving for
India. There they
pull off a big coup
against the rebel-
lious tribesmen of
the north-west, inci-
dentally falling foul
of sarge - majaws,
officers of higher
rank, most of the
furniture and all the
traditions of the
British Army. It
is laughable tom-
fool e ry, carrying
with it excellent pic-
tures of mountain
fighting and a love
story in which
neither of the prin-
cipals is concerned.
Anne Grey is
natural as a titled
society dame, Ver-
non Steel is a genu-
ine colonel and
James Finlay son a
comic non-com.
“Biography of a Bachelor Girl”
Also at Sydney St. James. Ann Hard-
ing is an unmarried damsel with a
promiscuous past; Robert Montgomery,
a brusque-mannered editor who commis-
sions her to make a serial story about it.
E. E. Horton is a candidate for the
Senate who has the best' of reasons for
not wanting the reminiscences to see
print. There isn’t much plot, but plenty
of clash of character. In at least one
scene Miss Harding and Mr. Mont-
gomery give the audience the sort of
thrill that can be produced only by per-
fect acting, while Horton, though, as
usual, a pompous sort of ass, develops
likeable qualities as the action proceeds.
Most of the gentle humor with which the
piece abounds is supplied by Miss Hard-
ing and by Una Merkel as the would-be
Senator’s fiancee. The men are all
desperately in earnest.
“Alice Adams”
whatever the merits of Booth Tark-
ington’s novel, the screen version of the
story j s dull and depressing. Katharine
Hepburn, in the name part, represents a
loquacious, snobbish girl whose efforts
t o climb into a higher stratum of society
than the one she rightfully belongs to
earn her many snubs. For the first half-
hour or so she is a wallflower at a
dance ; most of the rest of the time is
taken up with a painful dinner-party at
which Miss Hepburn introduces rich
young man (Fred Mac Murray) to her
home and parents. Miss Hepburn’s hys-
terical, nervous laugh, which is like a
minute-gun, deepens the gloom. The
happy ending is incredible. At Sydney
Capitol.
~~ ~ '
“The Case of the Lucky Legs
Another of the Perry Mason series of
thrillers. Warren William is the great
detective ; Genevieve Tobin and Patricia
FRITH GOES TO THE MOVIE-STAR PARTY.
Ellis (she has legs that won a 1000-
dollar prize) are the ladies in the case,
Lyle Talbot, as a medico of puritanical
principles, hovers around scowling, and
the crime, as usual, is committed by the
least likely member of the cast. Follow-
ing the latest fashion in screen sleuths,
Mr. William is first observed lying on
his office floor, sleeping off a colossal
jag. Unlike Mr. William Powell, who
when detecting boozes copiously and
continuously, Mr. William switches from
rye to milk before coping with the
knotty problems confronting him. Also
at the Capitol.
“Wanderer of the Wasteland”
Hairy prospectors in Death Valley,
concealing hearts of gold under tattered
shirts, fiendish brigands who torture their
captives to make them disclose the where-
abouts of hidden treasure, a villainous
sheriff, gamblers, honky-tonk girls, a
hero of the diffident, tongue-tied type and
a beautiful, penniless girl who faces life
in the desert in an elaborate cowgirl cos-
tume that must have cost at least 200
smackers figure in this Zane Grey
romance at Sydney Cameo. Burros are
numerous, shooting is almost continuous,
coyotes, pintos and spinifex are all over
the shop, and a pleasant time for all
comes to a conclusion with the hero
(Dean Jagger) and heroine (Gail Patrick)
headed for matrimony.
“Two for To-night”
The principal aim of the writer of the
scenario of this effort was to give Bing
Crosby an opportunity to croon every
three minutes, so there isn’t much room
for plot. The brightest idea is that
Bing shall roost in a tree to croon to
a song-publisher who is unapproachable
in his office. It transpires that the pub-
lisher is stone-deaf (and probably he’s
not the only one that way). A chapter
of accidents then compels Mr. Crosby to
write a musical comedy, during which
task he apparently croons all day and all
night. Joan Bennett is the goil who
adores him. Also at Sydney Cameo.
Some First Nights
An odd mixture of fairies and peers
of the realm, satirically whisked together
by W. S. Gilbert, disported gracefully
to Sullivan’s delightful music on the
stage of Sydney Royal on Saturday, when
the Firm offered “lolanthe” to a big
audience, which made no bones about
its appreciation. Encores and double
encores, given with a liberal (as distinct
from a conservative) hand, testified to
the popularity of the production.
Eileen Kelly was alluring as the youth-
ful mother, and made the most of the
opportunities to sing afforded her by
the title-role. Evelyn Gardiner’s rich
contralto well befitted the Fairy Queen,
played in the traditional Savoy manner.
Winifred Lawson was a delicious reason
for any half-mortal to leave home, and
her voice, if somewhat light, was tuneful.
Ivan Menzies as the skittish Lord Chan-
cellor was in excellent form ; his enun-
ciation, even when singing at 350
w.p.m., was a sheer delight. Gregory
Stroud brought a nice baritone and a
manly appearance to the role of
Strephon, and Bernard Manning and
Godfrey Stirling were satisfactory as the
two earls. Richard Watson rolled a fine
resonant basso outside his sentry-box.
Phyllis Dickenson, Nina Robbins and
Carmen Burridge completed a strong
cast.
The able hand of Minnie Everett con-
trolled the smooth-running mechanism ot
production, and Andrew MacCunn en-
tered into the spirit of the operetta and
extracted from the orchestra its last
ounce of snap and verve. “lolanthe
should prove one of the most popular
pieces of the G. and S. season. It has
everything to make it so.
**• •{« 4*
It seems a bit ironical that Sydney s
first Drama Week should have happened
along when only one full-size theatre
survives in the “second city of the
Empire” and when that one house has
been occupied for six months with re-
vivals of old comic operas. The Drama
Week enthusiasts were hard put to it to
find a hall in which to stage their per-
formances, but found a very small one
in Liverpool-street, with a dive entrance.
On the opening night four Australian
one-act plays were presented. All boasted
some spice of originality. Sumner Locke
Elliott’s offering, which ends with murder
done by a madman in a lonely farm-
house, was effectively acted in parts
where the author relied on experience
and observation. Dulcie Deamer’s play-
let “A Revaluation,” in which two
persons killed in an accident review their
relations with the world and each other,
also opened better
than it ended. In
this, as in the pre-
ceding play, the
author took a pic-
turesque role. Lionel
Shave’s little comedy
“A Sirius Cove”
was a good-humored
essay in social satire,
though the denoue-
ment signalled itself
early in the proceed-
ings. Shortest and
best adapted to the
stage was Norah
Kelly’s “The Rose,”
in which characters
are depicted in a
few sure strokes and
the climax is cleverly
built up. Acting
throughout the even-
ing was a bit above
average amateur
standard. Staging left
a lot to the imagi-
nation. Other nights
of the week were de-
voted to imported
plays, interspersed
with songs and reci-
tations.
* * *!*
“Lady Precious
Stream,” a Chinese
play done into Eng-
lish, presented by the
Independent Theatre
Players at Sydney
Savoy on Saturday,
followed Chinese
stage conventions.
The same setting
served four acts and eight scenes, and
the audience was required to imagine
that it represented, among other places,
a palace garden, a cave, an emperor’s
audience-room and a mountain pass.
Arthur Collins, as the Honorable Reader,
appeared at the beginning of each scene
and told the audience the location, time
of action and the off-stage movements of
various * characters, venturing an occa-
sional humorous prophecy. Two property
men remained on the stage throughout.
Marie Rosenfeld was Precious Stream,
and William Gates, Eddie Finn, William
Rees, Mabel Gallichan and Nancy
Stuart-Gurr filled other parts capably.
Doris Fitton was the producer, and the
costumes—the joint work of Harold
Abbott, Enid Lorimer and Jocelyn Brown
—were a delightful feature.
■ *!« •£•
Since Balfe, Wallace and Sullivan no
British writer of opera has achieved out-
standing popular success. German came


Aiding Health for over
5 CENTURIES
"Since the year 1411 'Celestins’ Vichy Water
has been renowned for its health-giving
properties.”
It is a natural water from the famous Vichy
Spring, and if taken regularly, ensures the
correct functioning of the kidneys and
liver, and happily aids the stomach.
"Celestins” Vichy Water is best taken neat,
but is delicious with Whisky, Lemon, Milk
or Wine.
Owned and guaranteed by the State of
France, "Celestins” Vichy Water is bottled
at its source under the strict supervision of
the French Government.
Sole Australian Agent:
MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel.: BW 1017.
CELESTINS
WATER
VICHY
1.145
*ANCI
rMM
30 n.ii.
cleanses the
KIDNEYS & LIVER
*J ♦
PICTURE
Th
(he Princess Charming
of the Screen Oj
in her first £100,00
World Standard Production/
B.i.P.
presents
m
%
an
Heading a huge cast in
a gay, romantic musra*
fantasy.
V
m
w
At last! They’ve
given this radiant
star a picture
worthy of her
great artistry.
Tv fSjpl
Played against a thrill-
ing background of life
and intrigue in the days
of Napoleon.
JM—h
WORLD STflllDRRD PRODUCTIONS
near it with “Tom Jones” and “Merrie
England,” but these operettas are now
well-nigh forgotten. Equally submerged
by indifference has been Villiers Stan-
ford’s “Shamus O’Brien,” written forty
years ago. This was given at Sydney
Con. Hall by operatic and orchestral
students on Saturday night. Dramatically
the material is excellent; there is plenty
of melody, and the choral and orchestral
scoring is masterly. The performance
gave Jean Watson, Dora Norris, David
Barwell, Ambrose Bourke, John O’Reilly
and Robert Scott opportunities to use
pleasant voices, and chorus and orchestra
did well. As usual on such occasions,
the singing was much better than the
acting.
4* *i* 4* 4*
A play of three acts with only two
characters would seem incredible. That
it should consist wholly of tragedy, with
not one line of comedy to relieve it,
would seem to make it impossible. Yet
“The Glove,” by a Hungarian play-
wright, produced at Melbourne Comedy
by the Gregan McMahon Players, is not
an impossible play, though it is too long-
drawn-out, its tension being a strain on
the audience as well as on the actors.
The characters are a man and his wife,
and the play opens with the woman re-
turning to their home just after she has
shot and killed a man who doped and
seduced her and tangled her with obliga-
tions so that he could secure informa-
tion for political purposes. The husband
is associated with the revolutionary party,
and, as the dead man was a leader on
the Conservative side, he falls under sus-
picion. A net of circumstantial evidence
slowly closes round him, and firfally,
when a glove is found near the spot
marked X, and one of his only pair is
missing, the wife confesses. They leave
the stage, and two shots are heard just as
the radio announces that the glove has
turned out to be somebody else’s. Doreen
Berry, a local girl, just out of her teens,
plays the woman so well as to hold the
interest of the audience throughout.
Norman Shepherd as the husband gives
a finished study of a man devoted to
his cause and to his wife.
Current Artbursts
Material for Nancy Goldfinch’s show
of oils and water-colors at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, was gleaned in
Scotland, Yorkshire, Cornwall, London
and Bruges, but the geographical source
of these very broadly impressionistic
studies in color and design is in but a
few cases of any significance. Miss Gold-
finch has an eye for the essentials in a
scene and a sense of the pictorial. She
is particularly successful in her treatment
of water, and “Caledonian Canal” in oHs
and “St. Ives, Cornwall,” in water-color
are for that reason among the most pleas-
ing of her offerings.
-i- 4. a.
Forty years ago a young student at
Melbourne National Gallery named
Meyer Blashki astonished the art-lovers
of his city by the original, almost revolu-
tionary, methods he adopted in his char-
coal studies. While his methods were
new, his drawing was sound —so sound
that he was regarded as a certainty for
the Travelling Scholarship. But before
this came round Blashki left Australia,
and since that date has been busy acquir-
ing a reputation in the art centres of
Europe and America, having renamed
himself Miles Evergood. Now in Mel-
bourne on his second visit to Australia
in recent years, the painter has a show
at the Athenaeum. Evergood adheres to
no school. In the landscapes, portraits
and flower-pieces he exhibits, the cour-
ageous use of color is an outstanding
feature. He harmonises tints which
would seem to defy peaceful asso-
ciation, and he lays on his paint
largely with the palette knife. “Water-
hole at Mudgee,” “The Old Creek”
and “Narrabeen Lakes” are repre-
sentative of Evergood’s most brilliant
coloring ; “Silver Spring” and “Summer
Idyll” present the greens of Corot, and
a sombre mood is reflected in two or
three beachside views. Of the portraits
that; of Mrs. Evergood is notable. The
floral pieces are interesting by reason of
their arrangement of colors and a sug-
gestion of translucency.
*!* *l* *!* -I*
At Melbourne Athemeum, Miss A. M.
E Bale and Rose A. Walker are holding
a joint exhibition. Miss Bale’s contribu-
tion, which occupies the major part of
the watl space, consists of 70 pictures—
landscapes, portraits, flower pieces and
figure compositions; of these, the
landscapes and the flower pieces reveal
the soundest treatment. “Trees at Golden
Point” is a gem, and rare delicacy of
color and touch is shown in “The Lilac
Bush” and “The Cherry Hedge.” Of
the numerous still-life subjects, the
most attractive is probably “Autumn
Bunch,” depicting a gloriously harmon-
ising mass of colors. Miss Walker uses
water-color as most artists use oils, and
the effect is not, on the whole, satisfac-
tory. Where she has abandoned this
method, as in “Flower Pots” and “The
Baby,” she has produced work of con-
siderable beauty.


IN various parts of the State are extensive de-
posits of limestone and shale, and from these
sources come the raw materials necessarv in the
manufacture of cement.
The cement industry has made steady progress
in the past few years . . . and the practice of using
cement in the building of modern homes has
helped to swell the State's annual output of this
product, as well as providing employment both
directly and indirectly for many thousands.
In 1934-35 more than 250,000 tons of cement
were produced in New South Wales at a total value
of nearly £1,000,000.
L La* Letted.
Thousands of home-builders in New South
Wales have benefited by the advice and assistance
of the Rural Bank, an institution which depends
on its own resources and on the support and co-
operation of the public for funds to make the credit
possible. Fixed deposits are accepted and cheque
accounts opened for any reputable person, com-
pany, firm or society.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE : 14 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
SYDNEY BRANCH : 3SO GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN (President). H. ROGERS. P. KEARNS
Renowned
The Hotel Mansions is known far and wide fo*
its hospitality, excellent service and cuisine.
“Our guests are always right” and smiling
service is our unvarying policy I
The most central Hotel in the city. Reserva
tions day and night—ever at your service.
King’s Cross. Sydney. ’Phones: F 2191 (14 lines).
*3^
m
“TRITON”
Vertical Plunger Pump
This pump has been
specially built for ser-
vices where only a small
unit is needed.
Arranged for lin. suction
and delivery pipes.
Normal speed approx.
300 r.p.m., and at this
speed capacity is 6 gal-
lons per minute. Pump
can be operated slower
or slightly faster if re-
quired —capacity varying
accordingly. Can be
supplied for belt, chain
or gear drive.
Requires little attention;
practically noiseless.
Normal power required
to drive, up to \ h.p.
Piping and Fit-
tings Supplied at
Lowest Current
Rates.
A NEAT, COMPACT PUMP
Overall Height, inches.
Large
Pump
Catalogue
Free on
Request
c
Proprietary Limited
Hydraulic
RAMS
Permit Continuous
Automatic Pumping.
Our “Reliance” Rams are
self-acting Pumps which use
the momentum of a slight
fall of water to an elevated
position. Cost nothing to
run. Once started need no
further attention.
Obtainable in various sizes
and capacities.
Prices and full particulars
on request.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
551-566 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
533 Murray Street, Perth.
10 6 12.30 till 2. 0 p.m 10/6
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS DINNER.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
- - Call, Write or Phone (YI4601), for Reservations.
CHRISTMAS TEA —A LA CARTE —5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
W. H. RAYNER, Manager.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Where Are the Harvesters?
At harvest-time a neighboring Gunne-
dah (N.S.W.) farmer formerly employed
nine men, as well as a girl in the house.
Three men drove harvesters, three sewed
bags, one carted wheat, one helped to
load and did the horse-work and one
milked cows, tended sheep and so forth.
This time, outside the family, not one
man is employed. An auto-header has
replaced the harvesters; the bags are
skewered at the tojp (not sewn), and are
then rushed to the silo per motor, where
they are emptied by two men —there used
to be 20.
Where are all these displaced men and
their families? We need more Stewarts
(B. 13/11/’35), more sympathetic editors
and more Tiburons. — Sambo (N.S.W.).
Stakhanov
Russian papers tell the real story of
Stakhanov (B. 27/11 /’35). He has de-
vised a new method of getting out coal
by stoping which enables an output
hitherto visionary. The coal is not
hewn—is simply broken out of the
face in such a way that it can
be loaded into the skips. The system
threatens to revolutionise coal-getting all
the world over, as it increases output
twentyfold.— Eric the Red (Vic.).
South Africa Is Different
Australia has something to learn from
South Africa in respect to foresight and
co-ordination. There is no squabble in
the S.A. Union (note that it is a Union,
not a Federation) regarding train and
road transport. All forms of transport,
save private cars and rickshaws, are State-
owned and State-operated. The one
administration —South African Railways
and Harbors —controls rail and road
transport, airways, grain elevators, minor
shipping and harbors, enabling adequate
organisation and saving many millions
which here are frittered away in light-
ing and duplication.— Uitlander (Vic.).
Russian Gold
Gold-production is helping the U.S.S.R.
out of its difficulties, or some of them—
as, undertaken on the lines proposed by
Dr. Rivett, it could help us out of most
of ours.
For the year to November 28, the
U.S.S.R. claims to have produced 24 p.c.
more than in 1934 and 79 p.c. more than
in 1933. It threatens to challenge South
Africa’s supremacy, and, though its ore-
bodies may be inferior, it has a far
greater supply of labor even more docile
and probably as cheap In addition, the
U.S.S.R. has some ot the worlds greatest
oil-wells and forests, its largest tract of
wheatgrowing land and vast supplies of
coal and base metals. And during the
glorious revolution the predominant
party seized all private property and re-
pudiated its internal and foreign debts.
With all these advantages, if there were
anything in Communism, its people
should be the nchesl and happiest m the
world. Yet returning politicians of both
parties agree that nowhere m then■ travels
fn loh y^Sr^.S r
and not the country or the people.-
Humpy (O)
California s Way
A recent decision that the 44-hour
week may be worked in five days or five
and a half days will probably prove
satisfactory, despite the protests of
unions.
California has a 48-hour week, but the
employer is entitled to spread his 48 hours
as he likes. As a result some shops are
closed during the mornings and open at
nights ; some even have their businesses
Somg full speed ahead on Sunday morn-
ig within the ]aw There ar£ evasions>
course> but the .evaders are dealt with
harshly. M. G. (Vic.).
Milk-Producers and -Distributors
Victorian milk-producers assert that
they have been crucified to provide a
profit for distributors under the Milk
jj oar( j } anc j are ( n a condition of revolt
a g a j nst the administration. According to
(h< . chairman of a recent confere nce, Mel-
spends more , han f 2 000 00 0 a
year on milk ; of this approximately 43
P er “"*• ««?, >° P rod “s ers and 57 per
cent. to distributors. The farmers have
more capital invested in the industry than
the distributors, and work far longer
hours. Retailed milk costs the consumer
2s. 2d. a gallon ; of this the farmer re-
ceives 10d., out of which he has to pay
freight.
The immense loss is probably due to
the overlapping of deliveries, which is a
blot on the distribution of milk all the
world over. — Grasspan (Vic.).


SPECIAL CHRISTMAS OFFER!
Razor Handles Engraved
FREE
for every purchaser' of a Plum
Razor before Christmas. Order by
post if unable to call.
A PLUM RAZOR WITH GUARD
combines the advantages of a “Safety” with-
out renewal of blades. All Plum Razors
are guaranteed and kept in order for two
years free of charge.
Selected Steel 12/6 each
Extra Quality Steel 15/6 „
Superfine Steel 21/- „
7-day Sets 85/-, 100/- and 140/-
Guards 3/6 extra. All post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street Sydney
T
COLON I A L
MUTUAL
NEWS
Find £1,986 at once!
—an urgent and pressing debt which must be
paid . . . you can’t do it!
Yet this was the problem confronting the family of a former
well-known Melbourne architect, who died suddenly while on a
business trip overseas.
Probate Duties on his estate, which consisted almost entirely of
property and shares, amounted to £1,986.
But for the fact that his life was assured by a Colonial Mutual Life
Probate Policy, it would have been necessary to sacrifice his home
and other assets for a fraction of their true value in order to
provide the necessary cash.
TO
SOLD
auction
Obtain particulars now of this policy, which will guarantee
immediate cash payment of Probate Duties on your estate
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. J. Anderson, Manager.
Head Office: Melbourne. Branches in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Tasmania, New Zealand, South Africa and London.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Vale, F. C. Urquhart!
“El V.”: F. C. Urquhart, just dead,
outlived nearly all his fellow-officers of
the old-time Queensland Mounted Police.
Born in 1858, he was a Sussex man,
a public-school boy —Felstead. An
early apprenticeship to the sea and ex-
perience on stations and sugar farms and
in the Queensland Telegraph Department
of the mid-'seventies, when lines were
being pushed into the bush, made him
just the sort of cadet the mounted
police wanted.
He was accounted, in those days, the
handsomest youngster in the force —a
battered visage spoilt that reputation
later on —and the State’s best all-round
horseman. He was a noted shot, and i
gift of handling the savage made his
patrol a crack lot.
He was the first man to take a wheeled
vehicle west of the Selwyns, across the
route which the London mail flies every
day, and he had charge of the first old
border station at the ’Dangie. In those
days, gold was petering out and the
Chinese were pouring across the Barkly
and down the James to the Georgina.
How they got across nobody knew.
They used to arrive off 80-mile dry stages
as skeletons, and, having fed them, he
employed them to build the old fort
which still stands.
For a decade Urquhart was “haunted
by Chinese.” On the Palmer, whither he
took his black police, he had a Chinese
cook. One day John disappeared. There
was a rich scent leading to a native camp.
In the camp was a fire, and on the fire
was a utensil looted from a magistrate;
John’s feet were boiling in it with some-
body else’s sweet potatoes. “They looked
very succulent,” was the finder’s com-
ment when he told the story.
Urquhart got to know the Gulf like
the palm of his hand, and he was the first
man on the scene of the wreck of the
Quetta in 1890. He was always haunted
by that night’s adventure.
He was transferred to headquarters.
In 1897 he became head of the Queens-
land C.I. branch, and in 1901 had charge
of police arrangements when the present
King visited Australia. In later years,
he was largely responsible for making
the “Queensland Mounted” the smartly-
turned-out force it was; and in 1917
he became Commissioner.
1 was through a good many riots and
disturbances with him, and nothing ever
seemed to perturb him. The only time
I ever saw him annoyed was during the
1912 tramway strike in Brisbane when
somebody struck a horse with a stone.
When in the 1919 Russian riots, with re-
volvers popping in the street, he stood
beside the magistrate who was reading
the Riot Act, the crowd drove the
bayonet line forward and a blade pierced
his leg. “The devils have spoilt my
trousers,” he said quietly, and went on
calmly directing affairs.
In 1921 he retired, and the Common-
wealth Government, following the Gil-
ruth incident, sent him to the N.T. as
Administrator. He had a hard time
there. At the first reception which he
gave, agitators posted men to distribute
literature in the Residency grounds in-
forming guests that they were eating the
bread of tyranny. F.C. personally threw
them out. He was prosecuted, and a
“jury” found him guilty of “assault.”
Followed events during which the jury
system was abolished.
Urquhart was told that he would be
deported by a certain steamer. On that
day Darwin seemed normal—there were
no patrols in the streets, as there had
been in former disturbances of the kind
—but there was a very determined but
unattended old man in a battered hat
and shirtsleeves—for that was his
normal garb—with an ancient black-
police Martini carbine in the crook of
his arm. He was not deported. But
the red-tape got too much for him, and
at the end of 1925 he returned to
Brisbane,
He was no mean rhymster, and some
of his verse appears in Queensland
anthologies. And to the end he was an
essentially simple man. He could become
far more excited about catching a six-
inch bream on a hand-line than he did
about any riot. His eldest son was one
of the first Duntroon cadets to serve in
the war —with the 3rd F.A. Brigade, in
which he became a major at 24.
“J.W.”: Many a traveller is likely to
lose a feed through the total protection
of the plain-turkey—it is now worth a
£2O fine to kill one. At one time the
bird was a sure standby in Central
Queensland. In any day’s march you
were sure to see him standing in his curi-
ous listening attitude beside the track
waiting to be murdered. At the right
age and properly killed, there was not
much game in Australia to beat him,
THE GIRL WHO PUT THE “IT” IN “GIBBIT”
boiled, fried or roasted ; but the motor-
ist and the wild cat and increasing fences
have helped to thin him out, and graziers
who understand his habits prefer him
alive. He is death on certain insects, and,
like most other indigenous birds and
animals, plays a useful part in the
economy of the inland.
“Dungeness”: On November 20, with
the pressing of a button at Kuranda
(N.Q.), the first hydro-electric undertak-
ing in tropical Australia, on the Barron,
above Cairns, began to operate. In
a vault cut in the great rock walls which
send the river crashing down for 800 ft.
are two 2000-h.p. turbines, with room for
a third. Their power will serve a wide
area of industrial activity—sugar, dairy-
ing, mineral, agriculture and pastoral—
throughout the Atherton Tableland and
the extensive fertile plains between it and
the coast, in addition to supplying Cairns
and the Tableland towns. The cost has
been round about £155,000, and it has
taken three years and three months to
instal. The project is the outcome of
more than 30 years of patient and per-
sistent local effort, and it is certain to be
followed by similar undertakings which
will open up extensive fertile areas west-
ward of the Atherton country.
* * # *
“X.T.”:
A man from the Gulf who has not
seen Sydney for 12 years has reminded
me that northern Christmases are not what
they used to be when we were young enough
to be proud of our new beards. In 1910 we
had the celebration together outside a n,-w. Q.
township. On Christmas Eve a local ancient
was inconsiderate enough to die, but by
general vote it was agreed that it would be
unkind not to let the old man spend a last
Yuletide above ground. On Christmas after-
noon the company requisitioned the local shire’s
only dray and started for the graveside in a
somewhat uncertain procession. Somebody, I
remember, kept ejaculating: “When are we
going to get a drink”; to which the reply
was “Hush! Don’t you know you’re at a
blanky funeral?” As the improvised parson had
no prayer-book he read in a loud voice that
chapter of Isaiah which deals with the lion
lying down with the lamb. Somebody said
after the event “No more funerals for me!”
but the company, poor lads, were soon to
have more funerals than they guessed. One
went ashore at Anzac, and was never seen
again; another is buried near Romani, and
two more fell at Windmill Hill.
“Australia Jane’s” Budget
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Munro had their
golden-wedding celebration last week,
and sons Roy (Boombah) and Ranald
(Whyenbah) and daughters Mrs. Jack
Chandler and Mrs. Clive Reid rallied
round to wish their parents many happy
returns of the day.
Mrs. Ross Munro was the eldest
daughter of the Dugald Camerons, who
took up Camlet station, St. George, 60
years ago. She met her husband when,
as a young man, he came up to Boorn-
bah, which was the family home until
20 years ago. Two sons, Colin and
Keith, who were in the Air Force, were
killed in France.
The Leader of the Opposition, A. E.
Moore, welcomed his mother when that
wonderful old lady came to Brisbane in
the Maloja. She spent most of her time
on the voyage playing bridge. Her
father. Captain Newman, was one of
Maoriland’s pioneers —he settled in
Hawke's Bay. He was largely instrumen-
tal in naming Napier after his old O.C.
in India, Sir Charles Napier. Mrs. A. E.
Moore and son Euston went over to
M.L. to meet Mrs. Moore, senior, and
returned with her in the Maloja.
Four bridesmaids walked behind Doris,
daughter of the Basil Porters, New Farm,
when she glided up the aisle at St.
Stephen’s Cathedral to meet Pat, son of
Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Noone, Innisfail.
The bridal gown was of magnolia satin,
and Mrs. John Magee’s tulle veil was
lent for the occasion. Mena Noone,
Evelyn Porter, Mary Porter and Dorothy
Corser were ’maids, all wearing coral-
pink and matching halo hats.
A. D. Walsh has retired from the
management of Dalgetys, and the staff
made him a presentation. Mrs. Walsh
was entertained at afternoon-tea at
Rowe’s by the wives of Dalgetys’ senior
officers, and received a basket of pink
carnations and delphiniums. Mrs. F. J.
Wilson was hostess.
Peggy Chauncey, one of Brisbane’s
leading ballerinas, is off to London on
a brief visit. She will stay with mem-
bers of the Russian Ballet while in Lon-
don—she was one of Pavlova’s pupils
—and also will study at Anna Pruzina’s
school. Peggy’s pupils farewelled her
at her studio, and a gift of a rug will
be handed over before she sails.
Betty Bannatyne de Burgh Persse,
twin daughter of Mr. and Mrs. de Burgh
Persse, of Wyambyn, Beaudesert, who
went abroad under the wing of Mrs.
Dick Casey, of Melbourne, some moons
ago, has announced her engagement to
Lieut.-Col. William Tuxford Howe, of
Quetta, India.
Fifty-seven years ago the foundation-
stone of St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane,
was laid. To celebrate the anniversary
of the ceremony there was a garden-party
and bazaar, opened by Dean Barrett.
Proceeds went to mission funds.
The Toowoomba repertory players
soon dispersed the slight atmosphere of
“let’s encourage the poor dears” which
marked the opening scenes of their first
appearance in Brisbane in Priestley’s
“Dangerous Corner.” The show was well
staged and cleverly acted. In fact, the
Toowoomba society proved itself quite
the equal of its much older associate in
Brisbane. After the show there was a
supper-party, but it must have ended
early, as most of the visitors went on
to dance at Lennon’s or the Bellevue.
When Dr. Stanley Bradfield married
Enid, youngest daughter of John Alt, of
Gordon, at the Shore chapel, he was the
second member of his family to sign that
register this year. Dr. and Mrs. J. C.
Bradfield went to see the knot tied. Jack
Alt gave his sister away, and Mrs. E.
Costello, of Thane, lent the lace veil that
the bride wore.
The Brisbane Grammar School Old
Girls’ Association gave a party as the
final gathering for the year. There was
a treasure-hunt, and all the clues were
taken from nursery rhymes. All the girls
were in fancy dress, and the headmistress,
Miss K. M. Lilley, president of the asso-
ciation, was hostess.


ļ
The Ideal Christmas Gift
“A Perfect Present"
(YARD OF LEAD)
PAItMT NT 41*767 (JOS7J/J4)
PERFECT-ACTION PENCIL
CONTAINS TWELVE REFILLS, EACH OF 3-INCH LENGTH
PROPELS REPELS EXPELS
“YARD-O-LED” HAS AN ABSOLUTELY RIGID
POINT—ITS YARD OF LEAD LASTS 3 YEARS
Beautifully made by expert British workmen, the
“Yard-O-Led” Pencil is a gift that you will be proud to
give, and the recipient extremely pleased to receive.
The Engine Turnings are a beautiful example of Goldsmith’s
Art.
PRICES:
Sterling Silver:—From 16/6 to 20/- Each
18ct. Rolled Gold—From 22/6 to 26/- Each
jgy—l| ~mm -WpJJ ■ I
PATENT N? 422767 (20573/^4)
Illustrations pre Actual Size
PRICES:
Sterling Silver:—From 15/- to 16/6 Each
18ct. Rolled Gold:—From 18/6 to 21/- Each
Obtainable from All Jewellers, Stationers and Stores
Australian Agents:
WILKINSON, BEALE & TINDLEY PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Banish BACKACHE & BLADDER
WEAKNESS-this quick new way
ss The intestinal tract is the most prolific source of disease”
states Prof. K. Schmeidlcr, the famous German Doctor.
“A cruel annoyance” is prob-
ably the best way to describe
either backache or bladder
weakness. Movement is pain-
ful and sleep at night is dis-
turbed by constantly having
to get up. You feel depressed,
you have no vitality, your
back, legs and feet ache, you
have frequent
headaches. Urina-
tion is often smart
and painful. But
these troubles are
now rapidly ban-
ished because
science has discovered that
the basic cause of backache,
kidney and bladder weakness
can be traced to the physical
reason for self-poisoning, i.e.,
a clogged colon.
The Cause of Autoxima
The colon, the most important part
of the intestinal tract, has two
functions. It must remove essen-
tial minerals from passing food,
and it must see that all waste mat-
ter is promptly ejected from the
body. Modern foods and feeding
give insufficient exercise to the
colon walls, and they lose their
power of normal movement. Soon
the walls fail to extract the essential
minerals and fail to eject the de-
caying waste. The folds become
clogged with putrefying matter.
Virulent poisons and bacteria form
and seep into the bloodstream.
The entire system is attacked —
every important organ in your
body is undermined by autoxima,
i.e., self-poisoning.
Clogged Colon
ľ
Long Standing Case Relieved
“I have much pleasure in telling
you tvlict COLOSEPTIC has
done for me. It has cured me
of long standing weakness in
kidney and bladder. I could not
walk any distance with pleasure
and my rest was disturbed at
night. I\'ow I can say in truth
that COLOSEPTIC has done its
work—l am cured. What joy to
go out and walk without trouble
now.” — Mr. E.A.S., Feilding.
FREE
This Absorbing 1
Book
Mail coupon to-day for a demon-
stration jar of COLOSEPTIC,
and you will receive, under
plain cover, by return mail, a
book telling you all about Au-
toxima, an intimate and highly
important subject. The book is
absolutely FREE—
so fill in and mail
the coupon now.
A clogged colon is one of the
prices we pay for civilization.
The modern foods we eat
make it more and more diffi-
cult to maintain the active
functioning of the colon.
Until,your clogged colon is
cleansed and revitalised and
the cause of autoxima thus
removed, you can-
not hope for per-
manent relief from
many ills. Science
has discovered a
new and effective
remedy. It’s name
is COLOSEPTIC (Wayne’s
Improved Formula).
Coloseptic’s Vitalizing Action
To regain perfect health you must
remove the encrustations which
line your colon. Normal bowel
movements cannot do this, the
walls have become too sluggish,
and opening medicines only purge
the lower end of the colon. Look
at the two illustrations and see
how COLOSEPTIC clears your
colon. It tones up the walls, giv-
ing back their power of normal
movement, it corrects acid condi-
tions, and stimulates the action of
the pores of the skin, the respira-
tory system, and the kidneys—the
three other important organs which
eliminate poisons from your sys-
tem. Remove the main cause of
disease by drinking COLOSEPTIC
and enjoy perfect health ALWAYS.
\(i 3/a/y
Vnclogged Colon
CUP OUT
D 3.
; COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
' Please send me your FREE book on
■ Autoxima. Also send me my demon-
■ stration jar of COLOSEPTIC, for
JJ which I enclose 1/- in penny stamps.
■ NAME
; ADDRESS —
COLOSE
(AUSTRALIA
r j'ORINK
Coloseptic
(WAYNES IMPROVE D 1 F 0 H M It LA )
Sfor internal cleanness
At all CHEMISTS. If unobtainable locally write to
COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) LTD., 26 O'Connell St., Sydney.
Positions Vacant.
APPLICATIONS INVITED POSITION
BOOKKEEPER - SECRETARY LARGE
PASTORAL COMPANY SOUTH-WESTERN
QUEENSLAND. SUCCESSFUL APPLI-
CANT MUST HAVE PASTORAL EXPERI-
ENCE AND TAKE INTEREST IN HOME-
STEAD. PERMANENT POSITION, GOOD
SALARY AND INSIDE LIVING FOR
RIGHT MAN. APPLY “BOOKKEEPER,”
BOX 247 D, G.P.0., BRISBANE.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
JAMES ALEXANDER BOND, the son of
Frank Edward Bond, formerly of the Salvation
Army Hostel, Albion Street, Sydney, who died
as the result of an accident in Sydney on
24th June, 1933, is asked to communicate with
The Union Trustee Company of Australia,
Ltd., 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1126 of 1935.
BETWEEN ROSA LAURA SWEBECK Peti-
JOHN WILLIAM SWEBECK
Respondent.
TO JOHN WILLIAM SWEBECK late of
Raymond Terrace via Hexham in the
State of New South Wales and late of 93
Cambridge Street Stanmore near Sydney
in the said State. '
TAKE NOTICE that the said ROSA
LAURA SWEBECK has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of wilful desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-first day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-six and in the
event of you not doing so in the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
uetitioner filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned Solicitors free of
charge. . , _ ,
DATED this Twenty-eighth day or
November One thousand nine hundred afld
thirty-five.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ABRAM LANDA & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 148 Phillip Street, Sydney.
ŀ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,.
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Beesknees”: “Selma’s” aspiring
singer who was sued for “floral tributes”
supplied to her order at her one and
only recital (B. 4/12/’35) was only fol-
lowing an established practice in amateur
theatrical ranks. A girl tells me that
before a first night she is kept
busy preparing bouquets and baskets of
flowers for herself. “We all do it,” she
frankly explained. “You see, we’d feel
sore if we didn’t get flowers, and so we
make sure of it.”
* * * *
“Double Express”: “Lokuhu’s” wound
with an “explosive” bullet (B. 4/12/’35)
was probably due to the nickel jacket of
an ordinary projectile stripping dur-
ing flight, after a ricochet or on strik-
ing a button or bone. Wounds of this
kind were common enough on all fronts.
So far all the protagonists of explosive
bullets can produce in proof are “tracer”
bullets or the very short-lived Pomeroy
incendiary bullet designed for setting fire
to the gas of Zeppelins. If any party
to the argument can produce an “explo -
sive” bullet and leave it at The Bulletin
office for examination I should be
eternally grateful.
* * * *
“Como”: Mob-hysteria seldom affects
people when real danger threatens. Some
years ago I happened to be on the spot
shortly after a mad Chinaman had fired
half a dozen shots into a religious gather-
ing near Sydney Central Station. All the
possible victims took it calmly enough ;
and, of the street pedestrians who had to
face the second loading, the only one
who bothered was the youth who stopped
one of the bullets with his thigh. The
Chow himself took refuge in a shack
in one of the back streets. The police
laid siege, but nobody took any chances
until a civilian, a sombre giant of Tom
Mix aspect, borrowed a gun, walked up
to the house and pumped sufficient lead
into the maniac to kill him. After observ-
ing “I’m sorry, old Chink, but I had to
do it,” the melodramatic stranger an-
nounced himself as an ex-sheriff from
Arizona, and, handing out a tiny visiting
card inscribed “James Ryan—Anywhere,
Everywhere,” rushed off to the newspaper
offices to be interviewed and photo-
graphed.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: I do not care for Char-
treuse, but I hope that the picturesque
old monastery and its smiling monks
have not suffered harm from the catas-
trophe which has destroyed their prin-
cipal means of support (B. 4/12/’35).
Walking up there from Grenoble, I once
spent a happy day. Surprisingly, one
of the monks was an Australian, born
in Melbourne. More surprisingly still,
he had never tasted the liqueur!
* * * *
In N. S. Wales under the New Tyranny
there are several and divers ways in
which worthy people can be ruined.
Foster, M.L.A., has published particulars
of a case in which a woman living apart
from her husband is threatened with
bankruptcy for failure to pay four taxes
on income received from him and
already taxed • in his hands. They
separated in June, 1925, and she re-
ceived a weekly allowance of £B-odd
until 1931, when it was increased by £2
to pay for the schooling of a daughter,
then 10 years old. The lady was told
she need not put' in an income-tax
return, but, voluntarily submitting one
in 1930, was socked with a demand for
£ll4—State tax, £2B; reiiet-tax, £l6;
Federal taxes, £7O. After argument, dur-
ing which she unavailingly appealed to
the State Court of Review, she was
served with demands for other taxes
amounting altogether to £341, and
ordered to pay sixteen fines. The Federal
people have wiped off £5O and have
passed a law granting tax-relief in the
case of wives separated from their hus-
bands ; but from the Stevens Govern-
ment the victim has received nothing but
offers of sympathy—all it ever offers in
these cases.


ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIaR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Kesorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
BRANDAIJERS
m
ft*
%
'PENS
They glide over
the roughest
paper without a
single scratch or spurt. Ask your
storekeeper for assorted sample box
C. BRANDAUER & CO., Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
l
. .
~7t&xt -to- ynu4&$f
ZMe. B.V.DSt."
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
rut
fO«
IRMA
RllMl
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
B.V.D
• UNDERWEAR
Tile Kiehar<is«n Chain Hotel
11
‘ f
ia
*35
! if
Hi !’]
!!!»«! fi
?lrjr
n
rU
II 31
*—SnM
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCERSTREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from.. 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Aeroplanes showered flowers and
grasses on Helen Twelvetrees as the
Monterey came up the Harbor. A
launch, almost bowed beneath the weight
of a gigantic horseshoe, ploughed out to
the ship, and heaved its blooming mascot
on the liner’s decks. Helen, small and
fair, her snug black satin suit positively
dripping monkey fur from its shoulders,
later on posed for the camera under
the good-luck sign with its legend
“Thoroughbred.”
Helen is to play the part of an Aus-
tralian girl in a racing story with this
title. This aims at showing the station
and sporting life of this continent, and
with the American star in the lead the
management expects to secure the neces-
sary international market. From the
time the wharf was reached Miss
Twelvetrees was surrounded by a body-
guard of Union Theatre ushers in their
horizon-blue uniforms. Since then
private secretaries and social secretaries
have revolved about her, Stuart Doyle
has hovered a benign guardian angel,
and publicity man Cam Pratt has kept
a stern lookout, as it were, from the
crow’s nest. Ken Hall has loomed large
on the horizon.
The star accepts the homage with a
detached and modest air. She appeared
alike unruffled by the Mayoral kiss, the
Millions Club and the Arts Club lunches,
the party for the Kindergartens, and the
hundred and one other claims on her
time and attention. Her clothes are not
noisy—they are rather simple—and so
far she has not released any styles un-
usual in Sydney. Her accent (she made
a speech at the Millions Club) is any-
thing but' aggressively American. Her
eyes are lovely ; her figure pretty and
slim. Nearly 500 went to the Arts
Club luncheon (over 300 in the
dining-room, more than 100 in the ball-
room) in the hope of seeing her. She
arrived almost an hour late, and after
the speeches below was whisked in and
out of the upstairs room. She must
think this is the city of perpetual motion.
Her temporary home is a flat at Bellevue
Hill.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite was talk-
ing of the child of Helen Twelvetrees
and husband Frank Woody. She says
she expects he is a chip off the old
blocks.
The Newcastle Tasmanian Association
may not be very large, but it is very en-
thusiastic. The Guy Littlers were in com-
mand of the association’s third dinner,
and a contingent from Sydney swelled
the numbers to a good roomful. Mrs.
Donnelly, wife of Sydney’s official repre-
sentative, wore black taffeta with a be-
coming wide white berthe ; the Snowden
lady wore sapphire velvet and brought
daughter Jean. Major Conder travelled
1200 miles to catch this party, bringing
with him Mr. Watson, a Broken Hill
bank manager.
All in virginal white the students of
the Kindergarten and Preparatory
Teachers’ College made singing entry to
the Con. one night last week. The 92,
gravely gay, sang their college song .as
they slowly paced into position on the
stage. The 28 girls who carried pink-
and-blue posies were this year’s gradu-
ates, so naturally they took precedence.
Lady Hore-Ruthven came along to hand
out the diplomas, and top-dressed her
black-and-white chiffons with a cape of
fluffy black tulle. Peter Board, chair-
man of the council, and principal of the
college Miss E. M. Slack received their
vice-regal guest. The thirty-fourth
yearly report seemed a very satisfactory
document. Mr. Board has been asso-
ciated with the college for 30 years.
Orchids ranging in price from a shilling
to fifteen shillings formed the spray
(and not a depression-time spray, either)
prepared for the shoulder-straps of Helen
Twelvetrees at the ball in the State ball-
room the other night. Red roses and
red carnations rioted along a long table
in front of her, and here and there be-
witching little flower dolls for ever
smiled. There was nothing about the
cut and design of the pearly satins worn
by the star to make Sydney open its
eyes. It was just a nice frock, and above
it Helen’s head rose, a mass of golden
curls lit by tiny diamond ornaments.
Alexander Gordon's lady was presi-
dent of the committee which was work-
ing on behalf of a Christmas toy fund,
and with her usual attention to detail
had carefully arranged the guest-list in
its proper order of precedence; but
things came a little unstuck in the excite-
ment of an evening that started with an
overflow house and a contingent of
police and blue-clad ushers outside the
entrance, holding back a crowd at once
too patient and over-eijger.
All the film world came to this party—
the Stuart Doyles (her frock was be-
flowered taffeta), the Dan Carrolls, the
Ken Halls. The Bertie Kellys had the
wife of America’s Consul-General Mof-
fitl with them. Mrs. Kelly, used to
ovations from her early stage days, was
•juite unruffled by the wild rush that in
mistake surrounded her rich-looking car
as it reined up before the door.
The blonde Mrs. Fielding Jones scin-
tillated in sapphire-blue sequins ; Justices
Maxwell and Milner Stephen brought
their wives. Anne Gordon, looking
radiant—black and rose and bright green
making her frock as colorful as a bit of
Chinese embroidery—came on late from
doing her bit in Drama Week. Mary
Hordern, in thick ivory silks: Mrs. Dan
Kelly, in her close crop and black laces
very smart ; the Mayoral McElhones;
Mrs. Stevens; Mrs. M. McKay, a flame
of spreading silks and coque feathers ;
and (since matrimony will out) Helen
Twelvetrees’s husband, Frank Woody,
were others glimpsed.
Adman Lionel Shave is a lucky father
to have such a bright-faced daughter to
act as juvenile lead in his plays. Valerie,
tall, starry-eyed and everything that a
teens-old should be, was an orna-
ment to her parent’s one-acter “A Sirius
Cove,” which helped to make up the
bill of the Australian night. Val does
good work with the Players’ Club.
Annette Kellerman writes: At present
I am designing my new ’36 bathing suits,
writing articles for the N.Y. “Telegram,”
spouting over the air thrice weekly, and
lecturing at exclusive female clubs on
everything from travel to “how to look
like a chick when you’re a nice old hen.”
The shows interesting New York are
“Children’s Hour” (unpleasant subject,
but superbly acted) and “Jubilee,” with
Mary Boland (the most scrumptious
thing for a decade, with Mary a
riot’ of fun). Swimmers will be glad
to hear of their idol, Ethelda Bleibtrey.
She is swimming instructress at
the Shelton, where Jimmie and I are
staying. On the thirty-second floor of this
hotel we have a gorgeous gym. overlook-
ing all the city; in the basement a swim-
ming pool whose clear water reminds me
of the Barrier Reef. This is where
Ethelda does her job. She has a six-
year-old daughter, a world champion in
the making. The new Casino de Paris
opened the other night with what is
claimed to be the nudest show outside
Paris. Saw nothing objectionable in it,
though. Here we met Jim and Marion
Harkins, Sydney vaudeville favorites in
’l5.
Patsy (Phoebe Patricia) Dangar, one of
the State’s heiresses and nicest girls, has
announced her engagement to William
Grant Giblin. Her father was Major
C. C. Dangar, of Gostwyck, Uralla ; her
mother is Mrs. Hubert Gordon, of
Neutral Bay. Dayne photograph.
Just about five o’clock the Nellie
Stewart Memorial Fund cabaret cleared
away the teacups and put up the shutters.
The affair had been a success; Helen
Twelvetrees had blown in and out, paus-
ing long enough to make the first stab
at a great' Christmas cake on which
Santa Claus and other Icelandic figures
were apparently snowbound. President
Mrs. W. E. Ardill welcomed the guest
with a sheaf of the impressive gladioli.
Eileen Robinson, dressed in the velvets
and laces, gold curls and befeathered
hat in which Nellie .Stewart charmed an
older generation as Nell Gwyn, was as
delightful as an old miniature. She and
Nell’s daughter Nancye have been friends
since childhood. Nancye was one of the
smartest at the tea-tables, Mrs. Lionel
Dare one of the prettiest. Mrs. Stephen
Herford and Vinia de Loitte were of the
gay. Therese Carmo and Jack Lums-
daine sang, and the Lightfoot-Burlakov
studio supplied the ballets.
Drama Week was a great success, and
of the four nighty the one given over to
Australian plays drew the largest audi-
ence. On the fourth and last perform-
ance, Ethelwyn Kirk presented a set of
Nativity tableaux; Ethelwyn made up
each one of her 30 or more characters,
and never duplicated a type. The Dickens
Society presented Sairey Gamp and
Betsey Prig, Mr. Bumble at his wooing,
poor little Oliver Twist and Fagin, and
made the onlooker realise what a master
mind had given such characters birth.
The winning play in the City of Sydney
Eisteddfod proved a thriller. Clement
Hosking sang songs of other days in the
most pleasing and spirited style. John
Gould and Ruby Rich spoke—Drama
their text. Ruby’s dress, straight from
London, was long, and flowed out from
the waist; it was of black delustred satin
and ended in a swirl of train. Christmas
carols were the last plum in the fare.
The legal Morgan O’Neills are giving
a dance tea on December 21 to an-
nounce daughter Mary’s engagement to
James Munro Gartrell. Mary is a pretty
dark girl addicted to art and dress de-
signing. Her ring is a square-cut sap-
phire entirely surrounded by diamonds.
She lives at Roseville, he in the Western
Suburbs.
Back in Sydney after 12 months in
England and Europe studying massage
and seeing the sights, Annie Laurie Mc-
Garrity finds a kind word to say for
Australia House. As the home from
home in London’s Strand gets a fair
number of brickbats flung at it, Miss
McGarrity’s testimony is worth record-
ing. The Sydney girl left Sydney by the
Port Wellington, on which brother Kelvin
was ship’s doctor. Last week she re-
turned in the Port Alma. Her brother
remains behind for further study.
Municipal Librarian Bertie and John
Sandes were the chief guests when the
Literary Circle of the Lyceum Club sat
down to a Christmas tea about 4 o’clock
last Tuesday. The party was entirely
surrounded by flowers, holly berries and
their shining leaves and lovely Christmas
bush from an old garden at Hunter’s
Hill. Mr. Bertie, who keeps—like Lady
Mary Wortley Montagu of long ago—
a commonplace book full of extracts that
catch his fancy, both grave and gay, gave
about an hour’s most entertaining read-
ing therefrom. Mr. Sandes, in his best
form, proposed a vote of thanks, with
reference to Lord Brassey’s habit of keep-
ing a similar commonplace book. The
nobleman’s jottings ran into many
volumes, indexed so that he could find
suitable quotations for speeches on any
subject from Aaron to Zymology. The
circle presented its president, Miss Cox
Taylor, with a basket of flowers in some
florist’s best manner. Mrs. “Bill” Moore
was eulogistic of the presidential acti-
vities. Winifred Birkett, Mrs. Monckton
(author of The Shuttle of Life) and
about 40 others sipped and applauded.
By this mail came a note from former
Mayoress, Hilda Marks, and appropri-
ately it speaks of drama:
t had a week-end at Stratford-on-Avon
with Sydney’s Elsie Dumolo. It was a con-
ference of the Drama League, which concerns
itself with amateur theatrical societies and
repertory cos., and which is starting a branch
in Australia. There were some very good
speakers. Lord Lytton is the chairman, and
I was introduced to him and had quite a long
conversation, and also met Dame Edith
Lyttleton, Sir Archibald Flower and some of
the other bigwigs of the movement. The
Mayor gave us a reception. I admired and
examined his beautiful gold chain, with a very
large and heavy solid gold medallion, presented
by Sir Arthur Hodgson, five times Mayor of
Stratford, who made his money sheep-farming
in Australia. (So I. was told by the Mayor,
Mr. Sea). We dined at the Red Horse, and
afterwards went to the theatre to see “Barnet’s
Folly.” On the Sunday there was a service in
the chapel and a visit to the theatre to see the
mechanism of the stage—the most up-to-date
in the United Kingdom. I had to leave by a
morning train, as I had an engagement in
London for the Sunday evening. It was
Yeats’s 70th birthday, and the Little Theatre
gave three of his plays to members only—
“ The Pot of Broth,” ‘The Player Queen” and
“The Hour Glass.” Mr. Yeats was there him-
self, but could not be found when the curtain
fell, and they wanted him to make a speech.
How the worker for charity must bless
the shipping companies! Nearly always
a liner can be found in which to stage
a party for a good cause. Last Friday
the Orford played its part. Its decks
were gay with a fashion parade, twirling
ballerinas, a character reader and a con-
juror. In the lounge, heady with gladioli,
carnations and lilies, Evelyn Gardiner
and Winifred Lawson, of the Gilsullivan
co., sang with charm, and Gus Bluett
added a dash of wit. A one-acter, “Cen-
tenary,” by Mrs. Fish, of Tasmania, was
presented by Beryl Bryant. The Blind
Institution will benefit.


DEAFNESS
wm
imm.
m
The New Audi Ear
The Latest American Aid for the
DEAF
No Battery. No Cord. No Noise.
Worn with Light Headband.
The ideal instrument for the moderately
deaf, whether due to catarrh, nerves or
any other cause.
Write for particulars of 10 days’ trial.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
Scientific Instrument Makers and
Opticians,
42 Hunter Bt., SYDNEY. Tel.: 83100.
0M
ft
mmmmm
mm
iH
IlllSlyte champagne
PCiCpOffdS
REIMS
0 R r
SELECTS-?}
S&TA&U* •
L •«
mmmm
N.S.W. Agents, GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
E
m
$
LOTIO
For Irrflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLO EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE &. Co. Ltd. King St. Sydney
MAKE MORE MONEY!
Men or women earn good incomes selling
Gilmour Products.
Highest Quality Essences, Spices, Med l ® l ?®’
Soap Insecticides, F oods, Ointments, l< ol
Preparations, etc. NECESSITIES
IN DEMAND—seII to friends and neighbours
—NO RISK—no capital needed—we can finance
you to buy at manufacturer’s low prices—<
vertising. sales training, everything supplie
PROVED SUCCESS—fuII time pays ta
At 10 WEEKLY. .
Own Your Own Business-
NOTHING MORE ' PERMANENT— state whether
interested full or part time— send your name
and address —receive illustrated booklet a -
information. Address: The ■ lol p ’ atta
Cov.. L,td., Dept. 113, Corner Parramatta
and Pyrmont Bridge Roads, Camperdo >
Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne
Chatter
With pomp and ceremony, with fairies
dancing in front of each flower group,
with a band in scarlet to match the
trappings on the stage, with courtiers,
pages, three trumpeters and the Lord
Chancellor (who commenced his
proclamation with “Be it known to all
ye people”), the Queen of the Violet
was announced the winner of the charity
carnival. The impressive ceremonial,
the climax to two months of hard can-
vassing, was particularly interesting be-
cause until the names and votes were
called no one but two financial officials
knew for certain who was the winning
queen. Paddy Wilkinson’s allotment of
wealthy supporting industries was
mainly responsible for her 1,650,480
penny votes, worth £6877.
After the bewigged Lord Chancellor’s
announcement the winning queen was
escorted to the throne, and her long
violet train was removed to give place
to the scarlet and ermine symbol of
sovereignty. Her gown was of silver
lame, and her maids-in-waiting were in
water-lily-green, tulle with bouffant
skirts and puffed sleeves and violets in
their hair. Rosemary Lyon’s group was
particularly artistic. The tall, dark
Daffodil Queen was in pale-gold taffeta ;
her all-white maids wore veils of tulle,
carried golden lilies and wore smaller
gold lilies bunched high in their hair.
Freda Connolly, in silver, was followed
by attendants in forget-me-not blue
georgette, their frocks cut exactly alike.
Valerie Purves and her rose group were
all pink tulle and fluffiness, two very
small girls being particularly winsome in
frills to their toes. Pat Carnegie also
had children in her entourage —green
tulle wattle sprites and pages in white
satin suits who enjoyed everything
enormously. Pat wore creamy satin,
and her ladies-in-waiting were in pale-
green, with real wattle sprays in their
hair.
Barbara Syme was enthroned under
the canopy for second on the list (Pat
Carnegie earned her canopy also for a
third placing). Miss Syme, very regal
as the Primrose Queen, wore a long-
sleeved gown of ivory taffeta, and her
attendants were in the pastel tint of
their name-flower, with floral posies
over one ear. Edna Carr, wearing palest
daphne-pink satin, was followed by
white-clad attendants who were nearly
all tall young matrons. Each queen
made her entrance at the south doorway
of the Town Hall, and walked the length
of the ballroom while her handmaidens
carried her four yards of train. Coming
down the hall again after the ceremony
the regal lasses carried presentation
bouquets as well as their feather fans.
In addition, the Lady Mayoress had dis-
tributed little clocks to each of the
candidates. The gallery was booked out
for the pageant, and seats in the main
body of the hall were at a premium.
The carnival raised nearly £31,000, the
principal beneficiaries being the missions,
through Miss Wilkinson’s success.
The Alma Mater Ball, an “old school-
tie” function, was a new experiment for
Melbourne. Public schools and grammar
schools are accustomed to meeting one
another for sport, but they usually do
their dancing under their own particular
banners. The effort originated through
the Prince Henry Hospital Appeal Com-
mittee, which earlier in the year bene-
fited from the Gloucester Ball, in which
the principal girls’ schools of Victoria
joined forces. The Alma Mater took
place at Earl’s Court. Vice-regal patron-
age was promised, but was cancelled
through Court mourning. Among official
people present were Dick Elford (whose
wife wore her hair cut shorter than
usual and a black frock with white
organdie flowers planted round the neck
and waist) and A. Blair (his better-half
clad in black and sequins). In addition
to the six public schools, Trinity
Grammar, Camberwell Grammar and St.
Pat’s, Ballarat, were represented on the
committee.
Dr. and Mrs. L. S. Kidd were there,
Mrs Kidd wearing gold lame made in
bouffant fashion. Betty Morrison chose
mauve taffeta with a corded hemline and
a high Elizabethan collar. Gold threads
mingled with Joan Norris’s shadowy
floral design, and sea anemones clustered
round the throat of Joyce Robinson’s
mermaid-green frock. Lindsay Plant
danced with his petite wife, who had
white-winged shoulders to a sprigged
blue dress. Bob Tanner and his wife
danced, she with narrow scarf ends float-
ing down the back of her poppy-red
gown. Peggy Strutt was in black, and
blonde Mabel Gibson decided upon pink
carnations and a pale-blue frock.
The spotlight of the ball was a “Head
of the River boatrace.” The boats were
light frames of three-ply mounted on felt
runners. With the aid of long ropes
twisted round pillars at the far end of
the room the crews, who were not per-
mitted to remove their coats, pulled their
craft along the floor. In the heats
Xavier, stroked by R. Triado, managed
to pass Geelong Grammar and Mel-
bourne Grammar (strokes, Balcombe
Griffiths and R. T. Morell), and Scotch
(Ivor Whittaker) heaved harder than
Wesley and Geelong College (stroked by
J. Walduck and Alex. Blair). Finally,
strengthened by supper, the Xavier eight
generated the extra spot of pep necessary
to slide past Scotch.
Here is a Broothorn portrait of Dot
Stevenson, who played in the Victorian
women’s tennis team last week and had a
spectacular victory over Thelma Coyne.
Dot’s elder sister, Gwen, also plays
tennis of A-grade standard. The girls,
daughters of Mr. and Mrs. E. A.
Stevenson, of Hawthorn, first learnt to
hit hard when they were at the P.L.C.
Melbourne loses Ainslie Williams, but
Sydney will welcome her as the bride of
Lieut.-Commander James Barwood.
The wedding was on Saturday afternoon
at St. Peter’s, Toorak, and the Geoffrey
Syme couple lent their home, Blyths-
wood, Kew, for the reception. Mrs.
Barwood is the only child of the late
Judge Williams and of Mrs. W. H.
Williams, of Linlithgow-road, Toorak.
An Athol Shmith camera caught this
glimpse.
There was a barn dance at Hazel Dell
last week to celebrate the birthdays
(which fall on the same date) of Mrs.
A. Boyes and her granddaughter, June
Dyson. Gran was 81, June 18, and
they shared the cake, an all-white
confection presented by Greta Harri-
son. The party was literally a
barn dance, being held in a barn built
a few years before Gran was born.
Everybody was asked to wear smocks
or garden hats. Gran wore a pink smock,
June a blue, and June’s mother, Mrs. Ted
Dyson, a brown-and-white one, with
ears of wheat in her hair. The barn
was decorated with carrots, turnips, large
green cabbages and clumps of rhubarb,
and round the edge of the floor were
sheaves of hay.
The band was Rainford’s: a concer-
tina, a saxophone and a washboard —yes,
a real washboard! The sound keys are
beer-bottle tops, and the playing gadget
a kind of wooden peg. Among the
people who hopped about in a polka
were the Bill Swansons ; Maurice Belz,
who had dug from the bottom of a truck
the white surplice of his college days at
Cambridge; his wife, Dr. Marjorie
Hughes, in a Hungarian peasant smock
with gay embroideries on hand-woven
linen ; Basil Murphy, in Farmer Giles’s
gaiters ; Rupert Dickson, in the Man on
the Land’s hat; Dr. Frank Stone, in a
blue overall; and Wing-Commander
Hepburn, in something rustic of green
and white. At supper-time Group-Cap-
tain Harrison, with a sharp knife and his
own particular pair of snippers, made a
beautiful job of dissecting a sucking-pig.
Gran likes sucking-pig, as she does late
hours and late suppers. She had her
share of baby porker at 1 a.m. In all
her 81 years she has never had an attack
of indigestion.
Mrs. L. R. Stillman and Mrs. E. Rey-
nolds collected armfuls of beautiful
flowers, with which they decorated the
International Club for their afternoon
party. The new clubrooms have not
been used much as yet for private func-
tions, so that last week’s gathering was
something of an event. Mrs. Stillman
wore a patterned frock of silk sheer
under a black coat, and Mrs. Reynolds
was in beige and brown. Mrs. Geoff
Fethers wore Patou-pink, with navy shoes
and hat. The halo hat had its followers
in Gwen Craigie, hers of dark-blue satin,
and Mrs. George Taylor, hers also blue,
and of much larger circumference than
most members of the species. Belonging
to other schools of thought in millinery
were Mrs. A. G. Stephenson’s wide-
brimmed scarlet hat and Mrs. Ernest
Turnbull’s loosely-woven nutmeg straw.
Mrs. W. Angliss wore a leaf-brown en-
semble, and Mrs. K. Patterson was in
navy moire with kilted trimmings down
the front panel. A lime-green hat and
blouse toned up Mrs. Sid Gullett’s black
toilette.
Nurses who sailed away on the Kyarra,
the first hospital ship which left Aus-
tralia during the war, met at their re-
union dinner last week. Five years ago
Miss I. O’Dwyer, who is matron of
Caulfield Repat. Hospital, organised this
come-together, which is now an annual
event. The Florence Nightingales get a
big kick out of these gatherings, for
many of them have not seen one another
for 12 months, and there is always so
much to talk about. The party was
held at the Australia, where the table
was decorated with bowls of flowers and
colored paper streamers in scarlet and
grey, dark red and chocolate, while up
above a Red Cross was suspended over
two miniature ambulances. As the guests
trooped into their places at the long
table the lights were dimmed, a spot-
light was directed on to the Red Cross
and all the other diners in the big room
stood up. It was a dramatic moment,
brought to a climax by the band play-
ing the Anthem.
Special guests were Evelyn Conyers,
Mrs. McCardie White (who was matron-
in-chief at Salonika) and Miss Kitchen.
These three did not sail in the Kyarra,
but left even earlier on troopships. Mrs.
Ted Milne, who comes over every year
from Sydney for the reunion, brought a
present of a cake with 21 candles on it,
for it is 21 years since the eventful
voyage. Among the 27 people present
were Mrs. Roy Chambers, Jean Simpson,
Valerie Woinarski, Kate O’Connor, Mrs.
B. T. Zwar, Mrs. Harold Walker, Mrs.
S. Lipsett and Rosa Quarterfnan —she
made 22 trips on transport ships during
the war.
This year the inter-State tennis
championships were held at the Albert
ground instead of at Kooyong. The
weather was perfect and the gate satis-
factory, for the St. Kilda-road courts
are near enough to the city to draw
casual galleries on each day. The Vic.
men’s teams defeated the visitors from
N.S.W. and S.A., and the Vic. women’s
teams made a clean sweep of their
opponents from both States by winning
all 12 rubbers. The girl players seem
to look more attractive each year. All-
white is the only color scheme, eye-
shades and hair nets are popular, and
every pair of legs is sunburned a healthy
brown. Mrs. Hopman and Dot Steven-
son are always neat; May Blick wears
the shortest shorts on the court, and
looks very fetching in them; Nancy
Wynne is boyish with her Eton crop,
schoolboy linen hat and plain, unpleated
shorts.
Of the N.S.W. players, Thelma Coyne,
with her impeccable temperament and
sturdy young figure, is like a baby Rock
of Gibraltar ; Miss Menzies has hair full
of golden sunglints, and Miss Hattersley
looks even smaller off the court than
she does on. Another powerful little
dynamo is Gwen Griffiths, from S.A.
She usually wears linen hats with green
linings, like her team-mates, Miss D.
Weston and Miss J. Walters. Miss
Walters is in the minority, preferring
tennis frocks to divided skirts. Dark-
haired Miss O’Halloran is burnt as
brown as a berry.


am;
/< i
mm
st
M
—s
W
' <1 * i-'-,
' V v /::£&;
? i rv
- • r>..;
3P
tr-
useful Clear slocking nidi the uiidcrlvinit y
mi
Why no< a
quality ... ra fflKitPrestige undcrthingswith (h«ir luxury «( lar»|»«d Knf <niloring.
You may have chosen a “Wil-o-wisp" luxury sheer or a stoejtfiogi of the useful
lyurict**
< her tailored Xicks‘V at 7'll,
ilil „ . j. or:** whole selkof Prestige pure
silk milanese •• a fabric more beautiful than erepe»de»ehine.
••
Whether simple or luxurious, your Prestige gift is something she-really needs And really loVes
sess.
(EnVEE Xmas stockings &iinclema»* InjTjp
%
■
i;
/•
~ j
:♦
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Routes to the W.A.C.A. grounds were
lined with traffic for the tattoo staged
by naval and military forces. A guard
of honor from the 10th Light Horse
escorted Lieut.-Governor Mitchell and
his lady to box seats. The beating of a
tattoo in a Flemish village paved the
way for a display of mounted drill, for
stretcher-bearers to attend to casualties
caused by the explosion of a shell, for
counter-marching, field-gun drill and a
musical drive. The Dark town Fire
Brigade extinguished the fire which burst
out in its own equipment; motor-cyclists
carried their dispatches under heavy
fire; Verey lights illuminated a trench
raid, and stirring music from massed
bands wound up proceedings.
Gladioli and roses matching the gold-
llowered crown of her picture-hat were
held before Phyllis Merry’s beige
georgette and lace for her marriage to
David Preston. The knot was tied at
Christ Church, Claremont, and Mrs.
Lindsay Morrell, the bride’s sister, did
matron-of-honor duties in milky liberty
crepe and cartwheel hat.
Mrs. Mary Farrelly’s right hand did a
worthy job when she greeted the hun-
dreds who turned up at the Karrakatta
Club hall for the Historical Society’s
annual shivoo. There was community
singing, arranged by Kath Shelton and
David Lyle, and a highlight was a
quintet of ballet dancers who fluffed
their frills and furbelows under Allison
Lee’s direction. Miss Dirksey Cowan’s
paper on “fans” preceded a parade dis-
playing shawls and fans worn one or two
centuries ago.
A cloud of tulle hid Aileen Arm-
strong’s blonde curls as she trod 'the
aisle of St. Mary’s Cathedral to keep her
tryst with Ivan Campbell. The fan-
shaped train of her self-embossed white
satin rose to a girdled waistline, high
neck and long, tight sleeves. Gertrude
Hardwick and Mary Donoghue trailed
in her wake with black taffeta butterflies
fluttering on the backs of their mush-
room - pink matt crepes and black
lacquered satin gleaming on their large
pink hats.
To receive the guests at the Shakespeare
Club’s end-of-the-season gathering presi-
dent Anita Fitz Gerald pinned a long
spray of bright-red blooms under the net
frill finishing the neck of her black satin
gown. The Bard was represented by
scenes from “The Tempest” and “A
Winter’s Tale,” and there were musical
items and a one-act play, with supper
as epilogue.
Red, white and blue flowers were
massed in the Karrakatta Club hall for
the at-home of the Salon Fran?aise.
President Mrs. Cecil Mason, with the
cape of her blue miniature-check silks
held in place by gold buttons, mur-
mured welcomes over a horseshoe spray
of delphiniums and Cecil Brunner roses.
After “The Marseillaise” and the English
Anthem had been sung there were tea
and chatter. Later Mrs. John Dunphy
sang French folk-songs.
Jean McAlister and Malcolm Clay
were made one at the Henderson
Memorial Church. A halo of velvet
leaves held in place the tulle veil which
swirled over white peau d’ange lace to
the edge of the long, circular train. The
bride’s two sisters, Mrs. Robert Allen
and Elva McAlister, attended in floral
georgettes—the matron’s pink, with pink
sash and black hat; the ’maid’s blue,
with blue sash and white hat.
To farewell Mrs. Peter Felton, who
left two days later for South Africa,
Mrs. Max Rutter shook cocktails at the
Esplanade. Between them hostess and
guest of honor introduced the popular
two-blue combination, Mrs. Rutter wear-
ing a chic cobalt ensemble and her guest
navy.
Betty Spark, of York, has booked a
passage for Colombo, where she will
stay with Jean Loton, who is housekeep-
ing for brother William. Jean Lang is
another who intends to flit to the pear-
shaped island before the year is out.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At the Cheltenham races his Ex. was
present. Chairman J. H. Morish and his
wife (she in white linen) entertained at
lunch and afternoon-tea. Mrs. H. Allan
Morris was another who looked well in
all white. Mrs. Allan McFarlane sported
black-spotted crepe de Chine with a
black marocain coat, and her wide-
brimmed hat was of holly-red straw.
Mrs. George Braund was in pale-grey-
patterned georgette, and wore a small
black straw hat. Mrs. A. Lynch’s black
marocain suit went with a black hat
banded in white. Mrs. Keith Angas
chose amber frisca for her tailored suit
and a small straw hat. Mrs. F. A. Ten-
nant wore with her dusky-pink silk crepe
a white ostrich-feather boa and a wide-
brimmed black straw hat.
The Minda Home fete, held in the
Kidman lady’s lovely garden, was well
attended. Mrs. Eric Tolley, gowned
in black georgette, with a wide-brimmed
black straw hat, set the bazaar going,
and Mrs. Lidow presented her with a
sheaf of delphiniums. The Kidman lady,
president of Minda, ran a utility stall.
She was in black marocain, with black
straw hat. Assisting her was her daugh-
ter, Mrs. Sidney Ayers, in a grey tailored
suit and small black hat.
The artistic handiwork of Mrs. Harold
Bickford, of Glenelg, a basket of flowers
made entirely of sweetmeats, was greatly
admired at the Children’s Hospital fete.
Won by Eva Waite, it was afterwards
presented to the Queen Victoria Con-
valescent Home at Mount Lofty. Lady
Dugan, in white chiffon patterned in
black, opened the bazaar, and a tiny
patient presented her with a posy. The
Governor’s lady was accompanied by
her sister-in-law, Mrs. Haseltine, from
England.
A luncheon party in the Uni. refec-
tory preceded the Staff Wives’ Club’s
annual meeting. The Mawson lady was
elected president, and Mesdames A.
Killen Macbeth and F. W. Eardley vice-
presidents. Miss P. K. Leveson, from
England, spoke on “Higher Education
of Women.”
The marriage of Charles, eldest son
of Emile Sobels, Watervale, and the late
Mrs. Sobels, to Norma Florence, daugh-
ter of W. A. Grant, of Glenbrook, N. S.
Wales, was celebrated at St. Matthew’s,
Marryatville. The bride’s ice-blue crepe
frock was topped with a straw hat to
match.
One of the most severe storms ever
experienced in the Gulf broke on a day
when the thermometer was over 100 in
the shade and the sea was full of
bathers. They thought it was a tidal
wave, and, rushing from the water,
climbed into tramcars, some dragging
their clothes with them, but many leav-
ing them on the beach. The gale was
so strong that hoods and curtains were
ripped off motor-cars, and blown far
away, while hats disappeared, never to
be found again.
TASMANIA.
The racing at Elwick took place in
chilly weather, so coats and skirts had
a big majority over frillies. Chairman
and Mrs. A. J. Miller entertained a crowd
at tea, the latter wearing a navy-and-
floral frock and navy Bankok straw hat.
The attendance was rather thin.
Helen Gray exchanged vows with
Geof Clerk at All Saints’ in a crepe
romaine frock in a rich shade of maize,
with close-fitting, trained skirt and a
long coat of pale-gold chiffon with bands
of dyed ermine round the sleeves. A
small gold halo hat was worn. Little
Rosemary Shugg followed the bride in
a long, pale-gold chiffon frock, with
yellow roses in her hair.
The 86 Club, breaking away from the
traditions of the Art Society, ran a little
show of its own at its rooms in Murray-
street. Some of the exhibits were start-
ling, and a caricature of a teacher of art
was voted clever. Designs for theatre
drop-scenes, costumes and settings had a
corner to themselves. Amy Kingston and
Betty Armstrong were girls who showed
promising work.
Mrs. Alice Moore, who has been the
guest of relatives here for many months,
gave a sizable party at Hadley’s to wish her
many friends good-bye before returning
to England. As Alice Hudspeth, she was
popular in Hobart’s social circles in years
gone by, and her many friends of those
days have enjoyed meeting her again. The
lounge at Hadley’s was full of flowers
and floral fabrics, for at last the weather
has allowed us to put on summery
raiment.
His Ex. and Lady Clark, the former
quite restored to health after his trip to
Colombo, are back at Government
House, and are preparing to be as busy
as ever, officially and socially.
The Methodist Ladies’ College, Laun-
ceston, made the laying of the founda-
tion-stone of the new Mary Fox Jubilee
Wing a red-letter occasion. Crowds
rolled up, and various sideshows were
enjoyed after the ceremony was over.
The stone was laid by F. P. Hart,
M.L.C., and the Rt. Rev. Dr. White
(Scotland) was roped in to give an
address.
A revue which had entailed a tre-
mendous amount of work was staged by
Douglas Caddy at the National Theatre,
Launceston. The Younger Set Players,
the Apex Club and the Roxy Ballet
united to present a bright and original
show. Dressing, music and dancing were
all much admired.


Howl
ended my
stomach
trouble
•ai***!
“I can eat what I please
and digest it with ease.”
If you suffer from indigestion, if you
cannot enjoy a meal without pain, wind,
distension, and a feeling of weakness and
low spirits, let nothing deter you from
trying ' Bisurated ’ Magnesia. It is the
supreme remedy for stomach trouble,
with over 20 years' proof of its unfailing
efficacy. Perhaps you are even now
dreading your next meal. Then why
not make it the occasion for putting
‘ Bisurated ’ Magnesia to the test ? Get
a bottle of ‘ Bisurated' Magnesia, powder
or tablets, from your chemist and take a
little after your meal. Eat whatever you
fancy. The result will be a revelation to
you. The contents of your stomach will
be made as bland and soothing as milk,
instead of turning acid as before. The
customary pain and wind w’ill not occur
and digestion will be completed with
ease and comfort.
BISURATED
MAGNESIA
Banishes Stomach Ills
A concentrated preparation,
very economical. The package
bears the ‘Bismag’ Trade Mark
ł
©Marks the im-
portant points
of lubrication in
motor vehicles for
which ALE MITE
affords the greatest
measure of protection
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
*JLL
A
LEMITE'
HIGHLY specialized lubricants, applied under
great pressure, are the contributions of
ALEMITE to the efficiency of modern motoring.
QYaier (Pump
Unless properly lubri-
cated, much trouble
may develop; a wrong
“grease” may even
clog the radiator. Be
safe, insist on special-
ized “Alemite” Water
Pump Lubricant.
“ALEMITE” not only
for water pump, but
for cylinder, wheel bearing, gear box, clutch release
bearing, steering gear, universal joints, chassis lubri-
cation and differential —There is no better protection.
CHICAGO. Illinois, u. s. a.
Alemite Corporation Cable Address: ALMIT ... Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH 3. G. SMITH. Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES. Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E, A. MACHTN & CO. (Ptv), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—6-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT SPOIL THE MOTOR
If any illustration m THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SFfDRTj
SIGHT-SEEING
in S&JMc
CANADA
On the way
to EUROPE
Most travellers stop-over at
Banff and Lake Louise in the
heart of the Canadian
Rockies.
Thrilling out -of - door pleasures.
Hike or ride through forest and
mountain... swim in warm sulphur
pools . . . golf . . . fish . . . climb
amid scenes of rare beauty found
nowhere else in the world.
Before planning your trip home,
write for our illustrated literature
and all details.
Any. Tourist Booking Agency or
CANADIAN I’ACUTC,
217 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
World’s (greatest Travel System
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
I oon’t want,” he said slowly—“I don’t want
it startin again. I’ve just got a stranglehold on meself,
and I don’t want to let up. You’re” He stroked
the white ruffle as he might have a cat. “You’re —
pretty,” he finished lamely.
He put his arm round her shoulders, and they sat
there quietly, her white throat against his shoulder and
his brown face against her dark hair. It seemed that
they had sat so for centuries. There was almost a
sadness in the look of them.
At last he stirred, and, bending with a swift move-
ment, he buried his face in her shoulder, ripping
away that demure white ruffle, and kissing the warm
white shoulder fiercely.
“Paul,” she whispered fearfully, “don’t.” But she
didn t really mean it. She was glad. She kissed him,
too—his hair and his temples and the lids of his
eyes found it sweet; and when he raised his
head to look at her she kissed him on the mouth.
“I s’pose you’d better get out of here,” he mut-
tered at last. He was trembling.
“I don’t care,” she said softly. “I love you. I
don’t care.”
He shook his head wearily. “No, you’d better
go.”
“But, Paul,” she said, “I don’t mind you making
love to me. I want you to. Oh, you are adorable,
Paul.”
“No,” he said stubbornly, “not till after we’re
married.”
“Paul,” she said angrily, “you’re a fool. You’re
conventional—Tiburon. Why don’t you take what the
gods send and ask no questions?”
“What’s that Greeks say? Distrust the gods when
bringing gifts. Honey, we’ll get old Bill to marry us
quick as you like, an’ ”
She sat up incredulously. “Paul, you didn’t think
we were going to be married, did you?”
He pulled away from her. “What the hell are
you doin’ here if we’re not goin’ to be?”
“I told you. I love you. I mean it. But that
doesn’t say we get married, does it?”
“You look here,” he said grimly ; “I ain’t ever
felt as keen about another girl as I do about you.
What’s gone over with others is all over now. But I
didn’t want the others for keeps. And I want you
for keeps.”
Her face was set. “Oh, forget about it,” she said
wearily. “Don’t spoil this by arguing. Kiss me.” She
shook him. “Kiss me and stop talking, idiot.”
“I don’t wanter argue, but I got to get this
straight. If you don’t want me for keeps”
“Be quiet. This is an hour that will never come ’
again. A rainbow and a cuckoo’s song may never
come together again. May never come this side the
tomb.”
“Well, I’m the cuckoo ; an’ I’m damn’ well not
goin’ to be. I thought I was pretty mean lettin’ you
say you loved me and acceptin’ it, and now it seems
you don’t after all. If you loved me you’d wanter
stay with me for good.”
“Oh, if you’re going to go on and on about this
marriage idea,” she said impatiently, “I’d better go
inside. You know it’s impossible, Paul. We’d get
tired of each other and be sorry”
“Why? Funnier things have happened than us
bein’ happy an’ mafried.”
He looked at her, his jaw set stubbornly. She
found he was being unexpectedly difficult.
“But, Paul, listen sensibly”
He kissed her fiercely until she was out of breath.
He kissed her until she cried out softly for pain.
“Now, will you marry me?” he asked fiercely.
“No,” she laughed.
“I could make you marry me.” He was almost
crying with rage now. She had him beaten, and her
mood melted into pity.
“Darling, darling,” she said, rocking his head
against her breasts, “it’s all right. Lie still. I’ll marry
you. Only kiss me and lie still.”
He pushed her away. “You’re only sorry for me,
Jess. You’d better go. You’d only change your mind '
to-morrow or the next day Come on, I’ll see you
to the window.”
She smiled at him. “I’m going to stay, silly one.”
“Oh, no, you’re not.” It took him several minutes
to make her realise that he was in earnest, though
when she did she was very angry.
“Come on,” he urged, and then prosaically, “I got
to be up in a couple of hours.”
Jessica snatched up her coat, wrapped it over the
torn ruffle and marched across the yard. Only when
Paul had helped her over the window-sill did her
sense of humor reassert itself.
“I hope you don’t oversleep,” she said half-
maliciously. “It would be a pity to think that the
harvester might be a little late.”
Paul reached up, seized her by the hair, drew
her down and kissed her roughly, and then returned
to his kennel without a word. Creeping towards her
bed, Jessica stumbled noisily over a heavy volume of
psychology, which hurt her toe. She sat down on the
side of the bed and nursed her foot.
“Psychology,” she murmured nastily. “How gor-
geously funny!”
But she didn’t really think it was funny. She lay
there tossing on her . bed and longing for sleep.
“Damn,” she thought, “I’ve left my glasses on his
table.”
Only when he saw Paul’s lamp go out did Mick
Dwyer venture to return to the house. Mick was a
man of little niceties, and, having gone on a neces-
sary pilgrimage, he had stayed freezing at the bottom
of the yard because he had caught sight of his farm-
hand escorting a dishevelled iady school-teacher to
her room. Not until the coast was clear did he steal
cautiously up the yard again and creep into bed.
“Where you been?” Mrs. Dwyer asked drowsily.
“Where d’ y’ think I been?” her spouse retorted.
“Getting mushrooms?”
It is to Mick Dwyer’s eternal credit that no
even his wife ever knew what he knew of that nigh .
Mick was a tolerant man. Snakes, not gossip, were
his interest in life.
IV.
Paul did not have the opportunity to drive Jessica
into Tiburon to catch the “School-teachers’ Express
on the afternoon school broke up. Mrs. Dwyer
insisted on taking her in in the car, amid a mass of
baggage, with the children holding her hands and her
dress, and the baby dribbling in her lap.
The station was crowded with the Tiburon school-
teachers and the crowd of excursion holidaymakers.
Paul was there, lounging against the waiting-shed, with
his shabby felt hat on the back of his head, his eyes
on Jessica. Somehow, in the flurry of good-byes, he
was overlooked. Only when Jessica was at last safely
seated did she find time to wave a well-gloved hand.
Paul lifted his hat politely, but Jessica’s attention was
attracted by a girl in the next seat who had gone to
college with her and was now a teacher at Euabolong.
From Miss Daunt’s manner it appeared that she was
most anxious to hear the other girl’s news ; but it
was largely a bluff. Jessica knew that Paul was wait-
ing for the opportunity to return the little volume
of Shaw Neilson’s poems, and she wanted him to
keep it. She wanted to speak to him, and she dare
not. Also, she wanted to shut out the sight of him.
To shut him out for ever and ever.
“But, really,” Paul heard her say, “you don’t
mean to tell me that young Gwen Arundel is actually
at Moreton High! Why, the child knows nothing.
She always said she detested the idea of teaching.
How was Euabolong?”
“Oh, a foul hole,” the other responded. “Perfectly
foul. I’m sure yours couldn’t have been half as bad.
That shadow brown suits you, you know. I like the
touch of cream with it.”
The train began to pant loudly and importantly,
gave one frightful shriek and, amid a fluster of last
farewells, shook itself free of the station, hooted a
cow off the line and made for the bridge. They
settled down to their magazines.
“You have no idea of the foulness of Euabolong,”
Jessica’s ex-college friend was complaining. “And as
for men! They were a frightfully feeble lot. I went
to some of the dances, but, really, what was the use
of wearing a perfectly good evening frock when some
old farmer with whiskers treads all over it? And how
did you enjoy yourself? Anything worth looking at
among the local males?”
“Oh, just the usual run,” Miss Daunt responded
mechanically.
She turned to her magazine. “I can’t go on
teaching,” she told herself. “I won’t, not if I have to
beg in the gutter.” Her mind felt sick as she thought
of Tiburon and Warning Hill. She tried to think of
something more pleasant—the prospect of being met
at the station by her family. Perhaps Jeff Hardwick
might be there, though these trains came in at such
an unearthly hour in the morning and he had his
business to attend to. Was he still keen on her?
she wondered. Would he ask her to marry him again,
and, if he did, what was she to say?
{To be continued next week.)


Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
366 DAYS OF PROGRESS
IN 1936
AS in 1935, so in 1936, life will be
surging around us, vivid, exciting,
full of opportunities for those who start
each of its 366 days with freshness of
outlook, renewed mental vigour and
unabated courage to try. These are the
Pelmanists by training or the Pelmanists
by nature. To them we say, “Keep
going, and good luck.”
To those who shrink from the conflict,
W T ho stand aside from the stream of
Pelmanism is the Science of Living, of
making every day a full day, a day of
enterprise and satisfaction. It deals with
fundamental personal attributes and
qualities which, when developed, establish
mental and physical health, making life
pleasant, harmonious and successful.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in
every normal man or woman. The most
important are
Self-Confidence, Judgment,
Concentration, Will-Power,
Decisiveness, Tact,
Self-Control, Initiative
and a Good Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality. It is the most
successful instrument of adult education
and training, not only in the British
Empire, but throughout the world; its
record of achievement is astounding.
Thousands of students of Pelmanism
have expressed themselves in terms similar
to the following:
A Doctor writes: “If lam asked the one great
thing that Pelmanism has taught me I Should
say it was the way it lias shown me how to
observe instead of merely seeing. That alone
is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get a
definite aim and have abolished drifting. I
feel happier and better in myself. I can con-
centrate much better. I am losing my horrible
self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
activity and let opportunity pass them
by, or who, with courage and good-
will, enough, still dissipate their energy
and mishandle their opportunities, we
say that Pelmanism is a proved means
by which they can strengthen their
determination, clarify their mental out-
look and increase their powers of con-
centration and judgment so that they
will have power to select, and use
properly, the right opportunities as they
come along.
A Secretary writes: “I am forming good
liabits ami choking had habits. I have more
self-control and self-reliance. I enjoy life
more. I feel better physically and mentally.
I am easier to live with. I do not brood.”
A fifurse writes: ‘‘Fits of Depression are far
less frequent, and these are soon overcome.
Certainly much happier. My superintendent
remarked that I was not nearly so nervous as
I was when she saw me twelve months ago.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter out-
look on life and am not as apt to become
easil.v depressed as formerly. I realise my
aim and have more self-confidence in my work.
I find much more to interest me now, and
can concentrate better.”
A Shorthand Typist wirtes: “I have a re-
newed and bright outlook on life and Depres-
sion is now a tiling of the past. I have energy
enough for two and the will to carry out to
tlie finish that which 1 pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I started the
Course I was suffering from severe worries. I
have completely got over these. The lesson on
‘Aim and Purpose’ has been of great help-”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “Instead of think-
ing that Psychology was something for high-
brows to dabble in I now gratefully realise
that without a sound knowledge of the prin-
ciples as set out by the Pelman Institute we
cannot hope to make the best of ourselves. I
myself have overcome Shyness, lack of Confi-
dence. Mind-Wandering, etc. I am now in a
state of mental balance which has to be pos-
sessed to realise how invaluable it is.”
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my powers of
Concentration and Memory. Increase in Self-
(’onfidence. Greater interest in people and in
my surroundings.”
A Bank Officer writes; “Self-Consciousness
has given place to Self-Confidence. I am able
to work harder and concentrate more. I have
gained more than money can buy—am much
happier in my life.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed confi-
dence in myself and a broader outlook on life.
My life has changed from a listless, drifting
one to one of purpose. I now have a mental
and bodily health I did not have before, and
I have found something which money could
not buy, namely, a perfect joy and happiness
in living.”
A Personal Message from
Mr . W. J. Ennever,
Founder of the Pelman Institute.
r
1
Photo., Kay Daughan,
"It is because no system in the
world hut Pelmanism can so surely,
so speedily bring out the strong
points of your character, and build
up those possibilities which exist
in everybody’s mental equipment,
that I ask readers to find out more
about Pelmanism. If any of my
readers had occupied my position
during the last forty years since
Pelmanism' was first brought to the
notice of the world, and had seen
the lives of students transformed
from mediocrity into useful, suc-
cessful careers through Pelmanism,
they would not for one moment
doubt the incalculable value of this
course of training."
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it set's out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and will,
30 are his personal efficiency and his
standing with his fellows. If these habits
bad he will be ineffective personally;
f they are good he will be strong, happy
. nd successful.
INTERNATIONAL, AWARDS:
Liege, 1930.
Nancy, 1933,
Geneva, 1933.
Paris, 1933.
In “The Efficient Mind” you will find
a full explanation of the Pelman Course
snd much interesting information on the
subject of Mental Training- This book
will be sent you free on application to the
Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C. 1. Write for
it to-day, and it will be in your hands by
return of post. All correspondence is
regarded as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation of
40 years’ standing. Its headquarters are in London.
The Melbourne Branch Institute was established 28 years ago.
The Pelman System is taught by Post. Full particulars
are sent free and post free without obligation. Fill in and
cut out the form alongside and send it to the Pelrtlan
Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Call if you can.
“Efficient
Mind,”
Please.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Name
Address
427
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
l
TO “THE BULLETIN,’*
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please *ost my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
o*V'
. ❖V:' -
el’
<<v at>’
£*%?£> ;^>^y<AO e «<».r '
w v #1
*°° V (^aev .•••' ' .
W
»* 6
vsS
#•’
# s ’
•*
..• o<s v°
..••'■ C< 1 Sf^o^** 10 ■


it
•< •_
o
OQ
>5
m
&
9
v ,■
w
X. .
.. *
■
m
a
O
o
d)
*
\
m
K'
6
The Tasma Model 325 is a
6-valve Dual-wave A.C.
Electric Receiver for world
range or local reception. It
will definitely bring in more
stations than any other
receiver in its price-class
with matchless tone and
absolutely without inter-
ference. See and hear this
Tasma detail-built radio, or
write for full particulars.
Price is:
£37/10/-
Or on Easy Terms.
Other Tasma Models from
£l5/19/6.
Dual-wave Receivers from
£27/10/-.
Slightly higher outside N.S.W.
m
mi
GIVE YOUR
FAMILY
+
Auto-Rad
J Hundreds of
car- owners
have found a new pleasure in motoring since they installed Tasma
Auto-Radio. Enjoy Tasma's matchless performance in your car.
Drive through the cool evenings, on week-end or holiday tours
and take your favorite programme with you. For details of
Tasma Auto-Radio equipment see your nearest Tasma Dealer.
IJAPPINESS is the rarest of blessings!
Yet permanent happiness for your
home lies within your gift. Give your
family a Tasma for Christmas. Tasma
provides a vast treasure of entertainment
and education. There’s thrilling pleasure
in spanning oceans and continents—in
listening to fascinating programmes from many a foreign land as well as from our own Australian
stations. Tasma brings these programmes to you with amazing naturalness and fidelity. Tasma alone
gives you true studio tone . . . and the reason—Tasma alone gives you the advantage of Ferro-Coil, the
extraordinary new Ferrocart Intermediate Transformers. “Ferro-Coil” Transformers increase Tasma’s
power to bring in distant stations. These make interstation overlapping impossible, particularly when
they are used in conjunction with Tasma’s famous exclusive band-spread micro-tuning dial. We invite
you to compare Tasma’s performance with that of any other Receiver. This will establish Tasma’s un-
doubted leadership. You’ll agree “There is no better Radio!”
You will save money on battery
replacements with this Tasma
Battery-operated Du a 1-w av e
Receiver—Model 31 0. It’s built
for economy plus sound perform-
ance, and provides world-wide or
local reception with a clear,
sweet tone unexcelled by the
finest all-electric receivers.
Price is £34/17/6, including
batteries. Easy Terms available.
Model 285—Broadcast Receiver,
Battery-operated, £25/10/-
(Cabinet not illustrated.)
Slightly higher outside N.S.W.
•Xv/.'.v.vyy.v.’.v'/v.'X;.
-
Kvass
W S::?®
... -
KgffiW:
DETAIL- BUILT
RADIO
A product of THOM & SMITH LTD.,
55 Dowling Street, East Sydney.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VIC.: Melbourne—Warburton, Frank! (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 380 Bourke
Street; Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Etc!., 597 Lonsdale Street. Ballarat—
John Hollway & Sons, 40 Armstrong Street North. SOUTH AUST.:
Adelaide —Oliver J. Nilson & Co., Ltd., 49 King William Street; Noyes
Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd., 89 Grenfell Street; Chas. Birks & Co., Ltd., 44
Bundle Street. WEST AUST.: Perth—Unbehaun & Johnstone, W.A., Ltd.,
381 Murray Street; Thomsons, Ltd., 674 Hay Street. QUEENSLAND:
G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen Street, Brisbane, and branches at Gympie,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mackay. Darling
Downs —Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
